Inappropriate administration of intravenous verapamil to patients with wide QRS complex tachycardia due to ventricular tachycardia or atrial fibrillation with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome occurs frequently because of misdiagnosis, and may precipitate a cardiac arrest. We evaluated the safety and the diagnostic and therapeutic utility of adenosine triphosphate administered to a consecutive series of 34 patients during wide QRS complex tachycardia due to a variety of mechanisms.
Patients who had a hemodynamically and electrically stable, monomorphic, wide (greater than 120 msec) QRS complex tachycardia induced during an invasive cardiac electrophysiologic test were studied. Hemodynamic stability was defined by a systolic blood pressure greater than 80 mm Hg and no clinical evidence of cerebral or myocardial ischemia. Adenosine triphosphate, 20 mg, was administered as a rapid intravenous bolus via a peripheral vein during wide QRS complex tachycardia. Five surface electrocardiogram leads, at least three intracardiac electrograms, and blood pressure were monitored.
Ventricular tachycardia was present in 14 patients (mean age 50.6 +/- 19 years, cycle length 326 +/- 67 msec) and adenosine triphosphate terminated the arrhythmia in one case. Ventricular tachycardia cycle length did not change. Among 10 patients with supraventricular tachycardia with mechanisms not involving the AV node (average ventricular cycle length 346 +/- 82 msec), one case of ectopic atrial tachycardia was terminated. The ventricular rate was transiently increased in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and atrial fibrillation (average R-R interval 351 +/- 84 msec in control and 317 +/- 82 msec after adenosine triphosphate, p less than 0.001). Reentrant tachycardias involving the AV node (cycle length 302 +/- 52 msec) terminated in seven of 10 patients. The drug was well tolerated, and no patient developed hemodynamic compromise necessitating cardioversion as a result of adenosine triphosphate.
In the setting of electrophysiology testing, adenosine triphosphate is a safe agent, even when administered inappropriately during arrhythmias for which it is relatively ineffective, such as ventricular tachycardia, and Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome with atrial fibrillation. It is an effective agent in terminating supraventricular tachycardia involving the AV node. Tachycardia termination following adenosine triphosphate, when used as a diagnostic test to indicate obligatory participation of the AV node, had a sensitivity of 70%, specificity of 92%, and a positive predictive accuracy of 85%. Thus, adenosine triphosphate also has diagnostic utility, but should be used after the appropriate arrhythmia diagnosis has been made based on the clinical history and analysis of the 12-lead electrocardiogram.
Oxidative stress significantly contributes to cisplatin (CP)-associated cytotoxicity, and use of antioxidants could counteract such cytotoxic effects of CP. The major biochemical pathway for reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation proceeds through O₂⁻ production, which is generated by NADPH oxidase, such oxidative stress can activate p38 MAPK to intensify the cytotoxic effect of CP. We mainly aimed to study the protective effect of oxytocin (OT) on CP-induced nephrotoxicity whereas; it was previously shown to have anti-inflammatory effects in different inflammation models. Administration of OT significantly decreased the gene expression of both NADPH oxidase and P38 MAPK, nitric oxide (NO), myloperoxidase (MPO), and TBARS, furthermore it increased the renal tissue levels of antioxidants; reduced glutathione (GSH), and superoxide dismutase (SOD). Histologically, OT reduced the monocellular infiltration as well as the tubular damage in CP-induced nephrotoxicity. In conclusion OT has a powerful antioxidant effect that can alleviate the CP-induced nephrotoxicity through inhibition of NADPH oxidase and P38 MAPK resulting in improvement of kidney functions.
We have observed that an early increase in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio of metastatic melanoma patients during chemoimmunotherapy is the most favourable independent prognostic factor. In this study, 87 patients with metastatic melanoma were monitored for peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets (CD4+ and CD8+) before and during chemoimmunotherapy (dacarbazine, vinblastine, lomustine and bleomycin or dacarbazine alone plus interferon-alpha) to confirm our previous observation. Blood samples were systematically obtained from patients who received either of these chemoimmunotherapies. The frequencies of peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets were monitored by flow cytometry using monoclonal antibodies OKT4 (CD4+, T-helper cells) and OKT8 (CD8+, T-suppressor cells). The overall response rate was 46.5%, and the median overall survival was 9.3 months. Patients with pre-treatment CD4+ levels above the mean level, who later responded to therapy, had a median survival of 28.1 months vs. 10.2 months for responders with low pre-treatment CD4+ levels (P=0.053, log-rank test). Responders with decreasing CD8+ levels had a median survival of 27.8 months vs. 10.8 months for responders with increasing CD8+ levels (P=0.04, log-rank test). Similarly, responding patients with an increasing CD4+/CD8+ ratio had a median survival of 28.1 months vs. 10.5 months for those with decreasing ratios (P=0.002, log-rank test). Non-responders showed no difference in median survival irrespective of low or high pre-treatment CD4+ lymphocytes, increasing or decreasing CD8+ levels, or increasing or decreasing CD4+/CD8+ ratios. This follow-up study confirms that the monitoring of CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes may provide important predictive and prognostic information in metastatic melanoma patients receiving chemoimmunotherapy.
The comparative central nervous system (CNS) toxicity of serially administered intravenous doses of lidocaine, bupivacaine, etidocaine, and tetracaine was investigated in awake dogs. The mean cumulative dose required for convulsive activity was 4.0 mg/kg tetracaine, 5.0 mg/kg bupivacaine, 8.0 mg/kg etidocaine, and 22.0 mg/kg lidocaine. The cumulative convulsive dose of lidocaine was significantly greater than that of the other three agents (P less than 0.01). A comparison of the in vivo anesthetic potency and the acute CNS toxicity of these various agents suggests little difference in the therapeutic ratio between less potent anesthetics such as lidocaine and more potent drugs, i.e., tetracaine, bupivacaine, and etidocaine. The relative CNS toxicity of the different agents as determined in awake dogs in this study was compared with their relative cardiovascular toxicity previously evaluated in a series of ventilated dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital. The dose of lidocaine, etidocaine, tetracaine, and bupivacaine required to produce irreversible cardiovascular depression was 3.5-6.7 times greater than that which produced convulsions. These results suggest that the CNS is the primary target organ for the toxic effects of both highly lipid-soluble and highly protein-bound local anesthetics (i.e., bupivacaine, etidocaine, and tetracaine) and less lipid-soluble and less protein-bound drugs (i.e., lidocaine) following rapid intravenous administration.
A patient of 14 years suffering from secondary haemosiderosis and thalassaemia major was treated with i.v. desferrioxamine in doses up to 3 g/d. Urine iron loss ranged from 46-158 mg/d. Despite improvement in cardiac and hepatic status the patient developed acute renal insufficiency of the pre renal type. The possible role of desferrioxamine in this complication is discussed. Desferrioxamine given s.c. or i.v. effects a marked urinary iron loss but its use may not be without significant complications.
Patients with advanced vulvovaginal mucosal melanoma generally have a dismal prognosis, and no effective systemic therapy for the disease has been reported. The objective of this retrospective clinical study was to assess the clinical benefit of biochemotherapy in this patient population. We evaluated the medical records of all patients with advanced vulvovaginal mucosal melanoma treated with biochemotherapy at our institution. Our search yielded 11 patients with adequate documentation for study inclusion: eight patients had undergone treatment with cisplatin (CDDP), vinblastine (VB), dacarbazine (DTIC), interferon-alpha (IFN) and interleukin-2 (IL-2), one with CDDP, VB, DTIC and IFN, one with CDDP, temozolomide and IFN, and one with CDDP, VB, DTIC, tamoxifen, IFN and IL-2. All IL-2 treatments were administered intravenously. The median follow-up duration was 10 months (range, 2-44 months). Four patients (36%) showed partial responses, but none showed a complete response. Two patients did not return for follow-up evaluation after the completion of treatment. The median time to disease progression in all 11 patients was 3 months; however, the median time to disease progression in those with a partial response or stable disease was 6 months. One patient was alive at the last documented follow-up visit (51 months). The median overall survival duration from the start of biochemotherapy was 10 months. Biochemotherapy appears to have significant activity against advanced vulvovaginal melanoma, and should be considered as a systemic treatment option for advanced, metastatic, vulvovaginal melanoma.
We compared esmolol and remifentanil infusions with respect to their effect on intraoperative hemodynamic stability and early recovery after outpatient laparoscopic surgery when administered as IV adjuvants during desflurane anesthesia. After premedication with midazolam 2 mg IV, anesthesia was induced with propofol 2 mg. kg(-1) IV in combination with either esmolol 1 mg. kg(-1) IV (n = 27) or remifentanil 1 microg. kg(-1) IV (n = 26) and succinylcholine 1 mg. kg(-1) IV according to a randomized, double-blinded protocol. Anesthesia was initially maintained with desflurane 2.5% (subsequently titrated to maintain an electroencephalogram-bispectral index value of 60) and nitrous oxide 65% in oxygen. Before skin incision, an infusion of either esmolol (5 microg. kg(-1). min(-1)) or remifentanil (0.05 microg. kg(-1). min(-1)) was started and titrated to maintain the heart rate within 25% of the baseline value. Mivacurium, 0.04 mg/kg IV, bolus doses were administered to maintain a stable peak inspiratory pressure. Esmolol (12.8 +/- 13.1 microg. kg(-1). min(-1)) and remifentanil (0.04 +/- 0.02 microg. kg(-1). min(-1)) infusions were equally effective in maintaining a stable heart rate during these laparoscopic procedures. Although the mivacurium requirement was larger in the Esmolol group (7 +/- 5 vs 3 +/- 4 mg), the Esmolol group reported a smaller incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (4% vs 35%). Both drugs were associated with frequent "postanesthesia care unit bypass" rates (78-81%), short times to "home readiness" (119-120 min), excellent patient satisfaction (81-85%), and rapid resumption of normal activities (2.6-3.2 d). Fast-tracked patients were ready for discharge home significantly earlier (112 +/- 46 vs 151 +/- 50 min). We concluded that esmolol infusion is an acceptable alternative to remifentanil infusion for maintaining hemodynamic stability during desflurane-based fast-track anesthesia for outpatient gynecologic laparoscopic surgery.
Cocaine use is common in many areas of the world, particularly the United States and Western Europe. Toxicity following the use of cocaine is associated with a wide range of clinical features. In this review, we will focus on the cocaine-associated cardiac arrhythmias and, in particular, some of the controversies in their etiology and management. Cocaine can produce arrhythmias either through the production of myocardial ischemia or as a direct result of ion channel alterations. Excessive catecholamines, combined with sodium and potassium channel blockades, give rise to a wide variety of supra-ventricular and ventricular rhythms. The animal and human evidence for ion channel dysfunction is reviewed, and the effects of catecholamines are followed from the cardiac action potential to the development of arrhythmias. Finally, theoretical constructs are combined with existing evidence to develop a rational treatment strategy for patients with cocaine-induced cardiac arrhythmias. In particular, we review the evidence concerning the controversies relating to the use of lidocaine in comparison with sodium bicarbonate, in terms of QRS prolongation secondary to sodium channel blockade.
The in vitro postantibiotic effects (PAEs), postantibiotic sub-MIC effects (PA-SMEs), and sub-MIC effects of telavancin were determined for 16 gram-positive organisms. Telavancin staphylococcal, streptococcal, and enterococcal PAE ranges were 0.9 to 3.9 h, 0.4 to 6.7 h, and 0.3 to 2.2 h, respectively. The PA-SME ranges (0.4 times the MIC) for staphylococci, streptococci, and enterococci were 6.7 to >10.7 h, >10.7 to >11.0 h, and >10 to >10.8 h, respectively. The extended PAE of telavancin, together with its long elimination half-life in humans, supports once-daily dosing for this investigational drug.
Analgesic intake was investigated for 96 patients with cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter (including papillomas) and 294 hospital controls. In comparison with persons who never used analgesics, increased relative risks (RR) were seen for users of phenacetin-containing drugs after adjustment for smoking and high-risk occupational exposure (men: RR = 2.4; women: RR = 4.2). A significant relative risk for aspirin use among women was also observed. There was an indication of a dose-effect relationship for both types of analgesics. The influence of phenacetin and aspirin on the development of renal pelvis and ureter tumours could not be separated since in this study the two compounds occurred so frequently in the same formulation. Experimental studies and phenacetin metabolism makes it biologically most relevant to attribute the observed association in the present study to the phenacetin component of the drugs.
Determination of the effectiveness of chemical treatments for Herpes simplex type 2 infections has generally relied on a reduction in the rate of mortality. A more natural progression of the disease is seen when non-progressive cutaneous lesions are induced. Treatment of characteristic cutaneous lesions with ultrasound alone, a cream compound designated Herpigon alone, or a combination of ultrasound and Herpigon were compared to determine the time required for lesions to heal and the amount of virus recoverable from treated lesions. Results indicate that the use of Herpigon alone or in combination with ultrasound resulted in a significant reduction in the time required for the lesions to heal. A comparison of the amount of virus present in treated lesions indicated that the combined treatment was most effective in reducing the amount of recoverable virus.
The intraocular pressure of a 73-year-old man with a history of primary open-angle glaucoma had been approximately 21 and 17 mm Hg in the right and left eyes, respectively, while taking latanoprost 0.005% and dorzolamide hydrochloride 2%. When taking 500 mg of oral niacin (also known as vitamin B3 or nicotinic acid), his intraocular pressure increased to 37 and 27 mm Hg in the right and left eyes, respectively, on one occasion. On reexamination, the intraocular pressure had increased to 28 and 23 mm Hg in the right and left eyes, respectively. Each time the niacin was stopped, the intraocular pressure decreased to the original levels.
Epidemiological studies suggest that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents decrease the risk of colorectal cancer. This is believed to be mediated, at least in part, by inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) activity. There are two COX isoenzymes, namely the constitutively expressed COX-1 and the inducible COX-2. COX-2 is overexpressed in adenomas and colorectal cancers, and COX-2-specific inhibitors have been shown to inhibit intestinal polyps in Apc(Delta716) mice more effectively than dual COX-1/COX-2 inhibitors such as sulindac. Various Apc knockout mice, including the multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min) mouse and the Apc(Delta716) mouse, are limited by their lack of large numbers of colonic adenomas and aberrant crypt foci, the putative precursors of large-bowel polyps and cancers. Our DNA mismatch-repair-deficient Min mouse model (Apc+/-Msh2-/-) has genetic features of both familial adenomatous polyposis and hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, and most importantly, rapidly develops numerous small- and large-bowel adenomas, as well as colonic aberrant crypt foci. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of COX inhibitors on intestinal adenomas and colonic aberrant crypt foci in this accelerated polyposis, mismatch-repair-deficient Min mouse model, in addition to a standard Min mouse model. Weanling Apc+/-Msh2-/- and Min mice were fed diets containing no drug, sulindac, or a specific COX-2 inhibitor (MF-tricyclic). Apc+/-Msh2-/- and Min mice were sacrificed after 4 weeks and 5 months on diet, respectively. Apc+/-Msh2-/- mice treated with MF-tricyclic had significantly fewer small-bowel polyps (mean +/- SD, 178 +/- 29) compared with mice on sulindac (278 +/- 80), or control diet (341 +/- 43; P < 0.001). There was no difference in numbers of large-bowel polyps or aberrant crypt foci in mice in the three groups. MF-tricyclic was also effective in reducing both small- and large-bowel polyps in Min mice. Western analysis demonstrated COX-2 expression in both large- and small-bowel polyps from mice of both genotypes. This study demonstrates that a specific COX-2 inhibitor is effective in preventing small-bowel polyps in mismatch-repair-deficient Min mice and both small- and large-bowel polyps in standard Min mice. Therefore, specific COX-2 inhibitors may be useful as chemopreventive and therapeutic agents in humans at risk for colorectal neoplasia.
Induction of anesthesia with fentanyl has been associated with such extreme rigidity as to cause failure of bag-and-mask ventilation. The etiology of this failure has not been investigated. Therefore, fentanyl-induced rigidity was studied in 5 control patients to establish the dose at which ventilation became impossible and in 5 patients with tracheostomies to investigate changes in pulmonary compliance. Anesthesia was induced with 3 micrograms/kg/min fentanyl to a total of 30 micrograms/kg. In control patients, failure to maintain bag-and-mask ventilation occurred at a mean fentanyl dose of 17 micrograms/kg. In patients with tracheostomies, compliance decreased 16% below baseline levels with fentanyl-100% O2 and an additional 22% with 60% N2O, returning to baseline levels after paralysis. It is concluded that the site of the cause of inability to maintain bag-and-mask ventilation after fentanyl lies above the trachea, specifically at the glottis. Glottic rigidity causes glottic closure and upper airway obstruction.
Glycogen storage disease type HI (GSD-III), an autosomal recessive disease, is caused by deficient glycogen debranching enzyme (GDE) activity. Most GSD-III patients are GDE deficient in both liver and muscle (type IIIa), and some GSD-III patients have GDE absent in liver but retained in muscle (type IIIb). The molecular basis for this enzymatic variability is largely unknown. In the present study, the analysis of the GDE gene in three GSD-IIIb patients by single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP), DNA sequencing, restriction analysis, and family studies, revealed each of them as being a compound heterozygote for two different mutations. The first mutant alleles in all three patients involved mutations in exon 3 at amino acid codon 6 of the GDE protein. Two had an AG deletion at nucleotides 17 and 18 of the GDE cDNA (17delAG) which resulted in change of subsequent amino acid sequence and a truncated protein (25X); the other had a C to T transition at nucleotide 16 of the cDNA which changed a Glutamine codon to a stop codon (Q6X). The 17delAG mutation was also found in 8 of the 10 additional GSD-IIIb patients. The Q6X mutation was found in one of the remaining two GSD-IIIb patients. These two mutations were not found in any of the 31 GSD-IIIa patients, 2 GSD-IIId patients, nor 28 unrelated normal controls. The second mutant alleles in each of the three GSD-IIIb patients were R864X, R1228X, and W68OX. The R864X and R1228X were not unique for GSD-IIIb as they were also found in GSD-IIIa patients (frequency of 10.3% and 5.2% in Caucasian patients, respectively). Our data demonstrated that both IIIa and IIIb had mutations in the same GDE gene and established for the first time the molecular basis of GSD-III that differentially expressed in liver and muscle. The striking and specific association of exon 3 mutations with GSD-IIIb may provide insight into mechanisms controlling tissue-specific expression of the GDE gene. The identification of exon 3 mutations has clinical significance as well because it distinguished GSD-IIIb from IIIa hence permitting diagnosis from a blood sample rather than a more invasive muscle biopsy.
In Japan, when pharmaceutical companies launch a new drug, they are obligated to conduct a post-marketing survey to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the drug in accordance with Good Post-Marketing Surveillance Practice under Article 14-4 (re-examination) of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law at contracted medical institutions. We report the results of a long-term special survey that we conducted as a post-marketing survey.
The results of a prospective post-marketing survey that was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of the β-adrenergic receptor antagonist (β-blocker) Artist® tablets 10 mg, 20 mg (carvedilol) in patients with hypertension in Japan, were investigated in order to examine the safety and efficacy of the drug during long-term treatment (18 months).
Patients were carvedilol-naive and had essential hypertension or renal parenchymal hypertension.
We performed this survey as a prospective cohort study (special survey) utilizing a centralized registration method over 3 years (starting from April 1994), for an observation period of 18 months of carvedilol treatment.
Sixty-one medical institutions across Japan collected 380 case report forms of patients who received long-term administration of carvedilol, with 363 and 341 cases evaluated for safety and efficacy, respectively. The discontinuation rate was 7.2% and the incidence of adverse drug reactions was 5.23% (19 of 363) in the safety population. There was no significant change in fasting plasma glucose levels from baseline (118.1 ± 46.5 mg/dL) to after carvedilol treatment (114.6 ± 43.3 mg/dL).[n = 141; p = 0.310]. In 341 evaluable patients in the efficacy population, decreases in both blood pressure and pulse rate were statistically significant at all assessment points in comparison with baseline data (p < 0.001). Similarly, in hypertensive patients with diabetes mellitus, decreases in blood pressure were statistically significant at all assessment points in comparison with baseline data (p < 0.001).
The results of this study show that carvedilol exerted stable antihypertensive effects leading to favorable blood pressure control throughout long-term treatment, without showing any safety concerns. It was concluded that there were no clinically significant issues in terms of safety or efficacy with the long-term treatment of carvedilol in patients with hypertension.
In Japan, when pharmaceutical companies launch a new drug, they are obligated to conduct a post-marketing survey to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the drug in accordance with Good Post-Marketing Surveillance Practice under Article 14.4 (re-examination) of the Pharmaceutical Affairs Law at contracted medical institutions. We report the results of a drug use survey, which we conducted as a post-marketing survey.
This prospective post-marketing drug use survey was conducted to assess the safety and efficacy of the β-adrenergic receptor antagonist (β-blocker) Artist® Tablets (carvedilol) in patients with hypertension in Japan.
Patients were carvedilol-naive and had essential hypertension or renal parenchymal hypertension.
This was a prospective survey conducted over 3 years from October 1993 to September 1996. The standard observation period for the patients was defined as 12 weeks of treatment with carvedilol.
We collected data on 4961 patients at 561 medical institutions who had not been previously treated with carvedilol; 4574 patients were included in the safety analysis and 4422 in the efficacy analysis. The incidence of adverse drug reactions (the proportion of patients with adverse drug reactions) was 4.31% (197 of 4574 patients), which is less than that shown in the pre-approval clinical trial of carvedilol (6.85% [68 of 993]). The most common adverse drug reactions were bradycardia, dizziness, hypotension, headache, and feeling light-headed. After 12 weeks' treatment with carvedilol, systolic/diastolic blood pressure (SBP/DBP) was reduced from 168.2 ± 18.6/95.7 ± 11.3 mmHg at baseline to 144.3 ± 17.3/83.4 ± 10.8 mmHg. Patients were classified according to which antihypertensive drug they had been using when carvedilol treatment was initiated. Coadministered agents were calcium channel blockers (CCBs), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), diuretics, and α-adrenergic receptor antagonists (α-blockers). At 12 weeks, the change in SBP/DBP in the monotherapy group was -22.7/-12.2 mmHg and that of each combination therapy subgroup, CCB, ACEI, diuretic, and β-blocker, was -26.1/-12.7 mmHg, -25.4/-11.9 mmHg, -26.3/-13.0 mmHg, and -24.4/-11.5 mmHg, respectively. The achievement rates for target BP (<140/90 mmHg) were 29.5% in the monotherapy group, 34.8% in the CCB group, 31.3% in the ACEI group, 31.8% in the diuretic group, and 32.4% in the β-blocker group. There was no significant difference in the achievement of target BP among the four combination therapy subgroups (p = 0.475). These results indicate that carvedilol exerts reasonable BP reduction regardless of whether it is used as monotherapy or in combination therapy, and that the effect is not influenced by the coadministered drug. Moreover, carvedilol was also effective in reducing BP levels in elderly patients (≥65 years) and in patients with diabetes mellitus or renal diseases.
The results of this study reflect the results of clinical trials up to the time of approval and it was confirmed that carvedilol is a highly useful drug in the treatment of hypertension.
The differential susceptibility of inbred mouse strains to teratogen-induced malformations can serve as a model to assess the molecular pathogenesis of dysmorphology. Using such a model, the teratogenic effect of cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)), which results in limb reduction deformities in the C57BL/6N mouse strain, but not in the SWV strain, was found to correlate with reduction of the expression domains of Fgf8/4 (fibroblast growth factor-8 and -4) in the apical ectodermal ridge (AER) and Shh (sonic hedgehog) in the posterior mesenchyme, as well as reduction of MAPK/Erk1/2 (the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular regulated kinase 1/2) phosphorylation (pErk1/2) in the mesenchyme throughout the limb bud. The pattern of pErk1/2 reduction did not consistently reflect the pattern of Fgf8/4 reduction suggesting that CdCl(2) might affect pErk1/2 through an Fgf-independent pathway. Other potential downstream mediators of the Fgf pathway including Mkp3 and Fgf10 as well as pMek (phosphorylated MAPK/Erk1/2 kinase) were not different in limb buds between the two strains at the studied time points. The effect of CdCl(2) on skeletogenesis was traced in time to the early stages of pre-chondrogenic condensation as determined by the Sox9 expression domain. The data of the present study indicate that a differential strain response to CdCl(2)-induced forelimb digital loss may be due to a polymorphic interference with the Fgf/Shh positive feedback loop and Erk1/2 phosphorylation.
Limited structural information of drug targets, cellular toxicity possessed by lead compounds, and large amounts of potential leads are the major issues facing the design-oriented approach of discovering new leads. In an attempt to tackle these issues, we have developed a process of virtual screening based on the observation that conformational rearrangements of the dengue virus envelope protein are essential for the mediation of viral entry into host cells via membrane fusion. Screening was based solely on the structural information of the Dengue virus envelope protein and was focused on a target site that is presumably important for the conformational rearrangements necessary for viral entry. To circumvent the issue of lead compound toxicity, we performed screening based on molecular docking using structural databases of medical compounds. To enhance the identification of hits, we further categorized and selected candidates according to their novel structural characteristics. Finally, the selected candidates were subjected to a biological validation assay to assess inhibition of Dengue virus propagation in mammalian host cells using a plaque formation assay. Among the 10 compounds examined, rolitetracycline and doxycycline significantly inhibited plaque formation, demonstrating their inhibitory effect on dengue virus propagation. Both compounds were tetracycline derivatives with IC(50)s estimated to be 67.1 microM and 55.6 microM, respectively. Their docked conformations displayed common hydrophobic interactions with critical residues that affected membrane fusion during viral entry. These interactions will therefore position the tetracyclic ring moieties of both inhibitors to bind firmly to the target and, subsequently, disrupt conformational rearrangement and block viral entry. This process can be applied to other drug targets in which conformational rearrangement is critical to function.
SU4312, a potent and selective inhibitor of VEGF receptor-2 (VEGFR-2), has been designed to treat cancer. Recent studies have suggested that SU4312 can also be useful in treating neurodegenerative disorders. In this study, we assessed neuroprotection by SU4312 against 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+) )-induced neurotoxicity and further explored the underlying mechanisms.
MPP(+) -treated neurons and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated zebrafish were used to study neuroprotection by SU4312. NOS activity was assayed in vitro to examine direct interactions between SU4312 and NOS isoforms.
SU4312 unexpectedly prevented MPP(+) -induced neuronal apoptosis in vitro and decreased MPTP-induced loss of dopaminergic neurons, reduced expression of mRNA for tyrosine hydroxylase and impaired swimming behaviour in zebrafish. In contrast, PTK787/ZK222584, a well-studied VEGFR-2 inhibitor, failed to prevent neurotoxicity, suggesting that the neuroprotective actions of SU4312 were independent of its anti-angiogenic action. Furthermore, SU4312 exhibited non-competitive inhibition of purified neuronal NOS (nNOS) with an IC(50) value of 19.0 μM but showed little or no effects on inducible and endothelial NOS. Molecular docking simulations suggested an interaction between SU4312 and the haem group within the active centre of nNOS.
SU4312 exhibited neuroprotection against MPP(+) at least partly via selective and direct inhibition of nNOS. Because SU4312 could reach the brain in rats, our study also offered a support for further development of SU4312 to treat neurodegenerative disorders, particularly those associated with NO-mediated neurotoxicity.
Drug-induced kidney injury (DIKI) results in attrition during drug development; new DIKI urinary biomarkers offer potential to detect and monitor DIKI progression and regression, but frequently only in rats. The triple reuptake inhibitor (TRI) PRC200-SS represents a new class of antidepressants that elevate synaptic levels of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine and is expected to produce more rapid onset and better antidepressant efficacy than single or dual inhibitors. Although preclinical studies and recent clinical trials lend support to this concept of superior efficacy for TRIs, there is little information on the safety profile of this class of compounds. Using histopathology and DIKI biomarkers, in single- and repeat dose toxicological studies in cynomolgus monkeys, PRC200-SS demonstrated dose-proportional kidney toxicity. Characterization of the histopathological lesions, using a combination of immunohistochemistry (IHC) and urinary biomarker analysis, indicated that the compound is a distal tubule and collecting duct toxicant. Segment specificity for the lesions was shown using a newly developed triple IHC combination method with antibodies against calbindin D28, aquaporin 2, and aquaporin 1. Urinary biomarker analyses, using multiplex immunoassays, confirmed a dose-proportional increase in the excretion of calbindin D28 and clusterin in compound-treated monkeys with levels returning to baseline during the drug-free recovery period. These results constitute the validation of distal nephron DIKI biomarkers in the cynomolgus monkey and demonstrate the utility of calbindin D28 and clusterin to monitor the progression of distal nephron DIKI, representing potential early biomarkers of DIKI for the clinic.
The cardiac effect of amodiaquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine was studied in adult Cameroonian patients with acute uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria by electrocardiographic monitoring over the course of 7 days. Clinical and parasitological responses were monitored until Day 14. Bradycardia was observed in 16 of 20 amodiaquine-treated patients on Day 2, which corresponds to the time when maximal cumulative plasma concentration is reached, and in 12 of 20 patients on Day 7. A bradycardic effect lasting several days was not noted in patients treated with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine. Significantly prolonged P, PQ, QRS, and QTc intervals were recorded on Day 2 after both 30 and 35 mg of amodiaquine base per kilogram of body weight had been administered, but these intervals were not correlated with the plasma monodesethylamodiaquine (main human active metabolite of amodiaquine) level. Electrocardiographic changes after therapy with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine were minor and transient. All patients had fever and parasite clearance on or before Day 3 and remained free of fever and parasites until Day 14. None of the patients complained of cardiovascular adverse effects during the follow-up. These results suggest the absence of significant cardiac effects of amodiaquine and sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine at usual therapeutic doses, but they should draw the attention of clinicians treating malaria-infected patients who have taken other antimalarial drugs with cardiovascular side effects or those who are under treatment with cardiovascular drugs.
Thiopurine therapy, commonly used in autoimmune conditions, can be complicated by life-threatening leukopenia. This leukopenia is associated with genetic variation in TPMT (encoding thiopurine S-methyltransferase). Despite a lower frequency of TPMT mutations in Asians, the incidence of thiopurine-induced leukopenia is higher in Asians than in individuals of European descent. Here we performed an Immunochip-based 2-stage association study in 978 Korean subjects with Crohn's disease treated with thiopurines. We identified a nonsynonymous SNP in NUDT15 (encoding p.Arg139Cys) that was strongly associated with thiopurine-induced early leukopenia (odds ratio (OR) = 35.6; P(combined) = 4.88 × 10(-94)). In Koreans, this variant demonstrated sensitivity and specificity of 89.4% and 93.2%, respectively, for thiopurine-induced early leukopenia (in comparison to 12.1% and 97.6% for TPMT variants). Although rare, this SNP was also strongly associated with thiopurine-induced leukopenia in subjects with inflammatory bowel disease of European descent (OR = 9.50; P = 4.64 × 10(-4)). Thus, NUDT15 is a pharmacogenetic determinant for thiopurine-induced leukopenia in diverse populations.
Characteristic alterations in the serum and urine biochemical profiles of Doberman Pinschers with congestive heart failure (CHF) resulting from idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy were determined. We compared these alterations with those observed in 2 other models of CHF: rate overload induced by rapid ventricular pacing in dogs, and biventricular hypertrophy and dilatation induced in turkey poults by furazolidone toxicosis. Serum and urine biochemical changes in both models of CHF in dogs were mild to moderate in degree, and were moderately consistent. They could be attributed to secondary neurohumoral, hepatic, and renal effects of heart failure. The most marked and consistent changes observed were mildly decreased anion gap that developed, in part, because of decreased serum sodium concentration, moderately increased catecholamine concentrations, moderate lactaciduria, hyposthenuria, and mildly increased urea concentrations and liver enzyme activities. In birds with furazolidone cardiomyopathy, we observed mild increases in serum urate concentration, liver and muscle enzyme activities, but moderately increased sodium concentration with decreased chloride concentration. In the pacing and furazolidone models, in which CHF was rapidly induced, moderate to marked hypoproteinemia was attributable to decreases in albumin and globulin concentrations. Using the avian model we found that the hypoproteinemia could be largely attributed to blood volume expansion, and to a lesser extent, inanition. Development of hypoalbuminemia during rapid ventricular pacing and furazolidone treatment may contribute to the effects of rate overload or drug toxicity in the pathogenesis of CHF, because hypoalbuminemia may contribute to altered hemodynamics and neuroendocrine system activation. Our data indicate that clinical biochemical analysis of serum and urine may be useful for assessing progression of CHF.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia with thrombosis is a rare but serious complication in patients receiving heparin therapy. We report a case of a patient with this complication who had massive thrombosis within the descending thoracic aorta detected by transesophageal echocardiography. Our case suggests that a transesophageal echocardiographic examination can be useful in the early diagnosis of heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis.
Genome-wide association studies and candidate gene studies in ulcerative colitis have identified 18 susceptibility loci. We conducted a meta-analysis of six ulcerative colitis genome-wide association study datasets, comprising 6,687 cases and 19,718 controls, and followed up the top association signals in 9,628 cases and 12,917 controls. We identified 29 additional risk loci (P < 5 × 10(-8)), increasing the number of ulcerative colitis-associated loci to 47. After annotating associated regions using GRAIL, expression quantitative trait loci data and correlations with non-synonymous SNPs, we identified many candidate genes that provide potentially important insights into disease pathogenesis, including IL1R2, IL8RA-IL8RB, IL7R, IL12B, DAP, PRDM1, JAK2, IRF5, GNA12 and LSP1. The total number of confirmed inflammatory bowel disease risk loci is now 99, including a minimum of 28 shared association signals between Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.
To examine the role of the renin-angiotensin system in aminoglycoside-induced acute renal failure, we gave rats gentamicin (80 mg/kg/day), gentamicin + captopril (an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor), captopril alone or saline sham injections, for 10 days. Blood pressure, sodium excretion, urine osmolality and creatinine clearance were measured four times during treatment. Plasma renin activity, angiotensin I-converting enzyme and renal histology were determined at sacrifice. Although angiotensin I-converting enzyme activity was markedly suppressed by captopril treatment, the addition of captopril failed to consistently influence blood pressure or urine osmolality. In addition, it did not promote natriuresis in the face of gentamicin toxicity. Creatinine clearance decreased progressively in groups receiving gentamicin and was lowest (P less than .05) in the groups receiving gentamicin + captopril. Captopril did not prevent the development of tubular epithelial nor glomerular endothelial changes associated with gentamicin toxicity. In a separate experiment rats received captopril for 3 days prior, before receiving the gentamicin + captopril regimen for 10 days. Captopril pretreatment did not influence the results. This study does not support a pivotal role for the renin-angiotensin system in the production of the decreased glomerular filtration rate observed in nephrotoxic acute renal failure induced by gentamicin in rats.
Although five-year survival rates for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) are now over 80% in most industrialized countries, not all children have benefited equally from this progress. Ethnic differences in survival after childhood ALL have been reported in many clinical studies, with poorer survival observed among African Americans or those with Hispanic ethnicity when compared with European Americans or Asians. The causes of ethnic differences remain uncertain, although both genetic and non-genetic factors are likely important. Interrogating genome-wide germline SNP genotypes in an unselected large cohort of children with ALL, we observed that the component of genomic variation that co-segregated with Native American ancestry was associated with risk of relapse (P = 0.0029) even after adjusting for known prognostic factors (P = 0.017). Ancestry-related differences in relapse risk were abrogated by the addition of a single extra phase of chemotherapy, indicating that modifications to therapy can mitigate the ancestry-related risk of relapse.
Recent reports have described clinical benefits of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) therapy for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). This paper describes severe hypercalcemia (serum calcium: 18.7 mg/dl) in association with ATRA treatment in a 14 year old girl with APL. Serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentrations were normal (0.21 ng/ml), which precludes the possibility of primary hyperparathyroidism or ectopic PTH secretion as a cause of the hypercalcemia. As for the factors which can accelerate mineral resorption, there were no apparent increases in the levels of PTH-related protein (PTH-rP), prostaglandins and vitamin D metabolites. In our in vitro experiment, ATRA did not stimulate the leukemic cells to produce PTH-rP. We speculate that ATRA, like PTH, may increase osteoclastic activity and induce hypercalcemia.
To explore the effect of arsenic trioxide on the apoptosis of retinoblastoma cell line HXO-RB(44) and the possible mechanism.
The effect of arsenic trioxide on the proliferation of retinoblastoma cell line HXO-RB(44) was observed by MTT colorimetric assay; the apoptosis of the HXO-RB(44) was examined by AO/EB staining and flow cytometry analysis (Annexin V+ PI staining); caspase-3 activity and bcl-2/bax expression in the HXO-RB(44) were detected by cpp32 colorimetric assay kit and Western blot.
Arsenic trioxide inhibited the proliferation of HXO-RB(44) cell in dose and duration-dependent manner in vitro; arsenic trioxide significantly increased the apoptosis in HXO-RB(44) cells. The activation of caspase-3 was increased, and the rate of bcl-2/bax was down-regulated in the HXO-RB(44) cells processed with arsenic trioxide.
Arsenic trioxide can inhibit the proliferation of retinoblastoma cell HXO-RB(44) in vitro by apoptosis induction. The apoptosis induction is possibly related to the caspase-3 activation and bcl-2/bax down-regulation.
