Two patients experienced previously undescribed vascular reactions to albuterol sulfate inhalation. Features of the first reaction suggest mast-cell degranulation and were reversed by epinephrine. The second patient experienced severe postural hypotension corresponding to albuterol's duration of action. Vasoactive mediators or unusual vascular sensitivity to beta 2-drugs may be implicated in these reactions.
In a double-blind study ten asthmatic patients with impaired lung function received the cysteinyl-leukotriene receptor antagonist ICI 204,219 (40 mg by mouth) and placebo in random order on 2 days at least 1 week apart. The increase in forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) above baseline was significantly greater after ICI 204,219 than after placebo. This effect persisted after nebulised salbutamol. These findings suggest that cysteinyl-leukotrienes are one of the causes of persistent bronchoconstriction in chronic asthma.
Our aim was to present 2 children with visual hallucinations possibly associated with clarithromycin administration at therapeutic dosage.
Two children were admitted to our hospital with sudden onset of visual hallucinations after taking clarithromycin at therapeutic dosage by mouth. Physical examination, laboratory investigations and imaging studies were normal. The symptoms gradually disappeared once the clarithromycin therapy had been discontinued, making us suspect clarithromycin as the agent responsible for the visual hallucinations. They were observed monthly for a year without any symptoms or further treatment.
This report highlights hallucinations due to therapeutic doses of clarithromycin therapy as a possible new side effect in children.
Propranolol hydrochloride is reported to lower portal pressure and inhibit renin secretion in patients with chronic liver disease, actions that might lessen the tendency to ascites formation. We compared the effect of diuretics with that of the same dose of diuretics plus propranolol on natriuresis, urine output, and daily weight loss in 13 hospitalized patients with stable chronic liver disease, sodium retention, and ascites. The propranolol hydrochloride dose was 20 to 160 mg four times a day, titrated to reduce resting pulse by 25% or systolic BP 10 mm Hg. Diuretics given were furosemide, 80 to 160 mg, and triamterene, 100 or 200 mg/day. Periods of time when each regimen was received ranged from one to four days. Creatinine excretion documented complete urine collections. Compared with diuretics alone, diuretics plus propranolol substantially reduced resting pulse, systolic BP, and urine sodium excretion, although not creatinine clearance. This antinatriuretic effect may limit the proposed usefulness of propranolol for prevention of variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and ascites.
Although pioglitazone, a PPAR-gamma (peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptor-gamma) agonist, has been shown to prolong survival in two rapidly progressive pkd1 (polycystic kidney disease 1)-knockout mice models through disparate mechanisms, these studies lacked data on therapeutic potential and long-term safety because of a short observation period. In the present study, we have used another potent PPAR-gamma agonist, rosiglitazone, to treat Han:SPRD rats, a slowly progressive ADPKD (autosomal dominant PKD) animal model, and confirmed that short-term treatment was able to delay the progression of kidney cysts and protect renal function, which may relate to down-regulating the abnormally activated beta-catenin signalling pathway and its anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrosis effects. Long-term administration significantly prolonged the survival of Han:SPRD rats. Moreover, early therapy in rats with normal renal function had a better outcome than delayed therapy, while initiating therapy in rats with mild impaired renal function still protected renal function. The efficacy of rosiglitazone depended on continuous drug administration; withdrawal of the drug caused accelerated deterioration of renal function in effectively treated rats and shortened their survival to an untreated state. Long-term administration led to cardiac enlargement, probably due to rosiglitazone-mediated sodium re-absorption. In conclusion, these results indicate that rosiglitazone was able to effectively delay the progression of kidney disease and protect renal function in Han:SPRD rats, but its adverse effect of inducing cardiac enlargement should also be monitored closely.
Hypertriglyceridemia is often associated with elevated remnants, small dense LDL and decreased HDL-cholesterol (C). The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of bezafibrate on lipoprotein subfractions profile and inflammation markers in patients with hypertriglyceridemia.
Twenty-four hypertriglyceridemic subjects took bezafibrate, 400 mg daily, for 4 weeks. Lipoprotein subclasses were measured by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Inflammation markers including C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1) were also determined.
Bezafibrate lowered triglyceride (TG) by 59% and increased HDL-C by 20%. NMR analysis revealed that bezafibrate lowered large TG-rich lipoproteins and IDL by 81% and 46%, respectively. Small LDL was selectively decreased by 53% with increase in large to intermediate LDL, thus altering the LDL distribution towards the larger particles (mean diameter 19.9 to 20.7 nm, p = 0.0001). Small (HDL1) and intermediate (HDL3) HDL significantly increased by 168% and 70%, whereby resulting in a significant reduction of the mean HDL particle size from 9.0 to 8.7 nm (p = 0.026). None of inflammation makers showed significant change by bezafibrate.
Bezafibrate effectively ameliorates atherogenic dyslipidemia by reducing remnants and small LDL as well as by increasing HDL particles in hypertriglyceridemic subjects.
Serious neurological complications following long-term intrathecal application of opiates have seldom been published. This report describes complications which developed three months after reimplantation of a spinal catheter for pain therapy. The symptoms which occurred were paraparesis of the legs with sensory loss and urinary retention. A regression of these symptoms occurred only after explantation of the spinal catheter-pump-system. Possible reasons and consequences are discussed.
Our study of more than 250 women with hepatic tumors, accessioned in our tumor registry at the University of Louisville, disclosed three types of tumor: FNH , HCA, and HCC. The ingestion of sundry kinds of sex steroids by the majority of these women, chiefly for purposes of preventing conception, warrants the suspicion that such hormones induced these different types of hepatic tumors. Publications by others reporting similar hepatic tumors in men using male sex steroids lends support to this hypothesis. Rupture of the hepatic tumor and consequent hemorrhage, producing hemoperitoneum, is a major risk factor. Other presenting symptoms are pain and palpable mass. Symptomatic women using OCs should be subjected to a CT or technetium hepatic scan as an initial screening assessment. Because of the imminent possibility of rupture, large turgid vascular tumors should be resected without biopsy. Biopsy-proved HCC should also be removed surgically. All other tumors, including small multiple tumors, will usually regress when exogenous sex steroids are withdrawn and pregnancy avoided. Other significant hepatic changes observed in this study are peliosis hepatis, periportal sinusoidal dilation, and vascular lesions. The branches of the hepatic artery and the tributaries of the portal vein show combinations of intimal and smooth muscle proliferation, vascular thickening, occlusive intimal thickening, and, at times, obstructing thrombosis. Similar smooth muscle proliferation in the afferent vessels of the livers of animals treated with sex steroids suggests that there is a cause and effect relationship in women using OCs.
Previous reports describing the oncogenic capacity of estrogens and endrogens and reports suggesting a relationship between primary liver tumors and oral contraceptives (OCs) prompted a meticulous evaluation of the lifestyle and medication usage of each patient accessioned by the registry at the University of Louisville School of Medicine. More than 250 cases of hepatocyte tumors in young women, not all steroid related, have been collected since 1973. The data are sufficient for analysis in 201 patients. The intention was to assess etiological factors and critically classify the histologic features. 3 separate tumors were distinguishable: hepatocelluar adenoma (HCA), focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH), and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In 9 tumors a histologic classification could not be made, generally because of massive hemorrhage and infarction of the tumor. 1 tumor was removed several weeks after hepatic artery ligation was done to stop hemorrhage from the ruptured tumor. Only dense scar tissue remained. Currently, none of the patients in the unclassified group has developed a recurrence nor have any developed metastases. None have died. HCA is relatively soft and usually solitary. The usual description of HCA stresses encapsulation. This is true of 5 tumors in the registry; in these cases the HCA occurred in women not exposed to exogenous reproductive steroids. In contrast, in women ingesting sex steroids the HCA were frequently not encapsulated. Nonencapsulation was characteristic of multiple small tumors in the group taking OCs. The typical FNH has a central scar with radiating septa and a coarsely nodular appearance. In contrast to HCA, necrosis and hemorrhage are less frequently encountered. The presence of bile duct epithelium is the single most distinguishing characteristic differentiating FNH from CHA. In women taking exogenous sex steroids, HCA and FNH may be related lesions or may be different histologic manifestations of a stimulus affecting mesenchymal and entodermal elements of the liver in variable degrees. HCC is grossly indistinguishable from FNH, having a well formed central scar, fibrous septa, and coarse nodulation. Despite the fact that all HCCs were fairly well differentiated tumors, there were no longterm survivors. There is no conclusive evidence that a cause and effect relationship exists between primary tumors of the liver and OCs. A history of prolonged sex steroid administration, usually OCs, was present in the majority of the cases studied. Similar smooth muscle proliferation in the afferent vessels of the livers of animals, treated with sex steroids suggests that there is a cause and effect relationship in women using OCs.
Plant-derived dietary polyphenolic compounds, such as flavonoids, with cancer cell-specific pro-apoptotic activity and chemopreventive potential are thought to be promising anticancer agents. In the present study, we were interested in determining if flavonoid-induced genotoxicity may also provoke cancer cell death. Cyto- and genotoxicity of three selected flavonoid glycosides (naringin, diosmin and hesperidin) in DU145 prostate cancer cell line were investigated. Flavonoid glycosides decreased cancer cell number and proliferative activity in a different manner. Flavonoid glycosides induced oxidative stress: intracellular total ROS and superoxide production were augmented after flavonoid treatment. Flavonoid glycosides stimulated DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) and micronuclei production. Diosmin was found the most potent genotoxic agent in DU145 cells, which, in turn, resulted in its pro-apoptotic activity. The more robust recruitment of 53BP1 was correlated with lower DNA and chromosomal damage after naringin and hesperidin treatment compared with diosmin treatment. Flavonoid glycosides were also found to be DNA hypomethylating agents with an ability to modulate cancer cell epigenome leading to changes in the gene expression patterns. Taken together, diosmin, a dietary flavonoid glycoside, was found active against DU145 cells by promoting genotoxic events and a concomitant apoptotic cell death. Thus, a comprehensive analysis of biological activity of diosmin against cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo deserves further investigation.
Cutaneous vasculitis is an uncommon complication of propylthiouracil therapy. Although its pathogenesis remains to be established, detection of antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) in association with this type of vasculitis has recently been described. We report here 2 patients who developed ANCA-associated crescentic glomerulonephritis without evidence of cutaneous vasculitis during propylthiouracil treatment of hyperthyroidism. Improvement of the renal function and the disappearance of ANCA were correlately found after discontinuation of propylthiouracil and by corticosteroid therapy in both patients.
Multiple single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within ADAM33 have been reported to be associated with asthma and bronchial hyper-responsiveness in Caucasian populations. We examined whether these SNPs contribute to a predisposition to asthma, especially aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA), in the Japanese population. Ten polymorphic sites (ST+4, ST+7, T1, T2, T+1, V-3, V-2, V-1, V4, V5) were genotyped in 102 AIA patients, 282 aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) patients and 120 control (CTR) subjects by direct sequencing. Haplotype frequencies were estimated by the expectation-maximization method. Differences in allele and haplotype frequencies among phenotypes were analyzed by the chi-square and permutation tests. ST+7, V-1 and V5 sites in the AIA group were significantly different from those in the ATA group (P=0.034-0.004) and from those in the CTR group (P=0.019-0.002). Haplotypes at three sites (ST+7, V-1, and V5) were significantly different in frequency between the AIA and ATA (P=0.008) or CTR (P=0.001) groups. Sequence variations in ADAM33 are likely to correlate with susceptibility to AIA in the Japanese population.
Alclofenac and D-penicillamine were compared under controlled, double-blind conditions in the treatment of 35 patients with active rheumatoid arthritis over a period of 26 weeks. The principal aim of the study was to investigate any relationships between changes in clinical status and changes in concentrations of three serum acute-phase proteins (fibrinogen, C-reactive protein, and haptoglobin), plasma free and protein-bound L-tryptophan, and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Both alclofenac and D-penicillamine were clearly effective: all patients showed steady improvement on the seven clinical indices of response employed. Drug management was easiest with alclofenac. Both drugs produced a significant reduction in acute-phase proteins, E.S.R. and protein-bound plasma tryptophan. Since it has previously been established that the course of rheumatoid arthritis is reflected in the acute-phase protein levels and the extent to which L-tryptophan is bound to plasma protein, it is suggested that drugs, such as D-penicillamin and alclofenac which profoundly affect these parameters, provide not only symptomatic relief but also possible beneficial effects on the disease process itself.
This report presents a 30-year-old man who developed subacute phenytoin-induced cerebellar ataxia and parkinsonism that resolved after discontinuation of the phenytoin treatment. Phenytoin was started for seizure prophylaxis in another health institution where he was referred for bilateral intracerebral orbitofrontal haemorrhage due to a head trauma. To our knowledge, there has been only one other case report describing phenytoin-induced parkinsonism, which was also reversible. The issue of the development of parkinsonism due to the phenytoin toxicity in the case of bilateral orbitofrontal lesion is addressed.
Nephrotoxicity associated with ciprofloxacin is uncommon. Five patients with cancer who developed acute renal failure that followed treatment with ciprofloxacin are described and an additional 15 cases reported in the literature are reviewed. Other than elevation of serum creatinine levels, characteristic clinical manifestations and abnormal laboratory findings are not frequently present. Allergic interstitial nephritis is believed to be the underlying pathological-process. Definitive diagnosis requires performance of renal biopsy, although this is not always feasible. An improvement in renal function that followed the discontinuation of the offending antibiotic supports the presumptive diagnosis of ciprofloxacin-induced acute renal failure.
Anexate (Ro 15-1788) a specific benzodiazepine antagonist, was assessed for its action in reversing midazolam-induced sedation. Sixty-five patients undergoing prostatic surgery under subarachnoid anaesthesia received midazolam for intraoperative sedation (mean dose 16 mg) followed by either active drug (anexate) or placebo given as a randomized, double-blind i.v. injection. The anexate dose sufficient to reverse sedation (0.36 +/- 0.09 mg), produced immediate and dramatic improvements in ability to comprehend and obey commands, in orientation in time and space and in degree of anterograde amnesia. These changes remained significantly different from the control group for 60 min after injection. There was no effect on arterial pressure, heart rate or ventilatory rate and no anxiety states were observed. After initial complete awakening, sedation increased gradually in drug-treated patients, while in the control group, sedation scores and cognitive testing scores all diminished over the 4-h study period. Anexate used in doses up to 0.5 mg provided safe and effective antagonism of midazolam-induced sedation in a clinical setting.
A prospective study evaluated the comparative haemodynamic effects of three Class I antiarrhythmics (lignocaine Class 1B, disopyramide Class 1A and flecainide Class 1C) in 30 patients with uncomplicated acute myocardial infarction. Three groups, each of 10 patients, were allocated to lignocaine (Group I) 1.5 mg kg-1 i.v. loading dose over 10 min followed by infusion at 3 mg kg-1 h-1, disopyramide (Group II) or flecainide (Group III), both administered as a 1.0 mg kg-1 i.v. loading bolus over 10 min followed by a 1.6 mg kg-1 h-1 infusion for 120 min. The plasma levels of each drug were in the described therapeutic range. Lignocaine decreased cardiac index (-0.3 l min-1 m-2 (9%); P less than 0.05) and stroke volume index (-5 ml m-2 (11%); P less than 0.01). Systemic blood pressure, heart rate and systemic vascular resistance index were unchanged. There was a small increase (+3 mm Hg (30%); P less than 0.01) in pulmonary artery occluded pressure (PAOP). Both disopyramide and flecainide increased systemic blood pressure; the maximum increases for mean blood pressure were +10 mm Hg (11%) and +4 mm Hg (4%) respectively. Both drugs reduced cardiac index (-0.5 l min-1 m-2 (16%): -0.4 l min-1 m-2 (11%)) and stroke volume index (-11 ml m-2 (25%): -5 ml m-2 (11%)). There were increases in heart rate (+13: +5 beats min-1) pulmonary artery occluded pressure (+2: +3 mm Hg) and systemic vascular resistance index (+696: +275 dyn s cm-5 m2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A relatively new view of colorectal cancer is that its development/progression reflects the contribution of a large set of altered gene products in varying combinations, each providing a "fitness advantage." In searching for novel contributing gene products using Unigene cluster data mining, we found overrepresentation of expressed sequence tags corresponding to a previously uncharacterized gene (ZKSCAN3) in colorectal tumors. ZKSCAN3 was pursued for several reasons: (a) its sequence similarity with bowl required for Drosophila hindgut development; (b) it lies in a chromosomal region (6p22.1) amplified in colorectal cancer; and (c) its coding sequence predicts tandem C(2)H(2) zinc finger domains present in a class of proteins gaining attention for their role in oncogenesis/tumor progression. Reverse transcription-PCR confirmed overexpression in colorectal tumor tissue compared with adjacent nonmalignant mucosa due in part to gene amplification determined by Southern blotting. Further, immunohistochemistry with an antibody generated to the predicted protein sequence revealed higher ZKSCAN3 expression in invasive compared with noninvasive tumors. Intriguingly, the ZKSCAN3 protein was also expressed in tumors wild-type for genes (APC, p53, K-Ras) commonly targeted in colorectal cancer. ZKSCAN3 knockdown in two independent colon cancer cell lines impaired anchorage-independent growth and orthotopic tumor growth, whereas overexpression in a third cell line had the opposite effect and increased 5-fluorouracil resistance. Liposomal delivery of a ZKSCAN3-targeting small interfering RNA reduced tumorigenicity of orthotopic colon cancer. Thus, the hitherto uncharacterized ZKSCAN3 adds to an expanding set of encoded products contributing to the progression of colorectal cancer.
Combination therapy for dyslipidemia holds promise as effective treatment for patients with multiple lipid disorders, especially those at high risk.
This study evaluated dose-response relationships and safety of a new dual-component drug product containing niacin extended-release (niacin ER) and lovastatin.
The 28-week double-blind multicenter trial randomized 237 patients with type IIA or IIB hyperlipidemia to one of four escalating-dose treatment groups: niacin ER/lovastatin 1,000/20 mg, niacin ER/lovastatin 2,000/40 mg, niacin ER 2,000 mg, or lovastatin 40 mg.
Niacin ER/lovastatin was more effective than each of its components for improving levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides (TG), and exhibited a clear dose-response effect and additivity across the dosage range. The 2,000/40 dose achieved greater mean reductions in LDL-C (-42%) than 1,000/20 (-28%, p < 0.001), lovastatin 40 mg (-32%, p < 0.05), or niacin ER 2,000 mg (-14%, p < 0.05). The 2,000/40 dose was significantly more effective in increasing HDL-C levels (+30%) than the 1,000/20 dose (+21%, p = 0.016). The decrease in TG was greater with 2,000/40 (-43%) than with 1,000/20 (-26%, p = 0.009). All three niacin-containing treatments were more effective than lovastatin monotherapy in reducing lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] levels. Flushing caused 12 (11%) patients receiving niacin ER/lovastatin and I patient receiving lovastatin alone to withdraw. No drug-related myopathy was noted. One patient each in the 2,000/40 group and the lovastatin 40-mg group had reversible elevations in liver transaminases.
Niacin ER/lovastatin is well tolerated and effective for patients with multiple lipid disorders.
A rare case of hemolytic anemia is presented which occurred on exposure to chlorpromazine and resolved when the medication was discontinued. Another complication, absent gag reflex, is also discussed.
We report a 47-year-old alcoholic man with alcoholic pellagra encephalopathy (APE) showing myoclonus and ataxia as chief complaints. He had been a heavy drinker for 30 years. He had noticed appetite loss and subsequently showed a subacutely progressive gait disturbance. He had no history of diarrhea, dementia, or dermatitis. On admission, he showed severe alcoholic liver cirrhosis with a large amount of ascites, limbs and truncal ataxia, myoclonus of the limbs and areflexia, although his consciousness was alert and there were no sign of dermatitis. Though the plasma level of ammonia was normal, we started administration of amino acids suspecting hepatic encephalopathy. Symptoms showed no improvement, and subsequent administration of thiamine was also ineffective. A decreased serum level of niacin was demonstrated. After administration of nicotinamide, the symptoms improved gradually. This patient received a diagnosis of APE. Endemic pellagra, characterized by the classical triad of dermatitis, diarrhea and dementia, is known to be caused by a dietary deficiency of the niacin, and has now become very rare in developed countries. At present, pellagra is encountered most often in patients with chronic alcoholism, which is called APE. APE patients often show only disturbance of consciousness. Although several reports has described ataxia and myoclonus in patients with APE, APE patients with myoclonus and ataxia as chief complaints have not previously been reported. On autopsy cases, central chromatolysis of neurons in the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum, gracile and cuneate nuclei, and the Clarke's column has been demonstrated. The APE patients would show myoclonus and ataxia as their first symptoms. In conclusion, we would like to emphasize that administration of niacin should be started for the treatment of chronic alcoholic patients showing myoclonus and ataxia even without the classical triads found in endemic pellagra patients.
To quantify the association between cholinesterase inhibitors (ChE-Is) and a new diagnosis of bradycardia and to evaluate the clinical significance of bradycardia.
Cox proportional hazards with time-dependent exposures were used to evaluate the association and examine the dose effect for donepezil and bradycardia.
New England Veterans Affairs Healthcare System.
Patients with dementia who received care between January 1999 and June 2007 (N=11,328).
Bradycardia was defined using three methods using a combination of International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, codes and recorded heart rates of less than 60 beats per minute.
A greater risk for bradycardia was found in patients taking any ChE-Is than in the no-treatment group (adjusted hazard ratio (HR)=1.4, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.1-1.6). A dose-response effect was observed for donepezil, with the highest-dose group at greatest risk (HR=2.1, 95% CI=1.5-2.9). Results were consistent regardless of bradycardia definition. Patients with bradycardia were more likely to fall, experience syncope, or need a pacemaker implantation than those without.
Using a large cohort, a modestly greater risk of bradycardia was found in patients with dementia taking ChE-Is than in those not taking these drugs. In patients taking donepezil, the risk of bradycardia may increase with increasing doses. Because of the potential clinical consequences, monitoring for bradycardia may be warranted in patients with dementia treated with ChE-Is.
To investigate the effects of valproic acid (VPA) on renal tubular function, we examined 15 ambulatory children with epilepsy who received VPA for at least 6 months. None of the patients had mental retardation. Fourteen age- and sex-matched children were used as a control group. No statistically significant differences were found between patients and control subjects with respect to blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine (Cr), uric acid, creatinine clearance (Ccr), tubular reabsorption of phosphorus (TRP), urinary Ca:creatinine ratio, urinary pH and mean urinary beta2-microglobulin concentrations (P>0.05). Protein and glucose in patient urine samples were negative. Urine microscopic examinations and amino acid chromatographies of patients were also normal. However, significant differences were found between patient and control groups with respect to mean urinary N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosamine:creatinine ratio (NAG:Cr) and mean urinary malondialdehyde:creatinine (MDA:Cr) ratio (P<0.05). In conclusion, ambulatory children with epilepsy taking VPA therapy may develop proximal renal tubular dysfunction. Although this finding is clini-cally insignificant, it should be kept in mind during VPA therapy.
Vehicle engine exhaust includes ultrafine particles with a large surface area and containing absorbed polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, transition metals and other substances. Ultrafine particles and soluble chemicals can be transported from the airways to other organs, such as the liver, kidneys, and brain. Our aim was to investigate whether air pollution from traffic is associated with risk for other cancers than lung cancer.
We followed up 54,304 participants in the Danish Diet Cancer and Health cohort for 20 selected cancers in the Danish Cancer Registry, from enrolment in 1993-1997 until 2006, and traced their residential addresses from 1971 onwards in the Central Population Registry. We used modeled concentration of nitrogen oxides (NO(x)) and amount of traffic at the residence as indicators of traffic-related air pollution and used Cox models to estimate incidence rate ratios (IRRs) after adjustment for potential confounders.
NO(x) at the residence was significantly associated with risks for cervical cancer (IRR, 2.45; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.01;5.93, per 100 μg/m(3) NO(x)) and brain cancer (IRR, 2.28; 95% CI, 1.25;4.19, per 100 μg/m(3) NO(x)).
This hypothesis-generating study indicates that traffic-related air pollution might increase the risks for cervical and brain cancer, which should be tested in future studies.
1. The present study examined the role of the hippocampal histaminergic system in the regulation of spatial memory deficit in rats using the radial arm maze task after scopolamine injection into the bilateral dorsal (DH) or ventral (VH) hippocampus. 2. Bilateral injection of scopolamine (5 microg/site) into both the DH and VH impaired spatial memory in the retrieval memory process. Injection of histamine (50 or 100 ng/site) in the DH and intraperitoneal injection of histidine (100 mg/kg) markedly improved working memory and reference memory deficits induced by scopolamine injection into the DH. The histamine H(1) receptor antagonist pyrilamine (1 microg/site) abolished the ameliorative effects of histidine on working memory deficits, whereas both pyrilamine and the H(2) receptor antagonist cimetidine (0.5 microg/site) abolished the effect of histidine on reference memory. 3. Local injection of histamine (25 or 50 ng/site) into the VH and systemic injection of histidine (50 or 100 mg/kg) markedly improved working memory deficits induced by scopolamine injection into the VH, but did not improve the deficits in reference memory. Injection of both pyrilamine (0.2, 0.5 and 1 microg/site) and cimetidine (0.1 and 0.5 microg/site) into the VH reversed the effects of histidine. 4. The results of the present study indicate that histamine has different actions on cholinergic-related memory in the the DH and VH. Histamine in the DH ameliorates spatial working memory deficits by acting on histamine H(1) receptors and reference memory deficits through both H(1) and H(2) receptors. However, histamine in the VH ameliorates working memory deficits via an action on both H(1) and H(2) receptors.
Activated v-AKT murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT)/protein kinase B (PKB) kinase (pAKT) is localized to the plasma membrane, cytoplasm, and/or nucleus in 50% of cancers. The clinical importance of pAKT localization and the mechanism(s) controlling this compartmentalization are unknown. In this study, we examined nuclear and cytoplasmic phospho-AKT (pAKT) expression by immunohistochemistry in a breast cancer tissue microarray (n = 377) with approximately 15 years follow-up and integrated these data with the expression of estrogen receptor (ER)alpha, progesterone receptor (PR), and FOXA1. Nuclear localization of pAKT (nuclear-pAKT) was associated with long-term survival (P = 0.004). Within the ERalpha+/PR+ subgroup, patients with nuclear-pAKT positivity had better survival than nuclear-pAKT-negative patients (P < or = 0.05). The association of nuclear-pAKT with the ERalpha+/PR+ subgroup was validated in an independent cohort (n = 145). TCL1 family proteins regulate nuclear transport and/or activation of AKT. TCL1B is overexpressed in ERalpha-positive compared with ERalpha-negative breast cancers and in lung metastasis-free breast cancers. Therefore, we examined the possible control of TCL1 family member(s) expression by the estrogen:ERalpha pathway. Estradiol increased TCL1B expression and increased nuclear-pAKT levels in breast cancer cells; short- interfering RNA against TCL1B reduced nuclear-pAKT. Overexpression of nuclear-targeted AKT1 in MCF-7 cells increased cell proliferation without compromising sensitivity to the anti-estrogen, tamoxifen. These results suggest that subcellular localization of activated AKT plays a significant role in determining its function in breast cancer, which in part is dependent on TCL1B expression.
More than 200 heterozygous mutations in the type 2 BMP receptor gene, BMPR2, have been identified in patients with Heritable Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (HPAH). More severe clinical outcomes occur in patients with BMPR2 mutations by-passing nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD negative mutations). These comprise 40% of HPAH mutations and are predicted to express BMPR2 mutant products. However expression of endogenous NMD negative BMPR2 mutant products and their effect on protein trafficking and signaling function have never been described. Here, we characterize the expression and trafficking of an HPAH-associated NMD negative BMPR2 mutation that results in an in-frame deletion of BMPR2 EXON2 (BMPR2ΔEx2) in HPAH patient-derived lymphocytes and in pulmonary endothelial cells (PECs) from mice carrying the same in-frame deletion of Exon 2 (Bmpr2 (ΔEx2/+) mice). The endogenous BMPR2ΔEx2 mutant product does not reach the cell surface and is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. Moreover, chemical chaperones 4-PBA and TUDCA partially restore cell surface expression of Bmpr2ΔEx2 in PECs, suggesting that the mutant product is mis-folded. We also show that PECs from Bmpr2 (ΔEx2/+) mice have defects in the BMP-induced Smad1/5/8 and Id1 signaling axis, and that addition of chemical chaperones restores expression of the Smad1/5/8 target Id1. These data indicate that the endogenous NMD negative BMPRΔEx2 mutant product is expressed but has a folding defect resulting in ER retention. Partial correction of this folding defect and restoration of defective BMP signaling using chemical chaperones suggests that protein-folding agents could be used therapeutically in patients with these NMD negative BMPR2 mutations.
