To comprehend the role of pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) in epilepsy or seizure, we investigated whether the expressions of two PLP synthetic enzymes (pyridoxal kinase, PLK; pyridoxine-5'-phosphate oxidase, PNPO) are altered in the hippocampus and whether changes in paired-pulse responses in the hippocampus are associated with altered PLP synthetic enzyme expressions following status epilepticus (SE). PLK and PNPO immunoreactivities were significantly increased in the rat hippocampus accompanied by reductions in paired-pulse inhibition at 1 day and 1 week after SE. Four weeks after SE, PLK and PNPO immunoreactivities in dentate granule cells were similar to those in control animals, while their immunoreactivities were markedly reduced in Cornu Ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal cells due to neuronal loss. Linear regression analysis identified a direct proportional relationship between PLK/PNPO immunoreactivity and normalized population spike amplitude ratio in the dentate gyrus and the CA1 region as excluded the data obtained from 4 weeks after SE. These findings indicate that the upregulation of PLK and PNPO immunoreactivities in principal neurons may not be involved in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic inhibition, but rather in enhanced excitability during epileptogenic periods.
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable plasma cell malignancy. The recent successes of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib in MM therapy have prompted investigations of its efficacy in combination with other anticancer agents. Polyamines play important roles in regulating tumor cell proliferation and angiogenesis and represent an important therapeutic target. CGC-11093 is a novel polyamine analogue that has completed a phase I clinical trial for the treatment of cancer. Here, we report that CGC-11093 selectively augments the in vitro and in vivo antimyeloma activity of bortezomib. Specifically, the combination of CGC-11093 and bortezomib compromised MM viability and clonogenic survival, and increased drug-induced apoptosis over that achieved by either single agent. Xenografts of MM tumors treated with this combination had marked increases in phospho-c-Jun-NH(2)-kinase (JNK)-positive cells and apoptosis, and corresponding reductions in tumor burden, tumor vasculature, and the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen and the proangiogenic cytokine vascular endothelial growth factor. Furthermore, inhibition of JNK with a pharmacologic inhibitor or by selective knockdown blunted the efficacy of CGC-11093 and bortezomib. Therefore, CGC-11093 enhances the anticancer activity of bortezomib by augmenting JNK-mediated apoptosis and blocking angiogenesis. These findings support the study of the use of the combination of bortezomib and CGC-11093 in MM patients that fail to respond to frontline therapy.
The present study was conducted to elucidate the antioxidant role of an ayurvedic formulation Abana in isoproterenol induced myocardial infarction in rats. In myocardial necrosis induced by isoproterenol, a significant increase in serum iron content with a significant decrease in plasma iron binding capacity, ceruloplasmin activity and glutathione level were observed. There was also a significant increase in lipid peroxides levels on isoproterenol administration. Activities of antioxidant enzymes like superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-s-transferase, glutathione reductase were decreased significantly in heart with isoproterenol-induced myocardial necrosis. Abana, produced a marked reversal of these metabolic changes related to myocardial infarction induced by isoproterenol. In conclusion ayurvedic formulation Abana exerts its effect by modulating lipid peroxidation and enhancing antioxidant and detoxifying enzyme systems.
Using the standard slide-based techniques of immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), it has been firmly established that human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) is overexpressed in adenocarcinoma of the upper gastrointestinal tract. In the ToGA trial, the addition of the monoclonal antibody trastuzumab to a standard regimen of cisplatin and fluoropyrimidine resulted in a clinically and statistically significant benefit in terms of response rate, median progression-free survival, and median overall survival in HER2-positive patients. Major differences exist, however, between HER2 testing in gastric/gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancer versus breast cancer, and the ToGA trial employed a significant modification of the breast cancer scoring criteria. As trastuzumab approaches regulatory approval in the United States for gastric/GEJ cancer, it is critical that pathologists and diagnostic laboratories learn and apply the unique criteria for assessing gastric/GEJ tumors for their HER2 status defined by the ToGA investigators, as they ready themselves for the approximately 50,000 new specimens that will be tested for HER2 status by both IHC and FISH each year.
A new platelet alloantigen, Sra, is described that was defined by an alloantibody detected in the serum of a healthy mother who delivered a child with typical clinical signs of neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT). The antibody reacted strongly with the child's and father's platelets, but not with platelets of the mother or with those of a highly selected panel representing all known platelet alloantigens. Platelets from 300 unselected normal blood donors also tested negative, suggesting a phenotype frequency in the German population of less than 0.01. The antigen was present in 9 of 20 members within three generations of the paternal family, indicating autosomal codominant inheritance. By immunochemical analysis using a glycoprotein (GP)-specific immunoassay and a variety of GP IIb/IIIa-specific monoclonal antibodies for antigen immobilization (MAIPA assay), radioimmunoassay, and Western blotting, we could show that the antigen resides on a 68-Kd proteolytic fragment of GP IIIa. Immunogenetic data and gene dosage studies revealed that the Sra antigen is not related to any of the other known platelet alloantigens. In accordance with established criteria, the Sra antigen represents the first example of a "private" platelet alloantigen that bears significance in rare instances of NAIT.
This paper describes a case of a 44-year-old male patient previously healthy admitted with an unusual spontaneous acute bacterial pericarditis associated with coronary sinus mass. Two-dimensional echocardiography showed large loculated pericardial effusion with signs of diastolic restriction and an image suggesting vegetation in topography of the right atrium coronary sinus. Pericardial drainage, coronary sinus vegetation resection, and antibiotic therapy with Oxacillin were performed due to Oxacillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus identified on the pericardial effusion and blood culture. This is a rare condition and a unique combination of a spontaneous acute bacterial pericarditis with coronary sinus endocarditis without cardiac valve compromise.
The effect of prenatal and prepubertal genistein exposure on the development of chemically-induced mammary carcinomas in rat was investigated.
Genistein was subcutaneously (s.c.) injected daily, from gestational days 15 to 19, into pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats at 0, 1.5 or 30 mg/kg/day. Female offspring of mothers not exposed to genistein during pregnancy received daily s.c. injection, from prepubertal days 15 to 19, at a dose of 1.5 or 30 mg/kg/day. At 28 days of age, 6 female offspring from each group were sacrificed to observe the influence of genistein and the remaining rats were injected intraperitoneally with 50 mg/kg N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU). Rats injected with MNU were sacrificed at 26 weeks of age or when their largest mammary tumor was > or = 1 cm in size.
At the time when MNU was administered, the different groups had comparable mammary gland development; genistein-treated and -untreated rats had similar numbers of terminal end buds (TEBs) at the periphery of the mammary glandular tree. However, estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha)- and progesterone receptor (PgR)-positive cells, p63-positive cells and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-labeling index were lower in genistein-exposed TEBs. Although tumor multiplicity and latency were not significant, prenatal or prepubertal genistein exposure, at low or high dosage, tended to suppress the incidence of mammary carcinomas > or = 1 cm; suppression was significant in the prepubertal low-dose group.
The majority of the mammary carcinomas in the present study were hormone-dependent. The present findings suggest that administration of genistein in the perinatal period has protective effects against MNU-induced mammary carcinoma in Sprague-Dawley rats, via reduction of levels of ER alpha- and/or PgR-positive cells (presumed progenitor cells of mammary carcinomas), p63-positive mammary progenitor/stem cells (involved in cell renewal) and PCNA-positive cells (necessary for cell proliferation).
Management of meningo-encephalitis often involves the need for antibiotic and antiviral treatment. We report a retrospective analysis over a 6-month period of 17 patients (age range 1-14 years) who were treated with combination therapy of ceftriaxone and acyclovir. Mean acyclovir and ceftriaxone doses were 1,222+/-304 and 2,315+/-509 mg/m(2) per day, respectively. Three patients developed acute renal failure with a peak creatinine of up to 865% above baseline, occurring 2-3 days after starting combination therapy. Patients revealed a tubular proteinuria pattern. Renal biopsy of 1 patient showed a tubulotoxic picture but no evidence of crystals. In 12 of 17 patients (70%) there was a significant increase in serum creatinine. This was significantly greater than literature reports of 16% with acyclovir monotherapy. The degree of renal impairment in our patients correlated significantly with the acyclovir dose, while no correlation was found with the ceftriaxone dose. We conclude that the addition of a second nephrotoxic drug aggravated the extent of renal injury in our patients. The mechanism is tubulotoxicity. Caution should be exercised when using this potentially nephrotoxic cocktail, with clear criteria established for the initiation of combination therapy and close monitoring of serum creatinine.
The effectiveness of hyoscine butylbromide in the prevention of edrophonium-induced bradycardia was assessed in 50 infants and children. A mixture of edrophonium (1.0 mg/kg) and either atropine (0.01 mg/kg) or hyoscine butylbromide (0.4 mg/kg) was administered to reverse the effects of tubocurarine. An initial bradycardia followed the injection of the edrophonium-atropine mixture. In contrast there was no initial decrease in heart rate after the administration of the edrophonium-hyoscine butylbromide mixture. Hyoscine butylbromide can be used with advantage as a substitute for atropine in edrophonium reversal in infants and children.
Despite efforts to profile prostate cancer, the genetic alterations and biological processes that correlate with the observed histological progression are unclear. Using laser-capture microdissection to isolate 101 cell populations, we have profiled prostate cancer progression from benign epithelium to metastatic disease. By analyzing expression signatures in the context of over 14,000 'molecular concepts', or sets of biologically connected genes, we generated an integrative model of progression. Molecular concepts that demarcate critical transitions in progression include protein biosynthesis, E26 transformation-specific (ETS) family transcriptional targets, androgen signaling and cell proliferation. Of note, relative to low-grade prostate cancer (Gleason pattern 3), high-grade cancer (Gleason pattern 4) shows an attenuated androgen signaling signature, similar to metastatic prostate cancer, which may reflect dedifferentiation and explain the clinical association of grade with prognosis. Taken together, these data show that analyzing gene expression signatures in the context of a compendium of molecular concepts is useful in understanding cancer biology.
Esters of phthalic acid are chemical agents used to improve the plasticity of industrial polymers. Their ubiquitous use in multiple commercial products results in extensive exposure to humans and the environment. This study investigated cytotoxicity, endocrine disruption, effects mediated via AhR, lipid peroxidation and effects on expression of enzymes of xenobiotic metabolism caused by di-(2-ethy hexyl) phthalate (DEHP), diethyl phthalate (DEP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP) and benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP) in developing fish embryos. Oxidative stress was identified as the critical mechanism of toxicity (CMTA) in the case of DEHP and DEP, while the efficient removal of DBP and BBP by phase 1 enzymes resulted in lesser toxicity. DEHP and DEP did not mimic estradiol (E(2)) in transactivation studies, but at concentrations of 10mg/L synthesis of sex steroid hormones was affected. Exposure to 10mg BBP/L resulted in weak transactivation of the estrogen receptor (ER). All phthalates exhibited weak potency as agonists of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). The order of potency of the 4 phthalates studied was; DEHP>DEP>BBP>DBP. The study highlights the need for simultaneous assessment of: (1) multiple cellular targets affected by phthalates and (2) phthalate mixtures to account for additive effects when multiple phthalates modulate the same pathway. Such cumulative assessment of multiple biological parameters is more realistic, and offers the possibility of more accurately identifying the CMTA.
SHANK3 (also known as ProSAP2) regulates the structural organization of dendritic spines and is a binding partner of neuroligins; genes encoding neuroligins are mutated in autism and Asperger syndrome. Here, we report that a mutation of a single copy of SHANK3 on chromosome 22q13 can result in language and/or social communication disorders. These mutations concern only a small number of individuals, but they shed light on one gene dosage-sensitive synaptic pathway that is involved in autism spectrum disorders.
Eleven of 45 normal control subjects experienced panic attacks during lactate and/or isoproterenol infusions. Ten of the 11 subjects were followed up for a mean period of 32.5 months. Two subjects reported the development of spontaneous panic attacks during the follow-up period; one related the development of these attacks to the infusion experience. Neither subject met DSM-III criteria for panic disorder either before or after the infusions. Twenty-six healthy control subjects who did not experience panic attacks during the infusion experience did not report any attacks during a follow-up period of 31.1 months.
Thiamethoxam (TMX), an important insecticide, is hepatotoxic and hepatocarcinogenic in mice but not rats. Studies of Syngenta Central Toxicology Laboratory on species specificity in metabolism established that TMX is a much better substrate for mouse liver microsomal CYPs than the corresponding rat or human enzymes in forming desmethyl-TMX (dm-TMX), which is also hepatotoxic, and clothianidin (CLO), which is not hepatotoxic or hepatocarcinogenic. They proposed that TMX hepatotoxicity/hepatocarcinogencity is due to dm-TMX and a further metabolite desmethyl-CLO (dm-CLO) (structurally analogous to a standard inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor) acting synergistically. The present study considers formation of formaldehyde (HCHO) and N-methylol intermediates as an alternative mechanism of TMX hepatotoxicity/hepatocarcinogenicity. Comparison of neonicotinoid metabolism by mouse, rat and human microsomes with NADPH showed two important points. First, TMX and dm-TMX yield more HCHO than any other commercial neonicotinoid. Second, mouse microsomes give much higher conversion than rat or human microsomes. These observations provide an alternative hypothesis of HCHO and N-methylol intermediates from CYP-mediated oxidative oxadiazinane ring cleavage as the bioactivated hepatotoxicants. However, the proposed mono-N-methylol CYP metabolites are not observed, possibly further reacting in situ.
A 75 year-old man developed fever after one month of quinidine administration 800 mg/day. Significant enlargement of the liver and spleen became evident, associated with marked rise in serum GOT, GPT and alkaline phosphatase. Arthritis also developed, but there was no skin rash nor any changes in the haemoglobin, leucocytes or platelets. The signs and biochemical findings regressed within a few days of stopping quinidine and the temperature became normal. Rechallenge with four doses of the drug produced a rise in the GOT, GPT and alkaline phosphatase. It is thought that this hypersensitivity response is consistent with the description of granulomatous hepatitis, and represents a much less common manifestation of quinidine hypersensitivity than the well known skin, gastro-intestinal and haematological side-effects.
This study was undertaken to evaluate the effects of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced hyperglycemia and insulin-induced hypoglycemia in cortical and hippocampal mitochondria bioenergetics and oxidative status. For that purpose we used, citrate (vehicle)-treated Wistar rats, STZ-treated rats [i.p., 50mg/kg body weight] and STZ-treated rats injected with insulin [s.c., dose adjusted to blood glucose levels] 1h prior to sacrifice to induce an acute episode of hypoglycemia. Several parameters were analyzed: respiratory chain, phosphorylation system, thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) levels, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) production rate, and non-enzymatic and enzymatic antioxidant defenses. Cortical mitochondria from insulin-induced hypoglycemic rats present a significant decrease in the ADP/O index, a significant increase in the repolarization lag phase and a decrease in GSH/GSSG ratio when compared with STZ and control mitochondria. Both STZ-induced diabetes and insulin-induced hypoglycemia promote a significant increase in TBARS levels and a decrease in glutathione disulfide reductase activity. Diabetic cortical mitochondria present a significant decrease in glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity compared to control mitochondria. In turn, insulin-induced hypoglycemia induced a significant increase in GPx and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activities. In hippocampal mitochondria, insulin-induced hypoglycemia increases the respiratory control ratio whereas both situations, hyper- and hypoglycemia, potentiate H(2)O(2) production and decrease the activity of MnSOD. These results suggest that the poor glycemic control that occurs in type 1 diabetic patients undergoing insulin therapy may have detrimental effects in brain areas involved in learning and memory.
P-glycoprotein (P-gp) is an efflux pump belonging to the ATP-binding cassette transporter superfamily expressed in several organs. Considering its potential protective effects, the induction of de novo synthesis of P-gp could be used therapeutically in the treatment of intoxications by its substrates. The herbicide paraquat (PQ) is a P-gp substrate responsible for thousands of fatal intoxications worldwide that still lacks an effective antidote. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the effectiveness of such an antidote by testing whether doxorubicin (DOX), a known P-gp inducer, could efficiently protect Caco-2 cells against PQ cytotoxicity, 6 h after the incubation with the herbicide, reflecting a real-life intoxication scenario. Cytotoxicity was evaluated by the MTT assay and PQ intracellular concentrations were measured by gas chromatography-ion trap-mass spectrometry (GC-IT-MS). Also, the DOX modulatory effect on choline uptake transport system was assessed by measuring the uptake of [³H]-choline. The results show that DOX exerts protective effects against PQ cytotoxicity, preventing the intracellular accumulation of the herbicide. These protective effects were not completely prevented by the incubation with the UIC2 antibody, a specific P-gp inhibitor, suggesting the involvement of alternative protection mechanisms. In fact, DOX also efficiently inhibited the choline transport system that influences PQ cellular uptake. In conclusion, in this cellular model, DOX effectively protects against PQ toxicity by inducing P-gp and through the interaction with the choline transporter, suggesting that compounds presenting this double feature of promoting the efflux and limiting the uptake of PQ could be used as effective antidotes to treat intoxications.
The purpose of the study was to evaluate this effect of different doses of intravenous and oral bepridil on the induction of ventricular tachycardia. Thirty-eight patients underwent electrophysiologic evaluation for recurrent ventricular tachycardia (VT). Sustained monomorphic VT was induced by programmed ventricular stimulation, using up to three extrastimuli in all patients. The effects of intravenous bepridil (2 mg/kg) were evaluated during the initial study. Intravenous bepridil prevented the induction of sustained VT in eight patients (21%). Electrophysiologic study was repeated after oral bepridil. In six patients the study was stopped because of adverse effects or VT recurrence. Thirty-two patients underwent repeat study 7 days later, taking oral bepridil, 500 mg/day (n = 16) or 900/day (n = 16). A dose of 500 mg/day of bepridil prevented the induction of sustained VT in only one patient. A dose of 900 mg/day of bepridil prevented the induction of sustained VT in eight patients. There were no significant clinical adverse effects, except in one patient receiving intravenous bepridil. The response to intravenous bepridil did not predict the response to oral bepridil. The response to intravenous or oral bepridil was not related to the plasma level of bepridil but was related to a higher left ventricular ejection fraction. Eight patients (21%) in whom VTs were noninducible on oral bepridil were discharged on 300 mg/day of bepridil if their initial loading dose was 500 mg/day or on 600 mg/day if their initial loading dose was 900 mg/day. They remained free of VT during a follow-up of at least 6 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In a companion article, we report that there is a sensitive period for all-trans retinoic acid (RA) lethality on gestational days (GD) 11-13. When dams were given 10 mg/kg RA daily for 3 consecutive days on GD 11-13, a number of pups were found dead in the home cage on the day of birth, and the remainder inevitably died due to an apparent inability to nurse. Here we report a set of experiments further investigating these effects. Dams were exposed PO to 10 mg/kg RA or oil vehicle on GD 11-13. Fetuses were removed by Cesarean section on the afternoon of GD 21, culled, and fostered to non-treated dams that had given normal vaginal delivery a day earlier. Maternal behavior was observed for the first 6 h after fostering. The next morning all surviving pups were given a brief behavioral evaluation, including the ability to attach to the nipple of anesthetized foster dams. At the time of C-section, culls were killed and brains were quickly removed and placed in fixative. A series of paraffin-embedded, cresyl-violet-stained serial sections of a representative brain stem from each litter was prepared. RA exposure did not increase fetal mortality. Treated litters were as large as controls, and virtually all treated fetuses were alive in utero. However, unlike controls, some treated fetuses appeared to have difficulty in initiating spontaneous breathing when delivered by C-section, and considerable physical stimulation was required before normal breathing began. As in the previous report, RA-exposed pups did not have milk in their stomachs after 18 h on the foster dam; further, they did not attach to the maternal nipple, and they had greater difficulty than controls in maintaining an upright posture. Examination of serial sections of the medulla indicated that the hypoglossal nucleus appeared grossly normal in the RA-exposed pups. In contrast, the inferior olive and the area postrema were affected by RA exposure. Both nuclei were normally located, but exhibited reduced cell density and/or intensity of staining. In the inferior olive the dorsal and principal nuclei were primarily affected, to the degree that about one quarter of treated brains had no identifiable principal nucleus. We conclude that RA exposure on GD 11-13 causes abnormal development of cell-dense regions of the medial medulla, and these abnormalities may account for the difficulty these animals experience in beginning spontaneous breathing and in nursing. These breathing and nursing problems in turn almost certainly account for the high mortality seen during natural birth and for the subsequent failure to thrive, respectively.
Intracranial pressure (ICP) was measured during alfentanil-induced rigidity in rats. Ten rats had arterial, central venous (CVP), and subdural cannulae inserted under halothane anesthesia. The animals were mechanically ventilated to achieve normocarbia (PCO2 = 42 +/- 1 mmHg, mean +/- SE). Following instrumentation, halothane was discontinued and alfentanil (125 mu/kg) administered iv during emergence from halothane anesthesia. In the five rats that developed somatic rigidity, ICP and CVP increased significantly above baseline (delta ICP 7.5 +/- 1.0 mmHg, delta CVP 5.9 +/- 1.3 mmHg). These variables returned to baseline when rigidity was abolished with metocurine. In five rats that did not become rigid, ICP and CVP did not change following alfentanil. These observations suggest that rigidity should be prevented when alfentanil, and, presumably, other opiates, are used in the anesthetic management of patients with ICP problems.
The introduction of low-oestrogen oral contraceptives in Sweden and the concomitant disappearance of high-dose preparations did not result in a lowering of the mortality of fertile women from thromboembolic disease. Morbidity due to thromboembolism seems to have fallen, and the number of thromboembolic incidents reported to the Swedish Adverse Drug Reaction Committee decreased dramatically. The decrease was due exclusively to a reduction in venous thromboembolic disease: the frequency of arterial complications (cerebral and coronary) remained constant.
Treatment-resistant depression is a significant public health concern; drug switching or augmentation often produce limited results. The authors hypothesized that fluoxetine could be augmented with olanzapine to successfully treat resistant depression.
An 8-week double-blind study was conducted with 28 patients who were diagnosed with recurrent, nonbipolar, treatment-resistant depression without psychotic features. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of three groups: olanzapine plus placebo, fluoxetine plus placebo, or olanzapine plus fluoxetine.
Fluoxetine monotherapy produced minimal improvement on various scales that rate severity of depression. The benefits of olanzapine monotherapy were modest. Olanzapine plus fluoxetine produced significantly greater improvement than either monotherapy on one measure and significantly greater improvement than olanzapine monotherapy on the other measures after 1 week. There were no significant differences between treatment groups on extrapyramidal measures nor significant adverse drug interactions.
Olanzapine plus fluoxetine demonstrated superior efficacy for treating resistant depression compared to either agent alone.
Acute renal failure is a rare but very severe side-effect of methotrexate (MTX) treatment requiring extracorporeal detoxification. A new detoxification regime, consisting of a haemodiafiltration (HDF) and continuous plasma resin perfusion (PRP) over anion exchange resin column with high affinity for MTX, was used for treatment of MTX-induced acute renal failure in a 2-year-old boy with medulloblastoma. More than 99% of MTX was removed from plasma by perfusion over the resin column resulting in a marked decrease of MTX plasma half-life. No haematological complications occurred.
The use of PRP alone or in combination with HDF is a new and effective treatment strategy for extracorporeal detoxification of MTX.
Contact hypersensitivity (CHS) is an antigen-specific, T-cell-mediated skin reaction in sensitized individuals. Recent studies have demonstrated that the murine CHS reaction to 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene (DNCB) is mediated by CD8+ T cells and down-regulated by CD4+ T cells. We studied cellular events and functions of infiltrating cells in CHS reactions to 2,4,6-trinitro-1-chlorobenzene (TNCB) in the skin and draining lymph nodes (LN) of BALB/c mice and compared them with the CHS reaction to a house dust mite antigen, Dermatophagoides farinae (Df). Mice were sensitized with TNCB or Df antigens, and CHS reactions elicited with the corresponding antigens were examined immunohistologically. Cytokines produced by individual cells isolated from the CHS reactions were analyzed by flow cytometry, and the expression of cytokine mRNA was assayed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Results demonstrated that the intensity of TNCB-elicited CHS skin reactions reached its peak at 24 hr after elicitation and decreased gradually. Flow cytometric analysis of isolated cells from the TNCB-elicited CHS reactions demonstrated that the infiltrating cells were composed of approximately 25% CD4+ and CD8+ cells at 12, 24, and 36 hr after challenge, although infiltrating cells became dense at 36 hr by histological observation. The percentage of IFN-gamma-producing CD8+ cells (Tc1) in the cell fractions reached its peak at 12 hr and decreased gradually. The peak infiltration of IFN-gamma-producing CD4+ cells (Th 1) was observed at 24 hr. IL-4-producing cells, however, were always below 5% in the cell fractions. The RT-PCR method demonstrated that IFN-gamma mRNA was detected in the TNCB-elicited skin reactions at 12, 18 and 24 hr after elicitation, became weak at 48 hr, and disappeared at 72 hr. No IL-4 mRNA was detected from 12 to 72 hr. In the draining LN cells, however, the percentages of both IFN-gamma-producing CD8+ (Tc1) and CD4+ cells (Th1) decreased 12 to 36 hr after TNCB elicitation. CHS reactions of Df antigens were predominantly composed of infiltrations of CD4+ cells in to the skin, associated with the expression of IL-4 mRNA from 12 to 48 hr after elicitaion. The expression of IFN-gamma mRNA was detected at 48 hr or later. Our findings indicate that the CHS skin reaction to TNCB is induced by early recruitment of IFN-gamma-producing CD8+ effector cells (Tcl), followed by infiltration of IFN-gamma-producing CD4+ cells (Th1), whereas IL-4-producing T cells (Th2) induce the early CHS response to Df antigens.
Hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) is a major dose-limiting side effect of cyclophosphamide (CP). The mechanism by which CP induces cystitis is not clear. Recent studies demonstrate that nitric oxide; (peroxynitrite) is involved in bladder damage caused by CP. However, the molecular targets of peroxynitrite are not known. The present study is aimed at investigating whether proteins and DNA are molecular targets of peroxynitrite using a rat model.
The experimental rats received a single i.p. injection of 150 mg kg(-1) body weight CP in saline and killed 6 or 16 h later. The control rats received saline. The bladders were used for histological and biochemical analysis. Nitrotyrosine and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) were localized immunohistochemically as indicators of protein nitration and DNA damage, respectively. Nitrite, malondialdehyde, protein thiol and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity were assayed in the bladder.
Hematuria and urinary bladder edema was observed in the CP-treated rats and histologically, moderate to severe damage to the urinary bladder was observed. The bladders of CP-treated rats stained strongly for nitrotyrosine as well as for PARP. Significant decrease in oxidized NAD levels was observed in the bladders of CP-treated rats 16 h following treatment with CP. Protein thiol was depleted and the activity of the peroxynitrite sensitive enzyme SOD was significantly reduced in the bladders of CP-treated rats.
The results of the present study reveal that protein nitration, PARP activation and NAD+ depletion may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of CP-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. Based on the results we propose a mechanism for CP-induced cystitis.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of tamoxifen on the size and oxidative susceptibility of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles in breast cancer patients with tamoxifen-induced fatty liver. We investigated the following breast cancer patients: 13 receiving no tamoxifen (group A), 13 receiving tamoxifen 40 mg daily but without fatty liver (group B), and 13 receiving tamoxifen 40 mg daily with fatty liver (group C). Plasma lipids and diameter of LDL particles were measured. Susceptibility of LDL to oxidation was analyzed by incubation with CuSO(4) while monitoring conjugated diene formation and assaying thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). Plasma total and LDL cholesterol concentrations in groups B and C were significantly lower than those in group A. In group C, concentrations of plasma triglyceride (TG) and TBARS were significantly greater, but LDL particle diameter and lag time for LDL oxidation were significantly smaller than those in groups A and B. Plasma TG concentrations correlated negatively with computed tomography ratio of liver to spleen (r = -0.76; P < 0.001). LDL particle diameter correlated negatively with plasma TG (r = -0.62; P < 0.001) and TBARS (r = -0.44; P < 0.01), but positively with LDL lag time (r = 0.47; P < 0.01). Tamoxifen-induced fatty liver in breast cancer patients may be atherogenic, via increased TG and consequent small, easily oxidized LDL particles.
