2 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus and mild renal functional impairment were treated with ibuprofen, one of the phenylproprionic nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Within days after the onset of therapy, both developed renal insufficiency manifested by elevated serum creatinine levels, increased proteinuria, and active urinary sediments; 1 patient was oliguric. Renal biopsies disclosed mesangial proliferative lupus glomerulonephritis and acute tubular necrosis, the latter more pronounced in the oliguric patient. Renal failure resolved following discontinuation of ibuprofen and supportive therapy. It is postulated that altered blood flow, mediated through the well-known prostaglandin synthetase inhibitory effects of ibuprofen, resulted in tubular necrosis. This undesirable complication of ibuprofen therapy may be enhanced in patients with underlying renal disease, and may be a factor governing the limitation of its usage.
The hypertensive double-transgenic (dTG) rat strain, expressing human renin and angiotensinogen, develops severe hypertension and organ damage and 50% of individuals die by 7 weeks of age. Here, we characterise a variation of this model in which animals present stable hypertension.
The effect of renin-angiotensin system blockers on blood pressure was determined with adult dTG rats treated with enalapril from 3 to 12 weeks of age. Tissue expression levels of renin and angiotensinogen were determined in dTG rats and rhesus monkeys by quantitative PCR.
Upon withdrawal from enalapril, mean arterial pressure (MAP) rose to 160-180 mmHg, with 95% of the female dTG rats surviving for 6 to 12 months, In Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats and rhesus monkeys, renin mRNA was absent or weakly expressed in most tissues, except for the kidneys and adrenals. In dTG rats, human renin expression was high in many additional tissues. The expression of human angiotensinogen in dTG rats followed a similar tissue pattern to SD and rhesus monkey angiotensinogen. Oral dosing of aliskiren, enalapril or losartan provided a similar maximal reduction in MAP and duration of efficacy in telemetrised dTG rats.
Enalapril-pretreated dTG rats are suitable for long-term MAP monitoring and sequential evaluation of human renin inhibitors.
There is increasing interest in the role of the brain angiotensin AT4 receptor subtype in cognitive processing. This receptor subtype is activated by angiotensin IV (AngIV), is heavily distributed in the mammalian hippocampus, neocortex, and cerebellum, and has been linked with a learning and memory function. The present investigation utilized intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)-infused scopolamine hydrobromide (scop), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, to disrupt acquisition of the circular water maze task of spatial memory. All animals received 2 days of training trials (five trials/day) using a visible platform in an effort to preclude subsequent confounding by scopolamine-induced sensory and/or motor impairments. In the first experiment, i.c.v.-infused scopolamine (70 nmol) was followed by 0, 10, 100, or 1000 pmol i.c.v. doses of Nle(1)-AngIV in separate groups of rats. Results indicated that each dose of Nle(1)-AngIV improved the poor acquisition of this task induced by scopolamine treatment. However, the 100- and 1000-pmol doses were most effective with respect to latency and distance to find the submerged pedestal. A second experiment demonstrated that treatment with a specific AT4 receptor antagonist, Nle(1), Leual(3)-AngIV (1000 pmol), blocked the ability of Nle(1)-AngIV (100 pmol) to improve the performance of scopolamine-compromised rats. These results support the notion that hippocampal AT4 receptors are involved in spatial memory processing, and that activation of these binding sites can overcome the disruption of spatial memory accompanying treatment with a muscarinic receptor antagonist.
Between 1985 and 1990, the authors performed stereotactic posteroventral pallidotomies on 38 patients with Parkinson's disease whose main complaint was hypokinesia. Upon re-examination 2 to 71 months after surgery (mean 28 months), complete or almost complete relief of rigidity and hypokinesia was observed in 92% of the patients. Of the 32 patients who before surgery also suffered from tremor, 26 (81%) had complete or almost complete relief of tremor. The L-dopa-induced dyskinesias and muscle pain had greatly improved or disappeared in most patients, and gait and speech volume also showed remarkable improvement. Complications were observed in seven patients: six had a permanent partial homonymous hemianopsia (one also had transient dysphasia and facial weakness) and one developed transitory hemiparesis 1 week after pallidotomy. The results presented here confirm the 1960 findings of Svennilson, et al., that parkinsonian tremor, rigidity, and hypokinesia can be effectively abolished by posteroventral pallidotomy, an approach developed in 1956 and 1957 by Lars Leksell. The positive effect of posteroventral pallidotomy is believed to be based on the interruption of some striopallidal or subthalamopallidal pathways, which results in disinhibition of medial pallidal activity necessary for movement control.
Pharmacologic control of refractory status epilepticus has been little-studied in experimental models. In this experiment, rats in status epilepticus induced by lithium and pilocarpine were treated with MK-801 alone, diazepam alone or MK-801 plus diazepam, with treatment begun at a time when this model of status is refractory to anticonvulsant drugs. EEG samples were digitized before and for two hours after treatment, and the digitized samples subjected to computerized frequency analysis. MK-801 plus diazepam halted all manifestations of status epilepticus. Although neither MK-801 alone nor diazepam alone stopped the ongoing electrographic status epilepticus, both drugs diminished motor seizures and total EEG power. MK-801 treatment prevented the progression of changes in EEG pattern which normally occurs in this model of status epilepticus, while diazepam did not. MK-801, with and without diazepam, allowed the rats to survive the episode of status epilepticus, but rats treated with MK-801 alone required several days to recover completely, while the MK-801 plus diazepam rats appeared normal the next day. MK-801 may be a useful agent for treatment of human refractory status epilepticus, because of its neuroprotective action as well as its ability to potentiate GABAergic drugs.
PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten) is a lipid phosphatase that counteracts the function of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K). Loss of function of PTEN results in constitutive activation of AKT and downstream effectors and correlates with many human cancers, as well as various brain disorders, including macrocephaly, seizures, Lhermitte-Duclos disease, and autism. We previously generated a conditional Pten knock-out mouse line with Pten loss in limited postmitotic neurons in the cortex and hippocampus. Pten-null neurons developed neuronal hypertrophy and loss of neuronal polarity. The mutant mice exhibited macrocephaly and behavioral abnormalities reminiscent of certain features of human autism. Here, we report that rapamycin, a specific inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), can prevent and reverse neuronal hypertrophy, resulting in the amelioration of a subset of PTEN-associated abnormal behaviors, providing evidence that the mTORC1 pathway downstream of PTEN is critical for this complex phenotype.
The A1555G mutation in the mitochondrial 12S ribosomal RNA gene is often found in patients with hearing loss after aminoglycoside exposure. A second pathogenic mutation in this gene, deletion of thymidine at position 961 with varying numbers of cytosines inserted (delT961Cn), has recently been found to predispose patients to aminoglycoside-induced deafness. We report on a Japanese patient bearing the delT961Cn who had streptomycin-induced deafness. Our report suggests that the delT961Cn plays an important secondary role in the pathogenesis of deafness caused by aminoglycosides. The combination of taking family histories and molecular screening at the 1555 and 961 positions is thought to reduce the frequency of tragic irreversible deafness due to aminoglycosides.
Previous studies with lithium have shown that it potentiated the in vivo response to cholinomimetics in rats, resulting in seizures at otherwise non-convulsant doses, but did not affect seizure activity induced by a number of chemical convulsants including kainic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). In vitro experiments have suggested that lithium interferes with receptor-mediated second messenger production, possibly due to an action at G-proteins. The present study tested the hypothesis that selective inhibition of G-proteins by in vivo administration of pertussis toxin would induce effects similar to those of lithium. The results reported here demonstrate that pertussis toxin mimics lithium in potentiating the convulsant response to pilocarpine in rats. The effect of pertussis toxin was dose-dependent and the extent of potentiation was over 13-fold, which was remarkably similar to lithium. The seizures were prevented by pretreatment with atropine, phenobarbital or diazepam. L-Phenylisopropyladenosine (L-PIA) and MK-801 also demonstrated anticonvulsant activity, with MK-801 also protecting the rats against the rapid death associated with pertussis toxin/pilocarpine-induced seizures. Thus, seizures were cholinergically initiated and were controlled by the same drugs as were lithium/pilocarpine-induced seizures. The results illustrate that in several respects the response to cholinomimetics is modified in a similar manner by lithium and pertussis toxin. However, pertussis toxin lacks the specificity of lithium as it also potentiated the convulsant effects of kainic acid and NMDA.
In this study, we report the biochemical characterization of the deafness-associated mitochondrial 12S rRNA C1494T mutation using 27 cybrid cell lines constructed by transferring mitochondria from 9 lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from a Chinese family into human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-less (rho degrees) cells. Six cybrids derived from two asymptomatic members, and nine cybrids derived from three symptomatic members of the Chinese family carrying the C1494T mutation exhibited approximately 38 and 43% decrease in the rate of mitochondrial protein labeling, respectively, compared with twelve cybrids derived from four Chinese control individuals. These defects are apparently a primary contributor to significant reductions in the rate of overall respiratory capacity or the rate of malate/glutamate promoted respiration, or succinate/G3P-promoted respiration, or TMPD/ascorbate-promoted respiration in mutant cybrid cell lines derived from either symptomatic or asymptomatic individuals. Furthermore, the very significant/nearly identical increase in the ratio of doubling times in DMDM medium in the presence/absence of high concentration of paromomycin was observed in symptomatic or asymptomatic cybrid cell lines carrying the C1494T mutation as compared with the average rate in control cell lines. These observations provide the direct biochemical evidences that the C1494T mutation is a pathogenic mtDNA mutation associated with aminoglycoside-induced and non-syndromic hearing loss. In addition, these data provide the first biochemical evidence that nuclear background plays a critical role in the phenotypic manifestation of non-syndromic hearing loss and aminoglycoside toxicity associated with the C1494T mutation.
To describe the incidence of acute neurotoxicity (NT) in children with lower risk B-precursor acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) treated with intermediate-dose methotrexate (MTX) or divided dose oral MTX with or without intravenous (i.v.) mercaptopurine (MP) and extended intrathecal triple therapy.
Thirteen hundred four patients were entered onto Pediatric Oncology Group (POG) 9005, a randomized phase III trial, between January 11, 1991 and September 1, 1994. After remission induction, patients were randomized to one of three 24-week intensification schedules: regimen A, MTX 1,000 mg/m2 i.v. infused over 24 hours and MP 1,000 mg/m2 i.v. infused over 6 hours; regimen B, low-dose repetitive MTX 30 mg/m2 orally every 6 hours for six doses and i.v. MP; or regimen C, i.v. MTX alone. Intensification was given every 2 weeks for 12 courses. CNS prophylaxis was age-adjusted intrathecal MTX (ITM). In August 1992, the CNS prophylaxis was changed to age-adjusted triple intrathecal therapy (TIT). Reports of grades 3 and 4 acute NT were reviewed.
Acute NT was reported in 95 of 1,218 (7.8%) eligible patients treated on POG 9005. The incidence by regimen was regimen A, 46 of 543 patients (8.3%); regimen B, 13 of 354 patients (3.7%); and regimen C, 36 of 321 patients (11.2%) (P < .001). The majority of events were seizures and the median number of days to first occurrence of symptomatic NT after ITM or TIT was 10 to 11 days. Computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence consistent with leukoencephalopathy (LE), with or without the presence of cerebral calcifications, was observed in 75% and 77.1 % of symptomatic patients treated on regimens A and C, respectively, but in only 15.4% of symptomatic patients treated on regimen B (P < .001). Factors associated with an increased incidence of NT included increased cumulative exposure with repeated i.v. MTX (regimens A and C v B), increased MTX-leucovorin (LCV) ratio (regimens A and C v B), and choice and timing of TIT therapy. The use of i.v. MP during intensification did not appear to contribute to these complications. The switch to TIT CNS prophylaxis was associated with an inferior overall 4-year continuous complete remission (CCR) (P=.031) when compared with ITM.
Intensification with repeated i.v. MTX in the setting of low-dose LCV rescue was associated with a higher risk for acute NT and LE, especially in patients who received concomitant TIT. The long-term consequences for affected patients remain unknown.
The effect of testosterone (T) substitution therapy on blood vessel functions in relation to cardiovascular disease has not been fully elucidated. In 36 newly diagnosed nonsmoking hypogonadal men (37.5 +/- 12.7 yr) endothelium-dependent flow-mediated vasodilatation (FMD; decreased in atherosclerosis) of the brachial artery was assessed before treatment and after 3 months of T substitution therapy (250 mg testosterone enanthate im every 2 wk in 19 men, human chorionic gonadotropin sc twice per week in 17 men). Twenty nonsmoking controls matched for age, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), body height, and baseline diameter of the artery were selected for repeated measurements from a larger eugonadal control group (n = 113). In hypogonadal men, basal FMD (17.9 +/- 4.5%) was significantly higher than in the large (11.9 +/- 6.4%) and matched control (11.8 +/- 7.1%, both P < 0.001) groups. Grouped multiple linear regression analysis revealed a significant negative association of T levels with FMD within the hypogonadal range, but no significant association was seen within the eugonadal range. During substitution therapy, T levels increased from 5.8 +/- 2.3 to 17.2 +/- 5.1 nmol/liter and FMD decreased significantly to 8.6 +/- 3.1% (P < 0.001, analysis for covariance for repeated measurements including matched controls). LDL-C and advanced age contributed significantly to decrease FMD (P = 0.01, P = 0.04, respectively). Because T substitution adversely affects this important predictor of atherosclerosis, other contributing factors (such as smoking, high blood glucose, and LDL-C) should be eliminated or strictly controlled during treatment of hypogonadal men.
To study the effect of creatine (Cr) supplementation combined with resistance training on muscular performance and body composition in older men.
Thirty men were randomized to receive creatine supplementation (CRE, N = 16, age = 70.4 +/- 1.6 yr) or placebo (PLA, N = 14, age = 71.1 +/- 1.8 yr), using a double blind procedure. Cr supplementation consisted of 0.3-g Cr.kg(-1) body weight for the first 5 d (loading phase) and 0.07-g Cr.kg(-1) body weight thereafter. Both groups participated in resistance training (36 sessions, 3 times per week, 3 sets of 10 repetitions, 12 exercises). Muscular strength was assessed by 1-repetition maximum (1-RM) for leg press (LP), knee extension (KE), and bench press (BP). Muscular endurance was assessed by the maximum number of repetitions over 3 sets (separated by 1-min rest intervals) at an intensity corresponding to 70% baseline 1-RM for BP and 80% baseline 1-RM for the KE and LP. Average power (AP) was assessed using a Biodex isokinetic knee extension/flexion exercise (3 sets of 10 repetitions at 60 degrees.s(-1) separated by 1-min rest). Lean tissue (LTM) and fat mass were assessed using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry.
Compared with PLA, the CRE group had significantly greater increases in LTM (CRE, +3.3 kg; PLA, +1.3 kg), LP 1-RM (CRE, +50.1 kg; PLA +31.3 kg), KE 1-RM (CRE, +14.9 kg; PLA, +10.7 kg), LP endurance (CRE, +47 reps; PLA, +32 reps), KE endurance (CRE, +21 reps; PLA +14 reps), and AP (CRE, +26.7 W; PLA, +18 W). Changes in fat mass, fat percentage, BP 1-RM, and BP endurance were similar between groups.
Creatine supplementation, when combined with resistance training, increases lean tissue mass and improves leg strength, endurance, and average power in men of mean age 70 yr.
Tadalafil is a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) inhibitor that is used to treat male erectile dysfunction. It is currently undergoing clinical trials for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Although at present there is no evidence of hypercoagulation states being associated with the use of PDE5 inhibitors, several studies suggest that PDE5 inhibitors may, in rare cases, cause arterial and venous thrombotic or embolic events in the heart, eye, brain, and ear. We report a 54-year-old male patient with reduced plasma levels of protein C who developed pulmonary embolism (PE) just after he started taking tadalafil. The Naranjo probability scale indicates tadalafil as the possible cause of a PE in our patient. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of tadalafil-induced PE in the literature.
Although chemotherapy can achieve a high rate of disease remission induction in patients with newly diagnosed acute myelogenous leukemia (AML), patients with recurrent or refractory AML generally have a poorer rate of response. This study assessed the utility of mitoxantrone and intermediate-dose cytarabine (Ara-C) in the treatment of patients with recurrent or refractory AML.
Forty-seven patients with recurrent or refractory AML were treated with Ara-C, 0.5 gm/m2, intravenously (i.v.) every 12 hours x 12 doses on Days 1-6 and mitoxantrone, 5 mg/m2, i.v. on Days 1-5.
Twenty-nine of the 47 patients (62%) achieved a complete response. The median duration of disease remission was 112 days (range, 29 days- 8 years). Of the 25 patients age > or = 60 years, 19 (76%) had a complete disease remission and the median duration of disease remission in this group was 114 days (range, 33-370 days), although all patients subsequently developed a disease recurrence. The chemotherapy generally was well tolerated, with a mean duration of neutropenia of 31 days and a mean duration of thrombocytopenia of 33 days. Three patients died of infectious complications between 23-26 days after the initiation of chemotherapy, 1 patient died of sudden cardiac arrest 13 days after the initiation of chemotherapy, and 1 patient developed cutaneous desquamation. Three patients developed acute cerebellar dysfunction.
The use of mitoxantrone and Ara-C is effective in the treatment of patients with recurrent and refractory AML. The subgroup of patients age > or = 60 years also had a high rate of disease remission induction with this regimen, and the regimen generally was well tolerated.
We studied reported withdrawal symptoms in a retrospective chart review of 352 patients treated in an outpatient clinic with the nonselective serotonin reuptake inhibitor clomipramine or with one of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, paroxetine, or sertraline. In 171 patients who were supervised during medication tapering and discontinuation, the most common symptoms were dizziness, lethargy, paresthesia, nausea, vivid dreams, irritability, and lowered mood. When patients with at least one qualitatively new symptom were defined as cases, these symptoms occurred significantly more frequently in patients who had been treated either with one of the shorter half-life SSRIs, fluvoxamine or paroxetine (17.2%), or with clomipramine (30.8%), than in patients taking one of the SSRIs with longer half-life metabolites, sertraline or fluoxetine (1.5%). The rate was not significantly different between the different shorter half-life treatments. Cases treated with fluvoxamine or paroxetine had received a significantly longer period of treatment (median 28 weeks) than noncases (16 weeks), but there were no significant associations with age or with diagnostic grouping. There was a trend toward an association with male sex. The majority of cases occurred despite slowly tapered withdrawal. Symptoms persisted for up to 21 days (mean = 11.8 days) after onset. These symptoms were relieved within 24 hours by restarting the medication, but were not relieved by benzodiazepines or by moclobemide. A role has been suggested for serotonin in coordinating sensory and autonomic function with motor activity. We suggest that this may lead to useful hypotheses about the pathophysiology of withdrawal symptoms from serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
To describe the case of a women with cholestatic jaundice induced by the spontaneous fragmentation of an oestrogen implant.
A 48-year-old woman, who presented with jaundice, pruritus and a flu-like illness 2 weeks after the insertion of a 100 mg oestradiol implant into her right buttock.
At presentation the implant was removed and found to be fragmented. Investigations revealed an oestradiol level of 1548 pmol/l and an oestrogen-induced cholestatic jaundice.
After removal of the implant and progesterone therapy, the patients symptoms resolved.
This is the first reported case of cholestatic jaundice induced by a subcutaneous oestrogen implant.
A case of itraconazole-induced hypokalemia with pulmonary aspergilloma is reported. A 68-year-old female who had been followed for rheumatoid arthritis, gastric ulcer and pulmonary aspergilloma was admitted to our hospital because of a cough, low grade fever and hemosputum. She was treated with itraconazole (100 mg/day) for pulmonary aspergilloma of the left upper lobe. Fifty seven days after starting the treatment, her serum potassium was 2.33 mEq/l. Since there was no history of diarrhea, vomiting or abuse of drugs known to cause hypokalemia, itraconazole- induced hypokalemia was suspected. Thirty one days after the discontinuation of the treatment with itraconazole, her serum potassium increased to 3.57 mEq/l without potassium supplement. The lymphocyte stimulation test for itraconazole was negative. This case suggests that serum potassium should be monitored in the patients treated with itraconazole.
We mapped a human deafness locus DFNB36 to chromosome 1p36.3 in two consanguineous families segregating recessively inherited deafness and vestibular areflexia. This phenotype co-segregates with either of two frameshift mutations, 1988delAGAG and 2469delGTCA, in ESPN, which encodes a calcium-insensitive actin-bundling protein called espin. A recessive mutation of ESPN is known to cause hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction in the jerker mouse. Our results establish espin as an essential protein for hearing and vestibular function in humans. The abnormal vestibular phenotype associated with ESPN mutations will be a useful clinical marker for refining the differential diagnosis of non-syndromic deafness.
Propylthiouracil (PTU), used to treat Graves' disease, occasionally induces a lupus-like syndrome. A 39-year-old woman developed clinical manifestations of systemic lupus erythematosus with rash, serositis, myocarditis, and acute renal insufficiency, associated with serologies for lupus, after 3 wk of exposure to the drug. Renal biopsy revealed diffuse proliferative lupus nephritis. This article reviews the side effects of PTU and the literature on PTU-induced nephrotoxicity. Possible mechanisms and management of drug-induced lupus nephritis are also reviewed. To facilitate early and specific intervention, clinicians should be aware of the propensity of PTU to cause lupus-like syndromes with renal involvement.
To define changes in vital signs and cardiac rhythm in prehospital patients given sublingual nitroglycerin.
A five-month prospective observational study with nitroglycerin administration as the independent variable.
Five independent advanced life support services.
Three hundred prehospital patients who were given nitroglycerin by advanced life support personnel for presumed myocardial ischemia or congestive heart failure; excluded were those without repeat vital signs or ECG monitoring and those given additional medications.
Nitroglycerin was administered by regional emergency medical services protocols or by the order of an on-line medical command physician.
Four study patients (1.3%) had adverse effects: One became asystolic and apneic for two minutes, two experienced profound bradycardia with hypotension, and one became hypotensive while tachycardic. All recovered. The 95% confidence interval for adverse effects was 0.5% to 3.4%. Mean fall in systolic blood pressure for the other 296 patients was 14 mm Hg for one dose (confidence interval, 11 to 16 mm Hg) and 8 mm Hg (confidence interval, 2 to 13 mm Hg) for a second dose. Heart rate changed minimally with nitroglycerin administration. The blood pressure drop was linearly correlated with initial systolic pressure (r = -.44; P < .001) but not correlated with number of prior doses of nitroglycerin, initial heart rate, advanced life support time interval, age, or sex.
Nitroglycerin seems to be a relatively safe advanced life support drug; however, a few patients experience serious adverse effects. Most of the adverse effects we observed were bradycardic-hypotensive reactions, which appeared to be unpredictable by pretreatment characteristics. Emergency personnel should have an increased awareness of this danger when considering the use of prehospital nitroglycerin.
Drugs of abuse are rewarding to addicted and nonaddicted subjects, but they trigger craving and compulsive intake only in addicted subjects. Here, we used positron emission tomography (PET) and [18F] deoxyglucose to compare the brain metabolic responses (marker of brain function) of cocaine-addicted subjects (n = 21) and controls (n = 15) to identify brain regions that are uniquely activated in addicted subjects by intravenous methylphenidate (a drug that cocaine-addicted subjects report to be similar to cocaine). In parallel, we also measured the changes in dopamine (DA) induced by intravenous methylphenidate (using PET and [11C] raclopride) in the striatum and in the thalamus. Metabolic responses between groups differed significantly only in the right medial orbital prefrontal cortex [Brodmann's area (BA) 25 and medial BA 11], where methylphenidate increased metabolism in addicted subjects but decreased metabolism in controls. These changes were associated in all subjects with increased "desire for methylphenidate" and in the addicted subjects with "cocaine craving." In addicted subjects, increases in BA 25 were also associated with mood elevation. Methylphenidate-induced increases in metabolism in the medial orbital prefrontal cortex were associated with its increase of DA in the thalamus but not in the striatum. These findings provide evidence that enhanced sensitivity of BA 25 (region involved with emotional reactivity) and BA 11 (region involved with salience attribution and motivation) in cocaine-addicted subjects may underlie the strong emotional response to the drug and the intense desire to procure it that results in craving and compulsive drug intake. It also suggests that the mesothalamic DA pathway may contribute to these processes.
The present study was carried out to assess the biochemical and behavioral sequelae of chronic dichlorvos (6 mg/kg b.wt/day for 8 weeks) exposure in rats. Dichlorvos administration significantly decreased the activities of neuropathy target esterase and other carboxylesterase viz., paraoxon resistant and mipafox and paraoxon resistant esterases. The acetylcholinesterase activity was also appreciably decreased following dichlorvos exposure. The alterations in biochemical parameters were also reflected in the behavioral patterns of dichlorvos-treated animals. Dichlorvos administration caused a marked decrease in both the ambulatory and stereotypic components of spontaneous locomotor activity of rats. The muscle strength and coordination of the dichlorvos-treated animals was also significantly impaired. Besides, a marked deterioration in the memory function assessed in terms of the conditioned avoidance response was discernible at the end of the treatment schedule in the experimental animals.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in a variety of acute and chronic neurologic conditions, including epilepsy. Both the kainic acid and pilocarpine are useful models of temporal lobe epilepsy in rodents. As an index of lipid peroxidation the level thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) was measured after the status epileticus induced by pilocarpine or kainic acid. In hippocampus there was a slight enhancement in the TBARS levels measured 12-14 h after the end of status epileticus induced by pilocarpine and kainic acid. The TBARS levels in pilocarpine treated animals was significantly decreased late after status epileticus and in kainic acid model the TBARS returned to basal levels. These results indicating a putative role of reactive oxygen species in kainic acid and pilocarpine induced epilepsy.
There is increasing evidence that the stringent selective pressure imposed by androgen ablation therapy on the residual prostate cancer cells may actually accelerate the development of the hormone refractory and bone metastatic phenotype. The propensity of prostate cancer to establish osseous metastases is very likely mediated by the osteomimetic properties of the prostate cancer cells. Prostate cancer cells acquire these "bone-like" properties in order to survive in the bony microenvironment. This process is facilitated by common growth factor trophisms between the bone stromal cells, osteoblasts, and the prostate cancer cells wherein a number of growth factors and their receptors are involved. Thus, a general inhibition of the tyrosine kinase signaling pathways may have a therapeutic advantage in interfering with the metastatic potential of these prostate cancer cells. This study focuses on the potential of curcumin, a plant based non-toxic tyrosine kinase inhibitor in interfering with the development of bone like properties of C4-2B, a highly metastatic derivative of LNCaP prostate cancer cell line.
C4-2B prostate cancer cells were analyzed for their constitutive expression and ligand inducible activation of growth factor receptors such as EGF-R and CSF1-R. Expression of bone-specific transcription factors such as Cbfa-1 and the production of PTHRP were followed. The ability of the C4-2B cells to mineralize under specific conditions was analyzed. The activation status of the transcription factor NF-kappa B was also followed.
Curcumin inhibited the ligand-stimulated autophosphorylation of EGF-R and CSF1-R that were crucially involved in the development of osteomimetic properties of C4-2B cells. When C4-2B cells were grown under promineralization conditions, curcumin prevented the formation of the mineralized nodules. It also inhibited the expression of the core-binding factor a-1 in C4-2B cells which was responsible for the expression of several bone-specific proteins. The IKK activity was severely impaired, showing marked NF-kappa B inhibition. The experiments indicate that curcumin can also interfere with the development of the osteoblast and the osteoclast-like properties by these prostate cancer cells.
The highly metastatic C4-2B prostate cancer cell line is already "programmed" to exhibit the bone-like properties that would at least in part explain its affinity to set up osseous metastases. Curcumin is able to interfere with the osteoblastic component as well as the osteoclastic component of this phenotype, by interfering with the growth factor receptor pathways and by inhibiting the NF-kappa B activation process. It is concluded that curcumin may inhibit the growth factor collaboration between the prostate cancer cells and the osteoblast/stromal cells, thus exhibiting a potential to prevent the establishment of bony metastases.
We tested the hypothesis that inhaled beclomethasone therapy for prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) reduces pulmonary inflammation. As part of a randomized, placebo-controlled trial, interleukin-8 (IL-8) and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) concentrations in tracheal aspirates were measured as markers of pulmonary inflammation. On study days 1 (baseline), 8, 15, and day 28 of age, samples were obtained from enrolled infants (birth weights <1,251 g, gestational age <33 week, 3 to 14 days of age) who remained ventilated and had not received systemic glucocorticoid therapy. Cytokine levels (pg/microg of free secretory component of immunoglobulin A) were compared between groups. We determined whether baseline cytokine levels modified treatment effect regarding subsequent need for systemic glucocorticoid therapy or occurrence of BPD (age 28 days). Tracheal aspirates were obtained from 161 infants (77 receiving beclomethasone, 84 receiving placebo). Median IL-8 levels were lower in beclomethasone versus placebo infants on study days 8 (82.9 vs. 209.2, P < 0.01) and 15 (37.4 vs. 77.4, P < 0.03) after controlling for antenatal glucocorticoid therapy and maternal race. Median IL-1ra levels were lower in beclomethasone versus placebo infants only on study day 8 (86.5 vs. 153.3, P < 0.01). Fewer beclomethasone infants with baseline IL-8 levels in the interquartile range required systemic glucocorticoid therapy (beclomethasone 30.6% vs. placebo 65.8%, P < 0.01) or developed BPD (beclomethasone 42.4% vs. placebo 69.4%, P < 0.03). We conclude that early-inhaled beclomethasone therapy was associated with a reduction in pulmonary inflammation after 1 week of therapy. Beclomethasone-treated infants with moderately elevated baseline IL-8 levels received less subsequent systemic glucocorticoid therapy and had a lower incidence of BPD than nontreated infants.
