We report the results of a randomized clinical trial of two different coricosteroids (prednisone versus deflazacort) in patients affected by autoimmune thrombocytopenic purpura (ATP). We have evaluated the efficacy of the two steroids on platelet count, antiplatelet antibodies, lymphocyte subsets and the occurrence of side effects. Twenty-seven patients were evaluable: 13 were treated with PDN and 14 with DFC. After 24 weeks of treatment, 4/12 (33%), subjects treated with PDN were refractory while complete responses were obtained in 2/12 (17%) and partial responses in 6/12 (50%). Among patients treated with DFC, 4/11 (36%) were considered as refractory, 2/11 (18%) had a complete response and 5/11 (46%) a partial response. A statistically significant decrease of antiplatelet antibodies was recorded in both groups after 4 weeks of therapy, but only in subjects receiving PDN did the reduction last until the 24th week. We observed an increase of T lymphocyte subsets (CD3, CD2, CD4, CD8) in absolute number, due to an increase in circulating lymphocytes, after 4 weeks. No substantial modifications were observed in these populations regarding the percentage or the CD4/CD8 ratio. After 24 weeks, 91% (10/11) of patients treated with PDN presented an increase of body weight and 1 had a stable increase in blood pressure. Among the subjects treated with DFC, 64% (7/11) showed an increase of body weight after the same follow-up. In conclusion, no difference was observed the two steroids studied.
To investigate the therapeutic effects of Ginkgo biloba extract (EGb) in rats with acute myocardial injury induced by isoproterenol (ISO).
The rats, induced by Isoproterenol (4 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1), 10 d, sc), were divided into groups: sham, model, metoprolol (10 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1), 13 d, ig), EGb (100 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1), 13 d, ig).
The cardiac parameters of the Model group were compromised significantly in both systolic and diastolic function. Improvement in cardiac function by EGb was significant. In model groups, plasma activities of AST, LDH, CK, HBDH, CKMB and ventricular weight index (LV and RV/BW) were elevated significantly. With the treatment with EGb and metoprolol, the enzymes and ventricular weight index were significantly ameliorated.
G. biloba extract was beneficial to cardiac performance by improving myocardium enzymes and cardiac function in isoproterenol induced myocardial injury in rats.
Primary erythermalgia (erythromelalgia) is a rare autosomal dominant condition characterized by intermittent attacks of erythema, increased skin temperature and severe burning pain in the extremities, in a bilateral symmetrical distribution. Mutations in the SCN9A gene, which encodes a voltage-gated sodium channel have been shown to cause this disease. We report a family identified to have a mutation in the SCN9A gene, in which one severely affected family member has responded to the therapeutic combination of gabapentin and carbamazepine treatment.
The present study was undertaken on the hypothesis that methaemoglobin production and haemolytic anaemia following dapsone administration could be ascribed to an impairment of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase-enzymatic activity. Analysis of the kinetic parameters of the G-6-PD (Vmax and KM) was performed in ten patients, normal with respect to G-6-PD, suffering from various dermatoses. It was concluded that haemolytic anaemia after dapsone therapy is not due to a functional impairment of the enzyme. The close relationship between dapsone dosage, methaemoglobin production and anaemia make reasonable the hypothesis that a toxic dapsone derivative (DDS-NHOH) could be responsible for the methaemoglobin formation and the haemolytic anaemia.
22 cases of allergic contact dermatitis from topical corticosteroids were observed in Strasbourg and previously published. 7 further cases are reported here and the vehicle and concentration of corticosteroids for patch tests are discussed. A 0.1% concentration in petrolatum seemed adequate for testing the 4 molecules (triamcinolone acetonide, dexamethasone, desonide and amcinonide) responsible for the 7 new cases. In 1 case, several cross-reactions were seen. A corticosteroid screening series permits patch testing of the suspected molecule(s) in a selective way. Without this series, long delays are required to make the correct diagnosis by patch testing. We have reviewed more than 60 papers on corticosteroid allergy published up to now.
alpha(2)-Adrenoceptors modulate cardiovascular function by vasoconstriction or dilatation, by central inhibition of sympathetic activity, or by feedback inhibition of norepinephrine release from sympathetic neurons. Despite detailed knowledge about subtype-specific functions of alpha(2)-receptors, the relative contributions of sympathetic vs. non-sympathetic receptors involved in these cardiovascular effects have not been identified. The aim of this study was to define the physiological and pharmacological role of alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors in adrenergic vs. non-adrenergic cells at baseline and during sympathetic stress.
Transgenic mice expressing alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors under control of the dopamine beta-hydroxylase (Dbh) promoter were generated and crossed with mice carrying a constitutive deletion in the alpha(2A)- and alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor genes. alpha(2AC)-deficient mice showed increased norepinephrine plasma levels, cardiac hypertrophy, and fibrosis at baseline. Expression of the Dbh-alpha(2A) transgene in sympathetic neurons prevented these effects. In contrast, Dbh-alpha(2A) receptors mediated only a minor part of the bradycardic and hypotensive effects of the alpha(2)-agonist medetomidine. After chronic pressure overload as induced by transverse aortic constriction in mice, the Dbh-alpha(2A) transgene did not reduce norepinephrine spillover, cardiac dysfunction, hypertrophy, or fibrosis. In isolated wild-type atria, alpha(2)-agonist-induced inhibition of [3H]norepinephrine release was significantly desensitized after pressure overload. In primary sympathetic neurons from Dbh-alpha(2A) transgenic mice, norepinephrine and medetomidine induced endocytosis of alpha(2A)-adrenoceptors into neurite processes.
alpha(2A)-Adrenoceptors expressed in adrenergic cells are essential feedback inhibitors of sympathetic norepinephrine release to prevent cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis at baseline. However, these receptors are desensitized by chronic pressure overload which in turn may contribute to the pathogenesis of this condition.
Enhanced vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) expression directly contributes to vascular dysfunction in hypertension. Decreased NO and/or increased superoxide are causative factors for such an event in the vessel wall. The present study was undertaken to determine whether gene transfer of endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) or manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) affects VCAM-1 levels in arteries from hypertensive rats. Isolated carotid and femoral arteries from deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats were transduced for 4 hours with adenoviral vectors encoding eNOS, MnSOD, or beta-galactosidase reporter genes. Recombinant eNOS or MnSOD expression was evident morphologically and quantitatively 24 hours after gene transfer. Immunohistochemistry, ELISA, and Western blot techniques were used to determine VCAM-1 expression and levels. In addition, endogenous eNOS and MnSOD and in situ superoxide levels were analyzed by immunoblotting and fluorescence confocal microscopy, respectively. Arterial VCAM-1 expression was significantly higher in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats than in sham-operated rats; this expression was accompanied by decreased MnSOD but unaltered endogenous eNOS levels. VCAM-1 expression was significantly lower in MnSOD- and eNOS-transduced hypertensive arteries, with a concomitant reduction of superoxide level. These results suggest that gene transfer of MnSOD or eNOS suppresses arterial VCAM-1 expression in DOCA-salt hypertension by reducing the superoxide level.
To assess the role of selected downstream Bcl-2 family members (Bad, Bax, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL) in the development of androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC), as androgen-deprivation therapy is the treatment of choice in advanced prostate cancer, yet patients generally relapse and progress to an AI state within 18-24 months.
The patient cohort was established by retrospectively selecting patients with prostate cancer who had an initial response to androgen-deprivation therapy, but subsequently relapsed with AIPC. In all, 58 patients with prostate cancer were included with matched androgen-dependent (AD) and AI prostate tumours available for immunohistochemical analysis; two independent observers using a weighted-histoscore method scored the staining. Changes in Bad, Bax, Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL expression during transition to AIPC were evaluated and then correlated to known clinical variables.
High Bad expression in AD tumours was associated with an increased time to biochemical relapse (P = 0.007) and a trend towards improved overall survival (P = 0.053). There were also trends towards a decrease in Bad (P = 0.068) and Bax (P = 0.055) expression with progression to AIPC. There were no significant results for Bcl-2 or Bcl-xL.
There is evidence to suggest that Bad expression levels at diagnosis influence time to biochemical relapse and overall survival, and that levels of pro-apoptotic proteins Bad and Bax fall during AIPC development. Bad might therefore represent a possible positive prognostic marker and potential therapeutic target for AIPC in the future.
Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) and cytochrome P-450 (CYP) ensure the rapid detoxification of epoxides generated during the oxidative metabolism of xenobiotics. Although CYP has been demonstrated to modulate methamphetamine (METH)-induced behavioral effects, little is known about the role of the mEH gene on these effects. We examined the role of mEH gene expression in METH-induced conditioned place preference and behavioral sensitization by using mEH(-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice. Extracellular dopamine (DA) levels and DA uptake into synaptosomes were assessed by using an in vivo microdialysis and [(3)H]DA uptake assay. We applied double-label immunocytochemistry to characterize mEH-positive cellular types. METH-induced behavioral responses paralleled striatal c-Fos-like immunoreactivity. METH treatment resulted in increased extracellular DA levels in the nucleus accumbens but decreased synaptosomal DA uptake in the striatum. These behavioral and neurochemical changes were more pronounced in the mEH(-/-) mice than in WT mice. In WT mice, mEH-like immunoreactivity was expressed in astrocytes labeled by GFAP or S100B after METH treatment. The results suggest that epoxide intermediates mediate METH drug dependence and that astrocytic reactions of mEH protein are important in the endogenous modulation in response to METH drug dependence.
The actual condition of drug utilization and the adverse drug reactions profile of irinotecan hydrochloride hydrate (irinotecan), an antitumor drug, were examined on the basis of all the case survey results from April 1995 to January 2000.
Drug utilization and the adverse drug reactions profile of irinotecan were figured out by checking of the patient conditions at the start of therapy and monitoring during on-therapy period in this survey.
Among the 13 935 patients investigated, 32% had non-small cell lung cancer, 16% had colorectal cancer, 15% had ovarian cancer and 14% had small cell lung cancer, all principal cancers in which irinotecan was domestically approved for use. Most frequent regimens of each cancer were concomitant use with cisplatin for non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer (38 and 46%, respectively), concomitant use with cisplatin or mitomycin for ovarian cancer (each 30%) and irinotecan alone for colorectal cancer (51%). The major (grade 3 or more) adverse drug reactions were myelosuppressions such as leukopenia (23.8 and 38.3% for lone and concomitant use, respectively) thrombocytopenia (6.5 and 14.3%) and gastrointestinal tract disorders such as diarrhea (10.2 and 10.0%).
It was reconfirmed that the incidences of serious leukopenia, thrombocytopenia and diarrhea were high among the patients with contraindication or careful administration of its use prescribed in the drug package insert. Therefore, for proper use of irinotecan, it is important to discriminate the patient on the basis of risk status.
In a double-blind study with each patient as his own control, 1 g of cefazolin and 2 g of cephalothin were administered intravenously every 6 h to 20 patients in opposite arms for a period of 48 h each. The degree of phlebitis was significantly more severe with cephalothin than with cefazolin (P < 0.05); however, neither the incidence of phlebitis nor the time of onset of phlebitis was significantly different between the two drugs.
We describe a case of postoperative congestive heart failure in a young woman of physical class ASA 1, following breast cancer surgery. Preoperatively she had been treated with doxorubicin (Adriamycin) 450 mg.m-2, total dose, associated with breast and ovarian radiotherapy. This association was probably the cause of postoperative heart failure. Twenty-four hours after surgery, a two-dimensional echocardiography showed a severe left ventricular dysfunction, whereas preoperative clinical assessment was unremarkable. Doxorubicin cardiotoxicity can be acute, subacute and delayed as in our case. Clinical assessment and ECG are not sensitive indicators of such cardiac damage. Preoperative echography is the technique of choice for the evaluation of the cardiac status of a patient treated with a high cumulative dose of doxorubicin and mediastinal irradiation.
A case of a 28-day-old infant who developed suxamethonium apnoea is described. He was found to be homozygous for atypical cholinesterase. Main characteristics of this disorder are reviewed. Other causes of prolonged apnoea in infants recovering from anaesthesia for surgery of pyloric stenosis are discussed.
We describe a case of a male patient with "giant" R-waves (GRWs) in association with an acute inferior myocardial infarction (MI). Such electrocardiogram (ECG) pattern has been associated heretofore with the hyperacute phase of an anterior MI, and unstable, and variant angina, although it is found in illustrations of many previous publications in conjunction with inferior MI. The GRWs, along with ST-segment elevations, were noted transiently in the inferior ECG leads, early in the clinical course of our patient. Subsequent evolution of the ECG revealed classic appearances for an inferior MI. Cardiac enzymes, and thallium-201 myocardial perfusion scintigraphy revealed evidence for inferiorly-located myocardial necrosis. Coronary arteriography showed stenosis of the right coronary artery, for which the patient underwent an uneventful angioplasty and "stenting" of the culprit vessel. The pathophysiology of the syndrome of GRWs is briefly discussed.
Nine different germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene were identified in 15 of 47 kindreds from southern Sweden, by use of SSCP and heteroduplex analysis of all exons and flanking intron region and by a protein-truncation test for exon 11, followed by direct sequencing. All but one of the mutations are predicted to give rise to premature translation termination and include seven frameshift insertions or deletions, a nonsense mutation, and a splice acceptor site mutation. The remaining mutation is a missense mutation (Cys61Gly) in the zinc-binding motif. Four novel Swedish founding mutations were identified: the nucleotide 2595 deletion A was found in five families, the C 1806 T nonsense mutation in three families, the 3166 insertion TGAGA in three families, and the nucleotide 1201 deletion 11 in two families. Analysis of the intragenic polymorphism D17S855 supports common origins of the mutations. Eleven of the 15 kindreds manifesting BRCA1 mutations were breast-ovarian cancer families, several of them with a predominant ovarian cancer phenotype. The set of 32 families in which no BRCA1 alterations were detected included 1 breast-ovarian cancer kindred manifesting clear linkage to the BRCA1 region and loss of the wild-type chromosome in associated tumors. Other tumor types found in BRCA1 mutation/haplotype carriers included prostatic, pancreas, skin, and lung cancer, a malignant melanoma, an oligodendroglioma, and a carcinosarcoma. In all, 12 of 16 kindreds manifesting BRCA1 mutation or linkage contained ovarian cancer, as compared with only 6 of the remaining 31 families (P<.001). The present study confirms the involvement of BRCA1 in disease predisposition for a subset of hereditary breast cancer families often characterized by ovarian cancers.
A double-blind study was carried out in 48 hospitalized, elderly demented patients with key symptoms of aggressiveness and agitation to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of zuclopenthixol compared with that of haloperidol/levomepromazine. Patients were allocated at random to receive initial doses of either 4 mg zuclopenthixol daily or 1 mg haloperidol in the morning and 5 mg levomepromazine in the evening over a period of 4 weeks. In Week 4, the mean daily dose was 4.8 mg zuclopenthixol and 1.6/7.6 mg haloperidol/levomepromazine, respectively. After 1 week, the severity of illness was already significantly reduced, and was further reduced after 2 and 4 weeks of treatment in both groups: the reduction, however, was most pronounced in the zuclopenthixol group and after 2 weeks this difference was significant. Side-effects were few. The results of the study indicate that, whilst both zuclopenthixol and haloperidol/levomepromazine were effective and well tolerated in these elderly patients with aggressiveness and agitation, onset of therapeutic effect appeared more rapidly with zuclopenthixol, which furthermore provides the practical advantage that it may be administered once a day.
Asbestos is a ubiquitous, naturally occurring fiber that has been linked to the development of malignant and fibrotic lung diseases. Asbestos exposure leads to apoptosis, followed by compensatory proliferation, yet many of the signaling cascades coupled to these outcomes are unclear. Because CREs (Ca(2+)/cAMP-response elements) are found in the promoters of many genes important for regulation of proliferation and apoptosis, CREB (CRE binding protein) is likely to play an important role in the development of asbestos-mediated lung injury. To explore this possibility, we tested the hypotheses that asbestos exposure leads to CREB phosphorylation in lung epithelial cells and that protein kinase A (PKA) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) are central regulators of the CREB pathway. Persistent CREB phosphorylation was observed in lung sections from mice following inhalation of crocidolite asbestos. Exposure of C10 lung epithelial cells to crocidolite asbestos led to rapid CREB phosphorylation and apoptosis that was decreased by the inhibition of PKA or ERK1/2 using the specific inhibitors H89 and U0126, respectively. Furthermore, crocidolite asbestos selectively induced a sustained increase in MAP kinase phosphatase-1 mRNA and protein. Silencing CREB protein dramatically reduced asbestos-mediated ERK1/2 phosphorylation, yet significantly increased the number of cells undergoing asbestos-induced apoptosis. These data reveal a novel and selective role for CREB in asbestos-mediated signaling through pathways regulated by PKA and ERK1/2, further providing evidence that CREB is an important regulator of apoptosis in asbestos-induced responses of lung epithelial cells.
Three patients experienced yohimbine-induced manic symptoms. The authors discuss a possible neurobiological mechanism for this reaction to yohimbine.
We report on a 39-year-old woman suffering from deep venous thrombosis due to a heterozygous factor-V-Leiden mutation with resistance to activated protein C. Four months after beginning oral anticoagulation, generalized jaundice appeared. Subsequently, subacute liver failure developed necessitating an orthotopic liver transplantation. Histopathology showed features of extensive liver cell necrosis without evidence of a substantial inflammatory infiltrate. Based on histopathology and exclusion of other liver diseases, phenprocoumon-induced liver failure was diagnosed. Five months after transplantation the patient is well with normal liver function tests. Because of the widespread use of oral anticoagulants, not only bleeding complications but also hepatotoxicity should be considered in therapy supervision.
Amnesic shellfish poisoning toxin domoic acid (DA) is a marine neurotoxin that accumulates in fish and shellfish, and has been implicated to be involved in human and marine wildlife mortality. The transcriptional responses of cytochrome P-450 1A (CYP1A), glutathione S-transferase alpha (GSTA), glutathione S-transferase rho (GSTR), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase alpha 1 (ATP1A1) in the liver of rabbitfish (Siganus oramin) intracoelomically injected with DA, were investigated. Experimental fish were administered with one injection of DA (2 microg/g wet weight) or PBS as control. After 24 h, fish were killed and hepatic RNA was isolated. Partial cDNA of rabbitfish CYP1A, GSTA, GSTR, HSP70, ATP1A1, and beta-actin were obtained by PCR using degenerate primers. Using beta-actin as an external control, the relative liver CYP1A, GSTA, GSTR, HSP70, and ATP1A1 mRNA abundance of rabbitfish were determined by semi-quantitative RT-PCR within the exponential phase. The ratio CYP1A/beta-actin mRNA (%) of exposure group was determined to be 148.92+/-12.69, whereas the ratio of control group was 82.3+/-8.35, indicating that CYP1A was induced significantly in rabbitfish following DA exposure (P<0.05). Although the expressions of GSTA, HSP70, and ATP1A1 tended to increase and GSTR tended to decrease, no significant changes were found (P>0.05). The induction of hepatic CYP1A in response to DA suggests a potential role for fish phase I xenobiotic metabolizing enzyme in DA metabolism.
We used spontaneously hypertensive rats to study remodeling of cardiac bioenergetics associated with changes in blood pressure. Blood pressure was manipulated with aggressive antihypertensive treatment combining low dietary salt and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril. Successive cycles of 2 wk on, 2 wk off treatment led to rapid, reversible changes in left ventricular (LV) mass (30% change in <10 days). Despite changes in LV mass, specific activities of bioenergetic (cytochrome-c oxidase, citrate synthase, lactate dehydrogenase) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) (total cellular superoxide dismutase) enzymes were actively maintained within relatively narrow ranges regardless of treatment duration, organismal age, or transmural region. Although enalapril led to parallel declines in mitochondrial enzyme content and ventricular mass, total ventricular mtDNA content was unaffected. Altered enzymatic content occurred without significant changes in relevant mRNA and protein levels. Transcript levels of gene products involved in mtDNA maintenance (Tfam), mitochondrial protein degradation (LON protease), fusion (fuzzy onion homolog), and fission (dynamin-like protein, synaptojanin-2alpha) were also unchanged. In contrast, enalapril-mediated ventricular and mitochondrial remodeling was accompanied by a twofold increase in specific activity of catalase, an indicator of oxidative stress, suggesting that rapid cardiac adaptation is accompanied by tight regulation of mitochondrial enzyme activities and increased ROS production.
A 19-year-old patient in deep anoxic coma after cardiopulmonary arrest due to suicidal acute overdosage of chloroquine was resuscitated at the intensive care unit. An EEG starting about 12 hours later and lasting for 93 minutes showed a rapid succession of diffuse ectopic rhythms, diffuse slow output, generalized periodic slow waves in paroxysmal episodes which preceded burst suppression patterns and definite establishment of electrocerebral silence. All these EEG patterns indicating a poor prognosis were registered about three hours before the patient died during irreversible ventricular fibrillation.
This study was designed to determine the effects of cyclooxygenase inhibition and prostacyclin agonists on the hypertension induced by nitric oxide synthase blockade in a previously characterized rat model of preeclampsia.
A condition similar to preeclampsia was induced by infusing pregnant rats with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester through subcutaneously implanted osmotic minipumps. Blood pressure was measured with the tail cuff method. In the first experiment the rats received either vehicle alone (control group), N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester (50 mg/d), indomethacin (0.1 mg/d), or N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester plus indomethacin beginning on day 17 of pregnancy. In the second experiment the rats received vehicle alone (control group), N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester (50 mg/d), or N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester plus iloprost (31 microgram/d). In a third experiment cicaprost (15 microgram/d) was substituted for iloprost.
Except for an increase on the day after insertion of the pump indomethacin had no significant effect on the hypertension induced by N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester. Both prostacyclin agonists (iloprost and cicaprost), however, attenuated the rise in blood pressure usually seen after N G -nitro- L -arginine methyl ester administration.
Nonselective inhibition of the cyclooxygenase enzymatic system does not influence the hypertension seen in the rat preeclampsia model induced by chronic nitric oxide deficiency. The hypertension in this model can be partially reversed with prostacyclin analogs.
Antifertility properties of the pesticide methoxychlor (MXC) are well documented. Administration of MXC to rats during early pregnancy impairs implantation and reduces serum progesterone. The current study was designed to examine the effect of MXC on ovarian steroidogenesis and to define the mechanism(s) by which the pesticide exerts this effect. Rats were treated with MXC at a range of doses during days 1 to 8 of pregnancy and killed on day 9. Ovaries were incubated to assess the secretion of progesterone, estradiol, and testosterone in vitro. Steroid hormones in medium and serum were measured by radioimmunoassay. Although in vivo treatment with MXC reduced serum progesterone, no effect on the ovarian secretion of progesterone was detected in vitro. Conversely, MXC had no effect on serum estradiol levels (testosterone levels were undetectable in serum), but the incubation of ovaries in vitro revealed a reduction in the rates of ovarian estradiol and testosterone secretion.
Doxorubicin causes a chronic cardiomyopathy in which genetic and functional lesions of mitochondria accumulate in the long-term and explain in part the delayed onset of heart dysfunction. DOXO-EMCH a 6-maleimidocaproyl hydrazone derivative of doxorubicin, is an albumin binding prodrug which has entered clinical trials because of its superior antitumor and toxicological profile. In the present work, we examined the chronic cardiotoxicity of DOXO-EMCH in direct comparison with doxorubicin. Rats (11 weeks of age) were treated with intravenous doxorubicin (0.8 mg/kg weekly for 7 weeks), an equimolar dose of DOXO-EMCH (1.1 mg/kg), or with 3.3 mg/kg of DOXO-EMCH. Controls received saline. Animals were euthanized at 48th week. Rats exposed to doxorubicin had a severe clinical, and histopathological cardiomyopathy with depressed myocardial activity of cytochrome c-oxidase (COX, 26% of controls), reduced expression of the mtDNA-encoded COX II subunit, decreased mtDNA copy numbers (46% of controls), and high levels of malondialdehyde and superoxide (787% of controls). All parameters were highly correlated with myocardial damage. Both DOXO-EMCH groups did not differ from controls with regard to clinical symptomatology, mortality and mitochondrial enzymes, although the myocardia of the high-dose group had slightly increased histopathological abnormalities, depressed mtDNA copies (74% of controls) and elevated superoxide levels (347% of controls). Doxorubicin-exposed hearts and to a lesser extent the myocardia of both DOXO-EMCH groups contained mtDNA-deletions. In summary both DOXO-EMCH doses were superior over doxorubicin with respect to clinical and histopathological evidence of cardiomyopathy, myocardial COX-activity, COX II expression, mtDNA-content, mtDNA mutation loads and superoxide production in rats.
