Stress echocardiography is an established clinical testing method and is accurate for the detection of coronary artery disease. Despite its widespread use, the safety of stress echocardiography has not been sufficiently documented in Japanese laboratories.
The feasibility, safety, complications and side effects of stress echocardiography were assessed for detecting myocardial ischemia in patients with suspected coronary artery disease.
1,866 patients who underwent dobutamine echocardiography(n = 897), exercise echocardiography(n = 722), and dipyridamole echocardiography(n = 247) were prospectively studied from November 1990 to April 2000. Dobutamine was administered intravenously at 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 micrograms/kg/min in 3-minute intervals. Exercise echocardiography used the supine ergometer, starting at 50 W and increasing gradually by 25 W at 3-minute intervals to the maximum of 150 W. Dipyridamole was administered intravenously at 0.14 mg/kg/min for 4 min. After a 4-minute observation period, the drug was re-administered at the same dose for 2 min.
The most common side effects under each stress were ventricular premature beats in 34.1% (dobutamine echocardiography), ventricular premature beats in 14.4%(exercise), and headache in 24.3% (dipyridamole). Serious side effects occurred in one patient(0.05%). The case of acute myocardial infarction was caused by dipyridamole echocardiography, and the patient needed emergency coronary angioplasty. Seven patients needed other drug therapy for nonsustained ventricular tachycardia(one), paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia(two), sinus bradycardia(three), and bronchial asthma(one). There was no incidence of death, shock, or ventricular fibrillation, sustained ventricular tachycardia or other conditions requiring inpatient observation during stress echocardiography.
Stress echocardiography is a reasonable, safe method for determining myocardial ischemia, but may be associated with minor, self-limiting side effects.
We compared the effects of protein restriction and converting-enzyme inhibition by captopril (CAP) on urinary protein excretion (UP) and progressive glomerular sclerosis (GS) in an experimental model of nephrosis induced in rats by a single injection of Adriamycin (ADR) at a dose of 3 mg/kg. Two isocaloric diets with a 6% and 22% (NP) protein content were used. Experimental groups were started on NP, on NP plus CAP (500 mg/liter) or on an isocaloric diet with a 6% protein content at day 2 after ADR injection and followed for 38 days. According to a cross-over design, groups were then switched to the alternative diet or maintained on the original diet, whereas in one CAP-treated group CAP treatment was stopped. All groups were followed for another 34 to 42 days and then sacrificed. Results showed that UP and the incidence of GS were significantly reduced in groups on the isocaloric diet with a 6% protein content during the full length or the second half of the observation period. In contrast, CAP had no effect on UP or on the incidence of GS, although systolic blood pressure was significantly reduced. Renal function studies performed in separate groups on the same regimes at 5 weeks after induction of ADR nephrosis, showed that LP had lowered glomerular filtration rate numerically and renal plasma flow significantly, whereas CAP was found to have no effect on glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow. Glomerular volumes were increased in proteinuric rats on both NP diet and NP diet with CAP treatment. The present study confirms earlier reports that in ADR-nephrotic rats, protein restriction attenuates UP and GS without affecting systolic blood pressure, whereas converting-enzyme inhibition does not have this beneficial effect although systolic blood pressure is lowered. GS seems to be related to glomerular extension and hypertrophy. The effect of protein restriction may be partially hemodynamically mediated by afferent vasoconstriction, resulting in a decrease in glomerular filtration rate and a reduction in protein flux across the ADR-induced large pore defects.
Although there is evidence that some schizophrenia patients may have altered regional cerebral blood flow patterns, few studies have addressed the relationship between cortical activity and changes in psychiatric symptoms following treatment, particularly in the elderly. We took advantage of an existing safety and tolerance study of risperidone in the elderly and examined the possible relationship between changes in psychiatric symptoms following risperidone and changes in relative cortical perfusion in a group of 6 elderly schizophrenia patients. All subjects were at least 65 years old and diagnosed with schizophrenia according to DSM-III-R criteria. The patients were assessed using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) and Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) and had single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) studies before and at least 3 weeks after change of their previous neuroleptic to risperidone. The frontal/total cortex and temporal/total cortex counts in the slice ratios, and 99mTechnitium-hexamethylpropylene amine oxime (99mTc-HMPAO) percentage uptake in the whole cortical area in the slice were used for data analysis. With risperidone, patients (age 66-81) scored better on the PANSS, particularly in the positive symptom subtests. The changes in positive symptom scores correlated directly with those in frontal and temporal relative activity and 99mTc-HMPAO percentage uptake in the whole cortical area in the slice. Our findings suggest that the improvement in psychotic symptoms after risperidone is associated with a decrease in frontal and temporal activity and a reduction in 99mTc-HMPAO percentage uptake in the entire cortical area in the slice and agree with data from younger populations. Comparative studies assessing the therapeutic impact of neuroleptics on cortical activity in different age groups could be helpful in examining both the mechanisms of action of various drugs and the links between symptoms and specific brain areas.
Altered growth and function of synoviocytes, the intimal cells which line joint cavities and tendon sheaths, occur in a number of skeletal diseases. Hyperplasia of synoviocytes is found in both rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis, despite differences in the underlying aetiologies of the two disorders. We have studied the autosomal recessive disorder camptodactyly-arthropathy-coxa vara-pericarditis syndrome (CACP; MIM 208250) to identify biological pathways that lead to synoviocyte hyperplasia, the principal pathological feature of this syndrome. Using a positional-candidate approach, we identified mutations in a gene (CACP) encoding a secreted proteoglycan as the cause of CACP. The CACP protein, which has previously been identified as both 'megakaryocyte stimulating factor precursor' and 'superficial zone protein', contains domains that have homology to somatomedin B, heparin-binding proteins, mucins and haemopexins. In addition to expression in joint synovium and cartilage, CACP is expressed in non-skeletal tissues including liver and pericardium. The similarity of CACP sequence to that of other protein families and the expression of CACP in non-skeletal tissues suggest it may have diverse biological activities.
To determine whether the combination of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) and docetaxel significantly prolongs time to disease progression compared with docetaxel alone without an increase in cardiac toxicity in women with advanced breast cancer who had experienced relapse at least 1 year after prior adjuvant or neoadjuvant anthracycline therapy.
This international, phase III study randomly assigned 751 patients to receive either docetaxel 75 mg/m(2) (n = 373) or PLD 30 mg/m(2) followed by docetaxel 60 mg/m(2) every 21 days (n = 378) and continued until disease progression or prohibitive toxicity. The primary end point was time to progression (TTP). Secondary end points were overall survival (OS), objective response rate (ORR), cardiac toxicity, and safety.
Treatment with PLD-docetaxel significantly improved median TTP from 7.0 to 9.8 months (hazard ratio [HR] = 0.65; 95% CI, 0.55 to 0.77; P = .000001) and the ORR from 26% to 35% (P = .0085). OS was similar between the two groups (HR = 1.02; 95% CI, 0.86 to 1.22). The incidence of grade 3 or 4 adverse events were similar (78% v 72%), although a higher incidence of hand-foot syndrome (24% v 0%) and mucositis/stomatitis (12% v 1%) were observed in the PLD-docetaxel combination. Protocol-defined left ventricular ejection fraction decreases and congestive heart failure were reported in 5% and 1% in both treatment arms, respectively.
The PLD-docetaxel combination was more effective than docetaxel alone in women with metastatic breast cancer who had experienced relapse at least 1 year after prior adjuvant anthracycline therapy without an increase in cardiac toxicity, although mucocutaneous toxicity was more common.
In a randomized study, labetalol-induced hypotension and nitroprusside-induced hypotension were compared in 20 patients (10 in each group) scheduled for major orthopedic procedures. Each patient was subjected to an identical anesthetic protocol and similar drug-induced reductions in mean arterial blood pressure (BP) (50 to 55 mmHg). Nitroprusside infusion was associated with a significant (p less than 0.05) increase in heart rate and cardiac output; rebound hypertension was observed in three patients after discontinuation of nitroprusside. Labetalol administration was not associated with any of these findings. Arterial PO2 decreased in both groups. It was concluded that labetalol offers advantages over nitroprusside.
Chk2 is a kinase critical for DNA damage-induced apoptosis and is considered a tumor suppressor. Chk2 is essential for p53 transcriptional and apoptotic activities. Although mutations of p53 are present in more than half of all tumors, mutations of Chk2 in cancers are rare, suggesting that Chk2 may be inactivated by unknown alternative mechanisms. Here we elucidate one such alternative mechanism regulated by PML (promyelocytic leukemia) that is involved in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Although p53-inactivating mutations are extremely rare in APL, t(15;17) chromosomal translocation which fuses retinoic acid receptor (RARalpha) to PML is almost always present in APL, while the other PML allele is intact. We demonstrate that PML interacts with Chk2 and activates Chk2 by mediating its autophosphorylation step, an essential step for Chk2 activity that occurs after phosphorylation by the upstream kinase ATM (ataxia telangiectasia-mutated). PML/RARalpha in APL suppresses Chk2 by dominantly inhibiting the auto-phosphorylation step, but inactivation of PML/RARalpha with alltrans retinoic acid (ATRA) restores Chk2 autophosphorylation and activity. Thus, by fusing PML with RARalpha, the APL cells appear to have achieved functional suppression of Chk2 compromising the Chk2-p53 apoptotic pathway.
A diuretic antihypertensive agent, SC-33643 (8-[2-ethoxyethyl]-7-phenyl-[1,2,4]triazolo[4,3-c]pyrimidine-5- amine, also known as bemitradine), was tested in the Ames test, in the mouse lymphoma TK +/- mutation assay, in the Chinese hamster ovary cell hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (CHO/HGPRT) mutation test and in the CHO chromosome aberration assay with and without metabolic activation. Additionally, the compound was tested in the rat primary hepatocyte unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) assay and in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay. The results were uniformly negative. Contrary to expectations based on the results of the battery of genetic toxicology tests, the compound produced liver, thyroid and mammary tumors in the rat (reported separately). Subsequently, SC-36741 (5-amino-7-phenyl-[1,2,4]triazolo-[1,5-c] pyrimidine-8-ethanol, also known as desethylbemitradine), a major metabolite of SC-33643, was tested in the Ames test, in the CHO/HGPRT mutation test and in the CHO chromosome aberration assay with and without metabolic activation, and was also tested in the rat primary hepatocyte/UDS assay and in the mouse bone marrow micronucleus assay. This metabolite also produced negative results in these tests. Therefore, SC-33643 is a non-genotoxic carcinogen producing tumors in rats without altering DNA or chromosomes.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) is a chemotherapeutic agent known to retard embryonic growth and induce cleft palate and limb deformities. The predominant mechanism underlying its toxic action is thought to be inhibition of thymidylate synthetase (TS), and hence thymidine triphosphate (dTTP) synthesis, resulting in alteration of the balance of deoxynucleotide (dNTP) pools and disruption of DNA synthesis. Indeed, previously we demonstrated retarded cell-cycle progression concurrent with a 60% decrease in TS activity in rat whole embryos following maternal exposure to 40 mg/kg 5-FU on Gestational Day 14 and in the murine erythroleukemic cell (MELC) suspension culture following exposure to 5-25 microM 5-FU for 2 hr. In the study described herein, we used high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to demonstrate in both of these model systems that 5-FU exposure results in similar patterns of dNTP perturbations: a prolonged decrease in dTTP and dGTP levels and an increase in dCTP and dATP. In addition, we used centrifugal elutriation to synchronize MELC in the phases of the cell cycle (G0/G1 and early S) most sensitive to 5-FU to investigate the ability of nucleoside supplementation to mitigate 5-FU-induced toxicity. Our data indicate that following a 2-hr exposure to 5-25 microM 5-FU, supplementation with 1-10 microM thymidine (TdR) for 24 hr partially reverses 5-FU-induced toxicity as evidenced by increased cellular proliferation and cell-cycle progression and amelioration of 5-FU-induced perturbations of protein synthesis and cellular membrane permeability compared to unsupplemented 5-FU-exposed cells. However, TdR concentrations >/=100 microM inhibited growth or were cytotoxic. In comparison, supplementation with 10 microM-10 mM of deoxycytidine (CdR) was not toxic, but effected a dose-dependent recovery from 5-FU-induced toxicity. At 1-100 microM, neither deoxyadenosine nor deoxyguanosine supplementation reduced 5-FU-induced toxicity; at higher concentrations, both purine nucleotides inhibited cell growth. Although these results support the hypothesis that 5-FU disrupts the MELC cell cycle by depleting dTTP (a perturbation that is reversible by TdR supplementation), they also indicate that CdR supplementation offers an additional recovery pathway.
Delayed neurotoxicity of sarin in mice after repeated inhalation exposure has been studied. Female mice exposed to atmospheric sarin (5 mg m-3 for 20 min) daily for 10 days developed muscular weakness of the limbs and slight ataxia on the 14th day after the start of the exposure. These changes were accompanied by significant inhibition of neurotoxic esterase (NTE) activity in the brain, spinal cord and platelets. Histopathology of the spinal cord of exposed animals showed focal axonal degeneration. These changes were comparatively less than in animals treated with the neurotoxic organophosphate, mipafox. Results from this study indicate that sarin may induce delayed neurotoxic effects in mice following repeated inhalation exposure.
Blood and tissue eosinophilia is obtained when mice pretreated with cyclophosphamide (CY) and sensitized with picryl chloride are challenged on each ear lobe on day 13. To gain important insights into the cellular mechanisms involved in CY-induced eosinophilia in the contact-sensitivity reaction, we examined the cytokine profile expressed in regional lymph node cells and spleen cells. CY pretreatment 2 days before sensitization enhanced expression of IL-4 mRNA in the regional lymph node cells more strongly than expressions of both IL-2 and IFN-gamma mRNA on day 13. Five days after sensitization, spleen cells expressed IL-5 mRNA and produced IL-5 in vitro. Depletion of CD4(+) cells from spleen cells completely abrogated the secretory capacity of IL-5. In vivo blocking of IL-5 on day 3 entirely inhibited spleen, bone marrow, and subsequent blood eosinophilia. When immune lymph node cells prepared on day 13 were stimulated with hapten-modified cells in vitro, the level of IL-4 secreted in the culture supernatant was enhanced by CY pretreatment, but that of IL-2 was not. One important result was that IL-5 was not produced in response to in vitro stimulation, despite the fact that marked eosinophil infiltration in the dermis was observed in vivo. Thus, eosinophilopoiesis was stimulated by IL-5-producing CD4(+) immune T cells that were present in the eosinophil production site, particularly in the spleen before elicitation. In contrast, eosinophil recruitment into the dermis in the efferent phase can be induced without production of IL-5 from lymphocytes.
In the present study, the effects of bilateral injections of the GABAergic receptor agents into the dorsal hippocampal CA1 regions (intra-CA1) on morphine-induced amnesia were examined in morphine sensitized-mice. Pre-training subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of morphine (5 mg/kg) suppressed the learning of a one-trial passive avoidance task. Amnesia induced by pre-training morphine was significantly reversed in mice which had previously received once daily injections of morphine (20 and 30 mg/kg, s.c.) for 3 days, which may be due to behavioral sensitization. Intra-CA1 injections of GABAA receptor agonist, muscimol (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 and 1 microg/mouse) or the GABAB receptor agonist, baclofen (1, 1.5 and 2 microg/mouse) prior to injection of morphine (20 mg/kg per dayx3 days) decreased the reversion of morphine-induced amnesia in morphine sensitized-mice. Daily intra-CA1 injections of muscimol or baclofen plus saline for 3 days did not alter memory formation. Furthermore, during development of sensitization, the combination of GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline (0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2 microg/mouse) with an ineffective dose of morphine (5 mg/kg, s.c.) reversed the amnesia induced by pre-training morphine. However, the same treatment with GABAB receptor antagonist, CGP35348 (2.5-40 microg/mouse) had no effect on the morphine response. On the other hand, daily intra-CA1 injections of bicuculline or CGP35348 alone for 3 days did not alter the amnesia induced by pre-training injection of morphine. The results suggest that morphine sensitization reverses the impairment of memory induced by morphine and that GABAergic receptors of the dorsal hippocampus may play an important role in this effect.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) generates both hepatocellular injury and steatosis, processes that involve oxidative stress. Herein, we evaluated the role of the antioxidant glutathione (GSH) in TCDD-induced hepatotoxicity. Glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL), comprising catalytic (GCLC) and modifier (GCLM) subunits, is rate limiting in de novo GSH biosynthesis; GCLM maintains GSH homeostasis by optimizing the catalytic efficiency of GCL holoenzyme. Gclm(-/-) transgenic mice exhibit 10-20% of normal tissue GSH levels. Gclm(-/-) and Gclm(+/+) wild-type (WT) female mice received TCDD for 3 consecutive days and were then examined 21 days later. As compared with WT littermates, Gclm(-/-) mice were more sensitive to TCDD-induced hepatocellular toxicity, exhibiting lower reduction potentials for GSH, lower ATP levels, and elevated levels of plasma glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (GOT) and γ-glutamyl transferase (GGT). However, the histopathology showed that TCDD-mediated steatosis, which occurs in WT mice, was absent in Gclm(-/-) mice. This finding was consistent with cDNA microarray expression analysis, revealing striking deficiencies in lipid biosynthesis pathways in Gclm(-/-) mice; qrt-PCR analysis confirmed that Gclm(-/-) mice are deficient in expression of several lipid metabolism genes including Srebp2, Elovl6, Fasn, Scd1/2, Ppargc1a, and Ppara. We suggest that whereas GSH protects against TCDD-mediated hepatocellular damage, GSH deficiency confers resistance to TCDD-induced steatosis due to impaired lipid metabolism.
The insertion-deletion (I/D) polymorphism of the angiotensin converting enzyme gene is a diallelic polymorphism that constitutes a genetic influence on the progression of renal diseases such as IgA nephropathy. Patients with the DD genotype have an accelerated progression towards end stage renal failure in these diseases. The role of the I/D polymorphism in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy in IDDM is unresolved.
We therefore set out to study the contribution of the I/D polymorphism in 79 patients (age 39.5 +/- 7.6 years (mean +/- SD) with end stage renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy, who were recipients of a combined kidney-pancreas transplantation (n = 60), or who were on the waiting list for such a procedure (n = 19). The control series consisted of 82 patients (age 39.5 +/- 9.6 years) without microalbuminuria after fifteen years of IDDM.
The ACE genotype distribution in patients was not in accordance with the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium due to a significant overrepresentation of the DD genotype (X2 = 8.9, p = 0.01). This resulted in a significant increase of the D-allele frequency in the cases compared to controls (X2 = 4.9, p = 0.03). The presence of one D-allele did not increase the risk of end stage renal failure (odds ratio ID/II = 1.0, 95% CI 0.4-2.2). The presence of the DD genotype increased the risk of end stage renal failure twofold compared to the other genotypes (odds ratio 2.1, 95% CI 1.1-4.0). The risk estimate seemed slightly higher in patients with good metabolic control (odds ratio 2.6, 95% CI 1.0-7.1), than in patients with poor control (odds ratio 1.6, 95% CI 0.59-4.3).
It is concluded that the risk of end-stage renal failure in patients with IDDM is twofold increased in patients with the DD genotype as compared to patients with other genotypes.
We investigated whether a brief ischaemic episode (ischaemic pretreatment) preconditioning might attenuate the acute cardiotoxicity of the anthracycline, epirubicin. Isolated rat hearts perfused at a constant flow rate of 10 ml/min, were preconditioned with 5 min. of global ischaemia and 10 min. of reperfusion (preconditioned hearts), or were perfused for 15 min. (control hearts). The hearts were then subjected to 20 min. of infusion with epirubicin (2 mg/ml) or vehicle by a side arm of the perfusion system at a rate of 0.1 ml/min. (0.2 mg epirubicin/min.). Attenuation of cardiotoxicity of a total dose of 4 mg of epirubicin was assessed by functional and metabolic parameters during infusion and during the following 30 min. recovery period. Cardiotoxic effects were reduced in preconditioned hearts compared to control hearts. Thus left ventricular developed pressure and heart rate product after 20 min. of epirubicin infusion was depressed to 27 +/- 7% (mean +/- S.D.) and 40 +/- 4% (mean +/- S.D.) of baseline values in the control group and the preconditioned group, respectively (P < 0.05). Furthermore, we observed less contracture during epirubicin infusion and more effective reversal of contracture during the recovery period in the preconditioned hearts. Improvement in cardiac function was associated with a significantly lower (P < 0.05) myocardial content of epirubicin in the preconditioned group at the end of the infusion period. We conclude that ischaemic preconditioning attenuates the acute cardiotoxicity of epirubicin, probably by reducing the myocardial accumulation of the anthracycline.
In the Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT), treatment with irbesartan demonstrated 23% and 20% reductions in the combined endpoint of doubling of serum creatinine (DSC), end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or death in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy compared to amlodipine and control respectively. A simulation model was developed to project long-term cost consequences of the IDNT in the Spanish setting.
A Markov model simulated progression from nephropathy to DSC, ESRD and death in patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy. Treatment-specific probabilities were derived from IDNT. Country-specific ESRD-related data were retrieved from published sources. Delay in onset of ESRD, life expectancy and mean lifetime costs were calculated for patients with baseline age 59 years. Future costs were discounted at 6% per annum, and clinical benefits were discounted at 0% and 6% per annum. Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed.
Onset of ESRD was delayed with irbesartan by 1.41 and 1.35 years versus amlodipine and control respectively. When a 25-year (lifetime) horizon was considered, delay in ESRD onset led to anticipated improvements in life expectancy (discounted at 6% shown in brackets) of 0.46 (0.21) years versus amlodipine and 0.75 (0.37) years versus control. Irbesartan was associated with cost savings of 13,673 Euro and 7,632 Euro patient versus amlodipine and control respectively. The results were robust under a wide range of plausible assumptions.
Treating patients with hypertension, type 2 diabetes and overt nephropathy using irbesartan was both cost- and life-saving compared to amlodipine and control in the Spanish setting.
Morphine decreases gut peristalsis, and ketamine decreases morphine use after surgery, and does not slow peristalsis. Thus, the combination should result in faster return of bowel function after surgery than morphine alone.
A double-blind randomized controlled trial of saline vs. ketamine with intravenous patient-controlled-analgesia morphine for post-operative pain control was conducted on 42 patients having bowel resection. Bowel function was assessed by auscultation, time to passage of flatus and stool, and time to first retained oral intake; pain by visual analog scale. Time to return of all four measures of bowel function was the primary outcome.
Despite a ketamine dose that in other studies had decreased morphine use without side-effects, there was no difference in bowel function, pain control, or morphine use between the two groups. Ketamine resulted in hallucinations in six out of 19 patients, with none in the placebo group (P =0.018).
Low-dose ketamine was not efficacious for hastening return of bowel function, or for decreasing post-operative pain after surgery for bowel resection. It resulted in hallucinations in some patients. Those reporting hallucinations all wished to remain in the study.
We report a case of multiple myeloma in a 48-year-old woman treated with phenytoin for 55 months. This association may be fortuitous. The depressive effect of phenytoin on the immune responses, however, could account for the occurrence of the dysglobulinaemia. This case points out the need for periodic examination of serum proteins in patients chronically treated with hydantoin derivatives.
A young man suffered an acute inferior myocardial infarction following clinical use of cocaine as topical anesthesia. Coronary angiography showed occlusion of both the posterior descending and posterolateral arteries which was resistant to intracoronary administration of nitroglycerin and verapamil, a finding consistent with thrombotic occlusion. A subsequent angiogram 3 months later showed no residual lesions.
We report the case of a 38-year-old male who developed renal insufficiency while on the protease inhibitor, indinavir. This patient had an increase in serum creatinine over a period of approximately one year, along with persistently abnormal urinalysis. A renal biopsy was performed and showed marked tubular crystal deposition. The indinavir was discontinued, and after two months the patient's serum creatinine and urinalysis returned to normal. To our knowledge this is the second case of indinavir associated nephropathy.
Adrenaline was infused intravenously in nine normal volunteers to plasma concentrations similar to those found after myocardial infarction. This study was undertaken on three occasions after 5 days' treatment with placebo or the beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, atenolol or timolol. Adrenaline increased the systolic pressure by 11 mmHg, decreased the diastolic pressure by 14 mmHg, and increased the heart rate by 7 beats/min. These changes were prevented by atenolol. However, after timolol the diastolic pressure rose (+19 mmHg) and heart rate fell (-8 beats/min). Adrenaline caused the corrected QT interval (QTc) to lengthen (0.36 +/- 0.02 s to 0.41 +/- 0.06 s). No significant changes were found in the QTc when subjects were pretreated with atenolol or timolol. The serum potassium fell from 4.06 to 3.22 mmol/l after adrenaline. Serum potassium fell to a lesser extent to 3.67 mmol/l after atenolol and actually increased to 4.25 mmol/l after timolol. Adrenaline-mediated hypokalaemia appears to result from the stimulation of a beta 2-adrenoceptor linked to membrane Na+/K+-ATPase causing potassium influx.
A patient with psoriatic arthritis developed a peripheral neuropathy while taking hydroxychloroquine and naproxen. Although it was initially suspected that hydroxychloroquine was responsible for the neuropathy, subsequent rechallenge with naproxen demonstrated that clinical and electrophysiologic findings were related to routine pharmacologic doses of naproxen.
Acute tubulo-interstitial nephritis (TIN) is an important cause of acute renal failure, and is often caused by hypersensitivity to drugs. The aim of this study was to determine the aetiology of interstitial nephritis among an unselected cohort of patients, and to identify those drugs commonly implicated.
A single-centre retrospective analysis was carried out of renal biopsy results from 296 consecutive patients between 1995 and 1999.
Acute TIN was identified in 24 (8.1%) biopsies. Eight out of 14 cases with presumed drug-related TIN could be attributed to the proton pump inhibitors omeprazole and lansoprazole. The two cases of lansoprazole-associated TIN are the first to be reported with this drug. The presentation and favourable response to treatment of these patients are described.
Drugs are the most common cause of interstitial nephritis in the population studied. Those drugs most commonly associated with interstitial nephritis were the proton pump inhibitors omeprazole and lansoprazole.
Previous studies have shown more extensive cephalad sensory blockade in women receiving combined spinal-epidural (CSE) anesthesia compared with single-shot spinal (SSS) anesthesia for elective cesarean delivery. It has been postulated that introduction of the epidural needle during CSE disturbs the negative pressure in the epidural space, resulting in relatively greater cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure and increased spread of intrathecal local anesthetic. We tested the hypothesis that CSE results in more extensive cephalad sensory blockade than SSS anesthesia and that loss-of-resistance during initiation of CSE anesthesia increases CSF pressure compared with SSS.
Thirty parturients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery were enrolled in this randomized, double-blind study. Patients received either SSS or CSE anesthesia with equal doses of intrathecal anesthetic (hyperbaric bupivacaine 12 mg, fentanyl 10 microg and morphine 200 microg). Before the intrathecal injection, the CSF pressure was measured with a fiberoptic pressure sensor. Maximum cephalad sensory blockade to pinprick, cold and touch was measured. The total dose of phenylephrine required to maintain baseline arterial blood pressure was also recorded.
There were no significant differences in the median (interquartile range) pinprick sensory block height [T4 (T4-2) vs T3 (T4-1)] or CSF pressures [6 (4-12) vs 9 (8-12) mm Hg] between the SSS and CSE groups. There were no significant correlations between CSF pressure and block height or total dose of phenylephrine.
The SSS and CSE techniques inserted in the lateral decubitus position resulted in similar extent of sensory blockade and CSF pressure. These findings suggest that altering the intrathecal dose is not necessary and that any difference in intrathecal pressure associated with initial placement of an epidural needle in the epidural space during CSE anesthesia is clinically inconsequential.
Sodium chloride solution (0.9%) or noradrenaline in doses of 4, 12 and 36 micrograms h-1 kg-1 was infused for five consecutive days, either intrarenally (by a new technique) or intravenously into rats with one kidney removed. Intrarenal infusion of noradrenaline caused hypertension at doses which did not do so when infused intravenously. Intrarenal compared with intravenous infusion of noradrenaline caused higher plasma noradrenaline concentrations and a shift of the plasma noradrenaline concentration-blood pressure effect curve towards lower plasma noradrenaline levels. These results suggest that hypertension after chronic intrarenal noradrenaline infusion is produced by relatively higher levels of circulating noradrenaline and by triggering of an additional intrarenal pressor mechanism.
The integrin receptor family plays important roles in cell-to-cell and cell-to-extracellular matrix interactions through the recruitment of accessory molecules. One of them, the integrin cytoplasmic domain-associated protein-1 (ICAP-1; also known as ITGB1BP1), specifically interacts with the cytoplasmic domain of the beta1 integrin subunit and negatively regulates its function in vitro. To address the role of ICAP-1 in vivo, we ablated the Icap-1 gene in mice. We report an unexpected role of ICAP-1 in osteoblast function during bone development. Icap-1-deficient mice suffer from reduced osteoblast proliferation and delayed bone mineralization, resulting in the retarded formation of bone sutures. In vitro studies reveal that primary and immortalized Icap-1-null osteoblasts display enhanced adhesion and spreading on extracellular matrix substrates, probably owing to an increase in beta1 integrin activation. Finally, we provide evidence that ICAP-1 promotes differentiation of osteoprogenitors by supporting their condensation through modulating the integrin high affinity state.
The carotid occlusion response (COR) in dogs was inhibited by 50 and 58% after intracerebroventricular injection of norepinephrine and hydrochloric acid, both at the pH 2.9. After norepinephrine at pH 7, this inhibition was 22%. The COR inhibition was 24% with epinephrine solution of pH 2.4 whereas the same solution at pH 7 produced no inhibition. The injection of drugs solved in acid solution, lead to a decrease in the pH of the cerebrospinal fluid. The response to asphyxia was inhibited by 50% after injection of norepinephrine at pH 2.9, but not after epinephrine at pH 2.4 or hydrochloric acid. Bradycardia was caused by epinephrine in neutral or acid solution and a decrease of arterial blood pressure was seen after epinephrine or norepinephrine in neutral or acid solution.
