Layer III neurons of the medial entorhinal cortex (mEC) project to CA1 via the temporoammonic pathway and exert a powerful feed-forward inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons. The present study evaluates the hypothesis that disrupted inhibition of CA1 pyramidal neurons causes an eased propagation of entorhinal seizures to the hippocampus via the temporoammonic pathway. Using a method to induce a confined epileptic focus in brain slices, we investigated the spread of epileptiform activity from the disinhibited mEC to CA1 in control and pilocarpine-treated rats that had displayed status epilepticus and spontaneous recurrent seizures. In pilocarpine-treated rats, the mEC showed a moderate layer III cell loss and an enhanced susceptibility to epileptiform discharges compared to control animals. Entorhinal discharges propagated to CA1 in pilocarpine-treated rats but not in controls. Disconnecting CA3 from CA1 did not affect the spread of epileptiform activity to CA1 excluding its propagation via the trisynaptic hippocampal loop. Mimicking the invasion of epileptiform discharges by repetitive stimulation of the temporoammonic pathway caused a facilitation of field potentials in CA1 that were contaminated by population spikes and afterdischarges in pilocarpine-treated but not control rats. Single cell recordings of CA1 pyramidal neurons revealed a dramatic loss of feed-forward inhibition and the occurrence of strong postsynaptic excitatory potentials in pilocarpine-treated rats. Excitatory responses in CA1 were characterized by multiple NMDA receptor-mediated afterdischarges and a strong paired-pulse facilitation in response to activation of the temporoammonic pathway. Our results suggest that, irrespective of the enhanced seizure-susceptibility of the mEC in epileptic rats, the loss of feed-forward inhibition and the enhanced NMDA receptor-mediated excitability CA1 pyramidal cells ease the spread of epileptiform activity from the mEC to CA1 via the temporoammonic pathway bypassing the classical trisynaptic hippocampal loop.
A supersensitivity of the beta-adrenoceptor-mediated chronotropic response has been demonstrated in atria isolated from rats subjected to septic shock. Our study was undertaken to investigate whether bacterial endotoxin/LPS affects the increase in heart rate induced by beta-adrenoceptor agonists in the rat also in vivo. In pithed and vagotomized rats, the nonselective beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoprenaline (0.05-0.15 nmol/kg) and agonists at the high- and low-affinity state of beta1-adrenoceptors, that is, prenalterol (0.3-3 nmol/kg) and (+/-)-4-[3-[(1,1-dimethylethyl)amino]-2-hydroxypropoxy]-1,3-dihydro-2H-benzimidazole-2-one (CGP 12177; 3-6 nmol/kg), respectively, and at beta2-adrenoceptors, that is, fenoterol (1-5 nmol/kg), increased heart rate by 50 to 60 beats/min. Administration of LPS (0.4, 1, and 1.5 mg/kg), under continuous infusion of vasopressin, dose-dependently amplified the chronotropic response to isoprenaline, prenalterol, and fenoterol (by 80%, 50%, and 100%, respectively) but not to CGP 12177. The beta2-adrenoceptor antagonist erythro-(+/-)-1-(7-methylindan-4-yloxy)-3-isopropylaminobutan-2-ol (ICI 118551 0.1 mumol/kg) did not affect the chronotropic responses of isoprenaline, fenoterol, and prenalterol under non-endotoxic conditions, but abolished the potentiation of tachycardia produced by LPS (1.5 mg/kg). The beta1-adrenoceptor antagonist (+/-)-2-hydroxy-5-[2-[[2-hydroxy-3-[4-[1-methyl-4-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-imidazol-2-yl]-phenoxy]propyl]-amino]ethoxy]-benzamide CGP 20712A; 0.1 mumol/kg almost completely reduced the chronotropic effects of isoprenaline, fenoterol, and prenalterol both in control rats and in animals exposed to LPS (1.5 mg/kg). We conclude that LPS sensitizes cardiac beta-adrenoceptors by recruiting functionally active beta2-adrenoceptors, but the amplification of tachycardia occurs only when both beta1- and beta2-adrenoceptors are concomitantly activated. The pithed rat may serve as a model to examine the beta-adrenoceptor supersensitivity in vivo.
To investigate the function and pathogenicity of HRG4, a photoreceptor synaptic protein homologous to the Caenorhabditis elegans neuroprotein UNC119.
HRG4 was screened for mutations in patients with various retinopathies, and a transgenic mouse model was constructed and analyzed based on a mutation found.
A heterozygous premature termination codon mutation was found in a 57-year-old woman with late-onset cone-rod dystrophy. In some transgenic mice carrying the identical mutation, age-dependent fundus lesions developed accompanied by electroretinographic changes consistent with defects in photoreceptor synaptic transmission (depressed b-wave, normal c-wave), and retinal degeneration occurred with marked synaptic and possible transsynaptic degeneration.
HRG4, the only synaptic protein known to be highly enriched in photoreceptor ribbon synapses, is now shown to be pathogenic when mutated.
Mutations in the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene are currently recognized as the most common genetic cause of parkinsonism. Among the large number of LRRK2 mutations identified to date, the G2019S variant is the most common. In Asia, however, another LRRK2 variant, G2385R, appears to occur more frequently. To better understand the contribution of different LRRK2 variants toward disease pathogenesis, we generated transgenic Drosophila over-expressing various human LRRK2 alleles, including wild type, G2019S, Y1699C, and G2385R LRRK2. We found that transgenic flies harboring G2019S, Y1699C, or G2385R LRRK2 variant, but not the wild-type protein, exhibit late-onset loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in selected clusters that is accompanied by locomotion deficits. Furthermore, LRRK2 mutant flies also display reduced lifespan and increased sensitivity to rotenone, a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor. Importantly, coexpression of human parkin in LRRK2 G2019S-expressing flies provides significant protection against DA neurodegeneration that occurs with age or in response to rotenone. Together, our results suggest a potential link between LRRK2, parkin, and mitochondria in the pathogenesis of LRRK2-related parkinsonism.
Natural history of myocardial dysfunction due to chronic contractile deficit consists of physiological and pathophysiological adaptations culminating in congestive heart failure. Among the mechanisms considered is the combination of compensatory as well as the harmful overcompensatory role of the adrenergic system during the genesis of a congestive heart failure "spiral" due to the chronic treatment with adriamycin. Refractoriness of this spiral to various inotropic agents may involve reduced sympathetic support of the myocardium, structural loss of contractile elements and abnormalities of the Ca2+ metabolism.
Chronobiological experiments were carried out on animals to investigate the peristatic development of retinal rosettes in the course of a day. Every 3 h one single dose of four different concentrations of cyclophosphamide (CP) was applied subcutaneously under defined conditions in young mice of the Agnes Bluhm strain, Halle. A series of 1,396 eyes was studied to determine which retinal malformations were present in the fine tissue. The authors found daily variations in all rosettes in the inner retinal layers, which are of interest here. However, there was no hint of any circadian pattern. The incidence in rosettes in the inner retinal layers increased in correspondence with a decrease in CP concentration. Disturbances of the vitreoretinal limiting membrane were not only detected in rosettes placed in the ganglion and nerve fibre layers and in epiretinal positions, but also in very large rosettes penetrating all retinal layers. In 7 eyes a special form of rosettes was found: a rosette scattered in the vitreous body like a floater. The authors emphasize the importance the localization of rosettes has for clinical practice.
Caffeine exerts potent chemopreventive action against 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced rat mammary gland carcinogenesis, but acts as a co-carcinogen in the colon. The present work was performed to clarify mechanisms underling these organ dependent actions. Female F344 rats were given PhIP and caffeine, PhIP alone, caffeine alone or no treatment for 4 weeks. PhIP-DNA adduct formation in the colon was significantly higher in the PhIP+caffeine than in the PhIP group, but levels in the mammary glands showed no inter-group differences. CYP1A2 mRNA expression in the livers of the PhIP+caffeine group tended to be higher than in either the PhIP or the caffeine alone groups. High mRNA expression for both N-acetyltransferase (NAT) 1 and NAT2 was observed in the colon, with less expression in the mammary gland. The levels of four DNA-repair enzymes were not influenced by the caffeine treatment. In conclusion, only increased level of DNA adducts in the colon partially related to the modifying effects of caffeine on PhIP-induced rat carcinogenesis. Thus, other unknown factors must be contributory.
Resveratrol is a natural phytophenol that exhibits cardioprotective effects. This study was designed to elucidate the mechanisms by which resveratrol protects against diabetes-induced cardiac dysfunction. Normal control (m-Lepr(db)) mice and type 2 diabetic (Lepr(db)) mice were treated with resveratrol orally for 4 wk. In vivo MRI showed that resveratrol improved cardiac function by increasing the left ventricular diastolic peak filling rate in Lepr(db) mice. This protective role is partially explained by resveratrol's effects in improving nitric oxide (NO) production and inhibiting oxidative/nitrative stress in cardiac tissue. Resveratrol increased NO production by enhancing endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) expression and reduced O(2)(·-) production by inhibiting NAD(P)H oxidase activity and gp91(phox) mRNA and protein expression. The increased nitrotyrosine (N-Tyr) protein expression in Lepr(db) mice was prevented by the inducible NO synthase (iNOS) inhibitor 1400W. Resveratrol reduced both N-Tyr and iNOS expression in Lepr(db) mice. Furthermore, TNF-α mRNA and protein expression, as well as NF-κB activation, were reduced in resveratrol-treated Lepr(db) mice. Both Lepr(db) mice null for TNF-α (db(TNF-)/db(TNF-) mice) and Lepr(db) mice treated with the NF-κB inhibitor MG-132 showed decreased NAD(P)H oxidase activity and iNOS expression as well as elevated eNOS expression, whereas m-Lepr(db) mice treated with TNF-α showed the opposite effects. Thus, resveratrol protects against cardiac dysfunction by inhibiting oxidative/nitrative stress and improving NO availability. This improvement is due to the role of resveratrol in inhibiting TNF-α-induced NF-κB activation, therefore subsequently inhibiting the expression and activation of NAD(P)H oxidase and iNOS as well as increasing eNOS expression in type 2 diabetes.
Human prostate cancers (PC) overexpress gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) receptors. This observation suggests that GRP receptors may be used as new visualization and treatment modalities for these tumors. Radiolabeled GRP receptor-targeting analogs of GRP and bombesin (BN) have successfully been developed for these purposes. Expression of GRP receptors in human prostate tumors is, however, primarily evaluated in early stages of tumor development and information on expression in the more progressive prostate tumors is uncertain. To evaluate GRP receptor expression in all stages of PC, we investigated GRP receptor expression using a panel of 12 established human PC xenograft models representing the different stages of human PC and the effect of antiandrogen treatment (castration).
Human PC xenografts were grown in male nude mice, and GRP receptor density in the tumors was evaluated using displacement receptor autoradiography with the universal BN receptor analog (125)I-[D-Tyr(6),beta-Ala(11),Phe(13),Nle(14)]BN(6-14) and the BN analog (111)In-[DTPA-Pro(1),Tyr(4)]BN (DTPA is diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid) before and after castration.
Autoradiography showed high-density GRP receptor expression in the androgen-dependent tumors (3/12 models), whereas only very low receptor expression was found in the androgen-responsive and -independent tumors (9/12 models). Castration resulted in GRP receptor downregulation (11%-36% of initial values) in the 3 androgen-dependent tumors.
High GRP receptor density was only observed in androgen-dependent PC xenografts, indicating high GRP receptor expression in the early, androgen-dependent, stages of prostate tumor development and not in later stages. In addition, castration strongly reduced GRP receptor expression in androgen-dependent tumors, indicating that GRP receptor expression in human PC is androgen-regulated.
In human cancer, alterations in the p53 tumor suppressor gene are the most common genetic alterations. The aim of the present study was to detect sensitivity of the p53 (+/-) mice and their littermates p53 (+/+) mice to N, N-dibutylnitrosamine (DBN) carcinogenicity. In experiment 1, 6-7-week-old p53 (+/-) and p53 (+/+) mice were treated with 0, 0.025 and 0.05% DBN, respectively, in drinking water for 20 weeks. Esophageal squamous cell and urinary bladder transitional cell carcinomas (TCCs) and fibrosarcomas were found to be significantly increased in p53 (+/-) mice treated with doses of DBN compared to p53 (+/+) mice administered similar doses. In experiment 2, 6-7-week-old p53 (+/-) and p53 (+/+) mice were administered 0 or 0.05 % DBN in drinking water for 8 weeks. Immunohistochemical staining revealed a significant increase in numbers of p53 and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) positive cells in the esophageal and urinary bladder epithelia of DBN-treated p53 (+/-) mice compared to p53 (+/+) mice administered DBN. Molecular analysis revealed point mutations in the residual p53 allele in four of eight (50%) esophageal mucosa of DBN-treated p53 (+/-) mice, and in three of eight (38%) of treated p53 (+/+) mice. The results show that p53 (+/-) mice were sensitive to DBN treatment with respect to esophageal and bladder tumor development, with a mechanism that could be confined to early mutations of the residual p53 allele and increased cellular proliferation in the target organs.
Optimal scheduling of cycle-active chemotherapy with (initially cytostatic) molecular-targeted agents is important to maximize clinical benefit. Concurrent scheduling might allow up-regulation of cell death pathways at the time of chemotherapy, whereas sequential treatments might maximize inhibition of repopulation and avoid putting tumor cells out of cycle when administering cycle-active chemotherapy. We compared the effects of concurrent and sequential administration of chemotherapy and the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor temsirolimus (CCI-779) on tumor cells and xenografts.
Human prostate cancer PC-3 and LnCaP, and human breast cancer MDA-468 cells and xenografts were treated with chemotherapy (docetaxel and 5-fluorouracil, respectively) and temsirolimus, using concurrent and sequential treatment schedules. Cell killing and repopulation were evaluated by clonogenic assays. Cell cycle analysis was done using flow cytometry. Effects on xenografts were assessed by tumor growth delay.
The proliferation of all cell lines was inhibited by temsirolimus in a dose-dependent manner; PTEN negative PC-3 and mutant LnCaP cells were more sensitive than PTEN-negative MDA-468 cells. Temsirolimus inhibited cell cycle progression from G(1) to S phase in all cell lines. Combined treatment had greater effects than temsirolimus or chemotherapy alone: for PC-3 and LnCaP xenografts, concurrent treatment seemed superior to sequential scheduling, whereas MDA-468 cells and xenograft tumors did not show schedule dependence.
Combined treatment with temsirolimus and chemotherapy had a greater therapeutic effect than monotherapy; concurrent scheduling was more effective for PC-3 and LnCaP cells and xenografts that were sensitive to temsirolimus.
We report a rare case of cerebral infarct resulting in brain death due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia thrombosis (HITT), manifested in the immediate postoperative period following aortic valve replacement in a 46-year-old woman whose only prior exposure to heparin was during catheterization four months prior to surgery. The diagnosis of HITT was suspected after a significant decrease of the platelet count and it was confirmed by a heparin-induced platelet activation assay showing platelet aggregation in the presence of heparin.
Activated ras oncogenes have been detected in a number of rodent tumour model systems (Balmain et al., 1986; Barbacid 1987), in which chemical carcinogens have been the most widely used inducing agents. We have investigated the involvement of activated oncogenes in a single well-characterised tumour model, rat thyroid neoplasia, produced not only by chemical carcinogen (nitrosomethylurea, NMU) and by ionizing radiation but also by elevated trophic stimulation alone. We have indentified a striking specificity in patterns of ras oncogene activation, with exclusively Ha-ras activated in 87% of NMU-induced tumours and exclusively Ki-ras activated in 60% of radiation-induced tumours.
Irritable urological symptoms with gross hematuria and bilateral lumbar pain developed when the patient received penicillin G for endocarditis. These symptoms were followed by renal insufficiency. A contrast-enhanced abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a thickened bladder wall, bilateral hydroureter and hydronephrosis, suggesting hemorrhagic cystitis complicated with urinary tract obstruction. Urine culture was negative. After discontinuation of penicillin G, all symptoms subsided and renal function recovered; hence, penicillin G seems to have been associated with hemorrhagic cystitis and acute kidney injury. Positive findings in the drug lymphocyte stimulation test (DLST) for penicillin G were consistent with this diagnosis.
To evaluate the antitumour activity of 5,6-dimethylxanthenone-4-acetic acid (DMXAA), a vascular disrupting agent currently under phase II clinical trials in combination with cancer chemotherapy, in rats bearing chemically induced primary mammary tumours.
Tumours were induced in female Wistar rats by injection of N-nitroso-N-methylurea at 100 mg/kg subcutaneously. A clinically relevant single dose of DMXAA (1,800 mg/m(2)) was given to animals when tumours were measurable. Tumour volume, extent of necrosis and cytokine profiles were measured.
Compared with the control group, DMXAA treatment significantly delayed tumour doubling time and extended the time from treatment to euthanasia. Four of five DMXAA-treated animals showed necrosis involving 3.7-41.2% of the area of the tumour section at 24 h compared with none of four control animals (P < 0.028, Chi-square test). Intratumoural levels of TNFalpha, IL-6, VEGF and IL-1alpha were increased 4 h after DMXAA treatment.
This study shows for the first time that DMXAA has significant in vivo antitumour activity against non-transplanted autochthonous tumours and in a host species other than the mouse.
Aminoacetone (AA) is a threonine and glycine catabolite long known to accumulate in cri-du-chat and threoninemia syndromes and, more recently, implicated as a contributing source of methylglyoxal (MG) in diabetes mellitus. Oxidation of AA to MG, NH(4)(+), and H(2)O(2) has been reported to be catalyzed by a copper-dependent semicarbazide sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) as well as by Cu(II) ions. We here study the mechanism of AA aerobic oxidation, in the presence and absence of iron ions, and coupled to iron release from ferritin. Aminoacetone (1-7 mM) autoxidizes in Chelex-treated phosphate buffer (pH 7.4) to yield stoichiometric amounts of MG and NH(4)(+). Superoxide radical was shown to propagate this reaction as indicated by strong inhibition of oxygen uptake by superoxide dismutase (SOD) (1-50 units/mL; up to 90%) or semicarbazide (0.5-5 mM; up to 80%) and by EPR spin trapping studies with 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO), which detected the formation of the DMPO-(*)OH adduct as a decomposition product from the DMPO-O(2)(*)(-) adduct. Accordingly, oxygen uptake by AA is accelerated upon addition of xanthine/xanthine oxidase, a well-known enzymatic source of O(2)(*)(-) radicals. Under Fe(II)EDTA catalysis, SOD (<50 units/mL) had little effect on the oxygen uptake curve or on the EPR spectrum of AA/DMPO, which shows intense signals of the DMPO-(*)OH adduct and of a secondary carbon-centered DMPO adduct, attributable to the AA(*) enoyl radical. In the presence of iron, simultaneous (two) electron transfer from both Fe(II) and AA to O(2), leading directly to H(2)O(2) generation followed by the Fenton reaction is thought to take place. Aminoacetone was also found to induce dose-dependent Fe(II) release from horse spleen ferritin, putatively mediated by both O(2)(*)(-) and AA(*) enoyl radicals, and the co-oxidation of added hemoglobin and myoglobin, which may be viewed as the initial step for potential further iron release. It is thus tempting to propose that AA, accumulated in the blood and other tissues of diabetics, besides being metabolized by SSAO, may release iron and undergo spontaneous and iron-catalyzed oxidation with production of reactive H(2)O(2) and O(2)(*)(-), triggering pathological responses. It is noteworthy that noninsulin-dependent diabetes has been frequently associated with iron overload and oxidative stress.
Liddle's syndrome is a rare form of autosomal dominant hypertension with early penetrance and cardiovascular sequelae. It is caused by missense or frameshift mutations in the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) gene resulting in excessive salt and water resorption from the distal nephron, volume expansion, and suppression of plasma renin activity and serum aldosterone secretion. Treatment with an antagonist of the amiloride-sensitive ENaC, amiloride or triamterine, can correct hypertension and biochemical abnormalities in Liddle's syndrome by closing the sodium channels. Missense and truncation mutations at the C-terminus of the ENaC gene have been found in two of the three genes encoding beta- and gamma-subunits of ENaC. We report here a Thai family with Liddle's syndrome caused by a novel P615H missense mutation in the proline-rich domain of the SCNN1B gene coding for the beta-subunit of ENaC. This mutation occurs within the conserved proline-rich (PY) motif at the C-terminal end and emphasizes the critical role of this motif in ENaC internalization. The presence of severe hypertension and/or a suggestive family history of hypertension with or without hypokalemia in young children should always raise a suspicion of Liddle's syndrome.
A 69-year-old man was given 8 mg of colchicine intravenously to treat an acute attack of gout. A maintenance dose of 2 mg/day of oral colchicine was then used to prevent recurrence. Three months later, the patient developed thrombocytopenia, followed by leukopenia and then by anemia at three and four months distance, respectively. The patient had shown no signs of acute toxicity with intravenous colchicine, but liver enzymes were raised after two months of oral treatment. The sequential involvement of the three blood precursor lines, in the order to their physiological half-lives, suggests direct toxicity, rather than idiosyncrasy, due to slow accumulation of the drug within target cells. The prophylactic use of colchicine, especially in the elderly, is questioned.
A pathogenic relationship exists between type 2 diabetes and obesity. Over the last decade, the escalation in diabetes cases has paralleled the rapid increase in obesity rates, constituting a global health crisis. Environmental risk factors attributed to the global increase in obesity include the consumption of high-calorie, high-fat foods and inadequate physical activity. Obese individuals may also have a genetic predisposition for obesity. Both diabetes and obesity confer an elevated risk of developing a range of complications and comorbidities, including cardiovascular disease, hypertension and stroke, which can complicate disease management. This review examines the aetiology of the linkages between diabetes and obesity and the range of available therapies. Recent clinical evidence substantiating the efficacy and safety of incretin-based antidiabetic therapies is analysed, in addition to data on antiobesity therapeutic strategies, such as antiobesity agents, behaviour modification and bariatric surgery. Glucose control is often accompanied by weight-neutral or modest weight reduction effects with DPP-4 inhibitor treatment (sitagliptin, vildagliptin, saxagliptin) and weight loss with GLP-1 receptor agonist therapy (exenatide, liraglutide). Studies of antiobesity agents including orlistat, sibutramine and rimonabant have shown attrition rates of 30-40%, and the long-term effects of these agents remain unknown. Bariatric surgical procedures commonly performed are laparoscopic adjustable banding of the stomach and the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, and have produced type 2 diabetes remission rates of up to 73%. Therapeutic strategies that integrate glycaemic control and weight loss will assume greater importance as the prevalence of diabetes and obesity increase.
Hypertension development, phenylephrine-induced contraction and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase functional activity and protein expression in aorta (AO), tail (TA) and superior mesenteric (SMA) arteries from ouabain- (25 microg day(-1), s.c., 5 weeks) and vehicle-treated rats were evaluated. Ouabain treatment increased systolic blood pressure (127+/-1 vs 160+/-2 mmHg, n=24, 35; P<0.001) while the maximum response to phenylephrine was reduced (P<0.01) in AO (102.8+/-3.9 vs 67.1+/-10.1% of KCl response, n=12, 9) and SMA (82.5+/-7.5 vs 52.2+/-5.8%, n=12, 9). Endothelium removal potentiated the phenylephrine response to a greater extent in segments from ouabain-treated rats. Thus, differences of area under the concentration-response curves (dAUC) in endothelium-denuded and intact segments for control and ouabain-treated rats were, respectively: AO, 56.6+/-9.6 vs 198.3+/-18.3 (n=9, 7); SMA, 85.5+/-15.4 vs 165.4+/-24.8 (n=6, 6); TA, 13.0+/-6.1 vs 39.5+/-10.4% of the corresponding control AUC (n=6, 6); P<0.05. The relaxation to KCl (1 - 10 mM) was similar in segments from both groups. Compared to controls, the inhibition of 0.1 mM ouabain on KCl relaxation was greater in AO (dAUC: 64.8+/-4.6 vs 84.0+/-5.1%, n=11, 14; P<0.05), similar in SMA (dAUC: 39.1+/-3.9 vs 43.3+/-7.8%, n=6, 7; P>0.05) and smaller in TA (dAUC: 62.1+/-5.5 vs 41.4+/-8.2%, n=12, 13; P<0.05) in ouabain-treated rats. Protein expression of both alpha(1) and alpha(2) isoforms of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was augmented in AO, unmodified in SMA and reduced in TA from ouabain-treated rats. These results suggest that chronic administration of ouabain induces hypertension and regional vascular alterations, the latter possibly as a consequence of the hypertension.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a disease with a poor prognosis. It has been demonstrated that AML cells express the vascular endothelial growth factors, VEGFA and VEGFC, as well as kinase insert domain-containing receptor (VEGFR2), the main receptor for downstream effects, resulting in an autocrine pathway for cell survival. This study investigates the role of the VEGFR inhibitor PTK787/ZK 222584 in leukemic cell death, and the possibility of an additional effect on cell death by a chemotherapeutic drug, amsacrine. In three AML cell lines and 33 pediatric AML patient samples, we performed total cell-kill assays to determine the percentages of cell death achieved by PTK787/ZK 222584 and/or amsacrine. Both drugs induced AML cell death. Using a response surface analysis, we could show that, in cell lines as well as in primary AML blasts, an equal magnitude of leukemic cell death could be obtained when lower doses of the more toxic amsacrine were combined with low dosages of the less toxic VEGFR inhibitor. This study shows that PTK787/ZK 222584 might have more clinical potential in AML when combined with a chemotherapeutic drug such as amsacrine. In future, it will be interesting to study whether the complications and the long-term effects of chemotherapy can be reduced by lowering the dosages of amsacrine, and by replacing it with other drugs with lower toxicity profiles, such as PTK787/ZK 222584.
1. The kinetic characteristics of the ATP hydrolysis by membrane-bound and Triton X-100 solubilized mitochondrial ATPase, during the isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy, were investigated. 2. An increase in the inhibitory action of the oligomycin, a decrease in the affinity of the ATP binding sites and an increase of both activation energy and rate of thermal inactivation were observed for mitochondrial ATPase. 3. The possibility that the changes described are related to the modifications of the active configuration of mitochondrial ATPase, during the isoproterenol-induced cardiomyopathy, is discussed.
Methamidophos (O,S-dimethyl phosphorothioamidate) causes polyneuropathy in man and hens. However, experiments in the hen show that lower doses of methamidophos either protect from or promote the neuropathy caused by certain organophosphates. The initiation of neuropathy as well as protection from neuropathy are thought to be related to neuropathy target esterase (NTE), whereas promotion is likely to be due to interactions with another unknown target. Methamidophos is a racemate and we report studies with its resolved optical isomers, aimed at elucidating which isomer is responsible for the described effects. The time-course of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and NTE activity in nervous tissues of hens after inhibition by single doses of either isomer showed that after D-(+) methamidophos (25 mg/kg PO) peak inhibition of both enzymes was achieved within 24 h (80-90%). However, after L-(-) methamidophos (15 mg/kg PO), peak inhibition (80-90%) was obtained within 24 h for AChE, whereas similar NTE inhibition (120 mg/kg PO) was observed only 4 days after dosing. The minimal neuropathic doses of D-(+) and L-(-) methamidophos were 60 and 120 mg/kg PO, respectively, and correlated with > 80% NTE inhibition in nervous tissues. OPIDP initiation by either isomer was slightly promoted by phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (120 mg/kg SC). D-(+) Methamidophos (25 mg/kg PO) partially protected from dibutyl dichlorovinyl-phosphate (DBDCVP) neuropathy (up to 0.8 mg/kg SC). This effect correlated with about 70% NTE inhibition. L-(-) Methamidophos (15 or 60 mg/kg PO) did not protect from DBDCVP neuropathy (0.2-0.8 mg/kg SC).
Double heterozygous mice lacking Apoa1 and Cbs genes show mild hyperhomocysteinemia in combination with hypoalphalipoproteinemia. This situation leads to a moderate hypertension associated with a dysregulation in nitric oxide metabolism. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential beneficial effects of statin treatment in these mice. After 4 weeks of simvastatin administration, plasma parameters; apolipoproteins A-I, A-II and A-IV; lipid profile; and blood pressure were assessed, Western blotting was performed in the aorta of these mice to measure endothelial nitric oxide synthase and caveolin-1 content. The high blood pressure level present in the double heterozygous group was corrected down to that of the wild-type group after simvastatin treatment (124+/-7.7 vs. 109+/-11.2 mmHg, p<0.01). Concomitant with this effect, an increase in nitric oxide levels was observed in these double heterozygous mice receiving simvastatin treatment probably mediated in part by a decrease in caveolin-1 levels. Blood pressure changes appeared to be independent of the arylesterase activity of paraoxonase or the lipid content. Another remarkable result was the significant increase in apoA-IV content in animals receiving simvastatin, an effect considered to be protective for the endothelium. In conclusion, the results of this study demonstrate that the use of simvastatin can improve blood pressure control in mice with elevated homocysteinemia and low levels of apoA-I, and this effect is mediated by mechanisms independent of plasma lipids and related to nitric oxide levels.
The insulin-like family of factors are involved in the regulation of a variety of physiological processes, but the function of the family member termed insulin-like 6 (Insl6) in skeletal muscle has not been reported. We show that Insl6 is a myokine that is up-regulated in skeletal muscle downstream of Akt signaling and in regenerating muscle in response to cardiotoxin (CTX)-induced injury. In the CTX injury model, myofiber regeneration was improved by the intramuscular or systemic delivery of an adenovirus expressing Insl6. Skeletal muscle-specific Insl6 transgenic mice exhibited normal muscle mass under basal conditions but elevated satellite cell activation and enhanced muscle regeneration in response to CTX injury. The Insl6-mediated regenerative response was associated with reductions in muscle cell apoptosis and reduced serum levels of creatine kinase M. Overexpression of Insl6 stimulated proliferation and reduced apoptosis in cultured myogenic cells. Conversely, knockdown of Insl6 reduced proliferation and increased apoptosis. These data indicate that Insl6 is an injury-regulated myokine that functions as a myogenic regenerative factor.
There is emerging evidence that background exposure to persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are important in the development of conditions predisposing to diabetes as well as of type 2 diabetes itself. We recently reported that low dose POPs predicted incident type 2 diabetes in a nested case-control study. The current study examined if low dose POPs predicted future adiposity, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance among controls without diabetes in that study.
The 90 controls were diabetes-free during 20 years follow-up. They were a stratified random sample, enriched with overweight and obese persons. POPs measured in 1987-88 (year 2) sera included 8 organochlorine (OC) pesticides, 22 polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), and 1 polybrominated biphenyl (PBB). Body mass index (BMI), triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and homeostasis model assessment value for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were study outcomes at 2005-06 (year 20). The evolution of study outcomes during 18 years by categories of serum concentrations of POPs at year 2 was evaluated by adjusting for the baseline values of outcomes plus potential confounders. Parallel to prediction of type 2 diabetes, many statistically significant associations of POPs with dysmetabolic conditions appeared at low dose, forming inverted U-shaped dose-response relations. Among OC pesticides, p,p'-DDE most consistently predicted higher BMI, triglycerides, and HOMA-IR and lower HDL-cholesterol at year 20 after adjusting for baseline values. Oxychlordane, trans-nonachlor, and hexachlorobenzene also significantly predicted higher triglycerides. Persistent PCBs with ≥7 chlorides predicted higher BMI, triglycerides, and HOMA-IR and lower HDL-cholesterol at year 20 with similar dose-response curves.
Simultaneous exposure to various POPs in the general population may contribute to development of obesity, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance, common precursors of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Although obesity is a primary cause of these metabolic abnormalities, POPs exposure may contribute to excess adiposity and other features of dysmetabolism.
The utility of biochemotherapy for metastatic melanoma remains controversial. Dose intensity has been recognized as an important determinant of response and survival in the chemotherapy of several malignancies but has not been studied in biochemotherapy. In this retrospective study, we described the relationship between achieved dose intensity and the response rate of inpatient decrescendo biochemotherapy at our center.
A study of 38 consecutive patients with metastatic melanoma was undertaken. The planned doses were dacarbazine 800 mg/m(2) on day 1 or temozolomide 150 mg/m(2) on days 1-4, cisplatin 20 mg/m(2) on days 1-4, vinblastine 1.5 mg/m(2) on days 1-4, interferon-alpha-2b (Schering) 5 million IU (MIU)/m(2) on days 1-5, and interleukin-2 36 MIU on day 1, 18 MIU on day 2, and 9 MIU on days 3 and 4.
Of 38 patients that received a total of 204 cycles of therapy, 8 (21%) complete responses and 14 (37%) partial responses were observed for an objective response rate of 58%. Median survival was 19.6 months. Achieved dose intensity was high with patients receiving 98.7% interleukin- 2, 87.1% interferon, 90.7% dacarbazine (DTIC), 94% temozolomide, 87.2% cisplatin, and 89.7% vinblastine.
Six cycles of inpatient decrescendo biochemotherapy can be given with high-dose intensity and acceptable toxicity. High response rates with biochemotherapy for melanoma may correlate with dose intensity, dose density, and the number of cycles given on time.
The process of bone resorption by osteoclasts is regulated by Cathepsin K, the lysosomal collagenase responsible for the degradation of the organic bone matrix during bone remodeling. Recently, Cathepsin K was regarded as a potential target for therapeutic intervention of osteoporosis. However, mechanisms leading to osteopenia, which is much more common in young female population and often appears to be the clinical pre-stage of idiopathic osteoporosis, still remain to be elucidated, and molecular targets need to be identified.
We found, that in juvenile bone the large conductance, voltage and Ca(2+)-activated (BK) K(+) channel, which links membrane depolarization and local increases in cytosolic calcium to hyperpolarizing K(+) outward currents, is exclusively expressed in osteoclasts. In juvenile BK-deficient (BK(-/-)) female mice, plasma Cathepsin K levels were elevated two-fold when compared to wild-type littermates. This increase was linked to an osteopenic phenotype with reduced bone mineral density in long bones and enhanced porosity of trabecular meshwork in BK(-/-) vertebrae as demonstrated by high-resolution flat-panel volume computed tomography and micro-CT. However, plasma levels of sRANKL, osteoprotegerin, estrogene, Ca(2+) and triiodthyronine as well as osteoclastogenesis were not altered in BK(-/-) females.
Our findings suggest that the BK channel controls resorptive osteoclast activity by regulating Cathepsin K release. Targeted deletion of BK channel in mice resulted in an osteoclast-autonomous osteopenia, becoming apparent in juvenile females. Thus, the BK(-/-) mouse-line represents a new model for juvenile osteopenia, and revealed the BK channel as putative new target for therapeutic controlling of osteoclast activity.
