We retrospectively compared the antiviral effect of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) with that of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) for patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) who developed resistance to lamivudine (LAM).
One hundred nine patients (86 males), all Asian-American except 1 Caucasian male, with LAM resistance received TDF or ADV. HBV DNA levels were measured every 3 months. The HBeAg loss and ALT normalization were assessed at 12 months on therapy.
Forty-four patients (37 males) received TDF (12 with LAM) and 65 (49 males) received ADV (18 with LAM). Median ages (years) for TDF and ADV were 49 (32-68) and 45 (22-68), respectively. Median duration of therapy was 13 months (6-38) and 17 months (6-34) for the TDF and ADV groups. Baseline HBV DNA levels (log(10) copies/ml) were 6.2 +/- 1.7 for the TDF and 6.5 +/- 1.6 for ADV groups. Baseline ALT (IU/l) levels were 77.0 +/- 86.0 and 100 +/- 195 for the TDF and ADV (P = 0.46) groups, respectively. At 12 months, mean levels of log(10) HBV DNA were 1.5 +/- 1.0 and 4.3 +/- 2.2 for TDF and ADV (P = 0.01). HBeAg loss and ALT normalization at 12 months showed no differences. Using a single factor, ANOVA (2-tailed P value), 4 groups, TDF (n = 32), TDF + LAM (12), ADV (47), and ADV + LAM (18), were compared. HBV DNA reduction at 12 months was the greatest for TDF + LAM (P < 0.001).
Our results suggest that for LAM-resistant HBV, TDF, alone or combined with LAM exerts greater viral reduction than ADV. However, no difference in HBeAg loss was observed. It appears that stronger HBV DNA reduction may not necessarily accelerate HBeAg loss.
Clofibrate was administered in the diet (0.3% w/w) for varying periods of time to normal rats. Rats were killed by decapitation and several biochemical measurements were made. Clofibrate lowered serum levels of cholesterol and triglyceride and produced a kidney hypertrophy; these effects were maximal after 3 days of feeding and persisted for 21 days. Serum clofibric acid levels were highest on the 3rd day and decreased to maintenance levels by the 7th day. Clofibrate markedly increased the activities of glucose 6-phosphatase, pyruvate carboxylase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase in kidney cortex and the synthesis of glucose from glutamate, lactate, pyruvate, glycerol and malate by kidney cortex slices. Clofibrate treatment did not affect blood pH or bicarbonate levels. It is concluded that clofibrate enhances renal gluconeogenesis in the rat and that the effect is not caused by altering acid-base balance.
A double-blind random study compared lorazepam with diazepam as i.m. premedicants in 84 healthy women undergoing uterine curettage. Anxiety, assessed by a self-rating test by the patient and by a trained observer, was reduced 90 min after both lorazepam (P less than 0.001) and diazepam (P less than 0.01). There was more sedation and a longer recovery time after lorazepam than after diazepam. Amnesia at 24 h after operation (lack of recall rather than lack of recognition) was greater after lorazepam. There was transient local discomfort at the site of the injection in most patients in both groups, but no serious effects. Local erythema was present in 12 patients who received lorazepam and 10 who received diazepam 90 min after the injection, disappearing after 24 h in the former group but remaining in the latter. The incidence of nausea, vomiting and headache in both groups was small and similar, but there was more restlessness and dizziness after diazepam in the early recovery period.
Curcuma longa (CL) or turmeric is an Ayurvedic herb that has been traditionally used to treat inflammatory conditions like rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) is a well established experimental auto-immune mediated polyarthritis in susceptible strains of rodents. The main aim of the study was to observe the inflammatory, macroscopic and radiological changes in the arthritic ankle joints of experimentally collagen-induced arthritis animals treated with or without CL extract.
Thirty six male Sprague-Dawley (6-8 weeks-old, 150 ± 50) rats were equally divided into six groups. The first group served as a control while the rest five groups were immunized subdermally with 150 µg collagen type-II on day-0. All rats with established CIA with arthritis score (AS) exceeding 1 were treated orally with betamethasone (0.5 mg/ml/kg body weight) and varying doses of CL extract (30, 60 and 110 mg/ml/kg body weight) using olive oil as vehicle, daily for four weeks. Arthritic scoring (AS) of the paws, measurement of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and paw thickness and radiological scoring were performed.
Treatment with 110 mg/ml/kg CL showed significant mean difference in the ESR (p<0.01), AS (p<0.05) and radiological scores (p<0.01) on day-28 compared to the vehicle treated group. The mean difference for the ESR, AS and radiological scores of this highest CL dose group were found to be insignificant compared to the betamethasone treated group.
The administration of CL extract arrested the degenerative changes in the bone and joints of collagen-induced arthritic rats.
New series of 6-substituted-3-arylcoumarins displaying several alkyl, hydroxyl, halogen, and alkoxy groups in the two benzene rings have been designed, synthesized, and evaluated in vitro as human monoamine oxidase A and B (hMAO-A and hMAO-B) inhibitors. Most of the studied compounds showed a high affinity and selectivity to the hMAO-B isoenzyme, with IC(50) values on nanomolar and picomolar range. Ten of the 22 described compounds displayed higher MAO-B inhibitory activity and selectivity than selegiline. Coumarin 7 is the most active compound of this series, being 64 times more active than selegiline and also showing the highest hMAO-B specificity. In addition, docking experiments were carried out on hMAO-A and h-MAO-B structures. This study provided new information about the enzyme-inhibitor interaction and the potential therapeutic application of this 3-arylcoumarin scaffold.
Sulindac (SLD) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that has been associated with a greater incidence of idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity in human patients than other NSAIDs. One hypothesis regarding idiosyncratic adverse drug reactions is that interaction of a drug with a modest inflammatory episode precipitates liver injury. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that lipopolysaccharide (LPS) interacts with SLD to cause liver injury in rats. SLD (50 mg/kg) or its vehicle was administered to rats by gavage 15.5 h before LPS (8.3 x 10(5) endotoxin unit/kg) or its saline vehicle (i.v.). Thirty minutes after LPS treatment, SLD or vehicle administration was repeated. Rats were killed at various times after treatment, and serum, plasma, and liver samples were taken. Neither SLD nor LPS alone caused liver injury. Cotreatment with SLD/LPS led to increases in serum biomarkers of both hepatocellular injury and cholestasis. Histological evidence of liver damage was found only after SLD/LPS cotreatment. As a result of activation of hemostasis induced by SLD/LPS cotreatment, fibrin and hypoxia were present in liver tissue before the onset of hepatotoxicity. Heparin treatment reduced hepatic fibrin deposition and hypoxia and protected against liver injury induced by SLD/LPS cotreatment. These results indicate that cotreatment with nontoxic doses of LPS and SLD causes liver injury in rats, and this could serve as a model of human idiosyncratic liver injury. The hemostatic system is activated by SLD/LPS cotreatment and plays an important role in the development of SLD/LPS-induced liver injury.
We report here the first case of endocarditis due to CA-MRSA not associated with healthcare contact in Brazil in Brazil. A previously healthy patient presented with history of endocarditis following a traumatic wound infection. Patient had multiple positive blood cultures within 72 h of admission and met modified Duke's criterion for infective endocarditis. The isolate was typed as Staphylococcal cassette chromosome (SCC) mec type IV and was positive for presence of Panton-Valentine leukocidin (PVL). Increased incidence of CA-MRSA endocarditis is a challenge for the internist to choose the best empirical therapy. Several authors have suggested an empirical therapy with both a beta-lactam and an anti-MRSA agent for serious S. aureus infections. Our patient was treated with Vancomycin and made complete recovery in 3 months.
We report a 39-year-old woman with systemic lupus who presented with recurrent aseptic meningitis secondary to treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). She presented two episodes following ibuprofen administration that were characterized by aseptic meningitis with high protein level in cerebrospinal fluid, and increased serum acute phase reactants. No evidence of an infection or vasculitis was documented. Clinical manifestation resolved rapidly with ibuprofen discontinuation, and corticosteroids therapy was unnecessary. Aseptic meningitis related to NSAIDs reported in lupus patients should be considered because of their specific modality of care and their favourable outcome.
The induction of epidermal ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity by benzoyl peroxide (BPO) was characterized to evaluate the usefulness of this effect as a short-term marker of BPO-induced mouse skin tumor promotion. The maximal induced levels of ODC specific activity, after a single topical dose of BPO, were greater than 2-fold higher when a cold scraping method was used to prepare epidermis rather than the commonly used heat treatment method. Therefore, the cold scraping method was used for all the work reported here. Application of a single 20 mg dose of BPO to the dorsal skin of SENCAR mice caused a relatively small induction of epidermal ODC activity, to a level less than 1/40 that induced by a single 2 micrograms dose of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). Furthermore, the time-courses of induction were different after single doses of TPA and BPO, with peak activities observed at approximately 6 and approximately 24 h after treatment respectively. In contrast, after a total of five 20 mg doses of BPO were topically applied (one dose every 2 days), ODC activity was transiently induced to an average level greater than 15 times after a single dose. Additionally, on this dosing regimen, the peak of ODC activity shifted to approximately 4 h after the last treatment, so that the time-course of ODC induction resembled that after multiple applications of TPA. The extent of epidermal ODC induction by BPO was found to be a complex function of the frequency of dosing and the number of treatments. However, when BPO treatments were administered from 1 to 7 days apart, similar maximal induced levels of ODC activity were eventually achieved after application of multiple doses. Importantly, the dose-response for the induction of ODC activity by five doses of BPO (applied one dose every 2 days) was highly correlated with published data on the dose-response for tumor promotion by this organic peroxide, indicating that ODC induction is a good short-term marker of BPO-induced tumor promotion in SENCAR mice.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that diesel exhaust particles (DEP) potentiate allergic immune responses, however the chemical components associated with this effect, and the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. This study characterized the composition of three chemically distinct DEP samples (N, C, and A-DEP), and compared post-sensitization and post-challenge inflammatory allergic phenotypes in BALB/c mice. Mice were instilled intranasally with saline or 150 microg of N-DEP, A-DEP, or C-DEP with or without 20 microg of ovalbumin (OVA) on days 0 and 13, and were subsequently challenged with 20 microg of OVA on days 23, 26, and 29. Mice were necropsied 18 h post-sensitization and 18 and 48 h post-challenge. N-DEP, A-DEP, and C-DEP contained 1.5, 68.6, and 18.9% extractable organic material (EOM) and 47, 431, and 522 microg of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), respectively. The post-challenge results showed that DEP given with OVA induced a gradation of adjuvancy as follows: C-DEP approximately A-DEP > N-DEP. The C- and A-DEP/OVA exposure groups had significant increases in eosinophils, OVA-specific IgG1, and airway hyperresponsiveness. In addition, the C-DEP/OVA exposure increased the T helper 2 (T(H)2) chemoattractant chemokine, thymus and activation-regulated chemokine and exhibited the most severe perivascular inflammation in the lung, whereas A-DEP/OVA increased interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-10. In contrast, N-DEP/OVA exposure only increased OVA-specific IgG1 post-challenge. Analysis of early signaling showed that C-DEP induced a greater number of T(H)2 cytokines compared with A-DEP and N-DEP. The results suggest that potentiation of allergic immune responses by DEP is associated with PAH content rather than the total amount of EOM.
We report a very unusual adverse effect--fosfomycin-induced repeat liver toxicity--in a female adult with cystic fibrosis (CF).
Statins can cause a necrotizing myopathy and hyperCKaemia which is reversible on cessation of the drug. What is less well known is a phenomenon whereby statins may induce a myopathy, which persists or may progress after stopping the drug. We investigated the muscle pathology in 8 such cases. All had myofibre necrosis but only 3 had an inflammatory infiltrate. In all cases there was diffuse or multifocal up-regulation of MHC-I expression even in non-necrotic fibres. Progressive improvement occurred in 7 cases after commencement of prednisolone and methotrexate, and in one case spontaneously. These observations suggest that statins may initiate an immune-mediated myopathy that persists after withdrawal of the drug and responds to immunosuppressive therapy. The mechanism of this myopathy is uncertain but may involve the induction by statins of an endoplasmic reticulum stress response with associated up-regulation of MHC-I expression and antigen presentation by muscle fibres.
We previously reported that high tumour cell proliferation evaluated by Ki-67 expression, high mitotic frequency and high histological grade were associated with resistance to primary doxorubicin monotherapy in locally advanced breast cancer harbouring wild-type (wt) TP53. The aim of our present study was to evaluate the predictive and prognostic impact of proliferation parameters assessed in tumour tissue obtained after chemotherapy, and alterations induced in tumour cell proliferation. While we found a significant reduction in Ki-67 expression and mitotic frequency in tumours with wtTP53 (p=0.001 and p=0.008, respectively), no significant change was recorded in tumours expressing mutant TP53. For histological grade there was no significant change in either group. There was a direct correlation between pre- and post-treatment values for Ki-67 and mitotic frequency in tumours harbouring wtTP53 (p=0.0001 for both), but no correlation in tumours harbouring mutated TP53. High post-treatment Ki-67 expression and mitotic frequency were found to predict doxorubicin resistance only in patients with wtTP53 (p=0.04 and p=0.03, respectively). The prognostic importance of proliferation markers and histological grade was found to be similar whether they were determined in the pre- or post-treatment samples (Ki-67; pre: p=0.02; post: p=0.03; mitotic frequency; p=0.002 and p=0.01, respectively; histological grade; p=0.0001 and p=0.002, respectively). While the reduction in mitotic frequency was associated with improved survival (p=0.03), no significant associations between changes in other parameters and outcome were recorded.
Studies of cancer chemoprevention with caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) in the resistant hepatocyte model of hepatocarcinogenesis have shown the participation of CYP drug metabolizing enzymes. To prevent neoplastic and preneoplasic lesions, we must specifically identify which CYP activities are modified in the mechanism of action of CAPE. Male Fischer-344 rats were pretreated with CAPE twelve hours before administration of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and were sacrificed twelve hours after CAPE and twelve hours, twenty-four hours, twenty-four days, and twelve months after DEN. Other rats were treated with the CYP inhibitors α-naphthoflavone or SKF525A and sacrificed twenty-four hours and twenty-four days after DEN. Microsomes were obtained from livers to quantify protein using Western blot. Diethylnitrosamine metabolism was measured based on nitrite formation and liver histology using GGT histochemistry. Caffeic acid phenethyl ester diminished the protein levels of CYP1A2 and CYP2B1/2. The inhibition of CYP2B1/2 prevented the appearance of preneoplastic lesions. Microsomal assays demonstrated that CAPE interfered with DEN activation diminishing nitrites similar to SKF525A and probably mediated by CYP2B1/2 inhibition. A single dose of CAPE before DEN treatment reduced the appearance of tumors by 43%. These results confirmed that CAPE is a promising agent to confer chemoprotection in liver cancer and should be considered for human therapies.
Mycobacterium genavense is a recently described fastidious mycobacterium identified as a pathogen causing disseminated infection in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease. In this report, we describe the first reported case of disseminated M. genavense infection in a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) in Taiwan. A 22-year-old Chinese man was found to be seropositive for HIV at age 18, in 1993. In 1997, he presented with abdominal pain, weight loss, low CD4 lymphocyte count, hepatomegaly, and generalized lymphadenopathy. Microscopic examination of a biopsy specimen from an inguinal lymph node showed both ill- and well-formed noncaseating granulomas. Numerous acid-fast bacilli were present in the histiocyte cytoplasm. Although the organism did not grow on conventional solid media used in our laboratory, two molecular biology techniques, including polymerase chain reaction (PCR) followed by sequencing of 16S rRNA, and PCR together with restriction enzyme fragment polymorphism analysis, confirmed the M. genavense infection. The patient's abdominal symptoms responded well to a chemotherapy regimen that included ethambutol, ciprofloxacin, and clarithromycin, and he survived more than 6 months after diagnosis. However, the lymphadenopathy was still present at his final follow-up. Our report indicates that disseminated infection with M. genavense should be added to the list of differential diagnoses of secondary infections in advanced AIDS patients in Taiwan.
Monocyte activation, macrophage infiltration, vascular oxidative stress and matrix proteolysis are inflammatory key steps contributing to abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) development. A phenotypical and functional heterogeneity is recognizable in monocytes by the differential expression of surface molecules: CD62L- subset corresponds to activated monocytes, while CD143/ACE surface expression increases during their differentiation into macrophages. In this work, Resveratrol, which is an antioxidant polyphenol with vasoprotective properties, has been evaluated for its potential to limit aneurysm development and monocyte-dependent inflammatory response in a model of elastase-induced AAA.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats received Resveratrol (10 mg/kg/die) (Rsv group, n=15) or vehicle (ethanol) alone (Et-OH group, n=15) continuously from 7 d before until 14 d after the AAA induction with elastase; five littermates were used as untreated control group (Ctr group, n=5). At the end of treatment, CD143 and CD62L monocyte expression was analyzed by flow cytometry, serum antioxidant capacity was evaluated using the TRAP method and circulating TNFα, and MMP-9 were measured with ELISA and gel zymography, respectively. Aortas were subjected to histology and immunohistochemistry for morphological analysis, macrophage infiltration, and MMP-9, TNFα, and VEGF expression.
Resveratrol counteracted the CD62L-monocyte subset expansion, CD143 monocyte expression, and circulating levels of MMP-9 activity and TNFα associated to AAA induction. Similarly, treatment with Resveratrol significantly attenuated AAA expansion, vessel wall macrophage infiltration and MMP-9, VEGF, and TNFα expression, compared with AAA from Et-OH group.
Resveratrol limited the monocyte-dependent inflammatory response, macrophage differentiation and aortic lumen enlargement in elastase-induced AAA. These data suggest that Resveratrol might be tested in selected patients with small AAA to modulate the early systemic and local inflammatory response associated to AAA progression.
Within the frame work of lumbar myelography, 158 patients were entered in a double-blind study in order to test a dimeric contrast medium (iotrolan) against a monomeric one (iopamidol), both of them non-ionic. A three-step scheme was applied to evaluate the X-ray pictures with respect to contrast quality. Particular attention was paid to the visibility of details, i.e. the nerve root and its course, as well as to how well it could be distinguished in the nerve root sheath. On the basis of a high level of significance (P less than 0.05), comparison of the two contrast media showed no difference in contrast quality. Sixty-nine percent of the examinations using iotrolan resulted in excellent contrast quality, whereas the corresponding very good results using iopamidol lay at 76%. Twenty-nine percent of the patients examined with iotrolan and 27% of those examined with iopamidol showed side effects. Headache occurred most frequently, followed by nausea, dizziness and neck pain. Sixty percent of the patients suffering from postmyelographic reactions reported delayed headache, which occurred most often with iotrolan rather than iopamidol. As for manifestation of other postmyelographic side effects, there were no significant differences (P less than 0.05, Fischer's test) between the two groups of contrast media.
We report on a case of tamoxifen-induced QT interval prolongation in a 56-year-old-female patient with hormone-dependent carcinoma of the right breast, stage T2N0M0, grade 3 and HER-2 negative. Partial mastectomy with axillary lymph node excision was performed in July 2007 with adjuvant hormonal and radiation therapy. This case highlights the risk of tamoxifen causing depression of electrical impulse in the sino-atrial node, leading to symptomatic sinus bradycardia with prolonged QT interval. It indicates the necessity of regular monitoring of patients undergoing tamoxifen treatment. ECG should be performed not only before and after, but also during treatment. with an average duration of treatment of 5 years, we would advise an annual ECG for asymptomatic patients. In the presence of symptomatic sinus bradycardia, constant monitoring is necessary. We also highlight potential drug interactions, between tamoxifen and acitretin and the need to be aware of drugs which may induce QT interval prolongation.
We describe a patient suffering from infection of the upper respiratory tract, who was treated with a dose of 4 x 4 g of piperacillin over 10 days. Two days after the end of the treatment, she developed jaundice and had elevated alkaline phosphatase, gammaglutamyltransferase and transaminases. After exclusion of viral hepatitis, a vascular problem, and gall stone disease, the possibility of piperacillin-induced hepatitis was discussed. Lymphocyte transformation test for piperacillin was positive, suggesting an immunological mechanism for the observed hepatopathy. The patient was discharged a few days after in good clinical condition and with reduced liver values. Cholestasis gradually decreased but was detectable for several weeks. The patient had a full clinical and biochemical recovery after 2 months. We conclude that short-term therapy with piperacillin can lead to the same type of hepatopathy as described for amoxycillin/clavulanic acid or antistaphylococcal penicillins. Positive lymphocyte transformation is compatible with an immunological mechanism.
The efficacy of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) or entecavir (ETV) rescue monotherapy has not been directly compared in hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive patients with lamivudine (3TC)-resistant chronic hepatitis B (CHB). We compared the efficacy of ADV and ETV rescue monotherapy in HBeAg-positive patients with confirmed genotypic 3TC resistance.
A total of 160 HBeAg-positive patients with confirmed 3TC resistance underwent switch therapy (91 ADV and 59 ETV). Parameters assessed included alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalization, HBeAg seroconversion, undetectable serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA by PCR (lower detection limit <300 copies/ml), virological breakthrough and initial virological response (IVR) at 3 (IVR-3) and 6 (IVR-6) months.
Following 52 weeks of treatment in the ADV and ETV groups, serum HBV DNA became undetectable in 25 (27.5%) and 21 (35.6%; P=0.292) patients, ALT normalization occurred in 67/78 (85.9%) and 43/47 (91.5%; P=0.351), HBeAg seroconversion in 4 (4.4%) and 1 (1.7%; P=1.000), IVR-3 in 19 (20.9%) and 18 (30.5%), IVR-6 in 40 (44.0%) and 25 (42.4%) and virological breakthrough in 2 (2.2%) and 1 (1.7%; P=1.000) patients, respectively.
ADV and ETV revealed comparable efficacy after 52 weeks of treatment in HBeAg-positive patients with 3TC resistance. Undetectable HBV DNA in serum following 52 weeks of treatment was predictable with IVR-3 and IVR-6 in both groups.
LOXL2 is a copper- and lysine tyrosylquinone-dependent amine oxidase that has been proposed to function both extracellularly and intracellularly to activate oncogenic signaling pathways leading to EMT and invasion of breast cancer cells. In this study, we selected MCF-7 cells that stably express forms of recombinant LOXL2 differing in their subcellular localizations and catalytic competencies. This enabled us to dissect the molecular functions of intracellular and extracellular LOXL2s and examine their contributions to breast cancer metastasis/invasion. We discovered that secreted LOXL2 (~100-kDa) is N-glycosylated at Asn-455 and Asn-644, whereas intracellular LOXL2 (~75-kDa) is nonglycosylated and N-terminally processed, and is primarily associated with the nucleus. Both forms of LOXL2 can oxidize lysine in solution. However, we found that expression of intracellular LOXL2 is more strongly associated with EMT and invasiveness than secreted LOXL2 in vitro. The results indicate that nuclear associated LOXL2 contributes to the stabilization of Snail1 transcription factor at the protein level to induce EMT and promote invasion in vitro, through repression of E-cadherin, occludin, and estrogen receptor-α, and up-regulation of vimentin, fibronectin, and MT1-MMP.
Recent studies from environmental toxicology and molecular genetics demonstrate that midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons are particularly vulnerable to microtubule depolymerizing agents, indicating the involvement of microtubule dysfunction in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Here we show that intrastriatal injection of colchicine (COL), a well-known microtubule disruptor, induced degeneration of striatonigral pathway. Microtubule disruption caused by unilateral injection of COL blocked the retrograde axonal transport of fluorogold previously injected into striatum and induced substantial death of striatal and DA neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta. Furthermore, COL-induced pathologic changes were associated with robust glial reaction, which may be conducive to the degeneration of striatonigral pathway. We also found that intrastriatal injection of COL resulted in side bias in spontaneous turning activities and apomorphine-induced rotational behavior. Together, our results provide in vivo data lending support to the concept that microtubule dysfunction may play a significant role in the death of DA neurons, though glial reaction may be involved and contribute to the degenerative process. Moreover, intrastriatal COL may serve as another experimental model of striatonigral degeneration (Parkinson's variant of multiple system atrophy), given the concurrent loss of both striatal and DA neurons.
Oxcarbazepine, a keto-analogue of carbamazepine, was recently approved in the United States for the treatment of seizures of partial onset. Some patients treated with oxcarbazepine showed the development of hyponatremia, which in most instances was asymptomatic. Understanding the mechanisms by which oxcarbazepine can lead to a reduction of serum sodium levels could have therapeutic implications for the few patients in whom symptomatic hyponatremia develops. In this study, we evaluated sodium and water handling in patients with epilepsy and in healthy subjects titrated over 3 weeks to a maximum daily oxcarbazepine dose of 2,400mg. All subjects were evaluated in a hospital setting after an overnight fast and after an acute water-load test performed before oxcarbazepine exposure and after maintenance on the medication for 3 weeks. Before oxcarbazepine exposure, the percentage of water load excreted was normal as both groups excreted more than 80% of the administered water load. After the intake of oxcarbazepine, the water load resulted in a reduction of the serum sodium and free water clearance without a concomitant increase in the arginine vasopressin serum levels. Most subjects in both groups failed to excrete 80% or more of the water load, suggesting that the effect of oxcarbazepine is physiological. We found that, after the water load, serum sodium and free water clearance were diminished in both groups without a concomitant increase in the arginine vasopressin serum levels. These findings indicate that oxcarbazepine-induced hyponatremia is not attributable to the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone. Possible mechanisms include a direct effect of oxcarbazepine on the renal collecting tubules or an enhancement of their responsiveness to circulating antidiuretic hormone.
Cinacalcet HCl (cinacalcet) is a calcimimetic compound, which suppresses parathyroid (PTH) hormone secretion from parathyroid glands in both primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) and secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT). We previously reported the suppressive effect of cinacalcet on PTH secretion in vivo in a PHPT model mouse, in which parathyroid-targeted overexpression of the cyclin D1 oncogene caused chronic biochemical hyperparathyroidism and parathyroid cell hyperplasia. Although cinacalcet suppressed parathyroid cell proliferation in SHPT in 5/6-nephrectomized uremic rats, its effect on PHPT has not yet been determined. In this study, the effect of cinacalcet on parathyroid cell proliferation was analyzed in PHPT mice. Cinacalcet (1 mg/g) was mixed into the rodent diet and orally administrated to 80-week-old PHPT mice for 10 days before death. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU, 6 mg/day) was infused by an osmotic pump for 5 days before death, followed by immunostaining of the thyroid-parathyroid complex using an anti-BrdU antibody to estimate parathyroid cell proliferation. Compared to untreated PHPT mice, cinacalcet significantly suppressed both serum calcium and PTH. The proportion of BrdU-positive cells to the total cell number in the parathyroid glands increased considerably in untreated PHPT mice (9.5 ± 3.1%) compared to wild-type mice (0.7 ± 0.1%) and was significantly suppressed by cinacalcet (1.2 ± 0.2%). Cinacalcet did not affect apoptosis in the parathyroid cells of PHPT mice. These data suggest that cinacalcet suppressed both serum PTH levels and parathyroid cell proliferation in vivo in PHPT.
