Methotrexate (MTX) is used to treat a variety of chronic inflammatory and neoplastic diseases. However, it can induce hepatotoxicity such as microvesicular steatosis and necrosis. To explore the mechanisms of MTX-induced hepatic steatosis, we used microarray analysis to profile the gene expression patterns of mouse liver after MTX treatment. MTX was administered orally as a single dose of 10mg/kg (low dose) or 100 mg/kg (high dose) to ICR mice, and the livers were obtained 6 h, 24 h, and 72 h after treatment. Serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and triacylglycerol levels were not significantly altered in the experimental animals. Signs of steatosis were observed at 24 h after administration of high dose of MTX. From microarray data analysis, 908 genes were selected as MTX-responsive genes (P<0.05, two-way ANOVA; cutoff > or =1.5-fold). Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) analysis revealed that the predominant biological processes associated with these genes are response to unfolded proteins, phosphate metabolism, and cellular lipid metabolism. Functional categorization of these genes identified 28 genes involved in lipid metabolism that was interconnected with the biological pathways of biosynthesis, catabolism, and transport of lipids and fatty acids. Taken together, these data provide a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms of MTX-induced steatogenic hepatotoxicity, and useful information for predicting hepatotoxicity through pattern recognition.
This study examined left ventricular (LV) regional midwall circumferential strain by cardiac tagged magnetic resonance imaging in 32 long-term cocaine users and 14 nonusers. Most of the LV segmentations in the cocaine users had less average circumferential strain in the systolic and diastolic phases. The average diastolic strain in 5 ventricular segmentations was significantly less in the cocaine users (p<0.05). In conclusion, long-term cocaine use may be associated with regional LV dysfunction, especially diastolic dysfunction.
The cardiovascular effects of lithium have been indexed in literature since 1900, most frequently in cases of intoxication. We recently studied the exceptional case of a patient showing a serious sinus node dysfunction during lithium treatment. The serum lithium levels were always within the therapeutic range. After two endocardial explorations and withdrawal of lithium, we found that the sinus node dysfunction was due to lithium and reversible after withdrawal of it. Some ignored dysfunctions could exist with a regularly controlled treatment.
This study investigated the visual defects associated with the antiepileptic drug vigabatrin (VGB). Two hundred four people with epilepsy were grouped on the basis of antiepileptic drug therapy (current, previous, or no exposure to VGB). Groups were matched with respect to age, gender, and seizure frequency. All patients underwent objective assessment of electrophysiological function (wide-field multifocal electroretinography) and conventional visual field testing (static perimetry). Bilateral visual field constriction was observed in 59% of patients currently taking VGB, 43% of patients who previously took VGB, and 24% of patients with no exposure to VGB. Assessment of retinal function revealed abnormal responses in 48% of current VGB users and 22% of prior VGB users, but in none of the patients without previous exposure to VGB. Bilateral visual field abnormalities are common in the treated epilepsy population, irrespective of drug history. Assessment by conventional static perimetry may neither be sufficiently sensitive nor specific to reliably identify retinal toxicity associated with VGB.
Acute myocardial infarction may occur following cocaine use. Cocaine-induced infarction is particularly common in younger patients aged 18 to 45 years old. Patients may or may not have angiographic evidence of coronary artery disease at the time of their acute event. Previous studies have shown that coronary artery spasm occurs with cocaine use, and perhaps platelet activation, both contributing to a process that may culminate in coronary artery occlusion. Primary coronary intervention should be the preferred revascularization modality by an experienced team. Thrombolytic therapy needs to be instituted if this intervention is unavailable. Beta blockers should be utilized with caution since they may increase coronary spasm or cause a paradoxical rise in blood pressure. They should be avoided in the early hours of the infarction, but be instituted prior to patient discharge. Interruption of cocaine abuse is the cornerstone of secondary prevention in cocaine-related myocardial infarction.
Thirty children aged from 3 months to 20 years were treated with propafenone 250 to 650 mg/m2 divided into 2 to 4 daily doses, for a mean period of 14 months (range: 4 days to 5 years); 8 had chronic atrial tachycardia, 9 had junctional arrhythmia and 13 had ventricular arrhythmia. There were 17 good results (suppression of the arrhythmia), 7 fair results (good clinical effect but partial persistence of the arrhythmia) and 6 failures, either because the drug proved ineffective (3 cases) or on account of side-effects (3 cases). In the treatment of chronic atrial tachycardia propafenone seemed to be more effective than amiodarone in 3 cases and as effective as that drug in 2 cases. In junctional arrhythmia propafenone was certainly effective but unpredictably so (3 good results, 2 fair results, 4 failures). Among ventricular arrhythmias, ventricular tachycardia in bursts was the one which benefited most regularly from treatment with propafenone: the results in 8 patients were better than those obtained with other antiarrhythmic agents (class I drugs, beta-blockers, calcium antagonists); only amiodarone proved superior to propafenone in this type of arrhythmia. Despite a 27% incidence of side-effects, propafenone was generally well tolerated by the children, with no significant gastrointestinal disorders. No depressive effect on the myocardium was noted in 6 children with moderate heart failure well controlled by digitalis and diuretics. However, since overdosage may cause severe disorders of conduction with widened ventriculogram, we recommend regular ECG monitoring during the first 3 days of treatment at least: although there is little slowing down of sinus rate (12%) and little modification of the slow phase under treatment, serious toxicity is possible. Thus, propafenone is a drug that should be handled with caution, but it constitutes a major addition to the range of antiarrhythmic agents which can be used in paediatrics.
Recent studies have shown that nicotine, a component of cigarette smoke, can stimulate the proliferation of non-neuronal cells. While nicotine is not carcinogenic by itself, it has been shown to induce cell proliferation and angiogenesis. Here we find that mitogenic effects of nicotine in non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) are analogous to those of growth factors and involve activation of Src, induction of Rb-Raf-1 interaction, and phosphorylation of Rb. Analysis of human NSCLC tumors show enhanced levels of Rb-Raf-1 complexes compared with adjacent normal tissue. The mitogenic effects of nicotine were mediated via the alpha7-nAChR subunit and resulted in enhanced recruitment of E2F1 and Raf-1 on proliferative promoters in NSCLC cell lines and human lung tumors. Nicotine stimulation of NSCLC cells caused dissociation of Rb from these promoters. Proliferative signaling via nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) required the scaffolding protein beta-arrestin; ablation of beta-arrestin or disruption of the Rb-Raf-1 interaction blocked nicotine-induced proliferation of NSCLCs. Additionally, suppression of beta-arrestin also blocked activation of Src, suppressed levels of phosphorylated ERK, and abrogated Rb-Raf-1 binding in response to nicotine. It appears that nicotine induces cell proliferation by beta-arrestin-mediated activation of the Src and Rb-Raf-1 pathways.
Flow-mediated vasodilation (FMV), brachial artery flow (BAF), and brachial artery diameter were evaluated in 30 patients with congestive heart failure before and after cilazapril treatment. While mean pulmonary artery pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased significantly, flow-mediated vasodilation and left ventricular ejection fraction increased significantly following cilazapril administration (P < 0.001). Brachial artery diameter and brachial artery flow did not change following the treatment period (P > 0.05). In conclusion, short-term cilazapril administration improved endothelial function and pulmonary pressure in patients with congestive heart failure.
To describe the clinical pattern of retinal atrophy in children caused by the anticonvulsant vigabatrin.
An interventional case series report.
One hundred thirty-eight patients, mainly infants, were evaluated regularly for evidence of possible vigabatrin toxicity in the Eye and Neurology clinics at the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto.
Sequential clinical and electroretinographic (International Society for Clinical Electrophysiology of Vision standards) evaluations every 6 months.
Presence of recognizable retinal and optic atrophy in the presence of abnormal electroretinogram (ERG) and other clinical findings.
Three children being treated for seizures with vigabatrin showed definite clinical findings of peripheral retinal nerve fiber layer atrophy, with relative sparing of the central or macular portion of the retina and relative nasal optic nerve atrophic changes. Some macular wrinkling was evident in 1 case. Progressive ERG changes showing decreased responses, especially the 30-Hz flicker response, supported the presence of decreased retinal function.
A recognizable and characteristic form of peripheral retinal atrophy and nasal or "inverse" optic disc atrophy can occur in a small number of children being treated with vigabatrin. The changes in superficial light reflexes of the retina in children facilitate the clinical recognition of nerve fiber layer atrophy. The macula is relatively spared, although superficial retinal light reflexes indicating wrinkling of the innermost retina suggest early macular toxicity as well. Because these changes are accompanied by electrophysiologic evidence of retinal dysfunction, discontinuation of vigabatrin should be strongly considered.
On the basis of observation that acyclovir potentiates the in-vitro antiviral activity of 3-azido-2',3'-dideoxythymidine (also known as azidothymidine or zidovudine) against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), we administered a regimen of azidothymidine and acyclovir to eight patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex. An oral regimen of 100 mg of azidothymidine and 800 mg of acyclovir every 4 hours was in general well tolerated, with the principal toxicity being megaloblastic erythroid changes. The pharmacokinetics of the two drugs were independent of each other. Six patients received the drug combination for at least 10 weeks; all had increased numbers of T4+ lymphocytes (P = 0.028), and two of three assessable patients had reversal of anergy. Two patients tested positive for serum HIV p24 antigen at entry, but became negative with treatment. Data for this small group suggest that this drug combination can be tolerated in patients with severe HIV infections; this study can be used as a basis for larger studies of this drug combination.
Coumadin-induced renal and retroperitoneal hemorrhages are rare. Clinical and laboratory findings are not specific for the diagnosis. Computed tomography (CT) has some advantages in the evaluation of these patients. The aim of this study is to report our experience regarding renal and retroperitoneal hemorrhage due to Coumadin, and describe clinical and CT findings, treatment, and prognosis of the patients.
We reviewed our CT archive to search patients with renal and retroperitoneal hemorrhage caused by Coumadin treatment retrospectively. A total of seven patients with Coumadin-induced renal and retroperitoneal hemorrhages were included in this study.
Four patients had abdominal pain, two patients had hematuria, and one patient had abdominal pain and hematuria. There was retroperitoneal hemorrhage in three patients on abdominal CT. One patient had hemorrhage in the renal pelvis and the jejunum, another had hemorrhage in the renal pelvis and the perirenal area, and another had hemorrhage in the perirenal area and the retroperitoneal region. In the last patient with hematuria, there was no hemorrhage. None of the patients had a lesion-causing hemorrhage. Coumadin was stopped, and vitamin K and fresh-frozen plasma were given to patient. One patient with massive retroperitoneal hemorrhage died, whereas other patients were successfully treated using conservative approaches.
Hematuria and abdominal pain are the most common complaints in Coumadin-induced renal and retroperitoneal hemorrhage. CT can be the first imaging modality in these patients due to its ability to directly evaluate all peritoneal and retroperitoneal structures. It also allows evaluation of any underlying lesion that can cause hemorrhage from the renal area and the urinary tract. Conservative treatment is the first choice, and prognosis is good when diagnosed early.
To investigate the risk of myocardial infarction (MI) with diclofenac, ibuprofen and naproxen, taking into account the exposure patterns.
Retrospective cohort study using the General Practice Research Database. Setting. UK primary care. Subjects. Patients aged 40+ years prescribed a traditional nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). The control cohort was frequency matched by disease risk score.
Observational comparisons of MI rates.
The study included 729,294 NSAID users and 443,047 controls. The relative rate (RR) for MI increased with cumulative and daily dose (RR = 1.05 with 0-4 prior prescriptions and RR = 1.49 with 30+; RR = 1.05 with daily dose of < 1200 mg ibuprofen and RR = 1.96 with dose of > or = 2400 mg per day; for diclofenac, the RR was 1.13 with < 150 mg per day and 2.03 with > or = 300 mg per day). Diclofenac users had higher risks of MI (RR = 1.21) than ibuprofen (RR = 1.04) or naproxen (RR = 1.03) users, but exposure varied between these drugs. Taking into account these exposure differences, it was found that the risk of MI was comparable in current and past long-term users. The patterns of hazard rates (i.e. absolute risks) of MI were similar in patients using ibuprofen, diclofenac or naproxen with similar history of NSAID use. There was no statistical difference between ibuprofen, diclofenac and ibuprofen in the linear trends for cumulative dose or daily dose.
Long-term users of traditional NSAIDs have an increased risk of MI that is probably explained by the underlying disease severity. Most of the differences in MI risk between diclofenac, ibuprofen or naproxen may be explained by their varied use.
Rhabdomyolysis-induced myoglobinuric acute renal failure (ARF) accounts for about 10% to 40% of all cases of ARF. Reactive oxygen intermediates have been demonstrated to play an etiologic role in myoglobinuric renal failure. This study was designed to investigate the effect of resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin in glycerol-induced ARF in rats. Seven groups of rats were employed in this study, group I served as control; group II was given 50% glycerol (8 mL/kg, intramuscularly); groups III IV, and V were given glycerol plus resveratrol (2 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg p.o. route, respectively) 60 min prior to the glycerol injection; group VI received L-NAME (10 mg/kg, i.p.) along with glycerol and resveratrol (5 mg/kg), group VII animals received L-NAME (10 mg/kg) 30 min prior to glycerol administration. Renal injury was assessed by measuring plasma creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, and urea clearance. The oxidative stress was measured by renal malondialdehyde levels and reduced glutathione levels, and by enzymatic activity of catalase, glutathione reductase, and superoxide dismutase. Tissue and urine nitrite levels were measured as an index of total nitric oxide levels. Glycero treatment resulted in a marked decrease in tissue and urine nitric oxide levels, renal oxidative stress, and significantly deranged the renal functions along with deterioration of renal morphology. Pre treatment of animals with resveratrol (5 and 10 mg/kg) 60 min prior to glycerol injection markedly attenuated the fall in nitric oxide levels, renal dysfunction, morphologic alterations, reduced elevated thiobarbituric acid reacting substances, and restored the depleted renal antioxidant enzymes. This protection afforded by resveratrol was significantly reversed by cotreatment of L-NAME along with resveratrol, clearly indicating that resveratrol exerts its protective effect through nitric oxide release along with the antioxidative effect in glycerol-induced ARF.
The description of the association between the use of amphotericin-B (amB) and the development of systemic arterial hypertension was only anecdotal so far. We describe the case of a 19-year-old female patient who had acute lymphoblastic leukemia and developed prolonged neutropenia after reinduction chemotherapy. Candida parapsilosis was isolated from blood cultures, and amB was started. Sustained severe arterial hypertension developed shortly after amB administration and continued for several hours after the infusion. Aldosterone, blood urea nitrogen, and creatinine levels were normal. After clinical improvement, amB was replaced by fluconazole, and blood pressure normalized. Severe hypertension may be an adverse event associated with AmB treatment that requires intensive treatment.
To illustrate the possible cellular and molecular mechanisms of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).
APL cell line NB4 was used for in vitro studies. The effect of As2O3 on APL was studied by using flow cytometry, DNA electrophoresis, Narthern blotting and Western blotting.
As2O3 induced NB4 cell apoptosis, while not inhibiting the growth and survival of two other leukemic cell lines (HL-60 and U937). Furthermore, As2O3 effectively down-regulated the expression of bcl-2 gene without changing the mRNA levels of other apoptosis-associated genes (including p53, c-myc, bax and bcl-XL).
These might be one of the molecular mechanisms of As2O3 induced NB4 cell apoptosis.
Clonidine, an alpha 2 adrenergic agonist, has analgesic properties and recently has been used to suppress opiate withdrawal. These two properties theoretically make it a suitable analgesic substitute in patients tolerant to opioids. The objectives of this study were to see if intrathecal clonidine is analgesic and whether it can modify morphine withdrawal at the spinal level. Rats chronically implanted with catheters in the lumbar subarachnoid space were utilized. In analgesia experiments, intrathecal clonidine produced analgesia with the peak effect in the paw-lick test occurring at 200nM, and in the tail-flick test analgesia was apparent at 100 nM and peaked at 400 nM (in 10 microL Ringer's lactate). In dependency experiments, animals dependent on morphine (300 mg X kg-1) received intrathecal clonidine 25, 50, 200 nM in 10 microliter Ringer's lactate 72 h after morphine. Following this, a naloxone challenge, 3 mg X kg-1 was administered and withdrawal assessed. Clonidine-treated animals showed significant weight loss and decrease in temperature, and those treated with high doses showed marked hypothermia and hind-limb flaccidity. Intrathecal clonidine prevented the hyperalgesia associated with opiate withdrawal but did not affect the occurrence of the majority of behavioral signs (e.g., piloerection, irritability) associated with morphine withdrawal. Intrathecal clonidine prevented the naloxone-induced increase in blood pressure during withdrawal and in animals not treated with morphine-produced hypotension. Thus, intrathecal clonidine is analgesic, and part of the antiwithdrawal action of clonidine may be exerted at the spinal level.
Of 52 patients receiving a mean dose of 2.5g sulphasalazine/day as maintenance therapy for ulcerative colitis, 35 were found to have one or more drug-induced red cell abnormalities, which were not found in 50 normal controls or in 10 colitics not receiving sulphasalazine. Twenty-three of the treated patients had contracted red cells, an abnormality that is thought to result in mild haemolysis. Red cell contraction was related to the dose of sulphasalazine (P smaller than 0.01), the serum total sulphapyridine level (P smaller than 0.001), and acetylator status. Eleven of the treated patients had a macrocytosis, 21 had elevated levels of methaemoglobin, and one had Heinz bodies. A dose of 1.5 g sulphasalazine/day was not associated with red cell contraction, and is suggested as a safer maintenance dose for the asymptomatic colitic.
Dapsone produces a potentially reversible toxic neuropathy, with its primary effect on the soma and axons of motor neurons as opposed to myelin. There is very little evidence to suggest involvement of sensory axons in most cases; if present, it would appear minimal. A "dying back" of motor axons is postulated to produce the clinical features of primarily distal weakness and wasting. Recovery appears to occur via axon regeneration and peripheral sprouting. The sporadic occurrence of this neuropathy may be due to slow acetylation of dapsone in some patients.
Curcumin exhibits anti-inflammatory and antitumor activity and is being tested in clinical trials as a chemopreventive agent for colon cancer. Curcumin's chemopreventive activity was tested in a transgenic mouse model of lung cancer that expresses the human Ki-ras(G12C) allele in a doxycycline (DOX) inducible and lung-specific manner. The effects of curcumin were compared with the lung tumor promoter, butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), and the lung cancer chemopreventive agent, sulindac. Treatment of DOX-induced mice with dietary curcumin increased tumor multiplicity (36.3 +/- 0.9 versus 24.3 +/- 0.2) and progression to later stage lesions, results which were similar to animals that were co-treated with DOX/BHT. Microscopic examination showed that the percentage of lung lesions that were adenomas and adenocarcinomas increased to 66% in DOX/BHT, 66% in DOX/curcumin and 49% in DOX/BHT/curcumin-treated groups relative to DOX only treated mice (19%). Immunohistochemical analysis also showed increased evidence of inflammation in DOX/BHT, DOX/curcumin and DOX/BHT/curcumin mice relative to DOX only treated mice. In contrast, co-treatment of DOX/BHT mice with 200 p.p.m. [DOSAGE ERROR CORRECTED] of sulindac inhibited the progression of lung lesions and reduced the inflammation. Lung tissue from DOX/curcumin-treated mice demonstrated a significant increase (33%; P = 0.01) in oxidative damage, as assessed by the levels of carbonyl protein formation, relative to DOX-treated control mice after 1 week on the curcumin diet. These results suggest that curcumin may exhibit organ-specific effects to enhance reactive oxygen species formation in the damaged lung epithelium of smokers and ex-smokers. Ongoing clinical trials thus may need to exclude smokers and ex-smokers in chemopreventive trials of curcumin.
Recent studies have demonstrated that ginseng saponin inhibits the hyperactivity and conditioned place-preference response induced by psychostimulants and opiates. This seems to occur by direct or indirect modulation of dopaminergic activity. However, it is not known which components of ginseng saponin are active. These experiments were conducted to determine the effects of the ginsenosides Rb1 and Rg1, major components of the protopanaxadiol and protopanaxatriol fractions of ginseng saponin, on morphine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned place-preference. Morphine-induced hyperactivity, but not apomorphine-induced climbing behaviour, was inhibited by both Rb1 and Rg1. These findings confirm the hypothesis that ginsenosides modulate catecholaminergic activity preferentially at pre-synaptic sites. Morphine-induced conditioned place-preference was inhibited by Rg1, but not by Rb1. It has previously been shown that at low doses Rb1 and Rg1 are equally effective at inhibition of catecholamine secretion at the pre-synaptic site, but that at high doses Rg1 is a more effective inhibitor. This observation might explain our finding that morphine-induced conditioned place-preference was inhibited by Rg1 only. Our findings suggest that Rg1, a component of ginseng saponin with appropriate activity, might be a useful agent for prevention and treatment of the adverse effects of morphine.
We have previously demonstrated the chronic hypotensive effects of the AT1 antagonist losartan in normotensive, salt-replete rats. We hypothesized that the chronic effects of losartan are mediated in part by blockade of the central sympathoexcitatory actions of angiotensin II. To test this hypothesis, we have used a novel approach to effectively "clamp" the sympathetic nervous system at a fixed level through chronic administration of the ganglionic blocking agent hexamethonium (15 mg/kg/h) and the alpha agonist phenylephrine (2.26 mg/kg/d). Two of 3 groups of rats [CON and CLAMP(NNa)] were placed on (0.1%) NaCl diets, whereas the third [CLAMP(LNa)] was placed on a low (0.002%)-sodium diet. Continuous measurements of mean arterial pressure (MAP) were made via radiotelemetry. After 9 days of hexamethonium plus phenylephrine treatment in CLAMP(NNa) and CLAMP(LNa) rats, baseline MAP was not different in all 3 groups of rats: CON (104+/-4 mm Hg), CLAMP(NNa) (104+/-4 mm Hg), and CLAMP(LNa) (106+/-2 mm Hg). After 5 days of subsequent losartan treatment, a change in MAP of only -7+/-2 mm Hg was observed in CLAMP(NNa) rats compared with -22+/-2 mm Hg in CON and CLAMP(LNa) rats. These results do not support the hypothesis that the hypotensive actions of losartan are entirely dependent on a responsive sympathetic nervous system rats.
Dexamphetamine (DEX) and chlordiazepoxide (CDZP) given together as mixtures have previously been shown to induce a characteristic "compulsive" form of locomotor hyperactivity in rats placed in unfamiliar environments, which was much greater than activity obtained with any dose of either drug given separately; acute pretreatment with lithium counteracted mixture-induced hyperactivity. The role of dopamine in these effects was investigated by measuring concurrently the levels of dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) in the striatum. DEX (0.02-2 mg kg-1) increased horizontal (entries) and vertical (rears) activity, and increased DA and decreased DOPAC and HVA in the striatum. Chlordiazepoxide (CDZP) (12.5 or 20 mg kg-1) increased horizontal activity but did not affect vertical activity or DA or its metabolites. Lithium by itself in acute (2 meq kg-1, 24 and 4 h before test) or extended (2 meq kg-1 daily for 9 days) dosage had little effect on horizontal or vertical activity or levels of DA or DOPAC. Given together, DEX and CDZP (1.18 mg kg-1 + 12.5 mg kg-1), as expected, increased entries much more than did either drug given separately, but rears and levels of DA and metabolites remained similar to those with DEX given alone. Acute lithium pretreatment counteracted the mixture-induced increase in entries. Neither acute nor extended lithium pretreatment significantly altered DEX-induced changes in activity or levels of DA or DOPAC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Addiction and major depression are mental health problems associated with stressful events in life with high relapse and reoccurrence even after treatment. Many laboratories were not able to detect the presence of cannabinoid CB2 receptors (CB2-Rs) in healthy brains, but there has been demonstration of CB2-R expression in rat microglial cells and other brain associated cells during inflammation. Therefore, neuronal expression of CB2-Rs had been ambiguous and controversial and its role in depression and substance abuse is unknown.
In this study we tested the hypothesis that genetic variants of CB2 gene might be associated with depression in a human population and that alteration in CB2 gene expression may be involved in the effects of abused substances including opiates, cocaine and ethanol in rodents. Here we demonstrate that a high incidence of (Q63R) but not (H316Y) polymorphism in the CB2 gene was found in Japanese depressed subjects. CB2-Rs and their gene transcripts are expressed in the brains of naïve mice and are modulated following exposure to stressors and administration of abused drugs. Mice that developed alcohol preference had reduced CB2 gene expression and chronic treatment with JWH015 a putative CB2-R agonist, enhanced alcohol consumption in stressed but not in control mice. The direct intracerebroventricular microinjection of CB2 anti-sense oligonucleotide into the mouse brain reduced mouse aversions in the plus-maze test, indicating the functional presence of CB2-Rs in the brain that modifies behavior. We report for the using electron microscopy the sub cellular localization of CB2-Rs that are mainly on post-synaptic elements in rodent brain.
Our data demonstrate the functional expression of CB2-Rs in brain that may provide novel targets for the effects of cannabinoids in depression and substance abuse disorders beyond neuro-immunocannabinoid activity.
The investigational agent, KRN2391, is a potassium channel opener with a nitrate moiety which possesses potent vasodilatory action. We compared the haemodynamic effect of KRN2391. Induced hypotension with those of nicardipine.
Sixteen dogs were anaesthetized with isoflurane 1.3% in oxygen (1 MAC). After the baseline period. mean arterial pressure (MAP) was decreased to 60 mmHg for 60 min with an infusion nicardipine (n = 8).
The KRN2391- and nicardipine-induced hypotension resulted in maximal decreased systemic vascular resistance of 35% and 25%, increases in cardiac index of 145% and 197%, and stroke volume index of 150% and 212%, respectively, (P < 0.01). There was no change in heart rate. Nicardipine was associated with increases (P < 0.01) in both right atrial and mean pulmonary artery pressures, whereas these variables remained unchanged with KRN2391. Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased with KRN2391 (P < 0.01), but not with nicardipine.
While both drugs were equally able of inducing hypotension, our results show that the haemodynamic profile of KRN2391- and nicardipine-induced hypotension was a hyperdynamic state expressed by the marked increase in cardiac index with varying changes in right and left ventricular filling pressures, and suggest that KRN2391 may be a useful vasodilator for induced hypotension.
Enterostatin (VPDPR), an anorexigenic peptide derived from the amino terminus of procolipase, significantly inhibited analgesia induced by the mu-opioid agonist morphine (5 mg/kg, s.c.) after i.c.v. administration to mice at a dose of 100 nmol. On the other hand, VPDPR (approximately 200 nmol, i.c.v.) did not attenuate analgesia induced by the kappa-opioid agonist D-Phe-D-Phe-D-Nle-D-Arg-NH2 (100 microg/mouse, i.c.v.) or delta-opioid agonist DTLET (4 nmol/mouse, i.c.v.). VPDPR (100 nmol, i.c.v.) significantly improved amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) in mice. However, VPDPR did not enhance memory in normal mice at the same dose.
Groups of guinea pigs were exposed via inhalation to toluene diisocyanate (TDI) ranging from 0.02 to 1.0 ppm for 3 h/day on 5 consecutive days. Three weeks later, guinea pigs were challenged with TDI-GSA conjugates. Evaluations were based on TDI specific antibodies, pulmonary response and antigen stimulated histamine release from lung mast cells (LMC). The results indicated that both the antibody titer and the severity of pulmonary response followed a concentration-dependent pattern, with corresponding threshold levels. Antibodies and pulmonary responses were undetectable in animals exposed to 0.02 ppm TDI; however, exposure to 0.2 ppm TDI resulted in significant antibody production and pulmonary responses. Animals showed higher antibody titers and more severe pulmonary responses as TDI concentration increased from 0.6 ppm to 1.0 ppm. A discrepancy which was noted between antibody production and pulmonary responses was thought to be relevant to the discrimination of the potentials of antigen stimulated histamine release from LMC mediating between these two responses.
A randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled efficacy trial of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) for prevention of the mother-to-infant transmitted HBsAg carrier state was conducted in Taiwan where the carrier rate in the general population is 15 to 20%. HBIG was given immediately after birth to infants of e antigen positive HBsAg carrier mothers, and all infants were followed for at least 15 months. Among 61 placebo recipients, the carrier rate was 92%; compared with 26% among 57 infants who received 0.5 ml HBIG at birth, 3 months, and 6 months, and 54% among 67 infants who received a single 1.0 ml dose of HBIG at birth only. Efficacy was 71 and 42%, respectively, for the two treatment schedules. The most common response of HBIG-treated infants was passive-active immunization which was 27% in the single-dose group and 61% in the three-dose group. Some of the infants who became carriers were probably infected as HBIG protection waned, and we expect that higher efficacy can be achieved by hepatitis B vaccine in conjunction with HBIG.
