The cholinergic system is involved in cognition as well as in age-related cognitive decline and Alzheimer disease (AD). Cholinergic enhancers ameliorate AD symptoms and represent the main current therapy for AD. MTC (Methylthioninium chloride), an antioxidant with metabolism-enhancing properties may be a novel candidate with pro-cognitive capacities.
This study was performed: (1) to assess the pro-cognitive efficacy of MTC and establish its dose-response; (2) to compare the efficacy of MTC with rivastigmine and (3) to determine the potential for combination therapy by co-administration of MTC and rivastigmine.
Spatial cognition of female NMRI mice was tested in a reference memory water maze task. Subjects received intra-peritoneal injections of scopolamine (0.5 mg/kg) followed by vehicle, and/or MTC and/or rivastigmine (0.15-4 mg/kg MTC; 0.1-0.5 mg/kg rivastigmine) in mono or combination treatment.
Scopolamine treatment prevented spatial learning in NMRI female mice and the deficit was reversed by both rivastigmine and MTC in a dose-dependent manner. Mono-therapy with high doses of rivastigmine (>0.5 mg/kg) caused severe side effects but MTC was safe up to 4 mg/kg. Co-administration of sub-effective doses of both drugs acted synergistically in reversing learning deficits and scopolamine-induced memory impairments.
In our model, MTC reversed the spatial learning impairment. When combined with the ChEI rivastigmine, the effect of MTC appeared to be amplified indicating that combination therapy could potentially improve not only symptoms but also contribute beneficially to neuronal metabolism by minimising side effects at lower doses.
Neuroanatomical and pharmacological evidence implicates glutamate transmission in drug-environment conditioning that partly controls drug seeking and relapse. Glutamate receptors could be targets for pharmacological attenuation of the motivational properties of drug-paired cues and for relapse prevention. The purpose of the present study was therefore to investigate the involvement of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes in cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine using a second-order schedule of reinforcement (FR4(FR5:S)) under which a compound stimulus (light and tone) associated with cocaine infusions was presented contingently. Following extinction, the effects of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGP 39551 (0, 2.5, 5, 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.)), two competitive AMPA/kainate antagonists, CNQX (0, 0.75, 1.5, 3 mg/kg i.p.) and NBQX (0, 1.25, 2.5, 5 mg/kg i.p.), the NMDA/glycine site antagonist L-701,324 (0, 0.63, 1.25, 2.5 mg/kg i.p.), and the mGluR5 antagonist MPEP (0, 1.25, 2.5, 5 mg/kg i.p.) on cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking were examined. The AMPA/kainate receptor antagonists CNQX and NBQX, the NMDA/glycine site antagonist L-701,324, and the mGluR5 antagonist MPEP attenuated significantly cue-induced reinstatement. The NMDA antagonist CGP 39551 failed to affect reinstatement. Additional control experiments indicated that attenuation of cue-induced reinstatement by CNQX, NBQX, L-701,324, and MPEP was not accompanied by significant suppression of spontaneous locomotor activity. These results suggest that conditioned influences on cocaine seeking depend on glutamate transmission. Accordingly, drugs with antagonist properties at various glutamate receptor subtypes could be useful in prevention of relapse induced by conditioned stimuli.
We have reported previously that, compared with use of second-generation oral contraceptives, the use of third-generation oral contraceptives is associated with increased resistance to the anticoagulant action of activated protein C (APC). Owing to the cross-sectional design of that study, these observations may have been subject to unknown bias or uncontrolled effects of the menstrual cycle. We aimed to overcome these sources of bias by doing a cycle-controlled randomised cross-over trial.
The response to APC in plasma was assessed in 33 women who received two consecutive cycles of a second-generation oral contraceptive (150 microg levonorgestrel and 30 microg ethinyloestradiol) or a third-generation oral contraceptive (150 microg desogestrel and 30 microg ethinyloestradiol), and who switched preparations after two pill-free cycles. Normalised APC sensitivity ratios were calculated by measurement of the effect of APC on thrombin generation in the plasma of these women and in pooled plasma from 90 controls.
Of the 33 women, five were excluded because not all required plasma samples were available. In the remaining 28 women, the normalised APC sensitivity ratio increased during treatment with both preparations. Compared with levonorgestrel, desogestrel-containing oral-contraceptive treatment caused a highly significant (p<0.0001) additional increase in normalised APC sensitivity ratio (0.51 [95% CI 0.37-0.66]). Normalised APC sensitivity ratios during oral-contraceptive treatment correlated with the values before oral-contraceptive use.
Oral-contraceptive treatment diminishes the efficacy with which APC down-regulates in-vitro thrombin formation. This phenomenon, designated as acquired APC resistance, is more pronounced in women using desogestrel-containing oral contraceptives than in women using levonorgestrel-containing preparations. Whether acquired APC resistance induced by oral contraceptives explains the increased risk of venous thromboembolism in oral-contraceptive users remains to be established.
This cycle-controlled randomized cross-over study examined the effects of a second-generation oral contraceptive (OC) containing levonorgestrel and a third-generation OC containing desogestrel on the anticoagulant action of activated protein C (APC) in the plasma. The response to APC in plasma was assessed in 28 women who received two consecutive cycles of a second-generation OC (150 mcg levonorgestrel and 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol) or a third-generation OC (150 mcg desogestrel and 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol), and who switched preparations after two pill-free cycles. Normalized APC sensitivity ratio was also taken from these women. Results showed that in the 28 women the normalized APC sensitivity ratio increased during treatment with both preparations. Compared with levonorgestrel, desogestrel-containing OC treatment caused a highly significant (p 0.0001) additional increase in normalized APC sensitivity ratio (0.51; 95% CI, 0.37-0.66). In conclusion, OC treatment diminishes the efficacy with which APC down-regulates in-vitro thrombin formation.
High-dose corticoid therapy was assessed in 36 patients with end-stage cancer of various different types. These patients were compared with a control group of patients with terminal cancer on a conventional palliative regimen without corticoid therapy. Euphoria, a decrease in the required dose of analgetic and psychopharmacological drugs and an anti-inflammatory effect in cases with peritumorous oedema were observed in 27 patients.
These studies were designed to determine whether the synthetic steroid mifepristone inhibits ovarian cancer growth in vitro and in vivo and the molecular mechanisms involved.
The effect of mifepristone on ovarian cancer cell growth in vitro was studied in ovarian cancer cell lines of different genetic backgrounds (SK-OV-3, Caov-3, OV2008, and IGROV-1). In addition, the growth inhibition capacity of mifepristone on ovarian carcinoma xenografts was tested in nude mice.
Mifepristone inhibited ovarian cancer cell proliferation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The cytostatic effect of mifepristone was confirmed in a clonogenic survival assay and was not linked to loss of viability. Mifepristone blocked DNA synthesis, arrested the cell cycle at the G(1)-S transition, up-regulated cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitors p21(cip1)and p27(kip1), down-regulated transcription factor E2F1, decreased expression of the E2F1-regulated genes cdk1 (cdc2) and cyclin A, and modestly decreased cdk2 and cyclin E levels. The abrupt arrest in cell growth induced by mifepristone correlated with reduced cdk2 activity, increased association of cdk2 with p21(cip1) and p27(kip1), increased nuclear localization of the cdk inhibitors, and reduced nuclear abundance of cdk2 and cyclin E. In vivo, mifepristone significantly delayed the growth of ovarian carcinoma xenografts in a dose-dependent manner and without apparent toxic effects for the animals.
These preclinical studies show that mifepristone is effective as a single agent in vitro and in vivo, inhibiting the growth of human epithelial ovarian cancer cells. Mifepristone markedly reduces cdk2 activity likely due to increased association of cdk2 with the cdk inhibitors p21(cip1) and p27(kip1) and reduced nuclear cdk2/cyclin E complex availability. Acting as a cytostatic agent, mifepristone promises to be of translational significance in ovarian cancer therapeutics.
In patients with temporal lobe epilepsy some dentate granule cells develop basal dendrites. The extent of excitatory synaptic input to basal dendrites is unclear, nor is it known whether basal dendrites receive inhibitory synapses. We used biocytin to intracellularly label individual granule cells with basal dendrites in epileptic pilocarpine-treated rats. An average basal dendrite had 3.9 branches, was 612 microm long, and accounted for 16% of a cell's total dendritic length. In vivo intracellular labeling and postembedding GABA-immunocytochemistry were used to evaluate synapses with basal dendrites reconstructed from serial electron micrographs. An average of 7% of 1,802 putative synapses were formed by GABA-positive axon terminals, indicating synaptogenesis by interneurons. Ninety-three percent of the identified synapses were GABA-negative. Most GABA-negative synapses were with spines, but at least 10% were with dendritic shafts. Multiplying basal dendrite length/cell and synapse density yielded an estimate of 180 inhibitory and 2,140 excitatory synapses per granule cell basal dendrite. Based on previous estimates of synaptic input to granule cells in control rats, these findings suggest an average basal dendrite receives approximately 14% of the total inhibitory and 19% of excitatory synapses of a cell. These findings reveal that basal dendrites are a novel source of inhibitory input, but they primarily receive excitatory synapses.
Adefovir dipivoxil has been used alone or together with lamivudine to suppress lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV). However, the dynamics of HBV populations under different selection pressures and their impact on treatment outcome are poorly understood. Pyrosequencing was applied to quantify longitudinally the evolution of wild type and lamivudine/adefovir-resistant HBV. Eight patients, with lamivudine-resistant HBV, were randomized to receive adefovir monotherapy or adefovir/lamivudine combination therapy for a median of 79 and 71 weeks, respectively. Pyrosequencing proved highly sensitive with a lower limit of quantitation of minor HBV populations of 2% irrespective of viraemia levels. Adefovir/lamivudine treatment resulted in greater viraemia reduction than adefovir monotherapy. During combination therapy, lamivudine-resistant HBV populations (codons 180 and 204) remained dominant (>90%) and no adefovir-resistance developed. During adefovir monotherapy, reversion to wild-type HBV was detected in two patients with one patient accumulating rapidly adefovir-resistant HBV along with increased viraemia. In conclusion, the dynamics of drug-resistant HBV strains vary under different selection pressures which have a significant impact on the success of rescue therapy, as well as for the selection of new mutations. The use of techniques such as Pyrosequencing provides an evidence-based approach for successful management of drug-resistant HBV.
Dietary intake of mutagenic compounds is considered to be an important factor for the induction of some human cancers. Highly mutagenic compounds are known to be formed in meat during the cooking process. Since the discovery of such compounds, many studies have been conducted to evaluate their carcinogenic potential. One of the most mutagenic compounds formed in the cooking of meat is 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ). The recent development of mouse chromosome painting probes expand the capability of evaluating these food mutagens as potential clastogens in vivo. In this paper, we demonstrate the induction of chromosome aberrations in mice chronically exposed to MeIQ in their diet. CDF1 female mice were fed 400 ppm MeIQ beginning at 7 wk of age. At 76 wk of age, five control and eight exposed mice were euthanized. Blood and bone marrow cells were obtained and arrested in metaphase. Whole chromosome painting probes were used for fluorescence in situ hybridization of metaphase cells from blood and bone marrow. MeIQ-exposed mice were found to have a twofold increase in translocations and a 16-fold increase in fragments in their peripheral blood compared with controls. No aberrations were observed in the bone marrow. All organs were examined for the presence of tumours and routine histopathological analysis was performed on all organs as well as any tissue with macroscopic abnormalities. Forestomach and/or liver tumours developed in all but one of the mice fed MeIQ, but no such tumours were observed in the control mice. These data indicate that MeIQ is clastogenic and carcinogenic in vivo.
The capability of cocaine cues to generate craving in cocaine-dependent humans, even after extended abstinence, is modeled in rats using cue reinstatement of extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. We investigated neural activity associated with incentive motivational effects of cocaine cues using c-fos mRNA and Fos protein expression as markers. Unlike preceding studies, we used response-contingent presentation of discrete cues to elicit cocaine seeking. Rats were first trained to press a lever, resulting in cocaine reinforcement and light and tone cues. Rats then underwent extinction training, during which lever presses decreased. On the test day, rats either received response-contingent cocaine cues or received no cues. The cues reinstated extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior on the test day. In general, cue-elicited c-fos mRNA and protein expression were similar and both were enhanced in the prefrontal cortex, ventral tegmental area (VTA), dorsal striatum, and nucleus accumbens. Cues elicited more widespread Fos protein expression relative to our previous research in which cues were presented noncontingently without prior extinction training, including increases in the VTA, substantia nigra, ventral subiculum, and lateral entorhinal cortex. We also observed a correlation between cocaine-seeking behavior and Fos in the agranular insula (AgI) and basolateral amygdala (BLA). The findings suggest that connections between BLA and AgI play a role in cue-elicited incentive motivation for cocaine and that reinstatement of cocaine seeking by response-contingent cues activates a similar corticolimbic circuit as that observed with other modes of cue presentation; however, activation of midbrain and ventral hippocampal regions may be unique to reinstatement by response-contingent cues.
To compare the efficacy of combined low dose of hypouricemic drugs (Allopurinol 100 mg and benzbromarone 20 mg; Allomaron) and standard dose 300 mg of allopurinol in hyperuricemia.
A prospective, open study of 94 hyperuricemic patients was done at King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital. Each group of 47 patients was given a combined low dose of hypouricemic drugs (Allopurinol 100 mg and benzbromarone 20 mg; Allomaron) and a standard dose 300 mg of allopurinol. Serum uric acid was measured before and 4 weeks after receiving the drugs. The efficacy was measured from the difference of the level of serum uric acid before and after receiving the drugs.
The patients receiving the combined low dose of hypouricemic drugs and standard dose of allopurinol showed a mean reduction of serum uric acid of 2.5+/-3.4 mg/dl and 4.1+/-2.7 mg/dl consecutively. There was a statistically significant difference between the 2 groups (P = 0.010).
This study demonstrates that the efficacy of standard dose 300 mg of allopurinol is superior to a combined low dose of allopurinol and benzbromarone in lowering the level of serum uric acid level.
Capecitabine is a chemotherapeutic prodrug that is metabolised to 5-fluorouracil. Supported by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guidance it is now first-line adjuvant treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer in the UK. Although cardiac chest pain and myocardial ischaemia are well recognised side effects of 5-fluorouracil, their association with capecitabine is not widely appreciated. Two cases are described of coronary spasm secondary to capecitabine in patients referred for emergency invasive treatment of presumed ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The contemporary treatment of acute coronary syndromes involves aggressive antiplatelet therapy, anticoagulation and cardiac catheterisation. This treatment, although beneficial in most patients, is associated with a small but significant risk of bleeding complications. A wider appreciation of the potential for capecitabine to induce spasm mimicking STEMI is important in order to reduce the risk of the administration of thrombolytics and other potentially dangerous drugs and have a higher threshold for referral for emergency angiography.
With the help of electron microscopical cytochemical investigation, adenylate cyclase activity was shown to be strongly reduced in the necrotic tissue 24 h after isoproterenol injection. However, no changes were found in the basal activity of adenylate cyclase in this tissue region by biochemical determination, while the isoproterenol-stimulated activity was markedly reduced under corresponding conditions in the same tissue. It was suggested that these discrepancies between cytochemical and biochemical findings are due to partial solubilization of the adenylate cyclase protein by damaging the membrane structure.
This randomized, double-blind, non-inferiority trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of pharmacokinetically enhanced amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg twice daily versus amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg three times daily, both given orally for 7 or 10 days, in the treatment of adults with community-acquired pneumonia in Spain, a country with a high prevalence of penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Following 2:1 randomization, 566 patients (intent-to-treat population) received either amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg (n = 374) or amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg (n = 192).
Among the patients who did not deviate from the protocol (clinical per-protocol population), clinical success at day 21-28 post-therapy (test of cure; primary efficacy endpoint) was 92.4% (266/288) for amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg and 91.2% (135/148) for amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg (treatment difference, 1.1; 95% confidence interval, -4.4, 6.6). Bacteriological success at test of cure in the bacteriology per-protocol population was 90.8% (79/87) with amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg and 86.0% (43/50) with amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg (treatment difference 4.8; 95% confidence interval, -6.6, 16.2). At test of cure, amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg was clinically and bacteriologically effective against 7/7 penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (MIC > or = 2 mg/L) isolates (including three amoxicillin non-susceptible strains) and amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg against 5/5 isolates (including one amoxicillin non-susceptible strain).
Both treatment regimens were well tolerated. Amoxicillin/clavulanate 2000/125 mg was at least as effective clinically and as safe as amoxicillin/clavulanate 875/125 mg in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia in adults in a country with a high prevalence of penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae and has a more convenient twice daily posology.
A single course of cladribine has been used commonly over the past decade to treat hairy cell leukaemia, with an impressive rate of complete remission and few serious adverse effects. Although vasculitis has been reported in the course of hairy cell leukaemia, it has only rarely been reported as the consequence of cladribine treatment. We describe a 73-year-old woman who developed serious systemic vasculitis with associated thrombocytopenia in the course of treatment with cladribine.
Methotrexate (MTX) is an effective antimetabolite treatment for various oncological disorders including the central nervous system involvement (CNS) in widespread leukemia and CNS lymphoma. This form of treatment has a notable toxic effect on the nervous system, and the pediatric population seems to be more vulnerable to the neurologic toxicity of this drug. Though chronic leukoencephalopathy from an MTX regimen, especially when administered in conjunction with whole brain radiation, is well described, the acute manifestations are rare and not well understood. The diagnosis of acute focal symptoms from MTX treatment is especially difficult in patients who receive chemotherapy for neoplastic disorders and who may have many reasons for CNS involvement in general and parenchymal involvement in particular. We report the unusual clinical and neuro-imaging findings in a teenager with acute focal symptoms after MTX treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
The senescence-accelerated mouse (SAMP8) is an animal model used in studies of aging. This study was undertaken to investigate the effects of dietary PUFA on longevity (Experiment 1) and serum lipid concentrations (Experiment 2) in SAMP8 mice. Male mice were fed either an (n-3) PUFA-rich (9 g/100 g perilla oil) or an (n-6) PUFA-rich (9 g/100 g safflower oil) diet beginning at 6 wk of age. Experiment 1: The groups did not differ in body weight gain, but those fed perilla oil had significantly lower scores of senescence relative to those fed safflower oil (P<0.05). The mean life span of mice fed perilla oil was 357+/-21 d and of those fed safflower oil, 426+/-24 d (P<0.05). Pathological studies revealed that the incidence of tumors was significantly lower in the perilla oil group than in the safflower oil group (P<0.05). Approximately half the mice fed perilla oil had died after 10 mo, and the direct causes closely connected with death could not be specified. Experiment 2: The serum total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglyceride and phospholipid concentrations were significantly lower in the perilla oil group than in the safflower oil group (P<0.01). A marked decrease of serum HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-II (ApoA-II)concentrations in advanced age were observed in the mice fed perilla oil (P<0.01). Ten-month-old mice fed perilla oil had a significantly greater ratio of apolipoprotein A-I (ApoA-I) to ApoA-II than those fed safflower oil. Separation of HDL subfractions revealed that the smaller HDL species were much more abundant than the larger HDL species in both dietary oil groups. These findings suggest that dietary (n-3) and (n-6) PUFA differ in their effects on serum lipid metabolism which may modulate the mean life span of SAMP8 mice fed each dietary oil.
AZT treatment of seropositive pregnant women and their neonates has been widely used due to its effectiveness in reducing vertical transmission of HIV, but medium- and long-term effects of AZT on neurobehavioural development and adult responding are still poorly described.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the long-term effects of prenatal AZT treatment on aggressive behaviour of adult male mice.
Pregnant CD-1 mice were given saline vehicle, 0.4, or 0.8 mg/ml AZT in their drinking water from gestation day 10 to delivery. Social-aggressive types of interaction were assessed in their male offspring following a 4-week isolation period. Two groups of subjects were used, each undergoing a different type of test: test 1 consisted of a single 20-min encounter with an isolated same-strain opponent on postnatal day (PND) 90, while in test 2 (PND 150) subjects were paired for 10 min for 5 consecutive days with a non-isolated opponent.
Slight changes in both aggressive and defensive components of the male-specific agonistic pattern were evident only in test 1, AZT mice displaying a limited increase of aggressive behaviour compared to their controls.
Although the long-term effects of prenatal AZT on social behaviour are limited, they may be of some relevance for paediatricians in order to plan a follow-up of infants, children and adolescents exposed in utero to antiretroviral drugs.
Application of aminolevulinic acid (ALA) for photodynamic therapy induces significant sensitivity to visible light.
To determine whether sunscreens containing inorganic agents are effective against sensitivity to blue light induced by ALA application.
Twenty subjects received application of ALA on the arm. Thirty minutes before blue light exposure, two sun protection factor 50 inorganic-based sunscreens containing iron oxide 3.2% and 0.2% were applied on separate areas where ALA was applied; a third area received no sunscreen. Small areas of skin were exposed to increasing fluences of blue light 3 or 18 hours later, and the minimal phototoxic dose (MPD) was noted.
Three hours after ALA application MPD was 29.2 and 22.6 J/cm(2) for skin protected with sunscreen containing iron oxide 3.2% and 0.2%, respectively, and 10.6 J/cm(2) for unprotected skin (p=.003 and .0497 respectively). At 18 hours after ALA application, MPD for sunscreen containing iron oxide 3.2% was 5.78, compared with 0.33 for unprotected skin (p<.001) with a blue light protection factor of 21.
The sunscreen containing iron oxide 3.2% afforded significant protection against blue light sensitivity induced by ALA application.
The actions of linopirdine (DuP 996; 3,3-bis[4-pyrindinylmethyl]-1-phenylindolin-2-one) were evaluated in rats and mice in several cognitive behavioral tests, and for its effects on hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) overflow in rats. Using mice treated with the muscarinic receptor antagonist, scopolamine, we studied the effects of linopirdine on retention of a passive avoidance task. Linopirdine (0.1 and 1 mg/kg) ameliorated the scopolamine-induced deficit, but at doses ranging from 0.01-1 mg/kg, it did not affect passive avoidance retention in normal (untreated) mice. In a scopolamine-induced hyperactivity test, linopirdine (1 mg/kg) decreased the motoric stimulation associated with the cholinergic hypofunction, without affecting locomotor activity on its own. Using rats, we studied the effects of linopirdine on performance in the Morris water maze spatial memory task. Young rats treated with atropine (30 mg/kg), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, took significantly longer to locate the submerged platform across 12 trials. Linopirdine (0.01 and 0.1, but not 1 mg/kg) ameliorated the atropine deficit. In addition, linopirdine (0.1 mg/kg) ameliorated the deficit in cognition-impaired aged rats (23-24 mo), but did not affect unimpaired aged rats. In terms of neurochemical action, linopirdine (1, 10, and 100 microM) produced a concentration-dependent increase in K(+)-evoked ACh overflow from superfused rat hippocampal slices. Also, linopirdine (10 microM) similarly increased ACh release in young control rats and cognition-impaired and nonimpaired aged rats. Our results confirm and extend findings from other studies that demonstrate the cognition-enhancing action of linopirdine in rodent models.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] is a potent human carcinogen. Occupational exposure has been associated with increased risk of respiratory cancer. Multiple mechanisms have been shown to contribute to Cr(VI) induced carcinogenesis, including DNA damage, genomic instability, and epigenetic modulation, however, the molecular mechanism and downstream genes mediating chromium's carcinogenicity remain to be elucidated.
We established chromate transformed cell lines by chronic exposure of normal human bronchial epithelial BEAS-2B cells to low doses of Cr(VI) followed by anchorage-independent growth. These transformed cell lines not only exhibited consistent morphological changes but also acquired altered and distinct gene expression patterns compared with normal BEAS-2B cells and control cell lines (untreated) that arose spontaneously in soft agar. Interestingly, the gene expression profiles of six Cr(VI) transformed cell lines were remarkably similar to each other yet differed significantly from that of either control cell lines or normal BEAS-2B cells. A total of 409 differentially expressed genes were identified in Cr(VI) transformed cells compared to control cells. Genes related to cell-to-cell junction were upregulated in all Cr(VI) transformed cells, while genes associated with the interaction between cells and their extracellular matrices were down-regulated. Additionally, expression of genes involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis were also changed.
This study is the first to report gene expression profiling of Cr(VI) transformed cells. The gene expression changes across individual chromate exposed clones were remarkably similar to each other but differed significantly from the gene expression found in anchorage-independent clones that arose spontaneously. Our analysis identified many novel gene expression changes that may contribute to chromate induced cell transformation, and collectively this type of information will provide a better understanding of the mechanism underlying chromate carcinogenicity.
Aortic dissection and myocardial infarction are two well-known and well-reported complications of cocaine abuse. This case report describes a patient with cocaine-induced myocardial infarction who was also found to have a type A aortic dissection. Interestingly, this potentially fatal complication was detected by a bedside 2D echocardiogram.
1,3-Butadiene (BD) is an important industrial and environmental chemical classified as a human carcinogen. The mechanism of BD-mediated cancer is of significant interest because of the widespread exposure of humans to BD from cigarette smoke and urban air. BD is metabolically activated to 1,2,3,4-diepoxybutane (DEB), which is a highly genotoxic and mutagenic bis-alkylating agent believed to be the ultimate carcinogenic species of BD. We have previously identified several types of DEB-specific DNA adducts, including bis-N7-guanine cross-links (bis-N7-BD), N(6)-adenine-N7-guanine cross-links (N(6)A-N7G-BD), and 1,N(6)-dA exocyclic adducts. These lesions were detected in tissues of laboratory rodents exposed to BD by inhalation ( Goggin et al. (2009) Cancer Res. 69 , 2479 -2486 ). In the present work, persistence and repair of bifunctional DEB-DNA adducts in tissues of mice and rats exposed to BD by inhalation were investigated. The half-lives of the most abundant cross-links, bis-N7G-BD, in mouse liver, kidney, and lungs were 2.3-2.4 days, 4.6-5.7 days, and 4.9 days, respectively. The in vitro half-lives of bis-N7G-BD were 3.5 days (S,S isomer) and 4.0 days (meso isomer) due to their spontaneous depurination. In contrast, tissue concentrations of the minor DEB adducts, N7G-N1A-BD and 1,N(6)-HMHP-dA, remained essentially unchanged during the course of the experiment, with an estimated t(1/2) of 36-42 days. No differences were observed between DEB-DNA adduct levels in BD-treated wild type mice and the corresponding animals deficient in methyl purine glycosylase or the Xpa gene. Our results indicate that DEB-induced N7G-N1A-BD and 1,N(6)-HMHP-dA adducts persist in vivo, potentially contributing to mutations and cancer observed as a result of BD exposure.
Several lines of evidence support roles for the cell adhesion molecule NrCAM in addictions. Fine mapping within a chromosome 7 region that contains previously linked and associated genomic markers identifies NrCAM haplotypes that are associated with substance abuse vulnerabilities in four samples of abusers and controls. Differential display identifies NrCAM as a drug regulated gene. NrCAM is expressed in neurons linked to reward and memory. NrCAM displays haplotype-specific gene expression in human post-mortem brain samples. Knockout mice display reduced opiate- and stimulant-conditioned place preferences. These observations support NrCAM as a positionally cloned and drug-regulated gene whose variants are likely to change expression and alter substance abuse vulnerabilities in human addictions and animal models of drug reward.
The aim of this study was to compare the diagnostic value and safety of sublingual isosorbid dinitrate (ISDN) with intravenous isoproterenol (ISOP) during head-up tilt table testing (HUTT) in pediatric patients with suspected neurocardiogenic syncope.
One hundred thirty-six consecutive pediatric patients complaining of presyncope or syncope were submitted to HUTT for the first time. Those who did not develop syncope or presyncope during passive HUTT for 20 minutes underwent repeated HUTT with either 1.25 to 2.5 mg sublingual ISDN or intravenous ISOP (1-3 mug/min) for 20 minutes. There were 54 boys and 82 girls, aged 10 to 18 years with an average of 15.5 +/- 2.4 years and a median of 16 years. Among the patients with cardioinhibition or mixed responses, the severity of the bradyarrhythmia was scored 1 to 3 (restoration of effective rhythm within 10 seconds, 10-20 seconds, and >20 seconds while back to supine position, respectively).
During the passive period, 24 (17.6%) of 136 patients had a positive response to HUTT. Syncope was observed in another 44 patients during either ISDN or ISOP period (14/58 [24.1%] and 30/54 [55.5%] with ISDN vs ISOP, respectively, P < .05). The time to symptoms was shorter with both ISDN and ISOP compared with passive period (6.5 +/- 2.9, 6.3 +/- 5.9, and 10.3 +/- 4.4, minutes, respectively, P < .05). The severity score for cardioinhibition response was significantly higher with ISDN compared with the passive period and ISOP (2 +/- 0.8, 1.25 +/- 0.45, and 1.26 +/- 0.45, respectively, P < .01).
Sublingual ISDN is less sensitive and less safe compared to intravenous ISOP in assessing pediatric age patients with suspected neurocardiogenic syncope and with a negative result in tilt test without provocation. The simplicity of ISDN use should be weighed against the risk of longer symptoms with ISDN.
The aim was to investigate the suppressive effect of bicyclol on hepatic fibrosis induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) in mice and the mechanism of its action. Hepatic fibrosis was established by intraperitoneal injection of 8 mg kg(-1) day(-1) on three consecutive days of each week for 4 or 5 weeks. In the prophylactic experiment, bicyclol (100 and 200mg.kg(-1)) was administered by gavage in association with DMN injection. For the therapeutic experiment, mice were firstly injected with DMN for 5 weeks as in the prophylactic experiment, and then the mice in drug groups were orally administered bicyclol (100 and 200mg.kg(-1)) once daily for 5 weeks. As a result, the levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin, hydroxyproline (Hyp), prolidase, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGFbeta(1)), type I collagen in serum and the score of liver fibrosis all significantly increased in the hepatic fibrosis model group in comparison with those in control group. The treatment with bicyclol markedly reduced all the above criteria. Bicyclol also attenuated the decrease of body weight of mice, serum total protein and albumin. In addition, bicyclol treatment inhibited liver TGFbeta(1) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP-1) mRNA expression in the prophylactic experiment. Similarly, bicyclol reduced TIMP-1 levels in liver and serum and increased collagenase activity in the liver in the therapeutic experiment. The result suggest that bicyclol attenuates DMN-induced hepatic fibrosis in mice. Its mechanisms of action may be related to the hepatoprotective and anti-inflammation properties, the down-regulation of liver TGFbeta(1) and TIMP-1 expression and the increase of net collagenase activity in liver.
We have studied the optimal diluent volume for post-operative analgesia and sedation produced by epidurally administered midazolam after upper abdominal surgery. Sixty patients were randomly allocated to four groups of 15 patients. When patients complained of pain after surgery, epidural midazolam 0.05 mg kg-1 in 3 mL saline (Group A), in 5 mL saline (Group B), in 10 mL saline (Group C) or in 15 mL saline (Group D) were injected as a bolus. The sedation was better and lasted longer in groups B and C than in the other two groups. Groups B and C also had significantly more extensive areas of analgesia than groups A and D from 30 min after the administration of midazolam. The interval to the second request for an analgesic was significantly shorter in Group D than in the other three groups. Memory retention of the pin-prick examination was reported by four patients in Group A. The present results indicate that 5-10 mL saline is the optimal volume for epidural injection when using midazolam 0.05 mg kg-1 for post-operative analgesia following upper abdominal surgery.
Eighty patients were recruited into a double-blind, randomized trial to find the optimal dose of droperidol for addition to the patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) morphine infusate for female patients undergoing gynaecological surgery. A standardized anaesthetic technique was employed. Post-operative analgesia was provided by PCA morphine. Patients were allocated at random into one of four treatment groups receiving with each PCA morphine bolus: (1) droperidol 0.05 mg; (2) droperidol 0.10 mg; (3) droperidol 0.15 mg; and (4) droperidol 0.20 mg, respectively. The incidence of post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV), requests for rescue anti-emetic medication, and incidence of side effects were recorded. The number of symptom-free patients in each group increased as the droperidol dose increased, but although there was a significant inverse association between the total dose of droperidol received and the severity of PONV (P < 0.05), there were no significant differences between individual groups. In each group, patients were significantly less sedated at 24 h compared with 12 h (P < 0.01). However, after 24 h, patients in group 4 were significantly more sedated than patients in groups 1 and 2 (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences between the groups in terms of the incidence of anxiety or other side effects attributable to droperidol. The present authors suggest that, although the results demonstrate few statistically significant differences between the four groups, a PCA bolus dose of droperidol of 0.10 mg mL-1 appears to provide the optimal balance between anti-emetic efficacy and an acceptable incidence of side effects.
To assess effect of calcium antagonists amlodipine and verapamil on the risk of development of atrial fibrillation after coronary artery bypass surgery.
Of 74 patients subjected to mammary artery and venous coronary bypass grafting with the use of cardiopulmonary bypass 19 received amlodipine and 21 - verapamil.
Attacks of atrial fibrillation during 24 hour ECG monitoring were registered in 22.9% of patients mostly on days 2 and 3 after surgery. In verapamil treated patients atrial fibrillation occurred 1.5-2 times more often than in amlodipine treated patients or in patients receiving no calcium antagonists. This could possibly be explained by pronounced slowing of atrio-ventricular conduction by verapamil at the background of postoperative general "irritation" of the atrial myocardium.
In Crigler-Najjar type II patients and, recently, in Crigler-Najjar type I patients treated with human hepatocyte cell therapy, phenobarbital has been used for reducing the serum bilirubin load. Its effect is attributed to induction of the enzyme required for hepatic bilirubin elimination, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase, UGT1A1. This study investigated the expression and inducibility of UGT1A1 in human donor livers and their corresponding primary hepatocyte cultures. Immunoblot analysis using a specific antibody directed against the amino terminal of the human UGT1A1 isoform showed that 5 hepatocyte donors exhibited a >50-fold difference in UGT1A1 level. UGT1A1 protein level correlated strongly with both liver microsomal bilirubin UGT activity and liver UGT1A1 mRNA level (r(2) =.82 and.72, respectively). Of the 4 patients with the lowest UGT1A1 levels, 3 were homozygotes for the UGT1A1 promoter variant sequence associated with Gilbert's syndrome, and the fourth was a heterozygote. The 3 donors with the highest levels had a history of phenytoin exposure. Hepatocytes isolated from the phenytoin-exposed donors exhibited marked declines in UGT1A1 mRNA levels during culturing. Induction studies using hepatocytes treated for 48 hours with phenobarbital (2 mmol/L), oltipraz (50 micromol/L), or 3-methylcholanthrene (2.5 micromol/L) revealed UGT1A1-inducing effects of phenobarbital, oltipraz, and, in particular, 3-methylcholanthrene. Our data suggest that both genetic and environmental factors play an important role in the marked interindividual variability in UGT1A1 expression. An understanding of these mechanisms could lead to advances in the pharmacological therapy of life-threatening unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia.
