Twenty-seven patients with advanced multiple myeloma received high-dose therapy with 220 mg/m2 i.v. melphalan (HDM220) followed by autologous stem cell transplantation. At the time of HDM220, nine patients had primary refractory disease and 18 were in relapse after having responded to prior high-dose therapy. No toxic deaths were observed. The major adverse side-effect was grade 4 mucositis in 63% of patients. Two patients experienced reversible paroxysmal atrial fibrillation after HDM220. For the whole group of patients, the actuarial 3-year overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) are 36.1 and 16.9%, respectively. The probability of OS and EFS was significantly lower in patients treated for refractory relapse (22.9 and 0% at 2 years, respectively) as compared to primary refractory patients (66.7 and 64.3% at 2 years, respectively) or patients treated for chemosensitive relapse (42.9% at 2 years) (P = 0.0001). Low beta2-microglobulin and CRP levels at the time of HDM220 were associated with a better OS and EFS. Our data suggest that HDM220 followed by ASCT should be considered in patients with primary refractory disease or chemosensitive disease relapsing after prior intensive therapy.
Arsenic from drinking water has been associated with malignant and nonmalignant respiratory illnesses. The association with nonmalignant respiratory illnesses has not been well established because the assessments of respiratory symptoms may be influenced by recall bias or interviewer bias because participants had visible skin lesions.
We examined the relationship of the serum level of Clara cell protein CC16--a novel biomarker for respiratory illnesses--with well As, total urinary As, and urinary As methylation indices.
We conducted a cross-sectional study in nonsmoking individuals (n = 241) selected from a large cohort with a wide range of As exposure (0.1-761 microg/L) from drinking water in Bangladesh. Total urinary As, urinary As metabolites, and serum CC16 were measured in urine and serum samples collected at baseline of the parent cohort study.
We observed an inverse association between urinary As and serum CC16 among persons with skin lesions (beta = -0.13, p = 0.01). We also observed a positive association between secondary methylation index in urinary As and CC16 levels (beta = 0.12, p = 0.05) in the overall study population; the association was stronger among people without skin lesions (beta = 0.18, p = 0.04), indicating that increased methylation capability may be protective against As-induced respiratory damage. In a subsample of study participants undergoing spirometric measures (n = 31), we observed inverse associations between urinary As and predictive FEV(1) (forced expiratory volume measured in 1 sec) (r = -0.37; FEV(1)/forced vital capacity ratio and primary methylation index (r = -0.42, p = 0.01).
The findings suggest that serum CC16 may be a useful biomarker of epithelial lung damage in individuals with arsenical skin lesions. Also, we observed the deleterious respiratory effects of As exposure at concentrations lower than reported in earlier studies.
Epidemiological studies have correlated arsenic exposure in drinking water with adverse developmental outcomes such as stillbirths, spontaneous abortions, neonatal mortality, low birth weight, delays in the use of musculature, and altered locomotor activity. Killifish (Fundulus heteroclitus) were used as a model to help to determine the mechanisms by which arsenic could impact development. Killifish embryos were exposed to three different sodium arsenite concentrations and were collected at 32 h post-fertilization (hpf), 42 hpf, 168 hpf, or < 24 h post-hatch. A killifish oligo microarray was developed and used to examine gene expression changes between control and 25-ppm arsenic-exposed hatchlings. With artificial neural network analysis of the transcriptomic data, accurate prediction of each group (control vs. arsenic-exposed embryos) was obtained using a small subset of only 332 genes. The genes differentially expressed include those involved in cell cycle, development, ubiquitination, and the musculature. Several of the genes involved in cell cycle regulation and muscle formation, such as fetuin B, cyclin D-binding protein 1, and CapZ, were differentially expressed in the embryos in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Examining muscle structure in the hatchlings showed that arsenic exposure during embryogenesis significantly reduces the average muscle fiber size, which is coupled with a significant 2.1- and 1.6-fold upregulation of skeletal myosin light and heavy chains, respectively. These findings collectively indicate that arsenic exposure during embryogenesis can initiate molecular changes that appear to lead to aberrant muscle formation.
Mancozeb-a fungicide of ethylenebisdithiocarbamate group was orally administered at doses of 500, 1,000 and 1,500 mg/kg body weight/day for 30, 90, 180 and 360 days. Signs of toxicity mortality pattern and loss in body weight were observed in dose dependent manner. However, signs of intoxication and mortality pattern were more pronounced till the exposure of 90 days. A significant increase in testes and decrease in epididymis weight were associated with degeneration in seminiferous and epididymal tubules with loss of sperms. The decrease in gonadal acid phosphatase (ACP), succinic dehydrogenase (SDH) and increase in alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity were observed with increased serum cholesterol. Sialic acid and protein content of testis and epididymis were also decreased in dose dependent manner. The study has thus indicated marked biochemical and pathological changes in gonads of male rats after chronic exposure to mancozeb.
Several studies have found an effect on mortality of between-city contrasts in long-term exposure to air pollution. The effect of within-city contrasts is still poorly understood.
We studied the association between long-term exposure to traffic-related air pollution and mortality in a Dutch cohort.
We used data from an ongoing cohort study on diet and cancer with 120,852 subjects who were followed from 1987 to 1996. Exposure to black smoke (BS), nitrogen dioxide, sulfur dioxide, and particulate matter < or = 2.5 microm (PM(2.5)), as well as various exposure variables related to traffic, were estimated at the home address. We conducted Cox analyses in the full cohort adjusting for age, sex, smoking, and area-level socioeconomic status.
Traffic intensity on the nearest road was independently associated with mortality. Relative risks (95% confidence intervals) for a 10-microg/m(3) increase in BS concentrations (difference between 5th and 95th percentile) were 1.05 (1.00-1.11) for natural cause, 1.04 (0.95-1.13) for cardiovascular, 1.22 (0.99-1.50) for respiratory, 1.03 (0.88-1.20) for lung cancer, and 1.04 (0.97-1.12) for mortality other than cardiovascular, respiratory, or lung cancer. Results were similar for NO(2) and PM(2.5), but no associations were found for SO(2).
Traffic-related air pollution and several traffic exposure variables were associated with mortality in the full cohort. Relative risks were generally small. Associations between natural-cause and respiratory mortality were statistically significant for NO(2) and BS. These results add to the evidence that long-term exposure to ambient air pollution is associated with increased mortality.
Whereas there are some case reports of bupropion-induced vivid dreaming and nightmares, until now it has not been associated with somnambulism. A case is reported of a patient treated with bupropion as a smoking cessation medication, who developed somnambulism during nicotine withdrawal. Furthermore, the sleepwalking episodes were associated with eating behaviour. Amnesia was reported for all episodes. As, on one hand,bupropion is a noradrenergic and dopaminergic drug and nicotine withdrawal, on the other hand, is associated with alterations in monoaminergic functions, an interaction at the level of these neurotransmitters is suggested as the underlying mechanism.
To explore the effect of high-dose ifosfamide in first-line treatment for patients < or = 40 years of age with nonmetastatic osteosarcoma of the extremity.
From March 1997 to September 2000, 182 patients were evaluated. Primary treatment consisted of two blocks of high-dose ifosfamide (15 g/m2), methotrexate (12 g/m2), cisplatin (120 mg/m2), and doxorubicin (75 mg/m2). Postoperatively, patients received two cycles of doxorubicin (90 mg/m2), and three cycles each of high-dose ifosfamide, methotrexate, and cisplatin (120 to 150 mg/m2). Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor support was mandatory after the high-dose ifosfamide/cisplatin/doxorubicin combination.
No disease progression was recorded during primary chemotherapy, 164 patients (92%) underwent limb-salvage surgery, four patients (2%) underwent rotation plasty, and 11 patients (6%) had limbs amputated. Three (1.6%) patients died as a result of treatment-related toxicity, and one died as a result of pulmonary embolism after pathologic fracture. Grade 4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia followed 52% and 31% of all courses, respectively, and mild to severe nephrotoxicity was recorded in 19 patients (10%). The median received dose-intensity compared with protocol was 0.82. With a median follow-up of 55 months, the 5-year probability of event-free survival was 64% (95% CI, 57% to 71%) and overall survival was 77% (95% CI, 67% to 81%), whereas seven patients (4%) experienced local recurrence.
The addition of high-dose ifosfamide to methotrexate, cisplatin, and doxorubicin in the preoperative phase is feasible, but with major renal and hematologic toxicities, and survival rates similar to those obtained with four-drug regimens using standard-dose ifosfamide. Italian Sarcoma Group/Scandinavian Sarcoma Group study I showed that in a multicenter setting, more than 90% of patients with osteosarcoma of the extremity can undergo conservative surgery.
Long-term therapy with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) in parkinsonian patients is known to lead to dyskinesia within a few years, and repeated administration of L-DOPA is also likely to alter the expression of kappa opioid receptors in the basal ganglia, especially the striatum and substantia nigra pars reticulata, suggesting that kappa opioid receptors might be deeply involved in motor functions. Therefore, effects of TRK-820 ((E)-N-[17-(cyclopropylmethyl)-4,5alpha-epoxy-3,14-dihydroxymorphinan-6beta-yl]-3-(furan-3-yl)-N-methylprop-2-enamide monohydrochloride), a selective kappa opioid receptor agonist, were investigated on rotational behavior in unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-treated rats (hemi-parkinsonian rats) and on L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia produced by administering L-DOPA to hemi-parkinsonian rats for 3 weeks (dyskinesia rats). A single administration of subcutaneous TRK-820 significantly increased spontaneous ipsilateral rotational behavior of hemi-parkinsonian rats at 30 microg/kg though the efficacy was moderate and also significantly inhibited L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia at 10 and 30 microg/kg; this inhibition was reversed in the presence of nor-binaltorphimine, a kappa opioid receptor antagonist. In vivo microdialysis study, TRK-820 (30 microg/kg, s.c.) significantly inhibited L-DOPA-derived extracellular dopamine content in the 6-OHDA-treated striatum in dyskinesia rats, but not in hemi-parkinsonian rats. Moreover, the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia was suppressed by the 3-week co-administration of TRK-820 (3 and 10 microg/kg, s.c.) with L-DOPA. These results have suggested that TRK-820 ameliorates L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia with a moderate anti-parkinsonian effect by inhibiting L-DOPA-induced excessive dopamine release through kappa opioid receptors only in dyskinesia rats; therefore, TRK-820 is expected to become a useful agent for the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
To investigate the effects of dexamethasone on expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in rats with acute lung injury induced by phosgene.
The rats were randomly divided into 3 groups: normal control group that consists of the rats with air exposure, phosgene group that consists of the rats with phosgene exposure and dexamethasone group that consists of the rats with phosgene exposure after 2.5 mg/kg dexamethasone being injected. Wet and dry ratio of the lung (W/D) was calculated, and leukocyte count and total protein content of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were recorded at 2 h after exposure. The concentrations of MMP-9 in the serum and BALF were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The pathologic changes of lung tissues were observed under light microscopy. The immunohistochemistry and the RT-PCR were used to detect the contents of MMP-9 in the lung tissue.
Compared with phosgene group, the lung W/D, protein content and WBC count in of BALF dexamethasone group was significantly decreased (P < 0.01). MMP-9 levels of the serum and BALF in dexamethasone group were (4.799 +/- 0.043) microg/L and (15.052 +/- 0.029) microg/L, respectively, which were significantly lower than those [(9.439 +/- 0.100) and (20.640 +/- 0.446) microg/L] in phosgene group (P < 0.01). Compared with phosgene group (2.789 +/- 0.282),the expression level (1.183 +/- 0.260) of lung MMP-9 mRNA in dexamethasone group was significantly lower than that in phosgene group (P < 0.01). Histological experimental results showed the marked hyperemia and thickening of alveolar walls and stroma cells infiltrating and more visible alveolar structure damage of alveolar walls in phosgene group while the alveolar structure and the alveolar walls were clear and slightly thickened with inflammatory cells in dexamethasone group. Immunohistochemical results showed that MMP-9 protein expression levels of lung and bronchus tissues in normal control group and dexamethasone group were weakly positive, which in phosgene group were strongly positive.
Dexamethasone has a beneficial effects on acute lung injury induced by phosgene in rats due to the inhibiting MMP-9.
Amrinone, a positive inotropic-vasodilator agent, was administered to anaesthetised dogs in an attempt to reverse heart failure induced by drugs possessing negative inotropic properties. Propranolol, a beta-adrenergic blocker; verapamil, a calcium slow-channel blocker procainamide, a type 1 antiarrhythmic agent; or sodium pentobarbital, a barbituate; administered as a bolus injection and/or infusion, produced a sustained depression in canine cardiac function. Cardiac depression was characterised by a greater than 40% reduction in cardiac contractile force (CF) and maximum left ventricular pressure development (LV dp/dtmax), a 30 to 50% reduction in cardiac output (CO) and concomitant increases in mean central venous or mean right atrial blood pressures (CVP, RAP, respectively). Amrinone, when administered intravenously as a bolus injection (1 or 3 mg X kg-1) plus an infusion (0.03 or 0.1 mg X kg-1 X min-1) reversed the depression in cardiac function by increasing CF, CO and LV dp/dtmax and decreasing preload CVP or RAP in all four drug-induced failure models. Due to the vasodilator properties of amrinone, afterload, total peripheral resistance (TPR), was reduced in verapamil and procainamide failures as well as in propranolol failure, the only model where TPR increases. In another model of heart failure, in which ouabain-induced arrhythmias preceded procainamide toxicity, amrinone was also an effective cardiotonic agent. Ouabain's inotropic effect was studied in propranolol-induced heart failure. Although an increase in LV dp/dtmax and a decrease in CVP were noted, ouabain (40 micrograms X kg-1 iv) increased TPR and had little effect on the depression in CF and CO. Drug-induced models of heart failure were useful pharmacological tools for evaluating the cardiotonic agent's ability to overcome severe cardiac depression. In propranolol-, verapamil-, procainamide-, and pentobarbital-induced cardiac toxicity, amrinone could be of therapeutic value.
Andrographolide (Andro), a diterpenoid lactone isolated from a traditional herbal medicine Andrographis paniculata, has been shown to suppress the growth and invasion of human colorectal carcinoma (CRC) Lovo cells, and trigger apoptosis in vitro. The potential of Andro as a chemotherapeutic agent in CRC was evaluated by investigating its cytotoxic effects as a single agent or in coadministration with cisplatin (CDDP). Andro potentiated the cytotoxic effect of CDDP in Lovo cells through apoptosis. The molecular mechanism for these favorable cellular response was further investigated by analyzing the apoptotic profiles, protein levels, and mRNA expression patterns of several key genes after treatments of Andro or/and CDDP. Molecular results indicated that the effect of Andro alone might be mediated via both intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways in Lovo cells. The addition of Andro to CDDP induced synergistic apoptosis, which could be corroborated to the changes in protein and mRNA levels of Bax and Bcl-2, and the increased Fas/FasL association in these cells, resulting in increased release of cytochrome c, and activation of caspases. Pretreatment of Nok-1 monoclonal antibody, a Fas signaling inhibitor, or Bax inhibitor peptide V5 repressed the Andro-induced cleavage of procaspase and the sensitization to CDDP-induced apoptosis. Finally, the combination therapy of Andro with CDDP was evidenced by its synergistic inhibition on the growth of Lovo cells in xenograft tumor studies. The results indicate that Andro, in combination with chemotherapeutics, is likely to represent a potential therapeutic strategy for CRC.
Hepcidin has been found to be the key regulator of iron metabolism that leads to hypoferremia during inflammation. Recent work has shown that equine hepcidin is predominantly expressed in the liver of horses. In this study, hepcidin gene expression was determined in the liver and bone marrow of six healthy horses after iv infusion of Escherichia coli O55:B5 LPS. The IL-6 gene expression was also determined in liver and bone marrow samples. Clinical and laboratory evaluations were measured at multiple time points between 0 and 240 h post-LPS infusion (PI). Liver and bone marrow biopsies were taken immediately before (baseline) and at 6 and 18 h PI. In response to endotoxin infusion, all horses showed characteristic clinical signs of endotoxemia. Plasma iron concentration was decreased significantly from the pre-infusion level at 8 h PI. Hypoferremia peak was observed at 12 h and returned to normal levels at 30 h PI. Relative real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that liver hepcidin and IL-6 mRNA expression was up-regulated at 6 h PI. Bone marrow hepcidin relative expression was not influenced by LPS infusion. In another experiment, equine monocyte cultures were stimulated with LPS (1 µg/ml). Monocyte hepcidin and IL-6 gene expression was significantly induced after 2 h of LPS stimulus and returned to baseline levels thereafter. The present study describes that, in horses, LPS infusion up-regulates hepatic hepcidin mRNA expression resulting in early observed hypoferremia and suggests that hepcidin may act as an acute-phase protein in horses.
Inorganic arsenic is a human carcinogen that likely targets the prostate. Chronic arsenic exposure malignantly transforms the RWPE-1 human prostate epithelial line to chronic arsenic exposed-prostate epithelial (CAsE-PE) cells, and a derivative normal prostate stem cell (SC) line, WPE-stem to arsenic-cancer SCs (As-CSCs). The KRAS oncogene is highly overexpressed in CAsE-PE cells and activation precedes transformation, inferring mechanistic significance. As-CSCs also highly overexpress KRAS. Thus, we hypothesize KRAS activation is key in causing and maintaining an arsenic-induced malignant phenotype, and hence, KRAS knockdown (KD) may reverse this malignant phenotype. RNA interference using shRNAmirs to obtain KRAS KD was used in CAsE-PE and As-CSC cells. Cells analyzed 2 weeks post transduction showed KRAS protein decreased to 5% of control after KD, confirming stable KD. KRAS KD decreased phosphorylated ERK, indicating inhibition of RAS/ERK signaling, a proliferation/survival pathway activated with arsenic transformation. Secreted metalloproteinase (MMP) activity was increased by arsenic-induced malignant transformation, but KRAS KD from 4 weeks on decreased secreted MMP-9 activity by 50% in As-CSCs. Colony formation, a characteristic of cancer cells, was decreased in both KRAS KD transformants. KRAS KD also decreased the invasive capacity of both cell types. KRAS KD decreased proliferation in As-CSCs, consistent with loss of rapid tumor growth. Genes predicted to impact cell proliferation (eg, Cyclin D1, p16, and p21) changed accordingly in both KD cell types. Thus, KRAS silencing impacts aspects of arsenic-induced malignant phenotype, inducing loss of many typical cancer characteristics particularly in As-CSCs.
The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of postoperative pain relief using tramadol and ketorolac in continuous intravenous infusion. The 585 patients included in the study underwent major surgery according to a protocol involving the parenteral administration of 100 mg tramadol approximately 40 min before the end of surgery. This was followed by the continuous intravenous infusion of 600 mg tramadol and 180 mg ketorolac diluted with physiological solution to a total volume of 96 ml. Delivery was carried out using an elastomeric pump or a syringe pump and administered over a 48-hour period at a constant rate of 2 ml/h. Any further doses consisted of 100 mg tramadol up to a maximum of 300 mg over a 24-h period. Pain was assessed on a verbal numeric scale (VNS). For each patient the intensity of pain was assessed both at rest and on movement (coughing, deep breathing, movement of lower limbs). At the scheduled times (T0-T72, every 6 h), the following parameters were evaluated: hemodynamic stability; respiratory function; the appearance of any side effects; the level of sedation; and the need for any further doses of analgesic. The analysis of the data obtained showed the good quality of postoperative pain relief achieved: pain intensity at rest was, on average, always below VNS level 3, while during movement it always had an average VNS level of 3-4. The only side effects found with any frequency were nausea (22.6%) and vomiting (8.5%); hemodynamic and respiratory parameters remained stable. The method adopted was of limited cost and was well accepted by both patients and staff. On the basis of the data obtained, it is possible to affirm that the post-operative pain protocol proposed is effective, safe, without significant side effects, and of limited cost. Therefore, it is the first choice protocol for our operating unit after major abdominal surgery.
Arsenic exposure has been linked to an increased incidence of atherosclerosis. Previously, we have shown in vitro and in vivo that arsenic inhibits transcriptional activation of the liver X receptors (LXRs), key regulators of lipid homeostasis. Therefore, we evaluated the role of LXRα in arsenic-induced atherosclerosis using the apoE(-/-) mouse model. Indeed, deletion of LXRα protected apoE(-/-) mice against the proatherogenic effects of arsenic. We have previously shown that arsenic changes the plaque composition in apoE(-/-) mice. Arsenic decreased collagen content in the apoE(-/-) model, and we have observed the same diminution in LXRα(-/-)apoE(-/-) mice. However, the collagen-producing smooth muscle cells (SMCs) were decreased in apoE(-/-), but increased in LXRα(-/-)apoE(-/-). Although transcriptional activation of collagen remained the same in SMC from both genotypes, arsenic-exposed LXRα(-/-)apoE(-/-) plaques had increased matrix metalloproteinase activity compared with both control LXRα(-/-)apoE(-/-) and apoE(-/-), which could be responsible for both the decrease in plaque collagen and the SMC invasion. In addition, arsenic increased plaque lipid accumulation in both genotypes. However, macrophages, the cells known to retain lipid within the plaque, were unchanged in arsenic-exposed apoE(-/-) mice, but decreased in LXRα(-/-)apoE(-/-). We confirmed in vitro that these cells retained more lipid following arsenic exposure and are more sensitive to apoptosis than apoE(-/-). Mice lacking LXRα are resistant to arsenic-enhanced atherosclerosis, but arsenic-exposed LXRα(-/-)apoE(-/-) mice still present a different plaque composition pattern than the arsenic-exposed apoE(-/-) mice.
To observe the expression levels of heat shock protein 70 (hsp70) and NF-kappaB p65 mRNA in lung tissue of acute paraquat (PQ) poisoning rats, and intervention effects of ulinastatin (UTI).
Seventy-two Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into three groups: PQ poisoning group, UTI group and control group. The rats were exposed intragastrically to PQ at the dose of 80 mg/kg to establish a model of the rat acute lung injury. The UTI group was intervened by peritoneal injection with 10000 U/kg UTI in 30 minutes. On the 12, 24, 48, 72 h after exposure, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in lung tissue were detected. The expression of the NF-kappaB p65 mRNA and hsp70 mRNA in lung tissue was detected by the reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). The lung pathological changes of rats were observed.
The degree of lung injury in PQ group and UTI group was higher than that in control group. But in UTI group the degree of lung injury was lower than PQ group. MPO activity in the lung tissues in PQ group was (31.72 +/- 6.42), (56.23 +/- 8.63), (87.21 +/- 10.02) and (107.21 +/- 13.52) micro/g in 12, 24, 48 and 72 h, respectively which was significantly higher than that [(11.38 +/- 1.25) micro/g] in control group (P < 0.01). MPO activity in the lung tissues in UTI group was (15.65 +/- 3.21), (35.98 +/- 5.74), (59.33 +/- 9.65) and (71.25 +/- 10.58) micro/g in 12, 24, 48 and 72 h, respectively which was significantly lower than those in PQ group (P < 0.01). The expression levels of NF-kappaB p65 mRNA of lung tissues in UTI group in 12, 24, 48 and 72 h were 0.3288 +/- 0.0147, 0.5337 +/- 0.0328, 0.7357 +/- 0.0424 and 0.7547 +/- 0.0905, respectively, which were significantly lower that those (0.4185 +/- 0.0294, 0.8532 +/- 0.0841, 0.9554 +/- 0.0975 and 1.0094 +/- 0.0703) in PQ group (P < 0.01). hsp70 mRNA expression levels in 12, 24, 48 and 72 h of the UTI group were 0.5193 +/- 0.0254, 0.8289 +/- 0.0606, 0.7566 +/- 0.0277 and 0.4873 +/- 0.0105, respectively, which were significantly higher than those (0.3897 +/- 0.0125, 0.5904 +/- 0.0186, 0.4007 +/- 0.0237 and 0.2293 +/- 0.0137) in PQ group (P < 0.01).
The expression levels of hsp70 mRNA and NF-kappaB p65 mRNA of rats after intoxication increased significantly. UTI can protect the lung tissues by elevating the expression of hsp70 and reducing the expression of NF-kappaB in the lung tissues of rats with acute paraquat poisoning.
A myasthenic reaction developed after an average latency of seven to eight months in 12 female patients (average age 51 years) treated with penicillamine for chronic rheumatoid arthritis. In most of them only the purely ocular form was noted, but generalisation of various degrees also occurred. When penicillamine had been discontinued the myasthenic signs were almost always fully reversible, recurring once again when treatment with penicillamine was started. In some instances a transitory symptomatic treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors was necessary. The occurrence of the myasthenic signs in these circumstances is probably similar to the anti-basal membrane nephropathy induced by penicillamine.
Studies were performed in conscious rats to evaluate the role of renal prostaglandin biosynthesis in demeclocycline-induced polyuria. Three groups of animals were evaluated. Group 1 animals received only the diluents used for both demeclocycline and indomethacin. Group 2 received demeclocycline (20 mg/kg/day) and the indomethacin diluent. Group 3 received both demeclocycline and indomethacin (10 mg/kg/day). After eight days of demeclocycline administration, urine flow rate increased in the group 2 animals from 15.1 +/- 2.1 to 31.1 +/- 5.1 ml/day. Indomethacin failed to alter the magnitude of demeclocycline-induced polyuria despite a 60% reduction in urine prostaglandin E excretion rats. These studies demonstrate that the concentrating defect induced by demeclocycline can occur independent of alterations in praostaglandin biosynthesis and suggest that a change in renal prostaglandin biosynthesis is not an etiologic factor in demeclocycline-induced polyuria.
Seven patients with prurigo nodularis and one with aphthous stomatitis were given 40-115 g of thalidomide for 1 to 6 years. They all developed a predominantly sensory peripheral neuropathy mainly involving the lower limbs. Five patients had an unpleasant tight feeling around the feet. Nerve conduction studies showed small sensory action potentials from the lower limbs with normal or only mild slowing of sensory conduction velocity indicating an axonal neuropathy. The dermatological disorder improved dramatically in all, but treatment had to be discontinued because of the severe side-effects. Thalidomide, if used, should be given only over a short period because of its neurotoxic effect.
The interaction of capsaicin with microsomal drug-metabolizing systems was assessed to determine the role that bioactivation of capsaicin may play in the induction of hepatotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Capsaicin produced a type I spectral change in rat hepatic microsomes in a high affinity (Ks = 8 microM) concentration-dependent manner and was approximately equipotent with SKF-525A in inhibiting ethylmorphine demethylation. Capsaicin (10 mg/kg, s.c.) inhibited biotransformation in vivo as measured by prolongation of pentobarbital sleep time. Reactive metabolites of capsaicin were studied using [3H]dihydrocapsaicin. [3H]Dihydrocapsaicin bound irreversibly to hepatic microsomal protein after in vitro incubation or in vivo administration. No binding was observed in spinal cord or brain. Although the bioactivation and subsequent covalent binding of capsaicin equivalents may initiate events associated with the hepatotoxicity of capsaicin, it appears that capsaicin-induced neuropathy does not involve covalent interactions with neuroproteins in spinal cord or brain.
On the basis of two case reports it is suggested that serious convulsions may occur in patients treated with flucoazole when serum trough concentrations exceed 80 microg/mL. The authors recommend monitoring fluconazole concentrations during high-dose therapy in patients with poor kidney function.
Sotos syndrome is an overgrowth syndrome with characteristic facial gestalt and mental retardation of variable severity. Haploinsufficiency of the NSD1 gene has been implicated as the major cause of Sotos syndrome, with a predominance of microdeletions reported in Japanese patients. This study was conducted to investigate into the spectrum of NSD1 gene mutations in southern Chinese patients with Sotos syndrome.
Thirty-six Chinese patients with Sotos syndrome and two patients with Weaver syndrome were subject to molecular testing.
NSD1 gene mutations were detected in 26 (72%) Sotos patients. Microdeletion was found in only 3 patients, while the other 23 had point mutations (6 frameshift, 8 nonsense, 2 spice site, and 7 missense). Of these, 19 mutations were never reported. NSD1 gene mutations were not found in the two patients with Weaver syndrome.
Most cases of Sotos syndrome are caused by NSD1 gene defects, but the spectrum of mutations is different from that of Japanese patients. Genotype-phenotype correlation showed that patients with microdeletions might be more prone to congenital heart disease but less likely to have somatic overgrowth. The two patients with Weaver syndrome were not found to have NSD1 gene mutations, but the number was too small for any conclusion to be drawn.
1. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) plays important roles in the development of cardiac hypertrophy via activation of 5-HT receptors. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of 5-HT(2B) receptors in the development of cardiomyocyte apoptosis and hypertrophy associated with noradrenaline (NA) overload. 2. Cardiac hypertrophy was induced in rats by intraperitoneal injection of 1.5 mg/kg NA for 4 weeks. Starting from Day 15, 5-HT2B receptor antagonist SB 204741 (i.p., 0.5 or 2 mg/kg) or SDZ SER 082 (i.p., 1 mg/kg) was injected twice daily for another 14 days. Whole-cell patch-clamp techniques were used to record ionic currents in freshly isolated ventricular cardiomyocytes. Western blot and terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-digoxigenin nick end-labelling (TUNEL) assays were used to assess myocardial apoptosis. 3. Expression of 5-HT(2B) receptors was enhanced in the hypertrophic left ventricle induced by NE overload in vivo. The 5-HT(2B) receptor antagonist SB 204741 partially reversed cardiac hypertrophy induced by NE overload (P < 0.05) and decreased L-type calcium currents in ventricular cardiomyocytes (P < 0.05). In addition, SB 204741 notably attenuated myocardial apoptosis, as evidenced by downregulation of Bax and caspase 3 (P < 0.05) and upregulation of the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein (P < 0.05). 4. In conclusion, the data suggest an involvement of 5-HT(2B) receptors in the generation of apoptotic events associated with cardiac remodelling during increased adrenergic stimulation.
Aspirin administration decreases the risk of vascular ischemic problems. However, aspirin withdrawal may temporarily increase this risk. Previous studies reported that high dilutions of aspirin might cause a pro-thrombotic effect. This paper studies the effect of the lower end of the aspirin dose-response curve, its possible mechanism and clinical implications.
Wistar rats were distributed into 100 groups of 10 rats each. Aspirin was injected at 100 mg/kg, 1 mg/kg and at several different aspirin dilutions along with cyclooxygenase (COX) 1 (SC-560), COX 2 (NS-398) or both selective inhibitors simultaneously using a laser-induced thrombosis model.
The higher doses of aspirin decreased thrombosis. An opposite trend was observed with the lowest doses. SC-560 produced an anti-thrombotic effect antagonized by the highest aspirin dilutions. NS-398 created a pro-thrombotic effect that was antagonized by aspirin at higher doses. Simultaneous inhibition of COX 1 and 2 produced changes similar to COX 1 inhibition.
COX 2 inhibition induced a pro-thrombotic effect that was antagonized by aspirin at 1 mg/kg or 100 mg/kg. The administration of the lowest aspirin doses induced a pro-thrombotic effect stronger than the antithrombotic effect of COX 1 selective inhibition. The mechanism of this last pro-thrombotic effect is induced by residual aspirin and is independent of COX 1 inhibition. This study may explain the cause of the paradoxical thrombo-embolic complications observed after aspirin discontinuation, an effect of residual aspirin rather than a rebound effect, and highlights the importance of low doses of substances as a barely studied source of side-effects.
