A girl with intractable epilepsy who received high dose valproic acid showed bone marrow suppression, which improved after the end of valproic acid treatment and the administration of supportive treatments. Valproic acid markedly suppressed the in vitro colony growth in this patient. It is believed that high dose valproic acid treatment directly suppressed the growth of haematopoietic progenitors, resulting in bone marrow failure.
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia is caused by insufficient adrenal steroid biosynthesis due to impaired steroidogenic enzymes. The majority of patients suffer from deficiency of 21-hydroxylase (CYP21) coded by the CYP21A2 gene.
Our objective was to study the functional and structural consequences of the novel CYP21A2 missense mutation c.364A > C (K121Q) detected in a female patient with nonclassical 21-hydroxylase deficiency. The patient was compound heterozygous for the novel K121Q mutation and the mild P453S mutation.
In vitro expression analysis of the mutant K121Q enzyme in transiently transfected COS-7 cells revealed reduced CYP21 activity of 14.0 +/- 5% for the conversion of 17-hydroxyprogesterone and 19.5 +/- 4% for the conversion of progesterone. K121 is located on helix C in the CYP21 protein, which is part of the heme coordinating system. In addition, helix C is involved in the interaction with the electron-providing enzyme P450 oxidoreductase. Protein modeling revealed that the substitution of glutamine for the basic amino acid lysine introduces an electrostatic change on the surface of CYP21 and may additionally change heme coordination. We hypothesize that the electron flux between P450 oxidoreductase and CYP21 is impaired and, moreover, that substrate affinity is altered due to heme dislocation with K121Q.
Both the interaction of P450 oxidoreductase and CYP21 as well as heme coordination are likely to be disturbed due to the K121Q mutation. Our data exemplify how the combination of in vitro expression and structural protein analysis provide novel insights into molecular mechanisms of reduced CYP21 activity, eventually explaining the patient's phenotype.
Cisplatin is a potent tubular toxin with a high incidence of nephrotoxicity. Carboplatin is considered less nephrotoxic but can still cause tubular injury and interstitial nephritis in patients who have been previously treated with cisplatin. The affected individuals usually have nonoliguric renal failure with a urine output of more than a liter per day. We present a 57-year-old white woman with no history of renal disease who underwent a total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy for stage IC ovarian carcinoma. One month later, she received chemotherapy with paclitaxel (Taxol) and carboplatin. On the following day, she developed frank hematuria and flank pain associated with a diminished urine output. Intravenous pyelogram (IVP) showed bilateral hydronephrosis with a total blockage of dye flow at the level of intraureteral lucencies consistent with bilateral blood clots. Her coagulation profile and uric acid was normal. Her acute renal failure (ARF) spontaneously resolved in the following 24 hours, with a brisk diuresis presumably due to clot lysis. The follow-up IVP showed a resolution of obstructive changes. A review of the literature shows a previous case in which high doses of carboplatin were implicated as the cause of hemorrhagic cystitis, presumably by toxicity to transitional epithelium of the bladder. We believe that the current case represents carboplatin-induced damage to the transitional epithelium in the renal pelvi and ureters causing gross hematuria and blood clots, resulting in bilateral ureteral obstruction and hydronephrosis.
A pooled analysis of randomized clinical trials data was performed to compare the rate of thrombotic cardiovascular events (thrombotic events) in patients taking the COX-2 selective inhibitor (coxib) etoricoxib, a traditional NSAID, or placebo.
Data collected during all phase IIb/III etoricoxib clinical trials > or = 4 weeks in duration were evaluated. The pooled data set includes clinical information from approximately 6500 patient-years (PYs) of drug exposure in patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), osteoarthritis (OA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), or chronic low back pain (CLBP). Patients were treated with either etoricoxib (> or = 60 mg/day), the traditional NSAIDs naproxen (1000 mg/day), ibuprofen (2400 mg/day), diclofenac (150 mg/day), or placebo. The Relative risks (RRs) based on time to first occurrence of a thrombotic event in the etoricoxib group versus the comparator traditional NSAIDs or versus placebo were determined using patient-level data.
In the pooled dataset, a total of 74 thrombotic events occurred in 69 patients. The RRs for thrombotic events were 1.11 (95%CI: 0.32, 3.81) for etoricoxib (N = 2818) versus placebo (N = 1767); 0.83 (95%CI: 0.26, 2.64) for etoricoxib (N = 1266) versus the combined non-naproxen traditional NSAID group (ibuprofen and diclofenac; N = 718); and 1.70 (95%CI: 0.91, 3.18) for etoricoxib (N = 1960) versus naproxen (N = 1497).
There was no discernible difference in the incidence of thrombotic events in patients treated with etoricoxib versus non-naproxen traditional NSAIDs in this limited dataset. A trend toward more events with etoricoxib versus naproxen was observed. Despite the limited dataset available for this pooled analysis, these results are consistent with findings for other coxibs.
Idiopathic subjective tinnitus (IST) is one of the most obscure otological pathologies. This paper presents the results of treating IST by intratympanic instillation of lignocaine (lidocaine) 2 per cent through a grommet, for five weekly courses. Fifty-two patients suffering from intractable tinnitus entered this therapeutic trial, but only nine finished all five courses. In one patient, the tinnitus was almost completely abolished, but in all the nine patients the decompensated tinnitus changed to a compensated one. We suggest this mode of treatment for patients that were previously treated by drugs, acupuncture and biofeedback, with disappointing results. Patients should be warned about the side effects of vertigo and vomiting, which subsides gradually with every new instillation, and that the tinnitus may not disappear but will be alleviated, enabling them to cope more easily with the disease and lead a more normal life.
Microsurgeons may choose to avoid caffeine to prevent potentially deleterious caffeine tremor, although an adverse effect on surgical skill has never been shown. This double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study investigated the effect of moderate caffeine intake on microsurgical ability among microsurgical training course attendees. Subjects were randomized to receive either morning placebo and afternoon caffeine, or the reverse, thereby acting as their own controls. Performance in end-to-end vessel anastomosis was graded by a single observer during both sessions using a global rating scale. Subjects consuming caffeine in the morning demonstrated significantly improved scores from morning to afternoon, whereas subjects consuming caffeine in the afternoon showed no such improvement. These results are consistent with an adverse effect of caffeine on microsurgical skill combined with a learning curve among the study population of novice microsurgeons, and support the view that caffeine has a detrimental effect on microsurgical ability among this study group.
Azithromycin (Zithromax), an erythromycin derivative that belongs to a subgroup of the macrolides known as azolides, has generally been considered to be a very safe medication. Hepatic side effects are uncommon but may include jaundice, fever, and right upper quadrant pain. Herein we describe a patient who developed azithromycin-induced cholestatic hepatitis that resolved upon discontinuation of the drug. Lack of other known causes for liver disease, the temporal relationship with this drug, and the typical changes of liver histology have established the diagnosis. Clinicians should be aware of this side effect of azithromycin, which is widely prescribed.
Arterial hypertension that occurs after severe head injury is characterized by elevation of systolic blood pressure, tachycardia, increased cardiac output, normal or decreased peripheral vascular resistance, and increased circulating catecholamines. The effects of two drugs used in the management of hypertension, propranolol and hydralazine, on these indices of cardiovascular function were examined in six head-injured patients. Both drugs effectively normalized blood pressure. However, hydralazine increased heart rate by 30%, cardiac index by 49%, left cardiac work by 21%, and pulmonary venous admixture by 53%, and was responsible for an increase in intracranial pressure or decreased compliance in two patients. Hydralazine produced no consistent change in arterial catecholamines. In contrast, propranolol decreased heart rate by 21%, cardiac index by 26%, left cardiac work by 35%, pulmonary venous admixture by 15%, and oxygen consumption by 18%. Propranolol decreased arterial epinephrine levels by 48% and norepinephrine levels by 28%. Propranolol appears to be a useful antihypertensive drug in the hyperdynamic head-injured patient because it normalizes blood pressure and the underlying hemodynamic abnormalities both by its beta-adrenergic blocking action and by decreasing circulating levels of catecholamines.
Minocycline is an oral antibiotic widely used for the long-term treatment of acne and rheumatoid arthritis. A few patients develop antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCAs) during minocycline therapy. In this report, the authors describe a case of severe pauci-immune crescentic and necrotizing glomerulonephritis associated with positive cytoplasmic ANCA (C-ANCA) titers and proteinase 3 (PR3) levels after minocycline therapy. Discontinuation of minocycline and initiation of immunosuppressive treatment resulted in improvement of renal function and decline in C-ANCA titers and PR3 levels. A high degree of suspicion, testing for ANCA titers, prompt discontinuation of the drug, and initiation of immunosuppressive treatment are crucial to the diagnosis and treatment of drug-induced ANCA-associated glomerulonephritis.
Cardiac toxicity caused by doxorubicin (adriamycin) is a serious dose-limiting factor in the clinical situation. However, the influence of doxorubicin dosing time has not been clarified from the viewpoints of cardiotoxic development and its mechanism. In this study, we have investigated the dosing time dependency of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity and bone marrow toxicity after repeated administration of doxorubicin in rats. When doxorubicin (5 mg kg(-1), i.p.) was administered every seven days (total of 30 mg kg(-1)) at 3, 9, 15 or 21 h after the light was turned on (HALO), toxic death was significantly higher in the 9 HALO treated group than the other groups. When doxorubicin was injected every seven days for 28 days at 9 or 21 HALO, we measured the levels of creatine kinase, malondialdehyde (MDA; an index of lipid peroxide), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) as markers of cardiotoxicity. On days 14 and 28, creatine kinase levels were significantly higher in the 9-HALO group compared with the 21-HALO group (P< 0.01, respectively). On day 14, MDA levels increased significantly in the 9 HALO group compared with the 21 HALO group (P< 0.01). A single dose of doxorubicin was administered at 9-h or 21-h after the light was turned on to investigate the dosing-time-dependent difference of the pharmacokinetics. The area under the plasma time-concentration curve showed a significant increase at 9 HALO compared with 21 HALO (P< 0.05). These results suggested that the dosing-time-dependent difference of cardiotoxicity induced by doxorubicin was closely related to the daily variation of doxorubicin pharmacokinetics. In conclusion, the choice of optimal dosing time based on the chronopharmacokinetics of doxorubicin may decrease the cardiotoxicity and enable the practice of effective and safe chemotherapy of doxorubicin.
Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a nuclear receptor that regulates genes involved in synthesis, metabolism, and transport of bile acids and thus plays a major role in maintaining bile acid homeostasis. In this study, metabolomic responses were investigated in urine of wild-type and Fxr-null mice fed cholic acid, an FXR ligand, using ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC) coupled with electrospray time-of-flight mass spectrometry (TOFMS). Multivariate data analysis between wild-type and Fxr-null mice on a cholic acid diet revealed that the most increased ions were metabolites of p-cresol (4-methylphenol), corticosterone, and cholic acid in Fxr-null mice. The structural identities of the above metabolites were confirmed by chemical synthesis and by comparing retention time (RT) and/or tandem mass fragmentation patterns of the urinary metabolites with the authentic standards. Tauro-3alpha,6,7alpha,12alpha-tetrol (3alpha,6,7alpha,12alpha-tetrahydroxy-5beta-cholestan-26-oyltaurine), one of the most increased metabolites in Fxr-null mice on a CA diet, is a marker for efficient hydroxylation of toxic bile acids possibly through induction of Cyp3a11. A cholestatic model induced by lithocholic acid revealed that enhanced expression of Cyp3a11 is the major defense mechanism to detoxify cholestatic bile acids in Fxr-null mice. These results will be useful for identification of biomarkers for cholestasis and for determination of adaptive molecular mechanisms in cholestasis.
Hepatocyte dysfunction caused by impaired mitochondrial function has been pointed out as a probable leading cause of cholestatic liver injury. The aim of this study was to evaluate liver mitochondrial bioenergetics that followed repeated in vivo administration of alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate, a known cholestatic agent.
Serum markers of liver injury and endogenous adenine nucleotides were measured in alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate-treated rats (intraperitoneally, 100 mg/Kg/wk x 6 wk). Changes in membrane potential, mitochondrial respiration, as well as alterations in mitochondrial calcium homeostasis were monitored.
In rats injected with alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate, liver injury with cholestasis developed within 48 hours, as indicated by both serum enzyme activities and total bilirubin concentration. However, 1 week after the last injection, serum enzyme activity returned to control levels. In addition, after chronic alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate administration, no alterations in mitochondrial respiratory function and membrane potential were observed. Associated with these parameters, mitochondria from treated animals exhibited increased susceptibility to disruption of mitochondrial calcium homeostasis by calcium phosphate and by bile acids, which was probably caused by induction of permeability transition pore.
Our data suggest that chronic cholestasis in rats leads to impaired mitochondrial function due to the disruption of mitochondrial calcium homeostasis. The initiating event is the induction of a cyclosporine A-sensitive release of calcium. This event may be an important determinant of the progression of cholestatic liver injury and associated liver cirrhosis. In addition, in the present study we observed that impairment of mitochondrial function is potentiated by chenodeoxycholate, a bile acid that is known to be toxic. Ursodeoxycholate (the beta- epimer of chenodeoxycholate) is approved for the treatment of chronic cholestatic liver disease. Interestingly, we show that the susceptibility to the cyclosporine A-sensitive release of calcium was increased by the combination of both bile acids. These results indicate that the reported improvement of biochemical parameters in cholestatic patients treated with ursodeoxycholate would not prevent the associated mitochondrial dysfunction. This may explain the progression of the histological stage and the maintenance of symptoms during cholestasis.
The female reproductive tract (FRT), which includes the oviduct, uterus, cervix and vagina, is critical for mammalian reproduction. Recent research using knockout mice has contributed substantially to our understanding of the molecular mechanisms governing FRT development. Aside from satisfying our curiosities about the origin of life, these studies have provided us with a better understanding of FRT disorders and ways to improve female fertility. Here we review genes that are involved in various stages of sexual duct formation and development in mammals. In addition, the effect of exogenous estrogen such as DES on FRT development is also discussed.
Gram-positive bacteremia (GPB) is an increasing infection after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Our purpose was to identify risk factors for GPB, to evaluate its impact on early mortality and morbidity, and to compare prophylactic with empirical intravenous vancomycin.
We studied 89 consecutive BMTs in adult patients. Early GPB occurred in 29% of posttransplantation episodes. T-cell depletion (odds ratio [OR]: 0.18) and vancomycin-prophylaxis (OR: 0.28) reduced the risk of GPB. Mortality at 6 weeks was not significantly different in patients with GPB (15% vs. 9.5%, P = 0.669). GPB was associated with the development of major complications, the use of amphotericin B, and prolonged neutropenia. Vancomycin prophylaxis led to an increased risk of early renal dysfunction (OR: 18.7).
GPB contributes to overall morbidity during the early post-BMT episode but has no impact on mortality. Vancomycin prophylaxis is effective to reduce GPB but has a negative effect on renal function.
In this journal in 1959 R. Hoigné described the first cases of pseudo-anaphylactic reactions induced by intramuscular administration of procaine penicillin G. This complication, characterized by acute psychological and neurological manifestations, is still of current interest since recently three cases of Hoigné's syndrome were diagnosed at the University Hospital of Geneva. This entity deserves consideration because it must be differentiated from authentic anaphylactic shock due to penicillin. The distinction is important from a therapeutic viewpoint since Hoigné's syndrome allows continuation of treatment, whereas it is absolutely contraindicated in anaphylactic shock.
Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is an orphan, complex, inflammatory disease affecting the immune system and connective tissue. SSc stands out as a severely incapacitating and life-threatening inflammatory rheumatic disease, with a largely unknown pathogenesis. We have designed a two-stage genome-wide association study of SSc using case-control samples from France, Italy, Germany, and Northern Europe. The initial genome-wide scan was conducted in a French post quality-control sample of 564 cases and 1,776 controls, using almost 500 K SNPs. Two SNPs from the MHC region, together with the 6 loci outside MHC having at least one SNP with a P<10(-5) were selected for follow-up analysis. These markers were genotyped in a post-QC replication sample of 1,682 SSc cases and 3,926 controls. The three top SNPs are in strong linkage disequilibrium and located on 6p21, in the HLA-DQB1 gene: rs9275224, P = 9.18×10(-8), OR = 0.69, 95% CI [0.60-0.79]; rs6457617, P = 1.14×10(-7) and rs9275245, P = 1.39×10(-7). Within the MHC region, the next most associated SNP (rs3130573, P = 1.86×10(-5), OR = 1.36 [1.18-1.56]) is located in the PSORS1C1 gene. Outside the MHC region, our GWAS analysis revealed 7 top SNPs (P<10(-5)) that spanned 6 independent genomic regions. Follow-up of the 17 top SNPs in an independent sample of 1,682 SSc and 3,926 controls showed associations at PSORS1C1 (overall P = 5.70×10(-10), OR:1.25), TNIP1 (P = 4.68×10(-9), OR:1.31), and RHOB loci (P = 3.17×10(-6), OR:1.21). Because of its biological relevance, and previous reports of genetic association at this locus with connective tissue disorders, we investigated TNIP1 expression. A markedly reduced expression of the TNIP1 gene and also its protein product were observed both in lesional skin tissue and in cultured dermal fibroblasts from SSc patients. Furthermore, TNIP1 showed in vitro inhibitory effects on inflammatory cytokine-induced collagen production. The genetic signal of association with TNIP1 variants, together with tissular and cellular investigations, suggests that this pathway has a critical role in regulating autoimmunity and SSc pathogenesis.
A 38-year-old cocaine abuser was admitted to the Emergency Department with a one hour history of precordial chest pain associated with shortness of breath and extreme discomfort. On admission his blood pressure was 90/60 mmHg, the resting 12-lead ECG showed ventricular tachycardia at about 300 beats per minute, and oxygen saturation was 86 percent in room air. After electrical cardioversion, the 12-lead ECG revealed sinusal rhythm and a significative ST segment elevation in leads I, aVL and V1-V6, that was about 0.5 mV in leads I and aVL and more than 1 mV in leads V2, V3 and V4. Laboratory determinations showed elevated creatine-chinase MB (CK-MB) and troponin I. An emergency coronary angiogram was normal. Cocaine use is a major cause of acute myocardial infarction in patients with normal epicardial coronary arteries but the exact mechanism still remains unclear. We hypothesize a non-IgE mediated mast-cell activation, with a direct action played by cocaine, and consequent massive expression of several factors effecting the microcirculatory system, including pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Our hypothesis is supported by an elevated serum tryptase levels in the patient.
Fish oil has been shown to improve blood pressure (BP) in some disease states by an unknown mechanism. We tested the ability of fish oil to prevent vascular dysfunction in fructose-fed rats, a model of insulin resistance and hypertension.
Rats were placed on three diets: 1) regular rat diet (control); 2) diet containing 60% fructose (FFR); or 3) diet containing 60% fructose and 4.4% fish oil (FFR+FO). After 8 weeks, blood, heart, aorta, and mesenteric artery tissue were collected from each animal. Secondary branch segments of mesenteric arteries were isolated for vascular reactivity studies.
Systolic BP increased significantly in the FFR but was reduced to control levels by the addition of fish oil to the diet. In the mesenteric artery segments from FFR, the dose-response curves to acetylcholine were significantly shifted to the right compared with those of control rats and rats on the fish oil diet. Expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) protein and mRNA was reduced in the FFR aortas and hearts, and this reduction was reversed by the fish oil. Dietary fish oil prevented the hyperlipidemia that occurred in the FFR but did not prevent hyperinsulinemia. Plasma concentrations of hydrogen peroxide, 8-isoprostane, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were significantly elevated in the FFR and were significantly lower in the FFR treated with fish oil.
These results demonstrate that dietary fish oil prevents vascular dysfunction in FFR and that this effect of fish oil is associated with increased eNOS expression and decreased oxidative stress.
Prolonged lithium treatment may induce progressive deterioration of renal function in humans and experimental animals. N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) has been shown to be effective in the prevention of hypoperfusion and toxin-induced renal failure, but its effect on lithium nephrotoxicity has not been evaluated yet. The purpose of this study was to examine a possible renoprotective effect of NAC against lithium-induced renal failure in a rat model.
Moderate renal failure was induced in 40 Sprague-Dawley rats using a 5 week protocol including 3 weeks of lithium chloride administration in the drinking water. The animals were divided randomly into two equal groups receiving either 10 mg/kg NAC or saline by two daily intraperitoneal injections. In week 6, the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was assessed by 99mTechnetium diethylene triaminepentaacetic acid, and serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and 24 h urinary protein and osmolarity were measured. Kidneys were excised for pathological evaluation.
At the end of the lithium protocol, the GFR was significantly higher in the NAC-treated group compared with the control group, 0.92+/-0.35 vs 0.56+/-0.25 ml/min/100 g, respectively, P = 0.002. Serum creatinine and BUN were also significantly lower in the NAC-treated group 1.009+/-0.107 vs 1.143+/-0.118 mg/dl, P = 0.001, and 83.9+/-6.8 vs 88.95+/-7.1 mg/dl, P = 0.28, respectively. The percentages of tubular necrosis and tubular lumen obstruction, evaluated by light microscopy, were significantly lower in the NAC-treated group, P = 0.002 and P = 0.007, respectively.
NAC treatment has a renoprotective effect against lithium-induced renal failure in a rat model.
The authors determined the effect of profound induced hypotension (i.e., mean arterial blood pressure less than 50 mmHg) during craniotomy for cerebral aneurysm on cerebral blood flow and cerebral metabolic rate for oxygen before, during, and after (20 min and 40 min after) the hypotensive period. The study was performed on nine adults (mean age, 29.2 yr) who were awake and conscious without peripheral neurologic deficits at the time of surgery. The study was conducted with the dura open with the use of a radial artery cannula, a 7-Fr thermodilution flow-directed pulmonary artery catheter, and an internal jugular vein catheter. The 133xenon intraarterial injection technique was used to determine regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the nonoperated hemisphere. rCBF remained unchanged (from 22.8 +/- 4.1 ml.100 g-1.min-1 to 23.8 +/- 4.6 ml.100 g-1.min-1) during the hypotensive period (MAP from 87.8 +/- 10.4 mmHg to 40.0 +/- 4.4 mmHg; P less than 0.001) despite an increase in cardiac index since cerebral perfusion pressure and cerebrovascular resistance decreased to a similar degree. No gross cerebral metabolic disturbances were observed. A period of decreased cerebrovascular resistance and increased rCBF followed induced hypotension. rCBF increased from 23.8 +/- 4.6 ml.100 g-1.min-1 to 30.0 +/- 5.8 ml.100 g-1.min-1 (P less than 0.001) 20 min after sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was stopped without rebound hypertension. These modifications disappeared 20 min later. Reduction of mean arterial blood pressure to 40 mmHg by SNP was apparently safe for the brain, although the possibility of low perfused regions and local brain and cerebrospinal fluid lactoacidosis, particularly in the retracted hemisphere, cannot be excluded.
Recent clinical evidence indicates a potential for skeletal muscle toxicity after therapy with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (HMGRIs) in man. Although the incidence of drug-induced skeletal muscle toxicity is very low (0.1-0.2%) with monotherapy, it may increase following concomitant drug therapy with the immunosuppressant, cyclosporine A (CsA), and possibly with certain other hypolipidemic agents. In the Sprague-Dawley rat, very high, pharmacologically comparable dosages (150-1200 mg/kg/day) of structurally similar HMGRIs (lovastatin, simvastatin, pravastatin and L-647, 318) produced dose-related increases in the incidence and severity of skeletal muscle degeneration. Physical signs included inappetence, decreased activity, loss of body weight, localized alopecia and mortality. To evaluate the interaction between HMGRIs and CsA, a rat model of CsA-induced cholestasis was developed. In this 2-week model, the skeletal muscle toxicity of the HMGRIs was clearly potentiated by CsA (10 mg/kg/day). Doses of HMGRIs which did not produce skeletal muscle toxicity when given alone caused between 75 and 100% incidence of myopathy (very slight to marked skeletal muscle degeneration) when CsA was coadministered. Typical light microscopic changes included myofiber necrosis with interstitial edema and inflammatory infiltration in areas of acute injury. Histochemical characterization of the muscle lesion indicated that type 2B fibers (primarily glycolytic white fibers) were most sensitive to this toxicity but that, with prolonged administration, all fiber types were ultimately affected. Results of pharmacokinetic studies in rats treated with various HMGRIs +/- CsA indicated that coadministration of CsA alters the disposition of these compounds, resulting in increased systemic exposure (e.g., increased area under the plasma drug concentration vs. time curve-AUC) and consequent (up to 13-fold) increases in skeletal muscle drug levels. Evaluation of the potential interaction between the HMGRI, lovastatin and CsA at the level of hepatic microsomal metabolism indicated that CsA did not inhibit the metabolism of lovastatin in isolated microsomes from female rats. In light of the above findings, it appears that HMGRI-induced myopathy is a class effect in the rat, which is potentiated by CsA as the result of altered clearance and resultant increased tissue exposure. Cholestasis associated with CsA and HMGRIs may form the basis for decreased elimination and the resultant elevated systemic exposure. Furthermore, this toxicity is muscle fiber-selective and may be associated with impaired skeletal muscle energy metabolism.
Black tea has been shown to elicit anti-oxidant, anti-carcinogenic, anti-inflammatory and anti-mutagenic properties. In this study, we investigated the impact of black tea extract (BTE) on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced NF-κB signaling in bone marrow derived-macrophages (BMM) and determined the therapeutic efficacy of this extract on colon inflammation.
The effect of BTE on LPS-induced NF-κB signaling and pro-inflammatory gene expression was evaluated by RT-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence and electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA). The in vivo efficacy of BTE was assessed in mice with 3% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. The severity of colitis was measured by weight loss, colon length and histologic scores.
LPS-induced IL-12p40, IL-23p19, IL-6 and IL-1β mRNA expressions were inhibited by BTE. LPS-induced IκBα phosphorylation/degradation and nuclear translocation of NF-κB/p65 were blocked by BTE. BTE treatment blocked LPS-induced DNA-binding activity of NF-κB. BTE-fed, DSS-exposed mice showed the less weight loss, longer colon length and lower histologic score compared to control diet-fed, DSS-exposed mice. DSS-induced IκBα phosphorylation/degradation and phosphorylation of NF-κB/p65 were blocked by BTE. An increase of cleaved caspase-3 and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in DSS-exposed mice was blocked by BTE.
These results indicate that BTE attenuates colon inflammation through the blockage of NF-κB signaling and apoptosis in DSS-induced experimental colitis model.
Experimental studies suggest that androgens induce coronary vasodilatation. We performed this pilot project to examine the clinical effects of long-term low-dose androgens in men with angina.
Forty-six men with stable angina completed a 2-week, single-blind placebo run-in, followed by double-blind randomization to 5 mg testosterone daily by transdermal patch or matching placebo for 12 weeks, in addition to their current medication. Time to 1-mm ST-segment depression on treadmill exercise testing and hormone levels were measured and quality of life was assessed by SF-36 at baseline and after 4 and 12 weeks of treatment. Active treatment resulted in a 2-fold increase in androgen levels and an increase in time to 1-mm ST-segment depression from (mean+/-SEM) 309+/-27 seconds at baseline to 343+/-26 seconds after 4 weeks and to 361+/-22 seconds after 12 weeks. This change was statistically significant compared with that seen in the placebo group (from 266+/-25 seconds at baseline to 284+/-23 seconds after 4 weeks and to 292+/-24 seconds after 12 weeks; P:=0.02 between the 2 groups by ANCOVA). The magnitude of the response was greater in those with lower baseline levels of bioavailable testosterone (r=-0. 455, P:<0.05). There were no significant changes in prostate specific antigen, hemoglobin, lipids, or coagulation profiles during the study. There were significant improvements in pain perception (P:=0.026) and role limitation resulting from physical problems (P:=0.024) in the testosterone-treated group.
Low-dose supplemental testosterone treatment in men with chronic stable angina reduces exercise-induced myocardial ischemia.
