Twenty-seven patients with advanced bronchogenic carcinoma were treated with vindesine, 3 mg/m2/week. Twenty-three patients were evaluable for response. Two of six patients with small-cell carcinoma and one of 17 patients with non-small-cell carcinoma had partial responses. Two other patients with non-small-cell carcinoma had minor responses. The duration of the responses was 2-4 months. Neurologic toxicity occurred in 14 patients and was mild except in two patients. There was a median hemoglobin fall of 2.2 g/dl and a median leukocyte nadir of 2800/microliter during vindesine therapy. Thrombocytopenia occurred in 2 patients and mild thrombocytosis occurred in 10 patients. Seven patients experienced phlebitis or cellulitis at the site of drug administration which could be prevented with small doses of intravenous methylprednisolone. These results suggest that vindesine is well tolerated and possesses some activity in patients with previously treated bronchogenic carcinoma.
We studied the effects of edible oils intake on the renal cortical structure of streptozotocin-induced diabetic (Db) and non-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Male SHR divided into 5 groups were studied during 6 weeks: one non-diabetic SHR group and four diabetic SHR groups (three groups received by gavage olive, palm or fish oil). Kidneys were analyzed by light microscopy and stereology. Oils intake did not change the plasma glucose levels. The blood pressure (BP) was lower in SHR-Db than in SHR, but SHR-Db-fish oil showed the lowest BP. Creatinine clearance was different between diabetic SHR and non-diabetic SHR, but not between treated SHR-Db and untreated SHR-Db. The renal cortex showed scars surrounding obsolete glomeruli with inflammatory infiltrate mainly in untreated SHR-Db. The olive oil, palm oil and mainly fish oil intake retard the usual loss of glomeruli and attenuate the renal cortex adverse remodeling of Db and non-Db SHR.
Acquired red cell aplasia (RCA) is a rare disorder and can be either idiopathic or associated with certain diseases, pregnancy, or drugs. In exceptionally rare cases, it has been reported to co-exist with other autoimmune cytopenias. We report a high incidence of RCA and autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) in pancreas transplant recipients on alemtuzumab-based maintenance therapy.
Between February 2003 and July 2005, 357 pancreas transplant recipients were treated with immunosuppressive regimens containing the lymphocyte-depleting antibody alemtuzumab, the T-cell activation inhibitor daclizumab, and the anti-metabolite mycophenolate mofetil (MMF). We retrospectively reviewed medical records, blood bank data and bone marrow biopsy specimens of patients with a Transplant Information Services database diagnosis of RCA and AIHA from February 2003 to November 2005.
Severe RCA, AIHA, and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) occurred independently or in combination, in 20 out of 357 (5.6%) pancreas transplant recipients, 12 to 24 months following the initiation of the aforementioned immunosuppressive regimens. Severe opportunistic infections developed late in 14/20 (70%) of these patients. Atypical morphologic features, including variable dysgranulopoiesis, variable megakaryocytic hyperplasia with normal or low peripheral platelet counts, and atypical lymphoid aggregates were found in bone marrow trephine sections of 11 patients in whom the diagnosis of RCA was made.
We hypothesize that the combination of alemtuzumab, daclizumab and MMF can result in immune dysregulation thereby permitting autoantibody formation. Because the use of these three immune suppressants is becoming increasingly common, it is important to recognize the severe hematologic complications that can arise.
This study investigates the participation of the endothelial factors in the alpha-adrenoceptor contractile responses in mesenteric resistance arteries from 15 days ouabain-treated (25 microg/kg/day) and untreated rats. Ouabain treatment increased blood pressure and heart rate without changing the contractile response to phenylephrine (3 nM-30 microM). Endothelium removal or N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 100 microM), increased the responses to phenylephrine. The endothelial modulation was similar in both rat groups, but the L-NAME effects were bigger in arteries from ouabain-treated rats. However, the endothelial NOS expression and the relaxation to acetylcholine (0.1 nM-10 microM) remained unaltered after ouabain treatment. The coincubation with L-NAME and indomethacin (100 microM) leftward shifted the concentration-response curves to phenylephrine in arteries from untreated rats similarly to the displacement after incubation only with L-NAME. However, in mesenteric arteries from treated rats, the co-incubation with indomethacin and L-NAME did not alter the response to phenylephrine. The addition of the inhibitor of calcium activated potassium channels tetraethylammonium (2 mM) further leftward shifted the phenylephrine curves only in arteries from untreated rats. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression was greater in vessels from ouabain-treated rats. In conclusion, the chronic ouabain treatment for 15 days modified the participation of endothelial factors in response to phenylephrine in mesenteric resistance arteries, by increasing the release of NO and prostanoids and impairment the endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) release. This was accompanied by an increased COX-2 expression. Although this balance avoids changes in the phenylephrine concentration-response curves, these vascular changes might contribute to maintain the ouabain-induced hypertension.
We performed renal transplantation on 67 patients (living 37, cadaver 30) between November 1975 and December 1987. Twenty-seven of the 67 patients had hyperuricemia (serum uric acid: male greater than or equal to 8.0 mg/dl, female greater than or equal to 7.0 mg/dl) and 2 of them had episodes of gout. However, there was no correlation between serum creatinine and uric acid in 27 hyperuricemic patients. Twelve of 27 hyperuricemic patients were treated with either allopurinol or benzbromarone. These therapies were effective for 9 of them and serum uric acid level controlled well. One of 2 gouty patients developed gout 4 years after cadaveric renal transplantation. She was treated with anodyne and benzbromarone for gout. These treatments were effective and she has been in good condition. We consider it necessary to treat hyperuricemia after renal transplantation and to control serum uric acid well.
Accumulating evidence demonstrates that oxidative stress is one of the underlying mechanisms to induce apoptosis in different biological systems. The aim of this study was to examine the simultaneous presence and correlation between oxidative stress events, apoptosis, apoptosis-associated proteins and monocyte/macrophage infiltration during the course of acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). To induce nephrosis, Sprague-Dawley rats were injected intraperitoneally with puromycin aminonucleoside and killed at weeks 1 and 2 of nephrosis. Controls represent animals injected with 0.9% saline solution. Kidney sections were homogenized to measure nitric oxide (NO), malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities by appropriate enzymatic and biochemical methods. Renal frozen sections were studied for superoxide anion (O(2) (-)) by a histochemical method, for apoptosis by TUNEL (terminal-deoxynucleotidyl-transferase-mediated dUTP- digoxigenin nick end labelling) and for apoptosis-associated protein expression and monocyte/macrophage infiltration by monoclonal antibodies. Increased renal apoptosis, p53, Bax, Bcl-2 accompanied by increased O(2) (-) and NO generation, lipid peroxidation (MDA) and monocyte/macrophage infiltration were found in nephrotic animals. Renal oxidative stress (O(2) (-), NO and MDA) was correlated with apoptosis, p53 expression, monocyte/macrophage cells and proteinuria. Anti-oxidant molecules (SOD and GSH) remained unchanged apart from a decreased activity of catalase which correlated with glomerular apoptosis. In conclusion, the close correlation between the presence of apoptosis and oxidative events confirms the role of oxidative stress in the apoptosis observed during PAN.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is present in the environment as a result of the global cycling of mercury, although anthropogenic sources may dramatically increase the availability in confined geographical areas. Accumulation of MeHg in the aquatic food chain is the dominating way of exposure in mammals, which accumulate MeHg in all organs, including the brain. Demethylation has been described in the organs, especially in phagocytic cells, but mainly in the flora of the intestinal tract. While most of the inorganic mercury (Hg(2+)) formed in the intestine is excreted, a fraction is reabsorbed which together with the local demethylation increases the organ Hg(2+) concentration. MeHg is a well-known immunosuppressive agent, while Hg(2+) is associated with immunostimulation and autoimmunity especially in genetically susceptible rodents, creating a syndrome, i.e. mercury-induced autoimmunity (HgIA). This study aimed at exploring the effect of MeHg with regard to HgIA, and especially the immunological events after stopping treatment, correlated with the presence of MeHg and Hg(2+) in the organs. Treatment of A.SW mice for 30 days with 4.2 mg MeHg/L drinking water (corresponding to approximately 420 microg Hg/kg body weight/day) caused all the HgIA features observed after primary treatment with inorganic Hg, except systemic immune complex deposits. The total Hg concentration was 5-fold higher in the kidneys as compared with lymph nodes, but the fraction of Hg(2+) was similar (17-20%). After stopping treatment, the renal and lymph node MeHg concentration declined according to first order kinetics during the initial 4-6 weeks, but then slower. A similar decline in the organ Hg(2+) concentration occurred during the initial 2 weeks after stopping treatment but then ceased, causing the Hg(2+) concentration to exceed that of MeHg in the lymph nodes and kidneys after 3 and 8 weeks, respectively. The selective increase in lymph node Hg(2+) fraction is likely to be due to demethylation of MeHg in the macrophage-rich lymphoid tissue. The major autoantibody in HgIA, anti-fibrillarin antibodies, tended to increase during the initial 6 weeks after stopping treatment, while all other HgIA features including antichromatin antibodies declined to control levels after 2-4 weeks. This indicates differences in either dose requirement or induction mechanisms for the different HgIA parameters. The selective accumulation of Hg(2+) in lymph nodes following MeHg treatment should be taken into account when the effect of MeHg on the immune system is evaluated.
Appearance of dyskinesia is a common problem of long-term l-DOPA treatment in Parkinson's disease patients and represents a major limitation for the pharmacological management of the motor symptoms in advanced disease stages. We have recently demonstrated that dopamine released from serotonin neurons is responsible for l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, raising the possibility that blockade of serotonin neuron activity by combination of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists could reduce l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. In the present study, we have investigated the efficacy of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists to counteract l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 1-methyl-4-phenyl 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated macaques, the gold standard model of Parkinson's disease. In addition, we have studied the ability of this treatment to prevent development of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The results demonstrate the existence of a potent synergistic effect between 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists in their ability to dampen l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the MPTP-treated macaques. Sub-threshold doses of the drugs, which individually produced no effect, were able to reduce the abnormal involuntary movements by up to 80% when administered in combination, without affecting the anti-parkinsonian properties of l-DOPA. Furthermore, chronic administration of low doses of the 5-HT(1) agonists in combination was able to prevent development of dyskinesia, and reduce the up-regulation of FosB after daily treatment with l-DOPA in the rat 6-OHDA model. Our results support the importance of a clinical investigation of the effect of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B) agonists, particularly in combination, in dyskinetic l-DOPA-treated Parkinson's disease patients.
Levels of the brain-specific cholesterol metabolite 24S-hydroxycholesterol are proposed as possible biomarkers for multiple sclerosis (MS). It is not yet clear for which aspect of the MS disease manifestations 24S-hydroxycholesterol is a reflection. We studied the relation of serum levels of 24S-hydroxycholesterol and other sterols to the disease characteristics of acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for MS. Serum was analyzed for cholesterol precursors, oxysterols, and plant sterols during the course of disease development. Significantly increased levels of the cholesterol metabolites 24S-hydroxycholesterol and 27-hydroxycholesterol were observed on day 9, before the onset of clinical signs. The serum levels of these oxysterols gradually increased up to 193% and 415%, respectively, at day 17, when clinical symptoms had recovered. Total cholesterol levels were slightly but significantly decreased on day 9 and day 17 in treated animals. Serum levels of cholesterol precursors and plant sterols decreased gradually from day 11 and day 14, respectively. Immunostaining of the 24S-hydroxycholesterol-forming enzyme Cyp46 was shown in macrophage infiltrates. In vitro experiments confirmed the presence of Cyp46 in macrophages and showed a decreased expression after LPS treatment. The data indicate that changes in serum oxysterols occur early in EAE and can be formed by macrophages. These early changes indicate an important role for oxysterols in the development of EAE.
m-Chloroperoxybenzoic acid (CPBA) was tested for its ability to induce the ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) marker of skin tumor promotion. In contrast to benzoyl peroxide, dicumyl peroxide, and 2-butanol peroxide, 5 mg of CPBA applied twice at a 72-h interval induce ODC activity at least as much as 3 micrograms of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA). ODC induction peaks 36 h after a single CPBA treatment but is maximal 5 h after two applications of CPBA at a 48-h interval. The ODC-inducing activity of CPBA is dose dependent and sustained after chronic treatment. In contrast to TPA, two CPBA treatments at 12-24 h intervals produce no refractory state against ODC induction. The mechanism of ODC induction by CPBA is iron dependent. Various hydrolyzable tannins, condensed tannins (CTs) and their monomeric units remarkably inhibit the ODC response to multiple CPBA treatments. At 12 mg, gallic acid, Aleppo gall tannic acid (TA), catechin, and loblolly pine bark CT inhibit the most CPBA-induced ODC activity. Aleppo gall TA is even effective when applied several hours before CPBA. The tumor-promoting activity of CPBA and its inhibition by plant tannins remain to be evaluated.
We report a case of ergot-induced peripheral vascular insufficiency of the lower limbs and review the vascular complications, angiographic findings and the different modalities of treatment. The following case report highlights the clinical features and course of ergot toxicity, and the difficulty in early diagnosis.
A man aged 81 known to suffer from atrial fibrillation - the treatment for which included acetylsalicylic acid - and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was hospitalized because of a respiratory infection. Since he had iron deficiency anaemia and the case history mentioned "intestinal bleeding', supplementary examinations were carried out. Endoscopy revealed colonic varices; because of the absence of portal hypertension and other disorders related to colonic varices, the varices were classified as idiopathic. In view of the extensiveness of the lesions, it was decided to refrain from endoscopic sclerotherapy and to adopt an expectative policy.
In 193 hypertensive patients taking bendrofluazide 5 mg daily, the mean serum potassium concentration was lower in women than in men (3.77 vs 3.99 mmol/l, P less than 0.001) and the prevalence of hypokalaemia (less than 3.5 mmol/l) was higher (25% vs 12%, P less than 0.05). This difference between the sexes was independent of age, body weight, renal function, the use of other antihypertensive drugs and compliance with treatment as judged by tablet counts. Severe hypokalaemia (less than 3.0 mmol/l) was uncommon and showed no difference between the sexes.
A 25-year-old paraplegic woman suffered cardiopulmonary arrest due to a major pulmonary embolism during intravenous mannitol therapy. Although it is possible that the mannitol caused an acute episode of hemagglutination, we postulate that rapid administration of mannitol caused dilation of her venous system, causing a preexisting clot to break loose.
The aim of this phase II study was to investigate the potential of the vincristine, epirubicin, etoposide, and prednisolone (VEEP) regimen to reduce the risks of long-term sequelae of chemotherapy such as sterility, cardiopulmonary damage, and second malignancies, while maintaining efficacy in terms of response and survival.
Eighty-five adult patients with newly diagnosed and previously untreated stage II to IV Hodgkin's disease (HD) were entered and monitored for a minimum of 1 year. Patients were treated to maximum response plus two further courses, and if they had not attained a complete response (CR) or CR-unconfirmed/uncertain [CR(u)] were changed to second-line chemotherapy. Adjuvant radiotherapy was administered to patients with bulky disease and those with postchemotherapy residual masses. Measurements of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), gonadotropins in females, and sperm count in males were taken both before and after treatment with VEEP.
The maximum rates of response were as follows: CR, 32%; CR(u), 47%; and PR, 21% [CR + CR(u), 79%]. The median follow-up duration is 45 months, with a 5-year overall survival (OS) rate of 89% and failure-free survival (FFS) rate of 62%. Patients in CR at the end of chemotherapy had a higher FFS at 5 years compared with patients in CR(u) (88% v 56%). Acute toxicity was mild, with no pulmonary toxicity or treatment-related deaths. The median LVEF was 62% before VEEP and 57% after VEEP. Gonadal function tests following treatment were normal in 92% of males and 100% of females. No second malignancies have been observed.
VEEP is an active combination with tolerable acute toxicity that preserves fertility and cardiopulmonary function. The efficacy of VEEP is comparable to that of established regimens, but a definitive evaluation of its potential to reduce second malignancies will require a longer follow-up duration.
Troublesome involuntary movements in the absence of dopaminergic medication, so-called off-medication dyskinesias, are a serious adverse effect of fetal neural grafts that hinders the development of cell-based therapies for Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms underlying these dyskinesias are not well understood, and it is not known whether they are the same as in the dyskinesias induced by l-dopa treatment. Using in vivo brain imaging, we show excessive serotonergic innervation in the grafted striatum of two patients with Parkinson's disease, who had exhibited major motor recovery after transplantation with dopamine-rich fetal mesencephalic tissue but had later developed off-medication dyskinesias. The dyskinesias were markedly attenuated by systemic administration of a serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] receptor (5-HT(1A)) agonist, which dampens transmitter release from serotonergic neurons, indicating that the dyskinesias were caused by the serotonergic hyperinnervation. Our observations suggest strategies for avoiding and treating graft-induced dyskinesias that result from cell therapies for Parkinson's disease with fetal tissue or stem cells.
A growing number of investigators are studying ketamine effects in healthy human subjects, but concerns remain about its safety as a research tool. Therefore, it is timely to revisit the safety of subanesthetic doses of ketamine in experimental psychopharmacology studies.
To report on the safety of laboratory studies with subanesthetic doses of ketamine in healthy humans using an existing dataset.
Medically healthy subjects with no personal or familial Axis I psychotic spectrum disorders were administered subanesthetic doses of ketamine by intravenous infusion in a series of clinical investigations from 1989 to 2005. The safety of ketamine administration was monitored in these subjects.
Four hundred and fifty subjects received at least one dose of active ketamine. Eight hundred and thirty three active ketamine and 621 placebo infusions were administered. Ten adverse mental status events were documented in nine subjects/infusions that were deemed related to ketamine administration (2% of subjects, 1.45% of infusions). All but one adverse reaction resolved by the end of the test session. The side effects in the remaining individual were no longer clinically significant within 4 days of the test session. No residual sequelae were observed.
Ketamine administration at subanesthetic doses appears to present an acceptable level of risk for carefully screened populations of healthy human subjects in the context of clinical research programs that intensively monitor subjects throughout their study participation.
To determine the acute effects of pyridostigmine bromide, a reversible cholinesterase inhibitor, during exercise in patients with coronary artery disease.
Double blind, randomised, placebo controlled, crossover study.
Outpatients evaluated in an exercise test laboratory.
15 patients with exercise induced myocardial ischaemia.
Maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test on a treadmill according to an individualised ramp protocol on three days. The first day was used for adaptation to the equipment and to determine exercise tolerance and the presence of exercise induced ischaemia. On the other two days, the cardiopulmonary exercise test was performed two hours after oral administration of pyridostigmine (45 mg) or placebo. All patients were taking their usual medication during the experiments.
Rate-pressure product and oxygen uptake during exercise.
Pyridostigmine inhibited the submaximum chronotropic response (p = 0.001), delaying the onset of myocardial ischaemia, which occurred at a similar rate-pressure product (mean (SE) placebo 20.55 (1.08) mm Hg x beats/min 10(3); pyridostigmine 19.75 (1.28) mm Hg x beats/min 10(3); p = 0.27) but at a higher exercise intensity (oxygen consumption: placebo 18.6 (1.7) ml/kg/min; pyridostigmine 19.6 (1.8) ml/kg/min; p = 0.03). Also, pyridostigmine increased peak oxygen consumption (placebo 23.6 (2) ml/kg/min; pyridostigmine 24.8 (2) ml/kg/min; p = 0.01) and peak oxygen pulse (placebo 12.9 (1) ml/beat; pyridostigmine 13.6 (1) ml/beat; p = 0.02).
Pyridostigmine improved peak exercise tolerance and inhibited the chronotropic response to submaximum exercise, increasing the intensity at which myocardial ischaemia occurred. These results suggest that pyridostigmine can protect against exercise induced myocardial ischaemia.
A patient developed acute interstitial nephritis following cephradine administration. The clinical illness preceding the interstitial nephritis and the eosinophilia in peripheral blood suggested an allergic reaction. Immunological studies demonstrated an allergy to cephradine and penicillins which was IgG2-mediated. It is probable, therefore, that allergy to cephradine caused the renal lesion from which there was full clinical and biochemical recovery.
Studies have demonstrated that long-term opioid treatment leads to an increased sensitivity to painful (hyperalgesia) or normally innocuous (allodynia) stimuli. The molecular mechanisms that lead to paradoxical pain sensitization upon chronic opioid treatment are not completely understood. Enhanced excitatory pain neurotransmitter (such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)) release in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord may play a role in sustained morphine-mediated paradoxical pain. Recently we have demonstrated that inhibition of Raf-1 attenuates sustained morphine treatment-mediated augmentation of CGRP release in vitro, in cultured primary sensory neurons. In the present study, we show that knockdown of spinal Raf-1 levels in vivo by intrathecal administration of Raf-1-specific siRNA attenuates sustained morphine-mediated thermal hyperalgesia in rats.
The long term effects of a first line treatment with levodopa or bromocriptine were compared in 36 previously untreated patients with Parkinson's disease in a prospective randomized trial: 18 patients were treated with levodopa alone (mean dose: 485 +/- 71 mg daily) whereas 18 others received bromocriptine alone (mean dose: 55 +/- 6 mg daily) during 36 +/- 3 and 31 +/- 3 months respectively. We observed a similar decrease in the Columbia rating scale but the nature of long term side effects was different in the two groups: patients on levodopa developed peak-dose dyskinesias (5 cases), wearing off akinesia (1 case) and on-off effects (1 case). Under bromocriptine treatment, 2 patients developed severe psychosis whereas one suffered from primary lack of drug effectiveness and 5 others from late decrease of drug effectiveness. These results suggest the potential value of relatively high doses of D2 dopamine agonists (such as bromocriptine) in the first line treatment of Parkinson's disease: however, their use can be limited by their decrease of effectiveness after several years and/or the occurrence of severe neuropsychiatric side-effects.
Mechanical stress increases myocardial myostatin expression. However, the expression of myostatin in chronic heart failure resulting from volume-overload and after treatment with beta-blockers is little known. The authors hypothesize that myostatin plays a role in the failing myocardium because of volume-overload.
Aorto-caval shunt was created over a 4-week period in adult Sprague-Dawley rats to induce volume-overload heart failure.
Heart weight and body weight ratio significantly increased after shunting. The left ventricular end-diastolic dimension also significantly increased. Treatment with carvedilol in the shunt group reversed the increase in heart weight and ventricular dimension to the baseline values. Myocardial and skeletal myostatin proteins were up-regulated in the shunt group. The mRNA of myocardial myostatin also increased in the shunt group. Treatment with carvedilol reversed both protein and mRNA of myocardial myostatin to the baseline values. Treatment with N-acetylcysteine and doxazosin partially decreased myostatin mRNA and protein expression as compared with the shunt group. Carvedilol normalized the increased immunohistochemical labelling of myocardial myostatin in the shunt group.
Myocardial myostatin mRNA and protein expression were up-regulated in the rat model of volume-overload heart failure. Treatment with carvedilol is associated with a limitation of increased myostatin expression in the failing ventricular myocardium.
