To investigate the role of angiotensin II (Ang II) in cardiovascular hypertrophy in the Goldblatt one-kidney, one clip (1-K, 1C) renal hypertensive rat.
Six-week-old Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats underwent uninephrectomy and left renal artery clipping. After surgery, rats were treated with perindopril, an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, or losartan, an Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, for 4 weeks. Untreated 1-K, 1C rats and uninephrectomized (sham) rats served as controls.
The rise in systolic blood pressure in the perindopril-treated and losartan-treated rats was not significantly different from that in the untreated 1-K, 1C group throughout the treatment period. At 4 weeks after surgery the heart weight:body weight ratios of the untreated 1-K, 1C and losartan-treated 1-K, 1C groups were significantly greater than for sham-operated normotensive rats and hypertensive perindopril-treated rats. The total number of smooth muscle cells in the thoracic aortae of the 1-K, 1C untreated, losartan-treated 1-K, 1C and sham groups were similar. However, after treatment the aortae of the perindopril-treated group contained significantly fewer smooth muscle cells. The medial cross-sectional wall area and wall: lumen ratio were similar in the 1-K, 1C untreated and perindopril-treated 1-K, 1C groups.
These results suggest that Ang II, via its effects on cardiac and vascular AT1 receptors, does not contribute to the development of cardiovascular hypertrophy in the 1-K, 1C rat. Attenuation of cardiac and vascular growth after ACE inhibition appears to be mediated by mechanisms independent of the actions of the renin-angiotensin system.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) has been shown to play a role in an increasing number of cellular processes. Recent reports have linked the AhR to cell proliferation, cytoskeletal arrangement, and tumor invasiveness in various tumor cell types. The AhR plays a role in the de-repression of the interleukin (IL)6 promoter in certain tumor cell lines, allowing for increased transcriptional activation by cytokines. Here, we show that there is a significant level of constitutive activation of the AhR in cells isolated from patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Constitutive activation of the AhR in HNSCCs was blocked by antagonist treatment, leading to a reduction in IL6 expression. In addition, the AhR exhibits a high level of expression in HNSCCs than in normal keratinocytes. These findings led to the hypothesis that the basal AhR activity in HNSCCs plays a role in the aggressive phenotype of these tumors and that antagonist treatment could mitigate this phenotype. This study provides evidence that antagonism of the AhR in HNSCC tumor cells, in the absence of exogenous receptor ligands, has a significant effect on tumor cell phenotype. Treatment of these cell lines with the AhR antagonists 6, 2', 4'-trimethoxyflavone, or the more potent GNF351, decreased migration and invasion of HNSCC cells and prevented benzo[a]pyrene-mediated induction of the chemotherapy efflux protein ABCG2. Thus, an AhR antagonist treatment has been shown to have therapeutic potential in HNSCCs through a reduction in aggressive cell phenotype.
Using a double-blind protocol, we investigated the use of propranolol in patients with coronary artery spasm as assessed by subjective and objective variables. Both low-dose (40 mg every 6 hours) and high-dose (160 mg every 6 hours) propranolol were administered. At both doses, the duration of angina attacks was significantly prolonged but the frequency was not. We conclude that propranolol at doses up to 160 mg every 6 hours as single therapy is frequently detrimental in angina pectoris due to coronary artery spasm and should not be used as the sole treatment of this disorder.
The present study was carried out to evaluate the effect of exogenously administered metallothionein (MT) against carmustine (BCNU)-induced lung toxicity in rats. A total of 60 rats were randomly divided into four groups (15/group): control group in which the animals received 0.5 ml physiologic saline containing 10% ethanol (IP) weekly, MT-administered group in which rats received MT (30 micromol/kg, IP) weekly, BCNU-administered group in which rats received BCNU (5 mg/kg, IP) weekly and MT + BCNU group in which rats received weekly doses of BCNU (5 mg/kg, IP) followed 24 h later by MT (30 micromol/kg, IP). At the end of the experiment (after 6 weeks), lung histological changes, collagen staining, the activity of glutathione reductase (GR) and contents of reduced glutathione (GSH) and hydroxyproline (Hpr) in the lung as well as serum level of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were evaluated. The obtained data revealed that BCNU induced pathological changes and markedly increased lung collagen and level of Hpr but decreased GSH content and GR activity and increased serum TNF-alpha compared to both control and MT-administered rats. Administration of MT + BCNU markedly improved histological features and decreased staining of collagen along with increased GR activity, GSH content but decreased level of Hpr in lung tissue as well as decreased serum level of TNF-alpha compared with BCNU-treated rats. Based on our results, it is possible to postulate that exogenous MT can act against BCNU-induced lung toxicity by a mechanism related, at least in part, to its ability to decrease oxidative stress and fibrosis.
A 51-year-old woman presented with severe chest pain minutes after starting intravenous paclitaxel as a part of the systemic chemotherapy due to ovarian carcinoma. The electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus rhythm with ST-segment elevations in inferior and anterior leads. The ST-segment elevations resolved immediately after sublingual nitroglycerine. Cardiac troponin T and CPK MB levels remained in the normal range at repeat measurements. It was presumed that in spite of standard premedication, paclitaxel had induced acute coronary syndrome with ST-segment elevations in this patient.
Cocaine use has been associated with vasoconstriction and stroke, and several studies have demonstrated that it decreases relative cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in humans. However, rCBF has not been quantitated. We compared 40 mg IV cocaine hydrochloride to placebo effects on absolute rCBF in four cocaine users using 99mTc-HMPAO SPECT with a modified microsphere model for CBF quantitation. Cocaine produced significant decreases in rCBF in all regions studied with a mean decrease of 30% in absolute whole brain blood flow (P = 0.002) which was 3-fold greater than relative blood flow changes.
The long-term safety of metoclopramide was evaluated for up to 30 months in 269 patients with chronic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. The usual dosage of metoclopramide was 10 mg four times a day, before meals and at bedtime. No serious side effects were encountered, and the results of laboratory tests performed at frequent intervals were favorable. Audiometric, ophthalmological, and electrocardiographic evaluations showed no drug-related changes.
Thioridazine was found to increase the serum prolactin level as well as the tumor size of a prolactin--secreting pituitary chromophobe adenoma in a schizophrenic man. He was then successfully treated with clonidine, an antinoradrenergic compound without antidopaminergic properties, which had no effect on serum prolactin or tumor growth. This case report highlights the importance of careful neuroleptic usage in patients in whom elevated prolactin levels are of concern and discusses alternative methods of treating psychosis when antidopaminergic medications are contraindicated.
Ischemia reperfusion injury (IRI) remains a major cause of graft injury, dysfunction and even failure post-transplantation. Heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) has been found to be an attractive target for anti-inflammatory therapies and a potential candidate responsible for cell injury. The objective of this study was to investigate whether preconditioning the donor liver with Nodosin perfusion upregulates HO-1 and then lessens IRI in rat models.
Wistar rats were divided into four groups: experimental group, control group, positive control group and negative control group in which the donor liver was preconditioned with Nodosin, lactated ringer's solution, cobalt protoporphyrin and zinc protoporphyrin perfusion, respectively. We measured HO-1 expression and enzyme activity in rat livers of each group ex vivo at 0, 1 and 2 h after perfusion. At 1 h after perfusion, donor livers of Wistar rats were transplanted into Sprague-Dawley rats orthotopically. Serum transaminase levels, degree of cell apoptosis and Suzuki's score were used to assess ischemia/reperfusion injury in recipients at 24 h after transplantation.
Ex vivo, donor liver preconditioning with Nodosin perfusion induced HO-1 expression and enzyme activity significantly, compared with the control group (P < 0.05). In vivo, serum transaminase levels, cell apoptosis degree and Suzuki's score of representative recipients in the Nodosin group were lower than that in the control group (P < 0.05). Preconditioning with Nodosin perfusion induced HO-1 protein mainly in Kupffer cells.
This study suggests that preconditioning with Nodosin perfusion provides a potential protective effect through inducing HO-1 expression to attenuate ischemia/reperfusion injury in liver transplantation.
The effects of different benzodiazepine-receptor ligands on morphine withdrawal were studied: a benzodiazepine agonist, flunitrazepam; a benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil; a partial inverse benzodiazepine agonist, Ro 15-4513; and a partial benzodiazepine agonist, Ro 16-6028. Benzodiazepine-ligands were administered i.p. 30 min before naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome. Jumping behavior was significantly increased by Ro 15-4513 at 10 and 20 mg/kg. Flunitrazepam decreased jumps at all the doses used. Wet dog shakes were decreased by flumazenil and Ro 15-4513 and increased by Ro 16-6028 (only at the highest dose) and flunitrazepam. Our results show that the activation of the benzodiazepine receptor by agonists or high doses of partial agonists decreases jumping and increases wet dog shake behaviour, while the antagonists or the partial inverse agonists enhance jumping and decrease wet dog shakes. These modifications could be interpreted as an attenuation in the severity of the morphine withdrawal syndrome by benzodiazepine agonists.
The usual regimens of captopril--twice or thrice daily administration--are based on the duration of the decrease in plasma angiotensin II induced by captopril. In a study performed to evaluate the hypotensive effect of once daily captopril, 13 white patients with mild-to-severe uncomplicated hypertension were treated with one tablet of captopril 100 mg daily, taken 1-1.5 h before lunch, for 8 weeks. Arterial blood pressure was measured weekly, 22-23.5 h after medication. The patients' diet contained no more than 120 mmol/day of sodium. In the first week supine blood pressure fell from 210 +/- 3/128 +/- 4 (mean +/- SEM) to 179 +/- 5/116 +/- 5 mm Hg (p less than 0.001/p less than 0.01 compared with pretreatment). After the large decrease in the first week changes in systolic and diastolic pressures tailed off; they tended to fall towards stable values that would be maintained on prolonged treatment. At the end of the eighth week the supine values were 155 +/- 3/104 +/- 3 (p less than 0.001/p less than 0.001). Changes in erect blood pressure paralleled those in the supine posture. No side effects were detected. These results confirm that captopril is efficacious when given alone to patients with essential hypertension who are taking a low sodium diet. Blood pressures were not, however, reduced to normotensive levels. Captopril's hypotensive effect in once daily administration appears to be independent of its effects on circulating angiotensin II. Captopril alone 100 mg/day is thus indicated in essential hypertension and should be prescribed once daily to obtain the best possible compliance.
We investigated the efficacy of oral vitamin B12 (B12) therapy in patients with B12-deficiency anemia. Between June 1994 and June 2000, 17 patients, who were diagnosed as having B12-deficiency anemia and gave their informed consent, were enrolled in this study. Of these patients, 7 were further treated with a maintenance dose of methylcobalamin (1,500 micrograms daily for 7 days every 1-3 months). Correction of hematological and neurological abnormalities was prompt. The hemoglobin level and serum concentration of B12 were normalized within two months after starting the treatment. Recovery from neurological disturbance was observed within one month. To maintain a normal serum concentration of B12, a 7-day regime of administration was needed every month in 3 patients, every 2 months in 3 patients, and every 3 months in 1 patient. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of oral cobalamin therapy, and also that oral intermittent therapy is useful for maintaining a normal serum B12 concentration. Oral cobalamin therapy might be as effective as conventional injection therapy, and useful for long-term treatment.
The human oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (hOGG1) gene encodes a DNA glycosylase that is involved in excision repair of 8-OH-dG (8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanine) from oxidatively damaged DNA. To determine whether hOGG1 has a role in the risk of prostate cancer we screened normal prostate tissue specimens for hOGG1 expression and assessed the role of hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism in the risk of prostate cancer.
In 5 normal prostate tissues hOGG1 expression was determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The prevalence of hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism was compared between white patients cases and controls using polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of genomic DNA isolated from 84 incident patients with primary prostate cancer and 252 individually matched controls (1:3 ratio) by age (+/- 5 years at diagnosis) in white men.
In all prostate tissues tested hOGG1 mRNA was detected. A significant association was found between hOGG1 genotypes and prostate cancer with a dose effect relationship (trend test p <0.003). A significantly increased risk of prostate cancer was observed for subjects with hOGG1(326Cys) allele (ORadj 2.1, 95% CI 1.2-3.8).
These results suggest that hOGG1 may have a role in the repair of 8-OH-dG adducts in prostate tissue and hOGG1 Ser326Cys polymorphism is associated with prostate cancer risk.
The metal binding protein metallothionein (MT) confers drug resistance when MT is induced in tumor tissues. Cisplatin is known to induce MT synthesis in tumor tissues, which may lead to drug resistance. We examined whether a difference in the administration schedule of cisplatin affect the efficiency of MT induction.
Balb/c nude mice were inoculated with NMB-1 human bladder tumor tissues and injected with cisplatin (total dose of 64 micromol/kg) in a single injection or fractioned daily injections. Tumor MT concentration was determined 24 hours after the last injection of cisplatin by mercury binding assay. The effect of pretreatment with ZnCl2 on antitumor activity of cisplatin was examined in NMB-1 bearing mice.
Tumor MT levels increased significantly with the increase in the number of cisplatin injections. Pretreatment of NMB-1 bearing mice with ZnCl2 (200 micromol/kg x 2) caused the same level of MT induction (1.6-fold) as that of fractioned injections of cisplatin (4 x 16 micromol/kg). Pretreatment of NMB-1 bearing mice with ZnCl2 (200 micromol/kg x 2) depressed cisplatin antitumor activity by about 50%.
The induction of MT to a moderate extent (1.6-fold) in NMB-1 tumor inoculated in mice conferred cisplatin resistance. This level of MT induction can be achieved by fractioned daily injections of cisplatin but not by a single injection. Therefore, it is preferable to administer cisplatin as a single injection rather than as fractioned injections to achieve effective antitumor activity with minimum MT induction.
Recent studies have demonstrated that cannabinoid-1 (CB(1)) receptor blockade ameliorated inflammation, endothelial and/or cardiac dysfunction, and cell death in models of nephropathy, atherosclerosis and cardiomyopathy. However the role of CB(1) receptor signalling in diabetic retinopathy remains unexplored. Using genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of the CB(1) receptor with SR141716 (rimonabant) in a rodent model of diabetic retinopathy or in human primary retinal endothelial cells (HREC) exposed to high glucose, we explored the role of CB(1) receptors in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy.
Diabetes was induced using streptozotocin in C57BL/6J Cb(1) (also known as Cnr1)(+/+) and Cb(1)(-/-) mice aged 8 to 12 weeks. Samples from mice retina or HREC were used to determine: (1) apoptosis; (2) activity of nuclear factor kappa B, intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 (VCAM-1), poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase and caspase-3; (3) content of 3-nitrotyrosine and reactive oxygen species; and (4) activation of p38/Jun N-terminal kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK).
Deletion of CB(1) receptor or treatment of diabetic mice with CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716 prevented retinal cell death. Treatment of diabetic mice or HREC cells exposed to high glucose with SR141716 attenuated the oxidative and nitrative stress, and reduced levels of nuclear factor κB, ICAM-1 and VCAM-1. In addition, SR141716 attenuated the diabetes- or high glucose-induced pro-apoptotic activation of MAPK and retinal vascular cell death.
Activation of CB(1) receptors may play an important role in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy by facilitating MAPK activation, oxidative stress and inflammatory signalling. Conversely, CB(1) receptor inhibition may be beneficial in the treatment of this devastating complication of diabetes.
We investigated whether propofol at a sedative dose can prevent intestinal mucosa ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, and if propofol can attenuate oxidative stress and increases in nitric oxide (NO) and endothelin-1 (ET-1) release that may occur during intestinal I/R injury.
Rats were randomly allocated into one of five groups (n=10 each): (i) sham control; (ii) injury (one hour superior mesenteric artery occlusion followed by three hours reperfusion); (iii) propofol pre-treatment, with propofol given 30 min before inducing intestinal ischemia; (iv) simultaneous propofol treatment, with propofol given 30 min before intestinal reperfusion was started; (v) propofol post-treatment, with propofol given 30 min after intestinal reperfusion was initiated. In the treatment groups, propofol 50 mg x kg(-1) was administrated intraperitoneally. Animals in the control and untreated injury groups received equal volumes of intralipid (the vehicle solution of propofol) intraperitoneally. Intestinal mucosa histology was analyzed by Chiu's scoring assessment. Levels of lactic acid (LD), NO, ET-1, lipid peroxidation product malondialdehyde (MDA) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in intestinal mucosa were determined.
Histological results showed severe damage in the intestinal mucosa of the injury group accompanied by increases in MDA, NO and ET-1 and a decrease in SOD activity. Propofol treatments, especially pre-treatment, significantly reduced Chiu's scores and levels of MDA, NO, ET-1 and LD, while restoring SOD activity.
These findings indicate that propofol attenuates intestinal I/R-induced mucosal injury in an animal model. The response may be attributable to propofol's antioxidant properties, and the effects of inhibiting over-production of NO and in decreasing ET-1 levels.
A major correlation has been found between the incidence of glucocorticoid-induced cleft palate and the chromosome 8 segment identified by N-acetyl transferase in mice. The resistant strain became fully susceptible while the susceptible strain became resistant when this chromosomal region, representing less than 0.7% of the genome, was transferred from one strain to the other by the construction of congenic strains. 6-Aminonicotinamide-induced cleft palate and phenytoin-induced cleft lip with or without cleft palate are also influenced by this genetic region but not as strongly. In both cases the susceptible strain became quite resistant to the teratogen-induced clefting when the N-acetyl transferase region of chromosome 8 was transferred. However, this chromosomal region does not make the resistant strain susceptible to these two teratogens.
Mild-to-moderate essential hypertensive patients (255) were assigned to receive hydrochlorothiazide 15 mg three times a day, captopril 25 mg three times a day, or both. A significant decline in blood pressure was seen in 84% of patients taking both agents, while 43% of those taking captopril and 64% of those taking hydrochlorothiazide showed a significant blood pressure response. Among white hypertensives receiving captopril alone, a normalization of blood pressure occurred in 46% and a significant reduction in 8% was observed which was significantly (p less than 0.05) higher than that observed in black subjects where only 31% showed a normalization of their pressure with captopril alone. With hydrochlorothiazide, 53% of blacks and 54% of whites showed normalization of their pressures. With the combination, over 80% of the patients in both racial groups demonstrated a normalization or significant reduction in blood pressure. With hydrochlorothiazide alone, significant (p less than 0.05) decreases in serum potassium, increases in uric acid, blood glucose, and blood cholesterol were seen. With captopril alone, no changes in any of these measurements were observed. When captopril was added to hydrochlorothiazide, a significant attenuation of the diuretic effect on potassium and uric acid was observed, and the significant change in blood sugar and cholesterol seen with the diuretic alone was prevented. These observations suggest that there are heterogeneous responses to hypertensive monotherapy based on race. Furthermore, it suggests that when a single therapeutic agent is not adequate in controlling blood pressure to the desired levels, the addition of either hydrochlorothiazide or captopril should produce a further reduction in blood pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia is known as involuntary debilitating movement, which limits quality of life in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease. The present study focuses on the role of the neurotransmitter noradrenaline (NA) on dyskinetic movements in comparison to the effect of l-DOPA. Rats were unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine and treated with l-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg, p.o.) to induce stable dyskinetic movements. On the day of the experiment, NA (0.04 nmol/min, 0.4 nmol/min) and l-DOPA (0.04 nmol/min, 0.4 nmol/min) were perfused into the lesioned and non-lesioned striatum of dyskinetic rats using the reverse in vivo microdialysis technique. Neither NA nor l-DOPA treatment of the non-lesioned striatum produced any dyskinetic behavior. In contrast, administration of l-DOPA 0.4 nmol/min into the lesioned striatum led to a significant increase in dyskinesia indicated by abnormal axial, limb and orolingual movements. Notably, perfusion with NA 0.4 nmol/min into the lesioned striatum revealed a highly significant induction of dyskinetic movements, which are similar to the dyskinesia subtype profile of l-DOPA. In conclusion, NA is as potent as l-DOPA to express dyskinetic movements in l-DOPA-primed rats.
We gained insight into the effect of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and subsequent surgery in patients with bladder cancer with tumor positive lymph nodes.
A total of 52 patients with histologically proven positive lymph nodes (by lymph node dissection or aspiration cytology) were treated with chemotherapy and post-chemotherapy surgery in case of partial or complete response. We evaluated response in the primary tumor and lymph nodes, long-term clinical outcome, and clinicopathological features potentially predictive of survival.
Complete response, partial response and stable/progressive disease were attained in 29%, 57% and 14%, and resulted in a 5-year survival of 42%, 19% and 0%, respectively. Objective response (HR 4.1), especially complete response (HR 8.0), was independently associated with survival. The prognostic values of lymph node status and bladder tumor status after methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin were evaluated separately. A tumor negative bladder combined with tumor negative nodes were associated with improved survival (HR 4.4) as was a tumor negative lymph node region in the presence of residual bladder disease (HR 2.8). All patients with post-chemotherapy tumor positive nodes died within 2 years. In resected specimens residual disease was found in 4 of 15 clinically complete responders while no tumor could be detected in 3 of 29 clinically assessed as partial responders.
Response to chemotherapy is associated with improved survival, and our data suggest that lymph node status after methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin is more important than local tumor status in this aspect. In the absence of reliable noninvasive methods, post-chemotherapy surgery in this series was the most adequate method of response evaluation and in limited partial responders led to long-term progression-free survival.
Ectoparasites pose numerous research, health, and management problems for researchers and institutions. Our facility management experience was complicated by recurrence of murine fur mite (Radfordia affinis) infestation after several rounds of single-mode fur mite treatment with dichlorvos in the cage bedding. Subsequently, we successfully eradicated the fur mites using a multidrug therapeutic protocol. Over an 8-wk treatment period, 2 applications of topical selamectin were administered in conjunction with amitraz- and fipronil-treated nestlets changed weekly. Mice tolerated the therapy well with no side effects noted, and to date there has been no recrudescence. To our knowledge, this report is the first to describe combined use of these specific therapeutic agents to control fur mite infestation in laboratory mice.
Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) was recently demonstrated to be an effective inducer of apoptosis in patients with relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) as well as in patients with APL in whom all-trans-retinoic acid and conventional chemotherapy failed. Chronic myelogenous leukemia cells are highly resistant to chemotherapeutic drugs. To determine if As(2)O(3) might be useful for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia, we examined the ability of As(2)O(3) to induce apoptosis in K562 cells. In vitro cytotoxicity of As(2)O(3) was evaluated in K562 cells by a MTT assay; the IC(50) value for As(2)O(3) was determined to be 10 microM. When analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis, the DNA fragments became evident after incubation of the cells with 20 microM As(2)O(3) for 24 h. We also found morphological changes and chromatin condensation of the cells undergoing apoptosis. Activation of caspase-3 was observed 6 h after treatment with 20 microM As(2)O(3) by a Western blot analysis. Next, we examined the MAP kinase-signaling pathway of As(2)O(3)-induced apoptosis in K562 cells. As(2)O(3) at 10 microM strongly induced the activation of p38 and JNK 1/2, while ERK 1/2 was inhibited. In addition, pretreatment of SB203580, a specific inhibitor of p38, inhibited As(2)O(3) induced apoptotic cell death. These results suggest that As(2)O(3) is able to induce the apoptotic activity in K562 cells, and its apoptotic mechanism may be associated with the activation of p38.
Intracerebroventricularly applied pilocarpine (2.4 mg/2 microliters) immediately produced symptoms of epilepsy, ranging from akinesia to motor seizures, in rats. Whereas ACTH-(1-39), ACTH-(1-24), ACTH-(1-18), ACTH-(1-16) and ACTH-(18-39) were not active, subcutaneous pretreatment with smaller ACTH-like fragments, such as ACTH-(4-9), ACTH-(4-10), ACTH-(4-10)(7D-Phe), ACTH-(7-16), and Org2766, reduced the severity of the epilepsy. Moreover, fewer rats developed motor seizures. Thus, ACTH fragments devoid of peripheral endocrine activity reduce pilocarpine-induced epileptiform activity in rats. A narrow bell-shaped dose-response relationship was found. Except for ACTH-(7-16), which was active in a dose of 1 and 10 micrograms/rat s.c., the other fragments were only active at one dose (10 micrograms/rat). The anti-epileptic properties appeared to reside in the sequence 1-16, and more specifically in the sequences 4-7 and 7-16, of the ACTH molecule.
