We describe the imaging findings in an unusual case of biopsy-proven, methotrexate-induced leukoencephalopathy complicating a malfunctioning Ommaya reservoir in a patient with lymphoma.
Benzodiazepine withdrawal is accompanied by a risk of seizures, delirium, and death. While a gradual outpatient taper off of benzodiazepines is the most commonly recommended method for discontinuation, acute inpatient detoxification and seizure prophylaxis may be necessary for some. Complications related to the use of valproic acid for seizure prophylaxis are presented.
The study's objectives are to highlight an uncommon and possibly unrecognized complication of valproic acid when used for seizure prophylaxis during acute inpatient detoxification from benzodiazepines in the context of current practice.
Case series.
Three patients with hyperammoneic encephalopathy are described.
Hyperammoneic encephalopathy can occur as a distinct entity separate from hepatotoxicity with the use of valproic acid and may be an unrecognized complication among patients receiving this drug during benzodiazepine detoxification.
A previously unreported complication among the addiction patient population is reported. This underscores the need for a better evidence base regarding the prevention of seizures during acute benzodiazepine detoxification, particularly in terms of indications, safety, and efficacy.
To report a case of a patient with tremor associated with chronic inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy (CIDP) that improved after treatment with pregabalin.
A 68-year-old man diagnosed as having CIDP at age 63 years developed postural and kinetic tremor in both hands at age 64 years. Tremor did not improve with propranolol, primidone, phenobarbital, clonazepam, alprazolam, gabapentin, and topiramate, but improved markedly with pregabalin. Tremor worsened after pregabalin withdrawal and improved again after its reintroduction.
Pregabalin could be useful in the treatment of postural tremor associated with CIDP resistant to other therapies.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a widely used antitumor drug, but its application is limited because of its cardiotoxic side effects. Heat shock protein (Hsp)20 has been recently shown to protect cardiomyocytes against apoptosis, induced by ischemia/reperfusion injury or by prolonged beta-agonist stimulation. However, it is not clear whether Hsp20 would exert similar protective effects against DOX-induced cardiac injury. Actually, DOX treatment was associated with downregulation of Hsp20 in the heart. To elucidate the role of Hsp20 in DOX-triggered cardiac toxicity, Hsp20 was first overexpressed ex vivo by adenovirus-mediated gene delivery. Increased Hsp20 levels conferred higher resistance to DOX-induced cell death, compared to green fluorescent protein control. Furthermore, cardiac-specific overexpression of Hsp20 in vivo significantly ameliorated acute DOX-triggered cardiomyocyte apoptosis and animal mortality. Hsp20 transgenic mice also showed improved cardiac function and prolonged survival after chronic administration of DOX. The mechanisms underlying these beneficial effects were associated with preserved Akt phosphorylation/activity and attenuation of DOX-induced oxidative stress. Coimmunoprecipitation studies revealed an interaction between Hsp20 and phosphorylated Akt. Accordingly, BAD phosphorylation was preserved, and cleaved caspase-3 was decreased in DOX-treated Hsp20 transgenic hearts, consistent with the antiapoptotic effects of Hsp20. Parallel ex vivo experiments showed that either infection with a dominant-negative Akt adenovirus or preincubation of cardiomyocytes with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitors significantly attenuated the protective effects of Hsp20. Taken together, our findings indicate that overexpression of Hsp20 inhibits DOX-triggered cardiac injury, and these beneficial effects appear to be dependent on Akt activation. Thus, Hsp20 may constitute a new therapeutic target in ameliorating the cardiotoxic effects of DOX treatment in cancer patients.
The effects of selective opioid receptor antagonists, beta-funaltrexamine (selective for mu receptor), naloxonazine (microliter) and naltrindole (delta) on morphine-induced changes in striatal and limbic dopamine (DA) metabolism were studied in rats. beta-Funaltrexamine (20 micrograms intracerebroventricularly) and naloxonazine (15 mg/kg intraperitoneally) were given 24 hr before morphine (15 mg/kg subcutaneously), and the rats were decapitated 60 min. after morphine. Naltrindole (1 mg/kg intraperitoneally) was given twice, 15 min. before and after morphine. Morphine significantly increased the concentrations of DA metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA). This effect was significantly antagonized by pretreatment with beta-funaltrexamine but not by naloxonazine or naltrindole. However, naloxonazine attenuated the antinociceptive effect of morphine in the hot-plate test. The concentration of DA was not significantly altered by any of the drugs studied. These results show that selective blockade of mu-opioid receptors totally blocks the increase of striatal and limbic DA metabolism induced by morphine. It seems that mu 2-subtype of mu-opioid receptor predominantly mediates this effect. Blockade of delta-opioid receptor did not alter these effects of morphine.
Delayed pulmonary toxicity syndrome after high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and autologous hematopoietic support occurs in up to 64% of women with advanced-stage breast cancer. Using a similar, but nonmyeloablative, HDC treatment regimen in mice, we found both immediate and persistent lung injury, coincident with marked decreases in lung tissue glutathione reductase activity and accompanied by increases in lung oxidized glutathione, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) lipid peroxidation, and BAL total cell counts. Most interestingly, at 6 wk, BAL total cell counts had increased fourfold, with lymphocyte cell counts increasing >11-fold. A single supplemental dose of glutathione prevented early lung injury at 48 h but showed no lung-protective effects at 6 wk, whereas single doses of other thiol-sparing agents (Ethyol and glutathione monoethyl ester) showed no benefit. These data suggest that this HDC regimen results in acute and persistent lung toxicity, induced in part by oxidative stress, that culminates with an acute lung cellular inflammatory response. Continuous glutathione supplementation and/or attenuation of the delayed pulmonary inflammatory response may prove beneficial in preventing lung toxicity after the use of these chemotherapeutic agents.
In order to study the effects of nicotine on liver, groups of rats were given nicotine doses that simulated those seen in chronic smoking (54 and 108 mumol/l of nicotine) for 10 days. A subgroup was also given a single subcutaneous injection of 6 g/kg of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) shortly before the animals of the group were killed. Histology demonstrated a significant hepatotoxic effect in the group receiving 108 mumol/l of nicotine when compared with the control group in the form of fatty change, focal or confluent necrosis and dark-cell change. The effects in pregnant rats were less severe. Carbon tetrachloride alone induced significant fatty change and focal necrosis in non-pregnant rats but not in pregnant rats. Nicotine also aggravated the CCl4 induced pathological changes in livers of both non-pregnant and pregnant animals. Thus nicotine alone, when given at a concentration of 108 mumol/l, exerted hepatotoxic effects; the alkaloid also aggravated the hepatotoxicity of CCl4. Pregnant rats were more resistant to the hepatotoxic effects produced by nicotine and CCl4.
Damage to the human adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene is responsible for not only familial adenomatous polyposis but also many sporadic cancers of the entire digestive tract. Using homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells, we recently constructed gene knockout mice with a truncation mutation in the Apc gene. These heterozygous mice developed intestinal polyps. We found that all microadenomas dissected from the earliest polyps had already lost the wild-type allele, indicating loss of heterozygosity (LOH) (Oshima et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92:4482-4486, 1995). Using these knockout mice, we investigated the effects of 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhlP), one of the most abundant heterocyclic amines found in cooked meat and fish. When PhIP was fed to these mice at 400 ppm for 8 wk, the polyp distribution shifted to a larger size range, although the total polyp number did not change significantly. Similar, but weaker, effects were observed with the other heterocyclic amines 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline and 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline. On the other hand, intraperitoneal injections of 2-hydroxyamino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (N-OH-PhlP) at a higher dose (50 mg/kg) for five consecutive days increased the polyp number significantly. This increment was not associated with mutations in the Apc gene; however, most polyps showed loss of the full-length Apc allele (LOH). These results suggest that PhIP affects intestinal polyp development by accelerating the growth rate of microadenomas. It is also possible that high doses of N-OH-PhIP increase the frequency of Apc gene LOH.
The B cell, a major component of humoral immunity, is a sensitive target for the immunotoxic effects of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), possibly by rendering cells less responsive to antigenic or mitogenic stimulation. Potential mechanisms of TCDD action on B cells were examined in murine B cell lymphoma cells (CH12.LX) treated with 3 nM TCDD or dimethyl sulfoxide vehicle using sequence-verified cDNA microarrays. One transcript that was significantly induced by TCDD was suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 (Socs2). Changes in Socs2 mRNA levels paralleled that of Cyp1a1 with a maximal 3-fold induction observed at 4 h, as determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Socs2 induction seems B cell-specific, because no induction was observed in TCDD-responsive mouse hepatoma cells or human breast cancer cells. TCDD-mediated induction of Socs2 mRNA was dose-dependent and exhibited the characteristic structure-activity relationships observed for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligands 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB-126), indolo[3,2-b]-carbazole, and beta-naphthoflavone. Experiments with cycloheximide and AhR-deficient B cells indicated that Socs2 mRNA induction is a primary effect that is AhR-dependent. Western blot analysis confirmed that Socs2 and Cyp1a1 protein levels were also induced in CH12.LX cells. Promoter analysis revealed the presence of four dioxin-response elements within 1000 base pairs upstream of the Socs2 transcriptional start site, and a reporter gene regulated by the Socs2 promoter was inducible by TCDD. Promoter activity was also dependent on a functional AhR signaling pathway. These results indicate that Socs2 is a primary TCDD-inducible gene that may represent a novel mechanism by which TCDD elicits its immunosuppressive effects.
In 14 patients with tuberculosis treated with ethambutol hydrochloride, pattern-reversal visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were recorded to monocular, whole-field stimulation before the commencement of treatment and one month and three months subsequently. In six subjects, the VEPs showed changes in the latency and amplitude of the P100 component at the one- or three-month interval. In three cases, the VEP changes reversed after cessation of treatment. In five of the six cases, changes were not associated with a change in visual function, as measured by clinical neuro-ophthalmologic examination. Our findings confirm the usefulness of VEPs in the detection of subclinical optic nerve disease and suggest their use in routine monitoring of ocular function in patients treated with ethambutol.
1. Mice homozygous for a targeted mutation of the Hoxa-2 gene are born with a bilateral cleft of the secondary palate associated with multiple head and cranial anomalies and these animals die within 24 hr of birth (Gendron-Maguire et al., 1993; Rijli et al., 1993; Mallo and Gridley, 1996). We have determined the spatial and temporal expression of the Hoxa-2 homeobox protein in the developing mouse palate at embryonic stages E12, E13, E13.5, E14, E14.5, and E15. 2. Hoxa-2 is expressed in the mesenchyme and epithelial cells of the palate at E12, but is progressively restricted to the tips of the growing palatal shelves at E13. 3. By the E13.5 stage of development, Hoxa-2 protein was found to be expressed throughout the palatal shelf. These observations correlate with palatal shelf orientation and Hoxa-2 protein may play a direct or indirect role in guiding the palatal shelves vertically along side the tongue, starting with the tips of the palatal shelves at E13, followed by the entire palatal shelf at E13.5. 4. As development progresses to E14, the stage at which shelf elevation occurs, Hoxa-2 protein is downregulated in the palatal mesenchyme but remains in the medial edge epithelium. Expression of Hoxa-2 continues in the medial edge epithelium until the fusion of opposing palatal shelves. 5. By the E15 stage of development, Hoxa-2 is downregulated in the palate and expression is localized in the nasal and oral epithelia. 6. In an animal model of phenytoin-induced cleft palate, we report that Hoxa-2 mRNA and protein expression were significantly decreased, implicating a possible functional role of the Hoxa-2 gene in the development of phenytoin-induced cleft palate. 7. A recent report by Barrow and Capecchi (1999), has illustrated the importance of tongue posture during palatal shelf closure in Hoxa-2 mutant mice. This along with our new findings of the expression of the Hoxa-2 protein during palatogenesis has shed some light on the putative role of this gene in palate development.
The antihypertensive effect of the selective beta-1-adrenoceptor blocker, metoprolol, administered once daily was evaluated in 32 patients with primary hypertension. After a 4-wk placebo period, the patients were treated with either 150 mg or 300 mg of metoprolol, once daily, for 8 wk. Initially and during the treatment periods blood was drawn for analysis of metoprolol in plasma, plasma renin activity (PRA), and electrolytes, and urine was collected for determination of the urinary aldosterone excretion. Metoprolol reduced the blood pressure measured up to 26 hr after the last dose. The percentage of responders to metoprolol (decrease of mean arterial pressure greater than or equal to 10% over placebo) was 40% for patients on 150 mg and 71% for patients on 300 mg. Except in the standing position, heart rates were reduced for 26 hr after a 150-mg dose. There was a correlation between pretreatment PRA levels and antihypertensive effect of metoprolol in patients on 300 mg metoprolol but not in patients on 150 mg. Urinary aldosterone decreased equally during treatment in responders and nonresponders. Antihypertensive effects and side effects did not correlate with plasma metoprolol concentrations.
Cisplatin-induced anemia may correlate with adverse events, poor quality of life (QoL), decreased adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) dose intensity, shorter relapse-free survival (RFS) or overall survival (OS).
The JBR.10 trial demonstrated significantly longer survival with adjuvant cisplatin and vinorelbine (n=242) compared to observation (n=240) in patients with resected NSCLC [Winton T, Livingston R, Johnson D, Rigas J, Johnston M, Butts C, et al. Vinorelbine plus cisplatin vs. observation in resected non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;352(25):2640-2]. This exploratory analysis evaluates the predictive value of baseline (in all patients) and during-treatment (in ACT arm only) hemoglobin (Hb) levels on OS and RFS when adjusted for prognostic factors. Baseline (in all patients) and during treatment (in ACT arm only) Hb levels were also correlated with adverse events, QoL, morbidity and ACT dose intensity.
Baseline Hb did not predict RFS or OS. However, there was a trend to shorter OS (p=0.1) when baseline Hb was <120g/L. Lower baseline Hb predicted increased hospitalization (p=0.04) and worse QoL (SOB item, p=0.03) but had no impact on adverse events or dose intensity. There was a trend to longer RFS (p=0.08) in patients with lower nadir during-treatment Hb and to longer OS (p=0.06) and RFS (p=0.08) in patients with maximum during-treatment Hb drop >30% that was not maintained when ACT dose intensity was included in the model. Maximum during-treatment Hb drop >30% correlated with increased lethargy (p=0.003) and worse QoL (fatigue item, p=0.07).
Lower baseline and during-treatment Hb levels seem associated with poorer QoL, fatigue and increased hospitalization. There is a trend for shorter OS in patients with lower baseline Hb levels.
The effects of nimodipine on the cocaine-induced alterations in blood pressure, heart rate, and plasma catecholamines were studied in the squirrel monkey. Cocaine in intravenously administered doses of 0.5, 1, and 2 mg/kg produced significant increases in blood pressure and significant decreases in heart rate. These cardiovascular changes were associated with transient episodes of arrhythmias and with significant increases in plasma concentrations of dopamine, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. Nimodipine, 1 micrograms/kg/min for 5 min administered intravenously 5 min after cocaine, corrects the cardiovascular and plasma catecholamine concentration changes induced by this alkaloid. The same dose of nimodipine administered 5 min before cocaine prevents elevations of blood pressure. Plasma catecholamine increments are also prevented except for the highest dose of cocaine. Cardiovascular changes induced by cocaine administration in the squirrel monkey are temporally associated with significant increments in plasma catecholamines. Administration of nimodipine prevents or minimizes these endocrine and physiologic changes.
Sinus tachycardia is a common complication of beta-adrenergic agonist therapy. A new selective bradycardic agent, N-allyl-clonidine, or alinidine, has been found effective against sinus tachycardia caused by a variety of stimuli. To determine whether it would also control catecholamine-induced sinus tachycardia, the effects of alinidine in two groups of anesthetized dogs treated with either dobutamine, 10 microg/ kg/min, or isoproterenol, 0.1 microg/kg/min, were studied. In both groups, alinidine significantly reduced the heart rate (P < .0001 in the dobutamine group, and P < .005 in the isoproterenol-infused dogs). The other hemodynamic effects of dobutamine were not adversely affected by alinidine, while the isoproterenol-infused dogs had a further afterload reduction when treated with alinidine. It is concluded that alinidine is effective against catecholamine-induced sinus tachycardia, possibly through mechanisms not related to beta-adrenergic receptors.
The contribution of striatal protein kinase C (PKC) isoform changes in levodopa (L-DOPA) induced motor response complications in parkinsonian rats was investigated and the ability of tamoxifen, an antiestrogen with a partial PKC antagonist property, to prevent these response alterations in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rats as well as in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treated cynomologous monkeys was studied. Following treatment of adult male rats with L-DOPA twice daily for 3 weeks, protein levels of left (lesioned) and right (intact) striatal PKC isoforms were measured. Western blot analysis showed increased protein expression of both the novel PKC epsilon isoform and the atypical PKC lambda isoform ipsilateral to the lesion (174+/-17% for epsilon, 140+/-9% for lambda, of intact striatum in 6-OHDA lesioned plus chronic L-DOPA treated animals) in acute L-DOPA treated rats. No enhancement was observed in PKC immunoreactivity for other isoforms. Tamoxifen (5.0 mg/kg p.o.) significantly attenuated the L-DOPA induced augmentation of protein expression of PKC epsilon and PKC lambda, but had no effect on immunoreactivity for other PKC isoforms. In chronic L-DOPA treated parkinsonian rats, tamoxifen prevented (5.0 mg/kg p.o.) as well as ameliorated (5.0 mg/kg p.o.) the characteristic shortening in duration of motor response to L-DOPA challenge. In MPTP lesioned primates, similar to the ameliorative effect seen in rats, tamoxifen (1 and 3 mg/kg p.o) reduced the appearance of L-DOPA induced dyskinesia by 61% and 55% respectively (p<0.05). These results suggest that changes in specific striatal PKC isoforms contribute to the pathogenesis of L-DOPA induced motor complications and further that drugs able to selectively inhibit these signaling kinases might provide adjunctive benefit in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
We examined the effects of troglitazone on expression of E-cadherin and claudin 4 in human pancreatic cancer cells. Troglitazone dose-dependently increased expression of E-cadherin and claudin 4 mRNA and protein in PK-1 cells. Snail, Slug and ZEB1, mRNAs were not changed by troglitazone, indicating that these three transcriptional repressors would not play a role in the induction of E-cadherin by troglitazone. GW9662, a PPARgamma antagonist, failed to block the increased expression of E-cadherin or claudin 4 mRNA, suggesting a PPARgamma-independent pathway. A MEK inhibitor, U0126, increased E-cadherin or claudin 4 mRNA and protein expression, and potently inhibited cell invasion. Because troglitazone down-regulates MEK-ERK signaling and inhibit cell invasion in PK-1 as shown in our previous study, these results suggest that troglitazone increases expression of E-cadherin and claudin 4 possibly through inhibition of MEK-ERK signaling in pancreatic cancer cells, which might be involved in the troglitazone-induced inhibition of cell invasive activity.
A 70-year-old man developed severe immune intravascular hemolysis and renal failure following ingestion of fenoprofen, a nonsteroidal, anti-inflammatory drug. The patient's red blood cells were sensitized with both IgG and C3d. The serum reacted with normal red blood cells in the presence and absence of the drug. Addition of albumin to the serum inhibited the reactivity with both neat and drug-treated serum. These atypical serologic findings for drug-related immune hemolytic anemia were explained by (1) the measurement of fenoprofen by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) in the neat serum; and (2) solid-phase adsorption studies showing that albumin can bind drug, leading to the disappearance of agglutination when albumin is added. This case demonstrates the utility of drug levels and adsorption techniques to confirm the diagnosis of drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia despite the anomalous serologic results which obscured the diagnosis and management of the patient.
Autism is a highly heritable disorder but the specific genes involved remain largely unknown. The higher prevalence of autism in men than in women, in conjunction with a number of other observations, has led to the suggestion that prenatal brain exposure to androgens may be of importance for the development of this condition. Prompted by this hypothesis, we investigated the potential influence of variation in the androgen receptor (AR) gene on the susceptibility for autism. To this end, 267 subjects with autism spectrum disorder and 617 controls were genotyped for three polymorphisms in exon 1 of the AR gene: the CAG repeat, the GGN repeat and the rs6152 SNP. In addition, parents and affected siblings were genotyped for 118 and 32 of the cases, respectively. Case-control comparisons revealed higher prevalence of short CAG alleles as well as of the A allele of the rs6152 SNP in female cases than in controls, but revealed no significant differences with respect to the GGN repeat. Analysis of the 118 families using transmission disequilibrium test, on the other hand, suggested an association with the GGN polymorphism, the rare 20-repeat allele being undertransmitted to male cases and the 23-repeat allele being overtransmitted to female cases. Sequencing of the AR gene in 46 patients revealed no mutations or rare variants. The results lend some support for an influence of the studied polymorphisms on the susceptibility for autism, but argue against the possibility that mutations in the AR gene are common in subjects with this condition.
In fifteen patients with uncomplicated essential hypertension verapamil reduced systolic as well as diastolic blood pressure by virtue of a decrease in total peripheral vascular resistance. Renal vascular resistance also fell, but renal perfusion was well maintained. Although levels of renin and angiotensin II remained unchanged, aldosterone levels fell significantly. Noradrenaline levels rose slightly, but changes were not significant. On the other hand adrenaline was significantly reduced. Renal sodium excretion was markedly enhanced, perhaps secondary to aldosterone suppression. Despite sodium loss, plasma volume increased suggesting that verapamil not only lowers arterial but also venous resistance.
Previously we have shown that cholesterol-rich microemulsions that bind to LDL receptors have the ability to concentrate in acute myeloid leukemia cells and in ovarian and breast carcinomas. Thus, LDE may be used as a vehicle for drugs directed against neoplastic cells. Indeed, we subsequently showed that when carmustine is associated with LDE the toxicity of the drug is significantly reduced in patients with advanced cancers. The aim of the present study was to verify whether LDE may be taken up by multiple myeloma cells and whether patients with multiple myeloma respond to treatment with LDE associated with carmustine.
A total of 131 consecutive volunteer patients with recently diagnosed multiple myeloma classified as clinical stage IIIA had their plasma lipid profile determined. LDE plasma kinetics were performed in 14 of them. Cell uptake of LDE and the cytotoxicity of carmustine associated with the emulsion were evaluated in a multiple myeloma cell line. A pharmacokinetic study of LDE-carmustine was performed in three patients. Finally, an exploratory clinical study of LDE-carmustine (carmustine dose 180 mg/m(2) body surface every 4 weeks) was performed in seven untreated multiple myeloma patients.
LDL cholesterol was lower in the 131 multiple myeloma patients than in healthy controls and the fractional clearance rate (FCR, in units per minute) in the 14 multiple myeloma patients was twice that in 14 paired healthy control subjects. Moreover, entry of LDE into multiple myeloma cells was shown to be mediated by LDL receptors. Taken together, these findings indicate that LDE may target multiple myeloma. The exploratory clinical study showed that gammaglobulin decreased by 10-70% (mean 36%) after three cycles and by 25-75% (mean 44%) after six cycles. Furthermore, there was amelioration of symptoms in all patients. Cholesterol concentrations increased after treatment, suggesting that the treatment resulted in at least partial destruction of neoplastic cells with receptor upregulation. Side effects of the treatment were negligible.
Because it targets multiple myeloma and, when associated with an antineoplastic agent, produces therapeutic responses in patients with fewer side effects, LDE has the potential for use as a drug vehicle in the treatment of the disease.
U-90042 is a structurally novel compound that has comparable affinities for binding to three recombinant subtypes of the gamma-aminobutyric acidA receptor: alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2, alpha 3 beta 2 gamma 2 and alpha 6 beta 2 gamma 2. The relatively high affinity for the alpha 6 beta 2 gamma 2 subtype is similar to the benzodiazepine (BZ) partial inverse agonist Ro 15-4513 and different from BZ sedative/hypnotics such as diazepam and zolpidem. In the present study, U-90042 (3 mg/kg i.p.) suppressed locomotor activity and impaired rotarod performance in mice. These effects were not antagonized by flumazenil. The sedative effect was further confirmed in rats (10 mg/kg i.p.) and monkeys (1 mg/kg p.o.) by an increase of behavioral sleep and a corresponding electroencephalographic frequency spectral shift. Unlike the BZ hypnotics, U-90042 (10 mg/kg i.p.) produced no amnesia in the one-trial passive avoidance response in mice but antagonized diazepam-induced amnesia. In rats trained to discriminate an injection of diazepam from saline, U-90042 produced predominantly vehicle-appropriate responses, even at depressant doses. The in vivo diazepam-antagonist effect of U-90042 is consistent with its low intrinsic activity and diazepam-antagonism at the gamma-aminobutyric acidA alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2 and alpha 3 beta 2 gamma 2 receptor subtypes. The receptor mechanism for the sedative/hypnotic effect is not clear at this time.
During five alternating three-week periods either methoxyflurane-nitrous oxide or nitrous oxide alone was used for obstetrical analgesia. Delivery ward personnel were followed by venous blood samples once a week. Analyses of blood urea nitrogen, serum uric acid, SGOT and SGPT showed significantly elevated levels three days after exposure to methoxyflurane. This study demonstrates the importance of the scavenging of anesthetic gases to reduce the exposure of personnel to inhalational agents used in delivery suites. Since definite alterations in the indices of both hepatic and renal functions were recognized in obstetrical personnel following exposure, a re-evaluation of the use of methoxyflurane for obstetrical analgesia is suggested.
Fifty-seven patients with bacterial meningitis were treated with once daily ceftriaxone. After an initial loading dose of 100 mg/kg, the patients received 80 mg/kg as a single daily dose. Etiologic agents included: Haemophilus influenzae type b, 37 (11 beta-lactamase-positive); Neisseria meningitidis, 11; Streptococcus pneumoniae, 6; Streptococcus pyogenes, 1; Haemophilus influenzae type f, 1; and Group B Streptococcus, 1. All patients showed clinical improvement and all were bacteriologically cured. Satisfactory cerebrospinal fluid bactericidal activity and drug concentrations were seen 24 hours after a dose even in those patients in whom repeat spinal taps were carried out following the last dose of therapy. The drug was well-tolerated and the major adverse effect seen was diarrhea in 20.4% of the patients. The diarrhea was mild and self-limited and did not necessitate discontinuation of the drug although it was frequently associated with alterations in the stool microbiologic flora. Based on this preliminary experience, ceftriaxone, when given in a single daily dose, appears safe and effective in the treatment of bacterial meningitis in nonneonatal infants and children.
Wilson's disease is an autosomal recessive disorder of hepatic copper metabolism with consequent copper accumulation and toxicity in many tissues and consequent hepatic, neurologic and psychiatric disorders. We report a case of Wilson's disease with chronic liver disease; moreover, in our patient, presenting also with high levels of state anxiety without depression, 99mTc-ECD-SPECT showed cortical hypoperfusion in frontal lobes, more marked on the left frontal lobe. During the follow-up of our patient, penicillamine was interrupted after the appearance of a lichenoid dermatitis, and zinc acetate permitted to continue the successful treatment of the patient without side-effects. In our case the therapy with zinc acetate represented an effective treatment for a Wilson's disease patient in which penicillamine-related side effects appeared. The safety of the zinc acetate allowed us to avoid other potentially toxic chelating drugs; this observation is in line with the growing evidence on the efficacy of the drug in the treatment of Wilson's disease. Since most of Wilson's disease penicillamine-treated patients do not seem to develop this skin lesion, it could be conceivable that a specific genetic factor is involved in drug response. Further studies are needed for a better clarification of Wilson's disease therapy, and in particular to differentiate specific therapies for different Wilson's disease phenotypes.
