Strontium is used in the treatment of osteoporosis as a ranelate compound, and in the treatment of painful scattered bone metastases as isotope. At very high doses and in certain conditions, it can lead to osteomalacia characterized by impairment of bone mineralization. The osteomalacia symptoms resemble those of hypophosphatasia, a rare inherited disorder associated with mutations in the gene encoding for tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP). Human alkaline phosphatases have four metal binding sites--two for zinc, one for magnesium, and one for calcium ion--that can be substituted by strontium. Here we present the crystal structure of strontium-substituted human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP), a related isozyme of TNAP, in which such replacement can have important physiological implications. The structure shows that strontium substitutes the calcium ion with concomitant modification of the metal coordination. The use of the flexible and polarizable force-field TCPEp (topological and classical polarization effects for proteins) predicts that calcium or strontium has similar interaction energies at the calcium-binding site of PLAP. Since calcium helps stabilize a large area that includes loops 210-228 and 250-297, its substitution by strontium could affect the stability of this region. Energy calculations suggest that only at high doses of strontium, comparable to those found for calcium, can strontium substitute for calcium. Since osteomalacia is observed after ingestion of high doses of strontium, alkaline phosphatase is likely to be one of the targets of strontium, and thus this enzyme might be involved in this disease.
The myocardial infarct induced by isoproterenol in spontaneously hypertensive rats accumulates higher activities of 99mTc-PM tetracycline compared with the cardiac infarct in normotensive rats caused by the same method. The isoproterenol model of the myocardial necrosis was induced in intact rats without opening the thorax and is a convenient method for experimental radioisotope studies.
Amitriptyline (Am) is a frequently prescribed tricyclic antidepressant drug associated with an increased risk of sudden death that has been presumed to be arrhythmia related. Little has been known about the effects of Am on left ventricular function. We studied i.v. Am (0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 mg/kg) in 10 conscious, resting, chronically instrumented dogs. Heart rate (HR) increased up to 70%; this increase was only partially prevented by propranolol. Left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) decreased without, but not with, propranolol. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) increased by 10-13% transiently. The maximum rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (dP/dtmax) decreased by 16-18% without propranolol and by 14-29% with propranolol, indicating a moderate decrease in myocardial contractility. Changes in stroke volume were similar to changes in dP/dt. Thus, i.v. Am, at levels similar to therapeutic blood levels, causes a moderate depression of myocardial contractility, which is accentuated by propranolol. Tricyclic antidepressants, therefore, could have adverse effects on cardiac performance in patients with underlying myocardial dysfunction.
Acute antiarrhythmic testing with 200 mg of disopyramide p.o. was performed in two groups of 15 patients each, with a prevalence of ventricular premature depolarization (VPD) exceeding one per minute. Patients in the first group were not receiving cardiac glycosides; those in the second group were on maintenance therapy with oral digoxin. Systolic time intervals (STI) were recorded throughout the test in order to evaluate left ventricular performance. Plasma levels of disopyramide were measured at peak ECG changes and digoxin levels before and 2 h following administration of disopyramide. Only five patients in the first group responded with an 80% or greater reduction in VPD rate and abolition of repetitive forms. In contrast, 13 digitalized patients responded to disopyramide. Mean plasma levels of disopyramide did not differ in the two groups (1.68 and 1.78 microgram/ml, respectively). Digoxin plasma levels in no case exceeded 3 ng/ml and did not change significantly after disopyramide. Significant increases in STI and in the QTC interval were recorded only in patients of the first group. The PR interval was prolonged in both groups, but to a greater extent in patients receiving digoxin. We conclude that digitalization may prevent myocardial functional depression caused by disopyramide and enhance its antiarrhythmic action.
To examine the negative regulation role of PTEN in isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy by testing the expression of PTEN mRNA and protein and to explore the effects of captopril (Cap) on PTEN expression.
Twenty four rats were randomly divided into three groups: control group, ISO group, and ISO+Cap group. The following parameters were examined:body weight (BW), heart weight (HW), left ventricular weight (LVW), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP), left ventricular end-systolic pressure (LVESP) and +/- dp/dt(max). The ratio of HW/BW and LVW/BW was calculated. PTEN mRNA and protein were tested by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively.
(1) Compared with the control group, the ratio of HW/BW and LVW/BW, LVEDP and LVESP were all increased in ISO group and ISO+Cap group (P < 0.05), but +/- dp/dt(max) was decreased (P < 0.05); (2) compared with the ISO group, the ratio of HW/BW and LVW/BW, LVEDP, LVESP were all decreased in ISO+Cap group (P < 0.05), but +/- dp/dt(max) was increased (P < 0.05); (3) compared with the control group, PTEN mRNA and protein were up-regulated in ISO group and ISO+Cap group; (4) compared with the ISO group, PTEN mRNA and protein were up-regulated in ISO+Cap group.
PTEN mRNA and protein are up-regulated in isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Captopril can up-regulate PTEN expression in cardiac hypertrophy. There is a negative regulative mechanism in cardiac hypertrophy process, in which PTEN is probably an endogenous negative regulator of cardiac hypertrophy.
Between 10% and 15% of infants born in urban America today have been exposed to cocaine in utero. Clinical studies have suggested that impairment of brain growth is the single best marker of significant prenatal cocaine exposure, and postnatal developmental compromise seen in a subset of affected children as a consequence of that exposure. We have developed an animal model, in mice, of prenatal cocaine exposure that has allowed us to dissociate the direct effects of cocaine in altering fetal development from the indirect effects associated with cocaine-induced malnutrition. We find that transplacental cocaine exposure independently impairs fetal brain and body growth and results in behavioral deficits and permanent alterations in neocortical cytoarchitecture in exposed offspring.
The appearance of motor fluctuations and dyskinesias in a large number of parkinsonian patients treated with levodopa, has promoted the development of new therapeutical approaches. Deep brain stimulation of subthalamic nucleus and globus pallidus medialis results in a marked improvement of parkinsonism and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. However, this approach does no delay the progression of the disease. Transplantation of dopamine-releasing cells might represent an advantage as these cells could replace the loss of dopaminergic neurons occurring in Parkinson's disease. This article reviews the main results obtained in experimental models of Parkinson's disease and in humans using different types of dopaminergic cells. The advantages and limitations of this treatment are also discussed.
Forty patients with chronic urticaria were treated with terfenadine or astemizole in a randomized double-blind study. The intensity of the symptoms was quantified and documented daily by the patients. Both antihistamines had a clear effect on the intensity of the pruritus and the severity of the wheals. Neither astemizole nor terfenatine produced any sedative side effects.
Recent reports indicate that cocaine metabolites have biologic activity and could be toxic. To explore this possibility, two studies were initiated. The first study aimed to define the distribution of cocaine species by quantifying levels of cocaine and its metabolites norcocaine, benzoylecgonine, and benzoylnorecgonine in newborn cord blood and meconium. The second study sought to determine whether they produced a clinical effect. Compared to cord blood, meconium had a greater number of metabolites and a higher concentration of cocaine metabolites, including the previously undetectable norcocaine and benzoylnorecgonine derivatives. Benzoylecgonine was the most common species found in both sources and was usually lower in concentration in blood. An inverse relation existed between meconium benzoylecgonine levels and the serum catabolic enzyme pseudocholinesterase, implying genetic variability in cocaine metabolism. To determine whether cocaine and/or its metabolites could be linked to a distinct clinical state, a second study focusing on newborn behavior was performed with an independent large cohort of cocaine-exposed infants. Neonates with increased signs of "neuroexcitation" had benzoylecgonine and no cocaine in urine, whereas lethargic neonates had detectable urinary cocaine. These findings support the hypothesis that cocaine metabolites, especially benzoylecgonine, may play a role in altering newborn behavior and produce a clinical syndrome distinct from that related to the parent compound.
Amphotericin B (2.5 mg/kg, administered intravenously) increased vascular resistance (renal more than pulmonary more than systemic) and decreased glomerular filtration and urine flow 94% in 16 anesthetized female mongrel dogs. Dopamine decreased renal vascular resistance 31% in 14 dogs; when amphotericin B was given with dopamine, there was partial antagonism of amphotericin B-induced renal vasoconstriction. Saralasin partially antagonized amphotericin B-induced renal vasoconstriction in seven dogs. When amphotericin B was given during combined infusion of dopamine and saralasin in eight dogs, renal blood flow remained at initial control levels, urine flow increased above initial levels, and glomerular filtration decreased only 21% from initial values. Amphotericin B increased renal vascular resistance 296% when given alone but only 41% in dogs during injection of both dopamine and saralasin (P = 0.002). The antagonism of amphotericin B-induced renal effects by the combination of dopamine and saralasin was significant and specific for the renal vascular bed.
We describe 3 men with moderate to severe essential hypertension in whom ejaculatory failure developed after therapy with labetalol, an antihypertensive drug with alpha-1 and beta-adrenergic blocking properties. No decrease in libido or erectile dysfunction was reported by any of the patients. Previous and subsequent antihypertensive therapy with either alpha or beta-adrenergic blocking agents failed to cause similar symptoms. These findings reveal a unique spectrum of genitourinary dysfunction associated with the multireceptor blocking properties of labetalol.
The hemodynamic effects of dobutamine were compared with those of digoxin in seven patients with severe diffuse dilatative cardiomyopathy. Dobutamine (7.5 micrograms per kg of body wt per min) was given intravenously for 30 min and then discontinued until hemodynamics returned towards base line. Digoxin (12.5 micrograms per kg) was then given intravenously and hemodynamics were recorded for 120 min. Thereafter, dobutamine was again given at the previous dose. Dobutamine increased cardiac and stroke volume index and decreased pulmonary occlusive (wedge) pressure and systemic vascular resistance without changing heart-rate or arterial pressure. Digoxin also increased cardiac and stroke volume index and decreased pulmonary wedge pressure and systemic vascular resistance with digoxin without changing arterial pressure. In contrast to dobutamine, heart-rate was decreased with digoxin indicating reduced myocardial oxygen demand. Re-infusion of dobutamine did not have any notable hemodynamic effect, with the exception of an increase in heart-rate-systolic pressure production. These data indicate that the positive inotropic properties of digoxin and dobutamine are not additive. Furthermore, concerning the effect of digoxin on the heart-rate, its use seems preferable to the use of sympathomimetic agents such as dobutamine, in patients with diffuse chronic dilatative myocardiopathy.
To discover features of patients with theophylline toxicosis among patients who developed convulsions during theophylline administration.
Fifteen patients, whose measured or estimated blood theophylline concentration at the time of convulsion development was >/=40 microg/mL, were extracted out of 334 patients who were reported between October 1987 and April 2004 and who developed convulsions during theophylline administration (oral theophylline: 255 patients; intravenous theophylline: 79 patients). Patient background, state of drug administration, blood theophylline concentration, presence or absence of status epilepticus, and outcome were examined.
Young children and children with fever were predominant, and eight of 15 patients had both features. Furthermore, the dose exceeded the currently recommended target dose in most of patients whose given dose is known. Patients with misdispensing and patients having problems with administration and ingestion methods were included in them. Outcomes included one case of death, two cases of sequelae, 11 cases of recovery or alleviation, and 1 case of unknown. The patient who died took large doses of theophylline, and both of two patients who had sequelae had fever associated with an infection.
Our study revealed 1) heed should be given to the age of the affected child and to theophylline administration when fever is present in order to avoid theophylline toxicosis and 2) many patients with the toxicosis (11/15) present a relatively favorable prognosis.
Acetaminophen (APAP) overdose can result in serious liver injury and potentially death. Toxicity is dependent on metabolism of APAP to a reactive metabolite initiating a cascade of intracellular events resulting in hepatocellular necrosis. This early injury triggers a sterile inflammatory response with formation of cytokines and innate immune cell infiltration in the liver. Recently, IL-1beta signaling has been implicated in the potentiation of APAP-induced liver injury. To test if IL-1beta formation through caspase-1 is critical for the pathophysiology, C57Bl/6 mice were treated with the pan-caspase inhibitor Z-VD-fmk to block the inflammasome-mediated maturation of IL-1beta during APAP overdose (300 mg/kg APAP). This intervention did not affect IL-1beta gene transcription but prevented the increase in IL-1beta plasma levels. However, APAP-induced liver injury and neutrophil infiltration were not affected. Similarly, liver injury and the hepatic neutrophilic inflammation were not attenuated in IL-1-receptor-1 deficient mice compared to wild-type animals. To evaluate the potential of IL-1beta to increase injury, mice were given pharmacological doses of IL-1beta after APAP overdose. Despite increased systemic activation of neutrophils and recruitment into the liver, there was no alteration in injury. We conclude that endogenous IL-1beta formation after APAP overdose is insufficient to activate and recruit neutrophils into the liver or cause liver injury. Even high pharmacological doses of IL-1beta, which induce hepatic neutrophil accumulation and activation, do not enhance APAP-induced liver injury. Thus, IL-1 signaling is irrelevant for APAP hepatotoxicity. The inflammatory cascade is a less important therapeutic target than intracellular signaling pathways to attenuate APAP-induced liver injury.
(1) The three-year results of a clinical trial confirm that raloxifene is the second-line treatment for primary and secondary prevention of vertebral fracture in postmenopausal women at risk of osteoporosis. They also confirm that raloxifene increases the risks of thromboembolism and diabetes.
We report an autosomal recessive lethal syndrome characterized by multiple fetal malformations, the most obvious anomalies being the defective face and seemingly absent limbs, which are bound to the trunk and encased under the skin. We identified the molecular defect that causes this syndrome, using a combined strategy of gene-expression arrays, candidate-gene analysis, clinical studies, and genealogic investigations. A point mutation in two affected fetuses led to the loss of the conserved helix–loop–helix ubiquitous kinase (CHUK), also known as IκB kinase α. CHUK has an essential role in the development of skin epidermis and its derivatives, along with various other morphogenetic events. (Funded by the Academy of Finland and others.).
1,3-butadiene (BD) has been classified as a human carcinogen, however, the relationship between chromosomal damage and its metabolic polymorphisms is not clear. The present study used the CBMN assay to detect chromosomal damage in the peripheral lymphocytes of 166 exposed workers and 41 non-exposed healthy individuals. PCR and PCR-RFLP were applied to detect GSTT1, GSTM1, CYP2E1 c1c2 and mEH Tyr113His, His139Arg polymorphisms. The results demonstrated that the micronucleus (MN) frequency of the exposed workers was significantly higher than controls (P<0.01). Among the exposed workers, the individuals with high BD exposures are more susceptible to chromosomal damage than those with low exposures (FR=1.30, 95% CI 1.14-1.53; P<0.05). Gender-difference was also found in our study: males got lower micronucleus frequency than females. Workers who carried the genotypes of GSTM1 (+), CYP2E1 (c1c2/c2c2) and mEH intermediate (I) group had significantly higher MN frequency than those carrying the genotypes of GSTM1 (-) (FR=1.29, 95% CI 1.05-1.59; P<0.05), CYP2E1 (c1c1) (FR=1.55, 95% CI 1.24-1.93; P<0.01) or mEH high (H) group (FR=1.57, 95% CI 1.08-2.34; P<0.05), respectively. Our data indicated that the current BD exposure level could cause significantly higher MN frequency in workers than controls. Polymorphisms of GSTM1, CYP2E1 and mEH are susceptible to altered chromosome damage.
Sunitinib, which is a multitargeted tyrosine-kinase inhibitor, exhibits antiangiogenic and antitumor activity, and extends survival of patients with metastatic renal-cell carcinoma (mRCC) and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST). This molecule has also been reported to be associated with cardiotoxicity at a high frequency, but the mechanism is still unknown. In the present study, we observed that Sunitinib showed high anti-proliferative effect on H9c2 cardiac muscle cells measured by PI staining and the MTT assay. But apoptotic markers (PARP cleavage, caspase 3 cleavage and chromatin condensation) were uniformly negative in H9c2 cells after Sunitinib treatment for 48 h, indicating that another cell death pathway may be involved in Sunitinib-induced cardiotoxicity. Here we found Sunitinib dramatically increased autophagic flux in H9c2 cells. Acidic vesicle fluorescence and high expression of LC3-II in H9c2 cells identified autophagy as a Sunitinib-induced process that might be associated with cytotoxicity. Furthermore, knocking down Beclin 1 by RNA-interference to block autophagy in H9c2 cells revealed that the death rate was decreased when treated with Sunitinib in comparison to control cells. These results confirmed that autophagy plays an important role in Sunitinib-mediated H9c2 cells cytotoxicity. Taken together, the data presented here strongly suggest that autophagy is associated with Sunitinib-induced cardiotoxicity, and that inhibition of autophagy constitutes a viable strategy for reducing Sunitinib-induced cardiomyocyte death thereby alleviating Sunitinib cardiotoxicity.
Renal papillary necrosis (RPN) is a significant problem in human beings, especially in England and in Australia where it has been reported to account for 15% to 20% of patients needing renal transplants. Many compounds, including aspirin, phenacetin, phenylbutazone, indomethacin, mefenamic acid, flufenamic acid, fenoprofin, naproxen, and ibuprofen have been linked to renal papillary necrosis in human beings. Although the exact mechanism of RPN is unknown, there are several theories that have good scientific evidence behind them. Study of RPN in animals as models for the disease in human beings is limited by several factors, including anatomical differences between human beings and most animal species as well as technical difficulties in studying the renal papilla.
We report about a case of advanced Ewing sarcoma in a 30-year-old woman. Initial treatment was started according to the Euro-Ewing 99 protocol. During the initial therapy, an ifosfamide-induced encephalopathy occurred as status epilepticus. Because of cerebral toxicity, the following chemotherapies went without ifosfamide. During final radiotherapy multiple lung metastasis were diagnosed. After two cycles of chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and topotecan (no response), left thoracotomy, and palliative pneumectomy, the patient was transferred to our ward for further treatment. Undergoing two cycles of chemotherapy with ifosfamide 4 g/m(2) intravenously for 3 consecutive days followed by high-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) according to the ICE-regimen (ifosfamide 2 g/m(2), carboplatin 200 mg/m(2), and etoposide 2 x 100 mg/m(2) intravenously for 6 consecutive days), and peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT), complete remission was achieved. Under preventive therapy with methylene blue, thiamin, and glucose 5% infusions, no encephalopathy occurred.
Intake of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy can provoke severe and subtle fetal malformations associated with deleterious sequelae, reflecting the need for experimental investigations on the comparative teratogenic potential of these agents. We recently reported that prenatal exposure to vigabatrin and valproate, two AEDs which act through GABAergic mechanisms, induces hippocampal and cortical dysplasias in rodents. We have now investigated the effects of phenobarbital (PB, 30 mg/kg day) i.p.), a drug also endowed with GABAergic effects, and the new generation AEDs lamotrigine (LTG, 5-20mg/kg/day i.p.), topiramate (TPM, 10mg/kg/day i.p.), and levetiracetam (LEV, 50mg/kg/day i.p.) on brain development. Prenatal exposure to LTG induced hippocampal and cortical malformations in a dose-dependent manner, at maternal plasma concentrations within the clinically occurring range. These abnormalities were not observed after exposure to PB, TP and LEV. These observations raise concerns about potential clinical correlates and call for detailed comparative investigations on the consequences of AED use during pregnancy.
To report a case of delirium with hallucinations presumably caused by the combination of diphenhydramine and linezolid.
A 56-year-old white man was receiving diphenhydramine 300 mg/d for 2 days to treat pruritus caused by a bullous rash possibly induced by vancomycin. He subsequently developed visual and auditory hallucinations, with erratic, aggressive behavior persisting for 3 days. Central anticholinergic syndrome was first suspected, but the long duration and exaggerated response by a patient not prone to anticholinergic toxicity suggest that a second agent may have enhanced the reaction.
The pharmacodynamic properties of linezolid make this drug a likely contributor to the marked, prolonged effects experienced by this patient. The Naranjo probability scale suggests a possible relationship between the reaction and the combination of diphenhydramine and linezolid.
Drug-induced delirium can occur with several drugs, including diphenhydramine. Linezolid has dopaminergic properties that may enhance the central nervous system effects of anticholinergics. Precautionary monitoring of mental status should be advised when concomitantly administering linezolid with drugs in this class.
To report 2 cases of pregnant women who presented with leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LV) associated with the administration of ritodrine hydrochloride after undergoing genetic amniocentesis and to review the literature on LV. case summaries: Case 1. A 40-year-old pregnant woman was diagnosed with autoimmune hypothyroidism at week 12 of her third gestation. At week 14, she underwent a genetic amniocentesis and received oral prophylactic treatment with ritodrine for 10 days. At week 16, she presented with fever, epigastric abdominal pain, polyarthritis, microhematuria, and purpura. Skin biopsy showed LV. Case 2. A 34-year-old pregnant woman had developed polyarthralgias and polyarthritis after receiving ritodrine following genetic amniocentesis in her second gestation. She also underwent a genetic amniocentesis in her third gestation and received ritodrine. Five days later, she presented with fever, polyarthritis, and purpura. A skin biopsy demonstrated LV. The rest of her gestation was normal until week 33, when she developed oligohydramnios and a delay of intrauterine fetal growth. A cesarean section was then performed. After birth, the baby developed tachypnea, anemia, splenomegaly, edema, and renal failure; she died on her 15th day of life.
Ritodrine hydrochloride is a beta(2)-adrenergic agonist that is used in pregnant women as a tocolytic agent. In our 2 patients, there was a time relationship between the administration of ritodrine and the appearance of LV. In both cases, other causes of vasculitis were excluded in a reasonable way. As of November 4, 2003, only one other case has been found in the literature. An objective causality assessment revealed that the reactions to ritodrine were probable and possible, respectively, in our 2 cases.
In pregnant women with autoimmune disease, ritodrine should be used with caution because of its ability to induce vasculitis.
Hyperammonemia is a recognized side effect of treatment with the antiepileptic drug (AED) valproate (VPA). Encephalopathic complications have also been observed in some patients receiving VPA therapy. The relation between VPA-induced hyperammonemia and encephalopathy is not clear, however. A model of ammonium (NH4+)-induced coma was used to investigate the contribution of VPA and to assess the efficacy of citrulline (a urea cycle intermediate) on hyperammonemia and encephalopathy. In groups of 6-12 rats, administration of VPA (2.5 mmol/kg) was associated with (a) a decrease in the dose of NH4+ that produces coma in 50% of the animals (CD5) from 6.1 to 3.6 mmol/kg, and (b) significant increases in blood ammonia concentrations in NH(4+)-treated animals. In addition, clear evidence also showed that in the presence of VPA, a lesser concentration of ammonia produced coma. Citrulline treatment (5.0 mmol/kg) was associated with (a) an increase in the CD50 value of NH(4+)-treated animals from 6.1 to 8.6 mmol/kg, (b) a statistically significant decrease in ammonia concentration at all doses examined, (c) complete protection from encephalopathic effects of NH4+ at citrulline concentrations three- to tenfold greater than basal levels; and (d) a 24% increase in the CD50 value and a statistically significant decrease in ammonia concentration of VPA/NH(4+)-treated animals. These findings indicate that VPA has a dual effect on encephalopathy and that citrulline should benefit those patients treated with VPA who experience adverse encephalopathic effects.
The carcinogenic potential of chlorpromazine hydrochloride, a psychotropic agent, was assessed in the p53 heterozygous mouse assay. In a 4-week dose range finding study in p53 wild-type mice, doses of 20,40, 60, and 80 mg/kg were poorly tolerated because of mortality secondary to the severe sedative and hypotensive effects of chlorpromazine. Based on 40% mortality at a dose of 20 mg/kg in the dose-range finding study, a high dose of 10 mg/kg was chosen for the 26-week carcinogenicity study in p53 heterozygous mice. Doses of 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg chlorpromazine hydrochloride were well tolerated in the 26-week study. The administration of chlorpromazine hydrochloride at dose levels up to and including 10 mg/kg to p53 heterozygous and wild-type mice did not result in a dose-related increase in tumor incidence or in the type of tumors seen in comparison to controls. Findings related to the administration of chlorpromazine in the 26-week study were limited to minimal uterine and ovarian atrophy in p53 wild-type mice dosed with 10 mg/kg chlorpromazine hydrochloride. However, p53 heterozygous mice administered 400 mg/kg p-cresidine, a genotoxic carcinogen commonly used as a positive control for this model, developed urinary bladder tumors. Administration of p-cresidine also resulted in a regenerative anemia, splenic and hepatic hemosiderosis, renal findings, and ovarian and uterine atrophy. This study demonstrated that chlorpromazine hydrochloride, at the doses tolerated, was not carcinogenic in the p53 heterozygous mouse assay.
To evaluate proteinuria occurring early after ifosfamide therapy and to assess the use of changes in proteinuria in the prediction of severe chronic nephrotoxicity.
One-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was used to characterize urine protein excretion in 12 children with solid tumours before and after the first course of ifosfamide treatment, and in 24 healthy children. Chronic nephrotoxicity was evaluated at 6 months after ifosfamide treatment and graded as none, mild, moderate or severe.
Urine from healthy children and from 10 of 12 patients before ifosfamide therapy showed a protein band with a molecular weight (95.4 kDa) corresponding to that of Tamm-Horsfall protein but no lower molecular weight proteins. After the first course of ifosfamide this 95.4-kDa protein was lost in six of ten patients with a concomitant appearance of a low molecular weight proteinuria (< 70 kDa) in eight. Tamm-Horsfall protein was lost in two of five patients who subsequently developed no or mild nephrotoxicity and in four of five patients who subsequently developed moderate or severe nephrotoxicity.
Early subclinical changes in urine protein excretion after ifosfamide, manifested by a loss of Tamm-Horsfall protein excretion, may be predictive of subsequent chronic nephrotoxicity.
The purpose of this study was to assess the development of ageing- and glucocorticoid-related sarcopenia on the level of myofibrillar apparatus, paying attention to the synthesis (SR) and degradation rate (DR) of contractile proteins, muscle strength, and daily motor activity. We also wanted to test the effect of ageing and dexamethasone (Dex) excess on the regeneration peculiarities of skeletal muscle autografts. Four and 30-month-old male rats of the Wistar strain were used. Ageing associated sarcopenia was calculated from gastrocnemius muscle relative mass decrease (from 5.6 +/- 0.08 to 3.35 +/- 0.04; p < 0.001). The SR of MyHC in old rats was approximately 30% and actin approximately 23% lower than in young rats. Dex treatment decreased SR of two main contractile proteins significantly in both age groups (p < 0.001) and increased DR during ageing from 2.11 +/- 0.15 to 4.09 +/- 0.29%/day (p < 0.001). Hindlimb grip strength in young rats was 5.90 +/- 0.35 N/100 g bw and 2.64 +/- 0.2 N/100 g bw (p < 0.001) in old rats. Autografts of old rats have a higher content of adipose tissue 14.9 +/- 1.1% in comparison with young rats 6.8 +/- 0.51% (p < 0.001) and less muscle tissue 39.8 +/- 2.6% and 48.3 +/- 2.8%, respectively (p < 0.05). Both, ageing and dex-caused sarcopenic muscles have diminished capacity for regeneration.
Methamphetamine and methcathinone are psychostimulant drugs with high potential for abuse. In animals, methamphetamine and related drugs are known to damage brain dopamine (DA) neurons, and this damage has recently been shown to be detectable in living nonhuman primates by means of positron emission tomography (PET) with [11C]WIN-35,428, a DA transporter (DAT) ligand. The present studies determined whether living humans with a history of methamphetamine or methcathinone abuse showed evidence of lasting decrements in brain DAT density. PET studies were performed in 10 control subjects, six abstinent methamphetamine users, four abstinent methcathinone users, and three patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). On average, subjects had abstained from amphetamine use for approximately 3 years. Before PET studies, all subjects underwent urine and blood toxicology screens to rule out recent drug use. Compared with controls, abstinent methamphetamine and methcathinone users had significant decreases in DAT density in the caudate nucleus (-23 and -24%, respectively) and putamen (-25 and -16%, respectively). Larger decreases in DAT density were evident in patients with PD (47 and 68% in caudate and putamen, respectively). Neither methamphetamine nor methcathinone users showed clinical signs of parkinsonism. Persistent reductions of DAT density in methamphetamine and methcathinone users are suggestive of loss of DAT or loss of DA terminals and raise the possibility that as these individuals age, they may be at increased risk for the development of parkinsonism or neuropsychiatric conditions in which brain DA neurons have been implicated.
