A patient suffered chronic interstitial nephritis after receiving large quantities of gold salts for rheumatoid arthritis. Gold deposits were seen with transmission electron microscopy and confirmed by microprobe x-ray analysis both within renal tubular epithelial cells and interstitial macrophages and free within the renal interstitium. Clinical resolution of renal failure followed discontinuation of therapy with gold salts. Probable mechanisms of injury to renal tubular epithelial cells include uptake of gold by tubular epithelial cells and incorporation of gold into mitochondria, with subsequent cellular injury; interstitial deposits probably occur after necrosis of tubular epithelial cells, with release of gold into the interstitium and resultant inflammation. Thus, chronic interstitial nephritis can be added to the patterns of renal injury seen after gold therapy for rheumatoid arthritis.
To investigate the consequences of caffeine consumption on epileptic seizures, we used the pilocarpine and the kainate models of epilepsy. We hypothesized that prolonged caffeine consumption or its withdrawal would alter adenosine levels and hence alter seizure susceptibility.
We administered a 0.1% caffeine solution in the drinking water of adult male Wistar rats over a 2-week period. We challenged another group of animals with the same doses of pilocarpine or kainate 12 h after the withdrawal of the same caffeine-administration protocol.
This did not alter the threshold for the induction of seizures by a subconvulsant dose of pilocarpine (200 mg/kg, i.p.) or kainic acid (8 mg/kg, i.p.). Similarly, challenging another group of animals with the same doses of pilocarpine or kainate 12 h after the withdrawal of the same caffeine-administration protocol did not lead to any significant changes in seizures.
With the pilocarpine model of epilepsy, we were not able to find any significant difference in seizure profile that could stem from either caffeine administration or its withdrawal. Despite the extensive laboratory evidence on the convulsant properties of xanthine derivatives in animal models of epilepsy, such strong evidence is lacking in clinical settings. Our current findings with the administration of caffeine at doses similar to those of daily life both support and confirm the clinical experience.
In recent years, high concentrations of mercury have been found in wading birds in Florida, USA. Great egret (Ardea alba) chicks (2 weeks old) were dosed orally daily with the equivalent of 0, 0.5, or 5 microg/g Hg as methylmercury chloride in the diet for up to 12 weeks. Weakness of the legs or paralysis occurred in all high-dosed birds. Geometric mean blood Hg concentrations were 0.17, 10.3, and 78.5 microg/g (wet wt), respectively. Mercury concentrations for organs (microg/g wet wt), including brain (0.22, 3.4, and 35, respectively), liver (0.34, 15.1, 138, respectively), and kidney (0.28, 8.1, and 120, respectively), increased in a dose-dependent manner. Total glutathione (GSH) peroxidase activity was significantly lower in the plasma, brain, liver, and kidney of the high-dosed group. Plasma aspartate aminotransferase activity increased with mercury treatment, whereas lactate dehydrogenase activity decreased. Four other plasma chemistries were decreased significantly in the high-dosed group and included uric acid, total protein, albumin, and inorganic phosphorus. Lipid peroxidation increased in liver (low and high dose) and brain (high dose). Tissue changes in concentrations of reduced thiols included decreased total thiols and protein-bound thiols in liver, decreased protein-bound thiols in kidney, and increased GSH in kidney and brain. Activities of GSH S-transferase and oxidized glutathione reductase increased in liver. In kidney, GSH S-transferase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase activities increased with mercury dose. These findings, including apparent compensatory changes, are compared to other Hg studies where oxidative stress was reported in egrets, herons, and diving ducks in the field and mallards in the laboratory.
The role of the renin-angiotensin system in oxidative stress-induced apoptosis of endothelial cells (ECs) was investigated using a rat model and cultured ECs. EC apoptosis was induced by 5-minute intra-arterial treatment of a rat carotid artery with 0.01 mmol/L H2O2 and was evaluated at 24 hours by chromatin staining of en face specimens with Hoechst 33342. Although activity of angiotensin-converting enzyme in arterial homogenates was not increased, administration of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor temocapril for 3 days before H2O2 treatment inhibited EC apoptosis, followed by reduced neointimal formation 2 weeks later. Also, an angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor blocker (olmesartan) inhibited EC apoptosis, whereas angiotensin II administration accelerated apoptosis independently of blood pressure. Next, cultured ECs derived from a bovine carotid artery were treated with H2O2 to induce apoptosis, as evaluated by DNA fragmentation. Combination of angiotensin II and H2O2 dose-dependently increased EC apoptosis and 8-isoprostane formation, a marker of oxidative stress. Conversely, temocapril and olmesartan reduced apoptosis and 8-isoprostane formation induced by H2O2, suggesting that endogenous angiotensin II interacts with H2O2 to elevate oxidative stress levels and EC apoptosis. Neither an AT2 receptor blocker, PD123319, affected H2O2-induced apoptosis, nor a NO synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, influenced the effect of temocapril on apoptosis in cell culture experiments. These results suggest that AT1 receptor signaling augments EC apoptosis in the process of oxidative stress-induced vascular injury.
To compare the temporal pattern of seizures after acute withdrawal of oxcarbazepine (OXC) and phenytoin (PHT) in the epilepsy monitoring unit (EMU).
We identified all epilepsy patients admitted to our EMU on OXC or PHT monotherapy, over a period of 5 years. The OXC taper usually occurred over 2 days while PHT was abruptly discontinued on admission day. For each patient, we recorded the number and type of seizures for each EMU day. We used Poisson regression models to estimate daily seizure frequency separately for complex partial seizures (CPSs) and generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCSs).
Forty patients were admitted on OXC and 32 on PHT monotherapy. The temporal distribution of seizures varied between the two groups. The first GTCS was more likely to occur in the first 2 days of monitoring for the OXC group (p<0.046). There was a higher frequency of GTCS on day 2 of admission in the OXC group (p=0.011). The groups did not differ in the pattern of CPS.
OXC is disproportionately associated with increased GTCS in the first 2 days after acute withdrawal. The early peak of GTCS favors a rebound phenomenon in addition to loss of therapeutic effect.
Despite the immunogenicity of glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), immune-mediated eradication of these tumors remains deficient. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) in the blood and within the tumor microenvironment of GBM patients are known to contribute to their dismal immune responses. Here, we determined which chemokine secreted by gliomas can preferentially induce Treg recruitment and migration. In the malignant human glioma cell lines D-54, U-87, U-251, and LN-229, the chemokines CCL22 and CCL2 were detected by intracellular cytokine analysis. Furthermore, tumor cells from eight patients with GBM had a similar chemokine expression profile. However, only CCL2 was detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, indicating that CCL2 may be the principal chemokine for Treg migration in GBM patients. Interestingly, the Tregs from GBM patients had significantly higher expression levels of the CCL2 receptor CCR4 than did Tregs from healthy controls. Glioma supernatants and the recombinant human chemokines CCL2 and CCL22 induced Treg migration and were blocked by antibodies to the chemokine receptors. Production of CCL2 by glioma cells could also be mitigated by the chemotherapeutic agents temozolomide and carmustine [3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea]. Our results indicate that gliomas augment immunosuppression by selective chemokine-mediated recruitment of Tregs into the tumor microenvironment and that modulating this interaction with chemotherapy could facilitate the development of novel immunotherapeutics to malignant gliomas.
Irinotecan treatment of colorectal cancers results in high-grade intestinal mucositis in a large proportion of patients. The mechanisms behind irinotecan-induced mucosal injury, however, have yet to be fully explained. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the p53 protein in the onset of intestinal damage following irinotecan treatment in two different settings. IEC-6 and FHs 74 intestinal cell lines were treated with irinotecan with and without a temporary p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha, and examined for changes in proliferation and survival along with expression of p53 and related proteins. Forty tumour-bearing rats also underwent irinotecan treatment with and without pifithrin-alpha, and the effects on intestinal morphology, gene expression, apoptosis and other toxicities were assessed. Irinotecan caused a dose-dependent reduction in cell viability that was not prevented by pifithrin-alpha in either cell line. Rats responded to irinotecan with diarrhoea, weight loss, histopathological changes to the small and large intestine, increased crypt apoptosis, and a mild inflammatory response. Pifithrin-alpha reduced severity and duration of intestinal apoptosis; however, it did not significantly affect other parameters including p53 expression. Temporary inhibition of p53 activation does not markedly prevent intestinal cell death or mucositis following irinotecan treatment. Irinotecan may act through upregulation of proapoptotic proteins Bax and Bak to induce cell death.
Acute intermittent porphyria is the most common type of porphyria occurring in Poland. Its characteristic feature is periods of remissions and aggravations. Aggravation or an attack of the disease is caused by many endogenous and exogenous factors, among others by hormonal contraceptives.
This article describes the case of an acute intermittent porphyria attack in a 28 years old female patient resulting from the use of a few, contraindicated drugs (metamizole, nospa, desogestrel in case of porphyria, urinary tract infection, as well as a spontaneous abortion two months earlier). The attack included abdominal pain, vomiting, reduction in muscle strength in limbs and it was complicated by seizures caused by hyponatraemia. High excess haem precursors in urine was observed. During hospitalization, the patient ceased to take harmful drugs and she was given haem arginate, glucose and symptomatic drugs, and she recovered completely.
In the described case there were a few porphyrogenous factors whose action was observed, among which the most important was desogestrel. Due to this conclusion, a change in contraceptive therapy that would exclude hormonal contraception was suggested.
The environmental contaminant benzo[c]phenanthrene (B[c]Ph) has weak carcinogenic activity in rodent bioassays; however, the fjord region diol epoxides of B[c]Ph, B[c]Ph-3,4-diol 1,2-epoxides (B[c]PhDE), are potent carcinogens. To determine the role of cytochrome P450 isozymes in the activation of B[c]Ph in MCF-7 cells and the low activation of B[c]Ph in mouse skin, cells of the MCF-7 and the human hepatoma HepG2 cell lines were treated with the potent Ah receptor agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) prior to exposure to B[c]Ph for 24 h. Mice were treated topically with 1 microg of TCDD or vehicle (control) for 73 h and then with 2 micromol of B[c]Ph for 24 h. In MCF-7 cells, TCDD exposure increased B[c]PhDE-DNA adduct levels more than 3-fold with a 10-fold increase in the (-)-B[c]PhDE-2-dA(t) adduct. Treatment of HepG2 cells with TCDD prior to B[c]Ph application did not increase B[c]PhDE-DNA binding. Total B[c]PhDE-DNA adducts increased 3-fold in TCDD-treated mouse epidermis: the majority of the increase resulted from (+)-B[c]PhDE-1-dA adducts. Analysis of P450 enzymes by Western blotting detected a large increase of P4501B1 but almost no increase in P4501A1 in MCF-7 cells exposed to 10 microM B[c]Ph for 24 or 48 h. In HepG2 cells, there were no detectable levels of P4501A1 or P4501B1 after treatment with 10 microM B[c]Ph for 24 h. In contrast, topical application of 2 micromol of B[c]Ph to mouse skin for 48 or 72 h increased P4501A1, but no P4501B1 was detected. As a measure of P450 activity, the metabolism of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) was analyzed in microsomes prepared from MCF-7 and HepG2 cells exposed to 0.1% DMSO, 10 microM B[c]Ph, or 10 nM TCDD for 24 or 48 h and from mouse epidermis treated with 1 microg of TCDD, or vehicle control for 72 h, or 2 micromol of B[c]Ph for 48 h. The levels of DMBA metabolites were low or undetectable in microsomes from B[c]Ph-treated MCF-7 and HepG2 cells, but a metabolite pattern consistent with P4501A1 metabolism of DMBA was present in B[c]Ph-exposed mouse epidermal microsomes. TCDD-treated MCF-7 cells, HepG2 cells, and mouse epidermis had DMBA metabolism patterns characteristic of P4501A1 activity. Microsomes from TCDD-treated human cells formed a higher proportion of the proximate carcinogenic metabolite DMBA-3,4-dihydrodiol (16% of total identified metabolites) than TCDD-treated mouse epidermis (2%). In mouse epidermis, the weak ability of B[c]Ph to increase hydrocarbon-metabolizing activity and the increase in mainly P4501A1, leading to formation of the less carcinogenic stereoisomer B[c]PhDE-1, may explain the low carcinogenic activity of B[c]Ph. In a human mammary carcinoma cell line, treatment with B[c]Ph increases mainly P4501B1 and results in formation of a higher proportion of the more carcinogenic B[c]PhDE-2. This indicates that cells in which B[c]Ph treatment increases P4501B1 levels effectively activate B[c]Ph to potent carcinogenic metabolites.
To elucidate the biological activities of coral-prostanoids, clavulones, discovered from the Japanese stolonifer Clavularia viridis, we examined the effect of clavulone on the cell growth of human cancer (human promyelocytic leukemia (HL-60) cells and HeLa cells) and normal (Chang liver cells and lung fibroblasts) cells in vitro. Clavulone showed strong antiproliferative and cytotoxic activities in the human cells and it had some selectivity to leukemic (HL-60) cells over other HeLa cells or normal cells on the basis of the IC50 values and cytotoxic effect of the cells. The IC50 value of clavulone in the HL-60 cells was about 0.4 microM (0.2 micrograms/ml). Over 1.0 microM (0.5 micrograms/ml), clavulone showed a significant cytotoxic activity on the HL-60 cells. The data on DNA synthesis and flow cytometric analysis revealed that clavulone arrests the cells in the G1-phase and inhibits the cell growth of HL-60 cells by inhibiting S-phase DNA synthesis. These results suggest that clavulone has a potent antileukemic effect on HL-60 cells.
A 53-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis developed myasthenia gravis after 6 months of therapy with D-penicillamine. Nineteen months after D-penicillamine was discontinued and 12 months after the beginning of gold therapy, she developed pemphigus vulgaris. This is the first reported case of gold-induced pemphigus in rheumatoid arthritis. This study further underlines the complex interactions between the effects of treatment with sulfhydryl-disulfide exchange drugs and the altered immunological system of patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis.
The loss of tuberin, the tuberous sclerosis-2 (Tsc-2) gene product, is associated with cytoplasmic mislocalization of p27 in uterine leiomyomas derived from Eker rats (Tsc-2(EK/+)) and in human metastatic renal cell carcinoma tissue. Signaling associated with cytoplasmic mislocalization of p27 in renal cancer is relatively unknown. Renal tumors derived from 2,3,5-tris-(glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone (TGHQ)-treated Tsc-2(EK/+) rats, and null for tuberin, display elevated nuclear and cytosolic p27, with parallel increases in cytosolic cyclin D1 levels. Similar changes are observed in TGHQ-transformed renal epithelial cells derived from Tsc-2(EK/+) rats (QTRRE cells), which, in addition to the cytoplasmic mislocalization of p27 and cyclin D1, exhibit high ERK, B-Raf, and Raf-1 kinase activity. Renal tumor xenografts, derived from subcutaneous injection of QTRRE cells into nude mice, also display increases in cytosolic mislocalization of p27 and cyclin D1. Dibutyryl cAMP and/or phosphodiesterase inhibitors (PIs; pentoxifylline or theophylline) increase Rap1B activation, B-Raf kinase activity, and cytosolic p27/cyclin D1 protein levels in QTRRE cells. Inhibition of Raf kinases with either sorafenib or B-Raf small interfering RNA (siRNA) caused a mitogen-activated protein kinase-mediated downregulation of p27. Moreover, decreases in cyclin D1 were also associated with p27 siRNA knockdown in QTRRE cells. Finally, theophylline-mediated increases in p27 and cyclin D1 were attenuated by sorafenib, which modulated Raf/MEK/ERK signaling. Collectively, these data suggest that the cAMP/Rap1B/B-Raf pathway modulates the expression of p27 and the cytoplasmic mislocalization of p27-cyclin D1 in tuberous sclerosis gene-regulated-renal cancer. Therefore, the loss of tuberin and engagement of the cAMP pathway may independently direct p27-cyclin D1 cytosolic stabilization during renal tumor formation.
Occupational exposure of granite workers is well known to cause lung impairment and silicosis. Toxicological profiles of different size particles of granite dust, however, are not yet understood. Present evaluation of micro- and nano-particles of granite dust as on human lung fibroblast cells IMR-90, revealed that their toxic effects were dose-dependent, and nanoparticles in general were more toxic. In this study we first demonstrated that nanoparticles caused oxidative stress, inflammatory response and genotoxicity, as seen by nearly 2 fold induction of ROS and LPO, mRNA levels of TNF-α and IL-1β, and induction in micronuclei formation. All these were significantly higher when compared with the effect of micro particles. Thus, the study suggests that separate health safety standards would be required for granite particles of different sizes.
Improved in vitro systems for predicting drug-induced toxicity are needed in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to decrease late-stage drug attrition. One unmet need is an early screen for cardiotoxicity, which accounts for about one third of safety-based withdrawn pharmaceuticals. Herein, the first published report of a high-throughput functional assay employing a monolayer of beating human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) is described, detailing a model that accurately detects drug-induced cardiac abnormalities. Using 96-well plates with interdigitated electrode arrays that assess impedance, the rhythmic, synchronous contractions of the iPSC-CMs were detected. Treatment of the iPSC-CMs with 28 different compounds with known cardiac effects resulted in compound-specific changes in the beat rate and/or the amplitude of the impedance measurement. Changes in impedance for the compounds tested were comparable with the results from a related technology, electric field potential assessment obtained from microelectrode arrays. Using the results from the set of compounds, an index of drug-induced arrhythmias was calculated, enabling the determination of a drug's proarrhythmic potential. This system of interrogating human cardiac function in vitro opens new opportunities for predicting cardiac toxicity and studying cardiac biology.
A committee assembled by the American Academy of Neurology (AAN) reassessed the evidence related to the care of women with epilepsy (WWE) during pregnancy, including antiepileptic drug (AED) teratogenicity and adverse perinatal outcomes. It is highly probable that intrauterine first-trimester valproate (VPA) exposure has higher risk of major congenital malformations (MCMs) compared to carbamazepine (CBZ), and possibly compared to phenytoin (PHT) or lamotrigine (LTG). It is probable that VPA as part of polytherapy and possible that VPA as monotherapy contribute to the development of MCMs. AED polytherapy probably contributes to the development of MCMs and reduced cognitive outcomes compared to monotherapy. Intrauterine exposure to VPA monotherapy probably reduces cognitive outcomes and monotherapy exposure to PHT or phenobarbital (PB) possibly reduces cognitive outcomes. Neonates of WWE taking AEDs probably have an increased risk of being small for gestational age and possibly have an increased risk of a 1-minute Apgar score of <7. If possible, avoidance of VPA and AED polytherapy during the first trimester of pregnancy should be considered to decrease the risk of MCMs. If possible, avoidance of VPA and AED polytherapy throughout pregnancy should be considered and avoidance of PHT and PB throughout pregnancy may be considered to prevent reduced cognitive outcomes.
We report the first case of junctional tachycardia in a patient treated with paclitaxel. A 60-year-old woman with advanced breast cancer received palliative chemotherapy with 22.5 mg/m2/day paclitaxel over a 7 day continuous infusion as part of an investigational regimen. Although the patient had no previous or current history of cardiac disease, she developed severe symptomatic tachycardia, which occurred toward the end of the second and third courses. Anti-arrhythmic medication was prescribed and electrocardiographic records identified electric patterns of junctional tachycardia. Given both the physiopathology of arrhythmic disorders and pharmacokinetics of the patient, this case report supports the hypothesis that automatic junctional rhythm after severe asymptomatic conduction block rather than direct primary toxicity on myocytes caused this toxicity.
The immunosuppressant drug rapamycin blocks progression of the cell cycle at G1 in mammalian cells and yeast. We recently showed that rapamycin inhibits both in vitro and in vivo cap-dependent, but not cap-independent, translation. This inhibition is causally related to reduced phosphorylation and consequent activation of 4E-BP1, a repressor of the function of the cap-binding protein, eIF4E. Two members of the picornavirus family, encephalomyocarditis virus and poliovirus, inhibit phosphorylation of 4E-BP1. Since translation of picornavirus mRNAs is cap independent, inhibition of phosphorylation of 4E-BP1 could contribute to the shutoff of host protein synthesis. Here, we show that rapamycin augments both the shutoff of host protein synthesis and the initial rate of synthesis of viral proteins in cells infected with encephalomyocarditis virus and poliovirus.
The objective of this study was to characterize the antiseizure and safety profiles of ABT-769 [(R)-N-(2 amino-2-oxoethyl)spiro[2,5]octane-1-carboxamide].
ABT-769 was tested for protection against maximal electroshock and pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures in the mouse and for suppression of electrically kindled amygdala seizures and spontaneous absence-like seizures in the rat. The central nervous system safety profile was evaluated by using tests of motor coordination and inhibitory avoidance. The potential for liver toxicity was assessed in vitro by using a mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation assay. Teratogenic potential was assessed in the mouse.
ABT-769 blocked maximal electroshock, subcutaneous pentylenetetrazol and intravenous pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures with median effective dose (ED50) values of 0.25, 0.38, and 0.11 mmol/kg, p.o., respectively. No tolerance was evident in the intravenous pentylenetetrazol test after twice-daily dosing of ABT-769 (0.3 mmol/kg, p.o.) for 4 days. ABT-769 blocked absence-like spike-wave discharge (ED50, 0.15 mmol/kg, p.o.) and shortened the cortical and amygdala afterdischarge duration of kindled seizures (1 and 3 mmol/kg, p.o.). The protective indices (ED50 rotorod impairment/ED50 seizure protection) were 4.8, 3.2, and 10.9 in the maximal electroshock, subcutaneous pentylenetetrazol and intravenous pentylenetetrazol seizure tests, respectively. ABT-769 did not affect inhibitory avoidance performance (0.1-1 mmol/kg, p.o.). ABT-769 did not affect mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation or induce neural tube defects.
ABT-769 is an efficacious antiseizure agent in animal models of convulsive and nonconvulsive epilepsy and has a favorable safety profile. ABT-769 has a broad-spectrum profile like that of valproic acid. Its profile is clearly different from those of carbamazepine, phenytoin, lamotrigine, topiramate, vigabatrin, and tiagabine.
1. The effects of treatment with the dopaminergic agonist bromocriptine were studied in nine patients with essential hypertension receiving methyldopa as sole therapy. 2. In Phase 1 of the study, the addition of bromocriptine on a single-blind basis caused a significant fall in lying and standing blood pressures. Plasma prolactin fell significantly but there was no significant change in the other biochemical parameters measured. All patients volunteered that they felt a sense of well-being after starting bromocriptine treatment. 3. In Phase 2 of the study the substitution of placebo for bromocriptine in a randomized double-blind trial significantly increased lying and standing blood pressures and plasma prolactin. No consistent or significant changes were observed in methyldopa-induced side-effects following the substitution of placebo for bromocriptine. 4. In Phase 3 of the study, a gradual increase in blood pressure was observed in all patients over a few months after stopping bromocriptine therapy. 5. The significance of these findings in relation to the role played by plasma prolactin and central dopaminergic activity in blood pressure regulation is discussed.
To present a pilot study to determine whether the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist terazosin can induce apoptosis in transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder, similar to the effect seen with prostate cancer. The alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist terazosin has recently been shown to induce apoptosis in prostate cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo and to reduce prostatic tissue vascularity by potentially affecting endothelial cell adhesion.
The records of 24 men who underwent radical cystectomy for TCC of the bladder at the Lexington Veterans Affairs Medical Center were reviewed. The control group consisted of 15 men who were never exposed to terazosin. The study group consisted of 9 men who were treated with terazosin before cystectomy. Sections of the bladder tumor and normal trigone were subjected to immunohistochemical analysis for microvessel density, endothelial cell CD31 expression, and apoptosis detection (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling), as well as high-molecular-weight cytokeratin staining.
A significant reduction in tissue vascularity (14.0 versus 19.2, P <0.05) and a significant increase in the apoptotic index (3.0% versus 1.7%, P <0.05) was detected in terazosin-treated bladder tumors compared with untreated bladder tumors. Most TCC specimens (80%) exhibited strong and consistently uniform immunostaining for high-molecular-weight cytokeratin staining.
These results suggest that terazosin reduces tumor vascularity and induces apoptosis in TCC of the bladder. Additional studies with more patients are necessary to reach definitive conclusions. However, considering the proven apoptotic action of terazosin in prostatic tissue, this study may have implications for the use of terazosin in the treatment of bladder TCC.
A novel series of 1,4-disubstituted aminoanthraquinones were prepared by ipso-displacement of 1,4-difluoro-5,8-dihydroxyanthraquinones by hydroxylated piperidinyl- or pyrrolidinylalkylamino side chains. One aminoanthraquinone (13) was further derivatized to a chloropropylamino analogue by treatment with triphenylphosphine-carbon tetrachloride. The compounds were evaluated in the A2780 ovarian cancer cell line and its cisplatin-resistant variants (A2780/cp70 and A2780/MCP1). The novel anthraquinones were shown to possess up to 5-fold increased potency against the cisplatin-resistant cells compared to the wild-type cells. Growth curve analysis of the hydroxyethylaminoanthraquinone 8 in the osteosarcoma cell line U-2 OS showed that the cell cycle is not frozen, rather there is a late cell cycle arrest consistent with the action of a DNA-damaging topoisomerase II inhibitor. Accumulative apoptotic events, using time lapse photography, indicate that 8 is capable of fully engaging cell cycle arrest pathways in G2 in the absence of early apoptotic commitment. 8 and its chloropropyl analogue 13 retained significant activity against human A2780/cp70 xenografted tumors in mice.
Oxaliplatin-related thrombocytopenia is considered rare and mostly self-limited. We present the first reported fatal case due to this complication. A 64-year-old patient with metastatic colon cancer was admitted for his 24th course of chemotherapy with oxaliplatin and 24-hour infusion of fluorouracil and leucovorin. Consciousness changed on the next evening and deteriorated to deep coma within hours. Computed tomography revealed large intracranial hemorrhage with brain herniation. Hemogram showed severe thrombocytopenia, which was considered to be associated with oxaliplatin. The patient died six days later. The incidence of oxaliplatin-related thrombocytopenia may have been underestimated and its severity long neglected. Other hypersensitivity reactions may precede its onset. Early hemogram examination during hypersensitivity reaction to oxaliplatin may provide early diagnosis and the prevention of the possible fatal consequences.
The recently identified gene NPHS1 with its mutations causing congenital nephrotic syndrome of the Finnish type (CNF) is highly promising in providing new understanding of pathophysiology of proteinuria. Earlier we cloned a rat NPHS1 homologue, as well as characterized and raised antibodies to the respective protein product nephrin.
Changes in the expression levels of nephrin-specific mRNA in commonly used experimental models of proteinuria were examined using semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunofluorescence, and immunoelectron microscopy (IEM) of nephrin.
Notably, a 40% down-regulation of the nephrin-specific mRNA of cortical kidney was seen already at day 3 after induction of the puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN), while no major elevation of urinary protein secretion was seen at this stage. A further decrease of 80% of nephrin message was seen at the peak of proteinuria at day 10. A similar decrease of up to 70% from the basal levels was seen in mercuric chloride-treated rats. Changes in the protein expression paralleled those of the mRNA in indirect immunofluorescence. Interestingly, a remarkable plasmalemmal dislocation from the normal expression site at the interpodocyte filtration slits could be observed in IEM.
Nephrin appears to be an important causative molecule of proteinuria and shows a remarkable redistribution from the filtration slits to the podocyte plasma membrane, especially in PAN.
A prospective study was conducted to test the feasibility of nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging in the early diagnosis of treatment-induced leukoencephalopathy.
The study group included 16 patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and 4 patients with malignant lymphoma. All were given intravenous and intrathecal (IT) methotrexate (MTX) for central nervous system prophylaxis. Serial NMR studies were performed before and/or during induction-consolidation cycles.
NMR imaging disclosed leukoencephalopathy in 8 of the 20 patients (40%) in the early stages of treatment. In six of the eight, the leukoencephalopathy was resolved after temporary or permanent interruption of IT MTX, and chemotherapy was completed successfully. The other two patients are being treated. Transient neurologic abnormalities developed in two of the eight patients.
The possible causal relationship between leukoencephalopathy and the antimetabolic effects of MTX is discussed. This study clearly shows that NMR imaging is valuable in the early diagnosis and management of treatment-induced leukoencephalopathy.
In many patients, the treatment of heart failure (HF) cannot be optimized because of pre-existing or treatment-induced hypotension. Midodrine, a peripheral alpha1-adrenergic agonist may allow for up-titration of neurohormonal antagonist therapy leading to improved outcomes. Ten consecutive patients with HF due to systolic dysfunction and symptomatic hypotension interfering with optimal medical therapy were started on midodrine. After a 6-month follow-up, a higher percentage of patients were on optimal HF therapy (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor/angiotensin receptor blocker mg % of optimal dose 20% vs 57.5%; P<.001) (beta-blockers mg % optimal dose 37.5% vs 75%; P<.001) (spironolactone/eplerenone mg % 43.7% vs 95%; P<.001). This led to an improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (baseline 24+/-9.4 vs 32.2+/-9.9; P<.001) and clinical outcomes, with a significant reduction in total hospital admissions (32 vs 12; P=.02) and total hospital days (150 vs 58; P=.02).
