Renal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) is a complex neutrophil-mediated syndrome. Adenosine-triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels are involved in neutrophil migration in vivo. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of glibenclamide, a K(ATP) channel blocker, in renal I/R injury in rats.
The left kidney of the rats was excised through a flank incision and ischemia was performed in the contralateral kidney by total interruption of renal artery flow for 45 minutes. Renal perfusion was reestablished, and the kidney and lungs were removed for analysis of vascular permeability, neutrophil accumulation, and content of cytokines [tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin (IL)-1beta, and IL-10] 4 and 24 hours later. Renal function was assessed by measuring creatinine, Na(+), and K(+) levels in the plasma and by determination of creatinine clearance. Drugs were administered subcutaneously after the onset of ischemia.
Reperfusion of the ischemic kidney induced local (kidney) and remote (lung) inflammatory injury and marked renal dysfunction. Glibenclamide (20 mg/kg) significantly inhibited the reperfusion-associated increase in vascular permeability, neutrophil accumulation, increase in TNF-alpha levels and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) translocation. These inhibitory effects were noticed in the kidney and lungs. Moreover, glibenclamide markedly ameliorated the renal dysfunction at 4 and 24 hours.
Treatment with glibenclamide is associated with inhibition of neutrophil recruitment and amelioration of renal dysfunction following renal I/R. Glibenclamide may have a therapeutic role in the treatment of renal I/R injury, such as after renal transplantation.
This study aims to clarify the relationship between indomethacin tocolysis and neonatal white matter injury (WMI) in preterm infants.
We conducted a retrospective review of preterm infants born at 24-32 weeks who had sufficient cranial ultrasound examinations (CUS) to determine the incidence and severity of abnormalities. Infants with normal CUS were compared on univariate and multivariate analyses with infants with the different forms of WMI.
On multivariate logistic regression analysis, indomethacin tocolysis was significantly correlated with periventricular echogenicity (PVE; OR 2.84 95% CI 1.41-5.7, p = 0.003), but not with periventricular leucomalacia (PVL; OR 1.83 95% CI0.6-5.6, p = 0.29). Indomethacin was not related to increased risk for periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage or periventricular hemorrhagic infarction.
These findings suggest caution in the use of indomethacin as a tocolytic therapy.
To describe associations between the use of benzodiazepines or related drugs (BZDs/RDs) and health, functional abilities and cognitive function in the elderly.
A non-randomised clinical study of patients aged > or =65 years admitted to acute hospital wards during 1 month. 164 patients (mean age +/- standard deviation [SD] 81.6 +/- 6.8 years) were admitted. Of these, nearly half (n = 78) had used BZDs/RDs before admission, and the remainder (n = 86) were non-users. Cognitive ability was assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). Patients scoring > or =20 MMSE sum points were interviewed (n = 79) and questioned regarding symptoms and functional abilities during the week prior to admission. Data on use of BZDs/RDs before admission, current medications and discharge diagnoses were collected from medical records. Health, physical abilities and cognitive function were compared between BZD/RD users and non-users, and adjustments were made for confounding variables. The residual serum concentrations of oxazepam, temazepam and zopiclone were analysed.
The mean +/- SD duration of BZD/RD use was 7 +/- 7 years (range 1-31). Two or three BZDs/RDs were concomitantly taken by 26% of users (n = 20). Long-term use of these drugs was associated with female sex and use of a higher number of drugs with effects on the CNS, which tended to be related to diagnosed dementia. After adjustment for these variables as confounders, use of BZDs/RDs was not associated with cognitive function as measured by the MMSE. However, use of BZDs/RDs was associated with dizziness, inability to sleep after awaking at night and tiredness in the mornings during the week prior to admission and with stronger depressive symptoms measured at the beginning of the hospital stay. Use of BZDs/RDs tended to be associated with a reduced ability to walk and shorter night-time sleep during the week prior to admission. A higher residual serum concentration of temazepam correlated with a lower MMSE sum score after adjustment for confounding variables.
Long-term use and concomitant use of more than one BZD/RD were common in elderly patients hospitalised because of acute illnesses. Long-term use was associated with daytime and night-time symptoms indicative of poorer health and potentially caused by the adverse effects of these drugs.
The fortuitous detection of SIADH is described in a patient receiving clomipramine therapy.
The administration of diuretics to a 64 year old patient with Parkinsonian disease treated by amantadine, orphenadrine and Modopart and presenting an oedemia of the legs, induced the apparition of myoclonic jerks similar to those observed in a bismuth intoxication. The myoclonic jerks remained after the diuretics were stopped and only disappeared with the suppression of amantadine. It is supposed that diuretics increased the intoxication by amantadine, probably by means of an increase of the reabsorption of basic drugs. Myoclonius may be caused by the central anticholinergic properties of amantadine.
We have treated 113 patients with zidovudine since its licensure, 80 with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and 33 with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-related complex. This paper reports on the efficacy and toxicity observed in these patients. Improved well-being, reduced frequency and severity of opportunist infections were notable in the first year of follow-up. More rapid improvement in pulmonary physiological tests during recovery from Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was also observed in treated patients. Patients with lower initial platelet counts showed early increases in platelet counts. There was a consistent fall in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) p24 antigen during treatment, although not always to undetectable levels. CD4 cell counts showed a rise in the first months of treatment but these were not sustained, despite continuing clinical benefit. Neuropsychological and clinical evidence of benefit in HIV encephalopathy are described. We have analysed the factors influencing marrow toxicity and have found that low CD4 count and the intercurrent use of ganciclovir and dapsone increase myelotoxicity. We describe the clinical and biochemical features of the myopathy associated with long-term use of zidovudine and summarise our findings on dose-reduction associated meningo-encephalitis.
Dideoxyinosine (ddI) is a widely used antiretroviral agent in treatment of HIV infection. Pancreatitis is a serious side effect. Two cases are reported, one with rapid development of a pseudocyst.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a placenta-mediated pregnancy complication that results in high maternal and neonatal mortality and morbidity worldwide. Currently, there is no satisfactory pharmacotherapeutic treatment to stop the PE progression. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic effects of anticoagulant agents, including annexin V, heparin, and a fusion protein of annexin V and hirudin (AND), in a murine PE model induced by intravenous injection of phosphatidylserine/phosphatidylcholine (PS/PC) microvesicles. Compared with the control pregnant animals, the pregnant mice injected with PS/PC presented PE-like symptoms, including elevated systolic blood pressure, proteinuria, and reduction of antithrombin III and blood platelets. However, the PE-like symptoms were significantly alleviated after the PS/PC-injected mice were treated with annexin V, AND, or heparin. Furthermore, fibrin deposition in the placentas in the anticoagulant treated mice was remarkably improved, compared with that in the mice injected with PS/PC alone. The data demonstrate that anticoagulants are effective to prevent the occurrence of PE in the murine model and also suggest that hypercoagulation in the placenta is a contributing factor in the pathogenesis of PE.
One previous follow-up study suggested that inpatient bulimic women do quite poorly; after an interval of 2 to 5 years, only 13% were recovered. To examine the course and outcome of a sample of patients with bulimia nervosa that was severe enough to require inpatient hospitalization, the authors conducted the following study.
Women (N = 52) with DSM-III-R bulimia nervosa were sought 2 to 9 years after hospitalization. Prior to contact, a retrospective chart review was conducted to determine global functioning and admission diagnoses. At follow-up, patients participated in a 4 to 6 hour interview that assessed current and lifetime Axis I disorders (SCID-I), current Axis II disorders (PDE), eating behaviors (EAT, BSQ, EDI, PSR), global functioning (GAF), social adjustment (SAS-SR), and treatment and medical problems experienced since discharge. To assess the significance of differences between the recovered and the currently bulimic women, Yates-corrected chi-square tests and two-tailed t tests were used.
Of the 52 women, 46 were interviewed, 1 had died, and 5 could not be located. Of the 46 interviewed women, 39% had fully recovered, 20% had partially recovered, and 41% were currently bulimic. The likelihood of recovery increased with length of time since discharge. While medical problems related to the bulimia were few, treatment with phenelzine was associated with three reports of serious hypertensive episodes, one of which led to death. Global functioning before hospitalization, lifetime DSM-III-R Axis I diagnoses, and current Axis II diagnoses were not associated with outcome.
These findings suggest that even severely ill bulimic patients have a significant chance of achieving full recovery.
The first case of haemolytic anaemia with thrombocytopenia and acute renal failure induced by ingestion of aspirin in a 22-year old woman is reported. An IgM anti-aspirin antibody which agglutinated erythrocytes of the patient and of ABO compatible donors in the presence of aspirin was isolated in the serum. In addition, the allergic nature of the patient's hypersensitivity to aspirin was confirmed by positive lymphocyte transformation and basophil degranulation tests in the presence of the drug.
This study aimed at describing the side-effects reported in patients infected with HIV-1 treated initially by the association zidovudine, lamivudine and efavirenz between 2002 and 2007 in the Regional Centre of Clinical Research and Training in Dakar as part of the cohort of the Senegalese Initiative Access to Antiretroviral. Adverse effects were entered and analysed using the software Epi Info version 6.04. The average age of the patients was 38 years old. During the follow-up (average = 741 days), adverse effects were reported 75 times and 39 patients were concerned. The most frequent type of side-effects was neuropsychiatric (47%), digestive (20%) and dermatological (16%). They were severe in 13% of cases and severe anaemia was noted in eight cases. These required a change of therapy in 19%, mainly for severe anaemia (15%). The association zidovudine, lamivudine and efavirenz doesn't seem to induce severe side-effects. Nevertheless, considering the frequency of neuropsychiatric side-effects and severity of hematological side-effects, attention should be paid to neuropsychiatric and blood examination of patients undergoing this combination antiretroviral therapy.
Propylthiouracil (PTU), a drug commonly used for treatment of hyperthyroidism, is associated with various rare side effects. Antineutrophil cytoplasm antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis is a relatively unusual complication among them. The pathogenesis of ANCA-positive vasculitis during PTU therapy is still obscure. We present the case of a 12-year-old boy who developed ANCA-positive vasculitis during PTU therapy for Graves' disease. His symptoms and signs were indistinguishable from anaphylactoid purpura, a common small-vessel vasculitis in children. The clinical manifestations improved after discontinuation of PTU and immunosuppressant treatment. He remained symptom-free at 11-months follow-up.
Disease-oriented phase II trials of doxifluridine were performed in advanced colorectal, breast, renal, endometrial, stomach, and ovarian carcinomas. The dose schedule recommended by the phase I trial (12.5 g/m2 by continuous iv infusion over 6 hours once a week for 3 weeks followed by a 1-week rest) was chosen first: the initial dose was later decreased to 10 g/m2 due to the fact that several neurotoxic effects were reported. A total of 207 patients were entered: 137 patients who received at least two courses of treatment were evaluable for response. Therapeutic activity was demonstrated in breast cancer [two complete responses (CR) and 13 partial responses (PR) among 42 patients], colon cancer (seven PRs among 35 patients), and rectal cancer (six PRs among 23 patients). Some therapeutic activity was detected in ovarian cancer (one CR among nine patients), endometrial cancer (one PR among five patients), and stomach cancer (one PR among five patients). No significant activity was noticed in renal cancer (one PR among 18 patients). Nonhematological toxicity was evaluated according to World Health Organization criteria. Nausea and vomiting were recorded in 50% of the patients (Grade 3-4 in 5%), diarrhea was recorded in 20% (Grade 3-4 in 5%), and cutaneous and allergic reactions were recorded in 10% (Grade 3-4 in 2%). Myelotoxicity during the first treatment course was mild; median wbc and platelet count nadirs (x 10(9) cells/L) were 4.1 (range, 0.1-11) and 194 (range, 20-482), respectively. Nevertheless, some cases of acute leukopenia and thrombopenia were reported. Consciousness alterations and neurologic symptoms were the major side effects (72 of 173 evaluable patients), since treatment had to be interrupted in 34 patients and four lethal neurotoxic effects occurred. At the same total dose of doxifluridine, the risk of neurotoxicity significantly increases with age and with the weekly dose and to the contrary it decreases with increasing bilirubin level. Although activity was demonstrated, this treatment cannot be recommended because of major neurotoxicity. Further pharmacological studies seem warranted to define the optimal dosage schedule and to obtain a better therapeutic index.
One hundred and four workers ingested excessive levels of arsenic in an accident caused by leakage of pipeline in a copper-smelting factory. Clinical examinations were performed by physicians in a local hospital. Excreted urinary arsenic species were determined by cold trap hydride generation atomic absorption spectrometry. In the initial toxic phase, gastrointestinal symptoms were predominant (83 people, 79.8%). Most patients showed leucopenia (72 people, 69.2%), and increased serum alanine aminotransferase (84 people, 80.8%) and aspartate aminotransferase (58 people, 55.8%). Thirty-five patients (33.6%) had elevated red blood cells in urine. After 17 days of admission, many subjects (45 people, 43.3%) developed peripheral neuropathy and 25 of these 45 patients (24.0%) showed a decrease in motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity. In the comparison of urinary arsenic metabolites among subacute arsenic-poisoned, chronic high arsenic-exposed and control subjects, we found that subacute arsenic-poisoned patients had significantly elevated proportions of urinary inorganic arsenic (iAs) and methylarsonic acid (MMA) but reduced proportion of urinary dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) compared with chronic high arsenic-exposed and control subjects. Chronic exposed subjects excreted higher proportions of iAs and MMA but lower proportions of DMA in urine compared with control subjects. These results suggest that gastrointestinal symptoms, leucopenia, and hepatic and urinary injury are predominant in the initial phase of subacute arsenic poisoning. Peripheral neuropathy is the most frequent manifestation after the initial phase. The biomethylation of arsenic decreases in a dose rate-dependent manner.
A case of salicylate intoxication from repeated therapeutic doses of aspirin is reported in an adult with impairment of salicylate elimination. Evolution of acid-base disturbance from respiratory alkalosis to metablic acidosis is documented. Serum salicylate levels during several years of therapy demonstrate the acquisition of impaired elimination of the drug. This case illustrates the practical importance of special features of salicylate accumulation kinetics emphasized in a recent review.
15 chronic cluster headache patients in whom pain was induced by nitroglycerin received acute intravenous treatment with a calcium entry blocker. At the time of peak pain we noted a sudden decrease after the Verapamil injection. The mechanism by which the calcium entry blocker afforded relief is unlikely to have been vasodilatation in patients whose blood vessels had just been dilated by nitroglycerin. A more probable mechanism is blockade of the release of the pain-inducing neurotransmitters. The vasodilatation phase is not a primary factor in the onset of pain.
In open heart surgery it is very important to protect the heart during the ischaemic period in terms of mortality and morbidity. Many different cardioplegic solutions are in clinical use without being tested experimentally. In this study we intended to investigate the effects of albumin addition to St. Thomas Hospital cardioplegic solution on cardiac protection to ischaemia. Rat hearts were isolated and perfused in Langendorff apparatus (n = 6 for each group). After the stabilisation period, the hearts in the control group were arrested with St. Thomas Hospital cardioplegic solution for 3 min then subjected to 30 min of global ischaemia in cardioplegic solution, this is followed by reperfusion for 10 min. In albumin groups, the experimental protocol was the same but 2.25%, 4.5% or 9% human albumin was added to the cardioplegic solution. All of the hearts were compared for their pre-ischaemic and post-ischaemic contractility, heart rate, coronary flow, LDH and CK enzyme leakage, and wet/dry weight ratio values. The contraction, heart rate (P < 0.01 for both), and coronary flow (only for the 9% albumin group, P < 0.05) values in the albumin group were less than the control group during the reperfusion period. There was no difference between groups in LDH, and CK leakage, and wet/dry weight ratio. The circulation of ischaemic hearts in the albumin group were diminished, possibly due to protein precipitation. This condition negatively affected the performance of the heart. The fact that there is no difference in enzyme leakage and wet/dry weight ratio, indicates that this event is not irreversible.
Galactokinase is an essential enzyme for the metabolism of galactose and its deficiency causes congenital cataracts during infancy and presenile cataracts in the adult population. We have cloned the human galactokinase cDNA, which maps to chromosome 17q24, and show that the isolated cDNA expresses galactokinase activity in bacteria and mammalian cells. We also describe two different mutations in this gene in unrelated families with galactokinase deficiency and cataracts. The availability of the cloned galactokinase gene provides an important reference to identify mutations in patients with galactokinase deficiency and cataracts.
A 37-year-old man with sarcoidosis developed severe electrical and clinical myotonia while taking pravastatin for hypercholesterolemia. Myotonia associated with sarcoidosis is rare. Pravastatin is associated with myotonia in animals. This case suggests that sarcoidosis and pravastatin, two entities not frequently associated with myotonia, may interact in a synergistic manner to produce severe clinical myotonia in humans.
This trial evaluated the efficacy of amantadine, propranolol and their combination in cocaine dependent patients with severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms.
Cocaine withdrawal symptom severity was measured by the cocaine selective severity assessment (CSSA). One hundred and ninety-nine patients with high scores on the CSSA participated in a 10-week double-blind trial. Patients were randomly assigned to receive amantadine (300 mg/day), propranolol (100mg/day), a combination of amantadine (300 mg/day) and propranolol (100mg/day) or matching placebo capsules. The primary outcome measure was cocaine abstinence.
In the intent-to-treat sample, there were no significant differences between the four medication groups in treatment retention. The odds of cocaine abstinence showed a marginally significant increase over time in the propranolol group (p=0.06) but not in the other three groups. In highly medication-adherent patients, treatment retention was significantly better in the propranolol group compared to the placebo group (p=0.01) and the odds of cocaine abstinence increased significantly over time in the propranolol group but not in the other three groups.
In the intent-to-treat sample, none of the three active treatments (propranolol, amantadine or their combination) was significantly more effective than placebo in promoting abstinence from cocaine among patients who entered treatment with more severe cocaine withdrawal symptoms. Among patients highly adherent to study medication, propranolol treatment was associated with better treatment retention and higher rates of cocaine abstinence compared to placebo.
In this pilot study, we performed an oral yohimbine challenge in 6 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and anxiety or depression, 2 parkinsonian patients without psychiatric illness, and 2 healthy control subjects to determine whether patients with Parkinson's disease and anxiety respond to this adrenergic agent in the same way patients with idiopathic anxiety disorders respond. Given the atypical nature of depression in Parkinson's disease (characterized by prominent anxiety), we also wanted to see if patients with Parkinson's disease and depression (but no history of anxiety) are susceptible to yohimbine-induced panic. Parkinsonian patients with anxiety developed panic attacks at frequencies comparable to primary psychiatric patients with panic disorder. The one patient with PD and a history of major depression alone developed a panic attack. Regardless of their history of anxiety or depression, parkinsonian patients demonstrated a vulnerability to yohimbine-induced somatic symptoms.
In thalassemia major (TM), severe cardiac siderosis can be treated by continuous parenteral deferoxamine, but poor compliance, complications and deaths occur. Combined chelation therapy with deferiprone and deferoxamine is effective for moderate myocardial siderosis, but has not been prospectively examined in severe myocardial siderosis.
T2* cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) was performed in 167 TM patients receiving standard subcutaneous deferoxamine monotherapy, and 22 had severe myocardial siderosis (T2* < 8 ms) with impaired left ventricular (LV) function. Fifteen of these patients received combination therapy with subcutaneous deferoxamine and oral deferiprone with CMR follow-up.
At baseline, deferoxamine was prescribed at 38 +/- 10.2 mg/kg for 5.3 days/week, and deferiprone at 73.9 +/- 4.0 mg/kg/day. All patients continued both deferiprone and deferoxamine for 12 months. There were no deaths or new cardiovascular complications. The myocardial T2* improved (5.7 +/- 0.98 ms to 7.9 +/- 2.47 ms; p = 0.010), with concomitant improvement in LV ejection fraction (51.2 +/- 10.9% to 65.6 +/- 6.7%; p < 0.001). Serum ferritin improved from 2057 (CV 7.6%) to 666 (CV 13.2%) microg/L (p < 0.001), and liver iron improved (liver T2*: 3.7 +/- 2.9 ms to 10.8 +/- 7.3 ms; p = 0.006).
In patients with severe myocardial siderosis and impaired LV function, combined chelation therapy with subcutaneous deferoxamine and oral deferiprone reduces myocardial iron and improves cardiac function. This treatment is considerably less onerous for the patient than conventional high dose continuous subcutaneous or intravenous deferoxamine monotherapy, and may be considered as an alternative. Very prolonged tailored treatment with iron chelation is necessary to clear myocardial iron, and alterations in chelation must be guided by repeated myocardial T2* scans.
This trial is registered as NCT00103753.
Altered hippocampal function and brain serotonin activity are implicated in the development and symptoms of schizophrenia. We have previously shown that lesions of the median raphe nucleus, but not the dorsal raphe nucleus, produced a marked enhancement of locomotor hyperactivity induced by phencyclidine and disruption of prepulse inhibition. The dorsal and ventral hippocampus receive serotonin projections predominantly from the median raphe nucleus and dorsal raphe nucleus, respectively. Therefore, we investigated the effect of local lesions of serotonin projections into the dorsal and ventral hippocampus on psychotomimetic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anaesthetized with pentobarbitone and stereotaxically microinjected with 5 microg of the serotonergic neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into either the dorsal or the ventral hippocampus. Two weeks after surgery, dorsal hippocampus-lesioned rats showed a 100% enhancement of the locomotor hyperactivity caused by phencyclidine treatment and a slight but significant reduction of the effect of amphetamine. Prepulse inhibition was significantly disrupted in lesioned rats and serotonin levels in the dorsal hippocampus were reduced by 80%. Rats with lesions of the ventral hippocampus showed 85% depletion of serotonin and partial disruption of prepulse inhibition, but no significant changes in the effect of phencyclidine or amphetamine. These results suggest that serotonin projections from the median raphe nucleus to the dorsal hippocampus play an important role in locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition in rats, animal models of aspects of schizophrenia. This suggests that these serotonin projections may be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia symptomology.
Intraarterial blood pressure (BP) monitoring during free ambulation (Oxford technique) was carried out in 12 essential mild-to-moderate hypertensive patients undergoing 4 weeks treatment with felodipine, 10 mg given once daily in an extended release formulation. Compared to placebo, felodipine significantly reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure throughout 24 h. The greatest reduction was observed at 10 AM, 3 h after drug administration (-32 +/- 6/-24 +/- 5 mm Hg for systolic and diastolic BP, respectively, P less than .001). Hourly BP values remained significantly lower up to and including the 24th hour during felodipine extended release treatment (-18 +/- 5/-11 +/- 3 mm Hg, P less than .001). Felodipine extended release also reduced 24 h blood pressure variability, evaluated on the standard deviation of each hourly mean (from 16.3 +/- 0.9/12.6 +/- 0.6 to 13.4 +/- 0.6/10.4 +/- 0.6 mm Hg, P less than .01). Furthermore, absolute BP values dropped significantly at the peaks of dynamic exercise (bicycle ergometer: from 248 +/- 13/123 +/- 11 to 204 +/- 24/102 +/- 13 mm Hg, P less than .001), isometric exercise (hand grip: from 232 +/- 18/133 +/- 16 to 180 +/- 20/101 +/- 16 mm Hg, P less than .001), and cold pressor test (from 229 +/- 20/127 +/- 14 to 178 +/- 22/99 +/- 15 mm Hg, P less than .001). In conclusion, felodipine extended release exerts a good antihypertensive effect which is maintained for 24 h and reduces the level of blood pressure peaks reached under different physical stresses.
Clofibrate has been considered to be a relatively safe antidiuretic in the treatment of diabetes insipidus. However, we have recently had four cases of clofibrate-induced myopathy in patients with diabetes insipidus due to hypothalamic lesions. Physicians should therefore be aware of its occurrence and carefully monitor serum levels of CPK, GOT and GPT during the treatment of diabetes insipidus with clofibrate, especially in patients with associated hypothyroidism, latent or overt, which possibly favors the development of myopathy.
Inorganic mercury may aggravate murine systemic autoimmune diseases which are either spontaneous (genetically determined) or induced by non-genetic mechanisms. Organic mercury species, the dominating form of mercury exposure in the human population, have not been examined in this respect. Therefore, ethyl mercury in the form of thimerosal, a preservative recently debated as a possible health hazard when present in vaccines, was administered in a dose of 0.156-5 mg/L drinking water to female (NZB x NZW)F1 (ZBWF1) mice. These mice develop an age-dependent spontaneous systemic autoimmune disease with high mortality primarily due to immune-complex (IC) glomerulonephritis. Five mg thimerosal/L drinking water (295 microg Hg/kg body weight (bw)/day) for 7 weeks induced glomerular, mesangial and systemic vessel wall IC deposits and antinuclear antibodies (ANA) which were not present in the untreated controls. After 22-25 weeks, the higher doses of thimerosal had shifted the localization of the spontaneously developing renal glomerular IC deposits from the capillary wall position seen in controls to the mesangium. The altered localization was associated with less severe histological kidney damage, less proteinuria, and reduced mortality. The effect was dose-dependent, lower doses having no effect compared with the untreated controls. A different effect of thimerosal treatment was induction of renal and splenic vessel walls IC deposits. Renal vessel wall deposits occurred at a dose of 0.313-5 mg thimerosal/L (18-295 microg Hg/kg bw/day), while splenic vessel wall deposits developed also in mice given the lowest dose of thimerosal, 0.156 mg/L (9 microg Hg/kg bw/day). The latter dose is 3- and 15-fold lower than the dose of Hg required to induce vessel wall IC deposits in genetically susceptible H-2s mice by HgCl2 and thimerosal, respectively. Further studies on the exact conditions needed for induction of systemic IC deposits by low-dose organic mercurials in autoimmune-prone individuals, as well as the potential effect of these deposits on the vessel walls, are warranted.
The similarities and differences in the clinical response and incidence of adverse symptoms between zimeldine and amitriptyline have been evaluated by use of a combined analysis of four double-blind clinical trials in depression. In total, 197 patients were included in this series of studies. The efficacy of the drugs was assessed using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D). Reports of adverse symptoms were actively elicited by use of a check-list of symptoms and rated for severity. The overall clinical efficacy of the two drugs was shown to be equivalent with a high degree of statistical confidence. However, there exist differences in the profile of action. Amitriptyline has a significant advantage in insomnia problems. In spite of this zimeldine was shown to be at least as effective as amitriptyline in reducing anxiety. Amitriptyline is associated with significantly more anticholinergic side-effects, whereas headache is more disturbing during zimeldine treatment. The combination of several independent trials based on similar protocols can be a useful tool to increase the statistical reliability of conclusions relative to that which can be achieved in standard sized, individual studies in depression.
