Persistent trimethylaminuria in children is caused by autosomal recessively inherited impairment of hepatic trimethylamine (TMA) oxidation due to deficiency of flavin monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) secondary to mutations in the FMO3 gene. Trimethylaminuria or 'fish odour syndrome' is due to excessive excretion into body fluids and breath of TMA derived from the enterobacterial metabolism of dietary precursors. The disorder is present from birth but becomes apparent as foods containing high amounts of choline or of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) from marine (sea or saltwater) fish are introduced into the diet. In our experience, trimethylaminuria (FMO3 deficiency) in children is rare. We have compared the dynamics and diagnostic efficacy of choline loading with marine fish meals in six children with trimethylaminuria. Loading with a marine fish meal provides a simple and acceptable method for confirmation of diagnosis of suspected trimethylaminuria in children, with the effects being cleared more quickly than with a choline load test. However, oral loading with choline bitartrate allows estimation of residual oxidative capacity in vivo and is a useful adjunct to molecular studies. Patients homozygous for the 'common' P153L mutation in the FMO3 gene showed virtual complete lack of residual TMA N-oxidative capacity, consistent with a nonfunctional or absent FMO3 enzyme, whereas a patient with the M82T mutation showed some residual oxidative capacity. A patient compound heterozygous for two novel mutations, G193E and R483T, showed considerable residual N-oxidative capacity. A further patient, heterozygous for two novel sequence variations in the FMO3 gene, consistently showed malodour and elevated urinary TMA/TMAO ratios under basal conditions but a negative response to both choline and marine fish meal loading. Comparison of the effects of administration of antibiotics (metronidazole, amoxicillin, neomycin) on gut bacterial production of trimethylamine from choline showed they all reduced TMA production to a limited extent, with neomycin being most effective. 'Best-practice' diagnostic and treatment guidelines are summarized.
In 17 patients (aged 78 +/- 9 years) with symptomatic atrial fibrillation and a slow ventricular response not related to drugs, a resting electrocardiogram and 24-hour Holter recording were obtained before and 5 to 6 days after administration of slow-release theophylline (700 mg/day), and successively every 3 months during the long-term phase. Fourteen patients had organic heart disease, and 13 complained of syncope or presyncope, and 4 of asthenia and easy fatigability. At the steady-state evaluation, theophylline significantly increased resting heart rate (HR) by 42%, mean 24-hour HR by 31% and minimal 24-hour HR by 34%. Cardiac pauses > 2,500 ms disappeared or markedly decreased. The daily number of wide QRS complexes increased. Serum theophylline level was 13 +/- 5 ng/ml. During the follow-up period (20 +/- 18 months), the mean daily theophylline dosage was 450 mg and the mean serum theophylline level 9 ng/ml. Seven patients died: 1 because of heart failure, and 6 because of noncardiac death. One patient complained of a syncopal episode during 1 visit. The drug markedly reduced asthenia and easy fatigability. During the long-term phase, HR increased spontaneously in 3 patients, and the treatment was interrupted. In 2 patients, theophylline had to be discontinued because of gastric intolerance. During long-term therapy, HR was similar to that observed at the steady-state evaluation, despite the reduction in daily dosage. The data suggest that theophylline is an effective therapy in most patients with symptomatic atrial fibrillation and a slow ventricular response.
Inflammasomes are innate immune sensors that respond to pathogen- and damage-associated signals with caspase-1 activation, interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18 secretion, and macrophage pyroptosis. The discovery that dominant gain-of-function mutations in NLRP3 cause the cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes (CAPS) and trigger spontaneous inflammasome activation and IL-1β oversecretion led to successful treatment with IL-1-blocking agents. Herein we report a de novo missense mutation (c.1009A > T, encoding p.Thr337Ser) affecting the nucleotide-binding domain of the inflammasome component NLRC4 that causes early-onset recurrent fever flares and macrophage activation syndrome (MAS). Functional analyses demonstrated spontaneous inflammasome formation and production of the inflammasome-dependent cytokines IL-1β and IL-18, with the latter exceeding the levels seen in CAPS. The NLRC4 mutation caused constitutive caspase-1 cleavage in cells transduced with mutant NLRC4 and increased production of IL-18 in both patient-derived and mutant NLRC4-transduced macrophages. Thus, we describe a new monoallelic inflammasome defect that expands the monogenic autoinflammatory disease spectrum to include MAS and suggests new targets for therapy.
Lipid composition of homogenate and neuronal and glial nuclei of the brain cortex of Wistar rats was studied under normal conditions and after seizures induced by injection of picrotoxin. Seizures increased contents of lysophosphatidylcholine, sphingomyelin, and total phospholipids in the homogenate. In neuronal nuclei contents of total phospholipids, sphingomyelin, phosphatidylcholine, and phosphatidylserine decreased, and contents of free fatty acids and lysophosphatidylcholine increased. In glial nuclei content of total phospholipids decreased and content of free fatty acids increased. The role of changes in the lipid composition of the neocortex cells during seizures and the involvement of lipid messengers in signal mechanisms are discussed.
Clotrimazole, an imidazole derivative and inhibitor of cytochrome P-450, inhibits the proliferation of cancer cells by downregulating the movement of intracellular Ca++ and K+ and by interfering with the translation initiation process. Clotrimazole inhibits the proliferation of human glioblastoma multiforme cells; it induces morphological changes toward differentiation and blocks the cell cycle in the G1/G1 phase. In vitro, clotrimazole enhances the antitumor effect of cisplatin by inducing wild-type p53-mediated apoptosis. The authors examined the effect of clotrimazole on tumor growth, sensitivity to cisplatin, and survival of rats with intracranial gliomas.
Cultured C6 and 9L glioma cells were exposed to clotrimazole, and cell growth was assessed using the 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide colorimetric assay. Clotrimazole produced a dose- and time-dependent inhibition of cell proliferation. The growth inhibitory effect of clotrimazole could not be overcome by exogenous stimulation with epidermal growth factor. Both C6 and 9L glioma cells were implanted into the rat brain and after 5 days, the animals were treated with a daily single dose of clotrimazole for 8 consecutive days. Clotrimazole treatment caused a significant inhibition of intracranial tumor growth. The survival of rats with 9L gliomas was analyzed after 10 days of treatment with clotrimazole, cisplatin, or a combination of clotrimazole and cisplatin. Rats treated with either drug displayed a significantly prolonged survival time; however, the combination treatment resulted only in an additional survival benefit.
Clotrimazole effectively inhibits cell proliferation and tumor growth, and prolongs survival of rats with intracranial gliomas. Clotrimazole may be considered a potential anticancer drug for treatment of intracranial gliomas.
Male and female CD-1 mice received single oral doses of benzene (220, 440, and 880 mg/kg) and were pretreated with modifiers of the mixed-function oxidase enzyme activities. Urinary metabolites (MT) (0-24 and 24-48 hr) were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography. The micronucleus test was performed at 30 h. The following pretreatments were used to correlate micronucleus formation and the excreted benzene MT: 3-Methylcholanthrene and beta-naphthoflavone led to a marked increase in micronuclei (MN) and MT, whereas phenobarbital caused a slight increase, and SKF-525A had no effect. MN and MT were decreased when benzene was administered by the ip route or toluene was given simultaneously. Females had a lower number of MN and excreted more unconjugated phenol than did males. Muconic acid, hydroquinone, and phenol glucuronide and MN correlated well. They were dependent on both the dose and route of administration of benzene, being most inducible by P-448 inducers, in males more than females. The administration of hydroquinone induced MN, but phenol or catechol (200, 250, and 150 mg/kg, po, respectively) did not, and none of these compounds yielded trans, trans-muconic acid, a benzene MT in urine. This study establishes that benzene myeloclastogenicity is a function of its metabolism and that quantification of urinary metabolites could provide reliable correlates of this effect in vivo.
Wilms tumor is the most frequent renal neoplasm in children, but our understanding of its genetic basis is still limited. We performed cDNA microarray experiments using 63 primary Wilms tumors with the aim of detecting new candidate genes associated with malignancy grade and tumor progression. All tumors had received preoperative chemotherapy as mandated by the SIOP protocol, which sets this study apart from related approaches in the Unites States that are based on untreated samples. The stratification of expression data according to clinical criteria allowed a rather clear distinction between different subsets of Wilms tumors. Clear-cut differences in expression patterns were discovered between relapse-free as opposed to relapsed tumors and tumors with intermediate risk as opposed to high risk histology. Several differentially expressed genes, e.g.TRIM22, CENPF, MYCN, CTGF, RARRES3 and EZH2, were associated with Wilms tumor progression. For a subset of differentially expressed genes, microarray data were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR on the original set of tumors. Interestingly, we found the retinoic acid pathway to be deregulated at different levels in advanced tumors suggesting that treatment of these tumors with retinoic acid may represent a promising novel therapeutic approach.
It is uncertain if a patient's lamivudine response after HBeAg loss is durable. In Korean chronic hepatitis B patients, the relapse rate is high after termination of lamivudine therapy for patients with HBeAg loss. We evaluated the factors related to relapse in chronic hepatitis B patients with HBeAg loss after lamivudine therapy.
A total of 132 chronic hepatitis B patients, who initially had HBeAg and did not have decompensated features, were analyzed in this study. These patients lost the HBeAg after lamivudine therapy and then their therapy was stopped. Post-treatment serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), HBeAg, anti-HBe and hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA were monitored until relapse.
Seventy-five patients relapsed (cumulative relapse rate: 56% at 6 months). Upon univariate analysis, the factors of age, serum total bilirubin, presence of anti-HBe after HBeAg loss, and the duration of additional lamivudine therapy after HBeAg loss were associated with relapse. Upon multivariate analysis, older age, a higher serum total bilirubin and the shorter duration of additional lamivudine therapy were significant risk factors for relapse. Patterns of relapse were the re-elevation of ALT, re-emergence of HBV DNA (69 patients) and reappearance of HBeAg (55 patients).
To prevent relapse in patients with chronic hepatitis B infection after lamivudine therapy, age and serum bilirubin level of patients as well as a prolonged duration of additional lamivudine therapy should be considered.
Upon detection of pathogen-associated molecular patterns, innate immune receptors initiate inflammatory responses. These receptors include cytoplasmic NOD-like receptors (NLRs) whose stimulation recruits and proteolytically activates caspase-1 within the inflammasome, a multiprotein complex. Caspase-1 mediates the production of interleukin-1 family cytokines (IL1FCs), leading to fever and inflammatory cell death (pyroptosis). Mutations that constitutively activate these pathways underlie several autoinflammatory diseases with diverse clinical features. We describe a family with a previously unreported syndrome featuring neonatal-onset enterocolitis, periodic fever, and fatal or near-fatal episodes of autoinflammation. We show that the disease is caused by a de novo gain-of-function mutation in NLRC4 encoding a p.Val341Ala substitution in the HD1 domain of the protein that cosegregates with disease. Mutant NLRC4 causes constitutive IL1FC production and macrophage cell death. Infected macrophages from affected individuals are polarized toward pyroptosis and exhibit abnormal staining for inflammasome components. These findings identify and describe the cause of a life-threatening but treatable autoinflammatory disease that underscores the divergent roles of the NLRC4 inflammasome.
An episode of severe hypertension induced by indigo carmine is herein reported. Treatment with intravenous hydralazine was required to restore systemic blood pressure to a safe level. The reported association of indigo carmine with hypertension is reviewed.
Pancreatitis occurs in approximately 4% of patients treated with the thiopurines azathioprine or mercaptopurine. Its development is unpredictable and almost always leads to drug withdrawal. We identified patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) who had developed pancreatitis within 3 months of starting these drugs from 168 sites around the world. After detailed case adjudication, we performed a genome-wide association study on 172 cases and 2,035 controls with IBD. We identified strong evidence of association within the class II HLA region, with the most significant association identified at rs2647087 (odds ratio 2.59, 95% confidence interval 2.07-3.26, P = 2 × 10(-16)). We replicated these findings in an independent set of 78 cases and 472 controls with IBD matched for drug exposure. Fine mapping of the HLA region identified association with the HLA-DQA1*02:01-HLA-DRB1*07:01 haplotype. Patients heterozygous at rs2647087 have a 9% risk of developing pancreatitis after administration of a thiopurine, whereas homozygotes have a 17% risk.
A patient with false elevation of serum creatinine level due to 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) is reported. 5-FC interferes with the enzymatic method used for creatinine determination in the Kodak Ektachem analyzer. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for spurious azotemia in patients receiving 5-FC therapy for fungal urinary tract infections.
To determine whether there is evidence of platelet activation following in vivo cocaine administration in humans, as cocaine abuse is associated with myocardial infarction and stroke, and platelet activation leading to thrombosis is a possible mechanism.
University hospital.
Following a randomised, double blind crossover design, 14 healthy volunteers were studied twice, receiving cocaine (2 mg/kg intranasally) once and placebo once. Flow cytometric analysis of P-selectin expression (an alpha granule membrane protein found on the surface of activated platelets), quantification of the platelet specific proteins platelet factor 4 and beta thromboglobulin, and measurement of platelet containing microaggregate and platelet microparticle (fragment) formation were used to assess platelet activation. Circulating von Willebrand factor antigen (vWF) was measured to evaluate a possible role of endothelial stimulation concurrent with platelet activation.
There was an increase in both platelet factor 4 (mean (SD), 16 (7) to 39 (22) IU/ml, p = 0. 04) and beta thromboglobulin (70 (20) to 98 (26) IU/ml, p < 0.01) at 120 minutes following cocaine administration. Platelet containing microaggregate formation was increased at 40 minutes (from 47 (3.2)% to 54 (2.0)%, p < 0.001) and 80 minutes (55 (2.5)%, p = 0.04). Bleeding time decreased following cocaine from 10 (1) to 9 (1) minutes (p = 0.07). No changes in any of the measured variables were noted following placebo administration.
Cocaine exposure causes platelet activation, alpha granule release, and platelet containing microaggregate formation. These data support the view that cocaine, even at the relatively low doses commonly self administered by occasional abusers, may promote thrombosis and predispose healthy individuals to ischaemic events. Platelet inhibitors should be considered early in any patient with suspected cocaine related ischaemia.
Familial partial lipodystrophy (FPL) and lipodystrophy observed in HIV-1 infected patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) share multiple clinical and metabolic features. Recently, missense mutations of LMNA encoding lamin A/C have been described in FPL providing evidence for a pivotal role of lamin A/C in the regulation of adipocytes. Moreover, the cellular retinoic acid binding protein (CRABP) has been suggested to be involved in HAART associated lipodystrophy. In this study, we excluded mutations within the complete coding region and the promoter of LMNA and the CRABP II gene in HIV-1 infected patients with lipodystrophy and also any correlation of the nucleotide polymorphism at codon 566 in exon 10 of LMNA with metabolic abnormalities. Protease inhibitors including indinavir have been shown to reduce adipocyte cell differentiation and increase apoptosis of adipocytes in vitro. Indinavir leads to altered retinoic acid signaling most likely by an activation of the RAR/RXR heterodimer, perhaps by displacing all-trans-retinoic acid from CRABP. Since LMNA is regulated by a retinoic acid responsive element (L-RARE) in the promoter region, we propose that indinavir impairs retinoic acid homeostasis and/or interact via the L-RARE within the LMNA promoter. This results in altered LMNA expression and subsequent impaired adipocyte differentiation, lipodystrophic body habitus, and metabolic disturbances in HIV infected patients receiving HAART.
The activity of antioxidant enzymes, copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and catalase (CAT), as well as that of the mitochondrial FAD-dependent alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (alpha-GPD) in the rat interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT) were studied after the treatment with methimazole (MMI) for three weeks or with iopanoic acid (IOP) for five days. Besides, the mitochondrial concentration of uncoupling protein-1 (UCP-1) and the activity of catecholamine degrading enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) in the IBAT as well as the activity of the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) in rat serum were examined. Judging by the significantly enhanced level of serum DBH, which is an index of sympathetic activity, and that of IBAT MAO, the increase in MnSOD and CAT activities in the IBAT of hypothyroid (MMI-treated) rats seems to be due to elevated activity of sympathetic nervous system (SNS). However, CuZnSOD activity is not affected by SNS. On the contrary, IOP, which is a potent inhibitor of T4 deiodination into T3 producing "local" hypothyroidism, did not change either SNS activity or activities of IBAT antioxidant enzyme. However, both treatments significantly decreased IBAT UCP-1 content and alpha-GPD activity suggesting that the optimal T3 concentration in the IBAT is necessary for maintaining basal levels of these key mitochondrial parameters.
The protective effect of verapamil against acute ototoxic sensorineural damage produced by intraperitoneal injections of kanamycin (50 mg/kg daily for 14 day) was studied on rats. The functional (otoacoustic emission), histological, and physiological methods proved the protective effect of daily injections of calcium channel blocker verapamil (2 mg/kg) on the state of hair cells of the organ of Corti.
In a study primarily designed to evaluate the inhibitory effects of aspirin on N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT)-initiated and saccharin-promoted bladder carcinogenesis, significant renal lesions were observed. Thus, administration in the diet of aspirin and sodium saccharin to F344 male rats for 68 weeks resulted in significant lesions of the renal papilla. In contrast to the bladder, aspirin enhanced the frequency and severity of the proliferative action of sodium saccharin on the epithelium of the renal papilla (p less than 0.05 compared to rats treated with either compound alone). The majority of rats administered the two chemicals together demonstrated moderate to severe urothelial hyperplasia of the renal papilla. Columnar metaplasia of the papillary epithelium also occurred frequently in rats fed the combination of chemicals. The rats treated with a combination of sodium saccharin and aspirin had a high incidence of renal papillary necrosis which was also present to a lesser extent among rats treated with aspirin only. Papillary calcification was also frequently observed in the rats fed the combination of aspirin and sodium saccharin. Sodium saccharin or aspirin alone reduced the light microscopic incidence and severity of rat nephropathy, a common finding in aging rats. It would appear that the hyperplastic and renal papillary toxic effects of aspirin and sodium saccharin are independent responses, and that the administration of the two chemicals together greatly accentuates these responses.
A major obstacle in the treatment of human solid carcinomas is the intrinsic/acquired resistance to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. Copper-transporting P-type adenosine triphosphatase (ATP7B) has been reported to be associated with cisplatin resistance in vitro. ATP7B is overexpressed in human solid carcinomas such as breast, gastric and oral squamous cell carcinomas. ATP7B expression has an influential effect on some subsets of patients with cisplatin-treated carcinomas. ATP7B mutation is well-known as a cause of Wilson's disease. In addition, the six copper-binding domain and ATP-binding domain of ATP7B are important for the transportation of metals. Therefore, we performed the mutation analysis at the six copper-binding domain and ATP-binding domain of ATP7B. No mutation at the six copper-binding domain and ATP-binding domain was observed in breast, gastric and oral squameous cell carcinomas. These results indicate that the analysis of the ATP7B gene and/or protein will be helpful for the choice of chemotherapy in patients with human solid carcinomas.
Post-operative ileus (POI) affects most patients undergoing abdominal surgery.
To evaluate the effect of alvimopan, a peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist, on POI by negating the impact of opioids on gastrointestinal (GI) motility without affecting analgesia in patients outside North America.
Adult subjects undergoing open abdominal surgery (n = 911) randomly received oral alvimopan 6 or 12 mg, or placebo, 2 h before, and twice daily following surgery. Opioids were administered as intravenous patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) or bolus injection. Time to recovery of GI function was assessed principally using composite endpoints in subjects undergoing bowel resection (n = 738).
A nonsignificant reduction in mean time to tolerate solid food and either first flatus or bowel movement (primary endpoint) was observed for both alvimopan 6 and 12 mg; 8.5 h (95% CI: 0.9, 16.0) and 4.8 h (95% CI: -3.2, 12.8), respectively. However, an exploratory post hoc analysis showed that alvimopan was more effective in the PCA (n = 317) group than in the non-PCA (n = 318) group. Alvimopan was well tolerated and did not reverse analgesia.
Although the significant clinical effect of alvimopan on reducing POI observed in previous trials was not reproduced, this trial suggests potential benefit in bowel resection patients who received PCA.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are widely used in Western countries.
Because the prevalence of cryptorchidism appears to be increasing, we investigated whether exposure to PBDEs was associated with testicular maldescent.
In a prospective Danish-Finnish study, 1997-2001, all boys were examined for cryptorchidism. We analyzed whole placentas (for 95 cryptorchid/185 healthy boys) and individual breast milk samples (62/68) for 14 PBDEs and infant serum samples for gonadotropins, sex-hormone binding globulin, testosterone, and inhibin B.
In 86 placenta-milk pairs, placenta PBDE concentrations in fat were lower than in breast milk, and a larger number of congeners were nondetectable. There was no significant difference between boys with and without cryptorchidism for individual congeners, the sum of 5 most prevalent, or all 14 congeners. The concentration of PBDEs in breast milk was significantly higher in boys with cryptorchidism than in controls (sum of BDEs 47, 153, 99, 100, 28, 66, and 154: median, 4.16 vs. 3.16 ng/g fat; p < 0.007). There was a positive correlation between the sum of PBDEs and serum luteinizing hormone (p < 0.033). The sum of PBDEs in breast milk did not differ between Denmark and Finland (median, 3.52 vs. 3.44 ng/g fat), but significant differences in some individual congeners were found.
Two different proxies were used for prenatal PBDE exposure, and levels in breast milk, but not in placenta, showed an association with congenital cryptorchidism. Other environmental factors may contribute to cryptorchidism. Our observations are of concern because human exposure to PBDEs is high in some geographic areas.
We employed cDNA microarray analysis to identify, in mammary adenocarcinomas induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz[a] anthracene (DMBA) in the rat, target genes as potential biomarkers for cancer chemoprevention by 1,4-phenylenebis(methylene)selenocyanate (p-XSC). Confirmation of selected genes was conducted by reverse transcription polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCR). The glutathione conjugate, p-XSeSG, a putative metabolite of p-XSC was also employed to test our hypothesis that p-XSeSG is a more effective cancer chemopreventive agent in the mammary cancer model than p-XSC. Mammary adenocarcinomas were induced by a single oral administration of 5 mg DMBA in 0.2 ml olive oil per rat at 50-55 days of age. Consistent with our previous reports, dietary p-XSC at a non-toxic dose (10 p.p.m. as selenium) significantly inhibited adenocarcinoma development, independent of feeding duration. Moreover, p-XSeSG appears to be just as effective as p-XSC when fed after DMBA administration, but was significantly less effective than p-XSC in inhibiting the induction of mammary adenocarcinomas when it was fed before DMBA and continued until termination. To delineate the molecular basis for cancer chemoprevention by organoselenium compounds, we focused our analysis on differential expression of genes known to be involved in DMBA metabolism, as well as those related to cell cycle, cell proliferation and apoptosis. p-XSC and p-XSeSG were significantly and equally effective in inhibiting levels of expression of genes associated with cytochrome P450 isoforms, but the former was more active than the latter in up-regulating the expression of those related to certain phase II enzymes. p-XSC and p-XSeSG were significantly more effective in the up-regulation of pro-apoptotic genes, such as p21CIP1/WAF1, p27KIP1, APO-1 and Caspase-3, while down-regulating cell growth regulatory genes, such as c-myc, cyclin D1, cyclin D2 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). To our knowledge, this is the first report that provides insights into the effects of p-XSC and p-XSeSG at the molecular level that may account for mammary cancer chemoprevention in vivo in the rat.
Behavioral, electroencephalographic (EEG) and neuropathological effects of methomyl, a carbamate insecticide reversibly inhibiting acetylcholinesterase activity, were studied in naive or lithium chloride (24 h, 3 mEq/kg, s.c.) pretreated male Wistar rats. In naive animals, methomyl with equal potency produced motor limbic seizures and fatal status epilepticus. Thus, the CD50 values (50% convulsant dose) for these seizure endpoints were almost equal to the LD50 (50% lethal dose) of methomyl (13 mg/kg). Lithium pretreated rats were much more susceptible to convulsant, but not lethal effect of methomyl. CD50 values of methomyl for motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus were reduced by lithium pretreatment to 3.7 mg/kg (a 3.5-fold decrease) and 5.2 mg/kg (a 2.5-fold decrease), respectively. In contrast, lithium pretreatment resulted in only 1.3-fold decrease of LD50 value of methomyl (9.9 mg/kg). Moreover, lithium-methomyl treated animals developed a long-lasting status epilepticus, which was not associated with imminent lethality observed in methomyl-only treated rats. Scopolamine (10 mg/kg) or diazepam (10 mg/kg) protected all lithium-methomyl treated rats from convulsions and lethality. Cortical and hippocampal EEG recordings revealed typical epileptic discharges that were consistent with behavioral seizures observed in lithium-methomyl treated rats. In addition, convulsions induced by lithium-methomyl treatment were associated with widespread neurodegeneration of limbic structures. Our observations indicate that lithium pretreatment results in separation between convulsant and lethal effects of methomyl in rats. As such, seizures induced by lithium-methomyl administration may be an alternative to lithium-pilocarpine model of status epilepticus, which is associated with high lethality.
Ovarian cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in women. A number of studies have suggested that synthetic retinoids may play an important role as an ovarian cancer chemotherapeutic agent. The synthetic retinoid CD 437 induces apoptosis in ovarian tumor cells by a mechanism that is not completely understood. In this study we demonstrate that CD437 treatment leads to an increase in GADD45A and GADD45B mRNA expression in CA-OV3 cells but not in CA-CD437R cells, a cell line which is resistant to CD437. This induction is specific to CD437 since no change in expression of either GADD45A or GADD45B was observed with either all-trans-RA or 4-HPR treatment. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the induction of GADD45A mRNA in the CA-OV3 cell line by CD437 was accompanied by an increase in GADD45A protein. Upregulation of GADD45A by CD437 is regulated at least in part at the post-transcriptional level. In contrast, CD437 regulates GADD45B expression by different mechanisms. The importance of GADD45A induction in mediating apoptosis was demonstrated in CA-OV3 cells overexpressing GADD45A antisense RNA (GADD45A-AS cells). Our results suggest that induction of GADD45A expression might play a role in mediating the apoptotic response of ovarian cancer cells to the synthetic retinoid CD437.
