Neurotoxicity is a significant complication of the use of tacrolimus. From April 1998 to December 2001, we identified 10 patients (six women, four men) who developed 11 episodes of tacrolimus-associated posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) after allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for haematological malignancies. The diagnosis was made by characteristic clinical findings (mental status changes, seizures, neurological deficits) with the exclusion of other causes and characteristic imaging findings. The median age was 35.5 years (range 19-57 years). Seven patients received a matched-unrelated donor transplant and three received a cord blood transplant. The overall incidence of PRES was 1.6%, while the incidence in matched-unrelated, mismatched-related and cord blood transplants was 3.5%, 4.9% and 7.1% respectively. Mental status changes, cognitive deficits, seizures and lethargy were the most common clinical findings. Eight of 10 patients had characteristic findings of hyperintensity of the white matter on T2-weighted images and FLAIR (fluid-attenuated inversion recovery) sequence on magnetic resonance imaging of the brain. Serum tacrolimus levels were within the therapeutic range in most patients. Tacrolimus treatment was continued (n = 4) or temporarily withheld (n = 7) for 1-14 d. One patient was changed to cyclosporine. In most patients, subsequent treatment with tacrolimus was well tolerated without recurrence of neurotoxicity.
Heparomegaly was observed in a 26 year old woman who had used Lyndiol for 5 years. A large tumor which showed rich vascularization was found on each of the hepatic lobes. The case was diagnosed as liver cell adenoma caused by oral contraceptive use.
Piperine is a major component of black (Piper nigrum Linn) and long (Piper longum Linn) peppers, and is widely used as a traditional food and medicine. It also exhibits a variety of biological activities, which include antioxidant, anti-tumor and anti-pyretic properties. In the present study, we investigated the inhibitory effects of piperine on phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA)-induced cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) gene expression and analyzed the molecular mechanism of its activity in murine RAW 264.7 macrophages. Piperine dose-dependently decreased PMA-induced COX-2 expression and PGE(2) production, as well as COX-2 promoter-driven luciferase activity. Transient transfections utilizing COX-2 promoter deletion constructs and COX-2 promoter constructs, in which specific enhancer elements were mutagenized, revealed that the nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP) and activator protein-1 (AP-1), were the predominant contributors to the effects of piperine. In addition, piperine inhibited PMA-induced NF-κB, C/EBP and c-Jun nuclear translocation. Furthermore, piperine significantly inhibited PMA-induced activation of the Akt and ERK. These findings demonstrate that piperine effectively attenuates COX-2 production, and provide further insight into the signal transduction pathways involved in the anti-inflammatory effects of piperine.
Programmed cell death is critical for normal nervous system development and is regulated by Bcl-2 and Caspase family members. Targeted disruption of bcl-x(L), an antiapoptotic bcl-2 gene family member, causes massive death of immature neurons in the developing nervous system whereas disruption of caspase-9, a proapoptotic caspase gene family member, leads to decreased neuronal apoptosis and neurodevelopmental abnormalities. To determine whether Bcl-X(L) and Caspase-9 interact in an obligate pathway of neuronal apoptosis, bcl-x/caspase-9 double homozygous mutants were generated. The increased apoptosis of immature neurons observed in Bcl-X(L)-deficient embryos was completely prevented by concomitant Caspase-9 deficiency. In contrast, bcl-x(-/-)/caspase-9(-/-) embryonic mice exhibited an expanded ventricular zone and neuronal malformations identical to that observed in mice lacking only Caspase-9. These results indicate both epistatic and independent actions of Bcl-X(L) and Caspase-9 in neuronal programmed cell death. To examine Bcl-2 and Caspase family-dependent apoptotic pathways in telencephalic neurons, we compared the effects of cytosine arabinoside (AraC), a known neuronal apoptosis inducer, on wild-type, Bcl-X(L)-, Bax-, Caspase-9-, Caspase-3-, and p53-deficient telencephalic neurons in vitro. AraC caused extensive apoptosis of wild-type and Bcl-X(L)-deficient neurons. p53- and Bax-deficient neurons showed marked protection from AraC-induced death, whereas Caspase-9- and Caspase-3-deficient neurons showed minimal or no protection, respectively. These findings contrast with our previous investigation of AraC-induced apoptosis of telencephalic neural precursor cells in which death was completely blocked by p53 or Caspase-9 deficiency but not Bax deficiency. In total, these results indicate a transition from Caspase-9- to Bax- and Bcl-X(L)-mediated neuronal apoptosis.
Cardiovascular effects of S-dobutamine were compared with effects of vehicle and other catecholamines in dogs during and after 3 days of approximately 90% ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD). Twenty-four hours after LAD ligation, dogs infused with S-dobutamine (2.5 micrograms/kg/min intravenously, i.v.) maintained systolic blood pressure (SBP 149 +/- 6 mm Hg), diastolic blood pressure (DBP 100 +/- 6 mm Hg), and aortic dP/dt60 (2.8 +/- 0.2 s-1), with no significant changes from preligation values. In comparison, saline-treated dogs showed decreases in arterial BP and contractility: SBP 121 +/- 4 mm Hg; DBP 85 +/- 3 mm Hg; and aortic dP/dt60 was 1.9 +/- 0.1 s-1. S-Dobutamine-infused dogs had a heart rate (HR) of 148 +/- 5 beats/min with 44 +/- 14 beats/min premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), whereas dogs infused with saline, R-dobutamine, dopamine, norepinephrine (NE), or isoproterenol (ISO) all displayed a significantly greater number of PVCs at 24 h. Myocardial necrosis was limited by S-dobutamine treatment (2.5 micrograms/kg/min i.v. for 54 h). As demonstrated by histologic examination, S-dobutamine ameliorated the effects of ischemia as compared with vehicle, R-dobutamine, dopamine, hexamethonium, NE, or ISO. Myocardial tissue electrolytes, quantified 72 h after LAD ligation, were maintained by S-dobutamine-infused dogs in all sections of left ventricle (LV); but in saline-treated dogs, Ca2+ increased eightfold, Na+ increased twofold, and both K+ and Mg2+ decreased 50% in tissue "at risk" as compared with tissues "not at risk." Coronary nutrient blood flow (CNBF) to myocardial capillary vessels was calculated by radiolabeled microspheres 2 h after LAD ligation. As compared with CNBF in untreated hearts, endocardial CNBF in hearts receiving S-dobutamine (5 micrograms/kg/min i.v.) increased from 26 +/- 8 to 49 +/- 15 ml/min/100 g in tissue at risk, from 102 +/- 26 to 217 +/- 50 in "border zone," and from 133 +/- 13 to 215 +/- 41 in tissue not at risk. CNBF values in animals receiving vehicle infusion were not significantly different from CNBF values measured after ligation only. The S-enantiomer of dobutamine, infused in dogs for 54 h after coronary artery ligation, maintained cardiac performance, electrolyte balance, and myocardial cellular viability and reduced incidences of arrhythmias through its ability to increase CNBF without increasing HR.
Spasm of the sphincter of Oddi still occurs during cholecystectomy. Some reports indicate that the spasm, induced by morphine, can be reversed by injection of naloxone, nalbuphine, and glucagon. Others maintain that nitroglycerin or nifedipine can relax the sphincter of Oddi muscle. We recently encountered spasm of the sphincter of Oddi during a laparoscopic cholecystectomy and treated it successfully with intravenous nitroglycerin.
In addition to the effect of regulating adipocyte differentiation and insulin sensitivity, peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) ligands also exhibit anti-inflammatory effect. However, the mechanisms concerning how PPAR-gamma ligands affect acute pancreatitis and pancreatitis-associated lung injury have not been fully elucidated. This study investigated the effect of rosiglitazone, a PPAR-gamma ligand, on acute pancreatitis and pancreatitis-associated lung injury in the rat pancreatitis model induced by sodium taurocholate.
Acute pancreatitis was induced by retrograde infusion of 5% sodium taurocholate (1 mL/kg) into the bile-pancreatic duct. Rosiglitazone (6 mg/kg) was administered via the femoral vein 30 min prior to the infusion of sodium taurocholate. The severity of pancreatitis was evaluated by serum amylase level, myeloperoxidase activity, and pathology. Pancreatitis-associated lung injury was evaluated by myeloperoxidase activity, the magnitude of pulmonary edema and pathology. Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA expression were studied using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. ICAM-1 protein expression was studied using Western blot analysis.
Prophylactic administration of rosiglitazone attenuated (1) serum amylase level; (2) myeloperoxidase activity of pancreatic and pulmonary tissue; (3) expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and ICAM-1 in pancreas and lung; (4) pancreas and lung pathological damage.
Our study demonstrated that rosiglitazone exerts a protective effect against sodium taurocholate-induced pancreatic and pulmonary injury.
Group IIa secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2 IIa) induces atherosclerosis by altering systemic lipoprotein mechanism. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression and localization of sPLA2 IIa in atherosclerosis of rat aorta, myocardium and visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and to explore the effect of simvastatin on sPLA2 IIa expression.
Thirty male Wistar rats were randomly divided into three groups: control group, test group, and simvastatin group. Control group rats were fed with standard chow, whereas those in the test group were fed with a high cholesterol diet. Simvastatin (5 mg/kg/day per gavage) was given to the rats in simvastatin group in addition to the high cholesterol diet. At the end of 8 weeks, rats were sacrificed and sPLA2 IIa measured by immunocytochemistry.
sPLA2 IIa was present in smooth muscle cells, aortic plaques, and also in myocardium and VAT. In addition, sPLA2 IIa expression in myocardium and aorta was much higher in the test group than in control group (p <0.01). However, expression of the enzyme in myocardium and aorta was significantly decreased in the simvastatin group compared to the test group (p <0.05). Immunostaining of sPLA2 IIa was also present in VAT, but no significant changes were found in levels of this enzyme among the three groups (p >0.05).
Myocardium and VAT may be two other important sources of sPLA2 IIa. Our data support the hypothesis that sPLA2 IIa may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Simvastatin may reduce the process of atherosclerosis by decreasing the expression level of sPLA2 IIa in myocardium and aorta.
The present study was conducted to compare the incidences of renal tumors in Wistar (W), Fischer (F) and F1 rats (WF: female Wistar rats x male Fischer rats; FW: female Fischer rats x male Wistar rats) induced by N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (EHEN). Levels of 8-OHdG in renal DNA were also investigated in Wistar and Fischer rats. After 2000 ppm of EHEN was administered orally for 2 weeks, the animals were fed basal diet until week 32. Wistar males and females demonstrated significantly higher sensitivity regarding induction of renal lesions, while both WF and FW rats had similar incidences, generally intermediate between those for the two parent strains. The formation of 8-OHdG was maximal 60-180 min after an intraperitoneal dose of 750 mg/kg to Wistar and Fischer rats, which correlates with the increase tending to the incidence of renal tumors in male and female Wistar and Fischer rats. The results suggest that EHEN induction of renal tumors is related to oxygen radical damage and that the genes in the Wistar strain responsible for the sensitivity are not inherited in a sex-dependent fashion, despite the male being more susceptible.
Serum retinol binding protein (sRBP) is released from the liver as a complex with transthyretin (TTR), a process under the control of dietary retinol. Elevated levels of sRBP may be involved in inhibiting cellular responses to insulin and in generating first insulin resistance and then type 2 diabetes, offering a new target for therapeutic attack for these conditions. A series of retinoid analogues were synthesized and examined for their binding to sRBP and their ability to disrupt the sRBP-TTR and sRBP-sRBP receptor interactions. A number inhibit the sRBP-TTR and sRBP-sRBP receptor interactions as well as or better than Fenretinide (FEN), presenting a potential novel dual mechanism of action and perhaps offering a new therapeutic intervention against type 2 diabetes and its development. Shortening the chain length of the FEN derivative substantially abolished binding to sRBP, indicating that the strength of the interaction lies in the polyene chain region. Differences in potency against the sRBP-TTR and sRBP-sRBP receptor interactions suggest variant effects of the compounds on the two loops of sRBP guarding the entrance of the binding pocket that are responsible for these two protein-protein interactions.
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the effects of clozapine and risperidone on social skill and problem solving in patients with schizophrenia.
The Wisconsin Card Sorting Test and the Maryland Assessment of Social Competence were administered at baseline, week 17, and week 29 of a multisite clinical trial.
Despite evidence of clinical improvement with both medications, there was virtually no medication effect on either social competence or problem solving.
These findings underscore the circumscribed nature of symptomatic improvement in the broader spectrum of clinical outcomes and suggest that new-generation medications may not be expected to produce substantial changes in social role functioning or social problem-solving capacity in the community. The generalizability of the findings should be viewed cautiously because of the low power of this trial, and replication is warranted.
This prospective study examines the effect of clozapine on glucose control and insulin sensitivity.
Glucose homeostasis was measured in nine female and 11 male patients with schizophrenia (mean age=30.5 years, SD=7.4) before clozapine treatment and after a mean of 2.5 months (SD=0.95) of clozapine treatment. Oral glucose tolerance and insulin levels were measured. Insulin resistance level was measured by the homeostasis model assessment.
Eleven (55%) of the patients developed abnormal glucose control; the mean age of these patients was 30.2 (SD=7.1), and five were women. Patients' insulin resistance at baseline (mean insulin resistance level=3.88, SD=2.93) was unaffected by clozapine. Mean fasting and 2-hour glucose levels significantly increased by 0.55 mmol/liter and 1.4 mmol/liter, respectively. There was no correlation between change in body mass index and change in fasting glucose levels.
Clozapine impairs glucose control within 4 months of treatment, independent of changes in insulin sensitivity and body mass index.
Humans and mice with loss of function mutations in GPR54 (KISS1R) or kisspeptin do not progress through puberty, caused by a failure to release GnRH. The transcriptional networks regulated by these proteins in the hypothalamus have yet to be explored by genome-wide methods.
We show here, using 1 million exon mouse arrays (Exon 1.0 Affymetrix) and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) validation to analyse microdissected hypothalamic tissue from Gpr54 and Kiss1 knockout mice, the extent of transcriptional regulation in the hypothalamus. The sensitivity to detect important transcript differences in microdissected RNA was confirmed by the observation of counter-regulation of Kiss1 expression in Gpr54 knockouts and confirmed by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Since Gpr54 and Kiss1 knockout animals are effectively pre-pubertal with low testosterone (T) levels, we also determined which of the validated transcripts were T-responsive and which varied according to genotype alone. We observed four types of transcriptional regulation (i) genotype only dependent regulation, (ii) T only dependent regulation, (iii) genotype and T-dependent regulation with interaction between these variables, (iv) genotype and T-dependent regulation with no interaction between these variables. The results implicate for the first time several transcription factors (e.g. Npas4, Esr2), proteases (Klk1b22), and the orphan 10-transmembrane transporter TMEM144 in the biology of GPR54/kisspeptin function in the hypothalamus. We show for the neuronal activity regulated transcription factor NPAS4, that distinct protein over-expression is seen in the hypothalamus and hippocampus in Gpr54 knockout mice. This links for the first time the hypothalamic-gonadal axis with this important regulator of inhibitory synapse formation. Similarly we confirm TMEM144 up-regulation in the hypothalamus by RNA in situ hybridization and western blot.
Taken together, global transcriptional profiling shows that loss of GPR54 and kisspeptin are not fully equivalent in the mouse hypothalamus.
Six patients developed acute renal failure 13-19 days after cardiac surgery with extracorporeal circulation. None of the patients had suffered from postoperative hypotension; slight hemolysis was present for only 1-2 days post-operatively. Acute renal failure lasted for 11-80 days in four patients. In two patients creatinine clearance stabilized at reduced values. Seven renal biopsies from the six patients showed severe acute interstitial nephritis with mononuclear cellular infiltration and distal tubular damage. No immune deposits were detected in glomeruli or tubular basement membrane. All six patients had been treated prophylactically with methicillin and the acute renal disease was probably elicited by this drug.
We determined the chemopreventive effect of the antiandrogen bicalutamide (Zeneca Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan) on Fisher 344 rat prostate carcinogenesis induced by DMAB (3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl) (Nard Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan). We have previously reported that rat prostate microscopic carcinogenesis in this model was paradoxically enhanced when continuous treatment with bicalutamide was begun 20 weeks after the initiation of DMAB. In the current study we determined whether antiandrogen would promote or suppress the prostate carcinogenesis when administration was begun at a later period of carcinogenesis.
DMAB at a dose of 50 mg/kg was injected subcutaneously into all animals 10 times at 2-week intervals. To clarify the target lesions of bicalutamide we used 2 control groups (groups 1 and 2). Animals in groups 1 and 2 were autopsied at 60 and 74 weeks, respectively, after the initiation of DMAB. Treatment with bicalutamide began in the 60th week in group 3 rats and continued for 14 weeks. They were sacrificed in the 74th week.
Microscopic cancer was revealed in 27% of group 1 rats and the incidence was increased to 42% in group 2 (statistically not significant). Delayed bicalutamide treatment significantly suppressed the cancer lesion. No cancerous lesion was detected in the ventral or other lobes of the prostate of the rats in group 3. In contrast, bicalutamide did not affect the incidence of PIN. The difference in the incidence of PIN in groups 2 and 3 (84% and 78%, respectively) was not significant.
The current investigation indicates that, if bicalutamide is started in the later period, it can efficiently eradicate existing microscopic cancer. Despite this suppressive effect on microscopic cancer bicalutamide permits the persistence of PIN. The latter finding suggests that the sensitivity of PIN to antiandrogen might be more complicated than previously recognized.
We report, for the first time, mutations in the Alu repeat regions in the genome of kidney tumors induced by diethylstilbestrol in Syrian hamsters. Among the 66 loci amplified by 11 random primers, 28 loci exhibited insertions, deletions or losses or gains in intensity in the genome of kidney tumor tissues compared with normal kidney tissues from age-matched hamsters. Higher numbers of mutated Alu loci were observed in the tumors of old hamsters compared with young hamsters. In N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea- and diethylstilbestrol-treated hamsters deletion of a 0.59 kb locus amplified with primer OPC03 was observed in most of the female hamsters, but not in male hamsters. An insertion mutation of a 0.498 kb locus amplified with primer OPC03 was observed in 12 of 36 diethylstilbestrol-induced kidney tumors. The cloning and sequencing of the 0.498 kb locus amplified with primer OPC03 revealed that it had significant sequence similarity to the mouse RIKEN cDNA clone. These findings indicate that age, sex and co-exposure to N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea influence mutations in the Alu repeat sequences in the genome of diethylstilbestrol-induced kidney tumors in Syrian hamsters. Structural alterations in Alu repeats in critical target genes may be involved in diethylstilbestrol-induced carcinogenesis.
In female rats, in uteroexposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) during critical periods of organogenesis causes a permanent thread of tissue, consisting of a core of mesenchyme surrounded by keratinized epithelia, across the vaginal opening. The objective of the current study was to determine the earliest time after exposure to TCDD during fetal development that morphological changes in the development of the lower reproductive tract could be detected. In addition, the spatio-temporal expression of several growth factors within the developing reproductive tract was investigated to provide insight into the mechanism of action involved in TCDD-induced vaginal thread formation. Pregnant rats received a single oral dose of 1.0 microg TCDD/kg on gestation day (GD) 15. Dams were sacrificed on GD 17, 18, 19, and 21 and individual reproductive tracts were isolated from female fetuses. As early as GD 18, TCDD produced distinct abnormalities in the female reproductive tract. The width of mesenchyme separating the Mullerian ducts was significantly greater in TCDD-exposed female GD 18 and 19 fetuses and the zone of unfused Mullerian ducts was substantially increased on GD 19 and 21. TCDD induced alterations within the developing reproductive tract in the subcellular and temporal expression of transforming growth factor-beta3 (TGF-beta3) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). DNA array analysis suggested effects on several genes expressed on GD 18 and 19.
Cerebral dopamine neurotrophic factor (CDNF) protein has been shown to protect the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway when given as intrastriatal infusions in rat and mouse models of Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we assessed the neuroprotective effect of CDNF delivered with a recombinant adeno-associated viral (AAV) serotype 2 vector in a rat 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) model of PD. AAV2 vectors encoding CDNF, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), or green fluorescent protein were injected into the rat striatum. Protein expression analysis showed that our AAV2 vector efficiently delivered the neurotrophic factor genes into the brain and gave rise to a long-lasting expression of the proteins. Two weeks after AAV2 vector injection, 6-OHDA was injected into the rat striatum, creating a progressive degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. Treatment with AAV2-CDNF resulted in a marked decrease in amphetamine-induced ipsilateral rotations while it provided only partial protection of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive cells in the rat substantia nigra pars compacta and TH-reactive fibers in the striatum. Results from this study provide additional evidence that CDNF can be considered a potential treatment of Parkinson's disease.
While receiving continuous daily rifampin therapy, a 57-year-old man developed acute renal failure and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus due to acute tubulointerstitial nephritis which was reversible by discontinuing the rifampin. Tubulointerstitial nephritis rarely develops during continuous rifampin therapy, and associated nephrogenic diabetes insipidus has not previously been reported. The majority of cases of tubulointerstitial nephritis due to rifampin have occurred following reintroduction of rifampin after an interruption in therapy. The clinical differences between patients developing tubulointerstitial nephritis during interrupted and continuous therapy are discussed.
Previously, the contact allergen dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) was identified as a sensitizer by inhalation in BALB/c mice; in addition, DNCB induced a lymphocytic infiltrate in the larynx of dermally sensitized Th1-prone Wistar rats upon a single inhalation challenge. In the present study, repeated inhalation exposures to DNCB were investigated using the same protocol as the single-challenge study: female Wistar rats were dermally sensitized with DNCB and subsequently challenged by inhalation exposure to 7 or 15 mg/m(3) DNCB twice a week for 4 weeks. Allergy-related apnoeic breathing was not observed. DNCB-specific IgG antibodies were found in the serum and--predominantly lymphocytic--inflammations were found in the nasal tissues and larynx. Similar effects were observed in animals repeatedly exposed by inhalation without previous dermal contact, indicating sensitization by inhalation. The inflammation may be the upper respiratory tract analogue of hypersensitivity pneumonitis/allergic alveolitis. Possible progression of the airway inflammation upon long-term exposure should be investigated to support or dismiss discrimination between contact and respiratory allergens in relation to respiratory allergy.
We report a facile procedure to synthesize racemic modafinil (diphenylmethylsulfinylacetamide), which is now being used in pharmacotherapy, and its achiral oxidized derivative (diphenylmethylsulfonyl acetamide). Modafinil is of interest more than for its potential anti-narcoleptic activity. It has also been reported to have neuroprotective properties and may potentially be effective in the enhancement of vigilance and cognitive performance. Finally, it may also protect from subclinical seizures that have been implicated as causative factors in autistic spectrum disorders and other neurodegenerative conditions. This agent can now be synthesized simply and in larger amounts than previously, making it more readily available for testing in various research modalities. The described procedure also lends itself to production of several other amides of potential interest. We are currently in the process of synthesizing and testing several new derivatives in this series. The anticonvulsant properties of modafinil and its sulfone derivative have not previously been extensively described in the literature. It may be of interest to note that the oxidized derivative of modafinil is also nontoxic and almost as effective as an anticonvulsant as the parent.
It is well known that nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have significant side effects, such as gastroenteropathy, and rheumatoid arthritis patients taking NSAIDs are more susceptible to NSAIDs-induced gastric lesions in comparison with other patients. The pathogenic mechanism of these lesions is not fully understood. We demonstrate whether interleukin 18 (IL-18) expression relate the aggravation of gastric lesion in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) rats following the oral administration of indomethacin. Arthritis was induced by injecting 50 microl of a suspension of 10mg/ml heat-killed butyricum (Mycobacterium butyricum) in Bayol F oil into the plantar region of the right hind foot and tail of Dark Agouti rats resulting in an arthritis incidence of 100%. Two weeks after injection, the rats were administered indomethacin (40mg/kg) orally, and were killed under deep ether anesthesia 6h later. The gastric mucosa was then examined. Oral administration of indomethacin caused hemorrhagic lesions in the gastric mucosa of AA rats, and the lesion score for AA rats following indomethacin treatment was significantly higher than for normal rats administered indomethacin. The expression of the IL-18 mRNA and mature IL-18 protein in the gastric mucosa of AA rats administered indomethacin were also higher in comparison with normal rats receiving indomethacin. In addition, interferon-gamma and nitric oxide levels in the gastric mucosa of AA rats were increased by the oral administration of indomethacin. It is possible that IL-18 expression in AA rats is more sensitive to indomethacin, and the IL-18 may play a role in the aggravation of gastric lesions in AA rats treated with indomethacin.
Ischemic chest pain syndromes and myocardial infarction occurred within minutes to hours of cocaine use in nine persons ages 23 to 39 years. Five developed symptoms after taking cocaine intranasally; three, after intravenous use; and one, after smoking cocaine. Four were habitual users and five were recreational users; eight also smoked cigarettes heavily. Ischemic syndromes recurred in five who continued to use cocaine. Coronary arteriography showed an abnormal infarct-related vessel (more than 50% stenosis, total occlusion, or intraluminal thrombus) in seven patients. The noninfarct-related vessels were normal in eight patients. The left anterior descending coronary artery and the anteroapical left-ventricular wall were involved in all patients. After three patients had successful thrombolysis of the obstructed infarct-related vessel, angiography showed a normal underlying vessel.
