Improving the efficacy of antidotal treatment of poisonings with nerve agents is still a challenge for the scientific community. This study investigated the interactions of four bispyridinium oximes with human erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and their effects on soman- and tabun-poisoned mice. Oximes HI-6 and TMB-4 were used for comparison. These oximes inhibited AchE with inhibitory potency (IC(50)) ranging from 0.02 to 1.0 mM. The best reactivating potency (%R) was obtained with K074, when AChE was inhibited by tabun. The protective potency (P(50)) of all oximes in human erythrocyte AChE inhibited by soman and tabun could not be determined. In tabun-poisoned mice very good antidotal efficacy was obtained with K027, K048, and K074, which makes them interesting for future investigation. The combination of HI-6 and atropine is the therapy of choice for soman poisoning.
The influence of d-ribose on adriamycin-induced myocardiopathy in rats was studied. Adriamycin in the cumulative dose of 25 mg/kg evoked fully developed cardiac toxicity. D-ribose in the multiple doses of 200 mg/kg did not influence ADR cardiotoxicity.
This multicenter trial examined the efficacy and safety of oxcarbazepine in the treatment of bipolar disorder in children and adolescents.
A total of 116 outpatients 7 to 18 years of age with bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed, were recruited at 20 centers in the United States and randomly assigned to receive 7 weeks of double-blinded, flexibly dosed treatment with oxcarbazepine (maximum dose 900-2400 mg/day) or placebo. The primary efficacy measure was the mean change from baseline to endpoint in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), using the last-observation-carried-forward method.
Oxcarbazepine (mean dose=1515 mg/day) did not significantly improve YMRS scores at endpoint compared with placebo [adjusted mean change: oxcarbazepine, -10.90 (N=55); placebo, -9.79 (N=55)]. Dizziness, nausea, somnolence, diplopia, fatigue, and rash were each reported in at least 5% of the patients in the oxcarbazepine group with an incidence at least twice that of the placebo group. The majority of adverse events were mild to moderate and occurred during the titration period. Eleven patients (19%) in the oxcarbazepine group discontinued the study because of adverse events, compared with two (4%) in the placebo group.
Oxcarbazepine is not significantly superior to placebo in the treatment of bipolar disorder in youths. While the overall adverse event profile was similar to that reported for patients with epilepsy, the incidence of psychiatric adverse events for both the oxcarbazepine and placebo groups was higher than that reported for the epilepsy population.
The aim of this study was to develop a rat model of capsaicin-induced pain in the orofacial region. We examined the effects of subcutaneous injection of different doses of capsaicin (0.25, 0.4, 0.8, 1.5, 2.5, 25, 50, 100, 500 microg) on the face-grooming response. Injection of capsaicin into the vibrissa pad produced an immediate grooming of the injected area with ipsilateral fore- or hindpaw. A positive relationship between the amplitude of the grooming response and the capsaicin dose was observed until 1.5 microg, but with the highest concentrations (ranging from 25 to 500 microg) the amplitude of the response decreased. Morphine administered either systemically (in the neck, 0.5-4.0 mg/kg) or locally (0.25-1.0 mg/kg) reduced in a dose-dependent fashion the face grooming provoked by subcutaneous capsaicin (1.5 microg). The systemic and local morphine effects could be reversed by systemic (0.1 mg/kg) and local (0.05 mg/kg) administration of naloxone, respectively. The local administration of morphine (ED(50): 0.65 mg/kg) was more potent than systemic injection (ED50: 2.54 mg/kg) in reducing the grooming behavior. In conclusion, the orofacial capsaicin test appears to be a valid and reliable method for studying trigeminal pain mechanisms and testing analgesic drugs. The results of the present study also support the clinical use of peripheral opioid administration for the treatment of orofacial painful conditions.
It is generally accepted that the inhibition of sebum excretion has a predictive value for anti-acne activity. Whereas oral 13-cisretinoic acid (13-cis-RA) decreases sebum excretion, it has not been shown so far if oral all-trans-retinoic acid (tretinoin, tRA) does so. The aim of this exploratory study was to investigate the effect of oral tRA on the sebum excretion rate (SER) in young male subjects.
12 healthy volunteers with a baseline SER above 1.0 microgram/cm2/min were treated with 20 mg/day tRA for 4 weeks. The SER was measured at weeks 2 and 4. Adverse reactions were recorded.
The mean SER varied from 1.56 at baseline to 1.65 at week 2 and to 1.49 micrograms/cm2/min at week 4. Comparison with values obtained in the same subjects previously treated with either 13-cis-RA or 9-cis-retinoic acid indicated that tRA less sebosuppressive. Mucocutaneous reactions and headache were the most frequent side effects of oral tRA.
The lack of effect on the SER suggests that oral tRA would probably be ineffective against acne. The fact that, of the three isomers tested, only 13-cis-RA (which does not bind to nuclear receptors) shows activity may suggest that sebosuppression is not nuclear receptor mediated. We discuss other hypotheses related to pharmacokinetics.
1. Effects of indomethacin, the selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors NS-398 and DFU, and dexamethasone on gastric damage induced by 30 min ischaemia followed by 60 min reperfusion (I-R) were investigated in rats. Modulation of gastric levels of COX-1 and COX-2 mRNA by I-R was evaluated using Northern blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. 2. I-R-induced gastric damage was dose-dependently aggravated by administration of indomethacin (1 - 10 mg kg(-1)), NS-398 (0.4 - 4 mg kg(-1)) or DFU (0.02 - 2 mg kg(-1)) as assessed macroscopically and histologically. 3. Likewise, administration of dexamethasone (1 mg kg(-1)) significantly increased I-R damage. 4. Low doses of 16, 16-dimethyl-prostaglandin(PG)E(2), that did not protect against ethanol-induced mucosal damage, reversed the effects of the selective COX-2 inhibitors, indomethacin and dexamethasone. 5. I-R had no effect on gastric COX-1 mRNA levels but increased COX-2 mRNA levels in a time-dependent manner. Dexamethasone inhibited the I-R-induced expression of COX-2 mRNA. 6. I-R was not associated with a measurable increase in gastric mucosal formation of 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) and PGE(2). PG formation was substantially inhibited by indomethacin (10 mg kg(-1)) but was not significantly reduced by NS-398 (4 mg kg(-1)), DFU (2 mg kg(-1)) or dexamethasone (1 mg kg(-1)). 7. The findings indicate that selective COX-2 inhibitors and dexamethasone markedly enhance gastric damage induced by I-R. Thus, whereas COX-2 has no essential role in the maintenance of gastric mucosal integrity under basal conditions, COX-2 is rapidly induced in a pro-ulcerogenic setting and contributes to mucosal defence by minimizing injury. This suggests that in certain situations selective COX-2 inhibitors may have gastrotoxic effects.
Evidence shows that there is a rapid increase in the production of markers of oxidative damage immediately after acute ischemic stroke and that endogenous antioxidant defenses are rapidly depleted, thus permitting further tissue damage. Several studies point to an antioxidant effect of B-group vitamins and a pro-oxidant effect of elevated total plasma homocysteine (tHcy).
To test whether supplementary antioxidants with or without B-group vitamins during this critical period enhance antioxidant capacity or mitigate oxidative damage, ninety-six acute ischemic stroke patients within 12 hours of symptom onset were randomly assigned to receive either daily oral 800 IU (727 mg) vitamin E and 500 mg vitamin C (n = 24), or B-group vitamins (5 mg folic acid, 5 mg vitamin B(2), 50 mg vitamin B(6), and 0.4 mg of vitamin B(12); n = 24), both vitamins together (n = 24), or no supplementation (n = 24) for 14 days. Treatment groups and controls were matched for stroke subtype and age. Blood was obtained before treatment, at day 7, and day 14 for measurements of plasma or blood vitamin status, plasma total antioxidant capacity (TAOC), malondialdehyde (MDA), tHcy and C-reactive protein (CRP).
Supplementation with antioxidant vitamins and B-group vitamins separately or together significantly increased the plasma concentration of vitamin C, E, pyridoxal phosphate (B(6) status), red blood cell folate, and improved a measure of B(2) status (red cell glutathione reductase activation coefficient [EGRAC]), compared with the control group. Plasma TAOC increased significantly in the antioxidant treatment groups compared with the nonsignificant decline seen in the control group. tHcy concentrations decreased in subjects who received B-group vitamins and the control group compared with the rise seen in those who received antioxidants alone. There was a significant reduction in plasma MDA concentration in the 3 treatment groups, in contrast to the increase seen in the control group; however, the changes were most evident in antioxidant groups. CRP concentrations (a marker of tissue inflammation) were significantly lower in the 3 treatment groups compared with the control group. There were no additive or synergistic effects of antioxidants and B-group vitamins together on any outcome measure.
Antioxidants supplementation with or without B-group vitamins enhances antioxidant capacity, mitigates oxidative damage, and may have an anti-inflammatory effect immediately postinfarct in stroke disease.
Of 125 patients with neuroleptic (dopamine blocking) drug-induced movement disorders who had been referred to a specialized clinic to differentiate the predominant movement disorder, 63% had tardive dyskinesia, 30% had parkinsonism, 24% had dystonia, 7% had akathisia, and 2% had isolated tremor. Two or more movement disorders coexisted in 31 patients (25%). Functional disability was more severe in patients with akathisia than in other patients. Women outnumbered men at a ratio of 4:1, except for tardive dystonia which affected both sexes equally. The average at onset was 56 years (range, 13 to 87); 69 patients (55%) had onset of movement disorder in the sixth decade. While tardive dystonia was distributed relatively evenly in all age groups, almost a third of patients with parkinsonism had it in the eighth decade. Haloperidol was implicated in 47 patients (37%), followed by amitriptyline/perphenazine in 30%, thioridazine in 27%, and chlorpromazine in 20%. Metoclopramide-induced movement disorders were found in 10 (8%). Most patients (101 or 81%) had history of psychiatric illnesses, but of these only 44 had psychosis. Neuroleptic drugs had been prescribed for 33 patients (26%) who had gastrointestinal problems. It is important to recognize and differentiate various drug-induced movement disorders because such differentiation has pathophysiologic and therapeutic implications. Many patients could have been treated with less potent drugs.
A patient with methimazole-induced aplastic anemia is described. Despite severe pancytopenia and the complete disappearance of hemopoietic elements from the bone marrow, recovery of hemopoiesis has been observed within 14 days of discontinuing methimazole therapy. In vitro studies of CFU-C inhibition of peripheral mononuclear cells harvested in remission, were performed by incubation with autologous sera collected at earlier phases of the disease. These studies provide evidence in favor of a humoral, and most probably autoimmune mechanism as the cause of transient bone marrow aplasia.
MAPT, the gene encoding tau, was screened for mutations in 96 progressive supranuclear palsy subjects. A point mutation (R5L) was identified in a single progressive supranuclear palsy subject that was not in the other progressive supranuclear palsy subjects or in 96 controls. Functionally, this mutation alters the ability of tau to promote microtubule assembly. Analysis of soluble tau from different brain regions indicates that the mutation does not affect the ratio of tau isoforms synthesized. Aggregated insoluble tau from subcortical regions was predominantly four-repeat tau with no or one amino terminal insert (0N4R and 1N4R). Insoluble tau from cortical regions also contained 1N3R tau. Thus, the R5L mutation causes a progressive supranuclear palsy phenotype, presumably by a gain-of-function mechanism.
Algae powders have been increasingly used in therapeutic preparations. Their potential as inducers of occupational asthma (OA), however, remains to be demonstrated.
A 33-year-old woman developed asthma following exposure to algae powder used for thalassotherapy. She had positive patch tests to nickel and cobalt in an evaluation for intermittent skin rash. At work, she had a normal forced expiratory flow in 1 s (FEV(1)) but moderate airway hyperresponsiveness. Bronchial provocation tests (BPT) were obtained.
On BPT, an isolated early response was observed after a 1-min inhalation of dry algae powder, with a 50% fall in FEV(1) after exposure; the control BPT with lactose powder was negative.
We report a case of algae-powder-induced OA. Such responses could be due to a sensitization to algae proteins or metal contaminants bioabsorbed by the vegetal particles.
In this study, we investigated whether orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT) correlates with the clinicopathological features and effect of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in human oral carcinoma. We examined the expression of OPRT mRNA by in situ hybridization in surgical specimens of oral squamous cell carcinoma. The expression of OPRT mRNA in oral carcinoma was observed in all specimens and such expression was higher than that seen in normal control tissue specimens. There was no correlation between the expression of OPRT mRNA and clinical factors, but the expression of OPRT mRNA was significantly associated with histological differentiation. The expression of OPRT mRNA showed correlation with effect of 5-FU for oral carcinoma in either in vivo or in vitro. These results suggest that the OPRT expressions may therefore be a prognostic factor of 5-FU efficacy in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma.
Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)) and creatine are promising agents for neuroprotection in neurodegenerative diseases via their effects on improving mitochondrial function and cellular bioenergetics and their properties as antioxidants. We examined whether a combination of CoQ(10) with creatine can exert additive neuroprotective effects in a MPTP mouse model of Parkinson's disease, a 3-NP rat model of Huntington's disease (HD) and the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD. The combination of the two agents produced additive neuroprotective effects against dopamine depletion in the striatum and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) following chronic subcutaneous administration of MPTP. The combination treatment resulted in significant reduction in lipid peroxidation and pathologic alpha-synuclein accumulation in the SNpc neurons of the MPTP-treated mice. We also observed additive neuroprotective effects in reducing striatal lesion volumes produced by chronic subcutaneous administration of 3-NP to rats. The combination treatment showed significant effects on blocking 3-NP-induced impairment of glutathione homeostasis and reducing lipid peroxidation and DNA oxidative damage in the striatum. Lastly, the combination of CoQ(10) and creatine produced additive neuroprotective effects on improving motor performance and extending survival in the transgenic R6/2 HD mice. These findings suggest that combination therapy using CoQ(10) and creatine may be useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and HD.
Congestive cardiomyopathy from endocardial fibroelastosis occurred in a 24-year-old primigravida with a twin gestation and preeclampsia. The patient was taking ritodrine for premature labor. Cardiovascular evaluation should be performed during the course of ritodrine treatment, and no patient should be discharged if she does not have normal cardiovascular function.
Cytokines are the important modulators that bind to their relevant receptors in response to some stimuli to mediate the homeostasis. It has been suggested that the imbalance of immune system of the host might affect the generation of diseases, including cancers.
We investigated the association between six functional polymorphisms of IL-4, IL-13, and IL-4R genes and susceptibility to renal cell cancer in a hospital-based study, including 620 renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients and 623 controls. Logistic regression model was used to assess the genetic effects on the development of RCC.
Overall, individuals with IL-4R Ile50Val CT/TT genotypes had a 0.34-fold significantly decreased RCC risk (CT/TT versus CC), and the T variant allele was associated with a decreased risk of RCC in a dose-response manner (Ptrend=0.009). In addition, we also observed that IL-13 C-1055T and Arg130Gln polymorphisms could decrease the risk of RCC [TT versus
odds ratio=0.36, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.16-0.78; AA versus GG/GA: 0.66, 0.44-0.97, respectively]. Furthermore, a multiplicative interaction association between the combined IL-4R Ile50Val and IL-13 C-1055T genotypes was observed to decrease the risk of RCC (P=0.036).
IL-13 and IL-4R may play an important role in the etiology of RCC.
Recently, patients with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) have experienced significant clinical gains after treatment with arsenic trioxide. However, the use of this agent as a front-line therapy for newly diagnosed patients is unclear.
Of 95 newly diagnosed APL patients, 85 patients who achieved complete remission (CR) were sequentially evaluated during a 4-60 month period by conventional RT-PCR. A total of 30 patients (six relapsed and 24 in continued CR) were selected and monitored by quantitative real-time PCR (RQ-PCR) assay. The PML-RARalpha fusion transcripts values were normalised to every 10(6) copies of G6PDH transcripts (NQ).
RQ-PCR analyses showed a rapid rate of clearance of NQ levels during the courses of arsenic therapy. In the majority of patients in CR, the NQ levels were below 5 x 10(2) in peripheral blood (PB) samples. In all the relapsed cases with follow-up intervals of 1-6 months (median 3 months) clinical relapse was predictable by increasing NQ level above this threshold.
Our study highlights the usefulness of PB and the definition of threshold level for early prediction of relapse. The threshold level correlates well with risk of relapse; therefore, transcript ratio below the level should be regarded as a goal in the clinical management of this disease.
Pyomyositis is a bacterial infection of skeletal muscle common in the tropics. Pyomyositis has historically been rare in temperate regions. However, the epidemiology is changing, and over the past decade, the number of cases in the United States and Europe has increased significantly. One major factor appears to be the increase in community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) infections. This pathogen now accounts for most of the skin and soft tissue infections throughout much of the United States. Most community-associated MRSA infections carry specific virulence factors, most notably the Panton-Valentine leukocidin gene, known to increase invasive capability and predispose to abscess and deep tissue infections. We report a case of a young healthy woman who was initially treated as an outpatient for tendonitis. She presented 3 days later to the emergency department where she was diagnosed with upper extremity pyomyositis complicated by compartment syndrome. A fasciotomy was performed in the operating room, and intraoperative cultures grew MRSA. She did not have any traditional risk factors for the acquisition of health care-associated MRSA. Her subsequent course was complicated by osteomyelitis of the proximal radius. This is the first report of pyomyositis complicated by compartment syndrome in the emergency medicine literature. This case emphasizes the need to remain vigilant for deep muscle infections given the evolving epidemiology. It also highlights possible complications of pyomyositis including the rare but serious complication of compartment syndrome.
No direct comparisons exist of the renal tolerability of the low-osmolality contrast medium iopamidol with that of the iso-osmolality contrast medium iodixanol in high-risk patients.
The present study is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind comparison of iopamidol and iodixanol in patients with chronic kidney disease (estimated glomerular filtration rate, 20 to 59 mL/min) who underwent cardiac angiography or percutaneous coronary interventions. Serum creatinine (SCr) levels and estimated glomerular filtration rate were assessed at baseline and 2 to 5 days after receiving medications. The primary outcome was a postdose SCr increase > or = 0.5 mg/dL (44.2 micromol/L) over baseline. Secondary outcomes were a postdose SCr increase > or = 25%, a postdose estimated glomerular filtration rate decrease of > or = 25%, and the mean peak change in SCr. In 414 patients, contrast volume, presence of diabetes mellitus, use of N-acetylcysteine, mean baseline SCr, and estimated glomerular filtration rate were comparable in the 2 groups. SCr increases > or = 0.5 mg/dL occurred in 4.4% (9 of 204 patients) after iopamidol and 6.7% (14 of 210 patients) after iodixanol (P=0.39), whereas rates of SCr increases > or = 25% were 9.8% and 12.4%, respectively (P=0.44). In patients with diabetes, SCr increases > or = 0.5 mg/dL were 5.1% (4 of 78 patients) with iopamidol and 13.0% (12 of 92 patients) with iodixanol (P=0.11), whereas SCr increases > or = 25% were 10.3% and 15.2%, respectively (P=0.37). Mean post-SCr increases were significantly less with iopamidol (all patients: 0.07 versus 0.12 mg/dL, 6.2 versus 10.6 micromol/L, P=0.03; patients with diabetes: 0.07 versus 0.16 mg/dL, 6.2 versus 14.1 micromol/L, P=0.01).
The rate of contrast-induced nephropathy, defined by multiple end points, is not statistically different after the intraarterial administration of iopamidol or iodixanol to high-risk patients, with or without diabetes mellitus. Any true difference between the agents is small and not likely to be clinically significant.
Epidemiological literatures show an association between air pollution and ischemic stroke, and effective pollutants may include SO(2), NO(x), O(3), CO, and particulates. However, existing experimental studies lack evidence as to the presence of effects for SO(2), which has been the focus in developing countries with increasing use of coal as the main resource. In the present study, we treated Wistar rats with SO(2) at various concentrations and determined endothelin-1 (ET-1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression in the cortex. The results show that SO(2) elevated the levels of ET-1, iNOS, COX-2, and ICAM-1 mRNA and protein in a concentration-dependent manner. Then, we set up rat model of ischemic stroke using middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and further treated the model rats with filtered air and lower concentration SO(2) for the same period. As expected, elevated expression of ET-1, iNOS, COX-2, and ICAM-1 occurred in the cortex of MCAO model rats exposed to filtered air, followed by increased activation of caspase-3 and cerebral infarct volume. Interestingly, SO(2) inhalation after MCAO significantly amplified above effects. It implies that SO(2) inhalation caused brain injuries similar to that of cerebral ischemia, and its exposure in atmospheric environment contributed to the development and progression of ischemic stroke.
This study compared the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome among outpatients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder receiving clozapine with a matched comparison group from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.
Ninety-three outpatients and a matched group of 2,701 comparison subjects were compared according to National Cholesterol Education Program criteria. Outpatient data were obtained through physical assessments, laboratory testing, and reviews of medical records.
The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome was significantly higher among clozapine patients (53.8%) than among the comparison group (20.7%). For clozapine patients, logistic regression analysis revealed significant associations with age, body mass index, and duration of clozapine treatment. Only age and body mass index were associated with the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in both groups.
Patients receiving clozapine are at significantly increased risk for developing the metabolic syndrome. Psychiatrists and other providers should consider performing regular physical health monitoring to prevent long-term adverse health consequences.
Adriamycin (Adr)-induced cardiotoxicity occurs most likely via an oxidative mechanism of action. Moderation of this activity may result in an improved therapeutic index for this compound. PZ-51, 2-phenyl-1,2-benzoisoselenazol-3(2H)-one, is a selenoorganic compound with thiol-dependent, peroxidase-like activity. We tested this compound alone and in combination with N-acetylcysteine (NAC) for its effect on Adr-induced in vivo toxicity in Balb/c mice. These studies demonstrated that PZ-51 protects against Adr-induced lipid peroxidation in heart and liver tissue and Adr-induced toxicity in general, as measured by total serum creatine kinase activity and body weight.
This study used novel behavioral measures to examine the effects of the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, CPP, on the development and expression of conditioned hyperactivity and sensitization produced with cocaine. The first experiment confirmed that horizontal locomotor activity measured in the central zone of an activity enclosure could be increased by 10.0 mg/kg cocaine. This increased activity showed sensitization after repeated cocaine injections, and it could be conditioned to the test environment. Subsequent experiments demonstrated that CPP (0.2 and 0.4 nmol, i.c.v.) could block the development, but not the expression, of conditioned hyperactivity and sensitization in the central zone. These findings confirm that NMDA receptors are critically involved in the development of conditioned hyperactivity and sensitization, but indicate that such receptors may not be necessary for the expression of these neurobehavioral adaptations.
The cocaine epidemic is growing at an alarming rate in the United States. Medical and social implications of cocaine abuse are many and include such aspects as intoxication, personal, financial and moral ruin. Complications associated with cocaine use more commonly involve the cardiovascular, central nervous system and the reproductive systems. One of the major concerns regarding cocaine abuse goes far beyond its ill effects on the user. High incidence of congenital malformations and the learning and behavioral disorders in the infants results in a growing number of "misfit" or "undesirable" citizens in the country. Hence, the healthcare providers, the politicians and the legal system must intensely direct their efforts at eradicating this menace.
Potential synergism between five heterocyclic amines at low doses was evaluated in a medium-term liver bioassay system for carcinogens. F344 male rats were given a single i.p. injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg) and then received test compound(s) in their diet for 6 weeks beginning 2 weeks later. Control groups received DEN or test compound(s) alone. All rats were subjected to two-thirds partial hepatectomy at week 3 and killed at week 8. Compounds tested and reported positive were 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole (Trp-P-1, 150 p.p.m.), 2-aminodipyrido[1,2-a:3',2'-d]imidazole (Glu-P-2, 500 p.p.m), 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ, 300 p.p.m.), 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx, 400 p.p.m.). Groups were given each chemical at the carcinogenic dose, or 1/5 or 1/25 of this. Other groups received the five chemicals in combination, each at the 1/5 or 1/25 levels. Enhancing activity was assessed by quantitative analysis of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci, the numbers being significantly increased with all chemicals at the highest dose. Trp-P-1, IQ and MeIQ also exerted positive influence even at the 1/5 dose level. Similar results were obtained regarding areas of foci at the highest dose levels, with the exception of Glu-P-2. An increase was also observed for MeIQ at the 1/5 dose. Additive or synergistic effects between the chemicals were evident in the groups given the five chemicals together at both the 1/5 and 1/25 dose levels, development of GST-P positive foic being increased over the sum totals of individual data for the 1/5 or 1/25 dose groups. Thus, carcinogenicity was predicted for all five heterocyclic amines tested in dose-dependent manner in the present system of 8 weeks duration, synergistic effects being apparent especially at the low dose level.
The endogenous cannabinoid anandamide (AEA) is a lipid mediator that blocks proliferation and induces apoptosis in many cell types. Although AEA levels are elevated in liver fibrosis, its role in fibrogenesis remains unclear. This study investigated effects of AEA in primary hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Anandamide blocked HSC proliferation at concentrations of 1 to 10 micromol/L but did not affect HSC proliferation or activation at nanomolar concentrations. At higher concentrations (25-100 micromol/L), AEA rapidly and dose-dependently induced cell death in primary culture-activated and in vivo-activated HSCs, with over 70% cell death after 4 hours at 25 micromol/L. In contrast to treatment with Fas ligand or gliotoxin, AEA-mediated death was caspase independent and showed typical features of necrosis such as rapid adenosine triphosphate depletion and propidium iodide uptake. Anandamide-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation, and an increase in intracellular Ca(2+). Pretreatment with the antioxidant glutathione or Ca(2+)-chelation attenuated AEA-induced cell death. Although the putative endocannabinoid receptors CB1, CB2, and VR1 were expressed in HSCs, specific receptor blockade failed to block cell death. Depletion of membrane cholesterol by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin inhibited AEA binding, blocked ROS formation and intracellular Ca(2+)-increase, and prevented cell death. In primary hepatocytes, AEA showed significantly lower binding and failed to induce cell death even after prolonged treatment. In conclusion, AEA efficiently induces necrosis in activated HSCs, an effect that depends on membrane cholesterol and a subsequent increase in intracellular Ca(2+) and ROS. The anti-proliferative effects and the selective killing of HSCs, but not hepatocytes, indicate that AEA may be used as a potential anti-fibrogenic tool.
Proteomics became a more and more important technique for the large-scale analysis of proteins during the last years. Two-dimensional (2D) electrophoresis as a major tool of proteomics is a powerful method to compare two different biological stages (e. g. healthy and diseased tissue) and to find differences in their protein pattern. One major problem in proteomics is the gel to gel variation of two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, which could cause artefacts in the detection of expression differences. The "difference in gel electrophoresis" (DIGE) technique allows the separation of two proteomes in the same gel. The protein pools were labelled with different fluorescent dyes and equal amounts of protein were separated in the same gel. Another advantage of DIGE is the possibility to separate an internal standard labelled with a third dye in the same gel to allow quantitative expression analysis. We compared proteomes of three different fibrosis models with the appropriate control (tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 (TIMP-1) overexpressing HepG2 cells in comparison to a HepG2 control, freshly isolated HSC in comparison to activated HSC and healthy mouse liver in comparison to fibrotic mouse liver). Among the differentially expressed proteins several were already found to be relevant for fibrosis but we also detected some proteins like the selenium binding protein 2 which might be relevant for hepatic fibrosis.
Nephrotoxicity has recently been reported with the use of 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) which has structural similarities to phenacetin and aspirin. The present paper describes 2 cases of interstitial nephritis and 1 case of end-stage failure associated with 5-ASA treatment. The first patient presented with severe renal failure which was partially reversed with 5-ASA discontinuation and steroid therapy. The second had severe renal failure (serum creatinine 469 mmol/l) but renal function stabilized with 5-ASA withdrawal. The third patient had end-stage renal failure and underwent hemodialysis and a successful kidney transplant.
To determine whether the paralyzing effect of botulinum toxin type A reconstituted in a solution of lidocaine with epinephrine is as effective as that of the same toxin reconstituted in saline and to determine whether the addition of lidocaine with epinephrine enhances the predictability of outcomes of botulinum toxin injections.
This double-blind, within-subject, randomized controlled study was conducted in 10 volunteer subjects. Lidocaine was added to botulinum toxin type A to achieve an immediate paralyzing effect on the injected muscle, and epinephrine was added to minimize diffusion of the injected toxin to adjacent muscles. This combination of agents was injected to temporarily paralyze the frontalis, corrugator supercilii, and procerus muscles on 1 side of the forehead of the 10 volunteers. The contralateral side was injected with the same dosage of the toxin, reconstituted in an equal volume of saline, to serve as control. Photographic and video documentation of the drugs' effects was obtained before injection and at 5 to 10 minutes, 1 week, and 3 months after the injections.
Immediate paralysis ensued on the experimental side (botulinum toxin type A + lidocaine + epinephrine) in all 10 volunteers. As assessed by 3 blinded evaluators, the extent of immediate paralysis resulting from the anesthetic agent was predictive of the extent of delayed paralysis resulting from the botulinum toxin. The botulinum toxin-induced paralysis wore off symmetrically in all subjects.
The injection of botulinum toxin reconstituted in lidocaine with epinephrine provided the physician immediate feedback on the extent of paralysis to be expected from the chemodenervating action of the botulinum toxin. This may enhance the safety and predictability of botulinum toxin injections in many applications.
