The teleost gas bladder is a gas-filled internal organ that processes gas exchange and controls buoyancy. Here we report that an emerging heterocyclic brominated flame retardant, tris(2,3-dibromopropyl) isocyanurate (TBC), causes defects in the inflation of the gas bladder of zebrafish larvae. This could cause impaired motility, which can ultimately lead to their death. Exposure to zebrafish embryos revealed that TBC had the most significant influence on the larvae at 72-96 h postfertilization, which coincided with the time that the gas bladder first inflates. Critical factors involved in early zebrafish gas bladder development remained at normal levels, which indicated that TBC caused defects in the inflation of the gas bladder without disrupting early organogenesis. However, the ultrastructure of the gas bladder was altered in the TBC-treated groups: the electron density of cytoplasmic vesicles was changed and the mitochondria were damaged. We deduce that TBC causes damage to mitochondria that influences the secretion of mucus-like material, resulting in defects in gas bladder inflation. For the first time, we report that the gas bladder could be a primary target organ for TBC, and assessment of the gas bladder should be included in toxicity testing protocols of zebrafish embryos.
The beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol, administered subcutaneously to conscious adrenalectomized rats made hypertensive by exogenous glucocorticoids, has been shown to induce acutely a marked fall in blood pressure and heart rate. These animals almost completely lacked circulating epinephrine. Because both changes were closely related, it was suggested that in this model of hypertension propranolol acts via a central mechanism. To test this hypothesis, we now administered sotalol (300 micrograms) intracerebroventricularly to unanesthetized adrenalectomized rats with glucocorticoid-induced hypertension (this hydrophilic beta-blocking agent does not cross the blood-brain barrier). The same experiments were also performed in sham-operated glucocorticoid-hypertensive rats. On the day of the study, there was no significant difference between adrenalectomized and sham-operated groups of rats in intraarterial pressure and heart rate. Sotalol increased blood pressure and significantly slowed heart rate during the 60-min observation period, both in adrenalectomized and sham-operated rats. Sotalol's vehicle had no blood pressure effect and caused a transient heart rate acceleration in rats with, as well as without, circulating epinephrine. These results therefore suggest that the previously observed enhanced effect of peripherally administered propranolol in the absence of detectable circulating epinephrine, in this model, is not mediated centrally.
The role of hyperglycaemia in the pathogenesis of hypotension in diabetic disorders was investigated using the changes in cardiac M(2)-muscarinic receptor (M(2)-mAChR) gene expression in type-1-like diabetic rats and cultured cardiomyocytes. Blood pressure was markedly decreased in diabetic rats following the intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ) for 8 weeks. Also, the baroreflex sensitivity (Delta HR/Delta BP), as measured by the changes in heart rate (Delta HR) and mean blood pressure (Delta BP) 1 min after the intravenous injection of phenylephrine (10 microg/kg), was significantly increased. Arecaidine propargyl ester (APE), a M(2)-mAChR agonist produced a marked reduction in heart rate in these diabetic rats. Normalization of plasma glucose in diabetic rats using insulin (0.5 IU) or phlorizin (1 mg/kg) injection attenuated the blood pressure reduction and reversed the mRNA and protein levels of cardiac M(2)-mAChR. A high concentration of glucose (20 mmol/l) directly influenced the increase in gene expression of M(2)-mAChR in the H9c2 cardiac cell line. Hyperglycaemia induced an increase in cardiac M(2)-mAChR gene expression, suggesting a role in the pathogenesis of hypotension in diabetic disorders.
Platelet-induced thrombosis is a major risk factor for recurrent ischemic events, although platelet function in patients with cardiovascular disease taking aspirin and clopidogrel is very poorly characterized. The aim of this study was to assess platelet reactivity in patients with cardiovascular disease taking aspirin and clopidogrel.
We developed a rapid assay to measure platelet aggregation in response to arachidonic acid, collagen, adenosine diphosphate (ADP), epinephrine and thrombin receptor activating peptide (TRAP) in 80 healthy volunteers. We then recruited 200 consecutive patients from outpatient clinics and the cardiac catheterization laboratory and tested platelet function. Platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine is a marker of global platelet reactivity. We tested platelet function in 146 patients compliant with antiplatelet therapy. Platelet aggregation to epinephrine was divided into quartiles. The platelet response to the other agonists was analysed based on the response to epinephrine.
Platelet reactivity increased significantly across the quartiles in response to epinephrine in healthy volunteers and patients (P < 0.0001). A significant increase in response across quartiles was seen with all agonists in healthy volunteers (P < 0.001). In contrast, a significant increase in response across quartiles was only seen with ADP in patients (P < 0.0001). Hypertension, smoking and diabetes were significantly associated with increasing platelet reactivity to epinephrine (P < 0.05).
This study shows that platelet response differs between healthy volunteers and patients on dual antiplatelet therapy. In patients with cardiovascular disease, dual antiplatelet therapy unmasks a distinct type of platelet reactivity in response to epinephrine and ADP but not other agonists.
Ten healthy young male volunteers received in random sequence 10 mg of morphine sulfate intravenously and by lumbar epidural route during two 26-hour study sessions, in order to observe the appearance and resolution of the following side effects: (a) pruritus, (b) nausea, (c) vomiting, (d) urinary dysfunction. With the exception of one subject, who experienced transient (2 hours) nausea, none of the subjects experienced any adverse side effects after the intravenous morphine. However, all subjects experienced some degree of one or more complications, starting 3 hours after the epidural administration: generalized pruritus started at 3.0 +/- 0.3 hours (nine of 10 subjects, mean +/- SD) and lasted 5.3 +/- 4.0 hours. Nausea occurred in six subjects at 4.0 +/- 0.6 hours, and lasted 3.0 +/- 2.1 hours; vomiting occurred at 6.3 +/- 2.0 hours in five of the nauseated subjects. Urinary retention of varying intensity and duration appeared in nine subjects and required pharmacologic intervention in six subjects. Serum levels of unmodified morphine were measured at various times after administration during both sessions and did not correlate with the incidence or temporal appearance of side effects. Serial evaluation of dermatomal level of hypalgesia to ice and pin scratch demonstrated a progressive spread in the rostral direction after epidural morphine; trigeminal areas were affected by 9 hours in five of the 10 subjects. The stereotyped sequence of side effects after 10 mg of morphine by the epidural route can be interpreted to reflect widespread dispersion of morphine throughout the subarachnoid and ventricular cerebrospinal fluid.
In this prospective cohort study, based on 1,505 mother-infant pairs in rural Bangladesh, we evaluated the associations between early-life exposure to arsenic, cadmium, and lead, assessed via concentrations in maternal and child urine, and children's weights and heights up to age 5 years, during the period 2001-2009. Concurrent and prenatal exposures were evaluated using linear regression analysis, while longitudinal exposure was assessed using mixed-effects linear regression. An inverse association was found between children's weight and height, age-adjusted z scores, and growth velocity at age 5 years and concurrent exposure to cadmium and arsenic. In the longitudinal analysis, multivariable-adjusted attributable differences in children's weight at age 5 years were -0.33 kg (95% confidence interval (CI): -0.60, -0.06) for high (≥95th percentile) arsenic exposure and -0.57 kg (95% CI: -0.88, -0.26) for high cadmium exposure, in comparison with children with the lowest exposure (≤5th percentile). Multivariable-adjusted attributable differences in height were -0.50 cm (95% CI: -1.20, 0.21) for high arsenic exposure and -1.6 cm (95% CI: -2.4, -0.77) for high cadmium exposure. The associations were apparent primarily among girls. The negative effects on children's growth at age 5 years attributable to arsenic and cadmium were of similar magnitude to the difference between girls and boys in terms of weight (-0.67 kg, 95% CI: -0.82, -0.53) and height (-1.3 cm, 95% CI: -1.7, -0.89).
In order to determine the involvement of the atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) in a model of drug-induced cardiomyopathy, the effects of a single or repeated doses of doxorubicin on plasma ANF levels were examined. Female Wistar rats were treated with doxorubicin at two different schedules: a single 10 mg/kg iv dose or multiple 3 mg/kg iv doses once a week for 3 weeks; control groups were given vehicle (isotonic saline, 0.9% NaCl) intravenously. ANF was assayed in plasma by a specific and sensitive radioimmunoassay method and cardiac function was evaluated by monitoring of ECG and hemodynamic parameters. In the doxorubicin single-dose study plasma ANF values were measured during a period of 6 hours after dosing and were found to be significantly decreased at the 180th (12.5 +/- 2.9 pg/ml) and 360th minute (19.4 +/- 1.2 pg/ml) after dosing, compared to vehicle-treated animals (35.1 +/- 5.7 and 37.9 +/- 4.1 pg/ml, 180 and 360th minute, respectively). Rats treated with multiple doses of doxorubicin showed a significant increase in plasma ANF levels at the 21st (88.3 +/- 7.7 pg/ml) and 31st day (61.0 +/- 14.3 pg/ml) of the study compared to vehicle-treated animals at the same time points (41.8 +/- 8.0 and 26.5 +/- 7.2 pg/ml, respectively). At the 42nd day plasma ANF concentration in doxorubicin-treated rats was not significantly different from vehicle-treated rats. In both studies ANF level changes occurred in the setting of acute or chronic doxorubicin-induced cardiac damage, as evidenced by alterations of hemodynamic and ECG parameters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is associated with increased renal sodium excretion in addition to severe urinary concentrating defects. However, the molecular basis for this altered renal sodium excretion remains undefined. The amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ENaC) is expressed in the renal connecting tubule and collecting duct and is essential in renal regulation of body sodium balance and blood pressure. We hypothesized that dysregulation of ENaC subunits may be responsible for the increased sodium excretion associated with lithium treatment. Lithium treatment for 28 days resulted in severe polyuria, increased fractional excretion of sodium, and increased plasma aldosterone concentration. Immunoblotting revealed that lithium treatment induced a marked decrease in the protein abundance of beta-ENaC and gamma-ENaC in the cortex and outer medulla. Moreover, immunohistochemistry and laser confocal microscopy demonstrated an almost complete absence of beta-ENaC and gamma-ENaC labeling in cortical and outer medullary collecting duct, which was not affected by dietary sodium intake. In contrast, immunohistochemistry showed increased apical labeling of all ENaC subunits in the connecting tubule and inner medullary collecting duct in rats on a fixed sodium intake but not in rats with free access to sodium. Except for a modest downregulation of the thiazide-sensitive Na-Cl cotransporter, the key renal sodium transporters upstream from the connecting tubule (including the alpha1-subunit of Na-K-ATPase, type 3 Na/H exchanger, and Na-K-2Cl cotransporter) were unchanged. These results identify a marked and highly segment-specific downregulation of beta-ENaC and gamma-ENaC in the cortical and outer medullary collecting duct, chief sites for collecting duct sodium reabsorption, in rats with a lithium-induced increase in fractional excretion of sodium.
We here summarize evidence that thymic atrophy induced by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) can be mediated, at least in part, by damage to extrathymic T-cell precursors in bone marrow and fetal liver. This atrophy induction does not involve apoptotic mechanisms in thymocytes affected by the bcl-2 proto-oncogene. TCDD mediates atrophy induction through its specific receptor (the AhR) and not through effects on the estrogen receptor. Both TCDD and estradiol induce extrathymic T-cell differentiation in the liver. These extrathymic T-cell populations include cells expressing elevated levels of V beta T-cell receptors that are normally deleted in thymic development.
The aim of this study was to investigate the possible protective role of lycopene on adriamycin (ADR)-induced heart and kidney toxicity using biochemical and histopathological approaches. Rats were randomly divided into four groups. The first group received no medication and was regarded as the control group; the second group was injected with a single dose of ADR; the third group was treated with lycopene for 10 days before ADR injection and the last group was treated with lycopene for 2 days before and for 3 days after the administration of a single dose of ADR. ADR (10mg/kg) was intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected as a single dose and lycopene (4 mg/kg) was administered in corn oil by gavage. The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and reduced glutathione (GSH) in both the heart and kidneys were higher in the group treated with ADR alone than in the control group, and were lower in the groups administered with lycopene than in the ADR alone group. Although the activity of catalase (CAT) in the heart was higher in the ADR alone group than in the control group, it was lower in the kidneys. In particular, treatment with lycopene post-injection normalized both cardiac and kidney CAT activities. In heart and kidney tissues, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities were not significantly different between all groups. Significant increases in the levels of plasma creatinine and urea were observed in the ADR group when compared to the control group, and these increases were normalized by lycopene treatment. Cardiac and renal histopathological changes were observed in the ADR group as compared to the control group. In contrast, these histopathological changes appeared nearly normal in the groups treated with lycopene pre- and post-injection. In conclusion, this study clearly indicated that ADR treatment markedly impaired cardiac and renal function and that treatment with lycopene might prevent this toxicity in rats.
Maintenance of DNA integrity is crucial for all cell types, but neurons are particularly sensitive to mutations in DNA repair genes, which lead to both abnormal development and neurodegeneration. We describe a previously unknown autosomal recessive disease characterized by microcephaly, early-onset, intractable seizures and developmental delay (denoted MCSZ). Using genome-wide linkage analysis in consanguineous families, we mapped the disease locus to chromosome 19q13.33 and identified multiple mutations in PNKP (polynucleotide kinase 3'-phosphatase) that result in severe neurological disease; in contrast, a splicing mutation is associated with more moderate symptoms. Unexpectedly, although the cells of individuals carrying this mutation are sensitive to radiation and other DNA-damaging agents, no such individual has yet developed cancer or immunodeficiency. Unlike other DNA repair defects that affect humans, PNKP mutations universally cause severe seizures. The neurological abnormalities in individuals with MCSZ may reflect a role for PNKP in several DNA repair pathways.
Following ten years of continuous olanzapine therapy a 51 years old man developed a Gilles de la Tourette syndrome which disappeared after changing to amisulprid. The Tourette-syndrome will be attributed to a tardive dyskinesia induced by olanzapine.
Extracts of Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F have been used to treat glomerulonephritis for more than 30 years in China with dramatic antiproteinuric effects. Triptolide, a diterpene triepoxide, is one of the major active components of these extracts. To clarify its antiproteinuric effects we induced podocyte injury by puromycin aminonucleoside. Triptolide effectively reduced the proteinuria induced by puromycin in nephrotic rats without reducing the glomerular filtration rate. The antiproteinuric effect was associated with improvement in the foot process effacement, a decrease in the podocyte injury marker desmin as well as the restoration of nephrin and podocin expression and distribution. In cultured mouse podocytes triptolide pretreatment prevented the puromycin-induced disruption of the actin cytoskeleton and microfilament-associated synaptopodin while protecting nephrin and podocin expression. Triptolide suppressed reactive oxygen species generation and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation while restoring RhoA signaling activity. These results show that triptolide ameliorates puromycin aminonucleoside-mediated podocyte injury in vivo and in vitro.
Modern man is chronically exposed to lead levels in the biosphere, several times higher than the natural level that once existed. There is much concern about the possible adverse effects of this population-wide low-level lead exposure, particularly on the developing organism, where the central nervous system may be a primary target for lead. We have developed animal test systems which permit temporal and spatial discrimination of possible effects of lead and other potentially neurotoxic agents in the environment on the developing central nervous system, as well as on different types of peripheral nerves in the adult individual. In one experimental design, defined areas of the fetal rat brain are grafted to the anterior chamber of the eye of adult rat recipients which are exposed to lead (1% PbAc in drinking water). Such grafts will become vascularized from the host iris and continue their development in oculo. Thus the grafted brain tissue and the host brain will share circulation and therefore be exposed to exactly the same amounts of lead simultaneously. Studies of cerebellar grafts revealed that although there was a normal gross cytological development in the presence of lead, there was a severe, permanent impairment of the spontaneous discharge rates of the grafted Purkinje neurons as observed with electrophysiological techniques long after cessation of the lead treatment. The host Purkinje neurons were not affected. A similar, although less dramatic, impairment of cerebellar function could then be demonstrated in intact animals when newborn rats were given lead (8 mg PbAc/kg i.p.) during the first 20 days of life and then studied as adults. In other areas of the fetal central nervous system grafted to the eye, lead caused disturbed growth (substantia nigra, cortex cerebri). A screening technique for potentially harmful effects on autonomic and sensory nerve terminals in adult rats makes use of intraocular injections of agents to be tested. Morphological and histochemical changes of the innervation apparatus of the iris are then studied in iris whole-mount preparations. Lead causes an adrenergic hyperinnervation of the iris. Computer-based image analysis revealed severe degenerative effects by hexachlorophene and chlorhexidine. These studies demonstrate the usefulness of the intraocular grafts and the intraocular injection technique and the need to apply both structural and functional techniques in order to detect possible neurotoxic actions of xenobiotics. The techniques have revealed hitherto unknown toxic actions of lead on cerebellar function.
Monocrotaline (MCT) produces pulmonary hypertension and right ventricular hypertrophy in rats. It is generally believed that MCT must undergo hepatic metabolism to reactive metabolites that are subsequently transported to the lungs to induce a pneumotoxic response. Several studies suggest that dehydromonocrotaline (MCTP) is the reactive intermediate that initiates pulmonary toxicity. We recently identified two other MCT metabolites, the glutathione and N-acetylcysteine conjugates of 6,7-dihydro-7-hydroxy-1-hydromethyl-5H-pyrrolizine (DHP). To determine the potential pulmonary toxicity of the glutathione conjugate (DHP-GSH) and the unacetylated cysteine conjugate precursor (DHP-Cys) of the N-acetylated excretion product, we conducted parallel in vivo toxicity studies with DHP-GSH, DHP-Cys, MCT, and MCTP. Relative pneumotoxicity was evaluated by measurements of right ventricular pressure (RVP), ventricular weight ratio (RV/LV+S), subjective histopathology, and measurements of components of the arteriolar wall. Animals given a single injection of MCT (60 mg/kg) developed pulmonary hypertension at the end of 3 weeks, as indicated by significant elevation in RVP when compared to the controls (22.1 +/- 2.4 mm Hg vs 13.2 +/- 0.8 mm Hg). A parallel and significant increase in RV/LV+S was also evident: 0.37 +/- 0.021 (MCT) vs 0.299 +/- 0.011 (control). Histopathology showed marked alterations in both pulmonary vasculature and parenchyma in MCT- and MCTP-treated animals. MCTP (1 mg/kg) caused a significantly elevated RVP (MCTP vs control: 28.1 +/- 3.4 mm Hg vs 16.8 +/- 0.97 mm Hg) and an increased RV/LV+S (MCTP vs control: 0.445 +/- 0.051 vs 0.284 +/- 0.026). Both MCT- and MCTP-treated rats had increased arteriolar medial thickness and decreased lumen diameter, but MCTP-treated rats had a milder vascular inflammatory response and less parenchymal lesions. Neither DHP-GSH (24 or 12 mg/kg) nor DHP-Cys (12 mg/kg) caused detectable changes in pulmonary circulation and no structural alteration in the lung was observed in these treatment groups. Although they are all pyrrolic metabolites of MCT, these studies demonstrate that only MCTP but not the glutathione or cysteine conjugates, is pneumotoxic at the doses tested.
The maximum rate at which phenytoin may be safely administered without inducing hypotension has been evaluated in nonconvulsing animals and man; no comparable information during convulsions of either animals or man is available. Comparison of blood pressure and ECG responses to rapid phenytoin infusion in nonconvulsing rats and in rats during bicuculline-induced status epilepticus suggests that the hypertensive response of convulsions may protect against phenytoin-induced hypotension, thus indicating that more rapid administration of phenytoin during convulsions might be possible with careful monitoring.
A case of severe and prolonged hypotension following intake of 10 mg enalapril in a patient with slight hyponatraemia is described. Despite administration of isotonic NaCl and treatment with dopamine infusion, it did not prove possible to maintain a stable blood pressure. Adrenaline and ephedrine were required intravenously on repeated occasions on account of symptom-producing hypotension with a systolic pressure as low as 60 mmHg. On account of the increasing use of ACE-inhibitors, it is recommended that the specific antidote, angiotension II, should be registered in Denmark and should be available in all hospitals.
Cornelia de Lange Syndrome (CdLS) is a very rare syndrome characterised by multiple congenital anomaly affecting various organs and severe mental retardation. Incidence has been reported to be 1: 10.000-20.000 among the general population, with no racial predilection. The aetiology is still unknown but researchers, in 2004, discovered a mutation of the NIPBL gene located on chromosome 5 which is considered to be responsible of the disease. The main clinical features of the syndrome regard distinctive facial features, severe growth retardation, developmental and mental delay, hirsutism, structural limb abnormalities. The authors describe the main features of the syndrome focusing on oral and facial malformations and report a case of a three years old patient with CdLS.
Of 131 children with bacteriologically verified Haemophilus influenzae meningitis, 75 were treated with ampicillin sodium and 45 with a combination of chloramphenicol, sulfonamides, and penicillin G sodium during the first 72 hours. Audiological and neuro-otologic examinations performed 1 to 15 years later showed that 3 patients were totally deaf, 11 had moderate and 15 minimal hearing losses, and 6 had vestibular disorders. All three deaf children and all those with recognized vestibular disorders had been treated with ampicillin. The severe sequelae, both otologic and nonotologic, tended to occur in children of the lower social groups. There were 15 ears with moderate hearing loss; the lesion was cochlear in nine and retrocochlea in four; it could not be localized in two. Ampicillin was given in relatively low dosage, but the results strongly support the value of chloramphenicol of "triple therapy" as weapons against H influenzae meningitis.
Dermatomyositis developed during treatment with penicillamine in two patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Both were male without a history of penicillin allergy. Eosinophilia was present at the start of their illness, and HLA tissue typing showed the presence of HLA-DR2 in one patient. One patient was retreated with penicillamine and remained asymptomatic after three years of therapy, and the other was able to take penicillamine in a reduced dosage.
Paclitaxel is an effective antineoplastic drug treatment used as an anti-tumoral therapy. Unfortunately its use is associated with unwanted side effects, which include the development of peripheral neuropathies and neuropathic pain, greatly affecting the quality of life of patients. It is well known that agonists of the cannabinoid receptor are able to reduce hyperalgesia and allodynia that develop after nerve injury. Our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 to reduce the thermal hyperalgesia and the tactile allodynia induced by administration of paclitaxel in rats. Present results demonstrate that WIN 55,212-2 (1 mg/kg i.p.) significantly reduced the heat (P<0.0001) and the mechanical (P=0.0003) withdrawal thresholds, the dose being smaller than that required to reach similar effects in the sciatic nerve constriction model (1.5 mg/kg). When the cannabinoid tetrad test was evaluated to measure behavioral modifications, it was found that WIN 55,212-2 (1mg/kg) did not induce changes either in body temperature or in immobility time, and only a reduction in spontaneous motility was recorded. This effect was antagonized by SR 141716A, suggesting the involvement of the CB1 receptor, although the participation of CB2 receptors cannot be excluded from this study. When WIN 55,212-2 was administered intraplantar, no differences were observed between the injected paw and the contralateral paw, suggesting that systemic mechanisms are needed to reach effectiveness. From these results we suggest that cannabinoids may be an interesting alternative to reduce neuropathic symptoms induced by paclitaxel, however more work is required to assess this possibility.
Valproate sodium is an anticonvulsant medication, which has also been shown to be effective in the treatment of bipolar disorder. We report a case of valproate-induced tinnitus that was initially misinterpreted as increasing psychotic symptoms, which began approximately 2 days after initiation of valproate therapy. Tinnitus worsened during the next 6 days of treatment until it was recognized that this symptom was related to valproate. After discontinuance of the medication, the tinnitus gradually resolved over a period of 10 days with no residual effects. Although it is a rare adverse effect, valproate-induced tinnitus should be included in the differential diagnosis for tinnitus in patients receiving this medication. Tinnitus may be difficult to recognize in patients with active psychosis or mania.
Previous studies have shown that inhaled corticosteroids can affect bone metabolism in adults. A study to assess the effect of inhaled beclomethasone, 300 to 800 micrograms/day for at least 6 months (mean 25 months), was therefore undertaken in children. In part 1 of the study, 18 children with asthma, aged 4 to 17 years (mean 10.1 years), were compared with an age- and sex-matched group of children with asthma not treated with corticosteroids. In part 2, eight more pairs were compared. Comparisons were also made with 61 healthy children. Bone mineral density measured by radiographic absorptiometry, and bone mineral content measured by single-photon absorptiometry and by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, showed no significant differences. Serum levels of calcium, magnesium, zinc, total alkaline phosphatase, bone specific alkaline phosphatase, parathyroid hormone, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D also showed no differences. The activity of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase, a marker of bone resorption, was significantly lower in the beclomethasone group than in both the asthma control and the normal control groups, but urine calcium excretion did not differ. Patients with asthma had lower serum osteocalcin and higher serum copper levels than control subjects without asthma, but treatment with beclomethasone did not affect these values. We conclude that inhaled beclomethasone (up to 800 micrograms/day) does not reduce bone mineralization or increase bone resorption. Effects on bone formation were difficult to assess because asthma per se caused a significant reduction in osteocalcin, a sensitive marker of bone formation.
Twenty-one subjects with mild or moderate systemic hypertension were treated for 12 weeks with amlodipine, a new calcium antagonist of the dihydropyridine group. Initial amlodipine dose was 5 mg once daily, but the dose could be increased after four or eight weeks to 10 mg once daily if diastolic blood pressure was not less than or equal to 90 mmHg (12.0 kPa). At the end of the study, a substantial reduction of systolic blood pressure (20 mmHg-2.7 kPa-from baseline) and diastolic blood pressure (14 mmHg-1.9 kPa-from baseline) was observed. Statistically significant changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure were produced after four weeks of treatment. There were no statistically significant changes in heart rate throughout the study. Six patients with mild and five patients with moderate hypertension became normotensive after amlodipine treatment (64%). Two with mild hypertension finished the trial without change in hypertensive status, and four with initially moderate hypertension changed to mild at the end of the study. Only one patient dropped out due to an adverse reaction, two adverse events were rated severe, but did not require discontinuation. Overall impressions of efficacy were excellent or good in two-thirds of cases and poor in 10%; overall impressions of toleration were excellent or good in 71% of cases and poor in 10%. It is concluded that amlodipine is useful and well tolerated in patients with mild or moderate hypertension.
Kahweol, a coffee-specific diterpene, found in the beans of Coffea arabica, has potent anti-carcinogenic, anti-tumor, and anti-inflammatory properties. TRAIL is a potential anti-cancer compound that induces apoptosis in a wide variety of cancer cells, but not in most normal human cell types. In the present study, we show that kahweol sensitizes human renal cancer cells, but not normal human mesangial cells, to TRAIL-mediated apoptosis. Moreover, treatment with a combination of kahweol and TRAIL induces significant apoptosis in various cancer cell types, thus presenting an attractive novel strategy for cancer treatment. Our experiments show that treatment with a combination of kahweol and TRAIL-induced apoptosis, and stimulated of DEVDase activity, DNA fragmentation, and cleavage of PARP, which was prevented by pretreatment with z-VAD, indicative of cell death via a caspase-dependent pathway. Kahweol-induced down-regulation of Bcl-2 and ectopic expression of Bcl-2 led to attenuation of kahweol plus TRAIL-mediated apoptosis, indicative of Bcl-2 involvement in the apoptotic process. In addition, the c-FLIP and caspase signal pathways seem to play a crucial role in apoptosis triggered by the combination of kahweol and TRAIL in Caki cells. Our results collectively demonstrate that down-regulation of Bcl-2 and c-FLIP contributes to the sensitizing effect of kahweol on TRAIL-mediated apoptosis in cancer cells.
