Carvedilol is a multiple action antihypertensive drug with potential use in angina and congestive heart failure. The pharmacological profile of carvedilol includes both beta-adrenoceptor blockade and vasodilation, the latter primarily a result of alpha 1-adrenoceptor blockade. Since many beta-blockers have cardioprotective properties, the present study was designed to determine whether carvedilol is also cardioprotective. Because oxygen radicals are believed to influence ischemic tissue injuries, a secondary study was designed to determine whether carvedilol has anti-oxidant actions which could contribute to cardioprotective properties of carvedilol.
Four different models of acute myocardial infarction in were examined in three animal species, and the effects of carvedilol were compared to those of propranolol. First, in rats subjected to 30 min of cardiac ischemia followed by 24 h of reperfusion, carvedilol was administered both pre- and post-ischemia (1 mg/kg, intravenously). Second, minipigs were subjected to 45 min of cardiac ischemia followed by 4 h of reperfusion, with carvedilol pretreatment (0.3 or 1 mg/kg intravenously). Third, dogs were subjected to 1 h of cardiac ischemia followed by 24 h of reperfusion with carvedilol pretreatment (1 mg/kg, intravenously) or to permanent coronary occlusion (6 h) with carvedilol pretreatment (0.3 or 1 mg/kg, intravenously). Finally, to examine the anti-oxidant activity of carvedilol, pig myocardial membranes were exposed to oxidizing systems that elicit lipid peroxide products assessed as thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS).
In the rats, carvedilol reduced the infarct size by 47% (P < 0.01), in contrast to propranolol, which is inactive in this model. In the minipigs the infarct size was reduced by 46 and 89% (P < 0.01) with carvedilol at 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, respectively; at comparable beta-adrenoceptor blocking doses, carvedilol produced a significantly greater reduction in the infarct size than propranolol (89 versus 48%). In dogs, carvedilol reduced the infarct size by 78% (P < 0.05) compared to the 64% reduction produced by propranolol. In dogs with permanent coronary occlusion, carvedilol produced dose-dependent reductions in the infarct size of 46 and 63% for 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, respectively (P < 0.05), compared to propranolol which did not reduce the infarct size in this model. Carvedilol inhibited lipid peroxidation in a dose-dependent manner with a 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) of 5 mumol/l. Moreover, superoxide generation by activated human neutrophils in vitro was also inhibited by carvedilol with an IC50 of 28 mumol/l. Finally, carvedilol was shown to scavenge oxygen free radicals in a cell-free system with an IC50 of 25 mumol/l.
Taken together, these data indicate that carvedilol is a potent cardioprotective drug, which presumably acts by multiple mechanisms, possibly including a novel anti-oxidant effect that is not shared by other beta-blockers.
Presence of mercury and other heavy metals above permissible levels in water bodies across the globe is posing a serious threat to aquatic biota and public health. Occurrence of mercury above the permissible limits in the aquatic ecosystem of Hyderabad city is well established. In this context, we carried out static- renewal bioassays on the zebra fish, Danio rerio exposed to different concentrations of mercuric chloride, and the 96-h median lethal concentration (LC50) was found to be 0.077 mgl(-1). Behavioral manifestations like loss of scales, hyper secretion of mucus, surfacing and darting movements, loss of balance, irregular swimming patterns were noticed in the fish exposed to 0.077 mgl(-1). The present study also examined the toxic effects of mercuric chloride on vital biochemical constituent's total glycogen and total protein. Significant decrease (p < 0.001) in glycogen and protein content of fish exposed to 0.077 mgl(-1).
Severe low-renin hypertension has few known causes. Apparent mineralocorticoid excess (AME) is a genetic disorder that results in severe juvenile low-renin hypertension, hyporeninemia, hypoaldosteronemia, hypokalemic alkalosis, low birth weight, failure to thrive, poor growth, and in many cases nephrocalcinosis. In 1995, it was shown that mutations in the gene (HSD11B2) encoding the 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 enzyme (11beta-HSD2) cause AME. Typical patients with AME have defective 11beta-HSD2 activity, as evidenced by an abnormal ratio of cortisol to cortisone metabolites and by an exceedingly diminished ability to convert [11-3H]cortisol to cortisone. Recently, we have studied an unusual patient with mild low-renin hypertension and a homozygous mutation in the HSD11B2 gene. The patient came from an inbred Mennonite family, and though the mutation identified her as a patient with AME, she did not demonstrate the typical features of AME. Biochemical analysis in this patient revealed a moderately elevated cortisol to cortisone metabolite ratio. The conversion of cortisol to cortisone was 58% compared with 0-6% in typical patients with AME whereas the normal conversion is 90-95%. Molecular analysis of the HSD11B2 gene of this patient showed a homozygous C-->T transition in the second nucleotide of codon 227, resulting in a substitution of proline with leucine (P227L). The parents and sibs were heterozygous for this mutation. In vitro expression studies showed an increase in the Km (300 nM) over normal (54 nM). Because approximately 40% of patients with essential hypertension demonstrate low renin, we suggest that such patients should undergo genetic analysis of the HSD11B2 gene.
Midodrine, a peripheral alpha-adrenergic agonist, finds use in the clinical management of patients with orthostatic hypotension or hypotension secondary to other clinical conditions or drug therapies. Midodrine is almost completely absorbed after oral administration and undergoes enzymatic hydrolysis to form its pharmacologically active metabolite, de-glymidodrine. In patients with refractory orthostatic hypotension oral midodrine increases standing blood pressure and improves symptoms of orthostatism, such as weakness, syncope, blurred vision and fatigue, without any associated cardiac stimulation. Comparative studies have shown midodrine to be clinically at least as effective as other sympathomimetic agents (norfenefrine, etilefrine, dimetofrine and ephedrine) and dihydroergotamine in this regard. Additionally, midodrine appears to cause less frequent and severe adverse effects associated with alpha-receptor agonism such as piloerection and urinary hesitancy. The most commonly experienced adverse effects--piloerector reactions, gastrointestinal disorders, and cardiovascular complaints--are generally mild and can be controlled by reducing the dosage of midodrine. Thus, midodrine is at least as useful as other currently available options in the management of orthostatic or secondary hypotension, and represents a stepping stone towards optimal therapy.
Perazine (PER) is a phenothiazine antipsychotic drug frequently used in Germany that undergoes extensive metabolism.
To anticipate metabolic drug interactions and to explore the relevance of polymorphisms of metabolic enzymes, perazine-N-demethylation and perazine-N-oxidation were investigated in vitro using human liver microsomes and cDNA expressed enzymes.
CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 were identified as the major enzymes mediating PER-N-demethylation. At 10 microM PER, a concentration consistent with anticipated in vivo liver concentrations, CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 contributed 50% and 35%, respectively, to PER-N-demethylation. With increasing PER concentrations, contribution of CYP2C9 decreased and CYP3A4 became more important. In human liver microsomes, PER-N-demethylation was inhibited by ketoconazole (>40%) and sulfaphenazole (16%). Allelic variants of recombinant CYP2C9 showed differences in PER-N-demethylase activity. The wild type allele CYP2C9*1 was the most active variant. Maximal activities of CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 were 88% and 18%, respectively, compared to the wild type activity. Perazine-N-oxidation was mainly mediated by FMO3. In the absence of NADPH, heat treatment of microsomes abolished PER-N-oxidase activity. Methimazole inhibited PER-N-oxidation, while CYP specific inhibitors had no inhibitory effect. Perazine is a potent inhibitor of dextromethorphan-O-demethylase, S-mephenytoin-hydroxylase, alprazolam-4-hydroxylase, phenacetin-O-deethylase and tolbutamide-hydroxylase activity in human liver microsomes.
Alterations in the activity of CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and FMO3 through genetic polymorphisms, enzyme induction or inhibition bear the potential to cause clinically significant changes in perazine clearance. PER may alter the clearance of coadministered compounds metabolized by CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2C9, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2.
Glycidol, a simple aliphatic epoxide, was administered by gavage in water to groups of male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. Rats received 0, 37.5 or 75 mg kg-1 and mice received 0, 25 or 50 mg kg-1 daily, 5 days per week for 2 years. Exposure to glycidol was associated with dose-related increases in the incidences of neoplasms in numerous tissues in both rats and mice. Survival of rats that received glycidol was markedly reduced compared to the control because of the early induction of neoplastic disease. In male rats, mesothelioma arising in the tunica vaginalis and frequently metastasizing to the peritoneum were considered the major cause of early death. Early deaths in female rats were associated with mammary gland neoplasms. Survival of female mice that received 50 mg kg-1 was lower than the control after week 101 due primarily to euthanasia of moribund animals with mammary gland neoplasms. Survival of male mice and female mice that received 25 mg kg-1 was comparable to the control. In mice, exposure to glycidol was associated with increased incidences of neoplasms of the harderian gland in males and females, the forestomach in males and the mammary gland in females.
The effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin-D3 administration on growth rate, renal failure progression and calcium-phosphorus metabolism was evaluated in 8 children younger than 13 years, mean age 6.3 +/- 3.3 (mean +/- SD), with chronic renal failure (glomerular filtration rate: 44.1 +/- 16.5 ml/min/1.73 m2) receiving conservative treatment in whom at least two periods, with a minimal duration of six months each, without and with rocaltrol treatment, could be compared 1.25-dihydroxyvitamin-D3 at dosage of 16.3 +/- 6.3 ng/kg/day resulted in a significant increase (p less than 0.05) of growth index velocity (81.4 +/- 37.8 versus 122.4 +/- 60.3) without altering renal failure progression rate which was assessed by means of 1 to serum creatinine concentration ratio. One hypercalcemic episode (serum calcium equal or greater than 11 mg/dl) every 28.4 months was observed. Our results confirm the beneficial effect of 1.25-dihydroxyvitamin-D3 administration in the management of children with chronic real failure.
The CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR-141716A (Rimonabant) markedly diminishes the behavioral effects of opiates and nicotine and has been an important tool to ascertain the role of cannabinoid receptors in drug addiction. The present goal was to determine the less-explored interaction of SR-141716A and d-amphetamine in neurochemical and behavioral assays. Additionally, the effect of the substituents and substitution patterns on the phenyl ring located at the 5 position of SR-141716A (4-chlorophenyl), and of the CB(1)/CB(2) cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN-55,212-2, was determined. SR-141716A, AM-251 (4-iodophenyl) and NIDA-41020 (4-methoxyphenyl) did not alter amphetamine-evoked [(3)H]overflow from rat striatal slices preloaded with [(3)H]dopamine. MRI-8273-30-1 (4-fluorophenyl; 0.1-10 microM) attenuated amphetamine (3 microM)-evoked [(3)H]overflow, and MRI-8273-59 (3,4-dichlorphenyl; 0.01-10 microM) augmented amphetamine (0.3-3 microM)-evoked [(3)H]overflow. WIN-55,212-2 was without effect. In a locomotor activity experiment, SR-141716A and MRI-8273-30-1 did not alter amphetamine-induced hyperactivity. However, MRI-8273-59 (1-3 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated amphetamine (1 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity. The present results suggest that SR-141716A is less efficacious to alter amphetamine effects than its reported efficacy to diminish the effects of opiates and nicotine. Modification of the 5-phenyl position of SR-141716A affords compounds that do interact with amphetamine in vitro and in vivo.
Epidemiological studies exploring the connection between hypertension and cancer demonstrate a higher cancer incidence, especially of kidney cancer, and a higher cancer mortality in hypertensive patients. Hormones elevated in hypertension, i.e., aldosterone and angiotensin II, which exert genotoxic effects in vitro, could contribute to carcinogenesis in hypertension. The present study was conducted to investigate the possible DNA-damaging effect of aldosterone receptor activation in vivo. Crl:CD (Sprague-Dawley) rats were treated for 6 wk with desoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) and salt to induce a mineralocorticoid-dependent hypertension. DOCA-salt treatment caused increased blood pressure (+26 mmHg) compared to untreated rats, elevated markers of kidney failure (up to 62-fold for Kim-1), and the induction of several proinflammatory genes and proteins (up to 2.6-fold for tissue MCP-1). The mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) antagonist spironolactone (MR IC(50) 24 nM) and the novel nonsteroidal antagonist BR-4628 (MR IC(50) 28 nM) decreased these damage markers. DOCA-salt treatment also caused 8.8-fold increased structural DNA damage, determined with the comet assay, double-strand breaks (3.5-fold), detected immunohistochemically, and oxidative stress. Furthermore, the oxidatively modified mutagenic DNA base 7,8-dihydro-8-oxo-guanine (8-oxodG), quantified by LC-MS/MS, was almost 2-fold higher in DOCA-salt-treated kidneys. Our results suggest a mutagenic potential of high mineralocorticoid levels, frequent in hypertensive individuals.
Large parenteral doses of vitamin D3 (15 to 17.5 x 10(6) IU vitamin D3) were associated with prolonged hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and large increases of vitamin D3 and its metabolites in the blood plasma of nonlactating nonpregnant and pregnant Jersey cows. Calcium concentrations 1 day postpartum were higher in cows treated with vitamin D3 about 32 days prepartum (8.8 mg/100 ml) than in control cows (5.5 mg/100 ml). None of the cows treated with vitamin D3 showed signs of milk fever during the peripartal period; however, 22% of the control cows developed clinical signs of milk fever during this period. Signs of vitamin D3 toxicity were not observed in nonlactating nonpregnant cows; however, pregnant cows commonly developed severe signs of vitamin D3 toxicity and 10 of 17 cows died. There was widespread metastatic calcification in the cows that died. Because of the extreme toxicity of vitamin D3 in pregnant Jersey cows and the low margin of safety between doses of vitamin D3 that prevent milk fever and doses that induce milk fever, we concluded that vitamin D3 cannot be used practically to prevent milk fever when injected several weeks prepartum.
Cocaine addiction and overdose have long defied specific treatment. To provide a new approach, the high-activity catalytic antibody mAb 15A10 was elicited using a transition-state analog for the hydrolysis of cocaine to nontoxic, nonaddictive products. In a model of cocaine overdose, mAb 15A10 protected rats from cocaine-induced seizures and sudden death in a dose-dependent fashion; a noncatalytic anticocaine antibody did not reduce toxicity. Consistent with accelerated catalysis, the hydrolysis product ecgonine methyl ester was increased >10-fold in plasma of rats receiving mAb 15A10 and lethal amounts of cocaine. In a model of cocaine addiction, mAb 15A10 blocked completely the reinforcing effect of cocaine in rats. mAb 15A10 blocked cocaine specifically and did not affect behavior maintained by milk or by the dopamine reuptake inhibitor bupropion. This artificial cocaine esterase is a rationally designed cocaine antagonist and a catalytic antibody with potential for medicinal use.
In this study, treatment efficacies of a nonionic surfactant vesicle formulation of sodium stibogluconate (SSG-NIV) and of several formulations of amphotericin B were compared in a murine model of visceral leishmaniasis. Treatment with multiple doses of AmBisome, Abelcet, and Amphocil (total dose, 12.5 mg of amphotericin B/kg of body weight) resulted in a significant suppression of parasite burdens in liver (P < 0.0005) and spleen (P < 0.0005) compared with those of controls, with Abelcet having the lowest activity. Only AmBisome and Amphocil gave significant suppression of parasites in bone marrow (compared to control values, P < 0.005). In the acute-infection model, single-dose treatments of SSG-NIV (296 mg of SbV/kg), SSG solution (296 mg of SbV/kg), or AmBisome (8 mg of amphotericin B/kg) were equally effective against liver parasites (compared to control values, P < 0.0005). SSG-NIV and AmBisome treatment also significantly suppressed parasites in bone marrow and spleen (P < 0.005), with SSG-NIV treatment being more suppressive (>98% suppression in all three sites). Free-SSG treatment failed to suppress spleen or bone marrow parasites. Infection status influenced treatment outcome. In the chronic-infection model, the AmBisome single-dose treatment was less effective in all three infection sites and the SSG-NIV single-dose treatment was less effective in the spleen. The results of this study suggest that the antileishmanial efficacy of SSG-NIV compares favorably with those of the novel amphotericin B formulations.
Investigators from Belarus Center for bone marrow transplantation examined the efficacy of preventing hemorrhagic cystitis induced by high-dose cyclophosphamide in preparation for hemopoiesis precursor transplantation in 22 patients with hematological diseases. The proposed preventive method implied administration of mesna (2-merkaptoetan-sulphonate) and alkaline forced diuresis. Its effectiveness was found high.
This phase I study was designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose of carboplatin with a fixed dose of gemcitabine without growth factor or hematopoietic precursor support.
Nineteen patients with previously untreated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were treated at three dose levels. Initially, the gemcitabine dose was 1000 mg/m(2) given on days 1 and 8. Of the first five patients treated with carboplatin AUC 4, three experienced dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The study was, therefore, amended to decrease the dose of gemcitabine to 800 mg/m(2) given on days 1 and 8 in a 21-day cycle.
Dose limiting toxicity (neutropenia and thrombocytopenia) were seen at dose level 2A (carboplatin AUC=5). Thus, no further dose escalation was performed. Grade 3 and 4 toxicities were seen as follows: leukopenia in five of 18 (28%); neutropenia, four of 18 (22%); and thrombocytopenia, four of 18 (22%) evaluable patients. Grade 3 or 4 anemia occurred in one of 18 (6%) patients and no neutropenic fever or treatment related mortality was observed. Partial responses were seen in six patients and one patient with evaluable disease had an objective response. The overall response rate was 37% (seven of 19). Six other patients had stable disease. A total of 89 courses were administered with a median of five courses per patient (range: two to six courses). The median time to progression for all patients was 3.7 months. The median overall survival was 7.4 months with four patients still alive (median follow up 13.5 months). The survival at 6 months and 1 year is 64 and 23%, respectively.
The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) in this group of patients was defined as carboplatin AUC 4 when administered with gemcitabine 800 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day schedule.
SEPT9 is a member of the cytoskeleton-related septin family, which is highly expressed in glia cells in neuronal tissues. Sequence alterations in SEPT9 are known to cause hereditary neuralgic amyotrophy (HNA) but precise cellular consequences have yet to be determined. Since SEPT9 is thought to function through interaction with other septins and small GTPase Rho-mediated signaling, we analyzed the properties of HNA-associated SEPT9 missense variants, SEPT9F (c.278C>T/p.Ser93Phe in SEPT9_v3; NM_006640.3) and SEPT9W (c.262C>T/p.Arg88Trp in SEPT9_v3). We found both sequence variants, but not the wild type, to form filaments with SEPT4 along stress fibers in mesenchymal mouse mammary gland NMuMG cells. In the epithelial cells, the variants, but not the wild type, were colocalized with SEPT11 at cell-cell junctions. In addition, although septin filaments containing SEPT9_v3 were disrupted by Rho/Rhotekin signaling, this was not the case with SEPT9F and SEPT9W. Sequence variations in SEPT9 causing HNA are thus likely to alter modes of interaction with partner molecules in cells, and consequently contribute to the pathogenesis of HNA.
Delirium is a common complication in hospitalized patients and is often associated with significant morbidity. It is important to recognize this syndrome early so that potential causes can be identified and properly managed. Although the etiology of delirium in critically or terminally ill patients is often multifactorial, opioid analgesics are often implicated as a potential underlying cause. Certain opioids, such as meperidine, have been identified as having a greater potential for causing delirium than others. There have been no published reports of anileridine-induced delirium and an illustrative case is presented.
The psychiatric side effects of the major antihypertensive drugs other than reserpine are reviewed, including centrally acting drugs such as methyldopa and clonidine, peripheral adrenergic drugs such as guanethidine, beta-adrenoceptor blockers such as propranolol, and diuretics. Problems with differential diagnosis and with the interpretation of case reports make assessment of psychiatric side effects difficult. Sedation and sleep disturbances are the most common side effects, occurring with methyldopa, clonidine, and propranolol. Only methyldopa is clearly associated with depression. Other reported effects are toxic confusional states and psychotic reactions. These are rare, however, and no clear patterns of development have been recognized.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is a site mediating the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse, such as cocaine, amphetamine, opiates, nicotine, and alcohol (Wise and Bozarth, 1987; Koob, 1992; Samson andHarris, 1992; Woolverton and Johnson, 1992; Self and Nestler, 1995; Pontieri et al., 1996). Acute cocaine has been shown to decrease excitatory synaptic transmission mediated by the cortical afferents to the NAc (Nicola et al., 1996), but the effects of long-term cocaine treatment and withdrawal have not been explored. Here, we report that long-term (1 week) withdrawal from chronic cocaine reduced the potency of adenosine to presynaptically inhibit glutamate (Glu) release by activating adenosine A1 receptors. Adenosine A1 receptors were not desensitized, because the potency of the metabolically stable adenosine analog N6-cyclopentyl-adenosine was unchanged after chronic cocaine withdrawal. When adenosine transporters were blocked, the potency of adenosine to inhibit Glu release from naive and cocaine-withdrawn NAc slices was similar. These results suggest that one of the long-term consequences of cocaine withdrawal is an augmented uptake of adenosine. This long-lasting change expressed at the presynaptic excitatory inputs to the medium spiny output neurons in the NAc may help identify new therapeutic targets for the treatment of drug abuse.
To develop a cardiac hypertrophic model in rats.
Rats were i.p. levothyroxine 0.5 mg.kg-1.d-1 x 10 d. The action potentials of right papillary muscles were recorded by standard glass-microelectrode technique. The left coronary artery was ligated followed by reperfusion and the apparent infarcted zone (AIZ) was determined by tetracycline fluoresence, and the superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) product in myocardium were also measured.
In the rats treated by levothyroxine, the heart was hypertrophic and the action potential duration (APD) and effective refractory period (ERP) were prolonged, the APD20, APD50, APD90, and ERP were prolonged by 80%, 79%, 74%, and 68%, respectively. No changes in resting potential (RP), action potential amplitude (APA), and Vmax were produced. The incidence of heart arrest (8/8) and the risk of death (67 +/- 0) induced by ischemia-reperfusion in rats with hypertrophic heart was higher than those in normal rats (4/10 and 44 +/- 19, respectively). The AIZ was expanded markedly in hypertrophic heart, and attenuated by lidocaine and propranolol.
Levothyroxine-induced heart hypertrophy is a suitable model for severe ischemia and arrhythmias in rats.
A study is presented of 40 patients suffering of osteoarthrosis deformans and treated for 21 days with indomethacin (100 mg daily). Determination of the dynamics of enzymatic activity sorbit dehydrogenase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase in the blood serum and urine were used as criteria of early diagnosis of drug-induced nephropathy due to indomethacin treatment.
We present a case of upper arm compartment syndrome following a biceps tendon rupture in a 77-year old man on warfarin sodium. Compartment syndrome is common in the forearm and leg, but rare in the upper arm with only a handful of cases reported in the literature. Our patient's anticoagulated state predisposed him to the development of compartment syndrome. To the best of our knowledge there has been only one other case reported in the literature of upper arm compartment syndrome following biceps tendon rupture in a patient on warfarin sodium. Compartment syndrome of the upper arm is a rare occurrence. Previous cases have occurred due to malposition of blood pressure cuffs, injections, venepuncture, trauma, tourniquets, shoulder dislocation, surgical complication, subatmospheric pressure induced, biceps rupture, and triceps rupture. The fascia of the upper arm is relatively thinner and more distensible than the fascia of the leg or forearm. This creates more room for the compartment to swell before pressures builds up to a significant level. Thus, a significantly increased amount of pressure needs to build up before compartment syndrome will occur in the upper arm. Once the diagnosis was formed, the patient was treated with emergent fasciotomy and evacuation of hematoma. After a prolonged hospital stay, the patient was released with minor neurological deficits. At final follow-up, the patient was neurovascularly intact with no complaints of numbness or tingling, and he had regained full motor function throughout.
In the pathogenesis of doxorubicin (DXR)-induced cardiomyopathy, oxidative stress appears to play an important role. It has been reported that pentosidine and N(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (CML), advanced glycation end-products (AGEs), are formed by the combined processes of glycation and oxidation and play a significant role in the process of complications of diabetic mellitus. We investigated the potential involvement of AGE formation in DXR-induced cardiomyopathy in rats. Male Crl:CD(SD) rats received intravenous injection of DXR at 2mg/kg or saline once weekly for 8 weeks, with or without daily treatment with the AGE formation inhibitors, aminoguanidine (AG, 25 mg/kg/day, i.p.) and pyridoxamine (PM, 60 mg/kg/day, i.p.). Time-course experiments revealed significantly increased pentosidine and CML in the heart in the DXR group from Week 6. These findings coincided with a decrease in fractional shortening (FS), an index of cardiac function, and the development of cardiomyopathy characterized by vacuolated hypertrophic myocardial fibers. There was a significant correlation between the myocardial AGEs and FS or plasma cardiac troponin-I. Immunohistochemical staining showed localization of pentosidine to the cytoplasm of vacuolated myocardial cells. In DXR-treated rats, oxidative stress was enhanced prior to any observed increase in pentosidine and CML levels in the heart. Hyperglycemia was not observed throughout the study period. Intervention by AG or PM treatment ameliorated the functional and morphological changes induced by DXR in the heart, in addition to lowered myocardial pentosidine and CML levels. These results suggested that DXR accelerates the formation of pentosidine and CML in the heart through enhanced oxidative stress and that AGE formation is involved in DXR-induced cardiomyopathy. The findings may enable development of novel preventive therapies and predictive biomarkers of DXR-induced cardiomyopathy.
Recently, a significant activity of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) has been reported in biopsies from failing hearts due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC). Thus, a potential pathophysiological role of iNOS in IDC has been stated. In order to investigate, whether iNOS expression is of pathophysiological relevance in human heart failure, we measured iNOS protein expression and cGMP content in left ventricular myocardium from non-failing and failing human hearts. Immunoblot analysis revealed iNOS protein expression in four out of six failing hearts from septic patients, whereas no iNOS-protein expression was detected in either non-failing human hearts (n = 6) or failing hearts due to IDC (n = 9), ischemic heart disease (IHD, n = 7), Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD, n = 2) and mitoxantrone-induced toxic cardiomyopathy TCM, n = 1). cGMP content was increased by 130% in septic hearts, whereas there was no cGMP increase in hearts with IDC. IHD and BMD compared to non-failing hearts. We conclude, that the induction of iNOS may play a role in contractile dysfunction observed in septic shock, but is unlikely to be of major pathophysiological importance in end-stage heart failure due to IDC, IHD, BMD and TCM.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease associated with the accumulation of oxidized lipids in arterial lesions. Recently we studied the degradation of peroxidized linoleic acid and suggested that oxidation is an essential process that results in the generation of terminal products, namely mono- and dicarboxylic acids that may lack the pro-atherogenic effects of peroxidized lipids. In continuation of that study, we tested the effects of azelaic acid (AzA), one of the end products of linoleic acid peroxidation, on the development of atherosclerosis using low density lipoprotein receptor knockout (LDLr(-/-)) mice.
LDLr(-/-) mice were fed with a high fat and high cholesterol Western diet (WD group). Another group of animals were fed the same diet with AzA supplementation (WD+AzA group). After 4 months of feeding, mice were sacrificed and atherosclerotic lesions were measured. The results showed that the average lesion area in WD+AzA group was 38% (p<0.001) less as compared to WD group. The athero-protective effect of AzA was not related to changes in plasma lipid content. AzA supplementation decreased the level of CD68 macrophage marker by 34% (p<0.05).
The finding that AzA exhibits an anti-atherogenic effect suggests that oxidation of lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes into carboxylic acids could be an important step in the body's defense against oxidative damage.
Depression has been reported as a side effect of a wide variety of drugs in clinical medicine. Neuroleptics may cause depression in persons with or without any past history of psychiatric illness. Clinically, these drug-induced depressions may go unnoticed and thus create therapeutic problems. The authors present a case of quetiapine-associated depression in a patient being treated for schizophrenia. To the best of our knowledge it is the first description of depression associated with quetiapine treatment. This case report suggests that atypical antipsychotics may be a cause of depression. This is noteworthy because these medications have been found in the past to have an antidepressant action. Further data based on controlled studies are needed.
Paclitaxel is a commonly used cancer chemotherapy drug that frequently causes painful peripheral neuropathies. The mechanisms underlying this dose-limiting side effect are poorly understood. Growing evidence supports that proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF), released by activated spinal glial cells and within the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) are critical in enhancing pain in various animal models of neuropathic pain. Whether these cytokines are involved in paclitaxel-induced neuropathy is unknown. Here, using a rat neuropathic pain model induced by repeated systemic paclitaxel injections, we examined whether paclitaxel upregulates proinflammatory cytokine gene expression, and whether these changes and paclitaxel-induced mechanical allodynia can be attenuated by intrathecal IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) or intrathecal delivery of plasmid DNA encoding the anti-inflammatory cytokine, interleukin-10 (IL-10). The data show that paclitaxel treatment induces mRNA expression of IL-1, TNF, and immune cell markers in lumbar DRG. Intrathecal IL-1ra reversed paclitaxel-induced allodynia and intrathecal IL-10 gene therapy both prevented, and progressively reversed, this allodynic state. Moreover, IL-10 gene therapy resulted in increased IL-10 mRNA levels in lumbar DRG and meninges, measured 2 weeks after initiation of therapy, whereas paclitaxel-induced expression of IL-1, TNF, and CD11b mRNA in lumbar DRG was markedly decreased. Taken together, these data support that paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain is mediated by proinflammatory cytokines, possibly released by activated immune cells in the DRG. We propose that targeting the production of proinflammatory cytokines by intrathecal IL-10 gene therapy may be a promising therapeutic strategy for the relief of paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain.
