Oral anticoagulation therapy reduces risk of vascular events in patients with atrial fibrillation. However, long-term monitoring is necessary and many patients cannot achieve optimum anticoagulation. We assessed whether clopidogrel plus aspirin was non-inferior to oral anticoagulation therapy for prevention of vascular events.
Patients were enrolled if they had atrial fibrillation plus one or more risk factor for stroke, and were randomly allocated to receive oral anticoagulation therapy (target international normalised ratio of 2.0-3.0; n=3371) or clopidogrel (75 mg per day) plus aspirin (75-100 mg per day recommended; n=3335). Outcome events were adjudicated by a blinded committee. Primary outcome was first occurrence of stroke, non-CNS systemic embolus, myocardial infarction, or vascular death. Analyses were by intention-to-treat. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00243178.
The study was stopped early because of clear evidence of superiority of oral anticoagulation therapy. There were 165 primary events in patients on oral anticoagulation therapy (annual risk 3.93%) and 234 in those on clopidogrel plus aspirin (annual risk 5.60%; relative risk 1.44 (1.18-1.76; p=0.0003). Patients on oral anticoagulation therapy who were already receiving this treatment at study entry had a trend towards a greater reduction in vascular events (relative risk 1.50, 95% CI 1.19-1.89) and a significantly (p=0.03 for interaction) lower risk of major bleeding with oral anticoagulation therapy (1.30; 0.94-1.79) than patients not on this treatment at study entry (1.27, 0.85-1.89 and 0.59, 0.32-1.08, respectively).
Oral anticoagulation therapy is superior to clopidogrel plus aspirin for prevention of vascular events in patients with atrial fibrillation at high risk of stroke, especially in those already taking oral anticoagulation therapy.
Adult Attention Deficit Disorder is increasingly diagnosed and treated. Psychostimulant medications, such as methylphenidate, are commonly prescribed for this condition, but the long-term safety of such medications in an adult population is unknown at present. Because these medications are closely related to amphetamines, it is expected that toxic side effects would be similar. We present the case of a 27-year-old man who suffered an acute myocardial infarction due to coronary vasospasm related to use of methylphenidate complicated by concomitant use of pseudoephedrine.
A phase II trial was conducted to explore the efficacy and tolerability of combining thalidomide (100 mg/d p.o.) with an erythropoietic growth factor (darbepoietin-alpha 2.25 micro g/kg/d s.c.) in patients with low-to-intermediate-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). However, the trial had to be discontinued early because of an unexpectedly high incidence of thromboembolic events. Of the first seven patients enrolled, two developed deep-vein thrombosis and one died of massive pulmonary embolism. We concluded that thalidomide might significantly increase the thromboembolic risk of erythropoietic proteins in MDS patients. Careful clinical surveillance and thrombosis prophylaxis (heparin or oral anticoagulation) should be considered for MDS patients undergoing combined treatment with thalidomide and erythropoietic growth factors.
Urinary tract calculi have been reported to account for between 1 in 1,000 and 1 in 7,600 hospital admissions in children in the USA. The annual incidence of urolithiasis in patients older than 10 years is 109 per 100,000 of the population in men and 36 per 100,000 of the population in women in Minnesota. The use of various medications is considered to be one of the etiologic factors of nephrolithiasis. Ceftriaxone is a widely used third-generation cephalosporin that is generally considered very safe, but complications such as biliary pseudolithiasis, and rarely, nephrolithiasis have been reported in children. There is limited information about urolithiasis as a side effect of ceftriaxone. The aim of this study was evaluation of the incidence of nephrolithiasis following ceftriaxone therapy in children. This quasi-experimental before and after study was conducted in Mofid Children's Hospital between 2003 and 2005. All patients were treated with 75 mg/kg intravenous ceftriaxone. Diagnosis of pyelonephritis was based on standard criteria. The first renal ultrasonography was performed on the first or second day of admission and was repeated on the last day of treatment. We also evaluated complicated patients for the third time with renal ultrasonography 3 months after treatment. Stone-forming patients underwent metabolic kidney stone risk factor evaluation. We evaluated 284 patients with pyelonephritis, 185 girls and 99 boys. The first ultrasonography was normal in all of our patients. On the second ultrasonography renal stones were reported in 4 out of 284 cases (1.4% and CI=0.96-1.83%). Underlying metabolic risk factors could not be identified in stone-forming patients. Follow-up ultrasonography 3 months later was normal. The results of our study suggest that ceftriaxone-treated patients may be at an increased risk of kidney stone formation. Stones passed spontaneously in all affected patients so the use of this effective drug can be safely continued. Close monitoring of ceftriaxone-treated patients with regard to kidney stone formation is recommended.
To test whether microalbuminuria in patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension is primarily dependent on the severity of hypertension, and to compare the effectiveness of two antihypertensive drugs with opposite effects on the renin-angiotensin system [the diuretic, indapamide sustained release (SR), and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril] in reducing microalbuminuria.
A multinational, multicentre, controlled, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, two-parallel-groups study over 1 year.
After a 4-week placebo run-in period, 570 patients (ages 60.0 +/- 9.9 years, 64% men) with type 2 diabetes, essential hypertension [systolic blood pressure (SBP) 140-180 mmHg, and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) < 110 mmHg], and persistent microalbuminuria (20-200 microg/min) were allocated randomly to groups to receive indapamide SR 1.5 mg (n = 284) or enalapril 10 mg (n = 286) once a day. Amlodipine, atenolol, or both were added, if necessary, to achieve the target blood pressure of 140/85 mmHg.
There was a significant reduction in the urinary albumin : creatinine ratio. Mean reductions were 35% [95% confidence interval (CI) 24 to 43] and 39% (95% CI 30 to 47%) in the indapamide SR and enalapril groups, respectively. Equivalence was demonstrated between the two groups [1.08 (95% CI 0.89 to 1.31%); P = 0.01]. The reductions in mean arterial pressure (MAP) were 16.6 +/- 9.0 mmHg for the indapamide SR group and 15.0 +/- 9.1 mmHg for the enalapril group (NS); the reduction in SBP was significantly greater (P = 0.0245 ) with indapamide SR. More than 50% of patients in each group required additional antihypertensive therapy, with no differences between groups. Both treatments were well tolerated.
Indapamide-SR-based therapy is equivalent to enalapril-based therapy in reducing microalbuminuria with effective blood pressure reduction in patients with hypertension and type 2 diabetes.
Dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) has been linked to losses of cholinergic function in the brain. The acetylcholinesterase inhibitors donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine improve cognitive performance in manifest dementia. These substances, however, also influence the quality of sleep, and particularly the quality and amount of dreams. We therefore investigated the influence of the time point of donepezil intake on the occurrence of nightmares. We observed a clear-cut relationship between the occurrence of nightmares and an evening dose of donepezil in eight patients with DAT. None of these patients reported nightmares when donepezil was taken in the morning. We suggest that the activation of the visual association cortex during REM sleep is enhanced by donepezil, a mechanism most likely facilitating the development of nightmares in patients with DAT.
The purpose of this study was to examine the antitumor immune function of gammadelta T cells and to scan the granzyme B gene for the known single nucleotide polymorphism in breast cancer patients and normal controls.
Levels, cytotoxicity, and functional capacity of gammadelta T cells in peripheral blood mononuclear cells were assessed by flow cytometry, (51)Cr release, and ELISpot assays, respectively. Furthermore, sequence based typing was adopted to screen for granzyme B gene polymorphism.
We have found that the frequency and function of gammadelta T cells are reduced both in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 30 newly diagnosed breast cancer patients (2 [1.2, 3]), compared with 38 normal controls (3.2 [2.5, 5.7]) (p=0.02). In addition, resting gammadelta T cells from breast cancer patients produced significantly more interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha than normal controls. Moreover, ex vivo stimulation of gammadelta T cells with zoledronic acid and interleukin-2 compensated in part for this deficiency, as it stimulated the proliferation, cytokine production, and enhanced the expression of messenger RNA of granzyme B. Interestingly, when the known granzyme B gene polymorphism was screened, we found the prevalence of the mutated genotype RAH/RAH to be significantly (p<0.017) associated with breast cancer patients (14.30%) compared with normal donors (1.40%). Cytotoxicity exerted by gammadelta T cells on Daudi and MCF-7 was significantly higher in donors with the wild-type QPY/QPY (50%) compared with donors with RAH/RAH (21%).
Our data suggest that reduction in the proportion of gammadelta T cells and granzyme B gene polymorphism leads to defective immune function in breast cancer patients. Treatment with zoledronic acid amend partially this fault. Further studies of gammadelta T cells function and granzyme B gene polymorphism in cancers, as well as the potential therapeutic use of zoledronic acid are warranted.
We report a case of visual loss and bilateral papilloedema under therapy with the antiarrhythmic substance amiodarone, which is used in treatment of refractory and life-threatening supraventricular and ventricular cardial tachyarrhythmias. After excluding intracranial hypertension, local tumors and an inflammatory genesis we consider this case to be an amiodarone-induced toxic opticusneuropathy. Amiodarone, a diiodated benzofuran derivative, is a cationic amphiphilic drug, which is able to cause ceratopathy and neuropathy. The rarely described and less known opticusneuropathy caused problems in differential diagnosis. A brief review about current knowledge of pathophysiology, differential diagnosis and course of illness is presented.
The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase and increased cGMP formation in the brain would improve task acquisition in cognitively impaired animals. We evaluated the effects of a novel nitrate ester, GT 715 (2,3-dinitrooxy-(2,3-bis-nitrooxypropyldisulfanyl)-propane), in scopolamine-induced impairment of task acquisition in the Morris water maze. GT 715 improved task acquisition in scopolamine-pretreated animals in a time- and dose-dependent manner, whereas the prototypical nitrate ester, glyceryl trinitrate (GTN), was ineffective. GT 715 also was more effective and more potent than GTN for activation of hippocampal guanylyl cyclase. The results of this study therefore suggest that stimulation of cerebral soluble guanylyl cyclase activity may be an effective strategy to improve learning and memory performance in individuals in whom cognitive abilities are impaired by injury, disease, or ageing.
We examined the pharmacological profile of ramosetron, a 5-HT(3)-receptor antagonist for irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea, comparing it with those of other 5-HT(3)-receptor antagonists, alosetron and cilansetron, and the anti-diarrheal agent loperamide. Ramosetron showed high affinity for cloned human and rat 5-HT(3) receptors, with K(i) values of 0.091 +/- 0.014 and 0.22 +/- 0.051 nmol/L, respectively, while its affinities for other receptors, transporters, ion channels, and enzymes were negligible. Dissociation of ramosetron from the human 5-HT(3) receptor was extremely slow (t(1/2) = 560 min), while alosetron (t(1/2) = 180 min) and cilansetron (t(1/2) = 88 min) dissociated relatively rapidly. Ramosetron competitively inhibited 5-HT-induced contraction of isolated guinea-pig colon, with pA(2) values of 8.6 (8.5 - 9.0). Ramosetron given orally also dose-dependently inhibited the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex in rats, with an ED(50) value of 1.2 (0.93 - 1.6) microg/kg. In addition, oral ramosetron dose-dependently inhibited restraint stress-induced defecation in rats, with an ED(50) value of 0.62 (0.17 - 1.2) microg/kg. In all of these experiments, the potencies of ramosetron were greater than those of alosetron, cilansetron, or loperamide. These results indicate that ramosetron is a highly potent and selective 5-HT(3)-receptor antagonist, with beneficial effects against stress-induced abnormal defecation in rats.
A retrospective study of 343 women treated with isoxsuprine and/or terbutaline for preterm labor (PTL) was performed to determine the incidence and nature of maternal morbidity which is associated with this treatment. The incidence of mild cardiovascular (CV), neurological and gastrointestinal side effects was similar with both medications. The incidence, however, of severe CV complications such as pulmonary edema and myocardial ischemia was higher among women treated with i.v. terbutaline (5.3%) than among those treated with isoxsuprine (0.8%, P less than 0.05). Patients with multiple gestations on i.v. terbutaline therapy had an exceptionally high incidence of severe CV complications (43%), while none of the twin pregnancies on i.v. isoxsuprine had such complications. Corticosteroid treatment was not associated with a significant increase of complications with either tocolytic medication. Both medications had similar success in inhibiting PTL.
Riluzole is used clinically in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. As oxidative stress, in addition to excitotoxicity, may be a major mechanism of motoneuron degeneration in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, we examined whether riluzole protects against nonexcitotoxic oxidative injury. Probably reflecting its weak antiexcitotoxic effects, riluzole (1-30 microM) attenuated submaximal neuronal death induced by 24-h exposure to 30 microM kainate or NMDA, but not that by 100 microM NMDA, in cortical cultures. Riluzole also attenuated nonexcitotoxic oxidative injury induced by exposure to FeCl3 in the presence of MK-801 and CNQX. Consistent with its antioxidative effects, riluzole reduced Fe3+-induced lipid peroxidation, and inhibited cytosolic phospholipase A2. By contrast, riluzole did not attenuate neuronal apoptosis induced by staurosporine. Rather unexpectedly, 24-48-h exposure to 100-300 microM riluzole induced neuronal death accompanied by nuclear and DNA fragmentations, which was attenuated by caspase inhibitor carbobenzyloxy-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethyl ketone but not by protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. The present study demonstrates that riluzole has direct antioxidative actions, perhaps in part by inhibiting phospholipase A2. However, in the same neurons, riluzole paradoxically induces neuronal apoptosis in a caspase-sensitive manner. Considering current clinical use of riluzole, further studies are warranted to investigate its potential cytolethal effects.
This report introduces an improved method of detecting chemical-induced morphological transformation of A-31-1-13 BALB/c-3T3 cells. The new procedure uses an increased target cell population to assess chemical-induced damage by increasing the initial seeding density and by delaying the initiation time of chemical treatment. Furthermore, a newly developed co-culture clonal survival assay was used to select chemical doses for the transformation assay. This assay measured the relative cloning efficiency (RCE) of chemical treatments in high-density cell cultures. In addition, transformation assay sensitivity was enhanced through the use of improved methods to solubilize many chemicals. From a group of 24 chemicals tested in at least two trials, clear evidence of chemical-induced transformation was detected for 12 chemicals (aphidicolin, barium chloride-2H2O, 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine, C.I. direct blue 15, trans-cinnamaldehyde, cytosine arabinoside, diphenylnitrosamine, manganese sulfate-H2O, 2-mercaptobenzimidazole, mezerein, riddelliine, and 2,6-xylidine); 2 chemicals had equivocal activity [C.I. direct blue 218 and mono(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate], 9 chemicals were inactive [carisoprodol, chloramphenicol sodium succinate, 4-chloro-2-nitroaniline, C.I. acid red 114, isobutyraldehyde, mono(2-ethylhexyl)adipate, sodium fluoride, and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate), and 1 chemical had an indeterminate response (2,6-dinitrotoluene). All positive responses were detected in the absence of an exogenous activation system and exhibited significant activity at two or more consecutive doses. This report also presents a mathematical method that uses t-statistics for rank-ordering the potency of chemical-induced transformation responses. This model detects sensitivity differences in experiments used to evaluate chemical-induced transformation. Furthermore, it provides a method to estimate a chemical's transformation response in terms of the historical behavior of the assay, as well as its future activity. The most active of the 24 chemicals was mezerein, and the least active chemical was diphenylnitrosamine.
Studies in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys and in parkinsonian patients show elevated preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA levels, unaltered by chronic L-DOPA therapy, whereas preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA levels are decreased by the lesion and corrected by L-DOPA. The relative contributions of the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors for PPE mRNA regulation were investigated in the present study and compared with those for PPT mRNA. In situ hybridization was used to measure peptide mRNA levels in the striatum of MPTP cynomolgus monkeys after chronic 1-month treatment with the D1 agonist SKF-82958, administered subcutaneously in pulsatile or continuous mode, compared with the long-acting D2 agonist cabergoline. Normal as well as untreated MPTP animals were also studied. PPE mRNA levels were elevated in the caudate nucleus and putamen of untreated MPTP monkeys compared with control animals with a more pronounced increase in the lateral as compared with the medial part of both structures. PPT mRNA levels showed a rostrocaudal gradient, with higher values in the middle of the caudate-putamen and more so in the medial versus the lateral parts. PPT mRNA levels were decreased in the caudate and putamen of untreated MPTP monkeys compared with control animals, and this was observed in the middle and posterior parts of these brain areas. Elevated PPE and decreased PPT mRNA levels observed after MPTP exposure were corrected after treatment with cabergoline (0.25 mg/kg, every other day), a dose that had antiparkinsonian effects and did not give sustained dyskinesia. In contrast, elevated PPE mRNA levels observed in untreated MPTP monkeys were markedly increased by pulsatile administration of SKF-82958 (1 mg/kg, three times daily) in two monkeys in which the parkinsonian symptoms were improved and dyskinesias developed, whereas it remained close to control values in a third one that did not display dyskinesias despite a sustained improvement in disability; a shorter duration of motor benefit (wearing off) over time was observed in these three animals. By contrast, pulsatile administration of SKF-82958 corrected the decreased PPT level observed in untreated MPTP monkeys. Continuous treatment with SKF-82958 (equivalent daily dose) produced no clear antiparkinsonian and dyskinetic responses and did not alter the denervation-induced elevation of PPE or decrease of PPT mRNA levels. The present data suggest an opposite contribution of the dopamine D1 receptors (stimulatory) as compared with the dopamine D2 receptors (inhibitory) on PPE mRNA, whereas a similar stimulatory contribution of D1 or D2 receptors is observed for PPT mRNA. An increase in PPE expression could be involved in the induction of dyskinesias and wearing off, whereas our data do not support this link for PPT. The antiparkinsonian response was associated with a correction of the lesion-induced decrease of PPT.
To study the effects of different fractions of Modified Zhisousan (MZ, MZC, MZS) on the contents of nitric oxide (NO), endothelin-1 (ET-1) and eosinophilia (EOS) in the allergic asthma guinea pigs and observe the pathology changes of lung tissue.
The number of EOS in the blood and bronchialveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was counted by Wright staining. The contents of ET-1 and No in serum and BALF were analyzed by RIA and nitric acid reductase method. The guinea pig lungs were observed under the optical and electron microscope.
The number of EOS and the contents of ET-1 and NO in model group were higher than those in control group (P < 0.01). The pathological changes of lung were obvious. The number of EOS and the contents of ET-1 and NO were descended remarkably (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01) and the pathological changes in the lung tissue were lightened obviously in MZ and MZC groups, but MZS group had no such effects.
MZC is the effective part of MZ and the anti-asthmatic mechanisms ware related to its significant reduction in contents of ET-1, NO, EOS and the damage of lung tissue possibly.
We report a case of epidural abscess caused by community-associated methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (CA-MRSA) strain USA300 in a previously healthy 25-year-old American woman who lived in Japan for more than 1 year. She started to complain of severe headache that continued for about 10 days after improvement of subcutaneous abscesses caused by MRSA. Computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed epidural abscess. As epidural abscess was not improved by treatment with vancomycin and ceftriaxone, craniotomy and drainage were performed, and the severe headache disappeared. Characteristics of the MRSA strain isolated from the abscess were identical to those of strain USA300; multilocus sequence typing sequence type 8, staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec type IVa, Panton-Valentine leukocidin positive, arginine catabolic mobile element positive, and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis type USA300. This may be the first report of epidural abscess caused by USA300 strain in Japan. Because CA-MRSA strains, including USA300, have begun to spread in Japan, epidural abscess should be taken into account in the diagnosis of previously healthy patients with persistent headache accompanied by skin lesions.
Venoocclusive disease (VOD) of the liver is a common complication after allogenic and autologous bone marrow transplantation for malignant disease. The authors report the unusual and unexpected complication of VOD of the liver occurring in children with rhabdomyosarcoma who were receiving vincristine, actinomycin D, and cyclophosphamide (VAC) according to the chemotherapy regimens of the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS) IV.
The authors evaluated 821 patients with newly diagnosed rhabdomyosarcoma receiving treatment according to IRS IV who were considered at risk for VOD.
Ten patients developed VOD of the liver for an overall incidence of 1.2%. VOD was found only after the administration of VAC chemotherapy. The highest incidence of VOD was observed among patients who had previously received vincristine and melphalan (Regimen 48). None of the patients receiving the chemotherapy regimen of vincristine and actinomycin D (Regimen 44) developed VOD.
Patients receiving VAC-containing regimens on the IRS IV were found to be at risk for VOD. The VAC combination was used extensively in previous IRS studies (I, II, and III) and VOD was not reported during these studies, strongly suggesting that the escalation of the cyclophosphamide dose to 2.2 g/m2 (with the vincristine and actinomycin D doses and schedule remaining unchanged) triggered the development of VOD. The contributing role of previous therapy or events is unknown. At last follow-up, none of the nine surviving patients had developed recurrent VOD on continuation of chemotherapy.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p- dioxin (TCDD, or dioxin) causes early life stage mortality in a variety of fish species. We have used the zebrafish (Danio rerio) to study the cardiovascular effects of TCDD treatment over the time course of zebrafish development. Early TCDD exposure (6 ng/ml) starting at 4 hr postfertilization (hpf) produced reductions in blood flow and in the number of circulating erythrocytes. These defects were consistently observable by 72 hpf. However, these responses were not observed when TCDD exposure was delayed until 96 hpf or later. These results suggest a model in which TCDD interferes with cardiovascular and erythropoietic developmental processes that are normally completed by 96 hpf. This model is strengthened by the finding that TCDD exposure blocks the step in hematopoiesis in which developing zebrafish switch from the primitive phase to the definitive phase of erythropoiesis. We observed no effect of TCDD on the levels of circulating primitive erythrocytes before 72 hpf and the expression of markers for early hematopoiesis, GATA-1 and GATA-2. However, early TCDD exposure prevented the appearance of definitive phase erythrocytes. TCDD produced a small delay in the migration of blood cells expressing SCL from the intermediate cell mass to the dorsal mesentery and dorsal aorta. Despite the decrease in blood flow produced by TCDD, confocal microscopy of the trunk vasculature by using a Tie2/green fluorescence protein endothelial marker at 48, 60, 72, and 96 hpf of TCDD-exposed (4 hpf) revealed no apparent defects in blood vessel structure.
Horse foals on five farms in Central Kentucky were used in field studies in 2007 evaluating activity of paste formulations of four compounds (fenbendazole-FBZ, ivermectin-IVM, oxibendazole-OBZ, and pyrantel pamoate-PRT) against internal parasites with emphasis on ascarids (Parascaris equorum). It has been well established the last few years that there is widespread resistance of P. equorum to ivermectin. The main purpose of the present research was to obtain current data on ascaridicidal activity of FBZ, OBZ, and PRT; also, to acquire further information on ascarid resistance to ivermectin. Additionally, data were documented on drug activity on small strongyles. Detection of ascarid and strongyle eggs in feces of foals was by a qualitative method (presence or absence) or a quantitative method (eggs per gram of feces). Strongyle eggs all were assumed to be from small strongyles. This is based on fecal cultures from horses on one farm and historic records from horses in this area on excellent deworming programs. A girth tape was used to estimate the body weight of each foal so that the appropriate dose rate of each drug could be given. Many of the foals were used in more than one cycle of treatments. Efficacy of the drugs, administered intraorally, was determined by calculating the average percentage reduction (% red.) of the number of foals passing eggs after vs. before treatment: (1) FBZ at 10 mg/kg was tested on four farms; 76 foals were examined, 50 with ascarid eggs (84% red.) and 62 with strongyle eggs (0% red.); (2) IVM at 200 microg/kg was tested on three farms; 58 foals were examined, 18 with ascarid eggs (0% red.) and 48 with strongyle eggs (100% red.); (3) OBZ at 10 mg/kg was tested on three farms; 181 foals were examined, 78 with ascarid eggs (94% red.) and 79 with strongyle eggs (0% red.); (4) PRT was tested on two farms, one farm at 1x (6.6 mg base/kg); 42 were foals examined, 16 with ascarid eggs (0% red.) and 33 with strongyle eggs (12% red.) and one farm at 2x (13.2 mg base/kg); 18 foals were examined, 13 with ascarid eggs (23% red.) and 15 with strongyle eggs (27% red.).
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of diethyl dithiocarbamic acid sodium salt trihydrate (DDA), a selective inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappa-B, on the development of morphine dependence in a mouse model of naloxone-induced opioid withdrawal syndrome. Morphine (5 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) was administered twice daily for a period of 5 days, after which a single injection of naloxone (8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) precipitated an opioid withdrawal syndrome in mice. Behavioral observations were made for a period of 30 min immediately after naloxone treatment. Withdrawal syndrome was quantitatively assessed in terms of withdrawal severity score and the frequency of jumping, rearing, forepaw licking, and circling. DDA markedly and dose-dependently (P<0.01) attenuated the morphine-naloxone-induced experimental opioid withdrawal syndrome. However, DDA administration did not alter locomotor activity, thus ruling out any sedative action of DDA per se. Further, DDA pretreatment did not alter the acute analgesic effect of morphine. The results suggest that nuclear factor-kappa-B is involved in the development of opioid dependence and the precipitation of its withdrawal syndrome, and thus, may serve as a viable pharmacological target to tackle the problem of opioid addiction.
Environmental estrogens are ubiquitous in the environment and can cause detrimental effects on male reproduction. In fish, a multitude of effects from environmental estrogens have been observed including altered courting behavior and fertility, sex reversal, and gonadal histopathology. However, few studies in fish assess the impacts of estrogenic exposure on a physiological endpoint, such as reproduction, as well as the associated morphologic response and underlying global gene expression changes. This study assessed the implications of a 14 day sub-chronic exposure of ethinylestradiol (EE2; 1.0 or 10.0 µg/L EE2) on male medaka fertility, testicular histology and testicular gene expression. The findings demonstrate that a 14 day exposure to EE2 induced impaired male reproductive capacity and time- and dose-dependent alterations in testicular morphology and gene expression. The average fertilization rate/day following the exposure for control, 1.0 and 10.0 µg/L EE2 was 91.3% (±4.4), 62.8% (±8.3) and 28.8% (±5.8), respectively. The testicular morphologic alterations included increased germ cell apoptosis, decreased germinal epithelium and thickening of the interstitium. These changes were highly associated with testicular gene expression changes using a medaka-specific microarray. A pathway analysis of the differentially expressed genes emphasized genes and pathways associated with apoptosis, cell cycle and proliferation, collagen production/extracellular matrix organization, hormone signaling, male reproduction and protein ubiquitination among others. These findings highlight the importance of anchoring global gonadal gene expression changes with morphology and ultimately with tissue/organ function.
A woman who had been taking amiodarone--400 mg/day--for over nine years, developed cirrhosis. Electron microscopy showed phospholipid-laden lysosomal lamellar bodies containing myelin figures. A review is made about the reported cases of amiodarone-induced cirrhosis, including detailed histological findings. We conclude that periodical clinical and biochemical monitoring must be made in patients receiving treatment with amiodarone, and that the pathophysiologic mechanism responsible for the amiodarone toxicity still remains unclear.
The prostaglandin-F2α (PGF2α) receptor (FP) was targeted to develop tocolytic agents for inhibiting preterm labor. Azabicycloalkane and azapeptide mimics 2-10 were synthesized based on the (3S,6S,9S)-indolizidin-2-one amino acid analogue PDC113.824 (1), which was shown to modulate FP by a biased allosteric mechanism, involving both Gαq- and Gα12-mediated signaling pathways, and exhibited significant tocolytic activity delaying preterm labor in a mouse model ( Goupil ; et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2010 , 285 , 25624 - 25636 ). Although changes in azabicycloalkane stereochemistry and ring size caused loss of activity, replacement of the indolizidin-2-one amino acid with azaGly-Pro and azaPhe-Pro gave azapeptides 6 and 8, which reduced PGF2α-induced myometrial contractions, potentiated the effect of PGF2α on Gαq-mediated ERK1/2 activation, and inhibited FP modulation of cell ruffling, a response dependent on the Gα12/RhoA/ROCK signaling pathway. Revealing complementarities of azabicycloalkane and azapeptide mimics, novel probes, and efficient tocolytic agents were made to study allosteric modulation of the FP receptor.
The cancer chemotherapeutic agent cyclophosphamide (CPA) and its isomer ifosfamide (IFA) are alkylating agent prodrugs that require metabolism by liver cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes for antitumor activity. The therapeutic effectiveness of these oxazaphosphorines is limited by the hematopoietic, renal, and cardiac toxicity that accompanies the systemic distribution of liver-derived activated drug metabolites. Transfer of a liver cytochrome P450 gene, CYP2B1, into human breast MCF-7 cancer cells is presently shown to greatly sensitize these cells to oxazaphosphorine toxicity as a consequence of the acquired capacity for intratumoral CPA and IFA activation. Thus, CPA and IFA were highly cytotoxic to MCF-7 cells following stable transfection of CYP2B1 but exhibited no toxicity to parental tumor cells or to a beta-galactosidase-expressing MCF-7 transfectant. This cytotoxicity could be appreciably blocked by the CYP2B1 inhibitor metyrapone. Cell cycle analysis revealed that CPA arrested the CYP2B1-expressing cells, but not CYP2B1-negative cells, at G(2)-M phase. A strong bystander cytotoxicity effect that does not require direct cell-cell contact was mediated by CYP2B1-expressing MCF-7 cells on non-CYP2B1 cells. Intratumoral CYP2B1 expression conferred a distinct therapeutic advantage when treating MCF-7 tumors grown in nude mice with CPA, as revealed by a 15-20-fold greater in vivo cytotoxicity, determined by tumor excision/colony formation assay, and by the substantially enhanced antitumor activity, monitored by tumor growth delay, for CYP2B1-e xpressing MCF-7 tumors as compared to CYP2B1-negative control tumors. These enhanced therapeutic effects were obtained without any apparent increase in host toxicity. To evaluate the extent to which a CPA/P450 gene therapy strategy may be generally applicable to other tumor cell types, a replication-defective recombinant adenovirus carrying the CYP2B1 gene driven by the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promotor ad.CMV-2B1 was constructed and used to infect a panel of human tumor cell lines. Ad.CMV-2B1 infection rendered each of the cell lines highly sensitive to CPA and IFA cytotoxicity, with substantial chemosensitization seen at multiplicities of infection as low as 10. The CPA/P450 prodrug activation system may thus serve as a useful paradigm for further development of novel cancer gene therapy strategies that utilize drug susceptibility genes to significantly potentiate the antitumor activity of conventional cancer chemotherapeutic agents.
The cholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine (PHYS) was investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover trial of 10 male patients with moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea. PHYS (0.12 microg/minute/kg, 7-hour infusion) reduced mean apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) by 13.6 (95% confidence interval [CI], 2.2-25.1) corresponding to 21.4% (95% CI, -5.5 to 47.9) and increased minimum SaO2 by 8.7% (95% CI, -0.3 to 17.7) corresponding to 23.2% (95% CI, 4.8-41.3). During the last third of the night, coinciding with predicted plasma concentration steady state, non-REM sleep AHI decreased by 19.2 (95% CI, 0.1-38.3) or 14.9% (95% CI, -43.6 to 77.7) and REM AHI by 33.8 (95% CI, 13.7-54.0) or 67.5% (95% CI, 49.7-85.3). Mean total sleep time was reduced by 74 minutes (95% CI, 33.9-114.9), but patients with the least pronounced sleep shortening had the largest reduction of AHI (r = 0.73, p < 0.02). The nocturnal decline in heart rate was reduced by PHYS. Moreover, resting (early-night placebo heart rate) was positively correlated with proportional reduction of REM apnea index (r = 0.69, p < 0.02). Body mass index was negatively correlated with reduction of REM AHI (r = 0.77, p < 0.02). This, predominantly REM-related, reduction of obstructive sleep apnea after PHYS may provide a new treatment option if the effects are maintained in long-term studies.
