The etiology of the worldwide incidence of hypospadias remains unexplained. Data from the Center for Disease Control suggest that maternal asthma exposure may be a risk factor. The development of the mouse and human urethra shows significant similarities, such as fusion of 2 epithelial edges, closure of a midline epithelial seam and subsequent cellular remodeling, to justify the use of the mouse as an experimental animal model. Prednisone may act as a weak androgen directly or alternatively lowering testosterone by hypothalamic suppression of gonadotropins. We describe the effects of prednisone on urethral formation in the mouse.
The model comprised 10, 20 and 20 timed pregnant C57/6 mice exposed to 1,000, 200 and 100 mg/kg prednisone, respectively, on gestational days 12 through 18. The morphology of the genital tubercles of both sexes were examined on gestational day 19 using histological techniques and 3-dimensional computer reconstruction. Specific attention was focused on the developing urethral seam.
Microscopic serial analysis confirmed the presence of an arrest in seam formation in approximately 25% of male fetuses given supraphysiological doses of prednisone (1,000 mg/kg). In contrast, acceleration of urethral fold fusion and a longer urethral tube were observed in those males treated with 100 and 200 mg/kg prednisone. The female fetuses treated with the same dosages of prednisone did not show any change at the level of the urethral seam area or in the remainder of the genital tubercles.
Supraphysiological doses of prednisone treatment has an inhibitory effect on urethral fold fusion leading to hypospadias whereas low doses accentuate urethra formation in male mouse fetuses. In mice lower doses do not cause hypospadias in the males or affect urethral formation in females.
This study investigated the role of NMDA receptor in hyperhomocyteinemia (hHcys)-induced NADPH oxidase (Nox) activation and glomerulosclerosis. Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a folate-free (FF) diet to produce hHcys, and a NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, was administrated. Rats fed the FF diet exhibited significantly increased plasma homocysteine levels, upregulated NMDA receptor expression, enhanced Nox activity and Nox-dependent O(2)(.-) production in the glomeruli, which were accompanied by remarkable glomerulosclerosis. MK-801 treatment significantly inhibited Nox-dependent O(2)(.-) production induced by hHcys and reduced glomerular damage index as compared with vehicle-treated hHcys rats. Correspondingly, glomerular deposition of extracellular matrix components in hHcys rats was ameliorated by the administration of MK-801. Additionally, hHcys induced an increase in tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) expression and a decrease in matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1 and MMP-9 activities, all of which were abolished by MK-801 treatment. In vitro studies showed that homocysteine increased Nox-dependent O(2)(.-) generation in rat mesangial cells, which was blocked by MK-801. Pretreatment with MK-801 also reversed homocysteine-induced decrease in MMP-1 activity and increase in TIMP-1 expression. These results support the view that the NMDA receptor may mediate Nox activation in the kidney during hHcys and thereby play a critical role in the development of hHcys-induced glomerulosclerosis.
The success of ketorolac as a nonnarcotic analgesic is likely to propagate its widespread use to control moderate to severe postoperative pain. Indeed, of the patients treated with ketorolac and described in the medical literature, nearly 90% had had a major surgical procedure. Since any such procedure may be associated with significant third-spacing of the fluid and result in renal hypoperfusion, care must be taken in administering ketorolac. Close attention to urine output and parameters of renal function must be maintained. Moreover, postoperative ketorolac therapy should be avoided in patients who have conditions that predispose to NSAID nephrotoxicity (as in our Case 1). Likewise, in nonsurgical patients the same degree of caution should be used with ketorolac as with any oral NSAID. Finally, since ketorolac is excreted almost entirely by the kidney, either elderly patients or patients with underlying renal insufficiency must have an adjustment of the dosing interval, or this medication should be avoided in such patients altogether.
It has been proved that agmatine inhibits opioid dependence, yet the neural mechanism remains unclear. In the present study, the effect of agmatine on the neuroadaptation of glutamate neurotransmission induced by morphine dependence, including changes of the extracellular glutamate level and glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens was investigated. We found that agmatine (2.5-20mg/kg, s.c.) inhibited development of morphine dependence, which was consistent with our previous report. In rats repeatedly treated with morphine, the glutamate level in the nucleus accumbens dialysate was markedly increased after naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. When agmatine (20mg/kg, s.c.) was co-pretreated with morphine or was applied before naloxone-precipitated withdrawal, this elevation of the extracellular glutamate level was inhibited. In the synaptosome model, repeated morphine treatment and naloxone precipitation induced an increase in glutamate release, while agmatine (20mg/kg, s.c.) co-pretreated with morphine reversed the increase of glutamate release. However, neither morphine or agmatine treatment alone nor morphine and agmatine co-administration had any influence on [3H]-glutamate uptake. It indicated that the elevation of the glutamate level in the nucleus accumbens might be caused by the increase of glutamate release of synaptosome in the withdrawal conditions of morphine-dependent rat. Furthermore, agmatine concomitant treatment with morphine entirely abolished the up-regulation of the NR1 subunit of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the nucleus accumbens in repeated morphine-treated rats. Taken together, the present study demonstrated that agmatine could modulate the neuroadaptations of glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens in the case of morphine dependence, including modulating extracellular glutamate concentration and NMDA receptor expression.
Exposure to excessive levels of manganese (Mn) is known to induce psychiatric and motor disorders, including parkinsonian symptoms. Therefore, finding a reliable means for early detection of Mn neurotoxicity is desirable.
Our goal was to determine whether in vivo brain levels of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA), N-acetylaspartate (NAA), and other brain metabolites in male smelters were altered as a consequence of Mn exposure.
We used T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to visualize Mn deposition in the brain. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) was used to quantify concentrations of NAA, glutamate, and other brain metabolites in globus pallidus, putamen, thalamus, and frontal cortex from a well-established cohort of 10 male Mn-exposed smelters and 10 male age-matched control subjects. We used the MEGA-PRESS MRS sequence to determine GABA levels in a region encompassing the thalamus and adjacent parts of the basal ganglia [GABA-VOI (volume of interest)].
Seven of 10 exposed subjects showed clear T1-hyperintense signals in the globus pallidus indicating Mn accumulation. We found a significant increase (82%; p = 0.014) in the ratio of GABA to total creatine (GABA/tCr) in the GABA-VOI of Mn-exposed subjects, as well as a distinct decrease (9%; p = 0.04) of NAA/tCr in frontal cortex that strongly correlated with cumulative Mn exposure (R = -0.93; p < 0.001).
We demonstrated elevated GABA levels in the thalamus and adjacent basal ganglia and decreased NAA levels in the frontal cortex, indicating neuronal dysfunction in a brain area not primarily targeted by Mn. Therefore, the noninvasive in vivo MRS measurement of GABA and NAA may prove to be a powerful tool for detecting presymptomatic effects of Mn neurotoxicity.
Aim of the present study was planned to determine the protective role of naringin in attenuating the toxicity induced by nickel sulfate in rat liver. In this investigation nickel sulfate (20mg/kg body weight) was administered intraperitoneally for 20days to induce toxicity. Naringin was administered orally (20, 40 and 80mg/kg body weight) for 20days with intraperitoneal administration of nickel sulfate. Liver injury was measured by the increased activities of serum hepatic enzymes namely aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma glutamyl transferase, lactate dehydrogenase and total bilirubin along with increased elevation of lipid peroxidation markers, thiobarbituric reactive acid substances, lipid hydroperoxides, protein carbonyl content and conjugated dienes. The toxic effect of nickel was also indicated by significantly decreased activities of enzymatic antioxidants like superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione reductase and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and non-enzymatic antioxidants like reduced glutathione, total sulfhydryl groups, vitamin C and vitamin E levels were significantly decreased. Naringin administered at a dose of 80mg/kg body weight significantly reversed the activities of hepatic marker enzymes, decreasing lipid peroxidative markers, increasing the antioxidant cascade and decreasing the nickel concentration in the liver. The effect at a dose of 80mg/kg body weight was more pronounced than that of other two doses (20 and 40mg/kg body weight). All these changes were supported by histopathological observations. These results clearly demonstrate that naringin has the potential in alleviating the toxic effects of nickel in rat liver.
Our previous genome-wide Quantitative Trait Locus (QTL) mapping study using mouse A/J by C57BL/6J recombinant inbred (RI) lines suggested several chromosomal regions contain genes influencing susceptibility to phenytoin (PT)-induced cleft lip with or without cleft palate [CL(P)] and 6-aminonicotinamide (6-AN)-induced isolated cleft palate (CP). Importantly, the same chromosomal regions but different RI parental strain alleles were sometimes implicated in susceptibility to these different kinds of orofacial clefting. Here we report the susceptibility to hydrocortisone (HC)-induced CP in these RI lines. We treated pregnant females with HC and studied the incidence of CP in day 17 fetuses. RI lines showed highly correlated responses to HC and 6-AN. The A/J parental line and five RI lines showed very high levels of clefting in response to both of these teratogens. The C57BL/6J parental line and five other RI lines exhibited low incidence of CP for these teratogens. In contrast, there was no significant correlation between incidence of PT-induced CL(P) and HC-induced CP.
The presented case report describes a male patient with an implanted cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) in whom a coadministration of ciprofloxacin and azimilide caused QT interval prolongation and multiple episodes of torsades de pointes (TdP) followed by ICD shocks (arrhythmic storm). The case highlights a not described drug interaction between azimilide and ciprofloxacin, which is believed to be the safest member of fluoroquinolones class.
Reactive oxygen species are involved in many of the angiotensin II signalling pathways. We have thus investigated whether the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist, telmisartan, can inhibit the accelerated renal fibrosis and excess oxidative stress, which occurs after unilateral ureteral obstruction (UUO) in acatalasemic mice.
The effect of daily intraperitoneal injection of telmisartan (0.1-0.3 mg/kg body weight) on the renal tubulointerstitial injury induced by UUO has been studied in homozygous acatalasemic mutant mice (C3H/AnLCs b Cs b) and wild-type mice (C3H/AnLCs a Cs a). We evaluated the systemic blood pressure of the mice on the seventh day. In addition, the tubulointerstitial expression of collagens type I and type IV, the p22-, p47- and p67-phox subunits of NADPH oxidase, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, and 4-hydroxy-2-hexenal lipid peroxidation products were assessed by immunohistochemistry. The level of apoptosis was determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase nick end-labelling analysis, while the mRNA level of the p22-, p47- and p67-phox subunits was quantified by real-time PCR. The renal content of each of the antioxidant enzymes catalase, glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase was determined by specific assay.
Obstructed kidneys from acatalasemic mice exhibited increased tubulointerstitial deposition in dilated tubules of collagens type I and IV, lipid peroxidation products, and the p22/p47/p67-phox subunits of NADPH oxidase. The level of the p22/p47/p67-phox subunit mRNA, and of apoptosis in tubular epithelial cells, was also increased compared with those from wild-type kidneys. Treatment with telmisartan attenuated all of the changes and prevented renal fibrosis in a dose-dependent manner; despite the low dose (0.1 mg/kg). The treatment did not lower the systemic blood pressure. The catalase activity remained low in acatalasemic obstructed kidneys without compensatory upregulation of glutathione peroxidase or superoxide dismutase activity; the level of neither anti-oxidant enzymes in obstructed kidneys was affected by telmisartan.
The AT1 receptor antagonist telmisartan ameliorated renal fibrosis after UUO by inhibition of oxidative stress, even under acatalasemic conditions.
Homozygosity for the -786C-variant of the human nos-3 gene is a risk factor for coronary artery disease (CAD). Interestingly, affected individuals develop CAD more frequently but not earlier than the general population.
Genotyped primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (ECs) were exposed to fluid shear stress (FSS) and analyzed for nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide anion (O(2)(-)) formation as well as mRNA and protein expression of different antioxidant enzymes. Dysfunctional CC-genotype ECs failed to upregulate NO synthase expression in response to FSS and exhibited a reduced NO synthesis capacity when compared to functionally intact TT-genotype ECs. However, only CC-genotype ECs responded to FSS with an Egr-1-mediated increase in manganese-containing superoxide dismutase (SOD-2) expression, shielding them from endothelin-1-induced oxidative stress in a NO-independent manner.
This FSS-induced rise in SOD-2 expression in CC-genotype ECs effectively stabilizes their antiatherosclerotic phenotype and may explain not only the comparatively slow onset of CAD in homozygous carriers of the C-allele of the nos-3 gene but also define a general strategy for preventing endothelial dysfunction at the outset of atherosclerosis.
Mutations in the human ether-a-gogo-related gene (HERG) K(+) channel gene cause chromosome 7-linked long QT syndrome type 2 (LQT2), which is characterized by a prolonged QT interval in the electrocardiogram and an increased susceptibility to life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. LQT2 mutations produce loss-of-function phenotypes and reduce I(Kr) currents either by the heteromeric assembly of non- or malfunctioning channel subunits with wild type subunits at the cell surface or by retention of misprocessed mutant HERG channels in the endoplasmic reticulum. Misprocessed mutations often encode for channel proteins that are functional upon incorporation into the plasma membrane. As a result the pharmacological correction of folding defects and restoration of protein function are of considerable interest. Here we report that the trafficking-deficient pore mutation HERG G601S was rescued by a series of HERG channel blockers that increased cell surface expression. Rescue by these pharmacological chaperones varied directly with their blocking potency. We used structure-activity relationships and site-directed mutagenesis to define the binding site of the pharmacological chaperones. We found that binding occurred in the inner cavity and correlated with hydrophobicity and cationic charge. Rescue was domain-restricted because the trafficking of two misprocessed mutations in the C terminus, HERG F805C and HERG R823W, was not restored by channel blockers. Our findings represent a first step toward the design of pharmacological chaperones that will rescue HERG K(+) channels without block.
The clinical efficacy of different doses of the specific benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil was studied in a total of 72 patients with benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose. In a randomized double-blind study, 18 patients (group 1) and eight patients (group 2) with suspected benzodiazepine overdose received 5 mg (group 1) or 1 mg (group 2) flumazenil or placebo, respectively. The stage of coma, heart rate, blood pressure and respiratory rate were monitored within the following 15 min. If no change in the stage of coma was observed, 5 mg (group 1) or 1 mg (group 2) flumazenil were given, and the stage of coma, heart rate and blood pressure were again monitored. In a similar way, the effect of 5 and 1 mg flumazenil was investigated in 13 patients (group 3) and four patients (group 4) with ethanol intoxication. In an open trial, the clinical efficacy of flumazenil for the diagnosis of benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose was studied in 29 patients (group 5). In all patients, a toxicological screening confirmed benzodiazepine or ethanol overdose. None of the patients receiving placebo showed effects on stage of coma, heart rate, blood pressure or respiratory rate. Patients with benzodiazepine overdose who received 5 mg flumazenil regained consciousness about 1-2 min after the end of injection. The effect of 1 mg flumazenil (group 2) on benzodiazepine-induced coma was less pronounced. In patients with ethanol overdose (group 3), ethanol-induced coma was reversed after 5 mg flumazenil more slowly than in patients of group 1. No effect of flumazenil on ethanol-induced coma was observed in group 4. In group 5, flumazenil proved to be useful for diagnosing benzodiazepine or ethanol intoxication. In one patient with coma due to carbamazepine overdose, flumazenil was also found to be effective. Additionally, a possible analytical interference of flumazenil and its metabolites with the identification of other benzodiazepines by a toxicological screening procedure was studied. Even after an oral dose of 200 mg flumazenil, no interference with immunological benzodiazepine assays (EMIT, TDX, and RIA) was found. A metabolite and an artifact of flumazenil could be identified in urine by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.
A rapid and sensitive LC/MS method was developed for the simultaneous analysis of N,N-dimethylamphetamine (DMA), N,N-dimethylamphetamine N-oxide (DMANO), methylamphetamine (MA) and amphetamine (A) in urine samples. Employing an Alltech C18 column for solid phase extraction followed by LC/MS analysis using an Alltech Platinum EPS C18 column with a mixture of ammonium formate (0.01 M, pH 3) and acetonitrile (77:23, v/v) as mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.2 mL/min, simultaneous identification and quantitation of A, MA, DMA and DMANO in urine can be achieved using a 5-min chromatographic run. The calibration ranges were 0.10-3.0 micro g/mL for DMANO, 0.05-3.0 micro g/mL for DMA and 0.05-5.0 micro g/mL for both MA and A. The intra-, inter-day precision and accuracy for all analytes, spiked at three different concentrations in quality control samples, were in the ranges of 1.7-8.6, 4.1-10.0, -11.6 to 12.9%, respectively. The newly developed method was applied to the analysis of urine samples obtained from 118 suspected MA/DMA abusers, with the presence of MA confirmed in their urine samples under the drug-use surveillance program. Of these 118 samples, 43 were found to contain DMANO and 11 with both DMANO and DMA.
This study was designed following the first documented case of torsades de pointes induced by sultopride hydrochloride, a substituted benzamide neuroleptic drug. The patient, a 48 year-old woman with no known cardiovascular disease, had been treated for several years with this drug. She was admitted for severe bronchospasm requiring artificial ventilation. Twenty-one hours after her admission, she developed several episodes of torsades de pointes, which were successfully treated with magnesium sulphate. At that time, the QT interval was 500 ms for a heart rate of 108 b.min-1 (QTc of 668 ms, and theoretical QTc 370 ms). On the fourth day, QTc was 548 ms and theoretical QTc 370 ms. The sultopride was stopped on the fifth day. Two days later, QTc was 397 ms. Six months later, there was no recurrence. Several cases of TdP or sudden death have been reported in patients receiving neuroleptic drugs. The effects of sultopride hydrochloride were therefore tested on isolated ferret Purkinje fibres, using the microelectrode technique. Three concentrations of the drug (D1, D2, D3) were tested, as well as normal Tyrode solution. Maximum diastolic potentials (Vmax) were -88.37 +/- 0.89 mV (control), -89.08 +/- 1.20 mV (D1), -90.00 +/- 1.06 mV (D2), and -90.14 +/- 1.20 mV (D3). Vmax was not affected by sultopride during pacing at 1,000 ms of cycle length. The duration of the action potential increased with the drug concentration. There was no early after-depolarisation (EAD) during control, and 7 out of 9 fibers had EAD and 3 out of 9 triggered activity in D3. The solvent (benzyl alcohol) did not modify the action potential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) are the most effective pharmacologic treatment currently available for patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Still, up to 40% to 60% of OCD patients do not respond to SRI treatment. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether polymorphisms of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT), 5-HT1B, and 5-HT2A receptor genes affect the efficacy of SRI treatment in OCD.
91 outpatients with OCD according to DSM-IV criteria consented to the study and were randomly assigned in a 12-week, double-blind trial to receive dosages titrated upward to 300 mg/day of venlafaxine or 60 mg/day of paroxetine. Primary efficacy was assessed by the change from baseline on the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS), and response was defined as a > or = 25% reduction on the YBOCS. Responders and nonresponders were stratified according to 5-HTT, 5-HT1B, and 5-HT2A genotypes and differentiated in paroxetine-or venlafaxine-treated groups. The study was conducted from August 1998 to July 2002.
In the whole group, 64% of responders carried the S/L genotype of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism (chi2 = 7.17, df = 2, p = .028). In the paroxetine-treated patients, the majority of responders carried the G/G genotype of the 5-HT2A polymorphism (chi2 = 8.66, df = 2, p = .013), whereas in the venlafaxine-treated patients, the majority of responders carried the S/L genotype of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism (chi2 = 9.72, df = 2, p = .008).
The results of this study suggest that response in venlafaxine-treated OCD patients is associated with the S/L genotype of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism and in paroxetine-treated OCD patients with the G/G genotype of the 5-HT2A polymorphism.
Acute liver failure (ALF) is characterized by a rapid loss of hepatic function, with high mortality. Acetaminophen (APAP) intoxication and viral hepatitis are common causes of ALF. Several studies have shown the capacity of adult bone marrow cells to differentiate in hepatocytes, suggesting their use for treating ALF.
In the present study, we tested the use of adult derived mononuclear bone marrow fraction to improve the survival of Wistar rats with APAP-induced ALF.
Forty-eight female Wistar rats pre-induced with phenobarbital were given APAP in a single dose of 1g/kg via intraperitoneal injection. Bone marrow mononuclear cells were purified from male rats using FICOLL gradient and injected through the portal vein in a volume of 0.2mL containing 1x10(6) cells stained with DAPI. Treatment was administered 24h after APAP injection. The sham group (n=24), received 0.2mL of saline through the portal vein 24h after APAP administration. Survival, liver histology and ALT levels were observed.
Survival 72h post-APAP administration was 33% in the sham group and 70.8% in the group receiving bone marrow cells. Liver histology in treated animals showed less intense necrosis and the presence of DAPI-positive cells.
We have shown that bone marrow derived cells are capable of significantly increasing the survival rate of APAP-induced ALF in 37.5% (95% CI, 27.8-40.3%).
16 patients received twice daily 60-90 mg DHC-Continus. The evaluation of the pain was done with use of visual linear scale from 1-10 (Scott-Huskisson). Four complications occurred: headache, nausea, vomiting, constipation. The authors conclude that the orally administration of DHC is an effective alternative for postoperative treatment of pain in gynecological patients.
The natural history of anemia related to interferon/ribavirin (IFN/RBV) treatment in patients with human immunodeficiency virus/hepatitis C virus (HIV/HCV) coinfection is not completely understood. The current 8-week, multicenter, observational study characterized anemia over the course of HCV treatment in patients with HIV/HCV coinfection. Eligible HIV/HCV coinfected patients were receiving care in community-based and academic institutions and were on stable antiretroviral therapy and initiating IFN/RBV therapy. Hb, sEPO, reticulocytes, transfusions, laboratory values (e.g., total bilirubin), and IFN and RBV dosages were monitored weekly. Ninety-one patients were analyzed (mean age, 46 years; 71% on HAART) and 53 patients completed the study. Mean Hb decreased significantly (5.0 g/dl) within 1 week of initiating IFN/RBV therapy (p = 0.0002); Hb nadir occurred at a median of 37 days. Maximum Hb decreases of > or =2.0 g/dl occurred in 56 (62%) patients and > or =3.0 g/dl occurred in 45 (49%) patients. Reticulocyte count increased within the first 2 weeks and sEPO peaked at week 3. Mean increase from baseline to week 2 in reticulocyte count and sEPO, respectively, was 1.3% (n = 74) and 45.0 mIU/ml (n = 80) (p < 0.0001 for each parameter), and from baseline to week 8 was 0.9% (n = 48) and 41.0 mIU/ml (n = 52) (p < or = 0.0001 for each parameter). Adverse events (AEs) were the most common reason for study discontinuation (66% of discontinuing patients). Among the 25 patients who discontinued due to AEs, 84% discontinued due to anemia (n = 21). Significant decreases in Hb were observed in HIV/HCV-coinfected patients within 1 week of initiating IFN/RBV therapy. sEPO and reticulocyte increases were blunted in response to anemia; Hb levels did not return to baseline values and anemia was a frequent reason for discontinuing the study.
The aim of these studies was to assess the long-term tolerability and effects on lipids of ezetimibe coadministered with pravastatin or simvastatin during treatment of hypercholesterolemic patients.
Two separate 12-month, open-label extension studies enrolled patients who had successfully completed one of three 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of ezetimibe coadministered with pravastatin, lovastatin, or simvastatin. In the extensions, the initial dose of each drug administered was 10 mg/d, with the option to up-titrate the statins if low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) goals were not met. Tolerability was assessed using monitoring of clinical and laboratory adverse events (AEs). Changes from baseline in LDL-C, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglyceride levels were calculated.
Overall, 436 patients received ezetimibe + pravastatin 10 to 40 mg/d, including patients from the parent studies who received coadministration treatment but did not continue in the extension studies; 359 patients received ezetimibe + simvastatin 10 to 80 mg/d in the extension study. The majority of patients in both studies were white (ezetimibe + pravastatin, 374 [86%]; ezetimibe + simvastatin, 314 [87%]) and female (ezetimibe + pravastatin, 246 [56%]; ezetimibe + simvastatin, 210 [58%]). The mean ages were 55.7 and 57.7 years and the mean body mass indexes were 29.4 and 28.8 kg/m2 in the ezetimibe + pravastatin and ezetimibe + simvastatin studies, respectively. The most commonly reported AEs with ezetimibe + pravastatin were upper respiratory tract infection (78 [18%]), headache (47 [11%]), musculoskeletal pain (45 [10%]), arthralgia (43 [10%]), and sinusitis (42 [10%]); with ezetimibe + simvastatin, they were upper respiratory tract infection (67 [19%]), arthralgia (39 [11%]), and musculoskeletal pain (37 [10%]). AEs considered treatment related were reported in 98 (22%) and 80 (22%) patients in the ezetimibe + pravastatin and ezetimibe + simvastatin studies, respectively. Serious AEs were reported in 29 patients (7%) who received ezetimibe + pravastatin and 36 patients (10%) who received ezetimibe + simvastatin; <1% were considered treatment related in either study. Forty-one (9%) and 29 patients (8%), respectively, were withdrawn due to AEs. One death occurred due to cardiopulmonary arrest in the ezetimibe + simvastatin study and was not considered treatment related. Percentage changes from baseline in LDL-C were -36.5% and -40.4% in patients who received ezetimibe + pravastatin and ezetimibe + simvastatin.
In these 12-month, open-label extension studies in these patients with hypercholesterolemia, ezetimibe + pravastatin or simvastatin was generally well tolerated. Both treatments were associated with maintaining improvements in lipid parameters throughout the studies in these patients.
The aim of the study was to investigate the prevalence and aetiology of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and trends in estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) in HIV-infected patients.
Ascertainment and review of CKD cases among patients attending King's College and Brighton Hospitals, UK were carried out. CKD was defined as eGFR <60 mL/min for > or =3 months. Longitudinal eGFR slopes were produced to examine trends in renal function before, during and after exposure to indinavir (IDV) or tenofovir (TFV).
CKD prevalence was 2.4%. While HIV-associated nephropathy accounted for 62% of CKD in black patients, 95% of CKD in white/other patients was associated with diabetes mellitus, hypertension, atherosclerosis and/or drug toxicity. Exposure to IDV or TFV was associated with an accelerated decline in renal function (4.6-fold and 3.7-fold, respectively) in patients with CKD. In patients initiating IDV, age > or =50 years increased the odds of CKD [odds ratio (OR) 4.9], while in patients initiating TFV, age > or =50 years (OR 5.4) and eGFR 60-75 mL/min (OR 17.2) were associated with developing CKD.
This study highlights the importance of metabolic and vascular disease to the burden of CKD in an ageing HIV-infected cohort. In patients who developed CKD, treatment with IDV or TFV was associated with an accelerated decline in renal function.
Application of omics-based technologies is a widely used approach in research aiming to improve testing strategies for human health risk assessment. In most of these studies, however, temporal variations in gene expression caused by the circadian clock are a commonly neglected pitfall. In the present study, we investigated the impact of the circadian clock on the response of the hepatic transcriptome after exposure of mice to the chemotherapeutic agent cyclophosphamide (CP). Analysis of the data without considering clock progression revealed common responses in terms of regulated pathways between light and dark phase exposure, including DNA damage, oxidative stress, and a general immune response. The overall response, however, was stronger in mice exposed during the day. Use of time-matched controls, thereby eliminating non-CP-responsive circadian clock-controlled genes, showed that this difference in response was actually even more pronounced: CP-related responses were only identified in mice exposed during the day. Only minor differences were found in acute toxicity pathways, namely lymphocyte counts and kidney weights, indicating that gene expression is subject to time of day effects. This study is the first to highlight the impact of the circadian clock on the identification of toxic responses by omics approaches.
The effect of GABA on glutamate release from astrocytes has been studied in healthy mice and in a murine transgenic model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), using mouse spinal cord gliosomes labeled with [(3)H]d-aspartate ([(3)H]d-ASP). GABA concentration-dependently evoked the release of [(3)H]d-ASP. The effect of GABA was not mimicked by GABA(A) or GABA(B) receptor agonists or counteracted by antagonists, excluding receptor involvement. However, it was prevented by the GABA transport inhibitor N-(4,4-phenyl-3-butenyl)-nipecotic acid (SKF 89976A), suggesting participation of GABA transporters type 1 (GAT1) placed on glutamate-releasing astrocyte-derived gliosomes. Accordingly, GAT1 co-expressed with glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter type 1 (GLT1) in the majority of glial particles. [(3)H]d-aspartate release was Ca(2+)-independent and not blocked by the glutamate uptake inhibitor dl-threo-b-benzyloxyaspartic acid (dl-TBOA); instead, it was abrogated by the anion channel blockers niflumic acid and 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) benzoic acid (NPPB). The GAT1-mediated release of [(3)H]d-ASP was significantly enhanced in spinal cord gliosomes from the mouse model of ALS. This excessive [(3)H]d-ASP release was very precocious, largely preceding the onset of the disease symptoms. These data indicate that GAT1, GLAST and GLT1 coexist on the same gliosome in mouse spinal cord and that activation of GAT1 transporters elicits glutamate release by anion channel opening. This phenomenon might have pathological relevance, because [(3)H]d-ASP release is enhanced in experimental ALS.
Monotherapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors has been shown to be beneficial in suppressing the progression of experimentally induced kidney diseases. Whether such therapy provides additional benefits when combined with vitamin D or an analog of vitamin D has not been established. Rats were made uremic by 5/6 nephrectomy and treated as follows: Uremic + vehicle (UC), uremic + enalapril (30 mg/L in drinking water; E), uremic + paricalcitol (19-nor; 0.8 microg/kg, three times a week), and uremic + enalapril + paricalcitol (E + 19-nor). A group of normal rats served as control (NC). BP was significantly elevated in the UC and 19-nor groups compared with the NC group but was indistinguishable from normal in the E and E + 19-nor groups. The decrease in creatinine clearance and the increase in the excretion of urinary protein that were observed in the UC group were ameliorated by the use of E alone or by E + 19-nor (P < 0.05 versus UC). The glomerulosclerotic index was significantly decreased in both the 19-nor (P < 0.01) and E + 19-nor groups (P < 0.01) compared with the UC group. Tubulointerstitial volume was significantly decreased in both the E (P < 0.05) and E + 19-nor groups (P < 0.01) compared with the UC group. Both macrophage infiltration (ED-1-positive cells) and production of the chemokine monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 were significantly blunted in E + 19-nor compared with E group. TGF-beta1 mRNA and protein expression were increased in the UC group (mRNA: 23.7-fold; protein: 29.1-fold versus NC). These increases were significantly blunted in the 19-nor group (mRNA: 7.1-fold; protein: 8.0-fold versus NC) and virtually normalized in the E + 19-nor group (protein: 0.8-fold versus NC). Phosphorylation of Smad2 was also elevated in the UC group (7.6-fold versus NC) but less so in the 19-nor-treated rats (5.5-fold versus NC). When rats were treated with E + 19-nor, the phosphorylation of Smad2 was normal (1.1-fold versus NC). Thus, 19-nor can suppress the progression of renal insufficiency via mediation of the TGF-beta signaling pathway, and this effect is amplified when BP is controlled via renin-angiotensin system blockade.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate intravenous (i.v.) azithromycin followed by oral azithromycin as a monotherapeutic regimen for community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). Two trials of i.v. azithromycin used as initial monotherapy in hospitalized CAP patients are summarized. Clinical efficacy is reported from an open-label randomized trial of azithromycin compared to cefuroxime with or without erythromycin. Bacteriologic and clinical efficacy results are also presented from a noncomparative trial of i.v. azithromycin that was designed to give additional clinical experience with a larger number of pathogens. Azithromycin was administered to 414 patients: 202 and 212 in the comparative and noncomparative trials, respectively. The comparator regimen was used as treatment for 201 patients; 105 were treated with cefuroxime alone and 96 were given cefuroxime plus erythromycin. In the comparative trial, clinical outcome data were available for 268 evaluable patients with confirmed CAP at the 10- to 14-day visit, with 106 (77%) of the azithromycin patients cured or improved and 97 (74%) of the comparator patients cured or improved. Mean i.v. treatment duration and mean total treatment duration (i.v. and oral) for the clinically evaluable patients were significantly (P < 0.05) shorter for the azithromycin group (3.6 days for the i.v. group and 8.6 days for the i.v. and oral group) than for the evaluable patients given cefuroxime plus erythromycin (4.0 days for the i.v. group and 10.3 days for the i.v. and oral group). The present comparative study demonstrates that initial therapy with i.v. azithromycin for hospitalized patients with CAP is associated with fewer side effects and is equal in efficacy to a 1993 American Thoracic Society-suggested regimen of cefuroxime plus erythromycin when the erythromycin is deemed necessary by clinicians.
Studies in experimental animals show that endogenous Arg-vasopressin (AVP) and the renin-angiotensin system support blood pressure when the sympathetic system is impaired pharmacologically or after epidural anesthesia. However, extrapolation to humans is uncertain. Therefore, we administered an AVP type V1 receptor antagonist and an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor to volunteers and measured the effect on blood pressure after epidural anesthesia.
Healthy volunteers in whom epidural catheters were placed were randomly assigned to receive 1.25 mg intravenous enalapril or saline placebo followed by 0.5 mg AVP type V1 antagonist beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopentamethylene-propionyl-o-Met-Tyr-Arg-vasopressin (AVPA) or saline placebo. Finally, 2% lidocaine was injected to obtain a T2 level. Controls received intramuscular lidocaine.
Blood pressure did not significantly change after T-2 epidural anesthesia in subjects treated with saline placebo, AVPA or enalapril alone (n = 10, for each treatment). In contrast, combined treatment with enalapril and AVPA resulted in a 36 +/- 11% decrease in blood pressure after epidural dosing (n = 6). Controls given intramuscular lidocaine, in place of the epidural did not develop hypotension after AVPA and enalapril treatment (n = 10).
Endogenous AVP and the renin-angiotensin system play important roles in maintaining blood pressure after epidural anesthesia in healthy subjects.
