A 34-year-old pregnant patient, admitted with severe pre-eclampsia and the 'haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelets' (HELLP) syndrome at 31 weeks gestational age, was treated with magnesium sulphate for imminent eclampsia. The further management was aimed at prolonging gestation. During treatment, a delirium developed with myoclonus. As the foetal condition deteriorated, caesarean section was performed. Afterwards, the delirium proved to have been due to hypocalcaemia. After appropriate treatment the patient recovered. In pre-eclampsia, the calcium metabolism is disturbed. Hypermagnesaemia inhibits parathyroid hormone secretion and can therefore cause hypocalcaemia. In rare cases, this may cause a delirium, which is unusual in pre-eclampsia. If the clinical (neurological) picture in a pregnant woman with severe pre-eclampsia, who is receiving treatment with magnesium sulphate, is not fully understood, hypocalcaemia should be considered.
Of thirty-five patients with various types of epilepsy treated with sodium valproate, 15 achieved complete seizure control on that drug alone, 12 other patients benefited and eight failed to improve on the drug. Excellent results were more likely in those with petit mal epilepsy and in those whose epilepsy was controlled with other drugs at the expense of side effects. Three patients were unable to tolerate valproate, but in general few patients experienced side effects and several patients felt much better on valproate than on their previous drugs. A twice daily dosage regime was satisfactory. Plasma valproate levels at the final dose covered a wide range, 0.21 - 1.2mmol/l (34 to 190 microgram/ml) and did not correlate with response, lack of response or side effects.
Advanced breast cancer (ABC) is an incurable disease. Standard first-line treatment for patients with HER-2/neu overexpressing tumors includes the combination of the humanized monoclonal antibody trastuzumab with chemotherapy, mainly paclitaxel. This combination is the first to demonstrate a survival advantage in this group of patients. To improve on these results, we investigated a triplet, paclitaxel-gemcitabine-trastuzumab (TGH), in a phase II study.
Patients with ABC were accrued to the study. Treatment consisted of paclitaxel 80 mg/m2/week, gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 every 2 weeks, and trastuzumab 4 mg/kg loading dose and then 2 mg/kg/week. Patients were treated on study for a total of 12 weeks. Response evaluation was performed at the end of the 12 weeks. Continuation of treatment beyond the 12 weeks was left to the discretion of the investigator. Primary study endpoint was response. Toxicity assessment and survival were secondary endpoints.
Between November 2000 and May 2002, 40 patients were accrued and 32 patients completed all 12 weeks of therapy. One patient died of septic shock during therapy. Grade III and IV neutropenia was seen in 12.5% of cases each. Grade III anemia was seen in two patients, and grade III and IV thrombocytopenia in three and two patients, respectively. Both paclitaxel and gemcitabine were delivered at 86% of the planned dose intensity. Six patients achieved a complete response (CR) and 15 a partial response for an overall response rate of 52.5%. An additional 25% demonstrated stable disease and 20% progressive disease. Median duration of response was 14 months. All six patients who achieved CR are still in CR for 6 to 19 months. After a median follow up of 12.2 months, 19 patients have progressed and 7 have died. Median time to progression is 13.7 months, whereas median survival has not been reached.
TGH is a well-tolerated and effective regimen for the first-line treatment of ABC. Randomized comparison between paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and triplets are warranted.
Ninety-two males, infected with Onchocerca volvulus, from an area of on-going transmission in the forest zone of southern Ghana were treated with albendazole. 31 patients received 800 mg daily x 3, 31 received 1200 mg daily x 3 and 30 others received 800 mg daily x 7. Albendazole was given as a single daily dose with a fatty breakfast. Detailed systemic, ocular and laboratory examinations were performed pretreatment and at intervals over one year. Nodules were extirpated on days 30 and 60 and examined by histopathology. All the dose regimes were well tolerated but were neither microfilaricidal nor macrofilaricidal. The main effect was embryotoxicity affecting all intra-uterine stages. The most encouraging results were obtained in the 800 mg daily x 3 group in which a prolonged suppression of skin microfilarial counts occurred. Controlled studies in combination with ivermectin are recommended to determine whether an additive effect of the two drugs would result in permanent sterilisation of the adult worms.
Although hematomas of the rectus abdominis muscle are commonly reported complications of systemic anticoagulation treatment, they are a rare complication of prophylactic administration of low-dose heparin. The occurrence of a massive hematoma of the rectus sheath is reported in a woman with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and acute respiratory failure who was receiving low doses of heparin for the prevention of deep venous thrombosis. Three other cases of hematoma of the rectus sheath resulting from prophylactic use of heparin are reviewed. The development of hematoma in these patients may have resulted from intramuscular abdominal injection of heparin and from strain of the rectus abdominis muscle caused by coughing. When prophylactic administration of heparin is necessary in patients with a tendency to paroxysmal cough, subcutaneous injections of heparin in the thigh may be preferable to subcutaneous injections in the abdomen.
To investigate the initial potassium loss and development of hypokalaemia during the administration of an oral diuretic, metabolic balance studies were performed in ten patients with essential hypertension who had shown hypokalaemia under prior oral diuretic treatment. Chlorthalidone (50 mg daily) was given for 14 days. Six patients received a normal-sodium diet and four a low-sodium (17 mmol/day) diet. All patients had a normal initial total body potassium (40K). The electrolyte balances, weight, bromide space, plasma renin activity, and aldosterone secretion rate were measured. In both groups a potassium deficit developed, with proportionally larger losses from the extracellular than from the intracellular compartment. In the normal-sodium group the highest mean potassium deficit was 176 mmol on day 9, after which some potassium was regained; in the low-sodium group the highest deficit was 276 mmol on day 13. The normal-sodium group showed an immediate but temporary rise of the renin and aldosterone levels; in the low-sodium group renin and aldosterone increased more slowly but remained elevated. It is concluded that dietary sodium restriction increases diuretic-induced potassium loss, presumably by an increased activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, while sodium delivery to the distal renal tubules remains sufficiently high to allow increased potassium secretion.
We present 3 patients with chronic renal failure who had postoperative paralysis due to the administration muscle relaxants. One of them received gallamine, a non-depolarizing blocking agent that is mainly excreted by the kidney (70--90%). Two of them received pancuronium bromide, also a non-depolarizing blocking agent which is partially excreted by the kidneys (37--44%). All of them received succinylcholine. Succinylcholine is hydrolyzed by the serum cholinesterase into succinylmonocholine and choline. These active metabolites are excreted by the kidney. These patients serve as examples of the importance of considering the route of excretion of drugs and their metabolites in clinical situations involving the renal failure patient. The pharmacology of drugs administered relative to surgical procedures is reviewed.
Sixteen patients (13-38 yr) undergoing spinal fusion for scoliosis under controlled hypotension were studied to determine the haemodynamic and neuroendocrine responses to IV dihydralazine (1.0 mg.kg-1) followed by 0.5 and 1 MAC of enflurane or isoflurane. Twenty minutes after dihydralazine administration mean arterial pressure (-20 per cent) and systemic vascular resistance (-50 per cent) decreased, and cardiac index (+57 per cent), heart rate (+37 per cent) and intrapulmonary shunt increased. Plasma renin activity and aldosterone and norepinephrine levels increased. Further decreases in mean arterial pressure and in systemic vascular resistance were observed when 0.5 MAC enflurane or isoflurane were added. With 1 MAC anaesthetic levels a further decrease in mean arterial pressure was observed in both groups, but pressure fell to a lower level with isoflurane than with enflurane (p less than 0.01). The reduction of arterial blood pressure to a level of 50-60 mmHg for three to four hours was easy to control and was free of complications. The preliminary IV administration of dihydralazine allowed a reduced volatile agent concentration which attenuated undesirable haemodynamic effects, in spite of renin and norepinephrine release, and permitted a rapid intraoperative awakening.
Laropiprant, an antagonist of the PGD(2) receptor, DP1, is effective in reducing the flushing symptoms associated with extended-release (ER) niacin and thereby improves the tolerability of niacin therapy for dyslipidemia. Because PGD(2) has been reported to inhibit platelet aggregation in vitro, it has been speculated that antagonism of DP1 may enhance platelet reactivity. Three clinical studies evaluated the potential effect of laropiprant, with or without coadministration of ER niacin, on in vivo platelet function in healthy subjects and hypercholesterolemic or diabetic subjects by measuring urinary levels of 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2) (11-dTxB(2)), a marker of in vivo platelet activation. Following 7 days of multiple-dose administration, coadministration of laropiprant with ER niacin did not increase urinary 11-dTxB(2) levels compared to ER niacin alone in healthy, hypercholesterolemic, or diabetic subjects. In hypercholesterolemic and diabetic subjects, laropiprant did not increase urinary 11-dTxB(2) levels compared to placebo. These results demonstrate that laropiprant does not enhance in vivo platelet reactivity, either alone or in combination with niacin.
Effect of diazepam on the AV nodal conductivity was studied using a direct perfusion technique of the canine AV node artery in situ. As compared to acetylcholine which induced a rapid onset of third degree AV block with prompt recovery, diazepam injected into the AV node artery in doses from 300 micrograms to 3 mg elicited first to third degree AV blocks of longer duration following gradual prolongation of PR interval. The response was not affected by bilateral vagotomy and sympathectomy. Pretreatment of the AV node with hexamethonium or atropine also failed to modify the diazepam-induced AV blocks. Thus, diazepam seemed to suppress conductivity of the AV node by a direct action. The AV nodal tachycardia induced by infusion of norepinephrine was readily antagonized by a single injection of diazepam, but norepinephrine failed to reverse the AV block induced by diazepam infusion.
Because asthma has been associated with exercise and ozone exposure, an association likely mediated by oxidative stress, we hypothesised that glutathione-S-transferase (GST)P1, GSTM1, exercise and ozone exposure have interrelated effects on the pathogenesis of asthma.
Associations of the well characterised null variant of GSTM1 and four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that characterised common variation in the GSTP1 locus with new onset asthma in a cohort of 1610 school children were examined. Children's exercise and ozone exposure were classified using participation in team sports and community annual average ozone levels, respectively.
A two SNP model involving putatively functional variants (rs6591255, rs1695 (Ile105Va)) best captured the association between GSTP1 and asthma. The risk of asthma was lower for those with the Val allele of Ile105Val (hazard ratio (HR) 0.60, 95% CI 0.4 to 0.8) and higher for the variant allele of rs6591255 (HR 1.40, 95% CI 1.1 to 1.9). The risk of asthma increased with level of exercise among ile(105) homozygotes but not among those with at least one val(105) allele (interaction p value = 0.02). The risk was highest among ile(105) homozygotes who participated in >or=3 sports in the high ozone communities (HR 6.15, 95% CI 2.2 to 7.4). GSTM1 null was independently associated with an increased risk of asthma and showed little variation with air pollution or GSTP1 genotype. These results were consistent in two independent fourth grade cohorts recruited in 1993 and 1996.
Children who inherit a val(105) variant allele may be protected from the increased risk of asthma associated with exercise, especially in high ozone communities. GSTM1 null genotype was associated with an increased risk of asthma.
To investigate the effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, on the testis cell apoptosis in morphine-dependent rats induced by naloxone and the involved mechanisms.
Forty-eight Wistar rats were randomly divided into a control group, withdrawal group and a therapeutic group. Morphine-dependent rats were given gradually increasing doses of morphine to produce morphine-dependent models, the abstinent syndrome precipitated by naloxone. The inhibiting effect of L-NNA on the abstinent syndrome, and the testis apoptosis, NOS positive cells, calmodulin (CaM) contents, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and glutathione super oxidase (GSHPx) activity of the morphine-dependent rats induced by naloxone were observed and recorded by radioimmunoassay, atomic absorption spectrometry, in situ nick translation (ISNT) and NADPH-d histochemical technique.
Compared with the control rats, the function of the somesthetic motor nerves and autonomic nerves was excessive, the apoptosis and NOS positive cells in the testis were significantly increased (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01), the content of CaM and the activity of SOD and GSHPx were obviously decreased in the morphine-dependent rats induced by naloxone. But L-NNA could significantly inhibit the abstinent syndrome, decrease NOS positive cells and apoptosis, and increase CaM content and the activity of SOD and GSHPx in the testis.
Morphine dependence can induce testis cell apoptosis, an increase in testis NOS positive cells, a decrease in CaM content and the activity of SOD and GSHPx in the testis. L-NNA has the curative effect on the morphine abstinent syndrome, protects testis cells against apoptosis and improves their involved biochemical indexes.
Mutations in the DJ-1 gene cause autosomal recessive, early-onset Parkinsonism. The DJ-1 protein exerts a protective role against oxidative stress damage, working as a cellular oxidative stress sensor, and it seems to regulate gene expression at different levels. In Drosophila, two DJ-1 orthologs have been identified: DJ-1alpha and DJ-1beta. Several studies have shown that loss of DJ-1beta function causes Parkinson's disease (PD)-like phenotypes in flies such as age-dependent locomotor defects, reduced lifespan, and enhanced sensitivity to toxins that induce oxidative stress, like the herbicide paraquat. However, no dopaminergic neurodegeneration is observed. These results suggested that both locomotor and lifespan phenotypes could be either related to defects in oxidative stress response, or in dopaminergic physiology as proposed in mice models. In this study, we have employed pharmacological approaches to modify the lifespan phenotype of DJ-1beta mutant flies. We have assessed the effects of chronic treatments with antiparkinsonian drugs as well as with antioxidant compounds on such phenotype finding that only antioxidants show statistically significant beneficial effects on DJ-1beta mutants' lifespan. These results strongly suggest that oxidative stress plays a causal role in the lifespan phenotype of DJ-1beta mutants. Consistent with this, we find that loss of DJ-1beta function results in cellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in adult brains, elevated levels of lipid peroxidation and an increased catalase enzymatic activity, thus indicating the existence of high oxidative stress levels in DJ-1beta mutants and confirming the essential function of the DJ-1beta protein in protecting the organism against oxidative insults. Our study further shows that the lifespan phenotype of DJ-1beta mutant flies is amenable to pharmacological intervention, and validates Drosophila as a valuable model for testing and identifying new drugs with therapeutic potential for PD.
Because of the large number of cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) recorded in Brazil over the last few years, this disease has been showing characteristics different from previously known ones. We report cases of pregnant women treated for VL, describing their course and outcome and the chemotherapeutic medication used according to the clinical signs and symptoms of each patient.
We report five cases of pregnant women treated for VL in a central-western region of Brazil.
No case of vertical transmission was observed, even in patients who were treated after delivery. One of the patients with a late diagnosis made after the onset of symptoms died. Thus, the treatment of VL during pregnancy reduces maternal mortality and the rate of vertical transmission of the disease, being safe and effective as long as the disease is diagnosed early.
At present, amphotericin B and its derivatives appear to be the best therapeutic option for the mother-child binomial.
Our study aimed at evaluating the presence of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA in a series of 84 paraffin-embedded (PET) penile carcinomas. We have also investigated the presence of p53 mutations in these tumors by immunohistochemistry (IHC), single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) and DNA sequencing. Tissues were submitted to amplification of a 268 bp fragment from the beta-globin gene and a fragment of the E6 gene of HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Twenty samples (18 fixed in Bouin's solution and 2 in buffered formalin) were found inadequate and were excluded from the analysis. In the remaining 64 tumors, HPV DNA was found in 26% of the samples. The prevalence of HPV in fresh samples of the same tumors was 56%. The most prevalent type was HPV 16 in both fresh samples and PET. Isotopic in situ hybridization was performed in all PET samples, but only 2 cases were positive, 1 for HPV 16 and 1 for HPV 18. Immunohistochemistry with anti-p53 pAb 1801 antibody showed a positive nuclear reaction over more than 5% of tumor cells in 26% of the cases. SSCP of exons 5-8 of the p53 gene was performed on 9 HPV-positive and 12 HPV-negative specimens. Abnormal mobility was found in 26% of the tumors, of which 2 were HPV-positive and 5 HPV-negative. Point mutations were detected in p53 exons 6 (1 case), 7 (1 case) and 8 (5 cases), showing that high-risk type HPVs and mutated p53 may coexist in these tumors. Our data indicate that a subset of penile carcinomas are etiologically related to HPV and that an overlapping subset may arise from mutational events in the p53 gene.
Our objectives were to identify serum marker proteins in rats that might serve as sensitive indicators of hepatomegaly, hepatocellular necrosis, or hepatobiliary injury and to use them to analyze data from a collaborative proteomics project.
In each of 4 studies comprising the collaborative project, rats were given 1 of 4 compounds that target the liver through different mechanisms. Sera and liver samples were collected by terminal bleeds at 1 of 3 postdose time points. Sera were depleted of major secretory proteins and then separated into protein features by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DGE). Liver specimens were also processed and subjected to 2DGE. Protein spots that significantly increased or decreased in quantity after drug treatment were recovered, digested, analyzed by mass spectroscopy, and compared with available databases for identification. Criteria for further consideration were (a) temporal expression (i.e., increase or decrease at early, fulminant, or recovery periods), (b) known biological function, (c) probable hepatic origin, and (d) any previous association with toxicity in published studies. Markers that changed significantly at the early time point were important because of their potential sensitivity for signaling minimal damage.
Vitamin D-binding protein, paraoxonase, cellular retinol-binding protein, malate dehydrogenase, F-protein, and purine nucleoside phosphorylase were identified as empirically confirmed serum markers for hepatic effects in drug-treated rats.
Proteomics can be applied for the identification and confirmation of peripheral biomarkers for altered liver function after toxicant exposure.
Asymptomatic schoolchildren in Guinea Bissau were given approximately 10 mg of quinine/kg body weight once daily during 5 days (n = 15) or 3 days (n = 16) for treatment of P. falciparum. Five children had parasitemia on the seventh day of follow up. Adverse reactions were reported by 12 children during treatment, mainly mild tinnitus, dizziness and vomiting. Single daily doses were less effective than the divided doses previously used by us for the same short time period and also associated with more frequent adverse events.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) in treating patients with lamivudine (LAM) refractory HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B.
It is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. 226 eligible patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B were randomized (randomization ratio was 2:1) into two groups. One group received ADV 10 mg/d and LAM 100 mg/d for 12 weeks and followed by ADV 10 mg/d for 36 weeks (ADV + LAM-->ADV group); the other received placebo and LAM 100 mg/d for 12 weeks and followed by ADV 10 mg/d for 36 weeks (placebo + LAM-->ADV group). The primary efficacy measure was virological response. The secondary efficacy measure was serological response (HBeAg loss rate and HBeAg seroconversion rate) and ALT normalization rate.
After 12 weeks of therapy, mean reduction of HBV DNA level, the percentage of patients with HBV DNA lower than 5 l g copies/ml and the percentage of patients with HBV DNA level decrease of more than 2 l g copies/ml in patients of ADV + LAM-->ADV group were significantly higher than those in patients of placebo + LAM-->ADV group (2.69 lg copies/ml vs. 1.06 lg copies/ml, 92.7% vs. 33.3%, 78.1% vs. 27.8%), all the P values were 0.00. HBV DNA undetectable (<3l g copies/ml) rate and serological response (HBeAg loss rate and HBeAg seroconversion rate) in patients of ADV + LAM-->ADV group was slightly higher than those in patients of placebo + LAM-->ADV group (12.2% vs 5.6%, 5.1% vs 0, 4.9% vs 0), but did not reach statistical significance. Much more patients in both treatment arms achieved virological response, serological response and ALT normalization after another 36 weeks of therapy. The overall safety profile of ADV was similar to that of placebo. rtN236T and rtA181V mutation was not found in this 48-week study.
ADV is an effective and well-tolerated treatment option for patients with LAM refractory HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B.
Behavioural abnormalities such as impulse control disorders may develop when patients with Parkinson's disease receive dopaminergic therapy, although they can be controlled by deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. We have recorded local field potentials in the subthalamic nucleus of 28 patients with surgically implanted subthalamic electrodes. According to the predominant clinical features of each patient, their Parkinson's disease was associated with impulse control disorders (n = 10), dyskinesias (n = 9) or no dopaminergic mediated motor or behavioural complications (n = 9). Recordings were obtained during the OFF and ON dopaminergic states and the power spectrum of the subthalamic activity as well as the subthalamocortical coherence were analysed using Fourier transform-based techniques. The position of each electrode contact was determined in the postoperative magnetic resonance image to define the topography of the oscillatory activity recorded in each patient. In the OFF state, the three groups of patients had similar oscillatory activity. By contrast, in the ON state, the patients with impulse control disorders displayed theta-alpha (4-10 Hz) activity (mean peak: 6.71 Hz) that was generated 2-8 mm below the intercommissural line. Similarly, the patients with dyskinesia showed theta-alpha activity that peaked at a higher frequency (mean: 8.38 Hz) and was generated 0-2 mm below the intercommissural line. No such activity was detected in patients that displayed no dopaminergic side effects. Cortico-subthalamic coherence was more frequent in the impulsive patients in the 4-7.5 Hz range in scalp electrodes placed on the frontal regions anterior to the primary motor cortex, while in patients with dyskinesia it was in the 7.5-10 Hz range in the leads overlying the primary motor and supplementary motor area. Thus, dopaminergic side effects in Parkinson's disease are associated with oscillatory activity in the theta-alpha band, but at different frequencies and with different topography for the motor (dyskinesias) and behavioural (abnormal impulsivity) manifestations. These findings suggest that the activity recorded in parkinsonian patients with impulse control disorders stems from the associative-limbic area (ventral subthalamic area), which is coherent with premotor frontal cortical activity. Conversely, in patients with l-dopa-induced dyskinesias such activity is recorded in the motor area (dorsal subthalamic area) and it is coherent with cortical motor activity. Consequently, the subthalamic nucleus appears to be implicated in the motor and behavioural complications associated with dopaminergic drugs in Parkinson's disease, specifically engaging different anatomo-functional territories.
Neuroblastomas are tumors of peripheral sympathetic neurons and are the most common solid tumor in children. To determine the genetic basis for neuroblastoma, we performed whole-genome sequencing (6 cases), exome sequencing (16 cases), genome-wide rearrangement analyses (32 cases) and targeted analyses of specific genomic loci (40 cases) using massively parallel sequencing. On average, each tumor had 19 somatic alterations in coding genes (range of 3-70). Among genes not previously known to be involved in neuroblastoma, chromosomal deletions and sequence alterations of the chromatin-remodeling genes ARID1A and ARID1B were identified in 8 of 71 tumors (11%) and were associated with early treatment failure and decreased survival. Using tumor-specific structural alterations, we developed an approach to identify rearranged DNA fragments in sera, providing personalized biomarkers for minimal residual disease detection and monitoring. These results highlight the dysregulation of chromatin remodeling in pediatric tumorigenesis and provide new approaches for the management of patients with neuroblastoma.
There is great interest in tumor stem cells (TSCs) as potential therapeutic targets; however, cancer therapies targeting TSCs are limited. A drawback is that TSC markers are often shared by normal stem cells (NSCs); thus, therapies that target these markers may cause severe injury to normal tissues. To identify a potential TSC-specific marker, we focused on doublecortin-like kinase 1 (Dclk1). Dclk1 was reported as a candidate NSC marker in the gut, but recent reports have implicated it as a marker of differentiated cells (for example, Tuft cells). Using lineage-tracing experiments, we show here that Dclk1 does not mark NSCs in the intestine but instead marks TSCs that continuously produce tumor progeny in the polyps of Apc(Min/+) mice. Specific ablation of Dclk1-positive TSCs resulted in a marked regression of polyps without apparent damage to the normal intestine. Our data suggest the potential for developing a therapy for colorectal cancer based on targeting Dclk1-positive TSCs.
In our earlier series we showed that ciprofloxacin inhibits bladder tumor cell growth with concomitant S/G2M cell cycle arrest and reported an increased Bax-to-Bcl-2 ratio in cells undergoing cell death. In the current series we elucidated the molecular mechanisms by which ciprofloxacin induces apoptotic processes.
Ciprofloxacin mediated mitochondrial depolarization was detected by flow cytometry in HTB9 cells. Mitochondrial permeability transition was measured by spectrophotometry in isolated mitochondria treated with ciprofloxacin in the presence and absence of cyclosporin. The consequential decrease in mitochondrial calcium, cytochrome c release and Bax translocation to mitochondria, which resulted in the activation of caspase 3 leading to apoptotic cell death, was measured by biochemical and confocal microscopy.
Mitochondrial depolarization was observed during ciprofloxacin induced apoptotic processes. Cyclosporin A, a known inhibitor of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore, protected cells against decreased mitochondrial potential. Also, ciprofloxacin induced an alteration of mitochondrial calcium as early as 5 minutes and this disruption of intracellular calcium homeostasis was prevented by cyclosporin. Ciprofloxacin also had a direct effect on swelling of isolated mitochondria, which was absent in the presence of cyclosporin. Mitochondrial changes were accompanied by cytochrome c release and caspase 3 activation. Our findings also showed Bcl-2 dependent subcellular redistribution of Bax to the mitochondrial membrane in ciprofloxacin treated bladder tumor cells.
The disruption of calcium homeostasis, mitochondrial swelling and redistribution of Bax to the mitochondrial membrane are key events in the initiation of apoptotic processes in ciprofloxacin treated bladder cancer cells.
