The reported property of calcium antagonists as antimanic drugs has been investigated in three models of hyperactivity in mice. The hyperactivity was induced by amphetamine, oxolinic acid or reserpine after inhibition of monoamine oxydase (MAO). Nicardipine (a dihydropyridine derivative) reduces the three hyperactivities, verapamil (a diphenylalkylamine derivative) reduces only oxolinic acid hyperactivity, and diltiazem (a benzothiazepine derivative) was active except in the MAOI-reserpine test. Levomepromazine used as a reference drug reduced the three hyperactivities. The three calcium entry-blockers reduce the different hyperactivities at doses which already decrease motor activity. And so, it seems that their action was not specific. On the contrary, levomepromazine antagonizes MAOI-reserpine induced hypermotility at a dose which is not sedative. These results do not strengthen the property of calcium antagonists as antimanic drugs.
The fear-potentiated startle paradigm [increased startle in the presence of a conditioned fear stimulus (CS)] has become increasingly popular as a tool for evaluating the potential efficacy of putative anxiolytic compounds. However, when the tested compounds also influence baseline startle, it is unclear how comparisons with control groups can best be made.
To evaluate the validity of absolute difference (startle amplitude on CS minus non-CS test trials) vs. proportional increase (the absolute difference score divided by startle amplitude on non-CS test trials) scoring methods.
The effect on proportional increase and absolute difference scores of baseline shifts that occur with or without concomitant increases in fear was evaluated in rats. A reliable measure should yield similar scores across shifting baselines, provided that fear levels remain constant.
Preexisting baseline differences, and those brought about by different startle-eliciting noise burst intensities, by strychnine injections, or by CRH infusions, each increased absolute difference scores without markedly influencing proportional change scores. These baseline differences were not associated with different fear levels. Increases in baseline startle brought about by unsignaled footshocks or by a second CS - increases which are associated with increased fear - partially occluded additional CS-induced increases using either measure.
Across different baselines, CS-elicited fear is most accurately reflected in proportional change scores. Under certain conditions saturation effects may interfere with an accurate assessment using either measure. However, these same saturation effects may provide opportunities to explore the neural circuitry of fear and anxiety in novel ways.
Hypertension is associated with a number of adverse morphologic and functional changes in the cardiovascular system, including left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy. Studies have demonstrated that bradykinin, through the B2 bradykinin receptor (B2BKR), mediates important cardiovascular effects that may protect against LV hypertrophy. Recently, a +9/-9 exon 1 polymorphism of the B2BKR was shown to be strongly associated with LV growth response among normotensive males undergoing physical training. We aimed to clarify whether the processes found in exercise-induced LV growth in normotensive people also occur in pathological LV hypertrophy.
We determined the B2BKR genotype of 90 patients with essential hypertension and echocardiographically diagnosed LV hypertrophy, included in a double-blind study to receive treatment for 48 weeks with either the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor antagonist irbesartan or the beta1-adrenoceptor antagonist atenolol.
B2BKR +9/+9 genotypes responded poorly in LV mass regression, independent of blood pressure reduction or treatment, as compared to the other genotypes (adjusted mean change in LV mass index = -10.0 +/- 4.6 versus -21.6 +/- 2.2 g/m2, P = 0.03).
Our results suggest an impact of the B2BKR polymorphism on LV mass regression during antihypertensive treatment.
In this double-blind, parallel-group study, we compared 3 oxymorphone immediate-release (IR) doses with placebo for efficacy and with oxycodone IR and placebo for safety in patients with acute moderate-to-severe postsurgical pain. During the single-dose phase (n = 300), patients received oxymorphone IR 10, 20, or 30 mg; oxycodone IR 10 mg; or placebo. All oxymorphone IR doses were superior for providing pain relief for 8 h (P < 0.05), with a significant analgesic dose response (P < 0.001). Significant pain intensity differences occurred by 45 min (20- and 30-mg doses; P < 0.05). Discontinuations for lack of efficacy totaled 42% among placebo-treated patients and 27% among those treated with oxymorphone IR. Patients requiring rescue medication after 3 h were allowed to receive additional study drug every 4 to 6 h as needed for the multiple-dose phase (n = 164). All oxymorphone groups maintained analgesia for 48 h. The median dosing interval was >9.5 h for oxymorphone IR 30 mg and > or =7 h for the other groups. Opioid-related adverse events, similar among groups, were generally mild or moderate. Oxymorphone IR 10, 20, or 30 mg provided significant dose-related pain relief compared with placebo, and this relief was maintained over several days with a safety profile comparable to that of oxycodone IR.
Organophosphorus delayed neurotoxicants (phenyl saligenin cyclic phosphate and diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate) altered cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent phosphorylation and several other processes in brain homogenates and cytoplasmic microtubules. Phenyl saligenin cyclic phosphate slightly stimulated in vitro cAMP-dependent phosphorylation in brain homogenates of three species (rat, mouse and rabbit) that have been reported to be insensitive to delayed neurotoxicity, whereas it slightly decreased this phosphorylation in brain homogenates of three sensitive species (chicken, cow and pig) and in brain microtubules of chicken and pig. The microtubule-associated processes that were moderately inhibited by phenyl saligenin cyclic phosphate in sensitive species were: in vitro [3H]cAMP binding to protein kinase, in vitro assembly when tubulin rings were absent, and cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) both in vitro and on intracerebral administration of 32Pi. The endogenous proteases that degrade the high molecular weight MAPs were strongly inhibited in vitro by phenyl saligenin cyclic phosphate and diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate. In contrast, treatment of chickens with diisopropyl phosphorofluoridate remarkably decreased the in vitro stability of their brain cytoplasmic high molecular weight MAPs, perhaps by enhancing the MAPs-degrading protease activity. These findings indicate that the MAPs-protease system is a possible target for organophosphorus delayed neurotoxicants.
Drug-induced acute renal failure is a commonly encountered mode of renal injury in the hospitalized patient. Vancomycin is a frequently used antibiotic in patients with Gram-positive bacterial infections. In the present study, we evaluated an index case of a patient who developed severe acute granulomatous interstitial nephritis and provided a review of the reported cases of vancomycin-induced acute renal failure in the literature. A Medline search revealed a total of 11 cases of vancomycin-induced interstitial nephritis. In 2 reported cases, interstitial nephritis has been reported with associated granuloma formation. However, the role of T cells in the formation of interstitial nephritis and in the choice of therapeutic modalities in this scenario has not been evaluated in the past. In the index case, we have evaluated the effect of treatment on the basis of the type of cellular infiltrates and provided a follow-up by carrying out the repeat biopsy.
Lifetime exposure to benzene is associated to a variety of blood disorders, and except for the risk of cancer, almost nothing is known concerning health impairment in individuals who are no longer exposed. In Brazil, this exposure is one of the serious problems in workplaces, and many workers have been laid off their jobs due to this intoxication, particularly in the State of Bahia, the largest producer of benzene in Latin America, which is the area of this study. From a larger study to describe health effects and genetic polymorphisms among workers with chronic benzene poisoning (CBP), this previous specific investigation analyzes the association between CBP and the pattern of sub-populations of lymphocytes. The study was performed with a CBP group (n=24) and a control group with other occupational diseases (n=24); both were selected at the Workers Health Study Center in the State of Bahia, Brazil. Clinical and epidemiologic variables were collected from medical records and from a detailed questionnaire. The average age was similar in the two groups (51.1 and 50.7, respectively). Analyzing the mean proportions of the sub-populations of lymphocytes, statistically significant differences were found for T cytotoxic cells (TCD8) (27.9; 19.4; p=0.002) and T helper memory cell (CD4CD45RO) (31.2; 37.0; p=0.015), respectively, for the CBP group and control group. These results should be viewed with caution because of the small sample size, but they strengthen a previous impression that workers exposed to benzene have their immune system impaired, even in the long term, which may contribute to some disorders and carcinogenesis process. These workers must be strictly followed up in a medical surveillance program. Although this problem has been known for a long time, this is the first attempt to study these specific effects in Brazil.
A 33-year-old woman developed severe post-lumbar puncture headaches in the course of work-up for multiple sclerosis. Immediately after receiving treatment with intravenous caffeine, she became blind and experienced a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Brain MR imaging then showed vasogenic parieto-occipital edema. She recovered clinically and radiologically within 72 hours. After 1 year of follow-up, there was no recurrence of symptoms or radiologic changes.
Junctional ectopic tachycardia (JET) in infancy is one of the serious arrhythmias which can be fatal. Typical features of JET include rapid and irregular heart beats with atrioventricular dissociation. Two cases of JET are reported: Case 1 was a 35-week-gestational age newborn who was found to have hydropsy and fetal tachycardia at the 21st week of gestational age. Antiarrhythmic agents including digoxin, propranolol and verapamil were administered to his mother to treat the fetal arrhythmia without success. JET was recognized at birth which was spontaneously converted into a sinus rhythm at 1 month of age. The maternal history revealed that two previous pregnancies ended in hydrops fetalis, and one of these was documented to have fetal tachycardia. Case 2 was a 6-month-old male infant with JET and congestive heart failure. After failure of various antiarrhythmic agents, amiodarone finally slowed down his heart rate and controlled his congestive heart failure.
Among the most frequently used drugs in the treatment of allergic rhinitis we have to mention topical nasal corticosteroids and H1 antihistamines used both systemically and topically. The present study focused the effectiveness and tolerability of cetirizine and fluticasone propionate in seasonal allergic rhinitis. 54 patients, divided into three homogeneous groups, underwent the following different treatments: Group 1: Placebo of fluticasone (2 puff per nostril once daily by aerosol) + cetirizine (10 mg/die per os) for 60 days. Group 2: Fluticasone (100 mg per nostril once daily by aerosol) + placebo of cetirizine (per os) for 60 days. Group 3: Cetirizine (10 mg/die per os) for 60 days + fluticasone (100 mg per nostril once daily by aerosol) for 20 days. The patients reported nasal symptoms (sneezing, obstruction, itching, rhinorrea) on a clinical diary. ECP levels in nasal secretions were investigated in all patients to determine the anti-inflammatory activity of both treatments. Cetirizine resulted very effective in the treatment of sneezing, itching and acqueous rhinorrea whereas not much effective on nasal obstruction. On the contrary, fluticasone, which acted effectively on nasal obstruction, resulted inefficacious on the other symptoms. The third group of patients achieved the best results on all four symptoms, including obstruction, which continued even after interrupting the treatment with fluticasone. The ECP levels were significantly reduced by both treatments. The side effects in all 3 groups were rare and not serious. From these results we can assert that the synergic action of the two drugs, achieves the best effectiveness, that the fluticasone treatment can be limited to 20 days cycles and finally that both molecules are well tolerated.
Environmental substances may be involved in the etiology of breast cancers. Many studies have found an association between cancer in humans and exposure to agricultural pesticides. Organophosphorous pesticides have been used to control mosquito plagues. Parathion and malathion, organophosphorous pesticides are cholinesterase inhibitors responsible for the hydrolysis of body choline esters, including acetylcholine at cholinergic synapses. Their primary target of action in insects is the nervous system whereby they inhibit the enzyme acetylcholinesterase at synaptic junction. Atropine is a parasympatholytic alkaloid used as an antidote to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. We have established an experimental breast cancer model, where epithelial cells in the rat mammary gland underwent a stepwise transformation into malignant cells by exposure to pesticides (Cabello et al, 2001). The aim of this work was to examine whether pesticides were able to induce progression of malignant transformation of a human breast epithelial cell line, MCF7. These results showed that parathion and malathion increased PCNA and induced mutant p53 protein expression of MCF7 cells in comparison to controls and atropine inhibited such action. These results indicated that organophosphorous pesticides can induce more changes in this malignant breast cell line, inducing another step in the progression of the transformation process and atropine on the other hand inhibited the effect of such substances.
The simultaneous intravenous (i.v.) administration of heroin and cocaine, called a "speedball," is often reported clinically, and identification of effective pharmacotherapies is a continuing challenge. We hypothesized that treatment with combinations of a dopamine reuptake inhibitor, indatraline, and a mu partial agonist, buprenorphine, might reduce speedball self-administration by rhesus monkeys more effectively than either drug alone. Speedballs (0.01 mg/kg/inj cocaine + 0.0032 mg/kg/inj heroin) and food (1 g banana pellets) were available in four daily sessions on a second-order schedule of reinforcement [fixed ratio (FR)4; variable ratio (VR)16:S]. Monkeys were treated for 10 days with saline or ascending dose combinations of indatraline (0.001-0.032 mg/kg/day) and buprenorphine (0.00032-0.01 mg/kg/day). Two combinations of indatraline (0.32 and 0.56 mg/kg/day) + buprenorphine (0.10 and 0.18 mg/kg/day) significantly reduced speedball self-administration in comparison to the saline treatment baseline (p <.01-.001), whereas the same doses of each compound alone had no significant effect on speedball-maintained responding. Daily treatment with 0.56 mg/kg/day indatraline + 0.18 mg/kg/day buprenorphine produced a significant downward shift in the speedball dose-effect curve (p <.01) and transient changes in food-maintained responding. These findings suggest that medication mixtures designed to target both the stimulant and opioid component of the speedball combination may be an effective approach to polydrug abuse treatment.
Sex differences in biological substrates of drug use and addiction are poorly understood. The present study investigated sexual dimorphisms in motor behavior following acute cocaine administration (10, 20, or 40 mg/kg, i.p.). Cocaine increased stereotypy rating, horizontal and vertical activity in both sexes, and effects were always greater in females than males. A population analysis using data from multiple experiments indicated that horizontal activity scores were normally distributed in males but not in females. Gonadectomy induced disparate effects on cocaine-stimulated motor behavior. Population analysis indicated that castrated males exhibited more horizontal activity and stereotypy than shams. Ovariectomy did not affect cocaine-stimulated stereotypy but did attenuate horizontal activity in a subset of rats that had not been vaginally lavaged. In summary, gonadectomy effects were sex and behavioral topography specific and indicate that activational effects of gonadal hormones partially mediate the robust sex differences in cocaine-stimulated open-field behavior.
Trichloroethylene-induced hypersensitivity dermatitis is one of the serious occupational health events in China, however, little is known about the clinical features and possible mechanism of this disorder. The objective of the present study was to report some typical trichloroethylene-induced dermatitis patients and investigate their occupational exposure as well as the clinical features. We sampled and tested some cleaning agents from the companies where TCE-induced skin disorder occurred, the trichloroethylene concentrations were also monitored in the workplace air. Additionally, the symptoms, signs and laboratory test results of patients were collected. TCE concentrations varied from 10.2% to 91.4% in the cleaning agent by gas chromatography-mass chromatography analysis, and TCE levels in the workplace air ranged between 18 mg/m(3) and 683 mg/m(3), at most sampled sites TCE levels were higher than China national health standard for TCE. The trichloroethylene exposure time of the patients was 5-90 days (average 38.2 d), the patients with headache, dizziness, skin itch, fever were 90.5%, 100%, 100%, and 61.9%, respectively. 85.7% patients had skin erythema, 90.5% with rashes, and 38.1% with blisters. In addition, liver enlargement occurred in 3 patients, the abnormal rate of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), total bilirubin (T-Bil) were 90.5%, 85.7% and 76.2%, respectively. 6 out of 15 patients were with abnormal electrocardiogram, and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) elevated in 14 patients (66.7%). Taken together, the major detrimental effect of trichloroethylene was to induce hypersensitivity dermatitis and liver dysfunction, the occurrence of this disorder is likely related to the individual hypersensitivity to trichloroethylene exposure.
Women have a higher incidence of torsades de pointes than men, but it is not known if the risk of drug-induced torsades de pointes varies during the menstrual cycle.
To determine if the degree of QT prolongation in response to ibutilide varies with the menstrual cycle phase and to compare QT prolongation between women and men.
Cohort study of men and women who received the same intervention conducted between November 1998 and November 2000 at a general clinical research center of a university hospital.
A volunteer sample of 58 healthy adults (38 men and 20 women) aged 21 to 40 years.
A low dose of ibutilide (0.003 mg/kg), infused intravenously for 10 minutes. Subjects were monitored for 120 minutes. Women received the intervention on 3 separate occasions to correspond with menstrual cycle phases, which were verified by using hormonal assays.
QT interval, recorded from electrocardiogram at timed intervals during and after ibutilide infusion and standardized for variations in heart rate (QTc).
Maximum (mean [SD]) millisecond increase in QTc after ibutilide infusion was greater for women during menses (63 [13]) and the ovulatory phase (59 [17]) compared with women during the luteal phase (53 [14]) and compared with men (46 [16]; P =.002 vs menses and P =.007 vs ovulation). Progesterone (r = -0.40) and progesterone-to-estradiol ratio (r = -0.41), but not estradiol (r = 0.14) or testosterone (r = 0.09), were inversely correlated with ibutilide-induced QT prolongation.
Menstrual cycle and sex differences exist in QTc responses to ibutilide, with the greatest increase in QTc corresponding to the first half of the menstrual cycle.
This study was designed to determine the ability of female mice who were exposed neonatally to the pesticide methoxychlor (MXC) to mate, ovulate, and become pregnant upon reaching sexual maturity. One-day-old female mice (5 to 8/group) were exposed daily by intraperitoneal (ip) injection for 14 d to either sesame oil or 10 microg estradiol-17beta or 0.1, 0.5 or 1.0 mg MXC suspended in sesame oil. The MXC exposures corresponded to 14 to 71, 68 to 357, or 135 to 714 mg/kg body weight, respectively. Three months later, female mice were placed with proven breeder males and checked daily for vaginal plugs. Mated female mice were sacrificed 18 d after the appearance of a vaginal plug to evaluate pregnancy. Uteri were examined for the presence of living fetuses and/or resorption sites. Ovaries were removed and prepared for histologic evaluation and tabulation of corpora lutea. All mice from all three MXC-treated groups did in fact mate, in comparison with only one of those exposed neonatally to estradiol. Increasing the dose of MXC produced a decreased number of pregnant animals at 18 d following mating. The mean number of live fetuses/litter was reduced in the 0.5 and 1.0 mg MXC-treated groups. Corpora lutea were significantly reduced in ovaries from only the 1.0 mg MXC group and the estradiol group. No effects of treatment were seen at 0.1 mg MXC. It is concluded that neonatal exposure to MXC does not interfere with mating. Instead, significant alterations are seen in initiating and/or maintaining pregnancy. The deleterious effects on pregnancy may be due to the influence of neonatal MXC treatments on the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis as well as on possible alteration of the uterine environment.
The authors investigated the effects of phenylephrine-induced hypertension on the development of cerebral edema and neuronal dysfunction during focal cerebral ischemia. Mean arterial pressure was increased by 25-30 mm Hg immediately after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in anesthetized rats. The increase was maintained for 3 h, at which time the brains were harvested and sectioned along coronal planes spanning the distribution of the MCA. The specific gravity (SG) was determined in specimens of cortex and subcortex. Brain sections adjacent to those used for SG measurement were incubated in 2,3,5-triphenyltetrazolium (TTC). There was edema formation in both groupsipsilateral to MCAO. However, in some regions, there was less edema accumulation in the induced hypertension group than in normotensive control animals. In adjacent regions, the area of reduced or absent TTC staining was also significantly less in the induced hypertension group. The data indicate that, in this model, induced hypertension established soon after the onset of ischemia can serve to reduce the area of histochemically detectable neuronal dysfunction, and that not only is edema formation not aggravated, but it is actually reduced.
The authors hypothesized that if nitric oxide (NO) was a determinant of background cerebrovascular tone, intracarotid infusion of NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), a NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor, would decrease cerebral blood flow (CBF) and intracarotid L-arginine would reverse its effect.
In angiographically normal cerebral hemispheres, after the initial dose-escalation studies (protocol 1), the authors determined the effect of intracarotid L-NMMA (50 mg/min for 5 min) on CBF and mean arterial pressure (MAP) over time (protocol 2). Changes in CBF and MAP were then determined at baseline, during L-NMMA infusion, and after L-NMMA during L-arginine infusion (protocol 3). To investigate effects of higher arterial blood concentrations of L-NMMA, changes in CBF and MAP were assessed at baseline and after a bolus dose of L-NMMA (250 mg/1 min), and vascular reactivity was tested by intracarotid verapamil (1 mg/min, protocol 4). CBF changes were also assessed during induced hypertension with intravenous phenylephrine (protocol 5).
Infusion of L-NMMA (50 mg/min for 5 min, n = 7, protocol 2) increased MAP by 17% (86 +/- 8 to 100 +/- 11 mmHg; P < 0.0001) and decreased CBF by 20% (45 +/- 8 to 36 +/- 6 ml. 100 g-1. min-1; P < 0.005) for 10 min. Intracarotid l-arginine infusion after L-NMMA (protocol 3) reversed the effect of L-NMMA. Bolus L-NMMA (protocol 4) increased MAP by 20% (80 +/- 11 to 96+/-13 mmHg; P< 0.005), but there was no significant decrease in CBF. Intracarotid verapamil increased CBF by 41% (44+/- 8 to 62 +/- 9 ml. 100 g-1. min-1; P< 0.005). Phenylephrine-induced hypertension increased MAP by 20% (79 +/- 9 to 95 +/- 6 mmHg; P = 0.001) but did not affect CBF.
The results suggest that intracarotid L-NMMA modestly decreases CBF, and the background tone of cerebral resistance vessels may be relatively insensitive to NOS inhibition by the intraarterial route.
We present a rare case of malignant melanoma of unknown primary origin presenting as cardiac and cholecystic masses. In this 72-year-old man, a cardiac lesion caused right ventricular outlet obstruction, and gallbladder lesions led to hemobilia. Right atrial and gallbladder metastases were resected. After 2 years of disease-free survival, the patient had recurrent skin lesions, which were treated with local resection and dacarbazine. The patient has survived for more than 5 years after initial diagnosis, with continued complete clinical remission. This case illustrates the importance of aggressive surgical resection and chemotherapy in the treatment of metastatic malignant melanoma.
A relationship between sudden infant death syndrome and the use of phenothiazine-containing medications is suspected. In order to investigate the influence of phenothiazines upon cardiorespiratory and sleep characteristics, four normal infants (mean age 15.8 weeks) had polygraphic recordings made for one night. The recordings were repeated three nights later, after the daily administration of a usual therapeutic dose of a standard phenothiazine syrup (promethazine, 1 mg/kg of body weight per day). The infants were monitored for six days after the first treatment. Findings from the first polygraphic recordings were normal for each infant. The second recordings disclosed an increase in sleep time, a reduction in the number and duration of awakenings, an increase in non-rapid eye movement (NREM) III sleep state, and a reduction in body movements. During the second night, each infant showed an increase in the number of central apneas, and each infant also had several episodes of obstructive apneas (median duration four seconds). It is concluded that promethazine depresses the arousal and respiratory mechanisms in normal infants during sleep. This observation reinforces the opinion that CNS depressants should be avoided in infants less than 1 year of age; CNS depressants could result in sudden death in apnea-prone infants.
Results from chemical carcinogenesis studies in rodents are useful to identify substances in our environment that may contribute to cancer development. The National Toxicology Program (NTP) was established in 1978 to coordinate research and testing of potential human carcinogens and to publish the Report on Carcinogens, which lists human carcinogens. The results for over 500 chemicals tested in the NTP 2-year bioassays have been published in Technical Reports and include data for chemical, agent, or complex mixture exposures. The bioassays have identified 42 chemicals that induce tumors in the rodent mammary gland. The physical and chemical characteristics of the carcinogens vary, but epoxides (including chemicals metabolized to epoxides) and nitro-containing compounds are well represented. The 9th Report on Carcinogens, issued in 2000, lists 21 of the 42 chemicals as human carcinogens including benzene, ethylene oxide, 1,3-butadiene, isoprene, chloroprene, C.I. basic red 9, and C.I. acid red 114. Ethylene oxide was associated with increased breast cancer risk in an epidemiologic study, whereas other listed chemicals, for which human data are available, display different target organ specificity. Bioassays other than those conducted by the NTP also provide information about rodent mammary gland carcinogens. Several carcinogen exposures are associated with breast tumor induction in both humans and rodents including radiation, diethylstilbestrol, and estrogens. These studies demonstrate that route, timing and frequency of exposure, and genetic factors contribute to the overall susceptibility to breast cancer development. More information is needed on the effects of chemicals to which humans are exposed and the manner by which they influence breast cancer risks.
Two patients are described who exhibited cardiac complications during administration of etomidate. One patient showed myocardial ischaemia and the other developed cardiac asystole.
In mammals, the toxicity of halogenated aromatic hydrocarbons (HAH) correlates with their ability to activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). To test this correlation in an avian model, we selected six HAHs based on their affinity for the mammalian AHR, including: 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD); 1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (PCDD); 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzofuran (TCDF); 2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorodibenzofuran (PCDF); 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (PCB 77); and 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (PCB 153). We determined the ability of these compounds to induce cardiotoxicity, as measured by an increase in heart wet weight on incubation day 10 in the chick embryo (Gallus gallus) and formation of the avian AHR/ARNT/DNA binding complex in chicken hepatoma cells. Relative potency values (RPs) were calculated by dividing the TCDD EC(50) (AHR/ARNT/DNA binding) or ED(50) (15% increase in day-10 heart wet weight) by the HAH congeners EC(50) or ED(50), respectively. The rank order of potencies for inducing cardiotoxicity were TCDD > PCDD = PCDF = TCDF > PCDF > PCB77, PCB 153, no effect. The RP values for inducing AHR/ARNT DNA binding were then correlated with those for inducing cardiotoxicity (the RP values of PCDD were determined to be statistical outliers). This correlation was found to be highly significant (r = 0.94, p = 0.017). The ability of PCDD to act as an AHR agonist was verified using luciferase reporter assays and analysis of cytochrome P4501A1 protein levels. These results indicate that the ability of HAHs to activate the avian AHR signaling pathway, in general, correlates with their ability to mediate cardiotoxicity in the chick embryo.
Epinephrine is reported to decrease the threshold of intravenous lidocaine-induced convulsions. However, the mechanism underlying this effect is not clear. Therefore, we carried out a study to examine the role of vasopressor-induced hypertension.
Fifty-six awake Wistar rats were assigned to seven groups of eight. All groups received a continuous intravenous infusion of lidocaine at a rate of 4 mg.kg-1.min-1 until generalized convulsions occurred. The control group (group C) received plain lidocaine. The acute hypertensive groups received lidocaine with epinephrine (group E), norepinephrine (group N), or phenylephrine (group P) to increase mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) to 150 +/- 5 mmHg. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was added to prevent an increase in mean arterial pressure in the remaining three groups (vasopressor-SNP groups).
The acute hypertensive groups required significantly smaller cumulative doses of lidocaine to produce convulsions compared with control (C = 41.5 +/- 2.9 > E = 24.1 +/- 2.7, N = 27.1 +/- 2.8, P = 26.7 +/- 2.5 mg.kg-1; values are mean +/- SD, P < 0.01). In addition, plasma lidocaine concentrations (C = 11.0 +/- 0.7 > E = 7.4 +/- 0.5, N = 7.9 +/- 0.6, P = 8.1 +/- 0.8 micrograms.ml-1, P < 0.01) and brain lidocaine concentrations (C = 50.9 +/- 4.5 > E = 32.6 +/- 4.2, N = 34.5 +/- 4.8, P = 37.1 +/- 4.5 micrograms.g-1, P < 0.01) were less in the acute hypertensive groups at the onset of convulsions. In the vasopressor-SNP groups, the plasma and brain lidocaine concentrations at the onset of convulsions returned to the control values, although epinephrine and norepinephrine, but not phenylephrine, still decreased cumulative convulsant doses of lidocaine significantly (P < 0.01) compared with control (E + SNP = 30.8 +/- 2.9 < N + SNP = 34.8 +/- 2.8, P < 0.01) < P + SNP = 40.2 +/- 3.0 mg.kg-1, P < 0.01). The brain/plasma concentration ratios were similar for the seven groups.
An equal degree of acute hypertension induced by these three different vasopressors may play a role in reducing the threshold (plasma and brain lidocaine concentrations) as well as the cumulative convulsant doses associated with lidocaine-induced convulsions.
The intracisternal administration of nicergoline (5 micrograms/kg) or clonidine (4 micrograms/kg) in chloralose-anesthetized dogs induced significant decreases in blood pressure and heart rate. The same dose of nicergoline induced similar effects on atropine-pretreated dogs. Guanethidine pretreatment (30 mg/kg i.v. the day before) prevented the hypotension but not the bradycardia induced by clonidine. Guanethidine prevented both the hypotension and the bradycardia induced by nicergoline. Thus, nicergoline, unlike clonidine, does not increase cardiac parasympathetic activity. When administered by the same route at the same doses, nicergoline did not change the slope and reduced the amplitude whereas clonidine increased both the slope and the amplitude of the heart period vs. blood pressure curve obtained by intravenous administration of phenylephrine. Taken together, these results suggest that nicergoline and clonidine probably act on different structures within the central nervous system.
In the present work, X-ray fluorescence microscopy with a synchrotron source for the exciting radiation was applied for topographic and quantitative elemental analysis of rat brain tissue in pilocarpine-induced epilepsy and neuroprotection with FK-506. The mass per unit area of the elements P, S, Cl, K, Ca, Fe, Cu, Zn, Se, Br, and Rb was determined in four fields of the hippocampal formation (sectors 1 and 3 of Ammon's horn-CA1, CA3; dentate gyrus; hilus of dentate gyrus) and the parietal cortex. The results obtained for epileptic rats treated with FK-506 (SNF) were compared with data obtained previously for epileptic rats (SNS) and a control group. Many statistically significant differences in elemental composition were observed between the SNF and SNS groups. Higher mass per unit area of P was noticed in CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus of SNF rats in comparison with SNS rats. A similar relation was observed for K in all five brain areas analyzed. Also, Fe in CA3 and dentate gyrus, Cu in the parietal cortex, and Zn in CA3 and in the cortex were present at a higher level in the SNF group in comparison with the SNS group. The findings obtained in the present study suggest that the neuroprotective action of FK-506 in epileptic rat brain may involve not only the inhibition of calcineurin but also blockade of the K(+) channels.
Celiac disease (CD) is an immune-mediated, inflammatory disorder of the small intestines with a defined genetic etiological component associated with the expression of HLA-DQ2 and/or HLA-DQ8 haplotypes. The dietary consumption of gluten-rich cereals triggers a gluten-specific immune response in genetically susceptible individuals leading to a spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from an inapparent subclinical disease, to overt enteropathy that can in some individuals progress to enteropathy-associated T cell lymphoma (EATL). The tissue-destructive pathologic process of CD is driven by activated NK-like intraepithelial CD8(+) lymphocytes and the proinflammatory cytokine IL-15 has emerged to be pivotal in orchestrating this perpetual tissue destruction and inflammation. Moreover, transgenic mice that over-express human IL-15 from an enterocyte-specific promoter (T3(b)-hIL-15 Tg) recapitulate many of the disease-defining T and B cell-mediated pathologic features of CD, further supporting the evolving consensus that IL-15 represents a valuable target in devising therapeutic interventions against the form of the disease that is especially refractory to gluten-free diet. In the present study, we evaluated the potential efficacy of tofacitinib, a pan-JAK inhibitor that abrogates IL-15 signaling, as a therapeutic modality against CD using T3(b)-hIL-15 Tg mice. We demonstrate that tofacitinib therapy leads to a lasting reversal of pathologic manifestations in the treated mice, thereby highlighting the potential value of tofacitininb as a therapeutic modality against refractory CD for which no effective therapy exists currently. Additionally, the visceral adiposity observed in the tofacitinib-treated mice underscores the importance of continued evaluation of the drug's impact on the lipid metabolism.
A 41-year-old female patient undergoing cyclophosphamide therapy for ovarian tumour suffered from haemorrhagic cystitis. Hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO) (100% of oxygen concentration at 2 atmospheric absolute pressures for 60 minutes a day for 30 days) was performed. After treatment the symptom subsided and haematuria disappeared. Cystoscopic findings demonstrated marked improvement. During the course of therapy no side effect was noted. Thus, HBO treatment appeared to have a beneficial effect on cyclophosphamide cystitis.
This paper reports on results of the EORTC protocol 30892, an open, prospective, randomized study of 310 patients with previously untreated metastatic prostate cancer with favourable prognostic factors who were treated by either flutamide (FLU) or cyproterone acetate (CPA) monotherapy. The final analysis with regard to the main end points, time to progression and survival are still pending. Final results related to the evaluation of sexual functioning prior to and under treatment are reported here. Of 310 randomized patients 294 were eligible for evaluation within this side study. The median age was 71 years (range 48-85). Potential risk factors related to age, general health and prostate cancer were evaluated. For evaluation of sexual functions a five-item questionnaire was used which was administered by the investigator. The protocol allowed time dependent observations at 3-monthly follow-up visits. Sexual functioning was dependent on age but not on prostate cancer-related parameters. Sexual functions at entry were similar within the two treatment groups, spontaneous (nightly) erections and sexual activity were seen in 43-51% and 29-35% of cases. Under treatment, sexual functions under FLU and CPA declined slowly with median times of 12.9 and 5.8 months versus 13.7 and 8.9 months respectively for spontaneous erections and sexual activity. Eventually, with an average observation time in excess of 2 years, loss of spontaneous erections and of sexual activity occurred in 80% versus 92% and in 78% versus 88% of men under FLU versus CPA treatment respectively. None of these differences reached statistical significance. Maintenance of potency under treatment with FLU as reported in the literature is not confirmed in this study. However, loss of sexual functions under monotherapy with both antiandrogens is slow and 10-20% of men retain sexual activity after 2-6 years of treatment. This observation can be exploited in new treatment schemes and is likely to lead to improved quality of life. The advantage of FLU in time and total preservation of sexual functions is statistically not significant and must be balanced against the side effects of FLU and other pure antiandrogens, which may exceed those of CPA especially with respect to gynaecomastia. Hepatic toxicity may limit the long-term use of both drugs.
