Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. To identify genetic factors that modify the risk of lung cancer in individuals of Chinese ancestry, we performed a genome-wide association scan in 5,408 subjects (2,331 individuals with lung cancer (cases) and 3,077 controls) followed by a two-stage validation among 12,722 subjects (6,313 cases and 6,409 controls). The combined analyses identified six well-replicated SNPs with independent effects and significant lung cancer associations (P < 5.0 × 10(-8)) located in TP63 (rs4488809 at 3q28, P = 7.2 × 10(-26)), TERT-CLPTM1L (rs465498 and rs2736100 at 5p15.33, P = 1.2 × 10(-20) and P = 1.0 × 10(-27), respectively), MIPEP-TNFRSF19 (rs753955 at 13q12.12, P = 1.5 × 10(-12)) and MTMR3-HORMAD2-LIF (rs17728461 and rs36600 at 22q12.2, P = 1.1 × 10(-11) and P = 6.2 × 10(-13), respectively). Two of these loci (13q12.12 and 22q12.2) were newly identified in the Chinese population. These results suggest that genetic variants in 3q28, 5p15.33, 13q12.12 and 22q12.2 may contribute to the susceptibility of lung cancer in Han Chinese.
Chronic viral hepatitis is the most important risk factor for progression to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To identify genetic risk factors for progression to HCC in individuals with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV), we analyzed 467,538 SNPs in 212 Japanese individuals with chronic HCV with HCC and 765 individuals with chronic HCV without HCC. We identified one intronic SNP in the DEPDC5 locus on chromosome 22 associated with HCC risk and confirmed the association using an independent case-control population (710 cases and 1,625 controls). The association was highly significant when we analyzed the stages separately as well as together (rs1012068, P(combined) = 1.27 × 10(-13), odds ratio = 1.75). The significance level of the association further increased after adjustment for gender, age and platelet count (P = 1.35 × 10(-14), odds ratio = 1.96). Our findings suggest that common variants within the DEPDC5 locus affect susceptibility to HCC in Japanese individuals with chronic HCV infection.
To describe a case of the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) after administration of vinorelbine (VNB) for recurrence of lung cancer.
A 76-year-old man underwent bronchial arterial infusion (BAI) of VNB for postoperative recurrence of lung cancer. Seven days later, hyponatremia and natriuresis developed. Based on his clinical and laboratory findings, we diagnosed him with SIADH. He improved within a couple of days with fluid restriction only.
Administration of VNB may potentially cause SIADH. This is the second report of the SIADH caused by VNB. It is important to monitor the serum sodium level and clinical findings after chemotherapy with VNB.
Wernicke Encephalopathy (WE) is a severe neurological disease caused by vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency, which is potentially treatable if early diagnosed. This is the clinical case of a young female patient, with renal insufficiency on haemodialysis, who has been submitted to an abdominal surgery. After the intervention, there were difficulties on beginning with enteric nutrition. Some days later she developed gait imbalance. A Brain Magnetic Resonance (MR) was performed and disclosed abnormalities suggestive of WE. After treatment with thiamine, the patient became asymptomatic. Brain MR is crucial for the confirmation of the diagnosis and early detection of WE, as the imagiologic pattern is typical and the clinical diagnosis is frequently difficult to obtain.
For the first time a causal treatment of hepatic encephalopathy may be possible by the benzodiazepine antagonist flumazenil. In contrast to all other treatments used so far by flumazenil hepatic encephalopathy improves within minutes. Flumazenil is the first benzodiazepine antagonist which can be used in humans and is a well established for treatment of benzodiazepine overdose. For treatment of hepatic encephalopathy development of a new antagonist with a longer half-life is desirable. However, ut should be stressed that the current experience with flumazenil is limited and that the effects of flumazenil on hepatic encephalopathy is not proven by randomized controlled studies. Therefore, this drug should only be used in clinical studies.
In 2004, multiple myeloma was diagnosed in more than 15,000 people in the United States and will account for approximately 20% of deaths due to hematologic malignancies. Although traditional therapies such as melphalan (Alkeran)/prednisone, combination chemotherapy with VAD (vincristine, doxorubicin [Adriamycin], and dexamethasone), and high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation have shown some success, median survival remains between 3 to 5 years. Treatment options for patients with multiple myeloma have increased in recent years, with the promise of improvement in survival. New agents, such as the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (Velcade), the antiangiogenic and immunomodulator thalidomide (Thalomid) and its analogs, such as lenalidomide (Revlimid), together with other small molecules, including arsenic trioxide (Trisenox), and other targeted therapies, have been studied alone and in combination with other antineoplastic therapies, either as induction therapy prior to stem cell transplantation or in patients with relapsed disease. Bortezomib recently was approved in the United States for the treatment of multiple myeloma in patients who have received at least one prior therapy. The use of bortezomib-based regimens as front-line therapy as well as the use of other agents in multiple myeloma remain under investigation, and approvals for both thalidomide and lenalidomide are hoped for soon, with the overall prospect of patient outcome continuing to be increasingly positive.
To compare, in 305 patients with advanced metastatic melanoma, temozolomide and dacarbazine (DTIC) in terms of overall survival, progression-free survival (PFS), objective response, and safety, and to assess health-related quality of life (QOL) and pharmacokinetics of both drugs and their metabolite, 5-(3-methyltriazen-1-yl)imidazole-4-carboximide (MTIC).
Patients were randomized to receive either oral temozolomide at a starting dosage of 200 mg/m(2)/d for 5 days every 28 days or intravenous (IV) DTIC at a starting dosage of 250 mg/m(2)/d for 5 days every 21 days.
In the intent-to-treat population, median survival time was 7.7 months for patients treated with temozolomide and 6.4 months for those treated with DTIC (hazards ratio, 1.18; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.92 to 1.52). Median PFS time was significantly longer in the temozolomide-treated group (1.9 months) than in the DTIC-treated group (1.5 months) (P =.012; hazards ratio, 1.37; 95% CI, 1.07 to 1.75). No major difference in drug safety was observed. Temozolomide was well tolerated and produced a noncumulative, transient myelosuppression late in the 28-day cycle. The most common nonhematologic toxicities were mild to moderate nausea and vomiting, which were easily managed. Temozolomide therapy improved health-related QOL; more patients showed improvement or maintenance of physical functioning at week 12. Systemic exposure (area under the curve) to the parent drug and the active metabolite, MTIC, was higher after treatment with oral temozolomide than after IV administration of DTIC.
Temozolomide demonstrates efficacy equal to that of DTIC and is an oral alternative for patients with advanced metastatic melanoma.
The genes for two copper-transporting ATPases, ATP7A and ATP7B, are defective in the heritable disorders of copper imbalance, Menkes disease (MNK) and Wilson disease (WND), respectively. A comparison of the two proteins shows extensive conservation in the signature domains, with amino acid identities outside of the conserved domains being limited. The mutation spectra of MNK and WND were compared to confirm and refine further regions critical for normal function. Mutations were found to be relatively widespread; however, the majority was concentrated within defined functional domains and membrane-spanning segments, reinforcing the importance of these regions for protein function. Of the total published point mutations in ATP7A, 23.0% are splice-site, 20.7% nonsense, 17.2% missense, and 39.1% small insertions/deletions. There is a high prevalence (58.2%) of missense mutations in ATP7B. For the other mutations in ATP7B, 7.4% are splice-site, 7.4% nonsense, and 27.0% small insertions/deletions. A region of possible importance is the intervening sequence between the last copper-binding domain and the first transmembrane helix, as this region has a high percentage of MNK mutations. Similarly, the region containing the ATP-binding domain has 24.6% of all WND mutations. The study of mutation locations is useful for defining critical regions or residues and for efficient molecular diagnosis.
p27 is a cell cycle suppressor gene, whose protein is a negative regulator of cyclin/cdk complexes. p27 is also a potential target of retinoids in cancer prevention studies. In benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH), and in most carcinomas, p27(Kip1) is down-regulated, suggesting its potential resistance to retinoids. To test this hypothesis, we examined the efficacy of 9-cis retinoic acid (9cRA) to suppress prostate cell proliferation (PECP) and carcinogenesis in p27(Kip1) deficient mice.
p27(Kip1) deficient (-/-), heterozygous (+/-) and homozygous (+/+) mice were treated for 7 days with testosterone, 9cRA, or with both, and cell proliferation in dorsolateral prostate (DLP) was determined by BrdU labeling. Prostate carcinogenesis was induced by N-Methyl-N-Nitrosourea (MNU) and hormone stimulation.
PECP in DLP of two-month-old mice of all genotypes was similar but significantly increased in old p27-/- mice only. Testosterone treatment increased PECP in all three p27 genotypes with the highest values in p27-/- mice. p27(Kip1) deficiency did not affect the response of PEC to 9cRA and to 9cRA+testosterone. The decrease of p27(Kip1) in p27+/- and p27-/- mice progressively increased the incidence and frequency of PIN and tumors. 9cRA suppressed PIN in all three p27 genotypes and this was associated with decreased PECP and increased cellular senescence.
This data indicates that p27(Kip1) deficiency promotes prostate cell proliferation and carcinogenesis but does not affect 9cRA's potential to suppress prostate carcinogenesis, suggesting that patients with PIN and carcinomas lacking or having a low level of p27(Kip1) expression may also benefit from clinical trials with retinoids.
Although acute treatment of pentamidine does not directly modify any ionic channel function in the heart at clinically relevant concentrations, its continuous exposure can prolong QT interval. Recent in vitro studies have indicated that hERG trafficking inhibition may play an important role in the onset of pentamidine-induced long QT syndrome. In this study, we examined acute in vivo electropharmacological effects of pentamidine using the halothane-anesthetized canine model (n = 5). The clinically relevant total dose of 4 mg/kg of pentamidine (namely, 1 mg/kg, i.v. over 10 min followed by 3 mg/kg, i.v. over 10 min with a pause of 20 min) decreased the mean blood pressure, ventricular contraction, preload to the left ventricle, and peripheral vascular resistance. Pentamidine also enhanced the atrioventricular conduction in parallel with its cardiohemodynamic actions, but it gradually prolonged both the ventricular repolarization period and effective refractory period, whereas no significant change was detected in the intraventricular conduction. Thus, acute administration of a clinically relevant dose of pentamidine can suppress cardiac function and vascular tone with reflex-mediated increase of sympathetic activity, whereas it may delay the repolarization process, suggesting that inhibition of potassium-channel trafficking might be induced more acutely in vivo than those previously expected in vitro.
Magnesium sulphate administration was initially reported to reduce postoperative analgesic requirements. Subsequent reports, though, were inconsistent. Specifically, we tested the hypotheses that intraoperative magnesium sulfate administration reduces postoperative requirement for opioids, secondary outcomes were intraoperative muscle relaxant, sevoflurane consumptions and postoperative pain.
Fifty American society of anesthesiology status (ASA) I-II patients who gave a written informed consent were scheduled for elective lumbar disc surgery. The Institutional Review Board approved the study. Patients were randomly assigned to the placebo group (n = 25) or magnesium group (n = 25). Patients assigned to the magnesium group were given an initial infusion of 30 mg/kg (over 10 minutes) starting immediately after anesthesia and completed before intubation. The infusion was then continued at 10 mg/kg/hr throughout surgery. General anesthesia was induced with propofol, 2.5 mg/kg, and maintained with sevoflurane 2 percent in a 50 percent O2/50 percent N2O mixture. The sevoflurane concentration was adjusted to keep bispectral index (BIS) values between 45 and 60. Both groups were given atracurium, 0.6 mg/kg, and a remifentanil infusion at an initial dose of 0.1 mg/kg/h. The remifentanil infusion was adjusted to maintain heart rate and mean arterial pressure (MAP) within 20 percent of baseline values. Atracurium administration was repeated when the train of four (TOF) ratio exceeded 0.30. Intubation conditions were scored. At the end of surgery, the authors assessed recovery using early recovery criteria and Aldrete recovery scores. Postoperative analgesia was maintained with morphine via patient-controlled analgesia.
Heart rate, MAP and pulse oximetry (SPO2) values were similar in the groups at all times. Intubating conditions were similar except that the increase in MAP was greater in the placebo group. Neither BIS values nor sevoflurane consumption differed between the groups; however, significantly less atracurium [95% CI = 4.1 (2.8, 5.5)] and remifentanil [95% CI = 0.14 (0.07, 0.20)] was used in the magnesium group. Side effects, Aldrete scores, and early recovery parameters were all similar in the groups. In the first 24 hours, visual analogue scale (VAS) values for pain were greater in the placebo than in the magnesium group. The magnesium group consumed significantly less morphine [95% CI = 11 (6, 16)].
Intraoperative magnesium administration significantly reduced muscle relaxant and opioid requirements; more importantly, it also reduced postoperative pain and opioid use.
A report is given on the control of the course of 36 patients with progressive chronic polyarthritis under treatment of D-penicillamine. Despite the favourable therapeutic effect side effects of various kinds are observed. As the severest complication the development of renal disturbances with proteinuria is to be regarded. With the help of the disc electrophoresis of the urine it is possible to establish the beginning disturbances of the permeability of the basal membrane and to achieve a retrogression by reduction of the dose or finishing of the treatment with the medicament, respectively.
We measured the intracranial pressure, using a subdural catheter in three patients admitted with grade 4 hepatic encephalopathy following paracetamol (aminocetaphen) self poisoning. Acute oliguric renal failure was present in all cases and was treated with daily intermittent machine haemofiltration. Hypovolaemia prior to treatment was corrected and a total of 14 isovolaemic 17 litre exchanges carried out using either a Gambro FH77 (8) or Hospal 3600 (6) haemofilter. Intracranial pressure (ICP) increased during treatment with both types of filter, but the increase was greater in the Gambro FH77 treated group, mean ICP increased from 7.6 +/- 2 mmHg to 12 +/- 3 mmHg at 3 hours (p less than 0.05), this was associated with a greater fall in the percentage change from the pretreatment value of both arterial oxygen tension and total peripheral white blood cell count during the first hour of treatment compared to the Hospal 3600 treated group, 8 +/- 2% vs 1 +/- 2% (p less than 0.05) and 5 +/- 2% vs 3 +/- 2% (p less than 0.05). This suggests that membrane biocompatibility may also play a role in the development of increased intracranial pressure during intermittent machine haemofiltration.
To investigate the efficacy of nasal sumatriptan in migraine attacks of children and adolescents.
A double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-way crossover trial was conducted in three hospital outpatient departments, with 8 to 17 year olds diagnosed with migraine serving as subjects (International Headache Society 1988). A single dose of sumatriptan nasal spray and a matching placebo were administered at home during two attacks. The sumatriptan dose was 10 mg for a body weight of 20 to 39 kg and 20 mg for those with a body weight of >/==" BORDER="0">40 kg. The primary efficacy endpoint was headache relief by two grades on a 5-grade face scale at 2 hours.
Eighty-three patients used both treatments and 11 only the first. At 2 hours, the primary endpoint was reached nearly twice as often after sumatriptan (n = 53/83; 64%) as after placebo (n = 32/83; 39%) (p = 0.003). Already at 1 hour, headache relief was seen more often after sumatriptan (n = 42/83; 51%) than after placebo (n = 24/83; 29%) (p = 0.014). The difference was even more obvious in patients who received the 20-mg dose as well as in the intention-to-treat analyses (n = 94). Other endpoints, including child's preference and using rescue medication, also favored sumatriptan. The most common adverse effect was a bad taste after sumatriptan, reported in 29% (n = 26/90) of the attacks. No serious adverse effects were observed.
Nasal sumatriptan is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for migraine attacks in children over 8 years of age.
Fatigue is the most common side effect of chemotherapy. However, the mechanisms of "muscle fatigue" induced by anti-cancer drugs are not fully understood. We therefore investigated the muscle-atrophic effect of cisplatin, a platinum-based anti-cancer drug, in mice. C57BL/6J mice were treated with cisplatin (3mg/kg, i.p.) or saline for 4 consecutive days. On Day 5, hindlimb and quadriceps muscles were isolated from mice. The loss of body weight and food intake under the administration of cisplatin was the same as those in a dietary restriction (DR) group. Under the present conditions, the administration of cisplatin significantly decreased not only the muscle mass of the hindlimb and quadriceps but also the myofiber diameter, compared to those in the DR group. The mRNA expression levels of muscle atrophy F-box (MAFbx), muscle RING finger-1 (MuRF1) and forkhead box O3 (FOXO3) were significantly and further increased by cisplatin treated group, compared to DR. Furthermore, the mRNA levels of myostatin and p21 were significantly upregulated by the administration of cisplatin, compared to DR. On the other hand, the phosphorylation of Akt and FOXO3a, which leads to the blockade of the upregulation of MuRF1 and MAFbx, was significantly and dramatically decreased by cisplatin. These findings suggest that the administration of cisplatin increases atrophic gene expression, and may lead to an imbalance between protein synthesis and protein degradation pathways, which would lead to muscle atrophy. This phenomenon could, at least in part, explain the mechanism of cisplatin-induced muscle fatigue.
Until recently, severe paradoxic responses to disopyramide have been believed to occur only, if at all, at extremely high doses. This credo has been shaken by some recent reports on severe ventricular tachyarrhythmias occurring in some patients on disopyramide. A further case (62 years, female, mitral commissurotomy in 1966, combined mitral valve lesion) is presented in whom a normal oral regimen (100 mg disopyramide four times daily) induced syncope due to ventricular tachycardia and flutter. The patient exhibited a long QT time before medication without deafness. Indication for treatment was the preservation of sinus rhythm as intermittent atrial fibrillation or flutter has been documented before. The serum potassium level was in the range of normal. Similar side-effects occurred some days later when the patient received quinidine sulfate. A survey of the most recent literature reveals a total of 20 patients with proven or suspected paradoxic responses to disopyramide. Factors that might favour the occurrence of paradoxic effects were preexisting QT prolongation, hypokaliemia, or massive overdosage. Though the total incidence of these side-effects seems to be relatively low, disopyramide should be given to special subgroups of patients only under careful monitoring.
To evaluate the incidence of clinically relevant cardiac toxicity after treatment with epirubicin/paclitaxel-containing regimens in patients with metastatic breast cancer and to identify high-risk patients in whom the benefit of chemotherapy may be negated by the occurrence of congestive heart failure (CHF).
A total of 105 patients who were referred for epirubicin/paclitaxel treatment were included in this study. Treatment regimens were as follows: (1) epirubicin 90 mg/m(2) plus paclitaxel 135 to 225 mg/m(2) over 3 hours (n = 76); and (2) gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 4 plus epirubicin/paclitaxel (n = 29). The occurrence of CHF was detected by physical examination, and left ventricular function was evaluated by bidimensional echocardiography to support the diagnosis. Cardiac risk factors examined in this study included age, prior radiotherapy to the chest, hypertension, and diabetes.
No patient experienced CHF while on treatment. Nine patients (9%) developed CHF after cumulative epirubicin doses of 1,080 mg/m(2) (n = 4), 720 mg/m(2) (n = 2), 630 mg/m(2) (n = 1), and 540 mg/m(2) (n = 2). One of the two patients who developed CHF after a cumulative epirubicin dose of 540 mg/m(2) had received consolidation with high-dose chemotherapy. Median time to appearance of cardiologic symptoms was 3 months after the end of treatment (range, 3 to 6 months). Overall, the incidence of CHF was 13% and 4% in patients with or without cardiac risk factors, respectively. The cumulative risk of developing CHF was estimated as 7.7% at a cumulative doses of 720 mg/m(2) and 48.7% at a cumulative dose of 1,080 mg/m(2).
This study shows that the incidence of CHF after an epirubicin/paclitaxel regimen is low up to cumulative epirubicin doses of 990 mg/m(2), thus allowing the safe administration of this regimen even in patients who received epirubicin in the adjuvant setting. However, the risk of developing CHF increases when a cumulative dose exceeding 990 mg/m(2) is reached, concomitantly with the presence of an additional cardiac risk factor.
Nifedipine has been used in hypertension, mainly as a third-line drug for rapid blood pressure reduction, for over 10 years. More recently it has been shown to be effective and safe in reducing mild to moderate blood pressure when used alone in a slow release formulation. A placebo-controlled study investigating the efficacy and safety of nifedipine in comparison with cyclopenthiazide-potassium has now been carried out by 4 general practitioners in the Glasgow area. Ninety-four patients were entered into the study. After a 4-week placebo run-in phase, patients were randomly allocated to receive either slow-release nifedipine 20 mg b.d., or cyclopenthiazide 0.25 mg with 8.1 mmol potassium daily. The dose was doubled at week 8 for non-responders, and at week 12 the alternative drug was added if there was still no response. The patients were studied for up to 28 weeks. Nifedipine was found to have similar blood pressure lowering efficacy to cyclopenthiazide-potassium, but withdrawals from nifedipine due to side-effects at an early stage were more common.
The authors report 6 cases of fulminant hepatitis in patients treated with isoniazid and rifampin. In 4 of these patients, the treatment had been started within 3 days after a general anesthesia. The course of the disease was remarkably similar in all 6 patients: (1) the time interval from the beginning of the isoniazid-rifampin administration to the onset of jaundice was 6 to 10 days; (2) disorders of consciousness appeared less than 3 days after the onset of jaundice; (3) serum transaminases were 26 to 80 times the upper limit of normal; (4) the main liver lesion was centrilobular necrosis; (5) hypersensitivity manifestations were absent; (6) all 6 patients recovered. Fulminant hepatitis might be attributable to a hepatotoxic metabolite of isoniazid, the production of which would be attributable to a hepatotoxic metabolite of isoniazid, the production of which would be increased as a consequence of the enzyme-inducing effect of rifampin and, possibly, other drugs administered for general anesthesia.
GTP cyclohydrolase 1 is the rate-limiting enzyme in production of tetrahydrobiopterin, a necessary cofactor for endothelial nitric oxide synthase. We tested the hypothesis that inhibition of tetrahydrobiopterin synthesis impairs endothelium-dependent relaxation and increase blood pressure in rats. 2,4-Diamino-6-hydroxypyrimidine (DAHP), a GTP cyclohydrolase 1 inhibitor, was given in drinking water (approximately 120 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) to male Sprague-Dawley rats for 3 days. Systolic blood pressures were measured (tail-cuff procedure) for 3 days before and each day during DAHP treatment. Blood pressure was significantly increased after DAHP treatment (122 +/- 2 vs. 154 +/- 3 mmHg before and after DAHP, respectively; P < 0.05). Endothelium-intact aortic segments from pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized rats were isolated and hung in organ chambers for measurement of isometric force generation. Aortas from DAHP-treated rats exhibited a decreased maximal relaxation to ACh compared with controls [% relaxation from phenylephrine (10-7 M)-induced contraction: DAHP 57 +/- 6% vs. control 79 +/- 4%; P < 0.05]. Relaxation responses to A-23187 were also decreased in aortas from DAHP-treated rats compared with controls. Incubation with sepiapterin (10-4 M, 1 h), which produces tetrahydrobiopterin via a salvage pathway, restored relaxation to ACh in aortas from DAHP-treated rats. Superoxide dismutase significantly increased ACh-induced relaxation in aortas from DAHP-treated rats, whereas catalase had no effect. Endothelium-independent relaxation to sodium nitroprusside in aortas from DAHP-treated rats was not different from control rats; however, nitric oxide synthase inhibition increased sensitivity to sodium nitroprusside in aortas from DAHP-treated rats. These results support the hypothesis that GTP cyclohydrolase 1 inhibition decreases relaxation and increases blood pressure in rats.
Reelin and GAD(67) expression is downregulated in cortical interneurons of schizophrenia (SZ) patients. This downregulation is probably mediated by epigenetic hypermethylation of the respective promoters caused by the selective increase of DNA-methyltransferase 1 in GABAergic neurons. Mice receiving methionine (MET) provide an epigenetic model for neuropathologies related to SZ. We studied whether MET-induced epigenetic reelin promoter hypermethylation and the associated behavioral alterations can be reduced by valproate in doses that inhibit histone deacetylases (HDACs).
Mice treated with either methionine (MET) (5.2 mmol/kg/SC/twice daily) or valproate (1.5 mmol/kg/SC/twice daily) or MET+ valproate combination were tested for prepulse inhibition of startle (PPI) and social interaction (SI). S-adenosylmethionine, acetylated histone 3, reelin promoter methylation, and reelin mRNA were assayed in the frontal cortex.
Valproate enhances acetylated histone 3 content, and prevents MET-induced reelin promoter hypermethylation, reelin mRNA downregulation, and PPI and SI deficits. Imidazenil, a positive allosteric modulator at GABA(A) receptors containing alpha(5) subunits but inactive at receptors including alpha(1) subunits, normalizes MET-induced behavioral changes.
This MET-induced epigenetic mouse models the neurochemical and behavioral aspects of SZ that can be corrected by positively modulating the action of GABA at alpha(5)-containing GABA(A) receptors with imidazenil or by inhibiting HDACs with valproate, thus opening exciting new avenues for treatment of epigenetically modified chromatin in SZ morbidity.
The environmental man-made pollutant 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) has profound and deleterious effects on the endocrine system, and the pituitary gland is among TCDD endocrine target organs. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of TCDD (1 pM, 0.1 nM and 1 nM) on the AtT-20 pituitary cell line. TCDD induces cell death, with morphological and biochemical changes indicating the occurrence of both apoptotic and necrotic cell death. Exposed cells exhibited apoptotic features including DNA condensation, activation of caspase-3 and exposure of phosphatidylserine (PS) on the outer plasma membrane. Concomitantly, cells with necrotic morphology such as cell swelling and plasma membrane damage were also present. The relative level of Fas ligand mRNA was increased after TCDD exposure, as well as Fas and Fas ligand protein levels detected by Western blotting and immunocytochemistry. Taken together, the results suggest that TCDD induces both necrosis and apoptosis in the pituitary AtT-20 cells and that the Fas/FasL system plays a critical role in inducing necrotic cell death rather than apoptosis (supported by the Swedish Research Council).
Cocaine dependence (CD) and related behaviors are highly heritable, but no genetic association has been consistently demonstrated. A recent genome-wide study of drug dependence identified an association between cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP) and a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the alpha-endomannosidase (MANEA) locus in a family-based sample of European Americans and African Americans.
To conduct a comprehensive genetic association study of the MANEA locus with CD and CIP.
Genome-wide association study.
Four university hospitals.
A total of 3992 individuals from 2 family-based and 2 case-control samples.
Participants were classified as having CD or CIP or as a control using the Semi-Structured Assessment for Drug Dependence and Alcoholism. They were genotyped for 11 SNPs spanning MANEA and its surrounding region.
Association of CD and CIP with individual SNPs and haplotypes.
Cocaine-induced paranoia was associated with 6 SNPs in the European American families and 9 SNPs in the African American families. The strongest evidence in the total sample of families was observed in 3 markers located in the promoter and 3' untranslated regions (P < .001). The association of MANEA SNPs with CD in both family samples was much weaker. In the African American case-control sample, multiple markers were significantly associated with CIP and CD; CIP and CD were also significantly associated with a 2-SNP haplotype in the European American case-control sample. The A allele of the 3' untranslated region SNP rs9387522 was associated with increased risk of CIP in all 4 data sets.
Our findings suggest that CD and associated behaviors may involve biological pathways not typically thought to be associated with brain metabolism.
Diabetic nephropathy involves a renal inflammatory response induced by the diabetic milieu. Macrophages accumulate in diabetic kidneys in association with the local upregulation of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1); however, the contribution of macrophages to renal injury and the importance of MCP-1 to their accrual are unclear. Therefore, we examined the progression of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic nephropathy in mice deficient in MCP-1 in order to explore the role of MCP-1-mediated macrophage accumulation in the development of diabetic kidney damage. Renal pathology was examined at 2, 8, 12 and 18 weeks after STZ treatment in MCP-1 intact (+/+) and deficient (-/-) mice with equivalent blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c levels. In MCP-1(+/+) mice, the development of diabetic nephropathy was associated with increased kidney MCP-1 production, which occurred mostly in tubules, consistent with our in vitro finding that elements of the diabetic milieu (high glucose and advanced glycation end products) directly stimulate tubular MCP-1 secretion. Diabetes of 18 weeks resulted in albuminuria and elevated plasma creatinine in MCP-1(+/+) mice, but these aspects of renal injury were largely suppressed in MCP-1(-/-) mice. Protection from nephropathy in diabetic MCP-1(-/-) mice was associated with marked reductions in glomerular and interstitial macrophage accumulation, histological damage and renal fibrosis. Diabetic MCP-1(-/-) mice also had a smaller proportion of kidney macrophages expressing markers of activation (inducible nitric oxide synthase or sialoadhesin) compared to diabetic MCP-1(+/+) mice. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that MCP-1-mediated macrophage accumulation and activation plays a critical role in the development of STZ-induced mouse diabetic nephropathy.
Although activation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is known to produce ventricular remodeling and congestive heart failure (CHF), its role in inducing changes in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) protein and gene expression in CHF is not fully understood. In this study, CHF was induced in rats by ligation of the left coronary artery for 3 weeks and then the animals were treated orally with or without an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, enalapril (10 mg/kg/day) or an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, losartan (20 mg/kg/day) for 4 weeks. Sham-operated animals were used as control. The animals were hemodynamically assessed and protein content as well as gene expression of SR Ca(2+)-release channel (ryanodine receptor, RYR), Ca(2+)-pump ATPase (SERCA2), phospholamban (PLB) and calsequestrin (CQS) were determined in the left ventricle (LV). The infarcted animals showed cardiac hypertrophy, lung congestion, depression in LV +dP/dt and -dP/dt, as well as increase in LV end diastolic pressure. Both protein content and mRNA levels for RYR, SERCA2 and PLB were decreased without any changes in CQS in the failing heart. These alterations in LV function as well as SR protein and gene expression in CHF were partially prevented by treatment with enalapril or losartan. The results suggest that partial improvement in LV function by enalapril and losartan treatments may be due to partial prevention of changes in SR protein and gene expression in CHF and that these effects may be due to blockade of the RAS.
The transcription factor WT1 plays an important role in cellular proliferation and survival of various cancer cells, and is frequently expressed in pancreatic cancer. Curcumin has been shown to be a potentially effective agent in pancreatic cancer. In this context, the purpose of this study was to determine the role of WT1 in a curcumin-treated pancreatic cancer cell line. To study the effect of curcumin on the expression of WT1, we incubated the pancreatic cancer cell line PANC-1 with different amounts of curcumin. The expression of WT1 on mRNA and protein level was measured with real-time RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. The incubation of the pancreatic cancer cell line PANC-1 with curcumin resulted in an inhibition of cellular proliferation as measured with MTT assay. The expression of WT1 on mRNA and protein level was significantly down-regulated in a concentration-dependent manner after treatment with curcumin. The WT1 mRNA levels were decreased by 20%, 25%, 40%, 78% and 88% in response to 10, 20, 30, 40 and 50 microM curcumin. The use of small inhibitory RNA (siRNA) targeting WT1 down-regulated the expression of WT1 about 90%. Combined treatment with curcumin and siRNA targeting WT1 resulted in a significant inhibition of cell proliferation compared to curcumin-treated cells alone. In conclusion, WT1 is involved in cellular proliferation of PANC-1 cells. Targeting WT1 gene expression with siRNA may enhance the efficacy of curcumin to inhibit cell proliferation.
