Bupivacaine and etidocaine are local anesthetics said to be long acting based on nerve block data. There are insufficient data on pain of infiltration and duration of anesthesia when either is used for dermal infiltration to assess suitability for skin surgery.
We conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded comparison of intradermal 1% etidocaine, 0.5% bupivacaine, and 2% lidocaine for pain of injection and duration of anesthesia.
Twenty subjects received the above three agents plus normal saline, each with and without epinephrine 1:200,000, with all solutions adjusted to pH 5.95 +/- 0.15.
Lidocaine hurt least and etidocaine hurt most. Adrenalized solutions were more painful than plain. For plain solutions bupivacaine lasted longest and lidocaine lasted shortest by far. For adrenalized solutions bupivacaine lasted 27% longer than lidocaine and 45% longer than etidocaine.
Where epinephrine is contraindicated and long anesthesia matters, use plain bupivacaine. When epinephrine can be used, lidocaine lasts almost as long as bupivacaine and hurts less.
Tobramycin sulphate, a bactericidal aminoglycoside antibiotic, has been evaluated worldwide in 3,506 patients. Drug-related adverse effects were reported by the investigators in 3.9% of the cases, and included reactions in the nervous system (ototoxicity) in 0.6% and in the kidney in 1.5%. Effects of doubtful relationship to tobramycin occurred in 6.6% of the cases. The effects were usually reversible, although infrequently altered renal or eighth-nerve function appeared to persist in some of the patients. There were no deaths or instances of renal shutdown as a result of tobramycin therapy. Therefore, under the clinical conditions in which it was evaluated, tobramycin appeared to be well tolerated. The association of toxicity with various "risk factors" is discussed.
Two-hundred and eighty-six liver biopsies were performed in 139 psoriatics on treatment or considered for treatment with methotrexate. In 56 psoriatics included in this study both pre- and post-methotrexate biopsies were performed, the average methotrexate dose being 936 mg. None of the data showed statistically significant differences between pre- and post-methotrexate biopsies, with the exception of an increase in fattly infiltration, found when comparing all pre-methotrexate biopsies with the total number of latest post-methotrexate samples. As expected, alcohol seemed to be significantly associated with liver fibrosis in pre-methotrexate biopsies. An patients, although potassium arsenite alone has not been proved to be the cause of liver damage among psoriatics included in this study. While only 1 of 22 psoriatics with a total normal biopsy had been on arsenite, 6 of 18 of the same group of psoriatics who had fibrosis had been on this drug earlier. Although no statistically significant differences related to fibrosis and cirrhosis could that in three cases liver cirrhosis did appear in a biopsy from a methotrexate-treated psoriatic who had signs of fibrosis of cirrhosis in a pre-methotrexate biopsy. This incidence is low in relation to the total number of patients treated. The relatively low incidence of cirrhosis found in the present study, as in earlier studies by our group is believed to be due to the use of an intermittent dosage schedule. The study showed that early fibrosis and cirrhosis seem to appear, with very minor abnormalities in laboratory results. This finding indicates the necessity of performing liver biopsies in the control of psoriatics on long-term methotrexate therapy. The difference between biopsies from psoriatics and liver biopsies from control patients may indicate that severity of disease may be a complicating factor in the pathogenesis of the liver damage.
Little is known about the toxicity of sildenafil overdose in the pediatric population. We present a case of prolonged priapism and tachycardia due to unintentional sildenafil overdose in a child.
A 19-month-old male ingested up to six 50 mg Viagra tablets 45 minutes prior to presentation at the emergency department. Initial vital signs included temperature 98.2 degrees F, blood pressure 90/58 mmHg, heart rate 140, respirations 20, and oxygen saturation of 100% on room air. The child weighed 10.4 kg. Physical exam revealed a happy, smiling, laughing toddler who was cooperative with all aspects of his exam. He had mild facial flushing and an erect penis which was normal in color and had a capillary refill of two seconds. Precordial palpation did not show evidence of increase dynamic force, his heart sounds were regular, and no ectopy was noted. His peripheral pulses were strong and regular in all four extremities. No gastrointestinal decontamination was performed. The patient was started on maintenance IV fluids and admitted to the pediatric floor for observation. The patient had a non-painful tumescent penis and mild tachycardia for about 24 hours post-ingestion. The child never had pain from the constant erection. Sildenafil concentration drawn approximately seven hours after ingestion was 3900 ng/ml (reporting limit 24 ng/ml) and N-desmethylsildenafil level was 1700 ng/ml (reporting limit 24 ng/ml).
This case of pediatric sildenafil ingestion (up to 30 mg/kg) initially resulted in facial flushing and priapism. The child had asymptomatic tachycardia and prolonged priapism that persisted until hospital discharge approximately 24 hours after ingestion. The erection was non-painful and required no urologic intervention, most likely representing a high flow state. In this ingestion, only supportive care was required.
Common biological effects by all three conventional anti-bipolar drugs, the lithium ion (Li(+)), carbamazepine, and valproic acid, are important because identical effects may provide information about the pathophysiology of affective disorders. It has been reported that chronic treatment with either drug in vivo down-regulates the turnover of arachidonic acid in brain. This reaction is catalyzed by Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)), the expression of which was down-regulated by Li(+) or carbamazepine but not by valproic acid; expression of two other PLA subtypes, iPLA(2) and sPLA(2) was unaffected. cPLA(2) is amply expressed in astrocytes, and in the present study, effects of 1-4 weeks of treatment with clinically relevant concentrations of each of the three anti-bipolar drugs on cPLA(2), iPLA(2), and sPLA(2) mRNA and protein expression were determined in primary cultures of mouse astrocytes by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunoblotting.
Two or more weeks treatment with Li(+) concentrations below 2 mM, carbamazepine or valproic acid up-regulated mRNA and protein expression of cPLA(2), but had no effect on iPLA(2) and sPLA(2), showing enzyme specificity. The effect occurred more rapidly at higher than lower concentrations but also tended to end after 4 weeks at the higher concentrations. Two millimolar Li(+) caused an initial increase of cPLA(2) followed by a decrease after 3 and 4 weeks. Topiramate had no effect, indicating specificity for anti-bipolar drugs.
Both up- and down-regulation of cPLA(2) gene expression are involved in the mechanisms of action of anti-bipolar drugs; astrocytes are a target for these drugs.
Microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) is a unique modifier protein. LC3-I, the cytosolic form, is modified to LC3-II, the membrane-bound form, by a mechanism similar to ubiquitylation by E1- and E2-like enzymes, Apg7p and Apg3p, respectively. In the present study, we found that LC3-I is processed to LC3-II during the differentiation and recovery from puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis of podocytes. LC3 is especially expressed in the podocytes of rat kidney as the membrane-bound form LC3-II. Biochemical analysis using a conditionally immortalized mouse podocyte clone (MPC) revealed that LC3-I is processed to LC3-II during the differentiation of cells into mature podocytes and accumulates in the membrane-rich fraction of the cell lysate. LC3-II-localized vesicles, which differ from lysosomes and endosomes, in differentiated MPC cells are morphologically similar to autophagic vacuoles during starvation-induced autophagy. During starvation-induced autophagy, autophagosomes fuses with lysosome and LC3-II on autophagosomes is finally degraded by lysosomal proteases. However, in differentiated MPC cells, little LC3-II on the vesicles is degraded by lysosomal proteases, suggesting that little LC3-II-localized vesicles in differentiated MPC cells fuse with lysosome. Furthermore, the LC3-II level in differentiated MPC cells increases with recovery from damage caused by experimental puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis. These results suggest that LC3-II-localized vesicles play an important role in the physiological function of podocytes.
DAP12 (also known as KARAP) is a novel ITAM-bearing transmembrane adapter molecule that is expressed on the cell surface of natural killer cells, monocytes, dendritic cells, and macrophages. Several myeloid cell-specific DAP12-associating receptors, such as TREM receptor family, SIRP-beta1, and MDL-1 have been identified. The in vivo function of DAP12 and its associating molecules in inflammation has remained primarily unknown. To investigate DAP12 signaling during chronic inflammation, we constructed two adenoviral gene transfer vectors to express FLAG/DAP12 (Ad-FDAP12) and the extracellular domain of mouse TREM-1 and the Fc portion of human IgG1 (Ad-TREM-1 Ig), respectively, and observed their modulatory activities in a mouse model of hepatic granulomatous inflammation elicited by zymosan A. Mice were injected with zymosan A intravenously and 24 hours after zymosan A, they were injected with Ad-FDAP12 or Ad-TREM-1 Ig. Zymosan A-induced hepatic granuloma formation peaked at day 7 and markedly declined by day 10. Although adenoviral-mediated DAP12 gene transfer did not enhance granuloma formation by day 7, it sustained and enhanced granuloma formation beyond day 7. However, an anti-FLAG monoclonal antibody used to potentiate the signaling of adenoviral-derived DAP12, enhanced granuloma formation at day 7. In sharp contrast to the effect by Ad-FDAP12, transgene expression in the liver of soluble form of extracellular domain of TREM-1 as an antagonist of DAP12 signaling, remarkably inhibited zymosan A-induced granuloma formation at all time points examined. Our findings thus suggest that both DAP12 and TREM-1 are involved in the development of granulomatous responses in the liver.
A retrospective epidemiological study of deaths from hepatic angiosarcoma (HAS) in the U.S. showed that during 1964--74 there were 168 such cases, of which 37 (22%) were associated with previously known causes (vinyl chloride, 'Thorotrast', and inorganic arsenic) and 4 (3.1%) of the remaining 131 cases with the use of androgenic-anabolic steroids. It is suggested that the long-term use of androgenic-anabolic steroids is the fourth cause of HAS, the majority of cases still being of unknown aetiology. Moreover, the presented cases serve as a link in a spectrum of hepatic disorders recently recognised to be caused by environmental agents such as vinyl chloride, arsenic, and thorotrast, and by contraceptive and anabolic steroids. Similar precursor stages, usually not recognised by clinical laboratory tests and consisting of areas of hyperplasia of hepatocytes and sinusoidal cells and sinusoidal dilatation, lead potentially to hepatic adenoma, carcinoma, peliosis, and angiosarcoma.
Severe ballooning of the glomerular tufts was observed in a 65-year-old man who was treated with mitomycin C (MMC) and had typical MMC-induced renal lesions. He developed renal failure and severe anaemia 6 months after initiation of chemotherapy. Ballooned tufts were caused by enormous expansion of the sub-endothelial space simultaneously associated with mesangiolysis. Glomerular cysts, described in a variety of disorders including thrombotic microangiopathy and diabetes mellitus, are derived from cystically dilated and united capillary luminae secondary to mesangiolysis. The morphogenesis of this unusual lesion when induced by MMC differs from that of the glomerular cysts previously reported.
Recent studies on prostanoids showed that some of prostanoid receptors are expressed in rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. These facts suggest that prostanoid receptors might be involved in the excitation mechanism of DRG neurons. In the present study, PCR experiments revealed that one of prostanoid receptor, prostacyclin receptor (IP receptor) was expressed in L6 and S1 rat DRG neurons and that the expression of IP receptor was not changed in DRG neurons obtained from the cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis rat. We examined the functional role of IP receptor agonist and other prostanoids by measuring cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation and substance P (SP) release in primary cultured DRG neurons. The pretreatment of DRG neurons with prostanoid agonists such as iloprost (IP), butaprost (EP(2)), misoprostol (EP(2-4)), PGE(2) (EP(1-4)) or PGD(2) (DP and CRTH2) sensitized the DRG neurons and hence potentiated the lys-bradykinin-induced SP release. The increase of SP release by lys-BK plus prostanoid agonists was proportion to cAMP accumulation. Iloprost was the most potent agonist to induce cAMP accumulation and SP release among prostanoid agonists evaluated in this study and its effect is mediated by IP receptor. Moreover, capsaicin-, ATP- and KCl-induced SP release was also enhanced by iloprost although iloprost did not change intracellular Ca(2+) and membrane depolarization induced by these chemical stimuli. These results strongly indicate that IP receptor play an important role in the sensitization of rat sensory neuron.
Organic peroxides used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries have a reputation for being potent skin tumor promoters and inducers of epidermal hyperplasia. Their ability to trigger free radical generation is critical for their carcinogenic properties. Short-term in vivo exposure of mouse skin to cumene hydroperoxide (Cum-OOH) causes severe oxidative stress and formation of spin-trapped radical adducts. The present study was designed to determine the effectiveness of Cum-OOH compared to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in the induction of tumor promotion in the mouse skin, to identify the involvement of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in oxidative metabolism of Cum-OOH in keratinocytes, and to evaluate morphological changes and outcomes of oxidative stress in skin of SENCAR mice throughout a two-stage carcinogenesis protocol. Dimethyl-benz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-initiated mice were treated with Cum-OOH (32.8 micro mol) or TPA (8.5 nmol) twice weekly for 20 weeks to promote papilloma formation. Skin carcinoma formed only in DMBA/Cum-OOH-exposed mice. Higher levels of oxidative stress and inflammation (as indicated by the accumulation of peroxidative products, antioxidant depletion, and edema formation) were evident in the DMBA/Cum-OOH group compared to DMBA/TPA treated mice. Exposure of keratinocytes (HaCaT) to Cum-OOH for 18 h resulted in expression of COX-2 and increased levels of PGE(2). Inhibitors of COX-2 efficiently suppressed oxidative stress and enzyme expression in the cells treated with Cum-OOH. These results suggest that COX-2-dependent oxidative metabolism is at least partially involved in Cum-OOH-induced inflammatory responses and thus tumor promotion.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is known to improve hyperglycemia of diabetic C57BL/KsJ-db/db mice that are obese and insulin resistant. In a previous study, we reported that DHEA as well as troglitazone suppresses the elevated hepatic gluconeogenic enzymes, glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase) and fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase) activities in C57BL/KsJ-db/db mice. In the present study, we evaluated the changes in mRNA of G6Pase and FBPase in db/db mice. Despite hyperinsulinemia, the G6Pase mRNA level of db/db mice was elevated as compared to their heterozygote littermate db/+m mice. In contrast, the FBPase mRNA level was not elevated in db/db mice. Administration of DHEA for two weeks significantly decreased the blood glucose level and the elevated G6Pase mRNA level in db/db mice. No significant changes were seen in the FBPase mRNA level after the administration of DHEA. Administration of troglitazone also decreased the blood glucose and G6Pase mRNA level in db/db mice although no changes were seen in the FBPase mRNA level. These results suggest that the elevation of G6Pase mRNA is important in elucidating the cause of insulin resistance, and that the G6Pase gene is at least one target for the hypoglycemic effects of DHEA as an insulin sensitizing agent in db/db mice.
Acute encephalopathy and an abnormal electroencephalogram with a periodic sharp wave pattern developed in a 58-year-old woman shortly after she received a few doses of baclofen. The clinical and electroencephalographic abnormalities improved promptly after the medication was discontinued.
Calcium-sensitizing agents improve cardiac function in acute heart failure; however, their long-term effects on cardiovascular mortality are unknown. We tested the hypothesis that levosimendan, an inodilator that acts through calcium sensitization, opening of ATP-dependent potassium channels and phosphodiesterase III inhibition, improves cardiac function and survival in double transgenic rats harboring human renin and angiotensinogen genes (dTGRs), a model of angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced hypertensive heart failure. Levosimendan (1 mg kg(-1)) was administered orally to 4-week-old dTGRs and normotensive Sprague-Dawley rats for 4 weeks. Untreated dTGRs developed severe hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy, heart failure with impaired diastolic relaxation, and exhibited a high mortality rate at the age of 8 weeks. Levosimendan did not decrease blood pressure and did not prevent cardiac hypertrophy. However, levosimendan improved systolic function, decreased cardiac atrial natriuretic peptide mRNA expression, ameliorated Ang II-induced cardiac damage and decreased mortality. Levosimendan did not correct Ang II-induced diastolic dysfunction and did not influence heart rate. In a separate survival study, levosimendan increased dTGR survival by 58% and median survival time by 27% (P=0.004). Our findings suggest that levosimendan ameliorates Ang II-induced hypertensive heart failure and reduces mortality. The results also support the notion that the effects of levosimendan in dTGRs are mediated by blood pressure-independent mechanisms and include improved systolic function and amelioration of Ang II-induced coronary and cardiomyocyte damage.
Cadmium chloride is an environmental toxic that might be implicated in human prostate carcinogenesis. The study was directed: 1) to evaluate the immunoexpression of markers for cell proliferation, apoptosis, and resistance to apoptosis, and 2) to estimate the size of premalignant cell population in the preneoplastic changes induced in ventral prostates of rats treated with cadmium chloride administered in drinking water.
The following parameters were calculated in the ventral prostatic lobe of normal rats and rats that received cadmium in drinking water during 18 months: total volume, epithelial volume, total number of epithelial cells, numerical density of epithelial cells, percentage of cells that immunostained to the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), percentage of apoptotic cells (evaluated by a DNA fragmentation method), and absolute volume and volume fraction of immunostaining to bcl-2.
The percentage of PCNA immunoreactive nuclei, the bcl-2 expression, and the numerical density of epithelial cells were significantly (P < 0.05) increased in the dysplastic prostatic acini of treated rats in comparison with the normal acini of treated rats and control animals. The percentage of apoptotic nuclei from ventral dysplastic acini was significantly (P < 0.05) decreased in comparison with that of normal acini. A negative correlation between proliferation and apoptosis was found in dysplastic lesions.
Prostate epithelial dysplasia induced in rats by cadmium presents an increased proliferative activity and high expression of bcl-2 protein, as was described in human prostate intraepithelial neoplasia. However, the rate of apoptosis in rat dysplasia was importantly decreased, in contrast to that observed in some human preneoplastic changes. This decrease might be related to the increase of bcl-2 expression.
The effects of local anesthetics (procaine and lidocaine) on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and L-glutamic acid (Glu) levels in rat spinal cord were studied during the convulsive process. The present study also investigated the influence of central GABA manipulations on the local anesthetic-induced convulsions. An increase in spinal GABA levels was observed at the preconvulsive and convulsive states after administration of procaine (170 mg/kg, i.p.) or lidocaine (120 mg/kg, i.p.), which induced clonic convulsions; in the depressive state, GABA levels returned to normal; in all states, Glu levels were unchanged. Semicarbazide (25-100 mg/kg, i.p.), a glutamic acid decarboxylase inhibitor, produced a decrease in spinal GABA content and strongly enhanced both local anesthetic-induced convulsions as shown by a shortening of the latency and an increase in the mortality. Aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA; 10-40 mg-kg, i.p.), a GABA transaminase inhibitor, dose-dependently increased spinal GABA content and markedly suppressed procaine-induced convulsions. However, lidocaine-induced convulsions were enhanced by AOAA. These results suggest that the spinal GABA neuron may respond to the convulsions induced by local anesthetics. Furthermore, there is a clear relationship between spinal GABA content and procaine-induced, but not lidocaine-induced, convulsions.
The effect of adenosine A1 and A2 receptor agonists and antagonists was investigated on haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. Pretreatment (i.p.) with the non-selective adenosine receptor antagonist, theophylline, or the selective adenosine A2 receptor antagonist, 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX), significantly reversed haloperidol-induced catalepsy, whereas the selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonists, 8-phenyltheophylline and 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine produced no effect. Similar administration of the adenosine A2 receptor agonists, 5'-(N-cyclopropyl)-carboxamidoadenosine and 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA), and the mixed agonists with predominantly A1 site of action, N6-(2-phenylisopropyl) adenosine or 2-chloroadenosine, potentiated haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Higher doses of the adenosine agonists produced catalepsy when given alone. However, N6-cyclopentyladenosine, a highly selective adenosine A1 receptor agonist, was ineffective in these respects. The per se cataleptic effect of adenosine agonists was blocked by DMPX and the centrally acting anticholinergic agent, scopolamine. Scopolamine also attenuated the potentiation of haloperidol-induced catalepsy by adenosine agonists. Further, i.c.v. administration of NECA and DMPX produced a similar effect as that produced after their systemic administration. These findings demonstrate the differential influence of adenosine A1 and A2 receptors on haloperidol-induced catalepsy and support the hypothesis that the functional interaction between adenosine and dopamine mechanisms might occur through adenosine A2 receptors at the level of cholinergic neurons. The results suggest that adenosine A2, but not A1, receptor antagonists may be of potential use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Endoscopic ultrasonographic (EUS) changes in gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) after treatment with proton pump inhibitor have been poorly evaluated. We conducted a randomized, double-blind 12-wk clinical trial to compare the EUS effects of lansoprazole to histamine H2-receptor antagonist therapy in GERD.
Seventeen patients with reflux-related symptoms received 40 mg of famotidine for 6 wk or 30 mg of lansoprazole for 6 wk followed by 40 mg of famotidine or 30 mg of lansoprazole for another 6 wk, respectively. Patients underwent EUS before and at 6 and 12 wk after treatment.
Before treatment, a variable degree of wall thickening was noted on EUS in the lower esophagus, compared with 20 normal subjects. After 6 wk of therapy, esophageal wall was significantly thicker in the famotidine group compared with the lansoprazole group (p<0.01). Surprisingly, thickening of esophageal wall and abnormal architecture were also detected in endoscopically negative reflux disease. Lansoprazole was superior to famotidine in reducing the thickness of esophageal wall.
EUS was very useful for evaluation of submucosal injury in patients with GERD. EUS showed that a 6-wk course of lansoprazole therapy reduced thickening of esophageal wall, which was resistant to histamine H2-receptor antagonist therapy. Our results also suggest that inflammatory damage to the submucosal and muscle layers of the lower esophagus is the underlying mechanism of heartburn and associated symptoms in patients with endoscopically negative reflux disease.
Accumulation of calcium in cardiac cells during catecholamine induced injury is considered a major pathogenetic factor but its mechanism has not been defined. During initiation of injury in an intact canine model, cell sodium was enhanced fourfold in myocardium after a local infusion of epinephrine via the left anterior descending coronary artery for a 60 min period. Tissue calcium was enhanced and a major role for the Na-Ca carrier system is suggested. Regional myocardial function, blood flow and electrocardiogram responses to toxic levels of the catecholamine have been contrasted with ischaemic injury.
A 10 year old child developed severe cardiomyopathy after combined, multicycle chemotherapy for Ewing's sarcoma and was treated by heart transplantation with good results. Long term azathioprine and cyclosporin caused only mild impairment of immune function and there were no recurrent infections, local recurrences of the tumour, or distant metastases.
We report a case of serious mental confusion, hallucinations, and agitation in a 65 year old man, occurring in close relationship to the intravenous administration of metronidazole. The patient was treated twice, but at different dosages. The confusion and hallucinations occurred at the recommended daily dose of 2.0 g, but did not return at a daily dose of 500 mg. Metronidazole serum concentrations were obtained throughout both courses of therapy; CSF and tissue concentrations were obtained at autopsy. The mental confusion was associated with peak serum concentrations of approximately 40 micrograms/ml. Symptoms resolved within 24-48 hr after stopping metronidazole, and resolution was consistent with a metronidazole half life of 14 hr. We conclude that metronidazole can be associated with a dose- and serum concentration-related mental confusion state, and that this side effect appears completely reversible upon discontinuing the drug.
Experimental manipulations suggest that in vivo administration of cholinergic agonists or inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) increases the concentration of acetylcholine. Biochemical studies have proposed a role for AChE in brain mechanisms responsible by development to status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine. The present study was aimed at investigating the changes in AChE activities in hippocampus, striatum and frontal cortex of adult rats after pilocarpine-induced SE. The control group was treated with 0.9% saline (s.c., control group) and another group received pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, s.c.). Both groups were sacrificed 1 h after treatment. The results have shown that pilocarpine administration and resulting SE produced a significant decrease in the AChE activity in the hippocampus (63%), striatum (35%) and frontal cortex (27%) of adult rats. Our results demonstrated a direct evidence of a decrease in the activity of the AChE in rat brain regions during seizure activity that could be responsible by regulation of acetylcholine levels during the establishment of SE induced by pilocarpine.
The narcotic antagonist naltrexone was administered for periods of up to 8 months to a total of 155 patients at a dose of 40-200 mg per day. The antagonistic effect of naltrexone was tested by injections of heroin. Eighty milligrams of natrexone was effective for 48hr. The antagonistic effect decreased at 72 hr after the administration of 120-200 mg of naltrexone. Laboratory tests indicated no signs of toxicity. Naltrexone may elicit an increase in blood pressure and opigastric pain. Neither of these side effects appear clinically important. No signs of dependence on naltrexone were detected. These results suggest that naltrexone may be useful for clinical treatment of opiate dependence.
To investigate the safety of labetalol in the treatment of hypertension in patients with heart failure, sixteen hypertensive patients with a history of congestive heart failure and an ejection fraction at rest less than 45%, had measurements of ejection fraction and cardiac output by first pass radionuclide angiography at baseline, at the end of 2 weeks maintenance with labetalol (titrated to the effective antihypertensive dose of 200-1600 mg daily), and in the post-treatment placebo period. On labetalol, heart rate and blood pressure were significantly lower than placebo at rest and the ejection fraction was higher (30 vs 25%) (p less than 0.05). At maximal exercise on labetalol the heart rate and blood pressure were lower than at placebo maximal exercise (p less than 0.05) and the ejection fraction was higher (32 vs 27%) (p less than 0.01). Exercise tolerance was not changed by labetalol. No patient was discontinued from the study because of worsening heart failure. Dizziness was reported in 5 of 16 patients usually at one visit. Dyspnea that was reported in 4 of 16 patients improved with minor adjustments in digitalis or diuretic dose. In conclusion, labetalol reduces blood pressure in hypertensive patients with left ventricular dysfunction without reducing cardiac performance.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome was diagnosed in a 27-year-old pregnant female with a psychiatric disorder, after treatment with haloperidol. The syndrome did not respond to treatment with dantrolene. Serious vegetative instability weighed against the use of electroconvulsive treatment. After 29 3/7 weeks of amenorrhoea electroconvulsive treatment was started, and the clinical picture gradually improved. Mother and child were discharged in good clinical condition.
