The use of lithium carbonate for the treatment of mood disorders in old age has decreased at a dramatic rate in favor of valproate. Because of lithium's narrow therapeutic range, neurotoxicity can be an important complication in lithium therapy and potentially influence prescription patterns. Therefore, we compared the incidence of delirium in older adults with mood disorders who were newly dispensed either lithium or valproate.
Using 4 population-based administrative databases from the province of Ontario, Canada (the Ontario Drug Benefit program, the Canadian Institute for Health Information, the Ontario Health Insurance Plan, and the Registered Persons Data Base), we were able to identify a cohort of mood disorder patients 66 years and older who were newly dispensed lithium or valproate over an 8-year period (1993-2001). Measures were taken to ensure that the sample was composed of mood disorder patients. As a comparator, we included a known deliriogenic drug, benztropine. The main outcome measure was a new diagnosis of delirium on a hospitalization record during 1 year of follow-up.
Our study cohort consisted of 2422 new users of lithium and 2918 new users of valproate over an 8-year period. There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of delirium between lithium (2.8 per 100 person-years) and valproate (4.1 per 100 person-years). Compared with patients who received lithium, patients who received benztropine had a significantly higher risk of delirium (p < .001).
The incidence of hospitalizations with delirium was similar in patients treated with lithium and valproate. These findings add to the evidence suggesting that the shift away from the use of lithium carbonate to manage mood disorders in older adults is not justified on the basis of concerns of neurotoxicity.
In addition to bone marrow suppression and renal toxicity, neurotoxicity is a commonly occurring side effect of widely used chemotherapeutic agents like taxanes, cisplatin and vinca alkaloids. Neurotoxicity can cause antitumor therapy discontinuation or dose regimen modification. The aim of the present exploratory study was to investigate the activity of acetyl-L-carnitine in reversing peripheral neuropathy in patients with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Twenty-seven patients (16 males and 11 females) with paclitaxel and/or cisplatin-induced neuropathy (according to WHO recommendations for the grading of acute and subacute toxic effects) were enrolled. Patients received at least one cisplatin- (n = 5) or one paclitaxel- (n = 11) based regimen, or a combination of both (n = 11). Patients with chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy were treated with acetyl-L-carnitine 1 g/die i.v. infusion over 1-2 h for at least 10 days.
Twenty-six patients were evaluated for response having completed at least 10 days of acetyl-L-carnitine therapy (median, 14 days; range, 10-20). At least one WHO grade improvement in the peripheral neuropathy severity was shown in 73% of the patients. A case of insomnia related to ALC treatment was reported in one patient. Acetyl-L-carnitine seems to be an effective and well-tolerated agent for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Our preliminary results should be confirmed in double-blind, placebo controlled studies.
A physician experienced an hallucination during the early phase of an acute febrile infection of the urinary tract that was being treated with a cure of ciprofloxacin. He could trace back the visual appearances in the hallucination to elements in a medical journal article that he had read a few weeks previously.
Subiculum receives output of hippocampal CA1 neurons and projects glutamatergic synapses onto nucleus accumbens (NAc), the subicular-NAc pathway linking memory and reward system. It is unknown whether morphine withdrawal influences synaptic plasticity in the subicular-NAc pathway. Here, we recorded the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) within the shell of NAc by stimulating ventral subiculum in anesthetized adult rats. We found that high frequency stimulation (HFS, 200 Hz) induced long-term potentiation (LTP) but low frequency stimulation (LFS, 1 Hz) failed to induce long-term depression (LTD) in control animals. However, behavioral stress enabled LFS to induce a reliable LTD (sLTD) that was dependent on the glucocorticoid receptors. Both LTP and sLTD were prevented by the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist AP-5. After repeated morphine treatment for 12 days, acute withdrawal (12 h) impaired LTP but had no effect on sLTD; prolonged withdrawal (4 days) restored the LTP but impaired the sLTD. Remarkably, basal synaptic efficacy reflected by baseline EPSP amplitude was potentiated in acute withdrawal but was depressed in prolonged withdrawal. Thus, acute and prolonged opiate withdrawal may cause endogenous LTP and LTD in the subicular-NAc pathway that occludes the subsequent induction of synaptic plasticity, demonstrating adaptive changes of the NAc functions during opiate withdrawal.
The efficiency of pergolide has been confirmed by the study of a group 29 parkinsonian patients. They were relatively young, and the duration of evolution of their Parkinson's disease was more then ten years, with levodopa-induced dyskinesia and fluctuations. In this group of patients with most serious motor disability, it has been possible to improve dyskinesia and fluctuations with a relatively important dosage of pergolide and without increase of levodopa dosage.
Long-term sequential expression of receptor activator of NF-κB ligand (RANKL) and osteoprotegrin (OPG) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced rat periapical lesions has not been studied.
  Seventy-two 4-week-old Wistar rats were divided into eight experimental groups and one control group (eight animals in each).
Lipopolysaccharide-induced periapical lesions were produced in rats by occlusal exposure of the pulp of their lower first molars in all experimental groups but not the control group. The extent of periapical destruction was measured by radiographic imaging. RANKL and OPG mRNA were measured in all tissue sections containing the periapical lesions as well as the control group every week from week 1 to week 8 by real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. RANKL and OPG protein were determined by immunohistochemistry. Osteoclasts were identified by enzyme histochemistry.
The sequential changes in the mRNA and protein expression of RANKL and OPG were largely compatible with the occurrence of osteoclasts histologically and enzymes histochemically, as well as the mean areas of the periapical lesions radiographically during long-term observation of the LPS-induced rat periapical lesions.
This study may be the first to demonstrate the long-term RANKL and OPG expression every week from week 1 to week 8 using LPS to produce periapical infection in a Wistar rat model. The long-term findings of high expressions of RANKL and OPG further extend the potential application of the Wistar rat model for future experimental trials using RANKL inhibitor to evaluate the treatment outcome for LPS-induced rat periapical lesions.
The clinical course in primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is improved by calcium channel blocker therapy in those with a favorable hemodynamic response during a trial of high-dose oral nifedipine. Although trials of nifedipine are performed only in patients who demonstrate pulmonary vasodilator reserve to short-acting agents, this response does not predict the safety of nifedipine treatment, which can result in severe first-dose hypotension and death.
To identify echocardiographic parameters that predict first-dose nifedipine-induced hypotension in patients with PPH.
The pretrial echocardiograms of 23 consecutive PPH patients (mean age, 42.3 +/- 13 years; 77% female) undergoing evaluation of pulmonary vasodilator reserve with nifedipine were analyzed. Patients were classified as those who suffered first-dose nifedipine hypotension (group 1) and those who did not (group 2). Echocardiographic measures of chamber size and septal geometry in the two groups were compared.
Five measures reflecting diminished left ventricular (LV) size and leftward ventricular septal bowing were found to be associated with nifedipine hypotension: LV transverse diameter in systole (LVDs; p = 0.007), LV transverse diameter in diastole (LVDd; p = 0.05), LV area in systole (LVAs; p = 0.009), LV area in diastole (LVAd; p = 0.03), the ratio of RV to LVAs (p = 0. 02), and leftward ventricular septal bowing (p = 0.01). The LV dimensions found to best predict nifedipine-induced hypotension were LVDs < 2.7 cm, LVDd < 4.0 cm, LVAs < 15.5 cm(2), and LVAd < 20.0 cm(2).
Readily available echocardiographic parameters in patients with PPH are predictive of nifedipine-induced hypotension, and can be used to select patients in whom a trial of nifedipine should be avoided.
Nitrate is a common contaminant in groundwater aquifers. Current study aimed at evaluating the potential testicular toxicity of sodium nitrate in rats. Sodium nitrate was given orally to rats at doses of 50, 100 or 200 mg/kg/day for 60 consecutive days. Sperm count and motility, daily sperm production and testis weight were significantly decreased specially at high doses. Testicular activity of lactate dehydrogenase-X, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and acid phosphatase were inhibited in a dose-related manner. Lipid peroxides and hydrogen peroxide production were significantly increased in all treated animals. This was accompanied by inhibition of testicular activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase. Fifty mg/kg of sodium nitrate did not significantly alter catalase or glutathione reductase activity. Glutathione was significantly decreased by sodium nitrate in a dose-related manner. The decrease in sperm count and motility and daily sperm production was confirmed by histopathological studies which indicated chromatolysis, pyknosis and necrosis in spermatocytes. In conclusion, subchronic exposure of rats to sodium nitrate results in testicular toxicity as evidenced by decreased sperm count and motility, daily sperm production and testis weight, inhibited activity of enzyme markers of spermatogenesis and induction of histopathological changes. These effects are attributed, at least partly, to testicular oxidative stress.
The first tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) imatinib mesylate (imatinib) targets the kinase domain of BCR-ABL and induces apoptosis in newly diagnosed chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). However, resistant and relapse are common problems in imatinib-treated patients. Although second-generation TKI such as AMN107 appears to improve the treatment of CML, TKI resistance and relapse are also frequently occurred in the patients. To test whether arsenic trioxide (ATO) could potentiate the efficacy of AMN107 in imatinib-resistant cells, we conducted a series of assays in TKI-resistant K562-r cells treated with AMN107 and ATO. Based on a time-course cDNA microarray analysis, we found many genes typically involved in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signalling were significantly up-regulated, implicating the occurrence of ER stress-mediated apoptosis in K562-r cells treated with the combination of ATO and AMN107. Such implication was also supported by the data showing the activation of members in the JNK pathway, which are known to be characteristic markers bridging ER-stress and apoptosis. Partial knock-down of the JNK activities alleviated the effects of apoptosis (p < 0.05) triggered by combining AMN107 with ATO. In conclusion, this study for the first time demonstrates a synergistic effect of AMN107 with ATO, allowing insights into the possible mechanisms underlying imatinib-induced resistance in CML. Our data also suggest that combination of AMN107 with ATO may represent a new strategy for the treatment of imatinib-resistant CML patients.
Tetrathiomolybdate (TM), a drug developed for Wilson's disease, produces an anti-angiogenic and anti-inflammatory effect by reducing systemic copper levels. TM therapy has proved effective in inhibiting the growth of tumors in animal tumor models and in cancer patients. We have hypothesized that TM may be used for the therapy of rheumatoid arthritis and have examined the efficacy of TM on adjuvant-induced arthritis in the rat, which is a model of acute inflammatory arthritis and inflammatory cachexia. TM delayed the onset of and suppressed the severity of clinical arthritis on both paw volume and the arthritis score. Histological examination demonstrated that TM significantly reduces the synovial hyperplasia and inflammatory cell invasion in joint tissues. Interestingly, TM can inhibit the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor in serum synovial tissues, especially in endothelial cells and macrophages. Moreover, the extent of pannus formation, which leads to bone destruction, is correlated with the content of vascular endothelial growth factor in the serum. There was no mortality in TM-treated rat abnormalities. TM also suppressed inflammatory cachexia. We suggest that copper deficiency induced by TM is a potent approach both to inhibit the progression of rheumatoid arthritis with minimal adverse effects and to improve the well-being of rheumatoid arthritis patients.
Nephrosis induced by doxorubicin (adriamycin) is an experimental model of glomerulosclerosis with relative stable proteinuria which is commonly used for pharmacological intervention studies. It is induced by a single or a double dose of doxorubicin, with doses that vary considerably among investigators from 2 to 7.5 mg/kg. Intervention studies with ACE-inhibitors in this model have provided conflicting results. We hypothesized that these discrepancies might be due to different properties of the doxorubicin model, related to the dose of doxorubicin used to induce proteinuria. We tested this hypothesis by inducing doxorubicin nephrosis with 1, 2 and 3 mg/kg, and evaluating the response to intervention with lisinopril. The 1-mg/kg doxorubicin dose did not induce significant proteinuria. The 2- and the 3-mg/ kg dose resulted in a proteinuria of 684+/-215 mg/24 h and 736+/-277 mg/24 h 6 weeks after induction, respectively (Mean+/-SD). Treatment with lisinopril 2 mg/kg/day reduced proteinuria to 160+/-170 mg/24 h(p<0.01) in the 2-mg/kg doxorubicin group, whereas in the 3-mg/kg doxorubicin group, proteinuria did not respond to lisinopril (529+/-264 mg/24 h). In time control rats, proteinuria remained stable. Renal damage developed in both time control groups, with a glomerulosclerosis score of 29+/-22 in the 2-mg/kg group and 84+/-41 in the 3-mg/kg doxorubicin group. Lisinopril resulted in a significantly lower glomerulosclerosis score in the 2-mg/kg doxorubicin group only (16+/-15, p<0.05), whereas the 3-mg/kg group showed no significant reduction (56+/-29, NS). In conclusion, the dose of doxorubicin used to induce nephrosis is an important determinant not only of the severity of the ensuring renal damage, but also of the response to intervention by ACE-inhibition. These findings have an impact on the interpretation of intervention studies in this model.
This study examined the effect of carvedilol, a vasodilating beta-adrenoceptor antagonist and antioxidant, on lethal reperfusion injury in feline hearts subjected to 40 min of regional ischemia and 180 min of reperfusion. 30 open chest anaesthetized cats were randomized into three groups. A control (n = 10) was compared with a group given carvedilol before coronary artery occlusions (n = 10) and a group given carvedilol immediately before and during early reperfusion (n = 10). Regional myocardial function was measured by sonomicrometry. Infarct size was determined by staining the left ventricle with triphenyl tetrazolium chloride. Myocardial blood flow was measured by radiolabeled microspheres. Tissue levels of glutathione were measured after reperfusion. Infarct size was significantly reduced compared to control both when carvedilol was given before ischemia (0.2 +/- 0.1 vs. 17.6 +/- 3.6%, P < 0.05). and when given immediately before reperfusion (3.7 +/- 1.3 vs. 17.6 +/- 3.6%, P < 0.05). Regional shortening improved significantly and the incidence of ventricular fibrillation during early reperfusion was reduced in both groups treated with carvedilol compared to control. Oxidized glutathione did not differ between groups in the post-ischaemic myocardium. This study supports that lethal reperfusion injury is a significant phenomenon. Furthermore, carvedilol reduces infarct size and reperfusion arrhythmias, and improves post-ischaemic regional myocardial function by protecting against both ischaemic and lethal reperfusion injury. The present study does not answer whether it is the non-selective beta- or alpha 1-receptor antagonism, the antiarrhythmic or the antioxidant actions of carvedilol that is responsible for the protective effect.
Cisplatin is an effective anticancer drug which has been used to treat a wide range of tumors for the last 30 years. However, its use is associated with nephrotoxicity. Protective strategies have been reported, but their impact on the antitumor activity of cisplatin has not been clarified. We have previously reported the protective potential of carvedilol against cisplatin nephrotoxicity in tumor-free rats. Therefore, in the present study we used a tumor-bearing model to investigate the impact of carvedilol on the antitumor activity of cisplatin. The renal damage induced by cisplatin and the protective effect of carvedilol were demonstrated by the levels of blood urea nitrogen and plasma creatinine as well as by renal histopathology and immunohistochemistry. The mechanism of protection was associated with significantly decreased (i) oxidative stress markers, (ii) Bax expression, (iii) caspase-3 activity and (iv) TUNEL labeling for apoptosis. More importantly, evaluation of tumor mass, tumor remission rate and the survival curve showed that carvedilol did not impair the antitumor action of cisplatin. These findings suggest that the mechanisms underlying the nephrotoxic and the antitumor activity of cisplatin might be different. This is the first study to report such findings. Compared to other reported potential cytoprotectors against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity, carvedilol stands out due to the fact that it is already clinically-employed and well tolerated by the patients. Based on these features and on the present findings, carvedilol is a very promising candidate for future clinical trials as nephroprotector in patients treated with cisplatin.
D-bifunctional protein (DBP) deficiency is an autosomal recessive inborn error of peroxisomal fatty acid oxidation. The clinical presentation of DBP deficiency is usually very severe, but a few patients with a relatively mild presentation have been identified. In this article, we report the mutational spectrum of DBP deficiency on the basis of molecular analysis in 110 patients. We identified 61 different mutations by DBP cDNA analysis, 48 of which have not been reported previously. The predicted effects of the different disease-causing amino acid changes on protein structure were determined using the crystal structures of the (3R)-hydroxyacyl-coenzyme A (CoA) dehydrogenase unit of rat DBP and the 2-enoyl-CoA hydratase 2 unit and liganded sterol carrier protein 2-like unit of human DBP. The effects ranged from the replacement of catalytic amino acid residues or residues in direct contact with the substrate or cofactor to disturbances of protein folding or dimerization of the subunits. To study whether there is a genotype-phenotype correlation for DBP deficiency, these structure-based analyses were combined with extensive biochemical analyses of patient material (cultured skin fibroblasts and plasma) and available clinical information on the patients. We found that the effect of the mutations identified in patients with a relatively mild clinical and biochemical presentation was less detrimental to the protein structure than the effect of mutations identified in those with a very severe presentation. These results suggest that the amount of residual DBP activity correlates with the severity of the phenotype. From our data, we conclude that, on the basis of the predicted effect of the mutations on protein structure, a genotype-phenotype correlation exists for DBP deficiency.
Cleft lip, with or without cleft palate (CL/P), is one of the most common birth defects, occurring in 0.4 to 2.0 per 1,000 infants born alive. Approximately 70% of CL/P cases are non-syndromic (MIM 119530), but CL/P also occurs in many single-gene syndromes, each affecting a protein critical for orofacial development. Here we describe positional cloning of the gene responsible for an autosomal recessive CL/P-ectodermal dysplasia (ED) syndrome (CLPED1; previously ED4; ref. 2), which we identify as PVRL1, encoding nectin-1, an immunoglobulin (Ig)-related transmembrane cell-cell adhesion molecule that is part of the NAP cell adhesion system. Nectin-1 is also the principal cell surface receptor for alpha-herpesviruses (HveC; ref. 7), and the high frequency of CLPED1 on Margarita Island in the Caribbean Sea might result from resistance of heterozygotes to infection by these viruses.
A coding single-nucleotide polymorphism (cSNP), K172N, in hTAS2R16, a gene encoding a taste receptor for bitter beta -glucopyranosides, shows significant association with alcohol dependence (P = .00018). This gene is located on chromosome 7q in a region reported elsewhere to exhibit linkage with alcohol dependence. The SNP is located in the putative ligand-binding domain and is associated with an increased sensitivity to many bitter beta -glucopyranosides in the presence of the N172 allele. Individuals with the ancestral allele K172 are at increased risk of alcohol dependence, regardless of ethnicity. However, this risk allele is uncommon in European Americans (minor-allele frequency [MAF] 0.6%), whereas 45% of African Americans carry the allele (MAF 26%), which makes it a much more significant risk factor in the African American population.
Secondary palate formation is a complex process that is frequently disturbed in mammals, resulting in the birth defect cleft palate. Gene targeting has identified components of cytokine/growth factor signalling systems such as Tgf-alpha/Egfr, Eph receptors B2 and B3 (Ephb2 and Ephb3, respectively), Tgf-beta2, Tgf-beta3 and activin-betaA (ref. 3) as regulators of secondary palate development. Here we demonstrate that the mouse orphan receptor 'related to tyrosine kinases' (Ryk) is essential for normal development and morphogenesis of craniofacial structures including the secondary palate. Ryk belongs to a subclass of catalytically inactive, but otherwise distantly related, receptor protein tyrosine kinases (RTKs). Mice homozygous for a null allele of Ryk have a distinctive craniofacial appearance, shortened limbs and postnatal mortality due to feeding and respiratory complications associated with a complete cleft of the secondary palate. Consistent with cleft palate phenocopy in Ephb2/Ephb3-deficient mice and the role of a Drosophila melanogaster Ryk orthologue, Derailed, in the transduction of repulsive axon pathfinding cues, our biochemical data implicate Ryk in signalling mediated by Eph receptors and the cell-junction-associated Af-6 (also known as Afadin). Our findings highlight the importance of signal crosstalk between members of different RTK subfamilies.
Curcumin is a widely used spice with anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer properties. It has been reported that curcumin held therapeutic effects on experimental colitis by inhibition of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB). The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is a nuclear receptor with anti-tumor and anti-inflammatory effects and its activation may inhibit the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB. Several studies have shown that PPARgamma ligands had an important therapeutic effect in colitis. However there is no report about the alteration of PPARgamma in trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis treated with curcumin. In this study, we administered curcumin (30 mg/kg/day) by intraperitoneal injection immediately after colitis was induced and the injection lasted for two weeks. have evaluated the effects of curcumin on the colitis induced by trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS). Curcumin (30 mg/kg d) was administered by intraperitoneal just after colitis was induced and lasted for two weeks. Therapeutic effects of dexamethasone (Dex, 2 mg/kg d) alone and the combined effects of curcumin+Dex were also examined. We found that curcumin improved long-term survival rate of disease-bearing rats, promoted rat body weight recovery, and decreased macroscopic scores of the colitis. The expression levels of PPARgamma, 15-deoxy-D12,14-prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) were all increased, but the expression level of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was decreased in rats after administration of curcumin. Treatment with Dex improved PPARgamma expression and inhibited the expression of COX-2, 15d-PGJ(2) and PGE(2). Combined effects of curcumin+Dex were similar to that of Dex. In summary, curcumin showed therapeutic effects on TNBS-induced colitis and the mechanisms by which curcumin exerts its effects may involve activation of PPARgamma and its ligands.
Standard treatment of advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) is concurrent chemoradiation. Erlotinib is an oral tyrosine kinase inhibitor of epidermal growth factor receptor, which has shown activity in SCCHN. Phase I study aims to determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of adding erlotinib to chemoradiation therapy in patients with surgically resected locally advanced SCCHN.
Inclusion criteria--SCCHN patients with T3 or T4 primary lesion (except T3N0 with negative resection margins); pathologic N2-N3 disease; poor prognostic findings; age 18-70 years; Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of zero to one; no evidence of metastasis; adequate organic function and written informed consent. Study design--dose-escalating phase I study with three cohorts of three to six patients each that received increasing doses of erlotinib (100-150 mg/day p.o.) and cisplatin (30-40 mg/m(2) i.v., day 1) for 7 weeks. Radiotherapy--standard regimen of 1.8 Gy daily (5 fractions/week) to a maximum total dose of 63 Gy in 7 weeks.
Thirteen male (median age: 57 years) were enrolled. Overall, the regimen was well tolerated. Two of three patients treated at dose level III (erlotinib: 150 mg/day; cisplatin: 40 mg/m(2)) developed DLT consisting of grade 3 infection and grade 3 mucositis. Other toxic effects included diarrhea, asthenia, and rash. Recommended dose for additional studies: erlotinib 150 mg/day p.o.; cisplatin 30 mg/m(2)/week i.v.
Erlotinib can be safely combined with chemoradiation without requiring dose reduction of chemo- or radiotherapy in this postsurgical population.
Arsenic-induced Bowen's disease (As-BD), a cutaneous carcinoma in situ, is thought to arise from gene mutation and uncontrolled proliferation. However, how mitochondria regulate the arsenic-induced cell proliferation remains unclear. The aim of this study was to clarify whether arsenic interfered with mitochondrial biogenesis and function, leading to aberrant cell proliferation in As-BD. Skin biopsy samples from patients with As-BD and controls were stained for cytochrome c oxidase (Complex IV), measured for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number and the expression levels of mitochondrial biogenesis-related genes, including peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (mtTFA). The results showed that expression of cytochrome c oxidase, mtTFA, NRF-1, and PGC-1α was increased in As-BD compared with in healthy subjects. Treatment of primary keratinocytes with arsenic at concentrations lower than 1.0 μmol/L induced cell proliferation, along with enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis. Furthermore, we observed that the mitochondrial oxygen consumption rate and intracellular ATP level were increased in arsenic-treated keratinocytes. Blocking of mitochondrial function by oligomycin A (Complex V inhibitor) or knockdown of mtTFA by RNA interference abrogated arsenic-induced cell proliferation without affecting cyclin D1 expression. We concluded that mtTFA up-regulation, augmented mitochondrial biogenesis, and enhanced mitochondrial functions may contribute to arsenic-induced cell proliferation. Targeting mitochondrial biogenesis may help treat arsenical cancers at the stage of cell proliferation.
The Copenhagen (COP) rat is unique among inbred rat strains in its high degree of resistance to spontaneously arising and induced mammary cancers. Hyperprolactinemia resulting from tumors of the anterior pituitary gland has been suggested to be the causative factor in the etiology of estrogen-induced mammary cancer in rats. Therefore, we have examined the ability of administered estrogens to induce development of PRL-producing pituitary tumors and mammary carcinomas in COP rats. Diethylstilbestrol (DES), administered to male COP rats for 12 weeks, beginning when the animals were 9 weeks of age, induced development of PRL-producing pituitary tumors, defined as grossly enlarged pituitary masses displaying lactotroph hyperplasia and associated hyperprolactinemia. When treated with 17beta-estradiol (E2), female COP rats developed pituitary tumors and hyperprolactinemia, but displayed a high degree of resistance to development of mammary carcinomas. These data indicate that E2-induced hyperprolactinemia is insufficient to induce development of mammary carcinomas in the female COP rat.
The specific participation of protein kinases in the expression of the somatic signs of morphine withdrawal has been previously demonstrated, suggesting that changes in intracellular signalling systems are involved in opioid addiction. In the present study, the involvement of protein kinases in the aversive/dysphoric effects of morphine abstinence has been investigated in the nucleus accumbens, because of the critical role played by the mesolimbic system in the rewarding effects of opioids. Rats were chronically treated with morphine, twice a day for 5 days, with doses progressively increased from 5 to 30 mg/kg (i.p.). In addition, microinjections into the nucleus accumbens of the serine-threonine kinase inhibitors H7 or H8 (1 or 10 nmol per side) or saline once daily were also given, both in control and in morphine-treated animals. After these chronic treatments, withdrawal syndrome was induced by naloxone administration (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.), and the motivational component of morphine abstinence was studied using the place aversion paradigm. When administered at the highest dose (10 nmol), H7 and H8 strongly reduced the place aversion induced by naloxone in morphine dependent animals. Protein kinase inhibitors did not induce significant behavioural responses in non-dependent animals. Chronic morphine treatment induced a selective up-regulation of adenylate cyclase activity in the amygdala, without affecting other brain regions. The morphine-increased adenylate cyclase activity in amygdala was reversed by the chronic intra-accumbens microinjections of H7 and H8. These results suggest that serine-threonine kinases in the nucleus accumbens play an important role in the emotional/dysphoric properties which characterize opiate withdrawal.
Tissue damage associated with surgery often produces peripheral and central sensitization that may outlast the stimuli, leading to exaggerated postoperative pain. Paradoxically, the use of opioid analgesia, which is essential for surgical pain management may induce pain sensitization leading to enhanced postoperative pain and an increased risk of developing chronic pain. We studied whether a surgical incision in the rat hindpaw may favor the development of long-term pain vulnerability by estimating hyperalgesia induced by an inflammatory stimulation of the unlesioned contralateral hindpaw 3 wk later. We also evaluated the ability of nefopam, an analgesic drug commonly used in postoperative pain management, to prevent not only exaggerated postoperative pain but also long-term pain vulnerability. The efficacy of morphine was assessed 1 day after surgical incision.
On Day 0, a surgical plantar incision was performed in one hindpaw of rats treated or untreated with fentanyl (4 x 100 microg/kg, one injection every 15 min). Nefopam (10 mg/kg) or saline was subcutaneously injected 30 min before injury. Three weeks later, once pain measures had returned to basal values, a subsequent nociceptive stimulus, specifically intraplantar carrageenan injection, was performed to evaluate pain sensitivity in incision- and fentanyl-experienced rats. Pain was measured by the paw-pressure vocalization test and the weight bearing test.
Surgical incision in rats induced latent and long-term pain hypersensitivity, which was manifested by exaggerated hyperalgesia on carrageenan injection. Administering fentanyl in association with the surgical incision induced exaggerated postoperative pain. When injected before incision, nefopam reduced the exaggerated postoperative pain induced by perioperative fentanyl treatment and prevented the development of long-term pain hypersensitivity. Preoperative nefopam administration also improved morphine analgesic efficacy in the context of fentanyl-induced postoperative hyperalgesia.
Given preemptively, nefopam may be effective at improving postoperative pain management and at reducing the risk of developing postoperative chronic pain, because the drug has both analgesic and antihyperalgesic properties.
A case of acyclovir-induced acute renal failure in an obese patient is described.
A 60-year-old white man arrived at the emergency department complaining of confusion and disorientation. He was 5 ft 7 in tall and weighed 108.9 kg. His medical and surgical histories included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), sleep apnea not requiring biphasic positive airway pressure, obesity, oxygen supplementation, and appendectomy. He also had a history of cyst drainage on the back of his neck, with recent drainage emitting a foul odor, and suffered recurrent herpes cold sores on his chin. A lumbar puncture revealed abnormal cerebral spinal fluid. A diagnosis of herpes encephalitis was considered, and the patient was empirically treated with i.v. acyclovir 1 g over 60 minutes every eight hours, with the dosage based on actual body weight. He was also given moxifloxacin 400 mg i.v. daily for possible COPD exacerbation and doxycycline 100 mg i.v. twice daily for possible leptospirosis meningitis. On hospital day 3, his serum creatinine (SCr) and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentrations rose to 2.8 g/dL and 32 mg/dL, respectively. Acyclovir was subsequently discontinued, as were all i.v. antibiotics. On day 7, hydration therapy was initiated, as was therapy to alkalinize the urine, and his neurologic status began to improve. At discharge, the patient's SCr and BUN levels were 3.1 g/dL and 38 mg/dL, respectively. His discharge diagnoses included encephalitis with possible viral origin and acyclovir-induced nephrotoxicity.
An obese man receiving excessive doses of i.v. acyclovir developed acute but reversible renal failure.
A 60-year-old male with cerebral infarction was admitted to our hospital and treated with edaravone. On day 12 of hospitalization, he suddenly lost consciousness and went into shock. Based on the laboratory findings, acute renal failure (ARF), fulminant hepatitis, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) were diagnosed. We immediately initiated continuous hemodiafiltration for three days and performed three sessions of plasma exchange. Following this, a gradual improvement was observed in the patient's general condition and laboratory values. On day 17 of hospitalization, intermittent hemodialysis (HD) was initiated. On day 20 of hospitalization, his renal function started to improve with an increase in urine volume. HD was successfully discontinued on the same day. Although the drug lymphocyte stimulation test for edaravone was negative, edaravone-induced fulminant hepatitis was suggested based on liver biopsy findings. We present a case of ARF, fulminant hepatitis, and DIC due to edaravone administration that was successfully treated with blood purification techniques. Since the use of edaravone treatment is expected to increase in the future, it is essential that clinicians consider the potential adverse effects of this treatment. It is suggested that blood purification is effective in inducing remission in patients with complications due to edaravone treatment.
Toxicogenomics is a novel approach integrating the expression analysis of thousands of genes (transcriptomics) or proteins (proteomics) with classical methods in toxicology. Effects at the molecular level are related to pathophysiological changes of the organisms, enabling detailed comparison of mechanisms and early detection and prediction of toxicity. This report addresses the value of the combined use of transcriptomics and proteomics technologies in toxicology. Acute hepatotoxicity was induced in rats by bromobenzene administration resulting in depleted glutathione levels and reduced average body weights, 24hr after dosage. These physiological symptoms coincided with many changes of hepatic mRNA and protein content. Gene induction confirmed involvement of glutathione-S-transferase isozymes and epoxide hydrolase in bromobenzene metabolism and identified many genes possibly relevant in bromobenzene toxicity. Observed glutathione depletion coincided with induction of the key enzyme in glutathione biosynthesis, gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase. Oxidative stress was apparent from strong upregulation of heme oxygenase, peroxiredoxin 1 and other genes. Bromobenzene-induced protein degradation was suggested from two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, upregulated mRNA levels for proteasome subunits and lysosomal cathepsin L, whereas also genes were upregulated with a role in protein synthesis. Both protein and gene expression profiles from treated rats were clearly distinct from controls as shown by principal component analysis, and several proteins found to significantly change upon bromobenzene treatment were identified by mass spectrometry. A modest overlap in results from proteomics and transcriptomics was found. This work indicates that transcriptomics and proteomics technologies are complementary to each other and provide new possibilities in molecular toxicology.
We summarize studies herein that relate to use of molecular techniques to assess mechanism of toxicant and carcinogen action on the nasal mucosa. Specifically, we present the results of an in vivo mutagenesis assay with the herbicide alachlor, which causes olfactory mucosal tumors in rats following dietary administration. A positive response was found in olfactory mucosa after 3 mo of treatment. There was no increase in mutant frequency in the adjacent nasal respiratory mucosa or in liver, which are both non-target tissues for alachlor carcinogenesis. We also summarize previous findings of gene expression studies. One on these was a GeneChip experiment aimed at elucidating the mechanism of alachlor olfactory carcinogenesis, wherein we found that oxidative stress and gelatinase genes were upregulated early in the carcinogenic process, while genes consistent with activation of Wnt signaling were activated later in the carcinogenic process. The final example presented summarizes the results of a microarray experiment designed to identify novel olfactory genes involved in the plasticity of the olfactory mucosa. Those studies identified novel olfactory mucosal genes including Sgpl1 and Pon1. In each instance, precise sampling is emphasized and proper controls are discussed, and examples of independent means of validation of genomics experiments are presented.
