Bone mass and biochemical bone markers were prospectively studied in 33 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease treated for 1 year with inhaled beclomethasone 200 micrograms/q.i.d. (group A, 8 men and 4 women), inhaled budesonide 200 micrograms/q.i.d. (group B, 6 men and 5 women), or not requiring steroids (group C, 6 men and 4 women). Both inhaled corticosteroids decreased serum concentrations of the osteoblastic markers, osteocalcin and carboxy-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (PICP). The osteoclastic marker cross-linked carboxy-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (ICTP) increased significantly more in patients on beclomethasone than in those on budesonide. The decrease in bone mineral density was more pronounced in patients treated with beclomethasone (1.1% in the spine 1.7% in the hip P < 0.05) compared to those treated with budesonide (0.6% in both spine and hip) or in the control group. Inhaled corticosteroids affect biochemical bone markers and bone mineral density, but there is a different effect for the two corticosteroids evaluated in the present study.
Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) carries significant injury to endothelial cells in transplanted organs and is an important factor in chronic rejection. Immunosuppressive drugs, notably cyclosporin A (CyA) and FK506, can potentially augment this injury. Here, our goal was to determine the combined effects of I/R and CyA or FK506 on endothelial cells. Transformed mouse endothelial cells (SVEC 4-10) were subjected to ischemia or I/R for 2-24 hours by incubating cells in 100 per cent N2 (ischemia) followed by 5 per cent CO2 and 95 per cent O2 (reperfusion) for 24 hours. In separate experiments, CyA or FK506 was added to cells subjected to ischemia or I/R. Nonviable cells were determined by Trypan blue exclusion assay. All experiments (done in triplicate) were analyzed by Student's t test. Increasing ischemia times resulted in a greater number of nonviable cells (2% nonviable cells at 0 hours and 57% at 24 hours of I/R). Addition of CyA significantly increased the number of nonviable cells when compared with the control (I/R only) group (P = 0.014). Interestingly, FK506 did not increase the percentage of nonviable cells compared with the control group (P = 0.2). Unlike FK506, CyA augments I/R injury to endothelial cells in vitro. These findings could be relevant in chronic rejection and transplantation.
Collective evidence suggests that cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) plays a role in prostate cancer risk. Cyclooxygenase 2 is the major enzyme that converts arachidonic acid to prostaglandins, which are potent mediators of inflammation. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit the enzymatic activity of COX2 and long-term use of NSAIDs appears to modestly lower the risk of prostate cancer. We investigated whether common genetic variation in COX2 influences the risk of advanced prostate cancer. Nine single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in COX2 were genotyped among 1012 men in our case-control study of advanced prostate cancer. Gene-environment interactions between COX2 polymorphisms and NSAID use were also evaluated. Information on NSAID use was obtained by questionnaire. Three SNPs demonstrated nominally statistically significant associations with prostate cancer risk, with the most compelling polymorphism (rs2745557) associated with a lower risk of disease (odds ratio (OR) GC vs GG=0.64; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.49-0.84; P=0.002). We estimated through permutation analysis that a similarly strong result would occur by chance 2.7% of the time. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug use was associated with a lower risk of disease in comparison to no use (OR=0.67; 95% CI: 0.52-0.87). No significant statistical interaction between NSAID use and rs2745557 was observed (P=0.12). Our findings suggest that variation in COX2 is associated with prostate cancer risk.
The retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA) gene is disrupted by PML/RARA fusion in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). The P2 promoter of RARA, controlling the RARalpha2 isoform, contains an RA-responsive element and may be targeted in APL. To test whether aberrant methylation of P2 was involved, 47 APL at diagnosis, 16 APL at first relapse, 50 acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 22 acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) were tested by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. RARA P2 methylation was highly associated with APL (APL: 25/63 vs AML/ALL: 2/75, P<0.0001). P2 methylation occurred at similar frequencies in APL at diagnosis and relapse, suggesting it was an initiating leukemogenic event. In the APL line NB4, RARalpha2 was not expressed, with the untranslocated RARA shown to be P2 methylated. 5-Azacytadine treatment of NB4 led to progressive P2 demethylation and re-expression of RARalpha2, confirming that RARA methylation collaborated with PML/RARA in totally suppressing RARalpha. In APL, RARA P2 methylation was unrelated to gender, age, presenting leukocyte counts and additional cytogenetic aberrations. For APL patients receiving all-trans retinoic acid for induction, P2 methylation did not affect the complete remission rates and survivals. RARA is the first myeloid-specific transcription factor shown to be dysregulated by both translocation and aberrant methylation.
Arsenic Trioxide (ATO) has shown remarkable efficacy for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). However, the mechanism by which ATO exerts its inhibitory effect on the proliferation of myeloma cells remains to be clarified. We study the inhibitory effect of ATO at various concentrations on the proliferation of the myeloma cell line RPMI 8226 and discussed the molecular mechanism of ATO on myeloma cell line. Our results proved that ATO had a significant dose-dependent and time-dependent inhibitory effect on the expressions of the Notch receptor (Notch1) and Notch ligand (Jag2). Data from the real-time PCR assay showed that the mRNA expression levels of the Jag2 gene and its downstream gene Hes1 were both significantly down-regulated after the myeloma cells were treated with ATO while the expression of the tumor suppressor gene PTEN was up-regulated. These results elucidated the molecular mechanism underlying the ATO mediated inhibition of myeloma cell proliferation. This is the first report on the anti-myeloma activity in myeloma cells through inhibition of the Notch signaling pathway.
1. Pressor responsiveness to angiotensin II (AII) and phenylephrine (PHE) was measured before and after 5 days of ACTH (1 mg i.m. daily) in six normal men maintained on low sodium diet (15 mmol daily). 2. ACTH caused a significant increase in systolic blood pressure of 9 mmHg. 3. There was no change in pressor responsiveness to AII with ACTH. 4. ACTH increased pressor responsiveness to PHE for both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, with a fall in the threshold for response from 0.9 to 0.6 micrograms/kg per min. 5. Increased pressor sensitivity to catecholamines during ACTH administration in man is not sodium-dependent.
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are synthetic agonists of the ligand-activated transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma). TZDs are known to curtail inflammation associated with peripheral organ ischemia. As inflammation precipitates the neuronal death after stroke, we tested the efficacy of TZDs in preventing brain damage following transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in adult rodents. As hypertension and diabetes complicate the stroke outcome, we also evaluated the efficacy of TZDs in hypertensive rats and type-2 diabetic mice subjected to transient MCAO. Pre-treatment as well as post-treatment with TZDs rosiglitazone and pioglitazone significantly decreased the infarct volume and neurological deficits in normotensive, normoglycemic, hypertensive and hyperglycemic rodents. Rosiglitazone neuroprotection was not enhanced by retinoic acid x receptor agonist 9-cis-retinoic acid, but was prevented by PPARgamma antagonist GW9662. Rosiglitazone significantly decreased the post-ischemic intercellular adhesion molecule-1 expression and extravasation of macrophages and neutrophils into brain. Rosiglitazone treatment curtailed the post-ischemic expression of the pro-inflammatory genes interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, cyclooxygenase-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase, early growth response-1, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-beta and nuclear factor-kappa B, and increased the expression of the anti-oxidant enzymes catalase and copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase. Rosiglitazone also increased the expression of the anti-inflammatory gene suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 and prevented the phosphorylation of the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 after focal ischemia. Thus, PPARgamma activation with TZDs might be a potent therapeutic option for preventing inflammation and neuronal damage after stroke with promise in diabetic and hypertensive subjects.
Cytokines modulate turnover of the endometrium during the menstrual cycle and contribute to the pathogenesis of endometriosis. Gene expression for cytokines is often regulated by proteins that bind to adenosine- and uridine-rich elements (AREs) in their transcripts to stabilize or destabilize bound messenger RNAs (mRNAs). HuR/ELAVL1 is an RNA-binding protein that stabilizes ARE-containing mRNAs. We hypothesized that HuR might play a role in regulating cytokine expression during the menstrual cycle and in endometriosis and characterized the expression and regulation of HuR in eutopic and ectopic human endometrium. Tissue sections obtained from normal (n = 23) and ectopic (n = 16) endometrium were immunostained for HuR, and staining intensity was evaluated by HSCORE. Cultured stromal cells isolated from normal endometrium were treated with vehicle, estradiol (E2), progesterone (P), E2 + P, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), and interleukin 1β (IL-1β) for 24 hours, and HuR expression was determined by Western blot. HuR immunoreactivity was significantly lower in the early proliferative and late secretory phases (157.5 ± 11.08 and 190.0 ± 15.2, respectively), compared to the mid-late proliferative (270.0 ± 8.0) and early-mid secretory phases (256.6 ± 20.2; P < .01, analysis of variance [ANOVA]). Furthermore, HuR expression was significantly lower in ectopic endometrial cells compared to normal endometrium in mid-late proliferative and early-mid-secretory phases (P < .01). Estrogen, P, or cytokines did not alter HuR expression in cultured endometrial stromal cells. Increased HuR levels in the mid-menstrual phases are likely to contribute to reduced mid-cycle cytokine expression and enhanced cellular survival in eutopic endometrium. In ectopic endometrium, elevated cytokine levels associated with endometriosis likely reduce HuR expression.
Methotrexate (MTX) has become the most commonly prescribed disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug. However, toxicity is an important drawback of MTX therapy and permanent discontinuation of MTX for adverse effects occurs in 1 patient out of 10. Although high-dose MTX is known to be nephrotoxic, data on low-dose MTX renal effects are scanty. We report an insidious and progressive deterioration of renal function during long-term low-dose MTX in a 59-year-old woman. Kidney biopsy revealed advanced kidney fibrosis with extensive interstitial and glomerular fibrosis, and vascular sclerosis. We suggest that patients on low-dose MTX therapy even alone, should be periodically monitored for creatinine levels.
A patient with a diagnosis of Buerger disease is described with peripheral limb ischemia and toe amputations, 2 recent small myocardial infarctions, and a long history of cigarette use. Peripheral angiography findings were incompatible with the clinical impression, and further workup revealed heavy recreational use of cocaine. A literature review of the clinical and pathologic manifestations of Buerger disease and of cocaine exposure shows them to have remarkable similarities. Based on our case observation and suggestive evidence from the literature, we propose that cocaine exposure may masquerade as Buerger disease, and further, that unrecognized cocaine exposure may underlie such cases, even including those originally described by Buerger in 1908.
The mechanisms underlying ozone (O₃)-induced pulmonary inflammation remain unclear. Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is an anti-inflammatory cytokine that is known to inhibit inflammatory mediators.
We investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying interleuken-10 (IL-10)-mediated attenuation of O₃-induced pulmonary inflammation in mice.
Il10-deficient (Il10(-/-)) and wild-type (Il10(+/+)) mice were exposed to 0.3 ppm O₃ or filtered air for 24, 48, or 72 hr. Immediately after exposure, differential cell counts and total protein (a marker of lung permeability) were assessed from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF). mRNA and protein levels of cellular mediators were determined from lung homogenates. We also used global mRNA expression analyses of lung tissue with Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to identify patterns of gene expression through which IL-10 modifies O₃-induced inflammation.
Mean numbers of BALF polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) were significantly greater in Il10(-/-) mice than in Il10(+/+) mice after exposure to O₃ at all time points tested. O₃-enhanced nuclear NF-κB translocation was elevated in the lungs of Il10(-/-) compared with Il10(+/+) mice. Gene expression analyses revealed several IL-10-dependent and O₃-dependent mediators, including macrophage inflammatory protein 2, cathepsin E, and serum amyloid A3.
Results indicate that IL-10 protects against O₃-induced pulmonary neutrophilic inflammation and cell proliferation. Moreover, gene expression analyses identified three response pathways and several genetic targets through which IL-10 may modulate the innate and adaptive immune response. These novel mechanisms of protection against the pathogenesis of O₃-induced pulmonary inflammation may also provide potential therapeutic targets to protect susceptible individuals.
Phenylephrine in concentrations of either 2.5% or 10% is widely used as a mydriatic agent in ophthalmic surgery. Its potential cardiovascular effects are seldom recorded as ophthalmic surgery is not usually monitored by an anaesthetist. A prospective randomised double blind study was carried out in 89 consecutive cases of uncomplicated cataract surgery in the presence of an anaesthesiologist ensuring the continuous monitoring of blood pressure, heart rate, electrocardiography and pulse oximetry. All these patients were given a drop of either normal saline, 2.5% or 10% phenylephrine in addition to mydriacyl prior to surgery. Blood pressure readings were found to be significantly higher in non-hypertensive patients receiving phenylephrine at the start of the operation and at five, 10, 15 and 20 minutes intra-operatively and the first three hours post-operatively. Blood pressure readings in hypertensive patients, on the other hand, were also found to increase after phenylephrine administration, though not statistically significant. 10.3% of the 10% phenylephrine group and 3% of the 2.5% phenylephrine group required intraoperative intravenous hypotensive agent to control the blood pressure. There were no arrhythmias or ischaemic changes observed intraoperatively. None of the patients complained of palpitation, headache or chest discomfort. There was no oxygen desaturation observed. We concluded that significant hypertensive effects can arise after phenylephrine eye drop administration. Hence, it should be used cautiously with intraoperative monitoring of the cardiovascular status during cataract surgery.
Three cases are described with documented ventricular flutter and fibrillation during quinidine medication without concomitant digitalis therapy. In all three patients the arrhythmia developed while they were receiving moderate doses of quinidine. Although no changes in QRS width were observed after administration of quinidine, there was marked prolongation of the Q-T interval. The mechanism of development of ventricular flutter and fibrillation in patients taking quinidine may be similar to that in patients with the Q-T prolongation syndrome.
We report a case of severe ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome which developed in a patient after ovarian stimulation for in-vitro fertilization (IVF). This was complicated by prerenal oliguria due to indomethacin therapy and liver dysfunction. The pathogenetic mechanisms involved are discussed.
Amnesic action, skills related to driving and the ability to discriminate the fusion of flickering light were measured double-blind in 29 healthy volunteers before and after three doses of intravenous flunitrazepam. Every subject experienced amnesia for the pinching of the abdomen after being injected with flunitrazepam. Even the smallest dose of flunitrazepam (0.01 mg/kg) caused the amnesia without affecting the level of consciousness. The late effects of flunitrazepam were the most harmful to coordination. With 0.01 mg/kg eye-hand coordination was slightly impaired for as long as 6 h after the injection, and after 0.02 and 0.03 mg/kg the impairment was still significant (P less than 0.05) at the last observation period 10 h after the injection. It was concluded that, because the amnesic action of flunitrazepam is more effective than that of clinically comparable doses of diazepam, further clinical experiments with flunitrazepam are warranted. Its longer and more harmful effects on psychomotor performance than those of equipotent doses of diazepam suggest that doses of 0.02 mg/kg or more of flunitrazepam should be avoided in outpatient anaesthesia or sedation.
In 8 patients affected with acute myocardial infarction verapamil was highly effective in controlling ventricular extrasystoles. Theoretically the drug ought not to be effective if the extrasystoles were related to fast cardiac fibers characterized by a rapid inward Na+ current. The result suggests that in acute myocardial ischemia ventricular extrasystoles are related to slow inward Ca++ currents.
A double-blind controlled trial based on 140 women undergoing abortus provocatus was employed to study whether the frequency of side effects after administration of the anaesthetic Ketalar (ketamine) could be reduced by a con-current dose of Rohypnol (flunitrazepam). The control group was given ketamine alone. The dosage of ketamine was 2 mg/kg body weight, supplemented if necessary by 1 mg/kg, in combination with either 2 mg flunitrazepam or placebo. No other anaesthetics were used. On several counts, the combination of ketamine and flunitrazepam was proved to reduce the adverse reactions seen with ketamine alone. Motor restlessness and confusion in the awakening state occurred with significantly less severity and frequency. Amnesia for dreams was significantly more frequent. Memory of dreams was often unpleasant after ketamine alone. The influence on pulse rate was significantly smaller and no significant changes in systolic blood pressure were seen, whereas a significant increase occurred with ketamine alone. Less pronounced fluctuations in diastolic blood pressure occurred with the combination ketamine-flunitrazepam. Respiratory rate increased significantly with both treatments, but respiratory minute volume was lower with the ketamine-flunitrazepam combination.
A double-blind comparison of ketamine (Ketalar) and ketamine with flunitrazepam (Rohypnol) for anesthesia in 136 abortions was conducted to see whether the combination would reduce the psychomimetic side effects of ketamine. Doses were ketamine 2 mg/kg body weight iv, mixed with 2 mg flunitrazepam or a placebo, and 1 mg/kg ketamine repeated if needed. The side effects significantly reduced were: motor restlessness, confusion requiring sedatives, dreams and nightmares, systolic and diastolic hypertension, tachycardia, and increase in respiratory rate and in respiratory minute volume. Those given ketamine alone required significantly more repeat injections.
The dermatotoxicity of arsenic is well established and epidemiological studies identify an increased incidence of keratinocytic tumors (basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma) associated with arsenic exposure. Little is known about the underlying mechanisms of arsenic-mediated skin carcinogenesis, but activation of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases and subsequent regulation of downstream target genes may contribute to tumor promotion and progression. In this study, we investigated activation of the extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) and the stress-associated kinase p38 by arsenite in HaCat cells, a spontaneously immortalized human keratinocyte cell line. Arsenite concentrations > or =100 microM stimulate rapid activation of p38 and ERK MAP kinases. However, upon extended exposure (24 h), persistent stimulation of p38 and ERK MAP kinases was detected at low micromolar concentrations of arsenite. Although ERK and p38 were activated with similar time and concentration dependence, the mechanism of activation differed for these two MAP kinases. ERK activation by arsenite was fully dependent on the catalytic activity of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor and partially dependent on Src-family kinase activity. In contrast, p38 activation was independent of EGF receptor or Src-family kinase activity. Arsenite-stimulated MAP kinase signal transduction resulted in increased production of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9, an AP-1 regulated gene product. MMP-9 induction by arsenite was prevented when EGF receptor or MAP kinase signaling was inhibited. These studies indicate that EGF receptor activation is a component of arsenite-mediated signal transduction and gene expression in keratinocytes and that low micromolar concentrations of arsenite stimulate key signaling pathways upon extended exposure. Stimulation of MAP kinase cascades by arsenic and subsequent regulation of genes including c-fos, c-jun, and the matrix degrading proteases may play an important role in arsenic-induced skin carcinogenesis.
The authors report a case of encephalopathy after treatment with ifosfamide treated by a methylene blue infusion. This side-effect is rare but influenced by high doses and short infusions of this drug. Recently, a treatment of ifosfamide encephalopathy with methylene blue has been reported. This case report confirms the interest of such a treatment.
There is increasing concern about the toxicity of inhaled multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs). Pulmonary macrophages represent the primary cell type involved in the clearance of inhaled particulate materials, and induction of apoptosis in these cells has been considered to contribute to the development of lung fibrosis. We have investigated the apoptotic, inflammogenic, and fibrogenic potential of two types of MWCNTs, characterised by a contrasting average tube length and entanglement/agglomeration. Both nanotube types triggered H2O2 formation by RAW 264.7 macrophages, but in vitro toxicity was exclusively seen with the longer MWCNT. Both types of nanotubes caused granuloma in the mouse lungs. However, the long MWCNT induced a more pronounced pro-fibrotic (mRNA expression of matrix metalloproteinase-8 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1) and inflammatory (serum level of monocyte chemotactic protein-1) response. Masson trichrome staining also revealed epithelial cell hyperplasia for this type of MWCNT. Enhanced apoptosis was detected by cleaved caspase 3 immunohistochemistry in lungs of mice treated with the long and rigid MWCNT and, to a lesser extent, with the shorter, highly agglomerated MWCNT. However, staining was merely localised to granulomatous foci, and neither of the MWCNTs induced apoptosis in vitro, evaluated by caspase 3/7 activity in RAW 264.7 cells. In addition, our study reveals that the inflammatory and pro-fibrotic effects of MWCNTs in the mouse lung can vary considerably depending on their composition. The in vitro analysis of macrophage apoptosis appears to be a poor predictor of their pulmonary hazard.
We compared the efficacy and safety of additional intravenous immune globulin (IVIG) therapy with steroid pulse therapy in patients with IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease.
Two-hundred and sixty-two consecutive patients had been treated with a single dose of IVIG (2 g/kg) and aspirin (30 mg/kg per day). Thirty-five patients (13.4%) were not clinical responders to the initial IVIG treatment. They received an additional IVIG treatment (1 g/kg) within 48 h after the initial treatment. Seventeen patients (6.5%) did not respond to the additional IVIG treatment. We randomly divided these patients into two groups: group 1 consisted of eight patients who were treated with a single additional dose of IVIG (1 g/kg), while group 2 consisted of nine patients who were treated with steroid pulse therapy.
The IVIG-resistant patients had a high incidence of coronary artery lesions (CAL; 48.6%). Five patients (62.5%) in group 1 had CAL, including two patients who each had a giant aneurysm and three patients who each had a small aneurysm. Seven patients (77.8%) in group 2 had CAL, including two patients who each had a giant aneurysm, two patients who each had a small coronary aneurysm and three patients who each showed transient dilatation during steroid pulse therapy. There was no significant difference in the incidence of CAL between the two groups. The duration of high fever in group 2 (1.4~0.7 days) was significantly shorter than in group 1 (4.8~3.4 days; P<0.05). The medical costs for the treatment of patients in group 2 (113, 012 yen +/- 22,084) were significantly lower than those for group 1 (144,194 yen +/- 12,914; P<0.05).
Steroid pulse therapy may be useful in the treatment of patients with IVIG-resistant Kawasaki disease who experience prolonged fever. However, transient dilatation of the coronary artery is observed during steroid pulse therapy, so careful echocardiographic examination should be performed for those patients receiving steroid pulse therapy for the sake of early detection of coronary artery abnormalities.
The authors report a case of acute thioridazine (Melleril) poisoning with manifestations of polymorphous ventricular rhythm disturbances in the form of torsades de pointes, with an impaired conscious level. The opportunity is taken to review the electrocardiographic changes and cardiac complications linked to the quinidine-like effect of Melleril.
Our previous study showed that the myelosuppression induced by a single-bolus intravenous injection of amrubicin into mice was more severe, even at half the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), than that induced by adriamycin (ADR) at the MTD, but that the recovery was more rapid than that after ADR. The present study shows that the administration of amrubicin significantly decreased the number of colony-forming units of granulocytes and monocytes (CFU-GM) from day 1, but that the CFU-GM numbers recovered by day 3. In contrast, the administration of ADR induced a continuous decrease in the numbers of CFU-GM until day 10. The early myelosuppression and rapid recovery of white blood cells (WBC) induced by amrubicin may depend upon the early decrease in the number of CFU-GM and the rapid recovery of CFU-GM. These data suggest that the toxic effects on the peripheral blood and bone marrow induced by amrubicin are more reversible and more controllable than those induced by ADR.
Various compounds believed to selectively interact with the 5-HT(2C) receptor have been demonstrated to alter the functioning of ascending dopamine systems. We postulated that this functional interaction may extend to the behavioural effects of drugs of abuse whose rewarding properties are critically dependent upon mesolimbic DA activity.
The present studies focussed on interactions between 5-HT(2C) receptor function and behaviours either supported or induced by nicotine.
The effect of Ro 60-0175, a 5-HT(2C) agonist, was assessed for its ability to modify 1) nicotine-induced locomotor activity in nicotine-treated rats, 2) lever pressing maintained by either food or IV administration of nicotine, and 3) the development of nicotine-induced hyperactivity. The specificity of this effect was further measured in locomotor activity studies by additional administration of the selective 5-HT(2C) antagonist SB 242,084.
Ro 60-0175 (0.3-3 mg/kg SC) dose-dependently reduced nicotine-induced activity, an effect which was reversed by SB 242,084 (0.5 mg/kg IP), thus confirming receptor selectivity of the response. Responding both for food and nicotine on an FR5TO1 min schedule of reinforcement was reduced by Ro 60-0175 (0.1-1 mg/kg) with proportionally similar effects on responses for both types of reinforcer. Co-administration of Ro 60-0175 (1 mg/kg SC) and nicotine (0.4 mg/kg SC) for 10 days blocked the sensitised response that developed in subjects treated with nicotine alone.
The present data support an involvement for the 5-HT(2C) receptor in mediating mesolimbic DA functioning as assessed by changes in behaviours indicative of nicotine reward.
