Myoclonic twitching in the lower limbs of a patient who received intrathecal narcotics is described. There was no loss of consciousness. Reports of this phenomenon in animals are reviewed.
Due to the short duration of action of naloxone, late respiratory impairment may be anticipated when given for the reversal of opioid anesthesia. Nalbuphine, a mixed agonist-antagonist chemically related to naloxone has a longer duration of action. It therefore was considered to be of clinical interest in reversing fentanyl anesthesia related depression of respiratory drive. In an open study 15 patients (mean age 40 years) undergoing orthopedic surgery received nalbuphine (0.1 mg/kg) after fentanyl (median dose 1.4 mg over a mean length of operation time of 95 min) - N2O/O2-anesthesia. 5, 15, 30, 45 and 60 min after nalbuphine, the ventilatory response to CO2-stimulation (rebreathing technique), was assessed and compared to control pre-anesthetic values. Nalbuphine reversed total apnoea due to fentanyl anesthesia. The slope of the CO2-response curve (sensitivity of the respiratory center to CO2) was -8% below control at the 5th and +13.5% and +22.6% at the 30th respectively 45th minute post nalbuphine. The ventilatory response to an increased end-tidal pCO2 of 60 mm Hg (level of response of the respiratory center to CO2) remained below control (-23.5% to -21%) over the following 60 minutes. A return of respiratory depression was not observed as the slope of the CO2-response curve remained above control values. From this study it was concluded that nalbuphine seemed to be a suitable compound for the reversal of opioid-anesthesia induced respiratory depression.
A 31-year-old woman ingested hexachlorophene (pHisoHex) over a ten-month period. She developed bilateral optic atrophy with no other systemic evidence of neurotoxicity. This cases supports pathologists' findings that the optic nerve and chiasm are particularly sensitive to the poisonous effects of hexachlorophene.
Clinical treatment of 147 female patients suffering with genital herpes simplex virus were conducted in two phases. The purpose of Phase I was to note the efficacy of treatment with ultrasound and Herpigon ointment (zinc, urea, and tannic acid) in relieving pain and shortening the length of time involved in healing. Results indicated that the combined treatment significantly reduced pain and length of healing period. Phase II involved a 2-year follow-up of patients with primary and recurrent infection. Results indicated that the combined treatment significantly reduced recurrent infection in all patients treated.
Given that adverse effects of chronic sympathetic activation are mediated by all three adrenergic receptor subtypes (beta1, beta2, alpha1), we examined the effects of standard doses of carvedilol and metoprolol succinate (metoprolol controlled release/extended release [CR/XL]) on hemodynamics, myocardial metabolism, and regional organ perfusion.
Both beta1 selective and combined adrenergic blockade reduce morbidity and mortality in heart failure. Whether there are advantages of one class over the other remains controversial, even in the wake of the Carvedilol Or Metoprolol European Trial (COMET). Similarly, the mechanistic basis for the relative differences is incompletely understood.
Thirty-three conscious, chronically instrumented dogs with pacing-induced (240 min(-1) for 4 weeks) dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) were randomized to carvedilol (25 mg twice daily, Coreg, Glaxo Smith Kline, Research Triangle, North Carolina) or metoprolol succinate (100 mg qd, Toprol XL, Astra Zeneca, Wilmington, Delaware). Left ventricular and systemic hemodynamics, myocardial substrate uptake, and norepinephrine spillover were measured before and after three days of treatment. Regional (renal, hepatic, skeletal muscle) blood flows were measured using neutron-activated microspheres.
Both agents had comparable heart rate effects. However, carvedilol-treated dogs showed significantly greater increases in stroke volume and cardiac output and decreases in left ventricular end-diastolic pressure and systemic vascular resistance. Carvedilol increased renal, hepatic, and skeletal muscle blood flow. Carvedilol increased myocardial glucose uptake and suppressed norepinephrine and glucagon. Carvedilol antagonized the response to exogenous norepinephrine to a greater extent than metoprolol CR/XL.
At doses inducing comparable heart rate reductions, short-term treatment with carvedilol had superior hemodynamic and metabolic effects compared with metoprolol CR/XL. These data suggest important advantages of blocking all three adrenergic receptor subtypes in DCM.
The neuroprotective effects of catalpol, an iridoid glycoside isolated from the fresh rehmannia roots, on the cholinergic system and inflammatory cytokines in the senescent mice brain induced by D-galactose were assessed. The results showed that acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity increased in senescent mice brain and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) positive neurons, detected by immunohistochemical staining, decreased remarkably in the basal forebrain of senescent mice. Simultaneously, muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M1 (mAChR1) expression declined in senescent mice brain by western blotting method. We also found that the contents of tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β) and advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) increased in senescent mice brain by ELISA method. However, administration of catalpol for 2-weeks significantly reversed the biochemical markers mentioned above. These results suggest that catalpol can exert protective effects on senescent mice brain induced by D-galactose and this effect may be due to its protective effects on cholinergic and immune impairment in mice brain. Thus catalpol is worth testing for further preclinical study aimed for senescence or neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.
The past decade has witnessed hundreds of reports declaring or refuting genetic association with putative Alzheimer disease susceptibility genes. This wealth of information has become increasingly difficult to follow, much less interpret. We have created a publicly available, continuously updated database that comprehensively catalogs all genetic association studies in the field of Alzheimer disease (http://www.alzgene.org). We performed systematic meta-analyses for each polymorphism with available genotype data in at least three case-control samples. In addition to identifying the epsilon4 allele of APOE and related effects, we pinpointed over a dozen potential Alzheimer disease susceptibility genes (ACE, CHRNB2, CST3, ESR1, GAPDHS, IDE, MTHFR, NCSTN, PRNP, PSEN1, TF, TFAM and TNF) with statistically significant allelic summary odds ratios (ranging from 1.11-1.38 for risk alleles and 0.92-0.67 for protective alleles). Our database provides a powerful tool for deciphering the genetics of Alzheimer disease, and it serves as a potential model for tracking the most viable gene candidates in other genetically complex diseases.
Considerable evidence indicates that the beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol decreases apoptosis in a rodent model of ischaemic cardiomyopathy. In this study, we investigated the effects of clenbuterol on infarct size caused by myocardial ischaemia/reperfusion (I/R) in anaesthetized rats.
Rats were randomly assigned to the following groups: (i) sham (ii) I/R (iii) clenbuterol + I/R (iv) ICI 118551 + clenbuterol + I/R (v) metoprolol + clenbuterol + I/R (vi) metoprolol + I/R (vii) pertussis toxin + clenbuterol + I/R. Under anaesthesia, left anterior descending coronary artery was occluded for 30 min followed by reperfusion for 2 h.
Compared with the control I/R group,the clenbuterol (0.5 mg.kg(-1), i.p.) group had reduced infarct size, improved diastolic function and sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA) activity, increased superoxide dismutase activity, and decreased malondialdehyde (MDA) level and LDH, CK release. Clenbuterol increased the phosphorylation of ERK1/2, which resulted in inhibition of myocardial apoptosis as indicated by the reduction of terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase end labelling-positive staining, Bax/Bcl-2 mRNA and caspase-3 protein expression. The G(i)-protein inhibitor pertussis toxin blocked the clenbuterol-induced improvement in cardiac function and infarct size. Pretreatment with ICI 118551(a selective beta(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist) inhibited the effects of clenbuterol mentioned above. The beta(1)-adrenoceptor agonist metoprolol had similar effects to clenbuterol but failed to reduce MDA and improve SERCA activity. When administered together, metoprolol and clenbuterol did not induce synergistic effects.
Clenbuterol pretreatment provides significant cardioprotection against ischaemia/reperfusion injury and this is mediated by the beta(2)-adrenoceptor-G(i)-protein signalling. A combination of the beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clenbuterol and the beta(1)-antagonist metoprolol did not lead to a synergistic anti-apoptotic effect.
Quinolone antibiotics are frequently used in the practice of medicine. Nephrotoxic side effects related to the use of quinolones are uncommon. We report a patient in treatment with ciprofloxacin who presented with purpuric skin lesions and alteration of renal function. We review these antibacterial agents with special attention on associated adverse reactions, and present-day experience with the newer quinolone antibiotics.
Seventy-two patients with neoplastic disease in a variety of anatomic sites were treated with sequential methotrexate (MTX) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) followed by leucovorin (LV) rescue. Treatment consisted of MTX, 160 mg/m2 as a 10-min infusion; 5-FU, 600 mg/m2 as a bolus 90 min later; and LV, a minimum of 25 mg/m2 or 15 mg/m2 p.o. q.6h. X 4, repeated at 1- or 2-wk intervals. Responses of any type included 4 of 24 colon cancers, 3 of 12 stomach cancers, 0 of 6 pancreas cancers, 1 of 2 gallbladder cancers, 4 of 6 breast cancers, 1 of 1 uterus cancer, 2 of 2 selected lung cancers, 1 of 1 parotid cancer, 1 of 2 sarcomas, and 0 of 6 ovary cancers. Response appeared to increase survival. The best-quality responses were observed in patients with stomach, breast, and parotid tumors. Toxicities included anemia requiring transfusion (20%), anorexia during treatment with LV (16%), moderate thrombocytopenia (12%), grade 3 stomatitis (12%), moderate granulocytopenia (10%), severe conjunctivitis (6%), severe gastroenteritis (6%), vomiting (6%), anamnestic reactions (6%), possible renal failure (4%), and possible pulmonary failure (2%). One patient had life-threatening gastroenteritis and reappearance of a grade 1 to 2 skin reaction of the entire treatment field more than 5 yr after radiotherapy. Patients with prior cis-platin therapy had a 50% risk of life-threatening pancytopenia. The results encourage controlled primary trials testing intensification of the sequential combinations with parallel investigations of MTX alone with and without diminished doses of LV.
We tested the hypothesis that cocaine-induced impairment of left ventricular function results in cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Mongrel dogs, anesthetized with alpha-chloralose, were injected with two doses of cocaine (5 mg/kg iv) 27 min apart. Cocaine produced transient decreases in aortic and left ventricular systolic pressures that were followed by increases exceeding control. As aortic pressure recovered, left ventricular end-diastolic, left atrial (Pla), pulmonary arterial (Ppa), and central venous pressures rose. Cardiac output and stroke volume were reduced when measured 4-5 min after cocaine administration. Peak Ppa and Pla were 31 +/- 5 (SE) mmHg (range 17-51 mmHg) and 26 +/- 5 mmHg (range 12-47 mmHg), respectively. Increases in extravascular lung water content (4.10 to 6.24 g H2O/g dry lung wt) developed in four animals in which Pla exceeded 30 mmHg. Analysis of left ventricular function curves revealed that cocaine depressed the inotropic state of the left ventricle. Cocaine-induced changes in hemodynamics spontaneously recovered and could be elicited again by the second dose of the drug. Our results show that cocaine-induced pulmonary hypertension, associated with decreased left ventricular function, produces pulmonary edema if pulmonary vascular pressures rise sufficiently.
Huang Qi (root of Astragalus membranaceus) and Dang Gui ( Angelica sinensis), two of the most widely used herbs in traditional Chinese medicine, have been proven to be effective in the treatment of diabetes mellitus (DM) although the underlying molecular mechanisms are not fully elucidated. This study was designed to investigate the protective effect of Dang Gui and Huang Qi mixture (GQM) on the development of diabetic nephropathy in rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced DM and the possible underlying molecular mechanism. The diabetic animal model was made by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ and then treated with GQM or benazepril. Blood glucose, triglyceride (TG), cholesterol (CHO), high density lipoprotein (HDL), serum creatinine (Scr), creatinine clearance rate (Ccr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), urine beta (2)-microglobin (beta (2)-MG), kidney/body weight (K/B) ratio, glomerular area (GA), renal transforming growth factor-beta (1) (TGF-beta (1)) mRNA expression and blood and renal angiotensin II (AngII) expression were determined 8 weeks after the treatment. The blood glucose, CHO and TG levels, BUN, SCr, Ccr. K/B ratio, GA, the excretion of beta (2)-MG, renal TGF-beta (1) mRNA expression and blood and renal AngII expression were significantly increased while the HDL level was decreased 8 week after STZ injection. The changes in blood glucose, TG, CHO and HDL were reversed by GQM, not by benazepril, whereas the changes in other variables were reversed by both GQM and benazepril. Our results suggest that GQM alleviates the disorder in blood glucose and lipids, protects against the progression of renal nephropathy in diabetic rats, probably by inhibiting the expression of AngII and TGF-beta (1) mRNA.
An association has been found between transplant glomerulopathy (TG) and reduplication of peritubular capillary basement membranes (PTCR). Although such an association is of practical and theoretical importance, only one prospective study has tried to confirm it.
We examined 278 consecutive renal specimens (from 135 transplants and 143 native kidneys) for ultrastructural evidence of PTCR. In addition to renal allografts with TG, we also examined grafts with acute rejection, recurrent glomerulonephritis, chronic allograft nephropathy and stable grafts ("protocol biopsies"). Native kidney specimens included a wide range of glomerulopathies as well as cases of thrombotic microangiopathy, malignant hypertension, acute interstitial nephritis, and acute tubular necrosis.
We found PTCR in 14 of 15 cases of TG, in 7 transplant biopsy specimens without TG, and in 13 of 143 native kidney biopsy specimens. These 13 included cases of malignant hypertension, thrombotic microangiopathy, lupus nephritis, Henoch-Schonlein nephritis, crescentic glomerulonephritis, and cocaine-related acute renal failure. Mild PTCR in allografts without TG did not predict renal failure or significant proteinuria after follow-up periods of between 3 months and 1 year.
We conclude that in transplants, there is a strong association between well-developed PTCR and TG, while the significance of mild PTCR and its predictive value in the absence of TG is unclear. PTCR also occurs in certain native kidney diseases, though the association is not as strong as that for TG. We suggest that repeated endothelial injury, including immunologic injury, may be the cause of this lesion both in allografts and native kidneys.
Cerebrovascular complications were registered in 11 patients (0.21%) of 5,339, consecutively submitted to coronary angiography with the nonionic contrast medium iohexol (Omnipaque). Six of the patients had diseases predisposing them to thromboembolic complications, 3 of whom earlier had symptoms of cerebral stroke. Excluding these 6, the incidence of cerebral thromboembolic events was 0.10% in patients with no predisposing diseases. Precise catheterization technique and some anticoagulation and antiplatelet activity therapy are definite precautions against these complications, while the role of the contrast medium is still debated.
The anti-hepatitis B (anti-HBV) activities of the (-) and (+) enantiomers of cis-5-fluoro-1-[2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-oxathiolan-5-yl]cytosine (2'-deoxy-3'-thia-5-fluorocytosine [FTC]) were studied by using an HBV-transfected cell line (HepG2 derivative 2.2.15, subclone P5A). The (-) isomer was found to be a potent inhibitor of viral replication, with an apparent 50% inhibitory concentration of 10 nM, while the (+) isomer was found to be considerably less active. Both isomers showed minimal toxicity to HepG2 cells (50% inhibitory concentration, > 200 microM) and showed minimal toxicity in the human bone marrow progenitor cell assay. In accord with the cellular antiviral activity data, the 5'-triphosphate of (-)-FTC inhibited viral DNA synthesis in an endogenous HBV DNA polymerase assay, while the 5'-triphosphate of the (+) isomer was inactive. Unphosphorylated (-)-FTC did not inhibit product formation in the endogenous assay, suggesting that the antiviral activity of the compound is dependent on anabolism to the 5'-triphosphate. Both (-)- and (+)-FTC were anabolized to the corresponding 5'-triphosphates in chronically HBV-infected HepG2 cells. The rate of accumulation and the steady-state concentration of the 5'-triphosphate of (-)-FTC were greater. Also, (-)-FTC was not a substrate for cytidine deaminase and, therefore, is not subject to deamination and conversion to an inactive uridine analog. The (+) isomer is, however, a good substrate for cytidine deaminase.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are environmental contaminants found in human and animal tissues worldwide. Neonatal exposure to the flame retardant 2,2', 4,4',5-pentabromodiphenyl ether (PBDE-99) disrupts normal brain development in mice, and results in disturbed spontaneous behavior in the adult. The mechanisms underlying the late effects of early exposure are not clear. To gain insight into the initial neurodevelopmental damage inflicted by PBDE-99, we investigated the short-term effects of PBDE-99 on protein expression in the developing cerebral cortex of neonatal mice, and the cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of PBDE-99 in primary cultures of fetal rat cortical cells. We used two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) to analyze protein samples isolated from the cortex of NMRI mice 24h after exposure to a single oral dose of 12 mg/kg PBDE-99 on post-natal day 10. Protein resolution was enhanced by sample pre-fractionation. In the cell model, we determined cell viability using the trypan blue exclusion assay, and apoptosis using immunocytochemical detection of cleaved caspase-3. We determined the identity of 111 differentially expressed proteins, 32 (29%) of which are known to be cytoskeleton-related. Similar to previous findings in the striatum, we found elevated levels of the neuron growth-associated protein Gap43 in the cortex. In cultured cortical cells, a high concentration of PBDE-99 (30 microM) induced cell death without any apparent increase in caspase-3 activity. These results indicate that the permanent neurological damage induced by PBDE-99 during the brain growth spurt involve detrimental effects on cytoskeletal regulation and neuronal maturation in the developing cerebral cortex.
Autism occurs in 1 in 1,000 children and incidence may be increasing. Investigating brain development and developmental injury in humans is difficult. As such, many studies rely on animal models of disorders. We chose to investigate the valproic acid-exposed rat, as this model shares many similarities with autism. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were administered either valproic acid (VPA) or saline during fetal neural tube development. Morphological analyses of cells in layer II of the golgi impregnated motor cortex were done to determine dendritic length, volume, and complexity in both groups. No differences were found in length or volume of cortical dendrites, but dendritic arborization was more complex in apical dendrites of pyramidal cells in VPA-exposed animals than controls. The implication of this finding is that pruning in the VPA-exposed rat is not occurring, which is consistent with theories related to abnormal human brain development in autism.
According to the literature, centrophenoxine weakens the teratogenic effect of cyclophosphamide. Circadianrhythmic examinations were carried out on Wistar-rats at 4 different times daily during embryogenesis. The spectrum of deformities induced by cyclophosphamide showed significant differences according to the stage of development and the time of day. The protective effect of centrophenoxine has been demonstrated, but its ability to do so also showed daytime fluctuations. The most remarkable effect was obtained 14 d post coitum at one in the morning. The importance of circadianrhythmic examinations in experimental work is therefore stressed, and should be given some more attention.
Insulin stimulation of adipose and muscle cells results in the translocation of GLUT4 from an intracellular location to the plasma membrane; this translocation is defective in insulin resistance. Studies have suggested an important role for synaptobrevin and syntaxin homologues in this event, particularly the v-soluble N-ethylmaleimide attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) cellubrevin and vesicle-associated membrane protein-2 (VAMP-2) and the t-SNARE syntaxin 4, but the expression of these proteins has not been studied in insulin-resistant tissues. Therefore, we examined SNARE protein content in skeletal muscle from Zucker diabetic fatty (ZDF) rats compared with lean controls and determined the effect of the thiazolidinedione insulin sensitizer rosiglitazone on these proteins. GLUT4 levels in skeletal muscle from ZDF rats were similar to those in lean control animals. In contrast, cellubrevin, VAMP-2, and syntaxin 4 protein levels were elevated (2.8-fold, P = 0.02; 3.7-fold, P = 0.01; and 2.2-fold, P < 0.05, respectively) in skeletal muscle from ZDF rats compared with lean controls. Restoration of normoglycemia and normoinsulinemia in ZDF rats with rosiglitazone (30 micromol/kg) normalized cellubrevin, VAMP-2, and syntaxin 4 protein to levels approaching those observed in lean control animals. These data show that elevated v- and t-SNARE protein levels are associated with insulin resistance in skeletal muscle and that these increases may be reversed by rosiglitazone treatment concomitant with a restoration of glycemic control. Such increases in SNARE protein levels were not observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats, which suggests that hyperinsulinemia rather than hyperglycemia may be more important in modulating SNARE protein expression in rodent models of insulin resistance. Consistent with this hypothesis, elevated levels of SNARE proteins were also observed in 3T3-L1 adipocytes chronically treated with insulin (500 nmol/l for 24 h). These data argue that SNARE protein levels may be altered in insulin-resistant states and that the levels of these proteins are modulated by agents that increase insulin sensitivity. Moreover, these data demonstrate for the first time altered expression of proteins known to regulate GLUT4 translocation in a model of diabetes.
A blunted response to loop diuretics frequently occurs in nephrotic syndrome (NS). Observations that nephrotic humans have reduced sodium excretion at normal rates of diuretic excretion have suggested that tubular resistance to the drug may contribute to diuretic resistance. To determine if tubular resistance to furosemide exists in NS, late proximal and early distal tubular micropuncture was performed in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside-induced NS and in control rats after an i.v. bolus dose of furosemide of 1 mg/kg body wt. Absolute and fractional urinary sodium excretions were less (P less than 0.05) in NS rats than in control rats after furosemide. Inulin clearance and total urinary furosemide excretion, however, were not different between groups. Thus, similar to reports in humans, the urinary sodium-to-furosemide excretion ratio was less (P less than 0.05) in NS than in control rats. Single-nephron GFR and chloride delivery to late proximal sites were not different between groups after furosemide. In contrast, absolute and fractional chloride deliveries to early distal sites were less (P less than 0.05) in NS rats after furosemide. Calculated loop chloride reabsorption after furosemide was greater (P less than 0.05) in NS than in control rats when expressed either as percentage of filtered load (39.4 +/- 3.1 versus 28.2 +/- 2.0%) or delivered load (67.9 +/- 4.7 versus 48.3 +/- 3.0%). Loop fluid reabsorption was not different between groups. Thus, loop chloride reabsorption is inhibited to a lesser extent by i.v. furosemide in NS than in normal rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Three of 218 children treated with ifosfamide plus the uroprotectant mesna, in single- or combination-agent protocols, have developed Fanconi's renal syndrome, all of whom were in a subgroup of 86 children who had also received cisplatin or carboplatin therapy. Patients receiving ifosfamide who have received prior cisplatin (or carboplatin) are at significantly higher risk of developing Fanconi's syndrome than are those who have received no prior nephrotoxic therapy (P = .04). The role of prior nephrotoxic therapy, including cisplatin and its derivatives, and the total dose of ifosfamide should be considered in the assessment of this rare but serious and apparently irreversible side effect.
During the metabolism of the hepatotoxin carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) by cytochrome P450, heme, and free radicals are released. Heme oxygenase (HO-1) is an enzyme that is induced by heme as well as oxidative stress and has been reported to be involved in mediating protection against toxic liver injury. The purpose of the present study was to specify the role of HO-1 in CCl(4)-hepatotoxicity.
We could demonstrate an up-regulation of HO-1 protein in CCl(4)-exposed liver tissue that reaches its maximum after 6 to 12 h, along with intrahepatic leukocyte accumulation and tissue injury. When animals were pretreated with hemin for augmentation of HO-1 expression, CCl(4)-exposure was associated with a reduction of intrahepatic leukocyte accumulation, while inhibition of CCl(4)-induced HO-1 expression by tin protoporphyrin-IX (SnPP-IX) enhanced leukocytic response. Of interest, however, liver morphology, transaminases, and bile flow as parameters of hepatocellular integrity and excretory function did not concur with reduced leukocyte numbers in the hepatic microcirculation, and revealed best organ function and tissue preservation in case of HO-1 inhibition by SnPP-IX. In contrast, hemin-treated CCl(4)-exposed livers demonstrated pathologic enzyme release and cholestasis.
Taken together, inhibition of HO-1 in CCl(4)-hepatotoxicity protected the liver, while higher HO-1 activity harmed liver tissue, most probably due to interference of the HO-1 pathway with CCl(4)-dependent metabolism via cytochrome P450 and heme overload-associated toxicity.
Pretreatment of buthionine sulfoximine (500 mg/kg, i.p., BSO), a potent glutathione-depleting agent, markedly increased the lethality and nephrotoxicity of cisplatin. These results suggest that a reactive electrophilic intermediate may be involved in the mechanism of cisplatin nephrotoxicity and moreover, that renal glutathione may play a protective role against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Drug-induced vasculitis is a known side effect of prolonged treatment with several drugs. It is characterized by inflammation and cellular infiltration of small vessels and presence of anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA). Propylthiouracil and hydralazine (anti-thyroid and antihypertensive drugs) are the drugs most commonly associated with drug-induced vasculitis. Small vessels of the skin are most frequently affected, while affection of the vessels of the kidneys, central nervous system and lungs make the diagnosis life-threatening. When drug-induced vasculitis is suspected, quick and punctual diagnostic procedure should be carried out to exclude systemic manifestations. Treatment comprises of elimination of the causative drug, which is sufficient in most cases, but sometimes oral or parenteral glucocorticoids and even immunosuppressants are indicated. A case is presented of an 18-year-old male with a history of Graves disease treated with standard dose of propylthiouracil. Approximately 2.5 years after starting therapy he noticed formation of shallow skin ulcerations on both of his ear lobes and elbows. Detailed hospital work-up found high titers of perinuclear-staining anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies/myeloperoxidase (pANCA/MPO, 1:1024). Biopsy of the affected skin revealed leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Additional tests excluded systemic vasculitis. The patient was diagnosed with propylthiouracil-induced vasculitis, a form of drug-induced vasculitis. Propylthiouracil was discontinued and the skin lesions disappeared over time without the need of any specific therapy (such as glucocorticoids).
The atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of congestive heart failure (CHF), by influencing electrolyte and water balance and by modifying peripheral vascular resistance, thus affecting left ventricular performance. Anthracycline derivatives are glycoside antibiotics, active against a wide spectrum of tumours. It is well known that acute and severe dose-related delayed cardiotoxicity constitutes the major limitation to their optimal use. A total of 26 female patients (mean age 53 years) undergoing monochemotherapy for advanced breast cancer, were studied. 4'-Epidoxorubicin (Epidx) 120 mg/m2 intravenously was administered every three weeks for a total of a mean of 6.6 therapeutic cycles (3 to 10). Left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) determined by radionuclide ventriculography and circulating ANF were measured periodically in all patients. Epidx administration was limited at a cumulative dose ranging between 840 and 1200 mg/m2 because of a 25% decrease in LVEF and due to a progressive rising in ANF plasma levels. Furthermore, two patients who presented clinical symptoms of CHF had also significantly increased ANF levels (56 and 49% respectively). The current evidence suggests an important pathophysiological role of ANF in anthracyclinic related CHF. Hopefully measurement of plasma ANF will provide a simple non-invasive method of assessing ventricular dysfunction related to anthracycline cardiac toxicity and might represent an additional objective indicator of the severity of haemodynamic compromise in patients with impaired cardiac function.
A 10-year-old male with acute leukemia presented with post-chemotherapy anemia. During red cell transfusion, he developed hemoglobinuria. Transfusion reaction workup was negative. Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia was suspected because of positive direct antiglobulin test, negative eluate, and microspherocytes on smear pre- and post-transfusion. Drug studies using the indirect antiglobulin test were strongly positive with trimethoprim and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole but negative with sulfamethoxazole. The patient recovered after discontinuing the drug, with no recurrence in 2 years. Other causes of anemia should be considered in patients with worse-than-expected anemia after chemotherapy. Furthermore, hemolysis during transfusion is not always a transfusion reaction.
A new type of ultra-short acting beta-blocker which might prove advantageous in treating acute arrhythmias was designed, synthesized and investigated. Based on the soft drug "inactive metabolite approach," the inactive phenylacetic acid metabolite of both metoprolol and atenolol was reactivated by esterification with sulfur-containing aliphatic alcohols. Since the sulfur-containing moieties are labile to the ubiquitous esterases, the new compounds should be inactivated by a one step enzymatic cleavage back to the inactive phenylacetic acid derivative. Pharmacological and pharmacokinetic profiles of the new compounds were evaluated in rats and rabbits. Isoproterenol-induced tachycardia was inhibited with short-term infusion of each compound. This tachycardia blocking effect rapidly disappeared upon termination of infusion, while beta-blocking activity was 2-4-fold longer after comparable doses of the short-acting beta-blocker, esmolol. The rapid recovery from the beta-receptor blockade is believed due to fast hydrolysis of the soft drugs in the body. This is supported from in vitro results showing the t1/2 of esmolol is about 10-fold longer than the new soft drugs in rat, rabbit, dog and human blood. Hydrolysis studies in phosphate buffered solutions indicated that the esters are labile to base-catalyzed hydrolysis. However, the relative t1/2 values measured in biological media compared to phosphate buffered solution clearly support rapid enzymatic cleavage of the soft drugs. Interestingly, one of the soft beta-blockers, the sulfonyl ester derivative, showed a unique property of exhibiting good beta-receptor blocking activity without significant hypotensive action.
