In hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B patients who were refractory to current lamivudine therapy, switching to entecavir was superior to continued lamivudine at week 48 for histologic improvement, viral load reduction by polymerase chain reaction and alanine aminotransferase normalization. We assessed the efficacy, safety, and resistance profile of entecavir through 96 weeks of treatment. A total of 286 patients were randomized and treated with entecavir 1 mg (n = 141) or continued lamivudine 100 mg (n = 145). At week 52, 77 entecavir-treated patients who had a protocol-defined virologic response (HBV branched DNA [bDNA] < 0.7 MEq/mL but HBeAg-positive) continued blinded therapy for up to 96 weeks. Patients were assessed for efficacy, safety, and emerging resistance. Cumulative proportions of all treated patients who achieved confirmed efficacy endpoints were also analyzed. Between week 48 and the end of dosing, the proportions of patients with HBV DNA <300 copies/mL by polymerase chain reaction increased from 21% to 40%, and alanine aminotransferase normalization (< or =1x upper limit of normal) increased from 65% to 81%. In the second year, HBeAg seroconversion was achieved by 10% of patients. Of the 77 patients in the second year treatment cohort, entecavir resistance emerged in six patients, and seven experienced virologic breakthrough (five with genotypic resistance acquired before year 2). The safety profile of entecavir in the second year of therapy was consistent with that reported during year 1.
Through 96 weeks of treatment, 1 mg entecavir resulted in continued clinical benefit in lamivudine-refractory HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B patients with a safety profile comparable to lamivudine.
Approximately 10% of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have familial ALS (FALS), and 20% of FALS is caused by mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase type 1 (MTSOD1). Previous studies have convincingly demonstrated that MTSOD1 expression in other cell types besides motor neurons (MNs) contributes to disease in MTSOD1 FALS transgenic mice. Using Cre/LoxP methods, we knocked down G85R SOD1 mRNA by 66% in all cell types in 3-month-old FALS transgenic mice, delaying disease onset and lengthening disease duration. Surprisingly, the effect on onset and early disease duration was similar to that seen in FALS transgenic mice with approximately 25% knockdown prenatally in G85R SOD1 mRNA restricted to MNs and some interneurons. These results demonstrate no clear cumulative effect on disease onset or early disease duration from knocking down G85R SOD1 in other cell types in addition to MNs/interneurons; the findings bring up the possibility that MTSOD1 has a pathogenic effect early in life that our later knockdown did not affect. Despite the more limited amelioration of disease than expected, the effect of the knockdown on disease supports the value of this approach in FALS patients and asymptomatic individuals with SOD1 mutations.
Ten out of 20 children, treated with usual doses of vincristine for various types of childhood cancers, developed neurotoxicity during treatment. Peripheral neurotoxicity (mixed motor-sensory 4/10, pure motor 3/10, pure sensory 3/10) was seen in the form of weakness of lower limbs, areflexia, neuropathic pain, or sensory loss. Autonomic neuropathy presented as constipation and urinary retention in 2 children, while 2 children developed encephalopathy in form of seizures, confusion, aphasia, and transient blindness. In children with severe neuropathy, vincristine administration was withheld/dose reduced till clinical improvement started, which took about 2-3 weeks time. Nerve conduction velocity showed motor-sensory axonal polyneuropathy. Electrophysiological abnormalities were found to persist even six months after clinical recovery in children with neurotoxicity. We found a relatively higher incidence of vincristine induced neuropathy in Indian children, which was probably due to coexistence of severe malnutrition in them.
1. Decreased nitric oxide (NO) availability is thought to be a feature of cortisol-induced hypertension in humans. 2. We hypothesized that, accordingly, the threshold for a depressor response to NO should be decreased by cortisol treatment. 3. We re-analysed data from a study of baroreflex function in normal men treated with cortisol using glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). 4. Cortisol treatment increased blood pressure and decreased the threshold dose of GTN for a fall in systolic and mean blood pressure. 5. These data support the notion that glucorticoid hypertension is associated with reduced NO bioavailability.
Efficacy and duration of antibacterial activity of rifampicin-gelatin grafts against virulent organisms were evaluated in an animal model.
Rifampicin-gelatin grafts were prepared with impregnation of Gelseal (Vascutek Ltd, Scotland) graft in 1 mg/mL rifampicin solution. Rifampicin-gelatin grafts (6 cm long; n = 24) and plain Gelseal grafts as controls (n = 4) were implanted into the canine abdominal aorta with inoculation of Staphylococcus epidermidis, Escherichia coli, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and the rifampicin-gelatin grafts were retrieved after 1 to 4 weeks. Disks cut from the retrieved rifampicin-gelatin grafts were placed on agar plates streaked with one of the organisms, and the graft antibacterial activity was assessed with the width of the inhibition zone.
In in vitro tests, initial inhibition zones (inhibition zone of 24 hours after incubation) of rifampicin-gelatin grafts against S epidermidis, MRSA, and E coli were 40.0 +/- 0.3 mm, 36.0 +/- 0.2 mm, and 11.8 +/- 0.1 mm, respectively. In the implantation, S epidermidis -inoculated rifampicin-gelatin grafts had no findings of graft infection, and no colony growth was recognized on the plates streaked with the perigraft fluids. Initial inhibition zones of S epidermidis -inoculated rifampicin-gelatin grafts retrieved at 1 or 2 weeks were 20.1 +/- 1.1 mm and 7.6 +/- 1.0 mm, respectively. In E coli -inoculated and MRSA-inoculated rifampicin-gelatin grafts, all of the eight animals had perigraft abscess, and blood culture test results probed septicemia in five animals with patent grafts at death. Inhibition zones against E coli or MRSA were not formed on the plates streaked with the same organism, whereas initial inhibition zones of E coli -inoculated and MRSA-inoculated rifampicin-gelatin grafts on S epidermidis -streaked plates were 8.0 +/- 0.2 mm and 18.5 +/- 0.5 mm, respectively. In the MRSA group, however, recolonization of high minimal inhibitory concentration strains developed within the inhibition zones as early as 24 hours. Histologically, neither organisms nor inflammatory cells were found in S epidermidis -inoculated rifampicin-gelatin grafts and tissue ingrowth was recognized at 2 to 4 weeks, whereas E coli -inoculated and MRSA-inoculated rifampicin-gelatin grafts had aggressive neutrophil infiltration into the graft interstices, revealing establishment of uncontrollable graft infection.
These results suggested that rifampicin-gelatin grafts are clearly valid for S epidermidis infection, whereas no efficacy was recognized against either MRSA or E coli graft infection because of early development of high minimal inhibitory concentration MRSA strains or poor susceptibility.
The acute antianginal effects of 5 mg and 20 mg nisoldipine were compared with 20 mg nifedipine and placebo. Maximal treadmill exercise testing was performed before and 3 hours after drug administration in 10 patients with chronic stable angina. Resting heart rate and systolic blood pressure were unchanged following low-dose nisoldipine, but 20 mg nisoldipine and 20 mg nifedipine increased heart rate and decreased systolic arterial pressure (p less than 0.05). Time (in seconds) to the onset of 0.1 mV ST segment depression was significantly prolonged after 5 mg nisoldipine (+60 +/- 53; p less than 0.05) and 20 mg nisoldipine (+100 +/- 78; p less than 0.01) but not after 20 mg nifedipine (+48 +/- 131; p = NS). Total exercise duration increased significantly following 5 mg and 20 mg nisoldipine (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.001, respectively) but only slightly following nifedipine (p = NS). The maximal rate-pressure product was increased to a similar degree following doses of both nisoldipine and nifedipine (p less than 0.05). Nisoldipine is an effective antianginal agent which performs well in comparison to nifedipine.
Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) is a primary systemic vasculitis involving predominantly the upper and lower respiratory tracts and the kidneys. Few diseases can cause deterioration of renal function and progression to renal failure as rapidly as WG. We describe a woman with WG who developed rapid progression to renal failure within 10 days of starting azathioprine prescribed as maintenance therapy for vasculitis. Her renal biopsy showed acute tubulointerstitial nephritis and no active glomerulonephritis. This case illustrates the importance of the history and urine sediment in differentiating drug hypersensitivity from rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis in patients with WG.
An elderly male patient developed a hemangioendothelial sarcoma of the liver after 9 years of stilbestrol therapy. The latter had been commenced as treatment for presumed carcinoma of the prostate. However, the latter diagnosis was never established, even at a subsequent autopsy, and presumably this was the reason he survived and had such a long course of treatment. It is suggested that there was a causal relationship between the estrogen therapy and the development of the sarcoma. This suggestion is supported by the fact that one similar case has been reported, and by recent evidence that hemangioendothelial sarcoma may be associated with the long-term use of androgenic-anabolic steroids.
The aim of this study was to assess whether the reduction in the total dose of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) per cycle from 50 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks to 40 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks can effectively lower the incidence of treatment-related palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) and mucositis.
Patients received PLD 40 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks, and were evaluated for toxicity prior to each treatment and for response every 8 weeks.
All patients were previously treated with at least one chemotherapy regimen for metastatic disease, and 72% of the patients had a prior exposure to an anthracycline. Forty-six evaluable patients received a median of four PLD cycles, with a median dose intensity of 10 mg/m(2)/week and a median cumulative dose of 160 mg/m(2). No National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) grade 3 or 4 PPE was observed in these patients. NCI-CTC grade 3 or 4 mucositis occurred in 4.3% of patients, only. Response rates and survival results observed here were comparable to those observed with PLD 50 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks in a matched patient population. However, patients treated with PLD 40 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks experienced less PPE and mucositis and required clearly less dose reductions and treatment delays.
The favorable safety profile observed in this study leads us to recommend the use of PLD 40 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks for patients with advanced breast cancer.
The antiarrhythmic effects of procainamide and phenytoin were studied in 81 patients admitted to the coronary care unit at the University Hospital in Linköping because of a suspected or proven diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction, and who developed ventricular arrhyhmias, requiring treatment, during the first 8 hours in hospital. Patients were randomly allocated to a procainamide of phenytoin group. The drugs were given as intravenous and oral loading doses followed by oral maintenance therapy. Plasma levels of the two druge were frequently determined and the electrocardiogram was continuously recorded during the 24-hour trial and analysed minute by minute. A significantly higher frequency of therapeutic failure was found in the phenytoin group (23 of 35 patients)compared to the procainamide group(13 of 39 aptients) during the first 2 hours after initiation of therapy. Four patients in the phenytoin group and 2 in the procainamide group developed symptoms probably caused by the trial drugs, necessitating discontinuation of therapy. The mean plasma levels were usually within the apparent therapeutic range (for phenytoin 40-72 mumol/l (10-18 mug/ml), and for procainamide 17-34 mumol/l (4-8 mug/ml). Seventeen patients (68%) in the phenytoin group and 10 patients (48%) in the procainamide group had plasma concentrations within this range when the therapeutic failure was observed. Nine patients died in hospital but only one of them during the trial. The results of this investigation clearly demonstrate the overall superiority of procainamide over phenytoin as an antiarrhythmic drug in short-term therapy after acute myocardial infarction.
Earlier work indicates that the cholesterol-lowering drug, simvastatin, is anabolic to chondrogenic expression of rat intervertebral disc (IVD) cells, which suggests a potential role for simvastatin in IVD regeneration. In this study, we expand on our earlier work to test the effectiveness of simvastatin on disc degeneration utilizing a rat tail disc degeneration model.
30 rats that underwent 21 G needle-puncture at rat tail discs were injected with simvastatin-loaded poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(lactic acid-co-glycolic acid)-poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG-PLGA-PEG) gel (5 mg/ml) or vehicle control at 4 weeks after needle injury. All animals were sacrificed 2 weeks after simvastatin injection. Bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP-2), aggrecan, collagen type II, and collagen type I messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression in the rat nucleus pulposus (NP) were measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). In vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to monitor changes in disc degeneration. Rat discs were also assessed by histology using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and safranin O staining. In addition, the NP weight, glycosaminoglycan (sGAG) and DNA content were also measured.
A single dose of simvastatin loaded in thermo-sensitive PEG-PLGA-PEG gel injected into the NP had the trend to increase aggrecan expression and sGAG content, and significantly increased mRNA levels of BMP-2, collagen type II, and the differentiation index (the ratio of collagen type II to collagen type I). The decreased NP weight, T2 intensity, as well as MRI index in the rat tail discs induced by needle puncture were significantly reversed after 2 weeks of simvastatin treatment. In addition, simvastatin treatment also improved histological changes induced by needle puncture.
A single injection of simvastatin loaded in PEG-PLGA-PEG gel into rat tail discs had the potential to retard or regenerate the degenerative disc.
This was a post hoc subgroup analysis of efficacy and tolerability data from the Irbesartan/HCTZ Blood Pressure Reductions in Diverse Patient Populations (INCLUSIVE) trial stratified by baseline body mass index (BMI). The BMI subgroup data were also analyzed according to the presence or absence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) at baseline.
The 18-week, prospective, multicenter, open-label, single-arm INCLUSIVE trial evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of a fixed-dose combination of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in adult hypertensive patients with systolic blood pressure (SBP) that was uncontrolled after >or=4 weeks of monotherapy. Patients received placebo for 4 to 5 weeks, HCTZ 12.5 mg for 2 weeks, irbesartan/HCTZ 150/12.5 mg for 8 weeks, and irbesartan/HCTZ 300/25 mg for 8 weeks. Patients were stratified into BMI subgroups based on values at screening. Normal weight was defined as a BMI <or=24.9 kg/m(2), overweight as a BMI of 25 to 29.9 kg/m(2), and obesity as a BMI >or=30 kg/m(2). The primary efficacy end point was the mean change in SBP from baseline (end of the placebo phase) to week 18 in the overall intent-to-treat (ITT) population. Secondary efficacy end points were the mean changes in SBP and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) from baseline to week 18 in each BMI subgroup, the proportions of patients in each BMI subgroup achieving their SBP target (<140 mm Hg [<130 mm Hg for patients with T2DM]) and DBP target (<90 mm Hg [<80 mm Hg for patients with T2DM]), and the mean SBP and DBP responses at the end of each treatment period.
The ITT population included 736 patients, of whom 99 (13.5%) were normal weight, 243 (33.0%) were overweight, and 394 (53.5%) were obese. Mean baseline SBP and DBP values were similar across BMI subgroups. Obese patients were generally younger than normal-weight and overweight patients, and numerically more obese patients had T2DM and metabolic syndrome. The mean reductions in SBP and DBP at week 18 were statistically significant in all subgroups (all, P < 0.001); SBP and DBP goals were achieved by a respective 83.8% and 93.9% of normal-weight patients, 75.3% and 87.7% of overweight patients, and 76.9% and 77.2% of obese patients. Rates of SBP/DBP control to <140/90 mm Hg in normal weight, overweight, and obese patients without T2DM were 88.2%, 79.8%, and 80.9%, respectively; the corresponding rates of control to <130/80 mm Hg in patients with T2DM were 50.0%, 41.5%, and 38.5%.
In this post hoc subgroup analysis of the INCLUSIVE trial, irbesartan/HCTZ combination therapy had comparable antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability regardless of BMI or diabetes status.
Adrenal aldosterone-producing adenomas (APAs) constitutively produce the salt-retaining hormone aldosterone and are a common cause of severe hypertension. Recurrent mutations in the potassium channel gene KCNJ5 that result in cell depolarization and Ca(2+) influx cause ∼40% of these tumors. We identified 5 somatic mutations (4 altering Gly403 and 1 altering Ile770) in CACNA1D, encoding a voltage-gated calcium channel, among 43 APAs without mutated KCNJ5. The altered residues lie in the S6 segments that line the channel pore. Both alterations result in channel activation at less depolarized potentials; Gly403 alterations also impair channel inactivation. These effects are inferred to cause increased Ca(2+) influx, which is a sufficient stimulus for aldosterone production and cell proliferation in adrenal glomerulosa. We also identified de novo germline mutations at identical positions in two children with a previously undescribed syndrome featuring primary aldosteronism and neuromuscular abnormalities. These findings implicate gain-of-function Ca(2+) channel mutations in APAs and primary aldosteronism.
There are three 4-amino-quinolines used for their analgesic properties: glafenine, antrafenine and floctafenin. Urinary calculi due to glafenine have been described since 1980. Recently two cases of renal calculi containing antrafenic acid have been reported. We discovered a metabolite of floctafenin in a bladder calculus and describe its identification by infrared spectrophotometry and thin-layer chromatography.
Proteinuria and hypertension have independent deleterious effects on the progression of chronic renal disease. The objectives of this study were to determine whether the addition of Candesartan, an angiotensin II receptor antagonist, would reduce proteinuria and blood pressure in normotensive patients with chronic renal disease already receiving an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI).
This was an open randomized controlled crossover study conducted in a private consultant practice in Melbourne. Sixty patients, aged 23-75, who had chronic renal disease and stable proteinuria over 0.5 g in 24 h and were receiving an ACEI, were enrolled in the study. The patients were randomized to have 8 mg of Candesartan added in the first or second of two 12-week study periods. The primary end point was urine protein excretion, which was measured every 2 weeks for the 24-week period. Secondary end points included systolic and diastolic blood pressure, serum creatinine, urea and potassium levels. Candesartan was added against a background of standard care, which included other blood pressure lowering therapy.
Lower urine protein excretion 2.4 vs 2.0 g in 24 h (P<0.04, difference 0.45, CI 0.01, 0.9) and lower levels of systolic blood pressure 134 vs 128 mmHg (P<0.001, difference 6.4, CI 3.2, 9.6) and diastolic blood pressure 82 vs 80 mmHg (P<0.008, difference 2.7, CI 0.7, 4.6) were observed when Candesartan, 8 mg, was added to a regimen, which included an ACEI. No rise in serum creatinine occurred but there was a significant rise in urea, during the Candesartan arm of the study, from 12.3 to 13.8 mmol/l (P<0.001). The addition of 8 mg of Candesartan in normotensive patients with chronic renal disease receiving ACEI appeared safe and was not accompanied by adverse effects apart from postural hypotension in three patients and a serum potassium level of 6.3 mmol/l in one.
In a private consulting practice setting, the addition of 8 mg of Candesartan in normotensive patients with chronic renal disease and proteinuria receiving an ACEI reduced proteinuria and blood pressure. The combination of Candesartan and ACEI appeared safe in this setting and may offer additional protection in preventing progression in chronic renal disease. Although the reduction of proteinuria was small (0.45 g/24 h) this reflected in part a lack of response in diabetic nephropathy and in part a marked rise in proteinuria after ceasing Candesartan in patients who did not complete the Candesartan arm of the study.
A case of albuterol abuse by a pediatric patient with the development of hypokalemia with electrocardiographic changes is presented. The hypokalemic effects of beta2-agonists are discussed in regard to the production of significant cardiac symptoms. Additionally, guidance regarding the evaluation of similar patients presenting in the emergency department is provided.
At least 5% of individuals with hypertension have adrenal aldosterone-producing adenomas (APAs). Gain-of-function mutations in KCNJ5 and apparent loss-of-function mutations in ATP1A1 and ATP2A3 were reported to occur in APAs. We find that KCNJ5 mutations are common in APAs resembling cortisol-secreting cells of the adrenal zona fasciculata but are absent in a subset of APAs resembling the aldosterone-secreting cells of the adrenal zona glomerulosa. We performed exome sequencing of ten zona glomerulosa-like APAs and identified nine with somatic mutations in either ATP1A1, encoding the Na(+)/K(+) ATPase α1 subunit, or CACNA1D, encoding Cav1.3. The ATP1A1 mutations all caused inward leak currents under physiological conditions, and the CACNA1D mutations induced a shift of voltage-dependent gating to more negative voltages, suppressed inactivation or increased currents. Many APAs with these mutations were <1 cm in diameter and had been overlooked on conventional adrenal imaging. Recognition of the distinct genotype and phenotype for this subset of APAs could facilitate diagnosis.
Calcifications in the basal ganglia are a common incidental finding and are sometimes inherited as an autosomal dominant trait (idiopathic basal ganglia calcification (IBGC)). Recently, mutations in the PDGFRB gene coding for the platelet-derived growth factor receptor β (PDGF-Rβ) were linked to IBGC. Here we identify six families of different ancestry with nonsense and missense mutations in the gene encoding PDGF-B, the main ligand for PDGF-Rβ. We also show that mice carrying hypomorphic Pdgfb alleles develop brain calcifications that show age-related expansion. The occurrence of these calcium depositions depends on the loss of endothelial PDGF-B and correlates with the degree of pericyte and blood-brain barrier deficiency. Thus, our data present a clear link between Pdgfb mutations and brain calcifications in mice, as well as between PDGFB mutations and IBGC in humans.
Recent studies in mice suggest that stress-activated c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase 2 (JNK2) plays a pathologic role in acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury (AILI), a major cause of acute liver failure (ALF). In contrast, we present evidence that JNK2 can have a protective role against AILI. When male C57BL/6J wild type (WT) and JNK2(-/-) mice were treated with 300mg APAP/kg, 90% of JNK2(-/-) mice died of ALF compared to 20% of WT mice within 48h. The high susceptibility of JNK2(-/-) mice to AILI appears to be due in part to deficiencies in hepatocyte proliferation and repair. Therefore, our findings are consistent with JNK2 signaling playing a protective role in AILI and further suggest that the use of JNK inhibitors as a potential treatment for AILI, as has been recommended by other investigators, should be reconsidered.
Standard non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduce the risk of colorectal cancer; however, their use as preventive agents is limited by their inherent toxicity. Drugs that selectively inhibit cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) may be useful in this setting as they are supposedly less toxic. No study has directly compared the ability of standard NSAIDs and selective COX-2 inhibitors to inhibit colorectal cancer at clinically relevant doses.
Aberrant crypt foci (ACF) were induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by using 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH). Test agents or vehicle were then administered for 3 weeks, twice daily through orogastric gavage. At the end of this period, the number and multiplicity of ACF were determined. The agents tested at equivalent anti-inflammatory doses were: sulindac and indomethacin (standard NSAIDs), meloxicam (selective COX-2 inhibitor), celecoxib (specific COX-2 inhibitor) and sulindac sulfone (no known COX activity). Acute gastrotoxicity of NSAID in rats was compared by using quantitative histology.
All test agents reduced the number of ACF. There was a 42% reduction with indomethacin, 46% with sulindac, 46% with meloxicam, 22% with celecoxib and 36% with sulindac sulfone. Only the COX-2 inhibitors caused no significant gastrotoxicity in rats.
Cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors are potentially ideal chemopreventive agents as they inhibit ACF and are not gastrotoxic.
To explore the effects of inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis on renal lesions, 37 female rats were made hypertensive and of these, 22 were treated with indomethacin. The blood pressure (207 +/- 5 mm Hg) in the indomethacin group was significantly (p < 0.01) higher than the blood pressure (191 +/- 7 mm Hg) in the control group. Weight changes were not significantly different. Renal lesions of varying severity were noted in mothers and offspring of both groups. The lesions ranged from thickening of the basement membranes to glomerular congestion, some with nearly complete eradication of glomerular architecture. Although the lesions appeared to be more marked in the indomethacin-treated group, no specific pattern of lesion location nor significant differences in the severity of the lesions was demonstrated. These data suggest that the lesions noted were the result of the hypertension. However, exacerbation by indomethacin could not be excluded.
Pre-existing left ventricular dysfunction in patients undergoing induction therapy with cyclophosphamide prior to bone marrow transplantation (BMT) has resulted in overt heart failure in a large number of patients. This fact excludes the majority of such patients from consideration for BMT at many centers. We sought to determine if prophylactic treatment with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril prevents this deterioration in pre-existing left ventricular dysfunction. We treated six consecutive patients with initial left ventricular ejection fractions (LVEF) by radionuclide gated blood pool imaging (RGBP) of < 50% (42 +/- 7%) with enalapril 5 mg orally twice per day started 48 h prior to induction therapy and continued throughout the follow-up period. Serial RGBP imaging demonstrated an increase in LVEF in all patients to 54 +/- 6% (P < 0.005). No patient experienced clinical deterioration during a follow-up period of 18 +/- 11 months. We conclude that prophylactic treatment with enalapril may prevent deterioration in pre-existing mild left ventricular dysfunction during BMT.
