We found that one-third of human sebaceous tumors examined had double-nucleotide substitutions in the same LEF1 allele, irrespective of DNA mismatch repair status. The mutations impaired both LEF1 binding to beta-catenin and transcriptional activation, and are the first tumor-associated mutations that inactivate Wnt signaling. Mutant LEF1 not only inhibited expression of beta-catenin target genes but also stimulated expression of sebocyte markers, suggesting that it may determine the differentiated characteristics of sebaceous tumors.
A case of malignant anorexia associated with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) chemotherapy is recorded. mechanisms for the anorexia of the malignant glioma patient are discussed as they relate to patient management.
Treatment with a high daily dose bromocriptine was evaluated in 6 Cushing's disease patients (4 females and 2 males; aged 23 to 56 years). The highest doses administered were 40 mg to patient 1, 55 mg to patient 2, 35 mg to patient 3, 25 mg to patient 4, 25 mg to patient 5, and 17.5 mg to patient 6. The former 3 cases, 2 (patients 1 and 2) of whom were previously reported and further followed up, showed clinical and biochemical improvement with the regimen. Patient 1 who obtained remission with 40 mg/day has been on remission for further 14 months with a total of 36 months. Patient 2, who had a reduction in pituitary tumor size with 35 mg daily, relapsed thereafter. The therapy, however, resolved the paradoxical responses of plasma ACTH and cortisol to arginine. Readministration of bromocriptine resulted into another clinical and biochemical improvement with 45 to 55 mg/day. Patient 3, a relapsed case after a remission with reserpine plus pituitary irradiation, showed an improvement in the 24-h urinary free cortisol excretion with 35 mg/day. Patient 4 was the only case who had a marked decrease in plasma cortisol (basal; 16.3, nadir; 1.9 micrograms/dl) after a single-dose bromocriptine test among the 5 cases tested. The patient had favorable response with 25 mg/day for 2 months but the dose was not increased after an escape. Patient 5 received the drug in 4 occasions, 7.5 to 25 mg/day, in combination with several agents, which failed to induce clinical remission. The last patient did not respond to a maximum dose of 17.5 mg/day. These observations suggest that, regardless of the result of a single-dose bromocriptine test, treatment with a high daily dose of bromocriptine, 35 mg or more, may be necessary to obtain a favorable clinical response and normal cortisol secretion.
Although the incidence of serious adverse effects is low during clinical coronary arteriography, life-threatening cardiovascular complications occasionally occur. Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is most often seen during contrast media (CM) injection through a wedged catheter. A simulated wedged catheter model in dogs has therefore been developed. Further, patients with heart failure are at greater risk for CM-related side effects during coronary arteriography. Thus, an acute ischemic heart failure model has been used. The present thesis was designed to investigate the cardiac electrophysiologic and hemodynamic effects of CM during selective coronary arteriography in normal and failing hearts, and in particular the role of electrolyte addition to nonionic CM. The risk of spontaneously induced VF and the arrhythmogenic mechanisms were studied when using iso-osmolal and low-osmolal CM having different contents of electrolytes, and after pretreatment with antiarrhythmic drugs. Further, effects of adding electrolytes to nonionic CM during single and fast repeated injections in normal and failing hearts were studied. Also possible effects of oxygenating CM were studied. CM injection in a wedged catheter situation had a high risk for VF. Probably, VF was due to induced regional electrophysiologic changes in ventricular activation and repolarization. Pretreatment with antiarrhythmic drugs did not prevent VF. However, addition of low concentrations of electrolytes to nonionic CM reduced the risk for VF in a wedged catheter situation. The results indicate that side-effects of CM during coronary arteriography are related mainly to the passive washout of cardiac electrolytes. Electrolyte shifts during coronary arteriography may change the myocardial Na/Ca balance and cellular calcium control. The nonionic, iso-osmolal CM iodixanol, with a balanced content of sodium and calcium and the low-osmolal, nonionic CM iohexol, also with a balanced content of electrolytes, had about the same low risk for inducing VF and presented a much lower risk for inducing VF than did iohexol and ioxaglate in a wedged catheter situation. Single injection of iohexol with a balanced eletrolyte addition induced only minimal electro-physiologic changes and was well tolerated hemodynamically. Repeated intracoronary CM injections during ischemic heart failure were associated with similar additive electrophysiologic and hemodynamic changes as when using iohexol without electrolyte supplement. Oxygenated and nonoxygenated CM presented the same risk for inducing VF. Only minor electrophysiologic and hemodynamic differences could be detected during wedged catheter injection. In conclusion, addition of key electrolytes to nonionic CM can reduce the risk of cardiac complications during coronary arteriography. Oxygenation of CM does not seem to significantly further reduce the risk.
The changes in heart rate and arterial blood pressure following the administration of suxamethonium in healthy children (mean age 3.8 +/- 0.3 years) during inhalational induction with either sevoflurane (n = 22) or halothane (n = 19) were studied. Heart rate 60s following suxamethonium administration increased significantly in the sevoflurane but not in the halothane group. In the halothane group, four children required intravenous (i.v.) atropine as as result of bradycardia. None of the children in the sevoflurane group developed bradycardia following suxamethonium (P < 0.05). Values of oxygenation, ventilation and age corrected minimal alveolar concentration were comparable at all measurement times. The haemodynamic response to the administration of suxamethonium in children anaesthetized with sevoflurane seems to reflect the stimulation of the autonomic ganglia by suxamethonium whereas this positive chronotropic effect is attenuated or reversed by halothane.
The change in endogenous antiarrhythmic peptide (AAP) levels in serum, heart and kidney from rats under several drug-induced arrhythmias was investigated using a sensitive and specific radioimmunoassay. The extracts from serum, heart and kidney were fractionated by Sephadex G-25 chromatography to obtain a fraction which was found at the same position as that of synthetic AAP. In serum, the immunoreactive (IR)-AAP level increased about threefold under CaCl2-, aconitine- and epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. In heart, the IR-AAP level was doubled by CaCl2, increased 1.4 times by aconitine and decreased by one third by epinephrine. The levels in serum and heart were slightly increased by ADP. The kidney IR-AAP level was not changed under these drug-induced arrhythmias. Considering the previous result that AAP could protect against CaCl2- and aconitine-induced arrhythmias but not against epinephrine-induced arrhythmia, the change in the IR-AAP level in heart coincided with the effect of AAP given to animals under arrhythmia. Quinidine, propranolol and verapamil had no effect on serum IR-AAP level. These results suggested that endogenous AAP in heart worked to suppress certain arrhythmia.
The neuroendocrine theory of aging suggests the common mechanisms of developmental (prereproductive) and aging (postreproductive) processes and identified a cluster of conditions (hypertension, obesity, dyslipidemia, type 2 diabetes, menopause, late onset depression, vascular cognitive impairment, impairment of immune defense, and some forms of cancer) as age-associated neuroendocrine disorders (AAND). Obesity, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and type 2 diabetes were later described as metabolic syndrome (MetS). Because melatonin attenuated development of MetS is age-dependent, that is, in young and old, but not in middle-aged rats, we studied the effect of the selective melatonin agonist, Ramelteon, on the two core symptoms of MetS/AAND: hypertension and body weight gain in spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto male rats (WKY). SHR rats developed hypertension at the time of maximal weight gain that coincided with the onset of reproductive activity (8-10 weeks old). Chronic (but not acute) administration of Ramelteon (in drinking water, 8 mg/kg/day, from 4 to 12 weeks of age) attenuated age-associated increase of systolic blood pressure (tail-cuff method) by 45%, and age-associated body weight gain by 30%. Acute and chronic Ramelteon did not affect blood pressure and body weight in normotensive WKY rats. Ramelteon-induced attenuation of age-associated hypertension and weight gain suggests that Ramelteon might attenuate the other symptoms of MetS/AAND and might be useful in the treatment of MetS/AAND during puberty, menopause, and old age.
In a double-blind between-patient study of aspirin and benorylate carried out in 72 outpatients with rheumatoid arthritis, benorylate 4 g twice daily was shown to be an effective analgesic and anti-inflammatory drug, its effects being indistinguishable from those of aspirin 1.2 g four times daily. Compared with the pretreatment values both drugs produced a statistically significant improvement (P < 0.01) in functional grade, overall pain, articular index, and grip strength at the end of the first and second weeks. The overall incidence of side effects was less with benorylate, though this difference was not significant at the 5% level.
Immunotherapy is one of the most effective treatments against metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC). However, the response rate is not high. Therefore, more effective therapies are necessary for patients with metastatic RCC. We previously reported on the significant antitumor activity of cationic multilamellar liposome containing human interferon-beta (huIFN-beta) gene (IAB-1) against RCC. We then examined the antitumor effect of IAB-1 in combination with anticancer drugs against RCC. The cytotoxicity of IAB-1 alone, and in combination with anticancer drugs, cisplatin, adriamycin, 5-fluorouracil, gemcitabine, paclitaxel and irinotecan hydrochloride against the human RCC cell line NC65 was examined by the colorimetric method using tetrazolium salt. For the in vivo study, we used NC65 cells inoculated into the severe combined immunodeficiency mouse. The results showed that the in vitro combination therapy with IAB-1 and 5-FU was more cytotoxic than IAB-1 alone. However, synergistic cytotoxicity was not observed when combined with IAB-1 and other anticancer drugs. NC65 tumors transfected with IAB-1 in mice were smaller than those receiving an injection of empty liposome or the recombinant huIFN-beta protein. Treatment with IAB-1 in combination with 5-FU resulted in significant anticancer activity. IAB-1 enhanced the activity of thymidine phosphorylase (TP), which converts 5-FU to the active metabolite, FdUMP. In contrast, IAB-1 decreased the activity of thymidylate synthase (TS), which is a target enzyme of 5-FU. In conclusion, these findings indicate that a combination of IAB-1 and 5-FU may have enhanced antitumor activity against human RCC, suggesting its potential clinical application. The mechanism of enhanced cytotoxicity by combination therapy with IAB-1 and 5-FU may up-regulate TP activity and down-regulate TS activity.
The kidney serves as a major organ of nickel (Ni) excretion and is a target organ for acute Ni toxicity due to Ni accumulation. There are no studies on the Ni or Ni compound-regulated antioxidant enzyme mRNA expression in animals and human beings at present. This study was conducted to investigate the pathway of nickel chloride (NiCl2)-caused renal oxidative damage by the methods of biochemistry, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Two hundred and eighty one-day-old broilers were randomly divided into four groups and fed on a control diet and three experimental diets supplemented with 300, 600, and 900 mg/kg of NiCl2 for 42 days. Dietary NiCl2 elevated the malondialdehyde (MDA), nitric oxide (NO), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) contents, and reduced the ability to inhibit hydroxy radical in the NiCl2-treated groups. Also, the renal inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) activity and mRNA expression levels were increased. The total antioxidant (T-AOC) and activities of antioxidant enzymes including copper zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD), manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione reductase (GR), and glutathione-s-transferase (GST) were decreased, and the glutathione (GSH) contents as well were decreased in the kidney. Concurrently, the renal CuZn-SOD, Mn-SOD, CAT, GSH-Px, GST, and GR mRNA expression levels were decreased. The above-mentioned results showed that dietary NiCl2 in excess of 300 mg/kg caused renal oxidative damage by reducing mRNA expression levels and activities of antioxidant enzymes, and then enhancing free radicals generation, lipid peroxidation, and DNA oxidation.
Recent studies indicate that the deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is related in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanism is still not clear. The abnormal interactions of Abeta with metal ions such as copper are implicated in the process of Abeta deposition and oxidative stress in AD brains. In the present study, we established a new AD model, using which we found that copper triggered the Abeta neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells overexpressing the Swedish mutant form of human APP (APPsw) in a concentration dependent manner. Fermented papaya preparation (FPP) has shown high free radical scavenging ability in vivo and in vitro. FPP post-treatment increased cell viability and decreased the intracellular [Ca2+]i, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation such as hydroxyl free radical and superoxide anion and nitric oxide (NO) accumulation in the cell. Our results also show that FPP prevents the cell apoptosis through bax/bcl-2 sensitive pathway.
The present study evaluated the importance of ovarian functions and the renin-angiotensin system in the progression of the right ventricular (RV) hypertrophy. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were bilaterally ovariectomized (Ovx) and injected with monocrotaline (MCT, 60 mg/kg, sc). Four weeks after MCT-treatment, only the male and Ovx female rats showed marked RV hypertrophy. The hypertrophied RV of the male-MCT and Ovx-MCT rats exhibited remarkably elevated renin mRNA levels. Gene expression levels of angiotensinogen, TGF-beta1, and endothelin-1 in the hypertrophied RV also increased, but to the less degree than did the renin mRNA. To investigate beneficial effects of estrogen or enalapril on progression of the pulmonary hypertension and RV hypertrophy, histological changes of the lung and heart were examined. Sham-MCT female rats showed histological changes indicating pulmonary hypertension without RV hypertrophy. In contrast, Ovx-MCT rats showed marked RV hypertrophy with pathological changes, denoting severe pulmonary and myocardial injuries. Estrogen-or enalapril-treated Ovx-MCT rats did not show RV hypertrophy, and showed remarkably ameliorated ultrastructural changes in the lung and RV. These results from this rat model suggest that both estrogen and inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system have protective functions against the development of the pulmonary hypertension and cardiac remodeling.
Osteosarcoma is the most common malignant bone tumor in children and young people. Efficacy of multiagent MAP (methotrexate, doxorubicin [Adriamycin], cisplatin) chemotherapy may be influenced by multiple cellular pathways. This pilot study aimed to investigate the association of 36 candidate genetic polymorphisms in MAP pathway genes with histological response, survival, and grade 3-4 chemotherapy toxicity in osteosarcoma.
Blood samples were obtained from 60 patients who had completed MAP chemotherapy. All patients were manually genotyped for 5 polymorphisms. The remaining 31 polymorphisms were genotyped in 50 patients using the Illumina 610-Quad microarray. Associations between candidate polymorphisms and histological response, progression-free survival, and toxicity were estimated using Pearson chi-square and Fisher exact tests, the Kaplan-Meier method, the log-rank test, and the Cox proportional hazards model.
Poor histological response was increased in variants of ABCC2 c.24C>T (P = .011) and GSTP1 c.313A>G p.Ile(105)Val (P = .009), whereas MTHFD1 c.1958G>A p.Arg(653)Gln was protective (P = .03). Methotrexate toxicity was increased in variants of MTHFR c.1298A>C p.Glu(429)Ala (P = .038), ABCB1 c.3435T>C Ile(145)Ile (P = .027), and ABCC2 c.3563T>A p.Val(1188)Glu (P = .028). Variants of GSTP1 c.313A>G p.Ile(105)Val were at increased risk of myelosuppression (P = .024) and cardiac damage (P = .008).
This pilot study represents the most comprehensive study to date examining the role of genetic polymorphisms in osteosarcoma. Although small and retrospective, it shows that several polymorphisms appear to significantly influence toxicity and clinical outcome. These deserve prospective validation in the hope of optimizing treatment for resistant disease and reducing the late effects burden.
Despite recent meta-analyses showing either similar rates or only slightly increased rates of stent thrombosis in patients with a drug-eluting stent, clinicians remain concerned about the risk of late stent thrombosis in these patients. We are reporting on a "very-very" late stent thrombosis that occurred 43 months post-implantation. We believe this represents the most delayed reported thrombosis post-sirolimus-eluting stent implantation, which might not have been preventable using even the latest FDA recommendations.
Hypokalemia (serum K+ < 3.5 mEq/1) is a potentially serious adverse effect of diuretic ingestion. We report a 27 year-old woman admitted with muscle weakness, a serum potassium of 2.0 mEq/1, metabolic alkalosis and EKG abnormalities simulating cardiac ischemia, that reverted with potassium chloride administration. She admitted high dose furosemide self-medication for edema. Glomerular filtration rate, tubular sodium reabsorption, potassium secretion, the renin-aldosterone system, total body water distribution and capillary permeability, were studied sequentially until 90 days after her admission. There was hyperactivity of the renin-aldosterone axis, reduction in extracellular and intracellular volumes, normal capillary permeability and high sodium tubular reabsorption, probably explained by a "rebound" salt retention associated with her decreased extracellular volume.
Valproate can be associated to hyperammonemic encephalopathy, characterized by fluctuating sudden-onset alterations of sensorium, focal symptoms and an increase in the frequency of seizures. We report a 78 year-old female using valproate 1,000 mg/ day for 10 months for the treatment to tonic-clonic seizures. She was admitted on three occasions in the last fourth months for self limited clouding of sensorium. Laboratory, imaging and electroencephalographic studies were non-contributory Blood ammonia levels were 123 microg/dl (normal: 15-50 microg/dl). Due to the possibility of a hyperammonemic encephalopathy secondary to valproate, the drug was discontinued and she was treated with lactulose and intravenous L-carnitine, 1 g/day The patient showed a complete recovery within 48 hours. This drug-associated encephalopathy is a reversible but potentially fatal cause, probably underdiagnosed, that requires a high index of suspicion.
Platelet monoamine oxidase activity has been measured in 17 patients with megaloblastic anaemia due to either vitamin B12 or folate deficiency, and in 20 healthy subjects. There was a highly significant increase in patients compared with controls. In two patients, platelet activity decreased following successful treatment. A significant correlation between platelet activity and the severity of bone marrow megaloblastic change, assessed by the deoxyuridine suppression test and bone marrow morphology, was also observed. If the change in activity also occurs in the nervous system, this may contribute to the mental disturbance associated with vitamin B12 or folate deficiency.
Report on a case with disturbance of the cardiac rhythm (atrioventricular dissociation with ventricular extrasystoles) in connection with a dipyridamol test which regressed under therapy with euphyllin. This observation supports the demand of a continuous control of the ECG when the test is performed.
Tamoxifen is the most widely used non-steroidal antiestrogen compound for adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal breast cancer. Tamoxifen has both antiestrogen and estrogen-agonistic activity, which depends on the target tissue involved owing its systemic distribution. Upon the endometrium the agonistic estrogenic effect, so-called "paradoxical" effect, is suggested to induce proliferative changes such as hyperplasia or carcinoma. The authors report four cases of endometrial cancer developed in postmenopausal patients with breast cancer receiving tamoxifen. According to the literature data, the relationship of the tamoxifen to the endometrial remains uncertain: women with breast cancer are at increased risk for this neoplasm sharing common aetiologic hormonal factors and, in most published case reports, the uterine cavity has not been checked up before starting tamoxifen administration.
Clinical studies have suggested that bisphosphonates may prolong the survival of sub-sets of myeloma patients. Newer nitrogen containing bisphosphonates such as zoledronate act, at least in part, by inhibiting farnesyl diphosphate synthase and subsequent protein prenylation, furthermore, limited data suggests that zoledronate exerts a direct anti-tumour effect against human myeloma cell lines. We therefore investigated the anti-myeloma potential of zoledronate in comparison to, and in combination with, two other inhibitors of the mevalonate pathway: the HMGCoA reductase inhibitor fluvastatin and the farnesyl transferase inhibitor SCH66336. We found that fluvastatin was able to inhibit the proliferation of myeloma cells more effectively than zoledronate or SCH66336 and that combinations of zoledronate and fluvastatin, but not zoledronate and SCH66336 acted synergistically. Our data indicated that the anti-proliferative effect of mevalonate pathway inhibitors is mediated principally via prevention of geranylgeranylation and is the result of both cell cycle arrest and apoptosis induction. Microarray and quantitative real-time PCR analyses further demonstrated that genes related to apoptosis, cell cycle control, and the mevalonate pathway were particularly affected by zoledronate and fluvastatin, and that some of these genetic effects were synergistic. We conclude that the mechanisms of geranylgeranylation inhibition mediated anti-myeloma effects warrant further evaluation and may provide novel targets for future therapeutic development.
Epilepsy is a chronic brain disorder involving recurring seizures often precipitated by an earlier neuronal insult. The mechanisms that link the transient neuronal insult to the lasting state of epilepsy are unknown. Here we tested the possible role of DNA methylation in mediating long-term induction of epileptiform activity by transient kainic acid exposure using in vitro and in vivo rodent models. We analyzed changes in the gria2 gene, which encodes for the GluA2 subunit of the ionotropic glutamate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid receptor and is well documented to play a role in epilepsy. We show that kainic acid exposure for two hours to mouse hippocampal slices triggers methylation of a 5' regulatory region of the gria2 gene. Increase in methylation persists one week after removal of the drug, with concurrent suppression of gria2 mRNA expression levels. The degree of kainic acid-induced hypermethylation of gria2 5' region varies between individual slices and correlates with the changes in excitability induced by kainic acid. In a rat in vivo model of post kainic acid-induced epilepsy, we show similar hypermethylation of the 5' region of gria2. Inter-individual variations in gria2 methylation, correlate with the frequency and intensity of seizures among epileptic rats. Luciferase reporter assays support a regulatory role for methylation of gria2 5' region. Inhibition of DNA methylation by RG108 blocked kainic acid-induced hypermethylation of gria2 5' region in hippocampal slice cultures and bursting activity. Our results suggest that DNA methylation of such genes as gria2 mediates persistent epileptiform activity and inter-individual differences in the epileptic response to neuronal insult and that pharmacological agents that block DNA methylation inhibit epileptiform activity raising the prospect of DNA methylation inhibitors in epilepsy therapeutics.
Sodium arsenite (arsenite)-induced neurotoxicity and its interaction with ferrous citrate (iron) was investigated in rat brain. In vitro data showed that arsenite (1-10 micromol/L) concentration dependently increased lipid peroxidation and the potency of arsenite was less than that of iron. The oxidative activity of arsenite, sodium arsenate (arsenate), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) were evaluated by inducing lipid peroxidation in cortical homogenates, and the potency for this effect was as follows: arsenite > arsenate > MMA and DMA. Several well-known antioxidants, including glutathione, melatonin, and beta-estradiol inhibited arsenite-induced lipid peroxidation in a concentration-dependent manner. Our in vivo study employed intranigral infusion of arsenite (5 nmol) in the substantia nigra (SN) of anesthetized rats. Four hours to 7 days after infusion, lipid peroxidation was elevated while glutathione was depleted in the infused SN. The dopamine content in the striatum ipsilateral to arsenite-infused SN was first elevated 24 h and then decreased 7 days after intranigral infusion of arsenite. Using pretreatment of l-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (l-BSO, i.c.v.) to reduce glutathione content in rat brain, arsenite-induced oxidative injury was augmented. Low doses of arsenite (1.5 nmol) and iron (3 nmol) alone induced minimal oxidative injury; however, co-infusion of arsenite and iron augmented neurotoxicity, including elevated lipid peroxidation and reduced striatal dopamine content. Moreover, expression of heme oxygenase-1, alpha-synuclein aggregation, and DNA fragmentation were significantly enhanced in SN co-infused with low doses of arsenite and iron. Taken together, our study demonstrates that arsenite was less potent than iron in inducing oxidative stress. Furthermore, concomitant arsenite and iron potentiated oxidative injury in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, indicating that interaction of metals plays a more clinically-relevant role in pathophysiology of central nervous system neurodegeneration.
We identified 11 human pedigrees with dominantly inherited hemolytic anemias in both the hereditary stomatocytosis and spherocytosis classes. Affected individuals in these families had an increase in membrane permeability to Na and K that is particularly marked at 0 degrees C. We found that disease in these pedigrees was associated with a series of single amino-acid substitutions in the intramembrane domain of the erythrocyte band 3 anion exchanger, AE1. Anion movements were reduced in the abnormal red cells. The 'leak' cation fluxes were inhibited by SITS, dipyridamole and NS1652, chemically diverse inhibitors of band 3. Expression of the mutated genes in Xenopus laevis oocytes induced abnormal Na and K fluxes in the oocytes, and the induced Cl transport was low. These data are consistent with the suggestion that the substitutions convert the protein from an anion exchanger into an unregulated cation channel.
