Reversible chronic cerebellar ataxia followed phenytoin treatment in two epileptic women. Cerebellar ataxia in both patients and axonal polyneuropathy in one patient were improved after administration of thiamine alone or with folate. In one patient, some specific behavioral functions improved. However, recovery could have been spontaneous.
Disruption of the apoptotic pathways may account for resistance to chemotherapy and treatment failures in human neoplastic disease. To further evaluate this issue, we isolated a HL-60 cell clone highly resistant to several drugs inducing apoptosis and to the differentiating chemical all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA). The resistant clone displayed an activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/AKT1 pathway, with levels of phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) trisphosphate higher than the parental cells and increased levels of both Thr 308 and Ser 473 phosphorylated AKT1. In vitro AKT1 activity was elevated in resistant cells, whereas treatment of the resistant cell clone with two inhibitors of PI3K, wortmannin or Ly294002, strongly reduced phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) trisphosphate levels and AKT1 activity. The inhibitors reversed resistance to drugs. Resistant cells overexpressing either dominant negative PI3K or dominant negative AKT1 became sensitive to drugs and ATRA. Conversely, if parental HL-60 cells were forced to overexpress an activated AKT1, they became resistant to apoptotic inducers and ATRA. There was a tight relationship between the activation of the PI3K/AKT1 axis and the expression of c-IAP1 and c-IAP2 proteins. Activation of the PI3K/AKT1 axis in resistant cells was dependent on enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of the p85 regulatory subunit of PI3K, conceivably due to an autocrine insulin-like growth factor-I production. Our findings suggest that an up-regulation of the PI3K/AKT1 pathway might be one of the survival mechanisms responsible for the onset of resistance to chemotherapeutic and differentiating therapy in patients with acute leukemia.
The aim of the study was to examine whether the circulating cell adhesion molecules, von Willebrand factor (vWf) and endothelin-1, are elevated in patients with essential hypertension with no other risk factors for atherosclerosis and thus may serve as a markers of endothelial dysfunction in uncomplicated hypertension. Furthermore, the effect of treatment with the ACE inhibitor, quinapril, on levels of endothelial dysfunction markers were studied. The levels of adhesion molecules (intercellular cell adhesion molecule-1 [ICAM-1], E-selectin, P-selectin), von Willebrand factor (vWf) and endothelin-1 were measured in patients with hypertension without any other risk factors of atherosclerosis before and after treatment with quinapril (n = 22) and in normotensive controls (n = 22). Compared with normotensive subjects, the hypertensive patients had significantly higher levels of ICAM-1 (238 vs 208 ng/ml, P = 0.02), vWf (119 vs 105 IU/dl, P < 0.05) and endothelin-1 (5.76 vs 5.14 fmol/ml, P < 0.05). Three-month treatment of hypertensive patients with quinapril led to a significant decrease in the levels of endothelin-1 (5.76 vs 5.28 fmol/ml, P < 0.01). We did not observe significant changes in the levels of adhesion molecules and vWf after ACE inhibitor treatment, although a trend toward a decrease was apparent with all these parameters. Patients with uncomplicated hypertension with no other risk factors of atherosclerosis had significantly elevated levels of ICAM-1, vWf, and endothelin-1. Our data suggest that these factors may serve as markers of endothelial damage even in uncomplicated hypertension. In hypertensive patients, treatment with the ACE inhibitor quinapril resulted in a significant decrease in endothelin-1 levels. These findings indicate a beneficial effect of ACE inhibitors on endothelial dysfunction in hypertensive patients.
To evaluate the efficacy of Myelophil, an extract containing Astragali Radix and Salviae Radix, for reducing complications induced by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in a gastrointestinal cancer model.
We injected 5-FU into mice and then administered Myelophil to examine the ability of the drug to treat the side effects of 5-FU in mice. Peripheral blood counts, histological examinations, and colony-forming assays of bone marrow were conducted, followed by swimming tests and assessment of survival times.
Myelophil restored red and white blood cells and platelets in blood, and recovered cell density in bone marrow to levels comparable to those observed within the control group. In addition, Myelophil significantly increased colony-forming unit granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) and CFU-erythroid (CFU-E) compared to the control group. We confirmed that interleukin-3 gene expression was upregulated by Myelophil in spleen cells. Myelophil administration also doubled the survival rate of mice that were severely myelosuppressed as a result of 5-FU injection at a lethal dose of 70%. Finally, the swimming performance of mice significantly improved as a result of Myelophil treatment.
These results provide experimental evidence in support of clinical applications of Myelophil to minimize 5-FU-induced myelosuppression and improve general post-chemotherapy health.
Newer, nonsedating antihistamines provide a therapeutic alternative for the patient with allergy whose work is impaired by the side effects of traditional H1 antihistamines. To assess the differential effect of these antihistamines on reaction times and subjective symptoms, we compared terfenadine, 60 mg twice daily, to hydroxyzine, 25 mg twice daily, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study of 16 healthy, asymptomatic adults. Simple reaction time and choice reaction time were measured with a computer-based, eye-hand, reaction-time testing apparatus. Reaction times and symptom scores were assessed 90 minutes after the fourth and tenth doses of each drug. Hydroxyzine, but not terfenadine, significantly prolonged both simple and choice reaction time (p less than or equal to 0.0001). However, decision time, the time to process one bit of spatial information, was not prolonged by either antihistamine. Therefore, hydroxyzine prolonged the interpretation and response to stimuli of the central nervous system without increasing single-bit processing time. Although terfenadine was not different from placebo for any symptom assessed, hydroxyzine produced significant drowsiness (p = 0.001), dry mouth (p = 0.022), and irritability (p = 0.021). During the 5 days of hydroxyzine administration, neither objective nor subjective symptoms demonstrated the development of tolerance. No correlation was found between subjective symptoms and prolongation of reaction times by hydroxyzine, suggesting that side effect symptoms of traditional antihistamines are unreliable predictors of objective performance. Terfenadine provides a promising therapeutic alternative to traditional antihistamines for individuals performing critical tasks.
The aims of studies in 2002 and 2003 on three farms with 76 foals naturally infected with Parascaris equorum were to (i) identify if the nematode was resistant to ivermectin and moxidectin, and (ii) confirm the effectiveness of fenbendazole and pyrantel pamoate for the parasite. Twelve clinical trials, each with a Fecal Egg Count Reduction Test, were conducted on two Thoroughbred and one Standardbred farms in southwestern Ontario, Canada. In each trial, Parascaris eggs/g feces were estimated for each foal pre- and post-treatment using the Cornell-Wisconsin double flotation and Cornell-McMaster dilution techniques. On each farm and for each trial, foals were randomized into treatment groups. Treatments were ivermectin, moxidectin, fenbendazole, pyrantel pamoate administered at the manufacturers' recommended dosages, and some foals were untreated. The overall efficacy for ivermectin was 33.5% (19 foals) and for moxidectin 47.2% (28 foals). Fenbendazole (16 foals) and pyrantel pamoate (21 foals) were highly effective for P. equorum each at 97.6%. For fenbendazole, 15 foals had 100% and for pyrantel pamoate 17 foals had >97% with 14 at 100%.
The aim of this experimental study was to investigate the possible role of nitric oxide (NO) levels and activity of adenosine deaminase (ADA) in the pathogenesis of methotrexate (MTX)-induced neurotoxicity, to demonstrate the effect of caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), the potent antioxidant, in decreasing the toxicity. A total of 19 adult male rats were divided into three experimental groups, as follows: group I, control group; group II, MTX-treated group; group III, MTX+CAPE-treated group. In the second day of experiment, MTX was administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) with a single dose of 20mg/kg to group II and group III. CAPE was administered i.p. with a dose of 10 micromol/kg once daily for 7 days to group III. Histopathological findings of the inflammatory reaction were observed in spinal cord of MTX administered rats, compared with control rats. All parameters of inflammatory reaction were significantly decreased in MTX plus CAPE administered rats, compared with MTX administered rats. The injection of MTX caused significant increase in the activity of ADA and in levels NO levels in spinal cord of rats (p=0.007 and p=0.0001, respectively). Co-treatment with CAPE caused a significant decrease in activity of ADA and the levels of NO in spinal cord (p=0.024 and p=0.0001, respectively). Study indicate that NO and ADA may play an important role in the pathogenesis of MTX-induced oxidative spinal cord damage. CAPE may have protective aspects in this process by antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effect and it will become a promising drug in the prevention of undesired side effect of MTX.
Acute activation or blockade of neurokinin-3 (NK-3) receptors has been shown to alter dopamine-mediated function and behaviors, however long-term effects of NK-3 receptor blockade remain largely unknown. The present study investigated whether acute and repeated administration of the NK-3 receptor antagonist SB 222200 altered hyperactivity induced by cocaine, and examined its effects on dopamine D1 receptor density in the striatum. Adult male CD-1 mice received either vehicle or SB 222200 (2.5 or 5 mg/kg, s.c.) 30 min before a cocaine injection (20 mg/kg, i.p.) and behavioral responses were recorded. Mice that were administered SB 222200 had an attenuated stereotypic response to cocaine compared to vehicle treated mice. Mice were also injected once daily with either vehicle or SB 222200 (5 mg/kg, s.c.) for 5 days, and after a 7-day drug-free period they were challenged with either saline, cocaine or the dopamine D1 receptor agonist SKF 82958 (0.125 or 0.25 mg/kg, i.p.). Mice injected with SB 222200 had significantly enhanced hyperactivity when challenged with cocaine or a low dose of SKF 82958 (0.125 mg/kg, i.p.) compared to control mice. Brains of mice administered vehicle or SB 222200 for 5 days were harvested after a 7-day drug-free period for dopamine D1 receptor quantification by radioligand binding. [(3)H] SCH 23390 homogenate binding studies showed a 19.7% increase in dopamine D1 receptor density in the striatum of SB 222200 treated mice. These data suggest that repeated blockade of NK-3 receptors enhances subsequent dopamine-mediated behaviors possibly resulting from dopamine D1 receptor up-regulation in the striatum.
High-dose phenobarbital therapy is an effective treatment for refractory status epilepticus in children. The advantages of this therapy include milder adverse effects without limits for maximal phenobarbital levels or doses during the initial phase of treatment. However, little is known about the safety of continuing the treatment. We describe an infant with intractable epilepsy associated with bilateral Sturge-Weber syndrome who became comatose after 1(2/3) months of high-dose phenobarbital treatment. The patient regained consciousness as serum phenobarbital concentration decreased to below 40 microg/mL. The progression and recovery were also documented by electroencephalogram and brainstem auditory evoked potentials. The present case suggests that prolonged high-dose phenobarbital therapy may cause cerebral and brainstem dysfunction in patients with severe cerebrovascular diseases. The underlying baseline metabolic and perfusion deficit related to the disease can precipitate the neurological complication during long-term high-dose phenobarbital therapy.
Tremor is a relatively frequent side effect of lithium and of antidepressants with serotonergic properties. It can be expected that combinations of lithium (which is itself serotonergic) with such antidepressants will enhance not only efficacy, but also the incidence of side effects, including tremor. To quantitatively monitor the effect of antidepressant augmentation of ongoing lithium therapy on tremor, lithium-maintained patients with a breakthrough episode of major depression were randomly assigned under double-blind conditions to receive paroxetine 20 mg/day (N = 14) or amitriptyline 75 mg/day (N = 17). The initial dosages could be increased after 2 weeks to 40 mg/day and 150 mg/day, respectively, and the patients were treated for 6 weeks. Tremor activity was assessed weekly, quantitatively by accelerometry and qualitatively with the Dosage Record and Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale. Statistical analysis detected no significant difference between the treatment groups with respect to changes in mean tremor activity relative to baseline. However, analysis of the pooled data showed that tremor increased significantly during the course of combined lithium and antidepressant therapy, with the greatest increments occurring independent of dosage approximately 3 weeks after initiation of combination treatment. Although the mean tremor activity subsided toward the end of treatment, tremor activity on the whole was still significantly greater after 6 weeks of combined lithium and antidepressant treatment than at the start of combination therapy. Increased tremor was not associated with decreased medication compliance, and no patient discontinued treatment because of increased tremor. Tremor frequency was not affected by the study treatments.
The cyclooxygenase-2-inhibitor celecoxib has been shown to inhibit cell growth and to reduce prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia in mice. The drug was suggested to increase efficacy of ionizing radiation. However, extent and mechanisms of the suggested benefit of celecoxib on the radiation response are still unclear. The aim of the present study was to analyze cytotoxic efficacy of celecoxib in combination with irradiation on human prostate cancer cell lines and to define the importance of pro-apoptotic Bax in this process.
Induction of apoptosis and global and clonogenic cell survival upon irradation- (2-10Gy), celecoxib- (10-75microM) or combined treatment were evaluated in prostate cancer cells by fluorescence microscopy, WST-1 assay and standard colony formation assays.
Celecoxib <25microM caused morphological changes and growth inhibition without substantial apoptosis or radiosensitization in terms of decreased clonogenic cell survival. In contrast, celecoxib 25microM increased radiation-induced cell death and clonogenic kill. While radiation-induced clonogenic death was increased in the presence of Bax, effects of celecoxib or combined treatment were Bax independent.
Our findings reveal Bax-independent beneficial effects of celecoxib on radiation-induced apoptosis and eradication of clonogenic prostate cancer cells in vitro providing a rationale for clinical evaluation of high-dose celecoxib in combination with irradiation in prostate cancer patients.
We reviewed the clinical manifestations of 53 episodes of theophylline intoxication in 50 patients over a one year study period, in order to identify the specific features as they presented to the Emergency Department (ED). There was a trend to an increase in the serum theophylline concentration with increased severity of clinical features, but the difference between the mild and the moderate cases was not statistically significant. The most common symptoms and signs were gastrointestinal complaints, sinus tachycardia, and atrial arrhythmias. Mixed atrial and ventricular arrhythmias, which are rarely mentioned as a specific feature of theophylline intoxication, were found in 16% of our patients and accounted for 29% of the cardiovascular manifestations. Four patients developed rhabdomyolysis, which presumably was secondary to a seizure or profound hypokalaemia. Cases of theophylline intoxication presenting to the ED had higher serum concentrations of theophylline and tended to have more severe toxicity than those patients in the non-ED group. Delayed diagnosis may contribute to the severity of the outcome, since severe cases in the ED were usually suspected to have developed intoxication at some point later in the stay in the ED than at the time of presentation, or after admission to the hospital, thus permitting the occurrence of an additional iatrogenic component to the intoxication. They also complained of symptoms not associated with the theophylline toxicity, which may have diverted the physician's attention from recognizing this concurrent problem.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In 104 patients undergoing anaesthesia of short duration, two different solvents, propylene glycol and cremophor, were compared in a double-blind trial. Diazepam 10 mg in a coded solution was injected into a superficial vein of the hand using a small-gauge needle. The vein was examined after 14 days. The frequency of thrombophlebitis with propylene glycol was 62.2% and with cremophor 3.4% (P less than 0.001). The frequency of pain on injection was also in favour of the new solvent (P less than 0.001). The possibility of anaphylactic reactions accredited to cremophor, however, restricts the use of the new injection.
Several psychotropic drugs have been associated with the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH). We report here a patient who on two occasions developed clinically significant hyponatremia while receiving the antipsychotic drug, haloperidol. The criteria for the syndrome of inappropriate secretion of ADH were fulfilled and other causes of SIADH were excluded. We documented inability in this patient to excrete a water load while on haloperidol and normal ability in its absence. This case therefore illustrates SIADH due to haloperidol.
There is emerging evidence that cortisol plays a significantly greater role in human hypertension than previously thought. Apart from the well recognized role of cortisol in the hypertension of Cushing's syndrome, local cortisol excess has been recognized as responsible for rare forms of hypertension such as apparent mineralocorticoid excess and licorice abuse and more recently implicated in the hypertension of chronic renal failure, hypertension related to low birth weight and essential hypertension. Although cortisol-induced hypertension is characterized by sodium retention and volume expansion, studies with synthetic glucocorticoids or sodium restriction suggest that the hypertension is, to a substantial degree, independent of sodium and volume. Increase in cardiac output is not essential for cortisol-induced blood pressure rise but the precise role of increases in total or regional peripheral resistance as a primary mechanism has nto been determined. Increased pressor responsiveness, particularly to catechols, is a prominent feature but whether these changes are sufficient to account for the hypertension remains unclear. There is no evidence for increased sympathetic nervous activity as judged by measurements of plasma catcholamines, neuropeptide-Y, or resting noradrenaline spillover rate. Responses to mental stress or maximal hand-grip are unchanged and baroreflex sensitivity is increased. Octreotide profoundly reduced the elevated plasma insulin concentrations seen with cortisol administration but had no effect on the rise in blood pressure.
CT-1341, an intravenous anesthetic was given in various daily doses in rats for a period of one month to test the subacute toxicity. The drug was administered intraperitoneally in rats. Rats tolerated to daily administration of CT-1341 at doses of less than 1.8 ml/kg without showing other particular toxic signs than anesthesia. Main pathological findings were swelling of cells in the liver and renal tubules, and perivascular cuffing in lungs. No severe patho-histological changes were observed in any organs. Mortal cases were seen in the group of rats, in which CT-1341 was given in a daily dose of 5.4 ml/kg. A paralysis of respiratory center was suggested to be cause of death, because no severe patho-histological changes were observed in any organs of mortal rats. Survivals of this group showed no particular symptom except anesthesia, but an inhibition of the growth curve was seen in male rats only.
Adriamycin (ADR) induces glomerular damage in rats with persistent proteinuria which develops 13 to 15 days after a single intravenous (i.v.) injection (5 mg/kg). Electron microscopy (EM) shows alterations of glomerular visceral epithelial cells with foot process fusions. The disease resembles minimal change nephropathy in humans. We studied the effect of two isocaloric diets with different protein content on urinary protein excretion, renal function, and glomerular morphology in rats treated with ADR. Six groups of rats were used. Group 1 received a single i.v. injection of ADR and was fed a standard diet containing 20% protein. Group 2 was fed a low-protein diet containing 6% protein starting 7 days before ADR. Group 3 was fed a low-protein diet starting the day after ADR. Group 4 served as control. Two additional groups of rats (5 and 6) were used to study the kidney distribution of ADR. Unlike animals fed the standard diet, animals fed the low-protein diet did not develop proteinuria. The kidney distribution of ADR measured at different intervals after drug injection was not influenced by the diet. Renal function as determined by glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF) was not significantly modified in nephrotic rats receiving the standard diet compared to control animals. The low-protein regimen induced a significant elevation in RPF compared to the standard diet, but had no influence on GFR. Light and transmission EM studies showed alterations of glomerular visceral epithelial cells with fusion of foot processes in rats fed the standard diet, whereas no significant abnormalities of glomerular epithelial cells were detectable in animals receiving the low-protein diet.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The antihypertensive efficacy and safety of lisinopril were assessed in 60 older patients with a mean age of 75 years (range, 65 to 85 years) in a 12-week open study. Mean ( +/- SEM) blood pressure while sitting was reduced from 190/106 +/- 3.3/1.8 mm Hg at entry to 162/89 +/- 3.2/1.6 mm Hg after 12 weeks of treatment (p less than 0.001). There was no significant alteration in heart rate, and postural hypotension did not occur. Mean glomerular filtration rate at entry was 61.6 +/- 3.4 ml/minute and was unchanged after 12 weeks of therapy at 62.2 +/- 3.0 ml/minute. Fourteen patients continued to receive lisinopril for a period of one year. Blood pressure remained controlled throughout and heart rate remained unchanged. There was a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure from 128.8 +/- 1.9 mm Hg to 105.1 +/- 1.5 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Biochemical parameters remained unaltered. There was a significant increase in renal blood flow (p less than 0.025) and a corresponding reduction in renovascular resistance (p less than 0.001) following long-term therapy with lisinopril. Thus, lisinopril was generally well-tolerated and highly effective in lowering blood pressure in older hypertensive patients, whereas at the same time renal function was not adversely changed.
Alphaxalone, an anesthetic steroid dissolved in 20% Cremophor solution was administered intraperitoneally to test the subacute toxicity (administration for one month) and chronic toxicity (administration for 3 months). In daily doses less than 8 mg/kg, alphaxalone did not show any particular toxic sign after administered for three months. Rats tolerated to daily administration of 20 mg/kg for three months, without showing severe toxic signs in body weight curve, blood cells and biochemical data obtained in blood and urine. However, some female rats receiving 50 mg/kg/day of alphaxalone, died by paralysis of respiratory center at the second day. Main histo-pathological changes induced by subacute and chronic administrations of the larger doses than 20 mg/kg, were swelling of cells in the liver and kidneys, but severe pathological changes were not seen in any organs.
Heart failure is a common cardiovascular disorder that increases in prevalence with age. Older patients may respond differently than younger patients to the various classes of drugs used in the treatment of congestive heart failure (CHF). The responses of older patients (at least 65 years of age) were evaluated as part of a large multicenter trial utilizing angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors in the treatment of CHF. A prospectively planned subgroup analysis of older CHF patients' therapeutic response to the long-acting (approximately 24-hour) ACE inhibitor lisinopril was compared with their response to captopril, a short-acting (less than eight-hour) ACE inhibitor. Symptomatic improvement occurred in both the lisinopril and captopril groups. Exercise duration also improved for patients treated with both agents. However, there was a tendency for lisinopril to be more effective than captopril (p = 0.08). Thus, the low level of renin activity often found in the plasma of older patients did not decrease the ability of the ACE inhibitors to improve effort tolerance. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased in patients treated with lisinopril but not in those treated with captopril. The improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction with lisinopril may be indicative of a more favorable prognosis in patients with CHF, since another long-acting ACE inhibitor, enalapril, reduces the rate of mortality associated with CHF. ACE inhibitors were generally well-tolerated by the older patients in the study. Therefore, ACE inhibitors appear to offer a useful therapeutic approach to the management of CHF in the older age group.
Chemotherapy by direct hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) results in reduction in tumor mass in a large percentage of patients. The authors reviewed records for 45 patients with metastatic cancer of the gastrointestinal tract who underwent HAI chemotherapy with floxuridine, administrated via an implanted pump. Twenty-seven of the 45 patients suffered complications, including gastrointestinal ulceration (18%), hepatitis (24%), sclerosing cholangitis (7%), and abscess (2%). The complication rates in this series were similar to those previously reported. The toxicity of HAI chemotherapy continues to limit its efficacy.
Parameters of oxidative stress were quantitated in 50 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in uncontrolled state and after control using oral glibenclamide or gliclazide. The estimates were further compared between the two groups irrespective of drug used to evaluate the difference, if any.
The study was a double blind, uncontrolled, noncrossover and randomized trial. Fifty patients of uncontrolled type 2 diabetes were divided in to two groups. Group I (25 patients) received capsule A (glibenclamide) while Group II (25 patients) received capsule B (gliclazide). The parameters studied were Superoxide dismutase (SOD), malonyl-dialdehyde (MDA) and reduced glutathione (GSH). They were done at (a) uncontrolled stage (FBS--165 +/- 16.7 mg/dl, PP--240 +/- 30.1 mg/dl and HbA1--10.5 +/- 0.9% in group I and FBS--150 +/- 15.8 mg/dl, PP--246 +/- 29.1 mg/dl HbA1 10.6 +/- 0.8% in group II) and during controlled stage at 12 weeks (FBS--120 +/- 18.5 mg/dl, PP--180 +/- 19.1 mg/dl and HbA1--8.4 +/- 0.29% in group I and FBS--118 +/- 17.6 mg/dl, PP--176 +/- 20.1 mg/dl and HbA1--8.5 +/- 0.39% in group II patients).
The significantly raised levels of MDA and SOD, and decreased levels of reduced glutathione (GSH) during uncontrolled stage of diabetes indicated free radical stress induced lipid peroxidation. The significant fall of MDA and SOD and increased levels of GSH in blood in both groups after control revealed beneficial effects of glycemic control on oxidative stress. The levels were not normalized and stayed higher than those in controls. On intergroup comparison; the control of diabetes with gliclazide (group II) showed improvement in oxidative stress (MDA, GSH) better (p < 0.001) than glibenclamide (group I).
Oxidative stress in uncontrolled diabetes is decreased with glycemic control. The control of diabetes with gliclazide reduced oxidative stress more than glibenclamide, indicating higher antioxidant properties of gliclazide. Normalization of oxidative stress was not achieved. Further studies are required to see long-term effect of drug therapy in combating oxidative stress after achieving acceptable control of diabetes.
Allyl alcohol administration in a toxic dose (1.5 mmol/kg) to starved mice causes the development of hemolysis in nearly 50% of the animals. Malonic dialdehyde (MDA) appears in plasma of the animals showing hemolysis. The treatment of mice with desferrioxamine after allyl alcohol intoxication completely prevents lipid peroxidation and hemolysis, suggesting the involvement of iron in the allyl alcohol-induced erythrocyte damage. Erythrocytes obtained from intoxicated mice before the development of hemolysis show, upon incubation, release of iron, lipid peroxidation and lysis. Studies carried out with reconstituted systems of erythrocyte lysates, containing ghosts and different fractions of erythrocyte cytosol and incubated in the presence of acrolein (the major metabolite of allyl alcohol), strongly suggest that iron is released from hemoglobin. This iron appears to promote lipid peroxidation which is accompanied by erythrocyte lysis. Thus, the allyl alcohol-induced hemolysis appears to be a model for iron delocalization from iron stores.
Hypotension induced by prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) infusion (100-150 ng/kg/minute) during halothane anaesthesia to reduce operative blood loss during mastectomy was investigated. PGE1 decreased systolic arterial pressure approximately 34% from pre-administration values. The duration of induced hypotension was about 75 minutes. When the infusion was stopped, blood pressure returned to within 15% of the control with 15 minutes. Heart rate did not change significantly during PGE1 infusion; the pre-ejection period and left ventricular ejection period were shortened. Renal function during the hypotensive period was well maintained. Blood loss during surgery was significantly decreased. These findings suggest that PGE1 can be used safely to control arterial pressure during surgery.
Connexin (Cx) 26 and 32 are the major gap junction proteins in liver. We recently demonstrated that Cx32 is essential for phenobarbital (PB)-mediated tumor promotion in mouse liver. To investigate whether Cx26 plays a similar role, an initiation-promotion experiment was conducted using mice with a liver-specific knockout of Cx26. Control and Cx26-deficient mice were injected a single dose of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN, 90 microg/g b.wt.) at 6 weeks of age and groups of mice were subsequently kept on a PB (0.05%) containing or control diet for 35 weeks. At the end of the experiment, the carcinogenic response in the liver was monitored. Mice from PB treatment groups showed strongly increased liver weights compared with mice treated with DEN alone, which was mostly due to a much higher tumor burden. The tumor response in PB-treated mice of both strains was quite similar, but the number of smaller tumors and of enzyme-altered neoplastic lesions was somewhat larger in PB-treated Cx26 knockout (Cx26 KO) compared with wild-type mice, whereas the volume fraction of enzyme-altered lesions was slightly reduced in PB-treated Cx26-deficient mice. There was no significant difference in tumor prevalence between Cx26 KO and wild-type mice. Altogether our present data show that elimination of Cx26 has only minor effects on chemically induced mouse hepatocarcinogenesis, in striking contrast to the effects seen in Cx32 KO mice.
Because dopamine D2 receptors are the primary targets for antipsychotic drugs, including clozapine and quetiapine, and because some studies have found D2 receptors to be elevated in schizophrenia, we examined the mRNA of three forms of the D2 receptor, particularly the new form of the dopamine D2 receptor, D2(Longer), in post-mortem brains from patients who died with schizophrenia. Using quantitative competitive RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction), the D2(Longer) mRNA was higher in the frontal cortex, compared to control tissues. The mRNA concentration of D2(Long) and D2(Short) was also higher in the frontal cortex, compared to control tissues. Although most of the schizophrenia patients had received different antipsychotic drugs for varying periods of time, the mRNA of D2(Longer), as well as that for D2(Long) and D2(Short), in such medicated tissues was similar to that in a frontal cortex tissue from a patient who had reliably never received antipsychotic drugs. It is possible, therefore, that the elevation of the mRNAs for D2(Longer), D2(Long) and D2(Short) in the frontal cortex may be related to the disease of schizophrenia itself.
Fatty acid binding protein 3 (Fabp3) has been used as a serological biomarker of cardiac injury, but its utility as a preclinical biomarker of injury to skeletal muscle is not well described. Fabp3 concentrations were determined for tissues from Sprague-Dawley rats and found to occur at highest concentrations in cardiac muscle and in skeletal muscles containing an abundance of type I fibers, such as the soleus muscle. Soleus is also a primary site of skeletal muscle (SKM) injury caused by lipid-lowering peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR-alpha) agonists. In rats administered repeat doses of a PPAR-alpha agonist, the kinetics and amplitude of plasma concentrations of Fabp3 were consistent with plasma compound concentrations and histopathology findings of swollen, hyalinized, and fragmented muscle fibers with macrophage infiltration. Immunohistochemical detection of Fabp3 revealed focal depletion of Fabp3 protein from injured SKM fibers which is consistent with increased serum Fabp3 concentrations in treated rats. We then assessed the predictivity of serological Fabp3 for SKM necrosis in short duration toxicology studies. Rats were treated with various doses of 27 different compounds, and the predictivity of serological biomarkers was assessed relative to histology in individual rats and in treatment groups. Under these study conditions, Fabp3 was the most useful individual biomarker based on concordance, sensitivity, positive and negative predictive values, and false negative rate. In addition, the combination of Fabp3 and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) had greater diagnostic value than the conventional combination of creatine kinase-MM isoenzyme (CK) and AST.
Milk-alkali syndrome can be caused by ingesting large amounts of calcium carbonate. Coincident with the promotion of calcium carbonate as treatment for both dyspepsia and osteoporosis, milk-alkali syndrome is now a common cause of hypercalcemia severe enough to require admission to the hospital. The syndrome accounted for less than 2% of such admissions before 1990, but from 1990 through 1993, it was the cause of hypercalcemia for over 12% of these patients. Only primary hyperparathyroidism and hypercalcemia of malignancy (excluding multiple myeloma) are more common. The diagnosis of milk-alkali syndrome is made almost entirely based on the patient's history; careful attention to dietary practices and over-the-counter drug use is required, as numerous over-the-counter medications contain calcium carbonate. Modern assays for PTH demonstrate the expected suppression of PTH by hypercalcemia. Nonetheless, measurement of PTH must be performed in a timely manner as treatment with intravenous saline may result in hypocalcemia and elevated PTH soon after admission. Given the pathophysiology of milk-alkali syndrome compared to other causes of hypercalcemia, hypocalcemia with rebound hyperparathyroidism is probably unique to milk-alkali syndrome.
