The molecular mechanisms underlying essential hypertension are not fully elucidated. Although Benazepril is being widely used in antihypertensive medication, the agent is efficacious in only a portion of hypertensive patients. To evaluate the interaction of alpha-adducin gene Gly460Trp and angiotensin I-converting enzyme (ACE) gene I/D polymorphisms in regard to baseline blood pressure (BP) levels and the reductions of blood pressures after Benazepril treatment, we conducted an investigation of 954 Chinese hypertensive patients in Anhui province, China. We found that compared with the baseline systolic BP (SBP) of subjects with one ACE I allele and one alpha-adducin Trp allele, the baseline SBP of those with ACE DD and alpha-adducin Gly/Gly genotypes was significantly higher [Crude: beta(SE) = 7.83(3.09), p = .01; Adjusted: beta(SE) = 5.83(2.83), p = .04]. However, no associations were found between the interaction of ACE I/D and alpha-adducin Gly460Trp polymorphisms and the baseline diastolic BP or the BP response to Benazepril treatment. Our results suggested that the interaction effect of alpha-adducin Gly460Trp and ACE I/D polymorphisms might play a significant role in regulating baseline BP but not BP response to Benazepril.
Resveratrol (3, 4', 5 tri-hydroxystilbene), a naturally occurring polyphenol, exhibits anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, cardioprotective and antitumor activities. We have recently shown that resveratrol can enhance the apoptosis-inducing potential of TRAIL in prostate cancer cells through multiple mechanisms in vitro. Therefore, the present study was designed to validate whether resveratrol can enhance the apoptosis-inducing potential of TRAIL in a xenograft model of prostate cancer.
Resveratrol and TRAIL alone inhibited growth of PC-3 xenografts in nude mice by inhibiting tumor cell proliferation (PCNA and Ki67 staining) and inducing apoptosis (TUNEL staining). The combination of resveratrol and TRAIL was more effective in inhibiting tumor growth than single agent alone. In xenografted tumors, resveratrol upregulated the expressions of TRAIL-R1/DR4, TRAIL-R2/DR5, Bax and p27(/KIP1), and inhibited the expression of Bcl-2 and cyclin D1. Treatment of mice with resveratrol and TRAIL alone inhibited angiogenesis (as demonstrated by reduced number of blood vessels, and VEGF and VEGFR2 positive cells) and markers of metastasis (MMP-2 and MMP-9). The combination of resveratrol with TRAIL further inhibited number of blood vessels in tumors, and circulating endothelial growth factor receptor 2-positive endothelial cells than single agent alone. Furthermore, resveratrol inhibited the cytoplasmic phosphorylation of FKHRL1 resulting in its enhanced activation as demonstrated by increased DNA binding activity.
These data suggest that resveratrol can enhance the apoptosis-inducing potential of TRAIL by activating FKHRL1 and its target genes. The ability of resveratrol to inhibit tumor growth, metastasis and angiogenesis, and enhance the therapeutic potential of TRAIL suggests that resveratrol alone or in combination with TRAIL can be used for the management of prostate cancer.
Warfarin is a clinical anticoagulant that requires periodic monitoring because it is associated with adverse outcomes. Personalized medicine, which is based on pharmacogenetics, holds great promise in solving these types of problems. It aims to provide the tools and knowledge to tailor drug therapy to an individual patient, with the potential of increasing safety and efficacy of medications.
In the present study we analyzed genotypes of 14 SNPs for seven genes using DNA from 297 Han Chinese venous thromboembolism patients treated with warfarin.
Multiple regression analyses revealed that CYP2C9 genotype (p = 0.001), VKORC1 genotype (p < 0.001), age (p < 0.01) and weight (p < 0.001) were all associated with warfarin dose requirements, which can explain 37.4% of the variability of warfarin dose among Han Chinese patients. Meanwhile, in the validation cohort, the predicted warfarin daily dose was calculated using the best model with a 64.5% predicted dose being acceptable (-1 mg/day ≤Δwarfarin dose ≤1 mg/day).
We developed a pharmacogenetic dose algorithm for warfarin treatment that uses genotypes from two genes (VKORC1 and CYP2C9) and clinical variables to predict therapeutic maintenance doses in Chinese patients with venous thromboembolism. The validity of the dosing algorithm was confirmed in a cohort of venous thromboembolism patients on warfarin therapy.
Octreotide treatment of acromegalic patients increases the % deoxycholic acid conjugates and the cholesterol saturation of gall bladder bile, and induces gall stone formation.
To study the roles of gall bladder emptying and intestinal transit in these phenomena.
Gall bladder emptying and mouth to caecum transit was measured in (a) control subjects and acromegalic patients given saline or 50 micrograms of octreotide, and (b) acromegalic patients taking long term octreotide. In the second group, large bowel transit was also measured.
A single dose of octreotide inhibited meal stimulated gall bladder emptying, the ejection fraction falling from mean (SEM) 66.0 (2.3)% to 7.0 (5.3)% in controls (p < 0.001); from 72.5 (2.1) to 16.6 (5.1)% in untreated acromegalic patients (p < 0.001), and to 30.4 (9.5)% in acromegalic patients taking long term octreotide (p < 0.001 v untreated acromegalic group). Octreotide prolonged mouth to caecum transit time, from 112 (15) min to 237 (13) min in controls (p < 0.001), from 170 (13) min to 282 (11) min in untreated acromegalic patients (p < 0.001), and to 247 (10) min in acromegalic patients taking long term octreotide (p < 0.001 v untreated acromegalic patients). The mean large bowel transit in octreotide untreated compared with treated acromegalic patients remained unchanged (40 (6) h v 47 (6) h).
Prolongation of intestinal transit and impaired gall bladder emptying may contribute to lithogenic changes in bile composition and gall stone formation in patients receiving long term octreotide.
Rapid intravenous administration (60 mg s-1) of chloramphenicol (50 mg kg-1) in a 40 per cent w/v polyethylene glycol (400 to 600), 30 per cent ethyl alcohol, 2 per cent benzyl alcohol and 28 per cent distilled water vehicle produced a transient but significant decrease in systemic arterial blood pressure and heart rate with no effect on central venous pressure in sodium pentobarbital anaesthetised dogs. The vehicle alone had no significant effect on any of the parameters studied. Various approaches including the use of anticholinergic, antihistaminergic, antiadrenergic and ganglion blocking drugs failed to attenuate chloramphenicol induced hypotension and bradycardia. However, the hypertensive response to bilateral carotid arterial occlusion was significantly attenuated by rapid intravenous administration of chloramphenicol. The results clearly indicate that chloramphenicol itself, but not its vehicle, is responsible for the severe hypotension and bradycardia. These results also suggest that chloramphenicol-induced hypotension and bradycardia might be mediated peripherally via vasodilation due to its direct effect on vascular smooth muscle and centrally via interruption of the baroreceptor reflex pathway.
Central venous stasis retinopathy (CVSR) was observed in two young women following the administration of oral tranexamic acid (TA) for the treatment of menorrhagia. Clinical and laboratory parameters were normal. Withdrawal of the drug and treatment with systemic steroids and fibrinolytic drugs resulted in improvement of visual acuity to 6/6. The pathogenesis of the CVSR in these cases is suggested, and the rationale of systemic treatment is discussed.
Inhibition of Rho kinase (ROCK) has been shown to improve diabetic-related disorders. In this study, the cardio-protective effects and potential mechanisms of fasudil, a selective ROCK inhibitor, on diabetic cardiomyopathy were investigated in a streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat model. Eight weeks after diabetes was induced by a single tail vein injection of 60 mg/kg STZ, rats were administered long-term fasudil or captopril as a control over a four-week period. Similar to the effect of captopril, fasudil treatment significantly protected against STZ-induced hemodynamic, histopathologic changes and decreased serum lactate dehydrogenase and creatine phosphokinase. Moreover, fasudil significantly down-regulated ROCK I mRNA expression and ROCK activity, reduced cardiac collagen deposition, and decreased the incidence of apoptosis and ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 protein expression. Additionally, fasudil potently elevated superoxide dismutase activity and suppressed the extent of lipid peroxidation in sera and hearts of diabetic rats. Our findings indicated that long-term treatment with fasudil could improve cardiac dysfunction, attenuate myocardial injury and prevent pathological changes in a rat model of diabetic cardiomyopathy. These effects could be attributed to regulation of antioxidative activities, suppression of myocardial hypertrophy, apoptosis, fibrosis and subsequent cardiac remodeling. These results may help to expand the clinical application of fasudil for diabetic cardiomyopathy.
Effects of adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists on morphine-induced catalepsy in mice were investigated. The adenosine agonists, NECA (5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine) and S-PIA (S(+)-N6-(2-phenylisopropyl)adenosine) in doses which did not induce any response, increased the cataleptogenic effect produced by morphine. However, the morphine response was decreased and increased by the lower and higher doses of the adenosine receptor agonist, CHA (N6-cyclohexyladenosine), respectively. The adenosine receptor antagonist, theophylline, decreased, but 8-phenyltheophylline increased, the response induced by morphine. Naloxone inhibited the catalepsy induced by morphine or morphine + NECA but not that induced by NECA alone. It is concluded that adenosine A2 receptor activation increases, while adenosine A1 receptor stimulation decreases, the morphine cataleptogenic response. The response to morphine may be mediated through opioid and adenosine receptor mechanisms.
High mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) mediates proinflammatory responses in inflammatory diseases. Lycopene found in tomatoes and tomato products has anti-oxidant, anti-cancer and antiinflammatory effects. The potential anti-inflammatory roles of lycopene in HMGB1-mediated proinflammatory responses in both primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and animal were investigated. The anti-inflammatory effects of lycopene were determined including permeability, monocyte adhesion and migration, and activation of proinflammatory proteins and HMGB1 receptors on HMGB1 activated HUVECs. In the in vivo model, the anti-inflammatory effect of lycopene was assessed by monitoring vascular permeability and migration of leukocytes to the peritoneal cavity of mice injected with lycopene. Lycopene inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-mediated release of HMGB1, expression of HMGB1-mediated tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2)-IIA, and HMGB1-mediated pro-inflammatory signaling responses in endothelial cells. It did this through down-regulation of cell surface expression of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), HMGB1 receptors, toll-like receptor (TLR)-2, and -4, and receptors for advanced glycation end products (RAGE). These findings suggest that lycopene promotes barrier integrity, inhibits monocyte adhesion and migration to HMGB1 activating HUVECs by blocking activation of proinflammatory cytokines and expression of CAMs and HMGB1 receptors, thereby showing its usefulness as a therapy for vascular inflammatory diseases.
The carcinogenic effects of three nitrosamines, nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), and nitrosomethylethylamine (NMEA), and two azoxyalkanes, azoxymethane and azoxyethane, have been compared by administration by gavage of multiple equimolar doses to F344 rats and Syrian golden hamsters. NDMA and azoxymethane were severely toxic to hamsters, requiring the use of lower dose rates. In hamsters, the most commonly observed tumors were hepatocellular, cholangiocellular, and vascular tumors of the liver, but azoxyethane, NMEA, NDMA, and NDEA also induced tumors of the nasal mucosa, and azoxymethane induced tumors of the colon. In hamsters, NDEA and azoxyethane were less potent carcinogens than the corresponding methyl compounds, NDMA and azoxymethane. In contrast, in rats the two ethyl compounds were more potent than the corresponding methyl compounds, and NMEA was intermediate in potency. In rats, all three nitrosamines commonly induced liver tumors, mostly hepatocellular, but few liver tumors were induced by the two azoxyalkanes. Instead, azoxymethane induced colon tumors and azoxyethane induced tumors of the nasal mucosa. When given by gavage, NDMA induced a high incidence of mesenchymal tumors of the kidney and alveolar-bronchiolar tumors of the lungs as well as liver tumors.
We have conducted three studies to examine the role of TNFalpha in islet destruction in female nonobese diabetic mouse (NOD) mice, a model of human autoimmune diabetes, using polyethylene glycolated (PEGylated) soluble TNF receptor type I (PEG sTNF-RI) as TNFalpha antagonist. PEG sTNF-RI (3 mg/kg, sc) was given every other day to NOD mice from age wk 8 for 12 wk (study 1), from age wk 12 for 8 wk (study 2), or from age wk 8 for 3 wk, with cyclophosphamide (6 mg/mouse) injected at wk 9 to accelerate the onset of diabetes (study 3). Diabetic incidence was reduced (control vs. PEG sTNF-RI) from 68.7% (11 of 16) to 18.3% (3 of 16) in study 1, from 84.6% (11 of 13) to 28.5% (4 of 14) in study 2, and from 66.6% (8 of 12) to 23.1% (3 of 13) in study 3, respectively. The incidence of insulitis was also reduced from 91.6% (11 of 12) to 12.5% (2 of 16) in study 1 and from 100% (7 of 7) to 16.6% (2 of 12) in study 2 by PEG sTNF-RI. PEG sTNF-RI also largely preserved islet insulin content, reduced mRNA of inducible nitric oxide synthase and IL-6 in pancreases, and lowered plasma corticosterone, glycerol, and free fatty acid levels. These results confirm a pathogenic role of TNFalpha in mediating insulitis in NOD mice and suggest the prophylactic and therapeutic potential of PEG sTNF-RI for human autoimmune diabetes.
4'-Iodo-4'-deoxydoxorubicin is a doxorubicin (DXR) analogue with greater lipophilicity and reduced basicity of the amino group. In vitro 4'-iodo-4'-deoxydoxorubicin is more cytotoxic than DXR against a panel of human and murine cell lines and is characterized by a higher and faster uptake. In vivo, the spectrum of activity of 4'-iodo-4'-deoxydoxorubicin is comparable to that of DXR, but the new compound has higher activity against murine P388 leukemia resistant to DXR and against pulmonary metastases from Lewis lung carcinoma. Moreover, the new analogue exhibits antitumor activity also after p.o. administration and shows no cardiotoxicity in experimental systems.
The protective effect of curcumin on acute adriamycin (ADR) myocardial toxicity was analysed in rats. ADR toxicity, induced by a single intraperitoneal injection (30 mg kg(-1)), was revealed by elevated serum creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). The level of the lipid peroxidation products, conjugated dienes and malondialdehyde, was markedly elevated by ADR. ADR caused a decrease in myocardial glutathione content and glutathione peroxidase activity. In contrast, cardiac catalase activity was increased in ADR rats. Curcumin treatment (200 mg kg(-1), seven days before and two days following ADR) significantly ameliorated the early manifestation of cardiotoxicity (ST segment elevation and an increase in heart rate) and prevented the rise in serum CK and LDH exerted by ADR. ADR rats that received curcumin displayed a significant inhibition of lipid peroxidation and augmentation of endogenous antioxidants. These results suggest that curcumin inhibits ADR cardiotoxicity and might serve as novel combination chemotherapeutic agent with ADR to limit free radical-mediated organ injury.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (Crh) is a critical coordinator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In response to stress, Crh released from the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus activates Crh receptors on anterior pituitary corticotropes, resulting in release of adrenocorticotropic hormone (Acth) into the bloodstream. Acth in turn activates Acth receptors in the adrenal cortex to increase synthesis and release of glucocorticoids. The receptors for Crh, Crhr1 and Crhr2, are found throughout the central nervous system and periphery. Crh has a higher affinity for Crhr1 than for Crhr2, and urocortin (Ucn), a Crh-related peptide, is thought to be the endogenous ligand for Crhr2 because it binds with almost 40-fold higher affinity than does Crh. Crhr1 and Crhr2 share approximately 71% amino acid sequence similarity and are distinct in their localization within the brain and peripheral tissues. We generated mice deficient for Crhr2 to determine the physiological role of this receptor. Crhr2-mutant mice are hypersensitive to stress and display increased anxiety-like behaviour. Mutant mice have normal basal feeding and weight gain, but decreased food intake following food deprivation. Intravenous Ucn produces no effect on mean arterial pressure in the mutant mice.
The actions of corticotropin-releasing hormone (Crh), a mediator of endocrine and behavioural responses to stress, and the related hormone urocortin (Ucn) are coordinated by two receptors, Crhr1 (encoded by Crhr) and Crhr2. These receptors may exhibit distinct functions due to unique tissue distribution and pharmacology. Crhr-null mice have defined central functions for Crhr1 in anxiety and neuroendocrine stress responses. Here we generate Crhr2-/- mice and show that Crhr2 supplies regulatory features to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) stress response. Although initiation of the stress response appears to be normal, Crhr2-/- mice show early termination of adrenocorticotropic hormone (Acth) release, suggesting that Crhr2 is involved in maintaining HPA drive. Crhr2 also appears to modify the recovery phase of the HPA response, as corticosterone levels remain elevated 90 minutes after stress in Crhr2-/- mice. In addition, stress-coping behaviours associated with dearousal are reduced in Crhr2-/- mice. We also demonstrate that Crhr2 is essential for sustained feeding suppression (hypophagia) induced by Ucn. Feeding is initially suppressed in Crhr2-/- mice following Ucn, but Crhr2-/- mice recover more rapidly and completely than do wild-type mice. In addition to central nervous system effects, we found that, in contrast to wild-type mice, Crhr2-/- mice fail to show the enhanced cardiac performance or reduced blood pressure associated with systemic Ucn, suggesting that Crhr2 mediates these peripheral haemodynamic effects. Moreover, Crhr2-/- mice have elevated basal blood pressure, demonstrating that Crhr2 participates in cardiovascular homeostasis. Our results identify specific responses in the brain and periphery that involve Crhr2.
A 58-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of renal dysfunction that continued to progress even after withdrawal of cefdinir, the presumed cause of acute renal failure. Renal histologic findings included interstitial fibrosis accompanied by moderate lymphocytic infiltration, and tubular atrophy with reduced numbers of epithelial cells. Mesangial cells and glomerular basement membranes were nearly normal. Scintigraphy with 67gallium disclosed diffuse abnormal accumulation in both kidneys. A lymphocyte stimulation test with cefdinir was positive. The patient was diagnosed with acute tubulointerstitial nephritis caused by cefdinir. Serum creatinine concentrations continued to rise after withdrawal of the drug, but steroid therapy was effective in normalizing renal function.
Fentanyl and diltiazem are frequently used medications. Diltiazem inhibits cytochrome P450 3A4 isoenzymes. This can suppress fentanyl metabolism.
We present a case of delirium after coadministration of fentanyl and diltiazem.
Cautious use is warranted while concomitantly administering fentanyl and diltiazem as this can potentiate fentanyl toxicity. Other 3A4 inhibitors include ketoconazole, erythromycin, nefazodone, ritonavir, delavirdine, aprepitant and imatinib. Psychosomatic medicine psychiatrists, pain and palliative care physicians and cardiologists in particular should be aware of this interaction.
To report on a case of citalopram-induced hallucinations and delusions.
The authors present the case of a patient who developed psychotic symptoms including hallucinations and delusions shortly after starting the SSRI citalopram for posttraumatic stress disorder and associated depression.
Citalopram was discontinued and his symptoms quickly resolved.
Providers should use caution and advise patients of rare but serious side effects even when prescribing generally safe medications such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
A 74-year-old woman was admitted with an asthma attack. She had a 40-year history of sinusitis, nasal polyp and analgesic-induced asthma; however, asthma had never occurred when she used a 0.3% ketoprofen adhesive patch (Mohrus) for stiff shoulder or lumbago. In the hospital, a life-threatening asthma attack suddenly occurred two and a half hours after application of a 2.0% ketoprofen adhesive tape (Mohrus tape) to her shoulder. She was treated with bronchodilator and glucocorticoid and extubated after 20 hours. A drug lymphocyte stimulating test (DLST) was strongly positive for ketoprofen. We suspected that drug-induced hypersensitivity coexisted in the present case, but it was not clear whether or not the hypersensitivity was related to the pathogenesis of analgesic-induced asthma.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether fluoxetine given to castrated and noncastrated rats caused hyperprolactinemia and its effects with respect to adenomyosis.
Fluoxetine, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor, was given to Wistar Albino rats for 98 days to produce hyperprolactinemia. The drug was given to two groups consisting of castrated and noncastrated rats and compared to two groups of castrated and noncastrated controls. Prolactin levels were measured and the uteri of the rats were removed for histopathological analysis at the end of 98 days.
Marmara University School of Medicine, Department of Histology and Embryology, Zeynep Kamil Women and Children's Hospital.
Serum prolactin levels, uterine histopathology.
The prolactin levels of castrated and noncastrated groups treated with fluoxetine were statistically significantly higher when compared to their respective control groups. Histological studies revealed 11 cases of adenomyosis, all within the noncastrated group receiving fluoxetine.
It was suggested that high serum prolactin levels cause degeneration of myometrial cells in the presence of ovarian steroids that results in a myometrial invasion by endometrial stroma. This invasion eventually progresses to adenomyosis.
We have examined the ability of KW-6002, an adenosine A2a antagonist, to modulate the dyskinetic effects of L-DOPA in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. In animals rendered dyskinetic by a previous course of L-DOPA treatment, KW-6002 did not elicit any abnormal involuntary movements on its own, but failed to reduce the severity of dyskinesia when coadministered with L-DOPA. A second experiment was undertaken in order to study the effects of KW-6002 in L-DOPA-naive rats. Thirty-five animals were allotted to four groups to receive a 21-day treatment with: (i) KW-6002 (10 mg/kg/day); (ii) L-DOPA (6 mg/kg/day) i.p.; (iii) KW-6002 plus L-DOPA (same doses as above) or (iv) vehicle. Chronic treatment with KW-6002-only produced a significant relief of motor disability in the rotarod test in the absence of any abnormal involuntary movements. Combined treatment with L-DOPA and KW-6002 improved rotarod performance to a significantly higher degree than did each of the two drugs alone. However, this combined treatment induced dyskinesia to about the same degree as did L-DOPA alone. In situ hybridization histochemistry showed that KW-6002 treatment alone caused an approximately 20% reduction in the striatal levels of preproenkephalin mRNA, whereas neither the coadministration of KW-6002 and L-DOPA nor L-DOPA alone significantly altered the expression of this transcript in the dopamine-denervated striatum. Either alone or in combination with L-DOPA, KW-6002 did not have any modulatory effect on prodynorphin mRNA expression or FosB/DeltaFosB-like immunoreactivity in the dopamine-denervated striatum. These results show that monotreatment with an adenosine A2a receptor antagonist can relieve motor disability without inducing behavioural and cellular signs of dyskinesia in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Cotreatment with KW-6002 and L-DOPA potentiates the therapeutic effect but not the dyskinesiogenic potential of the latter drug.
A 72-year-old female patient was diagnosed as having a tumor in her bladder at the department of obstetrics and gynecology. Transurethral resection of bladder tumor was performed in November, 2002. Pathology showed transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), G2>G3, pT1. Chemotherapy consisting of methotrexate, adriamycin and cisplatin and bladder instillation of Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) was performed. Re-biopsy revealed transitional cell carcinoma, G2, carcinoma in situ of the bladder and she received radical cystectomy with ureterocutaneostomy in June, 2003. After the cystectomy, the left ureter showed signs of cancer so BCG was administered through the left ureterocutaneostomy. During the second instillation, she had a high temperature and also exhibited signs of chills with frequent shivering followed by dyspnea, severe hypotension and tachycardia. We started the patient on dopamine and norepinephrine drips to maintain blood pressure and then started isoniazide and meropenem for presumed septic shock. The next day, the patient continued to be febrile and her condition deteriorated. After she was given endotoxin absorption therapy, she regained normal blood pressure and her heart rate, but was still febrile. After 13 days, rifampicin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide were administered and after 18 days predonisolone was begun. From that point the patient's general condition gradually improved.
A bipolar patient receiving lithium therapy developed a toxic state with a serum lithium level of 3.9 within 2 weeks of beginning hydrochlorthiazide treatment for hypertension. The initial changes in mental status suggested that the patient might be beginning another manic episode. Symptoms resolved following hemodialysis.
We are reporting an interesting case of pituitary macroadenoma. The patient presented with sudden, bifrontal, pulsating headache; photophobia; and an abducens nerve palsy, due to extension of the tumor into the cavernous sinus region. The headache resolved completely after a subcutaneous injection of sumatriptan.
Circadian pattern for the onset of acute ischemic stroke has been described; however, data assessing an association between thrombolytic therapy efficacy and circadian rhythm are limited. We assessed the relationship between the time of stroke onset and neurologic outcomes after thrombolytic therapy for acute ischemic stroke in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) Recombinant Tissue Plasminogen Activator (rt-PA) Stroke Trial.
We conducted exploratory, post hoc analysis of 624 patients in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. Variables assessed included presenting time of day (4- and 6-hour time blocks), outcome variables, stroke subtypes, treatment assignment, and biological markers. Outcome variables included 3-month mortality, clinical outcome at 3 months, intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), computed tomography lesion volume at 3 months, and deterioration at 24 hours.
The distribution of patients in the time blocks was balanced between the rt-PA and placebo groups. There was not a clear circadian variation in the stroke onset time. There were no associations detected between stroke onset time and clinical outcome, computed tomography lesion volume, and asymptomatic hemorrhage. Patients treated with rt-PA whose stroke onset was between 0401 and 0800 hours had less symptomatic ICH, whereas those who received rt-PA between 0000 and 0400 hours had a 43% incidence of symptomatic ICH. Patients in the placebo group who had stroke onset between 1801 and 2400 hours had lower chances for neurologic deterioration. Patients who had a stroke between 0001 and 0400 hours had the highest fibrinogen concentrations.
We did not find a circadian pattern to time of day of stroke onset in the patients included in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. The effect of rt-PA treatment on favorable outcome was independent of time of day of stroke onset. Patients who received rt-PA between 4 and 8 am were less likely to develop symptomatic ICH.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases. Mutation in the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) gene causes an autosomal recessive form of PD. However, the etiology related to PINK1 is still not clear. Here, we examined the effect of PINK1 on heme oxygenase (HO)-1 induction in SH-SY5Y neuronal cells following H(2)O(2) or 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) treatment. The HO-1 induction in response to H(2)O(2) and MPP(+) treatment was impaired by the expression of recombinant PINK1 G309D mutant. PINK1 G309D mutation increased the apoptosis of SH-SY5Y cells following H(2)O(2) treatment and cell survival was rescued by the over-expression of HO-1 using adenovirus (Ad) infection. In addition, knockdown of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein-1 (TRAP1), which is the substrate of PINK1 kinase, in SH-SY5Y cells also inhibited the expression of HO-1 in response to oxidative stress. The up-regulation of TRAP1 expression following H(2)O(2) treatment was inhibited by the expression of recombinant PINK1 G309D mutant. The H(2)O(2)-induced HO-1 induction was Akt- and ERK-dependent. The phosphorylation of ERK and Akt but not p38 was inhibited in cells expressing the PINK1 G309D mutant and knockdown of TRAP1. These results indicate a novel pathway by which the defect of PINK1 inhibits the oxidative stress-induced HO-1 production. Impairment of HO-1 production following oxidative stress may accelerate the dopaminergic neurodegeneration in Parkinson patients with PINK1 defect.
A single or repeated administration of cocaine (15 mg/kg) in mice produced hyperactivity and conditioned place preference (CPP). Ginsenoside Rb1 (Rb1) and ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1), prior to and during the cocaine treatment in mice, inhibited cocaine-induced hyperactivity and CPP. The development of enhanced postsynaptic dopamine (DA) receptor sensitivity in mice displaying a cocaine-induced CPP was evidenced by the enhanced response in ambulatory activity to the DA agonist, apomorphine (2 mg/kg). Rb1 and Rg1 inhibited the development of postsynaptic DA receptor supersensitivity. However, Rb1 and Rg1 did not show any antidopaminergic activity at the postsynaptic DA receptors, because the apomorphine-induced climbing behavior was not inhibited by Rb1 and Rg1. Therefore, it is presumed that Rb1 and Rg1 modulate DA activity induced by cocaine at the presynaptic DA receptors, and this modulation results in the inhibition of postsynaptic dopaminergic activation. These results suggest that the cocaine-induced CPP may be associated with enhanced DA receptor sensitivity. The inhibition by Rb1 and Rg1 of cocaine-induced hyperactivity and CPP may be closely related with the inhibition of dopaminergic activation induced by cocaine at the presynaptic DA receptors.
Evidence suggests that transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta(1)) is associated with target organ damage in hypertension. This study aimed to investigate the relationship between TGF-beta(1) levels and kidney damage and renoprotective effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and/or angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker in patients with essential hypertension (EH).
A total of 156 patients with EH were enrolled and grouped according to albumin-to-creatinine ratio (ACR). Of these, 90 patients with EH underwent a 12-week antihypertensive trial with administration of benazepril, valsartan or both. Serum TGF-beta(1), plasma angiotensin (Ang) II and urinary albumin were quantified by immunoassays.
Serum TGF-beta1, plasma Ang II and ACR were highly elevated in patients with EH (P < 0.01). There was a positive correlation between serum TGF-beta1 levels and ACR (r = 0.53, P < 0.01). Significant decreases in TGF beta1 and ACR were obtained in all groups at the end of 12-week antihypertensive therapy compared to the baseline values, with the combined group to a greater extent (P < 0.01). Plasma Ang II levels were significantly decreased in the benazepril group but increased in the valsartan group (P < 0.05) while no significant change was observed in the combined group.
TGF-beta(1) is highly elevated and strongly associated with urinary albumin excretion in patients with EH. Treatment with benazepril or valsartan attenuates serum TGF-beta(1) levels and microalbuminuria with the combined therapy receiving the greater effect. TGF-beta(1) could be a potential surrogate marker in monitoring the development and progression of kidney damage in EH.
Pentamethyl-6-chromanol (PMCol), a chromanol-type compound related to vitamin E, was proposed as an anticancer agent with activity against androgen-dependent cancers. In repeat dose-toxicity studies in rats and dogs, PMCol caused hepatotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, and hematological effects. The objectives of this study were to determine the mechanisms of the observed toxicity and identify sensitive early markers of target organ injury by integrating classical toxicology, toxicogenomics, and metabolomic approaches. PMCol was administered orally to male Sprague-Dawley rats at 200 and 2000 mg/kg daily for 7 or 28 days. Changes in clinical chemistry included elevated alanine aminotransferase, total bilirubin, cholesterol and triglycerides-indicative of liver toxicity that was confirmed by microscopic findings (periportal hepatocellular hydropic degeneration and cytomegaly) in treated rats. Metabolomic evaluations of liver revealed time- and dose-dependent changes, including depletion of total glutathione and glutathione conjugates, decreased methionine, and increased S-adenosylhomocysteine, cysteine, and cystine. PMCol treatment also decreased cofactor levels, namely, FAD and increased NAD(P)+. Microarray analysis of liver found that differentially expressed genes were enriched in the glutathione and cytochrome P450 pathways by PMCol treatment. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction of six upregulated genes and one downregulated gene confirmed the microarray results. In conclusion, the use of metabolomics and toxicogenomics demonstrates that chronic exposure to high doses of PMCol induces liver damage and dysfunction, probably due to both direct inhibition of glutathione synthesis and modification of drug metabolism pathways. Depletion of glutathione due to PMCol exposure ultimately results in a maladaptive response, increasing the consumption of hepatic dietary antioxidants and resulting in elevated reactive oxygen species levels associated with hepatocellular damage and deficits in liver function.
