We describe the case of a 44-yr-old woman, suffering from rheumatoid arthritis for 15 yr, who developed porphyria cutanea tarda while being treated with methotrexate. The cutaneous lesions healed and the metabolic anomalies improved after a few months, despite continuing the treatment.
Phenylpropanolamine (PPA) is a sympathomimetic drug contained in numerous over-the-counter and prescription decongestants and appetite suppressants. A range of adverse effects have been reported, including neuropsychiatric reactions in patients known to be taking recommended doses. Given that psychiatric symptoms are not included in the manufacturer's lists of adverse drug reactions, the incidence may be significantly higher. We report a cae of paranoid psychosis following use of a decongestant containing PPA and summarize the case report literature of psychiatric adverse effects to PPA in which doses were known and stated to be within recommended guidelines. A pattern of possible risk factors emerges from these reports. These may include 1) symptoms or history of mood spectrum disorder, 2) history of psychosis, 3) female sex, 4) family history of psychiatric disorder. The possibility that a higher incidence of adverse events occurs in a vulnerable population has not been systematically addressed, and seems called for. We recommend that physicians specifically inquire about patients' use of decongestants and diet aids. In half of the above cases, symptoms resolved without the use of antipsychotics.
A 27-yr-old man developed jaundice 2 wk after exposure to thiabendazole. Cholestasis persisted for 3 yr, at which time a liver transplant was performed. Two liver biopsy specimens and the hepatectomy specimen were remarkable for almost complete disappearance of interlobular bile ducts. Prominent fibrosis and hepatocellular regeneration were also present; however, the lobular architecture was preserved. This case represents an example of "idiosyncratic" drug-induced liver damage in which the primary target of injury is the bile duct. An autoimmune pathogenesis of the bile duct destruction is suggested.
It was found that glaucine (7, 14 and 28 mg/kg ip) decreased locomotor activity, did not affect the body temperature and potentiated the amphetamine and apomorphine stereotypy but did not affect the amphetamine hypermotility. Besides, glaucine antagonized haloperidol-induced catalepsy of the rats. Glaucine was without analgesic, anticonvulsant, antianxiety and antidepressive effects in mice. This alkaloid in doses of 14 and 28mg/kg ip antagonized the head twitch response induced by 5-HTP in the rats. Further, glaucine decreased the hyperthermia induced by m-CPP in rats kept at high ambient temperature. It was found that glaucine depressed the noradrenaline (NA) and dopamine (DA) levels in the whole brain of mice. Besides, this alkaloid significantly decreased the brain level of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), without changing the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentration.
Reactive oxygen and nitrogen species contribute to the pathophysiology of inflammatory conditions. We have studied the effects of a novel superoxide scavenger, 4-dimethylamino-3', 4'-dimethoxychalcone (CH11) in macrophages and in vivo. CH11 has been shown to inhibit the chemiluminescence induced by zymosan in mouse peritoneal macrophages and the cytotoxic effects of superoxide. In the same cells, the modulation by superoxide of nitric oxide (NO) production in response to zymosan was investigated. CH11 was more effective than the membrane-permeable scavenger Tiron for inhibition of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) protein expression and nitrite production. We have shown that CH11 inhibited chemiluminescence in vivo, as well as cell migration, and eicosanoid and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels in the mouse air pouch injected with zymosan. This chalcone derivative also exerted anti-inflammatory effects in the carrageenan paw oedema.
Opioid peptides are involved in various pathophysiological processes, including algesia, epilepsy, and drug dependence. A strong association between L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) and elevated prodynorphin mRNA levels has been established in both patients and in animal models of Parkinson's disease, but to date the endogenous prodynorphin peptide products have not been determined. Here, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) imaging mass spectrometry (IMS) was used for characterization, localization, and relative quantification of striatal neuropeptides in a rat model of LID in Parkinson's disease. MALDI IMS has the unique advantage of high sensitivity and high molecular specificity, allowing comprehensive detection of multiple molecular species in a single tissue section. Indeed, several dynorphins and enkephalins could be detected in the present study, including dynorphin A(1-8), dynorphin B, α-neoendorphin, MetEnkRF, MetEnkRGL, PEnk (198-209, 219-229). IMS analysis revealed elevated levels of dynorphin B, α-neoendorphin, substance P, and PEnk (220-229) in the dorsolateral striatum of high-dyskinetic animals compared with low-dyskinetic and lesion-only control rats. Furthermore, the peak-intensities of the prodynorphin derived peptides, dynorphin B and α-neoendorphin, were strongly and positively correlated with LID severity. Interestingly, these LID associated dynorphin peptides are not those with high affinity to κ opioid receptors, but are known to bind and activate also μ- and Δ-opioid receptors. In addition, the peak intensities of a novel endogenous metabolite of α-neoendorphin lacking the N-terminal tyrosine correlated positively with dyskinesia severity. MALDI IMS of striatal sections from Pdyn knockout mice verified the identity of fully processed dynorphin peptides and the presence of endogenous des-tyrosine α-neoendorphin. Des-tyrosine dynorphins display reduced opioid receptor binding and this points to possible novel nonopioid receptor mediated changes in the striatum of dyskinetic rats. Because des-tyrosine dynorphins can only be detected by mass spectrometry, as no antibodies are available, these findings highlight the importance of MALDI IMS analysis for the study of molecular dynamics in neurological diseases.
Phencyclidine (PCP) and ketamine can induce a model psychosis in drug addicts and exacerbate the symptoms of chronic schizophrenics. The model psychoses these drugs induce mimic a variety of schizophrenic symptoms, including flattened affect, dissociative thought disorder, depersonalization and catatonic states. These symptoms can persist for prolonged periods and chronic PCP and ketamine addicts have persisting memory deficits. Dizocilpine (MK-801) is a simpler drug than PCP or ketamine in its actions, but it shares with both the property of blocking in a non-competitive manner the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) ion-channel. Behavioral observations and drug-discrimination studies in animals indicate that PCP and dizocilpine are similar in their effects and they both have a neurotoxic effect on neurons in posterior cingulate cortex. Recent studies have indicated that both of these drugs, when given continuously for several days, further induce neuronal degeneration in other limbic structures. These include brain regions of rats related to olfaction, associated limbic structures such as piriform cortex and posterior regions of entorhinal cortex and in it's projections, through the perforant pathway, to dentate gyrus and other cells in ventral hippocampus. These degenerative consequences may be excitatory neurotoxic effects, for these compounds also induce an elevation in glucose metabolism maximal in just those structures where degeneration is observed and the degeneration involves entire cells, with all of their processes. It has been suggested these non-competitive NMDA antagonists induce an increase in firing rate in a limbic circuit which includes the perforant pathway. At least some competitive NMDA antagonists induce the same pattern of degeneration and altered glucose utilization. There is anatomical and functional evidence that alterations in these same limbic structures are present in the dementia syndrome manifested by some schizophrenics and most Alzheimer's patients. This suggests that these non-competitive NMDA antagonists may provide a more complete model of psychoses and memory disturbances than previously recognized, in that they can mimic both persisting symptomatology and neuroanatomical abnormalities. While the neurochemical underpinnings of this effect remain elusive, it appears to be both age and sex dependent. Further studies of the mechanisms by which NMDA antagonists induce increased glucose utilization and neurotoxicity in these limbic structures may clarify these alterations in this simplified Papez-like circuit.
Drugs acting at cannabinoid type 1 receptors (CB1) have modulatory effects on glutamate and GABA neurotransmission in basal ganglia; thus, they potentially affect motor behavior in the parkinsonian setting. Preclinical trials with diverse cannabinoid agents have shown varied results, and the precise effects of blocking cannabinoid CB1 receptors remain uncertain. We tested behavioral effects of the selective antagonist 1-[7-(2-chlorophenyl)-8-(4-chlorophenyl)-2-methylpyrazolo[1,5-a]-[1,3,5]triazin-4-yl]-3-ethylaminoazetidine-3-carboxylic acid amide benzenesulfonate (CE) as monotherapy and in combination with l-DOPA in treatment-naive and L-DOPA-primed 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated rhesus monkeys with moderate and severe parkinsonism. Motor disability and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias were scored with a standardized scale after subcutaneous drug administration, and plasma levels of L-DOPA were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography/electrochemical detection. CE doses ranged from 0.03 to 1 mg/kg, and L-DOPA methyl ester doses were selected as optimal and suboptimal doses (maximal and 50% of maximal responses, respectively). CE had no intrinsic effects on motor behavior regardless of the degree of parkinsonism (moderate or severe groups) or previous drug exposure ("de novo" or after L-DOPA priming). Initial CE administration did not affect development of L-DOPA antiparkinsonian responses. In coadministration trials, CE, in a dose-dependent manner, increased responses to L-DOPA (suboptimal doses). These effects were seen in both moderate and severely parkinsonian monkeys as a 30% increase of, predominantly, response duration with no effects on L-DOPA pharmacokinetics. CE did not modify levodopa-induced dyskinesias. These results suggest that selective cannabinoid CB1 antagonists may enhance the antiparkinsonian action of dopaminomimetics and possibly facilitate the use of lower doses, thereby reducing side effects.
The modifying effects of late neonatal administration of p-nonylphenol (NP), a suspected xenoestrogen, on 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB)-induced prostatic carcinogenesis were investigated in male F344 rats. Three-week-old rats received 25, 250 or 2000 ppm of NP in the diet for 3 weeks prior to DMAB treatment and were sacrificed at 67 weeks of age for histopathological assessment of lesions and Ki-67 immunohistochemical analysis of cell cycle kinetics. Dietary administration of NP during the sexually immature period had no effects on maturation of male sex organs. Incidence, multiplicity and areas of neoplastic lesions in the prostate and seminal vesicles, and Ki-67 labeling indices in normal-looking epithelium were not significantly different among the experimental groups. These results indicate that late neonatal treatment with NP has no modulating effects on DMAB-induced rat prostatic carcinogenesis.
The G1-S checkpoint of the cell cycle is frequently dysregulated in breast cancer. Palbociclib (PD0332991) is an oral inhibitor of CDK4/6. Based upon preclinical/phase I activity, we performed a phase II, single-arm trial of palbociclib in advanced breast cancer.
Eligible patients had histologically confirmed, metastatic breast cancer positive for retinoblastoma (Rb) protein and measureable disease. Palbociclib was given at 125 mg orally on days 1 to 21 of a 28-day cycle. Primary objectives were tumor response and tolerability. Secondary objectives included progression-free survival (PFS) and assessment of Rb expression/localization, KI-67, p16 loss, and CCND1 amplification.
Thirty-seven patients were enrolled; 84% hormone-receptor (HR)(+)/Her2(-), 5% HR(+)/Her2(+), and 11% HR(-)/Her2(-), with a median of 2 prior cytotoxic regimens. Two patients had partial response (PR) and 5 had stable disease ≥ 6 months for a clinical benefit rate (CBR = PR + 6moSD) of 19% overall, 21% in HR(+), and 29% in HR(+)/Her2(-) who had progressed through ≥2 prior lines of hormonal therapy. Median PFS overall was 3.7 months [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.9-5.1], but significantly longer for those with HR(+) versus HR(-) disease (P = 0.03) and those who had previously progressed through endocrine therapy for advanced disease (P = 0.02). Grade 3/4 toxicities included neutropenia (51%), anemia (5%), and thrombocytopenia (22%). Twenty-four percent had treatment interruption and 51% had dose reduction, all for cytopenias. No biomarker identified a sensitive tumor population.
Single-agent palbociclib is well tolerated and active in patients with endocrine-resistant, HR(+), Rb-positive breast cancer. Cytopenias were uncomplicated and easily managed with dose reduction.
The effects of SMP-300, an orally active, potent, and selective Na+/H+ exchange inhibitor, were evaluated and compared with those of nifedipine, propranolol, and nicorandil on three experimental angina models and on myocardial infarction in rats. SMP-300 (0.1-1 mg/kg, p.o.) reduced isoproterenol-induced ST segment depression in a dose-dependent manner. Its maximal effect was comparable to that reported for propranolol and greater than that of nifedipine. SMP-300 (0.3-1 mg/kg) reduced vasopressin-induced ST segment depression in a dose-dependent manner, and its maximal effect was comparable to those of nifedipine and nicorandil. SMP-300 (0.3-1 mg/kg, p.o.) and propranolol (100 mg/kg, p.o.) inhibited coronary artery occlusion-induced T-wave elevation, but nifedipine (3 mg/kg, p.o.) did not. SMP-300 (1 mg/kg, p.o.) reduced myocardial infarct size after 40 min of coronary artery occlusion followed by 24 h of reperfusion, but nifedipine (3 mg/kg, p.o.) or propranolol (100 mg/kg, p.o.) did not. This study provides support for the future use of a Na+/H+ exchange inhibitor as an anti-anginal drug with a novel mode of action.
The BRCA1 gene on chromosome 17q21 is responsible for an autosomal dominant syndrome of increased susceptibility to breast and ovarian cancer but no somatic mutations in tumours have yet been described. To study the potential role of BRCA1 in sporadic carcinogenesis, we analysed the genomic DNA of tumour and normal fractions of 47 ovarian cancers for mutations in BRCA1 using the single-strand conformation polymorphism technique. We now describe somatic mutations in the DNA of four tumours which also had loss of heterozygosity (LOH) at a BRCA1 intragenic marker. Our data support a tumour suppressor mechanism for BRCA1; somatic mutations and LOH may result in inactivation of BRCA1 in at least a small number of ovarian cancers.
Here we demonstrate that treatment with SAHA (suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid), a known inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACs), alone induced p21 and/or p27 expressions but decreased the mRNA and protein levels of Bcr-Abl, which was associated with apoptosis of Bcr-Abl-expressing K562 and LAMA-84 cells. Cotreatment with SAHA and imatinib (Gleevec) caused more down-regulation of the levels and auto-tyrosine phosphorylation of Bcr-Abl and apoptosis of these cell types, as compared with treatment with either agent alone (P <.05). This finding was also associated with a greater decline in the levels of phospho-AKT and Bcl-x(L). Significantly, treatment with SAHA also down-regulated Bcr-Abl levels and induced apoptosis of CD34(+) leukemia blast progenitor cells derived from patients who had developed progressive blast crisis (BC) of chronic myelocytic leukemia (CML) while receiving therapy with imatinib. Taken together, these findings indicate that cotreatment with SAHA enhances the cytotoxic effects of imatinib and may have activity against imatinib-refractory CML-BC.
1. Adenosine is a potent endogenous regulator of inflammation and tissue repair. Adenosine, which is released from injured and hypoxic tissue or in response to toxins and medications, may induce pulmonary fibrosis in mice, presumably via interaction with a specific adenosine receptor. We therefore determined whether adenosine and its receptors contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis. 2. As in other tissues and cell types, adenosine is released in vitro in response to the fibrogenic stimuli ethanol (40 mg dl(-1)) and methotrexate (100 nM). 3. Adenosine A(2A) receptors are expressed on rat and human hepatic stellate cell lines and adenosine A(2A) receptor occupancy promotes collagen production by these cells. Liver sections from mice treated with the hepatotoxins carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) (0.05 ml in oil, 50 : 50 v : v, subcutaneously) and thioacetamide (100 mg kg(-1) in PBS, intraperitoneally) released more adenosine than those from untreated mice when cultured ex vivo. 4. Adenosine A(2A) receptor-deficient, but not wild-type or A(3) receptor-deficient, mice are protected from development of hepatic fibrosis following CCl(4) or thioacetamide exposure. 5. Similarly, caffeine (50 mg kg(-1) day(-1), po), a nonselective adenosine receptor antagonist, and ZM241385 (25 mg kg(-1) bid), a more selective antagonist of the adenosine A(2A) receptor, diminished hepatic fibrosis in wild-type mice exposed to either CCl(4) or thioacetamide. 6. These results demonstrate that hepatic adenosine A(2A) receptors play an active role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis, and suggest a novel therapeutic target in the treatment and prevention of hepatic cirrhosis.
Atypical antipsychotic medications have largely supplanted their typical counterparts, both for psychosis and for the treatment of aggression and/or self-injurious behaviour (SIB), in persons with intellectual disabilities (ID). However, with the exception of risperidone, little systematic research supports their use in such persons.
A retrospective review of 31 adult residents of a state developmental centre, who were treated for aggression and/or SIB with atypical antipsychotics. Average monthly counts of aggression and SIB for 1 year of treatment with typical antipsychotics, were compared with monthly averages for the next 12 months of treatment with atypical antipsychotics.
Twenty-seven of 31 subjects (87%) completed a full year of atypical antipsychotic treatment. Subjects ranged in age from 24 to 54 years (mean = 39); 18/31 (58%) had profound ID. Twelve of 26 (46%) had typical antipsychotics discontinued within the year of atypical treatment; another 7/26 (27%) had their typical antipsychotic dose decreased. Twenty-three of 31 trials involved risperidone; 7/31 olanzapine; 1/31 quetiapine. Subjects gained an average of 6.6 pounds during the year of atypical treatment, but no significant changes in glucose or cholesterol were found. Subjects with aggression alone (N = 14) had significant decreases in the number of aggressive acts per month during the year of atypical treatment (P = 0.03); those with both aggression and self-injury (N = 12), or those with self-injury alone (N = 5) had no significant improvement.
The findings suggest that atypical antipsychotics can be successfully substituted for typical agents in individuals with ID and decrease the frequency of aggression over one year of treatment. The weight gain seen in our sample reinforces the necessity of regular monitoring of weight and metabolic changes in persons with ID treated with atypical antipsychotics.
When amikacin was administered to Fischer rats at a dose of 120 mg/kg/day for up to 14 days, renal proximal tubule cells became vacuolated, but BUN and creatinine remained normal. Renal cortical drug levels rose steadily throughout the treatment period. When, in a second trial of the same duration, the drug dose was tripled, focal proximal tubular necrosis, then regeneration, occurred and the animals became azotemic. Tissue drug concentrations peaked and began to decline during the treatment period, having reached levels more than three times higher than achieved at the lower dose. Ultrastructural changes were similar to those observed with other aminoglycosides. The results indicate that amikacin is less nephrotoxic than gentamicin and more toxin than tobramycin and netilmicin in the Fischer rat.
Aqueous extract of the roots of Radix paeoniae (Paeonaceae) was screened for wound healing by excision, incision and dead space wound models on Wistar rats. The parameters studied were breaking strength in case of incision wounds, epithelialisation and wound contraction in case of excision wound and granulation tissue dry weight, breaking strength and hydroxyproline content in case of dead space wound. The Nitrofurazone ointment treated group showed a significant (p < 0.001) reduction in the wound breaking strength when compared to control group in incision type of wound model. The results obtained indicated that Radix paeoniae root extract accelerates the wound healing process by decreasing the surface area of the wound and increasing the tensile strength. The histological examination of the granulation tissue of treated group showed increased cross-linking of collagen fibers and absence of monocytes.
Seizures and status epilepticus are among the neurological complications of cocaine overdose in humans. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the protective effectiveness and therapeutic index (separation between anticonvulsive and side effect profiles) of 14 newly approved and potential antiepileptic drugs using a murine model of acute cocaine toxicity and the inverted-screen test for behavioral side effect testing. Cocaine (75 mg/kg i.p.) produces clonic seizures (approximately 90% of mice), and conventional antiepileptic drugs have been reported to be either ineffective or only effective at doses producing significant sedative/ataxic effects. Clobazam, flunarizine, lamotrigine, topiramate, and zonisamide were ineffective against seizures up to doses producing significant motor impairment. In contrast, felbamate, gabapentin, loreclezole, losigamone, progabide, remacemide, stiripentol, tiagabine, and vigabatrin produced dose-dependent protection against cocaine-induced convulsions with varied separations between their anticonvulsant and side effect profiles: the protective index values (toxic TD(50)/anticonvulsive ED(50)) ranged from 1.26 (felbamate) to 7.67 (loreclezole), and gabapentin had the highest (protective index >152). Thus, several drugs were identified with greater protective efficacy and reduced motor impairment compared with classic antiepileptic drugs. Based on the proposed mechanism of action of these new anticonvulsants, it is noteworthy that 1) drugs that enhance gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated neuronal inhibition in a manner distinct from barbiturates and benzodiazepines offer the best protective/behavioral side effect profiles, and 2) functional antagonists of Na(+) and Ca(2+) channels are generally ineffective. Overall, this study provides the first description of the effectiveness of new antiepileptic drugs against experimentally induced cocaine seizures and points to several drugs that deserve clinical scrutiny for this indication.
To study the effect of yam in Taiwan, which is a commonly used Chinese medicine, on hepato-nephro-toxicity in rats.
Crude water extract of yam (Dioscorea alata L), was used to treat rats with an acute toxicity induced by acetaminophen (APAP) challenge.
The pharmacological and biochemical studies showed the extract of yam had the effect of kidney secureness and liver fortification (P < 0.01). The pathologic sections showed good improvements in renal tubular degranulation changes, necrosis and disintegration. The extract of yam also possessed a good protection against the inflammation of central vein and necrosis of liver tissue.
The liver and kidneys are originated from the same source. Pathologically, deficiency of the life essence in the kidney may lead to the blood deficiency in the liver. The results showed that the yam could prevent the damages of the liver and kidneys, thus preserving their functions. This could b e the reason why the yam was commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine, as seen in Liuwei Dihuang Wan be used in the case of deficiency of liver-yin and kidney-yin.
Dantrolene, a specific agent for the treatment of malignant hyperthermia, was found to inhibit Ca(2+) leak through not only the skeletal ryanodine receptor (RyR1), but also the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) by correcting the defective inter-domain interaction between N-terminal (1-619 amino acid) and central (2,000-2,500 amino acid) domains of RyRs. Here, the in vivo anti-arrhythmic effect of dantrolene in a human catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT)-associated RyR2(R2474S/+) knock-in (KI) mouse model was investigated.
ECG was monitored in KI mice (n=6) and wild-type (WT) mice (n=6), before and after an injection of epinephrine (1.0mg/kg) or on exercise using a treadmill. In all KI (but not WT) mice, bi-directional ventricular tachycardia (VT) was induced after an injection of epinephrine or on exercise. Pre-treatment with dantrolene (for 7-10 days) significantly inhibited the inducible VT (P<0.01). In KI cardiomyocytes, Ca(2+) spark frequency (SpF; s(-1)·100µm(-1): 5.8±0.3, P<0.01) was much more increased after the addition of isoproterenol than in WT cardiomyocytes (SpF: 3.6±0.2). The increase in SpF seen in KI cardiomyocytes was attenuated by 1.0µmol/L dantrolene (SpF: 3.6±0.5, P<0.01).
Dantrolene prevents CPVT, presumably by inhibiting Ca(2+) leak through the RyR2.
High doses of inhaled albuterol produce substantial improvements in bronchodilatation but are associated with dose-related systemic side effects including hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia. Concomitant diuretic therapy also produces these metabolic sequelae and may therefore precipitate cardiac arrhythmias in patients taking this combination of drugs. The purpose of this study was to investigate the electrocardiographic (ECG) effects of high-dose inhaled albuterol, and to evaluate whether potentiation occurs with bendrofluazide.
Ten normal subjects (mean age [+/- SEM]: 29 +/- 2 years, four women, six men) received seven days of treatment with either bendrofluazide 5 mg or identical placebo in a single-blind, randomized, cross-over design, with a 10-day washout period. After each treatment period, responses (potassium, magnesium, ECG) to cumulative doubling doses of inhaled albuterol (100 micrograms to 2,000 micrograms) were measured.
Baseline potassium levels (mean and 95% confidence intervals) were lower after pretreatment with bendrofluazide compared with placebo (3.07 mmol/L [2.89 to 3.25 mmol/L] versus 3.78 mmol/L [3.62 to 3.93 mmol/L]; p less than 0.001). The combination of bendrofluazide and albuterol produced a lower absolute level of potassium than did placebo and albuterol: (2.72 mmol/L [2.50 to 2.95 mmol/L] versus 3.18 mmol/L [3.09 to 3.27 mmol/L]; p less than 0.001). Mean (+/- SEM) potassium fell to a lower level with bendrofluazide and albuterol in women than in men (2.45 +/- 0.04 mmol/L versus 2.90 +/- 0.13 mmol/L; p less than 0.005). Albuterol alone produced a small but significant fall in magnesium (0.842 mmol/L [0.815 to 0.869 mmol/L] to 0.789 mmol/L [0.757 to 0.820 mmol/L]; p less than 0.001), but no further change after bendrofluazide. Pretreatment with bendrofluazide increased the frequency (p less than 0.001) and amplitude (p less than 0.05) of U waves due to albuterol. Albuterol also attenuated T-wave amplitude (p less than 0.001) and prolonged the Q-Tc interval (p less than 0.001), with no additive effect from bendrofluazide. ST-segment depression (p less than 0.001) occurred in five subjects who inhaled albuterol.
These findings show that treatment with bendrofluazide augments the hypokalemic and ECG effects of high-dose inhaled albuterol. The arrhythmogenic potential of this interaction may be important in patients with acute exacerbations of chronic airflow obstruction, who have concomitant hypoxemia and ischemic heart disease.
Contrast-induced renal dysfunction has been reported to occur in 15% to 42% of patients with underlying azotemia, but there is disagreement as to whether its incidence is reduced by limiting the amount of contrast material. To adjust the amount of contrast material to the severity of azotemia, we have utilized the following formula to calculate a contrast material "limit" in patients with renal disease: Contrast material limit = (formula; see text)
Over a 10-year period, 115 patients (53 men, 62 women, aged 61 +/- 11 [mean +/- SD] years) with renal dysfunction (baseline serum creatinine level greater than or equal to 1.8 mg/dL) underwent cardiac catheterization and angiography, after which the level of serum creatinine was measured daily for five days. The amount of contrast material that was given adhered to the limit in 86 patients (Group I) and exceeded it in 29 (Group II).
Contrast-induced renal dysfunction (an increase in serum creatinine greater than or equal to 1.0 mg/dL) occurred in two (2%) patients in Group I and in six (21%) patients in Group II (p less than 0.001). Of the 48 patients with concomitant diabetes mellitus, the contrast limit was surpassed in 16, six (38%) of whom had contrast nephropathy. Only two of the 32 (6%) diabetic patients in whom the contrast limit was not exceeded had contrast nephropathy (p less than 0.001).
Thus, contrast-induced renal dysfunction occurs infrequently if the amount of contrast material is limited in accordance with the degree of azotemia. Diabetic patients have a high incidence of contrast nephropathy, particularly when they receive an excessive amount of contrast. In patients with diabetes and renal impairment, it may be preferable to perform angiography as a staged procedure or to utilize alternative (non-contrast) techniques to obtain the desired information rather than to exceed the prescribed contrast limit.
A case of hypercalcemia induced by tamoxifen in a patient with breast carcinoma metastatic to the bones is presented. The induction of the hypercalcemia may be secondary to the weak initial estrogenic effects of tamoxifen. Patients who are treated with tamoxifen and other antiestrogens should be monitored carefully for evidence of hypercalcemia.
Tetrandrine, a bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloid, has demonstrated promising pharmacologic activities. The alkaloid has a great potential for clinical use, so a careful, thorough toxicity evaluation of the alkaloid is required. In the present study, 24 h acute toxicity of tetrandrine was evaluated in CD-1 mice. Single intraperitoneal doses of tetrandrine at 150 mg (0.24 mmol)/kg were found to cause alveolar hemorrhage and over 3-fold elevation of lactate dehydrogenase activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids. Ethidium-based staining showed loss of membrane integrity in significant numbers of cells in the lungs of the animals treated with the same doses of tetrandrine. As much as 60% reduction in cell viability was observed after 24 h of exposure to tetrandrine at 40 μM in human lung cell lines NL-20 and WI-38. Ketoconazole, an inhibitor of P450 3A, showed a protective effect on the pulmonary injury in mice given tetrandrine. A glutathione (GSH) conjugate derived from O-demethylated tetrandrine was detected in incubations of tetrandrine with NADPH- and GSH-supplemented human liver and mouse lung microsomes. The electrophilic metabolite trapped by GSH is considered to be a quinone methide derivative. The formation of the metabolite reactive to GSH was found to require the presence of NADPH. The coincubation of ketoconazole suppressed the generation of the GSH conjugate. Tetrandrine was incubated with a selection of recombinant human cytochrome P450 enzymes, and only P450s 3A4 and 3A5 were responsible for the production of the reactive metabolite. The results implicate a possible correlation between the formation of the quinone methide metabolite of tetrandrine and the pulmonary toxicity induced by tetrandrine.
Biphenotypic sinonasal sarcoma (SNS) is a newly described tumor of the nasal and paranasal areas. Here we report a recurrent chromosomal translocation in SNS, t(2;4)(q35;q31.1), resulting in a PAX3-MAML3 fusion protein that is a potent transcriptional activator of PAX3 response elements. The SNS phenotype is characterized by aberrant expression of genes involved in neuroectodermal and myogenic differentiation, closely simulating the developmental roles of PAX3.
Cleft lip with or without cleft palate (CL/P) is one of the most common congenital malformations observed in humans, with 1 occurrence in every 500-1,000 births. A 640-kb noncoding interval at 8q24 has been associated with increased risk of non-syndromic CL/P in humans, but the genes and pathways involved in this genetic susceptibility have remained elusive. Using a large series of rearrangements engineered over the syntenic mouse region, we show that this interval contains very remote cis-acting enhancers that control Myc expression in the developing face. Deletion of this interval leads to mild alteration of facial morphology in mice and, sporadically, to CL/P. At the molecular level, we identify misexpression of several downstream genes, highlighting combined impact on the craniofacial developmental network and the general metabolic capacity of cells contributing to the future upper lip. This dual molecular etiology may account for the prominent influence of variants in the 8q24 region on human facial dysmorphologies.
It has been shown that regional myocardial ischemia during angioplasty is associated with retarded apical filling. To test the importance of retarded apical filling by color Doppler M-mode to detect ischemia during dipyridamole stress echocardiography, we evaluated 29 patients (12 women, aged 57 to 87 years). High-dose dipyridamole (0.84 mg/kg for 10 minutes) was used. The color M-mode record was used to calculate the duration of abnormal apical flow as measured from the onset of the QRS complex to the disappearance of color signals directed toward the apex. Echocardiographic images were compared at rest and during stress to identify the presence of new or worsening wall motion abnormalities (WMAs). Fourteen patients (group A) were designated as having coronary artery disease on the basis on WMAs during the stress test and abnormal coronary anatomy. Fifteen patients (group B) without WMAs in the presence of normal coronary anatomy were designated as having no coronary artery disease. All but two patients in group A had an abnormal apical filling response to dipyridamole stress (sensitivity 86%). In these patients the marked retardation of apical filling was detected during ischemia (55 +/- 18 msec versus 120 +/- 34 msec) (p <0.01). In group B there were no dynamics in apical filling (specificity 100%). Color M-mode Doppler imaging showed retarded apical filling during dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia. This abnormal filling pattern may be a useful adjunct to WMAs during dipyridamole stress echocardiography.
