Sotos syndrome is a human developmental and cognitive disorder caused by happloinsufficiency of transcription factor NSD1. Similar phenotypes arise from NSD1 gene deletion or from point mutations in 9 of 13 NSD1 domains, including all 6 PHD domains, indicating that each NSD1 domain performs an essential role. To gain insight into the biochemical basis of Sotos syndrome, we tested the ability of each NSD1 PHD domain to bind histone H3 when methylated at regulatory sites Lys4, Lys9, Lys27, Lys36, and Lys79, and histone H4 at regulatory Lys20, and determined whether Sotos point mutations disrupted methylation site-specific binding. NSD1 PHD domains 1, 4, 5, and 6 bound histone H3 methylated at Lys4 or Lys9. Eleven of 12 Sotos mutations in PHD4, PHD5, and PHD6 disrupted binding to these methylated lysines, and 8 of 9 mutations in PHD4 and PHD6 severely compromised binding to transcription cofactor Nizp1. One mutation in PHD1 did not alter binding to specific methylated histone H3, and one mutation in PHD4 did not alter binding to either methylated histone or Nizp1. Our data suggests that Sotos point mutations in NSD1 PHD domains disrupt its transcriptional regulation by interfering with its ability to bind epigenetic marks and recruit cofactors.
Analgesic nephropathy is discussed. It has been estimated that 5-7% of all patients with chronic renal failure have a history of excessive analgesic use. Chronic analgesic abusers are predominantly women (3:1), and the peak incidence is between the ages of 40-60. Most analgesic abusers have some psychoneurosis with a history of headaches, backaches, arthritis, or ulcers. Several mechanisms for this nephrotoxicity have been proposed. It is thought that the ingestion of aspirin with phenacetin modifies the metabolism or alters the renal tissue response to one of these two drugs in such a manner as to increase toxicity. It has been proposed that the oxidative metabolites of phenacetin act in conjunction with aspirin to cause papillary necrosis. Chronic renal failure, a history of excessive analgesic use, radiological evidence of papillary necrosis, and clinical evidence of hematuria and mild proteinuria may confirm the diagnosis of analgesic nephropathy. Pharmacists should be aware of the indicence of analgesic nephropathy, and the general profile of patients who abuse analgesics. Early detection and cessation of analgesic use may avert progressive renal failure. Pharmacists should advise patients on the long-term complications of chronic analgesic use.
To investigate whether cocaine use is associated with early retinal vascular abnormalities.
Population-based cross-sectional study.
Inner-city neighborhoods in Baltimore, Maryland.
Sixty-eight participants were recruited from an ongoing observational study, investigating cardiovascular complications of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and cocaine use in African Americans aged between 25 and 54 years. Those with hypertension and known cardiovascular/cerebrovascular diseases were excluded.
Ophthalmoscopic examinations and fundus photography of the retinas of these subjects were performed after pupillary dilation. The largest angle of arterial bifurcation (LAAB), central retinal artery equivalent (CRAE), and central retinal vein equivalent (CRVE) were measured by single-masked fundus image examiners.
LAAB, CRAE, and CRVE.
Among the 68 study subjects, 52 (76.5%) were chronic cocaine users and 16 (23.5%) were non-cocaine users. Univariate and multivariate analyses indicated that the LAAB was associated with age and duration of cocaine use of more than 10 years. The LAAB was also inversely associated with very low-density lipoproteins levels. Multivariate analysis indicated a positive association between CRVE and cocaine use. CRAE was also associated with intravenous injection. We confirmed that CRAE was inversely associated with age. HIV infection was not found to be associated with any retinal vascular parameters.
Cocaine use is associated with increased retinal arterial branching angle and venular caliber. The retinal vascular changes provided the first evidence that cocaine use has an effect on the retinal vascular system.
We describe three adolescent patients with chronic autoimmune disorders who developed back pain and, in two cases, spinal symptoms several months after initiating chronic treatment with glucocorticoids. In all cases, MRI showed extensive spinal epidural lipomatosis, a rare but classic untoward effect of chronic glucocorticoid therapy. Analysis of these three, as well as 11 other pediatric cases extracted from the international literature, revealed that spinal epidural lipomatosis manifests most commonly with back pain and within a mean of 1.3 years (range, 3 month-6.5 years) after initiation of therapy with corticosteroids. It frequently remits after reduction of the corticosteroid dose.
Three patients with ischaemic heart disease developed profound cardiac failure, hypotension and bradycardia during combined therapy with verapamil and beta-adrenergic blocking drugs. This clinical picture resolved completely with cessation of the combined therapy. Baseline left ventricular function, assessed by cardiac catheterisation or nuclear angiography, was normal in two patients and only mildly reduced in the other. Simultaneously administration of beta-adrenergic blocking drugs and verapamil may result in profound adverse interactions and should only be administered with great caution.
The antimalarial agents chloroquine (CQ) and hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) are used in long-term treatment of connective tissue diseases (CTDs). A high incidence of heart conduction disorders, including bundle-branch block and incomplete or complete atrioventricular block, has been observed among patients treated with CQ. Since no data were available for HCQ, we studied electrocardiograms (ECGs) in 85 unselected patients with CTD treated with HCQ as the sole antimalarial.
Eighty-five unselected out-patients treated with HCQ for a minimum of 1 yr, and without established cardiac diseases had standard 12-lead ECGs.
Two incomplete right bundle-branch blocks and one left bundle-branch block were observed. No atrioventricular block was observed. The mean PR interval was 137 +/- 20 ms (range 99-188). The mean QTc interval was 410 ms (range 349-464). The mean heart rate was 73 beats/min (range 53-102).
PR interval, QTc interval and heart rate were not different from normal values. The rate of heart conduction disorders was similar to what is expected in the general population, and contrasted with prior results in CQ-treated patients. Our results add further evidence on the safety of HCQ compared with CQ.
Accumulating evidence indicates that mitochondrial function is impaired in vital organs during sepsis. In addition to oxidative phosphorylation, mitochondria participate in diverse cellular functions ranging from protein and lipid metabolism to programmed cell death. We analyzed liver mitochondrial protein expression patterns (i.e., proteomics) during acute endotoxemia to discover novel insights into mitochondrial responses to acute systemic inflammation.
A normotensive endotoxemia model was employed in which altered mitochondrial morphology occurs under conditions minimizing the potentially confounding effects of tissue hypoxia and acidosis.
University medical research laboratory.
Random-source, adult, male cats.
Hemodynamic resuscitation and maintenance of acid-base balance and tissue oxygen availability were provided to preserve baseline homeostatic conditions. Treatment groups received isotonic saline vehicle (control; n = 5) or endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS, at 3.0 mg/kg intravenously; n = 5]. Liver samples were obtained 4 h posttreatment, and mitochondrial proteins were isolated and quantitatively compared using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Differentially expressed proteins (> 1.5-fold change relative to controls) were identified using mass spectrometry.
Among over 500 protein spots that were separated 14 were differentially expressed in mitochondria of LPS-treated animals relative to matching controls. Spectrometric analyses demonstrated increased expression of urea cycle enzymes, heat shock protein (HSP) 60 and manganese superoxide dismutase, whereas expression of HSP70, F(1)-ATPase and key enzymes regulating lipid metabolism was reduced.
Considering the known functions of each of the proteins exhibiting altered expression, it is likely that the observed changes in liver mitochondrial protein expression are reflective of significant changes in mitochondrial function in response to endotoxemia.
Validated markers are needed to identify operable lung cancer patients with poor prognosis. About one-half of non-small-cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) carry a mutation in the p53 tumor-suppressor gene. We examined 101 NSCLC patients for surgical stage, completeness of resection, tobacco smoking, asbestos exposure, age, gender and p53 gene mutations as prognostic factors after a follow-up period of 4 years. Cox's multivariate regression model was applied to quantify the associations with overall and cancer-related survival. Patients with a wild-type p53 gene had an overall 4-year survival of 43% and those with a mutated p53 gene, 35%. In squamous-cell carcinoma, stage and heavy smoking, defined as the median of pack-years smoked, had prognostic significance for overall survival. Only stage was associated with poor cancer-related survival. Asbestos exposure was not associated with overall survival or cancer-related survival in squamous-cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma. In adenocarcinoma, p53 mutation, in addition to stage, emerged as a significant predictor of poor cancer-related survival.
We report on a patient with bilateral ureteral calculi composed of guaifenesin metabolite as determined by infrared spectroscopy. These stones may be associated with excessive guaifenesin intake related to the current popularity of ephedrine preparations.
Divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) is a transmembrane, proton-coupled metal ion transporter that is upregulated in the duodenum of iron-deficient rodents and in hereditary hemochromatosis patients, suggesting that it may constitute a key factor in the uptake of dietary iron. Functional expression studies in Xenopus oocytes have shown that DMT1 not only mediates transport of iron but also other divalent metal ions, including the toxic metal cadmium. In the present study, the correlation between the cadmium absorption process and gene expression of DMT1 was investigated in an experimental model of human absorptive enterocytes. Fully differentiated Caco-2 cells were grown in monolayers and treated with iron supplemented medium or control medium for 1, 3 or 7 days. At each time point, cadmium transport experiments across the Caco-2 cell monolayers were performed and gene expression of DMT1 measured. Iron treatment for 3 and 7 days resulted in a 50% reduction in the cadmium uptake and a 75% reduction in the transport of the metal across the basolateral membrane. No effects were observed at 24 h. Gene expression of DMT1 in the iron-treated Caco-2 cells was reduced by about 50% at 3 and 7 days and thus, correlated well with the uptake of cadmium. In summary, our results indicate that the uptake of cadmium into human absorptive enterocytes may be mediated by DMT1.
Both glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH-2) have been reported to participate in the biotransformation of nitroglycerin. In this study, we explored which is the major player in nitroglycerin biotransformation. In vivo, rats were treated with nitroglycerin, the blood pressure and plasma calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were measured. The inhibitor of GST (ethacrynic acid) or ALDH-2 (cyanamide) was given before nitroglycerin treatment; In vitro, the isolated aorta rings were incubated with nitroglycerin to obtain the concentration-response curve. Ethacrynic acid or cyanamide was pre-incubated with the rings before nitroglycerin treatment. The release of CGRP from the aorta rings was determined. Both ethacrynic acid and cyanamide were able to reverse the depressant action of nitroglycerin while the inhibitory effect of cyanamide was more profound. However, combined administration of both inhibitors did not produce an additive effect. The change of plasma CGRP level positively correlated with the change of nitroglycerin-induced hypotensive effects. In the isolated aorta rings, vasodilator responses to nitroglycerin were reduced in the presence of ethacrynic acid or cyanamide while the inhibitory effect of cyanamide was more profound. However, combined administration of both inhibitors did not produce an additive effect. The change of CGRP release from the rings positively correlated with the nitroglycerin-induced vasodilator responses. The present results suggest that both GST and ALDH-2 are involved in nitroglycerin action while ALDH-2 plays a major role, and the change of CGRP contents closely correlates with the biotransformation of nitroglycerin.
The effect of a 6-week treatment with the calcium channel blocker nitrendipine or the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril on blood pressure, albuminuria, renal hemodynamics, and morphology of the nonclipped kidney was studied in rats with two-kidney, one clip renovascular hypertension. Six weeks after clipping of one renal artery, hypertensive rats (178 +/- 4 mm Hg) were randomly assigned to three groups: untreated hypertensive controls (n = 8), enalapril-treated (n = 8), or nitrendipine-treated (n = 10). Sham-operated rats served as normotensive controls (128 +/- 3 mm Hg, n = 8). After 6 weeks of treatment, renal hemodynamics (glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow) were measured in the anesthetized rats. Renal tissue was obtained for determination of glomerular size and sclerosis. Enalapril but not nitrendipine reduced blood pressure significantly. After 6 weeks of therapy, glomerular filtration rate was not different among the studied groups. Renal plasma flow increased, but albumin excretion and glomerulosclerosis did not change after enalapril treatment. In contrast, in the nitrendipine-treated group albuminuria increased from 12.8 +/- 2 progressively to 163 +/- 55 compared with 19.2 +/- 9 mg/24 hr in the hypertensive controls. Furthermore, glomerulosclerosis index was significantly increased in the nitrendipine-treated group compared with the hypertensive controls (0.38 +/- 0.1 versus 0.13 +/- 0.04). In addition, glomerular size was higher in the nitrendipine-treated group (14.9 +/- 0.17 10(-3) mm2) but lower in the enalapril-treated group (11.5 +/- 0.15 10(-3) mm2) compared with the hypertensive controls (12.1 +/- 0.17 10(-3) mm2).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Valproate-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy is an unusual but serious complication that can occur in people with normal liver-associated enzyme levels, and despite normal therapeutic doses and serum levels of valproate. Here, we describe an adolescent girl suffering from absence seizures, who complained of progressive dizziness and general malaise several days after restarting valproate. She developed vomiting and decreased consciousness after 3 weeks of valproate use. She had a serum ammonia level five times higher than the upper normal limit, normal liver-associated enzymes, and a supra-therapeutic valproate level. Electroencephalography (EEG) showed continuous generalized slowing. Tandem mass spectrometry analysis revealed carnitine deficiency. Her consciousness improved after emergent hemodialysis. Her ammonia level and EEG also became normal. Possible mechanisms, risk factors and treatments of valproate-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy are described. Physicians should consider this possibility when consciousness disturbance occurs in patients treated with valproate.
In addition to inhibition of acetylcholine release in the neuromuscular junction botulinum toxin type A (BoNT-A) also inhibits the release of mediators involved in pain perception. We have investigated the effect of two types of BoNT-A on mechanical hyperalgesia in the rat models of carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia and of paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy. A subplantar (s.p.) injection of BoNT-A in the ipsilateral hindpaw 3 days before carrageenan administration reduced hypersensitivity. Dysport and Botox elicited comparable antihyperalgesic effects. Dysport up to 30 U/kg and Botox up to 20 U/kg did not impair the rat withdrawal nociceptive reflex or the locomotor performance as assessed by the rotarod test. Intraperitoneal administration of the skeletal muscle relaxant dantrolene produced, in contrast to BoNT-A, more motor impairment than analgesia. Paclitaxel treatment resulted in a peripheral neuropathy that affected the two hindpaws. Injection of 20 U/kg (s.p.) Dysport produced a significant antihyperalgesic effect in the injected paw of neuropathic animals 3 days after administration. Unexpectedly, a similar analgesic effect was observed in the contralateral paw. The same results were also observed when Botox was used instead of Dysport. In contrast, a contralateral administration of Dysport in the carrageenan test was ineffective. We conclude that BoNT-A elicits antinociceptive effects independent of the effects on muscular relaxation. Our results suggest that different mechanisms of action are responsible for the effect of BoNT-A in inflammatory and peripheral polyneuropathic rat models.
A 27-yr-old woman recreationally inhaled cocaine. Several hours later, she noted chest tightness, back and neck pain, and later bilateral upper-extremity weakness. Physical examination revealed flaccid paresis of the upper extremities. Spasticity at 2 mos after injury, but no detectable weakness, developed in the lower extremities. Cocaine was detected in her urine. Magnetic resonance imaging showed hyperintensity in the anterior cervicothoracic spinal cord. Electrodiagnostic studies of the upper extremities were consistent with anterior horn cell death. Cocaine abuse is associated with cerebrovascular events; spinal cord effects are rarely reported. The patient seems to have an infarct in the anterior spinal artery distribution, with clinical, imaging, and electrodiagnostic findings of upper-extremity lower-motor neuron injury, accompanied by spasticity of the lower extremities. Gray matter has increased susceptibility to ischemia compared with white matter, producing flaccid weakness in the cervical region with isolated arm weakness. Although uncommon, cocaine abuse can cause spinal cord infarction.
The efficacy and safety of oral cyclosporin 10 mg/kg per day in Behçet's disease were compared in a randomised double-masked study with those of colchicine, 1 mg orally per day, and were also investigated in a long-term open study. The double-masked study showed that cyclosporin was effective in treating not only the ocular manifestations of Behçet's disease but also oral aphthous ulcer, dermal lesions, and genital ulceration. Efficacy did not weaken during long-term treatment.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common age-related neurodegenerative diseases and affects millions of people worldwide. Strong evidence supports the role of free radicals, oxidative stress, mitochondrial, and proteasomal dysfunctions underlying neuronal death in PD. Environmental factors, especially pesticides, represent one of the primary classes of neurotoxic agents associated with PD, and several epidemiological studies have identified the exposure of the herbicide paraquat (PQ) as a potential risk factor for the onset of PD. The objective of our study was to investigate the neuroprotective effects of the standardized extracts of Bacopa monniera (BM) against PQ-induced and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium iodide (MPP(+))-induced toxicities and to elucidate the mechanisms underlying this protection. Our results show that a pretreatment with the BM extract from 50 μg/ml protected the dopaminergic SK-N-SH cell line against MPP(+)- and PQ-induced toxicities in various cell survival assays. We demonstrate that BM pretreatment prevented the depletion of glutathione (GSH) besides preserving the mitochondrial membrane potential and maintaining the mitochondrial complex I activity. BM pretreatment from 10.0 μg/ml also prevented the generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species and decreased the mitochondrial superoxide level. BM treatment activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 pathway by modulating the expression of Keap1, thereby upregulating the endogenous GSH synthesis. The effect of BM on the phosphorylation of Akt further strengthens its role in the promotion of cell survival. By preserving the cellular redox homeostasis and mitochondrial activities and by promoting cell survival pathways, BM extract may have therapeutic uses in various age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as PD.
The toxicity profile of prolonged infusions of paclitaxel in combination with cyclophosphamide in metastatic breast cancer has already been defined. The objective of this dose-finding study was to determine the maximum tolerable doses (MTDs) of shorter (three-hour) infusions of paclitaxel in combination with i.v. bolus cyclophosphamide in patients who had previously received a maximum of one chemotherapy for advanced breast carcinoma. The MTD of the same regimen with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support was then established.
Eighty women with metastatic breast cancer received a total of 352 fully evaluable courses of therapy. The starting doses were paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide 750 mg/m2 given every three weeks. At least three patients were treated at each dose level and if there were dose-limiting toxic effects during the first cycles three additional patients were entered. G-CSF support (5 micrograms/kg s.c.) was added to the second cycle if specific dose-limiting toxicities had occurred during the first cycle. The MTD was defined as the dose level at which more than two of six patients presented dose-limiting toxicities during the first cycle.
Febrile neutropenia (n = 4) and severe thrombocytopenia (n = 1) defined the MTDs of paclitaxel as 200 mg/ m2 and of cyclophosphamide as 2,000 mg/m2 with or without G-CSF in patients with and, respectively, without prior chemotherapy for advanced disease. Non-hematologic toxicity was moderate. Recommended doses were 200 mg/m2 of paclitaxel and 1,750 mg/m2 of cyclophosphamide with or without G-CSF in patients with and, respectively, without prior chemotherapy. The overall response rate was 25% and 50%, respectively, in patients with and without prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. Complete remissions (9%) were reported only in patients without prior chemotherapy; antitumour activity in women with anthracycline-resistant disease, with an 8% response rate (95% CI: 1%-26%), was poor.
Paclitaxel at 200 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide at 1,750 mg/m2 can be safely administered every three weeks to women with advanced breast cancer. The moderate antitumour activity observed with the schedule tested argues against its use as initial therapy for advanced breast cancer.
Hexavalent chromium, CrVI, is a heavy metal endocrine disruptor, known as a mutagen, teratogen, and a group A carcinogen. Environmental contamination with CrVI, including drinking water, has been increasing in more than 30 cities in the United States. CrVI is rapidly converted to CrIII intracellularly, and CrIII can cause DNA strand breaks and cancer or apoptosis through different mechanisms. Our previous study demonstrated that lactational exposure to chromium results in a delay or arrest in follicle development and a decrease in steroid hormone levels in F1 female rats, both of which are mitigated (partial inhibition) by vitamin C. The current study tested the hypothesis that lactational exposure to CrIII accelerates follicle atresia in F1 offspring by increasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decreasing cellular antioxidants. Results showed that lactational exposure to CrIII dose-dependently increased follicular atresia and decreased steroidogenesis in postnatal day 25, 45, and 65 rats. Vitamin C mitigated or inhibited the effects of CrIII at all doses. CrIII increased hydrogen peroxide and lipid hydroperoxide in plasma and ovary; decreased the antioxidant enzymes (AOXs) GPx1, GR, SOD, and catalase; and increased glutathione S-transferase in plasma and ovary. To understand the effects of CrVI on ROS and AOXs in granulosa (GC) and theca (TC) cell compartments in the ovary, ROS levels and mRNA expression of cytosolic and mitochondrial AOXs, such as SOD1, SOD2, catalase, GLRX1, GSTM1, GSTM2, GSTA4, GR, TXN1, TXN2, TXNRD2, and PRDX3, were studied in GCs and TCs and in a spontaneously immortalized granulosa cell line (SIGC). Overall, CrVI downregulated each of the AOXs; and vitamin C mitigated the effects of CrVI on these enzymes in GCs and SIGCs, but failed to mitigate CrVI effects on GSTM1, GSTM2, TXN1, and TXN2 in TCs. Thus, these data for the first time reveal that lactational exposure to CrIII accelerated follicular atresia and decreased steroidogenesis in F1 female offspring by altering the ratio of ROS and AOXs in the ovary. Vitamin C is able to protect the ovary from CrIII-induced oxidative stress and follicle atresia through protective effects on GCs rather than TCs.
TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) functions as a soluble cytokine and has been demonstrated significant antitumor activity against a variety of cancer cell lines without toxicity to most normal cells. Cisplatin is a potent anticancer agent and is widely used in the clinical for treatment of human cancers. Adeno-associated virus (AAV2) is a promising gene delivery vehicle for its advantage of low pathogenicity and long-term gene expression. However, lack of tissue specificity caused low efficiency of AAV transfer to target cells. The promoter of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is a good candidate to enhance targeting efficiency of AAV in cancer cells. Although AAV-mediated TRAIL controlled by hTERT promoter (AAV-hTERT-TRAIL) has obvious antitumor activity, the tumor cannot be completely eradicated. In this study, we first examined the effectiveness of combination therapy of cisplatin and AAV-hTERT-TRAIL on human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vitro and in vivo.
For in vitro experiments, tumor cell lines were treated with cisplatin, virus, or both. The transgene TRAIL expression controlled by hTERT promoter was evaluated in BEL7404 HCC cell line. Cytotoxicity was performed by MTT analysis. Cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry analysis. The in vivo antitumor efficacy of combination treatment with cisplatin and AAV-hTERT-TRAIL was assessed in human hepatocellular carcinoma xenografts mouse model.
The enhanced TRAIL expression was observed in BEL7404 cells treated with AAV-hTERT-TRAIL plus cisplatin. Treatment with both AAV-hTERT-TRAIL and cisplatin exhibited stronger cytotoxicity and induced more significant apoptosis in cancer cells compared with AAV-hTERT-TRAIL or cisplatin alone, respectively. Moreover, in animal experiments, the combined treatment greatly suppressed tumor growth and resulted in tumor cell death.
AAV-mediated therapeutic gene expression in combination with chemotherapy provides a promising therapeutic strategy for human cancers. These data suggest that combined use of AAV-hTERT-TRAIL and cisplatin may have potential clinical application.
This study investigated epigenetic (specifically, DNA methylation) changes and their impact on gene expression in testes induced by maternal exposure to Di-2-(ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in mice. Testicular dysgenesis syndrome was induced in fetuses and pups by maternal exposure to DEHP at 500 mg/kg/d, and testes were excised for analysis on gestation day (GD) 19 and postnatal days (PNDs) 3, 21, 56, and 90. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was performed to analyze DNA methylation status, and expression levels of the DNA methyltransferases were examined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Testis-specific gene, insulin-like hormone 3 (Insl3), and testosterone production were also detected. DEHP significantly increased DNA methylation levels on GD 19 and PND 3 (P < .05 and P < .05) but not on PNDs 21, 56, and 90. DEHP also significantly increased the expression of DNA methyltransferases. For DNA methyltransferase 1, the difference was not significant on PND 21, and DNA methyltransferase 3a and 3b returned to normal levels on PND 56. Fetal testes were a main target for DEHP as evidenced by a reduction in Insl3 expression and testosterone production. Effects of DEHP on Insl3 expression continued until PND 21. The DEHP-induced suppression of testosterone had not recovered on PND 56. Changes in DNA methylation may play an important role in abnormal testicular function caused by environmental factors such as maternal exposure to DEHP, which may be a mechanism of DEHP-mediated testicular toxicity.
A limiting criterion for the eligibility of patients in clinical trials investigating acute stroke therapies is that time between onset of symptoms and arrival in the hospital should fall within the "therapeutic window." The aims of this study were to estimate hospital arrival time in an unselected sample of stroke patients, to assess the association with some clinical and demographic variables, and to evaluate the effects of the delay on the clinical efficiency of an effective treatment.
We evaluated the delay in hospital arrival time in 189 patients (84 men, 105 women; mean age, 76.5 years) prospectively collected in the S Orsola-Malpighi Community Teaching Hospital in Bologna, Italy. Cutoffs of 2 and 5 hours were chosen to allow for hypothetical treatment within 3 and 6 hours, respectively. Exact multiple logistic regression was used to predict the delay as a function of dichotomized age, sex, symptoms on awakening, day of the week, hour of the day, area of residence, level of consciousness, and level of motor power defect. We then projected the effectiveness of tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) on disability as estimated with the aid of the odds ratio from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stroke Trial onto our unselected sample to evaluate clinical efficiency of treatment as a function of arrival time and of hypothetical effects of educational efforts to reduce it.
The mean interval between onset of symptoms and hospital arrival was 680 minutes; 59 patients (31%) arrived within 2 hours and 100 (53%) within 5 hours. Onset of symptoms when awake, drowsiness or coma, and paralysis of at least one limb were the only independent predictors of hospital arrival within 2 and 5 hours in both the total sample and the subgroup of patients who were awake at stroke onset. The effectiveness of 17%, extrapolated with the aid of the odds ratio of 1.6 of having a favorable outcome (Barthel Index > or = 95 at 3 months) in treated versus untreated patients in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial, corresponded to a projected clinical efficiency of 5%. This could be doubled by hypothesizing a 100% effect of educational efforts in reducing the delay in hospital arrival time.
Patients with milder symptoms, for whom treatment might be more effective, were less likely to arrive in time for therapy. The proposed model of the relationship between the delay in hospital presentation after a stroke and the clinical efficiency of a given treatment might be useful for planning future clinical trials on early stroke treatment and predicting the impact of an educational program aimed at shortening arrival time.
We examined cell minicolumns, apical dendrite bundles, and inhibitory interneurons, in prefrontal and somatosensory cortex of 21-day-old rat brains exposed to cocaine during fetal development. Cell columns and apical dendrite bundles were found to be narrower, or closer together, in all three areas following in utero cocaine exposure. The inter-rater reliability among different observers was R(2)=0.89. The number of cells stained for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) was not significantly different in the prenatal cocaine exposed group compared to saline controls. The present data suggests that recreational doses of cocaine administered intravenously in early pregnancy, have the capacity to modify the maturation of the ontogenetic cell column.
In Sweden the atypical neuroleptic drug remoxipride has now been used in routine treatment of psychoses for almost two years. Over 7,000 patients have been treated. During that time both advantages and problems, foreseen and unforeseen, have been encountered. This paper is based on clinical experiences and the discussion is illustrated by five short case-histories. The most important points of the discussion are: As expected, remoxipride seems to produce less extrapyramidal side-effects than traditional neuroleptics. Patients experience less, if any, impairment in cognitive functioning than with traditional neuroleptics. Patients experience less inhibition of feelings and emotions than with traditional neuroleptics, which most often is of great positive value but may also create problems when feelings and emotions get overwhelming and difficult to handle. It is very important that patients get adequate psychological support and attention from the psychiatric team when changing from a traditional neuroleptic drug to remoxipride.
