The effects of intravenous infusions of paroxetine, a novel inhibitor of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) uptake, and of the tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline, on the cardiovascular system have been compared in the conscious rabbit and in the anaesthetised cat. As judged by the dose required to produce changes in ECG waveform (including PR and QTc intervals) and disorders of heart rhythm, paroxetine was less cardiotoxic than amitriptyline in both species. Thus, paroxetine has the advantage over amitriptyline of being less toxic to the cardiovascular system which could constitute a considerable advantage in clinical use particularly as other work has shown it to be more potent than amitriptyline in tests for antidepressant activity.
We describe a patient with chronic renal failure and transitional cell carcinoma, in whom a nephrogenic adenoma of the bladder was diagnosed after a course of intravesical thiotepa treatment.
Methylprednisolone (MP) was evaluated for the treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage in a Sprague-Dawley rat model of cerebral hematoma induced by subcortical injection of collagenase. At 1 and 24 h after the injection, MP was administered intraperitoneally (IP) at a concentration of 10, 35, or 100 mg/kg. Control groups received saline IP at 1 and 24 h after the intracerebral injection of collagenase (positive controls) or saline (negative controls). Motor behaviour 24 h before and 24 h and 48 h after the intracerebral injection was evaluated by means of a neurologic exam and a rotarod treadmill test. The animals were euthanized at 48 h; brain water content was determined in half of the rats, and histopathological studies were done in the other half. Compared with the positive controls, the animals with collagenase-induced hematoma performed significantly better on the neurologic exam after treatment with 100 mg/kg of MP and on the rotarod test after treatment with 35 or 100 mg/kg of MP. The hematoma volume was significantly smaller (P < 0.002) after all doses of MP; however, the smallest volume was seen with 100 mg/kg. There were significantly fewer neutrophils (P < 0.01) within the hematoma in the MP-treated animals (maximum reduction with 100 mg/kg) than in the positive controls, but the numbers of reactive astrocytes did not differ significantly between the treatment groups. The number of necrotic neurons in the penumbra did not differ between the treatment groups; however, there were significantly fewer (P < 0.005) in the cerebral cortex in the group treated with 100 mg/kg of MP compared with the positive controls. These results suggest that high doses of MP administered shortly after occurrence of a cerebral hematoma are beneficial for the treatment of intracerebral hemorrhage.
Numerous studies have tested for associations between common variants of the angiotensin-converting enzyme gene (ACE) and late-onset Alzheimer disease (AD), but results have been inconclusive.
Relevant studies were systematically identified, and data were abstracted according to predefined criteria.
The odds ratio (OR) for AD in individuals with the I allele of the ACE D/I polymorphism compared with those with the DD genotype was 1.27 (95% CI, 1.10 to 1.47; p < 0.001). Heterogeneity between studies was significant (p < 0.001) but not in strata defined by race and age (p > or = 0.10). The risk of AD associated with the I allele appeared to be higher among Asians (OR 2.44; 95% CI, 1.68 to 3.53) when compared with the risk among Caucasians (OR 1.18; 95% CI, 1.02 to 1.37) (p for comparison < 0.001), and in younger cases (mean age 65 to 74 years) (OR 1.54; 95% CI, 1.23 to 1.93) when compared with the risk in older cases (OR 1.13; 95% CI, 0.95 to 1.35) (p for comparison = 0.03).
The I allele of the ACE D/I polymorphism is associated with an increased risk of late-onset AD. Further study of the pathogenetic characteristics of this allele and independent confirmation of the association in larger studies are warranted.
A placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, phase III study was conducted in patients with extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer receiving first-line platinum-containing chemotherapy to determine if increasing or maintaining hemoglobin concentration with darbepoetin alpha could increase patient survival.
Darbepoetin alpha (300 microg) or placebo was administered once per week for 4 weeks then every 3 weeks for up to six cycles of chemotherapy (carboplatin plus etoposide or cisplatin plus etoposide) plus 3 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy. Patients with disease progression were observed until death or until all patients completed their end-of-study visit and 496 deaths had occurred. The two coprimary end points were change in hemoglobin concentration from baseline to the end of the chemotherapy period and overall survival; statistical testing of survival was done if change in hemoglobin was significant at P < .05.
The study enrolled 600 patients. Patients' hemoglobin levels dropped due to the myelosuppressive chemotherapy; however, treatment with darbepoetin alpha maintained hemoglobin levels significantly higher than placebo (P < .001). There was no statistically significant difference in overall survival between the treatment groups (hazard ratio [HR], 0.93; 95% CI, 0.78 to 1.11; P = .431). As expected, darbepoetin alpha was associated with a higher incidence of thromboembolic events (darbepoetin alpha, 9%; placebo, 5%). The transfusion risk was lower in the darbepoetin versus placebo group (HR, 0.40; 95% CI, 0.29 to 0.55).
The results of this study did not demonstrate improved survival after treatment with darbepoetin alpha; however, they reinforce the benefit of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents in reducing transfusions and their neutral impact on survival in patients with chemotherapy-induced anemia.
To evaluate the association of different indices of traffic-related air pollution (self-report of traffic intensity, distance from busy roads from geographical information system (GIS), area-based emissions of particulate matter (PM), and estimated concentrations of nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)) from a land-use regression model) with respiratory health in adults.
A sample of 9488 25-59-year-old Rome residents completed a self-administered questionnaire on respiratory health and various risk factors, including education, occupation, housing conditions, smoking, and traffic intensity in their area of residence. The study used GIS to calculate the distance between their home address and the closest high-traffic road. For each subject, PM emissions in the area of residence as well as estimated NO2 concentrations as assessed by a land-use regression model (R(2) value = 0.69), were available. Generalised estimating equations (GEE) were used to analyse the association between air pollution measures and prevalence of "ever" chronic bronchitis, asthma, and rhinitis taking into account the effects of age, gender, education, smoking habits, socioeconomic position, and the correlation of variables for members of the same family.
Three hundred and ninety seven subjects (4% of the study population) reported chronic bronchitis, 472 (5%) asthma, and 1227 (13%) rhinitis. Fifteen per cent of subjects reported living in high traffic areas, 11% lived within 50 m of a high traffic road, and 28% in areas with estimated NO2 greater than 50 microg/m(3). Prevalence of asthma was associated only with self-reported traffic intensity whereas no association was found for the other more objective indices. Rhinitis, on the other hand, was strongly associated with all traffic-related indicators (eg, OR = 1.13, 95% CI: 1.04 to 1.22 for 10 microg/m(3) NO2, especially among non-smokers.
Indices of exposure to traffic-related air pollution are consistently associated with an increased risk of rhinitis in adults, especially among non-smokers. The results for asthma are weak, possibly due to ascertainment problems.
Forty-four novel tricycles containing nonenolizable cyano enones (TCEs) were designed and synthesized on the basis of a semisynthetic pentacyclic triterpenoid, bardoxolone methyl, which is currently being developed in phase II clinical trials for the treatment of severe chronic kidney disease in diabetic patients. Most of the TCEs having two different kinds of nonenolizable cyano enones in rings A and C are highly potent suppressors of induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase stimulated with interferon-γ and are highly potent inducers of the cytoprotective enzymes heme oxygenase-1 and NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase-1. Among these compounds, (±)-(4bS,8aR,10aS)-10a-ethynyl-4b,8,8-trimethyl-3,7-dioxo-3,4b,7,8,8a,9,10,10a-octahydrophenanthrene-2,6-dicarbonitrile ((±)-31) is the most potent in these bioassays in our pool of drug candidates including semisynthetic triterpenoids and synthetic tricycles. These facts strongly suggest that an essential factor for potency is not a triterpenoid skeleton but the cyano enone functionality. Notably, TCE 31 reduces hepatic tumorigenesis induced with aflatoxin in rats. Further preclinical studies and detailed mechanism studies on 31 are in progress.
Doxorubicin is an effective antineoplastic agent, but it frequently causes dose-related cardiotoxic effects. Because the atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) level is elevated in children with heart defects, the authors measured the ANP levels in children to determine whether ANP might serve as a simple diagnostic indicator of cardiotoxic effects. Sixteen patients, 5 to 19 years of age, who were being treated with doxorubicin (45 mg/m2 body surface area) for various malignancies had ANP levels measured in plasma. There was a group of six children, with a significant peak of plasma ANP (pANP) levels 3 weeks after the administration of the drug. Of these six patients, five had received high cumulative doses of doxorubicin (160 to 370 mg/m2), and two of them went into congestive heart failure without a previous decline in left ventricular ejection fraction, a standard technique for monitoring cardiac function during treatment with doxorubicin. The other ten patients had normal ANP levels throughout the study, and signs of cardiac dysfunction did not develop. None of the patients in the control group who had cancer and were not treated with doxorubicin and none of the healthy volunteers had elevated ANP levels. These preliminary results suggest that pANP may be useful as an early and sensitive indicator for doxorubicin-related myocardial damage.
The dopaminergic agonist bromocriptine in doses of 2.5-40 mg was compared with placebo in a double-blind cross-over study (12 + 12 weeks) in 11 Parkinson patients in whom bothering dyskinesia occurring after prolonged levodopa treatment limited in the levodopa dose to a level, where Parkinson symptoms still were present to an unsatisfactory degree. On the basis of changes in rating scales and the patients' preference, bromocriptine was significantly superior to placebo. Dyskinesia, occurring during bromocriptine treatment in 9 of 11 patients, disappeared within the period of study in 6 patients after dose reduction without changes in Parkinson disability scores to placebo level. Bromocriptine seem to be of value in cases where the balance between minimal dyskinesia and Parkinson symptoms is impossible to obtain with levodopa treatment alone.
Allergic rhinitis affects approximately 40% of children and generally presents in children from 10-19 years of age; however, the condition has been seen in children as young as 6 months. Antihistamines are commonly prescribed in infants and children for the relief of allergic symptoms. A 23-month-old male with a history of chronic otitis media was prescribed cetirizine 2.5 mg daily at bedtime for maintenance of his chronic rhinitis symptoms. Several days into therapy, the child began experiencing frequent and progressive nighttime periods of awakening. Once treatment was discontinued, the child resumed his normal sleeping patterns.
To investigate the efficacy and safety of clozapine in the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) in patients with severe Parkinson disease (PD).
Fifty patients were randomized to treatment in this 10-week, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial. The principal measure of outcome was the diurnal change in the "on" time with LID assessed using a self-evaluation of the motor performance fluctuations performed every 2 weeks. An acute levodopa challenge was also performed at the beginning and end of the study.
A reduction in the duration of "on" periods with LID was noted in favor of the clozapine group at the end of the study (placebo group day 0: 4.54 +/- 0.53 hours, end: 5.28 +/- 0.70 hours; clozapine group day 0: 5.68 +/- 0.66 hours, end: 3.98 +/- 0.57 hours; p = 0.003). The mean clozapine dosage was 39.4 +/- 4.5 (SEM) mg/day. The maximal LID score at rest during the levodopa challenge was significantly decreased under clozapine treatment, with a variation from day 0 to day 70 in the placebo group of +0.15 +/- 1.01 and in the clozapine group of -2.22 +/- 0.52 (p < 0.05). Five patients receiving clozapine and seven receiving placebo discontinued on account of adverse events. Among them, three patients in the clozapine group developed eosinophilia, which rapidly resolved after withdrawal of the drug.
Clozapine is effective in the treatment of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in severe PD.
To shed more light on the immunopathogenesis of drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis, a combined histologic, immunopathologic, and ultrastructural study of renal biopsy specimens from nine patients with drug-induced renal disease was performed. None of the patients had pre-existing renal disease or evidence of sarcoidosis or tuberculosis. The principal drugs included a hydrochlorothiazide-triamterene combination (Dyazide), hydrochlorothiazide, fenoprofen, and furosemide and triamterene. Renal insufficiency developed approximately four to ten weeks after initiation of drug therapy. In all cases, withdrawal of the drug(s) with or without steroid therapy resulted in restoration of normal or near-normal renal function. Histologically, all biopsy specimens showed acute interstitial nephritis characterized by an intense but patchy mononuclear cell interstitial infiltrate consisting of lymphocytes, monocytes, and plasma cells, modest numbers of eosinophils, patchy tubular atrophy, interstitial edema, and normal glomeruli. All biopsy specimens contained interstitial (and, in two cases, perivascular) non-caseating granulomas, which were numerous in one case, moderate in four cases, and rare in the remainder. Direct immunofluorescence was negative for IgG, IgM, IgA, C1q, C4, and C3 along glomerular and tubular basement membranes. Immunoperoxidase staining for lysozyme (performed in three cases) demonstrated many positive cells in the infiltrate. In two cases in which granulomas were present in prepared sections, the epithelioid and multinucleated giant cells did not stain for lysozyme. Electron microscopy of the granulomas in two cases revealed that the epithelioid and giant cells had "secretory" features characteristic of hypersensitivity granulomas. These findings provide further evidence for the participation of cell-mediated immunity in the pathogenesis of at least some cases of drug-induced acute interstitial nephritis.
Metastatic melanoma shows different local response rates in organs to systemic or local treatment modalities. Whereas skin, soft tissue, lymph node and lung metastases seem to have better local response rates, the local response of metastases localized in the liver, brain and bone seems to be low.
The organ-specific response rate, local response rate of each therapeutic measure and survival of 68 patients with stage IV disease were evaluated.
Four hundred and ten treatment periods (1-18 per patient) in 17 different organs of 43 men and 25 women (mean age 55 years, range 19-79) with measurable, widespread, surgically incurable disease were analysed. Chemotherapy was given in 405 of 410 treatment periods with dacarbazine, fotemustine, vindesine, carboplatin and temozolomide in different schedules. Local treatment modalities comprising radiotherapy, gamma knife radiosurgery and local hyperthermia were given in 71 of 410 treatment periods.
Local response (complete or partial local remission) was achieved in 52 treatment periods (12.7%). When local treatment modalities, either combined with systemic therapy or not, were compared with systemic therapeutic modalities alone, a local response of 24% was achieved with local measures, compared with 10% in systemic treatment only (P = 0.003). When a spontaneous remission rate of less than 5% is considered, however, local as well as systemic treatments had a significant effect (P < 0.001). Organ-specific response rates to local therapies showed no statistically significant differences between the various organs involved. When systemic treatments without local measures were taken into account, lung metastases, cutaneous/subcutaneous metastases and adrenal metastases performed significantly better than liver metastases. When different treatment modalities were considered, there was no significant difference between the three local measures applied (radiotherapy, gamma knife radiosurgery and hyperthermia). Among the systemic therapies, dacarbazine high dose and carboplatin monochemotherapy were superior to combined regimens using fotemustine. A local response, irrespective of the mode of therapy, was significantly associated with longer survival (median 16 months) compared with no local response or local progressive disease (median 7 months; P < 0.0001). When the first treatment period of each patient was considered, local response was no longer a significant predictor.
The study shows that local therapeutic measures are superior in inducing a local response than systemic therapies alone. Induction of remission may be associated with longer survival. Chemotherapy, despite limited local response rates, is still statistically superior to an estimated spontaneous remission rate.
Metabolic activation of pesticides in the liver may result in highly reactive intermediates capable of impairing various cellular functions. Nevertheless, the knowledge about the effect of pesticide exposure on liver function is still limited. This study assessed whether exposure to pesticides elicits early biochemical changes in biomarkers of liver function and looked for potential gene-environmental interactions between pesticide exposure and polymorphisms of pesticide-metabolizing genes. A longitudinal study was conducted in farm-workers from Andalusia (South Spain), during two periods of the same crop season with different degree of pesticide exposure. Blood samples were taken for the measurement of serum and erythrocyte cholinesterase activities as well as for determining clinical chemistry parameters as biomarkers of liver function. Serum lipid levels were also measured as they may help to monitor the progress of toxic liver damage. A reduction in serum cholinesterase was associated with decreased levels of all clinical chemistry parameters studied except HDL-cholesterol. Conversely, a decreased erythrocyte cholinesterase (indicating long-term pesticide exposure) was associated with increased levels of aspartate aminotransferase and alkaline phosphatase and increased levels of triglycerides, total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol, but reduced levels of HDL-cholesterol. Changes in liver biomarkers were particularly associated with the PON155M/192R haplotype. The obtained results therefore support the hypothesis that pesticide exposure results in subtle biochemical liver toxicity and highlight the role of genetic polymorphisms in pesticide-metabolizing enzymes as biomarkers of susceptibility for developing adverse health effects.
The present study was designed to investigate the effect of montelukast sodium, a leukotriene D(4) receptor antagonist, and 1,2,3,4,tetrahydroisoquinoline, a leukotriene D(4) synthetic pathway inhibitor, on the development of morphine dependence in a mouse model of naloxone-induced opioid withdrawal syndrome. Morphine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered twice daily for a period of 5 days following which a single injection of naloxone (8 mg/kg, i.p.) precipitated the opioid withdrawal syndrome in mice. Behavioral observations were made for a period of 30 min immediately after naloxone treatment. The withdrawal syndrome was quantitatively assessed in terms of withdrawal severity score and the frequency of jumping, rearing, fore paw licking and circling. Montelukast sodium as well as 1,2,3,4,tetrahydroisoquinoline, markedly and dose dependently (p<0.01) attenuated the morphine-naloxone-induced opioid withdrawal syndrome in mice. However, administration of montelukast sodium or 1,2,3,4,tetrahydroisoquinoline did not alter the activity of the central nervous system, assessed in terms of locomotor activity count thus ruling out any per se sedative action of montelukast sodium. Further, pretreatment with montelukast sodium or 1,2,3,4,tetrahydroisoquinoline did not alter the acute analgesic effect of morphine. Thus, leukotriene D(4) may be involved in the development of opioid dependence and the precipitation of its withdrawal syndrome and thus may serve as a viable pharmacological target to tackle the problem of opioid addiction.
In order to reduce the ulcerogenic effect of ibuprofen, its carboxylic group has been converted into 5-membered heterocyclic rings. Various 1,3,4-oxadiazoles (3-8, 16-21), 1,2,4-triazoles (22-27), 1,3,4-thiadiazoles (28-30), and 1,2,4-triazine (9) derivatives of ibuprofen were prepared by cyclization of 2-(4-i-butylphenyl) propionic acid hydrazide (2) and N1-[2-(4-i-butylphenyl)-propionyl]-N4-alkyl/aryl-thiosemicarbazides (10-15) under various reaction conditions. The cyclized derivatives were screened for their anti-inflammatory activity by the carrageenan induced rat paw edema method and showed 50 to 86% inhibition, whereas the standard drug ibuprofen showed 92% inhibition at the same oral dose. Five compounds, 7, 16, 18, 22 and 30 that showed more than 80% anti-inflammatory activity were selected to study their analgesic, ulcerogenic and lipid peroxidation activities. All the tested compounds showed a significant reduction in ulcerogenic activity compared to ibuprofen through the severity index 0.5 to 0.8, vs. ibuprofen 1.8. The compounds, that showed less ulcerogenic effect also produced less malondialdehyde content in gastric mucosa, which is one of the end products of lipid peroxidation. The results of biological studies showed that oxadiazole derivative 16 as the lead molecule with maximum anti-inflammatory, analgesic and minimum ulcerogenic and lipid peroxidation activities.
Chronic exposure of F344 rats to diethylstilbestrol (DES) induces pituitary tumors (DES-T) composed of proliferating lactotrophs. Presently, we studied the effect of progestins on parameters related to tumor growth and function, due to previous evidences of progesterone antagonism of pituitary tumorigenesis acting at pituitary and hypothalamic levels [Piroli, G., Grillo, C., Ferrini, M., Lux-Lantos, V. and De Nicola, A. F., Antagonism by progesterone of diethylstilbestrol-induced pituitary tumorigenesis in Fischer 344 rats: Effects on sex steroid receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA, Neuroendocrinology, 1996, 63, 530-539]. In search of a quantitatively more important effect, animals bearing DES-T were treated with synthetic progestins. Competition assays using DES-T as source of progestin receptors indicated that levonorgestrel (LNG), gestodene and R5020 showed higher affinities (IC50 1-2 nM) than progesterone, norethisterone and medroxyprogesterone (IC50 10-25 nM). Treatment with LNG reduced DES-T weight by 45%, and serum PRL by one half. Small (monomeric) and big (polymeric) PRL increased 5- and 2.5-fold, respectively, in DES-T in comparison with pituitaries of ovariectomized (OVX) rats. However, LNG produced no changes indicating that synthesis and storage of PRL was conserved in rats receiving both hormonal treatments. DES induced a 15-fold increase in cell proliferation, measured as bromodeoxyuridine incorporation into cell nuclei, in comparison to OVX rats, while LNG treatment of DES-T bearing rats reduced this index by 72%. Electron microscopic images showed that LNG markedly reduced hypertrophy and hyperplasia of lactotropes, increasing the proportions of degenerating cells and cells of high electronic density with alterations of cytoplasmic organelles. However, histopathological signs of apoptosis were absent. Therefore, reduced cell proliferation and non-apoptotic cell death are part of the mechanisms employed by progestins to antagonize tumorigenesis at the pituitary level. The results may open a new therapeutic strategy for treatment of PRL secreting adenoma in humans.
The acute hemodynamic response to intravenous dobutamine administration was compared with intravenous MDL 17,043 administration in 8 patients with severe, chronic congestive heart failure. Simultaneous radionuclide angiography was performed with gated equilibrium blood pool imaging to derive left ventricular volumes and ejection fraction during serial hemodynamic measurements. Six patients had an optimal dobutamine dose of 10 micrograms/kg/min; 2 others were compared at a dose of 7.5 micrograms/kg/min; comparisons with MDL 17,043 were after a 1.5-mg/kg bolus dose in all 8 patients. Dobutamine and MDL 17,043 caused significant and similar increases in cardiac index and stroke volume index. Dobutamine significantly increased heart rate and MDL 17,043 did not. MDL 17,043 significantly decreased pulmonary artery wedge, mean pulmonary artery and right atrial pressures; dobutamine did not. Dobutamine increased end-diastolic volume in 4 patients, with little concomitant decrease in wedge pressure; MDL 17,043 caused no change or a decrease in left ventricular end-diastolic volume in 5 patients, but consistently decreased wedge pressure in all. Thus, the left ventricular pressure-volume curve was displaced downward to a more favorable position after MDL 17,043 but not after dobutamine. In patients with chronic congestive heart failure, acute myocardial performance was more optimally influenced by MDL 17,043 than dobutamine administration.
We investigated the effects of a novel Na(+)/H(+) exchanger-1 (NHE-1) inhibitor KR-33028 on glutamate excitotoxicity in cultured neuron cells in vitro and cerebral infarct in vivo by comparing its potency with that of zoniporide, a well-known, highly potent NHE-1 inhibitor. KR-33028 inhibited NHE-1 activation in a concentration-dependent manner (IC(50)=2.2 nM), with 18-fold greater potency than that of zoniporide (IC(50)=40.7 nM). KR-33028 significantly attenuated glutamate-induced LDH release with approximately 100 times lower EC(25) than that of zoniporide in cortical neurons in vitro (EC(25) of 0.007 and 0.81 microM, respectively), suggesting its 100-fold greater potency than zoniporide in producing anti-necrotic effect. In addition, the EC(50) of KR-33028 for anti-apoptotic effect was 100 times lower than that of zoniporide shown by TUNEL positivity (0.005 and 0.62 microM, respectively) and caspase-3 activity (0.01 and 2.64 microM, respectively). Furthermore, the EC(50) value of KR-33028 against glutamate-induced intracellular Ca(2+) overload was also 100 times lower than that of zoniporide (EC(50) of 0.004 and 0.65 microM, respectively). In the in vivo cerebral infarct model (60 min middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 24 h reperfusion), KR-33028 reduced infarct size in a dose-dependent manner. Its ED(25) value, however, was quite similar to that of zoniporide (ED(25) of 0.072 and 0.097 mg/kg, respectively). Hence these results suggest that the novel NHE-1 inhibitor, KR-33028, could be an efficient therapeutic tool to protect neuronal cells against ischemic injury.
The current study was designed to determine the effects of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the development of acid aspiration-induced lung injury in rats. Hydrochloric acid (HCl, 0.1 N; 2 ml/kg) or normal saline (NS, 2 ml/kg) was instilled into the lung of anesthetized, ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats. NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, 20 mg kg(-1)) and a selective inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibitor, ONO-1714 (0.1 and 0.3 mg kg(-1)), were used to block NOS. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and wet and dry measurements of lung (W/D) were obtained 5h after HCl or NS instillation. Unlike the control group, rats instilled with HCl showed significant increases in total nuclear cell counts (NCC), neutrophil counts, concentrations of albumin, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukine-6 (IL-6) and nitrites/nitrates (NO(x)) in BALF. These parameters were associated with the significantly increased W/D in the HCl group compared with the NS group. ONO-1714 (0.1 mg kg(-1)) significantly prevented the increases in all these parameters. Its inhibitory effects were superior to those of L-NMMA and 0.3 mg kg(-1) of ONO-1714. NOS plays an important role in the pathogenesis of acid aspiration-induced lung injury. Furthermore, selective iNOS inhibition at the optimal dose was most effective in improving lung injury induced by acid aspiration in rats.
The involvement of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 9 in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity was evaluated. Injection of mice with stimulant or toxic doses of methamphetamine upregulated MMP9 gene expression in the brain within 5 min. By 24 h, MMP9 gene expression returned to control levels in the stimulant-treated mice, but remained elevated in animals exposed to toxic doses of methamphetamine. Reductions in striatal dopamine levels, a marker of methamphetamine neurotoxicity, developed 1-7 days after methamphetamine exposure, but were not accompanied by concomitant changes in MMP9 gene expression. In MMP9 knockout mice, methamphetamine retained its ability to elicit neurotoxicity. The data suggest that MMP9 expression does not contribute to methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, and may instead be involved in remodeling of the nervous system.
The previous study showed that chronic treatment with Withania somnifera extract (WS) inhibited haloperidol-induced catalepsy. It is suggested that caffeine and WS may be useful adjuvants in pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease. There are no studies on the effect of haloperidol on mice withdrawn from caffeine or W. somnifera. We therefore studied the effect of a single administration of standardised WS containing 5.1% total withanolides (WS, 30 or 100 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and/or caffeine (3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and withdrawal from 6 days treatment with WS and/or caffeine, on haloperidol-induced catalepsy in albino mice. Single administration of both WS and caffeine, used either alone or in combination, significantly inhibited catalepsy. Mice withdrawn from caffeine significantly inhibited haloperidol-induced catalepsy, but mice withdrawn from WS showed increased catalepsy. The study indicated that withdrawal from WS does not retain anticataleptic activity, and caffeine but not WS may be a good adjuvant in pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease.
Commonly used organophosphate pesticide dichlorvos is known to cause neurologic lesions. However, the exact mechanism of its neurotoxicity is, as yet, unclear. Using dose-dependent inhibition of acetylcholinesterase activity as an index of its neurotoxicity, effects of three different doses of dichlorvos (0.6 mg, 1.5 mg, and 3.0 mg/kg body weight i.p. daily for 10 days) have been observed on the rate of lipid-peroxidation in the cerebrum, cerebellum and brain stem of albino rats. Simultaneously, electron microscopic study of the dichlorvos intoxicated rat cerebellum was also carried out. Dose-dependent increase in the rate of lipid peroxidation was found in all the brain regions, and increased incidence of lipofuscin-like pigment granules was discernible in the Purkinie cells of the cerebellar cortex.
Clinicians now have five oral antifungal therapeutic agents to choose from when assessing the risk-benefits associated with a particular treatment for onychomycosis (OM): griseofulvin, itraconazole, terbinafine, ketoconazole, and fluconazole. Only the first three are approved by the FDA for this indication. Griseofulvin is fungistatic and inhibits nucleic acid synthesis, arresting cell division at metaphase, and impairing fungal wall synthesis. Due to its low cure rates and high relapse, it is rarely used for treatment of onychomycosis. Itraconazole is a broad spectrum drug and is effective against dermatophytes, candida, and some nondermatophytic molds. Itraconazole works by inhibiting ergosterol synthesis via cytochrome P-450 (CYP450)-dependent demethylation step. This azole antifungal agent is metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P-450 3A4 (CYP3A4), and therefore has the potential to interact with drugs metabolized through this pathway. Terbinafine, an allylamine, is fungicidal and remains at therapeutic levels in keratinized tissues, but with a short plasma half-life of 36 hours. Terbinafine has the advantage in that it does not inhibit CYP3A4 isoenzyme during its metabolism where some 50% of all commonly prescribed drugs are metabolized. The only potentially significant drug interaction with terbinafine is with the cytochrome P-450 2D6 (CYP2D6) isoenzyme. The lack of widely reported or published clinically relevant drug interactions, and extensive experience from a large prospective, surveillance study conducted in "real world" setting with no patient exclusions, suggest that this is not a major issue. The high cure rates of terbinafine against dermatophytes, as shown in many studies since its launch in the 1990s, together with lack of clinically significant drug interactions and well established safety record, indicate the use of continuous oral terbinafine as the top choice for the treatment of onychomycosis in most patients.
The effects of REM sleep deprivation (REMD) on apomorphine-induced aggressiveness and quipazine-induced head twitches in rats were determined. Forty-eight hr of REMD increased apomorphine-induced aggressiveness, and reduced (immediately after completing of REMD) or increased (96 hr after completing of REMD) quipazine-induced head twitches. Results are discussed in terms of similarity to pharmacological effects of other antidepressive treatments.
A new glucoee polymer, icodextrin, related to maltose, is in increasing use as a peritoneal dialysis fluid. We report on adverse events seen in our unit during a 12-month period after the introduction of this reagent.
Treatment-related leukoencephalopathy is the leading toxicity after successful treatment of primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL). Its mechanism is poorly understood and there are no autopsy data available on such patients.
From a database of immunocompetent patients with PCNSL diagnosed between 1985 and 2001, the authors identified five autopsied patients who died of leukoencephalopathy. The authors reviewed their clinical records, MRI, and autopsy findings.
The median age was 74 years (range 41 to 79) at PCNSL diagnosis. Symptoms of neurotoxicity developed a median of 1 month after treatment completion, and median survival was 30 months (range 22 to 68 months) after neurotoxicity onset. All had white matter hyperintensity on T2-weighted MRI, and two developed enhancing lesions 5 and 14 months following completion of treatment. At autopsy no PCNSL was identified. Myelin and axonal loss, gliosis, pallor, spongiosis, and rarefaction of the white matter were found in all; two patients had tissue necrosis that correlated with the enhancement on MRI, and one had fibrinoid necrosis of vessels. Four of the five patients had atherosclerosis of large cerebral vessels in the circle of Willis and all had small vessel disease; two had recent strokes at autopsy.
Treatment-induced leukoencephalopathy is not a late delayed consequence of neurotoxic treatment but can be seen very early in some patients. Vascular disease may be a component of this white matter injury.
