Although ample evidence point to the central involvement of protease activated receptor-1 (PAR1) in tumor progression, little is known about the fate of the tumor when hPar1 is being silenced. We observed that hPar1 antisense clones exhibit low PAR1 levels, attenuated cell proliferation and invasion in vitro, and tumor formation in vivo. These clones showed noticeably reduced paxillin phosphorylation compared with the parental A375SM cells, whereas no change in the integrin levels was noticed. Antisense clones injected into the mice resulted in very few and only occasional small tumors, whereas advanced and vascularized tumors were observed in A375SM cells. The antisense-derived tumor sections expressed active caspase-3, increased terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated nick-end labeling staining, and a markedly reduced proliferating cell nuclear antigen level compared with A375SM cell-derived tissue sections. Likewise, ablation of the hPar1 gene in a tetracycline-inducible hPar1 system leads to apoptosis in immature blood vessels, whereas mature vessels were unaffected. The activation of PAR1-induced pAkt/protein kinase B abrogated serum-deprived Bim(EL) induction and also markedly inhibited Bax levels. On the other hand, small interfering RNA silencing of the hPar1 gene induced the expression of Bim(EL), a direct substrate of Akt/protein kinase B and also induced expression of active caspase-9 and caspase-3. These results altogether identify PAR1 as a survival factor that protects cells from undergoing apoptosis. We conclude that whereas PAR1 gene expression correlates with tumor progression, its neutralization effectively initiates an apoptotic pathway leading at least in part to significantly reduced tumor formation.
Genetic polymorphisms in the base excision DNA repair pathway may influence individual susceptibility to arsenic and the development of arsenic-induced skin lesions. Data from a case-control study of 792 cases and 792 matched controls conducted in Bangladesh from 2001 to 2003 were analyzed using conditional logistic regression to assess the associations between four common base excision repair (BER) genetic polymorphisms X-ray repair cross-complementing group 1 (XRCC1) Arg399Gln, XRCC1 Arg194Trp, human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (hOGG1) Ser326Cys and apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease (APE1) Asp148Glu and arsenic-induced skin lesions including melanosis and keratosis. Adjusted for toenail arsenic, body mass index, education, smoking and betel nut use, individuals with the APE1 148Glu/Glu polymorphism had a 2-fold increased odds of skin lesions compared with individuals with the 148Asp/Asp genotype (1.93; 95% confidence interval 1.15, 3.19). Gene-environment interactions between toenail arsenic and XRCC1 Arg194Trp and APE1 Asp148Glu were observed. Within the lowest arsenic tertile, APE1 148Glu/Glu had 2.5 times the odds ratio compared with wild-type, whereas within the highest tertile of arsenic the odds ratios for skin lesions did not differ. In contrast, at low arsenic levels, the odds ratios for skin lesions did not differ much by XRCC1 Arg194Trp genotype. However, at the highest tertile of arsenic, the XRCC1 194Arg/Arg polymorphism conferred a 3-fold larger odds ratio for skin lesions compared with XRCC1 194Trp/Trp. Individuals may have different odds for developing skin lesions based in part on their genetic profile for BER and their arsenic exposure history. Future research on arsenic-induced skin lesions should consider the impact of genetic variation to individual susceptibility to arsenic toxicity.
We report on a patient with schizoaffective disorder who developed unilateral akathisia. This is the first case report of a patient with neuroleptic-induced unilateral akathisia on whom an all-night polysomnogram was recorded. On the polysomnogram we observed right side periodic limb movements (PLM) with left side unilateral akathisia, and after her akathisia disappeared, the PLM also disappeared. Brain MRI findings and neurological findings were within normal limits. The pathogenetic lesion causing akathisia could not be elucidated.
A 19-year-old man with common acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) developed necrotizing leukoencephalopathy (NL) after extensive chemotherapy and irradiation. Clinicians should exercise care in the treatment of leukemia, since chemotherapy has shown a trend of becoming more intensive, and the survival time of patients with leukemia is being extended.
Possible associations between particular human leucocyte antigen molecules and immunoallergic hepatitis have been suggested previously (HLA-A11 in halothane hepatitis, HLA-DR6 and DR2 in nitrofurantoin hepatitis, HLA-B8 in clometacin hepatitis). In this study the HLA haplotype was determined in 71 patients with idiosyncratic hepatitis due to different drugs. The prevalence of HLA-A11 was twice as high in the 71 patients in the study (23%) as in controls (12%), but p-values were not significant when corrections were made for the large number of comparisons (n = 39). The prevalences of HLA-DR2, DR6, and B8 were similar in the 71 patients and in controls. When hepatitis due to particular drugs was considered, HLA-A11 was found to be present in six of 12 patients (50%) with hepatitis caused by tricyclic antidepressants, and three of four patients (75%) with diclofenac hepatitis, compared to 12% in controls. HLA-DR6 was present in four of five patients (80%) with chlorpromazine hepatitis, compared to 22% in controls. In conclusion, the HLA phenotype does not contribute significantly to idiosyncratic drug-induced hepatitis considered collectively. Possible associations between some HLA molecules and the hepatotoxicity of certain drugs require further confirmation.
Quinine-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS) is thought to be uncommon and to have a good prognosis.
To describe the frequency, clinical features, and long-term outcomes of quinine-associated TTP-HUS.
Case series.
Hospitals in central-western Oklahoma.
225 consecutive patients with TTP-HUS, 1989-2000.
Presenting features and clinical outcomes.
Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome was associated with quinine in 17 patients. Four patients died, and 7 survivors currently have chronic renal failure. Since 1 July 1995, 132 patients with clinically suspected TTP-HUS were explicitly asked about drug exposure. Fourteen (11%) had taken quinine, and 7 had taken other drugs associated with TTP-HUS. Neurologic abnormalities were as severe in patients with quinine-associated TTP-HUS as in the 118 patients who had not taken quinine.
Quinine is a common cause of drug-associated TTP-HUS and can cause death and chronic renal failure. When the disorder is described as TTP-HUS rather than only as HUS, the severity of neurologic abnormalities and the occasional absence of renal failure are emphasized. If recurrent disease is to be prevented, clinicians must recognize quinine as a possible cause.
Two cases of severe acute hepatitis in patients taking flutamide for metastatic prostatic carcinoma are reported. Jaundice and marked increase in aminotransferases occurred after 6-8 weeks of treatment. Continuation of flutamide administration was associated with the development of hepatic encephalopathy and a marked prolongation of prothrombin time. One of the patients died of acute liver failure and the other survived after prolonged hospitalization. Rechallenge was not performed because of the severity of the clinical picture. Liver histology showed extensive hepatic necrosis. These two cases strongly suggest that flutamide, in addition to its cholestatic side effects, can induce acute hepatitis potentially with a fulminant and lethal course. Journal of Hepatology.
Vitamin E, best known as a potent antioxidant, has been shown to have other functions that are not mediated by this activity. Recent reports have suggested that vitamin E may inhibit smooth muscle cell and also cancer cell growth. We have studied the effect of dl-alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) on a series of well-established cancer cell lines that included two erythroleukemia cell lines and a hormone-responsive breast and prostate cancer cell line. Cell proliferation was examined in these cell lines, which were maintained at optimal growth conditions. A dose-dependent inhibition of cell growth was found in all cell lines examined, with the MCF-7 breast and CRL-1740 prostate cancer cell lines showing potent suppression of growth at 0.1 mM vitamin E, whereas the erythroleukemia cell lines, HEL and OCIM-1, responded only at > 0.25 mM vitamin E with inhibition of proliferation. Studies of [3H]thymidine incorporation showed that vitamin E supplementation reduced DNA synthesis in all cell lines. Analysis of high-molecular-weight DNA revealed extensive fragmentation, indicating apoptosis of all cell lines supplemented with vitamin E. Our studies thus give evidence of a general inhibition of cell proliferation by dl-alpha-tocopherol, with breast and prostate cancer cells distinctly more sensitive than erythroleukemia cells.
We report a rare case of severe hyponatremia with coma induced by the use of oxcarbazepine after one month of treatment, in pos-operatory of neurosurgery. We discuss the importance of this condition and its differential diagnosis.
This case study describes a woman who developed a predominantly hepatocellular injury, approximately 3 months after starting treatment with 100 mg benzbromarone daily. She had also taken 250 mg methyldopa daily for several years. Infections with hepatitis A and B were excluded serologically, no autoantibodies were demonstrated, and ultrasonography and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography did not show extrahepatic obstruction. The patient recovered after discontinuation of both drugs. Two years later, readministration of benzbromarone was followed by a relapse. Later, methyldopa was used without problems. We conclude that hepatic injury in this patient was caused by benzbromarone.
The prevention of osteoporotic fractures in post-menopausal women must be viewed in the framework of the treatment of menopause. SERMs ("Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators") derivative from steroid hormones have estrogenic and antiestrogenic properties according to the substance and the target tissue. Raloxifene is a second generation SERM. It increases bone mass by 1 to 3% according to the measured site and, after 3 years of therapy at the dose of 60 mg per day, it reduces the incidence of vertebral fractures by 30 to 50% if patients have or do not have vertebral fractures before therapy. This drug is approved for the prevention of vertebral fractures in post-menopausal women at increased risk of fractures. A significant reduction in the incidence of hip fractures has not been demonstrated. Raloxifene exerts favorable effects on cardiovascular risk factors but one has to wait for the results of controlled prospective trials before concluding that raloxifene reduces the risk of atherogeniec disease. Preliminary results indicate a substantial reduction of the risk of invasive breast cancer, still to be confirmed. The incidence of vaginal bleeding does not differ from placebo as raloxifene does not stimulate endometrial proliferation. The most serious adverse event, although infrequent, consists in an increase of the relative risk of thromboembolic disease by 3.1 as compared to placebo. Longer term studies are necessary to compare raloxifene with the estrogen replacement therapy and to determine the extra-bone effects.
The present study was designed to investigate the interaction between neuroendocrine mediators and the immune system in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). We examined the sensitivity of the immune system to the glucocorticoid agonist dexamethasone and the beta2-adrenergic agonist terbutaline in 15 adolescent girls with CFS and 14 age- and sex-matched controls. Dexamethasone inhibits T-cell proliferation in healthy controls and in CFS patients. However, the maximal effect of dexamethasone on T-cell proliferation is significantly reduced in CFS patients as compared with controls. The beta2-adrenergic receptor agonist terbutaline inhibits tumor necrosis factor-alpha production and enhances interleukin-10 production by monocytes. Our data demonstrate that the capacity of a beta2-adrenergic agonist to regulate the production of these two cytokines is also reduced in CFS patients. We did not observe differences in baseline or CRH-induced cortisol and ACTH between CFS patients and controls. Baseline noradrenaline was similar in CFS and controls, whereas baseline adrenaline levels were significantly higher in CFS patients. We conclude that CFS is accompanied by a relative resistance of the immune system to regulation by the neuroendocrine system. Based on these data, we suggest CFS should be viewed as a disease of deficient neuroendocrine-immune communication.
The objective of this study was to determine whether ephedrine, an alpha- and beta-adrenergic agonist previously shown to enhance genital blood flow in women, has beneficial effects in reversing antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction. Nineteen sexually dysfunctional women receiving either fluoxetine, sertraline, or paroxetine participated in an eight-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study of the effects of ephedrine (50 mg) on self-report measures of sexual desire, arousal, orgasm, and sexual satisfaction. Although there were significant improvements relative to baseline in sexual desire and orgasm intensity/pleasure on 50 mg ephedrine 1-hr prior to sexual activity, significant improvements in these measures, as well as in sexual arousal and orgasmic ability also were noted with placebo. These findings highlight the importance of conducting placebo-controlled trials for this condition.
Mesenteric vein thrombosis is a rare disorder that is often the first manifestation of a systemic condition such as a hypercoagulable state or cancer. In particular, myeloproliferative disorders can present as mesenteric vein thrombosis even in the setting of relatively normal peripheral blood counts. A recent novel mutation in the Janus activated kinase 2 gene involving a gain-of-function substitute of valine to phenylalanine at position 617 (JAK2 V617F) has been discovered to be prevalent in patients with mesenteric vein thrombosis and myeloproliferative disorders. This article reports a patient who presented with mesenteric vein thrombosis and relatively normal peripheral blood counts. He was diagnosed with essential thrombocythemia after he tested positive for the JAK2 V617F mutation.
Chemopreventive effect of a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor JTE-522 on diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis was evaluated in Wistar rats.
Animals in the control group (G1) were injected with phosphate buffered saline (PBS), those in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) group (G2) were injected with DEN with regular foods for 14 weeks, and those in the treatment groups were injected with DEN for 14 weeks fed with JTE-522 for 7 (G3) and 14 weeks (G4), respectively. Proliferation and precancerous lesions were evaluated by expression levels of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and glutathione S-transferase-P (GST-P), respectively by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis. Apoptosis and oxidative stress were evaluated by TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL) and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) staining, respectively.
After 14 weeks of the treatment, HCC was developed in G2, G3, and G4 showing no significant differences in gross appearance and histology of the liver among the three groups. There were no significant differences in the expression levels of PCNA and numbers of TUNEL and 8-OHdG positive cells in the liver among the three groups. However, GST-P positive area was significantly suppressed in G3 and G4 compared to G2.
Our data revealed that JTE-522 had a modest inhibitory effect on hepatocarcinogenesis in rats in a manner independent of induction of apoptosis and inhibition of oxidative stress.
An overdose of propranolol, a widely used nonselective beta-adrenergic receptor blocking agent, can result in hypotension and bradycardia leading to irreversible shock and death. In addition, the blockade of adrenergic receptors can lead to alterations in neurotransmitter receptors resulting in the interruption of the activity of other second messengers and the ultimate cellular responses. In the present experiment, three agents, aminophylline, amrinone, and forskolin were tested in an attempt to reverse the potential lethal effects of a propranolol overdose in dogs. Twenty-two anesthetized beagle dogs were given a 10-min infusion of propranolol at a dose of 1 mg/kg/min. Six of the dogs, treated only with intravenous saline, served as controls. Within 15-30 min all six control dogs exhibited profound hypotension and severe bradycardia that led to cardiogenic shock and death. Seven dogs were treated with intravenous aminophylline 20 mg/kg 5 min after the end of the propranolol infusion. Within 10-15 min heart rate and systemic arterial blood pressure returned to near control levels, and all seven dogs survived. Intravenous amrinone (2-3 mg/kg) given to five dogs, and forskolin (1-2 mg/kg) given to four dogs, also increased heart rate and systemic arterial blood pressure but the recovery of these parameters was appreciably slower than that seen with aminophylline. All of these animals also survived with no apparent adverse effects. Histopathologic evaluation of the hearts of the dogs treated with aminophylline showed less damage (vacuolization, inflammation, hemorrhage) than the hearts from animals given propranolol alone. Results of this study showed that these three drugs, all of which increase cyclic AMP, are capable of reversing the otherwise lethal effects of a propranolol overdose in dogs.
Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) is an unusual but serious side-effect of tacrolimus (TAC) based immunosuppression primarily affecting pediatric patients after solid organ transplant. TAC-induced HOCM has already been described in patients after liver, bowel and heart transplant shortly after the procedure. Herein, we present the first case report of TAC-induced HOCM in a young renal transplant recipient 5 yr after renal transplant. The condition was diagnosed by ECHO and EKG and successfully treated by discontinuation of TAC followed by conversion to cyclosporine (CsA).
Pancreatic cancer is a rapidly fatal disease that has been linked with pesticide use. Previous studies have reported excess risks of pancreatic cancer with organochlorines such as DDT, however, many other commonly used pesticides have not been examined. To further examine the potential associations between the use of a number of pesticides and pancreatic cancer, we conducted a case-control analysis in the Agricultural Health Study, one of the largest prospective cohorts with over 89,000 participants including pesticide applicators and their spouses in Iowa and North Carolina. This analysis included 93 incident pancreatic cancer cases (64 applicators, 29 spouses) and 82,503 cancer-free controls who completed an enrollment questionnaire providing detailed pesticide use, demographic and lifestyle information. Ever use of 24 pesticides and intensity-weighted lifetime days [(lifetime exposure days) x (exposure intensity score)] of 13 pesticides was assessed. Risk estimates were calculated using unconditional logistic regression controlling for age, smoking, and diabetes. Among pesticide applicators, 2 herbicides (EPTC and pendimethalin) of the 13 pesticides examined for intensity-weighted lifetime use showed a statistically significant exposure-response association with pancreatic cancer. Applicators in the top half of lifetime pendimethalin use had a 3.0-fold (95% CI 1.3-7.2, p-trend = 0.01) risk compared with never users, and those in the top half of lifetime EPTC use had a 2.56-fold (95% CI = 1.1-5.4, p-trend = 0.01) risk compared with never users. Organochlorines were not associated with an excess risk of pancreatic cancer in this study. These findings suggest that herbicides, particularly pendimethalin and EPTC, may be associated with pancreatic cancer.
We present a 7-week-old male infant with pseudoscleroderma as a primary manifestation of the Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome of premature aging. He had suffered intra-uterine growth retardation; micrognathism and a cleft palate were evident at birth. He presented with feeding difficulties and severe, diffuse scleroderma-like lesions, a faint peri-oral cyanosis and prominent scalp veins. With time, special facial features became more and more apparent: frontal bossing, prominent eyes, thin and fine nose and lips, microstomia, low-set ears and occipito-parietal alopecia. Histopathology of the skin showed an increased density and thickness of collagen in the dermis and hypodermis. Within the 1st year of life, typical skeletal characteristics were observed. The diagnosis of Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome was confirmed by analysis of the lamin A gene, revealing a heterozygous c.1824C > T (G608G) mutation.
Hutchinson-Gilford syndrome is an extremely rare disorder of which the full clinical spectrum becomes evident with time. Sclerodermatous changes in the infant can be the first manifestation.
A 33-year old female was diagnosed as Graves' disease and started on carbimazole. One month later when she was already euthyroid only on carbimazole therapy, she developed acute pancreatitis associated with mild cholestatic hepatitis and erythema nodosum. Carbimazole therapy was interrupted, pancreatic and liver function gradually improved and became normalized two weeks later. Other potential etiological causes of acute pancreatitis, hepatitis and erythema nodosum were excluded. Rechallenge with a single dose of carbimazole led to a new episode of acute pancreatitis and cholestatic hepatitis one day later. The appearance of different hypersensitivity reactions including pancreatitis, hepatitis and erythema nodosum, together with the observation that the interval between drug intake and onset of symptoms became shorter with repeated exposure to carbimazole, point to an immune-mediated mechanism. Carbimazole has to be added to the list of drugs capable of inducing acute pancreatitis, and should be emphasized the need to discontinue this medication as soon as there is evidence of pancreatic dysfunction.
The article presents a case of 56-year-old patient, female, who developed generalized urticaria following dental treatment. The wheals appeared four hours after she left the clinic. During stomatological treatment she was given parapaste, a complex drug, consisting of cinchocaine, eugenol, paraformaldehyde and glycerin. She was admitted to hospital and was treated with prednison and cetirizine. The symptoms resolved in one day and she was discharged. This was the second episode of urticarial reaction to after dental visit. In a previous case, several months earlier, she received parapaste and Scandonest, local anaesthetic. She visited an allergologist after three weeks and skin prick tests with common allergens were done. All were negative. Then the prick tests with the ingredients of parapaste were done resulting in 5 mm diameter wheal to the solution of formaldehyde. We performed RAST to formaldehyde - the result was confirming the presence of antibodies to formaldehyde in a third class. The diagnosis of sensitization to formaldehyde was made. The incidence of allergy to dental drugs was discussed.
An 18-yr-old Hispanic female with end-stage renal disease secondary to chronic glomerulonephritis of unknown etiology underwent cadaveric renal transplantation. She was placed on a steroid-free protocol with tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) for maintenance immunosuppression. Approximately 8 months post-transplantation, MMF was replaced by sirolimus (SRL) because of persistent leukopenia. Four months after the initiation of SRL, the patient began to experience chronic, constant periumbilical abdominal pain in the absence of vomiting, diarrhea or melena. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy and CT scans revealed significant diffuse mucosal thickening of the antrum, duodenum, and jejunum; leukocytoclastic vasculitis was identified on antral biopsy. A repeat biopsy after reduction of sirolimus dose by 50% over 6 months showed mild chronic inflammation of stomach and duodenum with some improvement in abdominal pain. Discontinuation of SRL and replacement with low dose MMF resulted in complete resolution of pain and normalization of gastrointestinal anatomy by imaging studies within 2 months. In light of this report, drug-induced leukocytoclastic vasculitis caused by SRL should be considered in the differential diagnosis of chronic abdominal pain in a patient with organ transplantation.
This study assesses the chemotherapeutic drug gemcitabine in the human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell line KNS62 in relation to the CD95-induced apoptotic pathway, and the role of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL in vitro and in vivo.
Apoptosis was determined by JAM assay and DAPI staining analysis. Activation of key apoptotic proteins, including caspases 3, 8 and 9 and BID, as well as cytochrome c release and mitochondrial transmembrane potential (MTP), were measured. The impact of the caspase inhibitor zVAD on gemcitabine-induced apoptosis was quantified. The in vitro results were verified in vivo in an orthotopic murine xenotransplantation model.
Gemcitabine treatment, as well as stimulation of CD95, resulted in cleavage of effector caspase 3 as well as its substrate PARP and caspase 9, followed by DNA fragmentation. Cleavage of caspase 8 was demonstrated after CD95 activation but not after the application of gemcitabine. In KNS62-Bcl-xL clones, release of cytochrome c and loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential were suppressed. Consequently, apoptosis after gemcitabine therapy, as well as CD95-induced apoptosis, were significantly inhibited. Caspase inhibitor zVAD only partly reversed gemcitabine-induced DNA fragmentation. In vivo, there was a significant reduction in tumour volume under gemcitabine therapy. Bcl-xL over-expressing tumours were completely resistant to gemcitabine therapy.
In NSCLC cell line KNS62 gemcitabine activated the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway downstream of mitochondria without activation of initiator caspases. Bcl-xL over-expression induced significant resistance to gemcitabine. In vivo, the anti-apoptotic effect of Bcl-xL was more pronounced than in vitro. Gemcitabine also induced caspase-independent DNA fragmentation in KNS62 cells.
A 24-year-old man had several episodes of hypokalemic muscle weakness of undetermined etiology since the age of 13 years. Wilson's disease (WD) was not diagnosed until the age of 18 when wing-beating tremor in the left upper limb was noted. Renal function study revealed incomplete proximal renal tubular acidosis. The hypokalemic muscle weakness and wing-beating tremor had subsided after long-term penicillamine therapy. The present case indicates that recurrent hypokalemic paralysis due to renal tubular acidosis is a rare initial presentation of WD and may respond to penicillamine therapy.
