Cocaine abuse is a serious health problem in many areas of the world, yet there are no proven effective medications for the treatment of cocaine dependence. Preclinical studies suggest that the reinforcing effect of cocaine that promotes its abuse is mediated by blockade of the presynaptic dopamine transporter. This results in increased dopamine activity in the mesolimbic or meso-accumbens dopamine reward system of brain. Development of new medications to treat cocaine dependence has focused on manipulation of this dopamine system, either by direct action on dopamine binding sites (transporter or receptors) or indirectly by affecting other neurotransmitter systems that modulate the dopamine system. In principle, a medication could act via one of three mechanisms: (i) as a substitute for cocaine by producing similar dopamine effects; (ii) as a cocaine antagonist by blocking the binding of cocaine to the dopamine transporter; or (iii) as a modulator of cocaine effects by acting at other than the cocaine binding site. The US National Institute on Drug Abuse has a Clinical Research Efficacy Screening Trial (CREST) programme to rapidly screen existing medications. CREST identified four medications warranting phase II controlled clinical trials: cabergoline, reserpine, sertraline and tiagabine. In addition, disulfiram and selegiline (deprenyl) have been effective and well tolerated in phase II trials. However, selegiline was found ineffective in a recent phase III trial. Promising existing medications probably act via the first or third aforementioned mechanisms. Sustained-release formulations of stimulants such as methylphenidate and amfetamine (amphetamine) have shown promise in a stimulant substitution approach. Disulfiram and selegiline increase brain dopamine concentrations by inhibition of dopamine-catabolising enzymes (dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and monoamine oxidase B, respectively). Cabergoline is a direct dopamine receptor agonist, while reserpine depletes presynaptic stores of dopamine (as well as norepinephrine and serotonin). Sertraline, baclofen and vigabatrin indirectly reduce dopamine activity by increasing activity of neurotransmitters (serotonin and GABA) that inhibit dopamine activity. Promising new medications act via the second or third aforementioned mechanisms. Vanoxerine is a long-acting inhibitor of the dopamine transporter which blocks cocaine binding and reduces cocaine self-administration in animals. Two dopamine receptor ligands that reduce cocaine self-administration in animals are also undergoing phase I human safety trials. Adrogolide is a selective dopamine D(1) receptor agonist; BP 897 is a D(3) receptor partial agonist.A pharmacokinetic approach to treatment would block the entry of cocaine into the brain or enhance its catabolism so that less cocaine reached its site of action. This is being explored in animals using the natural cocaine-metabolising enzyme butyrylcholinesterase (or recombinant versions with enhanced capabilities), catalytic antibodies, and passive or active immunisation to produce anti-cocaine binding antibodies. A recent phase I trial of a "cocaine vaccine" found it to be well tolerated and producing detectable levels of anti-cocaine antibodies for up to 9 months after immunisation.
The long-duration response (LDR) is a sustained improvement in parkinsonism due to chronic levodopa therapy and lasts after discontinuation of treatment. We have investigated the molecular changes that underlie the LDR in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion. Animals were treated for 22 days with levodopa or saline. Forelimb akinesia was evaluated prior and following a test dose of levodopa. Rotational behaviour was weekly evaluated. Levodopa induced an improvement in the parkinsonian limb akinesia that lasted for 48 h after withdrawal. A shortening in the duration of rotational behaviour was observed. After 3 days of washout, levodopa treatment maintained elevated striatal preproenkephalin mRNA expression, also inducing an increase in preprodynorphin (PDyn) and dopamine D-3 receptor mRNAs, but without any modification of the adenosine A(2A) mRNA expression induced by 6-OHDA. Levodopa reversed the lesion-induced increase in the expression of cytochrome oxidase mRNA in the subthalamic nucleus and glutamate decarboxylase mRNA in the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra. After 7 days of levodopa washout, the molecular markers show a decline in the basal ganglia evolving towards the parkinsonian state, being statistically significant for the striatal PDyn mRNA. This study characterizes the concomitant presence of the short-duration response and LDR to levodopa in the 6-OHDA model of parkinsonism and shows that the molecular changes induced by levodopa in the basal ganglia are not permanent and that this reversal after levodopa washout may be responsible for the gradual motor deterioration that characterize the LDR.
The clinical application of adriamycin, an exceptionally good chemotherapeutic agent, is limited by its dose-related cardiomyopathy. Our recent study showed that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) receptors mediated cytoprotective signaling against adriamycin-induced mitochondrial injury and cardiomyocyte apoptosis. In the present study, we investigated the potential targets of TNF receptor-mediated cytoprotective signaling by global genome microarray analysis using wild-type and TNF receptor-deficient mice. Microarray analysis revealed that adriamycin treatment induced the down-regulation of several mitochondrial functions and energy production-related genes in double TNF receptor-deficient mice, notably, phospholipase C-delta1, a protein involved in fatty acid metabolism and calcium regulation. The role of phospholipase C-delta1 in TNF receptor-mediated cardioprotection against adriamycin-induced injury was evaluated by measuring changes in cardiac function using high-frequency ultrasound biomicroscopy. Selective inhibition of phospholipase C activity in wild-type mice by its inhibitor, U73122, exacerbated adriamycin-induced cardiac dysfunction. Inhibition of phospholipase C-delta1 resulted in the significant decrease of left ventricular ejection fraction and fractional shortening, and the decreased levels were similar to those observed in adriamycin-treated double TNF receptor-deficient mice. The data derived from the global genome analysis identified phospholipase C-delta1 as an important target for TNF receptors and revealed the critical role of TNF receptor signaling in the protection against adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Capsaicin, a constituent of green and red peppers, has been linked with suppression of tumorigenesis through a mechanism that is not well understood. Because the transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) has been closely linked with tumorigenesis, we investigated the effect of this vanilloid on the STAT3 pathway in human multiple myeloma cells.
The effect of capsaicin on both constitutive and interleukin-6-induced STAT3 activation, associated protein kinases, and STAT3-regulated gene products involved in proliferation, survival and angiogenesis, cellular proliferation, and apoptosis in multiple myeloma cells was investigated.
We found that capsaicin inhibited constitutive activation of STAT3 in multiple myeloma cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner, with minimum effect on STAT5. Capsaicin also inhibited the interleukin-6-induced STAT3 activation. The activation of Janus-activated kinase 1 and c-Src, implicated in STAT3 activation, was also inhibited by the vanilloid, with no effect on extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 activation. Pervanadate reversed the capsaicin-induced down-regulation of STAT3, suggesting the involvement of a protein tyrosine phosphatase. Capsaicin down-regulated the expression of the STAT3-regulated gene products, such as cyclin D1, Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, survivin, and vascular endothelial growth factor. Finally, capsaicin induced the accumulation of cells in G(1) phase, inhibited proliferation, and induced apoptosis, as indicated by caspase activation. Capsaicin also significantly potentiated the apoptotic effects of Velcade and thalidomide in multiple myeloma cells. When administered i.p., capsaicin inhibited the growth of human multiple myeloma xenograft tumors in male athymic nu/nu mice.
Overall, these results suggest that capsaicin is a novel blocker of the STAT3 activation pathway, with a potential role in the prevention and treatment of multiple myeloma and other cancers.
Antianginal and antiischemic effects and clinical pharmacologic actions of carvedilol, a novel beta-blocking agent with a vasodilator action, were determined by Holter electrocardiographic monitoring in 13 patients with exertional angina. The patients were observed for 1 week prior to entry into the study, followed by 1 to 2 weeks of treatment with carvedilol. During the observation period the patients received one placebo tablet daily, and during the treatment period one 20 mg tablet of carvedilol daily. Before and after the treatment 24-hour Holter electrocardiographic tracings were obtained. The mean interval of Holter monitoring was 11.2 +/- 4.5 days for the observation and treatment periods, and the mean time of drug administration was 8:25 a.m. (+/- 30 min). The Holter electrocardiographic tracings which were obtained twice in 9 patients during the observation period showed a high degree of reproducibility with respect to the frequency, magnitude and duration of ST-segment depression. The total frequency of ST depression per patient was 4.5 +/- 3.4 events/day pre-drug and 2.1 +/- 2.1 events/day post-drug. There was a significant reduction in total frequency of ST depression post-drug (p less than 0.01). The frequency of asymptomatic ST depression was similarly decreased post-drug (p less than 0.01), and the total magnitude and duration of ST depression were significantly improved post-drug (p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.05, respectively). These effects of carvedilol lasted for 24 hours after administration. Considering that the heart rate was not excessively reduced during the night, and nocturnal myocardial ischemic episodes were not exacerbated, the mode of action of this drug seems to be based on not only a beta-blocking action but also on a vasodilator action. Carvedilol benefits exertional angina when used in a 20 mg s.i.d. regimen.
The multi-drug resistance gene ABCB1 (or MDR1) encodes a P-glycoprotein (P-gp) that regulates passage of many substances across the blood-brain barrier. The antidepressant amitriptyline and its metabolites (including nortriptyline) are substrates for P-gp, and in mice lacking P-gp, penetration of amitriptyline, but not fluoxetine, into the brain is enhanced. We reasoned that polymorphic variation of P-gp may contribute to differing responses of patients to antidepressant drugs. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of ABCB1 (3435C>T) was recently correlated with expression levels and in vivo function of P-gp. We examined this SNP in patients with major depression enrolled in a randomized antidepressant treatment trial of nortriptyline and fluoxetine, and observed a significant association between nortriptyline-induced postural hypotension and 3435C>T (chi(2) = 6.78, df = 2, P = 0.034). Our results suggest that homozygosity for 3435T alleles of ABCB1 is a risk factor for occurrence of nortriptyline-induced postural hypotension (OR = 1.37, P = 0.042, 95% CI 1.01-1.86).
Two cases are described of dystonic rabbit syndrome induced by citalopram. This syndrome is a movement disorder with a 5-Hz rhythmic vertical motion of the mouth and lips without involvement of the tongue.
The patients were interviewed and examined, and additional history was taken from the medical records. The Naranjo adverse drug reaction rating scale was applied. Relevant literature was reviewed.
Two patients developed dystonic rabbit syndrome soon after starting escitalopram 10 mg/day or citalopram 5 mg/day. Neither patient had any past or current exposure to a dopamine-blocking drug or any history of movement disorder. [Es]citalopram discontinuation led to disappearance of the movement disorder. The Naranjo scale indicates high probability of dystonic rabbit syndrome from citalopram.
Citalopram can rapidly induce dystonic rabbit syndrome. This effect suggests that for some patients citalopram has neuropsychiatric effects similar to those of a dopamine-blocking antipsychotic drug. This might be of concern with patients who cannot communicate well (eg, young children; patients with dementia, developmental disabilities, or aphasia).
The effects of i.v. bolus injections of milrinone on the electrocardiogram and cardiac hemodynamics were evaluated in old rats with chronic (82-93 weeks) pressure overload induced by aortic constriction. Based on the heart weight/body weight ratio and histopathological findings, the rats with aortic clips were divided into 2 groups: rats with (CHF group) or without (CLIP group) congestive heart failure (CHF). In CHF rats, the cardiac contractility, as measured by the peak of the first derivative of the left ventricular pressure (dP/dt max), was significantly lower than in CLIP rats, confirming the presence of heart failure in these rats. Three groups of anesthetized rats received boluses of milrinone of 0.1, 0.5, 1, 5 and 10 mg/kg: sham-operated rats (SHAM, n = 9), CLIP (n = 22) and CHF (n = 10). A control group of 3 CHF and 5 CLIP rats received only the vehicle. The major effect of milrinone at the 2 highest doses was the induction of ventricular fibrillation and death in approximately 25% of the rats (SHAM 2/9, CHF 1/10 and CLIP 7/22). A significant widening of the QRS complex (which includes ST segment) was also noted 3 min after each dose of milrinone in the SHAM group and at 5 and 10 mg/kg doses in the CHF group. These results were thought to be related to the marked hypotensive effect of milrinone possibly inducing myocardial ischemia. No positive inotropic effect, as indicated by the maximum rise of left ventricular pressure (dP/dt max) could be observed. This might have been because of (1) the marked vasodilating effect of milrinone on venous and arterial beds, negating a possible small positive inotropic effect, or (2) the lack of positive inotropic action of milrinone in rats. Our results thus indicate that, in anesthetized rats, milrinone is a powerful vasodilator but not a positive inotropic agent (or a very weak one).
Torsades de pointes is a form of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia that is associated with prolongation of the QT interval. Although found in many clinical settings, torsades de pointes is most often drug induced. This report describes the first association (exclusive of drug overdose) of symptomatic torsades de pointes occurring with the use of terfenadine in a patient who was taking the recommended prescribed dose of this drug in addition to cefaclor, ketoconazole, and medroxyprogesterone. Measured serum concentrations of terfenadine and its main metabolite showed excessive levels of parent terfenadine and proportionately reduced concentrations of metabolite, suggesting inhibition of terfenadine metabolism. We believe that a drug interaction between terfenadine and ketoconazole resulted in the elevated terfenadine levels in plasma and in the cardiotoxicity previously seen only in cases of terfenadine overdose.
We studied the effects of AHR-12234, a new antiarrhythmic agent, on cardiac transmembrane action potentials, in situ cardiac electrophysiology and in several models for arrhythmias in the dog. AHR-12234 (5 x 10(-5)-2 x 10(-4) M) induced a dose-related and use-dependent decrease in dV/dtmax in canine Purkinje fibers and ventricular muscles. Action potential duration was shortened in Purkinje fibers but lengthened in ventricular muscle. In the anesthetized dog, AHR-12234 at a lower dose (2.64 mg/kg) increased AH intervals and effective refractory period of atrium, and AV node. At higher cumulative doses of 7.92 and 13.2 mg/kg, AHR-12234 increased the effective refractory period and conduction time in the atrium, AV node and ventricle. It also increased Purkinje system conduction time and sinus nodal recovery time. In the conscious dog model for reentrant atrial tachycardia, i.v. (effective doses: 12.3 +/- 4.2 mg/kg), or oral (20 to 60 mg/kg) administration of AHR-12234 prolonged the cycle length of the tachycardia and terminated the arrhythmia. The duration of action of oral AHR-12234 against this arrhythmia persisted for 24 hr. In the 1-day infarcted conscious dogs, AHR-12234 administered either i.v. (effective doses: 3.8 +/- 0.9 mg/kg) or orally (20 mg/kg), effectively converted the ventricular arrhythmia into sinus rhythm. AHR-12234 did not produce any adverse side effects in the above two conscious dog models. AHR-12234 was also effective in ablating ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardias in anesthetized dogs following an i.v. dose of 5 mg/kg. These results indicate that the structurally novel AHR-12234 is effective against arrhythmias due to abnormal automaticity, triggered activity and reentry.
Occasional case reports describe urinary incontinence in patients taking the selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor antidepressant venlafaxine.
In this study the authors investigated the possible effect of venlafaxine on urinary function in a series of 9 patients with urinary retention resulting from spinal cord lesions. They primarily sought to understand whether the reported venlafaxine-induced urinary incontinence was a specific drug-induced effect and, if so, whether venlafaxine might be an effective treatment of urinary retention.
During a 1-week baseline period, patients measured postvoiding residual volume through a catheter and recorded the number of micturitions within 24 hours. At the end of the baseline period, venlafaxine 75 mg extended-release on a once-daily evening administration schedule was added to their therapy for 1 week.
None of the patients reported severe/uncontrollable side effects while taking venlafaxine. Extended-release venlafaxine (75 mg/day) significantly reduced the postvoiding residual volume and increased the micturition rate; the volume diminished on the first day of treatment and remained stable over the ensuing days.
These findings suggest that venlafaxine could be useful to improve voiding in patients with spinal cord disease.
Iron is used to cure iron-deficient anaemia but can also be toxic to the intestine. Fe(II) toxicity was investigated using differentiated human intestinal Caco-2 cells treated with 15 and 50 microM of Fe(II)/ascorbate for 2h (acute phase), and followed for 24h after iron removal and replacement of complete culture medium (late phase). During the acute phase damage to tight junctions occurred as demonstrated by an increase in cell monolayer permeability and by partial delocalization of the tight junction protein claudin 4 from the plasma membrane to an intracellular compartment. At the end of the late phase, cells treated with 15 microM Fe(II) showed full restoration of claudin 4 localization to the plasma membrane and their tight junction permeability returned to values close to those of control cells. Conversely, cells treated with 50 microM Fe(II) showed sustained and irreversible damage to the tight junctions, accompanied by apoptosis and necrosis. Activation of NF-kappaB occurred at both Fe(II) concentrations after 30 min of Fe(II) treatment, followed, at the end of the acute phase, by a strong induction of mRNA coding for heat shock protein 70 and metallothionein 2A. Our results indicate that intestinal cells respond to iron toxicity by strongly activating two genes involved in cell response to stress, although the outcome in terms of cell survival is different depending on the dose of treatment, namely almost complete restoration of epithelial permeability and cell survival at 15 microM Fe(II), and progressive and irreversible cytotoxicity leading to apoptosis and necrosis at 50 microM Fe(II).
Guaifenesin is a commonly used expectorant whose use may lead to the occasional formation of guaifenesin urinary stones. We herein describe a patient who was taking 2400 mg Guaifenesin per day as part of his treatment for asthma. He had a past history of a guaifenesin stone removed ureteroscopically. His current presentation was with a 9 mm by 6 mm stone in the upper left ureter, seen on CT scan, and treated initially with a ureteral stent and hydration. After 3 weeks, the stone had disappeared, as confirmed by repeat CT scan. The genesis and treatment of guaifenesin stones is discussed.
Previous reports on antimalarial toxicity have only been related to long-term continuous treatments for nonmalarial indications, which require prolonged use of large doses, up to 1000 g or more every year. We describe a patient with recurrent malaria, prophylactically treated with low-dose chloroquine, who developed heart failure due to biventricular cardiac dysfunction. The right ventricle endomyocardial biopsy was suggestive of chloroquine toxicity. The heart failure improved after drug withdrawal. As a consequence, the potential for reversibility and the severity in undiagnosed cases of these toxic cardiomyopathies emphasize the importance of recognizing early signs of toxicity in order to withdraw antimalarials before the occurrence of life-threatening cardiac toxicity.
Methylphenidate (MP) is often recommended for symptom control in advanced cancer. Little is known about its side effects in frail adults.
To evaluate MP-associated symptoms or side effects (S/E).
Data was collected from 2 published prospective cohort series and a phase 2 study of MP for symptom control in advanced cancer. All 3 reports had identical dosing schedules and symptom assessments. Initial MP doses were 10 mg/d (5 mg at 8 AM and at 12 noon) titrated up to a maximum of 30 mg/d. Depression, fatigue, and symptoms identified as possible MP S/E were evaluated for presence (prevalence) and for severity (using categorical scales) before MP (day 0) and on days 3, 5, and 7 thereafter. The categorical scale used was none, mild, moderate, and severe.
62 patients were enrolled. Fifty completed 7 days of MP with a median age of 69 (range 30-90) years. Thirty-five received MP 10 mg/day. Most (96%) had improvement in depression and/or fatigue. Among the 62 patients, new symptom prevalence throughout the study was agitation (16%), insomnia (16%), dry mouth (15%), nausea (10%), tremors (6%), anorexia (5%), headache (3%), palpitations (2%), and vomiting (2%). Patients could have more than 1 symptom simultaneously. Seven (11%) withdrew due to MP S/E. Some symptoms present before MP showed significant improvement during MP therapy.
(1) Treatment with MP (10-20 mg/d) in advanced cancer is well tolerated. (2) S/E symptoms with MP appeared to improve spontaneously despite continued MP therapy. (3) Depression and fatigue improved at doses lower than those recommended in other clinical conditions. (4) MP improved depression and fatigue, and some secondary symptoms associated with them. Methylphenidate (MP) appears safe when used in the treatment of depression and fatigue in advanced cancer.
Peripheral neuropathy is a major side effect following treatment with the cancer chemotherapeutic drug paclitaxel. Whether paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy is secondary to altered function of small diameter sensory neurons remains controversial. To ascertain whether the function of the small diameter sensory neurons was altered following systemic administration of paclitaxel, we injected male Sprague Dawley rats with 1mg/kg paclitaxel every other day for a total of four doses and examined vasodilatation in the hindpaw at day 14 as an indirect measure of calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) release. In paclitaxel-treated rats, the vasodilatation induced by either intradermal injection of capsaicin into the hindpaw or electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve was significantly attenuated in comparison to vehicle-injected animals. Paclitaxel treatment, however, did not affect direct vasodilatation induced by intradermal injection of methacholine or CGRP, demonstrating that the blood vessels' ability to dilate was intact. Paclitaxel treatment did not alter the compound action potentials or conduction velocity of C-fibers. The stimulated release of CGRP from the central terminals in the spinal cord was not altered in paclitaxel-injected animals. These results suggest that paclitaxel affects the peripheral endings of sensory neurons to alter transmitter release, and this may contribute to the symptoms seen in neuropathy.
1. Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a serious side-effect of long-term treatment with neuroleptics. To investigate if neuroleptic-induced excessive stimulation of striatal glutamate receptors may underlie TD development, the effect of the NMDA antagonist, memantine (1-amino-3,5-dimethyladamantane), was studied in a rat model of TD. 2. In an acute experiment, six groups of rats were treated daily for 1 week with either vehicle or memantine 20 or 40 mg kg-1 day-1, and on the seventh day they received one injection of either haloperidol 1.0 mg kg-1 i.p. or saline i.p. In a subsequent long-term experiment lasting 20 weeks, the same treatment was continued, except that haloperidol was injected i.m. as decanoate (38 mg kg-1 every 4 weeks) and control rats received sesame oil. The behaviour was videotaped and scored at intervals during both experiments, and for 16 weeks after cessation of the long-term treatment. 3. In the acute experiment, haloperidol decreased motor activity and memantine increased moving and tended to attenuate the immobility induced by haloperidol. Memantine also enhanced the haloperidol-induced increase in the putative TD-analogue vacuous chewing movements (VCM). 4. In the long-term experiment, the most marked effect of haloperidol was a gradual increase in VCM and the increase persisted significantly for 12 weeks after cessation of treatment. Memantine dose-dependently increased VCM and moving during long-term treatment. However, only one week after stopping treatment, both these effects of memantine disappeared. In contrast to rats previously treated with haloperidol alone, rats co-treated with memantine (both doses) and haloperidol had VCM at the level of controls two weeks after stopping treatment. The blood levels of drugs were within the therapeutic range achieved in human subjects. 5. These results suggest that long-lasting changes induced by haloperidol are prevented by memantine, which supports the theory that excessive NMDA receptor stimulation may be a mechanism underlying the development of persistent VCM in rats and maybe also TD in human subjects.
Class III drugs prolong the QT interval by blocking mainly the delayed rectifier rapid potassium outward current (IKr), with little effect on depolarization. This K(+) channel in encoded by the human ether-a-go-go-related gene (hERG). Inhibition of hERG potassium currents by class III antiarrhythmic drugs causes lengthening of cardiac action potential, which produces a beneficial antiarrhythmic effect. Excessive prolongation of the action potential may lead to acquired long QT syndrome, which is associated with a risk of "torsade de pointes". Class III agents can block all types of potassium channels: IKs, IKr, IKur and IK1. The main representing class III agent is amiodarone. It is the gold standard in the prevention of recurrence of atrial fibrillation. Although it is highly effective in treating many arrhythmias, large number of adverse effects limits its clinical use. Dronedarone is a synthetic amiodarone analogue, iodine-free compound, with fewer adverse effects, and shares amiodarone's multichannel blocking effects, inhibiting transmembrane Na+, IKs, IKur, IK1, and slow Ca(++)L-type calcium currents. The main new generation class III drugs are: dofetilide, dronedarone, azimilide, and ibutilide. Oral dofetilide did not increase mortality in patients with a recent myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure. It is an alternative for the pharmacological conversion of atrial fibrillation and flutter. Azimilide blocks both rapid and slow potassium channels components. Azimilide is not a methanesulfonanilide compound. Trecitilide, tedisamil, ersentilide, ambasilide, chromanol and sematilide are class III miscellaneous agents. Old mixed agents are sotalol and bretylium. The present article reviews the main trials accomplished with these drugs.
To find a novel drug against acute liver failure, a methionine derivative of bicyclol (WLP-S-10) was studied in acetaminophen-injected mice.
At first, 10 derivatives of bicyclol were tested in male KunMing strain mice injected with CCl(4), acetaminophen or d-galactosamine plus lipopolysaccharide (LPS), serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and mortality rate were determined. Among the 10 derivatives, a methionine derivative of bicyclol (WLP-S-10) was shown to be the most effective. A single dose of WLP-S-10 200 mg/kg was intraperitoneally injected 1 h before administration of a lethal dose of acetaminophen; the mortality rate, liver lesions, serum ALT, aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and liver glutathione (GSH) were determined. Mitochondrial GSH and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels, cytochrome C and apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) leakage, mitochondrial swelling and membrane potential were determined.
As a result, WLP-S-10 200 mg/kg significantly reduced liver injury induced by CCl(4) and decreased the mortality rate of mice because of acute liver failure caused by lethal dosage of acetaminophen or d-galactosamine plus LPS. WLP-S-10 200 mg/kg markedly reduced liver necrosis, serum ALT and AST elevation and GSH depletion after injection of acetaminophen. WLP-S-10 inhibited mitochondrial swelling, breakdown of membrane potential and depletion of mitochondrial ATP, and also reduced release of cytochrome C and AIF from mitochondria induced by acetaminophen.
The results indicate that WLP-S-10 is a novel potential compound against acetaminophen-induced acute liver failure in mice, and its active mechanism is mainly related to protection against necrosis and apoptosis of hepatocytes through inhibition of mitochondrial energy (ATP) depletion and AIF and cytochrome C release.
Diabetic nephropathy is the main cause of end stage renal damage. Oxidative stress is involved in the etiology of diabetic nephropathy and intracellular calcium is reported to play a considerable role in the development of renal damage in the diabetic kidney. Calcium antagonism can slow the progression of renal impairment in diabetes. The present study was thus designed to examine the effect of a nondihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, diltiazem, on renal function, oxidative stress, and nitric oxide (NO) release in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ (65 mg/kg) in rats. After 4 weeks of STZ injection, the rats were divided in to four groups: control rats, diabetic rats treated with saline, and two groups of diabetic rats treated with diltiazem (5 and 10 mg/kg, i.p, respectively) for 8 weeks starting from 4 weeks after STZ injection. Renal function was assessed by creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine clearance, and urea clearance. Oxidative stress was measured by renal malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase. We also measured renal nitrite levels. At the end of the 8 weeks, diabetic rats exhibited renal dysfunction as evidenced by reduced creatinine and urea clearance along with enhanced albumin excretion rate as compared with control rats. Biochemical analysis of kidneys revealed a marked increase in oxidative stress demonstrated by increased lipid peroxidation and decreased activities of key antioxidant enzymes, GSH, SOD, and catalase in diabetic rats. Release of NO also significantly higher in diabetic rats than controls. Chronic treatment with diltiazem in diabetic rats significantly attenuated both renal dysfunction and oxidative stress along with increased NO levels as compared with untreated diabetic rats. The kidneys of diabetic rats showed morphological changes such as hyaline casts, glomerular thickening, and moderate interstitial fibrosis and arteriolopathy, whereas diltiazem administration markedly prevented diabetic-induced renal morphological alterations. The present study suggests that oxidative stress/nitrosative stress is increased in the diabetic kidney and calcium channel blockage can prevent these changes. The results also suggest that in STZ-induced diabetic rats, the protective action of diltiazem might be mediated, at least in part, by its effect on tissue oxidant/antioxidant status.
Serial assessment of ventricular function by means of radionuclide angiography was performed in previously untreated patients with lymphoproliferative diseases who received either 4'epidoxorubicin or mitoxantrone for longer than 6 months. No changes were observed in left ventricular function in patients received mitoxantrone at doses ranged 90 to 165 mg (mean 113 mg). Three patients (7%) in 4'epidoxorubicin group showed less than or equal to 10% drop in left ventricular ejection, but without clinical manifestations. The doses in this group were 420 to 810 mg (mean 610 mg). We felt that patients without high-risk factors (radiotherapy to mediastinum or previously anthracycline therapy) could be treated with high doses of both drugs and that radionuclide angiography is a useful method for monitoring cardiotoxicity of antineoplastic drugs.
Bone mineral density (BMD) is the most widely used predictor of fracture risk. We performed the largest meta-analysis to date on lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD, including 17 genome-wide association studies and 32,961 individuals of European and east Asian ancestry. We tested the top BMD-associated markers for replication in 50,933 independent subjects and for association with risk of low-trauma fracture in 31,016 individuals with a history of fracture (cases) and 102,444 controls. We identified 56 loci (32 new) associated with BMD at genome-wide significance (P < 5 × 10(-8)). Several of these factors cluster within the RANK-RANKL-OPG, mesenchymal stem cell differentiation, endochondral ossification and Wnt signaling pathways. However, we also discovered loci that were localized to genes not known to have a role in bone biology. Fourteen BMD-associated loci were also associated with fracture risk (P < 5 × 10(-4), Bonferroni corrected), of which six reached P < 5 × 10(-8), including at 18p11.21 (FAM210A), 7q21.3 (SLC25A13), 11q13.2 (LRP5), 4q22.1 (MEPE), 2p16.2 (SPTBN1) and 10q21.1 (DKK1). These findings shed light on the genetic architecture and pathophysiological mechanisms underlying BMD variation and fracture susceptibility.
This phase II trial investigated the activity and toxicity of CODE (cisplatin, vincristine, doxorubicin, etoposide) chemotherapy with the addition of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) in patients who had chemotherapy-naive, advanced, or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. Treatment consisted of cisplatin, 25 mg/m2, administered weeks 1 through 9; vincristine, 1 mg/m2, weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8; doxorubicin, 40 mg/m2, weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9; and etoposide, 80 mg/m2 intravenously day 1 and 160 mg/m2 orally, days 2 and 3 on weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, 5 microg/kg, was administered subcutaneously on all days that patients were not receiving chemotherapy. From April 1992 through April 1993, 42 patients were entered on study. The principal toxicities were hematologic. Grade 3-4 anemia was seen in 21 patients. Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia was seen in 9 patients. Grade 3-4 neutropenia occurred in 29 patients. Eight patients experienced a neutropenic febrile episode requiring antibiotics. Nonhematologic toxicities included weight loss and fatigue. Responses were seen in 10 of 42 patients, for an overall response rate of 24% (95% confidence interval, 12%-39%) and a median survival of 7.1 months. The CODE chemotherapy regimen has activity similar to other previously described cisplatin-based regimens, with a significant amount of both hematologic and nonhematologic toxicity. Its continued use in patients who have previously untreated non-small-cell lung cancer cannot be recommended, based on the results of this study.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are persistent organic pollutants associated with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in epidemiologic studies. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hepatic effects of a PCB mixture, Aroclor 1260, whose composition mimics human bioaccumulation patterns, in a mouse model of diet-induced obesity (DIO). Male C57Bl/6J mice were fed control diet or 42% high fat diet (HFD) and exposed to Aroclor 1260 (20mg/kg or 200mg/kg in corn oil) for 12weeks. A glucose tolerance test was performed; plasma/tissues were obtained at necropsy for measurements of adipocytokine levels, histology, and gene expression. Aroclor 1260 exposure was associated with decreased body fat in HFD-fed mice but had no effect on blood glucose/lipid levels. Paradoxically, Aroclor 1260+HFD co-exposed mice demonstrated increased hepatic inflammatory foci at both doses while the degree of steatosis did not change. Serum cytokines, ALT levels and hepatic expression of IL-6 and TNFα were increased only at 20mg/kg, suggesting an inhibition of pro-inflammatory cytokine production at the 200mg/kg exposure. Aroclor 1260 induced hepatic expression of cytochrome P450s including Cyp3a11 (Pregnane-Xenobiotic Receptor target) and Cyp2b10 (constitutive androstane receptor target) but Cyp2b10 inducibility was diminished with HFD-feeding. Cyp1a2 (aryl hydrocarbon Receptor target) was induced only at 200mg/kg. In summary, Aroclor 1260 worsened hepatic and systemic inflammation in DIO. The results indicated a bimodal response of PCB-diet interactions in the context of inflammation which could potentially be explained by xenobiotic receptor activation. Thus, PCB exposure may be a relevant "second hit" in the transformation of steatosis to steatohepatitis.
The organophosphate flame retardants tris(2-butoxyethyl) phosphate (TBOEP) and triethyl phosphate (TEP) are used in a wide range of applications to suppress or delay the ignition and spread of fire. Both compounds have been detected in the environment and TBOEP was recently measured in free-living avian species. In this study, TBOEP and TEP were injected into the air cell of chicken embryos at concentrations ranging from 0 to 45,400 ng/g and 0 to 241,500 ng/g egg, respectively. Pipping success, development, hepatic mRNA expression of 9 target genes, thyroid hormone levels, and circulating bile acid concentrations were determined. Exposure to the highest doses of TBOEP and TEP resulted in negligible detection of the parent compounds in embryonic contents at pipping indicating their complete metabolic degradation. TBOEP exposure had limited effects on chicken embryos, with the exception of hepatic CYP3A37 mRNA induction. TEP exposure decreased pipping success to 68%, altered growth, increased liver somatic index (LSI) and plasma bile acids, and modulated genes associated with xenobiotic and lipid metabolism and the thyroid hormone pathway. Plasma thyroxine levels were decreased at all TEP doses, including an environmentally-relevant concentration (8 ng/g), and gallbladder hypotrophy was evident at ≥ 43,200 ng/g. Tarsus length and circulating thyroxine concentration emerged as potential phenotypic anchors for the modulation of transthyretin mRNA. The increase in plasma bile acids and LSI, gallbladder hypotrophy, and discoloration of liver tissue represented potential phenotypic outcomes associated with modulation of hepatic genes involved with xenobiotic and lipid metabolism.
A recently recognized entity in the differential diagnosis of radiolucent filling defects of the pyelocalyceal systems is triamterene calculus. A case is presented of a patient on triamterene therapy for hypertension in whom a symptomatic triamterene calculus formed which was diagnosed by computerized axial tomography.
Vasodilators of resistive vessels may induce ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease. To evaluate this possibility during prostacyclin (PGI2; scalar doses up to 10 ng/kg/min) and prostacyclin analog (iloprost; scalar doses up to 6 ng/kg/min) infusions, we studied 33 patients with angina pectoris and proved coronary artery disease. Patients were also submitted to dipyridamole (0.15 mg/kg/min for 4 minutes) and exercise stress testing (starting at 25 W and increasing 25 W every 2 minutes). In a preliminary study the hemodynamic and side effects of iloprost were studied in seven healthy subjects. At an iloprost dose of 4 to 6 ng/kg/min, these subjects had a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure and total peripheral and pulmonary vascular resistances. Side effects were limited to facial flushing and slight headache and were readily reversible. PGI2 induced typical chest pain and significant ST segment depression in six patients with severe coronary artery disease (three with left main and three with triple vessel disease) and poor exercise tolerance (means +/- SD = 362 +/- 99 seconds). All six patients had had angina during the dipyridamole infusion. Similar findings were observed after iloprost infusion in four of these. Aminophylline (125 mg iv) completely relieved chest pain. Although the rate-pressure products occasionally rose during PGI2 and iloprost infusions, there were no significant changes between ischemic (11.3 +/- 2.3 and 10.6 +/- 1.4 X 10(-3) U) and preischemic (10.8 +/- 1.5 and 10.7 +/- 1.4 X 10(-3) U) rates of infusion. Our data indicate that PGI2 and iloprost may induce ischemia independently of changes in oxygen demand, and suggest that these drugs dilate small coronary vessels. This may result in decreased subendocardial perfusion pressure and/or "coronary steal."
