The carcinogenicity of 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ) was examined in Big Blue female mice with the genetic background of C57BL/6N. With the administration of 300 ppm of MeIQ in their diet for 92 weeks, the Big Blue female mice developed intestinal tumors and hepatocellular carcinomas. The incidences of adenocarcinomas were 42% (8/19) in the colon and 68% (13/19) in the cecum. The incidence of hepatocellular carcinomas was 84% (16/19). No carcinomas of the intestine or the liver were induced in the control group. As we previously reported, administration of 300 ppm of MeIQ in a diet for 12 weeks induced lacI mutants at the highest frequency in colonocytes, and at only less than one-tenth of the colon in cells of the liver, forestomach and bone marrow, indicating no direct correlation between the lacI mutant frequency (MF) and cancer incidence (CI). The fate of cells with lacI mutation in each organ should be taken into consideration to validate MF as an indicator of carcinogenic potency of a chemical in different organs.
The development of psychosis related to antiepileptic drug treatment is usually attributed to the interaction between the epileptic brain substratum and the antiepileptic drugs. The case of a nonepileptic patient who developed psychosis following phenytoin treatment for trigeminal neuralgia is described. This case suggests that the psychotic symptoms that occur following phenytoin treatment in some epileptic patients may be the direct result of medication, unrelated to seizures.
Chronic exposure to high concentrations of benzene is associated with an increased incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Studies of patients occupationally exposed to benzene show a pattern of cytogenetic aberrations involving loss of all or part of chromosomes 5 and/or 7 as well as trisomy 8 and we have previously reported that hydroquinone (HQ) induces deletions of 5, 7 and 8. Benzene metabolism is a requirement for bone marrow toxicity and the phenolic metabolites, HQ and catechol (CAT), have been implicated in benzene hematotoxicity. A research project was designed to determine whether CAT by itself and in conjunction with HQ could directly induce loss of chromosome 5 and/or 7 and gain of chromosome 8. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization with chromosome-specific 5, 7, and 8 probes we demonstrate that 5 to 150 uM CAT does not produce chromosomal aberrations, however CAT and 25 uM HQ can act in synergy to induce dose dependent loss of these chromosomes. In addition HQ/CAT selectively induces -5q which is not observed for HQ only. These results demonstrate for the first time that CAT/HQ act in synergy to induce specific chromosome loss found in secondary MDS/AML.
Sulpiride is a selective D2-receptor antagonist with antipsychotic and antidepressant properties. Although initially thought to be free of extrapyramidal side effects, sulpiride-induced tardive dyskinesia and parkinsonism have been reported occasionally. We studied a 37-year-old man who developed persistent segmental dystonia within 2 months after starting sulpiride therapy. We could not find any previous reports of sulpiride-induced tardive dystonia.
Numerous studies have suggested that single-day intraperitoneal (IP) injection of inorganic arsenic results in failure of neural tube closure and other malformations in rats, hamsters, and mice. Most of these studies involved treatment of limited numbers of animals with maternally toxic doses of arsenic (generally As(V)), without defining a dose-response relationship. In the present Good Laboratory Practice-compliant study, sodium arsenate (As(V)) was administered IP and arsenic trioxide (As(III)) was administered either IP or orally (by gavage) on gestational day 9 to groups of 25 mated Crl:CD(R)(SD)BR rats. Only at dose levels that caused severe maternal toxicity, including lethality, did IP injection of arsenic trioxide produce neural tube and ocular defects; oral administration of higher doses of arsenic trioxide caused some maternal deaths but no treatment-related fetal malformations. In contrast, IP injection of similar amounts of sodium arsenate (based on the molar amount of arsenic) caused mild maternal toxicity but a large increase in malformations, including neural tube, eye, and jaw defects. In summary, neural tube and craniofacial defects were observed after IP injection of both As(V) and As(III); however, no increase in malformations was seen following oral administration of As(III), even at maternally lethal doses. These results demonstrate that the frequently cited association between prenatal exposure to inorganic arsenic and malformations in laboratory animals is dependent on a route of administration that is not appropriate for human risk assessment.
In a patient with cirrhosis of the liver, associated with hepatitis B virus, who was admitted for confusion and acute elevation of liver enzymes, a diagnosis of hepatic encephalopathy was made. A serum ammonia level of 54 (normal less than 33) microgram/liter, supported the diagnosis, but puzzled the medical staff regarding the possibility that ammonia may directly induce the confusion. While it is widely accepted that the ammonia level is a marker that usually parallels the amount of toxins and metabolites that bypasses the liver, its role in causing brain dysfunction is debated. However, since ammonia may directly hinder the metabolism of neuro-transmitters, and drugs and treatments specifically aimed at reducing ammonia levels may minimize the time interval for recovery from the acute brain insult, it is assumed that ammonia by itself had a role in bringing about the encephalopathy manifestations in our patients and other patients with cirrhosis of the liver.
Survival of patients with plasma cell disorders has increased. However, the expanding use of melphalan in patients with longer survival suggests that myelodysplasia may become increasingly important. The objective of this study was to determine the risk of myelodysplasia after treatment with melphalan for patients with amyloidosis. We reviewed the long-term follow-up data (more than 12 years) from 101 patients with immunoglobulin light-chain amyloidosis. We identified 10 patients with myelodysplasia or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia that directly caused death for 8 and transfusion dependency for 2. Two of the 10 patients did not have development of myelodysplasia until 144 months after first exposure to alkylating agents. The actuarial risk of myelodysplasia development at ten years was 18%. As the survival of patients with plasma cell disorders improves, myelodysplasia may be a more common cause of morbidity and mortality for this group.
In this report, we describe a case of acute atypical hepatitis during chronic treatment with amiodarone in a patient in which symptoms of digitalis toxicity also developed. The sudden onset of these side effects, whose mechanisms are herein discussed, stresses the importance of a careful monitoring of patients treated with amiodarone.
During the period February 1983 to December 1984 the Swedish Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee received 80 reports describing 116 adverse reactions with a possible or probable connection to nifedipine. The most frequently reported reactions are oedema, tachycardia, headache and rash. Confusion and sleep disorders constitute 8 cases. Impaired angina is a potentially serious reaction and one patient developed myocardial infarction.
The hypokalaemic and electrocardiographic effects of nebulised salbutamol (2.35 mg x 2, 120 min apart) and intravenous aminophylline (6 mg/kg followed by 0.5 mg/kg/hr infusion) alone and in combination, were investigated in eight patients with stable asthma. Both agents produced significant hypokalaemia, mean maximum for salbutamol 0.55 mmol/l, mean maximum for aminophylline 0.29 mmol/l. Salbutamol increased the QTc interval and depressed T-wave amplitude whilst aminophylline decreased PR interval. These effects were increased when they were given in combination but were highly variable between individuals. It is likely that arrhythmias may be precipitated in patients with hypoxaemia, acidosis or those with preexisting cardiovascular disease.
A low molecular weight (Mw 38 000) and a medium molecular weight (Mw 125 000) hydroxyethyl starch and a medium molecular weight dextran (Mw 70 000) solution were compared with a balanced salt solution in 123 patients undergoing operations of the lower extremities in epidural anaesthesia; 500 ml of the studied solutions were infused during 15 min after the injection of the epidural anaesthetic. The need for etilefrine hydrochloride as a vasoconstrictor in correcting hypotensive reactions was recorded. Changes in haemoglobin (Hb), haematocrit (Hct), serum total protein and serum albumin concentrations were measured. The number of patients given etilefrine hydrochloride in the plasma-substitute groups was smaller than in the control group. The differences were, however, not statistically significant. The fall in blood pressure cannot be totally inhibited by administration of 500 ml plasma substitute. According to the differences in Hb, Hct, serum protein and albumin values, the hydroxyethyl starch solutions were significantly more effective plasma substitutes than the balanced salt solution and as effective as dextran. No side-effects attributable to the solutions used were observed.
Fluoxetine (FLX) is one of the most commonly detected pharmaceuticals in wastewater and bioaccumulates in wild-caught fish, especially in brain, liver and muscle tissues. Previous studies indicated that FLX is pharmacologically active in fish species exerting anorexigenic effects, but it is not clear whether waterborne FLX has any potential effects on regulating food intake and energy metabolism. In this study, we investigated the effect of two doses of FLX, an environmental concentration of 540 ng/L, and 100-times this concentration (54 μg/L), on feeding and key metabolic parameters in goldfish. Fish were exposed for a period of 28 days and changes in food intake and body mass were assessed. Pair-fed groups were maintained to discern primary FLX-induced effects from secondary metabolic responses induced by the decreased food intake. Additionally, an untreated control group and a fasted group were used to further compare physiological changes in the context of nutritional status of the animals. Significant decreases in food intake and weight gain were recorded in goldfish exposed to 54 μg/L FLX. Furthermore a significant decrease occurred in circulating glucose levels in the group exposed to 540 ng/L FLX. To elucidate potential mechanisms, we investigated gene expression of feeding neuropeptides in the neuroendocrine brain of goldfish as well as gene expression and enzymatic activity of glycolytic and gluconeogenetic enzymes in liver and muscle tissues. The results confirm brain gene expression patterns in line with potential anorexigenic effects in the hypothalamus, with increased expression in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and decreased expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY). With respect to glucose metabolism, liver gene expression of the gluconeogenic enzyme fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase decreased and muscle hexokinase activity increased in fish exposed to 540 ng/L FLX. Overall, this study demonstrated anorectic properties of FLX at a dose of 54 μg/L FLX and moderate but significant effects on glucose metabolism in goldfish exposed to 540 ng/L FLX. Future studies investigating the importance of these changes in fish are warranted.
Migraine is a common, heterogeneous and heritable neurological disorder. Its pathophysiology is incompletely understood, and its genetic influences at the population level are unknown. In a population-based genome-wide analysis including 5,122 migraineurs and 18,108 non-migraineurs, rs2651899 (1p36.32, PRDM16), rs10166942 (2q37.1, TRPM8) and rs11172113 (12q13.3, LRP1) were among the top seven associations (P < 5 × 10(-6)) with migraine. These SNPs were significant in a meta-analysis among three replication cohorts and met genome-wide significance in a meta-analysis combining the discovery and replication cohorts (rs2651899, odds ratio (OR) = 1.11, P = 3.8 × 10(-9); rs10166942, OR = 0.85, P = 5.5 × 10(-12); and rs11172113, OR = 0.90, P = 4.3 × 10(-9)). The associations at rs2651899 and rs10166942 were specific for migraine compared with non-migraine headache. None of the three SNP associations was preferential for migraine with aura or without aura, nor were any associations specific for migraine features. TRPM8 has been the focus of neuropathic pain models, whereas LRP1 modulates neuronal glutamate signaling, plausibly linking both genes to migraine pathophysiology.
A field trial was conducted in Sudan to evaluate the acceptability and efficacy of praziquantel given to schoolchildren aged 7-11 years who were all infected with both Schistosoma mansoni and S. haematobium. Two dosage regimes were compared, a single dose of 40 mg/kg bodyweight, and a divided dose 2 X 20 mg/kg given 4-6 h apart. When interviewed 24 h after treatment, 80% of the children complained of drug-induced abdominal pain, diarrhoea, nausea or vomiting. However none of the side-effects persisted beyond the day of treatment. More children complained of side-effects from the divided dose than from the single dose. The cure rate in the divided-dose group was slightly better than in the single-dose group but the differences were not significant at any follow-up, nor when results were expressed in terms of cumulative failures. The initial cure rates were 66.3% and 61.8% at 1 month, and 73.2% and 64.7% at 3 months for the divided and single doses respectively. After 12 months there had apparently been considerable reinfection with S. mansoni and 73% of the children were passing eggs. Reinfection with S. haematobium was negligible.
Obesity enhances hemodynamic alterations that predispose to a subsequent increase in left ventricular (LV) wall stress leading to LV hypertrophy. In obese subjects, weight reduction regresses LV mass (LVM), regardless of blood pressure. Sibutramine can increase blood pressure and heart rate, which may attenuate the reductions in LVM associated with weight loss.
Outpatients (n = 184, age 18-65 y, body mass index > or =30 to <40 kg/m2) were randomly assigned to 6 months of once daily double-blind treatment with sibutramine 10 mg or 20 mg, or placebo. LV dimensions, status and function of the valves, weight loss, blood pressure, heart rate, and electrocardiogram were assessed.
For end point data sets, the mean +/- SD LVM index (LVM/height) changes were -3.0 +/- 11.9 g/m for placebo (n = 56), -4.4 +/- 10.7 g/m for sibutramine 10 mg (n = 61), and -4.3 +/- 10.9 g/m for sibutramine 20 mg (n = 56). The reductions observed in the sibutramine groups were statistically significant compared with baseline (P <.01), but pairwise comparison results with placebo were not statistically significant. There was no difference in overall status of the cardiac valves. A statistically significant greater weight loss was found in patients on both doses of sibutramine compared with placebo (P <.001). No statistically significant differences between the groups were observed in respect to blood pressure and electrocardiographic intervals, but a statistically significant increase in pulse rate (7 beats/min) was noted for patients with sibutramine treatment.
A 6-month treatment with sibutramine does not affect ventricular dimensions, heart valves, and electrocardiogram variables.
The recruitment and activation of peripheral blood monocytes are potentially critical regulatory events for the control of inflammation. Increased levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 have been reported in several inflammatory disorders. In this study, we examined the effect of lidocaine on lipopolysaccharide-stimulated MCP-1 secretion and MCP-1 induced chemotaxis in a human monocytic cell line, THP-1. Lidocaine inhibited lipopolysaccharide-induced MCP-1 production as well as messenger RNA expression in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, we demonstrated that lidocaine suppressed MCP-1-induced chemotaxis and peak cytosolic-free calcium in THP-1 cells. These results suggest that lidocaine may modulate MCP-1 production and MCP-1-induced activation in inflammatory cells.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) plays important roles in the inflammatory processes. Lidocaine may modulate MCP-1-induced monocyte response, as reflected by chemotaxis, cytosolic-free calcium, and lipopolysaccharide-induced MCP-1 production by human monocytic THP-1 cells.
A 48 year old white woman was admitted to the hospital because of several bouts of migratory polyarthritis, weight loss, fever, and abdominal pain over a period of 15 months. She had been taking propylthiouracil 100 mg daily for three years for hyperthyroidism treatment. A test for antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibodies (ANCA) was positive with a perinuclear pattern of staining. Antiphospholipid antibodies were also detected. Colonoscopy showed several ulcers on intestinal mucosa and the biopsy specimen showed intense microscopic vasculitis. The patient is well after methylprednisolone pulse therapy and eight months of oral azathioprine. A surveillance colonoscopy showed complete healing of intestinal ulcers. No recurrence of symptoms has occurred and autoantibodies are negative, 10 months after treatment finished. The sequence of events suggests a propylthiouracil induced vasculitis p-ANCA positive and an antiphospholipid syndrome. This is the first report of colonic ulcers diagnosed and successfully treated in such circumstances.
Pharmacologic studies have implicated dopamine D1-like receptors in the development of dopamine precursor molecule 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias and associated molecular changes in hemiparkinsonian mice. However, pharmacologic agents for D1 or D2 receptors also recognize other receptor family members. Genetic inactivation of the dopamine D1 or D2 receptor was used to define the involvement of these receptor subtypes.
During a 3-week period of daily L-DOPA treatment (25 mg/kg), mice were examined for development of contralateral turning behavior and dyskinesias. L-DOPA-induced changes in expression of signaling molecules and other proteins in the lesioned striatum were examined immunohistochemically.
Chronic L-DOPA treatment gradually induced rotational behavior and dyskinesia in wildtype hemiparkinsonian mice. Dyskinetic symptoms were associated with increased FosB and dynorphin expression, phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase, and phosphoacetylation of histone 3 (H3) in the lesioned striatum. These molecular changes were restricted to striatal areas with complete dopaminergic denervation and occurred only in dynorphin-containing neurons of the direct pathway. D1 receptor inactivation abolished L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias and associated molecular changes. Inactivation of the D2 receptor had no significant effect on the behavioral or molecular response to chronic L-DOPA.
Our results demonstrate that the dopamine D1 receptor is critical for the development of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in mice and in the underlying molecular changes in the denervated striatum and that the D2 receptor has little or no involvement. In addition, we demonstrate that H3 phosphoacetylation is blocked by D1 receptor inactivation, suggesting that inhibitors of H3 acetylation and/or phosphorylation may be useful in preventing or reversing dyskinesia.
We describe a case of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) induced myopathy in a patient with lupus nephritis. Two months after starting MMF treatment she developed asthenia, lower limb weakness, and abnormal increase of muscle enzymes. An electromyogram showed a myogenic pattern with small polyphasic discharges without neurogenic signs involving proximal muscles of lower limbs. Muscle biopsy revealed the presence of fibers of variable size with irregular sarcoplasmic basophilic areas. Using oxidative enzyme techniques, many type I fibers showed a moth-eaten appearance resembling minicores. The ultrastructural findings consisted of myofibrillary lesions with multiple small foci of Z-band streaming. MMF withdrawal was followed by complete clinical and enzymatic recovery.
Angioedema is a well-known adverse effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. The bradykinin accumulation as a result of the decreased degradation of bradykinin is thought to be the causal mechanism. Angiotensin II antagonists seem to have no effect on the degradation of bradykinin. Therefore, it was expected that angioedema would not occur during treatment with losartan potassium, the first orally active angiotensin II antagonist.
We reviewed the 13 case reports of angioedema associated with the use of losartan reported to Lareb (Netherlands Pharmacovigilance Foundation, Den Bosch) and to the Drug Safety Unit of the Inspectorate for Health Care, Ryswyh, in the Netherlands since the introduction of losartan in 1995 until May 1997.
In all 13 cases, a diagnosis of angioedema attributed to the use of losartan seems to be very plausible. In 7 cases the diagnosis could not be confirmed by a physician because the symptoms had already been resolved, but the signs and symptoms clearly indicated angioedema. The adverse reactions occurred within 24 hours to 16 months after the initiation of losartan therapy. Three patients had previously experienced angioedema during treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor. Eleven of the patients involved were women and 2 were men.
Our observations strongly suggest that the onset of angioedema was associated with the use of losartan. Physicians and pharmacists should be aware of this potentially life-threatening complication. It may be advisable not to prescribe angiotensin II antagonists to patients with a history of angioedema (of whatever origin).
Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality that requires a novel approach to therapy. Perhexiline is an antianginal drug that augments glucose metabolism by blocking muscle mitochondrial free fatty acid uptake, thereby increasing metabolic efficiency. We assessed the effects of perhexiline treatment in CHF patients.
In a double-blind fashion, we randomly assigned patients with optimally medicated CHF to either perhexiline (n=28) or placebo (n=28). The primary end point was peak exercise oxygen consumption (VO2max), an important prognostic marker. In addition, the effect of perhexiline on myocardial function and quality of life was assessed. Quantitative stress echocardiography with tissue Doppler measurements was used to assess regional myocardial function in patients with ischemic CHF. 31P magnetic resonance spectroscopy was used to assess the effect of perhexiline on skeletal muscle energetics in patients with nonischemic CHF. Treatment with perhexiline led to significant improvements in VO2max (16.1+/-0.6 to 18.8+/-1.1 mL . kg(-1) . min(-1); P<0.001), quality of life (Minnesota score reduction from 45+/-5 to 34+/-5; P=0.04), and left ventricular ejection fraction (24+/-1% to 34+/-2%; P<0.001). Perhexiline treatment also increased resting and peak dobutamine stress regional myocardial function (by 15% and 24%, respectively) and normalized skeletal muscle phosphocreatine recovery after exercise. There were no adverse effects during the treatment period.
In patients with CHF, metabolic modulation with perhexiline improved VO2max, left ventricular ejection fraction, symptoms, resting and peak stress myocardial function, and skeletal muscle energetics. Perhexiline may therefore represent a novel treatment for CHF with a good safety profile, provided that the dosage is adjusted according to plasma levels.
Despite the widely held belief that Parkinson's disease is caused by both underlying genetics and exposure to environmental risk factors, it is still widely modelled in preclinical models using a single genetic or neurotoxic insult. This single-insult approach has resulted in a variety of models that are limited with respect to their aetiological, construct, face and/or predictive validity. Thus, the aim of the current study was to investigate the interplay between genes and the environment as an alternative approach to modelling Parkinson's disease. To do so, rats underwent stereotaxic surgery for unilateral delivery of the Parkinson's disease-associated gene, α-synuclein, into the substantia nigra (using AAV vectors). This was followed 13 weeks later by subcutaneous implantation of an osmotic minipump delivering the Parkinson's disease-associated pesticide, rotenone (2.5mgkg(-1)day(-1) for 4 weeks). The effect of the genetic and environmental insults alone or in combination on lateralised motor performance (Corridor, Stepping and Whisker Tests), nigrostriatal integrity (tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry) and α-synucleinopathy (α-synuclein immunohistochemistry) was assessed. We found that exposing AAV-α-synuclein-treated rats to rotenone led to a model in which the classical Parkinson's disease triad of progressive motor dysfunction, nigrostriatal neurodegeneration and α-synucleinopathy was evident. However, delivering rotenone systemically was also associated with bilateral motor dysfunction and loss of body weight. Thus, although we have shown that Parkinson's disease can be modelled in experimental animals by combined exposure to both genetic and environmental risk factors, this approach is limited by systemic toxicity of the pesticide rotenone. Direct intracerebral delivery of rotenone may be more useful in longer-term studies as we have previously shown that it overcomes this limitation.
To present two cases of rapid-onset obsessive-compulsive symptoms in children treated with risperidone.
"A" was an 8-year-old boy with attention deficit and chronic tic disorder who developed obsessive-compulsive symptoms within 2 weeks of starting risperidone. When the dose of 0.5 mg tid was discontinued, the obsessive-compulsive symptoms resolved with no return over 8 months of follow-up. "B" was an 11-year-old girl with mild mental retardation and aggression who was treated with risperidone 1 mg per day. Obsessive-compulsive symptoms suddenly emerged 10 days after starting risperidone and resolved within 3 days of discontinuation. In both cases, streptococcal pharyngitis was ruled out.
Although the mechanism is not clear, these cases add to several other reports concerning the sudden emergence of obsessive-compulsive symptoms and anxiety symptoms in children treated with atypical antipsychotics. Clinicians should be alert to the possibility of these adverse effects in children treated with these drugs.
Oleoylethanolamide (OEA), a lipid synthesized in the intestine, reduces food intake and stimulates lipolysis through peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha. OEA also activates transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) in vitro. Because the anorexigenic effect of OEA is associated with delayed feeding onset and reduced locomotion, we examined whether intraperitoneal administration of OEA results in nonspecific behavioral effects that contribute to the anorexia in rats. Moreover, we determined whether circulating levels of other gut hormones are modulated by OEA and whether CCK is involved in OEA-induced anorexia. Our results indicate that OEA reduces food intake without causing a conditioned taste aversion or reducing sodium appetite. It also failed to induce a conditioned place aversion. However, OEA induced changes in posture and reduced spontaneous activity in the open field. This likely underlies the reduced heat expenditure and sodium consumption observed after OEA injection, which disappeared within 1 h. The effects of OEA on motor activity were similar to those of the TRPV1 agonist capsaicin and were also observed with the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha agonist Wy-14643. Plasma levels of ghrelin, peptide YY, glucagon-like peptide 1, and apolipoprotein A-IV were not changed by OEA. Finally, antagonism of CCK-1 receptors did not affect OEA-induced anorexia. These results suggest that OEA suppresses feeding without causing visceral illness and that neither ghrelin, peptide YY, glucagon-like peptide 1, apolipoprotein A-IV, nor CCK plays a critical role in this effect. Despite that OEA-induced anorexia is unlikely to be due to impaired motor activity, our data raise a cautionary note in how specific behavioral and metabolic effects of OEA should be interpreted.
A 47 year old patient has been treated for psychotic depression for the last 5 years. The illness began manifesting through the symptoms of depressive thoughts, intrapsychic tension, projectivity, derealisation phenomena and pre-psychotic fears. She was treated with a combination of antidepressives, anxiolitics and hypnotics in ambulatory conditions. The therapy applied did not obtain the effects expected due to which an atypical antipsychotic was administered subsequently - risperidone, a 2 mg dose in the evening. After commencing the antipsychotic treatment, the symptoms started to weaken and a steady remission was obtained. Two years after a regular risperidone administration (in combination with fluoxetine, alprazolam and flurazepam) the patient reported some "bleeding" in October 2006. Hormonal blood tests were performed and high prolactin values were registered (2567.0 mIJ/L),due to which a gradual risperidone retractement was indicated. Medicamentous hyperprolactinaemia is a well known side effect of risperidone. A gradual risperidone retractement lead to a lowered and normal prolactin level within a month.
It is well documented that sulpiride causes hormonal adverse events, like amenorrhoea and galactorrhea, due to its mechanism of action. Furthermore, risperidone can produce amenorrhoea and galactorrhea also, due to its mechanism of action, which differs from that of sulpiride. This case report is of a patient that was treated with large doses of sulpiride, but did not develop an adverse event like amenorrhoea. However, when risperidone was introduced into therapy it leads to the onset of amenorrhoea. Gynecologist saw it as the beginning of menopause. General practitioner questioned the existence of an intra-cerebral process that could produce amenorrhoea as well. Therefore, the patient was sent to perform an MRI of the brain, under work diagnosis of pituitary adenoma, which was later ruled out as a cause of the illness. Well experienced psychiatrist linked the loss of menstruation with the adverse event profile of sulpiride and therefore gradually discontinued sulpiride from therapy, while risperidone was left and subsequently menstrual cycle was restored. Good knowledge of adverse events profile of antipsychotic medication used, especially when used in a combination, allows us to correctly question appearance of adverse events, to adequately treat them and lowers the cost of unneeded medical procedures.
The cardiac sodium channel (SCN5A) mutation L1825P has been identified in a patient with drug-induced torsade de pointes precipitated by the IKr blocker cisapride. Although L1825P generates late sodium current typical of SCN5A-linked long-QT syndrome (LQT3) in vitro, the patient reported had a normal QT interval before administration of the drug. To address this discrepancy, we tested the hypothesis that this mutant channel is not processed normally.
CHO cells transfected with L1825P displayed significantly reduced peak INa (209+/-36 versus 23+/-3 pA/pF, P<0.05). Confocal imaging and cell-counting studies using epitope-tagged constructs demonstrated that cell surface expression of the mutant was only approximately 9% of wild-type. Incubating transfected cells with cisapride partially rescued misprocessing to 30% of wild-type. As a result, "late" sodium current increased with cisapride from 1.2+/-0.11 to 5.04+/-0.77 pA/pF (P<0.05).
L1825P fails to generate QT prolongation because it does not reach the cell surface. Moreover, the data suggest that cisapride caused torsade de pointes not only by blocking IKr but also by rescuing cell surface expression of the mutant channel, further exaggerating the LQT3 phenotype. This not only represents a new mechanism in the drug-induced long-QT syndrome but also strongly supports the concept that variable cell surface expression contributes to clinical variability in the LQT3 phenotype.
We studied the effects of fluvastatin and bezafibrate in monotherapy and in combination on plasma fibrinogen, t-plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and C reactive protein (CRP) in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) and mixed hyperlipidaemia.
In this randomised, double blind, multicentre trial 333 patients with stable angina pectoris or previous myocardial infarction or coronary revascularisation and mixed hyperlipidaemia (LDL-cholesterol 135-250 mg/dl and triglycerides (TG) 180-400 mg/dl) were randomised to fluvastatin 40 mg, bezafibrate 400 mg, fluvastatin 20 mg + bezafibrate 400 mg or fluvastatin 40 mg + bezafibrate 400 mg treatments for 24 weeks.
Plasma fibrinogen significantly decreased after treatment with the combinations fluvastatin+bezafibrate (-14 and -16%) and with bezafibrate monotherapy (-9%). No significant reduction was observed after fluvastatin monotherapy (-4%). No significant changes were observed in PAI-1 and CRP plasma levels. Combination therapy significantly decreased both LDL-C and TG, and significantly increased HDL-C.
The combined effects on fibrinogen and plasma lipids achieved by fluvastatin and bezafibrate combination treatment might be more useful than the simple reduction of cholesterol in preventing ischaemic cardiovascular disease.
