The role of the supraspinal endogenous opioid system in pain processing has been investigated in this study using positron emission tomography imaging of [11C]-carfentanil, a synthetic, highly specific mu opioid receptor (mu-OR) agonist. Eight healthy volunteers were studied during a baseline imaging session and during a session in which subjects experienced pain induced by applying capsaicin topically to the dorsal aspect of the left hand. A pain-related decrease in brain mu-OR binding was observed in the contralateral thalamus consistent with competitive binding between [11C]-carfentanil and acutely released endogenous opioid peptides. This decrease varied directly with ratings of pain intensity. These results suggest that the supraspinal mu-opioid system is activated by acute pain and thus may play a substantial role in pain processing and modulation in pain syndromes.
To compare the efficacy of the medical treatment to surgical uterine evacuation and patient satisfaction in each group.
A randomized, controlled study.
An outpatient clinic in the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics in Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
Ninety-eight eligible women who had had miscarriages.
Medical treatment of miscarriage (n = 49) with 200 mg of mifepristone and 0.8 mg of misoprostol 1-3 days after the event or surgical uterine evacuation (n = 49). Questionnaires to collect data of experienced pain and patient satisfaction.
The complete abortion rate with the primary treatment (primary outcome) and the patient satisfaction (secondary outcome).
The success rate was equal (100% in surgical and 90% in medical group). More infections were diagnosed in the surgical group. Surgically treated patients were more satisfied with the treatment (100% vs. 88%). Medical treatment was considered more painful and fewer patients (70% vs. 91%) would choose the medical method in the future.
Medical treatment is an effective alternative to surgical treatment and increases the choice available to women. Surgical treatment is associated with more infections. More medically treated patients experienced pain and dissatisfaction.
Chronic lung inflammation has been associated with an increased risk of lung cancer. However, it is unclear whether such an event affects the incidence of mutations in the K-ras oncogene frequently found in lung tumors and suggested to be involved in lung tumorigenesis. This study investigated potential impacts of inflammation on the incidence of lung tumors and K-ras mutations using a mouse model.
FVB/N mice were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) for 16 weeks with or without co-treatment with 4-(methyl-nitrosoamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) during the first 4 weeks.
There was a significant increase in lung inflammatory responses in mice treated with LPS and with LPS+NNK, compared with mice treated with NNK or with vehicle. The average number of lung tumors per mouse was 3.87 (between 1 and 6) and 0.73 (between 0 and 3) in mice treated with LPS+NNK and NNK alone, respectively (p<0.0001). No lung tumors were observed in mice treated with LPS or vehicle. A higher proportion of lung tumors from mice treated with LPS+NNK had K-ras mutations, compared with the mice treated with NNK alone (81.03% versus 45.45%, p<0.05).
LPS-elicited chronic lung inflammation significantly increases the risk of NNK-mediated lung tumorigenesis in FVB/N mice through K-ras gene activation by point mutations.
The efficacy and safety of 2 regimens of a combination of a proprietary niacin extended release plus simvastatin (NER/S; 1,000/20 and 2,000/20 mg/day) were compared with simvastatin monotherapy (20 mg/day) for 24 weeks in 319 high-risk patients with predominantly mixed dyslipidemia who were already at National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III risk-adjusted goals for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol. After a run-in on simvastatin 20 mg/day, both NER/S doses (1,000/20 and 2,000/20 mg/day) resulted in greater decreases in non-high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol vs simvastatin 20 mg/day (-13.9% and -22.5% vs -7.4%, respectively; p <0.01). Significant improvements in HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, lipoprotein(a), and total/HDL cholesterol ratio were also observed. Patients with hypertriglyceridemia (triglycerides > or =200 mg/dl) typically had greater lipid responses to NER/S with the notable exception that HDL cholesterol responses to NER/S were similar in those with or without increased triglycerides. Treatment with both doses of NER/S was well tolerated; < or =60% of patients in any treatment group experienced flushing, >90% of flushing was mild or moderate in intensity, and only 7.5% of patients in both NER/S treatment groups discontinued because of flushing. The safety of NER/S was consistent with the safety profile of each individual component. In conclusion, this study showed that NER/S provided additional clinically relevant improvements in multiple lipid parameters and was safe and well tolerated.
This study investigated the addition of the direct renin inhibitor aliskiren to amlodipine in patients with mild to moderate hypertension that was inadequately controlled with amlodipine alone. Following once-daily treatment with amlodipine 5 mg for 4 weeks, patients whose hypertension responded inadequately to therapy (mean sitting diastolic blood pressure [DBP] 90-109 mm Hg) (n=545) were randomized to 6 weeks of double-blind treatment with amlodipine 5 mg plus aliskiren 150 mg, amlodipine 5 mg, or amlodipine 10 mg. At the study's end, mean systolic blood pressure and DBP reductions with the combination of aliskiren 150 mg and amlodipine 5 mg (11.0/8.5 mm Hg) were significantly greater (P<.0001) than with amlodipine 5 mg (5.0/4.8 mm Hg)--the comparator group--but similar to amlodipine 10 mg (9.6/8.0 mm Hg). All treatments were well tolerated. Edema occurred more frequently with amlodipine 10 mg (11.2%) than with combination therapy (2.1%) or amlodipine 5 mg (3.4%). In conclusion, aliskiren 150 mg plus amlodipine 5 mg shows similar but not better blood pressure-lowering efficacy when compared with amlodipine 10 mg in patients not completely responsive to amlodipine 5 mg; less edema was noted with combination therapy.
Excessive ingestion of caffeine can induce hypokalemia, which affects the neuromuscular system and can lead to paralysis.
A 24-year-old woman, gravida 3, para 2-0-0-2 at 33 weeks' gestation presented with muscular paralysis and hypokalemia secondary to drinking 6 to 7 L of cola per day with little other oral intake. After potassium replacement and stopping caffeine ingestion, the symptoms resolved quickly.
The physiologic changes of pregnancy might potentiate the effect of caffeine on serum potassium concentration.
Epidemiological investigations have indicated that aluminium (Al) is an important environmental neurotoxicant that may be involved in the aetiology of the cognitive dysfunction associated with neurodegenerative diseases. Additionally, exposure to Al is known to cause neurobehavioural abnormalities in animals. Previous studies demonstrated that Al impaired early-phase long-term potentiation (E-LTP) in vivo and in vitro. Our previous research revealed that Al could impair long-term memory via the impairment of late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP) in vivo. However, the exact mechanism by which Al impairs long-term memory has been poorly studied thus far. This study was designed not only to observe the effects of subchronic Al treatment on long-term memory and hippocampal ultrastructure but also to explore a possible underlying mechanism (involving the cAMP-PKA-CREB signalling pathway) in the hippocampus of rats.. Pregnant Wistar rats were assigned to four groups. Neonatal rats were exposed to Al by parental lactation for 3 weeks and then fed with distilled water containing 0, 0.2%, 0.4% or 0.6% Al chloride (AlCl3) for 3 postnatal months. The levels of Al in the blood and hippocampus were quantified by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. The shuttle-box test was performed to detect long-term memory. The hippocampus was collected for ultrastructure observation, and the level of cAMP-PKA-CREB signalling was examined. The results showed that the Al concentrations in the blood and hippocampus of Al-treated rats were higher than those of the control rats. Al may impair the long-term memory of rats. Hippocampal cAMP, cPKA, pCREB, BDNF and c-jun expression decreased significantly, and the neuronal and synaptic ultrastructure exhibited pathological changes after Al treatment. These results indicated that Al may induce long-term memory damage in rats by inhibiting cAMP-PKA-CREB signalling and altering the synaptic and neuronal ultrastructure in the hippocampus.
In 10 patients with uncomplicated anterior acute myocardial infarction, within 24 hours after onset, heart rate, plasma renin activity, and the low- to high-frequency power ratio increased and high-frequency power decreased during nitroglycerin infusion; however, both heart rate and plasma renin activity did not change, the low- to high-frequency power ratio decreased, and high-frequency power increased during atrial natriuretic peptide infusion. Atrial natriuretic peptide seems to be more beneficial in its effect on autonomic nervous activity, plasma renin activity, and myocardial oxygen consumption than nitroglycerin for the treatment of anterior acute myocardial infarction.
A new case of acute renal failure after rifampicin is presented, together with a review of the 36 similar cases published up to date in the literature. Evidence is provided that irregularities in drug intake, either as true intermittent treatment or as discontinuation of continuous therapy, play an important role in the pathogenesis of such reactions. Renal failure appeared after a rather long uneventful interval from the beginning of rifampicin therapy, ranging from 1 month to more than 1 year. Its clinical course was favourable in all but one case; the histological picture was mainly of tubulo-interstitial type. The controversial immunological data reported in the literature are reviewed; an increase of histamine release by rat mast cells has been found in presence of rifampicin plus the serum of our patient: the implications of this finding are discussed, suggesting a possible immunological factor in the pathogenesis of acute renal failure after rifampicin.
We investigated the interaction between spinally administered bupivacaine and clonidine using an animal model of acute and inflammatory pain. Rats implanted with lumbar intrathecal catheters were injected intrathecally with saline (control), bupivacaine (1 to 100 microg), or clonidine (0.1 to 3 microg) and tested for their responses to thermal stimulation to the tail (tail flick test) and subcutaneous formalin injection into the hindpaw (formalin test). The effects of the combination of bupivacaine and clonidine on both stimuli were tested by isobolographic analysis. General behavior and motor function were examined as side effects. The 50% effective doses of bupivacaine and clonidine were significantly smaller when combined compared with each single drug in both the tail flick test (2.82 and 0.11 microg versus 7.1 and 0.29 microg, respectively) and phase 1 (0.24 and 0.009 microg versus 5.7 and 0.15 microg) and phase 2 (0.31 and 0.012 microg versus 3.2 and 0.16 microg) of the formalin test. Side effects were decreased by the combination. These results suggest a favorable combination of intrathecal bupivacaine and clonidine in the management of acute and inflammatory pain.
The analgesic interaction between intrathecally administered bupivacaine and clonidine was examined during acute thermal and inflammatory-induced pain in rats. The analgesia produced by the combination of these two drugs was synergistic in both acute thermal and inflammatory induced pain, with a decrease in behavioral side effects.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is aggressive with poor prognosis. Due to t(11;14)(q13;q32), cyclin D1 is overexpressed. The in vitro activities of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) in MCL were investigated. In MCL lines Jeko-1 and Granta-519, As2O3 induced dose-dependent and time-dependent increases in apoptosis accompanied by cyclin D1 suppression. Downregulation of cyclin D1 resulted in decreased retinoblastoma protein phosphorylation, which led to repressed G1 progression to S/G2 phases. As2O3 did not affect cyclin D1 gene transcription. Instead, As2O3 activated glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (by tyrosine-216 phosphorylation) and IkappaB kinase alpha/beta (by serine-176/180 phosphorylation), both of which phosphorylated cyclin D1 at threonine-286, leading to its poly-ubiquitination and degradation in the proteasome. These observations were recapitulated partly in primary MCL samples obtained from patients refractory to conventional treatment. Our findings suggested that As2O3 might be clinically useful in MCL.
To investigate the hypothesis that methotrexate causes demyelination due to a deficiency in S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) during the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
Twenty-four patients treated on the Medical Research Council United Kingdom ALL trial no. 11 (MRC UKALL XI) were studied. The trial randomized patients at the presymptomatic CNS treatment (PCNS) phase to receive (1) intrathecal methotrexate and cranial radiotherapy (CRTX); (2) high-dose intravenous methotrexate with folinic acid rescue and continuing intrathecal methotrexate (HDMTX); and (3) continuing intrathecal methotrexate alone (ITMTX). Serial CSF samples were collected throughout treatment and concentrations of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate (MTF), methionine (MET), SAM, and myelin basic protein (MBP) were measured. The results were grouped into treatment milestones and compared with an age-matched reference population.
There was a highly significant effect of both treatment milestones and trial arm on the metabolite and MBP concentrations. CSF MTF reached a nadir during the induction phase of treatment, while SAM and MET reached their nadir during the consolidation phase. CSF MBP mirrored SAM concentration and there was a significant inverse relationship between the two. MTF, SAM, and MBP returned to normal values by the end of treatment, while MET was increased significantly. The effect of treatment was decremental across the ITMTX, HDMTX, and CRTX groups.
Treatment of ALL causes marked abnormalities in the single-carbon transfer pathway and subclinical demyelination. Methotrexate is one cause of this. Whether these abnormalities contribute to the late cognitive deficits requires further study.
This multicenter, double-blind, randomized, controlled study conducted in China examined the efficacy and safety of olanzapine versus lithium in the treatment of patients with bipolar manic/mixed episodes.
Patients with bipolar manic or mixed episode (DSM-IV criteria) and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) score> or =20 at screening received olanzapine (5-20 mg/day, n=69) or lithium carbonate (600-1800 mg/day, n=71) for 4 weeks. The primary outcome was mean change from baseline in Clinical Global Impressions-Bipolar Version Overall Severity of Illness (CGI-BP) score. Secondary efficacy measures included YMRS, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS), and Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores. Safety was also assessed.
A significantly greater mean change was observed in olanzapine versus lithium patients in CGI-BP (Overall Severity) (P=0.009), YMRS (P=0.013), BPRS (P=0.032), and CGI-BP (Severity of Mania) (P=0.012) scores. More olanzapine than lithium patients experienced at least one adverse event possibly related to study drug (P=0.038). More olanzapine patients had a clinically significant weight increase (> or =7% of baseline weight) compared to lithium patients (P=0.009). More olanzapine patients completed the study than lithium patients, although this difference was not statistically significant (olz, 91.3%; lith, 78.9%; P=0.057).
No placebo arm was included; however both treatments have previously been reported to be more effective than placebo.
These results suggest that olanzapine has superior efficacy to lithium in the acute treatment of patients with bipolar mania over a 4-week period. However, adverse events were experienced by a greater number of olanzapine patients than lithium patients.
The role of multipotential progenitors and neural stem cells in the adult subventricular zone (SVZ) as cell-of-origin of glioblastoma has been suggested by studies on human tumors and transgenic mice. However, it is still unknown whether glial tumors are generated by all of the heterogeneous SVZ cell types or only by specific subpopulations of cells. It has been proposed that transformation could result from lack of apoptosis and increased self-renewal, but the definition of the properties leading to neoplastic transformation of SVZ cells are still elusive. This study addresses these questions in mice carrying the deletion of p53, a tumor-suppressor gene expressed in the SVZ. We show here that, although loss of p53 by itself is not sufficient for tumor formation, it provides a proliferative advantage to the slow- and fast-proliferating subventricular zone (SVZ) populations associated with their rapid differentiation. This results in areas of increased cell density that are distributed along the walls of the lateral ventricles and often associated with increased p53-independent apoptosis. Transformation occurs when loss of p53 is associated with a mutagenic stimulus and is characterized by dramatic changes in the properties of the quiescent adult SVZ cells, including enhanced self-renewal, recruitment to the fast-proliferating compartment, and impaired differentiation. Together, these findings provide a cellular mechanism for how the slow-proliferating SVZ cells can give rise to glial tumors in the adult brain.
Gastric adenocarcinoma is one of the most common cancers in Asian countries including China. Although its incidence rates in the West are lower than that in Asia, gastric cancer is still a major health problem worldwide, being second only to lung cancers in the number of deaths it causes. Helicobacter pylori infection has been identified as the major pathogen, but the detailed pathogenesis of gastric carcinoma remains elusive. Due to the lack of suitable and specific biomarkers for early detection, most cases of the disease are diagnosed at late stages and the survival rate is low. In this study, we used a proteomic approach to globally analyze the protein profiles of paired surgical specimens of primary gastric adenocarcinoma and nontumor mucosa aiming at identifying specific disease-associated proteins as potential clinical biomarkers and for carcinogenetic study. Compared to nontumor tissues, multiple protein alterations were found in tumor tissues. Some of these alterations involve variations in the expression of cytoskeleton proteins, including an increase in cytokeratin 8 and tropomyosin isoform and a decrease in cytokeratin 20. Co-up-regulations of heat-shock proteins and glycolytic enzymes were observed in tumor tissues, indicating self-protective efforts of cells and the growing energy requirement during malignant transformation. Diverse regulations also occurred with proteins involved in cell proliferation and differentiation, such as GMP reductase 2 and creatine kinase B, and proteins bearing potential tumor suppressor activities, including prohibitin and selenium binding protein 1. More interestingly, a human stomach-specific protein, 18 kDa antrum mucosa protein, was found to be dramatically under-expressed in cancer tissues, implicating a possible special pathological role for this protein in gastric carcinogenesis. Further comprehensive evaluation by globally considering the altered factors may result in the discovery of a biomarker index for effective assessment of the disease and may provide in-depth information for better understanding the pathogenesis of gastric cancer.
Midazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine routinely used in intensive-care medicine. Conjugates of its main metabolite, alpha-hydroxymidazolam, have been shown to accumulate in renal failure but have not previously been related to the prolonged sedative effects commonly observed in critically ill patients. We report five patients with severe renal failure who had prolonged sedation after administration of midazolam. In all five patients, the comatose state was immediately reversed by the benzodiazepine-receptor antagonist flumazenil. Serum concentration monitoring showed high concentrations of conjugated alpha-hydroxymidazolam when concentrations of the unconjugated metabolite and the parent drug were below the therapeutic range. In-vitro binding studies showed that the affinity of binding to the cerebral benzodiazepine receptor of glucuronidated alpha-hydroxymidazolam was only about ten times weaker (affinity constant 16 nmol/L) than that of midazolam (1.4 nmol/L) or unconjugated alpha-hydroxymidazolam (2.2 nmol/L). Conjugated metabolites of midazolam have substantial pharmacological activity. Physicians should be aware that these metabolites can accumulate in patients with renal failure.
Neurogenic inflammation is an inflammatory response of peripheral tissue to vasoactive substances released from sensory afferent terminals. It can be triggered via a local axon reflex and by dorsal root reflex (DRR) activity involving the spinal cord. Nociceptin, an endogenous ligand for the opioid receptor-like (ORL-1) G-protein coupled receptor, has been found to inhibit the local axon reflex-mediated neurogenic inflammation by suppressing the release of vasoactive neuropeptides from sensory afferent terminals. The present study was to explore the role of spinal ORL-1 receptors in the modulation of DRR-induced neurogenic inflammation. We first examined the effect of nociceptin on DRR by recording dorsal root potentials (DRPs) and the associated antidromic discharges, evoked by electrical stimulation of an adjacent dorsal root in an in vitro neonatal rat spinal cord preparation. Nociceptin reversibly inhibited the DRP in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50: approximately 45 nM, maximal inhibition: approximately 50%), an effect that was antagonized by the ORL-1 receptor antagonist, J-113397. Neurochemical studies demonstrated that nociceptin (10 microM) also produced an approximately 40% reduction in gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) release evoked by electrical stimulation of neonatal rat spinal cord slices. On the other hand, nociceptin had no effect on exogenous GABA-evoked DRP. These findings suggest that the nociceptin-induced inhibition of the DRP is most likely due to the suppression of GABA release, the principle transmitter mediating DRP, from GABAergic neurons that are pre-synaptic to primary afferent terminals. Finally, in order to explore the physiological significance of such modulation in a fully integrated system, we evaluated the effect of intrathecally administered nociceptin on capsaicin-induced acute cutaneous neurogenic inflammation in rat hind paw, quantified by examining the degree of paw edema in anesthetized rats. The magnitude of capsaicin-induced increase of paw thickness was reduced by approximately 50% from 31+/-1.34% (n=6) to 15+/-1.63% (n=8; P<0.05) by nociceptin (10 micromol). We conclude that spinal ORL-1 receptors can modulate neurogenic inflammation by suppressing the GABAergic neuronal activity in the dorsal horn that is responsible for generating DRRs.
Functional and histological damage after intravesical administration of mitomycin C or doxorubicin were studied in mouse bladders. Dosing schedules were based on those commonly used in the clinic, and bladder function was assessed from changes in urination frequency. Repeated weekly instillations of 1 mg./ml. mitomycin C induced a transient three-fold increase in Frequency Index (FI) with recovery to control levels within 3 weeks. Weekly instillations of 6 mg./ml. doxorubicin also resulted in a three-fold increase in FI, but lower doses produced only minimal changes. There was, again, full recovery within 3 weeks. Our experiments indicate that repeated intravesical instillations of mitomycin C or doxorubicin are well tolerated, with rapid recovery from functional damage within a few weeks of cessation of therapy. There was significantly less damage after repeated instillations of clinically relevant doses of doxorubicin than mitomycin C.
OROS methylphenidate HCL (MPH) is a recently developed long-acting stimulant medication used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This study was conducted to examine dosage effects on ADHD symptoms and stimulant side effects and to explore potential moderating effects of ADHD subtype.
Children with ADHD combined type (ADHD-CT) or predominantly inattentive type (ADHD-PI; n = 47), ages 5 to 16 years, underwent a placebo-controlled, crossover trial using forced titration with weekly switches at 3 dosage levels. Parent and teacher ratings of ADHD symptoms were used to evaluate efficacy. In addition, vital signs and standardized measures of stimulant side effects were obtained weekly.
Parent ratings were more sensitive to treatment effects than teacher ratings. ADHD symptoms and Clinical Global Impressions Severity Index ratings at each dose condition differed significantly from placebo and baseline ratings, which did not differ from one another. For those with ADHD-CT, there was a clear linear dose-response relationship, with clinically significant reductions in ADHD Rating Scale-IV scores occurring in two thirds to three fourths of the subjects during either 36- or 54-mg dose conditions. Children with ADHD-PI, conversely, were more likely to respond optimally to lower doses and derived less benefit from higher doses, with 60% displaying significant improvement on the ADHD Rating Scale-IV at 36 mg or lower. Mild stimulant side effects were reported during placebo and at all dosage levels. With the exception of insomnia and decreased appetite, which were more common at higher doses, parent report of side effects was not related to dose. In addition, younger and smaller children were more likely to display sleep difficulties and decreased appetite at the higher dose levels Although pulse rate increased slightly with increasing dose, there were no dose effects on blood pressure.
In children with ADHD-CT, the most common subtype of ADHD, increasing doses of stimulant medication were associated with increased improvement of inattention and hyperactivity symptoms. In children with ADHD-PI, symptom improvement occurred at lower doses and less benefit was derived from higher doses. In both ADHD subtypes, higher doses were associated with parent ratings of increased insomnia and decreased appetite.
Methimazole is a widely used and generally well-tolerated antithyroid agent. A 43-year-old woman had severe jaundice and itching 1 month after receiving methimazole (10 mg tid) and propranolol (20 mg tid) for treatment of hyperthyroidism. The patient continued treatment for another 4 days after the appearance of jaundice until she finished both medications. When seen at the emergency department 2 weeks later, she still had severe icterus, pruritus, and hyperbilirubinemia, formed mainly of the conjugated fraction. Methimazole-induced cholestasis was diagnosed, and propranolol therapy was resumed. Over the following 9 days, the symptoms improved and plasma bilirubin levels were normal after 12 weeks without methimazole. In rare cases within the first few weeks of therapy, this drug can cause severe and reversible cholestatic jaundice. Physicians and patients should be aware of this adverse effect so that, upon occurrence, they can discontinue methimazole therapy and avoid unnecessary invasive procedures.
Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChIs) are widely used in the treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), but their cholinergic effects could generate adverse side effects in the cardiovascular system. This report presents the cases of 2 patients who experienced adverse side effects of cardiac rhythm with QT prolongation caused by Donepezil. Both of them improved to the original rhythm and shortened QT intervals after the discontinuation of Donepezil. The present cases suggest that the cholinergic effects of Donepezil could induce adverse side effects on cardiac rhythm and careful consideration is needed for the patients treated by Donepezil.
Expression patterns of 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptors during mouse embryogenesis were investigated using highly specific monoclonal antibodies. Differential and overlapping spatio-temporal patterns of 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2B) and 5-HT(2C) receptor immunoreactivity were observed during active phases of morphogenesis of a variety of embryonic tissues, including neuroepithelia of brain and spinal cord, notochord, somites, cranial neural crest, craniofacial mesenchyme and epithelia, heart myocardium and endocardial cushions, tooth germs, whisker follicles, cartilage and striated muscle. The functional significance of these receptors was tested by exposing headfold stage mouse embryos to different subtype-selective 5-HT(2) receptor antagonists for 2 days in whole embryo culture. The most potent was the pan 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist ritanserin, which has high affinity for the 5-HT(2B) receptor. Ritanserin caused 100% malformed embryos at a dose of 1 microM. The 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor antagonist mianserin also caused a significant number of malformed embryos, but only when used at a 10 fold higher dose (10 microM). Ketanserin, which primarily targets 5-HT(2A) receptors, did not cause a significant number of malformed embryos at any dose tested. Together with previous evidence that 5-HT acts as an important morphoregulatory signal during mouse embryogenesis, present evidence for the early and continued expression of functional 5-HT(2) receptors throughout gestation raises the possibility that psychotropic drugs taken during pregnancy could interfere with developmental actions of 5-HT during prenatal development of neural and non-neural tissues.
The atypical neuroleptic sulpiride is also prescribed for depression because of its activating effect. However, such an effect does not necessarily imply an action identical to that of classical antidepressants, and a laboratory comparison of the neuroleptic and antidepressant activities of sulpiride may contribute to a better definition of its psychotherapeutic profile. Sulpiride isomers were studied in the rat in four behavioural models of depression which are thought to be influenced by neuroleptics in different ways. Desipramine (imipramine) and haloperidol were employed in each test as a standard antidepressant and neuroleptic, respectively. The four tests were: 1) prevention of apomorphine-induced sedation: 2) antagonism of apomorphine-induced hypothermia; 3) behavioural despair (swim test); 4) learned helplessness ( FR2 lever pressing escape). Desipramine ameliorated behaviour in all tests; haloperidol ameliorated the response to test 1, influenced that to test 2 in a neuroleptic-like way and worsened the responses to tests 3 and 4. (-)-Sulpiride worked in a similar way to haloperidol in all tests. (+)-Sulpiride significantly and dose-dependently ameliorated the responses to test 3 and was inactive in the others. No conclusion was drawn from test 1 owing to its lack of specificity; the results of the remaining tests indicated a neuroleptic profile of (-)-sulpiride and suggested a potential "antidepressant" activity of (+)-sulpiride which merits further investigation.
Myocardial ischaemia can provoke a rise in cytosolic calcium which may in turn trigger malignant ventricular arrhythmias. Recently, inhibition of calcium entry has been shown to prevent these lethal arrhythmias. However, the contributions of calcium release from cytosolic stores to these disruptions in cardiac rhythm have not been investigated. This study examines the role of calcium release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum in the initiation of lethal ventricular arrhythmias.
Mongrel dogs were chronically instrumented to measure left ventricular pressure, coronary blood flow, and cardiac electrical activity (ventricular electrocardiogram). The left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated during the surgery to produce a myocardial infarction. In addition, a hydraulic occluder was placed around the left circumflex artery. The susceptibility to ventricular fibrillation was then evaluated by the combination of acute myocardial ischaemia and exercise.
Ventricular fibrillation was induced in 10 animals during the exercise plus ischaemia test. On a subsequent day the exercise plus ischaemia test was repeated after pretreatment with ryanodine (10 micrograms.kg-1, n = 10), a drug which impairs calcium efflux from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Ryanodine failed to prevent ventricular fibrillation induced by ischaemia. Ryanodine significantly (p < 0.01) increased heart rate [control 115.3(SEM 6.3) v ryanodine 156.4(14.7) beats.min-1] but reduced left ventricular systolic pressure [control 141.8(4.9) v ryanodine 111.1(12.7) mm Hg] and positive left ventricular dP/dt [3312.9(217.4) v ryanodine 1462.9(226.3) mm Hg.s-1] both at rest and during exercise. In contrast, this drug abolished ventricular tachycardia induced by ouabain toxicity (n = 10, 40 micrograms.kg-1 bolus followed by 0.076 microgram.kg-1.min-1 for 1 h, then 20 micrograms.kg-1 bolus, intravenously).
These data suggest that calcium release from ryanodine sensitive channels in the sarcoplasmic reticulum may contribute significantly to the arrhythmias induced by ouabain toxicity but not to ventricular fibrillation provoked by ischaemia.
Tendon xanthomas are deposits of lipids and connective tissue commonly found in hypercholesterolemic patients. Macrophages are likely to be responsible for the lipid accumulation. Normolipidemic patients with the rare disease cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis, lacking the enzyme sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27A1), develop prominent xanthomas in tendons and brain containing both cholestanol and cholesterol, with a cholestanol:cholesterol ratio higher than that in the circulation. Because of its ability to convert cholesterol into polar metabolites that leave the cells faster, CYP27A1 has been suggested to be an antiatherogenic enzyme. The hypothesis was tested that tendons contain CYP27A1 that may be of importance for the normal efflux of both steroids.
Western blotting and combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry showed that human tendons contain significant amounts of CYP27A1 and its product, 27-hydroxycholesterol. Immunohistochemistry showed that CYP27A1 is present in macrophages and tenocytes. The tendons also contained cholestanol, with a cholestanol:cholesterol ratio slightly higher than that in the circulation. Recombinant human CYP27A1, and cultured human macrophages containing this enzyme, had similar activity toward cholesterol and cholestanol. After loading of macrophages with labeled cholesterol and cholestanol, there was an efflux of these steroids in both unmetabolized and 27-oxygenated form, resulting in a significant cellular accumulation of cholestanol compared with cholesterol.
The results are consistent with the possibility that CYP27A1 is of importance for the efflux of both cholesterol and cholestanol from tendons.
Perinatal transmission of hepatitis B virus (HBV) contributes to the high prevalence of chronic infection in China and many other countries. In a placebo-controlled trial among 166 infants, the 12-month efficacy of active postexposure prophylaxis to prevent chronic perinatal HBV infection varied by vaccine (range, 45%-89%). In a 5-year follow-up study, 2 additional infants became chronically infected with HBV, and the efficacy of active prophylaxis was estimated to be 38% and 72% for the two vaccines at 5 years. In addition, 80% of immunized infants continued to have protective levels of antibody at the end of 5 years. However, among 27 infants who received passive-active immunoprophylaxis with high-dose hepatitis B immune globulin, only 60% (11/19) had protective antibody levels. These data indicate that active postexposure immunization initiated soon after birth continues to provide protection during early childhood when there is a high risk of chronic HBV infection.
We sought to establish the prevalence of lithium-induced end-stage renal disease in two regions of Sweden with 2.7 million inhabitants corresponding to about 30% of the Swedish population. Eighteen patients with lithium-induced end-stage renal disease were identified among the 3369 patients in the general lithium-treated population, representing a sixfold increase in prevalence compared with the general population for renal replacement therapy. All lithium-treated patients were older than 46 years at end-stage renal disease with a mean lithium treatment time of 23 years with ten patients having discontinued lithium treatment an average of 10 years before the start of renal replacement therapy. The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (defined as plasma creatinine over 150 micromol/l) in the general lithium-treated population was about 1.2% (excluding patients on renal replacement therapy). Compared with lithium-treated patients without renal failure, those with chronic kidney disease were older and most were men but, as groups, their mean serum lithium levels and psychiatric diagnoses did not differ. We found that end-stage renal disease is an uncommon but not rare consequence of long-term lithium treatment and is more prevalent than previously thought. Time on lithium was the only identified risk factor in this study, suggesting that regular monitoring of renal function in these patients is mandatory.
