Activation in conscious dogs of the carotid chemoreflex or cardiac receptors results in coronary vasodilation that is mediated by a vagal cholinergic mechanism. Our previous study showed that the coronary vasodilation following activation of carotid chemoreflex is also mediated by nitric oxide (NO). In addition, NO production is depressed after the development of heart failure. Therefore, we hypothesized that the coronary vasodilation after activation of reflexes that elicit efferent vagal coronary vasodilation would be blunted in conscious dogs after pacing-induced heart failure due to the disappearance of NO.
Mongrel dogs were chronically instrumented using sterile techniques for measurements of systemic hemodynamics and left circumflex coronary blood flow (CBF). Without the heart rate controlled, intra-atrial injection of veratrine (4 micrograms/kg) caused bradycardia (-36 +/- 3 beats per minute). With the heart rate controlled, veratrine increased CBF in a dose-dependent manner: for example, 4 micrograms/kg of veratrine increased CBF by 54 +/- 5% from 38 +/- 4.9 mL/min (P < .05). The increases in CBF induced by veratrine were markedly blunted by nitro-L-arginine (NLA). Activation of carotid chemoreflex by nicotine increased CBF by 121 +/- 9% from 32 +/- 4 mL++/min (P < .05) with the heart rate controlled and caused bradycardia (-32 +/- 5 beats per minute) without the heart rate controlled. After the development of heart failure, in response to activation of carotid chemoreflex or cardiac receptors the coronary vasodilation was almost abolished (CBF increased by only 23 +/- 8% or 11 +/- 3%, P < .05 compared with control). There still was a marked bradycardia after injections of nicotine or veratrine (-50 +/- 11 or -48 +/- 7 beats per minute).
Our results indicate that vagally mediated coronary vasodilation is selectively attenuated in conscious dogs after pacing-induced heart failure, whereas the vagally mediated bradycardia is preserved. Since muscarinic receptor-induced coronary vasodilation is mediated by NO, the disappearance of NO from blood vessels leads to a defect in the integrated neural regulation of coronary blood flow and myocardial function during heart failure.
Male Swiss mice, when exposed to increasing concentrations of ethanol vapor for a period of 9 days, developed tolerance to as well as physical dependence on ethanol. Desferrioxamine, an iron-chelator and a lipid peroxidation inhibitor, administered to individual mice at a daily dose of 350 mg/kg body weight, caused a reduction in the degree of dependence but not of tolerance. Also, desferrioxamine protected the mice against the reduction in body weight increment observed over the inhalation period. It is suggested that desferrioxamine acts either via inhibiting the ethanol-induced lipid peroxidation, suspected to be involved in dependence, or via a different iron-sensitive mechanism.
This study sought to determine whether or not transitional carcinoma cells can adhere and progressively grow on normal or inflamed bladder urothelium. Inflammation was produced by intravesical N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. Tumor cell implantation occurred in only 13 per cent of mice with normal bladder, whereas in the presence of an altered urothelial surface ther was a 60 per cent incidence of tumors. This study not only has clinical implications but also offers a model to investigate modalities to prevent tumor cell implantation.
Metabolism of benzene is thought to be necessary to produce the toxic effects, including carcinogenicity, associated with benzene exposure. To extrapolate from the results of rodent studies to potential health risks in man, one must know how benzene metabolism is affected by species, dose, dose rate, and repeated versus single exposures. The purpose of our studies was to determine the effect of repeated inhalation exposures on the metabolism of [14C]benzene by rodents. Benzene metabolism was assessed by characterizing and quantitating urinary metabolites, and by quantitating 14C bound to hemoglobin and micronuclei induction. F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were exposed, nose-only, to 600 ppm benzene or to air (control) for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week for 3 weeks. On the last day, both benzene-pretreated and control animals were exposed to 600 ppm, 14C-labeled benzene for 6 hr. Individual benzene metabolites in urine collected for 24 hr after the exposure were analyzed. There was a significant decrease in the respiratory rate of mice (but not rats) pretreated with benzene which resulted in lower levels of urinary [14C]benzene metabolites. The analyses indicated that the only effects of benzene pretreatment on the metabolite profile in rat or mouse urine were a slight shift from glucuronidation to sulfation in mice and a shift from sulfation to glucuronidation in rats. Benzene pretreatment also had no effect, in either species, on formation of [14C]benzene-derived hemoglobin adducts. Mice and rats had similar levels of hemoglobin adduct binding, despite the higher metabolism of benzene by mice. This indicates that hemoglobin adduct formation occurs with higher efficiency in rats. After 1 week of exposure to 600 ppm benzene, the frequency of micronucleated, polychromatic erythrocytes (PCEs) in mice was significantly increased. Exposure to the same level of benzene for an additional 2 weeks did not further increase the frequency of micronuclei in PCEs. These results indicate that repeated exposures to benzene, such as might be encountered by humans as a result of occupational or environmental exposures, are not likely to change or increase benzene metabolism.
To report a case of idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity associated with metformin in the treatment of type 2 diabetes with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
A 61-year-old obese man presented with jaundice, nausea, fatigue, and an unintentional weight loss 2 weeks following initiation of metformin. Laboratory findings revealed aminotransferase values 10-15 times the upper limit of normal. Potential causative agents, including metformin, simvastatin, and Niaspan (extended-release niacin), were discontinued. Two months later, the patient's signs and symptoms had resolved and aminotransferase values returned to normal. An objective causality assessment revealed that the adverse reaction was probably associated with metformin.
Since numerous medications and disease states can cause abnormalities in liver enzymes, it is important for providers to be able to distinguish the cause(s) and take appropriate actions. This can take a great deal of time and effort in patients with multiple medications and comorbidities. In this patient's case, viral hepatitis, worsening NAFLD, and the concomitant drugs were highly suspected. As hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors offer substantial cardiovascular benefits and as metformin is a first-line agent in helping to lower blood glucose concentrations and to normalize the metabolic profile in type 2 diabetes, reintroduction of metformin and simvastatin would likely be beneficial.
This is a case report of metformin-induced hepatotoxicity. As the prevalence of type 2 diabetes and subsequent metabolic effects increases in the US, metformin use will likewise increase. As potential for increased idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity associated with metformin use is likely to occur, clinicians should be vigilant.
To determine if chronic ethanol administration modifies the effect of halothane on the liver, fourteen male Wistar rats were pair-fed nutritionally adequate liquid diets containing either ethanol (36% of calories) or isocaloric carbohydrate (controls) for 6 weeks. After halothane anesthesia of these animals under different oxygen concentration, the livers were examined light microscopically as well as biochemically. The livers from rats fed ethanol which received halothane at low oxygen concentration showed multifocal or patchy necrosis primarily in the centrilobular regions with parenchymal lipid accumulation, whereas no such lesions were not observed in pair-fed controls. Hepatic necrosis was also seen after halothane anesthesia even at ambient oxygen concentrations, although the degree of necrosis was much milder. Hepatic microsomal cytochrome P450 content was increased by 30% after ethanol but was decreased following halothane anesthesia. These data suggest that halothane is hepatotoxic to liver of rats chronically pretreated with ethanol, especially under hypoxic condition.
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) are the mainstay in the pharmacologic management of dyslipidemia. Since they are widely prescribed, their safety remains an issue of concern. Rosuvastatin has been proven to be efficacious in improving serum lipid profiles. Recently published data from the JUPITER study confirmed the efficacy of this statin in primary prevention for older patients with multiple risk factors and evidence of inflammation. Rosuvastatin exhibits high hydrophilicity and hepatoselectivity, as well as low systemic bioavailability, while undergoing minimal metabolism via the cytochrome P450 system. Therefore, rosuvastatin has an interesting pharmacokinetic profile that is different from that of other statins. However, it remains to be established whether this may translate into a better safety profile and fewer drug-drug interactions for this statin compared with others. Herein, we review evidence with regard to the safety of this statin as well as its interactions with agents commonly prescribed in the clinical setting. As with other statins, rosuvastatin treatment is associated with relatively low rates of severe myopathy, rhabdomyolysis, and renal failure. Asymptomatic liver enzyme elevations occur with rosuvastatin at a similarly low incidence as with other statins. Rosuvastatin treatment has also been associated with adverse effects related to the gastrointestinal tract and central nervous system, which are also commonly observed with many other drugs. Proteinuria induced by rosuvastatin is likely to be associated with a statin-provoked inhibition of low-molecular-weight protein reabsorption by the renal tubules. Higher doses of rosuvastatin have been associated with cases of renal failure. Also, the co-administration of rosuvastatin with drugs that increase rosuvastatin blood levels may be deleterious for the kidney. Furthermore, rhabdomyolysis, considered a class effect of statins, is known to involve renal damage. Concerns have been raised by findings from the JUPITER study suggesting that rosuvastatin may slightly increase the incidence of physician-reported diabetes mellitus, as well as the levels of glycated hemoglobin in older patients with multiple risk factors and low-grade inflammation. Clinical trials proposed no increase in the incidence of neoplasias with rosuvastatin treatment compared with placebo. Drugs that antagonize organic anion transporter protein 1B1-mediated hepatic uptake of rosuvastatin are more likely to interact with this statin. Clinicians should be cautious when rosuvastatin is co-administered with vitamin K antagonists, cyclosporine (ciclosporin), gemfibrozil, and antiretroviral agents since a potential pharmacokinetic interaction with those drugs may increase the risk of toxicity. On the other hand, rosuvastatin combination treatment with fenofibrate, ezetimibe, omega-3-fatty acids, antifungal azoles, rifampin (rifampicin), or clopidogrel seems to be safe, as there is no evidence to support any pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interaction of rosuvastatin with any of these drugs. Rosuvastatin therefore appears to be relatively safe and well tolerated, sharing the adverse effects that are considered class effects of statins. Practitioners of all medical practices should be alert when rosuvastatin is prescribed concomitantly with agents that may increase the risk of rosuvastatin-associated toxicity.
Eight cases of postural focal cerebral ischaemia due to antihypertensive medications presented to one neurologist over an eight-month period. Most patients were elderly and suffered from chronic hypertension; their symptoms resolved after the reduction or cessation of these medications. These findings re-emphasize that considerable caution is required when antihypertensive medications are used in elderly persons and in patients with chronic hypertension whose cerebral blood-flow autoregulatory curves are shifted to the right. We also draw attention to the fact that drug-induced hypotension may induce focal cerebral ischaemia rather than generalized cerebral ischaemia more frequently than is generally appreciated.
We investigated whether urinary podocytes are present in septic patients with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)-associated glomerulonephritis and whether polymyxin B-immobilized fiber (PMX-F) treatment affects proteinuria and urinary podocyte excretion in these patients.
Twenty septic patients with MRSA-associated glomerulonephritis (mean age: 63.7 years) and 80 septic patients whose MRSA infection was not followed by glomerulonephritis (mean age: 60.5 years) were included in this study. All septic patients were treated with fosfomycin sodium, beta-lactams, arbekacin sulfate, and teicoplanin, or a combination of these. Twenty septic patients with MRSA-associated glomerulonephritis were randomly assigned to one of two treatments: PMX-F treatment (group A, n = 10) and conventional treatment (group B, n = 10). PMX-F treatment was repeated twice.
Urinary podocytes and urinary protein excretion were not detected in MRSA septic patients without glomerulonephritis. However, urinary podocytes (1.7 +/- 0.6 cells/ml) and proteinuria (2.6 +/- 0.6 g/d) were detected in the 20 septic patients with MRSA-associated glomerulonephritis. Plasma endotoxin levels were decreased from 13.6 +/- 4.6 pg/ml to 6.6 +/- 2.2 pg/ml (p < 0.05) in group A. Levels in group B, however, showed little difference after treatment. Urinary podocytes were reduced in group A (from 1.8 +/- 0.6 cells/ml to 0.4 +/- 0.2 cells/ml, p < 0.01) as was urinary protein excretion (from 3.0 +/- 0.5 g/d to 0.8 +/- 0.4 g/d, p < 0.01) but urinary podocytes and protein excretion levels showed little difference after treatment in group B.
PMX-F treatment may be effective in reducing urinary protein and urinary podocyte excretion in septic patients with MRSA-associated glomerulonephritis.
The efficacy, safety and tolerability of lumiracoxib, a novel selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor, has been demonstrated in previous studies of patients with osteoarthritis (OA). As it is important to establish the long-term safety and efficacy of treatments for a chronic disease such as OA, the present study compared the effects of lumiracoxib at doses of 100 mg once daily (o.d.) and 100 mg twice daily (b.i.d.) with those of celecoxib 200 mg o.d. on retention on treatment over 1 year.
In this 52-week, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group study, male and female patients (aged at least 40 years) with symptomatic primary OA of the hip, knee, hand or spine were randomised (1:2:1) to lumiracoxib 100 mg o.d. (n = 755), lumiracoxib 100 mg b.i.d. (n = 1,519) or celecoxib 200 mg o.d. (n = 758). The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate non-inferiority of lumiracoxib at either dose compared with celecoxib 200 mg o.d. with respect to the 1-year retention on treatment rate. Secondary outcome variables included OA pain in the target joint, patient's and physician's global assessments of disease activity, Short Arthritis assessment Scale (SAS) total score, rescue medication use, and safety and tolerability.
Retention rates at 1 year were similar for the lumiracoxib 100 mg o.d., lumiracoxib 100 mg b.i.d. and celecoxib 200 mg o.d. groups (46.9% vs 47.5% vs 45.3%, respectively). It was demonstrated that retention on treatment with lumiracoxib at either dose was non-inferior to celecoxib 200 mg o.d. Similarly, Kaplan-Meier curves for the probability of premature discontinuation from the study for any reason were similar across the treatment groups. All three treatments generally yielded comparable results for the secondary efficacy variables and all treatments were well tolerated.
Long-term treatment with lumiracoxib 100 mg o.d., the recommended dose for OA, was as effective and well tolerated as celecoxib 200 mg o.d. in patients with OA.
clinicaltrials.gov NCT00145301.
Therapeutic indications of potassium citrate include: 1. Oxaluric renal stone disease and some cases of uric acid stone disease. Prevention of stone formation in patients with renal polycystic disease. Prevention of stone relapse after ESWL or lithotomy; 2. Distal renal tubular acidosis complicated by hypercalciuria, mainly in children. 3. Renal hypercalciuria and hyperoxaluria. 4. Prevention of renal complications at the time of glaucoma treatment with acetazolamide. 5. Potassium supplementation during treatment of hypertension. Potassium citrate is usually contraindicated in the case of: 1. Urinary tract infection. 2. Struvite renal stone disease. 3. Hyperpotassemia and advanced chronic renal failure. 4. Peptic ulcer or gastritis. 5. Gastrointestinal bleeding. 6. Disorders of coagulation, crural varices. 7. Metabolic alkalosis. Potassium citrate, when used at therapeutic doses, is to be considered as quite safe. The average daily dose even if admitted as a single dose day engages 60-75% of free renal capacity for potassium excretion. Physiologic and therapeutic citrate concentration in urine exceeds much those available for other inhibitors. The therapeutic dose does not induce any significant changes in any biochemical or endocrine parameter of blood except mild transient metabolic alkalosis. The decrease of urine calcium and increase in oxalate calcium phosphate excretion is observed. In hypo-cytriaturic patients the response to therapeutic dose of citrate is smaller. One-year remission of stone disease is observed in 70-75% cases.
Cellular infiltration to renal tissues is an important feature during acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) in rats. The mechanisms responsible for this infiltration are poorly understood. To elucidate the participation of adhesion molecules in PAN, nephrosis was induced in rats by intraperitoneal puromycin aminonucleoside injection. Controls represent animals injected with a 0.9% saline solution. ICAM-1 (intercellular adhesion molecule 1), CD18 (beta chain of lymphocyte-function-associated antigen), LCA (leukocyte common antigen), ED1 (monocyte/macrophage marker), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen expressions were evaluated in renal tissues 1, 2, and 7 weeks after injection. Frozen sections from PAN rat kidneys showed increased expressions of ICAM-1 and its ligand, and these findings were associated with increased levels of LCA+ and ED1+ cells in glomerulus and interstitium. The kinetics of leukocyte infiltration was similar to the kinetics of ICAM-1 expression: high values at week 2 which returned to normal values at week 7. Increased glomerular and interstitial proliferative activities (proliferating cell nulear antigen positive cells) were also found at week 2 of nephrosis. There was a correlation between ICAM-1 expression and numbers of LCA+ and ED1+ cells and between numbers of LCA+ cells and proliferating cells in glomerulus and interstitium. Correlations between glomerular and tubular ICAM-1 expression, interstitial leukocyte infiltration, and glomerular, interstitial, and tubular proliferative activities with the proteinuria were also observed during the nephrotic phase. In addition, increased lymphocyte binding to PAN renal tissues was observed, and this binding was diminished by anti-LFA-1beta monoclonal antibody pretreatment of lymphocytes. A similar result was found with anti-ICAM-1 monoclonal antibody pretreatment of renal tissues. Our results suggest that increased expression of ICAM-1 and proliferative activity could be important determinants in the renal hypercellularity found in this experimental model.
Ajmaline-induced block within the atrioventricular bundle (intra-Hisian) is rare. We report a 59-year-old male with a left bundle branch block in whom intravenous Ajmaline unmasked a latent conduction abnormality within the atrioventricular bundle. Relevant literature is reviewed.
We have undertaken a hospital-based study, to identify possible BRCA1 and BRCA2 founder mutations in the Polish population. The study group consisted of 66 Polish families with cancer who have at least three related females affected with breast or ovarian cancer and who had cancer diagnosed, in at least one of the three affected females, at age <50 years. A total of 26 families had both breast and ovarian cancers, 4 families had ovarian cancers only, and 36 families had breast cancers only. Genomic DNA was prepared from the peripheral blood leukocytes of at least one affected woman from each family. The entire coding region of BRCA1 and BRCA2 was screened for the presence of germline mutations, by use of SSCP followed by direct sequencing of observed variants. Mutations were found in 35 (53%) of the 66 families studied. All but one of the mutations were detected within the BRCA1 gene. BRCA1 abnormalities were identified in all four families with ovarian cancer only, in 67% of 27 families with both breast and ovarian cancer, and in 34% of 35 families with breast cancer only. The single family with a BRCA2 mutation had the breast-ovarian cancer syndrome. Seven distinct mutations were identified; five of these occurred in two or more families. In total, recurrent mutations were found in 33 (94%) of the 35 families with detected mutations. Three BRCA1 abnormalities-5382insC, C61G, and 4153delA-accounted for 51%, 20%, and 11% of the identified mutations, respectively.
To compare the efficacy and tolerability of the antiplatelet agent triflusal with aspirin in the prevention of cardiovascular events following acute myocardial infarction.
In this double-blind, multicentre, sequential design study, patients were randomized within 24 h of acute myocardial infarction symptom onset to receive triflusal 600 mg or aspirin 300 mg once daily for 35 days. The primary end-point was death, non-fatal myocardial reinfarction or a non-fatal cerebrovascular event. The incidences of these individual outcomes and urgent revascularization were secondary end-points. The null hypothesis of no difference between treatments in the primary combined end-point was accepted with 80% power after recruiting 2124 validated patients (odds ratio (OR) for failure [95% confidence interval (CI)]: 0.882 [0.634-1.227]). Non-fatal cerebrovascular events were significantly less frequent with triflusal (OR [95% CI]: 0.364 [0.146-0.908]; P = 0.030). There was no significant difference between treatments for death (OR [95% CI]: 0.816 [0.564-1.179]; P = 0.278), non-fatal reinfarction (OR [95% CI]: 1.577 [0.873-2.848]; P = 0.131) or revascularization (OR [95% CI]: 0.864 [0.644-1.161]; P = 0.334). Overall, both drugs were well tolerated, although there was a trend towards fewer bleeding episodes with triflusal; significantly fewer central nervous system bleeding episodes were observed in triflusal-treated patients (0.27% vs. 0.97%; P = 0.033).
Triflusal and aspirin have similar efficacy in preventing further cardiovascular events after acute myocardial infarction, but triflusal showed a more favourable safety profile. Triflusal significantly reduced the incidence of non-fatal cerebrovascular events compared with aspirin.
Acase of diffuse scleroderma in a 56-year-old woman who received paclitaxel for the treatment of a metastatic ovarian cancer is presented. The clinical cutaneous alterations, as well as the capillaroscopic and histological findings, were indistinguishable from those encountered in definite systemic sclerosis (SSc). In contrast to SSc, Raynaud's phenomenon and cutaneous calcinosis were absent and antinuclear antibodies were negative. The temporal relationship between the onset of skin involvement and administration of the drug may indicate an effect of paclitaxel.
Cyproterone acetate is a normally well-tolerated drug that is used widely for the treatment of prostatic carcinoma. Liver toxicity due to its use is not well known. We describe two cases of fatal fulminant hepatitis related to the use of cyproterone acetate.
Brevetoxins (PbTx) are sodium channel neurotoxins produced by the marine dinoflagellate Karenia brevis during red tide blooms. Inhalation of PbTx in normal individuals and individuals with pre-existing airways disease results in adverse airway symptoms including bronchoconstriction. In animal models of allergic inflammation, inhalation of PbTx results in a histamine H₁-mediated bronchoconstriction suggestive of mast cell activation. How mast cells would respond directly to PbTx is unknown. We thus explored the activation of mouse bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs) following exposure to purified PbTx-2. Following in vitro exposure to PbTx-2, we examined cellular viability, mast cell degranulation (β-hexosaminidase release), intracellular Ca²+ and Na+ flux, and the production of inflammatory mediators (IL-6). PbTx-2 induced significant cellular toxicity within 24 h as measured by LDH release and Annexin-V staining. However, within 1 h of exposure, PbTx-2 induced BMMC degranulation and an increase in IL-6 mRNA expression independent of the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcεRI) stimulation. Activation of BMMCs by PbTx-2 was associated with altered intracellular Ca²+ and Na+ levels. Brevenal, a naturally produced compound that antagonizes the activity of PbTx, prevented changes in intracellular Na+ levels but did not alter activation of BMMCs by PbTx-2. These findings demonstrate that PbTx-2 activates mast cells independent of FcεRI providing insight into critical events in the pathogenesis and a potential therapeutic target in brevetoxin-induced airway symptoms.
Ribavirin-induced hemolytic anemia can prompt dose reductions and lower sustained virologic response (SVR) rates in the treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis C. The study aimed to determine if weight-based dosing of taribavirin (TBV), an oral prodrug of ribavirin (RBV), demonstrated efficacy comparable to RBV while maintaining its previously demonstrated anemia advantage with fixed dose administration. A U.S. phase 2b randomized, open-label, active-controlled, parallel-group study was conducted in 278 treatment-naive patients infected with genotype 1 who were stratified by body weight and baseline viral load. Patients were randomized 1:1:1:1 to receive TBV (20, 25, or 30 mg/kg/day) or RBV (800-1400 mg/day) with pegylated interferon alfa-2b for 48 weeks. The SVR rates in this difficult-to-cure patient demographics (mean age, 49 years; 61% male; 30% African American or Latino; high viral load; advanced fibrosis; and mean weight, 82 kg) were 28.4%, 24.3%, 20.6%, and 21.4% in the 20, 25, and 30 mg/kg TBV groups and the RBV group, respectively. There were no statistical differences in the efficacy analyses. Anemia rates were significantly lower (P < 0.05) in the 20 and 25 mg/kg/day TBV treatment groups (13.4% and 15.7%, respectively) compared to RBV (32.9%). The most common adverse events in all groups were fatigue, diarrhea, and insomnia. Diarrhea, reported in 38% of TBV patients versus 21% of RBV patients, was generally mild and not dose-limiting.
All TBV doses demonstrated efficacy and tolerability comparable to that of RBV; however, the 25 mg/kg dose demonstrated the optimal balance of safety and efficacy. Anemia rates were significantly lower for TBV given at 20-25 mg/kg than RBV. These data suggest weight-based dosing with TBV provides a safe and effective treatment alternative to RBV for chronic hepatitis C. American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
This study was undertaken on the basis of several reports in the literature that pancreatic beta cells are capable of replication/regeneration and also being afforded protection against damage induced by streptozotocin. Nicotinamide was reported to give protection against streptozotocin-induced damage in rats. In the present study, two thiazolidine-4-ones with nicotinamide substitution were administered to Swiss albino mice with streptozotocin diabetes for 15 days. Concurrently, one group received nicotinic acid. Both the test compounds reversed the hyperglycaemia diabetic mice. Damage to pancreatic islets was also reduced in these groups compared to diabetic control and nicotinic acid treated groups. Since these compounds have been earlier found have antioxidant activity, one of the possible mechanisms of action could be by reducing oxidative stress in pancreas. Further, possibly by releasing nicotinamide in vivo, the molecules could have contributed to the NAD pool in pancreas and afforded protection. It is concluded that the test compounds have potential to be developed for multiple beneficial action in conditions like metabolic syndrome.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is a group of behaviorally defined neurodevelopmental disabilities characterized by multiple genetic etiologies and a complex presentation. Several studies suggest the involvement of the serotonin system in the development of ASD, but only few have investigated serotonin receptors. We have performed a case-control and a family-based study with 9 polymorphisms mapped to two serotonin receptor genes (HTR1B and HTR2C) in 252 Brazilian male ASD patients of European ancestry. These analyses showed evidence of undertransmission of the HTR1B haplotypes containing alleles -161G and -261A at HTR1B gene to ASD (P=0.003), but no involvement of HTR2C to the predisposition to this disease. Considering the relatively low level of statistical significance and the power of our sample, further studies are required to confirm the association of these serotonin-related genes and ASD.
The effects of pre- and post-administration of 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene (3'-Me-DAB), benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), and phenobarbital (PB) on the induction of hyperplastic liver nodules by N-2-fluorenylacetamide (2-FAA) were studied in F344 rats. Rats were given 3'-Me-DAB (0.06% in the diet), B[a]P (80 mg/kg b.wt. x 7, intragastrically) or PB (0.05% in the diet) for 6 weeks before (experimental series I) or after (experimental series II) diet containing 0.02% 2-FAA for 2 weeks, and killed in week 10 of the experiment. The number and total area of hyperplastic nodules per unit area of liver were greatest in rats treated with 3'-Me-DAB in both experimental series. B[a]P significantly increased the induction of hyperplastic nodules in experimental series I and PB significantly increased it in experimental series II. Partial hepatectomy performed during administration of test chemicals enhanced the induction of hyperplastic nodules, especially in experimental series I, and an oral dose of carbon tetrachloride during 2-FAA feeding enhanced it in both experimental series. In the present system, initiating activity of both the hepato- and the non-hepatocarcinogen was detected, and promoting activity of both the hepatocarcinogen and the hepatopromoter was demonstrated.
Lometrexol is an antifolate which inhibits glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase (GARFT), an enzyme essential for de novo purine synthesis. Extensive experimental and limited clinical data have shown that lometrexol has activity against tumours which are refractory to other drugs, notably methotrexate. However, the initial clinical development of lometrexol was curtailed because of severe and cumulative antiproliferative toxicities. Preclinical murine studies demonstrated that the toxicity of lometrexol can be prevented by low dose folic acid administration, i.e. for 7 days prior to and 7 days following a single bolus dose. This observation prompted a Phase I clinical study of lometrexol given with folic acid supplementation which has confirmed that the toxicity of lometrexol can be markedly reduced by folic acid supplementation. Thrombocytopenia and mucositis were the major toxicities. There was no clear relationship between clinical toxicity and the extent of plasma folate elevation. Associated studies demonstrated that lometrexol plasma pharmacokinetics were not altered by folic acid administration indicating that supplementation is unlikely to reduce toxicity by enhancing lometrexol plasma clearance. The work described in this report has identified for the first time a clinically acceptable schedule for the administration of a GARFT inhibitor. This information will facilitate the future evaluation of this class of compounds in cancer therapy.
Systemic treatment of susceptible mouse strains with HgCl2 is known to induce elevated serum concentrations of IgG1, IgG2A, and IgE, formation of antinuclear (ANA) and antinucleolar autoantibodies (ANolA), and immune glomerulonephritis. The development of these HgCl2-induced immunological alterations requires CD4+ T cells. The H-2s haplotype encodes susceptibility and, as far as studied, H-2d determines resistance. For a better understanding of susceptibility and resistance to HgCl2 at the level of Th and B cells, we compared the effects of HgCl2 treatment in the H-2 congenic mouse strains B10.S (H-2s) and B10.D2/n (H-2d). We show that (1) H-2s but not H-2d mice responded to HgCl2 treatment with massive activation of their B cells and switch to IgE, IgG1, and IgG2A; (2) both H-2s and H-2d mice responded to HgCl2 with IL-4-dependent increases in B cell Ia expression, but significantly higher levels were induced in H-2s than in H-2d mice; (3) splenic CD4+ T cells of HgCl2-treated H-2s mice showed a strong increase in IL-4 mRNA, whereas those of H-2d mice showed only a weak increase; (4) both H-2s and H-2d mice expressed enhanced splenic numbers of CD45RBlo CD4+ T cells, suggesting activation of T cells in both strains. These results indicate that the MHC, presumably by its class II loci, modulates the T cell response to the etiologic agent HgCl2, and, hence, determines which type of immune effector mechanism is activated. A possible explanation of the observed strain difference is that H-2s and H-2d mice responded to systemic treatment with HgCl2 by preferential activation of Th2 and Th1 cells, respectively.
We retrospectively studied 279 patients who had undergone uncomplicated open appendectomy for acute appendicitis to determine risk factors for postoperative urinary retention. The gender of the patients, the operating time and the amount of fluid given perioperatively had no influence on the occurrence of retention. The amount of analgesic agent administered postoperatively and the age of the patient were significantly associated with urinary retention (p = 0.01 and p < 0.0001, respectively, after adjustment for potential confounding factors). The use of meperidine hydrochloride as compared with morphine and of patient-controlled analgesia as compared with intramuscular delivery were initially found to be significantly related to retention (p = 0.014 and p < 0.0001, respectively). After the effects of the age of the patient, the drug type and the amount of fluid and analgesic agent administered were controlled for, patient-controlled analgesia remained significantly associated with retention (p < 0.0001), whereas the type of drug given was no longer significant after controlling for potential confounding factors. Because we found that urinary retention was 13 times more likely to occur in the patients who had patient-controlled analgesia, we recommend that the use of this form of analgesia delivery be avoided after open appendectomy.
