Heparin-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenia after cardiopulmonary bypass is frequently lethal. The propensity for this syndrome generally goes unrecognized because thrombocytopenia is common in the early postoperative period and because testing for heparin-induced platelet antibody may not distinguish between patients with thrombocytopenia alone and those in whom associated thrombi (the white clot syndrome) may develop. Moreover, differentiation between heparin-associated thrombotic thrombocytopenia and a consumptive coagulopathy may be difficult, and intervention may be inappropriate because of diametrically opposite treatments. Our experience with three cases and the necropsy findings in two of them demonstrate that postbypass thrombocytopenic coagulopathy may be a clinical and pathologic spectrum of consumptive coagulopathy, with heparin as the major premorbid factor. This report further emphasizes the need for vigilance in assessing certain patients preoperatively to lessen the high risk of morbidity and mortality associated with this syndrome.
This patient illustrates a classical case of what many pediatricians call the diphenylhydantoin teratogenic syndrome. It suggests the possibility of an additional ocular finding of retinoschisis and optic nerve abnormalities which could conceivably have a teratogenic basis. The effects of epilepsy and diphenylhydantoin on these formations is discussed.
To prevent delayed cardiomyopathy induced by adriamycin and subsequent severe congestive heart failure, a monitoring schedule with noninvasive techniques to measure cardiac performance (CPK-MB, electrocardiographic, systolic time intervals, echocardiography and quantitative radionuclide angiography) has been used. 15 patients, 33 to 65 years old, with metastatic breast carcinoma, previously treated with a polychemotherapy protocol not including adriamycin have been studied. Monitoring at 0 time allowed to exclude one patient with previous asymptomatic cardiomyopathy and to treat patients at risk with cardiovascular pathology, up to reach and even exceed the dosage of 550 mg/m2. Four of the treated patients showed positive findings of cardiomyopathy at different adriamycin dosage levels: 2 asymptomatic dilatative cardiomyopathies, 1 symptomatic and 1 with congestive heart failure remitted with medical therapy. No patient died because of cardiovascular complications. The results obtained show that of all noninvasive techniques used, only quantitative radionuclide angiocardiography allowed, when employed following an adequate monitoring schedule, to detect reliable findings of moderate and reversible cardiomyopathy thus indicating the appropriate time for drug discontinuation.
The pharmacist is an important specialist in the selection of the drug when the patient comes for pharmacist's advice of how to alleviate common gastrointestinal symptoms. Of all drugs which can be effective in these situations, only three drugs (bismuth subsalicylate, psyllium, and docusate sodium) proved to be advantageous for self-medication. Bismuth subsalicylate (BSS) is much appreciated in the treatment of peptic ulcers where it not only covers the base of the ulcer but also eradicates Helicobacter pylori. Therefore this drug does not treat only the symptoms but the cause of the disease as well. Dyspepsia may also be effectively treated with BSS because of its strong and rapid protective effect on the gastric mucosa. Last but not least, the salicylate component of this substance and not bismuth alone is responsible for the elimination of diarrhoea in the so-called traveller's diarrhoea, as the salicylate decreases enhanced secretion of fluid in the colon. On the other hand, the natural fibre psyllium may effectively alleviate constipation, because it increases the volume and weight of stools as well as the transit time in the colon and facilitates defecation. Similarly, docusate sodium is a detergent agent which facilitates the entrance of water into the stool, which is then better and more easily pushed out from the large intestine.
A case of ampicillin-resistant salmonella bacteremia complicated by endocarditis in a 78-year-old man is presented. Previous rheumatic valvular heart disease and the lack of response to initial treatment with chloramphenicol prompted us to consider this diagnosis. There was a good clinical response after treatment with ceftriaxone alone and corresponding improvement on the echocardiogram. This case demonstrates the possible endovascular complications of salmonella bacteremia in elderly people and that endocarditis should be included among the invasive infections due to ampicillin-resistant Salmonella that could potentially be treated with the newer cephalosporins.
TAT ([5-(3-thienyl)tetrazol-1-yl]acetic acid) is a novel aldose reductase (AR) inhibitor. It exhibited highly potent inhibition of partially purified AR from rat lens (IC50 = 2.1 x 10(-8) M), rabbit lens (IC50 = 2.3 x 10(-8) M) and human placenta (IC50 = 2.8 x 10(-8) M). On the other hand, TAT had a weak inhibitory activity against mouse liver aldehyde reductase (ALR) (IC50 = 2.4 x 10(-6) M) and poor inhibitory activity against several adenine nucleotide-requiring enzymes. Against rat lens AR, TAT exhibited an uncompetitive inhibition at a concentration of 1.0 x 10(-8) M and a mixed type inhibition at higher concentrations. TAT inhibited sorbitol accumulation in the isolated rat sciatic nerve (IC50 = 1.0 x 10(-6) M), rat lens (IC50 = 5.7 x 10(-6) M), human erythrocytes (IC50 = 2.5 x 10(-7) M), and rabbit erythrocytes (IC50 = 2.1 x 10(-7) M) incubated with high glucose concentrations. The oral administration of TAT (5-100 mg/kg/day) to streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats during a 5-day treatment period decreased the sorbitol content in the sciatic nerve, dose-dependently (ED50: 8.8 mg/kg/day for the prevention and 9.0 mg/kg/day for the reversal). Moreover, TAT (2.5-40 mg/kg/day) improved the decreased motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) after a 14-day treatment period. There was a significant correlation between MNCV and sciatic nerve sorbitol content. From these results, TAT is expected to be useful for the clinical treatment of diabetic complications.
The RENAAL (Reduction of Endpoints in Type 2 Diabetes with the Angiotensin II Antagonist Losartan) study demonstrated that treatment with losartan reduced the risk of ESRD by 29% among hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and diabetic nephropathy. The objective of this study was to project the effect of losartan compared to placebo on the lifetime incidence of ESRD and associated costs from a third-party payer perspective in Mexico.
A competing risks method was used to estimate lifetime incidence of ESRD, while accounting for the risk of death without ESRD. The cost associated with ESRD was estimated by combining the cumulative incidence of ESRD with the lifetime cost associated with ESRD. Total cost was estimated as the sum of the cost associated with ESRD from the three main public institutions in Mexico, the lifetime cost of losartan therapy, and other costs (non-ESRD/non-losartan) expected for patients with type 2 diabetes. Survival was estimated by weighting the life expectancies with and without ESRD by the cumulative risk of ESRD.
The projected lifetime incidence of ESRD for losartan patients was lower (66%) compared with placebo patients (83%). This reduction in ESRD resulted in a decrease in ESRD-related cost of M dollar 49,737 per patient and a discounted gain of 0.697 life years per patient. After accounting for the cost of losartan and the additional cost associated with greater survival, we projected that treatment with losartan would result in a net savings of M dollar 24,073 per patient.
Treatment with losartan in patients with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy not only reduced the within-trial incidence of ESRD but is projected to result in lifetime reductions in ESRD, increased survival, and overall cost savings to public institutions in Mexico.
A 27-year-old man was admitted to the emergency department with a fluphenazine decanoate-induced dystonia. He was treated with 125 mg diphenhydramine IV in four doses and 2 mg benztropine IM. A fluctuating response was observed before continued remission of the dystonia. Possible reasons for variable patient responses to diphenhydramine are discussed.
In order to investigate whether chronic duodenal ulcer disease is a consequence of disturbed mucosal turnover and growth factor expression, we studied 16 patients with duodenal ulcers before, during, and after endoscopic healing with lansoprazole or sucralfate. Before treatment, gastric fundal and antral mucosal protein turnover rates were higher in patients than controls, without parallel increases in growth factors. Both forms of therapy produced similar changes, with overall increases in duodenal mucosal turnover and transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGF-r) levels. Measurements after healing showed persistent elevations of mucosal turnover in the antrum and duodenum and depressions of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in gastric fundal and duodenal mucosa. We conclude that mucosal turnover is abnormally high in patients with chronic duodenal ulcer disease and is not easily explained by growth factor changes. The failure of lansoprazole and sucralfate to normalize rates, despite endoscopic healing, may explain the high ulcer relapse rates in non-HP-eradicated patients.
The purpose of this study was to examine agricultural risk factors for chronic bronchitis among nonsmoking farm women.
We used self-reported enrollment data from the 21,541 nonsmoking women in the Agricultural Health Study to evaluate occupational risk factors for prevalent chronic bronchitis among farm women. Odds ratios (ORs) for chronic bronchitis for occupational exposures were adjusted for age, state, and related agricultural exposures.
Applying manure and driving combines were independently associated with chronic bronchitis. Off-farm job exposures associated with chronic bronchitis were organic dusts, asbestos, gasoline, and solvents. Five pesticides were associated with chronic bronchitis after multivariate adjustment and sensitivity analyses: dichlorvos (OR=1.63, 95% CI=1.01, 2.61), DDT (OR=1.67, 95% CI=1.13, 2.47), cyanazine (OR=1.88, 95% CI=1.00, 3.54), paraquat (OR=1.91, 95% CI=1.02, 3.55), and methyl bromide (OR=1.82, 95% CI=1.02, 3.24).
Pesticides as well as grain and dust exposures were associated with chronic bronchitis among nonsmoking farm women.
We report three cases of severe hypoxaemia after ibuprofen administration during a randomised controlled trial of prophylactic treatment of patent ductus arteriosus with ibuprofen in premature infants born at less than 28 weeks of gestation. Echocardiography showed severely decreased pulmonary blood flow. Hypoxaemia resolved quickly on inhaled nitric oxide therapy. We suggest that investigators involved in similar trials pay close attention to pulmonary pressure if hypoxaemia occurs after prophylactic administration of ibuprofen.
This report presents the cytologic findings and the rates of dysplasia for 4,589 young women enrolled in the National Cooperative Diethylstilbestrol-Adenosis (DESAD) Project. Mucinous columnar cells and/or metaplastic squamous cells with or without mucinous droplets were encountered in 22% of vaginal scrape smears from all diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed participants identified by review of prenatal records and in 43% of women in whom vaginal epithelial changes (VEC) were observed by colposcopy or by iodine staining. The frequency of cellular findings in the vaginal scrape smears was closely related to the timing of the administration of the DES to the mother. With increasing age of the daughters, the overall frequencies of both the mucinous and metaplastic cells decreased; relative to each other, an increasing proportion was metaplastic squamous cells. These data suggest that, as the women grow older, vaginal adenosis regresses by the process of squamous metaplasia. Endometrial type cells were found in 2% of vaginal scrape smears. Their cyclical occurrence during the menstrual cycle and lack of correlation with the presence of VEC indicated an origin from the uterine corpus rather than the tuboendometrial type of adenosis. Squamous cell dysplasia of the vagina and cervix was detected by biopsy or scrape smear specimens in 1.8% of DES-exposed women in the record review group. The rate of unexposed women was twice as high. In general, the rates of dysplasia were higher in the cervix than vagina, and the more severe degrees of dysplasia were encountered only in those women who were referred to the DESAD Project or who themselves requested entry. Four patients who were referred or who themselves requested entry were found to have clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina. The vaginal smear provided the first clue to the presence of an abnormality in three of them.
This report presents the cytologic findings and the rates of dysplasia for 4,589 young women enrolled in the National Cooperative (DESAD) Diethylstilbestrol-Adenosis Project. Mucinous columnar cells and/or metaplastic squamous cells with or without mucinous droplets were encountered in 22% of vaginal scrape smears from all (DES) diethylstilbestrol-exposed participants identified by review of prenatal records and in 43% of women in whom (VEC) vaginal epithelial changes were observed by colposcopy or by iodine staining. The frequency of cellular findings in the vaginal scrape smears was closely related to the timing of the administration of the DES to the mother. With increasing age of the daughters, the overall frequencies of both the mucinous and metaplastic cells decreased; relative to each other, an increasing proportion was metaplastic squamous cells. These data suggest that, as the women grow older, vaginal adenosis regresses by the process of squamous metaplasia. Endometrial type cells were found in 2% of vaginal scrape smears. Their cyclical occurrence during the menstrual cycle and lack of correlation with the presence of VEC indicated an origin from the uterine corpus rather than the tuboendometrial type of adenosis. Squamous cell dysplasia of the vagina and cervix was detected by biopsy or scrape smear specimens in 1.8% of DES-exposed women in the record review group. The rate in unexposed women was twice as high. In general, the rates of dysplasia were higher in the cervix than vagina, and the more severe degrees of dysplasia were encountered only in those women who were referred to the DESAD Project or who themselves requested entry. 4 patients who were referred or who themselves requested entry were found to have clear cell adenocarcinoma of the vagina. The vaginal smear provided the 1st clue to the presence of an abnormality in 3 of them.
Total skeletal calcium was determined in female mice with the aid of whole body neutron activation analysis. Three months treatment with heaprin produced significant osteoporosis in C3-H/St(Ha) mice but not in C57/BL6(J) mice. This was more pronounced in the younger (5-8 months) than in the older (15-18 months) animals. Two 2-thiophene carboxylic acid derivatives showed significant osteoporosis preventive activity.
CD82 is recognized as a wide-spectrum tumor metastasis suppressor that inhibits cancer cell motility and invasiveness. At the human maternal-fetal interface, the decidua is believed to effectively limit the inappropriate invasion of trophoblasts. Here we have found the transcription and translation of CD82 in decidual stromal cells (DSCs), whereas trophoblast cells do not express CD82. The in-cell Western analysis reveals attenuation of CD82 translation in DSCs by human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), but not by estrogen or progesterone. It is demonstrated that silencing of CD82 by RNA interference increases integrinbeta1, decreases TIMP1 expression in DSCs, and promotes the invasion of the first-trimester human trophoblasts in the coculture. Moreover, U0126, or anti-integrinbeta1 neutralizing antibody, reverses the decreased TIMP1 expression and the increased invasiveness of trophoblast cells, and the antibody also inhibits the MAPK3/1 phosphorylation induced by CD82 silence. After transfection with CD82, the invasive index of BeWo cells decreases significantly with TIMP1 increase. The results above indicate that the DSCs-expressed CD82 up-regulates the expression of TIMP1 in an autocrine manner and inhibits the invasiveness of human first-trimester trophoblast cells partly through the integrinbeta1/MAPK/MAPK3/1 signaling pathway. Furthermore, we have found that the mRNA and protein level of CD82 in decidua of the miscarriage is significantly higher than that of the normal early pregnancy, which implies that the abnormal higher CD82 expression in decidua restricts appropriate invasion of trophoblasts that leads to early pregnancy wastage.
A patient with heart failure was administered d-sotalol 3.0 mg/kg infused over 2 minutes. The patient had normal electrolytes and baseline QT. Six minutes after drug administration the QT prolonged to 600 msec, and the patient developed torsades de pointes and required electrical cardioversion. This emphasizes the need to consider both rate of administration and the dosage when evaluating the safety and efficacy of a new class III antiarrhythmic drug.
The molecular progression of endometrial cancer is poorly understood, and both genetic and epigenetic factors play a role. Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) gene family and contains a canonical CpG island that has been described as epigenetically regulated. As survivin is overexpressed in endometrial tumors, we hypothesized that hypomethylation could explain this expression pattern. Surprisingly, methylation-specific PCR and pyrosequencing showed that survivin was hypermethylated in endometrial tumors and correlated with increased survivin expression. We speculated that methylation could inhibit the binding of p53, a repressor of survivin expression. Our data indicates that demethylation of the survivin promoter by decitabine results in p53-dependent survivin repression and that p53 binding can be inhibited by DNA methylation. We are the first to report survivin de-repression by DNA methylation. We also present microarray data, which suggest that de-repression by methylation is a general mechanism of p53 regulation. Demethylation induced by decitabine is traditionally thought to be active in tumors by allowing the re-expression of tumor suppressor genes. However, our results indicate that an additional important mechanism is to decrease the expression of oncogenes.
Scientific and public concern exists about potential reproductive health effects of persistent chlorinated organic chemicals, such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), and dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene (DDE, the most stable daughter compound of DDT). To explore the hypothesis that environmental exposures to PCBs and DDE are associated with altered semen parameters, we conducted a cross-sectional study of 212 male partners of subfertile couples who presented to the Massachusetts General Hospital Andrology Laboratory. Semen parameters were analyzed as both a continuous measure and dichotomized based on World Health Organization reference values for sperm concentration (< 20 million/mL), motility (< 50% motile), and Kruger strict criteria for morphology (< 4% normal). The comparison group for the dichotomized analysis was men with all three semen parameters above the reference values. In serum, 57 PCB congeners and p,p -DDE were measured by congener-specific analysis using gas chromatography with electron capture detection. There were dose-response relationships among PCB-138 and sperm motility (odds ratio per tertile, adjusted for age, abstinence, and smoking, and p-value for trend were, respectively, 1.00, 1.68, 2.35, and p-value = 0.03) and morphology (1.00, 1.36, 2.53, p-value = 0.04). There was limited evidence of an inverse relationship between sum of PCBs, as well as those PCBs classified as cytochrome P450 enzyme inducers, with sperm motility and sperm morphology, as well as limited evidence of an inverse association between p,p -DDE and sperm motility. The lack of a consistent relationship among semen parameters and other individual PCB congeners and groupings of congeners may indicate a difference in spermatotoxicity between congeners.
Studies have suggested that children living close to busy roads may have impaired respiratory health. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that exposure to exhaust from heavy traffic in particular is related to childhood respiratory health. Children attending 24 schools located within 400 m from busy motorways were investigated. The motorways carried between 5,190 and 22,326 trucks per weekday and between 30,399 and 155,656 cars per day. Locations were chosen so that the correlation between truck and car traffic counts was low. Air pollution measurements were performed at the schools for 1 year. Respiratory symptoms were collected by parent-completed questionnaire. Sensitization to common allergens was measured by serum immunoglobulin E and skin prick tests. Bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR) was measured with a hypertonic saline challenge. Respiratory symptoms were increased near motorways with high truck but not high car traffic counts. They were also related to air pollutants that increased near motorways with high truck traffic counts. Lung function and BHR were not related to pollution. Sensitization to pollen increased in relation to truck but not car traffic counts. The relation between symptoms and measures of exposure to (truck) traffic-related air pollution were almost entirely restricted to children with BHR and/or sensitization to common allergens, indicating that these are a sensitive subgroup among all children for these effects.
Perinatal exposure to Dutch "background" dioxin levels in 1990 was high, but comparable with that of other industrialized Western European countries. Exposure during the sensitive perinatal period may cause permanent disturbances. Therefore, we assessed the health status and various hematologic and immunologic parameters among our longitudinal cohort. A medical history was taken and venipuncture performed in a longitudinal cohort of 27 healthy 8-year-old children who had documented perinatal dioxin exposure. Linear regression revealed a decrease in allergy in relation to prenatal (p = 0.02) and postnatal (p = 0.03) dioxin exposure. Increases in CD4+ T-helper cells (p = 0.006) and in CD45RA+ cells (p = 0.02) were seen in relation to postnatal exposure. A persistently decreased platelet count (p = 0.04) and increased thrombopoietin concentration (p = 0.03) were seen in relation to postnatal exposure. This follow-up has shown a decrease in allergy, persistently decreased thrombocytes, increased thrombopoietin, and increased CD4+ T-helper and increased CD45RA+ cell counts. This study provides indications of effects at the stem cell level of perinatal dioxin exposure, persisting until minimally 8 years after birth.
The antiviral effect of adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) added to ongoing lamivudine (LAM) treatment for LAM-resistant chronic hepatitis B (CHB) differs among patients. We investigated clinical factors affecting the response to ADV therapy in LAM-resistant CHB.
The subjects were 75 LAM-resistant CHB patients treated with ADV in addition to LAM. Virological response (VR) was defined as HBV DNA clearance (<2.6 logcopies/ml) at 12 months after the start of ADV therapy. Clinical factors contributing to VR were examined by univariate and multivariate analyses.
Lower HBV DNA at baseline and negative hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) were significant factors affecting VR in univariate analysis. In multivariate analysis, lower HBV DNA at baseline (P = 0.005), negative HBeAg (P = 0.009), and higher ALT (P = 0.036) were significant independent factors contributing to VR. In HBeAg-positive patients, HBV DNA clearance was more frequently observed during ADV therapy in patients with baseline HBV DNA < or = 7.0 logcopies/ml than in those with baseline HBV DNA >7.0 logcopies/ml. By contrast, the link of lower HBV DNA at baseline to better therapeutic response was not evident in HBeAg-negative patients.
In ADV therapy added to ongoing LAM treatment for LAM-resistant CHB, lower baseline HBV DNA and negative HBeAg contributed to a better antiviral effect. Addition of ADV should be done promptly before marked increase in HBV DNA, especially in CHB patients showing LAM resistance positive for HBeAg.
Our aim was to compare the demographic and clinical features of panic disorder (PD) patients with agoraphobia-DSM-IV-who had a panic attack after both an oral caffeine and the 35% carbon dioxide (CO2) challenge tests (responsive group) and compare them with PD patients who did not have a panic attack after both tests (non-responsive group). We examined 83 PD patients submitted to a 35% CO2 test and to an oral caffeine (480 mg) intake within 1 week interval. A panic attack was induced in 51 (61.4%) patients during the CO2 test (chi2=31.67, df=1, p<0.001) and in 38 (45.8%) patients during the caffeine test (chi2=18.28, df=1, p=0.023). All patients who had a panic attack during the caffeine test also had a panic attack during the CO2 test (n=38)-responsive group. The responsive had more (chi2=24.55, df=1, p=0.008) respiratory PD subtype, disorder started earlier (Mann-Whitney, p<0.001) had a higher familial prevalence of PD (chi2=20.34, df=1, p=0.019), less previous alcohol abuse (chi2=23.42, df=1, p<0.001), and had more previous depressive episodes (chi2=27.35, df=1, p<0.001). Our data suggest that there is an association between respiratory PD subtype and hyperreactivity to challenge tests: CO2 and oral caffeine.
In this study, we compared the effects of four ion channel blockers on rat embryonic heart function during the organogenic period from gestational day (GD) 10 to 15, to determine the changes in dependence on ion channels during rat cardiac development. Rat embryos in culture were exposed to either the human ether-á-go-go-related gene potassium channel blocker, dofetilide (400 nM); the sodium channel blocker, lidocaine (250 μM); the L-type calcium channel blocker, nifedipine (1.8 μM); or the multichannel blocker, phenytoin (200 μM). Lidocaine slowed the heart rate (HR) with the effect becoming more severe with increasing GD. Dofetilide slowed the embryonic HR and caused arrhythmias with the most severe effect on GD 11 to 13. Nifedipine primarily caused a negative inotropic effect except on GD 10 when it stopped the heart in most embryos. Phenytoin stopped the heart of most GD 10 to 12 embryos while on GD 13 to 15 phenytoin slowed the heart. The results demonstrate that as the rat heart develops during the organogenic period its functional dependence on ion channels changes markedly. These changes are important for understanding drug effects on the embryo during pregnancy and the methodology used provides a simple procedure for assessing drug effects on the developing heart.
The development of cancer drugs is slow and costly. One approach to accelerate the availability of new drugs is to reposition drugs approved for other indications as anti-cancer agents. HIV protease inhibitors (HIV PIs) are useful in treating HIV infection and cause toxicities in humans that are similar to those observed when the kinase Akt, a target for cancer therapy, is inhibited. To test whether HIV PIs inhibited Akt and cancer cell proliferation, we screened 6 HIV PIs and found that three, ritonavir, saquinavir and nelfinavir, inhibit the growth of over 60 cancer cell lines derived from 9 different tumor types; Nelfinavir is the most potent. Nelfinavir causes caspase-dependent apoptosis and non-apoptotic death, as well as endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and autophagy. Nelfinavir blocks growth factor receptor activation and decreases growth factor-induced and endogenous Akt signaling. In vivo, nelfinavir inhibits tumor growth and upregulates markers of ER stress, autophagy and apoptosis. Nelfinavir is currently being tested in cancer patients in Phase I clinical trials where biomarkers will be assessed. Current studies are focused on measuring autophagy in clinical specimens and identifying combination strategies that will exploit the induction of autophagy and increase the effectiveness of nelfinavir.
Rosiglitazone, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma agonist, is an insulin sensitizing agent in peripheral tissues. This study investigated islet hormones and hormone-like peptides expression patterns in rosiglitazone treated streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats by using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization methods. Animals were divided into four groups. I. Group: Intact control rats. II. Group: Rosiglitazone-treated controls. III. Group: STZ-diabetic rats. IV. Group: Rosiglitazone-treated diabetic animals. Rosiglitazone was given for 7 days at a dose of 20 mg/kg body weight. In the STZ-diabetic group, there were significant differences in islet hormones and hormone like peptides cell numbers compared to rosiglitazone control group and intact control group. There were significant differences in cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) cell numbers between rosiglitazone control group and rosiglitazone + STZ-diabetic group. We detected a significant decrease in glucagon mRNA signals in rosiglitazone-treated control group compared to intact controls. We found a statistically significant difference in islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) mRNA signals between the STZ-diabetic group and the rosiglitazone + STZ-diabetic group. Besides, we also demonstrated co-localization of peptides by using double and triple histochemistry. In conclusion, our results show that short-term rosiglitazone treatment had a preservative effect to some extent on the expression of islet hormones and hormone-like peptides to maintain the islet function.
The classic motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease result from the progressive death of dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra. To date the relatively selective vulnerability of this brain region is not understood. The unique feature of dopaminergic neurons of the human substantia nigra pars compacta is the presence of the polymer pigment neuromelanin which gives this region its characteristic dark colour. In the healthy brain, neuromelanin appears to play a functional role to protect neurons from oxidative load but we have shown that in the Parkinson's disease brain the pigment undergoes structural changes and is associated with aggregation of α-synuclein protein, even early in the disease process. Further, the role of the pigment as a metal binder has also been suggested to underlie the relative vulnerability of these neurons, as changes in metal levels are suggested to be associated with neurodegenerative cascades in Parkinson's disease. While most research to date has focused on the role of iron in these pathways we have recently shown that changes in copper may contribute to neuronal vulnerability in this disorder.
The prevalence of Ki-ras, Ha-ras and N-ras point mutation within exons 1 and 2 was studied in 17 cases of renal cell tumors (8 carcinomas and 9 adenomas) induced by N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethyl-nitrosamine or N-nitrosomorpholine. DNA samples prepared from acetone-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues were amplified by means of the polymerase chain reaction, and point mutations at codons 12, 13 and 61 were analyzed by direct sequence methods with oligonucleotide primers. No mutations were detected in any of the renal tumors. The results thus indicated that ras family point mutation is not necessary for kidney tumor development in rats, supporting the view that ras mutations may not be generally relevant to neoplastic development in various organs in different species.
Tetracycline is one of a group of drugs known to induce microvesicular steatosis. In the present study, we investigated the effects of tetracycline on gene expression in mouse liver, using Applied Biosystems Mouse Genome Survey Microarrays. A single oral dose of 0.1 or 1 g/kg tetracycline was administered to male ICR mice, and liver samples were obtained after 6, 24, or 72 h. Histopathological evaluation showed microvesicular steatosis in the high-dose group at 24 h. In total, 96 genes were identified as tetracycline responsive. Their level of expression differed significantly from controls (two-way analysis of variance; p < 0.05), after adjustment by the Benjamini-Hochberg multiple testing correction, and displayed a twofold or greater induction or repression. The largest groups of gene products affected by tetracycline exposure were those involved in signal transduction, nucleic acid metabolism, developmental processes, and protein metabolism. The expression of genes known to be involved in lipid metabolism was examined, using two-sample Student's t-test for each treatment group versus a corresponding control group. The overall net effects on expression of lipid metabolism genes indicated an increase in cholesterol and triglyceride biosynthesis and a decrease in beta-oxidation of fatty acids. Our data support a proposed mechanism for tetracycline-induced steatogenic hepatotoxicity that involves these processes. Moreover, we demonstrated global changes in hepatic gene expression following tetracycline exposure; many of these genes have the potential to be used as biomarkers of exposure to steatogenic hepatotoxic agents.
A case history is reported of a patient who had several episodes of unconsciousness (because of ventricular extrasystole) while on antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive therapy consisting of quinidine (200 mg b. i. d.), sotalol (80 mg b. i. d.) and hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg g. d.). The syncopal attacks continued after discontinuation of quinidine but ended when sotalol was replaced by metoprolol and later on by verapamil. Marked prolongation of the previously normal Q-Tc interval (up to 0.71 s) was observed during the therapy with sotalol alone or combined with quinidine. The syncopal attacks were preceded by feeling of cardiac arrhythmia and they were most likely caused by torsade de pointes tachycardia. The prolongation of the Q-Tc interval by sotalol alone or combined with quinidine was obviously related to the tendency to cardiac arrhythmia and consequent episodes of unconsciousness.
