To assess the effect of ergot derivatives on cardiac valves in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD).
Echocardiography was performed on 46 PD patients who used either pergolide or cabergoline (MonoPD) or both (MixPD) for a minimum of 1 year and 49 age-matched healthy controls. Valvular regurgitation was graded as mild, moderate and severe. MonoPD and MixPD groups were compared with regard to demographic features, drug profile and valvulopathy.
The PD group had a mean age of 63 years, agonist duration of 3.8 years and agonist equivalent dose of 3.5mg/day. Moderate regurgitation in all three valves was significantly more common in the PD group than the controls. Severe valvular regurgitation was not observed in either group, with the exception of one PD patient. The frequency of valvulopathy and doses of agonists did not differ between MixPD and MonoPD groups.
PD patients on dopamine ergot agonists are prone to moderate valvular regurgitation more than age-matched controls. However, the frequency of valvulopathy was similar in patients who used either one or more agonists.
Leukotriene A(4) hydrolase (LTA(4)H) catalyzes production of the proinflammatory lipid mediator, leukotriene (LT) B(4), which is implicated in a number of inflammatory diseases. We have identified a potent and selective inhibitor of both the epoxide hydrolase and aminopeptidase activities of recombinant human LTA(4)H (IC(50), approximately 10 nM). In a murine model of arachidonic acid-induced ear inflammation, the LTA(4)H inhibitor, JNJ-26993135 (1-[4-(benzothiazol-2-yloxy)-benzyl]-piperidine-4-carboxylic acid), dose-dependently inhibited ex vivo LTB(4) production in blood, in parallel with dose-dependent inhibition of neutrophil influx (ED(50), 1-3 mg/kg) and ear edema. In murine whole blood and in zymosan-induced peritonitis, JNJ-26993135 selectively inhibited LTB(4) production, without affecting cysteinyl leukotriene production, while maintaining or increasing production of the anti-inflammatory mediator, lipoxin (LX) A(4). The 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) inhibitor zileuton showed inhibition of LTB(4), LTC(4), and LXA(4) production. Although zileuton inhibited LTB(4) production in the peritonitis model more effectively than the LTA(4)H inhibitor, the influx of neutrophils into the peritoneum after 1 and 2 h was significantly higher in zileuton- versus JNJ-26993135-treated animals. This difference may have been mediated by the increased LXA(4) levels in the presence of the LTA(4)H inhibitor. The selective inhibition of LTB(4) production by JNJ-26993135, while increasing levels of the anti-inflammatory mediator, LXA(4), may translate to superior therapeutic efficacy versus 5-LO or 5-LO-activating protein inhibitors in LTB(4)-mediated inflammatory diseases.
Anticoagulation-treated patients presenting with intracranial hemorrhage, including subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and intracerebral hemorrhage, require urgent correction of their coagulopathy to prevent worsening hemorrhage and to facilitate surgical intervention when necessary. In this study, we compared the use of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) with that of Factor IX complex concentrate (FIXCC) to achieve rapid correction of warfarin anticoagulation.
Patients admitted to a tertiary care center with computed tomography-proven intracranial hemorrhage and a prothrombin time of more than 17 seconds were considered for inclusion in the study protocol. Complete data sets were obtained for eight patients randomized to treatment with FFP and five patients randomized to treatment with FFP supplemented with FIXCC. The prothrombin time and International Normalized Ratio were measured every 2 hours for 14 hours. Correction of anticoagulation was defined as an International Normalized Ratio of < or =1.3.
A difference in repeated International Normalized Ratio measurements during the first 6 hours of correction was observed between the FIXCC and FFP groups (P < 0.03). The rate of correction was greater (P < 0.01) and the time to correction was shorter (P < 0.01) for the FIXCC-treated group. No difference in neurological outcomes was detected between groups, but a higher complication rate was observed for the FFP-treated group.
The use of FIXCC accelerated correction of warfarin-related anticoagulation in the presence of intracranial hemorrhage.
The few chemoimmunotherapy trials that together with dacarbazine (DTIC) and interferon-alpha 2a (IFNalpha), include retinoic acid (RA), did not include detailed immunological evaluation of functional and phenotypic natural killer (NK) cell characteristics, and have shown contradictory clinical results.
Malignant melanoma (MM) patients undergoing phase II-randomized chemoimmunotherapy trials were treated with DTIC, IFNalpha (Hoffmann-La Roche) (group A, n = 31), and with DTIC, IFNalpha and 13-cis-RA (Isotretinoin, Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel, Switzerland) (group B, n = 29). Patients and 42 healthy controls were evaluated by FACS flow analyses for CD3/CD56/CD69 positive cells, NK cytotoxicity in fresh peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) and for interferon regulatory factor-1 mRNA expression by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in treated PBL.
The addition of RA to a DTIC-IFN regime did not bring any therapeutical benefit in terms of response or survival. Immunological follow-up on days 1, 6 and 27 of each therapy cycle shows a significant increase in NK cell activity in both groups, only on day 6 of the first cycle, while CD69+CD56+ expression increased significantly on day 6 of each therapy cycle, in both groups. Evaluation of the dynamics of expression of IRF-1 of in vitro treated PBL, shows its strong and prompt up-regulation by IFNalpha and synergistic effect of IFNalpha and RA combination.
The dynamics of the increase in CD69 early activation antigen expression on CD56+ NK cells is systematic and serial with the increase being significantly higher on day six of the first cycle in group B patients with clinical response, compared to those without, indicating possible predictive value of CD69 expression for clinical response to chemoimmunotherapy.
The genes encoding myeloperoxidase (MPO) and alpha(2)-macroglobulin (A2M) are involved in molecular pathways leading to beta-amyloid deposition. Two polymorphic sites in these genes (MPO-G/A and A2M-Ile/Val) have been associated with Alzheimer disease (AD), but conflicting findings have been reported in populations with different ethnic backgrounds.
To study the association of MPO-G/A and A2M-Ile/Val polymorphisms with sporadic AD and to investigate the interactions among the MPO, A2M, and apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene polymorphisms in determining the risk of the development of AD.
Case-control study.
Referral center for AD in Calabria, southern Italy.
One hundred forty-eight patients with sporadic AD and 158 healthy control subjects.
The MPO-G and A2M-Val alleles were found more frequently in cases than in controls, as were the MPO-G/G and A2M-Val/Val genotypes. The odds ratio (OR) for the MPO-G/G genotype was 1.78 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.13-2.80); for the A2M-Val/Val genotype, 3.81 (95% CI, 1.66-8.75). The presence of MPO-G/G and A2M-Val/Val genotypes synergistically increased the risk of AD (OR, 25.5; 95% CI, 4.65-139.75). Stratification of cases by sex, age at onset of AD, and APOE-epsilon 4 status did not show significant differences in the distribution of MPO or A2M polymorphisms.
The MPO and A2M polymorphisms are associated with sporadic AD in southern Italy. Moreover, a genomic interaction between these polymorphisms increases the risk of the development of AD.
Although melatonin is approved only for the treatment of jet-lag syndrome and some types of insomnia, clinical data suggest that it is effective in the adjunctive therapy of osteoporosis, cataract, sepsis, neurodegenerative diseases, hypertension, and even cancer. Melatonin also modulates the electrical activity of neurons by reducing glutamatergic and enhancing GABA-ergic neurotransmission. The indoleamine may also be metabolized to kynurenic acid, an endogenous anticonvulsant. Finally, the hormone and its metabolites act as free radical scavengers and antioxidants. The vast majority of experimental data indicates anticonvulsant properties of the hormone. Melatonin inhibited audiogenic and electrical seizures, as well as reduced convulsions induced by pentetrazole, pilocarpine, L-cysteine and kainate. Only a few studies have shown direct or indirect proconvulsant effects of melatonin. For instance, melatonin enhanced low Mg2+-induced epileptiform activity in the hippocampus, whereas melatonin antagonists delayed the onset of pilocarpine-induced seizures. However, the relatively high doses of melatonin required to inhibit experimental seizures can induce some undesired effects (e.g., cognitive and motor impairment and decreased body temperature). In humans, melatonin may attenuate seizures, and it is most effective in the treatment of juvenile intractable epilepsy. Its additional benefits include improved physical, emotional, cognitive, and social functions. On the other hand, melatonin has been shown to induce electroencephalographic abnormalities in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy and increase seizure activity in neurologically disabled children. The hormone showed very low toxicity in clinical practice. The reported adverse effects (nightmares, hypotension, and sleep disorders) were rare and mild. However, more placebo-controlled, double-blind randomized clinical trials are needed to establish the usefulness of melatonin in the adjunctive treatment of epilepsy.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is an inorganic arsenic derivative that is very effective against acute promyelocytic leukemia. However, organic arsenic derivatives (OAD) have a more favorable toxicity profile than ATO. We herein characterized dipropil-S-glycerol arsenic (GMZ27), a novel OAD. GMZ27 had potent antiproliferative activity against human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines that was higher than that of ATO. In contrast to ATO, GMZ27 only marginally induced maturation of leukemia cells and had no effect on the cell cycle. The anti-leukemia activity of GMZ27 against AML cells was independent of the presence of the PML-RARα fusion protein. GMZ27 dissipates mitochondrial transmembrane potential, and induces cleavage of caspase 9 and activation of caspase 3 without altering the expression levels of (BCL-2), BAX and BCL-xl. GMZ27 induces the formation of intracellular superoxide, a reactive oxygen species (ROS) which plays a major role in the antileukemia activity of this OAD. In addition to ROS generation, GMZ27 concomitantly reduces intracellular glutathione which markedly weakens the cellular antioxidant capacity, thus enhancing the detrimental intracellular effects of ROS production. These results indicate that GMZ27 induces apoptosis in AML cells in a PML-RARα-independent fashion, through the induction of ROS production. This activity provides the rationale for the testing of GMZ27 in patients with AML.
Light-chain deposition disease (LCDD) is a multisystemic disorder associated with plasma cell dyscrasias and multiple myeloma. It is histologically characterized by the deposition of a homogeneous, in electron microscopy granular, slightly eosinophilic material showing positivity usually for kappa light chains. In contrast to AL-amyloidosis, the material is negative for Congo red. LCDD mainly involves the kidneys as the predominant organ manifestation resulting in a nephrotic syndrome. However, involvement of other tissues such as liver and heart have been described. Here we report a case of severe ischemic cholangitis in a patient with multiple myeloma receiving chemotherapy with melphalan, prednisone, and lenalidomide. Histopathological analysis revealed LCDD of the hepatic arteries as the underlying cause. This is to our knowledge the first case of LCDD of terminal liver arteries as a cause of intrahepatic ischemic cholangitis.
A 7-year-old boy born to consanguineous parents had suffered from palmoplantar keratoderma and chronic gingivitis since the age of 3 months. He was diagnosed with Papillon-Lefèvre syndrome. Genetic testing confirmed that he was homozygous with a point mutation in exon 6 of the cathepsin C gene. One year after initiating treatment with acitretin 10 mg oral daily and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, the patient's skin remains almost lesion-free, and he has new teeth that erupted during treatment and are free of periodontal disease.
Sudden hypotensive and/or bradycardic events (HBE) have been reported in 13%-28% of patients undergoing shoulder surgery in the sitting position during interscalene block. The Bezold-Jarisch reflex is the most likely mechanism for these events. It has been hypothesized that exogenous epinephrine might be a key component to the occurrence of HBE. We conducted this prospective, randomized study to verify this hypothesis. Patients received a local anesthetic solution with (Group E; n = 55) or without (Group P; n = 55) epinephrine for interscalene block; no further exogenous epinephrine was administered. Blood pressure control was achieved with IV urapidil, a peripheral vasodilator, as needed. The incidence of HBE was 11% in Group P versus 29% in Group E (P = 0.015). Increased intraoperative heart rate and arterial blood pressure were recorded in Group E (P = 0.000). Urapidil was administered to 13% of Group P and to 31% of Group E patients (P = 0.018). Urapidil administration induced a HBE in 4% of Group P and in 5% of Group E patients. We conclude that exogenous epinephrine is involved in the development of HBE in this setting.
Sudden hypotensive and/or bradycardic events occur during shoulder surgery in the sitting position during interscalene block. In this study, we demonstrated that the presence of epinephrine in the local anesthetic mixture significantly increases the incidence of these events.
In infertile cycles in rats, the corpus luteum (CL) ceases producing progesterone in about 2 days and is eliminated by structural luteolysis. Glucocorticoids disrupt the ovarian cycle and interfere with structural luteolysis. We studied the effects of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) on rat luteolysis. Cycling rats were treated during 3 days (from estrus to diestrus) with different doses (0.025, 0.1, 0.4, and 1 mg/rat) of DEX or vehicle. DEX-treated rats showed a necrotic pattern of cell death, affecting exclusively the last generation of regressing CLs. In these animals, selective apoptosis of luteal endothelial cells, detected by both morphological characteristics and TUNEL assay, was observed on the morning of proestrus and was followed by necrosis of the luteal tissue. These effects were dose related. With the lowest DEX doses (0.025 and 0.1 mg), only some of the animals were affected and showed smaller necrotic areas in CLs. The deleterious effects of DEX on endothelial cells were in keeping with the immunohistochemical localization of glucocorticoid receptors in the endothelial cells of the last CL generation. The results of this study strongly suggest that DEX-induced selective apoptosis of endothelial cells leads to ischemic necrosis of the luteal tissue and raises the possibility that actions on endothelial cells may be underlying glucocorticoid-induced effects on the ovary.
Forty-six previously untreated patients with advanced breast cancer were eligible for the present randomised phase I study. It aimed to evaluate the toxicity and activity of a therapeutic sequence with epirubicin on day 1 followed by paclitaxel on day 2 (sequence A) or the reverse sequence, ie., paclitaxel on day 1 followed by epirubicin on day 2 (sequence B). The starting doses of epirubicin and paclitaxel, administered either according to sequence A or B, (level 1 cohort) were 90 mg/m2 and 175 mg/m2, respectively. Per cohort of 3 patients, the dose of paclitaxel was increased by 25 mg/m2 (levels 2 and 4) and of epirubicin by 10 mg/m2 (levels 3 and 5). Treatment was repeated with 3-week intervals. The maximal tolerated dose (MTD) was achieved at level 1 in sequence B (paclitaxel first) and level 3 (epirubicin 100 mg/m2 followed by paclitaxel 200 mg m2) in sequence A. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was neutropenia (+/- febrile) in both sequences. Cardiac events occurred in 28% of the patients; significant decrease in left ventricular ejection function (LVEF) was observed in 8/33 and in 2/13 patients in sequence A and B, respectively. This was associated with 5 and 1 cardiac heart failure (CHF), respectively. In 43 evaluable patients, 10 CR and 25 PR were observed (overall response rate 81%). In the 20 patients with locally advanced disease (LABC), the respective numbers were 7 CR and 11 PR; in the 23 metastatic (MBC) patients, 3 CR and 14 PR were recorded. The median survival of the both groups was not reached at 33 + months. In conclusion , the combination of epirubicin and paclitaxel has significant activity in breast cancer. The recommended sequence of both drugs in combination therapy, mainly to avoid neutropenia, is epirubicin day 1 followed by paclitaxel on day 2. Cardiac toxicity remains problematic in either sequence of administration.
We investigated the efficacy of directly injecting a plasmid with complementary DNA encoding human hepatocyte growth factor into ischemic canine myocardium to induce angiogenesis.
Four weeks after ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, 125 microg of a complementary DNA plasmid encoding the gene for either hepatocyte growth factor (n = 8) or LacZ (transfection control group, n = 8) was injected directly into the myocardium at the border between the normal tissue and the infarction. Eight other dogs were used as a sham control group. Regional thickening fraction, which indicated contractile function, and blood flow in the normal (circumflex branch territory) and ischemic areas were evaluated under dobutamine administration just before and 4 weeks after transfection. The animals were killed, and capillary numbers in both areas were assessed. These data in the ischemic area were evaluated as the percentage of those in the normal.
The number of myocardial capillaries in the ischemic area was successfully increased to approximately 140% of usual in the hepatocyte growth factor group, whereas no change was observed in the other groups (P =.0017 by analysis of variance). Furthermore, regional thickening fraction and blood flow in the ischemic area, which had deteriorated after coronary ligation, showed significant improvement in the hepatocyte growth factor group relative to the other groups (thickening fraction P <.0001 by analysis of variance, blood flow P =.0005 by analysis of variance).
These results support the efficacy of the direct injection of plasmid complementary DNA encoding human hepatocyte growth factor to induce therapeutic angiogenesis in the ischemic myocardium.
The aim of this study was to provide further insight into the phenomenology and pathophysiology of monophasic and biphasic dyskinesias induced by levodopa in Parkinson's disease. For this purpose, the type, localization, severity, and timing of dyskinesias were evaluated in 15 parkinsonian patients in relation to motor disability after administration of levodopa using a video-electromyographic recording device. Foot-dystonia, myoclonus, and akathisia were observed in most patients. The dyskinesias started in the foot, usually on the side most affected by the disease, and spread in an "ascending wave" to the contralateral side, the trunk, and upper extremities. In a few patients, onset was axial, spreading almost instantaneously to all limbs. The dyskinesias were dystonic and ballistic at the start, and became increasingly choreic as they attained the upper limbs. Their intensity was maximal in the lower limbs, then progressively decreased, while increasing in upper limbs and head. The results indicate that there is no strict dichotomy between biphasic and monophasic dyskinesias. In other words, there is a "continuum" between the first dyskinesias and those observed during the period of maximal clinical improvement. These dyskinesias can also appear in reverse order, as if there were an "oscillator" determining a sequence of alternating patterns.
Antidepressants administered to bipolar subjects may induce manias, mixed states, or rapid cycling. More recently, we have noted that long-term use of antidepressants may induce a chronic dysphoric, irritable state.
A case series is presented in which six type I bipolar subjects receiving antidepressants continuously for several years developed chronic irritable dysphoria.
A triad of dysphoric mood, irritability, and middle insomnia that is frequently associated with occupational and social dysfunction can occur in some bipolar patients receiving antidepressants for at least 3 years. Typically, initial treatments with antidepressants for the index episode were effective. Over time, depressive symptoms returned and would transiently improve with dose increase or change of agents. Ultimately, the dysphoria and associated symptoms became chronic and resulted in dysfunction. Concomitant mood stabilizer did not appear to alter this pattern. Discontinuation of antidepressants was associated with a slow and gradual improvement in these symptoms over the ensuing year.
Additional studies are required to investigate safety of long-term use of antidepressants in bipolar illness.
Recent studies suggest that traumatic brain injury (TBI) and pesticide exposure increase the risk of Parkinson's disease (PD), but the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear. Using an in vitro model of TBI, we evaluated the role of mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced by stretch on dopaminergic cell death upon paraquat exposure. Human dopaminergic neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells grown on silicone membrane were stretched at mild (25%) and moderate (50%) strain prior to paraquat exposure. We observed that moderate stretch (50% strain) increased the vulnerability of cells to paraquat demonstrated by the loss of plasma membrane integrity (propidium iodide-uptake) and decreased mitochondrial activity (MTT assay). Mitochondrial depolarization occurred immediately after stretch, while mitochondrial ROS increased rapidly and remained elevated for up to 4h after the stretch injury. Intracellular glutathione (GSH) stores were also transiently decreased immediately after moderate stretch. Cells treated with paraquat, or moderate stretch exhibited negligible mitochondrial depolarization at 48h post treatment, whereas in cells stretched prior to paraquat exposure, a significant mitochondrial depolarization occurred compared to samples exposed to either paraquat or stretch. Moderate stretch also increased mitochondrial ROS formation, as well as exacerbated intracellular GSH loss induced by paraquat. Overexpression of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) markedly diminished the deleterious effects of stretch in paraquat neurotoxicity. Our findings demonstrate that oxidative stress induced by mitochondrial dysfunction plays a critical role in the synergistic toxic effects of stretch (TBI) and pesticide exposure. Mitigation of oxidative stress via mitochondria-targeted antioxidants appears an attractive route for treatment of neurodegeneration mediated by TBI.
Mutations in the ATP-binding cassette transporter 1 (ABCA1) gene have been recently identified as the molecular defect in Tangier disease (TD) and familial high density lipoprotein deficiency (FHA). We here report novel mutations in the ABCA1 gene in two sisters from a Japanese family with TD who have been described previously (S. Ohtaki, H. Nakagawa, N. Kida, H. Nakamura, K. Tsuda, S. Yokoyama, T. Yamamura, S. Tajima, A. Yamamoto, Atherosclerosis 49 (1983)) and a family with FHA. Both probands of TD and FHA developed coronary heart disease. Sequence analysis of the ABCA1 gene from the patients with TD revealed a homozygous G to A transition at nucleotide 3805 of the cDNA resulting in the substitution of Asp 1229 with Asn in exon 27, and a C to T at nucleotide 6181 resulting in the substitution of Arg 2021 with Trp in exon 47. Sequence analysis of the ABCA1 gene from the FHA patient revealed a homozygous 4 bp CGCC deletion from nucleotide 3787 to 3790 resulting in premature termination by frameshift at codon 1224. These mutations were confirmed by restriction digestion analysis, and were not found in 141 control subjects. Our findings indicate that mutations in the ABCA1 gene are associated with TD as well as FHA.
Urethane occurs naturally as a by-product of fermentation. The main exposure of humans to urethane is from drinking alcoholic beverages. The International Agency for Research on Cancer has determined that consumption of alcoholic beverages is clearly linked to certain cancers in humans. We studied mixtures of urethane and ethanol (alcohol) to determine if urethane, alone or in combination with ethanol, caused cancer in mice.
We gave groups of 48 male and female mice drinking water containing combinations of urethane (0, 10, 30, or 90) and other ethanol (0%, 2.5%, or 5%) for two years. Tissues from more than 40 sites were examined for every animal.
Ther were more deaths and lower body weights in groups of animals exposed to higher concentrations of urethane. Higher concentrations of urethane increased the rates of cancer of the liver, lung, harderian gland, and of hemangiosarcomas in both male and female mice. Urethane also increased the rates of cancer of the skin and forestomach in male mice and of the mammary gland and ovary in female mice. There were also small increases in the occurrence of hemangiosarcoma in the spleen in male mice and in the uterus and skin of female mice.
We conclude that urethane caused cancer at several sites in male and female mice. It was not possible to determine from this study whether ethanol alone caused cancer in mice, and there was weak evidence that ethanol may have affected the carcinogenicity of urethane, slightly lowering the incidence of lung and harderian gland tumors in male mice and increasing the incidence of heart and lung tumors in female mice.
REM sleep deprivation (REMSD) results in behavioral changes such as the appearance of affective aggression induced by apomorphine (APO) and other dopaminergic agents. REMSD modifies dopamine-mediated behavior as well as the adrenergic receptor sensitivity. This paper evaluates the interaction between these two neurotransmission systems through changes in APO-, DL-DOPA- and fusaric acid (FA)-induced aggressive behavior in REMSD rats pretreated with phentolamine, propranolol, metaraminol, prazosin, clonidine, yohimbine, isoproterenol, butoxamine and maprotiline. Only isoproterenol reduced FA-induced aggressiveness. No specific changes in aggressiveness were noticed with other treatments and not even inhibitors of norepinephrine transmission induced aggressive behavior. It is concluded that norepinephrine had a slight inhibitory action on aggressiveness elicited by dopaminomimetic agents in REMSD rats. Beta-adrenoceptors could be responsible for this effect since only beta-selective drugs reduced aggression. As REMSD reduces beta-adrenoceptor sensitivity, only minor changes in aggressiveness could be observed. It was noted that the three drugs used to induce aggressive behavior elicited different patterns of aggression.
Cigarette smokers frequently fail multiple attempts to quit smoking, often because of the unpleasant symptoms that accompany quitting. Similar unpleasant symptoms accompany inflammatory responses during infection and autoimmune disease. The hypothesis that smoking abstinence induces inflammation was tested. Eighteen smokers (n = 18) were evaluated while smoking freely and after 24 h of nicotine abstinence. Immune, cardiovascular and psychological measures were collected. Hunger, nervousness, anxiety, restlessness and irritability increased during abstinence (p < 0.05); systolic blood pressure and heart rate levels decreased (p < 0.05). Analysis demonstrated a split among smokers in response to abstinence compared with smoking freely; some smokers (n = 10) displayed increased C-reactive protein (CRP, p < 0.05) whereas others (n = 8) responded with decreased CRP (p < 0.05). An increase in symptoms of depressed mood and a fall in heart rate occurred only in those who displayed increased CRP with nicotine abstinence ( p < 0.05), while systolic blood pressure fell only in those whose CRP levels decreased with abstinence ( p < 0.05). Interleukin-1 and interleukin-6 did not change with abstinence. The results suggest that 24 h nicotine abstinence does not stimulate inflammation among all smokers, but that a sub-group of smokers do demonstrate an inflammatory response with significant negative psychological and physiological symptomatology.
Hyperuricemia is commonly recognized in adolescents and adults with cyanotic congenital heart disease. We report a case of a male infant with hyperuricemia, Taussig-Bing anomaly, and interruption of the aortic arch. The patient underwent correction of interrupted aortic arch and pulmonary arterial banding at the age of 7 days. Hyperuricemia appeared when he was 2 months old (max 17.7 mg/dl) and persisted until he underwent a Jatene operation at the age of 10 months. The hyperuricemia improved gradually after the disappearance of hypoxia and polycythemia. The laboratory findings suggest that hyperuricemia can result from uric acid overproduction due to secondary polycythemia, impairment of uric acid excretion by the kidney, or the acceleration of anaerobic metabolism. Allopurinol and benzbromarone together were partially effective treatments for hyperuricemia in this patient with cyanotic congenital heart disease.
Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) improve insulin sensitivity and maintain beta cell mass. This study examined whether this effect is attributable to improved mitochondrial function in the pancreas and the potential involvement of the pancreatic insulin-like growth factor (IGF) axis in mediating this effect. Female Wistar rats were given either saline (vehicle) or nicotine (1 mg kg⁻¹ day⁻¹) during pregnancy and lactation. Following weaning, nicotine-exposed offspring were randomized to receive either vehicle or rosiglitazone (3 mg kg⁻¹ day⁻¹) until 26 weeks of age when serum and pancreas tissue were collected. The effect of rosiglitazone on nicotine-induced mitochondrial dysfunction was also examined in vitro. Fetal and neonatal nicotine exposure resulted in structural and functional mitochondrial deficits relative to saline controls. The nicotine-induced mitochondrial defects were attenuated by postnatal rosiglitazone administration. A similar effect was observed in vitro; nicotine (25 ng/ml) inhibited beta cell mitochondrial function and co-treatment with rosiglitazone (1 μM) restored enzyme activity to control levels. Fetal and neonatal nicotine exposure also altered key components of the adult pancreatic IGF axis, an effect that was not prevented by rosiglitazone treatment. Rosiglitazone treatment maintains mitochondrial structure and function in the pancreas of rats that are prone to diabetes, as well as mitochondrial function in beta cell culture. We propose that this may be an important part of the mechanism by which rosiglitazone improves beta cell mass and prevents diabetes in individuals with impaired glucose tolerance and/or impaired fasting glucose. The underlying mechanism through which rosiglitazone targets the mitochondria remains to be determined, but does not appear to involve the IGF axis.
To examine whether the increase of blood pressure in adrenocorticotrophin-treated rats is mediated through mineralocorticoid or glucocorticoid receptors or corticosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation inhibition.
Rats were randomly allocated to 14 treatment groups for 10 days. The treatments included sham injection (n = 35), adrenocorticotrophin (5, 100, 500 micrograms/kg per day, subcutaneously, n = 5, 15 and 15, respectively), spironolactone (100 mg/kg per day, subcutaneously, n = 15), standard-dose or high-dose RU 486 (70 mg/kg every 3 days or 70 mg/kg per day, subcutaneously, n = 5 and 10, respectively), spironolactone + adrenocorticotrophin (100 micrograms/kg per day, n = 5, or 500 micrograms/kg per day, n = 10), standard-dose RU 486 + adrenocorticotrophin (500 micrograms/kg per day, n = 5), high-dose RU 486 + adrenocorticotrophin (100 micrograms/kg per day, n = 10), troleandomycin (40 mg/kg per day, subcutaneously, n = 5) and troleandomycin + adrenocorticotrophin (5 micrograms/kg per day, n = 5). Systolic blood pressure and metabolic parameters were measured every second day.
Adrenocorticotrophin treatment increased systolic blood pressure dose-dependently (5 micrograms/kg per day: +14 +/- 2 mmHg; 100 micrograms/kg per day: +20 +/- 2 mmHg; 500 micrograms/kg per day: +28 +/- 2 mmHg, all P < 0.001). Adrenocorticotrophin at 100 and 500 micrograms/kg per day increased plasma sodium and decreased plasma potassium concentrations. Spironolactone did not block adrenocorticotrophin-induced systolic blood pressure changes but did block changes in plasma sodium and potassium levels. Standard-dose RU 486 did not modify the adrenocorticotrophin-induced (500 micrograms/kg per day) systolic blood pressure rise but blocked the effect of adrenocorticotrophin on body weight. High-dose RU 486 partially blocked the adrenocorticotrophin-induced (100 micrograms/kg per day) systolic blood pressure increase (adrenocorticotrophin at 100 micrograms/kg per day: 143 +/- 3 mmHg; high-dose RU 486 + adrenocorticotrophin at 100 micrograms/kg per day: 128 +/- 5 mmHg, P < 0.001) and body-weight loss. Troleandomycin did not alter the development of adrenocorticotrophin-induced hypertension.
Spironolactone and standard-dose RU 486 did not modify adrenocorticotrophin-induced hypertension despite demonstrable antimineralocorticoid and antiglucocorticoid actions. High-dose RU 486 partially blocked adrenocorticotrophin-induced (100 micrograms/kg per day) hypertension, suggesting either a permissive effect of glucocorticoid on blood pressure or other antihypertensive actions of RU 486. Inhibition of glucocorticoid 6 beta-hydroxylation by troleandomycin did not modify adrenocorticotrophin-induced hypertension, suggesting that effects of corticosterone 6 beta-hydroxylation in adrenocorticotrophin-induced hypertension are negligible.
In a post hoc analysis of the European Stroke Prevention Study 2 (ESPS2), we investigated whether dipyridamole given as antiplatelet drug in patients with TIA or stroke increases the risk of cardiac events. ESPS2 was a secondary prevention trial including 6602 patients with TIA or stroke. Patients were randomized into one of four treatment arms: 2 x 25 mg acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), 2 x 200 mg slow release dipyridamole (DP), the combination of DP and ASA and placebo. DP did not result in a higher number of cardiac events, e.g., angina pectoris, myocardial infarction or death. The combination of ASA plus DP was superior to either drug alone in the prevention of strokes.
The present experiment was carried out to explore the effect of endogenous androgen on rat prostate carcinogenesis induced by 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) and testosterone propionate (TP) or 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) with or without ethinyl estradiol (EE). In order to eliminate the influence of endogenous androgen, F344 rats were orchiectomized just after initiation with the prostate carcinogen, DMAB, and then given TP, DHT, TP plus EE or DHT plus EE for 40 weeks. The results demonstrated that while administration of TP following DMAB treatment causes invasive carcinomas in the lateral and anterior prostate and seminal vesicles, DHT does not exhibit equivalent effects. Synergistic enhancement was also evident with TP plus EE, but not with DHT plus EE. The incidences of prostatic and seminal vesicle lesions in all groups of the present experiment, except for the group given castration without hormonal supplement, were equivalent to those previously found in non-castrated animals. Therefore, the present findings indicate that endogenous testosterone may not be required for promotion by TP/EE of DMAB-initiated prostate carcinogenesis and that it may not contribute to the actions of DHT.
High Alcohol Withdrawal (HAW) and Low Alcohol Withdrawal (LAW) mice were selectively bred from a foundation population of C57BL6/J (B6) x DBA/2J (D2) F2 intercross progeny for display of intense or mild handling-induced withdrawal convulsions, respectively, following a single injection of a hypnotic dose of ethanol (alcohol; 4 g/kg). The HAW line had significantly greater alcohol withdrawal severity scores compared to the LAW line after only a single generation of selection; the magnitude of the line difference was 8-fold by the fourth selected generation. We tested these lines for severity of withdrawal convulsions following the benzodiazepine, diazepam; the gaseous anesthetic, nitrous oxide; the imidazopyridine, zolpidem and the barbiturate, pentobarbital. In all cases, HAW mice had significantly greater withdrawal severity than mice of the LAW line. These results indicate that some genes influencing withdrawal convulsion severity following ethanol also affect withdrawal from other CNS depressants. D2 mice are more sensitive to a variety of convulsants than B6 mice (and have more severe withdrawal convulsions). We, therefore, tested separate groups of mice of both selectively bred lines for threshold sensitivity to pentylenetetrazol (PTZ), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainic acid (KA). No line differences were detected. These results indicate that genes influencing severity of withdrawal from several depressant drugs are largely different from those affecting susceptibility to GABAergic or glutamatergic convulsants.
