In this study, ischemia-reperfusion produced in rats by clamping the celiac artery for 0.5 h followed by 1 h of reperfusion was used to develop a new model of superficial gastric erosions progressing to deeper ulcers. Ischemia alone resulted in an immediate fall in gastric blood flow but no gross mucosal lesions were observed. When ischemia was followed by reperfusion, gastric erosive lesions occurred, reached a maximum at 12 h and then declined after 24 h. These acute erosions progressed into deeper lesions 24 h after ischemia-reperfusion and reached a peak after 3 days. Gastric blood flow and the mucosal generation of prostaglandin E(2) were significantly suppressed immediately following ischemia-reperfusion, but with the healing of deeper gastric ulcers, both gastric blood flow and prostaglandin E(2) generation were gradually restored. Cyclooxygenase-1 mRNA was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in intact gastric mucosa and throughout the recovery of the mucosa from acute ischemia-reperfusion lesions, whereas cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA, was recorded only after ischemia-reperfusion. NS-398 and rofecoxib, selective inhibitors of cyclooxyganase-2, failed to affect prostaglandin E(2) generation in the non-ulcerated gastric mucosa but inhibited it significantly in the ulcer area. The two cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors as well as resveratrol, a specific cyclooxygenase-1 inhibitor and indomethacin and meloxicam, non-specific inhibitors of cyclooxygenase, augmented acute gastric erosions induced by ischemia-reperfusion and delayed significantly the progression of these lesions into deeper ulcers at each time interval after ischemia-reperfusion. We conclude that prostaglandins generated by both cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 contribute to the healing of gastric lesions induced by ischemia-reperfusion.
A newborn male presented with choanal atresia and minor dysmorphic facial features. At 4 years of age he showed delayed speech and language development. His mother had been treated with thiamazole for pre-existing hyperthyroidism during the first 3 months of pregnancy. It is possible that the maternal use of thiamazole caused the congenital anomalies. Embryopathy caused by maternal thiamazole use during pregnancy has been described several times before and is mainly characterised by choanal atresia, oesophageal atresia, minor dysmorphic facial features, growth retardation and delayed psychomotor development. Because the use of propylthiouracil during pregnancy has not been associated with similar effects, it is the treatment of choice for hyperthyroidism during pregnancy. For pregnant women or women who wish to become pregnant, thiamazole should be prescribed only ifpropylthiouracil cannot be used.
Fibrosis-related changes in livers of cirrhotic rats induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) have not yet been fully clarified. The aim of this study was to investigate changes in molecular and biochemical markers in DMN-intoxicated rats. DMN was administered to Sprague-Dawley rats for 2 and 5 weeks to induce different degrees of hepatic fibrosis. Liver tissues were assessed for the degree of fibrosis and gene expression. Histological examination of the liver showed a progressive increase in fibrosis scores (1.33 +/- 0.21 and 3.03 +/- 0.29, respectively) and expansion of fibrous septa with collagen-staining fibers in rats after 2 and 5 weeks of DMN administration. Hepatic protein contents of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and total collagen were significantly higher in rats administered DMN for both 2 and 5 weeks compared with those in control rats. Hepatic mRNA expressions of alpha-SMA, transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), connective tissue growth factor, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1, and procollagen I and III were increased in DMN rats after 2 and 5 weeks. Abnormal increases in plasma alanine transaminase (ALT) and aspartate transaminase (AST) levels, plasma and mitochondrial MDA levels, and portal venous pressure were also noted in DMN rats. DMN administration to rats for 2 and 5 weeks induced progressive increases in hepatic fibrosis scores, hepatic mRNA expressions of TGF-beta1 and procollagen I and III genes, plasma levels of ALT and AST, and portal venous pressure, as well as progressive decreases in both liver and body weights. Our results suggest that DMN administration in rats induces biochemical and molecular changes related to fibrogenesis in the liver.
Vinorelbine is a new semisynthetic vinka alkaloid that has demonstrated good tolerability and interesting activity in a large spectrum of solid tumors. It was the aim of this paper to report the presence of a rarely documented side effect.
In our experience, 135 patients were treated with vinorelbine during the period 10/92 to 11/94 for a total of 1080 cycles. In 26% of the cycles, vinorelbine was administered in monochemotherapy and in 74% in polychemotherapy regimens. The dose of vinorelbine, administered in a weekly schedule, was 25 mg/m2 in 109 patients and 30 mg/m2 in 26 patients. In general, no analgesic premedication was used. Sixty-five patients had lung cancer, 45 had breast cancer, and 25 miscellaneous cancer. Only 4 patients had a previous history of neurotoxicity.
Ten patients (7%) had pain in the tumor site within a few minutes of the vinorelbine injection. According to WHO grade, 5 cases had moderate and 5 severe pain. Pain was always reversible. In 5 cases ketorolac was administered after pain detection with resolution of the symptoms; in 4 cases it was necessary to deliver buprenorphine. One patient was admitted to the coronary unit because a myocardial infarction was suspected after retrosternal pain and required i.v. morphine. Seven cases refused to continue the treatment, and 3 cases had no further problem after ketorolac premedication.
Although rare, the presence of severe pain after vinorelbine injection may adversely affect the treatment course. Such data are helpful in the recognition and management of this reversible side effect.
To evaluate the morphologic changes in rat urothelium induced by indomethacin. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced cystitis is a poorly recognized and under-reported condition. In addition to tiaprofenic acid, indomethacin has been reported to be associated with this condition.
Three groups were established: a control group (n = 10), a high-dose group (n = 10), treated with one intraperitoneal injection of indomethacin 20 mg/kg, and a therapeutic dose group (n = 10) in which oral indomethacin was administered 3.25 mg/kg body weight daily for 3 weeks. The animals were then killed and the bladders removed for light and electron microscopic studies.
The light microscopic findings showed some focal epithelial degeneration that was more prominent in the high-dose group. When compared with the control group, both indomethacin groups revealed statistically increased numbers of mast cells in the mucosa (P <0.0001) and penetration of lanthanum nitrate through intercellular areas of the epithelium. Furthermore, the difference in mast cell counts between the high and therapeutic dose groups was also statistically significant (P <0.0001).
Indomethacin resulted in histopathologic findings typical of interstitial cystitis, such as leaky bladder epithelium and mucosal mastocytosis. The true incidence of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced cystitis in humans must be clarified by prospective clinical trials.
To understand the relationship between zinc and prostaglandin (PG) metabolisms in inducing colon cancer incidence in human and animals.
Human colonic tumor and normal cells were obtained from Departments of Surgery and Pathology at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA and US VA Medical Center, North Hills, CA. Rat colonic tumor and normal cells were isolated from the rats that received two injections of 50 mg/kg of Azoxymethan (AOM) in 2 weeks and then kept 30 weeks in the animal facility. Then, the effects of zinc on the PGE2 synthesis and PGE2 on zinc metabolism in tumor and normal cells were determined.
PGE2 concentrations in both human and AOM-induced rat colonic tumor cells increased compared to those in adjacent normal colonocytes, whereas PGF2 alpha concentrations did not change. Gene expression of inducible form of prostaglandin synthase (PGS-2) is stimulated in rat colonocytes by epidermal growth factor and by tetradecanoyl 13-phorbol acetate (a tumor promoter and mitogen) only in the presence of zinc. PGE2 binding activity of rat enterocytes was maximum at 15 microM of zinc (normal plasma zinc concentration), but PGE2 synthesis activity increased for the first 15 minutes when extracellular zinc concentrations were either higher or lower than the normal extracellular zinc concentration. However, variations in extracellular zinc concentrations did not change the rate of PGF2 alpha synthesis in the normal rat enterocytes. PGE2 significantly increased zinc uptake rates of colonic tumor cells but PGF2 alpha showed only moderate effect.
These results suggest that zinc is required for PGS-2 gene expression, that maintaining an optimal zinc nutriture is important for normal PG synthesis of intestinal cells, and that only PGE2 synthesis mechanisms rather than PGS-2 gene expression are altered in colonic tumor cells resulting in the abnormal zinc nutriture of these cells.
Lithium remains the treatment of choice for many patients suffering from bipolar disorder. However, long-term treatment with lithium carries the potential to cause renal and thyroid dysfunction. Lithium-induced nephropathies are characterised by deterioration of urinary concentrating ability as well as, less frequently, a progressive and potentially irreversible decrease in glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Pathological changes after treatment with lithium include both tubulointerstitial and glomerular changes. Besides monitoring of the kidney-function, no screening-instruments exist for early identification of patients at risk of lithium-induced nephropathy. CE-MS (capillary electrophoresis coupled to a mass spectrometer) is a new technique that has been applied to the differential diagnosis of nephropathies. We sought to determine if CE-MS can be used to identify lithium-induced renal changes. A urine-sample was obtained from 14 subjects (7 males, 7 females, mean age 51.1 years) under long-term treatment with lithium (mean duration 17.4 years, range 8-35 years) without known nephropathy (mean creatinine 0.96 mg/dl; range 0.7-1.6). Urine samples were stored at -20 degrees C until analysis. CE-MS was performed according to standard procedures and a screen for nephropathies was used. Among the 14 urine samples, two subjects tested positive for a nephropathy. One further subject had a borderline result. Since 3/14 subjects with no known nephropathy showed some degree of pathological findings, CE-MS from a urine-sample may be helpful for the early detection of renal damage under treatment with lithium. However, a specific screen for lithium-induced nephropathies still needs to be developed.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors have been shown to increase maximal muscle blood flow in parallel to peak VO2 in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). Whether this increase shifts factors limiting peak aerobic capacity from periphery (skeletal muscle or vessels) to central factors (cardiac or respiratory) is unknown. Comparison of peak oxygen consumption (VO2) obtained during leg cycling (VO2 leg) with peak VO2 obtained during combined leg cycling and arm cranking (VO2 arm + leg) allows determination of the relative role of central or peripheral factors. We compared VO2 leg with VO2 arm + leg before and after 3 months of therapy with quinapril 40 mg in 16 patients with CHF (age 53 +/- 13 years) due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction (ejection fraction 0.25 +/- 0.07). Before quinapril, VO2 arm + leg was significantly higher than VO2 leg (19.0 +/- 3.3 vs 16.9 +/- 3.8 ml/kg/min, p < 0.001), whereas after therapy these 2 values were similar (20.3 +/- 4.3 vs 21.0 +/- 4.3 ml/kg/min; p = NS), indicating that patients were no longer limited by peripheral factors. Besides, VO2 leg increase after therapy was higher in patients in whom difference between VO2 arm + leg and VO2 leg was the greatest (i.e., in patients who were initially more limited by peripheral factors). Simultaneously, calf peak reactive hyperemia and circumference significantly increased, indicating an improvement in vascular dilating capacity and an increase in skeletal muscle mass. No significant modification occurred in the forearm. Thus, patients who improved the most after 3 months of quinapril therapy were those who were initially limited by peripheral factors. The restricting role of these factors was reduced after quinapril therapy.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is associated with renal manifestations, such as membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) with or without cryoglobulinaemia, membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). Standard treatment for HCV is interferon and ribavirin, but in renal insufficiency ribavirin has been contraindicated due to fear of side effects.
Seven patients, two with cryoglobulinaemia, vasculitic manifestations and glomerulonephritis (GN), four with MPGN and one with FSGS were treated with a combination of interferon and ribavirin. Two patients were given pegylated interferon and ribavirin. All patients had at presentation renal insufficiency, with a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) between 10 and 65 ml/min. One patient had HCV genotype 1, the remainder 2 and 3. Duration of therapy was according to genotype (6-12 months). Ribavirin in plasma was monitored by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to avoid over-dosing, aiming at a target concentration of 10-15 micromol/l. The main side effect of ribavirin, haemolytic anaemia, was monitored closely with haemoglobin controls.
Six of seven patients became HCV-RNA-PCR negative and four of seven have maintained both virological and renal remission. One of seven has maintained virological and partial renal remission. One patient did not tolerate interferon, but is in renal remission with low-dose ribavirin. One vasculitis patient responded with complete remission, but relapsed virologically and had a minor vasculitic flare after 9 months. Only one patient with vasculitis had low-dose immunosuppression in addition to anti-viral therapy. Average daily ribavirin dose was 200-800 mg. Ribavirin-induced anaemia was managed in five of seven patients with low-dose iron and erythropoietin between 4000 and 20 000 IU/week.
Interferon and ribavirin can with reasonable safety be used in HCV-related vasculitis and GN irrespective of renal function.
To report a case of fatal liver failure possibly associated with concurrent use of bupropion and carbimazole.
A 41-year-old Chinese man with a history of hyperthyroidism had been treated with carbimazole and propranolol for the past 5 years. He received a 10-day course of bupropion as an aid for smoking cessation 10 weeks prior to presentation. He developed acute liver failure with rapid deterioration of renal function. Liver biopsy showed evidence of nonspecific drug-induced acute liver injury. His condition was further complicated by sepsis and coagulopathy. Death resulted 19 days after the onset of symptoms. The likelihood that bupropion induced hepatotoxicity in our patient was possible, based on the Naranjo probability scale.
Although there is increasing evidence of hepatotoxicity induced by bupropion, this is the first case of fatality that could have resulted from acute liver failure in a patient receiving bupropion while on concomitant treatment with carbimazole.
Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of acute liver insult induced by bupropion given concurrently with other hepatotoxic drugs.
The bisphosphonate zoledronic acid and the cytotoxic drug doxorubicin induce synergistic levels of apoptosis in breast cancer cells. As zoledronic acid and doxorubicin have been shown to reduce cell invasion and migration, we have investigated if these drugs also act synergistically on breast cancer invasion in vitro. MCF7 cells were treated with 0.05 microM doxorubicin/4 h followed by 1 or 10 microM zoledronic acid/24 h (or the reverse sequence). To study invasion, MCF7 cells were either grown on Transwell membranes coated with Matrigel or in a 24-well plate. Cells were treated sequentially using the above drug combinations, prior to starting the invasion assays for 48 h. Cell growth and death were also assessed under the same conditions. We found that invasion of MCF7 cells treated with zoledronic acid and doxorubicin was significantly reduced when compared with control, but the effect was dependent on drug sequence. At 1 microM, zoledronic acid significantly reduced invasion only if cells were pre-treated with doxorubicin, but cell growth was unaffected. For 10 microM zoledronic acid, invasion was reduced when administered before or after the doxorubicin, but this dose of zoledronic acid caused a significant reduction in MCF7 growth. Apoptosis was not induced by any of the drug doses and combinations. We conclude that pre-treatment with 0.05 microM doxorubicin followed by 1 microM zoledronic acid reduces invasion when cells were grown on Matrigel. For 10 microM zoledronic acid, pre- or post-doxorubicin also reduces invasion, but for this combination inhibition of cell growth may contribute to the reduction in invasion observed.
A systemic vitamin K analog, compound 5 (Cpd 5), possesses the ability to inhibit cell growth of tumor cells. Therefore, we investigated the effect of Cpd 5 in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines and evaluated its role in apoptosis. Human HCC cell lines were cultured and treated with Cpd 5. Apoptosis was assessed using DAPI staining and Annexin-V membrane staining. The expression of caspases, XIAP and Bcl-xL was also investigated. Cpd 5 decreased cell viability in a dose-dependent manner in two HCC cells (HLE and SK-Hep1) containing mutant p53, but not in the HepG2 cell line, which contained wild-type p53. Cpd 5-treated HLE and SK-Hep1 cells showed typical apoptotic features, nuclear condensation and nuclear fragmentation upon DAPI staining. Positive membranous staining for Annexin-V was also seen in these cells. Both caspase-8 and caspase-3 activities were up-regulated slightly. Pro-caspase-8 protein levels decreased slightly in both cells. Although the expression of Bcl-xL was not influenced by Cpd 5, that of XIAP decreased in HLE cells. However, the pan-caspase inhibitor, zVAD, could not significantly prevent Cpd 5-induced apoptosis and Cpd 5 could not augment TRAIL-induced apoptosis. These results demonstrate that Cpd 5 induced apoptosis in human HCC cell lines, mainly independently of caspase activities. This may contribute to its highly potent cytotoxicity toward HCC cells.
ICA69 (islet cell Ag 69 kDa) is a diabetes-associated autoantigen with high expression levels in beta cells and brain. Its function is unknown, but knockout of its Caenorhabditis elegans homologue, ric-19, compromised neurotransmission. We disrupted the murine gene, ica-1, in 129-strain mice. These animals aged normally, but speed-congenic ICA69(null) nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice developed mid-life lethality, reminiscent of NOD-specific, late lethal seizures in glutamic acid decarboxylase 65-deficient mice. In contrast to wild-type and heterozygous animals, ICA69(null) NOD congenics fail to generate, even after immunization, cross-reactive T cells that recognize the dominant Tep69 epitope in ICA69, and its environmental mimicry Ag, the ABBOS epitope in BSA. This antigenic mimicry is thus driven by the endogenous self Ag, and not initiated by the environmental mimic. Insulitis, spontaneous, and adoptively transferred diabetes develop normally in ICA69(null) NOD congenics. Like glutamic acid decarboxylase 65, ICA69 is not an obligate autoantigen in diabetes. Unexpectedly, ICA69(null) NOD mice were resistant to cyclophosphamide (CY)-accelerated diabetes. Transplantation experiments with hemopoietic and islet tissue linked CY resistance to ICA69 deficiency in islets. CY-accelerated diabetes involves not only ablation of lymphoid cells, but ICA69-dependent drug toxicity in beta cells that boosts autoreactivity in the regenerating lymphoid system.
To evaluate the presence of metabolic syndrome (MS) in children and adolescents treated with valproate (VPA).
One hundred fourteen patients (54 male and 60 female) were studied. These patients were followed from the beginning of therapy for at least 24 months; at the end of follow-up, 46 patients (40.4%) had a considerable increase in body weight, whereas the other patients (59.6%) remained with the same weight. The MS was defined as having at least three of the following: abdominal obesity, dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, and hypertension.
Forty-six patients developed obesity; 20 (43.5%) of 46 patients developed MS. Abnormal glucose homeostasis was identified in 45% of patients. High total serum cholesterol concentrations were noted in 10 (50%), high serum triglyceride concentrations in 7 (35%), and low high-density lipoprotein (HDL) in 15 (75%) of the 20 subjects with MS. However, there were no significant differences in the features of MS between boys and girls with MS.
Patients who gain weight during VPA therapy can develop MS with a possible risk of cardiovascular disease.
Fourteen patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract and pancreas treated with mitomycin C(MMC) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) had renal impairment 6-11 months from the beginning of MMC therapy. Two clinical entities were recognized: an acute fulminating renal failure that was rapidly fatal and a chronic slowly progressive renal impairment. The first entity showed a microangiopathic hemolytic profile with anemia, thrombocytopenia, and erythrocyte fragmentation. Light microscopy and electron microscopy examination of the kidney revealed a primary vascular disease with musculomucoid intimal hyperplasia of arteries and rare fibrin thrombi in arterioles. Interstitial fibrosis, tubular atrophy, and widespread glomerular necrosis were also seen. The disease was ultimately fatal within three to four weeks. The second entity showed a chronic course of renal failure with similar pathologic findings but less pronounced, and a microangiopathic hemolysis was absent. The course in the second group was ultimately fatal between three to eight months.
The effects of intravenous verapamil (0.15 mg/kg) and propranolol (0.2 mg/kg) with regard to atrioventricular (AV) conduction and tachycardia termination during paroxysmal atrial tachycardia were compared in 2 groups of infants (verapamil n = 14, propranolol n = 18, mean age 80 +/- 21 days, range 1 to 364). Using transesophageal recording techniques, tachycardia cycle length, AV intervals and ventriculoatrial intervals were measured before and after drug administration. Both intravenous propranolol and verapamil significantly prolonged tachycardia cycle length and AV interval (cycle length--propranolol 230 +/- 30 to 262 +/- 33 ms, p less than 0.05, verapamil 223 +/- 38 to 245 +/- 32 ms, p less than 0.05; AV interval--propranolol 98 +/- 26 to 126 +/- 38 ms, p less than 0.05, verapamil 96 +/- 19 to 109 +/- 24 ms, p less than 0.05). Neither drug prolonged the ventriculoatrial interval. Tachycardia terminated after intravenous verapamil in 11 of 14 infants (79% efficacy rate). Tachycardia terminated in 0 of 18 after intravenous propranolol (0% efficacy rate). In 8 infants an atrial deflection was recorded on the esophageal electrocardiogram at the time of tachycardia termination after intravenous verapamil, which suggested that tachycardia terminated by block occurring in the AV node. In 2 infants a ventricular deflection was recorded at the time of tachycardia termination after verapamil, which suggested that block occurred in the accessory connection. Both drugs prolonged tachycardia cycle length by prolonging AV conduction to a similar degree.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Exogenous ligands of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and related substances are highly toxic pollutants ubiquitously present in the environment. They cause a variety of toxic effects to different organs and tissues. Among other effects, TCDD exposure to laboratory animals leads to thymus atrophy and immunosuppression on the one hand, and to tumor formation on the other. Apoptosis appears to be involved in both these toxic effects: AhR activation by TCDD was discussed to induce apoptosis of immune cells, leading to the depletion of thymocytes and ultimately immunosuppression. This mechanism could help to explain the highly immunotoxic actions of TCDD but it is nevertheless under debate whether this is the mode of action for immunosuppression by this class of chemical substances. In other cell types, especially liver cells, TCDD inhibits apoptosis induced by genotoxic treatment. In initiation-promotion studies, TCDD was shown to be a potent liver tumor promoter. Among other theories it was hypothesized that TCDD acts as a tumor promoter by preventing initiated cells from undergoing apoptosis. The exact mechanisms of apoptosis inhibition by TCDD are not fully understood, but both in vivo and in vitro studies consistently showed an involvement of the tumor suppressor p53 in this effect. Various strings of evidence have been established linking apoptosis to the detrimental effects of exogenous activation of the AhR. Within this article, studies elucidating the effects of TCDD and related substances on apoptosis signaling, be it inducing or repressing, is to be reviewed.
Four cases of chloroquine neuropathy presented two points of particular interest: 1) these were all young women with strictly prophylactic doses of chloroquine (100 mg/24 h); two patients showed pronounced loss of weight; 2) signs of myogenic lesions were apparent in only one patient whereas clinical and electric signs of neurogenic involvement were observed in all 4 cases. Biopsy in 3 patients (muscle in one and muscle and nerve in two) failed to show characteristic vacuoles; in one case mild segmental demyelinization was present. A favorable course was obtained in all cases after discontinuation of chloroquine, with dramatic recovery from the motor deficit. Pharmacokinetic studies in 1 patient showed abnormally high chloroquine levels at initial assay with slow elimination after its discontinuation.
We examined prospectively the results of withdrawal therapy in 80 patients with probable medication overuse headache. The aim was to identify baseline patient characteristics that might predict outcome after 1 year (end of study).
We classified patients according to results of withdrawal therapy measured as the improvement of headache days (HD) from baseline to end of study.
Thirty-six per cent (29/80) had at least 50% improvement. Sixty-four per cent (51/80) had <50% improvement, and among these, 30% (24/80) had <10% improvement. The following baseline characteristics were associated with poor outcome of withdrawal therapy: use of codeine-containing drugs, low self-reported sleep quality, and high self-reported bodily pain as measured by the quality of life tool SF-36.
Before suggesting withdrawal therapy, one should probably pay more close attention to sleep problems.
Epoprostenol (prostacyclin) is a potent inhibitor of platelet aggregation and causes relaxation of vascular smooth muscle. These effects may be beneficial in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The effect of epoprostenol infusion in patients with acute myocardial infarction was evaluated in a randomised double blind study of 45 patients with evidence of myocardial infarction of less than 16 hours' duration. The patients were given a 72 hour infusion of epoprostenol (23) or placebo (22). The maximum dose was 5 ng/kg/min. The mean time to treatment was 8.3 hours (range 3.8-15.9 hours). The mean dose was 4.9 ng/kg/min. The patients were followed until day 30. No significant differences were found between the groups in mortality, development of congestive heart failure, cardiogenic shock, arrhythmias, recurrent chest pain, reinfarction, peak creatine kinase concentration, or the time taken to attain peak creatine kinase concentration. No significant difference in baseline ejection fraction was noted between groups, and no significant change in ejection fraction occurred within each group or between groups. The only significant side effect was the development of facial flushing in the epoprostenol group. In this pilot study epoprostenol was well tolerated by patients with acute myocardial infarction. No benefit from epoprostenol could be demonstrated at the dose range used when the drug was administered within 16 hours of the onset of symptoms.
In the present study, we investigated the immunomodulatory activity of multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from healthy donors and mite-allergic subjects. Freshly prepared PBMCs, stimulated or not with Toll-like receptor (TLR)1-9 agonists, a T cell mitogen (phytohemagglutinin A) or mite allergen extract were cultured in the presence or absence of MWCNTs. Secretion of TNF-α, IL-2, IL-5, IL-6, IL-12/23p40 or IFN-γ was quantified in the culture supernatants by ELISA. Basal secretion of all the cytokines was not altered by MWCNTs in PBMCs from both healthy donors and allergic subjects. In PBMCs from healthy donors, TNF-α, IL-6 and IL-12/23p40 secretion in response to the TLR4 agonist, lipopolysaccharide was however increased in a dose-dependent manner by MWCNTs. Significant increases in the release of these cytokines were also observed in PBMCs stimulated with a TLR2 or TLR3 agonist. MWCNTs also increased the release of IL-2 and IFN-γ by PBMCs stimulated with a T cell mitogen. In contrast, MWCNTs inhibited allergen-induced IL-5 secretion by PBMCs from mite-allergic subjects. As well, MWCNTs altered the capacity of PBMC-derived monocytes to differentiate into functional dendritic cells. All together, our data suggest that according to its immune cell target, MWCNTs may either promote or suppress immune responses in humans. Further investigations are necessary to fully understand the complexity behind interactions of engineered nanoparticles with the immune system.
The rates of reported adverse drug reactions involving the central nervous system were compared among patients taking any of three benzodiazepine hypnotics: flurazepam, temazepam, and triazolam. These rates, based upon data collected through the spontaneous reporting system of the Food and Drug Administration, were controlled for the number and size of new prescriptions for each drug. In general, triazolam had much higher overall rates than did the other two drugs. Hyperexcitability and withdrawal effects were greatest for triazolam and least for flurazepam. Amnesia was reported almost exclusively with triazolam. Rates for other cognitive as well as affective and other behavioral effects were also much greater for triazolam and about equal for the other two drugs. Finally, daytime sedation was reported slightly more for flurazepam than triazolam and least for temazepam which was also reported most frequently as lacking hypnotic effect.
To report a case of Parkinson-like symptoms appearing in a patient after introduction of ritonavir to buspirone therapy.
A 54-year-old HIV-positive white man presented to the clinic with a 2-week history of ataxia, shuffling gait, cogwheel rigidity, resting tremor, and sad affect with masked features. This patient had been receiving high-dose buspirone (40 mg every morning and 30 mg every evening) for 2 years prior to the introduction of ritonavir/indinavir combination therapy (400 mg/400 mg twice daily) 6 weeks prior to initiation of the above symptoms. Buspirone was decreased to 15 mg 3 times daily, ritonavir/indinavir was discontinued, and amprenavir 1200 mg twice daily was added. The patient's symptoms began to subside after 1 week, with complete resolution after about 2 weeks. The patient continued to receive buspirone for an additional 12 months without recurrence of symptoms.
This is the first reported interaction of buspirone and antiretrovirals. Buspirone, extensively metabolized by CYP3A4, was likely at supratherapeutic levels due to the inhibitory effect of ritonavir and, secondarily, indinavir. The Parkinson-like symptoms developed rapidly and severely, impacted this patient's quality of life, and necessitated significant clinic expenditures to identify this drug-drug interaction.
This case demonstrates a severe drug-drug interaction between buspirone and ritonavir and further demonstrates the need for awareness of the metabolic profile for all agents an HIV-infected patient is receiving.
To report a case of risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia that was successfully managed with quetiapine.
A 30-year-old white woman with schizoaffective disorder, depressive type, and comorbid alcohol and cocaine abuse was treated successfully for her psychotic symptoms with risperidone until she developed adverse effects consistent with hyperprolactinemia. This was confirmed by laboratory blood tests, as her prolactin level was 186.9 ng/mL (normal for nonpregnant women 2.8-29.2). The woman had experienced similar effects in the past, which had led to noncompliance and subsequent psychotic relapse. Normalization of prolactin levels and associated adverse effects were achieved upon switching to quetiapine. No psychotic symptoms reoccurred.
Dopamine type 2 (D(2)) receptor blockade in the mesolimbic tract is thought to mediate the therapeutic effects of antipsychotics. This action in the tuberoinfundibular system produces prolactin level elevation. Risperidone has a relatively higher affinity for the D(2) receptor in comparison with other atypical antipsychotics, which may explain why it is associated with a higher incidence of hyperprolactinemia. Quetiapine, which has one of the lowest D(2) receptor affinities, is not known to increase prolactin levels to any significant degree. This pharmacologic property allows quetiapine to be a reasonable treatment option for patients who develop risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia.
Quetiapine may be a suitable substitute when a patient taking risperidone develops hyperprolactinemia.
Previous investigations in animals and one retrospective study in man suggest that verapamil can prevent anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy. In the following study, patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated with double induction and consolidation chemotherapy (AML COOP study 1986, [3]) were randomized in a group with and without accompanying low-dose oral verapamil treatment. Since July 1986, 64 patients have been included. Thirty patients have been evaluated for pre- and posttreatment cardiological investigations. So far, no significant difference in cardiotoxicity has been observed either between the verapamil and nonverapamil group or between the two induction chemotherapy regimens (TAD/TAD - TAD/HAM).
Ketamine has become the drug most favoured by emergency physicians for sedation of children in the ED. Some emergency physicians do not use ketamine for paediatric procedural sedation (PPS) because of concern about emergence delirium on recovery. The present study set out to determine the true incidence and nature of this phenomenon.
Prospective data relating to any emergence agitation, crying, hallucinations, dreams, altered perceptions, delirium and necessary interventions were recorded in consecutive cases of ketamine PPS from March 2002 to June 2007, and analysed. Standard inclusion and exclusion criteria for the use of ketamine were followed.
A total of 745 prospective data collection records were available for analysis over the 5 year period. Of all, 93 (12.5%) children cried on awakening when recovering from PPS, 291 (39%) experienced pleasant altered perceptions and 16 (2.1%) experienced what was called 'emergence delirium'. None required any active treatment and all except one settled within 20 min. There was no evidence of an increased rate of nightmares on telephone follow up in the weeks post procedure.
The belief that ketamine, in the doses used for ED PPS, causes frequent emergence delirium is flawed. A pleasant emergence phenomenon is common, but is not distressing for the child, and has no long-term (up to 30 days) negative sequelae. Rarely, there is anxiety or distress on awakening from ketamine sedation, which settles spontaneously. This should not deter emergency physicians from using ketamine for PPS.
Trastuzumab-DM1 (T-DM1) is an antibody-drug conjugate that uses trastuzumab to specifically deliver the maytansinoid antimicrotubule agent DM1 to HER2-positive cells. This first-in-human study of T-DM1 evaluated safety, pharmacokinetics, and preliminary activity of T-DM1 in patients with advanced HER2-positive breast cancer.
Successive cohorts of patients who had progressed on trastuzumab-based therapy received escalating doses of T-DM1. Outcomes were assessed by standard solid-tumor phase I methods.
Twenty-four patients who had received a median of four prior chemotherapeutic agents for metastatic disease received T-DM1 at 0.3 mg/kg to 4.8 mg/kg on an every-3-weeks schedule. Transient thrombocytopenia was dose-limiting at 4.8 mg/kg; the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) was 3.6 mg/kg. The half-life of T-DM1 at the MTD was 3.5 days, with peak DM1 levels < 10 ng/mL. Clearance at doses < 1.2 mg/kg was faster than at higher doses. Common drug-related adverse events (AEs) included grade < or = 2 thrombocytopenia, elevated transaminases, fatigue, nausea, and anemia. No grade > 1 nausea, vomiting, alopecia, or neuropathy events and no cardiac effects requiring dose modification were reported. The clinical benefit rate (objective response plus stable disease at 6 months) among 15 patients treated at the MTD was 73%, including five objective responses. The confirmed response rate in patients with measurable disease at the MTD (n = 9) was 44%.
At the MTD of 3.6 mg/kg every 3 weeks, T-DM1 was associated with mild, reversible toxicity and substantial clinical activity in a heavily pretreated population. Phase II and III trials in patients with advanced HER2-positive breast cancer are under way.
In many cases hyperprolactinemia can be caused by taking medications. Occasionally, verapamil-treated patients experience a slight asymptomatic increase in serum prolactin level. In this article we report the case of 42-year woman with manifest verapamil-induced hyperprolactinemia whose clinical symptoms suggested the occurrence of prolactinoma. A marked increase in prolactin levels and the preserved reactivity of this hormone in dynamic tests suggested that the patient exhibited "hypersensitivity" to verapamil. In the described state of the examined female detection of the disease, verapamil withdrawal and temporary bromocriptine administration have led to a full normalization of patient's clinical status.
