The basis for accelerated atherosclerosis in diabetes is unclear. Diabetes is associated with loss of heparan sulfate (HS) from the liver, which may impede lipoprotein clearance and thereby worsen atherosclerosis. To study hepatic HS loss in diabetes, we examined regulation of HS N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferase-1 (NDST), a key enzyme in hepatic HS biosynthesis. Hepatic NDST mRNA, protein, and enzymatic activity were suppressed by >50% 2 weeks after induction of type 1 diabetes in rats. Treatment of diabetic rats with enalapril, an ACE inhibitor, had no effect on hyperglycemia or hepatic NDST mRNA levels, yet increased hepatic NDST protein and enzymatic activity. Similar results were obtained in diabetic animals treated with losartan, which blocks the type 1 receptor for angiotensin II (AngII). Consistent with these findings, diabetic livers exhibited increased ACE expression, and addition of AngII to cultured hepatoma cells reduced NDST activity and protein. We conclude that diabetes substantially suppresses hepatic NDST mRNA, protein, and enzymatic activity. AngII contributes to suppression of NDST protein and enzymatic activity, whereas mRNA suppression occurs independently. Suppression of hepatic NDST may contribute to diabetic dyslipidemia, and stimulation of NDST activity by AngII inhibitors may provide cardiovascular protection.
To observe the expression of GRP78 (glucose regulated protein, GRP78), Caspase-12 and the change of neuron apoptosis in the juvenile rat hippocampus after status convulsive (SC), and to explore the effect of edaravone on them.
One hundred and ninety-five juvenile male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were randomly divided into normal saline control group (NS group), status convulsive group (SC group) and edaravone treatment group (ED group). Each group was further divided into five subgroups in different executed time points after SC. The rats in status convulsive group were kindled into epilepsy by lithium-pilocarpine method. Expression of GRP78 mRNA and caspase-12 mRNA was detected with reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method. Expressions of GRP78 and caspase-12 protein were detected with immunohistochemical methods. The neuron apoptosis was observed by TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL).
(1) Measured by immunohistochemistry the value of OD of GRP78 (0.1480 ± 0.0164, 0.1682 ± 0.0114, and 0.1540 ± 0.0102, respectively, 12 h - 48 h points) and caspase-12 (0.1325 ± 0.0165, 0.1794 ± 0.0213, 0.1525 ± 0.0423, and 0.1309 ± 0.0199, respectively, 12 h-72 h points) positive cells in the SC group increased, there was a significant difference compared with NS group (GRP78: 0.1214 ± 0.0147, 0.1272 ± 0.0177, and 0.1260 ± 0.0157, respectively, 12 h-72 h points. Caspase-12: 0.1050 ± 0.0121, 0.1041 ± 0.0151, 0.1058 ± 0.0222, and 0.1036 ± 0.0186, respectively, 12 h - 72 h points) (P < 0.01, or P < 0.05). By ED intervention GRP78 (0.1550 ± 0.0131, 0.1886 ± 0.0154, and 0.1721 ± 0.0151, respectively, 12 h - 48 h points) positive cells value of the OD increased as compared with SC group (P < 0.01, or P < 0.05). and caspase-12 (0.1211 ± 0.0184, 0.1545 ± 0.0205, and 0.1085 ± 0.0219, respectively, 12 h, 24 h and 72 h points) positive cells value of the A decreased as compared with SC group (P < 0.01, or P < 0.05). (2) Measured by RT-PCR, the expression of GRP78 mRNA and caspase-12 mRNA trend was similar to protein. (3) The TUNEL positive cells in hippocampus CA(1) of SC group (11.41 ± 2.37) were more than that of NS group after the SC 12 h (P < 0.01), reached its highest level at 48 h (28.78 ± 5.11), after the intervention with edaravone (8.98 ± 2.22, 13.09 ± 2.54 and 20.57 ± 4.89, respectively, 12 h-48 h points), TUNEL positive cells showed a significant drop in SC group at 12 h-48 h time points (P < 0.01, or P < 0.05), but still significantly higher than that of the NS group (6.22 ± 1.50, 6.57 ± 1.61 and 6.72 ± 1.14, respectively) (P < 0.01, or P < 0.05), at the 4 h time point (NS group 6.29 ± 1.49, SC group 6.61 ± 1.71, ED group 5.75 ± 1.41) among the three groups, no significant difference in TUNEL positive cells was found (P = 0.759).
The expression of GRP78 and caspase-12 increased after SC. Edaravone increased expression of GRP78 and decreased expression of caspase-12 in hippocampus rat with pilocarpine-induced seizures, reduced the number of neuronal apoptosis. These results suggest that edaravone may have protective effect against the hippocampal damage caused by status convulsive.
We documented airway occlusion during sleep and an abnormally high supraglottic resistance while awake in a 54-yr-old woman who had developed physical changes and the syndrome of obstructive sleep apnea while being administered exogenous androgens. When the androgens were withdrawn, the patient's physical changes, symptoms, sleep study, and supraglottic resistance all returned to normal. A rechallenge with androgen produced symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea that abated upon withdrawal of the hormone. Previous reports have favored a role of androgens in the pathogenesis of sleep apnea. Our report provides direct evidence for this role. Structural and functional measurements indicate that androgens exert a permissive or necessary action on the structural configuration of the oropharynx that predisposes to obstruction during sleep. Development of the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome must be considered a possible side effect of androgen therapy.
Corn pectic polysaccharide (COPP) inhibited galectin-3 mediated hemagglutination at Minimum Inhibitory Concentration (MIC) of 4.08μg/mL as opposed to citrus pectin (25μg/mL), a well known galectin-3 inhibitor and lactose (4.16μg/mL) - sugar specific to galectin-3. COPP effectively (72%) inhibited invasion and metastasis in experimental animals. In vivo results were substantiated by modulation of cancer specific markers such as galectin-3, which is a key molecule for initiation of metastatic cascade, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) that enhances angiogenesis, matrix metalloproteinases 2 and 9 that are required for invasion, NF-κB, a transcription factor for proliferative potency of tumor cells and a phosphoglucoisomerase (PGI), the activity of which favors cancer cell growth. Structural characterization studies indicate the active component (relatively less acidic, 0.05M ammonium carbonate, 160kDa fraction) which showed antimetastatic potency in vitro with MIC of 0.09μg/mL, and ∼45 fold increase in the activity when compared to that of COPP. Gas liquid chromatographic analysis indicated the presence of rhamnose (1%), arabinose (20%), xylose (3%), mannose (4%), galactose (54%) and uronic acid (10%) in different proportions. However, correlative data attributed galectin-3 inhibitory activity to enhanced levels of arabinose and galactose. FTIR, HPLC and NMR spectroscopic analysis further highlights that COPP is an arabinogalactan with methyl/ethyl esters. It is therefore suggested that the blockade of galectin-3 mediated lung metastasis appears to be a result of an inhibition of mixed functions induced during metastasis. The data signifies the importance of dietary carbohydrate as cancer-preventive agent. Although pectin digestibility and absorption are issues of concern, promising in vivo data provides evidence for the cancer preventive property of corn. The present study reveals for the first time a new component of corn, i.e., - corn pectin with cancer preventive activity apart from corn starch that has been in wide use for multipurpose health benefits.
The chloroform extract of nutmeg has been evaluated for antiinflammatory, analgesic and antithrombotic activities in rodents. The extract inhibited the carrageenan-induced rat paw oedema, produced a reduction in writhings induced by acetic acid in mice and offered protection against thrombosis induced by ADP/adrenaline mixture in mice.
Methotrexate (MTX) exerts an anti-inflammatory effect via its metabolite adenosine, which activates adenosine receptors. The A3 adenosine receptor (A3AR) was found to be highly expressed in inflammatory tissues and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA). CF101 (IB-MECA), an A3AR agonist, was previously found to inhibit the clinical and pathological manifestations of AIA. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of MTX on A3AR expression level and the efficacy of combined treatment with CF101 and MTX in AIA rats. AIA rats were treated with MTX, CF101, or both agents combined. A3AR mRNA, protein expression and exhibition were tested in paw and PBMC extracts from AIA rats utilizing immunohistochemistry staining, RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. A3AR level was tested in PBMC extracts from patients chronically treated with MTX and healthy individuals. The effect of CF101, MTX and combined treatment on A3AR expression level was also tested in PHA-stimulated PBMCs from healthy individuals and from MTX-treated patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Combined treatment with CF101 and MTX resulted in an additive anti-inflammatory effect in AIA rats. MTX induced A2AAR and A3AR over-expression in paw cells from treated animals. Moreover, increased A3AR expression level was detected in PBMCs from MTX-treated RA patients compared with cells from healthy individuals. MTX also increased the protein expression level of PHA-stimulated PBMCs from healthy individuals. The increase in A3AR level was counteracted in vitro by adenosine deaminase and mimicked in vivo by dipyridamole, demonstrating that receptor over-expression was mediated by adenosine. In conclusion, the data presented here indicate that MTX induces increased A3AR expression and exhibition, thereby potentiating the inhibitory effect of CF101 and supporting combined use of these drugs to treat RA.
Co-existence of type 2 diabetes and hypothyroidism is an emerging trend observed in clinical practice. Although the effects of isolated type 2 diabetes and hypothyroidism are well known, there are limited studies addressing the metabolic complications when these two conditions co-exist. The aim of the present study was to assess the interaction between type 2 diabetes and hypothyroidism with respect to glucose tolerance, dyslipidemia and redox balance in a state were these two diseases coexist.
Sixty male Wistar Albino rats were randomised into six groups. Group 1: control, Group 2: overt hypothyroidism, Group 3: mild hypothyroidism, Group 4: type 2 diabetes, Group 5: mild hypothyroidism+type 2 diabetes, Group 6: overt hypothyroidism+type 2 diabetes. Experimental hypothyroidism was created by the administration of propyl-2-thiouracil and type 2 diabetes by feeding rats with 60% fructose (w/w). The duration of the study was 6weeks. All the parameters were estimated at the start (basal) and the end of the study. Intraperitoneal glucose tolerance test was carried out and area under curve (AUC) calculated to assess the glucose tolerance. Thyroid profile, lipid profile and oxidative stress parameters were also measured.
Plasma TSH level was elevated 3-fold in the mild hypothyroid group and 15.2-fold in the overt hypothyroid group in comparison to the control group. Thyroid profile was found to be normal in type 2 diabetic group. There was no significant difference between hypothyroidism and hypothyroidism+diabetes groups with respect to thyroid profile. Among the six groups the degree of glucose intolerance was found to be maximum for overt hypothyroidism+diabetes group, followed by diabetes group and overt hypothyroidism group. An interesting finding was that glucose intolerance was significantly reduced in mild hypothyroidism+diabetes group (increase in AUC: 48.04%) in comparison with isolated diabetes group (increase in AUC: 71.63%). Similar results were obtained with parameters of oxidative stress. Oxidative stress was observed in overt hypothyroidism+diabetes, diabetes, overt hypothyroidism groups with severity decreasing in that order. Coexistence of mild hypothyroidism with diabetes decreased oxidative stress in comparison with isolated diabetes group. There was no statistical difference in lipid profile between mild hypothyroidism+diabetes and isolated diabetes group.
Presence of mild hypothyroidism in type 2 diabetes confers a protective effect with respect to glucose tolerance and redox balance whereas presence of overt hypothyroidism in type 2 diabetes has a deleterious effect. The increased incidence of hypothyroidism in diabetes, especially subclinical hypothyroidism, could be a reflection of a physiological attempt by the body to mitigate damage wrought by diabetes.
Libby, Montana, was home to the largest vermiculite ore mine in the United States. The processing, use, and transport of the ore, which was contaminated with amphibole asbestos, led to generalized contamination of the community. The mine closed in 1990.
We examined the prevalence of respiratory symptoms in 2000-2001 and their association with history of vermiculite exposure among people who were < or = 18 years of age when the mine closed.
Information on respiratory symptoms and exposure history was collected by questionnaire in 2000-2001, at which time participants were 10-29 years old. Logistic regression was used to model the associations between exposures and outcomes adjusted for age, sex, and tobacco smoke exposure.
Of the 1,003 individuals included in the study, 10.8% reported usually having a cough, 14.5% reported experiencing shortness of breath when walking up a slight hill or hurrying on level ground, and 5.9% reported having coughed up bloody phlegm in the past year. These respiratory symptoms were positively associated with frequently handling vermiculite insulation compared with never handling vermiculite insulation. We found no association between vermiculite insulation in the house and respiratory symptoms. Respiratory symptoms were associated with other vermiculite exposures as well, and the number and frequency of these activities showed a positive trend with usually having a cough. We found no association between any of the activities and abnormal spirometry.
These data suggest that residents of Libby, Montana, who were children when the mine closed experienced some respiratory symptoms associated with asbestos-contaminated vermiculite exposure.
Sedation has been commonly used in the neonate to decrease the stress and pain from the noxious stimuli and invasive procedures in the neonatal intensive care unit, as well as to facilitate synchrony between ventilator and spontaneous breaths. Fentanyl, an opioid analgesic, is frequently used in the neonatal intensive care unit setting for these very purposes. Various reported side effects of fentanyl administration include chest wall rigidity, hypotension, respiratory depression, and bradycardia. Here, 2 cases of urinary bladder retention leading to renal pelvocalyceal dilatation mimicking hydronephrosis as a result of continuous infusion of fentanyl are reported.
We report an acute cardiac rupture during dobutamine-atropine echocardiography stress test on the sixth day after admission for an inferoposterior acute myocardial infarction complicated with mild pericardial effusion.
The ototoxicity of chloramphenicol ear drops was studied in guinea-pigs. The ear drops consisted of chloramphenicol sodium succinate in propylene glycol; hence the ototoxicity of each chemical was also studied. The diluted chemicals were instilled in the middle ear cavity; thus clinical conditions were simulated, and the cochlear microphonic responses from the electrode on the round window of the cochlea were monitored as an indication of the hair cell function. Our experiment revealed that propylene glycol at the concentration of 10% or more caused irreversible deafness. Chloramphenicol sodium succinate in a concentration of 5% or more in Ringer's solution also caused irreversible deafness. It is recommended that propylene glycol should not be used in the ear drops as a solvent of the drug. Chloramphenicol at higher concentrations is not recommended for use in the middle ear cavity.
Recent attempts to reduce 3' azido-3' deoxythymidine (AZT)-induced anemia in AIDS patients have focused both on AZT dose reduction and on the use of recombinant cytokines. The newly cloned cytokine stem cell factor (SCF) is a potent regulator of hematopoietic progenitor cell proliferation. Therefore, we attempted to ameliorate AZT-induced anemia using stem cell factor (SCF) in the LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus-induced model of AIDS (MAIDS). SCF was administered with oral AZT for up to 1 month, and effects on erythropoiesis examined. SCF alone increased both splenic BFU-E and CFU-E. AZT alone also increased the number of splenic BFU-E and CFU-E. SCF, administered to AZT-treated MAIDS mice, did not further enhance these increases. SCF increased bone marrow cellularity in AZT-treated MAIDS mice. However, the total number of bone marrow BFU-E was unaffected. In contrast, AZT, SCF, and the combination significantly decreased bone marrow CFU-E. SCF alone increased the absolute numbers of peripheral blood reticulocytes in MAIDS mice, but did not increase reticulocyte numbers in AZT-treated mice. SCF did not significantly increase hematocrits in either control or AZT-treated mice. Further studies are needed to maximize the differentiating capacity of the enlarged erythroid progenitor cell pool induced by SCF.
Although there have been a few reports of immune hemolytic anemia (IHA) thought to be due to cimetidine, none of them provided proof (e.g., serologic detection of anti-cimetidine and/or repeat of IHA upon drug rechallenge). One report used cimetidine as an example of how temporal associations of drug administration and hemolytic anemia are not proof of a cause-effect relationship.
A 63-year-old cancer patient developed IHA on two occasions after receiving cimetidine (with and without chemotherapy). Serologic methods included testing cimetidine-treated red blood cells (RBCs) as well as testing untreated RBCs in the presence of cimetidine.
The patient's direct antiglobulin test was positive (C3 only) and a serum antibody to cimetidine was detected by both testing methods. An eluate from the patient's RBCs was nonreactive. Cimetidine-treated RBCs were optimally prepared at room temperature and needed to be tested on the day of preparation.
This is the first reported case of IHA due to a cimetidine antibody where a drug-dependent antibody was demonstrated. The patient had IHA after receiving cimetidine on two separate occasions.
Mizolastine is a novel histamine H1-antagonist registered in Europe for the management of allergic rhinitis and urticaria.
To compare the clinical efficacy and safety of mizolastine with loratadine and placebo in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU).
A multicentre, double-blind, parallel group study was designed in which 247 patients with CIU were randomised after a 1-week placebo run-in period to 10 mg daily mizolastine (n = 88), 10 mg daily loratadine (n = 79), or placebo (n = 80) for a 4-week treatment period.
Mizolastine and loratadine both relieved symptoms of CIU. After 2 weeks' treatment, the severity of pruritus (visual analogue score (VAS) assessed by patients) decreased significantly in both the mizolastine and loratadine groups compared with placebo (mizolastine: -36.7 mm, P = 0.0001; loratadine: -29.8, P = 0.0071; placebo: -16.3); this improvement with both active treatments was maintained throughout the treatment period, the difference being significant only for the mizolastine group (P = 0.0090). Both active treatments were also associated with reduced weekly episodes of urticaria compared with placebo, which was significant after 2 weeks' treatment (mizolastine: 7.9 episodes, P = 0.0061; loratadine: 8.3, P = 0.0221; placebo: 13.3). Angioedema was improved to a clinically significant extent with mizolastine, and loratadine compared with placebo in those patients who had this symptom before treatment. Overall tolerability of both treatments was similar to placebo, and there were no clinically relevant effects on cardiac repolarisation with either mizolastine or loratadine.
Mizolastine (10 mg daily) is confirmed as an effective and well tolerated agent, comparable to loratadine and superior to placebo, for the management of CIU. Mizolastine acted as rapidly as loratadine in improving urticarial symptoms from the first day of treatment.
The pharmacological profile of the new anticonvulsant etazepine (5,6-dihydro-5-methyl-11H-11-ethoxy-dibenzo[b,e]azepin-6-one) was investigated. It protected mice and rats from a wide variety of convulsant agents (maximal electroshock, pentetrazol (metrazole), bicuculline, strychnine, 3-mercaptopropionic acid, nicotine, cefazoline and kainic acid) at doses about 16-45 times lower than those exerting neurotoxic effects (depending on the test used). The anticonvulsant effect of etazepine was long-acting (more than 24 h) and did not seem to develop tolerance. Moreover, etazepine did not prolong thiopental-induced sleeping time. Based on pharmacological studies etazepine seems to exert its anticonvulsant effects by activating the GABAergic system.
Quetiapine, an atypical neuroleptic, has beneficial antipsychotic effects in schizophrenic patients, but with a lower incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) compared with typical antipsychotics. While typical antipsychotics are often switched to atypical agents when adverse effects become limiting, there is little preclinical information to support this strategy, both in terms of efficacy and side effects.
The antipsychotic effects and EPS during concomitant administration of quetiapine with haloperidol, a typical antipsychotic agent, were evaluated in mice and compared with chlorpromazine and risperidone.
We first investigated the antipsychotic effects and EPS liability of quetiapine, risperidone, chlorpromazine, and haloperidol when administered alone to select optimal doses for subsequent combination studies. The second study was designed to evaluate the antipsychotic efficacy and EPS profile of concomitant administration of quetiapine, risperidone, or chlorpromazine with haloperidol. Antipsychotic effects were evaluated with the methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion test, and EPS liability was evaluated in a catalepsy-induction model.
Quetiapine, risperidone, chlorpromazine, and haloperidol dose-dependently reduced methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, with ED50 values of 5.6, 0.020, 1.8, 0.035 mg/kg, respectively. In the catalepsy test, quetiapine only weakly induced catalepsy at the highest dose of 100 mg/kg, whereas risperidone, chlorpromazine, and haloperidol dose-dependently induced catalepsy with ED50 values of 0.25, 4.6, and 0.10 mg/kg, respectively. While the combination of quetiapine (6 mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.04 mg/kg) significantly reduced methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in comparison with haloperidol alone, quetiapine (10, 32 mg/kg) plus haloperidol did not potentiate the cataleptogenic activity of haloperidol. In contrast, risperidone (0.1, 0.32 mg/kg) or chlorpromazine (3.2 mg/kg) significantly augmented catalepsy induced by haloperidol. Catalepsy induced by co-administration of quetiapine (10 mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) was significantly potentiated by WAY100635, a 5-HT1A antagonist, and catalepsy induced by co-administration of risperidone (0.1 mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) was significantly antagonized by 8-OH-DPAT, a 5-HT1A agonist.
The present study demonstrated that the combined administration of quetiapine with haloperidol did not aggravate EPS, possibly because of its affinity for 5-HT1A receptors. This finding may have the clinical implication that quetiapine could provide a successful regimen in switching from typical antipsychotic agents in the symptom management of schizophrenia, or even in adjunctive therapy with other antipsychotic agents.
The dopamine (DA) D3 receptor is preferentially expressed in the mesolimbic system. We have previously shown that selective D3 receptor blockade by the novel D3 antagonist SB-277011A inhibits cocaine's reinforcing action and cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior.
In the present study, we investigated whether SB-277011A similarly inhibits stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior.
Rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg/kg per infusion, 3 h per session) for 10-14 days, followed by a once-daily extinction session for 7-14 days during which saline was substituted for cocaine. Extinction criteria were fewer than ten lever-presses per 3-h session for at least 3 consecutive days. After cocaine-seeking behavior was extinguished, each animal was tested twice for footshock-stress-induced reinstatement, once with vehicle (25% hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin) and once with one of three doses of SB-277011A in counterbalanced fashion.
During the last 3 days of cocaine self-administration (SA), active lever-presses were approximately 100 per session under fixed-ratio 2 reinforcement (approximately 25 mg/kg cocaine per session). After extinction, intermittent footshock (10 min, 0.5 mA, 0.5 s on with a mean inter-shock interval of 40 s) robustly reinstated the cocaine-seeking behavior (8.4+/-3.6 active lever-presses in last extinction session to 35.3+/-5.2 in animals after footshock stress). Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of SB-277011A (3, 6, and 12 mg/kg) dose-dependently blocked stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking. Reinstatement was also blocked by microinjections of SB-277011A (1.5 microg/0.5 microl per side) bilaterally into the nucleus accumbens, but not into the dorsal striatum.
The mesolimic DA D3 receptor plays an important role in mediating stress-induced reinstatement.
Enzyme induction during an antituberculous treatment with Rifampin, Isoniazid and Ethambutol was studied in 21 patients with tuberculosis. Two tests were used: increase in urinary excretion of D-saccharic acid and decrease of the half-life of antipyrineee. Induction is constant with D-saccharic acid. On the other hand there is a significant decrease in the half-life of antipyrin in only 10 patients. There is an increase in the 11 other patients: all of them are slow acetylators for isoniazid. We suggest that INH has an inhibitor effect on the hydroxylation of antipyrin. This study allows us to discuss the interactions of drugs with INH and Rifampin, as well the predominance of rapid acetylators among subjects suffering of isoniazid hepatitis, recently questioned.
Structurally novel 5H-chromeno[2,3-b]pyridine (azaxanthene) selective glucocorticoid receptor (GR) modulators have been identified. A screening paradigm utilizing cellular assays of GR-mediated transrepression of proinflammatory transcription factors and transactivation of GR-dependent genes combined with three physiologically relevant assays of cytokine induction in human whole blood has allowed for the identification of high affinity, selective GR ligands that display a broad range of pharmacological profiles. Agonist efficacy in reporter assays can be tuned by halogenation of a pendent phenyl ring and correlates well with efficacy for cytokine inhibition in human whole blood. A hypothetical binding mode is proposed, invoking an expanded ligand binding pocket resembling that of arylpyrazole-bound GR structures. Two compounds of close structural similarity (35 and 37; BMS-776532 and BMS-791826, respectively) have been found to maintain distinct and consistent levels of partial agonist efficacy across several assays, displaying anti-inflammatory activity comparable to that of prednisolone 2 in suppressing cytokine production in whole blood and in rodent models of acute and chronic inflammation.
The case of a patient who developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) on three separate occasions is presented. Her third bout of this syndrome possibly was caused by molindone hydrochloride. This medication has been reported only once previously to cause NMS. The pharmacology of molindone is reviewed and a complicating factor in this case--the recent onset of hypothyroidism--is discussed together with its implication in the development of the clinical manifestations of this syndrome.
The effect of ceftriaxone on tobramycin-induced nephrotoxicity was investigated. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were treated during 4 and 10 days with saline (NaCl, 0.9%), ceftriaxone at a dose of 100 mg/kg of body weight/12 h subcutaneously, tobramycin at doses of 40 and 60 mg/kg/12 h intraperitoneally, or the combination ceftriaxone-tobramycin. Creatinine levels in serum were significantly higher in animals treated with tobramycin alone given at 60 mg/kg/12 h during 10 days, compared with control animals (P < 0.01) or animals receiving the combination tobramycin-ceftriaxone (P < 0.01). After 10 days of treatment, ceftriaxone did not accumulate in renal tissue but did reduce the renal intracortical accumulation of tobramycin (P < 0.05). Tobramycin given alone at either 40 or 60 mg/kg/12 h induced a significant inhibition of sphingomyelinase activity compared with control animals (P < 0.05). However, this enzyme activity was significantly less inhibited when tobramycin was injected in combination with ceftriaxone (P < 0.05). Ceftriaxone alone had no effect on the activity of this enzyme. The [3H]thymidine incorporation into the DNA of renal cortex was also significantly lower in animals treated with tobramycin-ceftriaxone compared with animals receiving tobramycin alone (P < 0.05). The 24-h urinary excretion of beta-galactosidase was significantly reduced in animals treated with the combination tobramycin-ceftriaxone compared with the administration of tobramycin alone at 40 and 60 mg/kg/12 h after 5 and 10 days (P < 0.05). Histologically, ceftriazone induced very few cellular alterations and reduced considerably the presence of typical signs of tobramycin nephrotoxicity. This investigation demonstrated that ceftriaxone protects animals against tobramycin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Felbamate, 2-phenyl-1,3-propanediol dicarbamate, is a novel anticonvulsant that is effective against both chemically and electrically induced seizures in laboratory animals. Acute, subchronic, and chronic studies were conducted in mice, rats, and dogs to establish a preclinical safety profile for this drug. Clinical signs following single intraperitoneal doses included hypoactivity, tremors, decreased muscle tone, ataxia, prostration, and labored breathing. Death was observed after intraperitoneal but not oral administration. A consistent drug-related effect noted in all multiple-dose studies with this compound was decreased body weight and food consumption. The only other consistent change noted in multiple-dose studies with felbamate was an increase in liver weight (relative and absolute) in the rat and dog which was accompanied in some cases by increases in serum enzyme levels. No histopathological changes were observed in the liver that could explain these elevated serum enzyme levels. Based on the results of these studies it was concluded that long-term administration of felbamate in human clinical trials was warranted.
The placenta secures the embryo and fetus to the endometrium and releases a variety of steroid and peptide hormones that convert the physiology of a female to that of a pregnant female. Chemical-induced alteration or deviation of placental function in the maternal and extraembryonic tissue can ultimately lead to pregnancy loss, congenital malformation and fetal death. The 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP), an anti-leukemic drug, is known to produce undesired effects on some organs, then the placenta/embryo toxicity of 6-MP was investigated in pregnant rats given 60 mg/kg with two intraperitoneal injections on gestation days (GD) 11 and 12. The rats were sacrificed and their placentas were collected on GD13 or 15. On GD15 small and limb-defected embryos were found in the 6-MP-treated rats. Placental weights were significantly reduced on GD15, as well as a reduced number of cells was detected in the labyrinth zone with both the labyrinth and basal zones having thinned. Cleaved caspase-3-positive cells increased in number in the labyrinth zone, while in the basal zone, glycogen cells reduced with cytolysis. The number of spongiotrophoblasts and trophoblastic giant cells also increased by 6-MP treatment. The 6-MP-treatment resulted in the increased xanthine oxidase (Xdh) expression in the placenta, which gene is related to the ischemic condition of tissues. These data suggest that apoptosis of the labyrinth zone cells may lead to decreased materno-fetal exchange. Moreover, subsequent ischemia in the placental tissue may occur and induce Xdh expression.
A two-month-old white girl presented to our facility with increasing lethargy and new onset apnea and bradycardia following a week of upper respiratory tract infection symptoms. The patient had been receiving a cough syrup containing promethazine hydrochloride during the previous five days, which was temporally correlated with the onset of lethargy and apneic episodes. Upon further investigation, it was discovered that the patient's older sibling also may have experienced phenothiazine-associated apnea after receiving a combination of meperidine hydrochloride, promethazine hydrochloride, and chlorpromazine as a premedication prior to an endoscopic examination. In addition to the presentation of these cases, the literature pertaining to phenothiazine-associated apnea is reviewed.
A case is reported of acute myocardial infarction (MI) in a previously stented left anterior descending coronary artery, which occurred shortly after uneventful dobutamine stress echocardiography. Myocardial infarction precipitated by dobutamine has been reported only rarely, as has exercise-related MI after stenting. This is the first case of dobutamine-induced MI in a recently stented artery.
The objective of this multinational open-label, prospective study was to collect, under naturalistic conditions, data on the effectiveness and tolerability of first-line monotherapy with valproate in subjects newly or recently diagnosed with focal onset epilepsy. Patients were treated with sustained release sodium valproate. Seizure control and occurrence of adverse events were assessed after 6 months. Around 1192 adults and 792 children were included. The mean daily valproate dose was 683 mg in children and 987 mg in adults. The retention rate at 6 months was 90.0%. At this time, 77% of subjects were seizure free (83.7% of children and 72.7% of adults). Adverse events possibly related to treatment were observed in 10.2% of subjects, leading to treatment modification for 1.7%. The most common adverse events were weight gain, gastro-intestinal, neurological and skin disorders. Sustained release sodium valproate is effective and shows acceptable tolerability as first-line monotherapy in focal onset epilepsy.
Coarse and fine particulate matter (PM(2.5-10) and PM(2.5), respectively) are regulated ambient air pollutants thought to have major adverse health effects in exposed humans. The role of endotoxin and other bioaerosol components in the toxicity of PM from ambient air is controversial. This study evaluated the inflammatory lung response in mice instilled intratracheally with PM(2.5-10) and PM(2.5) emitted from a working dairy barn, a source presumed to have elevated concentrations of endotoxin. PM(2.5-10) was more pro-inflammatory on an equal weight basis than was PM(2.5); both fractions elicited a predominantly neutrophilic response. The inflammatory response was reversible, with a peak response to PM(2.5-10) observed at 24 h after instillation, and a return to control values by 72 h after instillation. The major active pro-inflammatory component in whole PM(2.5-10), but not in whole PM(2.5), is heat-labile, consistent with it being endotoxin. A heat treatment protocol for the gradual inactivation of biological materials in the PM fractions over a measurable time course was developed and optimized in this study using pure lipopolysaccharide (LPS) as a model system. The time course of heat inactivation of pure LPS and of endotoxin activity in PM(2.5-10) as measured by Limulus bioassay is identical. The active material in both PM(2.5-10) and PM(2.5) remained in the insoluble fraction when the whole PM samples were extracted with physiological saline solution. Histological analysis of lung sections from mice instilled with PM(2.5-10) or PM(2.5) showed evidence of inflammation consistent with the cellular responses observed in lung lavage fluid. The major pro-inflammatory components present in endotoxin-rich PM were found in the insoluble fraction of PM(2.5-10); however, in contrast with PM(2.5-10) isolated from ambient air in the Central Valley of California, the active components in the insoluble fraction were heat-labile.
Induction of oxidative stress and inhibition of DNA repair are possible modes of arsenic-induced carcinogenesis. In West Bengal, India, several districts contain high levels of arsenic, which are far above the WHO-recommended standard. Prevention of arsenic-induced oxidative stress and induction of repair enzymes by curcumin, an active ingredient of turmeric, may be an effective strategy to combat the adverse effects of arsenic. This study aimed at observing the role of curcumin in reducing 8-hydroxy-20-deoxyguanosine formation and enhancing DNA repair capacity in the arsenic-exposed population of West Bengal. Chronically arsenic-exposed volunteers (n= 66), who were asymptomatic, were selected for this study. Our results indicated that curcumin suppressed the 8-hydroxy-20-deoxyguanosine level and OGG1 expression, which were increased by arsenic. Curcumin also induced DNA repair enzymes involved in both base excision repair and nonhomologous end-joining pathways. In this study, both the protein expression and genetic profile were observed for poly-ADP-ribose polymerase 1, DNA b polymerase, X ray repair cross complement 1, DNA ligase III, DNA protein kinase catalytic sub-unit, X ray repair cross-complement 4, DNA ligase IV, and topoisomerase II b. The results indicated that arsenic-inhibited DNA repair was induced by curcumin, both at protein and genetic levels. Thus, curcumin intervention may be a useful modality for the prevention of arsenic-induced carcinogenesis.
