Industrial exposure to nitrates is known to produce acute and chronic effects on the cardiovascular system. A case of acute inferior myocardial infarction in a young, otherwise healthy, white male that occurred during the usual weekend withdrawal period is presented.
Dental professionals should be aware that methamphetamine (MA) use is on the rise in North America. MA is a potent central nervous system stimulant with limited therapeutic effects. The allure of this drug is its availability in many different forms that are relatively easy to make and distribute and inexpensive to purchase and that produce prolonged euphoria for the user. This euphoria results from alteration of the normal physiologic processing of several centrally acting neurotransmitters, which also causes neurotoxicity and neurodegeneration with long-term use. Long-term use of MA has been associated with severe oral health effects, the most notable being a distinctive pattern of caries called methamphetamine-induced caries. Dental professionals need to recognize and understand patients who may be using MA and the risk factors associated with its deleterious oral effects. This knowledge will allow appropriate and effective preventive and treatment strategies for users of this drug.
7,12-Dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) destroys ovarian follicles at all stages of development. This study investigated DMBA-induced DNA double strand break (DSB) formation with subsequent activation of the ovarian DNA repair response in models of pre-antral or pre-ovulatory follicle loss. Postnatal day (PND) 4 Fisher 344 (F344) rat ovaries were cultured for 4 days followed by single exposures of vehicle control (1% DMSO) or DMBA (12.5 nM or 75 nM) and maintained in culture for 4 or 8 days. Alternately, PND4 F344 rat ovaries were exposed to 1 μM DMBA at the start of culture for 2 days. Total RNA or protein was isolated, followed by qPCR or Western blotting to quantify mRNA or protein level, respectively. γH2AX and phosphorylated ATM were localized and quantified using immunofluorescence staining. DMBA exposure increased caspase 3 and γH2AX protein. Additionally, DMBA (12.5 nM and 1 μM) increased levels of mRNA encoding Atm, Xrcc6, Brca1 and Rad51. In contrast, Parp1 mRNA was decreased on d4 and increased on d8 of DMBA exposure, while PARP1 protein increased after 8 days of DMBA exposure. Total ATM increased in a concentration-dependent temporal pattern (75 nM d4; 12.5 nM d8), while pATM was localized in large primary and secondary follicles and increased after 8 days of 75 nM DMBA exposure compared to both control and 12.5 nM DMBA. These findings support that, despite some concentration effects, DMBA induces ovarian DNA damage and that DNA repair mechanisms are induced as a potential mechanism to prevent follicle loss.
Nocturnal worsening of asthma is a common problem in asthma and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Long acting beta-2 agonists are considered long-term symptom control medications, especially for nocturnal symptoms.
To compare efficacy of an extended release oral beta-2 agonist, albuterol sulfate (Volmax), to a long-acting inhaled agent, salmeterol (Serevent) in the treatment of nocturnal asthma.
This was a multicenter double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, crossover design with a 1-week baseline period and two 3-week treatment periods separated by a 7 to 9-day washout. An optional 2-week, open-label phase was conducted to evaluate patient preference.
A total of 46 patients were included in the efficacy analysis. For the primary outcome variable of morning peak expiratory flow, there were similar and significant improvements over the 3-week treatment period for both medications compared with baseline (P < .001). Similar improvements were seen in the overnight change in PEF values (P < .001). The morning and overnight changes in FEV1 were not significantly different between treatment arms (P > .05). There were significant improvements in both treatment periods in regard to the percentage of nights without awakenings (baseline 53.6+/-5.3%), extended release albuterol 83.3+/-3.0% (P < .001), and salmeterol 88.8+/-2.4%. The percentage of patients who had no awakenings during treatment did not differ significantly for the two medications. Both treatments also resulted in a decrease in the use of rescue albuterol (extended release 2.66+/-0.35 puffs per day, salmeterol 1.85+/-0.29) from baseline (4.57+/-0.41, P < .001). There was a significant difference between groups (P = .001). The reasons why patients preferred one medication over the other varied.
Both extended release albuterol tablets and inhaled salmeterol resulted in similar bronchodilation and good control of nocturnal asthma symptoms.
Ventricular tachyarrhythmias associated with digitalis toxicity are believed to be due, in part, to cardiac glycoside-mediated increased central sympathetic neural activity. Because dopaminergic receptor agonists reduce sympathetic outflow, this study assessed effectiveness of the available dopaminergic agonist, bromocriptine, in slowing or terminating ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in anesthetized dogs. In all experiments, ouabain was administered intravenously (20 micrograms/kg body weight bolus injection, followed by 2.5 micrograms/kg per min infusion) until the onset of stable ventricular tachycardia. Of seven untreated dogs (Group 1), ouabain-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmias resulted in ventricular fibrillation in three, while in four dogs tachycardia persisted without significant change in rate until the study was terminated. Fourteen dogs (Group 2) received bromocriptine, either 30 micrograms/kg (Group 2A) or 50 micrograms/kg (Group 2B), after the onset of ventricular tachycardia. Tachycardia slowed in all 14 dogs and terminated with resumption of sinus rhythm in 8 of the 14. In all six dogs pretreated with the peripheral dopaminergic antagonist domperidone (Group 3), bromocriptine, 50 micrograms/kg, slowed ventricular tachycardia and in three of the six, tachycardia terminated. In contrast, of five dogs pretreated with haloperidol, a central and peripheral dopaminergic receptor antagonist (Group 4), bromocriptine, 50 micrograms/kg, failed to slow ventricular tachycardia in three, and two of the three developed ventricular fibrillation. In summary, the dopaminergic receptor agonist, bromocriptine, presumably acting at central dopaminergic receptor sites, consistently slowed and in most cases reversed ouabain-induced ventricular tachycardia in a canine model.
Radiotherapy has a central role in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Effectiveness of this modality, however, is often limited as resistance results from defects in cell death.
We investigated whether simultaneous up-regulation of apoptosis, via Bcl-2 inhibitor ABT-737, and autophagy, via mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor rapamycin, can be used to enhance radiosensitivity of H460 cells in vitro and growth delay in a xenograft model.
In vitro studies confirmed that ABT-737 and rapamycin induce apoptosis and autophagy, respectively. ABT-737 induced cleaved caspase-3, a marker of apoptosis, and rapamycin correlated with an increase in punctate localization of green fluorescent protein-LC3, characteristic of autophagy. The combination ABT-737/rapamycin markedly enhanced sensitivity of H460 cells to radiation (dose enhancement ratio = 2.47; P = 0.002) in clonogenic assay. In addition, the combination ABT-737/rapamycin/radiation showed a dramatic tumor growth delay in a mouse xenograft model. In vivo immunohistochemistry staining showed that combination therapy yielded over a 100% increase in caspase-3 activity (apoptosis) and a 6-fold decrease in p62 protein level (indicative of autophagic flux) compared with radiation alone control group. Moreover, cell proliferation (Ki-67 staining) was reduced by 77% (P = 0.001) and vascular density (von Willebrand factor staining) by 67.5% (P = 0.09) compared with radiation alone. Additional in vitro studies in human umbilical vein endothelial cells indicated that combined therapy also significantly decreases tubule formation.
These results suggest that concurrent induction of apoptosis and autophagy enhances radiation therapy both in vitro and in lung cancer xenograft models. Further investigations are warranted to assess the clinical potential of such strategy in lung cancer patients.
An abnormal hemoglobin was suspected in a 70-year-old Japanese male with cerebral infarction and erythremia with high performance liquid chromatography assay of Hb A1c. The hemoglobin variant migrated to the anode more rapidly than Hb A. Structure determination studies, including amino acid analysis of the abnormal peptide and DNA sequencing of a partially cloned alpha-globin gene, demonstrated that it is a new hemoglobin variant which has been named Hb Kanagawa [alpha 40(C5)Lys----Met]. This variant showed an increased oxygen affinity, decreased heme-heme interaction, and a lowered 2,3-diphosphoglycerate effect relative to normal.
Formoterol is a new long-acting beta 2-agonist. We compared the protective effect of 24 micrograms formoterol with 200 micrograms beclomethasone and placebo on inhaled allergen-induced asthmatic responses in mild stable asthmatic subjects. We measured airflow rates, histamine airway responsiveness, cell counts from sputum and peripheral blood, and markers of lymphocyte and eosinophil activation. Adjustments were made for the confounding effect of bronchodilatation produced by formoterol in comparisons using a control inhalation of normal saline. Formoterol caused bronchodilation and inhibition of histamine airway responsiveness for at least 24 h. It completely inhibited the early asthmatic responses when beclomethasone had no effect. Control comparisons of the effect of formoterol and beclomethasone on the allergen-induced late asthmatic response and increase in histamine responsiveness showed each to be equally effective but not to inhibit the responses completely. Formoterol caused bronchodilation in addition to preventing bronchoconstriction. Both drugs inhibited the rise in serum eosinophil cationic protein 24 h after allergen, but neither inhibited the allergen-induced increases in sputum or blood eosinophils or CD25+ lymphocytes. These results suggest that formoterol modifies allergen-induced airway responses through functional antagonism rather than the inhibition of inflammatory cell infiltration.
Tumor development is thought to require both increased proliferation and inhibition of apoptosis. However, the relationship between cell replication and cell death in liver tumorigenesis is complex because both proliferation and apoptosis increase during hepatocarcinogenesis. To investigate the effect of the anti-apoptotic gene Bcl-2 in liver carcinogenesis, we established a line of double transgenic mice that express transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), a liver mitogen, and Bcl-2. Double transgenic mice, TGF-alpha and Bcl-2 single transgenics, and wild type received an injection of diethylnitrosamine at 15 days of age. This alkylating agent induces liver carcinogenesis and its effect is greatly enhanced by TGF-alpha. We report that Bcl-2 expression inhibited diethylnitrosamine-induced liver carcinogenesis and counteracted the enhancing effect of TGF-alpha. Bcl-2 delayed the growth of proliferative foci at the early stages of carcinogenesis and inhibited cell proliferation in these foci. The effect of Bcl-2 on liver carcinogenesis is consistent with its reported ability to interfere with cell replication. The data demonstrate that the expression of an anti-apoptotic gene during liver carcinogenesis causes a delay rather than an increase in tumorigenesis.
To investigate the effects of different modes of artificial ventilation on lung injury in a dog model of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and to evaluate the protective effect of various parameters in mechanical ventilation on lung injury.
Thirty-six healthy dogs were randomly divided into normal control group (N group), ARDS group (M group) and ventilation group (A-D groups) based on a series of random number. The ARDS dog model was replicated by intratracheal instillation of hydrochloric acid, and mechanical ventilation was carried out according to the following ventilatory protocols. A group: low V(T) (6 ml/kg) with respiratory rate 30/minutes, low inspiratory flow 6 ml.kg(-1).s(-1). B group: large V(T) (20 ml/kg) with respiratory rate 30/minutes, high inspiratory flow 20 ml.kg(-1).s(-1). C group: large V(T) (20 ml/kg) with respiratory rate 15/minutes, high inspiratory flow 17 ml.kg(-1).s(-1). D group: large V(T) (20 ml/kg) with respiratory rate 15/minutes, low inspiratory flow 10 ml.kg(-1).s(-1). Lung mechanical parameters were recorded at 0, 1, 2 and 4 hours after the change in ventilatory protocol. After 4 hours of mechanical ventilation, animals were sacrificed, and the lung was harvested. Lung wet/dry weight ratio (W/D) was measured. Histopathological changes were observed under light microscope, diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) scores was estimated, and polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMN) count was done. Nuclear factor-KappaB (NF-KappaB) p65 activity was assessed by flow cytometry.
W/D in B group (9.95+/-0.99) was higher than that of A (6.78+/-0.56) and D (7.11+/-0.47) groups (both P<0.01),but there was no significant difference between B and C groups (9.22+/-1.19, P>0.05). DAD scores in B group (12.80+/-1.47) was obvious higher than that of A (7.67+/-1.20) and D (8.83+/-1.17) groups (both P<0.01), but there was no difference compared with C group (11.50+/-1.87, P>0.05). NF-KappaB p65 activity in B group [(33.56+/-2.85)%] was significantly higher than that of A [(10.35+/-0.60)%] and D [(10.79+/-1.02)%] groups, but there was no difference between B and C [(30.87+/-1.16)%] groups.
Large tidal volumes with high inspiratory flow and high respiratory rate may cause severe ventilator induced lung injury (VILI). Reduction of inspiratory flow and respiratory rate with large tidal volume ventilation may provide pulmonary protection.
The effects of sulphasalazine and of its major constituents, sulphapyridine and 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA), on gastric ulceration as well as on changes in mast cell counts and mucus levels in the glandular mucosa were examined in restrained rats exposed to 4 degrees C (stress) for 2 h. Sulphasalazine (50, 100, 200 mg/kg), sulphapyridine (31.25, 62.5, 125 mg/kg) or 5-ASA (18.75, 37.5, 75 mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously 0.5 h before stress induction. Cold-restraint stress produced gastric glandular mucosal ulcers which were significantly reduced by all three doses of sulphasalazine and the higher doses of sulphapyridine and 5-ASA. Sulphasalazine prevented mast cell degranulation and increased the amount of mucus adhering to the mucosa. In contrast, the higher doses of sulphapyridine significantly increased only the mucus levels, whereas those of 5-ASA effectively prevented mast cell degranulation. The results show that the total effect of sulphasalazine is approximately equivalent to the summation of the actions of its component doses of sulphapyridine and 5-ASA. It is notable that sulphapyridine itself appears to be biologically active in reducing ulcer severity.
Cytosolic phospholipase A2alpha (cPLA2alpha) hydrolyzes arachidonic acid from cellular membrane phospholipids, thereby providing enzymatic substrates for the synthesis of eicosanoids, such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes. Considerable understanding of cPLA2alpha function has been derived from investigations of the enzyme and from cPLA2alpha-null mice, but knowledge of discrete roles for this enzyme in humans is limited. We investigated a patient hypothesized to have an inherited prostanoid biosynthesis deficiency due to his multiple, complicated small intestinal ulcers despite no use of cyclooxygenase inhibitors. Levels of thromboxane B2 and 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid produced by platelets and leukotriene B4 released from calcium ionophore-activated blood were markedly reduced, indicating defective enzymatic release of the arachidonic acid substrate for the corresponding cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenases. Platelet aggregation and degranulation induced by adenosine diphosphate or collagen were diminished but were normal in response to arachidonic acid. Two heterozygous single base pair mutations and a known SNP were found in the coding regions of the patient's cPLA2alpha genes (p.[Ser111Pro]+[Arg485His; Lys651Arg]). The total PLA2 activity in sonicated platelets was diminished, and the urinary metabolites of prostacyclin, prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin D2, and thromboxane A2 were also reduced. These findings characterize what we believe is a novel inherited deficiency of cPLA2.
The authors report a case of short-term high-dose propofol-related metabolic acidosis in a 3-year-old girl. The patient initially presented at another institution with left fourth cranial nerve palsy, and examination revealed a large, wide-necked 19 x 22 x 17-mm aneurysm in the left internal carotid artery. She had undergone three previous unsuccessful attempts at endovascular coil embolization, which were complicated by repeated coil protrusions into the parent vessel. During angiography and a balloon occlusion test (BOT) 80 mg propofol was given for 3 hours followed by 200 microg/kg/min for another 4 hours. The 20-minute BOT was well tolerated, and the aneurysm was occluded with stent-assisted coil embolization. Following the procedure the patient developed severe acidosis, hypotension, tachycardia, and signs of cardiac failure. On postoperative Day 3 her metabolic acidosis resolved, and she was weaned off sedatives. She continued to improve and was discharged from the hospital on postoperative Day 7. The metabolic acidosis and hypotension were thought to be due to propofol-related infusion syndrome.
Successful drug discovery requires accurate decision making in order to advance the best candidates from initial lead identification to final approval. Chemogenomics, the use of genomic tools in pharmacology and toxicology, offers a promising enhancement to traditional methods of target identification/validation, lead identification, efficacy evaluation, and toxicity assessment. To realize the value of chemogenomics information, a contextual database is needed to relate the physiological outcomes induced by diverse compounds to the gene expression patterns measured in the same animals. Massively parallel gene expression characterization coupled with traditional assessments of drug candidates provides additional, important mechanistic information, and therefore a means to increase the accuracy of critical decisions. A large-scale chemogenomics database developed from in vivo treated rats provides the context and supporting data to enhance and accelerate accurate interpretation of mechanisms of toxicity and pharmacology of chemicals and drugs. To date, approximately 600 different compounds, including more than 400 FDA approved drugs, 60 drugs approved in Europe and Japan, 25 withdrawn drugs, and 100 toxicants, have been profiled in up to 7 different tissues of rats (representing over 3200 different drug-dose-time-tissue combinations). Accomplishing this task required evaluating and improving a number of in vivo and microarray protocols, including over 80 rigorous quality control steps. The utility of pairing clinical pathology assessments with gene expression data is illustrated using three anti-neoplastic drugs: carmustine, methotrexate, and thioguanine, which had similar effects on the blood compartment, but diverse effects on hepatotoxicity. We will demonstrate that gene expression events monitored in the liver can be used to predict pathological events occurring in that tissue as well as in hematopoietic tissues.
Neuroblastoma is a cancer of the sympathetic nervous system that accounts for approximately 10% of all pediatric oncology deaths. Here, we report a genome-wide association study of 2,817 neuroblastoma cases and 7,473 controls. We identified two new associations at 6q16, the first within HACE1 (rs4336470; combined P=2.7×10(-11); odds ratio 1.26, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.18-1.35) and the second within LIN28B (rs17065417; combined P=1.2×10(-8); odds ratio 1.38, 95% CI 1.23-1.54). Expression of LIN28B and let-7 miRNA correlated with rs17065417 genotype in neuroblastoma cell lines, and we observed significant growth inhibition upon depletion of LIN28B, specifically in neuroblastoma cells that were homozygous for the risk allele. Low HACE1 and high LIN28B expression in diagnostic primary neuroblastomas were associated with worse overall survival (P=0.008 and 0.014, respectively). Taken together, these data show that common variants in HACE1 and LIN28B influence neuroblastoma susceptibility and indicate that both genes likely have a role in disease progression.
Hypertrophy of cardiac myocytes is a primary response of the heart to overload, and is an independent predictor of heart failure and death. Distinct cellular phenotypes are associated with hypertrophy resulting from different causes. These phenotypes have been described by others at the molecular level by analysis of gene transcription patterns. An alternative approach is the analysis of large-scale protein expression patterns (the proteome) by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Realization of this goal requires the ability to rigorously analyze complex 2D gel images, efficiently digest individual gel isolated proteins (especially those expressed at low levels), and analyze the resulting peptides with high sensitivity for rapid database searches. We have undertaken to improve the technology and experimental approaches to these challenges in order to effectively study a cell culture model for cardiac hypertrophy. The 2D gel patterns for cell lysates from multiple samples of cardiac myocytes with or without phenylephrine-induced hypertrophy were analyzed and spots which changed in abundance with statistical significance were located. Eleven such spots were identified using improved procedures for in-gel digestion of silver-stained proteins and high-sensitivity mass spectrometry. The incorporation of low levels of sodium dodecyl sulfate into the digestion buffer improved peptide recovery. The combination of matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry for initial measurements and capillary liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry for peptide sequence determination yielded efficient protein identification. The integration of 2D gel image analysis and routine identification of proteins present in gels at the subpicomole level represents a general model for proteome studies relating genomic sequence with protein expression patterns.
To explore if PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone could enhance the anti-atherosclerotic effects of mouse peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma1 (PPARgamma1) gene transfer in apolipoprotein-knock out mice.
Adult ApoE-knock out mice were fed a Western-diet for 20-weeks and then injected with PBS, Ad. PPARgamma1 (5 x 10(8)pfu) or Ad. GFP (5 x 10(8)pfu) via jugular vein. Another group of mice were intervened with rosiglitazone (dissolved in 0.5% cellulose acetate, 4 mg.kg(-1).d(-1), per gavage) 1 week before Ad. PPARgamma1 injection (n = 10, each group). Two weeks later, the lipid core and plaque composition were characterized with oil red O staining and Movat method respectively. The expression of PPARgamma, SM-actin, MOMA-2, MMP-9/TIMP-1, CD40/CD40L and TF antigens in aortic roots and plaques among four groups were compared semi-quantitatively using immunohistochemical technology.
All parameters were similar between AdGFP and PBS groups (P > 0.05). The area of plaque were significantly decreased and oil red O staining area significantly increased in AdPPARgamma1 [(0.86 +/- 0.12) mm(2), (150 +/- 35) x 10(3) microm(2)] and AdPPARgamma1 + RO [(0.79 +/- 0.15) mm(2), (270 +/- 49) x 10(3) microm(2)] treated mice compared with AdGFP group [(0.98 +/- 0.17) mm(2), (80 +/- 21) x 10(3) microm(2)] all P < 0.05. Elastic fiber, collagen and proteoglycan in plaques were also significantly increased in AdPPARgamma1 and AdPPARgamma1 + RO groups. Upregulation of PPARgamma, SM-actin, TIMP-1 antigen activity and downregulation of MOMA-2, MMP-9, CD40/CD40L and TF antigen activity in AdPPARgamma1 and most significantly in AdPPARgamma1 + RO group were observed (P < 0.05).
Anti-atherosclerotic effects of PPARgamma1 gene transfer in ApoE-knock out mice could be enhanced by PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone.
To report a case of aseptic meningitis induced by intramuscularly administered methotrexate in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis.
A 62-year-old male presented on 3 separate occasions with symptoms consistent with aseptic meningitis: 2 required hospitalization and 1 was noted during a subsequent ambulatory care visit. Prior to the first episode, the methotrexate dose ranged between 17.5 mg and 20 mg given once weekly over 5 years, 11 months. One month before the patient's first admission, the dose was increased to 22.5 mg. Symptoms on presentation included headache, neck stiffness, and fever. Cerebrospinal fluid testing indicated pleocytosis and low glucose level. Methotrexate was discontinued but was restarted 2 weeks after hospital discharge at the same dose and resulted in a second hospitalization for aseptic meningitis. Upon discharge from the second hospitalization, methotrexate was withheld. After a 2 month withdrawal period and rechallenge, the symptoms returned within 3 days. The drug was then discontinued.
Methotrexate-induced aseptic meningitis has been reported in the literature; however, in those cases, the effect occurred only when methotrexate was given via the intrathecal route. We identified 7 relevant articles via a search of MEDLINE, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and EMBASE (1970-August 3, 2007): 3 were review articles, 2 were case series, and 2 were case reports. All of the series and reports involved patients with leukemia. The available literature suggests that aseptic meningitis is associated with long-term use of methotrexate or recent dose escalation. A definitive mechanism for methotrexate-induced aseptic meningitis is not known. The Naranjo probability scale indicates a probable relationship between the development of the condition and the methotrexate use in our patient.
Aseptic meningitis has been previously associated with intrathecal use of methotrexate. Our report describes the first case of aseptic meningitis that occurred in a patient being treated with intramuscular methotrexate.
The failure of neutrophils to migrate to an infection focus during severe sepsis is an important determinant of the inability of a host to deal with an infectious insult. Our laboratory has shown that inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) induction and NO production contribute to the failure of neutrophils to migrate in the context of sepsis.
We investigated whether CXCR2 expression contributed to the failure of neutrophils to migrate during severe sepsis and the role of NO in modulating CXCR2 expression on neutrophils in mice subjected to nonsevere (NS) or severe (S) cecal ligation and puncture (CLP).
Neutrophil migration to the infection focus was deficient in S-CLP mice, a phenomenon prevented by pharmacologic (aminoguanidine, l-canavanine) or genetic (iNOS gene deletion) inhibition of iNOS. The expression of CXCR2 on neutrophils from S-CLP mice was significantly reduced when compared with neutrophils from NS-CLP or sham-operated mice. CXCR2 expression was reestablished by pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of iNOS. Immunofluorescence and confocal analysis revealed that iNOS blockade reduced neutrophil CXCR2 internalization. Adhesion and emigration of neutrophils in macrophage inflammatory protein-2-stimulated mesentery microcirculation were reduced in S-CLP mice, compared with NS-CLP mice, and reestablished by pretreatment with aminoguanidine or l-canavanine. The NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetyl-d,l-penicillamine inhibited CXCL8-induced human neutrophil chemotaxis and CXCR2 expression on human and murine neutrophils.
These results highlight evidences that the failure of neutrophils to migrate to an infection focus during severe sepsis is associated with excessive NO production and NO-dependent regulation of the expression of CXCR2 on the neutrophil surface.
Post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) is the most significant complication of herpes zoster caused by reactivation of latent Varicella-Zoster virus (VZV). We undertook a heterologous infection in vitro study to determine whether PHN-associated VZV isolates induce changes in sodium ion channel currents known to be associated with neuropathic pain. Twenty VZV isolates were studied blind from 11 PHN and 9 non-PHN subjects. Viruses were propagated in the MeWo cell line from which cell-free virus was harvested and applied to the ND7/23-Nav1.8 rat DRG x mouse neuroblastoma hybrid cell line which showed constitutive expression of the exogenous Nav 1.8, and endogenous expression of Nav 1.6 and Nav 1.7 genes all encoding sodium ion channels the dysregulation of which is associated with a range of neuropathic pain syndromes. After 72 hrs all three classes of VZV gene transcripts were detected in the absence of infectious virus. Single cell sodium ion channel recording was performed after 72 hr by voltage-clamping. PHN-associated VZV significantly increased sodium current amplitude in the cell line when compared with non-PHN VZV, wild-type (Dumas) or vaccine VZV strains ((POka, Merck and GSK). These sodium current increases were unaffected by acyclovir pre-treatment but were abolished by exposure to Tetrodotoxin (TTX) which blocks the TTX-sensitive fast Nav 1.6 and Nav 1.7 channels but not the TTX-resistant slow Nav 1.8 channel. PHN-associated VZV sodium current increases were therefore mediated in part by the Nav 1.6 and Nav 1.7 sodium ion channels. An additional observation was a modest increase in message levels of both Nav1.6 and Nav1.7 mRNA but not Nav 1.8 in PHN virally infected cells.
Hepatocyte I kappaB kinase beta (IKK beta) inhibits hepatocarcinogenesis by suppressing accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and liver damage, whereas JNK1 activation promotes ROS accumulation, liver damage, and carcinogenesis. We examined whether hepatocyte p38 alpha, found to inhibit liver carcinogenesis, acts similarly to IKK beta in control of ROS metabolism and cell death. Hepatocyte-specific p38 alpha ablation enhanced ROS accumulation and liver damage, which were prevented upon administration of an antioxidant. In addition to elevated ROS accumulation, hepatocyte death, augmented by loss of either IKK beta or p38 alpha, was associated with release of IL-1 alpha. Inhibition of IL-1 alpha action or ablation of its receptor inhibited carcinogen-induced compensatory proliferation and liver tumorigenesis. IL-1 alpha release by necrotic hepatocytes is therefore an important mediator of liver tumorigenesis.
After the initial discovery of antiproliferative and apoptosis-inducing properties of a camptothecin-inspired pentacycle based on a 1H-indeno[2',1':5,6]dihydropyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidine scaffold, a library of its analogues as well as their oxidized planar counterparts were prepared utilizing a practical multicomponent synthetic protocol. The synthesized compounds exhibited submicromolar to low micromolar antiproliferative potencies toward a panel of human cancer cell lines. Biochemical experiments are consistent with the dihydropyridine library members undergoing intracellular oxidation to the corresponding planar pyridines, which then inhibit topoisomerase II activity, leading to inhibition of proliferation and cell death. Because of facile synthetic preparation and promising antitopoisomerase activity, both the dihydropyridine and planar pyridine-based compounds represent a convenient starting point for anticancer drug discovery.
Val-boroPro, 1, is a potent, but relatively nonspecific inhibitor of the prolyl peptidases. It has antihyperglycemic activity from inhibition of DPPIV but also striking anticancer activity and a toxicity for which the mechanisms are unknown. 1 cyclizes at physiological pH, which attenuates its inhibitory potency >100-fold, which is a "soft drug" effect. Here we show that this phenomenon can be exploited to create prodrugs with unique properties and potential for selective in vivo targeting. Enzyme-mediated release delivers 1 to the target in the active form at physiological pH; cyclization attenuates systemic pharmacological effects from subsequent diffusion. This "pro-soft" design is demonstrated with a construct activated by and targeted to DPPIV, including in vivo results showing improved antihyperglycemic activity and reduced toxicity relative to 1. Pro-soft derivatives of 1 can help to illuminate the mechanisms underlying the three biological activities, or to help localize 1 at a tumor and thereby lead to improved anticancer agents with reduced toxicity. The design concept can also be applied to a variety of other boronic acid inhibitors.
Owing to their agonist action on dopaminergic systems, cannabinoids may play a major role in substance dependency and schizophrenia. We examined the (AAT)n triplet repeat polymorphism nearby the CNR1 gene, which encodes human cannabinoid (CB1) receptor, in a male Afro-Caribbean population. The allelic and genotypic distributions were significantly different in non-schizophrenic cocaine dependents (n = 97), schizophrenic cocaine dependents (n = 45) and matched controls (n = 88) (P < 10(-4)). The frequency of the (AAT)12 repeat allele was increased in non-schizophrenic cocaine dependents and schizophrenic cocaine dependents vs controls (25.3 and 26.7 vs 5.7%) (P < 10(-4)). Our results support that the (AAT)n polymorphism nearby the CNR1 gene could be associated with predisposition to cocaine dependency.
