Orexins are neuropeptides that are mostly expressed in the posterior and lateral hypothalamus, and related to the central control of appetite, arousal, and antinociception. Orexin neurons projected to the tuberomammillary nucleus and orexins may release histamine from the histamine neurons in this nucleus. Histamine is known to cause hypernociception. The roles of histamine H1 and H2 receptors in the orexin A-induced antinociception, however, have not been clarified yet. Here we studied the effects of histamine H1 and H2 receptors on orexin A-produced antinociception using histamine receptor knockout mice in four assays of nociception; the hot-plate, the tail-flick, the tail-pressure and the capsaicin tests. Furthermore we studied effects of histamine H1 and H2 receptor antagonists on orexin A-produced antinociception in C57BL/6 mice. The antinociceptive effects of i.c.v. orexin A were greater in histamine H1 receptor or H2 receptor knockout mice than in the wild-type mice in all four assays of pain. Furthermore, treatment of C57BL/6 mice with a combination of i.c.v. orexin A and d-chlorpheniramine (a histamine H1 receptor antagonist) or cimetidine (a histamine H2 receptor antagonist) showed a greater antinociception than i.c.v. orexin A alone in all four assays. These findings suggest the possibility that orexin A may activate H1 and H2 receptors in the supraspinal levels through the release of histamine from neurons, which might attenuate the antinociceptive effects of orexin A. Thus, the blocking of the histamine H1 or H2 receptor may produce antinociception and enhance the orexin A-induced antinociception.
Inferior alveolar nerve block (IANB) anesthesia is one of the most common procedures in the dental clinic. Although this procedure is well known for its safety, complications can still occur. An ocular complication such as diplopia, loss of vision, or ophthalmoplegia is very rare, but once it happens, both the dentist and patient can be perplexed by the unexpected circumstance, and the doctor-patient trust may be harmed. We experienced 2 cases of diplopia after IANB anesthesia. This report describes the cause and diagnosis of the associated symptoms and includes a review of the literature.
Administration of 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-N-nitrosourea (BCNU) inhibits hepatic activities of glutathione reductase (GR) comparably in both adult male Fischer-344 (F344) and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats in vivo. BCNU pretreatment greatly exacerbates the hepatic necrosis caused by diquat in F344 rats, but does not similarly potentiate liver injury in SD rats. The primary purpose of the present studies was to test the hypothesis that BCNU pretreatment would exhibit differences between the two strains in inhibition of GR activities in hepatic subcellular compartments that would correlate with the differing effects on diquat-induced hepatic necrosis. In the present studies, 16 h after administration of 80 mg/kg of BCNU, GR activities in the hepatic homogenates were 20-30% of activities in vehicle-treated controls. Neither the extents of inhibition nor the GR activities in hepatic cytosol, microsomes. mitochondria, or purified nuclei isolated by differential centrifugation were different between SD and F344 rats treated with BCNU. The results indicate that differences between SD and F344 rats in the effects of BCNU on susceptibilities to diquat-induced hepatic necrosis are not readily attributable to compartmentally selective inhibition of GR. In addition, hepatic O6-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT, MGMT) levels were almost completely depleted in BCNU-treated rats of both strains, thus indicating that MGMT-dependent pathways are unlikely to be critical determinants of the effects of BCNU on this model of acute cell death mediated by reactive oxygen species in vivo.
Nerve growth factor is a neurotrophin that promotes cell growth, differentiation, survival and death through two different receptors: TrkA(NTR) and p75(NTR). Nerve growth factor serum concentrations increase during many inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, glomerulonephritis, chronic kidney disease, end-stage renal disease and, particularly, in renal transplant. Considering that nerve growth factor exerts beneficial effects in the treatment of major central and peripheral neurodegenerative diseases, skin and corneal ulcers, we asked whether nerve growth factor could also exert a role in Cyclosporine A-induced graft nephrotoxicity. Our hypothesis was raised from basic evidence indicating that Cyclosporine A-inhibition of calcineurin-NFAT pathway increases nerve growth factor expression levels. Therefore, we investigated the involvement of nerve growth factor and its receptors in the damage exerted by Cyclosporine A in tubular renal cells, HK-2. Our results showed that in HK-2 cells combined treatment with Cyclosporine A + nerve growth factor induced a significant reduction in cell vitality concomitant with a down-regulation of Cyclin D1 and up-regulation of p21 levels respect to cells treated with Cyclosporine A alone. Moreover functional experiments showed that the co-treatment significantly up-regulated human p21promoter activity by involvement of the Sp1 transcription factor, whose nuclear content was negatively regulated by activated NFATc1. In addition we observed that the combined exposure to Cyclosporine A + nerve growth factor promoted an up-regulation of p75 (NTR) and its target genes, p53 and BAD leading to the activation of intrinsic apoptosis. Finally, the chemical inhibition of p75(NTR) down-regulated the intrinsic apoptotic signal. We describe two new mechanisms by which nerve growth factor promotes growth arrest and apoptosis in tubular renal cells exposed to Cyclosporine A.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and methylmercury (MeHg) are persistent organic pollutants accumulating in the food chain. Pre- and neonatal exposure to these neurotoxicants may affect brain development and lead to long-lasting alterations in cerebral function, which can result in motor alterations in youth and/or adulthood. Some neurotoxicants induce gender specific effects. The aims of the present work were to: (1) assess the effects of developmental exposure to MeHg, PCB 153 or PCB 126 on spontaneous locomotor and vertical activity and motor coordination when the rats are 2-month old; (2) assess whether perinatal exposure to combinations of MeHg with PCB153 or PCB126 alter the effects of the individual neurotoxicants; (3) follow the progression of motor alterations when the rats are 3-, 5- and 7-month old; (4) assess if the effects are similar or different in males and females. Pregnant rats were treated with MeHg (0.5mg/kgday); PCB126 (100ng/kgday) or PCB153 (1mg/kgday) or with combinations of MeHg with each PCB, administered in food from gestational day 7 until weaning at post-natal day 21. PCB 126 impaired motor coordination at 2 months in males but not in females. PCB 153 impaired coordination both in males and females. Combinations of MeHg with PCB153 or PCB126 did not affect motor coordination, indicating that MeHg counteracts the effects of the PBCs. The combination of MeHg and PCB153 induces hypolocomotion at 2 months but hyperactivity at 7 months while the individual compounds did not induce any effect. PCB126 induced gender selective effects, reducing locomotor activity at 2 months in females but not in males. The combination of MeHg and PCB126 behaves as PCB126 alone. All compounds and combinations tested induce gender-selective alterations in vertical activity. The effects on locomotor and vertical activity change with age in the same rats. At 2 months all compounds and combinations reduce vertical activity in females but not in males. At 7 months all treatments induced hyperactivity both in males and females, except MeHg+PCB126. In conclusion, the results show that: (a) many motor alterations induced by most compounds are different in males and females; (b) mixtures of MeHg with PCBs 153 or 126 induce different effects that the individual compounds; (c) different types of motor activity (spontaneous locomotion, vertical activity and motor coordination) are affected differently by the same neurotoxicant or mixture; and (d) the effects on locomotor and specially on vertical activity change with the age of the rat. Most compounds reduce activity at youth (2 months) and induce hyperactivity at adulthood (5-7 months). The change from hypo- to hyperactivity occurs earlier in males.
Lithium, some of the anticonvulsants, and several second-generation antipsychotic drugs are common medications widely prescribed to treat bipolar disorder. Molecular targets and cellular events that mediate their effects have been described for these drugs but are only partially unraveled. Few comparative studies have been performed.
We evaluated seven mood stabilizers (MS) in the same in vitro system and found several differences and similarities in their cellular mechanisms (proliferation and cell survival). As some MS were previously shown to activate the Akt/GSK-3beta axis, this pathway was explored for other drugs.
The SH-SY5Y cells were cultured in RPMI-1640 medium. Effects of MS drugs on serum-induced cell proliferation and on slowing of cell death were analyzed. Phosphorylation and expression of Akt-1 and GSK-3beta mRNA and protein were assessed for the seven drugs as well.
Lithium, Valproate, Olanzapine, and Clozapine enhance proliferation and protect cells against serum withdrawal-induced injury. These drugs also activate Akt-1 and GSK-3beta phosphorylation. Interestingly, gene expression of Akt-1 mRNA and protein, but not GSK-3beta, was increased. The other drugs Lamotrigine, Haloperidol, and Carbamazepine did not affect cellular events nor activate Akt/GSK-3beta axis.
Valproate and atypical antipsychotics (Olanzapine and Clozapine) regulate SH-SY5Y cell proliferation and survival, activate the Akt/GSK-3beta axis, and stimulate gene expression of Akt-1 mRNA and protein, as does Lithium. The other medications have no effect. The study shows the importance of the Akt/GSK-3 axis in MS actions but also pinpoints a different dependence of these drugs on this signaling axis.
The authors discuss the character of lithium-induced tremor. Three various measuring methods are presented: an accelerometer, a hole-plate and an apparatus based on aimed tapping. A fourth apparatus is proposed. The first three methods were applied on 16 patients who received lithium therapy and on a control group consisting of 22 normal persons. The results were statistically evaluated. For registering the postural component of lithium-induced tremor, the first two methods proved themselves worthy of recommendation in quotidian practice. Frequency and amplitude of lithium-induced tremor till the ninth day of drug administration are discussed - and constitute only one aspect of a bigger, still going on, study.
Human mannose-binding lectin, encoded by the MBL2 gene, is an important component of innate immunity and an important regulator of inflammatory processes. MBL2 gene polymorphisms are associated with an increased risk of neonatal infections and some data suggest a relation between the maternal MBL2 genotype and the risk of premature delivery. In this study, we evaluated whether there is an association between the fetal MBL2 genotype and prematurity.
A microarray-based on-chip PCR method was used to simultaneously detect five common MBL2 polymorphisms (codon 52, 54, 57; promoter -550, -221) in 204 DNA samples isolated from archival blood cards. MBL2 genotypes of infants born before the 36th week of pregnancy (N = 102) were compared to a control group of infants born at term after the 37th week (N = 102).
The frequency of the codon 52 polymorphism was significantly higher in the pre-term group compared to the term group (10.8% versus 4.9%, P = 0.04), while the frequency of the codon 54 polymorphism was equal in both groups (11.3% versus 11.8%). Interestingly, carriers of genotypes (O/O) likely conferring deficient MBL plasma levels were more common in the group of premature birth (9.8% versus 2.9%, P = 0.05), while the promoter -550 C/C genotype was underrepresented in the pre-term birth group (24.5% versus 39.2%, P = 0.03).
Our data add to the knowledge about genetic predisposition to prematurity and suggest that the fetal MBL2 genotype might be an additional genetic factor contributing to the risk of premature delivery.
A 68-year-old woman reported acute severe pain in both lower limbs during a dipyridamole sestamibi myocardial perfusion scan. The pain was rapidly relieved by the administration of intravenous aminophylline. A review of the literature on the adverse effects of dipyridamole did not include this symptom.
Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a rare and only recently described condition. The authors report 4 cases of delayed-onset HIT, each of which presented with thrombotic complications 8-18 days after receiving heparin for coronary artery bypass grafting. Delayed-onset HIT should be suspected in any patient presenting with arterial or venous thromboembolism after heparin therapy, even 1 to 3 weeks after heparin exposure.
Seventy-six uncomplicated hypertensive patients treated in General Practice, whose seated diastolic blood pressure (Phase V) (dBP) remained greater than or equal to 95 mmHg after a minimum of 4 weeks treatment with metoprolol 50 mg b.i.d. as antihypertensive monotherapy, were randomized to receive the selective 'calcium antagonist' felodipine 5 mg b.i.d. or hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg b.i.d. in addition to metoprolol 50 mg b.i.d. The trial duration was 8 weeks, the dose of the felodipine or hydrochlorothiazide being doubled after 4 weeks if 'control' of BP (dBP less than 90 mmHg) was not achieved on the initial doses. Over the trial period of 8 weeks, felodipine reduced dBP from 102 to 85 mmHg and hydrochlorothiazide from 101 to 91 mmHg; the dBP reduction in the felodipine group was greater than that in the hydrochlorothiazide group (17 vs 9 mmHg) and the attained dBP lower in the felodipine group. About half of the patients in each group required the higher dose. Both regimes were effective and well tolerated. In the dosages used, felodipine was a slightly more effective antihypertensive drug than hydrochlorothiazide when added to metoprolol. There was no apparent difference in the tolerability of the two regimes.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are widely used and relatively safe medications. We report here an uncommon case of fluid retention simulating acute congestive heart failure, secondary to aspirin consumption, promptly reversible after discontinuation of therapy, and triggered again by pharmacological challenge test.
Dopamine agonists and antagonists with different affinities for D1 and D2 receptors in the brain were assessed for their ability to affect clonic seizures in mice induced by chemoconvulsants. The dopamine D2 antagonists remoxipride (5-20 mg/kg) and raclopride (5-20 mg/kg), haloperidol (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) and the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (0.3, 1.5 mg/kg) did not markedly modify seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole, picrotoxin or bicuculline. The dopamine D2 agonist quinpirole only weakly blocked the action of pentylenetetrazole while the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (1-10 mg/kg subcutaneously) caused a dose-dependent blockade of pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. The D1/D2 agonist apomorphine given at "postsynaptic" doses (1 and 2 mg/kg) blocked pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures. The protection afforded by apomorphine against pentylenetetrazole seizures appeared to be associated with its activation of both D1 and D2 receptors since both raclopride and SCH 23390 blocked the action of apomorphine. Reserpine and the two partial dopamine autoreceptor agonists, (-)3-PPP and HW-165, at high (non-autoreceptor selective) doses induced seizures in animals treated with the subconvulsive dose of pentylenetetrazole. The overall results suggest that dopamine receptor blockade has a minor or limited effect on seizures caused by GABA inhibition. The anticonvulsant effect of dopamine agonists such as apomorphine appears to be mediated by postsynaptic dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. Stimulation of dopamine D1 receptors can reduce seizure activity caused by GABA receptor blockade possibly by facilitation of GABA transmission in the striatum and substantia nigra.
This case report describes a patient with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy who developed symptomatic atrial fibrillation on two occasions after ingesting sildenafil citrate (Viagra). Sildenafil citrate should be withheld or used with extreme caution in persons with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.
To report the case of a young woman with Graves' disease in whom ototoxicity developed because of propylthiouracil (PTU)-induced antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis.
We present the clinical findings, pertinent laboratory data, and follow-up course of a patient with Graves' disease and bilateral sensorineural hearing loss. We also provide a literature review regarding thionamide-induced ANCA-associated vasculitis.
In a 22-year-old Thai woman with Graves' disease, tinnitus, hearing impairment in the left ear (with progression to the right ear), and vertigo developed after 3 years of therapy with PTU. Audiograms showed bilateral sensorineural hearing loss with cochlear lesions. She also had low-grade fever, intermittent chronic abdominal pain, weight loss, polyarthralgia, and conjunctivitis. An indirect immunofluorescence test for ANCA was positive. The hearing impairment and tinnitus were gradually reduced after PTU withdrawal and corticosteroid and azathioprine treatment. Definitive therapy by subtotal thyroidectomy was subsequently performed and yielded good results.
This rare case of PTU-induced ANCA-associated vasculitis manifested with ototoxicity in combination with systemic involvement.
We investigated the possibility that the large pulmonary cavity in tuberculosis (TB) lesions might result from imbalances between tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and soluble TNF-alpha receptor forms (sTNF-RI and sTNF-RII), and interleukin-beta (IL-1beta) and IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1RA) in sites of local inflammation.
BAL was performed in 32 patients with active pulmonary TB, and the recovered BAL fluid (BALF) was examined for concentrations of TNF-alpha and its soluble receptor forms, IL-1beta, and IL-1RA. Patients were classified into two groups: group 1, patients with a large cavity (> or = 4 cm) on chest radiographs (n = 15); and group 2, patients with a small cavity (< 4 cm; n = 3) or no cavity (n = 14) on chest radiographs.
The concentrations of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-1RA in BALF were significantly higher in group 1 patients than in group 2 patients before standardization. The difference was also statistically significant for TNF-alpha and IL-1beta after standardization with urea. Furthermore, group 1 patients had significantly higher ratios of TNF-alpha to sTNF-RI and sTNF-RII and IL-1beta to IL-1RA compared with group 2 patients.
These findings suggest that the relative abundance of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta associated with imbalances of secretion of soluble TNF-alpha receptor forms and IL-1RA may have caused tissue necrosis leading to cavity formation in patients with active pulmonary TB.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether the opioid receptor agonist ethylketocyclazocine (EKC) modulates the development of cardiac arrhythmias by an action within the central nervous system. Catecholamine-induced ventricular arrhythmias were produced in the rat by continuous infusion of epinephrine, at incremental doses, until the development of fatal arrhythmias that were usually ventricular fibrillation. EKC, 1 mg/kg, intravenously (IV) significantly (p < 0.05) accentuated the manifestations of or reduced the threshold for epinephrine-induced arrhythmias. The effect of EKC was prevented by the kappa opioid antagonist MR 2266 in a dose-dependent manner. To determine whether the central nervous system is a site of this action of EKC, rats received injection of either EKC or the diluent (control) into the lateral cerebral ventricle (ICV). EKC, 100 and 200 micrograms/kg ICV, significantly (p < 0.05) altered the dose-effect relationship between epinephrine and arrhythmias so that EKC accentuated the development of cardiac arrhythmias. These data indicate that EKC, through an action in the brain, modulates cardiac arrhythmias and suggests a role for opioid receptor agonists, such as EKC, in cardiac arrhythmias and perhaps sudden cardiac death in man.
Vinclozolin is a fungicide that has been shown to cause Leydig cell tumors and atrophy of the accessory sex glands in adult rodents. In addition, exposure of rats during pregnancy causes a pattern of malformations in the male urogenital tract. A wealth of standard toxicological studies and targeted research efforts is available related to this adverse effect, and these were used to evaluate the Human Relevance Framework (HRF) for noncancer health effects. Vinclozolin and two of its metabolites, designated M1 and M2, have been shown to bind and inhibit the function of the rat and human androgen receptor. Other means of interfering with androgen receptor function (e.g., by exposure to the pharmaceutical agent flutamide) lead to similar adverse health outcomes. There is direct in vivo evidence in the rat prostate that androgen-dependent gene expression changes occur after exposure to vinclozolin. There are no proposed alternatives to the androgen receptor-mediated mode of action. Based on what is known about kinetic and dynamic factors, confidence is high that the animal mode of action (MOA) for vinclozolin-induced malformation of the male reproductive tract is highly plausible in humans.
For decades, the sympathomimetic phenylpropanolamine (PPA; +/- -norepinephrine) was an active ingredient found in popular children's over-the-counter (OTC) cold, cough, and allergy medications. To examine the possibility that pre-adolescent PPA exposure may induce neuroadaptations that influence behavioral and neurochemical responding to cocaine, C57BL/6J mice were pretreated with PPA (0-40 mg/kg) during postnatal days 21-31. The behavioral and neurochemical responses to acute and repeated cocaine (4 x 15 mg/kg) were then assessed in adulthood when the mice were 10 weeks of age. Whereas pre-adolescent PPA exposure did not influence the acute locomotor response to 15 mg/kg cocaine, PPA pre-exposure dose-dependently enhanced the expression of cocaine-induced place conditioning, reduced the expression of locomotor sensitization, but did not influence cocaine-induced stereotypy. Pre-adolescent PPA exposure completely prevented the capacity of cocaine to elevate extracellular levels of catecholamines in the nucleus accumbens, but facilitated the development of cocaine-induced glutamate sensitization. Neither acute nor repeated cocaine altered extracellular GABA levels in the accumbens of control mice; however, 15 mg/kg cocaine lowered GABA levels by approximately 40% in PPA pretreated mice and this effect showed tolerance with repeated cocaine administration. These data provide the first evidence that early exposure to an OTC compound produces protracted effects upon cocaine-induced changes in nucleus accumbens neurotransmission that may contribute to a 'pro-addictive' phenotype in adulthood.
To assess the incidence of postoperative emetic side effects after the administration of methylprednisolone and gentamicin into the posterior sub-Tenon's space at the end of routine cataract surgery.
St. Luke's Hospital, Gwardamangia, Malta.
A double-blind double-armed prospective study comprised 40 patients who had uneventful sutureless phacoemulsification under sub-Tenon's local infiltration of 3 mL of plain lignocaine. At the end of the procedure, Group A (n = 20) had 20 mg/0.5 mL of methylprednisolone and 10 mg/0.5 mL of gentamicin injected into the posterior sub-Tenon's space and Group B (n = 20) had the same combination injected into the anterior sub-Tenon's space. Postoperatively, all patients were assessed for symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and headache. A chi-square test was used to assess the statistical significance of results.
Sixty percent in Group A developed postoperative emetic symptoms, headache, or both; 1 patient in Group B developed symptoms.
The administration of methylprednisolone and gentamicin in the posterior sub-Tenon's space was related to a high incidence of side effects including nausea, vomiting, and headache. All adverse effects were self-limiting.
The translocation (9;22) (q34;q11), known as the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome and bcr-abl fusion gene, is the common cytogenetic abnormality and an unfavourable prognosis in adult acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). Although chemotherapeutic treatment produced high rates of complete response in approximately 70%-80% of newly diagnosed Ph+ ALL, the onset of resistance and clinical relapse is rapid. Therefore, the efficacy of treatment in Ph+ ALL is still to be determined. In this study, we aimed to assess the antileukemic activity of rapamycin (RAPA) (Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, MO, USA), a mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitor, alone and in combination with daunorubicin (DNR) (Pharmacia & Upjohn Company, Germany) in a Ph+ acute lymphoblastic cell line SUP-B15 and a primary Ph+ ALL sample in vitro. Here, we demonstrated that 50 nmol/L of RAPA significantly intensified the inhibition induced by DNR on both Ph+ ALL cell line and a primary Ph+ ALL sample. Notably, we reported that the consequence of DNR treatment induced the over expression of the components of mammalian target of rapamycin signalling pathway, whereas RAPA effectively eliminated this deleterious side effect of DNR, which might enhance DNR's ability to kill drug-resistant cancer. The synergistic effect was also associated with the increase in autophagy, blockage of cell cycle progression in the G1 phase. Altogether, our results suggest that DNR in combination with RAPA is more effective in the treatment of Ph+ ALL compared with DNR alone.
A genome scan was previously performed and pointed to chromosome 6q21 as a candidate region for autism. This region contains the glutamate receptor 6 (GluR6 or GRIK2) gene, a functional candidate for the syndrome. Glutamate is the principal excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain and is directly involved in cognitive functions such as memory and learning. We used two different approaches, the affected sib-pair (ASP) method and the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT), to investigate the linkage and association between GluR6 and autism. The ASP method, conducted with additional markers on the 51 original families and in eight new sibling pairs, showed a significant excess of allele sharing, generating an elevated multipoint maximum LOD score (ASPEX MLS = 3.28). TDT analysis, performed in the ASP families and in an independent data set of 107 parent-offspring trios, indicated a significant maternal transmission disequilibrium (TDTall P = 0.0004). Furthermore, TDT analysis (with only one affected proband per family) showed significant association between GluR6 and autism (TDT association P = 0.008). In contrast to maternal transmission, paternal transmission of GluR6 alleles was as expected in the absence of linkage, suggesting a maternal effect such as imprinting. Mutation screening was performed in 33 affected individuals, revealing several nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including one amino acid change (M867I) in a highly conserved domain of the intracytoplasmic C-terminal region of the protein. This change is found in 8% of the autistic subjects and in 4% of the control population and seems to be more maternally transmitted than expected to autistic males (P = 0.007). Taken together, these data suggest that GluR6 is in linkage disequilibrium with autism.
Autistic disorder (OMIM 209850) is a disease with a significant genetic component of a complex nature.(1) Cytogenetic abnormalities in the Prader-Willi/Angelman syndrome critical region (15q11-13) have been described in several individuals with autism.(1) For this reason, markers across this region have been screened for evidence of linkage and association, and a marker (155CA-2) in the gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A receptor beta3 subunit gene (GABRB3) has been associated in one study(2) but not others.(3-5) We completed an association analysis with 155CA-2 using the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) in a set of 80 autism families (59 multiplex and 21 trios). We also used four additional markers (69CA, 155CA-1, 85CA, and A55CA-1) localized within 150 kb of 155CA-2. The use of multi-allelic TDT (MTDT) (P < 0.002), as well as the TDT (P < 0.004), demonstrated an association between autistic disorder and 155CA-2 in these families. Meiotic segregation distortion could be excluded as a possible cause for these results since no disequilibrium was observed in unaffected siblings. These findings support a role for genetic variants within the GABA receptor gene complex in 15q11-13 in autistic disorder.
Peptichemio, a new oncolytic drug with alkylating and antimetabolic properties was employed in combination with vincristine and 6-methylprednisolone (PVP) for the treatment of diffuse non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL), stages III and IV. 52 of 66 patients who entered the PVP protocol were considered evaluable: the overall remission rate in diffuse lymphocytic poorly differentiated lymphomas (DLPD) was 56.6 and 55% in diffuse histiocytic lymphomas (DHL). Median duration of complete remission was 16 months in DLPD and 13 months in DHL. Dramatic results were obtained in "oncologic emergencies," such as mediastinal involvement and spinal cord compression. Bone marrow depression from PVP was moderate and never caused discontinuation of therapy. According to these results the PVP protocol would appear susceptible of offering a major contribution to the chemotherapy of diffuse NHL.
Mutations of the DJ-1 (PARK7) gene are linked to familial Parkinson's disease. We used gene targeting to generate DJ-1-deficient mice that were viable, fertile, and showed no gross anatomical or neuronal abnormalities. Dopaminergic neuron numbers in the substantia nigra and fiber densities and dopamine levels in the striatum were normal. However, DJ-1-/- mice showed hypolocomotion when subjected to amphetamine challenge and increased striatal denervation and dopaminergic neuron loss induced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrindine. DJ-1-/-embryonic cortical neurons showed increased sensitivity to oxidative, but not nonoxidative, insults. Restoration of DJ-1 expression to DJ-1-/- mice or cells via adenoviral vector delivery mitigated all phenotypes. WT mice that received adenoviral delivery of DJ-1 resisted 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyrindine-induced striatal damage, and neurons overexpressing DJ-1 were protected from oxidative stress in vitro. Thus, DJ-1 protects against neuronal oxidative stress, and loss of DJ-1 may lead to Parkinson's disease by conferring hypersensitivity to dopaminergic insults.
It has been suggested that the effect of a beta2-agonist is additive with that of a cysteinyl leukotriene 1 receptor antagonist.
The present study was designed to answer the question of whether combined administration of inhaled salmeterol and oral zafirlukast at the standard doses would result in greater bronchodilation in patients with chronic airway obstruction than the use of either drug alone.
The study was performed using a double-blind, double-dummy, crossover, randomised design, and was conducted on 4 non-consecutive days. Sixteen patients with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and 10 non-smoker asthmatic patients received 40 mg of oral zafirlukast, 50 microg of inhaled salmeterol, 50 microg of inhaled salmeterol plus 40 mg of oral zafirlukast of placebo. Lung function was assessed before drug administration and 30, 60, 120, 180 and 240 min thereafter. At the end of the 4-hour period, each patient received 400 microg of inhaled salbutamol and spirometric testing was performed 30 min later.
In both asthmatic and COPD patients, the overall effect of salmeterol and zafirlukast on the forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) was considered extremely significant (p < 0.0001), with a maximum bronchodilation above baseline after 180 min (20.7 and 11.0%, respectively) in asthmatics and after 2 h (21.7 and 11.2%, respectively) in COPD subjects. Zafirlukast did not produce any further significant acute bronchodilation in addition to that achieved with salmeterol alone in either asthmatic or COPD patients. Nevertheless, 7 out of 16 COPD patients and 7 out of 10 asthmatic patients had a further improvement after the combination of salmeterol and zafirlukast. The mean difference in pre- and post-salbutamol FEV1 values in both asthmatic and COPD patients after zafirlukast was significant (p < 0.05), but that after salmeterol and the combination of the two drugs was not significant (p > 0.05). The difference between placebo and zafirlukast was not significant following inhaled salbutamol given 4 h after each treatment.
Both salmeterol and zafirlukast induced a significant increase in FEV1, although salmeterol elicited a greater improvement in both asthmatic and COPD patients. Apparently, zafirlukast at the clinically recommended dose did not produce any further significant acute bronchodilation in addition to that achieved with salmeterol alone, either in asthma or COPD. In any case, evaluation of the effect of the combination over a 12-hour period is mandatory.
Ocotea quixos essential oil was shown to possess significant inhibitory activity of platelet aggregation and clot retraction in rodent plasma. This study is aimed at fully characterizing the antiplatelet activity of the whole essential oil and its main components trans-cinnamaldehyde and methyl cinnamate also in human plasma, at investigating the mechanism underlying such activity and at evaluating the potential antithrombotic activity of subacute treatment of mice with Ocotea essential oil. In vitro Ocotea essential oil and trans-cinnamaldehyde inhibited arachidonic acid-, U46619-, ADP-, phorbol12-myristate13-alcetate-, collagen-induced platelet aggregation and thrombin-induced clot retraction in human and rodent plasma; Ocotea oil and trans-cinnamaldehyde competitively antagonized contractions induced by thromboxane A2 receptor agonist U46619 in rat isolated aortic ring (K(B) = 18 and 3.2 microg ml(-1), respectively). In vivo Ocotea oil, orally administered in a subacute treatment (30-100 mg kg(-1) day(-1) for 5 days) to mice, prevented acute thrombosis induced by collagen-epinephrine intravenous injection. This antithrombotic activity was not accompanied by pro-haemorragic side effect, as detected by the inactivity in bleeding test, thus showing a favourable safety profile compared to the conventional antiplatelet agent, acetylsalicylic acid. Present findings indicate that Ocotea essential oil possesses potent and safe antithrombotic activity attributable to its antiplatelet and vasorelaxant effects. The main constituent trans-cinnamaldehyde seems to be the primary responsible for this activity through a putative mechanism involving the inhibition of thromboxane A2 receptors.
