Antibodies to halothane-altered liver cell determinants (halothane antibodies) have previously been detected in serum of patients with fulminant hepatic failure after halothane anaesthesia. However, their diagnostic value has not been reported in patients with non-fulminant hepatitis. Sera from 39 patients who developed hepatitis following halothane anaesthesia between January 1983 and December 1985 were tested for antibodies to halothane-induced liver antigens using an ELISA; 22 of these patients had hepatitis without encephalopathy. Nineteen of the sera were from patients anaesthetized during 1985; four of the patients were aged 15 yr or less. All patients had undergone previous anaesthesia 17 days to 13 yr (median 3 yr) earlier. In 19 of the patients the final operation was a minor surgical procedure, lasting less than 45 min. In 13 patients a previous adverse reaction to halothane was documented in the case records. Twelve of the patients died. Halothane antibodies were detected in 12 of the 16 (75%) patients with hepatic encephalopathy and 16 of the 23 (70%) who did not develop encephalopathy, demonstrating that halothane antibodies are detectable in a wider spectrum of halothane-associated liver damage than previously appreciated.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling cascades have been implicated in a number of human cancers. The tumor suppressor gene tuberous sclerosis-2 (Tsc-2) functions as a negative regulator of mTOR. Critical proteins in both pathways are activated following treatment of Eker rats (Tsc-2(EK/+)) with the nephrocarcinogen 2,3,5-tris-(glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone (TGHQ), which also results in loss of the wild-type allele of Tsc-2 in renal preneoplastic lesions and tumors. Western blot analysis of kidney tumors formed following treatment of Tsc-2(EK/+) rats with TGHQ for 8 months revealed increases in B-Raf, Raf-1, pERK, cyclin D1, 4EBP1, and p-4EBP1-Ser65, -Thr70, and -Thr37/46 expression. Similar changes are observed following TGHQ-mediated transformation of primary renal epithelial cells derived from Tsc-2(EK/+) rats (quinol-thioether rat renal epithelial [QTRRE] cells) that are also null for tuberin. These cells exhibit high ERK, B-Raf, and Raf-1 kinase activity and increased expression of all p-4EBP1s and cyclin D1. Treatment of the QTRRE cells with the Raf kinase inhibitor, sorafenib, or the MEK1/2 kinase inhibitor, PD 98059, produced a significant decrease in the protein expression of all p-4EBP1s and cyclin D1. Following siRNA knockdown of Raf-1, Western blot analysis revealed a significant decrease in Raf-1, cyclin D1, and all p-4EBP1 forms noted above. In contrast, siRNA knockdown of B-Raf resulted in a nominal change in these proteins. The data indicate that Raf-1/MEK/ERK participates in crosstalk with 4EBP1, which represents a novel pathway interaction leading to increased protein synthesis, cell growth, and kidney tumor formation.
The concept of combination of chemoprevention holds great potential for cancer management as lower, clinically tolerable doses of individual agents could be achieved through therapeutic synergy. However, elucidation of their possible interactions--additive, synergistic, or antagonistic--must be thoroughly studied before considering for clinical use.
To evaluate the effect of combination treatment of sulforaphane (SFN) and eugenol on HeLa cells, the authors performed cell viability assay, apoptosis assay, and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction for gene expression analysis. Calculations of combination effects were expressed as a combination index (CI) with CI < 1, CI = 1, or CI > 1 representing synergism, additivity, or antagonism, respectively.
Simultaneous treatment with variable dose combinations of SFN and eugenol resulted in differential effects with an antagonistic effect at lower and synergistic at higher sub-lethal doses as reflected in cell cytotoxicity and apoptosis induction. Importantly, gemcitabine used in conjunction with the low- and high-dose combinations showed no significant cell death at lower doses suggesting that cell cytotoxicity is proportional to gemcitabine alone, whereas at higher sublethal doses of SFN and eugenol, it was found to act in a synergistic manner with gemcitabine. Furthermore, SFN and eugenol combinations at synergistic dose significantly downregulated the expression of Bcl-2, COX-2 and IL-β but not the antagonistic combinations.
This study clearly indicates that 2 (or more) chemopreventive agents can act antagonistically or synergistically necessitating elucidation of possible mechanistic interactions for favorable and reliable outcomes of dietary components in the field of cancer prevention.
A 73 year-old patient with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and paroxysmic supraventricular tachycardia developed an acute reversible encephalopathy within 15 days of initiation of flecainide. The clinical picture was characterized by visual hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, but no disorientation, and a severe cerebello-myoclonic syndrome with total inability to stand up and walk, which was fully reversible on discontinuing the medication.
Methoxyamine (MX) has been shown to potentiate the antitumor effect of temozolomide (TMZ) in human tumor xenograft models. This potentiation is due to the reactivity of MX with apurinic/pyrimidinic (AP) sites in DNA, which are formed following DNA glycosylase removal of TMZ-induced methyl-purine adducts. MX-bound AP sites cannot be further processed by base excision repair (BER), resulting in cell death. On the basis of this finding, we investigated in vivo whether MX enhanced therapeutic efficacy of other agents, such as 1,3-bis-(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) that generates AP sites during DNA repair. Nude mice carrying human colon tumor xenografts, HCT116 and HCT116-Ch3, were treated by a single injection (i.p) of BCNU alone (30 mg/kg) or MX (2 mg/kg) combined with BCNU. The effect on tumor growth of BCNU alone was very moderate. Combined administration of MX and BCNU produced significant inhibition of tumor growth. Tumor growth delays were 14 +/- 3 days in HCT116 and 16 +/- 2 days in HCT116-Ch3 tumors, respectively (P < 0.05 versus control or BCNU alone groups). Similar results were also observed in SW480 and DLD1 tumors. Importantly, no systemic toxicity was noted with BCNU and MX. In contrast, BCNU (at dose of 25 mg/kg) combined with O(6)-benzylguanine (BG), an inhibitor of O(6)-alkylguanine-DNA alkyltransferase (AGT) being tested in clinical trials, caused toxic death in all treated mice. However, a lower dose BCNU (10 mg/kg) combined with BG and MX had significant antitumor effect without toxic death. Thus, targeting BER with MX is a promising strategy to improve the antitumor activity of BCNU and perhaps other DNA-damaging agents.
Estrogenic compounds are the most important group of drugs that can induce hypertension. Studies have shown an incidence of significant hypertension amounting to less than 1% after 1 year of taking oral contraceptives and about 2% after 5 years. The ratio of the incidence of hypertension among ''takers'' to that of ''nontakers'' has been assessed at 1.8 by 1 study and 2.6 by another. Small but significant increments in systolic and diastolic pressures can be discerned during the first 2 years of treatment. Cessation of treatment has resulted in pressures returing to pretreatment levels within 3 months. In those previously normal the highest readings during oral contraceptive use were only 155/90 mm of Hg. Severe hypertension is more likely to occur in the predisposed, and malignant hypertension has been reported. Previous hypertension, toxemia of pregnancy, obesity, and nephropathy are predisposing conditions. Although progestagens, used alone, do not cause clinical hypertension the incidence of hypertension associated with an estrogen-progestogen combination was directly related to the dose of progestagen used. Weight gain is often observed in oral contraceptive users and is occasionally accompanied by edema and hypertension. There is a marked increase in the circulating level of renin substrate (angiotensinogen) which is caused by the estrogen component of the pill. The increase in renin substrate is associated with increase in plasma levels of renin activity, angiotensin 2, and aldosterone, together with a fall in plasma renin concentration. The suppression of plasma renin concentration can persist for weeks after stopping the pill. The factors responsible for hypertension are probably intrinsic and may be either neural, vascular, or renal. Patients taking oral contraceptives should have blood pressure checks at 6-month intervals, and more frequently in high risk cases. In the management of those with only mild blood pressure elevation, such patients should change to a preparation with the lowest available estrogen dosage, 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol, or reserve the method for use during crucial periods of family planning. With moderate hypertension the oral contraceptive should be suspended for 3-6 months. If the blood pressure falls, oral contraceptives should not be resumed but another method recommended. Continuing hypertension requires further study and possibly elective sterilization. Severe hypertension requires withdrawal of the pill, urgent investigation, and treatment. Other drugs may cause hypertension. Management of these patients is outlined. Structural formulae of progesterone, norethisterone acetate, medroxyprogesterone acetate, and norgestrel are shown.
A 13 year-old girl with osteosarcoma and pulmonary tumor recurrence developed acute renal failure following high dose methotrexate (12 g/m(2)) therapy, she had previously tolerated high dose methotrexate and her renal and hepatic functions were normal. Briefly, 48 hours after beginning methotrexate infusion her methotrexate concentration and creatinine level were 1338.8 microM/L and 5.8 mg/dl, respectively. Grade IV oral mucositis and neutropenia with fever developed at 144 hours after MTX infusion. Hydration and alkalinization were continued and leucovorin rescue was intensified based on the plasma MTX concentrations. Plasma exchange was performed twice and hemodialysis 3 times without problems, but methotrexate and creatinine levels remained high, 91.9 microM/L, and 2.5 mg/dl, respectively. After 3 courses of hemodialysis carboxypeptidase-G2 (CPDG2) was administered at 50 U/kg, intravenously over 5 minutes. After 15 minutes of CPDG2 (Voraxaze) infusion, her plasma MTX concentration was 0.91 microM/L and no rebound elevation or side effects developed. Thirteen days post-MTX infusion her renal function had normalized. We report here our experience of a dramatic methotrexate level reduction caused by CPDG2 administration.
2,2-Bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol is used as a fire retardant in unsaturated polyester resins, in molded products, and in rigid polyurethane foam. 2,2-Bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was chosen for study because it is a widely used flame retardant and little toxicity and carcinogenicity data were available. Groups of male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were exposed to technical grade 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol (78.6% pure) in feed for 13 weeks or 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, mouse bone marrow, and mouse peripheral blood. 13-WEEK STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats were fed diets containing 0, 1,250, 2,500, 5,000, 10,000, or 20,000 ppm 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)- 1,3-propanediol for 13 weeks. These levels corresponded to approximately 100, 200, 400, 800, or 1,700 mg 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol/kg body weight (males) and 100, 200, 400, 800, or 1,600 mg/kg (females). No rats died during the studies. The final mean body weights and weight gains of 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000 ppm males and females were significantly lower than those of the controls. Feed consumption by exposed animals was lower than that by controls at week 1, but was generally similar to or slightly higher than that by controls at week 13. No chemical-related clinical findings were observed. Chemical-related differences in clinical pathology parameters included increased urine volumes accompanied by decreased urine specific gravity and minimally increased protein excretion in 10,000 and 20,000 ppm males. In females, urine parameters were less affected than males. Water deprivation tests demonstrated that male and female rats were able to adequately concentrate their urine in response to decreased water intake. Serum protein and albumin concentrations in female rats exposed to 2,500 ppm and higher were slightly lower than those of the controls. Renal papillary degeneration was present in 5,000 and 10,000 ppm males, and in 20,000 ppm males and females. Hyperplasia of the urinary bladder was present in 20,000 ppm males. 13-WEEK STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 10 male and 10 female mice were fed diets containing 0, 625, 1,250, 2,500, 5,000, or 10,000 ppm 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol for 13 weeks. These levels corresponded to approximately 100, 200, 500, 1,300, or 3,000 mg 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol/kg body weight (males) and 140, 300, 600, 1,200, or 2,900 mg/kg (females). One control female, two males and one female receiving 625 ppm, one female receiving 1,250 ppm, one female receiving 2,500 ppm, one female receiving 5,000 ppm, and three males receiving 10,000 ppm died during the study. The final mean body weights and body weight gains of males and females receiving 1,250, 2,500, 5,000, or 10,000 ppm and of females receiving 625 ppm were significantly lower than those of the controls. Feed consumption by exposed mice was generally higher than that by controls throughout the study. Clinical findings included abnormal posture and hypoactivity in 10,000 ppm male and female mice. Blood urea nitrogen concentrations of 5,000 ppm females and 10,000 ppm males and females were greater than those of controls. Also, urine specific gravity was lower in 10,000 ppm females. Differences in organ weights generally followed those in body weights. Papillary necrosis, renal tubule regeneration, and fibrosis were observed in the kidneys of 2,500 and 5,000 ppm males and 10,000 ppm males and females. Urinary bladder hyperplasia was observed in 5,000 and 10,000 ppm males and females. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: Groups of 60 male and 60 female rats received 2,500, 5,000, or 10,000 ppm 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)- 1,3-propanediol in feed for 104 to 105 weeks. Groups of 70 males and 60 females received 0 ppm 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol in feed for 104 to 105 weeks. A stop-exposure group of 70 male rats received 20,000 ppm 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol in feed for 3 months, after which animals received undosed feed for the remainder of the 2-year styear study. Average daily doses of 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol were 100, 200, or 430 mg/kg body weight for males and 115, 230, or 460 mg/kg for females. Stop-exposure males received an average daily dose of 800 mg/kg. Ten animals from the 0 ppm male group and the 20,000 ppm stop-exposure group were evaluated at 3 months; nine or 10 control animals and five to nine animals from each of the continuous-exposure groups were evaluated at 15 months. Survival, Body Weights, Feed Consumption, and Clinical Findings: Survival of 5,000 and 10,000 ppm continuous-exposure study males and females and 20,000 ppm stop-exposure males was significantly lower than that of the controls. Mean body weights of exposed male and female rats receiving 10,000 ppm and stop-exposure males receiving 20,000 ppm were lower than those of the controls throughout most of the study. In the continuous-exposure study, feed consumption by exposed rats was generally similar to that by controls throughout the study. In 20,000 ppm stop-exposure males, the feed consumption was lower than that by controls. Clinical findings included skin and/or subcutaneous masses on the face, tail, and the ventral and dorsal surfaces of exposed rats. Pathology Findings: In the 2-year continuous and stop-exposure studies in male rats, exposure to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was associated with neoplastic effects in the skin, mammary gland, Zymbal's gland, oral cavity, esophagus, forestomach, small and large intestines, mesothelium, urinary bladder, lung, thyroid gland, hematopoietic system, and seminal vesicle. Nonneoplastic effects in the kidney, lung, thyroid gland, seminal vesicle, pancreas, urinary bladder, and forestomach were also observed. In females, 2-year exposure to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was associated with neoplastic effects in the oral cavity, esophagus, mammary gland, and thyroid gland. Nonneoplastic effects in the kidney were also observed. These findings are outlined in the two summary tables. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 60 male and 60 female mice received 0, 312, 625, or 1,250 ppm 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol in feed for 104 to 105 weeks. Average daily doses of 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol were 35, 70, or 140 mg/kg (males) and 40, 80, or 170 mg/kg (females). Eight to 10 animals from each group were evaluated at 15 months. Survival, Body Weights, Feed Consumption, and Clinical Findings: Survival of 1,250 ppm males and females was significantly lower than that of the controls. Mean body weights of exposed male and female mice were similar to controls throughout the study. Final mean body weights were also generally similar to those of controls. Feed consumption by exposed male and female mice was similar to that by controls. Clinical findings included tissue masses involving the eye in exposed mice. Pathology Findings: Exposure of male mice to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol for 2 years was associated with neoplastic effects in the harderian gland, lung, and kidney. Exposure of female mice to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was associated with increased incidences of neoplasms of the harderian gland, lung, and skin. Nonneoplastic effects in the lung were also observed in exposed females. These findings are outlined in the two summary tables. GENETIC TOXICOLOGY: 2,2-Bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strain TA100 when tested in the presence of induced 30&percnt; hamster liver S9; all other strain/activation combinations gave negative results. In cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol induced chromosomal aberrations only in the presence of S9; no induction of sister chromatid exchanges was observed in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells after treatment with 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol, with or without S9. In vivo, 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol induced significant increases in the frequencies of micronucleated erythrocytes in male and female mice. Significant increases in micronuclei were observed in peripheral blood samples from male and female mice exposed to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol for 13 weeks via dosed feed. Results of a bone marrow micronucleus test in male mice, where 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was administered by gavage, were considered to be equivocal due to inconsistent results obtained in two trials. An additional bone marrow micronucleus test was performed with male and female mice and 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was administered as a single intraperitoneal injection; results of this test were positive in females and negative in males. CONCLUSIONS: Under the conditions of these 2-year feed studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,2-bis-(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol (FR-1138) in male F344/N rats based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the skin, subcutaneous tissue, mammary gland, Zymbal's gland, oral cavity, esophagus, forestomach, small and large intestines, mesothelium, urinary bladder, lung, thyroid gland, and seminal vesicle, and the increased incidence of mononuclear cell leukemia. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol in female F344/N rats based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the oral cavity, esophagus, mammary gland, and thyroid gland. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol in male B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the harderian gland, lung, and kidney. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol in female B6C3F1 mice based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the harderian gland, lung, and subcutaneous tissue. Slight increases in the incidences of neoplasms of the pancreas and kidney in male rats; forestomach in male mice; and forestomach, mammary gland, and circulatory system in female mice may have also been related to treatment. Exposure of male and female rats to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was associated with alveolar/bronchiolar hyperplasia in the lung (males only); focal atrophy, papillary degeneration, transitional epithelial hyperplasia (pelvis), and papillary epithelial hyperplasia in the kidney; follicular cell hyperplasia in the thyroid gland (males only); hyperplasia in the seminal vesicle and pancreas (males only); mucosal hyperplasia in the forestomach (males only); and urinary bladder hyperplasia (males only). Exposure of mice to 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol was associated with hyperplasia of the alveolar epithelium in females. Synonyms: 2,2-Bis(2-bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol; 1,3-dibromo-2,2-dihydroxymethylpropane; 1,3-dibromo-2,2-dimethylolpropane; 2,2-dibromomethyl-1,3-propanediol; dibromopentaerythritol; dibromoneopentyl glycol; pentaerythritol dibromide; pentaerythritol dibromohydrin
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) and subthalamic nucleus (STN) has been reported to be effective in alleviating the symptoms of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). Although recent studies suggest that STN stimulation may be superior to GPi stimulation, a randomized, blinded comparison has not been reported. The present study was designed to provide a preliminary comparison of the safety and efficacy of DBS at either site.
Ten patients with idiopathic PD, L-dopa-induced dyskinesia, and response fluctuations were randomized to implantation of bilateral GPi or STN stimulators. Neurological condition was assessed preoperatively with patients on and off L-dopa and on DBS at 10 days and 3, 6, and 12 months after implantation. Patients and evaluating clinicians were blinded to stimulation site throughout the study period. Complete follow-up data were analyzed for four GPi patients and five STN patients.
When off-L-dopa, both GPi and STN groups demonstrated a similar response, with approximately 40% improvement in Unified PD Rating Scale motor scores after 12 months of DBS. Rigidity, tremor, and bradykinesia improved in both groups. In combination with L-dopa, Unified PD Rating Scale motor scores were more improved by GPi stimulation than by STN stimulation. On-L-dopa axial symptoms were clinically improved in the GPi but not the STN group. L-Dopa-induced dyskinesia was reduced by DBS at either site, although medication requirement was reduced only in the STN group. There were no serious intraoperative complications among patients in either group.
Pallidal and STN stimulation appears to be safe and efficacious for the management of advanced PD. A larger study is needed to investigate further the differences in symptom response and the interaction of L-dopa with stimulation at either site.
The objective of this study was to evaluate whether p27kip1 downregulation is a prognostic factor in patients with inflammatory breast carcinoma (IBC).
Fifty-eight patients with IBC were treated between January 1994 and July 2002. Median age was 49 years. Thirty-eight patients had baseline biopsy specimens. Patients received preoperative chemotherapy with FAC (5-fluorouracil/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide; 34%) or FAC followed by a taxane (66%). All patients underwent mastectomies. All patients received radiation therapy and hormonal treatment when indicated. Expression level of p27kip1 was evaluated by indirect immunoperoxidase procedure. The p27kip1 was considered downregulated if nuclear staining was present in < 50% of the neoplastic cells.
Thirty-two patients (84%) had p27kip1-downregulated tumors, and 6 patients (17%) had p27kip1-normal tumors. Six patients (16%) exhibited a pathologic complete response. At a median follow-up of 43 months, 25 recurrences (66%) and 27 deaths (71%) occurred. Patients with p27kip1-downregulated tumors had fewer pathologic complete responses (9% vs. 50%; P = 0.03) and had lower 4-year recurrence-free survival (23% vs. 83%; P = 0.03) and overall survival rates (36% vs. 83%; P = 0.01).
The p27kip1 deregulation manifested by low protein cellular concentration might represent an adverse prognostic marker in IBC and could provide a valuable tool for selecting treatment for this aggressive disease.
Folate supplementation reduces the incidence of congenital heart defects, but the nature of this protective mechanism remains unclear. Immunolabeling demonstrated that the neural tube and neural crest (NC) cells were rich in the high-affinity folate receptor FOLR1and during the early stages of development FOLR1 was found principally in these cells. Suppression of Folr1 expression in the nascent cardiac NC by site-directed short-interfering RNA (siRNA) altered cardiac NC cell mitosis and subsequent migration patterns leading to abnormal development of the pharyngeal arch arteries (PAA) and outflow tract. qPCR analysis demonstrated that the siRNA treatment significantly reduced Folr1 24 hr after treatment. These treatments also significantly reduced mitosis in the neural tube, but adjacent, nontreated areas were unaffected. In summary, a brief reduction in the expression of Folr1 during a critical stage of NC development had long-term consequences for the development of the PAA and outflow tract.
An excess of extracellular glutamate in the hippocampus has been linked to the generation of recurrent seizures and brain pathology in patients with medically intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE). However, the mechanism which results in glutamate excess in MTLE remains unknown. We recently reported that the glutamate-metabolizing enzyme glutamine synthetase is deficient in the hippocampus in patients with MTLE, and we postulated that this deficiency is critically involved in the pathophysiology of the disease. To further explore the role of glutamine synthetase in MTLE we created a novel animal model of hippocampal glutamine synthetase deficiency by continuous (approximately 28 days) microinfusion of methionine sulfoximine (MSO: 0.625 to 2.5 microg/h) unilaterally into the hippocampus in rats. This treatment led to a deficiency in hippocampal glutamine synthetase activity by 82-97% versus saline. The majority (>95%) of the MSO-treated animals exhibited recurrent seizures that continued for several weeks. Some of the MSO-treated animals exhibited neuropathological features that were similar to mesial temporal sclerosis, such as hippocampal atrophy and patterned loss of hippocampal neurons. However, many MSO-treated animals displayed only minimal injury to the hippocampus, with no clear evidence of mesial temporal sclerosis. These findings support the hypothesis that a deficiency in hippocampal glutamine synthetase causes recurrent seizures, even in the absence of classical mesial temporal sclerosis, and that restoration of glutamine synthetase may represent a novel approach to therapeutic intervention in this disease.
Over a 10-year period 12,643 gynecologic surgical procedures were performed with the patients under general anesthesia. Succinylcholine was the muscle relaxant used in the majority of cases. Four of these patients developed prolonged postoperative apnea; the longest period of apnea was 6 hours. In one patient atypical cholinesterase was documented, and two of the patients were subsequently diagnosed as having myasthenia gravis. In the fourth case an etiology for the apnea was not demonstrated. A compilation of drugs in common clinical usage which interfere with neuromuscular transmission is included.
Previous investigations have shown that patients with fulminant hepatic failure after halothane anaesthesia have a circulating antibody which reacts with an antigen present on the surface of halothane-altered hepatocytes. In the present study, it has been shown that the expression of the antigen is associated with the oxidative metabolism of halothane, in contrast with results of other groups which have shown that the reductive route is involved in the direct hepatotoxic reaction attributed to halothane.
A case of neuromyopathy due to chronic chloroquine intoxication is reported. The neuromyopathy developped 9 months after malaria suppression therapy with chloroquine was started. The clinical picture was that of a peripherical neuropathy in the lower limbs and of a generalized myasthenic syndrome. Muscular biopsy showed typical pictures of "vacuolar myopathy". The metabolism of the drug was normal. The patient improved soon after chloroquine was discontinued.
Vasculitis as a complication of leflunomide therapy in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis has been reported. We describe a case of acute necrotizing vasculitis following leflunomide therapy. Characteristics of this case and 4 cases in the literature suggest that vasculitis may be a rare but serious adverse effect of leflunomide therapy.
The primary endpoint of this study was to compare the renal tolerability of amtolmetin guacyl (AMG), diclofenac and rofecoxib in elderly patients with symptomatic osteoarthritis (OA). The assessment of efficacy was the secondary endpoint.
90 patients who satisfied the American College of Rheumatology classification criteria for hand, hip or knee OA were randomly assigned to 3 treatment groups receiving either: AMG 1,200 mg over thefirst 3 days and and 600 mg/day thereafter; diclofenac 150 mg/day; or rofecoxib 25 mg/day for 2 weeks. At baseline and after therapy patients were clinically assessed by the same examiner who was unaware of the treatment arm assignement. Serum and urinary parameters of renal function and the outcome measures of efficacy were evaluated before (t(0)) and after therapy (t(1)).
Diclofenac produced a significant reduction in creatinine clearance (t(0) = 88.93 +/- 11.59; t(1) = 75.90 +/- 16.32; p: < 0.001) and in the daily urine volume (t(0) = 1,337.93 +/- 202.07; t(1) = 1,027.59 +/- 249.14; p: < 0.001). In the same treatment group a significant increase in serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, uric acid and potassium were observed. Rofecoxib treated patients showed a significant increase in body weight (t(0) = 75.31 +/- 4.26; t(1) = 76.54 +/- 4.84; p: < 0.001), systolic blood pressure (t(0) = 144 +/- 10.86; t(1) = 154 +/- 11.8; p < 0.001), diastolic blood pressure (t(0) = 80 +/- 6.05; t(1) = 89 +/- 7.66; p < 0.001) and serum sodium (t(0) = 138.73 +/- 1.28; t(1) = 140.12 +/- 1.80; p < 0.005) associated with a significant decrease in the daily urine volume (t(0) = 1294.64 +/- 205.21; t, = 1,115.48 +/- 238.47; p < 0.001) and creatinine clearance (t(0)= 86.73 +/- 8.14; t(1) = 83.15 +/- 7.96; p < 0.01). No significant changes in the clinical and humoral parameters were recorded in AMG treated patients. Diclofenac was more efficacious than the other 2 drugs (p < 0.001). No differences were observed between AMG and rofecoxib. Side effects related to altered kidney function were significantly higher in the rofecoxib group (p < 0.005).
Diclofenac mainly impaired blood renal flow and the glomerularfiltration rate, while rofecoxib negatively influenced the renal sodium-water exchange. AMG demonstrated a renal sparing effect, although the eract mechanism is unclear
The effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor paroxetine on diabetic neuropathy symptoms was examined in comparison to imipramine and placebo in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over study. Paroxetine was given as a fixed dose of 40 mg/day, while the dose of imipramine was adjusted to yield optimal plasma levels of imipramine plus desipramine of 400-600 nM. Paroxetine significantly reduced the symptoms of neuropathy as measured by both observer- and self-rating, but was somewhat less effective than imipramine. However, patients showing a weaker response to paroxetine than to imipramine had lower plasma concentrations of paroxetine than patients with similar response to the 2 drugs. On imipramine 5 patients dropped out because of intolerable side effects and 4 of 19 patients completing the study reported withdrawal symptoms after discontinuing imipramine. On paroxetine no patients dropped out due to side effects and no withdrawal symptoms were reported. Self-rating showed no depressive symptoms at baseline, and no changes during the study. Neither paroxetine nor imipramine caused changes in objective measures of peripheral nerve function. In conclusion, 40 mg paroxetine/day significantly reduced the symptoms in peripheral diabetic neuropathy, and it was suggested that by dose adjustment on the basis of drug level monitoring, paroxetine may become as effective as imipramine. Paroxetine was devoid of the often disturbing autonomic side effects limiting the use of imipramine in several patients.
Imbalance between pro- and antioxidant species (e.g. during aging) plays a crucial role for vascular function and is associated with oxidative gene regulation and modification. Vascular aging is associated with progressive deterioration of vascular homeostasis leading to reduced relaxation, hypertrophy, and a higher risk of thrombotic events. These effects can be explained by a reduction in free bioavailable nitric oxide that is inactivated by an age-dependent increase in superoxide formation. In the present study, mitochondria as a source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the contribution of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD, SOD-2) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH-2) were investigated.
Age-dependent effects on vascular function were determined in aortas of C57/Bl6 wild-type (WT), ALDH-2(-/-), MnSOD(+/+), and MnSOD(+/-) mice by isometric tension measurements in organ chambers. Mitochondrial ROS formation was measured by luminol (L-012)-enhanced chemiluminescence and 2-hydroxyethidium formation with an HPLC-based assay in isolated heart mitochondria. ROS-mediated mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) damage was detected by a novel and modified version of the fluorescent-detection alkaline DNA unwinding (FADU) assay. Endothelial dysfunction was observed in aged C57/Bl6 WT mice in parallel to increased mitochondrial ROS formation and oxidative mtDNA damage. In contrast, middle-aged ALDH-2(-/-) mice showed a marked vascular dysfunction that was similar in old ALDH-2(-/-) mice suggesting that ALDH-2 exerts age-dependent vasoprotective effects. Aged MnSOD(+/-) mice showed the most pronounced phenotype such as severely impaired vasorelaxation, highest levels of mitochondrial ROS formation and mtDNA damage.
The correlation between mtROS formation and acetylcholine-dependent relaxation revealed that mitochondrial radical formation significantly contributes to age-dependent endothelial dysfunction.
To reveal specific gene expression in methamphetamine (METH) -induced dopamine neurotoxicity, temporal characteristics of METH-induced changes in gene expression in dopaminergic neuronal cells were examined using the cDNA array and the differential display method. A number of genes in the class of "trafficking & protein turnover," "metabolic pathways," "transmitters & receptors," and "growth factors, cytokines" were upregulated after the METH treatment in the cDNA array assay. Whereas, some genes related to trafficking & protein turnover and "modulators, effectors & intracellular transducers" were decreased by METH. Some proteins associated with synaptic vesicle transportation indeed up- or downregulated after the METH treatment. These data suggest that the protein trafficking and degradation system is involved in the dopaminergic cell death induced by METH. Furthermore, focusing on inflammatory reactions after METH injection, possible neuroprotective property of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were examined against METH-induced neurotoxicity. Coadministration of NSAID with METH significantly attenuated striatal dopamine terminal degeneration and microgliosis induced by METH, suggesting that the protective effects are based on their inhibitory activity on production of cytokines and nitric oxides or their suppressive action against microglia activation.
Toluene, a widely used and commonly abused organic solvent, causes a variety of behavioral disturbances in both humans and animals. In this study, the effects of toluene on locomotor activity, motor coordination, and passive avoidance learning, along with the possible mechanism underlying these toluene-induced behavioral manifestations, were investigated. Sprague-Dawley rats were tested in the open field test, rotarod test, and step-through avoidance learning task after receiving toluene (250-750 mg/kg, i.p.). Toluene dose-dependently produced locomotor hyperactivity, motor incoordination, and memory impairment. In order to determine the possible roles of dopamine and NMDA receptors in these behavioral responses to toluene, dopamine D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390, D2 receptor antagonist raclopride, D3 receptor antagonist nafadotride, or d-serine, a co-agonist at the glycine binding site of NMDA receptors, were given prior to toluene administration. SCH23390, raclopride, and nafadotride attenuated locomotor hyperactivity, but not motor incoordination and memory impairment in response to toluene, whereas d-serine reduced all the toluene-induced behavioral alterations. These findings suggest that blockade of NMDA receptors may play a critical role in acute toluene-induced locomotor hyperactivity, motor incoordination, and memory impairment, and that dopamine neurotransmission may be specifically involved in locomotor hyperactivity.
To study the role of lysosomal enzymes in glomeruli, we examined specific activities of lysosomal hydrolases in isolated glomeruli and, for comparison in isolated tubules, from rat kidney cortex of normal animals and animals with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN). Nephrotic syndrome was induced in rats by a single intraperitoneal injection of aminonucleoside and the rats were sacrificed at the time of peak proteinuria. Colloidal iron staining of renal cortex demonstrated decreased staining for the epithelial polyanion in animals with PAN. Lysosomal enzymes were determined by fluorogenic and colorimetric methods. In normal kidney, total specific activities of cathepsin beta 1, beta-2-fucosidase, acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, and arylsulfatase were lower in glomeruli compared with tubules and with tissue slices of the same kidney. Total activity of acid phosphatase was higher in glomeruli than tubules. In glomeruli of PAN rats, there were lower activities of N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, D-fucosidase, beta-glucosidase, beta-glucoronidase, and arylsulfatase compared with control rats. Activity of acid phosphatase, on the other hand, was higher in glomeruli of PAN than control rats. All differences were statistically significant. These studies demonstrate that (1) activities of lysosomal enzymes in normal glomeruli and in glomeruli of nephrotic rats have a property distinct from the rest of the kidney, and (2) the specific activities of lysosomal hydrolases are altered in glomeruli of rats with PAN. These studies suggest that changes in activities of lysosomal enzymes may be related to pathogenesis of this glomerulopathy.
Ethylene dibromide (EDB) has been used as a model compound for eliciting hepato- and nephrotoxicity. Conjugation with glutathione (GSH) has been shown to play a role in the bioactivation of EDB. The aim of this study was to determine whether activation of alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors, which causes a decrease in cellular GSH levels, could modulate the nephrotoxicity of EDB. For this purpose, male ICR mice were treated with EDB and/or the alpha-adrenergic agonist, phenylephrine (Pe), or the alpha-adrenergic antagonist, phentolamine (Phe). Animals treated with EDB (40 mg/kg, i.p.) had a 9.3-fold increase in urinary gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGTP: EC 2.3.2.2) activity and a 38% decrease in renal non-protein bound sulfhydryl (NPSH) levels; however, animals co-treated with EDB and Pe (50 mg/kg, i.p.) exhibited a 27.8-fold increase in urinary GGTP activity and a 60% decrease in NPSH levels. The enhanced presence of urinary GGTP and decrease in cellular levels of NPSH was nearly blocked by treating animals concomitantly with EDB and Phe (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or EDB, Pe, and Phe. Histopathological examination revealed the enhanced degree of tissue damage and necrosis following treatment with EDB and Pe, and the protective effect of Phe at ameliorating EDB toxicity. These results indicate that factors that can influence alpha-adrenergic receptors may be critical in assessing dose-response data used in the risk assessment process.
The potential differential effect of first-line treatment and molecular mechanisms on survival to second-line chemotherapy or EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has not been fully investigated. In particular, CHFR is frequently methylated in NSCLC and may influence outcome. We analyzed the outcome of second-line chemotherapy or EGFR TKIs in 179 of 366 patients who had been treated in an ERCC1 mRNA-based customized cisplatin trial and correlated the results with CHFR methylation status. CHFR methylation in circulating DNA was examined by methylation-specific assay. A panel of seven human EGFR wild-type NSCLC cell lines was characterized for their sensitivity to sequential treatment with cisplatin and erlotinib, and the results were correlated with CHFR. Patients who had received first-line docetaxel/cisplatin attained an overall survival of 19.2 months when treated with second-line EGFR TKIs, in comparison with 10.7 months when treated with second-line chemotherapy (P = 0.0002). However, for patients who had received first-line docetaxel/gemcitabine, overall survival was 14.8 months with EGFR TKIs and 10.8 months with chemotherapy (P = 0.29). For patients with unmethylated CHFR overall survival to EGFR TKIs was 21.4 months, and 11.2 months for those with treated with chemotherapy (P = 0.0001). In the only lung tumor cell line not expressing CHFR, pretreatment with cisplatin was antagonistic to erlotinib, while it was synergistic in the other six lines. Second-line EGFR TKIs improved survival in patients receiving first-line cisplatin-based treatment. Unmethylated CHFR predicts increased survival to EGFR TKIs.
