A 37-year-old man was diagnosed as malignant lymphoma infiltrating in the central nervous system with hypopituitrism and secondary glucocorticoid deficiency. In this case, plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) increased, but glucocorticoid administration decreased plasma AVP and increased urine volume with a reduction in urinary osmolality, indicative of the presence of glucocorticoid-induced diabetes insipidus. At the terminal stage, plasma AVP did not increase in response to the withdrawal of glucocorticoid and urine volume remained decreased, suggesting the presence of masked diabetes insipidus. Autopsy showed an infiltration of lymphoid cells around the cerebral ventricles and necrosis in the hypothalamo-hypophyseal system. These findings suggested that glucocorticoid might centrally play an important role in the regulation of AVP release, and its deficiency potentiated AVP release.
In acquired human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, a long depolarization period at ECG may be the consequence of cardiac complications due to viral myocarditis or cardiomyopathy or indirectly due to autonomic neuropathy, or sometimes resulting from pharmacological treatments. Several drugs administered for direct treatment of HIV disease or its complications, such as antiretrovirus, fluconazole, and antibiotics, may induce ventricular arrhythmias due to long QT prolonged depolarization period. Also methadone, frequently associated with HIV therapy to treat patients with opiate addiction, is described in the literature to have cardiac inotropic effects. It has also the potential to increase the QT period and to develop ventricular torsade de pointes, primarily through interference with the rapid component of the delayed rectifier potassium ion current. Moreover, the use of methadone associated with other inhibitors of cytochrome P450 might increase plasma concentrations and contribute to methadone cardiac toxicity. We report the case of an HIV patient receiving antiretroviral treatment, fluconazole and high-dose methadone, who suddenly complained of vertigo, dizziness, pre-syncope and syncope due to severe ventricular arrhythmias that disappeared after discontinuation of all treatments.
Beta-amyloid (Abeta) 1-42, implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, forms an oligomeric complex that binds copper at a CuZn superoxide dismutase-like binding site. Abeta.Cu complexes generate neurotoxic H(2)O(2) from O(2) through Cu(2+) reduction, but the reaction mechanism has been unclear. We now report that Abeta1-42, when binding up to 2 eq of Cu(2+), generates the H(2)O(2) catalytically by recruiting biological reducing agents as substrates under conditions where the Cu(2+) or reducing agents will not form H(2)O(2) themselves. Cholesterol is an important substrate for this activity, as are vitamin C, L-DOPA, and dopamine (V(max) for dopamine = 34.5 nm/min, K(m) = 8.9 microm). The activity was inhibited by anti-Abeta antibodies, Cu(2+) chelators, and Zn(2+). Toxicity of Abeta in neuronal culture was consistent with catalytic H(2)O(2) production. Abeta was not toxic in cell cultures in the absence of Cu(2+), and dopamine (5 microm) markedly exaggerated the neurotoxicity of 200 nm Abeta1-42.Cu. Therefore, microregional catalytic H(2)O(2) production, combined with the exhaustion of reducing agents, may mediate the neurotoxicity of Abeta in Alzheimer's disease, and inhibitors of this novel activity may be of therapeutic value.
In order to investigate the possible mechanisms for caffeine-induced ocular hypertension, the intraocular pressure (IOP) and the outflow through the trabecular meshwork were measured in beagle dog eyes after dosing with intravenous caffeine (30 mg/kg) alone or in combination with the topical beta-blocker befunolol [applied as 100 microliters of a 1% (w/v) solution] which inhibits aqueous humor formation in the ciliary body. Intravenous injections of caffeine significantly increased the IOP at 0.25 and 1 hr after a single dose. The ocular hypertension recovered within 2 hr following dosing. Over time, there were no differences in the outflow between the caffeine and control groups. The instillation of befunolol lowered outflow and produced ocular hypotension. The levels of the IOP and outflow in dogs treated with caffeine and befunolol in combination were almost the same as those in dogs treated with befunolol alone. Single-dose and combination-dose studies demonstrate that intravenous caffeine increases the IOP in normal beagle dogs possibly by increasing aqueous humor formation and not by the inhibition of aqueous humor drainage through the trabecular meshwork.
Insulin resistance features both endothelial dysfunction and increased oxidative stress. Both disorders are targeted by a chronic treatment with sildenafil. However, the mechanism of action by which chronic sildenafil exerts its effects on reactive oxygen species sources is still largely unknown.
We therefore investigated how chronic sildenafil administration could impact vascular endothelial NO and superoxide release in a rat model of insulin resistance induced by fructose overload.
Adult male Wistar rats were fed a fructose-enriched diet (fructose-fed rats [FFR]) for 9 weeks. From weeks 6-8, sildenafil was administered subcutaneously twice daily (20 mg/kg), followed by a 1-week washout.
Vascular endothelial NO and superoxide release were monitored in vitro in thoracic aortic segments using oxidative fluorescence. Specific inhibitors were used to distinguish the respective role of the main superoxide-producing systems within the vascular wall (i.e., mitochondrial respiratory chain and NADPH oxidases). The levels of expression of eNOS, Akt, and NADPH oxidase subunits were determined in the abdominal aorta.
Chronic sildenafil administration corrected hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and hypertriglyceridemia in FFR. Moreover, after 9 weeks of diet, while global unstimulated aortic endothelial NO and superoxide release were unchanged in FFR, the relative contribution of the mitochondrial respiratory chain and NADPH oxidases was modified. Chronic sildenafil treatment, even after the 1-week washout period, was able to increase endothelial NO release independently of Akt-dependent phosphorylation by up-regulating eNOS expression, and restored the relative contribution of each superoxide-producing system examined, yielding endothelial superoxide release. Finally, in vitro incubation of aortic segments with sildenafil markedly decreased the endothelial aortic superoxide release.
The present study showed that chronic sildenafil produced sustained vascular antioxidant effects in insulin-resistant rats by increasing NO release and regulating vascular superoxide release, supporting therefore further investigations using chronic sildenafil administration in preventing cardiovascular alterations associated with oxidative stress.
Erectile dysfunction (ED) treatment is greatly influenced by patient preference, and currently available oral therapies do not meet all patients' needs. New therapies and formulations are therefore being investigated.
The aim of this article is to assess the clinical efficacy and safety of inhaled apomorphine, VR004, in men with mild to severe ED.
Efficacy outcomes were the change in the proportion of positive responses to sexual encounter profile questions, International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) scores and onset of therapeutic effect. Safety outcomes included a change in vital signs at an orthostatic challenge and adverse events (AEs).
Two consecutive, multicenter trials each comprised a 4-week no-treatment period and a 12-week "at home" treatment period with regular clinic visits. Patients (N = 211 and N = 389) were randomized to receive one of three set doses of VR004 (100-300 microg) or matching placebo in each trial. VR004 was administered by a dry-powder inhaler at least once a week.
Efficacy was generally dose dependent. The proportion of per-protocol patients maintaining an erection long enough for successful intercourse increased in all VR004 groups vs. placebo. IIEF scores were higher in the VR004 groups compared with placebo, and the majority of responders achieved an erection within 10 minutes of dosing. The safety profile of VR004 was generally similar to that of placebo, and AEs were mild or moderate in severity. The incidence of treatment-related AEs was dose dependent. Few patients (4%) withdrew because of treatment-related AEs, and the majority of these withdrawals occurred on the day of the stringent orthostatic challenge.
The VR004 system administers low apomorphine doses that are well tolerated without compromising efficacy. This route of administration ensures a rapid onset of action and reproducible efficacy and safety profiles. Inhaled apomorphine is therefore a potential first-line treatment for ED.
The objective was to asses the efficacy of lipid emulsion as antidotal therapy outside the accepted setting of local anesthetic toxicity.
Literature was accessed through PubMed, OVID (1966-February 2009), and EMBASE (1947-February 2009) using the search terms "intravenous" AND ["fat emulsion" OR "lipid emulsion" OR "Intralipid"] AND ["toxicity" OR "resuscitation" OR "rescue" OR "arrest" OR "antidote"]. Additional author and conference publication searches were undertaken. Publications describing the use of lipid emulsion as antidotal treatment in animals or humans were included.
Fourteen animal studies, one human study, and four case reports were identified. In animal models, intravenous lipid emulsion (ILE) has resulted in amelioration of toxicity associated with cyclic antidepressants, verapamil, propranolol, and thiopentone. Administration in human cases has resulted in successful resuscitation from combined bupropion/lamotrigine-induced cardiac arrest, reversal of sertraline/quetiapine-induced coma, and amelioration of verapamil- and beta blocker-induced shock.
Management of overdose with highly lipophilic cardiotoxic medications should proceed in accord with established antidotal guidelines and early poisons center consultation. Data from animal experiments and human cases are limited, but suggestive that ILE may be helpful in potentially lethal cardiotoxicity or developed cardiac arrest attributable to such agents. Use of lipid emulsion as antidote remains a nascent field warranting further preclinical study and systematic reporting of human cases of use.
Paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) has been shown to be an effective agent in the treatment of metastatic breast carcinoma. This multicenter randomized study compared paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 given as a 3-hour infusion every 3 weeks with mitomycin 12 mg/m2 given as an intravenous infusion every 6 weeks. Eighty-one patients have been randomized, and preliminary results of a planned analysis of the first 36 evaluable patients per arm are reported. Pretreatment characteristics were well balanced between the two groups. All patients previously have received chemotherapy for metastatic disease, and half had both adjuvant therapy and chemotherapy for metastatic disease. All but one patient previously had received anthracyclines. Of the first 81 randomized patients, 72 were evaluable for response and toxicity (four never treated, five concomitant hormonotherapy). Partial responses were seen in 17% of patients in the paclitaxel arm and 6% in the mitomycin arm (P = .14). Crossover to paclitaxel therapy following progression on mitomycin achieved an objective response rate of 24% (five of 21 patients). Responses to paclitaxel therapy lasted for a median duration of 9.1 months (range, 6.2 to 12+ months). Median time to progression was significantly longer in the paclitaxel arm (3.5 months v 1.6 months; P = .026). The quality-of-life-adjusted analysis confirmed the advantage of paclitaxel therapy, even when the delay of disease progression was adjusted for important adverse events. Adverse events, most importantly neutropenia and neuropathy, were more frequently observed in the paclitaxel arm. However, patients remained on paclitaxel therapy for many more courses than did those treated in the mitomycin arm. In conclusion, paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 given as a 3-hour intravenous infusion has been demonstrated to be an active agent in the treatment of chemotherapy-refractory advanced breast cancer, even after therapy with mitomycin has failed.
2 patients, who were treated with clioquinol after radical resection of carcinoma of the rectum and colostomy, developed symmetrical sensorimotor polyneuropathy, mild posterior tract ataxia, bilateral pyramidal tract lesions and optic neuropathy, a clinical picture compatible with subacute myelo-optic-neuropathy (S.M.O.N.). One patient had neurological symptoms after having received 750 g of clioquinol, 3 years after treatment started, and impairment of vision was noted after having received 1200 g. The other patient had neurological symptoms 6 weeks after clioquinol was first given, having received 65 g, the average daily dose being 1.5 g, and vision was impaired after 765 g had been administered. On examination 12 and 14 months after clioquinol had been discontinued, the first patient's vision was slightly improved, but he was otherwise unchanged, while the vision of the other patient was unchanged, but she had otherwise deteriorated slightly neurologically. Electrophysiological examinations confirmed the clinical observations. A multifactor etiology of the syndrome: neurotoxicity of clioquinol, paraneoplastic neuropathy and malabsorption, is discussed.
Proteinuria has been reported in several papers after conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to Sirolimus (SRL), but this complication has not been analyzed in randomized clinical trials using de novo SRL. It is not known whether de novo use of SRL is a risk factor for proteinuria. We analyzed a series of patients included in a big multicenter randomized trial (RMR trial) corresponding to all patients in Spain and Portugal with respect to this issue. We retrospectively evaluated 24-hour proteinuria in all the patients during the study period (5 years postransplant) for comparison between treatment arms group A, continuous cyclosporine (CyA) + SRL and group B SRL with CyA elimination at 3 months postransplant. The elimination of CyA after the third month was not followed by significant changes in proteinuria. Nevertheless, during the last year of follow-up (between 48 and 60 months postransplant) an impressive increase in proteinuria was observed in group A. This surprising finding seemed to be a consequence of a protocol amendment that recommended CyA elimination in patients of group A, due to poorer results in the intermediate analysis of the trial. This fact suggests that the hemodynamic changes induced by elimination of the vasoconstrictor CyA might be responsible for the proteinuria but only in the long term probably when significant pathological lesions are already present. This finding argues for earlier conversion.
An epidemiological study indicates higher plasma level of genistein in girls with earlier puberty. This study tests the hypothesis in C57BL/6J mice that postweaning (peripubertal) dietary genistein exposure could result in earlier puberty in females assessed by vaginal opening, estrous cyclicity, corpus luteum and mammary gland development. Newly weaned female mice were fed with 0, 5, 100, or 500 ppm genistein diets. Decreased age at vaginal opening, increased length on estrus stage, and accelerated mammary gland development were detected in 100 and 500 ppm genistein-treated groups. Increased presence of corpus luteum was found in 5 ppm genistein-treated group at 6 weeks old only. Increased expression of epithelial-specific genes but not that of ERα or ERβ was detected in 500 ppm genistein-treated mammary glands at 5 weeks old. No significant adverse effect on embryo implantation was observed. These data demonstrate causal effect of dietary genistein on earlier puberty in female mice.
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) participates in the disregulation of blood-brain barrier during hemorrhagic transformation, and exacerbates brain injury after cerebral ischemia. However, the consequences of long-term inhibition or deficiency of MMP-9 activity (which might affect normal collagen or matrix homeostasis) remains to be determined. The authors investigated how MMP-9 gene deficiency enhances hemorrhage and increases mortality and neurologic deficits in a collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) model in MMP-9-knockout mice. MMP-9-knockout and corresponding wild-type mice at 20 to 35 weeks were used to model an aged population (because advanced age is a significant risk factor in human ICH). Collagenase VII-S (0.5 microL, 0.075 U) was injected into the right basal ganglia in mice and mortality, neurologic deficits, brain edema, and hemorrhage size measured. In addition, MMP-9 activity, brain collagen content, blood coagulation, cerebral arterial structure, and expressions of several MMPs were examined. Increased hemorrhage and brain edema that correlated with higher mortality and neurologic deficits were found in MMP-9-knockout mice. No apparent structural changes were observed in cerebral arteries, even though brain collagen content was reduced in MMP-9-knockout mice. MMP-9-knockout mice did exhibit an enhanced expression of MMP-2 and MMP-3 in response to ICH. The results indicate that a deficiency of MMP-9 gene in mutant mice increases collagenase-induced hemorrhage and the resulting brain injury. The intriguing relationship between MMP-9 deficiency and collagenase-induced ICH may reflect the reduction in collagen content and an enhanced expression of MMP-2 and MMP-3.
Neuroblastoma is a neural crest-derived embryonal tumour of the postganglionic sympathetic nervous system and a disease with several different chromosomal gains and losses, which include MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma on chromosome 2, deletions of parts of the chromosomes 1p and 11q, gain of parts of 17q and triploidy. Recently, activating mutations of the ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase) RTK (Receptor Tyrosine Kinase) gene have been described in neuroblastoma. A meta-analysis of neuroblastoma cases revealed that ALK mutations (49 of 709 cases) in relation to genomic subtype were most frequently observed in MYCN amplified tumours (8.9%), correlating with a poor clinical outcome. MYCN proteins target proliferation and apoptotic pathways, and have an important role in the progression of neuroblastoma. Here, we show that both wild-type and gain-of-function mutants in ALK are able to stimulate transcription at the MYCN promoter and initiate mRNA transcription of the MYCN gene in both neuronal and neuroblastoma cell lines. Further, this stimulation of MYCN gene transcription and de novo MYCN protein expression is abrogated by specific ALK inhibitors, such as crizotinib (PF-2341066), NVP-TAE684, and by small interfering RNA to ALK resulting in a decrease in proliferation rate. Finally, co-transfection of ALK gain-of-function mutations together with MYCN leads to an increase in transformation potential. Taken together, our results indicate that ALK signalling regulates initiation of transcription of the MYCN gene providing a possible explanation for the poor clinical outcome observed when MYCN is amplified together with activated ALK.
Fenfluramine (FN) is a potent serotonin-releasing drug used primarily as an anorectic agent. The symptomatology of its acute lethality has been well documented in animal models such as the rat. A very prominent feature of this lethality profile is hypoxia, as demonstrated by the onset of severe cyanosis just prior to death. It is not clear in the literature whether this hypoxia is the result of a direct pulmonary effect or is secondary to cardiac injury. To further characterize this aspect of FN's toxicity, respiratory and electrocardiographic measurements were taken in anaesthetized rats subjected to high doses of FN (129.6 mg/kg, i.p.). Death occurred in these animals within 15 min of drug administration, apparently as the result of abrupt respiratory cessation, followed by cardiac ischaemia. No significant gross or histopathological lesions were evident in these animals. In other trials, prior treatment with diethylcarbamazine (DEC) was found to potentiate the lethality of FN, while cyproheptadine (CHP) pretreatment attenuated FN's toxic effects. Necropsies, conducted 24 h after FN administration, revealed widespread alveolar and pulmonary interstitial haemorrhage in the CHP-pretreated animals. The data suggest that high doses of FN directly result in pulmonary hypertension, which secondarily induces ischaemic cardiac injury.
Zearalenone (ZEA) directly inhibits testosterone biosynthesis in Leydig cells, although the mechanisms involved remains unclear. Various experiments were performed to elucidate the molecular pathway of ZEA-mediated androgen inhibition. Leydig cells were isolated from 6 week-old male ICR mice and subjected to ZEA pre-treatment. The levels of testosterone and a series of influncing factors were measured. The results showed that ZEA caused a concentration- and time-dependent inhibition of testosterone stimulated both by hCG and cAMP (P<0.05). Exposure to ZEA did not affect the LHR binding activity nor the protein expression (P>0.05). However, ZEA exposure significantly elevated the cellular cAMP levels (P<0.05) in low concentrations (5 μg/ml) or for long time periods (24 h), significantly reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential (P<0.05). The expression of P450scc, 17β-HSD, and P450c17 at the mRNA level were significantly decreased (P<0.05). The steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) and 3β-HSD expression was significantly increased (P<0.05). Furthermore, the ERα protein expression was not affected by ZEA, but Nur77 expression was significantly inhibited (P<0.05). These observations imply that ZEA activity interferes with testosterone biosynthesis in mouse Leydig cells via the crosstalk of estrogen receptor signaling and Nur77 expression.
A minor allele variant (rs3798220) of apolipoprotein(a) has been reported to be associated with elevated plasma lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] and increased cardiovascular risk. We investigated whether this allele was associated with elevated Lp(a) and cardiovascular risk in the Women's Health Study, a randomized trial of low-dose aspirin, and whether aspirin reduced cardiovascular risk in minor allele carriers.
Genotypes of rs3798220 were determined for 25,131 initially healthy Caucasian participants. Median Lp(a) levels at baseline were 10.0, 79.5, and 153.9mg/dL for major allele homozygotes, heterozygotes, and minor allele homozygotes, respectively (P<0.0001). During the 9.9 years of follow-up, minor allele carriers (3.7%) in the placebo group had twofold higher risk of major cardiovascular events than non-carriers (age-adjusted hazard ratio (HR)=2.21, 95% CI: 1.39-3.52). Among carriers, risk was reduced more than twofold by aspirin: for aspirin compared with placebo the age-adjusted HR was 0.44 (95% CI: 0.20-0.94); risk was not significantly reduced among non-carriers (age-adjusted HR=0.91, 95% CI: 0.77-1.08). This interaction between carrier status and aspirin allocation was significant (P=0.048).
In the Women's Health Study, carriers of an apolipoprotein(a) variant had elevated Lp(a), doubled cardiovascular risk, and appeared to benefit more from aspirin than non-carriers.
Sodium azide is a chemical of rapidly growing commercial importance with a high acute toxicity and an unknown mechanism of action. Although it has some chemical properties and biological effects in common with cyanide, its lethality does not appear to be due to inhibition of cytochrome oxidase. Unlike cyanide it is a potent vasodilator and inhibitor of platelet aggregation presumably by virtue of its conversion to nitric oxide in vivo and in isolated preparations of blood vessels and thrombocytes. It is not clear whether the high toxicity of azide is due to nitric oxide or to the parent anion. Of a number of possible azide antagonists tested in intact mice only phenobarbital in both anesthetic and subanesthetic doses afforded statistically significant protection against death. Diazepam, phenytoin, and an anesthetic dose of a ketamine/xylazine combination had no effect. Major motor seizures are sometimes seen in human azide poisoning, and these are a regular feature of azide poisoning in laboratory rodents. Solutions of nitric oxide given systemically to mice produced no signs of toxicity, but doses 1,000-fold lower placed in the cerebroventricular system of rats produced brief but violent tonic convulsive episodes. A dose of 0.61 mmol/kg azide as given systemically regularly produced convulsions whereas a dose of 6 mumol/kg given icv produced seizures in rats. The icv convulsive dose of azide was 50-fold larger than the icv dose of nitric oxide. These results suggest that azide lethality is due to enhanced excitatory transmission in the central nervous system perhaps after its conversion to nitric oxide.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many cases of paracetamol poisoning are with suicidal intent, but the association between paracetamol poisoning and subsequent psychiatric disorder is unknown.
To examine the association between poisoning with paracetamol or other weak analgesics and subsequent psychiatric disorder.
The study was set in a nested case-control design and based on nationwide Danish registers. We identified all patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, affective disorder or eating disorder in 1994-1998 and matched population controls. We estimated the relative risk of these psychiatric disorders after admission for paracetamol or nonparacetamol poisoning, adjusting for income, employment and marital status.
We included 12,603 cases with psychiatric disorder, and 1.2% had a diagnosis of poisoning compared with 0.2% of the 252,060 matched population controls. Compared with those with no diagnoses of weak analgesic poisoning, the risk of schizophrenia increased 3.9-fold after paracetamol poisoning, and 2.0-fold after nonparacetamol poisoning. The risk of affective disorder increased 12.2-fold after paracetamol poisoning and 2.6-fold after nonparacetamol poisoning. The risk of eating disorder increased 5.0-fold after paracetamol poisoning, and 2.2-fold after nonparacetamol poisoning. The risk of a diagnosis of psychiatric disorder was very high immediately after poisoning and remained increased for more than 10 years.
Paracetamol poisoning is a strong risk marker for psychiatric disorder, particularly affective disorders.
Habekacin is a new aminoglycoside antibiotic. In this study we want to know the effect of increasing dose of habekacin on renal function and on renal morphology. We decide to compare the renal alterations induced by habekacin to these provoked by gentamicin, netilmicin and amikacin. Female Wistar rats received intraperitonally a single injection daily of 10, 30, 50, 150 mg/kg of habekacin for seven days. Wistar rats received also 50 mg/kg gentamicin, 50 mg/kg netilmicin and 150 mg/kg amikacin. No mortality was observed in groups treated with 10, 30, 50 mg/kg habekacin but 50 per cent of rats died with 150 mg/kg habekacin. Habekacin--30 mg/kg seven days--induced a decrease of cortical enzymatic activities, an increase of the number of lysosomes, a great accumulation of myeloid bodies, an alteration of lysosomal membranes Habekacin--50 mg/kg seven days and 150 mg/kg--induced a decrease of creatinine clearance and ultrastructural alterations of renal tubular cells. Comparative studies with other aminoglycosides showed that amikacin--150 mg/kg was the lesser nephrotoxic drug. With a same dose of 50 mg/kg, gentamicin appeared lesser nephrotoxic than habekacin and habekacin seemed to induce a same degree of renal modifications than netilmicin. With the dose of 150 mg/kg habekacin this drug was higher nephrotoxic than 50 mg/kg gentamicin. In conclusion, if it could be necessary to use habekacin and to prefer this aminoglycoside to gentamicin from an antibacterial activity point of view it is necessary to keep in mind that this drug is potentially nephrotoxic and that the dosage had to be strictly respected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We evaluated the effects of acute pretreatment with lamotrigine, a putative glutamate release inhibitor, on the physiological and behavioral responses to intranasal cocaine in cocaine-dependent volunteers (N = 8). The study employed a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject design. Subjects participated in six experimental sessions. On each study day, placebo, lamotrigine 125 mg, or lamotrigine 250 mg was administered orally in the morning, followed 2 hours later by intranasal cocaine 120 mg/70 kg or placebo. Measurements of heart rate and blood pressure were acquired, and subjects responded to mood state questionnaires at predetermined time intervals. Cocaine alone produced increases in heart rate, blood pressure, and several measures of pleasurable mood and drug effects. Lamotrigine alone produced a mild relaxing effect. Lamotrigine pretreatment altered neither the physiological responses nor the subjective ratings of cocaine's pleasurable or aversive mood effects.
To describe a case of new-onset cognitive difficulties in an older patient after initiation of simvastatin therapy.
A 64-year-old man developed cognitive difficulties within one week after starting simvastatin 40 mg/day. There was a 3 point decline from baseline in the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) score 2 weeks after simvastatin was initiated, as well as declines in the Activities of Daily Living and Instrumental Activities of Daily Living scales. Simvastatin was discontinued, and the patient's cognition improved to baseline within 6 weeks. Rechallenge with simvastatin at half the original dose was attempted. His cognition deteriorated over a 2 week period. Simvastatin was stopped, and the patient's MMSE scores returned to baseline within 4 weeks.
This patient developed new-onset problems with short-term memory, long-term memory, and item misplacement in addition to the baseline problems with names and word-finding that had been present prior to beginning statin therapy. Decreased cognition identified with neuropsychological tests has been shown in clinical trials with simvastatin; however, as of August 23, 2006, this is the first report of cognitive and functional problems that have been documented using standardized instruments. The Naranjo probability scale revealed a highly probable adverse reaction of cognitive decline associated with simvastatin therapy.
Statins are commonly used in the older population. Simvastatin appeared to be associated with worsened cognition in our patient, an older person with preexisting memory problems. Statins should be used with caution in this vulnerable population.
Detection of the PML/RARalpha fusion gene by RT-PCR in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) blasts is not only critical to commence promptly the specific therapy with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) or arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)), but also essential for the definition of PML breakpoint type and subsequent monitoring of minimal residual disease (MRD). The current PML/RARalpha amplification techniques with conventional nested PCR are laborious and time consuming, which fails to meet the requirements for rapid diagnosis of APL in clinical practice. Therefore, an easily handled RT-PCR methodology for the rapid and accurate amplification of PML/RARalpha fusion transcripts is needed. A modified one round RT-PCR protocol was described with a few variations which includes rapid extraction of high quality cellular total RNA, cDNA synthesis with random hexamer and M-MLV reverse transcriptase, optimal concentrations of MgCl(2) (1 mmol/L), PCR primers (0.4 micro mol/L) and Taq polymerase (0.01 U/ micro l), hot-start procedure, and concomitant amplification of PML/RARalpha fusion gene and RARalpha internal control under the identical thermocycle parameters. The results in 40 patients with newly diagnosed APL showed that the improved RT-PCR protocol allowed the rapid detection of PML/RARalpha fusion gene and the accurate discrimination of its transcript types, and simultaneous amplification of RARalpha internal control under the identical program in less than 6 hours. There were no false positive or negative results found with the assay. In conclusion, the assay reported here is proved to be a simple, easily handled, and highly specific procedure for the diagnosis of APL cases, particularly those requiring such urgent therapeutic intervention as ATRA or As(2)O(3) and meriting its further application in APL management.
There appears to be a link between depression and cocaine that is both complex and elusive. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of venlafaxine, a broad spectrum antidepressant, in the treatment of 13 patients who were diagnosed with cocaine dependence and comorbid major depressive disorder (MDD).
The majority of the patients in the study were part of a larger double-blind trial using desipramine. This subgroup consisted of people who had failed to respond to desipramine or could not tolerate its side effects. Thirteen patients were enrolled, 10 men and 3 women. Of the patients, 11 completed the 12-week study. All of the patients had a Hamilton Depression (HAM-D) score greater than 14 at baseline, and each had used at least $20 worth of cocaine per week in the 4 weeks prior to entering the study. In addition, all of the patients received weekly relapse prevention therapy throughout the study. The median dose of venlafaxine was 150 mg/day.
The 11 patients who completed the study had significant reductions in mood symptoms by the end of the study. The average total HAM-D score at baseline was 18.0 +/- 3.2; at Week 2, it was 1.9 +/- 0.94; and at the end of the study, it was 1.4 +/- 1.8. The majority of patients reported reductions of cocaine use short of abstinence. All subjects reported a greater than 75% reduction in cocaine use compared to baseline. There were no serious side effects.
The results of this small study indicate that venlafaxine may be a safe, well-tolerated, rapidly acting, and effective treatment for patients with a dual diagnosis of depression and cocaine dependence.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is now a global health problem, however, its pathogenesis has not yet been fully deciphered. Even though modern medicine has great contribution to the control and treatment of DM, it is still far from success to completely cure the disease. Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer (ginseng) is a well-recognized traditional Chinese medicine for treating DM in Asia. In this study, high throughput proteomic approach has been adopted to investigate the antidiabetic action of 2 weeks' ginsenoside Re (Re, a major component of ginseng) administration to streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Employing surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS) and bioinformatics, 432 cluster peaks were detected in the samples, among them 293 potential biomarkers were found to have significant differentiations between the DM and control normal rats. When the Re-treated diabetic rats were compared to the untreated ones, a protein peak was detected to have significant alteration corresponding to Re treatment. This specific protein was found to match with C-reactive protein (CRP) in the protein database, and was subsequently validated by ELISA. This is the first study demonstrated that CRP could be altered by Re treatment, indicating that Re may improve diabetes and its complications by alleviation of inflammation.
The outcome of children with relapsed Wilms' tumor is poor, especially with poor-risk factors such as unfavorable histology, early recurrence, previous three-drug therapy, relapse not confined to lungs and abdominal relapse following abdominal radiotherapy. We report the overall response rate, progression-free survival and overall survival of 11 children with relapsed and poor-risk Wilms' tumor following ifosfamide/carboplatin/etoposide (ICE) chemotherapy.
ICE therapy consisted of ifosfamide 1800 mg/m2/day (on day 0-4), carboplatin 400 mg/m2/day (on day 0-1) and etoposide 100 mg/m2/day (on day 0-4). The median age at diagnosis was 39 months (range from 13 months to 16 years) and the median time to relapse after initial diagnosis was 9 months (range 4-72 months). All but one patient had at least one poor prognostic feature, with eight patients showing three or four.
After ICE chemotherapy the number of patients showing a complete response (CR) was three (27%) and a partial response (PR) was six (55%). The overall response rate (CR+PR) was 82%. Five of the six patients with a PR subsequently achieved a CR with further therapy. The 3-year event-free survival and overall survival were 63.6 +/- 14.5%.
The response rate in children with relapsed and poor-risk Wilms' tumor is >80% with ICE re-induction chemotherapy followed by post-ICE therapy. The optimal approach for post-ICE consolidation therapy has yet to be determined.
