Amphetamine abuse is an important risk factor for the development of cognitive impairment involving learning and memory. Since in previous studies we have demonstrated the effectiveness of alpha-7 nicotinic receptor antagonists in preventing the neurotoxicity induced by amphetamine derivatives, the present paper seeks to determine whether pre-treatment with memantine (MEM) (an antagonist of both nicotinic and NMDA receptors) counteracts the memory impairment induced by 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or ecstasy) administration in male Long Evans rats. In mice, MDMA and MEM induced a locomotor stimulant response but with a different profile. Moreover, MEM inhibited the rearing and thygmotaxis behaviour induced by MDMA. Non-spatial memory was tested in the object recognition test and the spatial learning and memory was tested in the Morris water maze. In our experimental conditions, rats receiving MEM pre-treatment recovered the ability to discriminate between the familiar and the novel object that had been abolished by MDMA treatment. Animals treated with MDMA showed impaired learning in the Morris water maze. Results of the probe trial demonstrated that MDMA-treated rats did not remember the location of the platform, but this memory impairment was also prevented by the MEM pre-treatment. Moreover, MEM alone improved the learning task. No differences were observed between the different groups as regards swim speed. In conclusion, MEM significantly improved the learning and memory impairment induced by MDMA and constitutes the first approach to the treatment of the long-term cognitive deficits found in ecstasy users.
In the rat, aquaporin-6 (AQP6) is mainly localized in intercalated cells (ICs) in collecting ducts, where it is exclusively associated with intracellular vesicles. In this study, we examined whether AQP6 protein and mRNA expression were regulated in the inner medulla or inner stripe of the outer medulla. Rats treated with dietary alkali or acid load for 7 days with a fixed daily water intake revealed appropriate changes in urine pH but unchanged urine output. AQP6 protein and mRNA abundance were increased in alkali-loaded rats (187 +/- 18 and 151 +/- 17% of control, respectively), whereas no changes were observed in acid-loaded rats. Immunohistochemistry revealed increased IC AQP6 labeling in alkali-loaded rats but not in acid-loaded rats. In contrast, administration of NH(4)Cl in the drinking water for 2 wk (free access to water) revealed a significant increase in AQP6 protein abundance (194 +/- 9% of control), but this was associated with increased water intake. Combined, this suggests that AQP6 expression was not affected by acid loading per se but rather was in response to changes in water intake. Consistent with this, water loading for 48 h was associated with increased AQP6 protein abundance, compared with thirsted rats. Moreover, rats with lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus had a threefold increase in both AQP6 protein and mRNA expression. Overall, these results suggest that AQP6 expression in collecting duct ICs is regulated by altered acid/alkali load or water balance. Thus AQP6 may contribute to maintenance of acid-base homeostasis and water balance.
Estrogens have been shown to modulate disease activity in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the mouse model for multiple sclerosis. Consistent with these findings, the severity of disease is reduced in pregnant women with multiple sclerosis when levels of estrogens are high. Estrogens bind to two known estrogen receptors (ER), ERalpha and ERbeta. The relative contribution of these receptors to estrogen-mediated suppression of EAE was explored using ER-selective ligands. The ER antagonist ICI 182 780 reversed the suppressive effects of 17beta-estradiol (E2), demonstrating that the protective effects of E2 on disease are dependent upon ER signaling. Treatment of SJL mice with the ERalpha-selective agonist proteolipid protein (PPT) prior to the induction of disease resulted in suppression of clinical symptoms of disease, whereas treatment with an ERbeta-selective agonist (WAY-202041) had no effect. Treatment of mice with PLP peptide 139-151 (PPT) was also associated with decreased immune responses associated with disease. Consistent with its lack of effect on disease, the ERbeta agonist had minimal effects on immune responses. The use of selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) in this model was also explored, and we show that raloxifene and WAY-138923 were also effective in suppressing disease. These results demonstrate the beneficial effects of estrogen receptor ligands, in particular ERalpha-selective ligands, and may have implications in the development of therapeutic strategies for multiple sclerosis.
Human exposure to polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) can occur via ingestion of indoor dust, inhalation of PBDE-contaminated air and dust-bound PBDEs. However, few studies have examined the pulmonary toxicity of particle-bound PBDEs, mainly due to the lack of an appropriate particle-cell exposure system. In this study we developed an in vitro exposure system capable of generating particle-bound PBDEs mimicking dusts containing PBDE congeners (BDEs 35, 47 and 99) and delivering them directly onto lung cells grown at an air-liquid interface (ALI). The silica particles and particles-coated with PBDEs ranged in diameter from 4.3 to 4.5 μm and were delivered to cells with no apparent aggregation. This experimental set up demonstrated high reproducibility and sensitivity for dosing control and distribution of particles. ALI exposure of cells to PBDE-bound particles significantly decreased cell viability and induced reactive oxygen species generation in A549 and NCI-H358 cells. In male Sprague-Dawley rats exposed via intratracheal insufflation (0.6 mg/rat), particle-bound PBDE exposures induced inflammatory responses with increased recruitment of neutrophils to the lungs compared to sham-exposed rats. The present study clearly indicates the potential of our exposure system for studying the toxicity of particle-bound compounds.
Five non-genotoxic chemicals previously demonstrated to be bladder cancer promoters in 36-week in vivo assays for carcinogenesis were reevaluated in a 20-week experiment in order to assess the summation influence of dietary uracil, a component of RNA, on the development of (pre)neoplastic lesions. The test chemicals, sodium bicarbonate, sodium L-ascorbate, sodium citrate, butylated hydroxytoluene and ethoxyquin, were mixed into the diet at concentrations of 3%, 5%, 5%, 1% and 0.8%, respectively, and administered to male F344 rats after initiation with 0.05% N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) in their drinking water for 4 weeks. The test chemicals were given from the 4th to the 8th and the 11th to 20th experimental weeks, uracil being administered at the level of 3% in the diet during the intervening period. Rats in the control group received only BBN and uracil. All animals were killed at week 20 and the bladders were evaluated for the occurrence of putative preneoplastic papillary or nodular (PN) hyperplasia and tumors. Significant increase in the occurrence of PN hyperplasia was observed in all groups initiated with BBN and fed uracil and test chemicals. Quantitative values for papillomas were also significantly increased except in the ethoxyquin-treated group. The results confirm that uracil given in the middle of the post-initiation stage enhances the promoting activity of chemicals and suggest that the use of this chemical might be useful to reduce the duration of current bioassays for bladder chemical carcinogens.
The effects of intracerebroventricular administration of dynorphin A-(1-13) on scopolamine-induced amnesia were investigated in mice by using a step-down type passive avoidance task. The pre- or post-training, or pre-retention administration of dynorphin A-(1-13)(0.3-10 micrograms) alone failed to affect step-down latency of the passive avoidance response, while scopolamine (1 mg/kg) significantly shortened step-down latency. Dynorphin A-(1-13)(1 microgram) given 15 min before training and retention tests but not immediately after training significantly improved the scopolamine (1 mg/kg)-induced shortening of step-down latency of the passive avoidance response, indicating antiamnesic effects of dynorphin A-(1-13) (1 microgram). A lower dose (1 mg/kg) of the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, (-)-(1R,5R,9R)-5,9-diethyl-2-(3-furyl-methyl)- 2'-hydroxy-6,7-benzomorphan, reversed the anti-amnesic effects of dynorphin A-(1-13) (1 microgram). These results suggest that the antiamnesic effects of dynorphin A-(1-13) depend on the timing of drug treatments.
The n-3 essential fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) was added to the conventional antidepressant treatment of a treatment-resistant severely depressed and suicidal male patient with a seven-year history of unremitting depressive symptoms. The niacin skin flush test and cerebral magnetic resonance scanning were carried out at baseline and nine months later. The addition of ethyl-EPA led to a dramatic and sustained clinical improvement in all the symptoms of depression, including a cessation of previously unremitting severe suicidal ideation, within one month. Symptoms of social phobia also improved dramatically. During the nine-month period the volumetric niacin response increased by 30%, the relative concentration of cerebral phosphomonesters increased by 53%, and the ratio of cerebral phosphomonesters to phosphodiesters increased by 79%, indicating reduced neuronal phospholipid turnover. Registered difference images showed that the EPA treatment was accompanied by structural brain changes including, in particular, a reduction in the lateral ventricular volume.
Two patients are described in whom the analgesic, pentazocine (Talwin), injected intramuscularly over long periods of time, resulted in a fibrous myopathy of the injected muscles. Although early testing of pentazocine indicated a low abuse potential and no skin or muscle complications, reports of such abuse and complications have since appeared in the literature, a review of which is included.
Activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor gamma (PPARgamma) improves insulin resistance and glycemic control in patients with diabetes. As PPARgamma is expressed in the endothelial cell, we have investigated the effect of troglitazone, a PPARgamma activator, on the endothelial function in people with type 2 diabetes in a 12-week, prospective, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial. We studied 87 type 2 diabetic patients who were divided into 3 groups. Group A consisted of 27 patients with recently diagnosed diabetes and no clinical manifestations of macrovascular disease; group B, 29 patients with long-term diabetes and no clinically evident macrovascular disease; and group C, 31 diabetic patients with documented macrovascular disease (cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, or peripheral vascular disease). High-resolution ultrasound images were used to measure the flow-mediated dilation (FMD, endothelium-dependent) and nitroglycerin-induced dilation (NID, endothelium-independent) in the brachial artery. Laser Doppler perfusion imaging was used to measure vasodilation in the forearm skin in response to iontophoresis of 1% acetylcholine (Ach, endothelium-dependent) and 1% sodium nitroprusside (NaNP, endothelium-independent). The plasma concentrations of von Willebrand factor (vWF), soluble intercellular adhesion molecule (sICAM), and soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule (sVCAM) were also measured as indicators of endothelial cell activation. The FMD improved in the troglitazone-treated patients in group A (7.72 +/- 3.4 v 5.27 +/- 2.0, P <.05 [exit visit v baseline, percent of increase in brachial artery diameter, mean +/- SD]). The fasting insulin level also improved in this group (15.6 +/- 10 v 19.7 +/- 10, P <.05) and was strongly correlated to changes in FMD (r = -.73, P <.01). No changes were found in the FMD or the fasting insulin levels in the troglitazone-treated patients in groups B or C. The NID was not changed by troglitazone treatment in any of the 3 groups. Also, no differences were found in the microcirculation reactivity measurements or in the biochemical markers of endothelial dysfunction in all 3 groups. A small, but significant, improvement of the FMD was found in placebo-treated patients in group B, probably related to the low FMD levels at baseline in the patients (5.40 +/- 3.0 v 4.36 +/- 2.4, P <.05). We concluded that troglitazone treatment for 12 weeks improved endothelial function in the macrocirculation of patients with recently diagnosed type 2 diabetes and no clinical evidence of macrovascular disease. This improvement was strongly associated with the improvement of fasting plasma insulin concentrations.
Adjuvant chemotherapy containing epirubicin is commonly used to treat patients with pre- or post-operative breast cancer. It is known that the epirubicin(FarmorubicinRTU)preparation often caused phlebitis, whereas dexamethasone has been used to prevent that reaction. We examined whether the lyophilized formulation of epirubicin(Farmorubicin)can reduces the incidence of phlebitis compared with the preparation. All infusions were administered through a peripheral vein. Adverse drug reaction including phlebitis was evaluated after each infusion and at the subsequent visit to four or six cycles. Sixty-two patients were given the preparation and 35 the lyophilized formulation. Epirubicininduced phlebitis was observed in 45.7% of patients given the preparation and in 48.4% of those given the lyophilized formulation. There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups(p=0.41). However, the incidence of severe phlebitis requiring treatment with steroid ointment was significantly increased among patients treated with the preparation(27.4% vs 9.7%, p<0.05, respectively). There was no significant difference in the incidence of adverse drug reactions other than severe phlebitis between the two groups. In this study, lyophilized formulations of epirubicin significantly reduced the incidence of severe phlebitis compared with that among patients receiving the preparation. Using lyophilized formulations of epirubicin should be considered to prevent a reduction in QOL with epirubicin-induced phlebitis in patients with breast cancer.
To determine the therapeutic range of plasma indomethacin levels for ductus closure, we evaluated the ductus response and renal side effects on two therapeutic regimens using different dosage; regimen I received 0.3 mg/kg q 24 h for a maximum of 3 doses, and regimen II received 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3 mg/kg at 24-hour intervals, for a maximum of 3 doses if needed. Infants in regimen I had significantly higher plasma indomethacin and higher ductus response rate than infants in regimen II. Urine output (U/O) was comparable between the regimens, but serum sodium was lower in regimen I than in regimen II. In both regimens, U/O and serum sodium return to normal by 72 h. The plasma indomethacin levels at 12 h after 1 dose correlated significantly with ductus response and hyponatremia. There appeared to be a minimal level of plasma indomethacin above which U/O decreased; with a plasma level greater than 170 ng/ml the majority (greater than 97%) of infants showed a decrease in U/O. While there was a 50% or greater chance that ductus would close when the plasma levels reached 600 ng/ml or more, a great proportion of infants would also develop renal side effects. Thus, a safe therapeutic range of plasma indomethacin appeared to be very narrow. However, when the dose of indomethacin is increased to optimize constrictive response, there is no significant increase in incidence and severity of renal adverse effects. In view of the transient nature of renal side effects, they should not hinder indomethacin therapy if ductus closure is indicated.
In horses, graying with age is an autosomal dominant trait associated with a high incidence of melanoma and vitiligo-like depigmentation. Here we show that the Gray phenotype is caused by a 4.6-kb duplication in intron 6 of STX17 (syntaxin-17) that constitutes a cis-acting regulatory mutation. Both STX17 and the neighboring NR4A3 gene are overexpressed in melanomas from Gray horses. Gray horses carrying a loss-of-function mutation in ASIP (agouti signaling protein) had a higher incidence of melanoma, implying that increased melanocortin-1 receptor signaling promotes melanoma development in Gray horses. The Gray horse provides a notable example of how humans have cherry-picked mutations with favorable phenotypic effects in domestic animals.
Long-term survival after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is mainly influenced by adverse events caused by immunosuppression. Several studies have shown the efficacy of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in improving calcineurin inhibitor (CI)-induced nephrotoxicity with concomitant reduction or withdrawal of CI. In this prospective study we assessed the long-term effect and safety of MMF. Thirty-two OLT recipients with significant renal impairment due to either cyclosporine A ( n=25) or tacrolimus ( n=7) were enrolled in this study. CIs were reduced stepwise by at least 70%. Mean serum creatinine had decreased from 2.63+/-0.39 to 1.74+/-0.34 mg/dl after 1 month, and this improvement was maintained within a follow-up period of 4.8+/-0.6 (range 3.1-6.0) years, without major immunological or non-immunological side effects. Of all participants, 88% showed a significant reduction, and 41% even a normalization, in their serum creatinine level. In addition, MMF conversion, within 6 months of OLT, appears to be crucial in order to improve or even normalize renal function. This study demonstrates the long-term efficacy and safety of MMF in OLT recipients with CI-induced nephropathy.
The importance of alpha-2-glycoprotein 1, zinc (AZGP1) in lung adenocarcinoma (AD) remains largely unknown. Analysis of serum autoantibodies to tumor antigens combined with gene expression profiling of primary tumors may provide insight into the mechanisms underlying lung carcinogenesis and identify new AD biomarkers.
T7 phage cDNA libraries were used to identify AZGP1 autoantibodies in the serum of 473 patients (192 ADs, 192 matched controls, and 89 additional ADs for confirmation of findings). AZGP1 mRNA expression was examined in 86 ADs and 10 control lung tissue samples using oligonucleotide microarrays. AZGP1 protein expression was studied in 230 tissue samples (222 ADs; 8 controls) with immunohistochemistry. Kaplan-Meier analyses were used to correlate circulating autoantibody and tissue mRNA production with survival. AD cell lines A549 and SKLU1 were treated with 5-aza-2;-deoxycytidine (5-AZA) and trichostatin A (TSA) to examine the role of promoter methylation and histone deacetylation in the expression of AZGP1. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to quantify the effects of treatment.
In patients with AD, AZGP1 autoantibodies were observed in 40% of serum samples. Autoantibody production correlated with improved overall 5-year survival (p = 0.002) and improved survival in those with stage I to II disease (p = 0.008). A verification analysis was performed for the survival benefit and found similar results with p values of 0.02 and 0.036, respectively. Although abundant mRNA expression was found in a subset of tumors, mRNA expression did not correlate with prognosis. In normal lung, AZGP1 mRNA and protein expression were low or absent, whereas in AD they were highly expressed in 31.3% and 42.8% of samples, respectively. To determine whether AZGP1 expression in this subset of tumors might be affected by epigenetic mechanisms, low AZGP1-expressing A549 and SKLU1 AD cell lines were treated with TSA and 5-AZA. A 713-fold and 169-fold increase in mRNA expression were noted on treatment with TSA, respectively. Treatment with 5-AZA had minimal effect on AZGP1 mRNA expression.
The presence of AZGP1 serum autoantibody may be used as a prognostic marker in patients with AD. Furthermore, up-regulation of AZGP1 mRNA in AD may be affected by chromatin remodeling by means of histone acetylation.
Metabolic acidosis is common in patients with chronic kidney disease, which is known to affect bone metabolism. We examined the effect of metabolic acidosis on the development of vascular and other soft-tissue calcifications in uremic rats treated with calcitriol. Extraskeletal calcification was measured in vivo, in control rats and rats with a remnant kidney model of uremia with or without ammonium chloride-induced acidosis. Soft-tissue calcification was assessed histologically, by measurement of the expression of the sodium-dependent phosphate cotransporter Pit-1 and by quantification of tissue calcium and phosphorus. Calcitriol administration to uremic rats resulted in significant deposition of material positive for von Kossa stain in the aorta, stomach, and kidney, elevated aortic calcium and phosphorus, increased aortic Pit-1 expression, and high mortality. Calcitriol-treated uremic rats with acidosis did not develop aortic or soft-tissue calcification, did not increase aortic Pit-1 expression, and had significantly lower mortality. Additionally, an acidotic environment prevented calcification of vascular smooth muscle cells in vitro. Our study shows that metabolic acidosis inhibits extraskeletal calcification.
During vitamin-D therapy drug accumulation and intoxication should be considered. In the present study we report on five patients with renal insufficiency during therapy with dihydrotachysterol or calcitriol. Four patients received dihydrotachysterol for 29 (7-44) years and one patient received calcitriol for 4 years to treat hypoparathyroidism after thyroid surgery. As confirmed by renal biopsy impairment of renal function was due to calcifications as a consequence of prolonged hypercalcemia. The effective duration of dihydrotachysterol is ten days as compared with five days for calcitriol. Severe hypercalcemic episodes with dihydrotachysterol are longer-lasting than those with the shorter acting vitamin-D derivatives. Further, they occur with higher incidence as was shown by our own observations and previously published data by other workers. Hence, impairment of renal function during therapy with dihydrotachysterol should be considered as being due to hypercalcemia and hypercalciuria.
We examined the effects of injection rate of propofol on injection pain and postinduction hypotension and bradycardia when fentanyl was administrated before propofol. Fifty-five patients premedicated with midazolam and atropine were randomly allocated to two groups. Three minutes after administration of fentanyl 100 micrograms, propofol 1.5 mg.kg-1 was injected to a forearm vein at a rate of 800 ml.hr-1 in Group FS or 1 ml.s-1 in Group FR. Anesthesia was maintained with 67% nitrous oxide in oxygen and supplemental propofol infusion. The incidence and severity of pain on injection were not influenced with injection speed. The rapid rate of injection significantly shortened the induction time. The decrease in systolic and diastolic blood pressures and heart rate after induction were not affected by injection speed. In conclusion, rapid injection of propofol after fentanyl was effective to shorten the induction time without increasing the postinduction hypotension and bradycardia.
A 70-year-old man experienced pure RBC aplasia after high-dose chlorpropamide therapy. This is the second reported case of pure RBC aplasia associated with chlorpropamide. Cessation of the drug therapy was followed by rapid and sustained complete return to a normal hemoglobin level. A brief review of pure RBC aplasia is presented.
We examined the influence of the bolus injection rate of propofol on the cardiovascular depression and injection pain. Fifty-one patients of ASA grade 1 or 2 were randomly allocated to two groups. After premedication with midazolam 0.06 mg.kg-1 and atropine 0.006 mg.kg-1 i.m., propofol 2 mg.kg-1 was injected to a forearm vein at a rate of 800 ml.hr-1 in Group A or 1 ml.s-1 in Group B. Anesthesia was maintained thereafter with 67% nitrous oxide in oxygen and propofol infused at 6 mg.kg-1.hr-1. The incidence and severity of pain on injection were lower in Group B compared with Group A, but the difference was not statistically significant. The induction time was significantly shorter in Group B than in Group A (40 vs. 73 sec: P < 0.01). There were no significant differences between the two injection rates in peak reductions in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate. In conclusion, rapid injection of propofol was effective to shorten the induction time without any adverse effects.
The spinal action of pro-inflammatory agent, prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) was investigated in rats, using formalin test. Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with chronic intrathecal catheters. PGE1 0.25 microgram or 2.5 micrograms injected intrathecally. Ten minutes later, 5% formalin 50 microliters was injected to the dorsum of one hindpaw. For the time-response analysis, the total number of flinches were counted and expressed as responses per minute for each rat. For the dose response analysis, the cumulative responses per minute over the first 5 min (phase 1) and the interval 10-60 min (phase 2) following the formalin injection were calculated for each rat. PGE1 2.5 micrograms produced a significant increase of flinching in both phase 1 and phase 2. Dose dependent increase of flinching was seen only in the phase 2. Touch evoked allodynia was observed after the injection of PGE1 2.5 micrograms, which lasted about 50 minutes. The enhanced flinches induced by intrathecal PGE1 were antagonized by the coadministration of MK-801, hemoglobin or methylene blue. Allodynia was antagonized only by coadministration of methylene blue. These results indicate that hyperalgesia induced by spinal PGE1 in both phase 1 and phase 2 of the formalin test involves an increased release of glutamate and the activation of NMDA receptor in the spinal cord. The mechanism of allodynia observed in the rats given high dose of PGE1 differs from that of hyperalgesia.
The haemodynamic effects of separate and simultaneous nitroglycerin (NTG)--and dobutamine (DOB) infusions were determined in order to evaluate the nature of the effects of combined treatment. Ten patients were studied, 6 h after coronary by-pass surgery. NTG alone reduced significantly systemic and pulmonary arterial, as well as ventricular filling pressures, and brought about a concomitant 10% decrease in the cardiac index (P < 0.05). Dobutamine (6 microgram/kg/min) did not affect systemic or pulmonary arterial pressures, nor ventricular filling pressures. As a result of the 20 beats/min rise in heart rate produced by DOB, the cardiac index was increased by 24%, whereas the stroke volume and work indices remained unchanged during DOB-infusion. The haemodynamic changes brought about by either NTG or DOB separately were unaffected by the simultaneous infusion of the other vasoactive drug. The haemodynamic effects of the combined treatment were simply the sum of their separate effects, thereby yielding reduced arterial and ventricular filling pressures, increased heart rate, and slightly augmented cardiac index with significantly reduced systemic vascular resistance; myocardial oxygen consumption was unaffected by the combination therapy. One patient, whose case is discussed separately, had a hypotension-bradycardia complication during NTG-infusion.
Due to the wide distribution and persistence of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), an increasing number of studies are focusing on the toxicological effects of PFOS exposure in mammalian and fish model species. The results of these studies (on estrogenic activity, development and reproduction, etc.), however, are largely inconsistent owing to differences in exposure conditions (exposure time, concentrations, species and test methods, etc.). Oviparous fish species such as zebrafish and common carp are commonly used in PFOS exposure experiments, but no information is available on ovoviparous fish species. Thus, this study adopted as its model the swordtail (Xiphophorus helleri), a small, hardy and easily raised ovoviparous fish species. Males with a xiphoid caudal fin were employed to investigate vitellogenin (VTG) mRNA expression under exposure to a range of PFOS concentrations (0, 0.1, 0.5 and 2.5mg/l PFOS) for three weeks, with one-week recovery in clean water. Females were used to investigate the reproductive toxicity of PFOS exposure, and were exposed to the same concentrations as the males for up to six weeks. Finally, juveniles (20-30 days old) were exposed to 0 and 0.1mg/l PFOS for 90 days to check for developmental impairment. VTG mRNA expression was significantly inhibited at one and two weeks, with up-regulation at three weeks, in all of the exposure groups, but was stimulated only in the 2.5mg/l group at four weeks. The hepatosomatic index (HSI) was elevated in the 2.5mg/l male group at three weeks and in the juvenile group. The gonadal somatic index (GSI) was elevated in the 0.5mg/l female group and in the female juveniles. The 14-day survival rates for offspring differed significantly among the groups. Harmful effects were observed on the growth of the juveniles, but not on the sex ratio or the secondary sex characteristics of the young males. Histopathological changes in the liver were detected in both the male and female groups with the highest exposure. The overall results indicate that differences in model species may influence test results. Juveniles possess excellent qualities for sublethal chemical assessments employing the HSI and GSI under long-term exposure conditions.
The administration of catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors alone changed neither the behavior of the rats in two animal models of depression, the forced swimming test (entacapone and tolcapone) or in the learned helplessness paradigm (tolcapone), nor the locomotor activity. L-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and carbidopa treatment as such decreased motility but did not improve the behavior in the antidepressant tests. Co-administration of catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors and L-DOPA/carbidopa increased the performance of rats in both tests without increasing locomotor activity. Catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors could be beneficial as adjunct drugs of L-DOPA not only in Parkinson's disease but also in the coincident depressive illness.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of adjunctive prednisolone therapy in children with cryptogenic epileptic encephalopathy, other than infantile spasms, and to determine its prognosis.
Prednisolone, 2mg/kg per day for 6 weeks, tapered for a further 2 weeks, was given in combination with previously prescribed antiepileptic drugs. A retrospective assessment of 41 children thus treated included measurements of seizure frequency, electroencephalographic findings, global assessments of cognitive function, and adverse drug events. Long-term patient prognoses over a mean follow-up period of 3 years and 5 months (range, 14-90 months) were also examined.
Of 41 patients, 32 had Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, 4 had Doose syndrome, 1 had Otahara syndrome, 2 had Landau-Kleffner syndrome, and 2 had other unspecified generalized epilepsies. After prednisolone therapy, 73% (30/41) of patients showed a reduction in seizure frequency of >50%, and 59% (24/41) became seizure free. However, only seven patients (four with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, two with Doose syndrome, and one with unspecified generalized epilepsy) who became seizure free remained free of seizures at the time of the final follow-up. Electroencephalographic findings and global assessments of cognitive function correlated well with seizure outcomes. No significant demographic factors influenced the efficacy of prednisolone or patient prognoses after prednisolone tapering. Most adverse events were transient, or were tolerated well with conservative management, with maintenance of the medication.
Prednisolone therapy may be a safe and effective adjunct in patients with cryptogenic epileptic encephalopathies, but the high relapse rate is of concern.
Nimesulide is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) marketed in more than 50 countries. This drug has caused rare and idiosyncratic but severe hepatotoxicity. The mechanisms associated with and factors responsible for this toxicity remain unknown. One of the nimesulide metabolites identified in human urine is 4-amino-2-phenoxy-methanesulfonanilide (M1). In the current study, we demonstrate that M1 is a stable metabolite that is highly susceptible to facile oxidation by cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450s) to form a reactive diiminoquinone intermediate (M2). Direct detection of M2 was difficult by LC-MS. However, its formation was confirmed indirectly by identification of N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) adducts of M2. The formation of diiminoquinone M2 was P450 mediated with 2C19 and 1A2 as the two principal P450 enzymes catalyzing M1 oxidation. M1 metabolism irreversibly inhibited 2C19 but activated 1A2 in a time-dependent manner. P450 2C19 exclusively mediated further metabolism of M1 to the amino hydroxynimesulide M3 and its diiminoquinone M4. Similar to M2, M4 is also reactive and can be observed indirectly as its NAC adduct. Nucleophilic addition to diiminoquinone M2 occurs with low regioselectivity, yielding three adducts (the peak area ratio 1:0.08:12). The three regioisomers have the same m/z for [M + H](+), presumably due to nucleophilic addition at the three possible electrophilic sites (C-3, -5, and -6 positions of the sulfonaniline ring). The primary adduct, R, was derived from the attack of the nucleophile at the C-5 position of the sulfonaniline ring and was determined by MS/MS and (1)H and (13)C NMR analyses. The structural assignments were confirmed by chemical synthesis of the adduct R. M2 demonstrated its electrophilic reactivity by selectively alkylating human serum albumin (HSA) at the only free thiol, Cys-34. This suggests the possibility that other proteins may undergo a similar conjugation to form irreversible adducts. Under oxidizing conditions in the presence of cumene hydroperoxide (CHP), the formation of M2 was enhanced, indicating that oxidative stress may accelerate the production of reactive diiminoquinone species (M2 and M4).
The efficacy of a new pharmacokinetically enhanced formulation of amoxycillin/clavulanate (AMX/CA) 2000/125 mg, twice daily, designed to provide adequate levels of amoxycillin over the 12-h dosing interval to eradicate penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumoniae (PRSP) with amoxycillin (+/-clavulanic acid) MICs of </=4 mg/l, was evaluated in patients with respiratory infections caused by S. pneumoniae, including PRSP (penicillin MICs 2-16 mg/l). Data from nine clinical studies were combined (total intent-to-treat N=5531). Six randomized, double-blind studies used levofloxacin 500 mg od in acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS), levofloxacin 500 mg od in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis (AECB), clarithromycin 500 mg bid in AECB, AMX/CA 875/125 mg bid and tid in community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) and AMX/CA 1000/125 mg tid in CAP as comparators. The three remaining studies (two in ABS and one in CAP) were non-comparative. In the AMX/CA 2000/125 mg bid-treated patients evaluable at follow-up (Day 14-39), outcome was successful in 60/64 (93.7%) patients with S. pneumoniae infections in the comparative studies and 348/363 (95.9%) in the non-comparative studies, including 95.6% of all patients and 95.2% of patients whose isolates had AMX/CA MICs of >/=4 mg/l. In the pooled comparator group, the success rate at follow-up was 86.5% (45/52). For PRSP (AMX/CA MICs of 0.5-8 mg/l), the overall success rate was 98.2% (55/56) at follow-up for AMX/CA 2000/125 mg and 50.0% (2/4) for comparators. AMX/CA 2000/125 mg shows efficacy comparable to that of the comparators evaluated against S. pneumoniae infections. Due to its favorable pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile and promising clinical success, the new AMX/CA 2000/125 mg formulation should be considered for the empirical treatment of respiratory tract infections in regions with a high prevalence of antimicrobial-resistant S. pneumoniae and in patients at high risk of antimicrobial-resistant S. pneumoniae infection as this formulation covers many PRSP that are non-susceptible to amoxycillin (+/-clavulanic acid) (MICs of >/=4 mg/l) as well as common beta-lactamase-producing respiratory pathogens.
Recent animal studies have demonstrated that selective blockade of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels of vascular smooth muscle results in a significant increase in peripheral vascular tone. The main aim of this study was to assess whether glyburide, a selective blocker of KATP channels and commonly used antidiabetic agent, influences resting blood flow and reactive hyperemic response of peripheral tissues of normal subjects. Baseline calf blood flow was measured non-invasively in six normal subjects with femoral venous occlusive plethysmography. Calf blood flow was also serially measured every 30-60 s after the release of calf arterial occlusion (10 min duration). Reactive hyperemia was expressed in terms of peak post-occlusive flow, duration of hyperemia and reactive hyperemic volume. In each subject, baseline flow and reactive hyperemia were measured before (control) and every hour for 5 h after the oral ingestion of either 7.5 mg glyburide or a placebo on two separate days. Baseline calf flow declined by 30 and 42% of control values after 1 and 2 h of glyburide intake (P < 0.05) with a return to control values by hours 3, 4 and 5. Peak post-occlusive flow after 1, 2 and 3 h of glyburide ingestion was lower than control values by 22, 30 and 28%, respectively (P < 0.05). The duration of reactive hyperemia after 2 and 3 h of glyburide ingestion was significantly longer than control values (P < 0.05), whereas reactive hyperemic volume remained unaffected by glyburide intake. Placebo elicited no significant changes in baseline flow or reactive hyperemia throughout the 5-h experimental period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Paclitaxel (PTX) is frequently used for a chemotherapy of breast cancer and gynecologic cancer. Besides a bone-marrow depression and hypersensitive reaction, the peripheral neuropathy is one of the serious adverse events of PTX. The mechanism of peripheral neuropathy has not been clarified, and few agents have been reported to be effective for the treatment and the prevention of that. Recently, it has been reported that Gosya-jinki-gan is useful for the PTX induced peripheral neuropathy, so we carried a retrospective study(n=82)to evaluate the effectiveness of Gosya-jinkigan with the medical records. It is suggested that peripheral neuropathy developed more rapidly in sequential administration of PTX every week than in administration in 4 weeks cycles consisting of 3 weeks on and 1 week off(5.4w vs. 9.4w). We have also found that Gosya-jinki-gan was possibly effective for the treatment and the prevention of peripheral neuropathy. Additionally Gosya-jinki-gan might be more effective for peripheral neuropathy when it is administered from the beginning of chemotherapy including PTX.
