Gastroesophageal reflux is a common, self-limited process in infants that usually resolves by six to 12 months of age. Effective, conservative management involves thickened feedings, positional treatment, and parental reassurance. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a less common, more serious pathologic process that usually warrants medical management and diagnostic evaluation. Differential diagnosis includes upper gastrointestinal tract disorders; cow's milk allergy; and metabolic, infectious, renal, and central nervous system diseases. Pharmacologic management of GERD includes a prokinetic agent such as metoclopramide or cisapride and a histamine-receptor type 2 antagonist such as cimetidine or ranitidine when esophagitis is suspected. Although recent studies have supported the cautious use of cisapride in childhood GERD, the drug is currently not routinely available in the United States.
A case of complete atrioventricular block with ventricular asystole in a patient receiving intravenous phenytoin is presented. Although the potential for hypotension is generally recognized with the intravenous administration of phenytoin, conduction abnormalities are rarely reported. The differential diagnosis of atrioventricular block and the effects of phenytoin on cardiac conduction are discussed.
To establish an experimental model for sulfur mustard-induced acute and delayed ocular lesions in rabbits.
Rabbit eyes were exposed to sulfur mustard (HD) vapor (370, 420 microg/l) for a period of two minutes. A three months follow-up study was carried out, based on the evaluation of clinical, biochemical and histological parameters.
HD exposure initiated typical clinical symptoms within 2-6 hrs, characterized by eye closure, eyelid swelling, conjunctival hyperemia, corneal erosions and inflammation. The clinical signs were significantly dose-dependent and reached a peak at 24--72 hrs post exposure. Biochemical evaluation of the aqueous humor exhibited an inflammatory reaction and oxidative stress at 4 hrs after exposure, subsiding at 28 hrs after exposure. Histological examination of corneas at 48 hrs revealed epithelial denudation and marked stromal edema, accompanied by cellular infiltration. Epithelial regeneration started after 72 hrs, and recovery was almost completed within 1--2 weeks, depending on the HD dose. A second phase of pathological processes started as early as two weeks post exposure and was characterized by corneal edema, opacity, recurrent erosions and neovascularization. The delayed injuries were found in 25 and 40% of the eyes respectively, and when appearing, were more severe than the initial ones.
The development of HD-induced ocular lesions in rabbits is similar to the lesions described in human casualties. Quantitative analysis of the various clinical parameters emphasizes the contribution of each tissue to the overall toxic picture. Our experimental model is useful for studying the pathological mechanisms of HD-ocular lesions, and may serve for testing potential therapies.
Forty-four patients suffering from acute and chronic schizophrenic psychoses were used to obtain, by using Lorr's scale (IMPS) and taking the changes in disease state observed within three months as a base, suggestions or pointers as to the proper treatment of disease with fluphenazine (lyorodin) which is a neuroleptically highly potent phenothiazine derivative. Megalomania, grandiose delusions apathetic and depressive syndromes showed marked tendencies toward major improvement. An "antiautistic" effect was observed in chronic patients. The effective dose was between 6 and 12 mg a day. The drug was well tolerated. In the majority of cases it was also necessary for antiparkinsonian drugs to be administered to patients. After twelve months of treatment, slight to major improvements or even freedom from symptoms could be observed in 28 cases (or 64%).
The antiangiogenic effects of thalidomide have been assessed in clinical trials in patients with various solid and haematological malignancies. Thalidomide blocks the activity of angiogenic agents including bFGF, VEGF and IL-6. We undertook an open-label study using thalidomide 100 mg once daily for up to 6 months in 20 men with androgen-independent prostate cancer. The mean time of study was 109 days (median 107, range 4-184 days). Patients underwent regular measurement of prostate-specific antigen (PSA), urea and electrolytes, serum bFGF and VEGF. Three men (15%) showed a decline in serum PSA of at least 50%, sustained throughout treatment. Of 16 men treated for at least 2 months, six (37.5%) showed a fall in absolute PSA by a median of 48%. Increasing levels of serum bFGF and VEGF were associated with progressive disease; five of six men who demonstrated a fall in PSA also showed a decline in bFGF and VEGF levels, and three of four men with a rising PSA showed an increase in both growth factors. Adverse effects included constipation, morning drowsiness, dizziness and rash, and resulted in withdrawal from the study by three men. Evidence of peripheral sensory neuropathy was found in nine of 13 men before treatment. In the seven men who completed six months on thalidomide, subclinical evidence of peripheral neuropathy was found in four before treatment, but in all seven at repeat testing. The findings indicate that thalidomide may be an option for patients who have failed other forms of therapy, provided close follow-up is maintained for development of peripheral neuropathy.
Autosomal-recessive inheritance, severe to profound sensorineural hearing loss, and partial agenesis of the corpus callosum are hallmarks of the clinically well-established Chudley-McCullough syndrome (CMS). Although not always reported in the literature, frontal polymicrogyria and gray matter heterotopia are uniformly present, whereas cerebellar dysplasia, ventriculomegaly, and arachnoid cysts are nearly invariant. Despite these striking brain malformations, individuals with CMS generally do not present with significant neurodevelopmental abnormalities, except for hearing loss. Homozygosity mapping and whole-exome sequencing of DNA from affected individuals in eight families (including the family in the first report of CMS) revealed four molecular variations (two single-base deletions, a nonsense mutation, and a canonical splice-site mutation) in the G protein-signaling modulator 2 gene, GPSM2, that underlie CMS. Mutations in GPSM2 have been previously identified in people with profound congenital nonsyndromic hearing loss (NSHL). Subsequent brain imaging of these individuals revealed frontal polymicrogyria, abnormal corpus callosum, and gray matter heterotopia, consistent with a CMS diagnosis, but no ventriculomegaly. The gene product, GPSM2, is required for orienting the mitotic spindle during cell division in multiple tissues, suggesting that the sensorineural hearing loss and characteristic brain malformations of CMS are due to defects in asymmetric cell divisions during development.
Treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors reduces mortality and morbidity in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF), but most affected patients are not receiving these agents or are being treated with doses lower than those found to be efficacious in trials, primarily because of concerns about the safety and tolerability of these agents, especially at the recommended doses. The present study examines the safety and tolerability of high- compared with low-dose lisinopril in CHF.
The Assessment of Lisinopril and Survival study was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind trial in which patients with or without previous ACE inhibitor treatment were stabilized receiving medium-dose lisinopril (12.5 or 15.0 mg once daily [OD]) for 2 to 4 weeks and then randomized to high- (35.0 or 32.5 mg OD) or low-dose (5.0 or 2.5 mg OD) groups. Patients with New York Heart Association classes II to IV CHF and left ventricular ejection fractions of no greater than 0.30 (n = 3164) were randomized and followed up for a median of 46 months. We examined the occurrence of adverse events and the need for discontinuation and dose reduction during treatment, with a focus on hypotension and renal dysfunction.
Of 405 patients not previously receiving an ACE inhibitor, doses in only 4.2% could not be titrated to the medium doses required for randomization because of symptoms possibly related to hypotension (2.0%) or because of renal dysfunction or hyperkalemia (2.3%). Doses in more than 90% of randomized patients in the high- and low-dose groups were titrated to their assigned target, and the mean doses of blinded medication in both groups remained similar throughout the study. Withdrawals occurred in 27.1% of the high- and 30.7% of the low-dose groups. Subgroups presumed to be at higher risk for ACE inhibitor intolerance (blood pressure, <120 mm Hg; creatinine, > or =132.6 micromol/L [> or =1.5 mg/dL]; age, > or =70 years; and patients with diabetes) generally tolerated the high-dose strategy.
These findings demonstrate that ACE inhibitor therapy in most patients with CHF can be successfully titrated to and maintained at high doses, and that more aggressive use of these agents is warranted.
Parkinson's disease is a motor and cognitive disorder characterised by a progressive loss of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) dopaminergic neurons as well as of the locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons. It has been suggested that LC neurodegeneration might influence levodopa-induced motor disturbances and cognitive performance. We investigated the influence of dopaminergic and noradrenergic lesions on levodopa-induced dyskinesias and on working memory in rats. Two groups of animals were used: (1) rats with a dopaminergic lesion induced by a unilateral administration of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), and (2) rats with a combined lesion of the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems induced by 6-OHDA and N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4), respectively. Dyskinesias were evaluated on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of chronic levodopa treatment (6 mg/kg, twice at day, i.p.). Working memory was evaluated by a radial-arm maze (1) before lesions, (2) before levodopa administration and (3) after 22 days of levodopa treatment. Total, axial, limb and orofacial dyskinesias not differed significantly between both groups. Working memory tasks worsened in both lesioned groups reaching significance in terms of time of performance (P < 0.05). The number of repeated entries in the same arm (errors) was only significant in the double-lesioned group (P < 0.05). This behaviour was not different from the one observed after chronic levodopa treatment. These results suggest that levodopa-induced dyskinesias in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rats were not affected by the additional noradrenergic lesion, whereas this last condition was sufficient to worse the cognitive performance deficit produced by the dopaminergic lesion.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a common and severe mood disorder associated with higher rates of suicide and disability. The development of new animal models, and the investigation employing those available have extensively contributed to understand the pathophysiological mechanisms of BD. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of ouabain, a specific Na+,K+-ATPase inhibitor, has been used as an animal model for BD. It has been demonstrated that Na+,K+-ATPase is altered in psychiatric disorders, especially BD. Creatine kinase (CK) is important for brain energy homeostasis by exerting several integrated functions. In the present study,we evaluated CK activity in the striatum, prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of rats subjected to i.c.v. administration of ouabain. Adult male Wistar rats received a single i.c.v. administration of ouabain (10(-2) and 10(-3) M) or vehicle (control group). Locomotor activity was measured using the open field test. CK activity was measured in the brain of rats immediately (1 h) and 7 days after ouabain administration. Our results showed that spontaneous locomotion was increased 1 h after ouabain administration and that hyperlocomotion was also observed 7 days after that.Moreover, CK activity was inhibited immediately after the administration of ouabain in the striatum, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Moreover, the enzyme was not affected in the striatum and hippocampus 7 days after ouabain administration. On the other hand, an inhibition in CK activity in the prefrontal cortex was observed. If inhibition of CK also occurs in BD patients, it will be tempting to speculate that the reduction of brain metabolism may be related probably to the pathophysiology of this disease.
To evaluate the effectiveness of a culturally appropriate lifestyle intervention combined with orlistat in producing weight loss with obese Mexican-American women.
Mexican-American women (N=108), aged 21-65 y, with a body mass index (BMI) > or =27 kg/m(2) were randomized to 1 y of treatment with orlistat and a culturally tailored lifestyle modification intervention (OLM; n=56) or a wait-list control group (WLC; n=52).
A randomized, controlled, open-label 12-month study. Orlistat was dosed at 120 mg, three times per day. The OLM intervention included behavior modification, a low-fat (< or =30% of total daily calories) diet, and moderate physical activity (> or =150 min/week).
Primary outcomes included changes in body weight (kg), BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure, glucose, and lipids.
A total of 72 (37 OLM, 35 WLC) and 66 participants (32 OLM, 34 WLC) completed the 6- and 12-month follow-ups, respectively. Repeated-measures ANOVA demonstrated a significant time x treatment interaction (Wilks' lambda=12.61; P<0.001), indicating that OLM-treated patients achieved significant weight loss relative to the WLC group during the study (mean percentage weight loss+/-s.e.m.; -8.1%+/-1.2 vs -1.6%+/-0.7 at 6 months and -8.8%+/-1.5 vs -0.2%+/-1.0 at 12 months, respectively). OLM-treated patients also experienced significant reductions in waist circumference, low-density-lipoprotein, and total cholesterol.
This study demonstrates the effectiveness of an intervention combining orlistat and lifestyle modification with Mexican-American women, a population with substantial risk for obesity.
Quinidine syncope is an unpredictable side effect of quinidine administrateion which has a mortality rate of 11.5 per cent when managed with conventional drugs and direct-current countershock. In 2 patients with quindine syncope, the arrhythmias were effectively controlled within 30 minutes following the slow infusion of 150 mg. of bretylium tosylate. This control is contrasted with 2 cases managed in the conventional manner. Bretylium tosylate is a quaternary amine with unique antifibrillatory properties and appears to have a significant role in the management of these arrhylmias.
We have attempted to upgrade and validate an in-house cDNA microarray system developed by our group for the evaluation of chemical toxicity.
To establish an in-house microarray, we selected genes that play pivotal roles in detoxifying exogenous substances and maintaining homeostasis in the liver. To validate the system, we examined gene expression profiles in mouse liver following treatment with different doses of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)). The data were also analyzed by pathway analysis tools.
We upgraded our array system by collecting genes that are responsive to xenobiotic receptors, apoptosis-related genes, and stress-responsive genes. The acute toxicity of CCl(4) was confirmed by elevated levels of serum transaminase and histopathological findings. The microarray data showed the CCl(4) treatment induced significant changes in gene expression in the mouse liver, and the ingenuity pathways analysis revealed alterations in gene expression in inflammation-related networks.
We have established a focused microarray system that may be useful for use in toxicogenomics studies. Using this array system, we gained insight into the mechanisms by which CCl(4) exerts its toxic effects. The results of our study also indicate that the combination of focused arrays and bioinformatics tools is helpful in the mechanistic analysis of chemical toxicity.
Benzene, a recognized occupational leukemogen in adults, has been hypothesized to also increase the risk of childhood leukemia. We carried out a population-based case-control study in a northern Italy community involving 83 cases with acute childhood leukemia diagnosed in the years 1998-2009 and 332 matched controls. We assessed residential exposure to benzene and to particulate matter ≤10 μm (PM10) from motorized traffic using geocoded residences and detailed emission and dispersion modeling. Exposure to benzene, and to a lesser extent to PM10, appeared to be independently associated with an excess leukemia risk. When we stratified the study population by age and by leukemia subtype, the relative risk associated with benzene exposure was higher among children aged less than 5 years, and despite small numbers this relation appeared to be considerably stronger for acute myeloid leukemia than for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Overall, these findings suggest that exposure to low levels of benzene released from motorized traffic may increase the risk of childhood leukemia, and suggest a possible independent effect of PM10, although unmeasured confounding due to other pollutants cannot be ruled out.
Neurochemical distinctions have been made between neuroleptic drugs that affect D-1 receptors as well as D-2 receptors, compared with those neuroleptic drugs that affect only D-2 receptors. However, a controlled double-blind study of haloperidol vs. chlorprothixene in schizophrenic patients found no significant differences.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) can result from various disease states with inadequate cardiac output. CHF due to dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a familial disease in 20-30% of cases and is associated with mutations in genes encoding cytoskeletal, contractile or inner-nuclear membrane proteins. We show that mutations in the gene encoding giant-muscle filament titin (TTN) cause autosomal dominant DCM linked to chromosome 2q31 (CMD1G; MIM 604145). Titin molecules extend from sarcomeric Z-discs to M-lines, provide an extensible scaffold for the contractile machinery and are crucial for myofibrillar elasticity and integrity. In a large DCM kindred, a segregating 2-bp insertion mutation in TTN exon 326 causes a frameshift, truncating A-band titin. The truncated protein of approximately 2 mD is expressed in skeletal muscle, but western blot studies with epitope-specific anti-titin antibodies suggest that the mutant protein is truncated to a 1.14-mD subfragment by site-specific cleavage. In another large family with DCM linked to CMD1G, a TTN missense mutation (Trp930Arg) is predicted to disrupt a highly conserved hydrophobic core sequence of an immunoglobulin fold located in the Z-disc-I-band transition zone. The identification of TTN mutations in individuals with CMD1G should provide further insights into the pathogenesis of familial forms of CHF and myofibrillar titin turnover.
To evaluate the results of thromboembolic prophylaxis using enoxaparin in acute spinal injury patients.
Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism are major causes of morbidity and mortality in patients with acute spinal injuries. A wide range of thromboprophylactic measures have been proposed. The present study describes the outcome of a regime of enoxaparin and antithromboembolic stockings in acute spinal injuries irrespective of neurological damage.
Scotland, UK.
Eighteen-month retrospective review of acute spinal injury patients admitted to a national spinal injuries unit. A thromboembolic prophylactic regimen of early mobilisation, use of antithromboembolic stockings, and subcutaneous administration of enoxaparin 40 mg once a day until patients could be mobilised for more than 4 h per day, was used. Patients with clinical suspicion of deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism were investigated as appropriate.
Out of 146 (53% of total) patients with spinal injuries with no neurological deficit only one patient (0.4%) developed clinical evidence of pulmonary embolism and out of 130 (47% of total) with spinal cord injury two (0.7%) developed clinical evidence of deep venous thrombosis while still on enoxaparin. Four patients (1.5%) developed deep venous thrombosis and one (0.4%) pulmonary embolism after discontinuing enoxaparin. There were no fatal pulmonary emboli and one suspected intraspinal bleeding.
The present study suggests that, in addition to physical and mechanical measures, low molecular weight heparin in the form of enoxaparin 40 mg administered once daily compares favourably with previous studies for thromboprophylaxis in acute spinal injuries.
Several recent reports have emphasized the potentially serious and often fatal acute metabolic complications following cytotoxic chemotherapy in both solid tumors and leukemias. We present here a case of chronic myeloid leukemia in blast crisis who developed an acute tumor lysis syndrome following a single dose of VP-16-213 (Etoposide).
Widespread use of mannitol to reduce brain edema and lower elevated ICP in brain tumor patients continues to be afflicted by the so-called rebound phenomenon. Leakage of mannitol into the brain parenchyma through an altered BBB and secondary reversal of osmotic gradient is considered the major cause of rebound . This has only been demonstrated experimentally in animals. As a contribution to this issue we decided to research the possible passage of mannitol into the brain after administration to 21 brain tumor patients.
Mannitol (18% solution; 1 g/kg) was administered as a bolus to patients (ten had malignant glioma, seven brain metastases and four meningioma) about 30 minutes before craniotomy. During resection, a sample of the surrounding edematous white matter was taken at the same time as a 10 ml venous blood sample. Mannitol concentrations were measured in plasma and white matter by a modified version of the enzyme assay of Blonquist et al.
In most glioma patients, mannitol concentrations in white matter were 2 to 6 times higher than in plasma (mean 3.5 times). In meningioma and metastases patients plasma concentrations of mannitol were higher than white matter concentrations except in three cases with infiltration by neoplastic cells.
The results of our study show that even after a single bolus, mannitol may leak through the altered BBB near gliomas, reversing the initial plasma-to-blood osmotic gradient, aggravating peritumoral edema and promoting rebound of ICP.
The nuclear hormone receptor peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) critically regulates adipogenesis and lipogenesis. Obesity is closely associated with increased oxidative stress, and pharmacological activation of PPARgamma by its ligands significantly suppresses oxidative stress in cultured adipocytes. On the other hand, a PPARgamma2(Pro12Ala) polymorphism, which decreases receptor transcription activity, is associated with lower body mass index and increased insulin sensitivity in humans. This mutation is also found to be positively associated with increased human lifespan. Here we show that adipose tissue-specific PPARgamma heterozygous mice, which exhibit significant improvement in insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle, show increased resistance to paraquat-induced oxidative stress. The enhanced oxidative stress tolerance is associated with significant upregulation of antioxidant genes in white adipose tissue and skeletal muscle whereas prooxidant genes are not changed. This is also associated with a significant increase in adipose tissue of Foxo3a, a transcription factor that is known to regulate clearance of reactive oxygen species. Consistently, Foxo3a dependent genes are significantly upregulated in adipose tissue. These data implicate adipose tissue PPARgamma in the regulation of oxidative stress, which may underlie extended lifespan in humans bearing PPARgamma2(Pro12Ala) mutation.
To evaluate the peripheral neuropathic changes induced by combination chemotherapy including paclitaxel (taxol), gemcitabine and cisplatin (TGC regimen).
Eighteen patients with primary or recurrent ovarian cancer were treated with paclitaxel 150 or 110 mg/m2, respectively, together with gemcitabine 800 mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2, 3 weekly for 6 cycles. Neurologic evaluation and quantitative assessment by vibration perception threshold (VPT) and grip strength took place before therapy, after 3 and 6 cycles of chemotherapy, and thereafter when possible.
Both neuropathic symptoms and signs developed in all patients (100%), becoming most prominent 3 months after the last course of chemotherapy. Grade 3 peripheral neuropathy developed in one patient during chemotherapy, and in 3 additional patients after cessation of therapy. No significant differences were observed between chemo-naive patients and pretreated patients.
This TGC combination is well tolerated in terms of peripheral neuropathy during therapy, although the off-therapy worsening caused by cisplatin remains a problem.
The pharmacological activity of phenylacetyl-Phe-Ser-Arg-N-(2, 4-dinitrophenyl)-ethylenediamine (TKI), a tissue kallikrein specific inhibitor, was assessed using models of nociception and inflammation in mice. Injection of TKI (13.6 - 136 micromol kg(-1), i.p. or 41 - 410 micromol kg(-1), s.c.) produced a dose-related inhibition of the acetic acid-induced writhes (by 37 to 85% or 34 to 80%, respectively). The antinociceptive activity of TKI (41 micromol kg(-1), i.p.) was maximal after 30 min injection and lasted for 120 min. The effect was unaltered by pretreatment with naloxone (8.2 micromol kg(-1), s.c.) or bilateral adrenalectomy. TKI (41 and 136 micromol kg(-1), i.p.) produced a dose-related decrease of the late phase of formalin-induced nociception by 79 and 98%, respectively. At 136 micromol kg(-1), i.p., TKI also shortened the duration of paw licking in the early phase by 69%. TKI (41 and 136 micromol kg(-1), i.p.) also reduced the capsaicin-induced nociceptive response (by 51 to 79%). TKI (41 micromol kg(-1), i.p. or 410 micromol kg(-1), s.c.) reduced the oedematogenic response, from the second to the fifth hour after carrageenin injection by 36 to 30% or by 47 to 39%, respectively. Pretreatment with TKI (41 micromol kg(-1), i.p.) reduced the capsaicin-induced neurogenic inflammation in the mouse ear by 54%. It is concluded that TKI presents antinociceptive and antiinflammatory activities mediated by inhibition of kinin formation by tissue kallikrein in mice. The results also indicate that the tissue kallikrein-dependent pathway contributes to kinin generation in nociceptive and inflammatory processes in mice.
This paper discusses the association between inflammatory and mitochondrial pathologies in patients with HIV-1/AIDS treated with zidovudine (AZT).
We present the clinical and pathological details of a 52-year-old HIV-1 positive male who presented with progressive muscle weakness. We also review the current literature and address the debated pathogenesis of the inflammatory pathology.
Muscle biopsy revealed evidence of both HIV-1 polymyositis and AZT myopathy. Six months after initiation of corticosteroid therapy and discontinuation of AZT, the patient's symptoms had greatly improved. The biopsy was repeated to show that both pathologies had resolved.
The perceived overlap in the pathological spectra of HIV-1 polymyositis and AZT myopathy has produced some debate on causation and treatment. Unfortunately, there have been very few reports where a repeat biopsy following a drug washout period confirmed resolution of the pathology. Furthermore, affected patients have not been treated in a uniform fashion. Whether this represents one disease or two remains uncertain. The clinical relevance of this issue lies in the potential for harm from the unnecessary use of corticosteroids. This question may be best addressed by a randomized clinical trial.
The goal of this study is to identify novel genes frequently silenced by promoter hypermethylation in lung cancer.
Bioinformatic analysis was done to identify candidate genes significantly down-regulated in lung cancer. The effects of DNA methyltransferase inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine on the expression of the candidate genes were determined. Methylated CpG sites in the promoters of the candidate genes were identified using bisulfite DNA sequencing. Methylation-specific PCR was developed and used to analyze DNA methylation in cell lines and clinical specimen. Pathologic and functional analyses were done to study the role of one candidate gene, receptor activity-modifying protein 2 (RAMP2), in suppressing lung cancer cell growth.
Among 54 candidate genes down-regulated in lung cancer, 31 were found to contain CpG islands in their promoters. Six of these 31 genes could be reactivated by 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in at least four of six lung cancer cell lines analyzed. Promoter hypermethylation of RAMP2, epidermal growth factor-containing fibulin-like extracellular matrix protein 1, and deleted in U Twenty Twenty cells was detected in 36% to 77% of 22 lung cancer cell lines and in 38% to 50% of 32 primary lung tumors, whereas hypermethylathion of these genes was rarely found in the matched normal samples. The methylation frequencies of these genes in lung cancer were similar to those of commonly used methylation markers, such as RAS association domain family protein 1A, p16, and methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase. Immunohistochemistry showed that RAMP2 was down-regulated in a majority of lung tumors, and RAMP2 down-regulation was correlated with high tumor grade. Ectopic expression of RAMP2 inhibited lung cancer cell growth and caused apoptotic cell death. Knockdown of RAMP2 by RNA interference stimulated cell proliferation.
Studying the newly identified genes may provide new insight into lung tumorigenesis. These genes might be useful as molecular markers of lung cancer.
Between January 1985 and May 1986, following completion of a pilot study, a main study concerning the possible association between Reye's syndrome and salicylates was conducted. Twenty-seven patients with stage II or deeper Reye's syndrome whose diagnoses were confirmed by an expert panel and who had appropriate antecedent illnesses (chickenpox, respiratory illness, or gastrointestinal illness) prior to the onset of Reye's syndrome were compared with 140 controls matched for age, race (black or not black), and type and timing of onset of antecedent illness. Controls were selected from the same hospital, emergency room, or school as case-patients or were identified by random-digit telephone dialing. As in the pilot study, a strong statistical association with ingestion of salicylates during the antecedent illness and prior to the onset of Reye's syndrome was observed (odds ratio, 40; lower 95% confidence limit, 5.8). Analysis of the independent risk of aspirin and nonaspirin salicylates revealed a significant association with aspirin (odds ratio, 26; lower 95% confidence limit, 6.4); the independent risk of nonaspirin salicylates could not be assessed because only two cases were not exposed to aspirin. Assessment of epidemiologic issues of concern, including case-control differences in the severity of the antecedent illness, did not explain the high odds ratios that were observed. The high percentage of patients with Reye's syndrome exposed to salicylates (greater than or equal to 90%) in this and prior studies suggests that, though the reported incidence of Reye's syndrome has declined in recent years, concomitant with a decline in salicylate use among children, a majority of Reye's syndrome cases may be attributable to salicylate use.
The incidence of hypotension induced by spinal anesthesia in 154 ASA class I or II patients having Cesarean section and postpartum bilateral tubal ligation was studied. Xylocaine (2%) 60-65 mg was used for spinal anesthesia. There was 41.0% of patients in Cesarean section group developed hypotension induced by spinal anesthesia, and 13.5% in tubal ligation group. We found no correlation between the time after delivery and the occurrence of hypotension induced by spinal anesthesia. In addition, 20.3% of the patients in tubal ligation group required intravenous narcotics because of inadequate sensory blockade during skin incision, but only 9.0% in Cesarean section needed the same supplement which was due to visceral pain during intra-abdominal manipulation. We conclude that spinal anesthesia with 2% xylocaine is safe and effective in both Cesarean section and postpartum tubal ligation although a significant difference of spinal hypotension existed.
