To investigate whether cilostazol, a cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) phosphodiesterase inhibitor, suppresses intimal hyperplasia in canine vein grafts, and to elucidate its mechanisms in terms of cell proliferation and apoptosis.
Bilateral reversed jugular vein interposition grafts of the common carotid artery were performed in 12 beagle dogs. Starting from 7 days before surgery, either cilostazol (30 mg/day; n = 6) or a placebo (n = 6) was given orally twice daily. Vein grafts were harvested at 1 or 4 weeks, and fixed under pressure for histological examination.
By 1 week after implantation, the cilostazol group showed significantly less cell proliferation than the placebo group. By 4 weeks after implantation, intimal and medial thickness was significantly thinner in the cilostazol group than in the placebo group. There was significantly more apoptosis in the placebo group than in the cilostazol group at both time points.
Cilostazol suppressed the development of intimal hyperplasia in canine autogenous vein grafts. Thus, it may be associated with the modulation of cell proliferation and apoptosis.
The effects of aspirin on myocardial blood flow in an area of ischemia were studied in 12 baboons. In each, a diagonal branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery was ligated. Six of the baboons received aspirin (2 X 600 mg orally, 12 hours and 1 hour before ligation); the other six did not receive aspirin and served as a control group. The extent of myocardial ischemia was delineated with an electrode wire grid on the surface of the anterior left ventricular wall. The maximal area circumscribed by electrodes with 2 mV or more ST segment elevation was compared with the area of reduced myocardial blood flow. Myocardial blood flow was measured with the radioactive microspheres method using strontium-85-labeled carbonized spheres. Two areas of reduced myocardial blood flow were noted, one with severely reduced flow in the center of the myocardial infarct (0 to 49% of noninfarcted myocardium) and another with mild to moderately reduced myocardial blood flow at the border of the myocardial infarct (50 to 90% of noninfarcted myocardium). Myocardial blood flow in the border area (margins of ST elevation area) for the total wall was 85 +/- 8% of normal in the aspirin-treated animals and 40 +/- 4% in the control group (p less than 0.01); for the epicardium it was 67 +/- 10% of normal in noninfarcted myocardium after aspirin and 37 +/- 5% for the control group (p less than 0.05); and for the endocardium it was 78 +/- 8% of normal in noninfarcted myocardium after aspirin and 39 +/- 6% in the control group (p less than 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH), the active ingredient of the insecticide lindane, has been shown to be a seizure-inducing agent in mammals. gamma-HCH and two non-convulsant isomers of HCH (alpha and delta) were compared as to their CNS-related pharmacological and biochemical effects. gamma-HCH was a potent seizure-inducing agent in mice while the alpha or the delta isomer significantly decreased mouse motor activity. Acute administration of gamma-HCH increased the severity of seizure activity of either pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) or picrotoxin (PIC). However, acute exposure to alpha- or delta-HCH inhibited the seizure activity due to PTZ but increased that of PIC. gamma-, alpha-, and delta-HCH inhibited the binding of 3H-TBOB (a ligand for the GABA-A receptor linked chloride channel) to mouse whole brain membranes with IC50 values of 4.6, 20.0, and 31.8 microM, respectively. All three isomers were weak inhibitors of GABA-stimulated uptake of 36Cl into mouse brain neurosynaptosome preparations in vitro, being much less potent than PIC, an agent known to act at the chloride channel. At concentrations producing no effect by itself, gamma-HCH increased the effect of PIC on GABA-stimulated chloride uptake. In combination with PTZ, the delta and alpha isomers decreased the effect of PTZ in vitro while the gamma isomer increased the effects of PTZ. These effects correspond to observations made on seizure activity. The results show that the non-seizure-inducing isomers of HCH have biochemical and pharmacological effects in the CNS which differ from those of the insecticidally relevant gamma isomer. The actions of the HCH isomers in the CNS appear to be mediated, at least in part, through GABA-A receptor linked chloride channel sites.
Current treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) is based on dopamine replacement therapy, but this leads to long term complications, including dyskinesia. Adenosine A2A receptors are particularly abundant in the striatum and would be a target for an alternative approach to the treatment of PD.
The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy and potency of the novel selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist (E)-1,3-diethyl-8-(3,4-dimethoxystyryl)-7-methyl-3,7-dhydro- 1H-purine-2,6- dione (KW-6002) in ameliorating the motor deficits in various mouse models of Parkinson's disease.
We evaluated the efficacy and potency of KW-6002 and other reference compounds in the selective adenosine A2A receptor agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosin e (CGS 21680)-, haloperidol- or reserpine-induced catalepsy models. The effect of KW-6002 on reserpine or 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine hydrochloride(MPTP)-induced hypolocomotion was also examined.
The ED50s of KW-6002 in the reversal of CGS21680-induced and reserpine-induced catalepsy were 0.05 mg/kg, PO and 0.26 mg/kg, PO, respectively. Compared to the ED50 of other adenosine antagonists and dopamine agonist drugs, KW-6002 is over 10 times as potent in these models. KW-6002 also ameliorated the hypolocomotion (minimum effective dose; 0.16 mg/kg) induced by nigral dopaminergic dysfunction with MPTP or reserpine treatment. Combined administrations of subthreshold doses of KW-6002 and L-dopa (50 mg/kg, PO) exerted prominent effects on haloperidol-induced and reserpine-induced catalepsy, suggesting that there may be a synergism between the adenosine A2A receptor antagonist KW-6002 and dopaminergic agents.
To our knowledge, KW-6002 is the most potent and orally active adenosine A2A receptor antagonist in experimental models of Parkinson's disease, and may offer a new therapeutic approach to the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
In contrast to patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) due to other causes, patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) receiving standard cytotoxic chemotherapy can be treated safely with antifibrinolytic drugs for prophylaxis of hemorrhage, without the occurrence of thromboembolic complications. However, such drugs should be used cautiously in APL patients who are receiving all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) differentiation therapy. We report here a patient with APL who had fatal thromboembolism after receiving ATRA and tranexamic acid therapy.
Congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a chronic disorder involving polyuria and polydipsia that results from unresponsiveness of the renal collecting ducts to the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin. Either of the genetic defects in vasopressin V2 receptor or the water channel aquaporin 2 (AQP2) cause the disease, which interfere the water reabsorption at the epithelium of the collecting duct. An unconscious state including a perioperative situation can be life threatening because of the difficulty to regulate their water balance. The Sendai virus (SeV) vector system deleting fusion protein (F) gene (SeV/DeltaF) is considered most suitable because of the short replication cycle and nontransmissible character. An animal model for NDI with reduced AQP2 by lithium chloride was used to develop the therapy. When the SeV/DeltaF vector carrying a human AQP2 gene (AQP2-SeV/DeltaF) was administered retrogradely via ureter to renal pelvis, AQP2 was expressed in the renal collecting duct to reduce urine output and water intake by up to 40%. In combination with the retorograde administration to pelvis, this system could be the cornerstone for the applicable therapies on not only NDI patients but also other diseases associate with the medullary collecting duct.
In bacterial meningitis, severe systemic and local inflammation causes long-term impairment and death of affected patients. The current antibiotic therapy relies on cell wall-active beta-lactam antibiotics, which rapidly sterilize the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). However, beta-lactams inhibit cell wall synthesis, induce bacteriolysis, and thereby evoke a sudden release of high amounts of toxic and proinflammatory bacterial products. Because tissue damage in bacterial meningitis is the result of bacterial toxins and the inflammatory host response, any reduction of free bacterial compounds promises to prevent neuronal damage.
In vitro experiments and randomized prospective animal study.
University research laboratories.
Streptococcus pneumoniae broth cultures and New Zealand White rabbits.
We evaluated a concept to improve bacterial meningitis therapy in which a short-term pretreatment with the protein synthesis-inhibiting antibiotic rifampicin precedes the standard antibiotic therapy with ceftriaxone. First, logarithmically growing pneumococcal cultures were subdivided and exposed to different antibiotics. Then, rabbits suffering from pneumococcal meningitis were randomized to receive rifampicin pretreatment or ceftriaxone alone.
In pneumococcal cultures, quantitative immunoblotting and real-time polymerase chain reaction revealed a reduced release of pneumolysin and bacterial DNA by rifampicin pretreatment for 30 minutes in comparison with ceftriaxone treatment alone. In vivo, a 1-hour rifampicin pretreatment reduced the release of bacterial products and attenuated the inflammatory host response, as demonstrated by decreased CSF levels of prostaglandin E2 and total protein and increased glucose CSF/plasma ratios. Rifampicin pretreatment reduced infection-associated neuronal apoptotic cell loss compared with ceftriaxone-treated controls.
A short-term pretreatment with rifampicin reduced the beta-lactam-induced release of deleterious bacterial products, attenuated inflammation, and thereby decreased neuronal cell loss in experimental bacterial meningitis. This concept has the potential to reduce inflammation-associated neuronal injury in bacterial meningitis and should be evaluated in a clinical trial.
The clinical presentations and pharmacologic management of three patients with acute herpetic neuralgia (AHN) and two patients with postherpetic neuralgia (PHN), confined to the head and neck region, are described.
Two patients had pain in the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve, two had pain confined to the C2-C4 dermatomes, and one patient had C2 pain with radiating and referred pain to the second and third divisions of the trigeminal nerve.
Gabapentin, an anticonvulsant drug, was effective in treating these patients, including the two cases of AHN. All patients reported complete pain relief after titration with gabapentin up to 1,800 mg/d. The patients noted a dose-dependent decrease in pain almost immediately after starting gabapentin. Specifically, reduction in the frequency and intensity of allodynia, burning pain, shooting pain, and throbbing pain were noted. None of the patients experienced side effects from the drug.
In view of the results in these patients, blinded, controlled studies are needed to determine the efficacy of gabapentin for treating AHN and PHN.
We report a case of ergotamine tartrate induced severe vasospasm in the renal arteries and the arteries of the lower extremities. Classic features seen on peripheral angiography make the diagnosis. Anticoagulation, thrombolysis, vasodilation, steroids, and prostaglandin inhibitors all have been successfully used to treat symptomatic ergot induced arterial vasospasm. Although balloon angioplasty of ergot induced vasospasm has been described in case reports, ergot vasospasm is a self limited and medically treatable condition that does not require peripheral mechanical intervention, unless the immediate threat of necrosis and gangrene exists.
A case of phenytoin (DPH) encephalopathy with increasing seizures and EEG and mental changes is described. Despite adequate oral dosage of DPH (5 mg/kg/daily) the plasma level was very low (2.8 microgramg/ml). The encephalopathy was probably an idiosyncratic and not toxic or allergic reaction. In fact the concentration of free DPH was normal, the patient presented a retarded morbilliform rash during DPH treatment, the protidogram was normal, and an intradermic DPH injection had no local effect. The authors conclude that in a patient starting DPH treatment an unexpected increase in seizures, with EEG and mental changes occurring simultaneously, should alert the physician to the possible need for eliminating DPH from the therapeutic regimen, even if plasma concentrations are low.
A 17-year-old high school student presented with a history of habitual faintings. On 24-hour Holter monitoring, cardiac asystoles were recorded, the longest lasting approximately 7 or 8 seconds during venipuncture procedures. The asystole associated with venipuncture demonstrated the cardioinhibitory effects of vasovagal reaction with blood-injury phobia. He also had a positive response during head-up tilt test showing hypotension and relative bradycardia after intravenous isoproterenol injection. After administration of oral beta blocker, he did not show further or recurrent cardiac asystole during blood injury procedure on electrocardiographic examination. Venipuncture is the most common invasive medical procedure performed in hospital settings. While venipuncture is considered to be reasonably safe, serious complication may occur even when only a small volume of blood is withdrawn. Therefore, medical personnel should be prepared to provide appropriate care.
To explore placebo-controlled efficacy and safety of atomoxetine (ATX) for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) symptoms in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD).
Children ages 5 to 15 with ASD and prominent ADHD symptoms were randomly assigned to order in a crossover of clinically titrated ATX and placebo, 6 weeks each, separated by 1-week washout. Slopes for each condition were compared by paired t test.
In 2004-2005, 12 boys and 4 girls (7 with autistic disorder, 1 Asperger's, 8 pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified) all completed at least 3 weeks of each condition. On the primary outcome, the Hyperactivity subscale of the Aberrant Behavior Checklist, ATX was superior to placebo (p =.043, effect size d = 0.90). It was also superior on a 0 to 3 rating of nine DSM-IV ADHD hyperactive/impulsive symptoms (p =.005, d = 1.27), but missed significance on nine inattentive symptoms (p =.053, d= 0.89). Nine subjects responded to ATX, four to placebo (25% improvement on the Hyperactivity subscale plus Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement of 1-2. One was rehospitalized for recurrent violence on ATX. Adverse events were otherwise tolerable, with no tendency to stereotypy.
ATX appears safe and effective for treating hyperactivity in some children with autism spectrum disorders. The effect appears as large as in a multisite methylphenidate trial in the same population, with fewer intolerable side effects. Further study in autism spectrum disorders is indicated.
Although mercaptopurine (MP) is conventionally used to treat childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), thioguanine (TG) is a more potent thiopurine in vitro and, when administered orally to patients, achieves cytotoxic drug concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We performed a pilot study incorporating oral and 24-hr continuous IV infusion (CIVI) TG in children with newly diagnosed standard-risk ALL.
Children with newly diagnosed standard-risk ALL (age 1-10 years, WBC<50 k) were eligible. Multi-agent chemotherapy was patterned after the Children's Cancer Group (CCG) 105 trial, with the addition of CIVI-TG (480 mg/m2) during consolidation, interim maintenance and maintenance, and substitution of oral TG (60 mg/m2/day) for oral MP during maintenance.
Fifty-eight patients (31 female), median age 4.3 years, were enrolled. At 8 years, the relapse-free and overall survival probabilities were 83% and 88%. There were no CNS relapses. Six patients (five males) experienced reversible veno-occlusive disease (VOD) while receiving oral TG, and the study was amended to discontinue TG, changing all patients to oral MP. Red cell TG nucleotide concentrations during oral TG averaged 95 ng (570 pmol)/8x10(8) RBC, greater than concentrations reported with oral MP.
Although the absence of CNS relapses in this pilot study suggests that TG may contribute to the prevention of CNS recurrences, the development of VOD negatively impacts the risk:benefit ratio of substituting TG for MP.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the inhibitory effects of nerve block on stress responses during orthognathic surgery involving general anesthesia with induced hypotension.
Fourteen patients (ASA-1) undergoing Le Fort 1 osteotomy and sagittal splitting mandibular osteotomy were divided into 2 groups: a block group (with maxillary and mandibular nerve blocks; n = 7) and a non-block group (without nerve blocks; n = 7). Anesthesia was maintained with N2O-O2 and isoflurane (block group, 0.8%; non-block group, 1.2%). Adenosine triphosphate was administered for induced hypotension. Observed variables included hemodynamic parameters and fluctuations and adenosine triphosphate dose. Plasma norepinephrine concentrations and blood gases were observed in the block group.
More stable hemodynamics, with a lower adenosine triphosphate dose as well as negligible changes in norepinephrine concentrations and blood gases, were obtained in the block group.
The stress responses were inhibited by nerve blocks combined with low-concentration inhalation anesthesia during adenosine triphosphate-induced hypotension. The adenosine triphosphate requirement was reduced under stable hemodynamics achieved with nerve blocks.
Autophagy, a process of bulk degradation of cellular constituents through autophagosome-lysosomal pathway, is enhanced during oxidative stress. Whether autophagy is induced during status epilepticus (SE), which induces an excess production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and leads to oxidative stress, is not established. We also sought to determine if pretreatment with Vitamin E reduced autophagy. We used pilocarpine to elicit SE in rats. The ratio of LC3 II to LC3 I and beclin 1 were used to estimate autophagy. We found that ratio of LC3 II to LC3 I and beclin 1 increased significantly at 2, 8, 16, 24 and 72 h, peaking at 24 h after SE onset. Pretreatment with Vitamin E partially inhibited autophagy by reducing LC3 II formation and de novo synthesis of beclin 1 at 24 h after seizures. These data show that autophagy is increased in rats with pilocarpine-induced SE, and Vitamin E have a partial inhibition on autophagy.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is associated with progressive cardiomyopathy. Oral corticosteroids are the gold standard for the treatment of skeletal muscle weakness; however, the effects of steroids on cardiac function have not been prospectively studied. In addition, the early role of ACE-inhibitors (ACE-I) is controversial. We aimed to determine the effects of steroids and ACE-I on development of left ventricular dysfunction in the mdx mouse, a model for dystrophin-deficient cardiomyopathy.
Orally administered captopril or prednisolone was given for 8 weeks to 16-week-old, male mdx mice. In vivo pressure-volume loops, fibrosis, in vivo myocyte sarcolemmal injury, and cytokine expression were assessed in treated and untreated mdx mice and age-matched controls. Untreated mdx mice showed compensated cardiomyopathy with reduced myocardial contractility, patchy myocardial fibrosis but preserved stroke volume. Captopril treatment resulted in indirect myocardial effects of reduced afterload and direct effects of increased contractility. Prednisolone caused acute sarcolemmal injury, increased expression of myocardial TNF alpha and fibrosis, resulting in left ventricular dilatation and diastolic dysfunction.
In a mouse model of dystrophin-deficient cardiomyopathy, ACE-I produced haemodynamic benefit, whereas steroids accelerated progression of cardiomyopathy. Although mouse models may not entirely replicate the human condition, comprehensive monitoring of cardiac function with these therapies is essential.
We compared the efficacy of rectally and intravenously administered ketoprofen for pain management after day-case adenoidectomy. Patients (123 children aged 1-9 yr) were allocated randomly to receive on induction of anaesthesia ketoprofen 25 mg rectally with an i.v. placebo, ketoprofen 25 mg i.v. with a rectal placebo, or placebo both i.v. and rectally. The method of anaesthesia and the operative technique were standardized. Postoperative pain was assessed at rest and during swallowing using the Maunuksela pain scale (0=no pain, 10=worst possible pain). Fentanyl 0.5 microg kg(-1) was given as rescue analgesia. There was no significant difference between the two ketoprofen groups in their requirement for rescue analgesics. However, both the proportion of children needing rescue analgesics [55 of 84 children (65%) vs. 33 of 39 children (84%); difference 19%, 95% confidence interval 4-34%, P=0.029] and the number of rescue analgesic doses [mean 1.2 (SD 1.2) vs. 2.2 (1.4); mean difference 0.9, 95% confidence interval 0.4-1.4, P=0.001] were significantly lower among children receiving ketoprofen than in children receiving placebo. Adverse events, duration of operation, perioperative bleeding, pain scores and time of discharge were similar in the three groups.
In addition to impaired dopaminergic neurotransmission a dysfunctional noradrenergic system has been demonstrated in Parkinson's disease. L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (DOPS), a synthetic precursor of noradrenaline (NA), appears to be effective in the treatment of some akinetic symptoms in parkinsonian patients. In the present study the possible effect of DOPS was studied in rats, in which catalepsy was induced with haloperidol as a model for parkinsonian akinesia. Intravenous infusion of NA (1.5 and 15 micrograms/kg) or DOPS (2 and 4 mg/kg) in male Wistar rats (240-290 g) significantly decreased catalepsy. The effect of DOPS was abolished by pretreatment with the peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor benserazide (2 mg/kg). Pretreatment with Ro 40-7592, a catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor, potentiated and prolonged the anticataleptic effect of DOPS. The findings suggest a peripheral site of NA mediated anticataleptic action. Therapy with DOPS may be successful only without a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor. Moreover, the therapeutic effect of DOPS may be potentiated by COMT inhibition.
We have recently verified that the monoamine-depleting drug reserpine--at doses that do not modify motor function--impairs memory in a rodent model of aversive discrimination. In this study, the effects of reserpine (0.1-0.5 mg/kg) on the performance of rats in object recognition, spatial working memory (spontaneous alternation) and emotional memory (contextual freezing conditioning) tasks were investigated. While object recognition and spontaneous alternation behavior were not affected by reserpine treatment, contextual fear conditioning was impaired. Together with previous studies, these results suggest that low doses of reserpine would preferentially induce deficits in tasks involved with emotional contexts. Possible relationships with cognitive and emotional processing deficits in Parkinson disease are discussed.
To clarify the incidence and pathophysiological mechanism of cardiovascular adverse effects of tacrolimus, the present prospective study performed scheduled cardiovascular examinations at 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 20, and 24 weeks after starting the tacrolimus therapy in 68 consecutive kidney transplantation recipients enrolled from 26 institutes in Japan. Patients with previous coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure were excluded. The examinations included any subjective symptoms, changes in resting ECG, ambulatory Holter's dynamic ECG, two-dimensional echocardiography, and monitoring of serum drug concentrations and cardiac troponin T levels. Cardiac nuclear imaging and/or coronary angiography were performed in the case of suspicious coronary events. During the investigation, chest pain in 9 (13.2%) and palpitation in 6 patients (8.8%) were reported, both closely related to elevated blood drug concentrations (37.2 +/- 18.7 ng/mL, mean +/- SD). Cardiovascular examinations detected development of resting ECG abnormalities in 12 patients (17.6%), asymptomatic ST depression following increased heart rate in 11 (16.2%) and ventricular arrhythmias in 7 patients (10.3%) on Holter's dynamic ECG. Elevation of troponin T was detected in 3 patients (4.4%), which was also closely related to elevated drug concentrations and interpreted as myocardial damage associated with the therapy. Assessments by thallium(Tl)-201 myocardial scintigraphy and/or coronary angiography in patients with suspicious coronary events revealed only two patients (2.9%) were considered to be myocardial ischemia associated with coronary vasospasm or microcirculatory disturbance. Sequential evaluations on echocardiography revealed significant (p<0.05) decrease in LV end-diastolic dimension (4, 8, 18 and 24 weeks) and LV end-systolic dimension (from 1 to 24 weeks), and significant (p<0.05) increase in LV ejection fraction 1 to 4 weeks after the kidney transplantation. Thickening of LV wall (>2 mm compared with baseline) was detected in only one patient. The present prospective study detected totally 30.9% incidence of cardiovascular adverse events. Symptomatic events and troponin T elevation were closely related to elevated blood drug concentrations (>20 ng/ml). Coronary vasomotor dysfunction seemed to be related to these adverse events especially when the blood drug concentration was exceeding 20 ng/ml.
Garlic is well known as a folk remedy for a variety of ailments since ancient times, however, very few studies are available suggesting its beneficial role against arsenic toxicity pertaining to its ability to eliminate arsenic from the blood and soft tissues and in reversal of arsenic-induced oxidative stress in affected tissues. The present study was planned to investigate the protective efficacy of aqueous garlic extract using two different doses on parameters suggestive of hepatic injury, tissue oxidative stress and mobilization of arsenic. Further, an attempt to understand the mechanism of arsenic in inducing hepatic apoptosis was also studied. Results of the present study suggested that arsenic administration in mice caused generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) causing apoptosis through mitochondria-mediated pathway. The ROS generation in hepatic tissue reverted to normal values after co-administration of garlic extracts. The study provides significant evidence that garlic extracts contain strong anti-oxidant property which could be beneficial in preventing arsenic-induced toxicity in cells. However, further research is required to determine whether the results from animal studies are applicable to humans before garlic can be recommended as a putative agent against arsenic toxicity.
1. The effects of intravenous injection of lignocaine and propranolol were studied in dogs.2. Ventricular ectopic beats produced by intravenous injection of adrenaline in anaesthetized dogs respired with halothane were abolished in four out of six dogs by lignocaine. Propranolol was effective in all three dogs tested.3. Intravenous infusion of lignocaine at (0.2 and 1.0 mg/kg)/min to total doses of 3.0 +/- 1.0 and 2.2 +/- 0.5 mg/kg, respectively, abolished the ventricular tachycardia produced in anaesthetized dogs by ouabain. A similar effect was produced by infusion of propranolol at (0.2 mg/kg)/min to a total dose of 1.9 +/- 0.4 mg/kg. Intravenous injection of single doses of lignocaine (4.0-8.0 mg/kg) also abolished the arrhythmia.4. The frequency of the ventricular ectopic beats occurring in conscious dogs 20-44 h after ligation of the anterior descending branch of the left coronary artery was reduced, with an increase in the number of sinus beats, after intravenous injection of lignocaine (8.0 mg/kg). Larger doses produced excitement. Propranolol (4.0 mg/kg) had a greater effect than the same dose of lignocaine but after 8.0 mg/kg, three of the four dogs died.5. Propranolol was more effective than lignocaine in abolishing the three different types of arrhythmia.6. Dose-response curves showed that lignocaine was more active in abolishing the ouabain induced arrhythmia than the halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia and was least active on the arrhythmia caused by ligation of the coronary artery.
The pupillary diameter of 11 patients with Parkinson's disease was significantly decreased four hours after ingestion of L-dopa. It is suggested that this miosis may be caused by diminished noradrenaline output at sympathetic nerve endings, or alternatively by an action on the central nervous system.
A case of mannitol-induced renal failure is described and previously reported cases are reviewed. Possible mechanisms of the etiology are discussed.
The effect of bromocriptine on sexual activity was studied in male haemodialysis patients in a single-blind placebo controlled trial with random cross-over. At a dose of 2.5 mg bromocriptine twice day, plasma-prolactin concentrations were consistently reduced, while sexual function as assessed by a questionnaire was markedly improved. At the doses used, side-effects, particularly hypotension, were common, but bromocriptine helped to restore sexual function in dialysed patients.
