Although angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy reduces mortality rates in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), it may also cause decreased renal function. Little information is available to predict which patients are at highest risk for this complication.
To quantify specific clinical predictors of reduction in renal function in patients with CHF who are prescribed angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor therapy.
We analyzed data from the Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD), a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of enalapril for the treatment of CHF. There were 3379 patients randomly assigned to enalapril with a median follow-up of 974 days and 3379 patients randomly assigned to placebo with a mean follow-up of 967 days. Decreased renal function was defined as a rise in serum creatinine >/=0.5 mg/dL (44 micromol/L) from baseline. We used time-to-event analysis to identify potential predictors of decrease in renal function including age, baseline ejection fraction, baseline creatinine, low systolic blood pressure (<100 mm Hg), history of hypertension, diabetes, and use of antiplatelet, diuretic, and beta-blocker therapy.
Patients randomly assigned to enalapril had a 33% greater likelihood of decreased renal function than controls (P =.003). By multivariate analysis, in both the placebo and enalapril groups older age, diuretic therapy, and diabetes were associated with decreased renal function, whereas beta-blocker therapy and higher ejection fraction were renoprotective. Older age was associated with a greater risk of developing decreased renal function in both groups, but significantly more so in the enalapril group (enalapril: risk ratio [RR] 1.42 per 10 years, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.32-1.52 with enalapril; placebo: RR 1.18, 95% CI 1.12-1.25). Diuretic therapy was likewise associated with a greater risk of decreased renal function in the enalapril group (RR 1.89, 95% CI 1.70-2.08) than in the placebo group (RR 1.35, 95% CI 1.09-1.66). Conversely, enalapril had a relative renoprotective effect (RR 1.33, 95% CI 1.13-1.53) compared with placebo (RR 1.96, 95% CI 1.57-2.44) in patients with diabetes. A lower risk of renal impairment was seen in both groups with beta-blocker therapy (RR 0.70, 95% CI 0.57-0.85) and higher baseline ejection fraction (RR 0.93 per 5% increment, 95% CI 0.91-0. 96).
Enalapril use caused a 33% increase in the risk of decreased renal function in patients with CHF. Diuretic use and advanced age increased this risk. Diabetes was associated with an increased risk of renal impairment in all patients with CHF, but this risk was reduced in the enalapril group compared with the placebo group. beta-Blocker therapy and higher ejection fraction were renoprotective in all patients regardless of therapy.
Mutism/speech apraxia has been well documented as a toxic effect of cyclosporine after liver transplantation but has been reported only rarely with tacrolimus. Brain imaging with magnetic resonance or computed tomography has failed to demonstrate abnormalities in affected patients.
We present the first example of an acute onset of loss of speech associated with a sudden elevation of serum tacrolimus level after successful orthotopic liver transplantation. We also describe the positron emission tomography (PET) scan of this patient's brain.
PET scan imaging of the brain was abnormal, demonstrating decreased metabolism in the posterior temporo-parieto-occipital regions. Statistical probability mapping revealed additional areas of hypometabolism in the cingulate gyrus.
PET scan revealed abnormalities of the brain in a patient with tacrolimus-induced mutism. The cingulate gyrus may play a role in the mutism/speech apraxia syndrome seen with cyclosporine/tacrolimus neurotoxicity.
Eighteen metals were estimated in the scalp hair samples from cancer patients (n = 111) and normal donors (n = 113). Nitric acid-perchloric acid wet digestion procedure was used for the quantification of the selected metals by flame atomic absorption spectrophotometry. In the scalp hair of cancer patients, highest average levels were found for Ca (861 microg/g), followed by Na (672 microg/g), Zn (411 microg/g), Mg (348 microg/g), Fe (154 microg/g), Sr (129 microg/g), and K (116 microg/g), whereas in comparison, the dominant metals in the scalp hair of normal donors were Ca (568 microg/g), Zn (177 microg/g), Mg (154 micraog/g), Fe (110 microg/g), and Na (103 microg/g). The concentrations of Ca, Cd, Co, Cr, Fe, K, Mg, Mn, Na, Ni, Pb, Sb, Sr, and Zn were notably higher in the hair of cancer patients as compared with normal donors, which may lead to a number of physiological disorders. Strong positive correlations were found in Mn-Pb (0.83), Cd-Cr (0.82), Cd-Li (0.57), Fe-Pb (0.56), and Fe-Mn (0.55) in the hair of cancer patients whereas Na-Cd, Li-Cr, Li-Co, Co-Cd, Li-Cd, Na-Co, Na-Li, Ca-Mg and Na-Cr exhibited strong relationships (r > 0.50) in the hair of normal donors. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of the data revealed seven PCs, both for cancer patients and normal donors, but with significantly different loadings. Cluster Analysis (CA) was also used to support the PCA results. The study evidenced significantly different pattern of metal distribution in the hair of cancer patients in comparison with normal donors. The role of trace metals in carcinogenesis was also discussed.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) is a primary antioxidant enzyme whose expression is essential for life in oxygen. Mn-SOD has tumor suppressor activity in a wide variety of tumors and transformed cell systems. Our initial observations revealed that Mn-SOD expression was inversely correlated with expression of AP-2 transcription factors in normal human fibroblasts and their SV-40 transformed counterparts. Thus we hypothesized that AP-2 may down-regulate Mn-SOD expression. To examine the functional role of AP-2 on Mn-SOD promoter transactivation we cotransfected AP-2-deficient HepG2 cells with a human Mn-SOD promoter-reporter construct and expression vectors encoding each of the three known AP-2 family members. Our results indicated that AP-2 could significantly repress Mn-SOD promoter activity, and that this repression was both Mn-SOD promoter and AP-2-specific. The three AP-2 proteins appeared to play distinct roles in Mn-SOD gene regulation. Moreover, although all three AP-2 proteins could repress the Mn-SOD promoter, AP-2alpha and AP-2gamma were more active in this regard than AP-2beta. Transcriptional repression by AP-2 was not a general effect in this system, because another AP-2-responsive gene, c-erbB-3, was transactivated by AP-2. Repression of Mn-SOD by AP-2 was dependent on DNA binding, and expression of AP-2B, a dominant negative incapable of DNA binding, relieved the repression on Mn-SOD promoter and reactivated Mn-SOD expression in the AP-2 abundant SV40-transformed fibroblast cell line MRC-5VA. These results indicate that AP-2-mediated transcriptional repression contributes to the constitutively low expression of Mn-SOD in SV40-transformed fibroblasts and suggest a mechanism for Mn-SOD down-regulation in cancer.
Reactive airway dysfunction syndrome (RADS), or Brooks syndrome, is a complication observed after inhalation of caustic or highly irritating substances. The diagnosis is based on a group of criteria which include the absence of prior respiratory disease. Strict application of these criteria could have a prejudicial effect for certain victims. Three serious cases of RADS were observed in workers who were exposed to massive inhalation of caustic substances. The products implicated (phosphoric oxychloride, titanium tetrachloride, and trichloroacetyl chloride) hydrolyze to hydrochloric acid when they come in contact with the airway mucosa. After an initial period of acute respiratory distress, the patients encountered serious difficulties in achieving an appropriate diagnosis, and in having their sequellae recognized as resulting from an occupational accident. The problem was that these patients had a history of cured allergic asthma or smoking-related COPD. The presence of prior respiratory disorders must not exclude the diagnosis of RADS. A prior respiratory disorder cannot be used as an argument to exclude such victims from indemnities for occupational accident sequelae.
Hemorrhagic cystitis is a significant and sometimes fatal complication of cyclophosphamide therapy. We report our recent experience using a neodymium (Nd):YAG laser to treat 3 pediatric patients with cyclophosphamide induced cystitis.
Between May 1994 and March 1995 we treated 3 pediatric patients 6 to 8 years old with an Nd:YAG laser for severe hemorrhagic cyclophosphamide induced cystitis. All patients presented with gross hematuria and conservative measures failed. The Nd:YAG laser (20 watts and 2-second pulse mode) was used to fulgurate bleeding endoscopically. All patients required 2 laser treatment sessions with a total energy range of 8,011 to 16,595 J. and strict parameters to avoid small bowel injury.
All 3 patients had resolution of gross hematuria with Nd:YAG therapy. They were discharged home within 3 days after repeat laser treatment with grossly clear urine and stable hematocrit. At followup of 11 to 18 months the patients have grossly clear urine and they are free of symptoms.
Our experience suggests that the Nd:YAG laser can be effective and safe for treating refractory cyclophosphamide induced hemorrhagic cystitis in pediatric patients.
Eighty-six panic disorder patients and 45 nonpsychiatric controls were infused with isoproterenol at a rate of 1 microgram/min for up to 20 min in a placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Sixty-six percent of panic disorder patients experienced panic attacks during isoproterenol infusions, compared to 16% during placebo infusions. Nine percent of control subjects panicked with isoproterenol, but none panicked with placebo. Patients were more sensitive than controls to the anxiogenic effects of isoproterenol, as measured by subject self-ratings on a panic description scale. The frequency of panic attacks induced in patients was related to the dosage of isoproterenol; 79% of the patients who received a mean of 18.5 ng/min/kg of isoproterenol panicked. The panic attacks experienced by patients during isoproterenol infusions were similar to those experienced during placebo infusions.
Most published studies suggesting that epidural fentanyl acts predominantly at spinal sites administered the drug as a bolus injection, whereas most studies suggesting that it acts predominantly at supraspinal sites administered the drug as an infusion. In this study we tested the hypothesis that the mode of administration (bolus versus infusion) of epidural fentanyl determines its site of action. Ten healthy volunteers were enrolled in this randomized, double-blinded, cross-over study. On separate study days fentanyl was administered into the epidural space as a bolus (0.03 mg followed by 0.1 mg 210 min later) and as an infusion (0.03 mg/h followed by 0.1 mg/hr 210 min later for 200 min). Using a thermal and electrical experimental pain model, the heat ( degrees C) and electrical current (mA) causing maximum tolerable pain were assessed repetitively over a period of 420 min. The analgesic efficacy measures were obtained at a lumbar and a cranial dermatome. Plasma fentanyl concentrations were determined throughout the study. Epidural bolus administration of fentanyl resulted in segmental analgesia (leg > head), whereas the epidural infusion of fentanyl produced nonsegmental analgesia (leg = head). There was a significant linear relationship between the analgesic effect and the plasma concentration of fentanyl for the epidural infusion but not for the epidural bolus administration of fentanyl. These findings support our hypothesis and might explain the apparent conflict in the literature regarding the site of action of epidural fentanyl.
In an experimental pain study in volunteers, epidural fentanyl caused segmental analgesia when administered as a bolus and nonsegmental systemic analgesia when administered as a continuous infusion. This finding may help resolve the long-standing controversy surrounding the site of action of epidural fentanyl.
Our recent studies showed that total body irradiation (TBI) induces long-term bone marrow (BM) suppression in part by induction of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) senescence through NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4)-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS). Therefore, in this study we examined whether resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene), a potent antioxidant and a putative activator of Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1), can ameliorate TBI-induced long-term BM injury by inhibiting radiation-induced chronic oxidative stress and senescence in HSCs. Our results showed that pretreatment with resveratrol not only protected mice from TBI-induced acute BM syndrome and lethality but also ameliorated TBI-induced long-term BM injury. The latter effect is probably attributable to resveratrol-mediated reduction of chronic oxidative stress in HSCs, because resveratrol treatment significantly inhibited TBI-induced increase in ROS production in HSCs and prevented mouse BM HSCs from TBI-induced senescence, leading to a significant improvement in HSC clonogenic function and long-term engraftment after transplantation. The inhibition of TBI-induced ROS production in HSCs is probably attributable to resveratrol-mediated downregulation of NOX4 expression and upregulation of Sirt1, superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2), and glutathione peroxidase 1 expression. Furthermore, we showed that resveratrol increased Sirt1 deacetylase activity in BM hematopoietic cells; and Ex527, a potent Sirt1 inhibitor, can attenuate resveratrol-induced SOD2 expression and the radioprotective effect of resveratrol on HSCs. These findings demonstrate that resveratrol can protect HSCs from radiation at least in part via activation of Sirt1. Therefore, resveratrol has the potential to be used as an effective therapeutic agent to ameliorate TBI-induced long-term BM injury.
Purpose. Imatinib treatment causes muscle cramps in up to 40% of patients, but their pathogenesis is unknown. We present a case series illustrating an association between imatinib, relative hypocalcaemia, and the development of cramps. Patients. The index patient developed muscle spasms and cramps after receiving imatinib for gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) for 5 months. The adjusted serum calcium had dropped to the lower limit of normal. The low serum calcium and muscle cramps improved on stopping imatinib and recurred on rechallenge. We reviewed the medical records of 16 further patients. Results. Two patients reported muscle cramps (12%). There was a rapid and sustained reduction in adjusted serum calcium in the first 6 months from 2.45 +/- 0.11 mmol/L (mean +/- SD) to 2.30 +/- 0.08 mmol/L (p = 0.025). Conclusion. Imatinib treatment of GIST is associated with reduction in serum calcium which may explain the development of neuromuscular symptoms. In patients receiving imatinib, serum electrolytes should be monitored and muscle cramps treated by correction of serum calcium, or an empirical trial of quinine sulphate.
The primary cause of death from breast cancer is the progressive growth of tumors and resistance to conventional therapies. It is currently believed that recurrent cancer is repopulated according to a recently proposed cancer stem cell hypothesis. New therapeutic strategies that specifically target cancer stem-like cells may represent a new avenue of cancer therapy. We aimed to discover novel compounds that target breast cancer stem-like cells. We used a dye-exclusion method to isolate side population (SP) cancer cells and, subsequently, subjected these SP cells to a sphere formation assay to generate SP spheres (SPS) from breast cancer cell lines. Surface markers, stemness genes, and tumorigenicity were used to test stem properties. We performed a high-throughput drug screening using these SPS. The effects of candidate compounds were assessed in vitro and in vivo. We successfully generated breast cancer SPS with stem-like properties. These SPS were enriched for CD44(high) (2.8-fold) and CD24(low) (4-fold) cells. OCT4 and ABCG2 were overexpressed in SPS. Moreover, SPS grew tumors at a density of 10(3), whereas an equivalent number of parental cells did not initiate tumor formation. A clinically approved drug, niclosamide, was identified from the LOPAC chemical library of 1,258 compounds. Niclosamide downregulated stem pathways, inhibited the formation of spheroids, and induced apoptosis in breast cancer SPS. Animal studies also confirmed this therapeutic effect. The results of this proof-of-principle study may facilitate the development of new breast cancer therapies in the near future. The extension of niclosamide clinical trials is warranted.
Epinephrine infiltration of the nasal mucosa causes hypotension during functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) under general anesthesia. A prospective randomized-controlled study was designed to determine whether relatively light general anesthesia is superior to fluid expansion in reducing epinephrine-induced hypotension during FESS.
Ninety patients undergoing elective FESS under general anesthesia were randomly assigned to three groups with 30 patients in each. Each patient received local infiltration with adrenaline-containing (5 microg/ml) lidocaine (1%, 4 ml) under different conditions. For Group I, anesthesia was maintained with propofol 2 microg/ml and rimifentanil 2 ng/ml by TCI. Group II (control group) and Group III received propofol 4 microg/ml and rimifentanil 4 ng/ml, respectively. In Groups I and II, fluid expansion was performed with hetastarch 5 ml/kg within 20 minutes; hetastarch 10 ml/kg was used in Group III. Mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) were recorded at 30-second-intervals for 5 minutes after the beginning of local infiltration. Simultaneously, the lowest and the highest MAP were recorded to calculate the mean maximum increase or decrease percent in MAP for all patients in each group. Data analysis was performed by chi(2) test, one-way analysis of variance, or one-way analysis of covariance.
Hemodynamic changes, particularly a decrease in MAP accompanied by an increase in HR at 1.5 minutes (P < 0.05), were observed in all groups. The mean maximum decrease in MAP below baseline was 14% in Group I, 24% in Group III and 26% in Group II. There were statistically significant differences between Group I and Groups II and III (P < 0.05). The mean maximum increase in MAP above baseline was 9% in Group I, 6% in Group III and 2% in Group II.
Relatively light general anesthesia can reduce the severity of epinephrine-induced hypotension more effectively than fluid expansion during FESS under general anesthesia.
Prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism (VTE) in head injured patients has avoided heparin products because of concern for exacerbating intracranial bleeding. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety of unfractionated heparin (UFH) for VTE prophylaxis after traumatic brain injury.
We retrospectively evaluated the early use of UFH in patients sustaining a severe closed head injury (Abbreviated Injury Scale score > 3) from January 1, 2000, through December 31, 2000. Two groups were formed on the basis of the timing of UFH administration: within 72 hours of admission (Early group), or after the third day of hospitalization (Late group), if at all. Intracranial bleeding related to UFH administration was assessed by computed tomographic scan of the head and/or clinical examination.
Sixty-four of 76 patients with intracranial blood on admission head computed tomographic scan fulfilled study criteria. Seventy-three percent (n = 47) were in the Early group and 27% (n = 17) were in the Late group. None of the Early group had an increase in intracranial bleeding or deterioration on neurologic examination as a result of UFH administration. However, there was no statistical difference in VTE events between the two groups.
Early use of UFH in the severe head injured patient does not increase bleeding complications.
Cadmium (Cd) is a powerful inducer of oxidative stress. It also causes ventral body wall defects in chick embryos treated at Hamburger-Hamilton stages 16-17. By measuring malondialdehyde levels (TBARS method) and cotreating with antioxidants (tempol, ascorbate, and N-acetylcysteine), we sought to determine if oxidative stress were directly related to teratogenesis. We also investigated the expression of mRNAs for antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD) -1 and -2, catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). RT-PCR showed reductions in SOD-1, SOD-2, and CAT 1 hour after treatment with Cd. MDA levels increased 4 hours after Cd, and remained elevated 24 hours after treatment. Of the antioxidants, only N-acetylcysteine reduced MDA levels to control values. Nonetheless, no antioxidant could reduce embryo lethality or malformation rates. Furthermore, MDA levels 24 hours after treatment were identical in malformed and normal embryos exposed to Cd. Hence, we conclude that oxidative stress may not have a direct role in Cd teratogenesis.
Indinavir, used for the treatment of HIV disease, forms distinctive crystals in the urine. The crystalluria has been associated principally with several urinary tract abnormalities which may require discontinuation of the drug. We present a case of progressive leucocyturia and renal impairment occurring during indinavir treatment which illustrates vividly the impact of the crystalluria on the tubulointerstitial renal compartment.
The accumulation of dicarboxylic acids, particularly long chain, is a prominent feature of Reye's syndrome and diseases of peroxisomal metabolism. We assessed the omega-oxidation of a spectrum of fatty acids in rats and asked whether pretreatment of rats with aspirin, which is known to predispose children to Reye's syndrome, would affect omega-oxidation of long chain fatty acids. We found that aspirin increased liver free fatty acids and increased the capacity for omega-oxidation three- to sevenfold. Omega-oxidation of long chain substrate was stimulated to a greater degree than medium chain substrate and was apparent within one day of treatment, at serum aspirin concentrations below the therapeutic range in humans. The apparent Km for lauric acid was 0.9 microM and 12 microM for palmitate. We also found a difference in the storage stability of activity toward medium and long chain substrate. Saturating concentrations of palmitate had no effect on the formation of dodecanedioic acid, whereas laurate decreased but never eliminated the omega-oxidation of palmitate. 97% of the total laurate omega-oxidative activity recovered was found in the microsomes, but 32% of palmitate omega-oxidative activity was present in the cytosol. These results demonstrate that aspirin is a potent stimulator of omega-oxidation and suggest that there may be multiple enzymes for omega-oxidation with overlapping substrate specificity.
N,N-dibenzylpiperazines have high affinity for sigma receptors, and we aimed to increase their anticocaine activity by introducing substituents known to enhance such activity in other sigma ligands. Ligands with high affinity for sigma-1 receptors resulted, but their activity in attenuating cocaine-induced convulsions did not correlate with sigma-1 binding affinity, and may be more closely related to their sigma-2 binding affinities.
A young man developed intracranial hypertension immediately after myelography with non-ionic water-soluble contrast medium (iopamidol). Cerebral angiography showed extensive cerebral venous thrombosis. The common causes of thrombophlebitis were excluded. A relationship to the contrast medium was strongly suspected, since a similar case has been reported. The rheological properties and haemo-concentration induced by iopamidol could explain this complication.
De novo lipogenesis is believed to be involved in oncogenesis. We investigated the role of aberrant lipid biosynthesis in the pathogenesis of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
We evaluated expression of enzymes that regulate lipogenesis in human normal liver tissues and HCC and surrounding, nontumor, liver tissues from patients using real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry, and biochemical assays. Effects of lipogenic enzymes on human HCC cell lines were evaluated using inhibitors and overexpression experiments. The lipogenic role of the proto-oncogene AKT was assessed in vitro and in vivo.
In human liver samples, de novo lipogenesis was progressively induced from nontumorous liver tissue toward the HCC. Extent of aberrant lipogenesis correlated with clinical aggressiveness, activation of the AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin signaling pathway, and suppression of adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinases. In HCC cell lines, the AKT-mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1-ribosomal protein S6 pathway promoted lipogenesis via transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms that included inhibition of fatty acid synthase ubiquitination by the USP2a de-ubiquitinase and disruption of the SREBP1 and SREBP2 degradation complexes. Suppression of the genes adenosine triphosphate citrate lyase, acetyl-CoA carboxylase, fatty acid synthase, stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1, or sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1, which are involved in lipogenesis, reduced proliferation, and survival of HCC cell lines and AKT-dependent cell proliferation. Overexpression of an activated form of AKT in livers of mice induced lipogenesis and tumor development.
De novo lipogenesis has pathogenic and prognostic significance for HCC. Inhibitors of lipogenic signaling, including those that inhibit the AKT pathway, might be useful as therapeutics for patients with liver cancer.
Several studies documented the key role of oxidative stress and abnormal production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the pathophysiology of muscular dystrophies (MDs). The sources of ROS, however, are still controversial as well as their major molecular targets. This study investigated whether ROS produced in mitochondria by monoamine oxidase (MAO) contributes to MD pathogenesis. Pargyline, an MAO inhibitor, reduced ROS accumulation along with a beneficial effect on the dystrophic phenotype of Col6a1(-/-) mice, a model of Bethlem myopathy and Ullrich congenital MD, and mdx mice, a model of Duchenne MD. Based on our previous observations on oxidative damage of myofibrillar proteins in heart failure, we hypothesized that MAO-dependent ROS might impair contractile function in dystrophic muscles. Indeed, oxidation of myofibrillar proteins, as probed by formation of disulphide cross-bridges in tropomyosin, was detected in both Col6a1(-/-) and mdx muscles. Notably, pargyline significantly reduced myofiber apoptosis and ameliorated muscle strength in Col6a1(-/-) mice. This study demonstrates a novel and determinant role of MAO in MDs, adding evidence of the pivotal role of mitochondria and suggesting a therapeutic potential for MAO inhibition.
The severe toxicity of antitumor organotin (IV) compounds limits their application in clinic, however, the toxic mechanism is still unclear. Di-n-butyl-di-(4-chlorobenzohydroxamato) Tin (IV) (DBDCT), an antitumor agent with high activity and obvious neurotoxicity was chosen as a typical diorganotin (IV) compound to investigate its neurotoxic mechanism using PC12 cells and comprehensive methods. Treatment with DBDCT resulted in a dose- and time-dependent growth inhibition of PC12 cells. The changes in cell morphology were observed using light microscopy, fluorescence microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. PC12 cell apoptosis induced by DBDCT was confirmed by annexin V/propidium iodide staining, and characterized by cleavage of caspase-9 and caspase-3 proteins. DBDCT induced the release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria to the cytosol and the generation of reactive oxygen species. DBDCT up-regulated the expression of Bax, down-regulated the expression of Bcl-2, and significantly increased the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2. DBDCT also caused the phosphorylation of JNK and p38(MAPK). In rats exposed to DBDCT, apoptosis was also observed in brain, as shown by the detection of cleaved caspase-9 and caspase-3 proteins and increased TUNEL positive staining. In conclusion, the results demonstrated that DBDCT caused the neurotoxicity by inducing apoptosis via mitochondria-mediated pathway.
Studies have suggested an increased risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality associated with the use of ipratropium bromide. We sought to examine the association between ipratropium bromide use and the risk of cardiovascular events (CVEs).
We performed a cohort study of 82,717 US veterans with a new diagnosis of COPD between 1999 and 2002. Subjects were followed until they had their first hospitalization for a CVE (acute coronary syndrome, heart failure, or cardiac dysrhythmia), they died, or the end of the study period (September 30, 2004). Cumulative anticholinergic exposure was calculated as the number of 30-day equivalents (ipratropium bromide) within the past year. We used Cox regression models with time-dependent covariates to estimate the risk of CVE associated with anticholinergic exposure and to adjust for potential confounders, including markers of COPD severity and cardiovascular risk.
We identified 6,234 CVEs (44% heart failure, 28% acute coronary syndrome, 28% dysrhythmia). Compared with subjects not exposed to anticholinergics within the past year, any exposure to anticholinergics within the past 6 months was associated with an increased risk of CVE (hazard ratio [95% CI] for< or =four and>four 30-day equivalents: 1.40 [1.30-1.51] and 1.23 [1.13-1.36], respectively). Among subjects who received anticholinergics more than 6 months prior, there did not appear to be elevated risk of a CVE.
We found an increased risk of CVEs associated with the use of ipratropium bromide within the past 6 months. These findings are consistent with previous concerns raised about the cardiovascular safety of ipratropium bromide.
The typical antipsychotic haloperidol is known to induce extra-pyramidal side-effects (EPS). Catalepsy in rats is generally regarded as a valid model for detecting the EPS liability of compounds in humans. Together with its antipsychotic and cataleptogenic actions, haloperidol causes an attenuation of instrumental responding which becomes larger in the course of a session: a within-session response decrement. The present study compared the time-course of haloperidol-induced catalepsy, measured by a bar test, to the haloperidol-induced within-session response decrements, measured by operant behaviour under a fixed ratio 10 schedule of reinforcement. Rats were trained to press a lever on a Fixed Ratio 10 schedule of food reinforcement during sessions of 15 min. When responding was stable, saline or haloperidol in 0.03 mg/kg, 0.1 mg/kg, or 0.3 mg/kg was administered intra-peritoneally either 30, 90 or 180 min prior to behavioural testing. The number of lever presses, food tray visits and latency to press the lever and to visit the food tray were analysed in five successive blocks of 3 min. Catalepsy was tested 30, 60, 90, 120, and 180 min. after injection, by placing a rat with its forepaws on a horizontal bar. The latency to remove both forepaws from the bar was scored. Within-session response decrements were present at 0.1 mg/kg and at 0.3 mg/kg, from 30 min after administration onward. At these doses, latency to press the lever was increased after 30 and 90 min, but not significantly after 180 min. Latency to visit the tray was affected only after 30 min, at 0.3 mg/kg. Haloperidol induced a dose-dependent increase in catalepsy from 60 min onwards, with maximal effect after 120 min. A dissociation between the time-course of occurrence of within-session response decrement and the cataleptogenic action of haloperidol, as well as between the latter and both latency measures, was found. Consequently, the present data suggest that within-session response decrements are not obviously caused by catalepsy-related impairments.
Translesion DNA synthesis (TLS) is a DNA damage tolerance mechanism in which specialized low-fidelity DNA polymerases bypass replication-blocking lesions, and it is usually associated with mutagenesis. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae a key event in TLS is the monoubiquitination of PCNA, which enables recruitment of the specialized polymerases to the damaged site through their ubiquitin-binding domain. In mammals, however, there is a debate on the requirement for ubiquitinated PCNA (PCNA-Ub) in TLS. We show that UV-induced Rpa foci, indicative of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) regions caused by UV, accumulate faster and disappear more slowly in Pcna(K164R/K164R) cells, which are resistant to PCNA ubiquitination, compared to Pcna(+/+) cells, consistent with a TLS defect. Direct analysis of TLS in these cells, using gapped plasmids with site-specific lesions, showed that TLS is strongly reduced across UV lesions and the cisplatin-induced intrastrand GG crosslink. A similar effect was obtained in cells lacking Rad18, the E3 ubiquitin ligase which monoubiquitinates PCNA. Consistently, cells lacking Usp1, the enzyme that de-ubiquitinates PCNA exhibited increased TLS across a UV lesion and the cisplatin adduct. In contrast, cells lacking the Rad5-homologs Shprh and Hltf, which polyubiquitinate PCNA, exhibited normal TLS. Knocking down the expression of the TLS genes Rev3L, PolH, or Rev1 in Pcna(K164R/K164R) mouse embryo fibroblasts caused each an increased sensitivity to UV radiation, indicating the existence of TLS pathways that are independent of PCNA-Ub. Taken together these results indicate that PCNA-Ub is required for maximal TLS. However, TLS polymerases can be recruited to damaged DNA also in the absence of PCNA-Ub, and perform TLS, albeit at a significantly lower efficiency and altered mutagenic specificity.
The relationship between opiate binding density and morphine-induced catalepsy was estimated via dose-response analysis of the brain sites in which naloxone microinjections reversed the catalepsy induced by intraperitoneal morphine. One-hundred forty-one experimentally naive male Long-Evans rats were implanted with chemical microinjection guide cannulae aimed for various high-to-moderate binding density areas within caudate nucleus, central gray matter, thalamus, hypothalamus, amygdala, and frontal cortex as well as low density sites in pyriform cortex and various fiber tracts. Overall, 48 out of 91 animals microinjected with naloxone in brain sites having high-to-moderate density of opiate binding showed reversal of the cataleptic response. Dose-response effects were found in all 6 high-to-moderate density sites: ranging from 85% reversals at 100 mcg naloxone over all sites to 34% reversals at 0.01 mcg naloxone. There were no reversals out of 38 naloxone microinjection in brain sites having a low density of opiate binding and no reversals out of 18 saline microinjections in either high-to-moderate or low opiate binding density loci. These results suggest a role for limbic and basal ganglia portions of the opiate system in a motor aspect of narcotic action. We speculate that these loci may also play a role in the motor expression of the response to the analgesic and euphoric actions of morphine to supplement actions mediated through periventricular structures.
To evaluate the effects of alfentanil or lidocaine on the excitatory phenomena (myoclonus, cough, hiccough) caused by methohexital anesthesia and on the hemodynamic changes induced by retrobulbar block.
Prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
University-affiliated, tertiary-care hospital.
60 ASA physical status II and III patients who were admitted for elective cataract extractions and intraocular lens implantations.
Patients were randomly assigned to one of three groups. After adequate preoxygenation in the holding area, Group 1 received alfentanil 5 micrograms/kg intravenously (i.v.), Group 2 received lidocaine 1 mg/kg i.v. and Group 3 received the placebo (saline) i.v. Immediately after the bolus injection of the study solution, sodium methohexital 1.5 mg/kg was injected i.v. over 30 seconds. As soon as the eyelid reflex was lost, the retrobulbar block was placed over 5 seconds.
Occurrences of excitatory phenomena were recorded by an independent observer who was blinded as to treatment allocation. Other side effects such as oculocardiac reflex, nausea, vomiting, itching, or chest wall rigidity were recorded. Vital signs were recorded at baseline and 1, 3, and 5 minutes after placement of the block. In the alfentanil group, the incidence of myoclonus or cough was significantly less than in the lidocaine or placebo groups. Alfentanil also decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure significantly at 1, 3, and 5 minutes after retrobulbar block. Changes in heart rate were not significantly different from baseline.
A small dose of alfentanil (5 micrograms/kg i.v.) decreases myoclonus and cough induced by sodium methohexital anesthesia i.v., resulting in improved quality of induction of anesthesia. Alfentanil also attenuates the cardiovascular responses caused by placement of a retrobulbar block.
