Little is known about the mechanisms responsible for the fall in fatty acid oxidation during the development of cardiac hypertrophy. We focused on the effects of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activation during cardiac hypertrophy on the activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) beta/delta, which is the predominant PPAR subtype in cardiac cells and plays a prominent role in the regulation of cardiac lipid metabolism. Phenylephrine-induced cardiac hypertrophy in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes caused a reduction in the expression of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (Pdk4), a target gene of PPARbeta/delta involved in fatty acid utilization, and a fall in palmitate oxidation that was reversed by NF-kappaB inhibitors. Lipopolysaccharide stimulation of NF-kappaB in embryonic rat heart-derived H9c2 myotubes, which only express PPARbeta/delta, caused both a reduction in Pdk4 expression and DNA binding activity of PPARbeta/delta to its response element, effects that were reversed by NF-kappaB inhibitors. Coimmunoprecipitation studies demonstrated that lipopolysaccharide strongly stimulated the physical interaction between the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and PPARbeta/delta, providing an explanation for the reduced activity of PPARbeta/delta. Finally, we assessed whether this mechanism was present in vivo in pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy. In hypertrophied hearts of banded rats the reduction in the expression of Pdk4 was accompanied by activation of NF-kappaB and enhanced interaction between p65 and PPARbeta/delta. These results indicate that NF-kappaB activation during cardiac hypertrophy down-regulates PPARbeta/delta activity, leading to a fall in fatty acid oxidation, through a mechanism that involves enhanced protein-protein interaction between the p65 subunit of NF-kappaB and PPARbeta/delta.
Ethambutol is a useful first line antituberculous drug, but can cause significant visual impairment. In order to determine the clinical manifestations of optic neuropathy associated with ethambutol, and the margin of drug safety in Koreans, we investigated ten men and four women, diagnosed between 1995 and 1997 at Seoul Municipal Boramae Hospital as suffering from ethambutol toxicity. After determining their history, including the period during which ethambutol had been administered, and its dose, a complete eye examination was performed, including measurement of best-corrected visual acuity, pupillary examination, color vision, fundus examination and a test of visual field. Ocular ethambutol toxicity was observed at a dose as low as 12.3 mg/kg. Abnormal ophthalmic findings include decreased visual acuity and abnormal visual field, especially in the central scotoma, and abnormal color perception. In conclusion, ethambutol at a low dose can cause optic neuropathy, and for the early detection of this, a color vision test is important.
It has been proposed for many years that low-level laser (or light) therapy (LLLT) can ameliorate the pain, swelling, and inflammation associated with various forms of arthritis. Light is thought to be absorbed by mitochondrial chromophores leading to an increase in adenosine triphosphate (ATP), reactive oxygen species and/or cyclic AMP production and consequent gene transcription via activation of transcription factors. However, despite many reports about the positive effects of LLLT in arthritis and in medicine in general, its use remains controversial. For all indications (including arthritis) the optimum optical parameters have been difficult to establish and so far are unknown.
We tested LLLT on rats that had zymosan injected into their knee joints to induce inflammatory arthritis. We compared illumination regimens consisting of a high and low fluence (3 and 30 J/cm(2)), delivered at high and low irradiance (5 and 50 mW/cm(2)) using 810-nm laser light daily for 5 days, with the positive control of conventional corticosteroid (dexamethasone) therapy.
Illumination with 810-nm laser was highly effective (almost as good as dexamethasone) at reducing swelling and a longer illumination time (10 or 100 minutes compared to 1 minute) was more important in determining effectiveness than either the total fluence delivered or the irradiance. LLLT induced reduction of joint swelling correlated with reduction in the inflammatory marker serum prostaglandin E2 (PGE2).
LLLT with 810-nm laser is highly effective in treating inflammatory arthritis in this model. Longer illumination times were more effective than short times regardless of total fluence or irradiance. These data will be of value in designing clinical trials of LLLT for various arthritides.
Hemodynamic monitoring after a single dose (10 mg) of nifedipine in 27 primary hypertensive subjects (diastolic pressure greater than 110 mm Hg) documented that this calcium antagonistic agent exerts a potent arteriolar vasodilating action, which results in prompt (-21% of control at 30 minutes) and persistent (-16% of control at 120 minutes) fall in mean arterial pressure associated with a rise in cardiac output and pulse rate. The same patients received oral treatment for 3 weeks. Hourly pressure readings showed that 1) the antihypertensive response to each dose lasts 8--12 hours; and 2) nifedipine every 6 hours significantly reduced blood pressure throughout the 24 hours, without postural hypotension. Side effect were short-lasting (headache in five patients, palpitation without arrhythmias in eight patients, burning sensation in the face and legs in five patients and sporadic extrasystoles in five patients) and tended to disappear with continued treatment. Development of drug resistance, sodium retention, plasma volume expansion, renin release or angina pectoris were not observed during the study. Although these findings seem to differentiate nifedipine from other vasodilators currently used in the treatment of hypertension, broader experience and more prolonged trials with nifedipine as an antihypertensive agent will be needed before conclusions can be drawn on these particular aspects.
As a consequence of the methamphetamine epidemic in Thailand, the occurrence of methamphetamine psychosis (MAP) dramatically increased. This study aimed to examine the long-term outcomes of MAP patients following their first presentation to a psychiatric hospital.
Methamphetamine psychosis patients who were first hospitalised in Suan Prung psychiatric hospital Thailand in 2000-2001 were identified through a review of the hospital database. Eligible participants were scheduled for visits by trained field researchers in 2007. For those giving consent, a structured face-to-face interview was conducted. Outcomes were collected from both medical records and interviews.
A total of 1116 participants were included in the study. Ninety-two (8.2%) participants had died from suicide, accident or AIDS. Due to relocation, only 449 (40.2%) individuals were interviewed. Most of the participants were male (90.6%) with a mean age of 33.3 years (SD = 8.0). The medical records showed that 263 had revisited the hospital in the interim. Of those, 39.2% were re-hospitalised and 38% were given a diagnosis of schizophrenia due to persistent psychosis. The outreach interview found that more than half (55.7%) had experienced psychosis relapse. Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview revealed the following current conditions: psychotic disorders (15.8%), alcohol use disorders (52.1%) and suicidality (22.3%). Participants who did not have a diagnosis of current methamphetamine abuse could be divided into those with a single episode psychosis (52.6%) and those with chronic course of psychosis (38.8%).
Individuals with MAP are likely to have poor outcomes, in terms of premature death, several relapses of psychotic symptoms, chronic psychotic manifestation, and very rates of alcohol use disorder and suicidality. Therefore, those individuals with MAP require long-term monitoring and psychiatric care.
Multiple sclerosis has a clinically significant heritable component. We conducted a genomewide association study to identify alleles associated with the risk of multiple sclerosis.
We used DNA microarray technology to identify common DNA sequence variants in 931 family trios (consisting of an affected child and both parents) and tested them for association. For replication, we genotyped another 609 family trios, 2322 case subjects, and 789 control subjects and used genotyping data from two external control data sets. A joint analysis of data from 12,360 subjects was performed to estimate the overall significance and effect size of associations between alleles and the risk of multiple sclerosis.
A transmission disequilibrium test of 334,923 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 931 family trios revealed 49 SNPs having an association with multiple sclerosis (P<1x10(-4)); of these SNPs, 38 were selected for the second-stage analysis. A comparison between the 931 case subjects from the family trios and 2431 control subjects identified an additional nonoverlapping 32 SNPs (P<0.001). An additional 40 SNPs with less stringent P values (<0.01) were also selected, for a total of 110 SNPs for the second-stage analysis. Of these SNPs, two within the interleukin-2 receptor alpha gene (IL2RA) were strongly associated with multiple sclerosis (P=2.96x10(-8)), as were a nonsynonymous SNP in the interleukin-7 receptor alpha gene (IL7RA) (P=2.94x10(-7)) and multiple SNPs in the HLA-DRA locus (P=8.94x10(-81)).
Alleles of IL2RA and IL7RA and those in the HLA locus are identified as heritable risk factors for multiple sclerosis.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal genetic disease with no cure. Reducing inflammation or increasing utrophin expression can alleviate DMD pathology. Resveratrol can reduce inflammation and activate the utrophin promoter. The aims of this study were to identify an active dose of resveratrol in mdx mice and examine if this dose decreased inflammation and increased utrophin expression.
5-week old mdx mice were given 0, 10, 100, or 500 mg/kg of resveratrol everyday for 10 days. Sirt1 was measured by qRT-PCR and used to determine the most active dose. Muscle inflammation was measured by H&E staining, CD45 and F4/80 immunohistochemistry. IL-6, TNFα, PGC-1α, and utrophin gene expression were measured by qRT-PCR. Utrophin, Sirt1, and PGC-1α protein were quantified by western blot.
The 100 mg/kg dose of resveratrol, the most active dose, increased Sirt1 mRNA 60 ± 10% (p < 0.01), reduced immune cell infiltration 21 ± 6% (H&E) and 42 ± 8% (CD45 immunohistochemistry (p < 0.05)), reduced macrophage infiltration 48 ± 10% (F4/80 immunohistochemistry (p < 0.05)), and increased IL-6, PGC-1α, and utrophin mRNA 247 ± 77%, 27 ± 17%, and 43 ± 23% respectively (p ≤ 0.05). Utrophin, Sirt1, and PGC-1α protein expression did not change.
Resveratrol may be a therapy for DMD by reducing inflammation.
In preclinical studies, medications which increase the synaptic GABA levels have been shown to block cocaine reinforcement. In this study, we examined the interaction between a GABA enhancing medication, tiagabine, and cocaine in cocaine users. A total of 7 subjects, 5 male and 2 female cocaine users had 2 experimental sessions. Before each session, subjects received either two oral doses of 4 mg of tiagabine or placebo. Starting 2 h after the second dose of medication treatment, subjects received an injection of saline followed by 2 escalating cocaine doses (0.15 and 0.3 mg/kg) intravenously. Tiagabine treatment did not affect the cocaine-induced blood pressure and heart rate changes. Tiagabine treatment attenuated the subjective ratings of "stimulated" and "crave cocaine" in response to cocaine administration. These results suggest that tiagabine treatment attenuates some of the subjective effects of cocaine without affecting its cardiovascular effects. GABA medications, including tiagabine, are currently being evaluated in controlled clinical trials for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Vasopressin-activated calcium-mobilizing (VACM-1) protein is a cul-5 gene product that forms complexes with a subclass of ubiquitin E3 ligases involved in proteasomal protein degradation. The expression of VACM-1 cDNA in the T47D breast cancer cell line inhibits growth and decreases phosphorylation of mitogen activated protein kinase. Factors that regulate expression or stability of VACM-1 protein have not been identified, however. In our search to identify drugs/substances that may control VACM-1 protein expression, we examined the effects of resveratrol (trans-3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene), a natural component in the human diet which inhibits tumor initiation and promotion. CMV vector and VACM-1 cDNA stably transfected T47D breast cancer-derived cells were treated with resveratrol and cell growth and VACM-1 protein concentrations were measured. Since the cellular mechanism of resveratrol-dependent inhibition of cell growth also involves the regulation of estrogen receptors, the effect of 17-β-estradiol and resveratrol on ERα levels and on cell growth was examined in control and in VACM-1 cDNA transfected cells. Our results demonstrate that antiproliferative effect of resveratrol observed in the control T47D cancer cells was significantly enhanced in VACM-1 cDNA transfected T47D cells. Western blot results indicated that resveratrol increased VACM-1 protein concentration. Finally, treatment with resveratrol for 24 and 48 h attenuated 17-β-estradiol induced increase in cell growth both in control and in VACM-1 cDNA transfected cells. The effect was significantly higher in the VACM-1 cDNA transfected cells when compared to controls. These results indicate that the antiproliferative effect of resveratrol may involve induction of VACM-1/cul5.
Nisoldipine is a calcium antagonist with potent coronary vasodilating effects in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris. We studied the acute effects of nisoldipine in six patients within 24 h (mean 14 +/- 4 h) after the onset of myocardial infarction. Nisoldipine was administered as a 4.5 micrograms kg-1 intravenous bolus over 3 min followed by intravenous infusion of 0.2 microgram kg-1 min-1 during 60 min. Radionuclide angiography, cardiac output and intra-arterial blood pressure measurements were performed before and during nisoldipine. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased from 48.3 +/- 10.3% to 55.3 +/- 11.8% (P = 0.034) during nisoldipine infusion. Regional wall motion score changed during nisoldipine infusion from 3.3 +/- 2.5 to 1.8 +/- 2.6 (P = 0.027). Cardiac output increased from 5.5 +/- 1.0 to 7.3 +/- 1.3 l min-1 (P = 0.0001). Heart rate increased from 78 +/- 12 to 88 +/- 11 beats.min-1 (P = 0.004). Mean arterial blood pressure decreased from 91.7 +/- 20.2 to 78.7 +/- 13.1 mmHg (P = 0.038). The rate-pressure product did not change significantly during nisoldipine infusion. It is concluded that nisoldipine improves global and regional left ventricular function in patients with acute myocardial infarction within the first 24 h. Our findings suggest that this effect is achieved without increasing myocardial oxygen demand.
In step-down test, diazepam (1 mg.kg-1 po, 1 h before training) was shown to significantly impair memory acquisition in mice. But piracetam (200 mg.kg-1 ip, 1 h before training) was found to improve the diazepam-induced impairments of learning. By photocell cage method, piracetam showed no significant inhibitory effect on the diazepam-induced spontaneous motor activity in mice. In Y-maze test, Glutamic acid (0.1 microgram, icv, 3 min before training) significantly improved learning in normal mice and the amnesic effect of GABA and diazepam were completely antagonized by Glutamic acid and piracetam (200 mg.kg-1 ip, 1 h before training). These results suggest that increasing GABA-ergic neuronal transmission is unfavorable to learning and memory, but increasing Glu-ergic transmission is contrary to the former. It seemed that the presence of Glu/GABA system in the brain could regulate learning and memory.
To determine whether recreational methamphetamine use is associated with an increased risk of psychotic symptoms.
A cross-sectional survey of 157 people attending dance events in Sydney, Australia. Participants were assessed for psychotic symptoms in the past year using items from the Psychosis Screen. Participants with and without psychotic symptoms were compared on methamphetamine use, polydrug use and other demographic factors. An ordinal logistic regression was used to determine the probability of psychotic symptoms by methamphetamine use and level of polydrug use.
Psychotic symptoms in the past year were predicted by methamphetamine use and heavier polydrug use in the past year, and a history of a psychotic disorder (schizophrenia, schizoaffective or bipolar affective disorder). After removing participants with a history of a psychotic disorder (n = 16) and adjusting for polydrug use, methamphetamine use increased the probability of two or more psychotic symptoms (indicative of psychosis risk) from 9% to 21%. There was a non-significant increase in the risk of psychotic symptoms with higher levels of polydrug use. Methamphetamine use was typically monthly or less often (83%), and most users described their use as recreational (85%).
Within the context of polydrug use, recreational methamphetamine use is associated with a twofold to threefold increase in the probability of psychotic symptoms.
We reported a case of disulfiram-induced hepatitis with unique clinical features and compared our case with others in the literature. Our patient had headache, mild fever, nausea, vomiting, rash, and eosinophilia after 3 weeks of disulfiram therapy. Subsequent liver biopsy showed low-grade lobular hepatitis. After disulfiram therapy was discontinued, symptoms subsided and results of liver function tests returned to normal.
The neurotoxicity of lidocaine is not fully understood, and the primary lesion of lidocaine-induced spinal neurotoxicity has not been defined. Here we examine the effects of various concentrations of intrathecally administered lidocaine.
Forty-seven Wistar rats received 20%, 10%, 7.5%, 5%, 3%, or 0% lidocaine dissolved in distilled water, or 25% glucose solution via a chronically implanted intrathecal catheter. The spinal cord at L1, posterior and anterior roots, and cauda equina were dissected out 5 days later, sectioned, and prepared for light and electron microscopy. The effect of the agent on function was evaluated by movement of the hind limb (behavior test) and by sensory threshold (paw stimulation test). Another 7 rats were used to establish the precise locus of lesion within the posterior root after intrathecal 20% lidocaine injection.
Rats treated with 10% or 20% lidocaine developed lesions both in the posterior roots and posterior columns, characterized by axonal degeneration. Rats injected with 7.5% lidocaine developed degenerative lesions limited to the posterior roots. Lesions in the posterior roots were localized to the proximal portion of the roots. Injections of 5% or less lidocaine did not cause any pathological changes. One of 5 rats receiving 20% lidocaine showed hind-limb paralysis for 4 days, but the remaining 4 rats recovered within 4 days after drug injection. Rats injected with < or = 10% lidocaine were completely recovered within 4 hours. The threshold for paw stimulation was significantly decreased in rats injected with 20% lidocaine.
Our results suggest that spinal lidocaine neurotoxicity after supra-clinical concentrations of lidocaine is limited initially to the posterior roots at their entry to the spinal cord, and the extent and severity of the lesions are closely associated with lidocaine concentration. Unlike severe lesions in rats injected with 20% lidocaine, mild lesions caused by lower concentrations may not manifest neurofunctional deficits.
Our previous study using human Daoy medulloblastoma cells showed that the promyelocytic leukemia (PML) gene was significantly upregulated (2.5-fold) in cells positive to prominin-1 antigen (CD133), a possible marker for cancer initiating cells. Arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) is known to degrade PML protein and has been used for the treatment of patients with acute PML. In the present study, the effect of PML targeting therapy with As(2)O(3) and cytarabine (Ara-C) on Daoy medulloblastoma cell proliferation was investigated. Daoy cells were pretreated with As(2)O(3) for 6 weeks. The As(2)O(3)-pretreated Daoy cells were cultured in medium containing Ara-C and cell viability was examined. Next, the As(2)O(3)-pretreated Daoy cells were inoculated into the nude mouse brain and the effect of Ara-C on the tumor size was evaluated. A significant increase in chemosensitivity to Ara-C was observed in the As(2)O(3)-pretreated Daoy cells in both in vitro and in vivo conditions. PML and CCND1 (cyclin D1) protein expression of Daoy medulloblastoma cells was downregulated by As(2)O(3) treatment. PML has been proposed as a novel therapeutic target to eradicate quiescent leukemia-initiating cells, and PML-expressing CD133-positive cells are similarly a potential therapeutic target of treatment for medulloblastoma.
The transport capacity of any membrane depends on its surface area and permeability. In addition, peritoneal capillaries are probably barriers to solute transport. Although no decisive use of antihypertensive drugs has been reported in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients with hypertension, those drugs are known to have various effects on vessels. In the present study, we used a charge-coupled-device (CCD) camera in renovascular hypertensive dogs with mild renal insufficiency to investigate the effects of various antihypertensive drugs on the peritoneal capillaries. Renovascular hypertension was induced in the dogs by placing silver clips on both renal arteries to create 90% occlusion. After confirmation of elevation of blood pressure (usually 20 days after the operation), each dog's abdomen was opened while the animal was under general anesthesia. Using a CCD camera, the diameters of the small arteries of the peritoneum were measured after 3 days' oral administration of a placebo (n = 5); or of 8 mg CS866, a selective angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (n = 5); or of 10 mg benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (n = 5); or of 10 mg amlodipine, a calcium antagonist (n = 5). In dogs receiving CS866, blood pressure decreased to 128 +/- 6 mmHg from 160 +/- 6 mmHg (p < 0.01). A similar decrease in blood pressure was observed with the use of the other drugs. The diameter of the small vessels increased by 28% +/- 6% in dogs receiving CS866 and by 24% +/- 5% in dogs receiving benazepril, as compared with 3% +/- 3% in dogs receiving the calcium antagonist. These data clearly demonstrate that blockade of the renin-angiotensin system produces an increase in solute clearance in hypertensive dogs with mild renal insufficiency and that such blockade may be applicable as therapy for hypertensive patients on CAPD.
A rapid increase in isoflurane concentration can induce tachycardia and hypertension and increase plasma catecholamine concentrations. To investigate a possible mechanism, we measured hemodynamic responses to isoflurane administered via mask; we also administered clonidine for premedication, lidocaine topically to the nasal mucosa, or lidocaine intravenously to evaluate the effect of these drugs on the hemodynamic responses.
Forty ASA physical status 1 patients (aged 20-30 yr) scheduled for elective oral surgery participated in the study. Thirty patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups: a control group, a group receiving 3-4 micrograms.kg-1 of oral clonidine for premedication, and a group receiving 2 ml of 4% lidocaine spray to the nasal mucosa. Ten patients were assigned nonrandomly to a group receiving intravenous lidocaine continuously (0.4 mg.kg-1 bolus followed by 30 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) after the initial randomized experiments were done to test whether systemic lidocaine blunts the responses to inhaled isoflurane. Anesthesia was induced with thiamylal, after which inhalation of 1% isoflurane in 100% oxygen via mask was begun. The inspired concentration of isoflurane was increased by 1% every 5 min to a maximum of 4%. During normocapnia and without surgical stimulation, heart rate and systolic blood pressure were measured every minute for 20 min before and during isoflurane inhalation. Plasma catecholamine concentrations were measured before and at each isoflurane concentration.
In the control and intravenous lidocaine groups, an increase in isoflurane concentration from 2% to 3% significantly increased systolic blood pressure (peak changes of 16 +/- 5 and 15 +/- 6 mmHg, respectively) and heart rate (peak changes of 23 +/- 3 and 13 +/- 4 beats.min-1, respectively). A change in concentration to 4%, however, did not significantly alter hemodynamics. Blood pressure and heart rate responses to a change to 3% isoflurane were significantly blunted in the groups receiving clonidine (peak changes of 4 +/- 4 mmHg and 8 +/- 3 beats.min-1, respectively) or nasal lidocaine (peak changes of 2 +/- 1 mmHg and 4 +/- 2 beats.min-1, respectively) compared with the control group. In all groups, plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine concentrations increased after administration of 2% and 1% isoflurane, respectively. Plasma lidocaine concentrations were 0.3-1.3 micrograms.kg-1 in the nasal lidocaine group and 0.6-1.5 micrograms.kg-1 in the intravenous lidocaine group.
Stepwise increases in isoflurane concentration elicited hypertension and tachycardia as well as increments in plasma catecholamine concentrations during mask anesthesia. Nasal administration of lidocaine and clonidine premedication significantly blunted the circulatory responses to isoflurane. Intravenous lidocaine did not significantly weaken the responses to changes in isoflurane concentration.
The purpose of this work is to report a case of tolcapone-induced akathisia. A 39-year-old woman with Parkinson's disease, Hohen-Yahr IV, Webster 18 points with 10 years within onset, presented lack of clinical response to levodopa-carbidopa, pergolide, selegiline and trihexiphenidyl, showing freezing and wearing-off phenomena and choreic dyskinetic abnormal movements of the upper and lower extremities, during the six months previous to her evaluation. Her hepatic function was normal. Levodopa-carbidopa and selegiline were diminished to add tolcapone, as described elsewhere. During the first three weeks, the patient showed marked clinical improvement of previous complications and sustained improvement during 12.5 weeks. At the 13th week of tolcapone therapy the patient developed constant orofacial, trunk, and superior and lower limb ínvoluntary movements associated to lack of stand still. Laboratory tests showed discrete elevation of oxaloacetic-glutamic transminase, direct bilirrubin, indirect bilirubin, and alkaline phosphatase. Electroencephalogram and CT scan were normal. Tolcapone therapy was finished, and levodopa-carbidopa, pergolide and selegiline were diminished, procuring the disappearance of akathisia within 72 h.
S100B, a calcium binding protein physiologically produced and released by astrocytes, has been used as a peripheral marker of brain damage. Here, we investigated the effects of subcutaneous injections of methylmercury chloride (MeHg-5mg/kg), an environmental neurotoxicant, on S100B protein content in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of adult rats. In addition, the performance of animals in an open field (number of squares crossing and rearings) was also analyzed in order to obtain a possible link between alteration in S100B protein content in CSF and parameters related to neurological injury. MeHg treatment increased serum mercury and S100B protein levels in the CSF. A decrease in the numbers of crossings and rearings was observed in MeHg-treated animals when compared to control group, which suggests a possible neurological injury. The present data show, for the first time, increased S100B levels in CSF after exposure to a neurotoxic metal. Authors discuss the possibility of astrocytic involvement in MeHg-induced neurotoxicity.
Biphenyl and its derivatives, 2-aminobiphenyl, 2-nitrobiphenyl, 4-aminobiphenyl, 4-nitrobiphenyl, p-phenylphenol, o-phenylphenol (OPP), and o-phenylphenol sodium salt tetrahydrate (OPP-Na) were examined for their bladder carcinogenicity in rats by a short-term assay for agglutinability of bladder epithelial cells with concanavalin A. Increased agglutinability was observed after 1-week treatment with 2.0% and 1.0% OPP, 2.0% and 1.0% OPP-Na, 0.5 and 0.1% 4-aminobiphenyl, and 0.5% 4-nitrobiphenyl in the diet, suggesting carcinogenicity of these compounds in the bladder. Such an increase in agglutinability was not observed in rats fed diets containing biphenyl, 2-aminobiphenyl, 2-nitrobiphenyl or p-phenylphenol at 2.0%. With OPP-Na, an in vivo carcinogenesis experiment was performed. Bladder carcinomas developed in 14 of 36 male Fisher rats fed a 2% OPP-Na diet for 50 weeks.
To investigate the effect of HHI-I (I) on the cerebral microcirculation, the blood-brain barrier permeability in rats and anti-hypoxic activity in mice.
(1) The blood microcirculation of the brain in rats was investigated by laser Doppler flowmetry with the probes laid on the cerebral pia mater or inserted into the brain parenchyma. (2) The protective action of HHI-I against the brain microcirculation disturbance induced by intravenous injection of high-molecular dextran (10%, 9 mL/kg) was observed. (3) The protective effect of HHI-I against lethal hypoxia in mice was observed with a hypoxic chamber containing 5% oxygen. (4) The disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability in rats was caused by phenylephrine-induced hypertension, and the effect of intravenous injection of HHI-I on the BBB permeability was determined using Evans blue as the marker.
HHI-I could increase the blood flow of the cerebral microcirculation in rats and possess some protective effects on the brain microcirculatory disturbance. Besides, HHI-I could decrease the brain edema occurring in the process of lethal hypoxia in mice. While increasing the blood flow of brain, HHI-I could lower the BBB permeability in rats.
HHI-I has several beneficial effects on the cerebral microcirculation, blood-brain barrier in rats and anti-hypoxic activity in mice.
A cerebral demyelinating disease developed in 3 patients during adjuvant therapy with 5-fluorouracil and levamisole for adenocarcinoma of the colon. None of the patients had evidence of metastatic disease or prior neurological disease. The duration of chemotherapy before onset of neurological symptoms ranged from 15 to 19 weeks. The total dose of 5-fluorouracil was 9.7 to 15.7 gm. The total dose of levamisole was 2.7 to 3.75 gm. Two patients presented with a subacute (2-3 weeks) progressive decline in mental status and ataxia. The third patient had two unexplained episodes of loss of consciousness. In each, magnetic resonance imaging with gadolinium demonstrated prominent multifocal enhancing white matter lesions. Cerebral biopsy was performed stereotaxically in 2 patients. The morphological features were those of active demyelinating disease. The myelin loss was associated with numerous dispersed as well as vasocentric macrophages, sparing of axons, and perivascular lymphocytic inflammation. Electron microscopy confirmed the light microscopic findings. All 3 patients improved after cessation of chemotherapy and a short course of corticosteroid therapy. Our patients represent the first reported examples of an inflammatory leukoencephalopathy associated with the administration of 5-fluorouracil and levamisole. This syndrome may represent the pathological basis for 5-fluorouracil neurotoxicity, although we cannot completely exclude the role of levamisole.
We recently observed an autoimmune profile in 24-week-old C57BL/6 mice that received a 2.5 or 5.0μg/kg mid-gestation dose of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) (Mustafa et al., 2008). The clinical signs were consistent with a lupus-like syndrome and included: increased autoantibody levels, renal IgG and C3 immune complex deposition with associated inflammation, and increased peripheral Vβ(+) T cells. No studies currently exist following the progression of such disease into middle or advanced ages, when human autoimmune diseases may manifest. Therefore in the present study, littermates of mice from the previous 24 week prenatal TCDD study were allowed to age to 48 weeks, considered early geriatric in mice. Similarities and differences in the disease profile based on age and sex were observed. Peripheral autoreactive Vβ(+) T cells were increased in both sexes at 48 weeks, in contrast to males only at 24 weeks. Activated T cells from 48-week-old prenatal TCDD females over-produced the pro-inflammatory cytokine IFN-γ while males over-produced IL-10, effects again not seen at 24 weeks. Splenic transitional-2 B cells (CD21(int)CD24(hi)) were increased in males while transitional-1 B cells (CD23(neg) CD1(neg)) were increased in females at 48 weeks. Autoantibodies to cardiolipin and CD138(+) spleen plasma cells were significantly increased in the aged males but not females. Anti-IgG and anti-C3 immune complex renal deposition were also significantly increased in the prenatal TCDD males but not females. These selective changes in the aged male mice may be noteworthy, in that the prevalence of SLE in humans shifts dramatically toward males with aging. The collective findings in aged mice suggest that prenatal TCDD permanently biases the postnatal immune response in C57BL/6 mice toward autoimmunity, and support a significant B cell component to the induced renal autoimmune disease.
Phospholipase C (PLC) activity has been implicated in multiple opioid-induced sequelae. The relevance of PLC-linked pathways to opioid actions is isoform-specific. Chronic morphine augments PLCbeta1 signaling while diminishing that of PLCbeta3. This suggests that PLCbeta1 makes an important contribution to opioid tolerance formation (PNAS 100: 13686-1369, 2003). In the present study, PLCbeta1 knockout animals (-/-) were used to assess the relevance of PLCbeta1 to pain thresholds, morphine antinociception and analgesic tolerance formation. Response latencies to thermal nociceptive stimuli were markedly diminished in -/- animals relative to their wild-type (+/+) and heterozygous (+/-) counterparts; thermal nociceptive thresholds obtained in +/+ and +/- mice did not differ. This suggests that the contribution of PLCbeta1 to thermal pain thresholds requires a critical concentration of PLCbeta1 protein. PLCbeta1 genotype also influenced acute and chronic responsiveness to morphine. Analgesic dose responsiveness and the magnitude of analgesic tolerance formation to morphine were significantly attenuated in -/- vs. +/+ animals. Notably, in contrast to thermal nociceptive thresholds, acute and chronic morphine responsiveness differed significantly only between +/+ and -/- genotypes and not between -/- vs. +/- groups. These data suggest that whereas the contribution of PLCbeta1 to thermal nociceptive response thresholds requires a critical concentration of PLCbeta1 protein, its participation in morphine analgesic and tolerance-producing mechanisms is graded. Importantly, GTPgammaS binding studies revealed that there is no detectable diminution in functional opioid receptors in spinal tissue from -/- animals. This underscores the importance of PLCbeta1 to morphine sequelae that are initiated downstream from the opioid receptor.
The hypotensive agent minoxidil (6-imino-1, 2-dihydro-1-hydroxy-2-imino-4-piperidinopyrimidine) depends upon aryl sulfotransferase (SULT1)-catalyzed sulfation for its bioactivation. Previous reports suggest that glucocorticoids induce class-specific SULT1 and isoform-specific SULT1A1 gene expression in rat liver. In the present study, rats were treated with the glucocorticoid triamcinolone acetonide (TA, 5 mg/kg/day i.p. x 3 days) or its vehicle, 2% Tween-20, prior to minoxidil, and subsequent effects on mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and hepatic SULT1 gene expression were characterized. Minoxidil treatment (1.5 mg/kg) resulted in a steady decline in MAP values of 16.3 to 18.6% relative to basal control levels at 35 to 60 min following minoxidil injection. Pentachlorophenol (PCP, 40 micromol/kg i.p.), an inhibitor of SULT1 enzyme activity, effectively ablated the hypotensive effects of minoxidil. By contrast, pretreatment with TA significantly enhanced minoxidil-induced hypotension. Relative to vehicle-treated controls, TA-treated rats displayed a steeper rate of decline in MAP and more profound levels of hypotension with decreases in MAP following minoxidil administration of 27.8%. TA also produced significant increases in hepatic SULT1 mRNA expression (of 271%) and SULT1A1 immunoreactive protein levels (of 273%), relative to vehicle-treated controls. These results provide physiological evidence to support the biological relevance of SULT1A1 induction by glucocorticoids. The data indicate that steroid treatment induces SULT1A1 gene expression and, as a consequence, accentuates the hypotensive effects of minoxidil.
Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) pose a potential threat to human reproductive health. We studied the proliferation and viability of human endometrial endothelial cells (HEECs) in vitro after exposure to 2,2-bis(o,p-chlorophenyl)-1,1,1-trichloroethane (o,p'-DDT), 3,3',4,4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (CB 77), 3,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (CB 126), di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP), bisphenol A (BPA), 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), and 17beta-oestradiol, progesterone, 17alpha-ethynyl oestradiol and levonorgestrel. Cell proliferation was studied using immunocytochemistry for PCNA expression and a 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine assay. Cell viability was studied by vital staining with propidium iodide and Hoechst 33258. HEECs in primary culture responded with increased proliferation to oestradiol and with decreased proliferation to levonorgestrel and the EDCs. Some EDCs also affected cell viability and increased the proportion of necrotic cells. However, the decrease in proliferation in response to DBP and TCDD cannot be explained by cell death. In light of these results, it is possible that the EDCs could have effects in vivo as well as in vitro, and influence processes involving for example endometrial angiogenesis.
The effects of progesterone treatment on bupivacaine arrhythmogenicity in beating rat heart myocyte cultures and on anesthetized rats were determined. After determining the bupivacaine AD50 (the concentration of bupivacaine that caused 50% of all beating rat heart myocyte cultures to become arrhythmic), we determined the effect of 1-hour progesterone HCl exposure on myocyte contractile rhythm. Each concentration of progesterone (6.25, 12.5, 25, and 50 micrograms/ml) caused a significant and concentration-dependent reduction in the AD50 for bupivacaine. Estradiol treatment also increased the arrhythmogenicity of bupivacaine in myocyte cultures, but was only one fourth as potent as progesterone. Neither progesterone nor estradiol effects on bupivacaine arrhythmogenicity were potentiated by epinephrine. Chronic progesterone pretreatment (5 mg/kg/day for 21 days) caused a significant increase in bupivacaine arrhythmogenicity in intact pentobarbital-anesthetized rats. There was a significant decrease in the time to onset of arrhythmia as compared with control nonprogesterone-treated rats (6.2 +/- 1.3 vs. 30.8 +/- 2.5 min, mean +/- SE). The results of this study indicate that progesterone can potentiate bupivacaine arrhythmogenicity both in vivo and in vitro. Potentiation of bupivacaine arrhythmia in myocyte cultures suggests that this effect is at least partly mediated at the myocyte level.
We present a case of asynchronous development of transitional cell carcinoma in urinary bladder and renal pelvis after prolonged cyclophosphamide therapy. A 57-year-old woman had received 290 g cyclophosphamide for 13 years because of therapy for non-Hodgkin lymphoma. She was suffered from dysuria and macrohematuria and visited our clinic. Cystoscopy, CT and MRI revealed invasive bladder tumor and total cystectomy was performed. Histological diagnosis was transitional cell carcinoma, G3 < G2, pT4. Six months after the cystectomy, a follow up urography and computerized tomography showed left renal pelvic tumor. The patient underwent total nephroureterectomy, and the histological diagnosis was transitional cell carcinoma, G3, pT3. We reviewed cyclophosphamide induced urothelial carcinomas from Japanese and world literatures.
