Organic solvents have been associated with renal cell cancer; however, the risk by gender and type of solvents is nuclear.
We evaluated the risk of renal cell carcinoma among men and women exposed to all organic solvents-combined, all chlorinated aliphatic hydrocarbons (CAHC)-combined, and nine individual CAHC using a priori job exposure matrices developed by NCI in a population-based case-control study in Minnesota, U.S. We interviewed 438 renal cell cancer cases (273 men and 165 women) and 687 controls (462 men and 225 women).
Overall, 34% of male cases and 21% of female cases were exposed to organic solvents in general. The risk of renal cell carcinoma was significantly elevated among women exposed to all organic solvents combined (OR = 2.3; 95% CI = 1.3-4.2), to CAHC combined (OR = 2.1; 95% CI = 1.1-3.9), and to trichloroethylene (TCE) (OR = 2.0; 95% CI = 1.0-4.0). Among men, no significant excess risk was observed among men exposed to any of these nine individual CAHCs, all CAHCs-combined, or all organic solvents-combined.
These observed gender differences in risk of renal cell carcinoma in relation to exposure to organic solvents may be explained by chance based on small numbers, or by the differences in body fat content, metabolic activity, the rate of elimination of xenobiotics from the body, or by differences in the level of exposure between men and women, even though they have the same job title.
The present study investigated the role of the glutathione system in seizures induced by diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)(2) (50 mg/kg) in rat pups (post natal day, 12-14). Reduced glutathione (GSH) (300 nmol/site; i.c.v.), administered 20 min before (PhSe)(2), abolished the appearance of seizures, protected against the inhibition of catalase and δ-aminolevulinic dehydratase (δ-ALA-D) activities and increased glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity induced by (PhSe)(2). Administration of l-buthionine sulfoximine (BSO, a GSH-depleting compound) (3.2 μmol/site; i.c.v.) 24h before (PhSe)(2) increased the percentage (42-100%) of rat pups which had seizure episodes, reduced the onset for the first convulsive episode. In addition, BSO increased thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) levels and decreased GSH content, catalase, δ-ALA-D and Na(+), K(+)-ATPase activities. Treatment with sub effective doses of GSH (10 nmol/site) and d-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP-7, an antagonist of the glutamate site at the NMDA receptor; 5mg/kg, i.p.) abolished the appearance of seizures induced by (PhSe)(2) in rat pups. Sub effective doses of GSH and kynurenic acid (an antagonist of strychnine-insensitive glycine site at the NMDA receptor; 40 mg/kg, i.p.) were also able in abolishing the appearance of seizures induced by (PhSe)(2). In conclusion, administration of GSH protected against seizure episodes induced by (PhSe)(2) in rat pups by reducing oxidative stress and, at least in part, by acting as an antagonist of glutamate and glycine modulatory sites in the NMDA receptor.
A patient is described who developed porphyria cutanea tarda in association with the use of a contraceptive pill. The relationship to porphyrin metabolism as at present understood, as well as the significance of abdominal pain and change in psyche, is discussed. Stopping the pill has been associated with a remission.
Melatonin was recently shown to have protective effects against cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced hemorrhagic cystitis (HC) by diminishing bladder oxidative stress. HC is accompanied by destruction of the bladder urothelium and followed by apoptosis and rapid regeneration via proliferation and differentiation of urothelial cells, reaching complete restoration of normal urothelium in three weeks. Therefore, the effect of melatonin on apoptosis, proliferation and differentiation of urothelial cells, during destruction and regeneration of the urothelium three-weeks after a single dose CP treatment, was studied. F344 male rats were injected intraperitoneally with saline (control group) or melatonin (Mel group) or a single dose of CP (100 mg/kg; CP group) or melatonin (10 mg/kg) with CP (Mel + CP group). Melatonin co-treatment with CP significantly reduced apoptosis and increased proliferation of urothelial cells at day 1 and thus prevented extensive loss of cells from the urothelium. However, proliferation indices at days 4 and 7 after melatonin and CP co-treatment suddenly dropped and therefore the development of hyperplasia was prevented. Melatonin co-treatment with CP also resulted in earlier differentiation of superficial urothelial cells. Melatonin seems to have protective effect against CP-induced urothelial damage and a favorable impact on regeneration and restoration of normal urothelium, since it reduces the number of apoptotic and proliferating urothelial cells and results in their earlier differentiation.
Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) has been shown to reduce the incidence of acute graft rejection in three controlled trials of cadaveric renal transplantation. In a U.S. trial using quadruple sequential induction therapy as control, the MMF 2-g treatment group had an acute rejection rate 40.6% lower than control in the first posttransplant year (27.9% MMF-treated versus 47.0% control). The purpose of this analysis is to evaluate the economic implications of these clinical differences. The analysis relies on resource use data from the trial and other sources. Medical costs were estimated using a societal perspective and excluded the cost of the transplant procedure and organ acquisition. The two groups were compared in terms of treatment for acute rejection and opportunistic infection, graft survival, dialysis use, and maintenance immunosuppression. The results suggest that, on average, when compared with standard therapy, patients treated with MMF are likely to have lower rejection-related treatment costs because of a lower incidence of rejection ($6237 versus $3702), lower dialysis and graft failure costs because of improved graft survival ($20,104 versus $16,972), no difference in opportunistic infection treatment costs ($1962 versus $1962), and higher additional immunosuppression costs ($855 versus $5170). Taken together, these results suggest that patients treated with MMF are, on average, likely to have slightly lower first-year costs ($29,158 versus $27,807) compared with control, indicating that MMF treatment is cost-effective in the first year. These results remained stable under sensitivity analyses, with plausible variation in the rates of acute rejection, graft survival, and infection.
Benchmark dose (BMD) and the lower confidence limit on the benchmark dose (BMDL) of blood lead were estimated to explore the biologic exposure limits for renal dysfunction caused by lead. One hundred thirty-five workers from one storage battery plant were selected as lead exposure group while 143 mechanics as the control. The relationship between the blood lead concentration and the urinary excretion of total protein (TP), beta2-microglobulin (beta2-MG), and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) was studied. The quantal linear logistic regression model (BMDS Version 1.3.1) was used to calculate BMD and BMDL of blood lead. The results showed that the levels of NAG, beta2-MG, and TP in lead-exposed workers were higher than those of control group and elevated along with rising length of employment. The levels of three indices for renal dysfunction increased with the elevated blood lead. The BMD and BMDL of blood lead for renal dysfunction were from 299.4 to 588.7 microg/L and from 253.4 to 402.3 microg/L, respectively. The BMDL of blood lead was ranged from high to low as TP, beta2-MG, and NAG. It is suggested that the urinary NAG activity could be a sensitive and early biomarker of renal tubular dysfunction induced by lead. When assessing renal function in workers occupationally exposed to lead, a blood lead level of 250 microg/L could serve as a warning signal.
We have recently focused on the interaction between hyperhomocysteinemia, defined by high plasma homocysteine levels, and paraoxonase-1 expression and found a reduced activity of paraoxonase-1 associated with a reduced gene expression in the liver of cystathionine beta synthase (CBS) deficient mice, a murine model of hyperhomocysteinemia. As it has been demonstrated that polyphenolic compounds could modulate the expression level of the paraoxonase-1 gene in vitro, we have investigated the possible effect of flavonoid supplementation on the impaired paraoxonase-1 gene expression and activity induced by hyperhomocysteinemia and have evaluated the link with homocysteine metabolism. High-methionine diet significantly increased serum homocysteine levels, decreased hepatic CBS activity, and down-regulated paraoxonase-1 mRNA and its activity. However, chronic administration of catechin but not quercetin significantly reduced plasma homocysteine levels, attenuated the reduction of the hepatic CBS activity, and restored the decreased paraoxonase-1 gene expression and activity induced by chronic hyperhomocysteinemia. These data suggest that catechin could act on the homocysteine levels by increasing the rate of catabolism of homocysteine.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia with thrombotic complications is a serious clinical problem. The diagnosis is confirmed by a positive heparin-induced platelet aggregation test and/or detection of white clots upon pathological exam after a presumptive diagnosis based on these criteria: (1) Development of thrombocytopenia of less than 100,000 mm3 while receiving heparin therapy; (2) Normalization of the platelet count after an interruption in heparin therapy; (3) The presence of thrombotic complications; and (4) Exclusion of other causes of thrombocytopenia. Eight patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia were encountered at the Charleston Area Medical Center, Memorial Division, in a recent 20-month period. Various types of heparin, routes of administration, and indications were implicated. The mean platelet nadir was 25,750 mm3 and the mean time to onset of of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was 4.9 days. Thrombotic complications included seven patients with arterial occlusions of the legs, six with deep-vein thrombosis of the legs (three had pulmonary embolism), and five with combined arterial and venous thrombosis. Treatment strategies included discontinuation of heparin in all patients; intravenous infusion of dextran in five patients, followed by arterial thrombectomy in three patients; urokinase therapy in two patients for arterial thrombotic complications; and insertion of Greenfield filters in four patients for venous thrombotic complications. All surviving patients were given warfarin. The mortality rate was 25 percent and the morbidity rate was 38 percent. In conclusion, an initial platelet count should be obtained on all patients prior to receiving heparin, followed by repeat platelet counts every two to three days. Once thrombocytopenia or thrombosis is diagnosed, heparin should be discontinued and other therapeutic modalities considered.
A 43-year-old Japanese man who was positive for hepatitis B surface (HBs) antigen and HB e antibody, underwent chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. After the chemotherapy he suffered from acute exacerbation of hepatitis because of reactivation of HBV. Recovery was achieved with interferon-alpha, glucagon-insulin therapy, and plasma exchange. Mutations were detected in codons 97, 100, 129, and 131 of the core region of HBV. The peptide encoded from the core region including such mutations possibly had greater antigenicity to induce cytotoxic T cell activity in the host. Core region mutations may be a crucial cause of the acute exacerbation of hepatitis B seen after chemotherapy.
It was previously postulated on the basis of clinical data that the cardiovascular sequelae of extracorporeal whole-body hyperthermia (e-WBH), i.e., hypotension (which requires catecholamine support) results in unique nephrotoxicity in combination with select chemotherapeutic agents. In an attempt to explain this phenomenon, we mimicked e-WBH physiological conditions in a rat model. Animals were treated with and without ifosfamide (IFO) and/or carboplatin (CBDCA) at 37 degrees C or 41.5-41.8 degrees C, with blood pressure monitoring and catecholamine support comparable to the clinical setting. Ex vivo post-treatment data (24 h) from artificially perfused kidneys (i.e., histology, urine volume, perfusion rate, glomerular filtration rate, and the reabsorption of sodium, glucose, and water) demonstrated unique toxicity including proximal tubular necrosis for the combination of WBH and IFO, for WBH and CBDCA and for WBH and IFO plus CBDCA, but not for IFO and CBDCA without WBH. These data, considered together with results derived from a subsequent clinical trial and the laboratory work of others were consistent with the hypothesis.
FK506 is a newly developed potent immunosuppressant for preventing rejection after organ transplantation. However, FK506 can induce central nervous system toxicity. Until now the pathogenic mechanism of FK506 neurotoxicity was unclear. We report the findings of diffusion-weighted MRI and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) mapping of a FK506 neurotoxicity patient who showed increased signal intensities in both parieto-occipital lobes on T(2) weighted images, diffusion-weighted images and ADC maps. These findings suggest that a vasogenic oedema rather than a cytotoxic oedema may play a pivotal role in FK506 neurotoxicity pathogenesis.
Brain cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), the rate-limiting enzyme in prostaglandin synthesis, is rapidly and transiently induced by convulsions in hippocampal and cortical neurons. Therefore, we examined the effects of COX-2 on the 'rapid kindling' development in COX-2 knockout mice and in mice treated with nimesulide, a COX-2-selective inhibitor. Rapid kindling development was examined based on the incidence of hippocampal EEG seizures and behavioral seizures following repetitive electrical stimulation of the perforant path at an interval of 40 s, and on the total afterdischarge (AD) duration induced by 50 stimulations. In addition, we measured COX-2 mRNA expression by in situ hybridization and PGE2 concentration using enzyme immunoassay following rapid kindling stimulation. The results suggested that brain COX-2 mRNA levels were markedly increased in the hippocampal neurons and the concentration of PGE2 was elevated significantly, and that the incidence of AD and seizure behavior induction and the total AD duration were significantly decreased under conditions of COX-2 deficiency. Therefore, we concluded that inducible COX-2 facilitates the recurrence of hippocampal seizures.
Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a disease of multiple etiologies with several common pathological features, including inflammation and pulmonary vascular remodeling. Recent evidence has suggested a potential role for the recruitment of bone marrow-derived (BMD) progenitor cells to this remodeling process. We recently demonstrated that hypoxia-induced mitogenic factor (HIMF/FIZZ1/RELM alpha) is chemotactic to murine bone marrow cells in vitro and involved in pulmonary vascular remodeling in vivo.
We used a mouse bone marrow transplant model in which lethally irradiated mice were rescued with bone marrow transplanted from green fluorescent protein (GFP)(+) transgenic mice to determine the role of HIMF in recruiting BMD cells to the lung vasculature during PH development. Exposure to chronic hypoxia and pulmonary gene transfer of HIMF were used to induce PH. Both models resulted in markedly increased numbers of BMD cells in and around the pulmonary vasculature; in several neomuscularized small (approximately 20 microm) capillary-like vessels, an entirely new medial wall was made up of these cells. We found these GFP(+) BMD cells to be positive for stem cell antigen-1 and c-kit, but negative for CD31 and CD34. Several of the GFP(+) cells that localized to the pulmonary vasculature were alpha-smooth muscle actin(+) and localized to the media layer of the vessels. This finding suggests that these cells are of mesenchymal origin and differentiate toward myofibroblast and vascular smooth muscle. Structural location in the media of small vessels suggests a functional role in the lung vasculature. To examine a potential mechanism for HIMF-dependent recruitment of mesenchymal stem cells to the pulmonary vasculature, we performed a cell migration assay using cultured human mesenchymal stem cells (HMSCs). The addition of recombinant HIMF induced migration of HMSCs in a phosphoinosotide-3-kinase-dependent manner.
These results demonstrate HIMF-dependent recruitment of BMD mesenchymal-like cells to the remodeling pulmonary vasculature.
Sleep-wake disturbance, frequently observed in major depressive disorder (MDD), negatively influences clinical status. Treatment with antidepressants also reportedly affects circadian rhythms. In a recent in vitro study, the nuclear receptor Rev-erbalpha was reported to be related to circadian rhythms, and was shown to be involved in the biological action of lithium therapy. Therefore, we examined the association between the orphan nuclear receptor Rev-erbalpha gene (NR1D1) and the efficacy of fluvoxamine treatment in 118 Japanese patients with major depressive disorder.
The scores of the MDD patients in this study on the 17 items of the Structured Interview Guide for the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (SIGH-D) were 12 or higher. We defined a clinical response as a decrease of more than 50% in baseline SIGH-D within 8 weeks and clinical remission as a SIGH-D score of less than 7 at 8 weeks. We selected 3 'tagging SNPs' in NR1D1 for the following association analysis.
We did not detect a significant association between NR1D1 and the fluvoxamine therapeutic response in MDD in allele/genotype-wise analysis or haplotype-wise analysis.
Our results suggest that NR1D1 does not play a major role in the therapeutic response to fluvoxamine in Japanese MDD patients. However, because our sample was small, a replication study using another population and a larger sample will be required for conclusive results.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) had been considered as the main causative factor of primary hepatocellular carcinoma and universal immunization of newborns was recommended as the major approach to control hepatitis and hepatoma in areas of prevalence. As the initial phase of the first vaccination program for such a purpose, a pilot study was done from September 1983 to May 1984 in a high incidence rural area of China. In an area of 214,343 inhabitants, 1,703 newborns (99% of all births) were vaccinated. Ninety-seven percent of all vaccinees were followed up at 1 year. The vaccine used was Hep-B Vax, given intramuscularly at 0, 1, and 6 months after birth. Four immunization regimes were used: 5-micrograms or 2.5-micrograms doses with or without hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) added in the case of carriers children. These groups were defined by drawing lots at community level. A matched control was selected on a voluntary basis. Each group consisted of 400 infants. Vaccination was proven to be very safe and well accepted by the public. The prevalence of HBV infection in the area was further demonstrated by the high HBsAg-positive rate measured: 14.2% of the 1,180 mothers (3.9% were also e-antigen positive), 7.6% and 10.1% of the unvaccinated children at 6.5 months and 1 year of age, respectively. It was shown that vaccination with a 5-micrograms or 2.5-micrograms dose significantly lowered the HBsAg positives to a level close to 1.5% versus 10% in the control group at 1 year. An 85% protection was thus achieved. A 5-micrograms dose plus HBIG did not show additional benefit. A 2.5-micrograms dose plus HBIG gave less protection, and anti-HB levels were also significantly lower than in other groups. Among the 12 failures found in the 5-micrograms and 2.5-micrograms groups, 11 were born to HBsAg-positive mothers, nine of whom also had e-antigen. Available data showed that 29% of children born by e-antigen-positive and 2.7% of children born by e-antigen-negative carriers had the risk of becoming carriers during the first year of life following vaccination. The present study demonstrated the feasibility and rationale of conducting universal immunization of newborns in endemic rural area for controlling hepatitis and hepatoma. The significance of the possible use of the vaccination at lower dose had also been stressed.
A 22-year-old woman with the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome developed serial apnoeic-tonic seizures with concomitant bursts of repetitive spikes at 16-20/sec, after receiving therapeutic doses of chlormethiazole, clonazepam, and diazepam for the treatment of serial tonic-clonic generalized seizures. There was a direct relationship between dose of chlormethiazole and frequency of apnoeic-tonic seizures. Since these tonic seizures have been noted during natural sleep and after sleep induced by various sedative drugs in patients with slow spike-wave in EEG, it is likely that the reduction in level of consciousness induced by sedative drugs is the causative factor.
Reactive oxygen species, suggested to be involved in inflammatory bowel disease, may be modulated by endogenous anti-oxidant products of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). In the present work, HO-1 expression in trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in the rat and the effects of HO-1 modulation, particularly by the HO-1 inducer, heme, were further evaluated. Colitis was induced by intracolonic challenge with TNBS and assessed macroscopically and by myeloperoxidase (MPO) assay. Heme oxygenase activity was determined by measurement of bilirubin formation and HO-1 protein expression was determined by Western blotting. TNBS challenge led to an early and substantial induction of HO-1 protein expression and heme oxygenase activity in the colon that peaked after 48-72 h and declined over 10 days. Heme (30 micromol/kg/day, s.c) increased colonic HO-1 protein expression and enzyme activity and decreased colonic damage and myeloperoxidase activity. Short-term administration of cadmium chloride (2 mg/kg, s.c.), another known HO-1 inducer, also reduced the colonic injury and myeloperoxidase levels. In contrast, the HO-1 inhibitor, zinc protoporphyrin (50 micromol/kg/day, s.c) significantly increased the colonic damage and myeloperoxidase activity over 10 days, as did tin protoporphyrin (30 micromol/kg/day, s.c). These results support the proposal that induction of HO-1 provides a protective mechanism in this model under both acute and more-chronic conditions, and that its selective up-regulation could thus be of therapeutic potential in colitis.
Furosemide is a wellknown hepatotoxic agent in rodents. Toxicity is result of the production of a catabolite by action of microsomal enzymes. The goal of this study was to demonstrate differences in toxicity between two rodents species: rat and hamster. Animals received 400 mg/k/i.p. of furosemide, with or without pretreatment with phenobarbital as enzymatic inducer. Adequates controls were used. Microscopic findings were different in both groups. Rats treated with furosemide plus phenobarbital, exhibited extensive mediozonal necrosis; when those without pretreatment, showed less extensive necrosis of liver cells, erratic in distribution. In contrast, it was a lack of necrosis in hamsters' livers, showing only unremarkable changes.
Tricyclic antidepressants have been reported to relieve the paresthesiae associated with peripheral neuropathies of many etiologies. We designed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover trial to establish the efficacy of nortriptyline in the treatment of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (CDDP)-induced paresthesiae. The study included 51 evaluable patients with CDDP-induced peripheral neuropathy and painful paresthesiae. The study consisted of two 4 week phases, separated by a 1 week 'wash-out' period, in which patients received escalating dosages of either placebo or nortriptyline. The target maximum dose of nortriptyline was 100 mg/day. Each patient filled out pre-randomization and then weekly questionnaires assessing paresthesiae severity, hours of sleep, quality of life, and adverse effects over the 9 week study. No significant differences in paresthesia were observed in the first treatment period between nortriptyline and placebo (means of 49 and 55 respectively on a 0-100 point scale, P=0.78). Although some evidence of a modest effect in favor of nortriptyline was observed during the second treatment period (about one patient in five got a 10-point reduction in pain from drug above placebo effect), this occurred in the presence of a strong carryover effect. Linear models analysis and Bayes methods confirmed that the effect of nortriptyline on paresthesia was modest at best. Hours of sleep increased in the nortriptyline phase (P=0.02). There was no significant difference in measures of quality of life and the effect of paresthesiae on patients' daily activities between nortriptyline and placebo. There was no major toxicity associated with nortriptyline, but dry mouth, dizziness, and constipation were more common with nortriptyline. In summary, nortriptyline failed to demonstrate strong evidence of any effect on paresthesia or pain. The presence of a potential effect which appeared in the second period of the crossover design is questionable due to the observed carryover effect. Cross-validation sensitivity analysis of results support the conclusion that nortriptyline provides modest improvement at best over placebo in terms of chemotherapy-related neuropathy.
The existence of at least two stages in bladder carcinogenesis was evaluated in male Fischer rats using N-[14-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) fed for six weeks at a level of 0.2% of the diet as the initiator. Sodium saccharin and DL-tryptophan were fed at levels of 5 and 2% of the diet, respectively, as possible promoting chemicals, and they were fed either immediately after FANFT administration or after six weeks of FANFT plus six weeks of control diet. All surviving rats were killed at the end of two years. Both chemicals significantly increased the incidence of bladder tumors following FANFT feeding compared to six weeks of FANFT feeding followed by control diet, and the results were similar whether saccharin or tryptophan feeding was started immediately after FANFT feeding was concluded or after a six-week delay. Saccharin was considerably more potent as a promoting agent than was tryptophan, inducing higher incidences of bladder tumors and having a shorter latent period. Long-term administration of FANFT induced a 100% incidence of bladder cancer. Sequential epithelial changes were observed by scanning and transmission electron microscopy as well as by light microscopy. Pleomorphic microvilli were present on the superficial cells of all tumors examined and on the surface cells of hyperplastic bladder epithelium after six weeks of FANFT plus six weeks of saccharin, but not after six weeks of FANFT and six weeks of control diet. Rats fed only saccharin tryptophan, or control diet did not have bladder tumors or pleomorphic microvilli on bladder epithelium. These data suggest that saccharin and tryptophan might act as tumor-promoting agents during bladder carcinogenesis.
Microcystins (MCs) cause normocytic anemia in patients in a hemodialysis unit in Caruaru, Brazil in 1996, but the underlying mechanisms are still unclear. In the present study, Balb/c mice were intraperitoneally injected with microcystin-LR (MC-LR) at the doses of 0.5, 2 and 8 μg/kg body weight (bw) every 48 h for 30 d. After the prolonged exposure of MC-LR, significant decreases of red blood cell count (RBC), hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit (Ht) were observed in 2 and 8 μg/kg bw groups, but erythrocyte mean corpuscular volume (MCV) showed no significant changes. Significantly elevated micronucleus frequency was observed in bone marrow cells (BMCs) in all MC-LR treatments. The proliferation of BMCs significantly declined in both 2 and 8 μg/kg bw groups. Serum levels of some hematopoietic growth factors significantly changed in 8 μg/kg bw group, mainly including granulocyte-macrophage (GM-CSF), erythropoietin (EPO), interleukin-3 (IL-3) and TNF-α. The transcriptional levels of these 4 genes in BMCs were also significantly changed in 8 μg/kg bw group. MC-LR exposure significantly increased the apoptosis rates in all MC-LR treatments. The present study indicates prolonged exposure of MC-LR induces normocytic anemia, and the disturbed hematopoietic growth factors and BMCs apoptosis are responsible for this normocytic anemia.
Ethanol exposure during pregnancy is one of the major causes of mental retardation in western countries by inducing fetal-alcohol-like-syndromes. Red wine is known to contain ethanol but also compounds with putative antioxidant properties. It has also been shown that nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are severely affected by ethanol during prenatal and postnatal life. The aim of the current study was to investigate in male CD1 mice brain alterations in NGF and BDNF due to chronic early exposure to ethanol solution (11 vol%) or to red wine at the same alcohol concentration starting from 60 days before pregnancy up to pups weaning. Data revealed no differences between groups of dams in pregnancy duration, neither in pups delivery, pups mortality and sex ratio. Data also showed that adult animals exposed to only ethanol had disrupted levels of both NGF and BDNF in the hippocampus and other brain areas. This profile was associated with impaired ChAT immunopositivity in the septum and Nuclei Basalis and with altered cognition and emotional behavior. Quite interestingly mice exposed to red wine had no change in the behavior or in ChAT immunopositivity but a decrease in hippocampal BDNF and a mild NGF decrease in the cortex. Also NGF-induced neuritic outgrowth in PC-12 cells was still present when exposed to red wine but not when exposed to ethanol solution only. Data suggest differences in ethanol-induced neurotoxicity between red wine and ethanol solution only.
We examined the frequency, course, and treatment of hypertension in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial.
Blood pressure (BP) was measured at the time of admission, at randomization, and then 36 times during the first 24 hours after randomization. Patients with a systolic BP of >185 mm Hg and a diastolic BP of >110 mm Hg at admission were defined as hypertensive before randomization, and those with a systolic BP of >180 mm Hg or a diastolic BP of >105 mm Hg within the first 24 hours after randomization were defined as hypertensive after randomization. Standardized clinical assessments were conducted at 24 hours and at 3 months. Post hoc analyses were conducted to evaluate the association of antihypertensive therapy with clinical outcomes.
Of the 624 patients, 121(19%) had hypertension on admission and 372 (60%) had hypertension in the 24 hours after randomization. The use of antihypertensive therapy before randomization (tPA 9%, placebo 9%) and after randomization (tPA 24%, placebo 29%) was similar between placebo- and tPA-treated patients. No adverse effects of prerandomization antihypertensive therapy on 3-month favorable outcome were detected for either the placebo- or tPA-treated groups. For placebo patients with hypertension in the 24 hours after randomization, clinical outcome measures were similar for those patients who did and did not receive antihypertensive therapy after randomization (P > or = 0.26); antihypertensive therapy was not associated with declines in BP (P = 0.44) or with abrupt declines (P = 0.14). Those tPA patients who were hypertensive after randomization and received antihypertensive therapy were less likely to have a favorable outcome at 3 months (P < 0.01) than those who were hypertensive and did not receive antihypertensive therapy.
The frequency of hypertension and the use of antihypertensive therapy were similar between the tPA and placebo groups in the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. In the placebo group, antihypertensive therapy was not associated with less favorable outcomes at 3 months; postrandomization antihypertensive therapy was associated with less favorable outcomes for the tPA patients who were hypertensive. However, because of the nonrandomized use of antihypertensive therapy and the many post hoc comparisons leading to type 1 errors, the significance of this observation is unclear. Careful attention to BP and gentle management remain warranted for stroke patients treated with tPA.
Caffeine is a widely ingested and generally beneficial drug. However, when taken in excess, anxiety related symptoms become increasingly apparent. A case of caffeinism, which presented as a paranoid delusion, is reported as an extreme example of this. A study of 60 hospital inpatients revealed that about 40% of them consumed sufficient caffeine to produce symptoms of caffeinism. It is thus recommended that all patients should be questioned on their caffeine intake. Also, caffeinism should be considered as a differential diagnosis of anxiety states.
We investigated temperature regulation during anesthesia and postoperative shivering in chronically depressed patients given antidepressant drugs. We studied 35 depressed patients and 35 control patients who underwent orthopedic surgery. Tympanic membrane temperatures 60, 75, and 90 min after induction in the depression group were significantly (P < 0.05) higher than those of the control group. There were no significant differences in mean skin temperature between the depression and the control groups. Eight of 35 patients in the depression group and 2 of 35 patients in the control group developed postanesthetic shivering. The incidence of shivering in the depression group was significantly more frequent than that in the control group (P = 0.04). The tympanic membrane temperature of the patients treated with clomipramine tended to be higher than that of the patients treated with maprotiline. In conclusion, intraoperative core hypothermia in chronically depressed patients was decreased. However, the incidence of shivering in depressed patients was significantly more frequent.
Thermoregulation in chronically depressed patients is often altered. The alteration of body temperature is affected by depression itself and by antidepressants. General anesthesia has an influence on thermoregulatory control. However, temperature regulation during anesthesia in chronically depressed patients remains unclear.
The painful peripheral neuropathy occurring frequently during chemotherapy with paclitaxel or oxaliplatin is one of their dose-limiting factors. We reported previously that substance P is involved in the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypersensitivity reaction to paclitaxel in rats, and an antiallergic agent pemirolast reverses this reaction via the blockade of release of substance P. In the present study, we investigated the involvement of substance P in paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy compared with that by oxaliplatin. In von Frey and acetone tests in rats repeated administration of paclitaxel (6 mg/kg i.p., once a week for 4 weeks) or oxaliplatin (4 mg/kg i.p., twice a week for 4 weeks) induced both mechanical allodynia and cold hyperalgesia. Paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy was reversed primarily by the acute administration of pemirolast (0.1 and 1 mg/kg p.o.). Moreover, coadministration of the receptor antagonists neurokinin 1 [N-acetyl-l-tryptophan 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzylester (L-732,138), 100 μg/body i.t.] and neurokinin 2 [5-fluoro-3-[2-[4-methoxy-4-[[(R)-phenylsulphinyl]methyl]-1-piperidinyl]ethyl]-1H-indole (GR159897), 100 μg/body i.t.] strongly reversed paclitaxel-induced neuropathy. On the other hand, oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy was not reversed by pemirolast. In the in vitro study using cultured adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons paclitaxel (1000 ng/ml) significantly increased the release of substance P, and pemirolast (100 and 1000 nM) significantly inhibited this increase of substance P release. Oxaliplatin, by contrast, did not increase the release of substance P. These results suggest that substance P is involved in paclitaxel-induced neuropathy, and the mechanism of its action is clearly different from that of oxaliplatin.
Adult-onset type II citrullinemia (CTLN2) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations of SLC25A13 gene encoding citrin and is characterized by recurrent encephalopathy with hyperammonemia. Factors affecting disease progression remain unknown. We report a case with CTLN2, whose clinical course was rapidly worsened by the administration of Glyceol, a hyperosmotic diuretic solution consisting of 10% glycerol and 5% fructose in saline.
A 34-year-old man was admitted in coma after repeated episodes of altered consciousness. His plasma ammonia level was markedly elevated without any evidence of liver diseases. Brain MRI revealed high signal intensities at the bilateral cingulate gyri and insular cortices, suggesting hepatic encephalopathy. We administered Glyceol. intravenously to alleviate brain edema, however, he developed intractable seizures along with steep increase in plasma ammonia levels (from 808 to 2210 microg/dL) and died. The diagnosis of CTLN2 was confirmed by elevations of plasma citrulline level (384.3 nmol/mL; normal 17-43 nmol/mL) and serum pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (PSTI) (110 ng/mL; normal 4.6-12.2 ng/mL), decrease in hepatic argininosuccinate synthetase activity (5.5% of control), lack of hepatic citrin protein expression and mutations in SLC25A13 gene (compound heterozygote with S225X and Ex1-1G>A).
Physicians should take CTLN2 into consideration as a differential diagnosis in Asian patients with a history of repeated unconsciousness with hyperammonemia and use D-mannitol but not glycerol to treat brain edema in patients with CTLN2.
