Recent results from independent studies suggest that deferiprone is more cardioprotective than deferoxamine. Patients on long-term treatment with deferiprone have a better myocardial magnetic resonance imaging pattern and less chance to develop a new cardiac disease or worsen an existing one. Most of these observations are retrospective and require confirmation from randomized controlled trials. Other new observations regard the effects of combining the two chelators. Most results indicate an additional effect on iron excretion and a significant reduction of the time required to mitigate severe iron overload and to reverse clinical heart disease. Again, these data require confirmation, as they were mostly obtained on individual cases or small groups of patients treated with a wide range of combinations of the two chelators, but the univocity of results is impressive. After many years of controversy, deferiprone is emerging as a useful oral iron chelator that enhances the chances for the patient to have optimal treatment. Well-designed and -conducted studies will help in answering the questions still open.
Hyperglycaemia is a primary cause of vascular complications in diabetes. A hallmark of these vascular complications is endothelial cell dysfunction, which is partly due to reduced production of nitric oxide. The aim of this study was to verify the influence of improved glycaemic control with chlorpropamide on microvascular reactivity, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (e-NOS) expression, and NOS activity in neonatal streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats (n-STZ). Diabetes was induced by STZ injection into neonates Wistar rats. n-STZ diabetic rats were treated with chlorpropamide (200 mg kg(-1), 15 days, by gavage). The changes in mesenteric arteriolar and venular diameters were determined in anaesthetized control and n-STZ diabetic rats, before and after topical application of acetylcholine, bradykinin and sodium nitroprusside (SNP). We also assessed e-NOS expression (using polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription of mRNAs into cDNAs) and NOS activity (conversion of L-arginine to citrulline) in the mesenteric vascular bed of chlorpropamide-treated n-STZ, vehicle-treated n-STZ, and control rats. In n-STZ, chlorpropamide treatment reduced high glycaemic levels, improved glucose tolerance and homoeostatic model assessment (HOMA-beta), and restored NOS activity. Impaired vasodilator responses of arterioles and venules to acetylcholine, bradykinin and SNP were partially corrected by chlorpropamide treatment in n-STZ. We concluded that improved metabolic control and restored NOS activity might be collaborating with improved microvascular reactivity found in chlorpropamide-treated n-STZ.
The effects of acute chlorpromazine treatment were assessed using a complex operant test battery (OTB) containing five tasks thought to depend upon processes associated with short-term memory and attention [delayed-matching-to-sample (DMTS)], color and position discrimination [conditioned position responding (CPR)], motivation [progressive ratio (PR)], time perception [temporal response differentiation (TRD)], and learning [incremental repeated acquisition (IRA)]. Adult male rhesus monkeys were tested 15 min after IV injection of saline or chlorpromazine (0.010, 0.030, 0.100, or 0.175 mg/kg). Behavioral endpoints measured included percent task completed, response rate or latency, and response accuracy. The order of task sensitivity to disruption by chlorpromazine was TRD = PR = IRA = DMTS = CPR in which sensitivity was defined as a significant alteration in any aspect of task performance. Chlorpromazine slowed response rates in all tasks except TRD but did decrease accuracy in that task. These effects were similar to those noted in previous studies of acute chlorpromazine treatment. Specific motoric effects suggested decreased task initiation at doses that left general motor ability intact. This finding is similar to that noted in parkinsonism caused by chronic chlorpromazine treatment.
A 44-year-old woman with fetal thalidomide syndrome and congenital pseudoainhum of the left big toe had a 5-year history of painful nonhealing ulcers in the left malleolar region. Venous Doppler ultrasonography showed hypoagenesis of the valve flaps of the deep and superficial venous circuit. To our knowledge, this is the first description of congenital pseudoainhum associated with fetal thalidomide syndrome. The coexistence of cutaneous ulcers in our case might be coincidental but may be related to a congenital valve defect (hypoagenesis) caused by thalidomide.
N-{trans-3-[(5-Cyano-6-methylpyridin-2-yl)oxy]-2,2,4,4-tetramethylcyclobutyl}imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidine-3-carboxamide (1) was recently identified as a full antagonist of the androgen receptor, demonstrating excellent in vivo tumor growth inhibition in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). However, the imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidine moiety is rapidly metabolized by aldehyde oxidase (AO). The present paper describes a number of medicinal chemistry strategies taken to avoid the AO-mediated oxidation of this particular system. Guided by an AO protein structure-based model, our investigation revealed the most probable site of AO oxidation and the observation that altering the heterocycle or blocking the reactive site are two of the more effective strategies for reducing AO metabolism. These strategies may be useful for other drug discovery programs.
To describe a challenging patient case in which dronedarone was selected for a patient with atrial fibrillation and heart failure; the drug may have been associated with worsening heart failure, leading to acute renal and hepatic failure.
A 47-year-old male with a history of heart failure with New York Heart Association class III-IV symptoms presented to our institution with ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia storm. Torsade de pointes secondary to a combination of dofetilide and hypokalemia was determined to be the etiology. Upon stabilization, the patient was initiated on dronedarone 400 mg orally twice daily by the electrophysiology service for atrial fibrillation. The patient had a questionable history of amiodarone intolerance. By hospital day 9 (day 4 of dronedarone therapy), the patient demonstrated a clinical picture consistent with acute renal and hepatic failure possibly due to worsening heart failure. Dronedarone was discontinued on hospital day 10. He was subsequently transferred to an outside hospital where he required milrinone therapy for cardiogenic shock. Laboratory markers of renal and hepatic function improved over the remainder of his hospitalization and he was discharged on hospital day 20.
Dronedarone is a newly approved antiarrhythmic agent with multichannel blocking properties similar to amiodarone. Use of the Naranjo probability scale determined that this patient's worsening heart failure leading to acute renal and hepatic failure was possibly caused by dronedarone. The implication from the ANDROMEDA trial as well as our experience in this case is that dronedarone should be used cautiously in patients with heart failure and avoided in patients specifically outlined in the product labeling.
This case report, to our knowledge, represents the first published postmarketing report of worsening heart failure complicated by multiorgan dysfunction in the setting of dronedarone initiation. Dronedarone use must be approached with caution in patients with a history of heart failure.
Two asthmatic children who developed status epilepticus during theophylline treatment followed by semi-coma were reported. They suffered from severe neurological sequelae. A two-year-old male received oral maintenance theophylline therapy and a four-year-old male received intravenous theophylline therapy at the time of seizures. Theophylline blood levels measured several hours after the onset of seizures were within or below the therapeutic level; 12.7 and 8.8 micrograms/ml. They had febrile convulsions prior to the onset of episode and one of them was mildly delayed in psychomotor development. Brain CT scans showed diffuse cortical low-density in the acute period. Follow up CT scans revealed progressive cortical low-density in the subacute period and subsequently reached to the peak in the 10th day and 19th day of illness respectively. We consider that the progressive and long-lasting severe cortical edema on brain CT scan is characteristic of theophylline-associated encephalopathy.
Prolactin and 3alpha, 5alpha-reduced neurosteroids are implicated in maternal behavior. Sulpiride, an inductor of hyperprolactinemia, increased mRNA levels of 5alpha-reductase (5alpha-R), the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of these neurosteroids, indicating a possible interrelationship between prolactin levels and 5alpha-R, although the effects of sulpiride per se cannot be ruled out. In this study, we quantified mRNA levels of both 5alpha-R isozymes in prefrontal cortex of rats after the administration of metoclopramide, another inductor of prolactin secretion. The mRNA levels of both 5alpha-R isozymes were significantly increased in male and female rats by metoclopramide, although the effect was not identical to that of sulpiride. Therefore, other factors induced by these drugs, besides prolactin, may intervene in the regulation of both 5alpha-R isozymes.
Zafirlukast and placebo were administered orally as individual agents to 20 dogs with atopic dermatitis. The pruritus was effectively reduced by at least 50% in 2/18 (11%) dogs that completed the trial with zafirlukast. Two dogs vomited after administration of the active drug.
To investigate the alleviation effect of vein pretreatment and granisetron/lidocaine combination on propofol injection-induced pain.
Two hundreds patients scheduled for gynaecological laparoscopic operations were randomly divided into four groups: control group (group I), lidocaine group (group II), granisetron group (group III) and granisetron/lidocaine combination group (group IV), with 50 patients in each group. The patients in the above four groups received placebo (saline), lidocaine 20 mg, granisetron 2 mg and granisetron 2 mg plus lidocaine intravenously respectively. The patients were injected with one-forth of scheduled propofol via a dorsal hand vein after one minute of venous occlusion. The pain during the injection of propofol was evaluated.
Pain occurred in 84% of patients in the control group, 46% in the lidocaine group, 52% in the granisetron group and 24% in the granisetron/lidocaine combination group. There was a significant reduction in pain incidence in the three experimental groups compared with the control group (P<0.05). The incidence of pain, nausea, vomiting and shivering was less in the granisetron/lidocaine combination group than in the control group (P<0.05).
Pretreatment with granisetron/lidocaine may be effective not only in attenuating pains during i.v. injection of propofol, but also in preventing postoperative nausea, vomiting and shivering.
To identify differentially expressed genes in synovial fibroblasts and examine the effect on gene expression of exposure to TNF-alpha and IL-1beta.
Restriction fragment differential display was used to isolate genes using degenerate primers complementary to the lysophosphatidic acid acyl transferase gene family. Differential gene expression was confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry using a variety of synovial fibroblasts, including cells from patients with osteoarthritis and self-limiting parvovirus arthritis.
Irrespective of disease process, synovial fibroblasts constitutively produced higher levels of IL-6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) (CCL2) than skin fibroblasts. Seven genes were differentially expressed in synovial fibroblasts compared with skin fibroblasts. Of these genes, four [tissue factor pathway inhibitor 2 (TFPI2), growth regulatory oncogene beta (GRObeta), manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and granulocyte chemotactic protein 2 (GCP-2)] were all found to be constitutively overexpressed in synoviocytes derived from patients with osteoarthritis. These four genes were only weakly expressed in other synovial fibroblasts (rheumatoid and self-limiting parvovirus infection). However, expression in all types of fibroblasts was increased after stimulation with TNF-alpha and IL-1beta. Three other genes (aggrecan, biglycan and caldesmon) were expressed at higher levels in all types of synovial fibroblasts compared with skin fibroblasts even after stimulation with TNF-alpha and IL-1.
Seven genes have been identified with differential expression patterns in terms of disease process (osteoarthritis vs rheumatoid arthritis), state of activation (resting vs cytokine activation) and anatomical location (synovium vs skin). Four of these genes, TFPI2, GRObeta (CXCL2), MnSOD and GCP-2 (CXCL6), were selectively overexpressed in osteoarthritis fibroblasts rather than rheumatoid fibroblasts. While these differences may represent differential behaviour of synovial fibroblasts in in vitro culture, these observations suggest that TFPI2, GRObeta (CXCL2), MnSOD and GCP-2 (CXCL6) may represent new targets for treatments specifically tailored to osteoarthritis.
3,2'-Dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) is a potent carcinogenic aromatic amine which demonstrates multiorgan tropism in rats. Using polyclonal antibodies against DMAB-DNA adducts, an immunohistochemical procedure as well as an ELISA were applied to investigate the relationship between DMAB-DNA adduct formation and tumorigenicity. Dose-related nuclear staining was observed 24 hr after application of the carcinogen but specificity in terms of sites of tumor development was lacking. No observable decrease in staining intensity was evident in most organs by 168 hr after administration of DMAB. Specific DNA lesions which could be responsible for carcinogenesis were not detected by the 32P-postlabeling method. The tumorigenic response of the ventral prostate in five strains of rats was roughly paralleled by DMAB-DNA adduct levels generated in the tissue. Strong enhancement of bladder tumor development by combined administration of the antioxidants, butylated hydroxyanisole, or butylated hydroxytoluene, with DMAB, was well correlated with an increase in DNA adducts. Our findings so far suggest that DNA adduct formation itself does not determine the carcinogenic organotropism of DMAB. Other factors (including cell proliferation and promotion by exogenous agents) may play important additional roles. For individual target organs or tissues, however, there seems to be a correlation between adduct levels and carcinogenic potential.
Serotonergic pathways are thought to be important in mediating the effects of aversive events.
To investigate the effects of buspirone, a 5-HT(1A) partial agonist, on habituation and extinction in an aversive classical conditioning model.
Forty healthy male volunteers were randomly assigned to a single dose of buspirone (10 mg) or placebo. They filled in questionnaires of anxiety and depression at baseline and visual analogue scales of tension and anxiety before and at 60, 120 and 150 min after drug administration. Their skin conductance responses to auditory stimuli were measured on the conditioning model 2 h after drug intake.
There were no differences between groups on depression or anxiety. Buspirone decreased the amplitude of the skin conductance response and the number of spontaneous fluctuations in both the habituation and extinction phases but had no effect on skin conductance level. Buspirone also attenuated the unconditioned response to the white noise and the response to the first tone. Visual analogue ratings of tension and anxiety decreased after buspirone.
Buspirone decreased physiological reactivity in an aversive classical conditioning model. It had anxiolytic effects on both conditioned and unconditioned anxiety. This might be due to its multiple actions on 5-HT receptors.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), a pro-inflammatory cytokine, enhances the development of pain and hyperalgesia, although the molecular mechanisms are not well understood. This study evaluated the hypothesis that TNFalpha increases the sensitivity of rat trigeminal neurons to capsaicin via two different mechanisms triggered by either brief or sustained exposure to the cytokine. A brief (5 min) application of TNFalpha significantly sensitized capsaicin-evoked accumulation of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) (226.4+/-37.7 nM vs. 167.5+/-31.3 nM) and increased capsaicin-evoked nocifensive behavior (78.3+/-9.7 vs. 30.9+/-3.6 s) as compared with vehicle pretreatment (P<0.01 for both). Sustained (30 min to 4 h) exposure of cultured neurons to TNFalpha evoked a twofold increase in mRNA transcript (P<0.05) and protein levels (P<0.01) of transient potential receptor vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1). This long-term up-regulation of TRPV1 expression by TNFalpha correlated with enhancement in capsaicin-induced calcitonin gene-related peptide release (P<0.05). Demonstration of colocalization of TNFalpha receptor subtypes I and II with TRPV1 in almost all (>90%) TRPV1 expressing neurons provides evidence consistent with a direct interaction on the same subpopulation of sensory neurons. In summary, our data demonstrate that TNFalpha directly enhances the sensitivity of rat trigeminal neurons to capsaicin via both rapid, non-genomic mechanisms as well as sustained genomic regulation in TRPV1 expression. Thus, increased sensitization and up-regulation of TRPV1 constitutes a potential mechanism by which TNFalpha mediates inflammatory hyperalgesia and pain.
Chronic maintenance tocainide therapy was effective in controlling symptomatic, recurrent ventricular tachycardia in 11 of 15 patients. Patients were selected for tocainide therapy on the basis of refractoriness to conventional antiarrhythmic agents and responsiveness to the intravenous administration of lidocaine. Side effects were frequent but could usually be managed by taking the drug with meals or by more frequent administration of smaller doses. Survival, frequency of symptomatic tachycardia, frequency of asymptomatic ventricular tachycardia, and tolerance of the therapeutically effective dosage were the criteria used to assess therapeutic effectiveness. Factors common to the response group included primary and secondary Q-T prolongation before therapy, a paradoxical increase in ventricular ectopic activity with quinidine-like medications, and shortening of the Q-T interval with maintenance tocainide therapy. These factors may prove to be useful in identifying the patients who are most likely to benefit from chronic maintenance tocainide therapy.
The objective of our study was to test the hypothesis that treatment with nifedipine for mild preeclampsia remote from term reduces the number of days of maternal hospitalization and improves pregnancy outcome.
A total of 200 patients at 26 to 36 weeks' gestation were randomly allocated to treatment with either bed rest alone (n = 100) or bed rest in combination with nifedipine (n = 100).
Patients receiving nifedipine had significantly lower systolic (p < 0.0001) and diastolic (p < 0.0001) blood pressures during therapy. Severe hypertension as an indication for delivery was significantly (p < 0.05) more frequent in the bed-rest-alone group. The two study groups had similar average days of maternal hospitalization (12.6 +/- 7.9 vs 12.3 +/- 10.3) and pregnancy prolongation (22.3 +/- 13.5 vs 22.5 +/- 15.7). There were no differences between groups with respect to birth weight, incidences of small-for-gestational-age infants and preterm birth, number of days spent in special care unit, or cord blood gas measurement.
Nifedipine therapy for preeclampsia reduces maternal blood pressure but does not reduce number of days of maternal hospitalization or improve perinatal outcome.
Since coronary artery and cerebrovascular diseases are the most common serious complications of long standing hypertension, there is a great potential for combining treatment with aspirin and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I). However, the data regarding interaction of aspirin and ACE-I in relation to blood pressure control and survival benefits are controversial and inconclusive. We presumed that the appearance of dry cough in some of the patients following initiation of ACE-I treatment could be used as a marker for the presence of their influence, whereas ACE-I cough attenuation after addition of aspirin to treatment could be a sign of aspirin and ACE-I interaction on clinical level. The present study was aimed to use ACE-I induced cough as a clinical marker of ACE-I activity to determine whether dose-dependent aspirin and ACE-I interaction does exist. In a cohort of 750 consecutive ACE-I treated hypertensive and postinfarction outpatients we identified 78 (10.4%) non-smoking ACE-I related coughers. Out of them, 31 (21 men, 10 women; mean age 61 +/- 0.9 years) agreed to take part in the study, which was aimed to compare two regimens of combined ACE-I and aspirin treatment (self-matched control data): intermediate (500 mg daily) vs low-dose aspirin (100 mg daily). On each visit the life quality, cough severity (CS, 0-4) and frequency (CF, 0-10) scores were registered. Low doses of aspirin demonstrated an excellent safety profile and did not influence any life quality score and ACE-I induced cough. In contrast, intermediate doses completely abolished cough in 17 patients and reduced coughing in other 11 patients. Cough severity and cough frequency scores decreased, respectively, from 2.7 +/- 1.1 to 0.7 +/- 1.2 (P < 0.001) and from 7.1 +/- 2.3 to 2.0 +/- 2.2 (P < 0.0001). Overall, the cough frequency score method alone could identify a clear modification of cough in 26 (84%) patients, and cough severity score method alone in 24 (77%). Using the combined frequency/severity score method a modification of cough could be identified in 28 (90%) of the patients receiving intermediate dose of aspirin. Aspirin did not influence heart rate and blood pressure control either in hypertensives or in postinfarction patients. We conclude that using ACE-I induced cough as a clinical marker of ACE-I activity demonstrates that an interaction between ACE-I and aspirin at 500 mg/day does exist. We did not find any evidence supporting the presence of a clinically significant interaction between ACE-I and aspirin at 100 mg/day. Thus, combined treatment by low dose aspirin and ACE-I seems to be both safe and useful.
The protective effect of the reduced form of neopterin, 5,6,7,8-tetrahydroneopterin (NPH4), against the cardiotoxicity of adriamycin (ADR) was evaluated in mice by assay of serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) and heart lipid peroxide (i.e., thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, TBARS). The activity of CPK was drastically elevated at around 3 days after a single s.c. injection of ADR and had returned to normal at 6 days. There were no marked changes in the TBARS content of the heart by 6 days, but a significant increase was apparent at about 8 days after ADR treatment. The effect of NPH4 was evaluated in terms of the serum CPK activity at the 4th day and in terms of TBARS content at the 8th day after ADR treatment. The elevation of CPK activity induced by ADR was significantly suppressed by two treatments with NPH4 every day for 4 days, i.e., from day 0 to day 3 after injection of ADR, at doses of 3 mg/kg and 0.3 mg/kg. The increase of TBARS content in the heart at 8 days after ADR treatment was also suppressed at both doses of NPH4. The effect of the timing of NPH4 treatment on the suppression of elevated CPK was examined. The suppressive potency of NPH4 could not be elicited by any treatment schedule that terminated at or before 2 days after injection of ADR. Consecutive treatments from day 0 to day 3 after injection of ADR were effective, as was a simple schedule of only two treatments with NPH4 on day 3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The Stüve-Wiedemann Syndrome (SWS) is a frequently lethal chondrodysplasia caused by null mutations in the leukemia inhibitory factor receptor gene (LIFR) responsible for an impaired activation of the JAK-STAT pathway after LIF stimulation. Most LIFR mutations are nonsense mutations, thus prompting us to investigate the impact of aminoglycosides on the readthrough of premature termination codons (PTCs). Culturing skin fibroblasts from three SWS patients and controls for 48 h in the presence of gentamycin (200-500 microg/ml) partially restored the JAK-STAT3 pathway when stimulated by LIF. Consistently, quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that gentamycin stabilized LIFR mRNAs carrying UGA premature termination codons. We conclude that high gentamycin concentrations can partially restore functional LIFR protein synthesis in vitro, prompting us to investigate PTC readthrough using less toxic and more efficient drugs in this presently untreatable lethal condition.
The effects of the normotensive, mainly centrally active nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor 7-nitro indazole and the hypertensive drug NG-nitro-L-arginine, which blocks both the endothelial and the central NOS, have been examined on naloxone-precipitated withdrawal in morphine-dependent rats. Both drugs attenuated the same withdrawal signs (teeth-chattering, penile licking, diarrhoea, chewing, wet-dog shakes, grooming), while other signs remained unaffected (rearing, jumping, ptosis, rhinorrhoea, irritability on touch). These findings indicate that mainly central (but not endothelial) nitric oxide is involved in the expression of some opioid withdrawal symptoms.
