The effects of chronic treatment with dopamine (DA) D1 and D2 receptor antagonists were evaluated in eight cebus apella monkeys with mild oral dyskinesia after previous haloperidol treatment. SCH 23390 (D1 antagonist) was given daily to investigate the direct behavioural effect during long-term treatment and the subsequent supersensitivity to DA agonists. Raclopride (D2 antagonist) was investigated for comparison. All drugs were given subcutaneously. SCH 23390 and raclopride induced dystonic syndromes, catalepsy, sedation and reduced locomotor activity. The monkeys developed marked tolerance to the dystonic effect of SCH 23390, while they showed increased sensibility to the dystonic effect of raclopride. Baseline oral dyskinesia (24 h after injection) remained unchanged during D1 antagonist treatment, while it increased during D2 antagonist treatment. SCH 23390 induced supersensitivity to the oral dyskinesia- and grooming-inducing effects of SKF 81297 (D1 agonist) after 9 weeks, while the subsequent treatment with raclopride induced supersensitivity to the reactivity- and stereotypy-inducing effects of quinpirole (D2 receptor agonist) after 3 weeks. Because of the possibility of a carry-over effect (SKF 81297-induced oral hyperkinesia and grooming), other changes in raclopride-induced behaviours cannot be ruled out. The development of tolerance to the dystonic effect of SCH 23390 and the unchanged baseline oral dyskinesia during SCH 23390 treatment indicate an advantageous profile of side effects of DA D1 receptor blockade.
Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) suppresses macrophage infiltration and ameliorates injury in an experimental model of macrophage dependent glomerulonephritis. Macrophages are mediators of glomerular injury in models of proliferative glomerulonephritis. We have recently shown that macrophages in glomerulonephritis have low prostaglandin E2 (PGE) generation, and other evidence implicates eicosanoids as regulators of macrophage activation. Here we have studied in rats the effect of 15(s)-15-methyl PGE1 (M-PGE1) on accelerated nephrotoxic nephritis, a model of acute macrophage-dependent glomerular injury. M-PGE1 ameliorated proteinuria (day 4; 61 +/- 13 mg/24 h, n = 9; vehicle treated, 164 +/- 17 mg/24 h, n = 11; P less than 0.002) and glomerular hypercellularity; quantification of infiltrating macrophages by isolating glomerular cells showed reduction in the numbers of macrophages (44 +/- 9/glomerulus; vehicle treated, 119 +/- 15/glomerulus; P less than 0.02) with inhibition of Ia antigen expression on infiltrating macrophages (8 +/- 5%; vehicle treated 25 +/- 4% P less than 0.05). Glomerular binding of nephrotoxic globulin and levels of autologous antibodies were not affected by M-PGE1. Thus the mechanism of suppression involves inhibition of macrophage accumulation and activation. M-PGE1 administered to normal rats did not affect numbers of resident leucocytes (12.6 +/- 1.5/glomerulus; vehicle treated, 13.2 +/- 1.3/glomerulus) or alter Ia antigen expression (4.1 +/- 0.2 Ia + cells/glomerulus; vehicle treated, 3.9 +/- 0.6/glomerulus). This study suggests a therapeutic role for PGE1 in this type of glomerulonephritis, and has implications for the pathophysiology of macrophage-mediated inflammation.
Alström syndrome (AS) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressive pigmentary retinopathy, sensorineural hearing loss, fatty liver infiltration, obesity, insulin resistance and early-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2). Early onset of insulin resistance and DM2 are key components of this syndrome.
To study the effect of early initiation of the insulin sensitizer metformin combined with rosiglitazone in a patient with AS with impaired glucose tolerance.
An 8 year-old boy with AS presented with acanthosis nigricans and insulin resistance at the age of 6 years. He had progressive excessive weight gain from 9 months of age. By the age of 1 year he developed photosensitivity, blindness and nystagmus. At the age of 5.5 years, his body mass index (BMI) was above the 95th percentile. He developed impaired glucose tolerance at 6 years of age and treatment with metformin was initiated. After 8 months of treatment with metformin he developed DM2. The dose of metformin was increased, and rosiglitazone added.
A 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and a rapid intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) were performed before treatment was initiated, after treatment with metformin and at the end of 1 year of combination therapy with metformin and rosiglitazone to calculate quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI) and acute insulin response (AIR). For mutation analysis, all exons and splice site sequences of the ALMS1 gene were amplified and sequenced.
Metformin treatment alone at the stage of impaired glucose tolerance did not prevent progression to DM2. However, metformin at a higher dose and in combination with rosiglitazone resulted in improvement of pancreatic beta-cell function, shown by markedly improved first-phase insulin response to glucose measured by AIR. The patient was found to have two heterozygous nonsense mutations in ALMS1, 8008 C-->T Ter, R2670X, and 11449 C-->T Ter, Q3817X. These alterations cause premature stops and result in a truncated ALMS1 protein.
We suggest that early initiation of combined therapy comprising a high dose of metformin plus rosiglitazone may be valuable in managing insulin resistance and DM2 in children with AS.
It is widely known that inhaled corticosteroids are highly efficacious in the prophylactic treatment of asthma, but the mechanism of this action is not known. In this study we have investigated the effect of 6 wk of therapy with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP; daily dose 2,000 micrograms for 2 wk and 1,000 micrograms for 4 wk) in a group of symptomatic individuals with asthma on clinical and physiologic indices of disease activity and on T cell numbers and state of activation in peripheral blood and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL). This course of treatment had a marked effect of improving all indices of disease activity including symptom scores, morning peak expiratory flow (PEF), variation in PEF, and methacholine PC20 (from a geometric mean of 0.62 to 4.6 mg/ml) but did not alter the total numbers of T cells, identified by the CD3 receptor, or the CD4+ and CD8+ subsets when analyzed in peripheral blood or BAL using flow cytometry. However, BDP treatment had a marked effect in reducing the expression of the activation markers CD25 and HLA-DR (p < 0.02) in T cells recovered by BAL in which these markers were upregulated. A small but significant (p < 0.02) downregulation of HLA-DR expression was also observed on peripheral blood T cells. These data add to the view that T cells are upregulated in the airways of individuals with asthma and are susceptible to inhibition by topical corticosteroids.
Rats were fed up to 9 months diets supplemented with vitamin A in an amount that, by itself, had no apparent adverse effect on the liver. When associated with chronic ethanol administration, vitamin A supplementation strikingly exacerbated ethanol-induced abnormalities: fat accumulation was increased and numerous giant mitochondria were observed. Furthermore, lesions appeared which ethanol alone does not produce in rats, namely necrosis, inflammation, and fibrosis. Vitamin A supplementation increased the number of fat storing cells (lipocytes) which positively correlated with vitamin A accumulation in the liver. However, when vitamin A supplementation was combined with ethanol administration, vitamin A levels in the liver and the number of fat storing cells decreased and numerous myofibroblasts appeared in association with abundant collagen fibers. There was also hepatic inflammation and necrosis, accompanied by a rise in serum glutamate dehydrogenase, SGOT, and SGPT and a decrease in retinol binding protein and vitamin A. We conclude that amounts of vitamin A, which by themselves appear harmless, may produce severe liver lesions when associated with chronic ethanol consumption.
A 50-year old woman developed symptoms of a neuroleptic malignant syndrome with myoglobinuric renal failure during treatment with perphenazine. After discontinuation of perphenazine and repetitive haemodialysis, the patient recovered. Clinical characteristics of the syndrome, differential diagnosis and various therapeutic possibilities are shortly reviewed.
A number of fluoroquinolones have shown convulsive potential. The effect of Ciprofloxacin was studied in electroconvulsive seizures in mice using the tonic extensor phase as end point and seizure threshold as observational parameter. Its interaction with diclofenac and paracetamol was also studied. It was found that Ciprofloxacin produced a significant epileptogenic effect. This was potentiated by diclofenac but paracetamol had no such effect. Though the exact mechanisms involved in this effect are conjectural, role of GABA inhibitory mechanisms is a possibility.
A 65-year-old female was started anti-tuberculous therapy for her pulmonary tuberculosis on admission. Liver dysfunction had occurred on 33rd day after starting treatment. AST was elevated to 301 IU/L, and ALT was also elevated to 141 IU/L. Therefore, all medicated drugs were stopped. She had jaundice on 42nd day and liver failure deteriorated. She was medicated with steroids, but she died by liver failure on 64th day. This is a rare case of fatal liver failure due to antituberculous therapy.
In unanesthetized, spontaneously hypertensive rats the decrease in blood pressure and heart rate produced by intravenous clonidine, 5 to 20 micrograms/kg, was inhibited or reversed by nalozone, 0.2 to 2 mg/kg. The hypotensive effect of 100 mg/kg alpha-methyldopa was also partially reversed by naloxone. Naloxone alone did not affect either blood pressure or heart rate. In brain membranes from spontaneously hypertensive rats clonidine, 10(-8) to 10(-5) M, did not influence stereoselective binding of [3H]-naloxone (8 nM), and naloxone, 10(-8) to 10(-4) M, did not influence clonidine-suppressible binding of [3H]-dihydroergocryptine (1 nM). These findings indicate that in spontaneously hypertensive rats the effects of central alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation involve activation of opiate receptors. As naloxone and clonidine do not appear to interact with the same receptor site, the observed functional antagonism suggests the release of an endogenous opiate by clonidine or alpha-methyldopa and the possible role of the opiate in the central control of sympathetic tone.
We report the cases of three epileptic children who developed hepatotoxicity induced by valproic acid. Two patients had developmental delay. Including the one who died, all patients were receiving polytherapy (carbamazepine in two and phenobarbital in one). The patients age ranged from 2 years and 8 months to 5 years and 1 month. The onset of hepatic complications occurred within 6 months of valproate therapy in two patients and 12 months in one. All patients developed the classical clinical signs of hepatotoxicity. Vomiting, edema and jaundice were the initial symptoms. Fever occurred in two patients. The serum levels of glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase were mildly elevated with a maximum of 194 IU. The bilirubin levels ranged from 5.5 to 19.8 mg%. Two patients recovered clinically and showed normalization of the laboratory abnormalities and one had fatal course. The hepatotoxicity must be considered as a side effect of valproic acid mainly in children under two years age, with polytherapy regimen and neurologic damage. The hepatic insufficiency can be reversible.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is primarily thought of as a disease of aging. However, recent evidence points to the potential for exposure to xenobiotics during development to increase risk of PD. Here, we report that developmental exposure to the organochlorine pesticide heptachlor alters the dopamine system and increases neurotoxicity in an animal model of PD. Exposure of pregnant mice to heptachlor led to increased levels of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) levels at both the protein and mRNA level in their offspring. Increased DAT and VMAT2 levels were accompanied by alterations of mRNA levels of nuclear transcription factors that control dopamine neuron development and regulate DAT and VMAT2 levels in adulthood. At 12 weeks of age, control and heptachlor-exposed offspring were administered a moderate dose (2 x 10mg/kg) of the parkinsonism-inducing agent MPTP. Greater neurotoxicity as evidenced by a greater loss of striatal dopamine and potentiation of increased levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein and alpha-synuclein was observed in heptachlor-exposed offspring. The neurotoxicity observed was greater in the male offspring than the female offspring, suggesting that males are more susceptible to the long-term effects of developmental heptachlor exposure. These data suggest that developmental heptachlor exposure causes long-term alterations of the dopamine system thereby rendering it more susceptible to dopaminergic damage in adulthood.
We examined the activation pattern of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and its dependence on D1 versus D2 dopamine receptors in hemiparkinsonian rats treated with 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl-L-alanine (L-DOPA).
6-Hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were treated acutely or chronically with L-DOPA in combination with antagonists for D1 or D2 receptors. Development of dyskinesia was monitored in animals receiving chronic drug treatment. Phosphorylation of ERK1/2, mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase-1 (MSK-1), and the levels of FosB/DeltaFosB expression were examined immunohistochemically.
L-DOPA treatment caused phosphorylation of ERK1/2 in the dopamine-denervated striatum after acute and chronic administration. Similar levels were observed in matrix and striosomes, and in enkephalin-positive and dynorphin-positive neurons. The severity of dyskinesia was positively correlated with phospho-ERK1/2 levels. Phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and MSK-1 was dose-dependently blocked by SCH23390, but not by raclopride. SCH23390 also inhibited the development of dyskinesia and the induction of FosB/DeltaFosB.
L-DOPA produces pronounced activation of ERK1/2 signaling in the dopamine-denervated striatum through a D1-receptor-dependent mechanism. This effect is associated with the development of dyskinesia. Phosphorylated ERK1/2 is localized to both dynorphinergic and enkephalinergic striatal neurons, suggesting a general role of ERK1/2 as a plasticity molecule during L-DOPA treatment.
To report a potential drug-drug interaction between enfuvirtide, an injectable HIV fusion inhibitor, and niacin in an HIV-infected man with dilated cardiomyopathy.
A 47-year-old HIV-infected man with dilated cardiomyopathy and prolonged QT syndrome with an automatic implantable cardiovascular defibrillator device was prescribed subcutaneous enfuvirtide 90 mg twice daily as part of his antiretroviral regimen and oral extended-release niacin 500 mg/day for a high-density lipoprotein level of 8 mg/dL. After 1 week of concomitant therapy, the patient began experiencing extreme redness, edema, and swelling at the injection site that corresponded with the flushing sensation due to niacin. This interfered with his daily activities, leading to self-discontinuation of both agents. As the patient had tolerated enfuvirtide therapy prior to the addition of niacin, we reinitiated enfuvirtide with close follow-up, and the patient has been maintained on this agent since then without consequence. Based on the Horn Drug Interaction Probability Scale, a probable interaction occurred between enfurvirtide and niacin.
We hypothesize that a drug-drug interaction occurs between enfuvirtide and niacin related to prostaglandin synthesis and mobilization of inflammatory cells, specifically Langerhans cells. A theoretical mechanism for this interaction is that the Langerhans cells in the epidermis function improperly due to the presence of HIV and the attachment of enfuvirtide. When these cells are exposed to nicotinic acid, an exaggerated immune response is produced that may lead to pain, redness, and swelling at the injection site. Prostaglandins, cytokines, and other inflammatory molecules may all have a role in this interaction.
Caution should be used when coadministering enfuvirtide and niacin to HIV-infected patients.
We have previously shown that nitric oxide (NO) and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) may cause headache and migraine. However, not all findings in previous studies can be explained by an activation of the NO-cGMP pathway. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) causes headache and migraine in migraine patients, but CGRP receptor activation causes an increase in cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). In order to investigate the role of cAMP in vascular headache pathogenesis, we studied the effect of cilostazol, an inhibitor of cAMP degradation, in our human experimental headache model. Twelve healthy volunteers were included in a double-blind, randomized, crossover study. Placebo or cilostazol (200 mg p.o.) was administered on two separate study days. Headache was scored on a verbal rating scale (0-10) and mechanical pain thresholds were measured with von Frey hairs. The median peak headache score 0-16 h postdose was 0 (range 0-2) after placebo and 3.5 (range 0-7) after cilostazol (P = 0.003). The median headache curve peaked at 6-9 h postdose. The headaches induced were usually bilateral and pulsating. Nausea occurred in two volunteers, photo- and phonophobia were not seen. Two volunteers had a headache that fulfilled International Headache Society criteria for migraine without aura after cilostazol. No change in mechanical pain thresholds in the forehead was seen (P = 0.25). The headache after cilostazol was equal to or more severe than headache induced by glyceryl trinitrate in previous experiments. The present study thus indicates that increased levels of cAMP may play a role in headache and migraine pathogenesis.
The antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects of melatonin on kainic acid (KA)-induced neurodegeneration in the hippocampus were evaluated in vivo. It has been suggested that the pineal secretory product, melatonin, protects neurons in vitro from excitotoxicity mediated by kainate-sensitive glutamate receptors, and from oxidative stress-induced DNA damage and apoptosis. In this study, we injected 10 mg/kg kainate intraperitoneally (i.p.) into adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. This results in selective neuronal degeneration accompanied by intense microglial activation and triggers DNA damage in the hippocampus. We tested the in vivo efficacy of melatonin in preventing KA-induced neurodegeneration, oxidative stress and neuroinflammation in the hippocampus. Melatonin (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was given 20 min before, immediately after, and 1 and 2 hr after KA administration. Rats were killed 72 hr later and their hippocampi were examined for evidence of DNA damage (in situ dUTP end-labeling, i.e. TUNEL staining), cell viability (hematoxylin and eosin staining), and microglial (isolectin-B4 histochemistry) and astroglial responses (glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry), as well as lipid peroxidation (4-hydroxynonenal immunohistochemistry). A cumulative dose of 10 mg/kg melatonin attenuates KA-induced neuronal death, lipid peroxidation, and microglial activation, and reduces the number of DNA breaks. A possible mechanism for melatonin-mediated neuroprotection involves its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions. The present data suggest that melatonin is potentially useful in the treatment of acute brain pathologies associated with oxidative stress-induced neuronal damage such as epilepsy, stroke, and traumatic brain injury.
Acetaminophen overdose induces severe liver injury and hepatic failure. There is evidence that inflammatory cells may be involved in the pathophysiology. Thus, the aim of this investigation was to characterize the neutrophilic inflammatory response after treatment of C3Heb/FeJ mice with 300 mg/kg acetaminophen. A time course study showed that neutrophils accumulate in the liver parallel to or slightly after the development of liver injury. The number of neutrophils in the liver was substantial (209 +/- 64 PMN/50 high-power fields at 12 h) compared to baseline levels (7 +/- 1). Serum levels of TNF-alpha and the C-X-C chemokines KC and MIP-2 increased by 28-, 14-, and 295-fold, respectively, over levels found in controls during the injury process. In addition, mRNA expression of MIP-2 and KC were upregulated in livers of acetaminophen-treated animals as determined by ribonuclease protection assay. However, none of these mediators were generated in large enough quantities to account for neutrophil sequestration in the liver. There was no upregulation of Mac-1 (CD11b/ CD18) or shedding of L-selectin on circulating neutrophils. Moreover, an anti-CD18 antibody had no protective effect against acetaminophen overdose during the first 24 h. These results indicate that there is a local inflammatory response after acetaminophen overdose, including a substantial accumulation of neutrophils in the liver. Because of the critical importance of beta2 integrins for neutrophil cytotoxicity, these results suggest that neutrophils do not contribute to the initiation or progression of AAP-induced liver. The inflammation observed after acetaminophen overdose may be characteristic for a response sufficient to recruit neutrophils for the purpose of removing necrotic cells but is not severe enough to cause additional damage.
We conducted a multicenter Phase II study of BMS-181339 in patients with ovarian cancer. The facilities participating were 23 in number. The total number of cases registered for the study were 62; 57 of them entered for evaluation in drug efficacy, and 58 cases were evaluable in drug safety. All the cases were previously treated with chemotherapy including platinum-based drugs. The clinical responses of BMS-181339 were as follows: CR, 1 case; PR, 13 cases; MR, 3 cases; NC, 13 cases and PD, 27 cases. The response rate was 24.6% (95% CI: 14.1-37.8%). Histologically, the drug showed its efficacy on serous adenocarcinoma 28.2% (11/39), mucinous adenocarcinoma 20.0% (1/5) and clear cell adenocarcinoma 20.0% (1/5). In regional evaluation, the drug demonstrated its efficacy not only on endopelvic lesions 19.0% (4/21) and abdominal lesions 14.3% (2/14), but also on remote metastatic lesions such as hepatic metastasis 30.8% (4/13) and lung/pleura 33.3% (2/6). The drug also showed its efficacy on the cases 22.9% (8/35) refractory to the platinum-based drugs. Major adverse reactions were fever 63.8% (37/58), alopecia 59.3% (32/54), peripheral nerve disorders 28.1% (16/57) such as numbness of the extremities, nausea/vomiting 24.1% (14/58), arthralgia 20.7% (12/58) and diarrhea 20.7% (12/58) etc.. Abnormal alterations in laboratory test values were an incidence rates of 100% for both leukopenia and neutropenia. However, these symptoms were clinically manageable by transient withdrawal of medication, dose reduction and administration of antibiotics and G-CSF. In addition, decrease in hemoglobin 93.1% (54/58), decrease in platelet counts 31.0% (18/58), elevation in GOT 27.6% (16/58), in GPT 31.0% (18/58) and in LDH 20.7% (12/58) were seen, but no serious organopathy was observed. Thus, we confirmed that BMS-181339 was a clinically useful chemotherapeutic agent in patients with ovarian cancer.
The efficacy of losartan (L) in combination with hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) has been demonstrated to reduce blood pressure. However, there are limited data on the effects of L/HCTZ combinations versus HCTZ monotherapies in reducing ambulatory systolic blood pressure. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of these treatment approaches in patients with ambulatory systolic hypertension.
Patients were randomized to receive L 50 mg (n = 60) or HCTZ 12.5 mg (n = 60) for 6 weeks. Patients were then force-titrated to L 50/HCTZ 12.5 mg and to L 100/HCTZ 25 mg or were sham-titrated to HCTZ 12.5 mg and force-titrated to HCTZ 25 mg, respectively. Clinic and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) were measured at baseline and after each 6-week treatment period.
We found that L 50 and HCTZ 12.5 induced significant and similar decreases in clinic and ABP. The combinations of L 50/HCTZ 12.5 and L 100/HCTZ 25 provided significantly greater decreases in clinic and ABP than did HCTZ monotherapies. The L 50/HCTZ 12.5 and L 100/HCTZ 25 combinations provided significant additional decreases in systolic/diastolic ABP during daytime (-5.3/-2.0 mm Hg; P <.001 and -5.8/-3.4 mm Hg; P <.001) and the other periods of the 24-h interval compared with the levels achieved by the previous treatment, indicating a clear dose-response relationship. However, increasing the dose of HCTZ from 12.5 mg to 25 mg was not associated with additional ABP reductions.
Combinations of L 50/HCTZ 12.5 and L 100/HCTZ 25 provided greater reductions in clinic and ABP than HCTZ monotherapies, with a clear dose-response relationship with regard to ABP. These results support the use of ABP monitoring when assessing the efficacy of antihypertensive therapies.
Studies suggest that endothelin-1 contributes to the pathogenesis of hypertension. A G5665T gene polymorphism of preproendothelin-1 has been shown to be associated with higher blood pressure in overweight patients. No study has yet determined the effect of this polymorphism on the change in blood pressure during antihypertensive treatment.
This study aimed to determine this effect in hypertensive patients with left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy during antihypertensive treatment with either irbesartan or atenolol.
We determined the preproendothelin-1 genotype using minisequencing in 102 patients with essential hypertension and LV hypertrophy verified by echocardiography, randomized in a double-blind fashion to treatment with either the AT1-receptor antagonist irbesartan or the beta1-adrenoceptor antagonist atenolol.
The change in systolic blood pressure (SBP) after 12 weeks of treatment was related to the preproendothelin-1 genotype in men; after adjustment for potential covariates (age, blood pressure, and LV mass index at study entry, dose of irbesartan/atenolol, and type of treatment), those carrying the T-allele responded on average with a more than two-fold greater reduction than those with the G/G genotype (-21.9 mmHg 13.9] vs. -8.9 [2.3], p = 0.007). No significant differences in blood pressure change between G/G and carriers of the T-allele were seen among women.
Our finding suggests a gender-specific relationship between the G5665T preproendothelin-1 polymorphism and change in SBP in response to antihypertensive treatment with irbesartan or atenolol, suggesting the endothelin pathway to be a common mechanism included in the hypertensive action of the drugs.
The efficacy of 1-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (1MeTIQ), a member of endogenous tetrahydroisoquinolines, in cocaine- and food-maintained responding in self-administration procedures under a fixed ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement as well as in cocaine and food seeking behaviors in male Wistar rats was examined. The effects of 1MeTIQ on cocaine discrimination and on basal locomotor activity were also assessed. In rats trained to self-administered either cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/injection) paired with the cue (light+tone) or food under a fixed ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement, 1MeTIQ (25 - 50 mg/kg) dose-dependently decreased the cocaine-maintained responding, but did not alter the food-maintained responding. 1MeTIQ (25 - 50 mg/kg) decreased the cocaine seeking behavior reinstated by a noncontingent presentation of cocaine (10 mg/kg, i.p.), but altered neither behavior reinstated by a discrete cue (tone+light) nor food-induced reinstatement. In rats trained to discriminate cocaine (10 mg/kg) from saline in water-reinforced fixed ratio 20 task, pretreatment with 1MeTIQ resulted in neither substitution nor significant alterations in the cocaine (1.25 - 10 mg/kg)-induced discriminative stimulus effects. 1MeTIQ (25 - 50 mg/kg) did not produce also a significant changes in basal horizontal activity. In conclusion, our present results outline a significance of exogenously applied 1MeTIQ in attenuating drug-evoked relapses to cocaine as well as the direct rewarding properties of cocaine (that model the cocaine-induced "high"), but not cocaine subjective effects. Moreover, a dissociation between effects of 1MeTIQ on cocaine vs. food-maintained responding was demonstrated.
Acid suppressive therapy is the mainstay of pharmacologic treatment of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. Use of proton pump inhibitors in children is still limited and has only included omeprazole in a few controlled studies.
To determine efficacy of lansoprazole, a relatively new proton pump inhibitor, on symptoms and oesophagitis in a group of children with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease refractory to H2 receptor antagonists. The required dose of the drug for inhibiting gastric acidity was also determined.
A series of 35 children (median age: 7.6 years, range: 3-15) with oesophagitis refractory to H2 receptor antagonists received a 12-week therapeutic course with lansoprazole. Prior to the study children underwent symptomatic and endoscopic assessment, oesophageal manometry and 24-hour intragastric and intra-oesophageal pH test. The latter was repeated after one week of therapy while patients were on treatment in order to monitor the degree of acid suppression and adjust the dose of the drug. Symptomatic assessment and endoscopy were repeated at the end of the trial
In 12 patients (group A), the initial dose of the drug was efficacious (1.3 to 1.5 mg/kg/day), whereas in 23 [group B) the initial dose (0.8 to 1.0 mg/kg/day) was increased by half because of insufficient inhibition of intragastric acidity (i.e., when the intra-gastric pH remained below 4.0 for more than 50% of the recording time). Nine patients in group A (75%) and 8 in group B (53.5%) healed (chi2: 3.6, p<0.05); 1 patient in group A [8.3%) and 7 in group B (30.5%) remained unchanged (chi2: 6.9, p<0.01); 2 patients in group A and 8 in group B improved and underwent a further month of therapy. The two groups did not differ as far as concerns baseline pH, endoscopic and clinical variables. In both groups, those patients failing to respond at the end of the trial showed a more impaired oesophageal motility than improved or healed patients. The drug was well tolerated and no significant laboratory abnormalities occurred. In children with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease refractory to H2 receptor antagonists, a 12-week course of lansoprazole is effective both in healing oesophagitis and improving symptoms. An initial dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day of the drug is suggested. However, if during treatment, patients remain symptomatic the dose should be increased and a prolonged intra-gastric and intra-oesophageal pH test performed to evaluate the acid suppression efficacy of the adjusted dose. A short course of lansoprazole appears to be safe and well tolerated in paediatric age.
Concentrations of serum digoxin were measured by the polarized immunofluorescence Abbot TDx11 method in 59 samples from 53 children under treatment with mean beta methyl digoxin doses of 8.9 +/- 2.0 micrograms.kg.day. The therapeutic range for serum digoxin concentration was estimated to be 0.9 to 2.25 ng/ml. Simultaneous Na, K and creatine serum concentrations were measured. In 36 samples mean serum digoxin level was 1.52 +/- 0.45 ng/ml -within therapeutic range- and in only one of these cases clinical evidence of toxicity was apparent. In 15 samples digoxin level was above the therapeutic range and 11 patients of this group (73%) showed clinical signs of toxicity, consisting in arrythmias (six cases: supraventricular in 5 patients, ventricular in one child) and gastrointestinal symptoms (eight patients). Six patients with digoxin levels over therapeutic range and signs of digitalis toxicity had coincidental acute renal failure, which in 4 cases was subclinical--in 2 of these late it was pre-renal- and, in spite of this, all were inadvertently given the usual dosage of beta methyl digoxin. Almost invariably there was clinical evidence of toxicity when digoxin serum levels were above 2.4 ng/ml, so established maximal therapeutic level at 2.25 ng/ml seems adequate. Signs of digitalis toxicity must be looked on systematically in children treated with such drugs. In the critically ill or in children with acute renal failure it is necessary to monitor serum digoxin concentration. Among the clinical signs of toxicity, gastrointestinal symptoms are more frequent in children. An oral dose from 7 to 10 micrograms.kg.day of beta methyl digoxin in recommended.
To investigate the effect of valsartan in the Valsartan-Heart Failure Trial (Val-HeFT) when added to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) alone in patients with heart failure (HF).
Subjects in Val-HeFT receiving ACEi but not beta-blocker at baseline were analysed; 1532 were assigned to valsartan and 1502 assigned to placebo. Primary outcome events (all-cause mortality, hospitalisation for adjudicated heart failure, sudden death with resuscitation and need for >4 h of parenteral therapy for worsening heart failure) were monitored.
Mortality was not affected by valsartan but morbidity endpoints were significantly reduced (36.3% in placebo, 31.0% in valsartan, p=0.002) in patients receiving an ACEi but no beta-blocker. Quality of life (QOL) was significantly improved, ejection fraction (EF) significantly increased, left ventricular (LV) diameter significantly reduced and plasma B-type natriuretic peptide, norepinephrine and aldosterone levels significantly reduced with valsartan compared to placebo. The morbidity benefit was significant in patients on ACEi doses below the median (22% reduction, p=0.003) and not statistically significant in those receiving ACEi doses above the median (14% reduction, p=0.143).
Valsartan reduces heart failure hospitalisations and slows LV remodelling in patients treated with an ACEi in the absence of beta-blockade, particularly in those on lower doses of ACEi.
Aminoglycosides can readthrough premature termination codons (PTCs), permitting translation of full-length proteins. Previously we have found variable efficiency of readthrough in response to the aminoglycoside gentamicin among cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, all carrying the W1282X nonsense mutation. Here we demonstrate that there are patients in whom the level of CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) nonsense transcripts is markedly reduced, while in others it is significantly higher. Response to gentamicin was found only in patients with the higher level. We further investigated the possibility that the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) might vary among cells and hence governs the level of nonsense transcripts available for readthrough. Our results demonstrate differences in NMD efficiency of CFTR transcripts carrying the W1282X mutation among different epithelial cell lines derived from the same tissue. Variability was also found for 5 physiologic NMD substrates, RPL3, SC35 1.6 kb, SC35 1.7 kb, ASNS, and CARS. Importantly, our results demonstrate the existence of cells in which NMD of all transcripts was efficient and others in which the NMD was less efficient. Downregulation of NMD in cells carrying the W1282X mutation increased the level of CFTR nonsense transcripts and enhanced the CFTR chloride channel activity in response to gentamicin. Together our results suggest that the efficiency of NMD might vary and hence have an important role in governing the response to treatments aiming to promote readthrough of PTCs in many genetic diseases.
We report the case of an 11-year-old female treated for mediastinal T-cell lymphoma who presented renal failure following the second cycle of high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX). Because of life threatening plasma methotrexate (MTX) levels, carboxypeptidase G2 (CPDG2) was administered resulting in a dramatic decrease within 1 hr. The patient recovered from renal failure and no other side effects were observed. Homozygosity for the methylentetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) C677T polymorphism diagnosed by molecular genetic analysis was the only explanation for this toxicity.
In this systematic review we evaluated the evidence on the association between dioxin exposure and cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality in humans.
We conducted a PubMed search in December 2007 and considered all English-language epidemiologic studies and their citations regarding dioxin exposure and CVD mortality. To focus on dioxins, we excluded cohorts that were either primarily exposed to polychlorinated biphenyls or from the leather and perfume industries, which include other cardiotoxic coexposures.
We included results from 12 cohorts in the review. Ten cohorts were occupationally exposed. We divided analyses according to two well-recognized criteria of epidemiologic study quality: the accuracy of the exposure assessment, and whether the exposed population was compared with an internal or an external (e.g., general population) reference group. Analyses using internal comparisons with accurate exposure assessments are the highest quality because they minimize both exposure misclassification and confounding due to workers being healthier than the general population ("healthy worker effect"). The studies in the highest-quality group found consistent and significant dose-related increases in ischemic heart disease (IHD) mortality and more modest associations with all-CVD mortality. Their primary limitation was a lack of adjustment for potential confounding by the major risk factors for CVD.
The results of this systematic review suggest that dioxin exposure is associated with mortality from both IHD and all CVD, although more strongly with the former. However, it is not possible to determine the potential bias, if any, from confounding by other risk factors for CVD.
We evaluated alterations in cardiac adrenergic neuron activity and progression of left ventricular dysfunction in comparison with the severity of structural changes using a rat model of adriamycin cardiomyopathy. Rats were treated with adriamycin (2 mg/kg s.c. once a week) for 6, 7, 8 and 9 wk. Accumulation of 125I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) 4 hr after intravenous administration was determined and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was calculated from gated blood-pool images. H & E and Masson-Trichrome stained specimens of the myocardium were examined by light microscopy. Histopathologic examination demonstrated dose-dependent myocyte damage, although there were no differences between the 8-wk and 9-wk groups. LVEF did not differ between controls and the 6-wk group (81.3% +/- 5.5% versus 82.1% +/- 4.8%, p = ns). LVEF began to decrease slightly in the 7-wk group (75.0% +/- 5.7%, p < 0.05) and showed a remarkable decrease in the 8-wk group (53.7% +/- 2.6%, p < 0.001). In the 9-wk group, LVEF diminished to 47.9% +/- 3.1% (p < 0.001), accompanied by massive pleural effusions and ascites. MIBG accumulation in the heart (%ID/heart) significantly and progressively diminished; 1.42% +/- 0.15% in the 6-wk group, 1.06% +/- 0.16% in the 7-wk group, 0.77% +/- 0.13% in the 8-wk group and 0.34% +/- 0.11% in the 9-wk group, respectively p < 0.001, compared to controls (1.99% +/- 0.30%). These results demonstrate that MIBG accumulation in the heart showed a greater and more linear dose-dependent decrease than LVEF. Furthermore, MIBG uptake was significantly reduced in the 6-wk group where only mild myocyte damage (isolated vacuolation or myofibrillar loss) was observed. Thus, MIBG may be a sensitive biochemical marker of adriamycin cardiomyopathy.
Propafenone, a class IC antiarrhythmic, and citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), are widely used in older patients. Although a potential interaction between propafenone and SSRIs has been noted, a MEDLINE search revealed no published reports of an interaction between propafenone and citalopram.
The goal of this article was to describe a potential drug-drug interaction between propafenone and citalopram, which caused symptoms of propafenone adverse effects.
An 80-year-old white female, followed up at the Memory Clinic for mild cognitive impairment, had been taking propafenone 900 mg/d for >10 years for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation without adverse effects. Three months after starting citalopram, she experienced episodes of chest tightness and dizziness. The episodes became more frequent in the following months, causing several falls and requiring visits to the emergency department, but no acute coronary event was diagnosed. She was started on amlodipine 2.5 mg orally once daily, a nitroglycerin patch (0.4 mg/h), and warfarin 5 mg orally once daily. After one fall, the patient became delirious. Amlodipine and the nitroglycerin patch were discontinued and propafenone decreased to 450 mg/d; citalopram was continued at 20 mg/d. The patient recovered well, both cognitively and physically, and did not have any further symptoms in 1 year of follow-up. Results of coronary investigations were negative.
This is the first report of a possible interaction between propafenone and citalopram, which caused propafenone adverse effects (eg, dizziness, falls) and mimicked coronary artery disease.
