Mutations in the LMNA gene encoding lamins A and C by alternative splicing have been found to cause at least four different kinds of genetic disorders: autosomal dominant Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD2; MIM 181350); limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1B (LGMD1B; MIM 159001); dilated cardiomyopathy type 1A (CMD1A; MIM 115200); and familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD; MIM 151660). Recently, we have studied two Korean patients with atrioventricular conduction defects. They had variable extents of muscular dystrophy; one patient was diagnosed with EDMD2 and the other with LGMD1B. We performed a mutation analysis of the LMNA gene by direct sequencing and found two different missense mutations: R249Q and R377L, in the EDMD2 and LGMD1B patient, respectively. The R249Q mutation is located within the central rod domain of the LMNA gene, and has been described in at least five unrelated sporadic EDMD2 patients. On the other hand, the R377L mutation, also located within the rod domain, is a novel mutation, although a histidine substitution instead of leucine (R377H) has been reported previously in an LGMD1B patient. To our knowledge, this is the first report of LMNA gene mutations in Korean patients with EDMD2 and LGMD1B.
It is known that phenobarbital (PB) and the peroxisome proliferator (PP) nafenopin (NAF) promote tumor formation by stimulating selective growth of different subtypes of liver foci. While PB enhanced the gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (GGT)-positive eosinophilic-clear cell foci (ECF), NAF amplified the GGT-negative weakly basophilic foci (WBF). These findings provide the possibility of using the occurrence of these foci subtypes as early indicators for the carcinogenic potential of PB- and PP-type promoters. In order to improve the methods for the discrimination between ECF and WBF we studied further differences in their phenotype, as determined by the expression pattern of glutathione S-transferase (GST) subunits. GST subunits of the alpha (Ya, Yc), mu (Yb1, Yb2) and pi family (Yp), which compose different GST isoenzymes, were demonstrated by immunohistochemical methods. ECF were the only foci subpopulation that expressed GST subunit Yp, while this subunit was always absent in WBF and in another focus subtype, the tigroid foci (TF). Neither PB nor NAF changed this pattern. Thus Yp expression was rather a function of the focus type than of the promoter used. Upon PB treatment expression of the GST subunits Yb1 and Yb2 was frequently elevated in ECF, while Ya and Yc remained more or less unchanged. In NAF-treated livers large WBF, however, showed diminished expression of all investigated GST subunits of the alpha and mu family. In conclusion, PB seems to promote mostly ECF with elevated levels of mu and pi class GSTs, while low levels or absence of all GSTs tested may be associated with growth selection of WBF through the PP NAF.
Liver carcinogenesis is considered to be a good experimental model to study the sequential changes leading to cancer and was applied here for the analysis of chromosome/genome mutations. Since the micronucleus test was shown to be an adequate method to detect and analyse chromosome changes in dividing cells, the frequency of micronuclei (MN) together with their relative DNA content (DNA content of the MN divided by the DNA content of the corresponding nucleus) were analysed in hepatocytes isolated from rats at different stages of experimentally induced hepatocarcinogenesis. The protocol used for the induction of liver cancer was based on the triphasic 'Gerlans protocol', a Solt-Farber procedure supplemented with a phenobarbital (PB) promotion step. Male Wistar rats were initiated by a single i.p. dose of diethylnitrosamine (DENA), followed by selection of the resistant hepatocytes by 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF). Subsequent promotion was accomplished by chronic exposure to phenobarbital. For each group of rats a mitotic stimulator (CCl4) is necessary at the end of their treatment period to express the clastogenic and/or aneugenic lesions which may lead to micronuclei. The results of these experiments do confirm that genetic alterations are occurring at the chromosome level (MN expression) during the different steps of experimental rat liver carcinogenesis. DNA measurements seem to be a good genetic parameter to detect eventual differences between the chromosomal content (whole chromosome or chromosome fragments) of MN populations appearing in different stages of the carcinogenic process. Moreover, a comparison between the mono- and bi-nucleated cell population showed that the frequency of micronuclei is higher in mononuclear parenchymal liver cells.
Hyperprolactinemia is a well-known consequence of conventional antipsychotic therapy. The atypical antipsychotic clozapine is reported to lack this effect. We describe a case of attenuated serum prolactin levels after conversion to clozapine therapy in an adolescent. A 13-year-old female patient developed hyperprolactinemia with galactorrhea and amenorrhea while receiving thioridazine 300 mg daily. These symptoms continued throughout 3 years of treatment with haloperidol 10 mg daily and then fluphenazine 10 mg daily. Subsequently, after an incomplete improvement in her psychiatric symptoms and hyperprolactinemia on thioridazine 150 mg and bromocriptine 15 mg daily, the patient was changed to clozapine at age 16. Clozapine 150 mg twice daily improved her psychiatric status and corrected her serum prolactin concentrations after 2 weeks; bromocriptine was able to be discontinued. We recommend systematic evaluation of atypical neuroleptics as alternative treatments for refractory hyperprolactinemia induced by conventional antipsychotics.
Because the hemodynamic alterations due to sympathetic suppression by the interaction of esmolol with volatile anesthetics may alter the blood flow to the splanchnic organs, this study was designed to investigate whether esmolol might modify the hemodynamics and splanchnic organ blood flow in anesthetized dogs.
Anesthesia was maintained with 0.9% halothane, 1.3% isoflurane or 2.4% sevoflurane (1MAC, n=8, each) in oxygen. Esmolol was infused at a constant rate of 400 microg * kg(-1) x min(-1) during a 60 min-infusion period. The renal, hepatic, and pancreatic blood flows (RBF, HBF, and PBF) were measured by using the hydrogen clearance method.
Mean arterial pressure in all three groups decreased without any changes in heart rate or systemic vascular resistance. Cardiac index in all three groups decreased with reductions in cardiac contractility. The RBF, HBF, and PBF in all three groups were reduced during the esmolol infusion.
The splanchnic organ blood flow reductions caused by esmolol may be due to cardiac depression, whereas there appears to be no differences in there change regarding the kind of the volatile anesthetics. These findings suggest that hypotension induced by esmolol may impair the maintenance of splanchnic organ blood flow during anesthesia by volatile agents.
An open study of the effectiveness of metoprolol in reducing the blood pressures of 13 hypertensive patients was conducted. It was found that metoprolol reduced the patients' blood pressure satisfactorily, and is well tolerated within the dose range of 100 mg to 400 mg daily.
The nongenotoxic-cytotoxic carcinogen chloroform induces liver necrosis, regenerative cell proliferation, and, eventually, liver tumors in female B6C3F1 mice when administered by gavage at doses of 238 or 477 mg/kg/d. Administration of 1800 ppm of chloroform in the drinking water results in similar daily doses but does not produce liver toxicity or cancer. The differential-display technique was used to compare the expression of a subset of mRNAs in normal (control) and regenerating liver after chloroform-induced toxicity to define the proportion of genes whose expression changes under hepatotoxic conditions and to identify the genes that might play a role in regeneration and perhaps cancer. RNA was purified from the livers of female B6C3F1 mice after 4 d or 3 wk of gavage treatment with 3, 238, or 477 mg/kg/d of chloroform or treatment with 1800 ppm chloroform in drinking water. There was a remarkably high degree of consistency of gene expression among the animals and across dose and treatment groups as visualized by the differential-display technique. Of the 387 bands observed, only four (about 1%) changed expression in regenerating liver. The genes were assigned locus names by GenBank after sequence submission. The genes with increased mRNA levels as confirmed by northern blot analysis were MUSTIS21, a mouse primary response gene induced by growth factors and tumor promoters; MUSMRNAH, a gene highly homologous to a human gene isolated from a prostate carcinoma cell line; and MUSFRA, a novel gene. The novel gene MUSFRB exhibited decreased mRNA levels. No change in expression was seen among control mice given the nontoxic regimens of 3 mg/kg/d chloroform or 1800 ppm chloroform in drinking water, indicating that changes in expression were associated with toxicity and regeneration rather than chloroform per se. These genes and others that may be identified by expanding this approach may play a role in regeneration and perhaps in the process of chloroform-induced carcinogenesis in rodent liver.
Larrea tridentata also known as Creosote bush, Larrea, chaparral, greasewood or gobernadora has been used in the folk medicine for the treatment of several illnesses. The primary product that is present at high concentrations in the leaves from this plant is nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) which is a powerful antioxidant. On the other hand, potassium dichromate (K(2)Cr(2)O(7))-induced nephrotoxicity is associated with oxidative stress. The aim of this work was to study the effect of NDGA on K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced nephrotoxicity and oxidative stress. Nephrotoxicity was induced by a single injection of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) (15 mg/Kg). A group of K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-treated rats was administered NDGA by mini osmotic pumps (17 mg/Kg/day). The results show that NDGA was able to ameliorate the structural and functional renal damage evaluated by histopathological analysis and by measuring proteinuria, urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase, serum creatinine, and serum glutathione peroxidase activity. In addition, immunostaining of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal and 3-nitrotyrosine, markers of oxidative and nitrosative stress, respectively, was ameliorated by the NDGA treatment. These data strongly suggest that the antioxidant properties of NDGA are involved in its renoprotective effect in K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-treated rats.
Current data suggests an association between elevations in interleukin 1 (IL-1)α, IL-1β, and IL-6 and the proliferation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) following brain injury. A limited amount of work implicates changes in these pro-inflammatory responses with diminished NPC proliferation observed as a function of aging. In the current study, adolescent (21day-old) and 1year-old CD-1 male mice were injected with trimethyltin (TMT, 2.3mg/kg, i.p.) to produce acute apoptosis of hippocampal dentate granule cells. In this model, fewer 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)+ NPC were observed in both naive and injured adult hippocampus as compared to the corresponding number seen in adolescent mice. At 48h post-TMT, a similar level of neuronal death was observed across ages, yet activated ameboid microglia were observed in the adolescent and hypertrophic process-bearing microglia in the adult. IL-1α mRNA levels were elevated in the adolescent hippocampus; IL-6 mRNA levels were elevated in the adult. In subgranular zone (SGZ) isolated by laser-capture microdissection, IL-1β was detected but not elevated by TMT, IL-1a was elevated at both ages, while IL-6 was elevated only in the adult. Naïve NPCs isolated from the hippocampus expressed transcripts for IL-1R1, IL-6Rα, and gp130 with significantly higher levels of IL-6Rα mRNA in the adult. In vitro, IL-1α (150pg/ml) stimulated proliferation of adolescent NPCs; IL-6 (10ng/ml) inhibited proliferation of adolescent and adult NPCs. Microarray analysis of SGZ post-TMT indicated a prominence of IL-1a/IL-1R1 signaling in the adolescent and IL-6/gp130 signaling in the adult.
Intravenous administration of N-acetylcysteine beyond 15 hrs reduces mortality rates in patients suffering from paracetamol-induced fulminant hepatic failure, although the mechanism of the therapeutic benefit remains unclear. We hypothesized increased survival to be caused by improved hemodynamic performance. The main objective for the study was to explore the effect of N-acetylcysteine on hemodynamics, oxygen transport, and regional blood flow in pigs with fulminant hepatic failure.
Prospective, randomized, controlled trial.
Surgical research laboratory in a university hospital.
Female Norwegian Landrace pigs.
Fulminant hepatic failure was induced by a total liver devascularization procedure. Five hours later, the pigs were allocated to N-acetylcysteine treatment (150 mg.kg-1 in 100 mL of 0.9% saline over 15 mins, followed by 50 mg.kg-1 in 500 mL of 0.9% saline over a period of 4 hrs) or placebo.
Mean arterial pressure stabilized in the N-acetylcysteine group and increased slightly during the last 2 hrs (pGT =.009). Thus, mean arterial pressure was significantly higher compared with placebo after 3 hrs (p =.01). Cerebral perfusion pressure was significantly higher during the last 2 hrs in the N-acetylcysteine group (pGT =.033). Common carotid artery flow also increased and was maintained at a higher level compared with placebo (pG =.027). Systemic vascular resistance index initially decreased but then gradually increased (pGT <.001). Cardiac index increased after 15 mins of N-acetylcysteine infusion, causing a significant interaction (pGT =.038), but did not differ after 3 hrs. No significant differences in hindleg and mesentery hemodynamics were found. A short-lived increase in oxygen delivery caused by a temporary increase in cardiac index was observed but without any corresponding increase in oxygen consumption.
Intravenous N-acetylcysteine infusion increases cerebral perfusion pressure in pigs with fulminant hepatic failure. Earlier reported effects on oxygen transport and uptake could not be confirmed.
A case of transient left lateral rectus nerve palsy, following an inferior alveolar nerve block to enable the surgical removal of a permanent mandibular left third molar tooth, is reported. The anatomy related to this case is considered together with suggestions for management of such patients.
The pharmacokinetics and associated pharmacodynamics of nifedipine were studied at steady state in 12 patients with angina pectoris who were receiving nifedipine 10-40 mg tid. After dosing, serum nifedipine concentrations rose rapidly and decayed in a log-linear fashion. The mean (+/- SEM) maximum serum concentration (Cmax) after dose normalization, and the time to Cmax (tmax) were 115 +/- 7 ng/mL and 0.72 +/- 0.13 hr, respectively. The mean area under the plasma concentration-time curve per 10-mg dose was 304 +/- 34 hr-ng/mL. The average elimination rate constant was 0.205 +/- 0.016 hr, and the harmonic mean elimination half-life was 3.4 hr (range, 2.5-4.9 hr). Heart rate increased (5-6 beats/min, P less than .05) from baseline for up to one hour after dose, while mean diastolic blood pressure decreased (6-15 mm Hg, P less than .05) for up to four hours. Cardiac output was increased (1.1-2.8 L/min, P less than .05), and calculated total systemic resistance (3.8-6.3 mm Hg/L/min, P less than .05) was decreased for the entire dosing interval after nifedipine dosing. Hysteresis plots for heart rate and mean diastolic blood pressure showed a time lag between changes in serum nifedipine concentrations and heart rate, but not between serum nifedipine concentrations and blood pressure. Changes in cardiac output did not correlate with serum nifedipine concentrations. The steady-state kinetic and dynamic parameter values in patients with angina pectoris in this study were similar to those found in healthy volunteers or hypertensive patients after acute nifedipine administration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Contexts and discrete cues associated with drug-taking are often responsible for relapse among addicts. Animal models have shown that interference with the reconsolidation of drug-cue memories can reduce seeking of drugs or drug-paired stimuli. One such model is conditioned place preference (CPP) in which an animal is trained to associate a particular environment with the rewarding effects of a drug. Previous work from this laboratory has shown that intra-nucleus accumbens core infusions of a MEK inhibitor can interfere with reconsolidation of these drug-cue memories. A question that remains is whether post-retrieval drug effects on subsequent memories represent an interference with reconsolidation processes or rather a facilitation of extinction. In this experiment, we explore the effect of post-retrieval injections of propranolol, a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist, on reconsolidation and extinction of cocaine CPP. After acquisition of cocaine CPP, animals were given post-retrieval propranolol injections once or each day during a protocol of unreinforced preference tests, until the animals showed no preference for the previously cocaine-paired environment. Following a cocaine priming injection, the animals that received daily post-test propranolol injections did not reinstate their preference for the drug-paired side. In contrast, a single post-retrieval propranolol injection followed by multiple days of unreinforced preference tests failed to blunt subsequent cocaine reinstatement of the memory. These data suggest that daily post-retrieval systemic injections of propranolol decrease the conditioned preference by interfering with reconsolidation of the memory for the association between the drug-paired side and the reinforcing effects of the drug, rather than facilitating new extinction learning.
Administration of diclofenac may lead to immune haemolytic anaemia (IHA) owing to the presence of drug-dependent antibodies and/or autoantibodies. A relationship with oral or intramuscular drug administration is unknown. Here, we describe a patient who apparently tolerated oral diclofenac but developed severe IHA following intramuscular injection of the drug.
A 66-year-old-female was admitted to hospital because of jaundice and nausea, which were initially presumed to be manifestations of a postcholecystectomy syndrome. The patient soon developed haemolysis and renal failure. Although the symptoms and signs were suggestive of autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AIHA), the patient had diclofenac-induced IHA.
Serological testing, including detection of drug-dependent antibodies, was performed using standard techniques. The patient's serum was found to contain a highly reactive diclofenac-dependent red cell antibody of the immune complex type (titre 256 000). She recovered after 7 weeks of treatment with prednisolone, blood transfusions, haemodialysis and plasma exchange.
Diclofenac-induced IHA should always be considered when a patient on diclofenac develops haemolysis.
A young man with a 13 year history of Tourette disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder developed mania on clomipramine. Quetiapine 600 mg, daily was followed by resolution of the mania and improvement of the symptoms of Tourette disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder. It seems that quetiapine may be useful in treatment of Tourette disorder with or without comorbid disorders.
Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is an uncommon salivary gland malignancy characterized by indolent yet relentless growth that exhibits inherent resistance to systemic chemotherapy, surgical salvage and conventional radiotherapy. We used microarray analysis to characterize gene expression changes associated with ACC. Eight ACC patient specimens were compared with normal parotid gland tissue and the ACC3 cell line. Differentially expressed genes were identified (512 total) using supervised analysis methods and functional categories assigned using OntoExpress. Genes associated with morphogenesis, neurogenesis, proliferation and apoptosis characterized ACC tumors. Genes associated with saliva production and immune response characterized normal parotid tissues while the ACC3 cell line expressed genes primarily associated with proliferation, chromosome maintenance and the cell cycle. These results demonstrate that ACC tumors express genes associated with early developmental processes including morphogenesis and neurogenesis implicating oncogenic events that result in dedifferentiation of normal salivary glands.
Sirolimus (SRL) has been shown to improve long-term graft survival in several calcineurin inhibitor avoidance/minimization protocols. Although SRL has been suggested to reduce the progression of chronic renal graft damage and to prevent the development of neoplasia, two of the most prominent challenges in the field of transplantation, its use is significantly limited by an extremely high incidence of side effects. Some of the side effects are directly linked to the antiproliferative action of SRL, whereas the mechanisms underlying most of the undesired effects of the drug are still far from being clarified. Nevertheless, there is an increasing body of evidence linking most these drug-associated events to SRL dose. In addition, it is now possible to identify well-defined risk factors for most of these effects. Thus, to limit SRL-related side effects the two golden rules are (1) accurate selection of patients to be treated and (2) avoidance of high SRL doses.
Musk xylene (MX) is a synthetic nitromusk perfume ingredient that, although uniformly negative in genotoxicity testing, causes liver tumors in B6C3F1 mice. MX is also capable of inducing cytochrome P450 enzymes in a manner similar to that of phenobarbital (PB), which suggests that epigenetic mechanisms may be involved in the carcinogenic response. At the same time, MX is metabolized in vivo by nitroreduction, a reaction catalyzed by intestinal flora that yields aromatic amine metabolites. These amine metabolites are also capable of inactivating CYP2B10, the major cytochrome P450 enzyme induced by MX treatment. In the study reported here, the monoamine metabolites of MX, o- and p-NH2-MX, were evaluated for their potential to induce CYP2B10 and CYP1A2 mRNAs. Northern blot analyses indicated that both amines markedly induced CYP2B10 mRNA, whereas CYP1A2 mRNA, the enzyme implicated in the bioactivation of aromatic amines and frequently induced by aromatic amines, was induced only slightly, a response that was not different from that seen with PB. Induction of CYP2B10 mRNA suggested that the amine metabolites may contribute to the enzyme induction profile seen with MX treatment. To test this hypothesis, mice were treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics (neomycin, tetracycline, and bacitracin) to eliminate the intestinal flora and prevent formation of o- and p-NH2-MX. In antibiotic-treated mice treated with MX (200 mg/kg) for 4 d, no evidence of microsomal enzyme induction was observed, including no increases in liver weight, total cytochrome P450 content, or CYP2B protein levels. These results indicate that the amine metabolites of MX are responsible for the enzyme induction seen after MX administration. Thus, the biochemical and molecular effects of amine metabolites of MX are markedly different from those of other aromatic amines but very similar to those of PB. Therefore, it appears that MX is a non-genotoxic chemical that may cause mouse liver tumors in a manner analogous to that of PB.
Mice were prenatally exposed to phenobarbital. As adults, these mice (B animals) were deficient in the hippocampally related eight-arm maze performance, a behavior apparently dependent on the integrity of the septohippocampal cholinergic pathways. Preliminary studies suggest possible parallel alterations in their hippocampal cholinergic innervations. The dopaminergic septal innervations are known to indirectly inhibit the septohippocampal cholinergic innervations. Consequently, the septal dopaminergic innervations of adult B mice were destroyed by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Mice treated with 6-OHDA had an improvement in maze performance which was most marked with increased experience. Concomitant increase in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was also demonstrated in these mice (79%, P less than 0.001). Similar increase in ChAT could be demonstrated in control mice after 6-OHDA treatment, but the behavioral changes were small and did not reach statistical significance, possibly due to the ceiling effect of the studied behavior. Thus, the dopaminergic innervations in the septum regulate cholinergic activity and its related behaviors along the septohippocampal pathway, and thereby ameliorate behavioral deficits induced by early phenobarbital administration.
The objective of this study was to determine the effect of AVE7688, a drug that inhibits both angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and neutral endopeptidase (NEP) activity, on neural and vascular defects caused by diet induced obesity (DIO). Rats at 12 weeks of age were fed a standard or high fat diet with or without AVE7688 for 24 weeks. DIO rats had impaired glucose tolerance and developed sensory neuropathy. Vascular relaxation to acetylcholine and calcitonin gene-related peptide was decreased in epineurial arterioles of DIO rats. Rats fed a high fat diet containing AVE7688 did not become obese and vascular and sensory nerve dysfunction and impaired glucose tolerance were improved. DIO is associated with increased expression of NEP in epineurial arterioles. NEP degrades vasoactive peptides which may explain the decrease in neurovascular function in DIO.
Coronary spasm can usually be controlled by administration of Ca antagonists. However, there are some cases of coronary spasm whose attacks cannot be controlled even with large doses of Ca antagonist and/or its combination with nitrates. Here we describe the case of a 41-year-old man whose attacks of coronary spasm were resistant to the combined administration of nitrates, Ca antagonists, and a statin. The attacks were alleviated and disappeared after withdrawal of nitrates and recurred after readministration of a nitroglycerin patch. The involvement of nitrate tolerance in the pathogenesis of multidrug resistant coronary spasm was revealed and its implication discussed.
The aim of this study was to investigate the outcome of overlap/switch to adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) monotherapy for chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients with lamivudine (LAM)-resistant HBV, who responded to LAM plus ADV combination therapy.
In 29 of 35 LAM-resistant CHB patients, serum HBV-DNA levels decreased to <3.7 log genome equivalent (LGE)/mL at 12 months after LAM plus ADV combination therapy, defined as complete virological response (CVR). The 29 CVR patients were randomly allocated to continuation of combination therapy or switch to ADV monotherapy within 12 months. The cumulative rates of sustained CVR were compared between the two groups.
The follow-up duration after randomization was 19.3-36.7 months (median, 28.2 months) for the combination group and 21.0-36.4 months (29.0 months) for the overlap/switch group. The cumulative rate of sustained CVR during the follow-up period was 100% in all patients of both groups. The total medical expenses during follow-up after randomization were median US$20,949 for the combination group and US$16,107 for the overlap/switch group (p=0.012). Overlap/switch to ADV monotherapy sufficiently repressed the replication of LAM-resistant mutants without the development of ADV-resistant mutants. The rate of sustained CVR was not influenced by treatment regimen (continuation of combination therapy or switching to ADV monotherapy), the duration of the overlap period, or patient and virological characteristics.
In LAM-resistant CHB patients who achieved CVR to LAM plus ADV combination therapy, CVR was maintained after overlap/switch to ADV monotherapy, suggesting that it could be a useful regimen for such patients.
Patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) often have severe epilepsy that is intractable to available therapies. The development of novel treatments for epilepsy in TSC would benefit greatly from a suitable animal model, but most animal models of TSC to date have few reported neurological abnormalities, such as epilepsy. We previously described a novel model of TSC, due to conditional inactivation of the Tsc1 gene in glia (Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice), in which mice develop epilepsy and premature death. Here, we characterize the natural history of the epilepsy in Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice in more detail and report acute effects of treatment with standard antiepileptic drugs on seizures in these mice.
Video-EEG recordings were obtained from Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice on a weekly basis, starting at 4 weeks of age until death, to monitor progression of interictal EEG abnormalities and seizures. In separate experiments, Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice were monitored for interictal EEG abnormalities and seizures before and during treatment with phenobarbital, phenytoin, or saline.
Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice developed seizures around 4-6 weeks of age and subsequently had progressive worsening of the interictal EEG background and seizure frequency over a month, culminating in death. Treatment with phenobarbital or phenytoin caused a reduction in seizure frequency, but did not improve EEG background or prevent death.
Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice develop progressive epilepsy. Acute treatment with standard antiepileptic drugs suppresses seizures in these mice, but does not affect long-term prognosis. Tsc1(GFAP)CKO mice represent a good model to test other drugs that may have true antiepileptogenic actions in TSC.
Kynurenic acid, an antagonist of glutamatergic ionotropic receptors and alpha7 nicotinic cholinergic receptors failed to affect nicotine-induced convulsions in mice which may indicate that alpha7 nicotinic receptor-mediated events play no role in seizure activity produced by nicotine.
We investigated the effects of macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) antibodies in experimental colitis-induced dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) and trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) and examined whether plasma levels of MIF were elevated in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
BALB/c or C57BL/6 mice were fed 4% DSS in their drinking water for up to 7 days with and without administration of an anti-MIF antibody every 2 days. The severity of inflammation in the cecum and colon was assessed by clinical signs and histologic scoring. Tissue levels of MIF, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interferon gamma (IFN-gamma), interleukin (IL)-4, and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-13 messenger RNA (mRNA) were measured. The effects of anti-MIF antibody on chronic colitis induced by TNBS was assessed in BALB/c mice. Plasma MIF concentrations were assayed in patients with Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and healthy controls.
During DSS-induced colitis, colonic MIF mRNA expression was increased. Clinical signs and histopathologic features were significantly improved in animals given anti-MIF antibody. DSS-induced up-regulation of colonic TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma were significantly suppressed in animals given the anti-MIF antibody. Colonic IL-4 was decreased during DSS but restored to baseline by the anti-MIF antibody. The anti-MIF antibody prevented MMP-13 up-regulation by DSS and ameliorated TNBS colitis. Plasma MIF was elevated in patients with Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis compared with healthy controls.
We conclude that anti-MIF antibodies reduce the severity of experimental colitis and limit the up-regulation of Th1-type cytokines. Anti-MIF antibodies are of potential therapeutic use in IBD.
Although coronary flow reserve is a well established measure of the physiologic significance of atherosclerotic stenosis, cumbersome methodology has prevented its widespread clinical application. This study evaluated a new simplified method of measuring coronary flow reserve based on indicator-dilution analysis of hand-injected digital coronary arteriograms. In five dogs, the circumflex artery was instrumented with an angiographic catheter, an electromagnetic flow probe and a pneumatic occluder. For each of 18 stenoses of varying severity, arteriograms were obtained under basal conditions and during papaverine-induced hyperemia. A pair of background-corrected arterial time-density curves was generated for each stenosis by off-line computer analysis of the circumflex artery arteriograms. Coronary flow reserve was calculated from the measured areas of the time-density curves and the known volume of contrast medium used to produce each curve. Angiographic flow reserve ranged from 0.9 to 6.1 (mean 2.99), whereas electromagnetic flow reserve ranged from 0.7 to 6.9 (mean 3.02). Angiographic and electromagnetic measurements of coronary flow reserve correlated well (r = 0.86). This study establishes that indicator-dilution analysis of 30 frames/s digital coronary arteriography permits the accurate determination of coronary flow reserve. The technique described employs hand injection of small doses of radiographic contrast medium using conventional catheters, and should be readily applicable to the study of human coronary artery disease.
Vulnerabilities to dependence on addictive substances are substantially heritable complex disorders whose underlying genetic architecture is likely to be polygenic, with modest contributions from variants in many individual genes. "Nontemplate" genome wide association (GWA) approaches can identity groups of chromosomal regions and genes that, taken together, are much more likely to contain allelic variants that alter vulnerability to substance dependence than expected by chance.
We report pooled "nontemplate" genome-wide association studies of two independent samples of substance dependent vs control research volunteers (n = 1620), one European-American and the other African-American using 1 million SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) Affymetrix genotyping arrays. We assess convergence between results from these two samples using two related methods that seek clustering of nominally-positive results and assess significance levels with Monte Carlo and permutation approaches. Both "converge then cluster" and "cluster then converge" analyses document convergence between the results obtained from these two independent datasets in ways that are virtually never found by chance. The genes identified in this fashion are also identified by individually-genotyped dbGAP data that compare allele frequencies in cocaine dependent vs control individuals.
These overlapping results identify small chromosomal regions that are also identified by genome wide data from studies of other relevant samples to extents much greater than chance. These chromosomal regions contain more genes related to "cell adhesion" processes than expected by chance. They also contain a number of genes that encode potential targets for anti-addiction pharmacotherapeutics. "Nontemplate" GWA approaches that seek chromosomal regions in which nominally-positive associations are found in multiple independent samples are likely to complement classical, "template" GWA approaches in which "genome wide" levels of significance are sought for SNP data from single case vs control comparisons.
