The synthetic flavone flavopiridol induces apoptosis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells in vitro; however, initial studies administering flavopiridol by a 24- to 72-h continuous intravenous infusion demonstrated no clinical activity. This review focuses on a novel dosing regimen that has achieved significant clinical activity in relapsed, poor-risk chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Binding to human plasma proteins reduces free flavopiridol concentration and makes continuous intravenous infusion dosing ineffective. Pharmacokinetic modeling indicated that administering flavopiridol by a 30-min intravenous bolus followed by a 4-h continuous intravenous infusion would achieve serum concentrations necessary to induce in-vivo apoptosis. Our institution conducted a phase I study in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Dose-limiting toxicity was acute tumor lysis syndrome resulting in fatal hyperkalemia. Careful monitoring and aggressive intervention for hyperkalemia, including hemodialysis if necessary, allowed flavopiridol to be given safely. Nineteen of 42 patients responded (45%), including five of 12 patients (42%) with del(17p13) and 13 of 18 patients (72%) with del(11q22).
Flavopiridol, when administered by a 30-min intravenous bolus followed by a 4-h continuous intravenous infusion, is active in high-risk, refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Careful monitoring and aggressive intervention for tumor lysis syndrome and hyperkalemia is necessary for safe drug administration. Further studies to optimize the dose and schedule of administration, and to study this drug in other hematologic malignancies, are ongoing.
The mouse skin carcinogenesis model provides a conceptual framework to study the carcinogenesis process. It has been used extensively to assess whether a chemical or physical agent carries a carcinogenic hazard to humans and to define the mechanism involved with the carcinogenic effects. We conducted a study to evaluate whether the tumor-promoting activity of pentachlorophenol (PCP) is mainly from its major metabolite tetrachlorohydroquinone (TCHQ). We applied the mouse skin model to CD-1 mice and the results showed that PCP and TCHQ are much weaker promoters than 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) in mouse skin during a 25-wk experiment. Both PCP and TCHQ could induce mice skin epidermal hyperplasia and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) labeling index in the epidermis. However, TCHQ caused a more significant induction of epidermal hyperplasia and PCNA positive cells than PCP. Topical application of PCP, but not TCHQ, induced significant organ enlargement and lymphoma in mice, whereas short-term treatment of TCHQ increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) gene expression in mouse skin. We did not observe a significant association between the carcinogenic process and serum TNF-alpha or interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) levels in mice.
Because ex vivo rapamycin generates murine Th2 cells that prevent Graft-versus-host disease more potently than control Th2 cells, we hypothesized that rapamycin would generate Th2/Tc2 cells (Th2/Tc2.R cells) that abrogate fully MHC-disparate hemopoietic stem cell rejection more effectively than control Th2/Tc2 cells. In a B6-into-BALB/c graft rejection model, donor Th2/Tc2.R cells were indeed enriched in their capacity to prevent rejection; importantly, highly purified CD4+ Th2.R cells were also highly efficacious for preventing rejection. Rapamycin-generated Th2/Tc2 cells were less likely to die after adoptive transfer, accumulated in vivo at advanced proliferative cycles, and were present in 10-fold higher numbers than control Th2/Tc2 cells. Th2.R cells had a multifaceted, apoptosis-resistant phenotype, including: 1) reduced apoptosis after staurosporine addition, serum starvation, or CD3/CD28 costimulation; 2) reduced activation of caspases 3 and 9; and 3) increased anti-apoptotic Bcl-xL expression and reduced proapoptotic Bim and Bid expression. Using host-versus-graft reactivity as an immune correlate of graft rejection, we found that the in vivo efficacy of Th2/Tc2.R cells 1) did not require Th2/Tc2.R cell expression of IL-4, IL-10, perforin, or Fas ligand; 2) could not be reversed by IL-2, IL-7, or IL-15 posttransplant therapy; and 3) was intact after therapy with Th2.R cells relatively devoid of Foxp3 expression. We conclude that ex vivo rapamycin generates Th2 cells that are resistant to apoptosis, persist in vivo, and effectively prevent rejection by a mechanism that may be distinct from previously described graft-facilitating T cells.
Several lines of evidence suggest that cocaine expectancy and craving are two related phenomena. The present study assessed this potential link by contrasting reactions to varying degrees of the drug's perceived availability.
Non-treatment seeking individuals with cocaine dependence were administered an intravenous bolus of cocaine (0.2 mg/kg) under 100% ('unblinded'; N = 33) and 33% ('blinded'; N = 12) probability conditions for the delivery of drug. Subjective ratings of craving, high, rush and low along with heart rate and blood pressure measurements were collected at baseline and every minute for 20 minutes following the infusions.
Compared to the 'blinded' subjects, their 'unblinded' counterparts had similar craving scores on a multidimensional assessment several hours before the infusion, but reported higher craving levels on a more proximal evaluation, immediately prior to the receipt of cocaine. Furthermore, the 'unblinded' subjects displayed a more rapid onset of high and rush cocaine responses along with significantly higher cocaine-induced heart rate elevations.
These results support the hypothesis that cocaine expectancy modulates subjective and objective responses to the drug. Provided the important public health policy implications of heavy cocaine use, health policy makers and clinicians alike may favor cocaine craving assessments performed in the settings with access to the drug rather than in more neutral environments as a more meaningful marker of disease staging and assignment to the proper level of care.
of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness and the safety of the association of buprenorphine transdermal delivery system (TDS) (Transtec TDS) and peridural infusion of morphine and naropine, for the control of ischemic pain in patients suffering from peripheral arteriopathy. The administration of an opioid, pure agonist, as morphine, with a partial agonist opioid, as the buprenorphine, was used. Buprenorphine has shown a higher liposolubility in supraspinal districts, while the morphine acts above all on the mu receptor subtype of the spinal cord. In this way it's possible a contemporary activation of spinal and supraspinal antinociceptive mechanisms. Furthermore, the incidence of side effects is reduced by buprenorphine, which antagonizes the central effect of morphine. In this study, 43 patients were recruited, suffering from chronic pain in Fontaine stage III-IV obstructive arteriopathy, scheduled for surgery. The patients have been divided into 2 equal groups for age, sex, pathology and intensity of pain. In the first group (TTDS), at first session, a buprenorphine patch 35 microg/h (Transtec TDS) has been applied, and after 24h, a peridural catheter with elastomeric system was positioned; 100 mL (2 mg/mL) of naropine and 2 mg of morphine, 4 mL/h in 24 h, were administered. In the second group (naropine morphine, NM), buprenorphine patch was not applied and analgesia was obtained only by using peridural catheter with elastomeric system at the same doses administered in the first group. At the daily control patients with visual analogical scale (VAS)=or>40 mm received an additional dose of morphine from 2 mg to 6+/-2 mg. VAS (0-100 mm) and the evaluation of the number of the hours of sleep were used to evaluate the analgesic effectiveness of the treatment. Side effects, opioid tolerance and abuse were always recorded. All parameters were evaluated daily for a period of 20+/-5 days. The results indicate that in group TTDS there was an improvement of pain symptomatology, also confirmed by the increased hours of sleep and the lower incidence of side effects. Instead in group NM, pain control was less effective, 18 patients needed a rescue dose of morphine, and the incidence of side effects increased.
We report eight patients with familial tropical spastic paraparesis belonging to four families. The diagnosis was reached by clinical, radiological and electrophysiological studies. Human lymphotropic virus type I infection was confirmed by ELISA, immunofluorescence essays. Western blot and polymerase chain reaction in DNA of peripheral blood mononuclear cells, using primers for tax and 5'ltr genes. In all these families there was a vertical transmission of the disease from the first to the second generation. All patients improved their spastic gait after prednisone treatment. Among patients of the second generation, all had dacrysialoadenitis, three had leukemia like lymphocytes in the blood smear, two had mycosis fungoides and one had hepatic cirrhosis.
Omeprazole is a substituted benzimidazole that has gained widespread use in the treatment of acidic and peptic ulcer disease. Adverse events with the drug are rare and involve mainly the gastrointestinal and central nervous systems. Skin inflammation, urticaria, pruritus, alopecia, and dry skin have been reported in 0.5-1.5% of patients. To date, no published report has linked angioedema with omeprazole. We report a case of a 34-year-old woman with cellulitis, ulcerative erosive esophagitis, and gastric and duodenal ulcers who developed several hypersensitivity reactions characterized by shortness of breath, wheezing, cough, mild angioedema, and total body urticaria and pruritus. These symptoms correlated with the addition of omeprazole to her regimen and the timing of its administration. A previous case report prompted a rechallenge with enteric-coated omeprazole granules removed from the capsule shell. Recurrence of the adverse events suggested an allergy to the drug itself and not the capsule. Angioedema can be a life-threatening allergic reaction requiring immediate treatment. Rechallenge using omeprazole with or without the capsule shell should be done only in a hospital setting where prompt action can be taken in the event of an emergency.
We describe a case of reversible encephalopathy caused by the recently released anticancer drug Ifosfamide. The clinical course, role of EEG in monitoring and predicting encephalopathy, and putative mechanism of neurotoxicity is discussed. Short infusion times and/or prior CNS disease may increase the risk of encephalopathy.
Alcohol consumption increases the small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) and intestinal permeability of endotoxin. The endotoxin mediated inflammatory signaling plays a major role in alcoholic liver fibrosis. We evaluated the effect of ascorbic acid (AA), silymarin and alcohol abstention on the alcohol induced endotoxemia and NF-κB activation cascade pathway in guinea pigs (Cavia porcellus). Guinea pigs were administered ethanol at a daily dose of 4g/kg b.wt for 90days. After 90days, ethanol administration was stopped. The ethanol treated animals were divided into abstention, silymarin (250mg/kg b.wt) and AA (250mg/kg b.wt) supplemented groups and maintained for 30days. The SIBO, intestinal permeability and endotoxin were significantly increased in the ethanol group. The mRNA expressions of intestinal proteins claudin, occludin and zona occludens-1 were significantly decreased in ethanol group. The mRNA levels of inflammatory receptors, activity of IKKβ and the protein expressions of phospho-IκBα, NF-κB, TNF-α, TGF-β1 and IL-6 were also altered in ethanol group. The expressions of fibrosis markers α-SMA, α1 (I) collagen and sirius red staining in the liver revealed the induction of fibrosis. But the supplementation of AA could induce greater reduction of ethanol induced SIBO, intestinal barrier defects, NF-κB activation and liver fibrosis than silymarin. The possible mechanism may be the inhibitory effect of AA on SIBO, intestinal barrier defect and IKKβ, which decreased the activation of NF-κB and synthesis of cytokines. This might have led to suppression of HSCs activation and liver fibrosis.
Different lines of evidence suggest that low-level lead exposure could be a modifiable risk factor for adverse psychological symptoms, but little work has explored this relation.
We assessed whether bone lead--a biomarker of cumulative lead exposure--is associated with depression and anxiety symptoms among middle-age and elderly women.
Participants were 617 Nurses' Health Study participants with K-shell X-ray fluorescence bone lead measures and who had completed at last one Mental Health Index 5-item scale (MHI-5) and the phobic anxiety scale of the Crown-Crisp Index (CCI) assessment at mean ± SD age of 59 ± 9 years (range, 41-83 years). With exposure expressed as tertiles of bone lead, we analyzed MHI-5 scores as a continuous variable using linear regression and estimated the odds ratio (OR) of a CCI score ≥ 4 using generalized estimating equations.
There were no significant associations between lead and either outcome in the full sample, but associations were found among premenopausal women and women who consistently took hormone replacement therapy (HRT) between menopause and bone lead measurement (n = 142). Compared with women in the lowest tertile of tibia lead, those in the highest scored 7.78 points worse [95% confidence interval (CI): -11.73, -3.83] on the MHI-5 (p-trend = 0.0001). The corresponding OR for CCI ≥ 4 was 2.79 (95% CI: 1.02, 7.59; p-trend = 0.05). No consistent associations were found with patella lead.
These results provide support for an association of low-level cumulative lead exposure with increased depressive and phobic anxiety symptoms among older women who are premenopausal or who consistently take postmenopausal HRT.
Fetal exposure to valproic acid has recently been associated with an increased incidence of neural tube defects. The prenatal detection of a fetus with both hydrocephalus and meningomyelocele after valproic acid exposure is presented and specific recommendations made for antepartum evaluation in future pregnancies.
In experimental visceral leishmaniasis, in which the tissue macrophage is the target, in vivo responsiveness to conventional chemotherapy (pentavalent antimony [Sb]) requires a T-cell-dependent mechanism. To determine if this mechanism involves gamma interferon (IFN-gamma)-induced activation and/or specific IFN-gamma-regulated macrophage leishmanicidal mechanisms (generation of reactive nitrogen or oxygen intermediates, we treated gene-deficient mice infected with Leishmania donovani. In IFN-gamma gene knockout (GKO) mice, Sb inhibited but did not kill intracellular L. donovani (2% killing versus 76% in controls). Sb was active (>94% killing), however, in both inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) knockout (KO) and respiratory burst (phagocyte oxidase)-deficient chronic granulomatous disease (X-CGD) mice. Sb's efficacy was also maintained in doubly deficient animals (X-CGD mice treated with an iNOS inhibitor). In contrast to Sb, amphotericin B (AmB) induced high-level killing in GKO mice; AmB was also fully active in iNOS KO and X-CGD animals. Although resolution of L. donovani infection requires iNOS, residual visceral infection remained largely suppressed in iNOS KO mice treated with Sb or AmB. These results indicate that endogenous IFN-gamma regulates the leishmanicidal response to Sb and achieves this effect via a pathway unrelated to the macrophage's primary microbicidal mechanisms. The role of IFN-gamma is selective, since it is not a cofactor in the response to AmB. Treatment with either Sb or AmB permits an iNOS-independent mechanism to emerge and control residual intracellular L. donovani infection.
A patient undergoing chemotherapy for treatment of acute lymphocytic leukemia developed septicemia that was treated with linezolid for 16 days. The patient subsequently reported reduced vision in both eyes and was found to have bilateral optic neuropathy. After the discontinuation of linezolid treatment, both the optic neuropathy and visual impairment resolved without sequelae.
Since skin cancer incidence and prevalence is constantly rising up the charts despite all efforts, search for newer, better agents for protection and treatment is required. Ginger (Zingiber officinale Roscoe), a monocotyledonous herb, is widely used as a herbal medicine, given the presence of homologous phenolic ketones, of which [6]-gingerol is the major one. The quantity of [6]-gingerol in the fresh ginger rhizome was found to be 104-965 microg/g in common varieties of ginger available in Indian market. Herein, [6]-gingerol was assessed for its anti-apoptotic effects in human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells. [6]-Gingerol treatment exhibited considerable cytotoxicity as indicated by growth inhibition of A431 cells mediated via generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Increase in ROS led to decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and subsequent induction of apoptosis. Results revealed that perturbations in mitochondrial membrane are associated with deregulation of Bax/Bcl-2 ratio at gene transcriptional level as well as protein level, where treatment with [6]-gingerol leads to up-regulation of Cytochrome-c and Apaf-1 subsequently culminating in triggering of Caspase cascade. These firmly suggest that [6]-gingerol can be effectively used for the treatment of skin cancer.
The effects of nicardipine administration on kidney morphology were studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Male 12-week-old SHR received an oral dose of 1 mg/Kg/day of nicardipine or vehicle for 8 weeks Age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats were used as normotensive reference animals. At 20 weeks, the non treated SHR exhibited hypertension, albuminuria, decreased urinary sodium excretion and renal microanatomical changes. These changes were characterized by vascular alterations consisting in hypertrophy of the tunica media accompanied by a decrease of luminal surface. Glomerular changes consisting primarily in signs of glomerulosclerosis of varying degrees were noticeable in the kidneys of SHR. Treatment with nicardipine significantly reduced blood pressure and albuminuria and increased urinary sodium excretion. Moreover, hypertrophy of the tunica media and the luminal surface were decreased and increased respectively in nicardipine-treated SHR. The above results suggest that treatment with nicardipine reduces blood pressure in SHR and counteracts hypertension-dependent changes in the morphology of the kidney. The protective effect of the drug on hypertensive changes of renal microanatomy probably have functional relevance given of the influence of nicardipine treatment on albuminuria and urinary sodium excretion in SHR.
The combination of non-opioid analgesic drugs, though widely used, has been rarely evaluated. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of propacetamol and the non-steroidal analgesic drug ketoprofen, alone or in combination, on pain relief after thyroid surgery performed using remifentanil.
Ninety-seven patients were randomly allocated to one of the three groups: propacetamol 2 g (32), ketoprofen 100 mg (33) and propacetamol 2 g + ketoprofen 100 mg (32). Each regimen was administered intravenously (i.v.) 30 min before the end of surgery and then every 6 h. If pain was not relieved, patients received an i.v. bolus of tramadol 100 mg. Tramadol consumption and pain intensity using a visual analogue scale was recorded at 1, 2, 8 and 14 h after the end of surgery.
Pain scores were significantly higher with propacetamol compared with ketoprofen 2 h after surgery (35 +/- 3.7, 21 +/- 2.6, respectively; P < 0.01). The number of patients receiving tramadol was higher with propacetamol alone compared with the two other groups, 1 h (14/32, 4/33, 2/32, respectively; P > 0.01) and 2 h (24/32, 6/33, 8/32, respectively; P < 0.01) after surgery. There was no difference between ketoprofen alone and ketoprofen plus propacetamol, and there was no difference between the three groups from the 8th hour onward.
In the immediate postoperative period after thyroid surgery performed using remifentanil, the concomitant use of propacetamol and ketoprofen does not improve analgesia compared with ketoprofen alone.
Although evidence indicates that environmental factors play a major role in precipitating systemic autoimmunity in genetically susceptible individuals, little is known about the mechanisms involved. Certain heavy metals, such as mercury, are potent environmental immunostimulants that produce a number of immunopathologic sequelae, including lymphoproliferation, hypergammaglobulinemia, and overt systemic autoimmunity. Predisposition to such metal-induced immunopathology has been shown to be influenced by both MHC and non-MHC genes, as well as susceptibility to spontaneous lupus, in mice and other experimental animals. Among the various mouse strains examined to date, the DBA/2 appears to uniquely lack susceptibility to mercury-induced autoimmunity (HgIA), despite expressing a susceptible H-2 haplotype (H-2d). To define the genetic basis for this trait, two genome-wide scans were conducted using F2 intercrosses of the DBA/2 strain with either the SJL or NZB strains, both of which are highly susceptible to HgIA. A single major quantitative trait locus on chromosome 1, designated Hmr1, was shown to be common to both crosses and encompassed a region containing several lupus susceptibility loci. Hmr1 was linked to glomerular immune complex deposits and not autoantibody production, suggesting that DBA/2 resistance to HgIA may primarily involve the later stages of disease pathogenesis. Identification and characterization of susceptibility/resistance genes and mechanisms relevant to the immunopathogenesis of mercury-induced autoimmunity should provide important insights into the pathogenesis of autoimmunity and may reveal novel targets for intervention.
Amiodarone, an iodinated benzofuran derivative, introduced in 1960's as an anti-anginal agent, emerged as a potent anti-arrhythmic agent by 1970's and is currently one of the most commonly prescribed drugs in US for ventricular and atrial arrhythmias. Although amiodarone is considered a class III anti-arrhythmic agent, it also has class I, II, IV actions, making it a unique and effective anti-arrhythmic agent. Because of its minimal negative inotropic activity and very low rate of pro-arrhythmia, it is considered safe in treating arrhythmias in patients with Coronary Artery Disease and Left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Despite these advantages, long term oral therapy with amiodarone is limited by side effect profile involving various organs like thyroid, lung, heart, liver, skin etc. Though the side effects can be decreased significantly by keeping the maintenance dose at 200 to 300 mg/day, patients on amiodarone should be followed closely. Amiodarone interacts with medications such as Warfarin, Digoxin, Macrolides, Floroquinolones etc., which share Cytochrome P450 metabolic pathway. Hence reducing their doses prior to starting amiodarone is recommended. Amiodarone, a category D drug, is contraindicated in pregnant and breast feeding women. This review discusses the pharmacokinetics of amiodarone, its evolving clinical indications, management of toxicity and drug interactions.
The authors performed a meta-analysis of studies examining the association between polymorphisms in the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene, including MTHFR C677T and A1298C, and common psychiatric disorders, including unipolar depression, anxiety disorders, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia. The primary comparison was between homozygote variants and the wild type for MTHFR C677T and A1298C. For unipolar depression and the MTHFR C677T polymorphism, the fixed-effects odds ratio for homozygote variants (TT) versus the wild type (CC) was 1.36 (95% confidence interval (CI): 1.11, 1.67), with no residual between-study heterogeneity (I(2) = 0%)--based on 1,280 cases and 10,429 controls. For schizophrenia and MTHFR C677T, the fixed-effects odds ratio for TT versus CC was 1.44 (95% CI: 1.21, 1.70), with low heterogeneity (I(2) = 42%)--based on 2,762 cases and 3,363 controls. For bipolar disorder and MTHFR C677T, the fixed-effects odds ratio for TT versus CC was 1.82 (95% CI: 1.22, 2.70), with low heterogeneity (I(2) = 42%)-based on 550 cases and 1,098 controls. These results were robust to various sensitively analyses. This meta-analysis demonstrates an association between the MTHFR C677T variant and depression, schizophrenia, and bipolar disorder, raising the possibility of the use of folate in treatment and prevention.
Many epidemiological studies and animal experiments have shown that individuals with preexisting diseases, such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and diabetes mellitus (DM) are more susceptible to particulate matter (PM)-related health problems. However, the mechanisms underlying this susceptibility are still unclear. PM has been shown to affect macrophage functions. We hypothesized that exposure to PM in the setting of DM and high glucose levels would result in enhanced macrophage activation. Rabbits were rendered diabetic with alloxan administered intravenously. Blood glucose concentration was measured daily for the first several weeks and weekly thereafter using a blood glucose meter. After 9 months of diabetes (blood glucose great than 450mg/dl), rabbits were sacrificed and bronchoalveolar lavage was performed to collect alveolar macrophages. Alveolar macrophages were exposed in vitro to urban particulate matter SRM 1648 (U-PM). Our results showed that U-PM caused dose-dependent cytotoxic effects, and these effects were significantly higher in macrophages obtained from DM rabbits than those from normal rabbits. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in macrophages from DM rabbits with exposure to U-PM was also greater than in macrophages from normal rabbits. Our results also showed that exposure of macrophages to U-PM caused an increase in cytokine mRNA expression level and activity of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP-9), but not MMP-2, and that these effects were greater in macrophages from DM rabbits. These results demonstrate that U-PM caused severe oxidative stress in macrophages from DM rabbits and up-regulation of cytokine expression and MMP-9 activity.
In mice glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3beta heterozygote knockout status was reported to cause reduced immobility in the Porsolt forced swim test and reduced amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, behaviors that mimic the effects of lithium. GSK-3beta protein and mRNA level and activity have been reported to be reduced in the postmortem brain of schizophrenia patients and this could suggest the involvement of GSK-3beta in the etiology of schizophrenia. However, apomorphine-induced stereotyping was reported to be unchanged in GSK-3beta heterozygote (HZ) knockout (KO) mice. As such behaviors are not always robust, study in another laboratory seemed indicated. Motor activity and coordination were assessed in the rotarod test. Behavior was studied in the following tests: pilocarpine-induced seizures model for lithium action, Porsolt forced swim test, tail suspension test, elevated plus-maze, large open field, startle response and prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle response, amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, and apomorphine-induced stereotypic climbing. We could not confirm the report that GSK-3beta HZ KO mice exhibit reduced immobility in the Porsolt forced swim or reduced amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in a manner mimicking the behavioral effects of lithium. We did not find increased apomorphine-induced stereotypic climbing or disruption of prepulse inhibition, suggesting that human postmortem findings regarding GSK-3beta in schizophrenia are not mediated by changes in dopamine receptors and are not the cause of prepulse inhibition deficits in schizophrenia. These data do not support the role of GSK-3beta in schizophrenia or in the mechanism of therapeutic action of lithium. Although differences in the genetic background of the GSK-3beta HZ KOs used in the present study compared with that of the previous study could be responsible, such results could suggest that the previously reported effects of GSK-3beta knockout on behavior are not robust.
Administration of intravenous nitroglycerin in a patient with idiopathic pulmonary hypertension resulted in an increase in pulmonary artery pressure associated with a decrease in blood flow that is best explained by an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance. This observation highlights the need for hemodynamic monitoring when potent vasodilators are used in this disorder.
Medicinal plants represent a rich source of cancer drug leads. Indioside D, a furostanol glycoside isolated from Solanum mammosum, was found to possess antiproliferative activity toward a panel of human cancer cell lines. Proteomic analysis of indioside D-treated HeLa cells revealed profound protein changes related to energy production and oxidative stress, suggesting that mitochondria dysfunction plays a role in indioside D-induced apoptosis. Indioside D caused a rapid dissipation of mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsim) and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), leading to the activation of caspase-dependent apoptotic cell death. The Fas death receptor pathway was also activated following indioside D treatment, and triggered the activation of caspase-8 and cleavage of Bid, which also acted through the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. These results suggest that indioside D induced apoptosis in HeLa cells via both intrinsic and extrinsic cell death pathways.
Recent studies have implicated chronic elevated exposures to environmental agents, such as metals (e.g. manganese, Mn) and pesticides, as contributors to neurological disease. Eighteen-month-old rats received intraperitoneal injections of manganese chloride (6 mg Mn/kg/day) or equal volume of saline for 30 days in order to study the effect of manganese on the dopamine- and GABA-neurons. The structures studied were substantia nigra, striatum, ventral tegmental area, nucleus accumbens and globus pallidus. First, we studied the enzymatic activity of mitochondrial complex II succinate dehydrogenase (SDH). We found an overall decrease of SDH in the different brain areas analyzed. We then studied the mRNA levels for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the dopamine transporter (DAT) by in situ hybridization. TH mRNA but not DAT mRNA was significantly induced in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area following Mn treatment. Correspondingly, TH immunoreactivity was increased in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. Manganese treatment significantly decreased GAD mRNA levels in individual GABAergic neurons in globus pallidus but not in striatum. We also quantified the density of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-labeled astrocytes and OX-42 positive cells. Reactive gliosis in response to Mn treatment occurred only in striatum and substantia nigra and the morphology of the astrocytes was different than in control animals. These results suggest that the nigrostriatal system could be specifically damaged by manganese toxicity. Thus, changes produced by manganese treatment on 18-month-old rats could play a role in the etiology of Parkinson's disease.
The occurrence of severe sinus node dysfunction in 10 patients (three males and seven females; mean age 78.5 +/- 3.4, range 57-92 years) receiving oral diltiazem therapy (mean 190 +/- 20 mg/24 h, range 90-300) is described. Six of them were concomitantly taking amiodarone and/or beta-blocking agents. On admission, seven patients exhibited systemic hypotension and nine complained of asthenia and/or dizziness or drowsiness. ECG findings showed in all a persistent sinus arrest with atrial, junctional or ventricular escape, leading to a mean heart rate of 40.2 +/- 3 beats.min-1 (range 25-56). All patients had chronic renal failure on biological tests, with a mean endogenous creatinine clearance of 25 +/- 3 ml.min-1 (range 12-36). Intravenous calcium hydrochloride (mean 1.4 +/- 0.2 g, range 1-2), given in nine patients, rapidly restored stable sinus activity in seven. We suggest that diltiazem should be given cautiously to ageing patients with chronic renal failure, and confirm the efficacy of intravenous calcium in reversing calcium channel blocker toxicity on sinus node.
Patients scheduled for myocardial perfusion imaging are often taking several antianginal drugs. There is presently no consensus concerning a regimen of discontinuation before either rest or pharmacologic stress myocardial perfusion imaging. Whether antianginal treatment affects diagnostic sensitivity and specificity is not well documented. Methods and results The effect of the three most commonly used antianginal drugs (nitroglycerin, 400 microg [NTG]; metoprolol, 50 mg [MET]; and amlodipine, 5 mg [AML]) on myocardial perfusion was tested in 49 patients (age, 63 +/- 8 years; 43 men) allocated prospectively to one of the treatments (NTG, n = 25; MET, n = 14; and AML, n = 10). All patients had documented coronary artery disease and were scheduled for elective percutaneous coronary intervention. Patients were studied once on treatment and once off treatment with an interval of 1 to 3 weeks. For NTG, the measurements were performed on the same day with an interval of 1 hour. The MET and AML groups were also studied during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia (0.56 mg. kg(-1). min(-1) for 4 minutes). So that a quantitative value of myocardial perfusion in milliliters per gram per minute could be obtained, myocardial perfusion was quantified with nitrogen 13 ammonia positron emission tomography as an average of the midventricular perfusion in each of the 3 vascular territories. NTG treatment increased the overall resting perfusion (0.75 +/- 0.18 vs 0.86 +/- 0.22, P <.05), whereas resting perfusion was reduced after MET treatment (0.92 +/- 0.14 vs 0.82 +/- 0.17, P <.05). AML treatment did not alter resting perfusion (0.87 +/- 0.22 vs 0.87 +/- 0.23, P = NS). Dipyridamole-induced hyperemia was reduced after treatment with MET (2.02 +/- 0.66 vs l.57 +/- 0.52, P <.001), whereas the hyperemic response was unchanged after treatment with AML (1.54 +/- 0.49 vs 1.86 +/- 0.91, P = NS).
Antianginal medication can alter both resting and hyperemic myocardial perfusion and might affect the ability to detect flow-limiting stenosis. NTG increases perfusion, MET reduces perfusion, and AML does not affect perfusion. Larger-scale trials are warranted to establish a consensus for optimal antianginal medication for patients undergoing perfusion imaging.
This study investigates the beneficial role of lisinopril, an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) and telmisartan, an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), in intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) streptozotocin (STZ) induced dementia of Alzheimer's disease (AD) type in mice. This study also aimed to explore the role of PPAR-γ in lisinopril and telmisartan mediated effects in i.c.v. STZ mice. Donepezil served as the positive control in the study. Mice underwent i.c.v. injection of STZ. The Morris water maze (MWM) test was employed for assessment of learning and memory. Various biochemical estimations, namely brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, nitrite/nitrate and thiobarbituric acid reactive species (TBARS) levels and reduced glutathione (GSH) levels, were also performed. The study showed that i.c.v. STZ significantly impaired learning and memory of the animals along with a significant enhancement in brain AChE, MPO, TBARS, nitrite/nitrate levels and reduction in brain GSH levels. Treatments of lisinopril/telmisartan/donepezil significantly attenuated STZ induced behavioral and biochemical changes. Pre-treatment with bisphenol-A-diglycidyl ether (BADGE), a selective PPAR-γ antagonist, significantly abolished the beneficial effect of lisinopril/telmisartan in i.c.v. STZ treated animals. The results of this investigation document a potential role of PPAR-γ in the beneficial effects of lisinopril and telmisartan in i.c.v. STZ dementia of AD type.
