In recent years epidural anesthesia and analgesia techniques were used in pediatric surgery owing to the development of pediatric epidural catheter needles. And the need of postoperative pain control in pediatric patients is also increasing. We compared combined general-epidural anesthesia and analgesia technique with intravenous fentanyl analgesia after general anesthesia for postoperative analgesic effect and complications in these pediatric patients. We randomly allocated 91 pediatric patients undergoing lower extremities surgery into epidural lidocaine group (n=61) and IV fentanyl group (n=30). During the operation, end-tidal sevoflurane concentration (ET(sev)) was controlled to maintain the blood pressure and heart rate within 10% of preoperative value. At the postoperative period, Parent Visual Analog Scale (PVAS), Objective Pain Score (OPS) and the incidence of nausea/ vomiting were checked immediately, 6 hours and 24 hours after the patient's arrival at general ward. ET(sev) was significantly low in epidural lidocaine group (p < 0.05). Compare to IV fentanyl group, epidural lidocaine group had significantly lower OPSs at 6 hours after arrival. Epidural lidocaine group had significantly lower PVASs immediately, 6 hrs and 24 hours after arrival. There was no significant difference in the incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting. A combined general-epidural anesthesia technique significantly reduces intraoperative end-tidal sevoflurane concentration compared to general anesthesia alone. And continuous patient-controlled epidural analgesia reduces postoperative pain scores significantly more than continuous patient-controlled IV fentanyl analgesia without any serious complications in pediatric lower extremity surgery.
Perhexiline maleate is an agent currently under investigation in Canada that is used for angina unresponsive to other treatment. This paper describes a possible side effect previously unreported--papilledema not associated with peripheral neuropathy.
A self-limiting psychosis characterized by visual and auditory hallucinations and isomnia occurred in a 17-year old male after mefloquine administration for presumed chloroquine resistant falciparum malaria. The attending physician failed to recognise the association between mefloquine and psychosis.
Although nephrotoxicity of cidofovir and adefovir is well established, no renal side effects have been observed yet with tenofovir, which is the third member of this family. The authors report the case of a patient who had Fanconi syndrome, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and acute renal failure during treatment with tenofovir, a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor that recently has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for treatment of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus.
To compare the efficacy of ProME(Epidoxorubicin)CE-CytaBOM (PE-C) and ProMI(Idarubicin)CE-CytaBOM (PI-C) in the treatment of adult patients with aggressive non Hodgkin's lymphoma in a multicenter randomized controlled trial performed by 18 centers of the Italian Lymphoma Study Group (GISL).
One hundred and twenty-eight and 122 patients were randomly assigned to receive either 6 courses of PE-C or PI-C, respectively. Some patients achieving complete remission with induction therapy participated in another randomized study comparing no further therapy versus maintenance therapy consisting of four blocks of two drugs.
The rate of CRs was 62% and 64% for patients treated with PE-C and PI-C, respectively (p = 0.51). The 5-year relapse-free survival was 60% for PE-C and 53% for PI-C (p = 0.29). The estimated relapse-free disease survival rates at 4 years were 75% for patients in the consolidation group and 57% for those in the observation group (p = 0.11). Patients alive in first complete remission 4 years after study entry were estimated to be 39% in the PE-C arm and 38% in the PI-C arm (p = 0.90). The 3-year and 5-year estimated survival rates were 61% and 55% for the PE-C group and 56% and 47% for the PI-C group (p = 0.26). Fatal toxicities occurred in 7 patients (2.9%) with active disease and in 4 patients (1.7%) in complete remission. Stage (p = 0.04), bulky disease (p = 0.02), serum LDH (p = 0.0006), serum albumin (p = 0.0051), hemoglobin (p = 0.0011), performance status (p = 0.0001), International prognostic index (p < 0.0001) and the index proposed by the French group G.E.L.A. (p < 0.0001) were of prognostic value. In a multivariate analysis (Cox regression model) alternatively IPI alone or G.E.L.A. index plus performance status emerged as independent prognostic factors.
The present study indicates that epirubicin and idarubicin in a combined chemotherapy regimen, have similar activities. The toxic profile also indicates the safety of both anthracyclines at the dosages employed, suggesting their possible dose escalation in a combined chemotherapy setting. PE-C and PI-C were both effective and feasible regimens in an outpatient setting, with acceptable cardiovascular toxicity. The trend toward a better outcome in patients undergoing consolidation therapy after the achievement of a complete remission, warrants further investigation.
The present study was devoted to investigate the effects of the metabotropic glutamate receptor(mGluR)5 antagonist [(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP) and the mGluR1 antagonist, (3-ethyl-2-methyl-quinolin-6-yl)-(4-methoxy-cyclohexyl)-methanone methanesulfonate (EMQMCM), in animal studies indicative of antiparkinsonian-like activity such as haloperidol-induced catalepsy, hypoactivity in open field following haloperidol, and rotation in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine(OHDA)-induced lesions of the midbrain dopaminergic system (alone and in combination with L-DOPA). Moreover, antidyskinetic activity of different mGluR ligands was evaluated in the rat model of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Both MTEP (5 mg/kg) and EMQMCM (4 mg/kg) slightly inhibited haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg)-induced catalepsy. However, neither substance reversed the hypoactivity produced by haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg). Although MTEP did not produce significant turning, it inhibited contralateral rotations after L-DOPA (at 5 mg/kg) and alleviated L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (at 2.5 and 5 mg/kg) in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. In contrast, mGluR1 antagonists EMQMCM and RS-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA) failed to modify L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. The results of the present study suggest that either subtype of group I of mGluRs may be involved in the pathologically altered circuitry in the basal ganglia. However, the equivocal results do not strongly support the hypothesis that mGluR1 and mGluR5 antagonists may be beneficial in the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, mGluR5 antagonists may prove useful for the symptomatic treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism of hypertension and thromboembolic events induced by cyclosporin (CyA) and tacrolimus (FK506) in respect to their action on the serotonergic blood system. The study was carried out on healthy rats and those with experimental chronic renal failure. CyA injected into healthy and uremic rats caused an increase in serotonin (5-HT) concentration levels in whole blood and platelets. Concomitantly a rise in systolic blood pressure was observed. Platelet aggregation values were significantly higher in uremic rats given CyA. FK506 had no influence on 5-HT blood content, blood pressure or platelet aggregation values. It is concluded that 5-HT may play a role in the development of hypertension and thrombotic events caused by CyA. Furthermore, lower incidence of these complications during FK506 treatment could be the result of this drug's limited effect on the serotonergic blood system.
Systemic autoimmune diseases have a complicated and largely unknown aetiology and pathogenesis, but they are at least partly obeying the rules of an ordinary immune response. Cytokines are therefore important in the pathogenesis as demonstrated by the recent success in treating rheumatoid arthritis with anti-cytokine agents. The suppressive functions in the immune system have lately received much interest. One of the cytokines in focus in this respect is interleukin (IL)-10. We recently observed that in heavy-metal induced systemic autoimmunity, genetically resistant mice show a strong increase in IL-10 mRNA expression, which was not seen in susceptible mice. We have therefore examined the possible regulating effect of IL-10 on the induction and manifestation of systemic autoimmunity in this model. We took two approaches: a targeted mutation of the IL-10 gene in a strain resistant to heavy metal-induced autoimmunity, and treatment with recombinant IL-10 in the genetically susceptible A.SW strain during the induction of autoimmunity by metals. The wild-type C57BL/6 J (B6-WT) strain did not react with lymphoproliferation, polyclonal B cell activation, anti-nucleoar autoantibodies (ANoA) or tissue immune-complex (IC) deposits in response to inorganic mercury (Hg) or silver (Ag). However, serum IgG1 and IgE showed a modest increase during Hg treatment, while Ag caused a weak increase in IgE and IgG2a. The B6.129P2-Il10(tm1Cgn)/J strain (IL-10-deficient mice) did not develop antinucleolar antibodies (ANoA) during Hg treatment, but showed a higher median titre of homogeneous ANA compared with Hg-treated B6-WT mice. Both control and Hg-treated (but not Ag-treated) IL-10-deficient mice showed an increase in splenic weight and serum IgG1 compared with B6-WT control and Hg-treated mice. An early, significant increase in serum IgE was seen in Hg-treated IL-10-deficient and WT mice compared with the controls; the increase was 42- and sixfold, respectively. During ongoing intense treatment with rIL-10 in combination with Hg the susceptible A.SW mice showed a reduced development of ANoA and antichromatin antibodies, as well as serum IgE, compared with mice receiving Hg but not rIL-10. In conclusion, IL-10 suppresses several aspects of HgIA, but is not crucial for resistance to heavy metal-induced autoimmunity. Peroral silver treatment suppresses the spontaneous immune activation seen in IL-10-deficient mice.
The effect of orally available, nonpeptide vasopressin V1 and V2 receptor antagonists on chronic progressive glomerular disease was investigated in Wistar rats with Adriamycin-induced nephropathy. At weeks 0 and 3, Adriamycin was injected twice, and at week 3 drugs started to be given as follows: groups 2 and 3 were treated with V1 and V2 antagonists, respectively, while the untreated group 1 served as control. To block the effects of vasopressin totally, both V1 and V2 antagonists were simultaneously administered (group 4). At weeks 8 and 10, V1 and V2 antagonists given either alone or combined significantly reduced the urinary protein excretion to the same levels. Urinary volume increased in groups 3 and 4 from week 4. Systolic blood pressure did not significantly increase in all groups during the study. Histological alterations in the kidney of groups 2, 3 and 4 were significantly attenuated compared to the control. These results suggest that both vasopressin V1 and V2 agonism plays a role in the pathophysiology of Adriamycin-induced nephropathy despite plasma levels of vasopressin within the normal range. These findings also lead to the notion that in some types of nephrotic patients these orally available V1 and/or V2 receptor antagonists may be effective for reduction of proteinuria and for retardation of progression of renal failure.
A majority of beta-lactam antibiotics (e.g., cephalosporins and penicillins) have convulsive activity to a greater or lesser extent. (6R,7R)-3-[[3-Amino-2-(2-hydroxyethyl)-2H-pyrazol-1-ium-1-yl]methyl]-7-[(Z)-2-(2-aminothiazol-4-yl)-2-methoxyiminoacetylamino]-8-oxo-5-thia-1-azabicyclo[4.2.0]oct-2-ene-2-carboxylate monosulfate (cefoselis), a newly developed injectable beta-lactam antibiotic with activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), might induce convulsions if cerebral concentrations become highly elevated. In the present study, we examined whether or not cefoselis had convulsive activity after direct brain administration, and we attempted to clarify the pharmacological mechanism of action. When cefoselis was injected into the lateral ventricle of the mouse brain at doses higher than 20 microg/animal, it produced convulsions dose-dependently. Cefoselis (50 microg/animal)-induced convulsions were prevented by pretreatment with 5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801), diazepam and phenobarbital (ED(50) values (mg/kg) of 0.78, 1.59 and 33.0, respectively), but not by carbamazepine or phenytoin. When the effects of these anticonvulsants on the convulsions induced by intracerebral injection of bicuculline methiodide (BMI) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) were investigated, the inhibitory profile of anticonvulsants on cefoselis-induced convulsions was similar to those induced by BMI (125 ng/animal) but differed markedly in their inhibitory activity on NMDA (100 ng/animal)-induced convulsions, which were not inhibited by diazepam. These results suggest that cefoselis may be convulsive at higher concentrations through a mechanism involving inhibition of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors.
Secondhand smoke (SHS) consists of fine particulate matter, carcinogens, and various toxins that affect large parts of the population. SHS increases the risk for acute cardiovascular events and may contribute to the development of atherosclerosis.
We investigated the association of SHS with coronary artery calcification (CAC).
In this cross-sectional analysis, we used baseline data (2000-2003) from 1,766 never-smokers without clinically manifested coronary heart disease, 45-75 years of age, from the Heinz Nixdorf Recall Study, an ongoing, prospective, population-based cohort study in Germany. Self-reported frequent SHS at home, at work, and in other places was assessed by questionnaire. CAC scores were derived based on electron-beam computed tomography. We conducted multiple linear regression analysis using exposure to SHS as the explanatory variable and ln(CAC+1) as the response variable. We conducted logistic regression to estimate the odds ratio (OR) for presence of any CAC.
Frequent exposure to SHS was reported by 21.5% of participants. After adjustment for age, sex, and socioeconomic status, CAC + 1 was 21.1% [95% confidence interval (CI): -5.5%, 55.2%] higher in exposed than in unexposed participants. After adjusting for other cardiovascular risk factors, the association was attenuated (15.4%; 95% CI: -9.6%, 47.2%). SHS exposure was also associated with a CAC score > 0 (fully adjusted OR = 1.38; 95% CI: 1.03, 1.84).
Self-reported frequent exposure to SHS was associated with subclinical coronary atherosclerosis in our cross-sectional study population. Considering the widespread exposure and the clinical relevance of coronary atherosclerosis, this result, if confirmed, is of public health importance.
Phenobarbital (PB) has a reputation for safety, and it is commonly believed that PB-related increases in serum aminotransferase levels do not indicate or predict the development of significant chronic liver disease. Here we report of two adult patients with a long history of epilepsy treated with PB who died suddenly: one as consequence of cardiac arrest, the other of acute bronchopneumonia. At autopsy, analysis of liver parenchyma revealed rich portal inflammatory infiltrate, which consisted of mixed eosinophil and monocyte cells, associated with several foci of necrosis surrounded by a hard ring of non-specific granulomatous tissue. Inflammatory reactions of internal and external hepatic biliary ducts were also seen. Our findings illustrate that PB may be associated with chronic liver damage, which may lead to more serious and deleterious consequences. For this reason, each clinician should recognize this entity in the differential diagnosis of PB-related asymptomatic chronic hepatic enzyme dysfunction.
[structure: see text] o-Nitrotoluene is used to synthesize agricultural and rubber chemicals, azo and sulfur dyes, and dyes for cotton, wool, silk, leather, and paper. o-Nitrotoluene was nominated for study by NIOSH and the NTP based on its considerable human exposure as well as the absence of long-term studies of carcinogenicity in rodents. Male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were exposed to o-nitrotoluene (greater than 99% pure) in feed for 2 years. Genetic toxicology studies were conducted in Salmonella typhimurium, cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, rat and mouse bone marrow cells, and mouse peripheral blood erythrocytes. 2-YEAR STUDY IN RATS: In the core study, groups of 60 male and 60 female rats were fed diets containing 625, 1,250, or 2,000 ppm o-nitrotoluene (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 25, 50, or 90 mg o-nitrotoluene/kg body weight to males and 30, 60, or 100 mg/kg to females) for 105 weeks. In a 3-month stop-exposure study, groups of 70 male rats were fed diets containing 2,000 or 5,000 ppm o-nitrotoluene (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 125 or 315 mg/kg) for 13 weeks followed by undosed feed for the remainder of the study. A group of 70 male rats receiving undosed feed served as a control group for both male rat studies; 60 female rats receiving undosed feed were the control group for the female core study. Ten control males and 10 males from each stop-exposure group were sacrificed at 3 months. Survival, Body Weights, and Feed Consumption: All 2,000 ppm core study, all 5,000 ppm stop-exposure, and all but three core study 1,250 ppm male rats died before the end of the studies. Survival of 625 ppm core study and 2,000 ppm stop-exposure males and of 2,000 ppm females was significantly less than that of the controls. Mean body weights of all exposed groups of males except the 625 ppm group were generally less than those of the controls throughout the study. Mean body weights of 2,000 ppm females were less than those of the controls during year 2 of the study. Feed consumption by exposed groups of rats was similar to that by the controls. Biomarkers of Exposure: Three urinary metabolites were followed during the study as biomarkers of exposure. The ratios of o-nitrobenzoic acid to creatinine and of o-nitrobenzylmercapturic acid to creatinine determined at 2 weeks and at 3, 12, and 18 months were linearly related to exposure concentration in males and females. The ratio of o-aminobenzoic acid to creatinine was not related to exposure concentration. Pathology Findings: The incidences of malignant mesothelioma in male rats occurred with positive trends in both the core and stop-exposure studies and were significantly greater in exposed groups than in the controls. Incidences of subcutaneous skin neoplasms (fibroma, fibrosarcoma, and lipoma) were increased in exposed groups of males, while the incidences of fibroma or fibrosarcoma (combined) were increased in exposed females. In all exposed groups of males and females except 2,000 ppm core study males, the incidences of mammary gland fibroadenoma were significantly increased. The incidences of mammary gland hyperplasia were significantly increased in 625 and 1,250 ppm females. Increased incidences of mesothelioma, skin neoplasms, and mammary gland fibroadenoma in the stop-exposure males indicated that 3 months of dosing were sufficient to produce a carcinogenic effect. Liver weights of 5,000 ppm stop-exposure males were significantly greater than those of the controls at 3 months. The incidences of hepatocellular adenoma in 2,000 ppm core study males and females and of hepatocellular adenoma or carcinoma (combined) in 2,000 ppm core study and 5,000 ppm stop-exposure males were significantly increased. Cholangiocarcinoma occurred in three 5,000 ppm stop-exposure males, and a single hepatocholangiocarcinoma occurred in a 625 ppm male and in a 2,000 ppm core study male. Nonneoplastic lesions of the liver included eosinophilic, mixed cell, and clear cell foci in exposed groups of males and females and mixed cell infiltrate in exposed males and basophilic focus in exposed females. The incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar adenoma and alveolar/bronchiolar adenoma or carcinoma (combined) were significantly increased in 5,000 ppm stop-exposure males, as were alveolar/bronchiolar hyperplasia in most exposed groups of males and females. The incidences of hematopoietic cell proliferation of the spleen and of hyperplasia of the mandibular lymph node (females) and bone marrow were increased in exposed groups of males at 3 months and/or 2 years and in exposed groups of females at 2 years. The incidences of mononuclear cell leukemia were significantly decreased in all groups of males exposed to 1,250 ppm or greater and in all exposed groups of females; the incidence of testicular interstitial cell adenoma was significantly decreased in 5,000 ppm stop-exposure males. 2-YEAR STUDY IN MICE: Groups of 60 male and 60 female mice were fed diets containing 0, 1,250, 2,500, or 5,000 ppm o-nitrotoluene (equivalent to average daily doses of approximately 165, 360, or 700 mg/kg to males and 150, 320, or 710 mg/kg to females) for 105 weeks. Survival, Body Weights, and Feed Consumption: All 2,500 and 5,000 ppm males died before the end of the study. Survival of 1,250 ppm males and 5,000 ppm females was significantly less than that of the controls. Mean body weights of exposed males and 5,000 ppm females were generally less than those of the controls throughout the study, and those of 2,500 ppm females were less during the second year of the study. Feed consumption by 5,000 ppm males was less than that by the controls. Biomarkers of Exposure: Three urinary metabolites were followed during the study as biomarkers of exposure. The ratios of o-nitrobenzoic acid to creatinine determined at 2 weeks and at 3, 12, and 18 months were linearly related to exposure concentration in males and females. The concentrations of o-nitrobenzylmercapturic acid and o-aminobenzoic acid were below the limit of quantitation at most time points. Pathology Findings: The incidences of hemangiosarcoma in all exposed groups of males and in 5,000 ppm females were significantly greater than those in the controls. Large intestine (cecum) carcinomas were observed in all exposed groups except 5,000 ppm males. The incidences of hepatocellular neoplasms were significantly increased in 2,500 and 5,000 ppm females. Nonneoplastic liver lesions including eosinophilic and basophilic foci and minimal to mild necrosis were enhanced in exposed males and females. Also present were focal hepatocyte syncytial alteration in exposed males and hepatocyte necrosis and focal hepatocyte cytoplasmic vacuolization in 5,000 ppm females. Renal tubule pigmentation occurred more frequently in exposed groups of males and in 5,000 ppm females than in the controls. Olfactory epithelial degeneration occurred in every male and female mouse exposed to 2,500 or 5,000 ppm, and the severity of this lesion increased with increasing exposure concentration.
o-Nitrotoluene was not mutagenic in any of several strains of S. typhimurium, with or without metabolic activation enzymes (S9). Sister chromatid exchanges were significantly increased in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells following exposure to o-nitrotoluene in the presence of S9; an equivocal response was seen without S9. o-Nitrotoluene did not induce chromosomal aberrations in cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells, with or without S9. o-Nitrotoluene did not induce a significant increase in the frequency of micronuclei in bone marrow polychromatic erythrocytes of male rats or male mice when administered by intraperitoneal injection. Results of a peripheral blood micronucleus test were equivocal for male mice and negative for female mice administered o-nitrotoluene in feed for 13 weeks.
Under the conditions of these studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity* of o-nitrotoluene in male rats based on increased incidences of malignant mesothelioma, subcutaneous skin neoplasms, mammary gland fibroadenoma, and liver neoplasms. The increased incidences of lung neoplasms in male rats were also considered to be exposure related. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of o-nitrotoluene in female rats based on increased incidences of subcutaneous skin neoplasms and mammary gland fibroadenoma. The increased incidence of hepatocellular adenoma in female rats was also considered to be exposure related. There was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of -o-nitrotoluene in male and female mice based on increased incidences of hemangiosarcoma, carcinoma of the large intestine (cecum), and hepatocellular neoplasms (females only). Exposure to o--nitrotoluene caused increased incidences of nonneoplastic lesions of the mammary gland (females only), liver, bone marrow, spleen, lung, and mandibular lymph node (females only) in male and female rats and of the liver, kidney, and nose in male and female mice. Decreased incidences of mononuclear cell leukemia occurred in exposed groups of rats; the incidence of testicular interstitial cell adenoma was decreased in exposed male rats. [tables: see text]
Recently, epidemiologic studies of developmental neurotoxicology have been challenged to increase focus on co-exposure to multiple toxicants. Earlier reports, including our own work in Bangladesh, have demonstrated independent associations between neurobehavioral function and exposure to both arsenic (As) and manganese (Mn) in school-aged children. Our earlier studies, however, were not designed to examine possible interactive effects of exposure to both As and Mn. To allow investigation of possible synergistic impact of simultaneous exposures, we recruited a new sample of 299 8-11 year old children, stratified by design on As (above and below 10 μg/L) and Mn (above and below 500 μg/L) concentrations of household wells. When adjusted only for each other, both As and Mn in whole blood (BAs; BMn) were significantly negatively related to most WISC-IV subscale scores. With further adjustment for socio-demographic features and ferritin, BMn remained significantly associated with reduced Perceptual Reasoning and Working Memory scores; associations for BAs, and for other subscales, were expectably negative, significantly for Verbal Comprehension. Urinary As (per gram creatinine) was significantly negatively associated with Verbal Comprehension scores, even with adjustment for BMn and other contributors. Mn by As interactions were not significant in adjusted or unadjusted models (all p's>0.25). Findings are consistent with other reports documenting adverse impact of both As and Mn exposure on child developmental outcomes, although associations appear muted at these relatively low exposure levels.
Trifluoroacetylated (TFA)-protein adducts were investigated by immunoblotting in liver and plasma of guinea pigs treated with the hepatotoxic anaesthetic halothane or the chlorofluorocarbon replacement 1,1-dichloro-2,2,2-trifluoroethane (HCFC-123). Male outbred Hartley guinea pigs (320-400 g) were administered HCFC-123 (1, 5, 10 and 15 mmol/kg b.w.) or halothane (positive control, 10 mmol/kg b.w.) i.p. in corn oil. Blood and liver samples were collected 24 h after administration of HCFC-123 or halothane. Immunoreactive bands were demonstrated in liver microsomes at all HCFC-123 and halothane concentrations, and in plasma of animals treated with 10 and 15 mmol/kg b.w. HCFC-123 and 10 mmol/kg b.w. halothane, while no alteration of microsomal P450 content or monooxygenase activities markers of the P450 2A, 2E1 and 2B isoforms was observed. Instead, when HCFC-123 was administered at doses of 1 and 5 mmol/kg b.w., the 2E1-dependent p-nitrophenol hydroxylase activity was enhanced. The presence of TFA-proteins in plasma was always associated with hepatic damage. However, mild liver damage in some animals treated with 1 or 5 mmol/kg b.w. HCFC-123 was not associated with the presence of TFA-proteins in plasma. This indicates a lower threshold dose for the appearance of TFA-proteins or damage in the liver (1 mmol/kg b.w.) than for the presence of TFA-proteins in plasma (10 mmol/kg b.w.), thus suggesting that the presence of TFA-proteins in plasma may be the result of liver damage.
Altered enzyme phenotype and expression of connexin 32 (Cx32), a gap junction protein were studied during the development of rat liver tumors induced by the non-genotoxic carcinogen, clofibrate. (1) In contrast to previous findings for nitrosamine-induced lesions, preneoplastic enzyme-altered foci (EAF) and neoplastic nodules (NN) lacked any clear association with degree of altered enzyme expression because of an almost complete negativity for GST-P and GGT. (2) Immunohistochemically demonstrated Cx32 spots on the hepatocyte membranes showed a clear decrease in clofibrate-induced lesions. (3) Naturally occurring EAF demonstrating GST-P and/or GGT positivity did not show a significant decrease of Cx32 counts suggesting a reversible nature. Therefore, the Cx32 decrease appears closely linked to progression of hepatocarcinogenesis irrespective of the enzyme phenotype of neoplastic focal lesions and the carcinogens used for their induction.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a newly recognized, potentially fatal complication of ACTH therapy. We report the clinical, echocardiographic, and pathologic findings of an infant who was treated with ACTH for seizure disorder and subsequently developed severe systemic hypertension. Echocardiography revealed marked cardiac hypertrophy with disproportionate septal hypertrophy. Decreasing the dose of ACTH reduced the systemic blood pressure, but the cardiac hypertrophy progressed and the child subsequently died. Children who develop hypertension during ACTH therapy should be considered at risk for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and should undergo routine echocardiographic evaluation.
Mechanistic studies underlying dopaminergic neuron death may identify new drug targets for the treatment of Parkinson disease. Epidemiological studies have linked pesticide exposure to increased risk for sporadic Parkinson disease. Here, we investigated the role of c-Jun-N-terminal kinase 3 (JNK3), a neural-specific JNK isoform, in dopaminergic neuron death induced by the pesticides rotenone and paraquat. The role of JNK3 was evaluated using RNA silencing and gene deletion to block JNK3 signaling. Using an antibody that recognizes all isoforms of activated JNKs, we found that paraquat and rotenone stimulate JNK phosphorylation in primary cultured dopaminergic neurons. In cultured neurons transfected with Jnk3-specific siRNA and in neurons from Jnk3 mice, JNK phosphorylation was nearly abolished, suggesting that JNK3 is the main JNK isoform activated in dopaminergic neurons by these pesticides. Paraquat- and rotenone-induced death of dopaminergic neurons was also significantly reduced by Jnk3 siRNA or Jnk3 gene deletion, and deletion of the Jnk3 gene completely attenuated paraquat-induced dopaminergic neuron death and motor deficits in vivo. Our data identify JNK3 as a common and critical mediator of dopaminergic neuron death induced by paraquat and rotenone, suggesting that it is a potential drug target for Parkinson disease treatment.
Soybean, which contains soyasaponins and isoflavones as representative constituents, exhibits anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. To understand the anti-inflammatory effects of soyasaponins, we isolated soyasaponin I, a major constituent of soybean, and investigated the inhibitory effects on inflammatory markers in LPS-stimulated mouse peritoneal macrophages and 3,4,5-trinitrobenzenosulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitic mice. Soyasaponin I, which exhibited lipid peroxidation-inhibitory effects in vitro, inhibited the production of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α and IL-1β), inflammatory mediators (NO and PGE2), and inflammatory enzymes (COX-2 and iNOS) in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Soyasaponin I also suppressed the phosphorylation of IκB-α and the nuclear translocation of NF-κB. However, these soyasaponins barely inhibited mitogen-activated protein kinases. Oral administration of soyasaponin I (10 and 20 mg/kg) to TNBS-treated colitic mice significantly reduced inflammatory markers, colon length, myeloperoxidase, lipid peroxide (malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal), proinflammatory cytokines and NF-κB activation in the colon, as well as increased glutathione content, superoxide dismutase, and catalase activity. Based on these findings, soyasaponin I may attenuate colitis by inhibiting the NF-κB pathway.
Apoptosis has a critical role in the pathogenesis of bleomycin induced-pulmonary fibrosis. The severity of fibrosis varies among different strains of mice. Recent studies have indicated that expression of apoptotic regulatory genes may be specific in different cell types in various strains. In this study, bleomycin-induced pulmonary apoptosis in NMRI (Naval Medical Research Institute, USA) albino mice were compared with C57BL/6 black mice. Pulmonary fibrosis induced by single intratracheal administration of bleomycin (3 U/kg). Control mice were instilled with the same volume of saline. After 2 weeks, fibrotic responses were studied by biochemical measurement of collagen deposition and histological examination of pathological lung changes. Apoptosis was detected and quantitated by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Bleomycin significantly (P<0.05) increased lung collagen content and also induced fibrotic histological changes in both strains. Apoptosis was detected in the bronchiolar and alveolar epithelial cells after bleomycin instillation. TUNEL-positive alveolar epithelial cells in bleomycin-treated lungs of C57BL/6 and NMRI mice (19.5% + 2.7 and 17% + 2.0, respectively) were significantly (P<0.05) higher than that of saline-treated lungs (1.5% + 0.5) with no significant difference between two strains of mice (P>0.05). Despite some murine strain variation in the expression of apoptotic regulatory genes in bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis, the results of the present study revealed no significant differences in alveolar epithelial apoptosis between NMRI and C57BL/6 black mice. However, these results confirm the role of apoptosis in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis and suitability of both strains as experimental models of lung fibrosis.
Amiodarone is effective in maintaining sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation but is associated with potentially serious toxic effects. Dronedarone is a new antiarrhythmic agent pharmacologically related to amiodarone but developed to reduce the risk of side effects.
In two identical multicenter, double-blind, randomized trials, one conducted in Europe (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00259428 [ClinicalTrials.gov] ) and one conducted in the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa, and Argentina (termed the non-European trial, NCT00259376 [ClinicalTrials.gov] ), we evaluated the efficacy of dronedarone, with 828 patients receiving 400 mg of the drug twice daily and 409 patients receiving placebo. Rhythm was monitored transtelephonically on days 2, 3, and 5; at 3, 5, 7, and 10 months; during recurrence of arrhythmia; and at nine scheduled visits during a 12-month period. The primary end point was the time to the first recurrence of atrial fibrillation or flutter.
In the European trial, the median times to the recurrence of arrhythmia were 41 days in the placebo group and 96 days in the dronedarone group (P=0.01). The corresponding durations in the non-European trial were 59 and 158 days (P=0.002). At the recurrence of arrhythmia in the European trial, the mean (+/-SD) ventricular rate was 117.5+/-29.1 beats per minute in the placebo group and 102.3+/-24.7 beats per minute in the dronedarone group (P<0.001); the corresponding rates in the non-European trial were 116.6+/-31.9 and 104.6+/-27.1 beats per minute (P<0.001). Rates of pulmonary toxic effects and of thyroid and liver dysfunction were not significantly increased in the dronedarone group.
Dronedarone was significantly more effective than placebo in maintaining sinus rhythm and in reducing the ventricular rate during recurrence of arrhythmia.
A transplacental carcinogenicity study was conducted by exposing pregnant Swiss (CD-1) mice to 0, 50, 100, 200, or 300 mg 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine (AZT)/kg body weight (BW) daily for the duration of gestation (18-19 days) [National Toxicology Program,2006]. The incidence of alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas and carcinomas in the 200 and 300 mg/kg groups was significantly higher (P = 0.027 and 0.007, respectively) in male offspring, but not in females (P = 0.338 and 0.315, respectively). The purpose of the present study was to evaluate K-ras mutation status in lung tumors from the female offspring in AZT exposed groups and to determine whether at the molecular level there were signature K-ras mutations in lung tumors that were different from spontaneous tumors. K-ras mutation was detected by cycle sequencing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-amplified DNA, isolated from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung tumors. K-ras mutations were detected in 17 of 28 (61%) lung tumors from the female offspring in AZT exposed groups. No K-ras mutations were detected in the 8 tumors examined from the female control group. The predominant mutations were Codon 12 G-->T transversions in the 50, 100, and 300 mg/kg groups, and Codon 12 G-->C transversions in the 200 and 300 mg/kg groups. K-ras Codon 12 G-->T transversions (TGT mutations) may be induced by oxidative DNA damage and 8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG), while K-ras Codon 12 G-->C transversions (CGT mutations) may be due to further oxidative lesions of guanine and 8-oxoG.
Buprenorphine 30 and 40 micrograms/kg was given as the sole intravenous analgesic in balanced anaesthesia to 12 patients undergoing cholecystectomy. Significant and severe respiratory depression was found 15 minutes after preoperative loading with buprenorphine. In the immediate postoperative period six patients were in pain. They were treated with naloxone 0.08-0.4 mg leading to a long lasting period of pain relief (median 22 hours).
Investigating minimally invasive methods for treatment of pilonidal disease, we reviewed the techniques and the results of phenol treatment of pilonidal disease in the medical literature.
A Pubmed search for all English language written papers and abstracts published between January 1964 and September 2007.
Mean time to return to work is 2.3 +/- 3.8 days and mean healing time is 20 +/- 14 days. Overall success rate is 87 +/- 10% with a mean follow-up of 2.0 +/- 1.1 years. The most common postoperative complications after phenolization are development of abscesses and cellulites. The incidence of morbidities was mean 8.9 +/- 4.7%.
Success rate looks better particularly in the cases that have 1-3 sinus orifices and comparable with the surgical methods. Though healing time of the wound is long, the procedure apparently lessens the time off work. Although results of this review indicate that phenol treatment may be beneficial for pilonidal disease, the lack of randomized studies results in only weak evidence. There is also the need for longer-term follow-up data.
Incidence and risk factors for delirium during clozapine treatment require further clarification.
We used computerized pharmacy records to identify all adult psychiatric inpatients treated with clozapine (1995-96), reviewed their medical records to score incidence and severity of delirium, and tested associations with potential risk factors.
Subjects (n = 139) were 72 women and 67 men, aged 40.8 +/- 12.1 years, hospitalized for 24.9 +/- 23.3 days, and given clozapine, gradually increased to an average daily dose of 282 +/- 203 mg (3.45 +/- 2.45 mg/kg) for 18.9 +/- 16.4 days. Delirium was diagnosed in 14 (10.1 % incidence, or 1.48 cases/person-years of exposure); 71.4 % of cases were moderate or severe. Associated factors were co-treatment with other centrally antimuscarinic agents, poor clinical outcome, older age, and longer hospitalization (by 17.5 days, increasing cost); sex, diagnosis or medical co-morbidity, and daily clozapine dose, which fell with age, were unrelated.
Delirium was found in 10 % of clozapine-treated inpatients, particularly in older patients exposed to other central anticholinergics. Delirium was inconsistently recognized clinically in milder cases and was associated with increased length-of-stay and higher costs, and inferior clinical outcome.
The present investigation was undertaken in order to study whether microvascular effects of the calcium antagonist nimodipine induces changes that can explain an increased detoxification of the highly toxic cholinesterase inhibitor soman. Anaesthetised, tracheotomised and artificially ventilated rats were treated intra-peritoneally (ip) with nimodipine, 10 mg kg(-1) or vehicle followed one hour later by the exposure to 45 microg kg(-1) soman (iv). Nimodipine per se induced a vasodilation in the intestine, myocardium and other muscles. In the abdominal skin soman elicited a significant vasoconstriction that was turned into an increased blood flow after nimodipine pre-treatment. A slight vasoconstriction in diaphragm of soman intoxicated rats was turned into a significant vasodilation by nimodipine pre-treatment. In the intestinal parts no effect of soman was detected. However, in nimodipine pretreated animals soman induced a significant vasoconstriction. The capacity of soman detoxifying processes, i.e. enzymatic hydrolysis and covalent binding to different esterases, is unequally distributed throughout the body. Together with the knowledge of the detoxifying processes of cholinesterase inhibition the results support our theory, that nimodipine alters the peripheral blood flow in a beneficial way resulting in improved detoxification ability.
Rifabutin-related uveitis has been reported in AIDS patients who take a daily dose of 300 to 1800 mg of this drug. Presumed rifabutin-related uveitis is characterized by unilateral or bilateral anterior chamber inflammation with hypopyon accompanied by hyperemia, pain, photophobia, and vitritis. However, retinal manifestations or vitreous cytology of this entity have never been reported. This report describes a patient who had retinal vascular changes associated with uveitis while being treated with oral rifabutin. Fundus photographs and fluorescein angiograms documented resolved retinal vasculitis. Vitreous cytology of this case showed acute inflammatory cells. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of retinal vasculopathy in a patient with rifabutin-related uveitis and the first analysis of the vitreous cytologic aspects of this disease.
