Acute morphine administration produces hyperactivity in mice and repeated treatment induces an enhancement of this effect. In this experiment, we study the sensitisation to the hyperactivity induced by intermittent morphine administration (40 mg/kg) and the effects of dopamine (DA) antagonists on this phenomenon. Animals received three injections, separated by 48 h, and after each injection, their activity was registered between 30 and 60 min. In Experiment 1, animals were divided into two groups, which received saline and morphine (S-S-M) or only morphine (M-M-M). In Experiment 2, animals were divided into 12 groups. Half, which was designed to study the effects of DA antagonists on the acquisition of morphine sensitisation, received morphine plus 0.125, 0.25, or 0.5 mg/kg SCH 23390 or raclopride in the two first administrations and only morphine in the third (M+SCH-M+SCH-M; M+R-M+R-M). The other groups, designed to study the effects of DA antagonists on the expression of morphine sensitisation, received morphine in the two first administrations and morphine plus DA antagonists in the last injection (M-M-M+SCH; M-M-M+R). Intermittent morphine administration produces greater hyperactivity than acute morphine. DA D1 antagonists reduce acquisition and block expression of sensitisation, while DA D2 antagonists only affect expression with the intermediate and high dose. These results support the implication of DA in the behavioural sensitisation of morphine in mice.
The authors compare the side effects and hazards of the use of Paracetamol and Amidazophen on the basis of literary data. They draw the conclusion that in case of illnesses accompanied by fever, Amidazophen is preferable as an antifebrile, on both professional and cost-effectiveness grounds. This conclusion is supported by an acute tubularis necrosis case, where a direct link is suspected between the use of Paracetamol as an antifebrile and the development of kidney damage.
The plant-derived compound curcumin has shown promising abilities as a cancer chemoprevention and chemotherapy agent in vitro and in vivo but exhibits poor bioavailability. Therefore, there is a need to investigate modified curcumin congeners for improved anticancer activity and pharmacokinetic properties.
The synthetic curcumin analogue dimethoxycurcumin was compared with curcumin for ability to inhibit proliferation and apoptosis of human HCT116 colon cancer cells in vitro by estimating the GI(50) and LC(50) values and detecting the extent of apoptosis by flow cytometry analysis of the cell cycle. Metabolic stability and/or identification of metabolites were evaluated by recently developed mass spectrometric approaches after incubation with mouse and human liver microsomes and cancer cells in vitro. Additionally, circulating levels of dimethoxycurcumin and curcumin were determined in mice following i.p. administration.
Dimethoxycurcumin is significantly more potent than curcumin in inhibiting proliferation and inducing apoptosis in HCT116 cells treated for 48 h. Nearly 100% of curcumin but <30% of dimethoxycurcumin was degraded in cells treated for 48 h, and incubation with liver microsomes confirmed the limited metabolism of dimethoxycurcumin. Both compounds were rapidly degraded in vivo but dimethoxycurcumin was more stable.
Compared with curcumin, dimethoxycurcumin is (a) more stable in cultured cells, (b) more potent in the ability to kill cancer cells by apoptosis, (c) less extensively metabolized in microsomal systems, and (d) more stable in vivo. It is likely that the differential extent of apoptosis induced by curcumin and dimethoxycurcumin in vitro is associated with the metabolite profiling and/or the extent of stability.
A 31-year-old female with no risk factors for cardiac disease suffered a peri-operative myocardial infarction during an elective gynaecological procedure under spinal anaesthesia. The timing and nature of cardiac symptoms suggest that the myocardial infarction was caused by coronary artery vasospasm secondary to ephedrine and/or metaraminol, which were administered to treat spinal-induced hypotension. We review the recent literature and case reports on myocardial infarction attributed to sympathomimetic drugs, and recommend the use of sublingual or intravenous nitrates when signs or symptoms of coronary arterial vasospasm become evident during their use.
A 43 year old man with HIV and HCV infection and liver cirrhosis developed fatal lactic acidosis within five days from starting nifedipine for arterial hypertension. Multiple drug interactions, current and accumulated drug toxicities and the reduced liver function, might in combination have led to the acute lactic acidosis.
Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNT) represent a novel material with unique electronic and mechanical properties. The extremely small size ( approximately 1 nm diameter) renders their chemical and physical properties unique. A variety of different techniques are available for the production of SWCNT; however, the most common is via the disproportionation of gaseous carbon molecules supported on catalytic iron particles (high-pressure CO conversion, HiPCO). The physical nature of SWCNT may lead to dermal penetration following deposition on exposed skin. This dermal deposition provides a route of exposure which is important to consider when evaluating SWCNT toxicity. The dermal effects of SWCNT are largely unknown. We hypothesize that SWCNT may be toxic to the skin. We further hypothesize that SWCNT toxicity may be dependent upon the metal (particularly iron) content of SWCNT via the metal's ability to interact with the skin, initiate oxidative stress, and induce redox-sensitive transcription factors thereby affecting/leading to inflammation. To test this hypothesis, the effects of SWCNT were assessed both in vitro and in vivo using EpiDerm FT engineered skin, murine epidermal cells (JB6 P+), and immune-competent hairless SKH-1 mice. Engineered skin exposed to SWCNT showed increased epidermal thickness and accumulation and activation of dermal fibroblasts which resulted in increased collagen as well as release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Exposure of JB6 P+ cells to unpurified SWCNT (30% iron) resulted in the production of ESR detectable hydroxyl radicals and caused a significant dose-dependent activation of AP-1. No significant changes in AP-1 activation were detected when partially purified SWCNT (0.23% iron) were introduced to the cells. However, NFkappaB was activated in a dose-dependent fashion by exposure to both unpurified and partially purified SWCNT. Topical exposure of SKH-1 mice (5 days, with daily doses of 40 microg/mouse, 80 microg/mouse, or 160 microug/mouse) to unpurified SWCNT caused oxidative stress, depletion of glutathione, oxidation of protein thiols and carbonyls, elevated myeloperoxidase activity, an increase of dermal cell numbers, and skin thickening resulting from the accumulation of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) and mast cells. Altogether, these data indicated that topical exposure to unpurified SWCNT, induced free radical generation, oxidative stress, and inflammation, thus causing dermal toxicity.
Nerve agents are deadly threats to military and civilian populations around the world. Nerve agents cause toxicity to peripheral and central sites through the irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, the enzyme that metabolizes acetylcholine. Excessive acetylcholine accumulation in synapses results in status epilepticus in the central nervous system. Prolonged status epilepticus leads to brain damage, neurological dysfunction and poor outcome. Anticonvulsants are effective but must be given rapidly following exposure. Because these agents cause mass casualties, effective neuroprotective agents are needed to reduce brain damage and improve cognitive outcome. α-Linolenic acid is an omega-3 fatty acid that is found in vegetable products and has no known side effects. α-Linolenic acid is neuroprotective against kainic acid-induced brain damage in vivo, but its neuroprotective efficacy against nerve agents is unknown. α-Linolenic acid also exerts anti-depressant and anti-inflammatory activities and enhances synaptic plasticity in vivo. These properties make this polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) a potential candidate against nerve agent-induced neuropathology. Here we show that α-linolenic acid is neuroprotective against soman-induced neuropathology in either a pretreatment or post-treatment paradigm. We also show that subcutaneous injection of α-linolenic acid shows greater neuroprotective efficacy compared with intravenous injection in a brain region-specific manner.
APS12-2 is one in a series of synthetic analogs of the polymeric alkylpyridinium salts isolated from the marine sponge Reniera sarai. As it is a potential candidate for treating non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), we have studied its possible toxic and lethal effects in vivo. The median lethal dose (LD(50)) of APS12-2 in mice was determined to be 11.5mg/kg. Electrocardiograms, arterial blood pressure and respiratory activity were recorded under general anesthesia in untreated, pharmacologically vagotomized and artificially ventilated rats injected with APS12-2. In one group, the in vivo effects of APS12-2 were studied on nerve-evoked muscle contraction. Administration of APS12-2 at a dose of 8mg/kg caused a progressive reduction of arterial blood pressure to a mid-circulatory value, accompanied by bradycardia, myocardial ischemia, ventricular extrasystoles, and second degree atrio-ventricular block. Similar electrocardiogram and arterial blood pressure changes caused by APS12-2 (8mg/kg) were observed in animals pretreated with atropine and in artificially ventilated animals, indicating that hypoxia and cholinergic effects do not play a crucial role in the toxicity of APS12-2. Application of APS12-2 at sublethal doses (4 and 5.5mg/kg) caused a decrease of arterial blood pressure, followed by an increase slightly above control values. We found that APS12-2 causes lysis of rat erythrocytes in vitro, therefore it is reasonable to expect the same effect in vivo. Indeed, hyperkalemia was observed in the blood of experimental animals. Hyperkalemia probably plays an important role in APS12-2 cardiotoxicity since no evident changes in histopathology of the heart were found. However, acute lesions were observed in the pulmonary vessels of rats after application of 8mg/kg APS12-2. Predominant effects were dilation of interalveolar blood vessels and lysis of aggregated erythrocytes within their lumina.
The use of estrogen-progestogen oral contraceptive (OC) is associated with high blood pressure, although mechanisms responsible are still unclear. This study sought to investigate the effects of administration of OC on high blood pressure resulting from nitric oxide (NO) synthesis inhibition in female Sprague-Dawley rats. Rats were given ethinyl estradiol in combination with norgestrel and were treated with NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME) in the drinking water or drinking water alone for 6 weeks. OC treatment alone led to a significant increase in blood pressure and positive water balance. Treatment with l-NAME alone resulted in a significant elevation of blood pressure without significant positive water balance. Concomitant treatment with OC and l-NAME produced significant increases in blood pressure and water balance. These magnitudes of increases were significantly greater than those observed in rats treated with OC or l-NAME alone. Treatment with OC did not affect NO biosynthesis with or without concurrent l-NAME treatment. Treatment with OC and/or l-NAME did not significantly affect body weight, food intake, heart rate, cardiac weight/body weight ratio, plasma sodium, glomerular filtration rate and urinary sodium output.
These data demonstrate that OC administration resulted in a modest increased blood pressure via enhanced water retention that was not associated with impaired NO synthesis. On the other hand, these results showed that increased blood pressure induced by inhibition of NO synthesis was not associated with water retention. The study also indicated that OC administration aggravated increase in blood pressure during NO synthesis inhibition, via enhanced water retention.
Flucloxacillin is a commonly prescribed semisynthetic penicillinase-resistant penicillin primarily used for the treatment of cutaneous staphylococcal infections. It is well-recognized that flucloxacillin may occasionally result in fatal hepatic injury. We report the case of a 40-year-old woman who developed fulminant hepatic failure and aplastic anaemia following a course of oral flucloxacillin. At the time of transplantation the patient was severely neutropenic. Post-transplant, the patient received single donor leucocyte transfusions, which resulted in a dramatic increase in neutrophil count. The patient was discharged from hospital after 120 days with normal liver function and recovered bone marrow. In this report, we discuss the care of patients with aplastic anaemia in the peritransplant setting.
We report the case of a male liver transplant recipient who developed de novo migraine while on tacrolimus therapy. Considering the inadequate control of pain using nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, rizatriptan benzoate (10 mg orally) was administered (double administration). After both administrations a clinically transient ischemic attack (TIA) occurred. Rizatriptan was discontinued, the patient recovered without sequelae from both episodes of TIA. Remission of migraine occurred after discontinuation of tacrolimus and substitution with cyclosporine. We suggest that the association of rizatriptan and tacrolimus could potentially lead to an excessive risk of cerebral vasospasm and should be used with caution. A change in immunosuppressive therapy (from tacrolimus to cyclosporine or sirolimus) may improve migraine and should be the first choice. Further prospective comparative randomized trials are needed to establish the best therapeutic option in this particular subset of patients.
Clinical studies on rt-PA (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator) treatment of stroke showed a favorable outcome. However, there are reports of harmful effects of t-PA via the potentiation of excitotoxic injury. We used combined X-ray angiography and MRI imaging to study the balance between the beneficial effect of reperfusion and secondary detrimental effects of rt-PA. Therefore, rats (n=15) were assigned to three groups according to recanalization or lack thereof of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) and rt-PA or saline treatment in an embolic stroke model. Diffusion and perfusion MRI showed that animals had significantly improved perfusion values and final infarct size when recanalization was successful. However, final infarct volumes at 6 h post stroke onset were greater in the rt-PA group compared to controls at comparable perfusion values when the MCA did not recanalize after treatment (67.4+/-5.4 versus 47.7+/-17.9% of ipsilateral hemisphere, P=0.042). Our results demonstrate that the combination of angiography and MR-imaging is useful to further evaluate rt-PA treatment of thromboembolic stroke.
We report the treatment outcome in six post-renal transplant patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (LR-HBV) infection using adefovir dipivoxil and followed for 6 to 18 months. Posttransplant immunosuppressive therapy was not altered. Adefovir dipivoxil effectively suppressed hepatitis B virus DNA and improved alanine transferase, although DNA suppression seemed dependent on continued therapy. Nephrotoxicity led to withdrawal of the drug in three patients. This may limit therapeutic usefulness in a significant proportion of post-renal transplant patients with LR-HBV infection.
The aim of this study was to compare the new vasodilator felodipine with nifedipine in 18 patients with poorly controlled hypertension. The design was a double-blind, cross-over study using a double-dummy technique. Felodipine 5mg was given 3 times daily and nifedipine 10mg 3 times daily. In case of an unsatisfactory blood pressure reduction, the drug dose was doubled. 14 patients had the higher dose of felodipine and 16 the higher dose of nifedipine. Both agents had good antihypertensive effect. After 1 week's therapy, felodipine reduced the blood pressure by 18/12 mm Hg (supine) and 18/13 mm Hg (upright), and nifedipine by 19/11 and 24/14 mm Hg, respectively. After 4 weeks' therapy, 12 hours after drug intake, felodipine reduced the blood pressure by 11/8 mm Hg (supine) and 16/8mm Hg (upright), and nifedipine by 3/2 and 6/4 mm Hg, respectively. Two patients on nifedipine withdrew from the study due to adverse reactions. In general, however, there were few side effects, with no significant difference between the drugs.
During high-dose methotrexate therapy we recognized a significant increase in AVP secretion as it has previously been reported for other cytostatics. We observed an excessive augmentation of AVP excretion in 24 h urine in 9 patients receiving high-dose methotrexate combined with a considerable water retention. The pathomechanism is so far unknown. From experimental data it may be assumed that methotrexate alters directly the neurosecretory areas of the cerebrum as well as effects the distribution of body fluid volumes. The considerable risk of a water intoxication seems to be of highly clinical importance.
The promoting action of hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) was evaluated in female Wistar rats by counting the gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase-positive foci which appeared in the liver after diethylnitrosamine (DENA) initiation. Liver tumor promotion by HCH was further confirmed in a long-term tumorigenicity study after DENA pretreatment. It seems likely that HCH is specific for liver tumor promotion since it failed to promote dimethylbenz[a]anthracene-initiated skin tumors in mice.
The purpose of this article is to review the recent findings of studies reporting on the genetic and ethnic factors associated with hypersensitivity reactions to common drugs such as acetyl salicylic acid/NSAIDs, antibiotics, antituberculus medications, and other drugs including carbamazepine (CBZ), abacarvir, and allopurinol that can cause severe hypersensitivity reactions.
Aspirin hypersensitivity has recently been associated with a variety of genetic polymorphisms associated with leukotriene overproduction, eosinophil infiltration, and histamine-related genes. Recently, beta-lactam antibiotic hypersensitivity has been reported to be associated with interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-13 receptors in Italian, Chinese, and French populations. Moreover, a significant association of CYP2E1 in the Chinese, NAT2 in Koreans and glutathione S-transferase genotypes in Caucasians has been reported with antituberculus drug-induced hepatitis. The association of the HLA-B*1502 allele with CBZ-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome in Asian population has also recently been observed.
Aspirin hypersensitivity has been associated with various genetic polymorphisms. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-related markers and a variety of genetic polymorphisms of leukotriene-related genes, eosinophil-related genes, and genes associated with immune function have been described according to ethnicity. The genetic mechanisms of antibiotic hypersensitivity have been reported in Italian, French, and Chinese populations in addition to antibiotics-induced cutaneous reactions in the Korean population. Most prior genetic studies on antituberculus drug-induced hepatitis have focused on a few drug-metabolizing enzymes such as cytochrome P450 and N-acetyltransferase 2. HLA-related markers associated with CBZ, lamotrigine, and abacavir-induced severe hypersensitivity reactions have been described.
Neurokinin-1 receptors (NK1) are present within the nucleus of the solitary tract, a nucleus which plays a vital role in cardiovascular and respiratory homeostasis. We compared the efficacy of the baroreceptor and pulmonary chemoreflexes between NK1 knockout, heterozygous and wild-type urethane-anaesthetised mice. The magnitude of the baroreceptor reflex mediated bradycardia, induced by a phenylephrine induced pressor response, was significantly greater in NK1 knockout mice (P < 0.001) compared to heterozygous and wild-type animals. In comparison, administration of an NK1 antagonist, CP-99,994 (1.5 mg/kg i.v.) to wild-type animals, had no significant effect on baroreceptor reflex performance. In contrast to the baroreceptor reflex, there were no significant differences in the magnitude of the reflex evoked falls in heart rate, arterial pressure, or respiratory depression between the three groups of mice when the pulmonary chemoreflex was evoked with right atrial injections of phenylbiguanide. It is concluded that the baroreceptor reflex pathway over-compensates for the lack of NK1 receptors in knockout mice. Plausible mechanisms accounting for the enhanced baroreceptor reflex responsiveness in NK1 knockout animals are discussed.
Vitamin A plays a role in the prevention of oxidative tissue damage. In the present study we investigated therapeutic role of this substance on healing of middle ear mucosa in experimental acute otitis media (AOM).
Otitis media was induced by inoculating Streptococcus pneumoniae via transtympanic injection. Thirty rats were divided into two groups. Group I treated with parenteral ampiciline-sulbactam. Group II received same antibiotic regimen and parenteral single dose of 100,000 IU vitamin A in palmitate form. At tenth day post-inoculation, animals were sacrificed and mucosal samples were excised from the infected tympanic cavities for histpathological examination and blood samples were obtained for measurements of activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) and evaluation of levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitric oxide (NO).
All the infected middle ear mucosas displayed various degrees of the inflammation, but there was no meaningful difference between two groups. However, epithelial integrity was significantly better in group II than group I (p<0.01). While serum NO and MDA levels decreased in the group receiving both antibiotic and vitamin A, serum SOD and GSH activity were found to increased. All of the statistical differences are significant.
Pretreatment with vitamin A increases antioxidant enzyme activities and reduces formation of NO and MDA. Vitamin A may be considered as an additional medicament for the medical treatment of AOM.
With the CAmbridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery (CANTAB), computerized neuropsychological tasks can be presented on a touch-sensitive computer screen, and this system has been used to assess cognitive processes in neuropsychiatric patients, healthy volunteers, and species of non-human primate, primarily the rhesus macaque and common marmoset. Recently, we reported that the common marmoset, a small-bodied primate, can be trained to a high and stable level of performance on the CANTAB five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task of attention, and a novel task of working memory, the concurrent delayed match-to-position (CDMP) task. Here, in order to increase understanding of the specific cognitive demands of these tasks and the importance of acetylcholine to their performance, the effects of systemic delivery of the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine and the nicotinic receptor agonist nicotine were studied. In the 5-CSRT task, nicotine enhanced performance in terms of increased sustained attention, whilst scopolamine led to increased omissions despite a high level of orientation to the correct stimulus location. In the CDMP task, scopolamine impaired performance at two stages of the task that differ moderately in terms of memory retention load but both of which are likely to require working memory, including interference-coping, abilities. Nicotine tended to enhance performance at the long-delay stage specifically but only against a background of relatively low baseline performance. These data are consistent with a dissociation of the roles of muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the regulation of both sustained attention and working memory in primates.
Cardiotoxicity related to the widely used cytotoxic compound 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is rare compared with the frequency observed with the use of anthracyclines. More effective protocols incorporating active biomodulatory compounds like folinic acid (FA) or combination chemotherapy change type and severity of toxicity as well. The objective of the current study was to assess cardiotoxicity of the combination 5-FU and folinic acid.
The authors' multicenter experience with 390 patients treated for advanced gastrointestinal cancer with intermediate-dose folinic acid and 5-FU was reviewed.
The overall risk of cardiotoxicity was 3%, which is not significantly higher than that reported with 5-FU alone. Eight of 53 patients with a history of cardiac disease reported cardiac symptoms (15.1%), compared with 5 of 337 patients (1.5%) with a no history of cardiac disease. Median time to symptoms was 3 days (range, 2-6). Nine patients had symptoms resembling myocardial ischemia, one patient died due to assumed myocardial infarction related closely to fluorouracil treatment, four patients had supraventricular arrhythmia, and one patient had congestive heart failure. A history of cardiac disease was the only risk factor associated with cardiotoxicity. Relapses were frequent on reinstitution of therapy despite cardiac symptoms in the preceding cycle. Therapeutically or prophylactically administered nitrates had no significant effect.
Physicians should be aware of the cardiotoxic properties of active fluorouracil treatment. The combination of 5-FU and leucovorin does not differ from single-agent therapy in frequency or type of cardiotoxicity. Close monitoring of patients is mandatory, especially for those patients at high risk for cardiac side effects. Treatment should be discontinued if coronary symptoms develop, because neither effective treatment nor prophylaxis exists for such symptoms.
2 cases of retinal circulation disorders, accompanied by other sympt oms, mainly migraines and some loss of vision, in women taking different types of oral contraceptives are reported. It is concluded that retinal migraines occurring during oral contraceptive treatment must be considered as a warning sign, that may precede the onset of serious and irreversible disorders. In such cases, treatment should be stopped. The report is followed by comments by several colleagues, some of whom report similar cases, discussing the significance of the findings.
