These experiments tested whether in utero and lactational exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) alters mammary gland differentiation, estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) expression levels, or the response to estrogen in the female postpubertal rat mammary gland. Pregnant Holtzman rats were administered a single oral dose of 1 microg/kg TCDD or vehicle on gestation-day 15. Exposed and non-exposed female offspring were weaned on postnatal day 21 and ovariectomized at 9 weeks of age. Two weeks later, both TCDD and control animals were divided into 3 groups, receiving treatment with placebo, 0.025, or 0.1 mg 17beta-estradiol pellet implants. After 48 h, mammary tissue was removed for analysis following euthanasia. TCDD-exposed mammary glands demonstrated impaired differentiation as measured by the distribution of terminal ductal structures and increased expression levels of ERalpha. The response to exogenous estrogen was tested in TCDD-exposed animals and compared to control non-exposed animals. Estrogen stimulation of the TCDD-exposed glands induced progesterone receptor expression and mammary gland differentiation as measured by a shift in distribution from terminal end buds and terminal ducts to Types I and II lobules. Control glands were better differentiated at baseline and did not exhibit any significant changes in the distribution of terminal ductal structures following estrogen stimulation. The increase in progesterone receptor-expression levels by exogenous estrogen in control glands was similar to the TCDD-exposed glands. These experiments demonstrate that in utero and lactational exposures to TCDD impair mammary gland differentiation but that TCDD-exposed mammary glands retain the ability to differentiate in response to estrogen.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonists, such as the GABA analogue, gabapentin, may provide new avenues for pharmacological treatment of cocaine dependence. The purpose of this study was to develop a smoked cocaine drug discrimination procedure in humans to test the effects of gabapentin maintenance on the discriminative stimulus, subjective, cognitive and cardiovascular effects of smoked cocaine. Eight male, nontreatment-seeking, cocaine-dependent volunteers, residing on an inpatient research unit for 47 days completed a within-subjects, counter-balanced design. Participants learned to discriminate between cocaine (25 mg) and placebo, and once the criterion for discrimination was met, smoked cocaine dose-effect functions (0, 6, 12, 25 and 50 mg) were determined under three gabapentin maintenance conditions (0, 600 and 1200 mg/day po). The highest dose of gabapentin tested (1200 mg/day) decreased the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine (6 mg), decreased cocaine craving by 41-53% following cocaine administration (6 and 12 mg), and increased heart rate following either placebo or cocaine (12 mg) administration. Gabapentin did not significantly affect psychomotor task performance or the subjective effects of cocaine. Although the direction of gabapentin's effects was appropriate for a potential treatment medication, i.e., a decrease in cocaine-elicited craving and a decrease in cocaine's discriminative stimulus effects, these effects were limited to low doses of cocaine. The results suggest gabapentin may not produce effects sufficiently robust to be clinically useful, at least at this dose regimen.
Oleanolic acid, a triterpenoid contained in more than 1620 plants including various fruits and foodstuffs, has numerous metabolic effects, such as hepatoprotection. However, its underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Adipose tissue insulin resistance (Adipo-IR) may contribute to the development and progress of metabolic abnormalities through release of excessive free fatty acids from adipose tissue. This study investigated the effect of oleanolic acid on Adipo-IR. The results showed that supplement with oleanolic acid (25 mg/kg, once daily, by oral gavage) over 10 weeks attenuated liquid fructose-induced increase in plasma insulin concentration and the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index in rats. Simultaneously, oleanolic acid reversed the increase in the Adipo-IR index and plasma non-esterified fatty acid concentrations during the oral glucose tolerance test assessment. In white adipose tissue, oleanolic acid enhanced mRNA expression of the genes encoding insulin receptor, insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase. At the protein level, oleanolic acid upregulated total IRS-1 expression, suppressed the increased phosphorylated IRS-1 at serine-307, and restored the increased phosphorylated IRS-1 to total IRS-1 ratio. In contrast, phosphorylated Akt to total Akt ratio was increased. Furthermore, oleanolic acid reversed fructose-induced decrease in phosphorylated-Akt/Akt protein to plasma insulin concentration ratio. However, oleanolic acid did not affect IRS-2 mRNA expression. Therefore, these results suggest that oleanolic acid supplement ameliorates fructose-induced Adipo-IR in rats via the IRS-1/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway. Our findings may provide new insights into the mechanisms of metabolic actions of oleanolic acid.
A 69-year-old man operated for acute cholecystitis under methoxyflurane anesthesia developed postoperatively a hepatic insufficiency syndrome and renal tubular acidosis. Massive bleeding appeared during surgery which lasted for six hours. Postoperative evolution under supportive therapy was favourable. Complete recovery was confirmed by repeated controls performed over a period of one year after surgery.
To improve gene transducibility mediated by adenovirus (Ad) in cancer cells and further enhance anti-tumor effects by co-delivery.
Calcium-induced phase change method was used to prepare the complex of anionic liposomes and adenovirus (AL/Ad5). Gene expression was qualitatively detected by X-gal staining and quantitatively detected by ELISA. Taking adenovirus-mediated stromal cell-derived factor-1α (Ad5-SDF1α) as therapeutic gene and carmustine (BCNU) as chemotherapeutic agent, a co-delivering system of AL/Ad5-SDF1α/BCNU was prepared and administered to tumor-bearing mice by intratumor injection.
Enhanced LacZ gene transduction was obtained in B16 and Lewis lung carcinoma cells in vitro and in vivo. Complexes of AL/Ad5-SDF1α improved SDF1α gene expression and led to accumulation of dendritic cells among the murine B16 melanoma cells in vivo. This co-delivery system of AL/Ad5-SDF1α/BCNU could significantly suppress tumor growth and prolong survival of tumor-bearing mice.
Through the co-delivering system, AL/Ad5-SDF1α could synergize with BCNU to improve the antitumor effect. It may be a promising strategy for solid tumor therapy.
The present study aimed to evaluate the radioprotective effect of lycopene, a naturally occurring dietary carotenoid on gamma-radiation-induced toxicity. The cellular changes were estimated by using lipid peroxidative indices like thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), hydroperoxides (HP), the antioxidants superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and reduced glutathione (GSH). The DNA damage was analyzed by cytokinesis blocked micronucleus assay (CBMN), dicentric aberration (DC) and translocation frequency. The gamma-radiation at different doses (1, 2 and 4Gy) resulted in a significant increase in the number of micronuclei (MN), DC, translocation frequency, TBARS and HP level, whereas the levels of GSH and antioxidant enzymes were significantly decreased when compared with normal control. The maximum damage to lymphocytes was observed at 4Gy irradiation. Lycopene pretreatment (1, 5 and 10microg/ml) significantly decreased the frequency of MN, DC and translocation when compared with gamma-radiation control. The levels of TBARS, HP were also decreased and activities of SOD, CAT and GPx were significantly increased along with GSH levels when compared with gamma-radiation control. The dose of 5microg/ml of lycopene was found to be more effective than the other two doses. Thus, our result shows that pretreatment with lycopene offers protection to normal lymphocytes against gamma-radiation-induced cellular damage.
Autism spectrum disorders are a group of highly heritable neurodevelopmental disorders with a complex genetic etiology. The International Molecular Genetic Study of Autism Consortium previously identified linkage loci on chromosomes 7 and 2, termed AUTS1 and AUTS5, respectively. In this study, we performed a high-density association analysis in AUTS1 and AUTS5, testing more than 3000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in all known genes in each region, as well as SNPs in non-genic highly conserved sequences. SNP genotype data were also used to investigate copy number variation within these regions. The study sample consisted of 127 and 126 families, showing linkage to the AUTS1 and AUTS5 regions, respectively, and 188 gender-matched controls. Further investigation of the strongest association results was conducted in an independent European family sample containing 390 affected individuals. Association and copy number variant analysis highlighted several genes that warrant further investigation, including IMMP2L and DOCK4 on chromosome 7. Evidence for the involvement of DOCK4 in autism susceptibility was supported by independent replication of association at rs2217262 and the finding of a deletion segregating in a sib-pair family.
Epidemiological studies suggest that chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic is associated with cancer of the skin, urinary bladder and lung as well as the kidney and liver. Previous experimental studies have demonstrated increased incidence of liver, lung, ovary, and uterine tumors in mice exposed to 85 ppm (approximately 8 mg/kg) inorganic arsenic during gestation. To further characterize age susceptibility to arsenic carcinogenesis we administered 85 ppm inorganic arsenic in drinking water to C3H mice during gestation, prior to pubescence and post-pubescence to compare proliferative lesion and tumor outcomes over a one-year exposure period. Inorganic arsenic significantly increased the incidence of hyperplasia in urinary bladder (48%) and oviduct (36%) in female mice exposed prior to pubescence (beginning on postnatal day 21 and extending through one year) compared to control mice (19 and 5%, respectively). Arsenic also increased the incidence of hyperplasia in urinary bladder (28%) of female mice continuously exposed to arsenic (beginning on gestation day 8 and extending though one year) compared to gestation only exposed mice (0%). In contrast, inorganic arsenic significantly decreased the incidence of tumors in liver (0%) and adrenal glands (0%) of male mice continuously exposed from gestation through one year, as compared to levels in control (30 and 65%, respectively) and gestation only (33 and 55%, respectively) exposed mice. Together, these results suggest that continuous inorganic arsenic exposure at 85 ppm from gestation through one year increases the incidence and severity of urogenital proliferative lesions in female mice and decreases the incidence of liver and adrenal tumors in male mice. The paradoxical nature of these effects may be related to altered lipid metabolism, the effective dose in each target organ, and/or the shorter one-year observational period.
Several recent reports emphasize the adverse effects of non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs on renal function. These reports incriminate several phenylpropionates but none involve ketoprofen. There have been no indications that clometacin has renal toxicity. We report a case of acute renal failure which occurred during therapy with both ketoprofen and clometacin. The onset of renal failure after their administration, the return to normal renal function once therapy was discontinued and the absence of any other detectable etiology make the responsibility of the treatment very likely. The different possible mechanisms and the role of underlying disease and of associated therapy are discussed. In the index case the reduced excretion of urinary prostaglandin E2 suggests inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis rather than direct drug toxicity or an immuno-allergic mechanism.
Formaldehyde (FA), an endogenous cellular aldehyde, is a rat nasal carcinogen. In this study, concentration and exposure duration transitions in FA mode of action (MOA) were examined with pharmacokinetic (PK) modeling for tissue formaldehyde acetal (FAcetal) and glutathione (GSH) and with histopathology and gene expression in nasal epithelium from rats exposed to 0, 0.7, 2, 6, 10, or 15 ppm FA 6 h/day for 1, 4, or 13 weeks. Patterns of gene expression varied with concentration and duration. At 2 ppm, sensitive response genes (SRGs)-associated with cellular stress, thiol transport/reduction, inflammation, and cell proliferation-were upregulated at all exposure durations. At 6 ppm and greater, gene expression changes showed enrichment of pathways involved in cell cycle, DNA repair, and apoptosis. ERBB, EGFR, WNT, TGF-β, Hedgehog, and Notch signaling were also enriched. Benchmark doses for significantly enriched pathways were lowest at 13 weeks. Transcriptional and histological changes at 6 ppm and greater corresponded to dose ranges in which the PK model predicted significant reductions in free GSH and increases in FAcetal. Genomic changes at 0.7-2 ppm likely represent changes in extracellular FAcetal and GSH. DNA replication stress, enhanced proliferation, squamous metaplasia, and stem cell niche activation appear to be associated with FA carcinogenesis. Dose dependencies in MOA, high background FAcetal, and nonlinear FAcetal/GSH tissue kinetics indicate that FA concentrations below 1 or 2 ppm would not increase risk of cancer in the nose or any other tissue or affect FA homeostasis within epithelial cells.
Mood and cognition were assessed on consecutive days in 18 female patients with systemic lupus erythematosus on alternate-day corticosteroid therapy. No overall differences in mood and cognition were observed between the on- and off-medication days. However, 10 patients showed marked worsening or improvement of either depression or anxiety on their off-medication day. Two weeks of prospective behavioral ratings confirmed the observed mood changes in several patients. The clinical and theoretical implications of these findings are discussed.
Chlorpropamide, a sulfonylurea antidiabetic drug, was found to be the etiologic agent in a patient with immune hemolytic anemia. Hemolysis was severe, and ceased promptly when the drug was discontinued. The direct antiglobulin test was positive for complement, and the indirect antiglobulin test was also positive when the drug, patient serum, and fresh serum complement were all present. In this patient, and in four other patients described in the literature, hemolysis was mediated by the immune complex mechanism. In reports of two other patients taking a sulfonylurea drug, a milder form of hemolysis was mediated by the hapten mechanism. Sulfonylurea drugs are widely used. Since immune complex-mediated hemolysis in these patients is dramatic, it is not likely to be missed. However, the slower, milder hemolysis mediated by the hapten mechanism may be more common than is realized. Such patients may have only mild anemia and a near-normal reticulocyte count, making the diagnosis difficult. It is thus important to consider drug-immune hemolysis in patients who become anemic while taking sulfonylurea drugs.
The aim of this study was to determine the extent of change in platelet and coagulation markers in the acute phase of ischemic stroke and to assess the utility of marker measurement in stroke subtype classification. Urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B(2) (11-dTXB2), a marker of in vivo platelet activation, and markers of coagulation activation, including prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2), thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), and fibrinogen, were measured in 25 patients with ischemic stroke within 24 h of onset of symptoms. Marker levels in patients with ischemic stroke were compared with those in 19 age-matched controls who had not taken aspirin for at least 2 weeks before sampling and 25 healthy controls. Median marker levels were significantly increased in stroke over those in age-matched controls for fibrinogen (344 vs. 289 mg/dl; P=0.030), F1+2 (1.40 vs. 0.80 nmol/l; P=0.003), and TAT (6.65 vs. 2.20 microg/l; P<0.0001). Median marker levels for seven patients with cardioembolic stroke and 18 with non-cardioembolic stroke were not significantly different for any marker test. Eight patients taking aspirin at the time of the stroke had significantly lower 11-dTXB2 values than patients not taking aspirin (964 vs. 4,314 pg/mg of creatinine; P=0.007). Stroke patients not taking aspirin had significantly higher 11-dTXB2 concentration than age-matched controls (4,314 vs. 1,788 pg/mg of creatinine; P=0.006). Coagulation and platelet activation markers are increased in the acute phase of stroke regardless of the clinical mechanism. This finding suggests that the markers may not be useful for predicting clinical subtype of ischemic stroke in the acute phase.
Two children had dysuria, sterile pyuria, and microscopic hematuria develop during treatment with ticarcillin disodium. With the exception of a predominance of pyuria over hematuria, the clinical course and laboratory findings in this disorder were similar to those observed in hemorrhagic cystitis, a potential complication of the use of several semisynthetic penicillins and penicillin G potassium. One patient had urinary abnormalities develop during two courses of ticarcillin therapy and subsequently after initiation of piperacillin sodium therapy. A second patient in whom hemorrhagic cystitis due to carbenicillin disodium developed experienced this related disorder four years later when first exposed to ticarcillin. Neither reduction of the dose nor substitution of one semisynthetic penicillin for another (piperacillin for ticarcillin, ticarcillin for carbenicillin) prevented recurrence of the disorder. The clinical importance of either form of cystitis induced by semisynthetic penicillins is uncertain, as is the risk for progression to interstitial nephritis.
To improve on the drug properties of GSK8062 1b, a series of heteroaryl bicyclic naphthalene replacements were prepared. The quinoline 1c was an equipotent FXR agonist with improved drug developability parameters relative to 1b. In addition, analog 1c lowered body weight gain and serum glucose in a DIO mouse model of diabetes.
The effects of prostaglandin E1 on pulmonary hypertension were assessed after protamine injection at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass during cardiac surgery.
Ten patients scheduled for cardiac surgery presented with pulmonary hypertension (mean pulmonary artery pressure greater than 30 mmHg) after protamine injection and were treated by infusion of 0.02 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) prostaglandin E1. Hemodynamic measurements were made on occasions after cardiopulmonary bypass. Prostaglandin E1 decreased pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance, right ventricular stroke work index and pulmonary vascular resistance/systemic vascular resistance ratio, but did not change blood pressure, systemic vascular resistance, left ventricular stroke work index or cardiac output.
Prostaglandin E1 normalized pulmonary hypertension after protamine injection, but did not change arterial blood pressure and cardiac output.
This report describes a 14-month-old boy receiving high-dose steroids for hypsarrhythmia and infantile spasms in whom the echocardiographic diagnosis of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy was made. Family studies were negative for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, but positive for mitral valve prolapse. The steroid dosage was progressively decreased and finally discontinued; the echo was normal within 12 months. In infants receiving long-term steroid therapy, echocardiograms should be performed to monitor myocardial structure and function.
Coffee is the most commonly used drug in the United States. The medical literature is conflicted regarding the harmful effects of coffee and caffeine. Because the articles that have appeared are so different, a formal meta-analysis is not the ideal way to summarize the data. However, this literature review suggests that coffee does not have an appreciable effect on hyperlipidemia, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, or cancer. The effects of decaffeinated coffee are much less well-defined, and there is little rationale for recommending that patients switch to decaffeinated coffee. A less appreciated problem with caffeine is that it may increase the risk of osteoporosis and hip fracture.
Induction of intravascular coagulation and inhibition of fibrinolysis by injection of thrombin and tranexamic acid (AMCA) in the rat gives rise to pulmonary and renal insufficiency resembling that occurring after trauma or sepsis in man. Injection of Captopril (1 mg/kg), an inhibitor of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), reduced both pulmonary and renal insufficiency in this rat model. The lung weights were lower and PaO2 was improved in rats given this enzyme-blocking agent. The contents of albumin in the lungs were not changed, indicating that Captopril did not influence the extravasation of protein. Renal damage as reflected by an increase in serum urea and in kidney weight was prevented by Captopril. The amount of fibrin in the kidneys was also considerably lower than in animals which received thrombin and AMCA alone. It is suggested that the effects of Captopril on the lungs may be attributable to a vasodilatory effect due to a reduction in the circulating level of Angiotension II and an increase in prostacyclin (secondary to an increase in bradykinin). Captopril may, by the same mechanism, reduce the increase in glomerular filtration that is known to occur after an injection of thrombin, thereby diminishing the aggregation of fibrin monomers in the glomeruli, with the result that less fibrin will be deposited and thus less kidney damage will be produced.
A distal symmetrical sensory peripheral neuropathy is frequently observed in people living with Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1). This neuropathy can be associated with viral infection alone, probably involving a role for the envelope glycoprotein gp120; or a drug-induced toxic neuropathy associated with the use of nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors as a component of highly active anti-retroviral therapy. In order to elucidate the mechanisms underlying drug-induced neuropathy in the context of HIV infection, we have characterized pathological events in the peripheral and central nervous system following systemic treatment with the anti-retroviral agent, ddC (Zalcitabine) with or without the concomitant delivery of HIV-gp120 to the rat sciatic nerve (gp120+ddC). Systemic ddC treatment alone is associated with a persistent mechanical hypersensitivity (33% decrease in limb withdrawal threshold) that when combined with perineural HIV-gp120 is exacerbated (48% decrease in threshold) and both treatments result in thigmotactic (anxiety-like) behaviour. Immunohistochemical studies revealed little ddC-associated alteration in DRG phenotype, as compared with known changes following perineural HIV-gp120. However, the chemokine CCL2 is significantly expressed in the DRG of rats treated with perineural HIV-gp120 and/or ddC and there is a reduction in intraepidermal nerve fibre density, comparable to that seen in herpes zoster infection. Moreover, a spinal gliosis is apparent at times of peak behavioural sensitivity that is exacerbated in gp120+ddC as compared to either treatment alone. Treatment with the microglial inhibitor, minocycline, is associated with delayed onset of hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli in the gp120+ddC model and reversal of some measures of thigmotaxis. Finally, the hypersensitivity to mechanical stimuli was sensitive to systemic treatment with gabapentin, morphine and the cannabinoid WIN 55,212-2, but not with amitriptyline. These data suggests that both neuropathic pain models display many features of HIV- and anti-retroviral-related peripheral neuropathy. They therefore merit further investigation for the elucidation of underlying mechanisms and may prove useful for preclinical assessment of drugs for the treatment of HIV-related peripheral neuropathic pain.
The central and peripheral benzodiazepine (BZ) receptor antagonists, flumazenil (FLU) and PK 11195 (PK), administered intrathecally (IT) to diazepam (DZ)-dependent rats produced a precipitated abstinence syndrome. The scores for abstinence increased with increasing dose of FLU but not with increasing dose of PK. Twitches and jerks increased with increased doses of both. Head and body tremors were produced by FLU, but not by PK. Neither FLU nor PK precipitated abstinence in controls. In DZ-dependent rats IT administered FLU and PK did not significantly change the spectral content and the total power of the EEG. The data indicate that an abstinence syndrome is precipitated at the spinal level in DZ-dependent rats and that both central and peripheral BZ receptors are involved.
To determine whether functional suppression of the catalytic domain of activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID) can suppress the hyperreactive germinal center (GC) responses in BXD2 mice.
We generated transgenic BXD2 mice expressing a dominant-negative (DN) form of Aicda at the somatic hypermutation site (BXD2-Aicda-DN-transgenic mice). Real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction was used to determine the expression of Aicda and DNA damage/repair genes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to measure serum levels of autoantibodies and immune complexes (ICs). Development of GCs and antibody-containing ICs as well as numbers of proliferative and apoptotic cells were determined using flow cytometry and/or immunohistochemical analyses. Development of arthritis and kidney disease was evaluated histologically in 6-8-month-old mice.
Suppression of the somatic hypermutation function of AID resulted in a significant decrease in autoantibody production without affecting the expression of DNA damage-related genes in GC B cells of BXD2-Aicda-DN-transgenic mice. There was decreased proliferation, increased apoptosis, increased expression of caspase 9 messenger RNA in GC B cells, and lower numbers of GCs in the spleens of BXD2-Aicda-DN-transgenic mice. Decreased GC response was associated with lower levels of IgG-containing ICs. Anti-IgM- and anti-CD40 plus anti-Ig-induced B cell proliferative responses were decreased in BXD2-Aicda-DN-transgenic mice.
Inhibition of the AID somatic hypermutation function in BXD2 mice suppressed development of spontaneous GCs, generation of autoantibody-producing B cells, and autoimmunity in BXD2 mice. Suppression of AID catalytic function to limit selection-based survival of GC B cells could become a novel therapy for the treatment of autoimmune disease.
Raloxifene (RAL), a selective estrogen receptor modulator, is indicated for the prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. RAL, by decreasing bone turnover, prevents bone loss and microarchitecture damage, reducing the incidence of osteoporotic fractures. Our previous in vitro data demonstrated that RAL modulates osteoclast activity by, at least in part, an IL-6- and TNF-alpha-dependent mechanism. In this study we evaluated the effects of RAL treatment (60 mg/d) on circulating levels of these cytokines in 14 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. Lumbar bone density (determined by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry) and IL-6 and TNF-alpha levels were measured before and after 6 and 24 months of therapy. After 24 months, RAL increased bone density. IL-6 and TNF-alpha expression, elevated before treatment, significantly decreased (50% and 30%, respectively) after 6 months. This effect was sustained up to the end of the treatment (75% and 35%, respectively). Thus, our data show that RAL can modulate circulating levels of cytokines involved in osteoclastogenesis and bone resorption, suggesting that modulation of soluble factors could play a pivotal role in the mechanisms of the osteoprotective effect of RAL.
Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibition reduces systemic blood pressure (BP) and decreases renal damage in animal models of kidney disease. The aim of this study was to determine if ROCK inhibition might have beneficial effects in glomerular disease processes that are independent of systemic BP.
We investigated the effects of the ROCK inhibitor Y27632 and hydralazine in murine puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis.
Treatment with either Y27632 or hydralazine similarly reduced systolic BP compared to vehicle-treated controls. Seven days after treatment with PAN, albuminuria, proteinuria and effacement of podocyte foot processes were significantly reduced in Y27632- and hydralazine-treated mice compared to vehicle-treated animals. Treatment with PAN significantly reduced expression of the podocyte proteins nephrin and Neph1, and the loss of glomerular nephrin was attenuated by treatment with Y27632 but not by treatment with hydralazine. In cultured podocytes, PAN potently activated both Rho and ROCK, and PAN-induced ROCK activation was prevented by Y27632.
The ROCK inhibitor Y27632 attenuated glomerular nephrin loss in murine PAN nephrosis independent of its effects on systemic BP.
To examine the toxicity profile and antineoplastic activity of carboplatin (area under the concentration-time curve of 4 to 7.5) plus 3-hour infusional paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) (135 or 175 mg/m2) in women with advanced gynecologic malignancies, we retrospectively reviewed the experience of the Gynecologic Cancer Program at The Cleveland Clinic with this combination chemotherapy regimen. To date, 92 patients (median age, 67 years) have received a total of 460 courses (median number per patient, six) of this two-drug combination. The initial paclitaxel dose was 175 mg/m2 and the carboplatin area under the concentration-time curve was > or = 5 in 72% and 73% of patients, respectively. The major toxicity was neutropenia (grade 4 in 9% of patients), resulting in two febrile episodes and a single septic death. Grade 4 thrombocytopenia and grade 3 peripheral neuropathy were noted in one and two patients, respectively. Twelve patients (13%) experienced at least one episode of paclitaxel-associated hypersensitivity, but all were able to continue with the treatment program. Of the 62 patients with ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma with carbohydrate antigen-125 levels > or = 60 U/mL before the initiation of chemotherapy, 74% exhibited a > or = 90% decline in the tumor marker following treatment. We conclude that the combination of carboplatin and 3-hour infusional paclitaxel can be administered in the outpatient setting with a highly acceptable toxicity profile and with major activity in patients with ovarian cancer and primary carcinoma of the peritoneum.
