40 patients seen in general practice and psychiatric outpatient clinics who had taken lorazepam or diazepam alone in regular dosage for a mean period of 3.6 years had their benzodiazepine replaced by propranolol (60--120 mg/day) or placebo for two weeks under double-blind conditions. Depending on the criteria for the definition of an abstinence syndrome, 27--45% of the patients had withdrawal symptoms during the study. Propranolol did not affect the drop-out rate or the incidence of withdrawal symptoms but significantly reduced their severity in patients completing the study. The percentage fall in serum levels of desmethyldiazepam in patients who experienced withdrawal symptoms after stopping diazepam was significantly greater in patients with no withdrawal symptoms.
Kynurenic acid is an antagonist of ionotropic glutamate receptors. It has been found that glutamate antagonists inhibit proliferation of different human tumor cells. Since the hyperplasia of synovial fibroblasts is one of the most striking features of inflammatory arthritis, the main goals of this study were detection and quantification of kynurenic acid in synovial fluid obtained from patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and determination of its effect on proliferation of synoviocytes in vitro. Presence of kynurenic acid was determined by HPLC in all 58 samples of synovial fluid. The mean concentration was 15.89 pmol/ml. Kynurenic acid inhibited synoviocyte proliferation with the IC50 value of 5.9 mM. In subthreshold concentration of 0.3 mM it enhanced antiproliferative action of celecoxib and nimesulide. In conclusion, the presence of kynurenic acid in synovial fluid was documented in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Its potential role as an endogenous substance, controlling synoviocyte proliferation can be suggested.
The ACTION trial, an open-label, randomized, multicenter, two-part study, compared the efficacy and safety of two sustained-release opioids (SROs), A VINZA (A-MQD), morphine sulfate extended-release capsules given once a day, and OxyContin (O-ER), oxycodone modified-release tablets given twice a day, in subjects with chronic, moderate to severe low back pain. The first part of the study, the evaluation phase, was followed by an optional four-month extension phase aimed at evaluating the long-term stability of pain control, SRO dose, and quality of sleep.
Three hundred and ninety-two subjects were enrolled in the study; 220 completed the evaluation phase, and 174 entered the extensionphase. During the latterphase, subjects in the A-MQD group (n=79) continued to report lower pain scores, better quality of sleep, lower daily morphine-equivalent doses (means of 86 mg versus 119 mg), and a comparable usage of ibuprofen compared to subjects in the O-ER group (n=95). The incidence and severity of elicited opioid side effects were similar between the two groups.
Both study drugs resulted in significant pain relief and improved sleep in SRO-naive patients with chronic low back pain, and this outcome was attained with a stable daily SRO dose. In patients who completed opioid dose titration, A VINZA performed significantly better than OxyContin in reducing pain scores and improving sleep-with a lower morphine-equivalent daily dose-during both the evaluation and extension phases.
Symptoms often deteriorate in well-controlled asthmatics after a step down in inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (iBDP) therapy if the serum concentration of eosinophil cationic protein (sECP) is high. This deterioration is significantly abrogated by pranlukast, a leukotriene receptor antagonist, or by seratrodast, a thromboxane A2 receptor antagonist. However, these results were based on short-term (less than 6 months) observations.
We studied 35 well-controlled adult asthmatics. We assigned the patients into different groups according to their sECP levels before the step down: (i) group A, sECP < 25 microg/L; (ii) group B, sECP > or = 25 microg/L; and (iii) group C, sECP > or = 25 microg/L but patients treated with pranlukast or seratrodast. We began the study with a step down in iBDP therapy (initial step down), then followed the clinical course of the asthma for 2 years. During the study period, we decreased, increased or maintained the iBDP dose on the basis of the stepwise approach described in the National Institutes of Health guidelines. We monitored the time and frequency of exacerbation and evaluated the iBDP dose required to control the asthma symptoms.
The rates of exacerbation after the step down were high in groups A and B. In group A, the conditions were again qualified for the step down in all patients, but this was not the case for most group B patients. From 15 to 21 months after the initial step down, the average dose of iBDP required to control symptoms was significantly higher in group B than in group A patients (P = 0.0127-0.0373). The exacerbation rate in group C after 12 months tended to be lower than in the other two patient groups (P = 0.0743). In group C, the average dose of iBDP from 9 to 24 months after the initial step down was significantly lower than before the step down (P < 0.0001) and was not significantly different from the mean dose of iBDP in groups A or B.
High sECP in well-controlled asthma may indicate the necessity for a higher iBDP dose over a long period than when the sECP concentration is not high. Even if sECP is high, pranlukast or seratrodast help to prevent exacerbation of asthma and enable successful step down in iBDP therapy for at least 2 years thereafter.
Ceftriaxone, a third-generation cephalosporin, has been associated with the development of sludge or stones in the gallbladders of some patients treated with this medication. Such precipitates, which are usually reversible upon discontinuation of the drug, sometimes cause symptoms, have simulated acute cholecystitis, and have even led to cholecystectomy in some cases. We report the first known instance of biliary obstruction and secondary pancreatitis in association with reversible ceftriaxone-induced pseudolithiasis.
The correlation between drug sensitivity in vitro and the mutation status of the FLT3 receptor gene was evaluated in tumour cells from 17 previously untreated AML patients. Tumour cells with internal tandem duplication (ITD) in the FLT3 receptor gene were significantly more sensitive to the FLT3 inhibitor SU5614 than tumour cells with wild type FLT3. Combinations of SU5614 with etoposide and amsacrine showed better effect (p<0.05) compared with the respective single drugs. Our results suggest that the FLT3 inhibitor SU5614 may have a therapeutic potential, especially in combination with other cytotoxic agents, in patients with FLT3-ITD positive AML.
The effect of enalapril alone and in combination with nadolol on resting and exercising blood pressure, heart rate, plasma renin activity, aldosterone, noradrenaline, and potassium levels was studied in 10 hypertensive patients (diastolic blood pressure between 95 and 114 mmHg). Patients received placebo for 4 weeks, enalapril (mean daily dose 24.5 mg) for 8 weeks, and nadolol, 40 mg once daily, was added for the remaining 8 weeks of the study. Exercise testing (modified Bruce, treadmill) was conducted at the end of the placebo run-in phase and at the end of each treatment period. Enalapril reduced resting and exercising blood pressure independent of any change in heart rate: This effect was increased with combination treatment. Plasma renin activity at rest and during exercise was increased by enalapril. Combination treatment attenuated this response and significantly reduced plasma aldosterone. Neither treatment had any effect on plasma noradrenaline levels. Resting plasma potassium levels were increased with combination treatment, whereas both treatment regimens increased plasma potassium levels during exercise. There were no clinically relevant episodes of hyperkalemia. Further investigation is required to qualify the nature of the blood pressure and plasma potassium response with combination treatment.
Previous studies have shown that opioid transmission plays an important role in learning and memory. However, little is known about the course of opiate-associated learning and memory deficits after cessation of chronic opiate use in a behavioral animal model. In the present study, we examined the effects of chronic morphine on fear extinction, an important preclinical model for behavior therapy of human anxiety disorders. Rats were administrated subcutaneously morphine hydrochloride or saline twice per day for continuous 10 days. Rats received a cued or contextual fear conditioning session 7 days after the last morphine injection. During subsequent days, rats received four cued or contextual extinction sessions (one session per day). Percent freezing was assessed during all phases of training. Chronic morphine did not affect the acquisition of cued fear response or the initial encoding of extinction memory within each session, but produced an impairment in the between-session extinction. However, the same morphine treatment schedule did not affect the acquisition or extinction of contextual fear response. These results suggest that the effects of chronic morphine on memory for fear extinction are complex. Chronic morphine selectively impairs extinction of cued fear response. This deficit in fear extinction may be one of those critical components that contribute to the high prevalence of anxiety disorders in opiate addicts.
Neural-tube defects such as anencephaly and spina bifida constitute a group of common congenital malformations caused by complex genetic and environmental factors. We have identified three mutations in the VANGL1 gene in patients with familial types (V239I and R274Q) and a sporadic type (M328T) of the disease, including a spontaneous mutation (V239I) appearing in a familial setting. In a protein-protein interaction assay V239I abolished interaction of VANGL1 protein with its binding partners, disheveled-1, -2, and -3. These findings implicate VANGL1 as a risk factor in human neural-tube defects.
Direct hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) can be blocked by mu- but not delta- or kappa-opioids. However, there is evidence that kappa- and delta-opioid receptors are located on sympathetic postganglionic neuron (SPGN) terminals, which mediate bradykinin (BK) hyperalgesia via SPGN-terminal-dependent production of PGE2. Therefore, we evaluated the antinociceptive effect of delta- and kappa-opioids on BK hyperalgesia. We demonstrate that the mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intradermal injection of BK can be blocked by the kappa-opioid agonist trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(-pyrrolidinyl)cyclo-hexyl] benzeneacetamide (U50,488H) and by the delta-opioid agonist (D-Pen2,5)-enkephalin (DPDPE), as well as the mu-opioid agonist Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol(DAMGO). Pertussis toxin prevented the inhibition of BK-induced hyperalgesia by U50,488H, DPDPE, or DAMGO. We conclude that the observed peripheral analgesic effects of kappa- and delta-opioid agonists result from actions upon SPGN terminals and that these effects are mediated by inhibitory G-proteins.
In a study of 2,978 Danish children aged 5 years from two suburban counties of Copenhagen, carried out in 1998, the authors compared risk factor profiles for wheeze and recurrent cough without wheeze by using polytomous logistic regression to clarify whether the two conditions are likely to have the same etiology. Data were obtained 1) by a mailed parental questionnaire (International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood questions and supplementary questions on cough, sociodemography, perinatal factors, and environmental exposure); 2) through general practitioners (familial allergic disease); and 3) from the National Medical Birth Register (birth weight). Wheeze (WH) was defined as more than one episode of wheeze within the last 12 months (irrespective of cough status) and recurrent cough without WH (RC) as cough occurring outside colds and usually lasting for periods of more than 1 week in children with no more than one attack of wheeze within the last 12 months. Risk factors for comparison were selected as those that, after repeated stepwise logistic regression, remained significant for children with WH or RC. Significant differences were found for gender (p = 0.003), gestational age (p = 0.0002), maternal history of asthma (p = 0.0008), and standard of housing condition (p = 0.04)-all risk factors for WH but not RC. Results may suggest that the two conditions have different etiologies.
A core feature of autism spectrum disorders is the impairment in social interactions. Among other brain regions, a deficit in amygdala processing has been suggested to underlie this impairment, but whether the amygdala is processing fear abnormally in autism, is yet not clear. We used the valproic acid (VPA) rat model of autism to (a) screen for autism-like symptoms in rats, (b) test for alterations in amygdala-dependent fear processing, and (c) evaluate neuronal reactivity and synaptic plasticity in the lateral amygdala by means of in vitro single-cell electrophysiological recordings. VPA-treated animals displayed several symptoms common to autism, among them impaired social interactions and increased repetitive behaviors. Furthermore, VPA-treated rats were more anxious and exhibited abnormally high and longer lasting fear memories, which were overgeneralized and harder to extinguish. On the cellular level, the amygdala was hyperreactive to electrical stimulation and displayed boosted synaptic plasticity as well as a deficit in inhibition. We show for the first time enhanced, overgeneralized and resistant conditioned fear memories in an animal model of autism. Such hyperfear could be caused by the hyperreactivity and hyperplasticity found in the lateral amygdala, which may in turn be due to a deficit in the inhibitory system of the amygdala. We hypothesize an 'aversive world' syndrome that could, even if not a primary cause of the disorder itself, underlie some core symptoms in autism, such as impairments in social interactions and resistance to rehabilitation.
Recently, there have been reports that ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) therapy has a beneficial effect on liver function in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. However, information regarding the effects of UDCA therapy on hepatic histology remains insufficient. Aberrant expression of HLA antigens on hepatocytes is regarded important in the progression of hepatocellular damages mediated by cytotoxic T-cells in primary biliary cirrhosis. In this study, we examined immunohistochemically hepatocellular expression of HLA antigens on hepatocytes before and after UDCA therapy in four patients with asymptomatic primary biliary cirrhosis. Piecemeal necrosis, intralobular focal necrosis, and portal inflammation, as well as infiltration of activated T-lymphocytes and expression of HLA class I antigens on hepatocytes, disappeared, or diminished in parallel after the therapy. In two of four patients, expression of HLA-DR on some periportal hepatocytes before the therapy also disappeared after the therapy. These observations imply that UDCA therapy decreases the hepatocellular expression of HLA antigens and thereby reduces or abolishes T-cell-mediated hepatocellular necrosis in primary biliary cirrhosis.
The membrane-bound axon guidance molecules netrin-G1 (NTNG1) and netrin-G2 (NTNG2) play a role in synaptic formation and maintenance. Non-coding single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in both genes have been reported to be associated with schizophrenia. The main aim of this study was to determine if NTNG1 and NTNG2 mRNA expression is altered in schizophrenia or bipolar disorder, and/or influenced by disease-associated SNPs. NTNG1 and NTNG2 mRNAs were examined in the medial and inferior temporal lobe using in situ hybridization and RT-PCR in the Stanley Medical Research Institute array collection, and in rat hippocampus during development and after antipsychotic administration. NTNG1 mRNA isoforms were also examined during human brain development. For NTNG1, the G1c isoform was reduced in bipolar disorder and with a similar trend in schizophrenia; expression of four other NTNG1 isoforms was unchanged. In both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, NTNG2 mRNA was reduced in CA3, with reductions also found in CA4 and perirhinal cortex in bipolar disorder. The SNPs did not affect NTNG1 or NTNG2 mRNA expression. Both NTNG1 and NTNG2 mRNAs were developmentally regulated, and were unaltered by haloperidol, but NTNG2 mRNA was modestly increased by clozapine. These data implicate NTNG1 and NTNG2 in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, but do not support the hypothesis that altered mRNA expression is the mechanism by which genetic variation of NTNG1 or NTNG2 may confer disease susceptibility.
Calcium Channel Blockers (CCBs), competitive α-adrenoceptor blockers, and phenoxybenzamine (POB) are used for preoperative treatment of pheochromocytomas. We analyzed the protection from hypertensive crisis provided by these drugs during acute and chronic norepinephrine excess. To ensure adaptive changes during chronic norepinephrine (NE) excess, we continuously exposed male Wistar rats to NE for 3 weeks (osmotic pumps). Afterwards, blood pressure (BP) was continuously measured while NE boli (0-1000 μg/kg, i. v.) were administered before and after antihypertensive treatment in anesthetized and catheterized rats. A single dose of urapidil (10 mg/kg), nitrendipine (600 μg/kg) and POB (10 mg/kg) lowered BP from 212 ± 12 mmHg by 52 ± 7%, 31 ± 9%, and 50 ± 6%, respectively. With NE boli a maximum BP of 235 ± 29, 240 ± 30 and 138 ± 3 mmHg was measured in urapidil, nitrendipine, and POB treated animals (p<0.05). The number of hypertensive episodes (delta BP >30 mmHg) was 3 (3), 1.5 (0-3), and 0 (0-1) (p<0.05). Because of inferiority, urapidil was excluded from further testing. Chronically NE exposed rats were treated with POB (10 mg/kg/d), nifedipine (10 mg/kg/d), or vehicle for 7 days. Marked BP elevations were observed at baseline (167 ± 7, 210 ± 7 , and 217 ± 7 mmHg, p<0.01) and maximum blood pressure was 220 ± 32, 282 ± 26, and 268 ± 40 mmHg (p<0.001) with NE boli. Further stabilization was achieved combining POB pretreatment with a continuous nifedipine infusion, which effectively prevented BP elevations during NE excess. POB was the most effective drug used in monotherapy, but BP stabilization was superior using a combination of POB pretreatment with a continuous nifedipine infusion in this model.
Patients with severe sepsis frequently receive prophylactic heparin during drotrecogin alfa (activated) (DrotAA) treatment due to risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTEs). Biological plausibility exists for heparin to reduce DrotAA efficacy and/or increase bleeding.
Primary: demonstrate in adult patients with severe sepsis receiving DrotAA treatment that 28-day mortality was equivalent for patients treated with concomitant prophylactic heparin compared with placebo; secondary: safety and VTE incidence.
International, randomized, double-blind, phase 4, equivalence-design trial (n = 1994). Patients were eligible if indicated for and receiving DrotAA treatment under the country's approved label. Study drug (low molecular weight/unfractionated heparin) or placebo (saline) was administered every 12 hours during DrotAA infusion (24 ug/kg/hr for 96 hr). In patients on baseline heparin and randomized to placebo, heparin was stopped.
Twenty-eight-day mortality was not equivalent between treatment groups. Heparin mortality was numerically lower (28.3 vs. 31.9%; p = 0.08). In the prospectively defined subgroup of patients exposed to heparin at baseline, patients receiving placebo experienced higher mortality (35.6 vs. 26.9%; p = 0.005). For safety, significant differences were observed during Days 0-6 for any bleeding event (placebo, n = 78; heparin, n = 105; p = 0.049) and ischemic stroke during Days 0-6 (placebo, n = 12; heparin, n = 3; p = 0.02) and Days 0-28 (placebo, n = 17; heparin, n = 5; p = 0.009). The VTE rate was low, with no statistical difference between groups (0-6 d, p = 0.60; 0-28 d, p = 0.26).
Compared with placebo, concomitant prophylactic heparin was not equivalent, did not increase 28-day mortality, and had an acceptable safety profile in patients with severe sepsis receiving DrotAA. Heparin discontinuation should be carefully weighed in patients considered for DrotAA treatment. XPRESS clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00049777). The study ID numbers are 6743; F1K-MC-EVBR.
The acute effects of two calcium channel blockers, nifedipine and verapamil, were compared in eight normotensive subjects and eight patients with essential hypertension. Nifedipine 10 mg and verapamil 160 mg orally had no effect on blood pressure of normal subjects, but reduced systolic and diastolic pressures of hypertensive patients to the same extent. The blood pressure reduction caused by nifedipine was more prompt and of lesser duration than that caused by verapamil. In both normal subjects and hypertensive patients nifedipine caused a transient rise in heart rate and plasma renin activity, and plasma catecholamines showed a tendency to increase; verapamil did not affect these variables. Nifedipine induced a marked increase in urine volume and renal sodium excretion in hypertensive patients, with a much smaller change in normotensives. Verapamil did not influence water and sodium excretion in either direction. Thus, this study shows similarities and differences between the effects induced by acute oral administration of the most-used vasodilating calcium antagonists.
An αVβ3 receptor antagonist (SB-273005) induced unique vascular lesions in the aorta of mice, but not other pharmacologically responsive species. Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) necrosis was observed ~6 h postdose followed by VSMC loss with no evidence of hemorrhage/thrombosis, inflammation or damage to endothelium. Since direct drug-induced vascular toxicity is uncommon, involvement of VSMC-endothelial cell (EC) interactions was hypothesized. In vitro model systems of murine aortic VSMC and EC monocultures and cocultures were established and used to investigate the mechanism of toxicity. Incubation of cultures with SB-273005 within a dose range and timeframe comparable to in vivo studies, showed a concentration-dependent decrease in viability with increases in cytotoxicity for monocultures and VSMC/EC cocultures; however, VSMC monocultures responded at lower doses (were most sensitive) suggesting a direct effect on VSMC which is not mediated or enhanced through EC/VSMC interactions. Further studies revealed increased caspase-9 and caspase-3/7 activation in VSMC beginning as early as 0.5 and 1h following treatment, respectively. These findings suggest SB-273005 causes direct chemical vascular toxicity in murine VSMC which involves apoptosis mediated through the intrinsic (mitochondrial) apoptotic pathway. To our knowledge, this is the first report to provide a link between VSMC apoptosis and treatment with an αVβ3 receptor antagonist.
Female BALB/c mice were given 1 mg 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BDU) subcutaneously on days 1, 3 and 7 after birth or 5 mg estradiol benzoate (EB) 15 times weekly starting at the age of 3 months or both. Combined application of BDU and EB potentiated the carcinogenic effect of each agent on breast tissue: breast cancer occurred in 80.6% of animals as compared to 15.8, 9.7 and 0% in groups treated with EB or BDU alone and controls, respectively (p < 0.001). Treatment with BDU induced a slightly (but significantly, p < 0.02) higher overall tumor occurrence as well as higher occurrence of primary multiple and malignant tumors and breast cancer as compared to controls. It is suggested that BDU-induced accumulation of DNA errors contributes to initiation of neoplastic changes in the cell and cancer development which is further stimulated by EB.
In the present study, we have studied the effect of KBrO3 on human erythrocytes under in vitro conditions. Erythrocytes were isolated from the blood of healthy nonsmoking volunteers and incubated with different concentrations of KBrO3 at 37°C for 60 min. This resulted in marked hemolysis in a KBrO3 -concentration dependent manner. Lysates were prepared from KBrO3 -treated and control erythrocytes and assayed for various parameters. KBrO3 treatment caused significant increase in protein oxidation, lipid peroxidation, hydrogen peroxide levels, and decrease in total sulfhydryl content, which indicates induction of oxidative stress in human erythrocytes. Methemoglobin levels and methemoglobin reductase activity were significantly increased while the total antioxidant power of lysates was greatly reduced upon KBrO3 treatment. Intracellular production of reactive oxygen species increased in a dose dependent manner. Exposure of erythrocytes to KBrO3 also caused decrease in the activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase, thioredoxin reductase, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glutathione reductase whereas the activities of Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase and glutathione-S-transferase were increased. These results show that KBrO3 induces oxidative stress in human erythrocytes through the generation of reactive oxygen species and alters the cellular antioxidant defense system.
In this study we have assessed vascular pain caused by the i.v. anaesthetic agent, propofol, using the flexor reflex response and compared this with that of capsaicin in anaesthetized intact rats.
Experiments were performed on 133 male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 280-340 g. The animals were anaesthetized with urethane (1.3 g kg(-1), i.p.), and an arterial cannula was inserted to the level of the bifurcation of the femoral artery. The magnitude of the flexor reflex was examined by recording the electromyogram from the posterior biceps femoris/semitendinosus muscles.
Our data show that the flexor reflexes evoked by intra-arterial (i.a.) injection of propofol (1%, 25-100 microl) and capsaicin (0.05-0.2 microg) were dose dependent. An initial i.a. injection of procaine (2%, 200 microl) blocked both responses. Furthermore, the flexor reflex induced by these chemical stimuli were inhibited by morphine (5 mg kg(-1), s.c.) and restored with naloxone (1.5 mg kg(-1), s.c.). Pre-treatment with capsazepine (20 microg, i.a.), a selective VR1 antagonist, inhibited the capsaicin-evoked response, but not that of propofol. Indomethacin (10 mg kg(-1), i.p.), a non-selective cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, inhibited only the propofol-evoked response and this recovered with arterial PGE2 (5 microg).
Collectively our data suggest that propofol-evoked vascular pain is mainly initiated by prostanoids.
Dynamins are GTPases which support receptor-mediated endocytosis and bind to several tyrosine kinase receptor-associated proteins known to mediate cell proliferation and differentiation. We have recently established that dynamin expression correlates with normal neuronal (Torre et al., J. Biol. Chem., 269 (1994) 32411-32417) and acinar pancreatic cell differentiation (Cook et al., Mol. Biol. Cell, 6 (1995) 405a). To begin to understand the role of dynamin in neoplastic pancreatic cell differentiation, we have followed the expression of this protein by immunohistochemistry during the development of pancreatic tumors in a mancozeb-nitrosomethylurea (NMU)-based carcinogenesis model recently developed in our laboratory (Monis and Valentich, Carcinogenesis, 14 (1993) 929-933). After a single intraperitoneal injection (50 mg/g body wt) of this carcinogen, rats fed with mancozeb develop pancreatic focal acinar hyperplasia (FACH), dysplastic foci (DYF) displaying acinar-like and ductular-like structures, and ductular-like carcinoma in situ (CIS). After histochemical staining using a monoclonal anti-dynamin antibody, high levels of this protein are consistently observed in well-differentiated acinar tumors (FACH). In contrast, dynamin immunoreactivity is almost undetectable in more advanced lesions showing a ductular-like phenotype (ductular-like DYF and CIS). This change in the expression pattern of dynamin during the progression of acinar into ductular-like DYF and CIS lesions correlates with recent findings from our laboratory showing a differential expression pattern for dynamin in pancreatic cells during embryonic development, with ductular-like precursor cells expressing low levels of this protein. Based upon these results, we conclude that more advanced ductular-like neoplastic cells induced by the carcinogen NMU in rat pancreas behave phenotypically like pancreatic precursor cells in their pattern of expression for dynamin.
Nonylphenol (NP) and its parent compounds, the nonylphenol ethoxylates are some of the most prevalent chemicals found in U.S. waterways. NP is also resistant to biodegradation and is a known environmental estrogen, which makes NP a chemical of concern. Our data show that NP also activates the constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), an orphan nuclear receptor important in the induction of detoxification enzymes, including the P450s. Transactivation assays demonstrate that NP increases murine CAR (mCAR) transcriptional activity, and NP treatment can overcome the inhibitory effects of the inverse agonist, androstanol, on mCAR activation. Treatment of wild-type (CAR +/+) mice with NP at 50 or 75 mg/kg/day increases Cyp2b protein expression in a dose-dependent manner as demonstrated by Western blotting, and was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR of Cyp2b10 transcript levels. CAR-null (CAR -/-) mice show no increased expression of Cyp2b following NP treatment, indicating that CAR is required for NP-mediated Cyp2b induction. In addition, NP increases the translocation of CAR into the nucleus, which is the key step in the commencement of CAR's transcriptional activity. NP also induced CYP2B6 in primary human hepatocytes, and increased Cyp2b10 messenger RNA and protein expression in humanized CAR mice, indicating that NP is an activator of human CAR as well. In conclusion, NP is a CAR activator, and this was demonstrated in vitro with transactivation assays and in vivo with transgenic CAR mouse models.
Antihypertensive medications are all associated with adverse reactions, and the elderly patient may be particularly sensitive. In a large longitudinal follow up study in an aged population, beta-blockers were shown to have caused no greater impairment of cognitive function or mood when compared to a control population. alpha-Methyldopa did interfere with some measures of neuropsychological functioning.
Long-term exposure of rodents to peroxisome proliferators leads to increases in peroxisomes, hepatocellular proliferation, oxidative damage, suppressed apoptosis, and ultimately results in the development of hepatic adenomas and carcinomas. Peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha was shown to be required for these pleiotropic responses; however, Kupffer cells, resident liver macrophages, were also identified as playing a role in peroxisome proliferators-induced effects, independently of PPARalpha. Previous studies showed that oxidants from NADPH (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, reduced) oxidase mediate acute effects of peroxisome proliferators in rodent liver. To determine if Kupffer cell oxidants are also involved in chronic effects, NADPH oxidase-deficient (p47(phox)-null) mice were fed 4-chloro-6-(2,3-xylidino)-2-pyrimidinylthio acetic acid (WY-14,643)-containing diet (0.1% wt/wt) for 1 week, 5 weeks, or 5 months along with Pparalpha-null and wild type mice. As expected, no change in liver size, cell replication rates, or other phenotypic effects of peroxisome proliferators were observed in Pparalpha-null mice. Through 5 months of treatment, the p47(phox)-null and wild type mice exhibited peroxisome proliferators-induced adverse liver effects, along with increased oxidative DNA damage and increased cell proliferation, a response that is potentially mediated through nuclear factor kappa B (NFkB). Suppressed apoptosis caused by WY-14,643 was dependent on both NADPH oxidase and PPARalpha. Collectively, these findings suggest that involvement of Kupffer cells in WY-14,643-induced parenchymal cell proliferation and oxidative stress in rodent liver is an acute phenomenon that is not relevant to long-term exposure, but they are still involved in chronic apoptotic responses. These results provide new insight for understanding the mode of hepatocarcinogenic action of peroxisome proliferators.
All schizophrenic symptoms remitted completely in six out of 14 adults who had not responded to phenothiazine drugs and who were then given propranolol. Another patient improved markedly and four improved moderately. Two had minimal or transient improvement, and one left hospital unchanged after a short, severe, toxic reaction. The six with complete remissions all began to improve within a few days of starting propranolol and the florid symptoms remitted completely after three to 26 days. They were stabilized on a daily dose of 500-3,500 mg of propranolol and at the time of writing had remained well for up to six months. Two patients who stopped propranolol after their symptoms remitted relapsed severely within a few days. Toxic effects (ataxia, visual hallucinations, and confusional states) were related to the rate of increase rather than to the absolute dose of propranolol. After the procedure was modified unwanted effects were usually mild or absent.
This study examined the role of oxidative stress in neurotoxic effects of cadmium chloride (Cd) in rat primary mid-brain neuron-glia cultures. Cd accumulated in neuron-glia cultures and produced cytotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner, with IC(50) of 2.5microM 24 h after exposure. (3)H-dopamine uptake into neuron-glia cultures was decreased 7 days after Cd exposure, with IC(50) of 0.9microM, indicative of the sensitivity of dopaminergic neurons to Cd toxicity. To investigate the role of microglia in Cd-induced toxicity to neurons, microglia-enriched cultures were prepared. Cd significantly increased intracellular reactive oxygen species production in microglia-enriched cultures, as evidenced by threefold increases in 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein signals. Using 5,5-dimethyl-1-pyrroline N-oxide as a spin-trapping agent, Cd increased electron spin resonance signals by 3.5-fold in microglia-enriched cultures. Cd-induced oxidative stress to microglia-enriched cultures was further evidenced by activation of redox-sensitive transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B and activator protein-1 (AP-1), and the increased expression of oxidative stress-related genes, such as metallothionein, heme oxygenase-1, glutathione S-transferase pi, and metal transport protein-1, as determined by gel-shift assays and real-time reverse transcription-PCR, respectively, in microglia-enriched cultures. In conclusion, Cd is toxic to neuron-glia cultures, and the oxidative stress from microglia may play important roles in Cd-induced damage to dopaminergic neurons.
In this study, we investigated the feasibility of pain treatment using ketoprofen 25 mg tablets (5 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1)) at home in children after daycase adenoidectomy. We also determined the adverse events and the incidence of postoperative bleeding during the first week after surgery. Initially, we studied 611 children aged 1-9 years. The study design was prospective, longitudinal, and open. The final data consisted of 555 (91%) children, and 522 children who received ketoprofen at home. The parents administered four (1-10, median with 10th and 90th percentiles) ketoprofen tablets to their children during the first week. A total of 20% of the parents experienced problems in administering tablets, and problems were three times more common in children under 48 months compared to older children. The main problems were swallowing difficulties and the unpleasant taste of the tablet. Neither serious adverse events, nor clinically significant bleeding occurred. Ketoprofen at the dose of 5 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1) proved to be a safe analgesic in children for short-term use after adenoidectomy.
