Intravenous acetaminophen injection (paracetamol) is marketed in Europe for the management of acute pain. A repeated-dose, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, three-parallel group study was performed to evaluate the analgesic efficacy and safety of intravenous acetaminophen as compared with its prodrug (propacetamol) and placebo. Propacetamol has been available in many European countries for more than 20 yr.
After orthopedic surgery, patients reporting moderate to severe pain received either 1 g intravenous acetaminophen, 2 g propacetamol, or placebo at 6-h intervals over 24 h. Patients were allowed "rescue" intravenous patient-controlled analgesia morphine. Pain intensity, pain relief, and morphine use were measured at selected intervals. Safety was monitored through adverse event reporting, clinical examination, and laboratory testing.
One hundred fifty-one patients (intravenous acetaminophen: 49; propacetamol: 50; placebo: 52) received at least one dose of study medication. The intravenous acetaminophen and propacetamol groups differed significantly from the placebo group regarding pain relief from 15 min to 6 h (P < 0.05) and median time to morphine rescue (intravenous acetaminophen: 3 h; propacetamol: 2.6 h; placebo: 0.8 h). Intravenous acetaminophen and propacetamol significantly reduced morphine consumption over the 24-h period: The total morphine doses received over 24 h were 38.3 +/- 35.1 mg for intravenous acetaminophen, 40.8 +/- 30.2 mg for propacetamol, and 57. 4 +/- 52.3 mg for placebo, corresponding to decreases of -33% (19 mg) and -29% (17 mg) for intravenous acetaminophen and propacetamol, respectively. Drug-related adverse events were reported in 8.2%, 50% (most of them local), and 17.3% of patients treated with intravenous acetaminophen, propacetamol, and placebo, respectively.
Intravenous acetaminophen, 1 g, administered over a 24-h period in patients with moderate to severe pain after orthopedic surgery provided rapid and effective analgesia and was well tolerated.
Asymptomatic long-term survivors of childhood cancer treated with anthracyclines may have latent cardiac dysfunction which is undetected by commonly used echocardiographic methods. A more sensitive echocardiographic screening test, dobutamine stress echocardiography, was performed on 22 patients (mean age 9.10 +/- 3.79 years) treated with 75 to 450 mg/m2 of anthracyclines (mean 210.45 +/- 127.34) and results were compared with 22 healthy age-matched control subjects. Echocardiographic Doppler studies were performed after each dobutamine infusion of 0.5, 2.5, 5 and 10 micrograms/kg/min. Although left ventricular mass was decreased and end-systolic walls stress increased in the patient group when compared with the control subjects (p < 0.01 and p < 0.05, respectively), no differences were found between shortening fraction and ejection force in control subjects and patients, at rest and during each dobutamine infusion. A decreased mitral E/A ratio (ratio of early-to-late peak filling velocity) was demonstrated in anthracycline-treated patients only during dobutamine infusion (p < 0.01). Our data showed left ventricular diastolic dysfunction during intropic stimulation with dobutamine, and suggest that dobutamine stress echocardiography is a useful technique for evaluating the cardiac status of anthracycline-treated patients on a long-term basis.
The influence of indomethacin therapy on the circulatory and antianginal effects of nitroglycerin were studied in six patients with stable angina pectoris. Indomethacin 50 mg or identical placebo capsules were administered three times a day for 1 week each in a double-blind, random manner. Heart rate, blood pressure, and ST-segment depression were measured at rest and during exercise before and after the administration of 0.6 mg sublingual nitroglycerin during indomethacin and placebo therapy. Nitroglycerin lowered standing systolic blood pressure by 38 mm Hg during placebo therapy (p less than 0.001) and by 36 mm Hg during indomethacin therapy (p less than 0.001). This was accompanied by a reflex increase in heart rate (p less than 0.001) which was of similar magnitude during placebo and indomethacin therapy. The increase in exercise duration to the onset of angina post nitroglycerin was similar during placebo and indomethacin therapy (128 vs 84 s; NS). Similarly, the increase in the total duration of exercise post nitroglycerin was similar during placebo and indomethacin therapy. Reduction in ST-segment depression post nitroglycerin was more pronounced during placebo than indomethacin therapy, but did not achieve statistical significance. The results show that indomethacin did not modify the circulatory effects of nitroglycerin at rest or during exercise and did not attenuate the increase in exercise tolerance produced by sublingual nitroglycerin. Since indomethacin is a potent prostaglandin inhibitor, the findings indirectly suggest that the vasodepressor and antianginal effects of nitroglycerin are in all probability not mediated by prostaglandins.
We tested the hypothesis that activation of transient receptor potential vanilloid type-1 (TRPV1) by capsaicin prevents adipogenesis. TRPV1 channels in 3T3-L1-preadipocytes and visceral adipose tissue from mice and humans were detected by immunoblotting and quantitative real-time RT-PCR. The effect of TRPV1 on cytosolic calcium was determined fluorometrically in 3T3-L1-preadipocytes and in human visceral fat tissue. Adipogenesis in stimulated 3T3-L1-preadipocytes was determined by oil red O-staining of intracellular lipid droplets, triglyceride levels, expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, and expression of fatty acid synthase. Long-term feeding experiments were undertaken in wild-type mice and TRPV1 knockout mice. We detected TRPV1 channels in 3T3-L1-preadipocytes and visceral adipose tissue from mice and humans. In vitro, the TRPV1 agonist capsaicin dose-dependently induced calcium influx and prevented the adipogenesis in stimulated 3T3-L1-preadipocytes. RNA interference knockdown of TRPV1 in 3T3-L1-preadipocytes attenuated capsaicin-induced calcium influx, and adipogenesis in stimulated 3T3-L1-preadipocytes was no longer prevented. During regular adipogenesis TRPV1 channels were downregulated which was accompanied by a significant and time-dependent reduction of calcium influx. Compared with lean counterparts in visceral adipose tissue from obese db/db and ob/ob mice, and from obese human male subjects we observed a reduced TRVP1 expression. The reduced TRPV1 expression in visceral adipose tissue from obese humans was accompanied by reduced capsaicin-induced calcium influx. The oral administration of capsaicin for 120 days prevented obesity in male wild type mice but not in TRPV1 knockout mice assigned to high fat diet. We conclude that the activation of TRPV1 channels by capsaicin prevented adipogenesis and obesity.
Amiodarone is an antiarrythmic agent, which is often successfully used when all other antiarrythmics have failed. Sterile epididymitis is a recognized complication of treatment in adults, occurring in up to 11% of patients. To date there have been no reported cases of amiodarone induced epididymitis in children. We present a previously unrecognized cause of epididymitis in boys.
The medical records, including radiographic imaging, pathology and operative reports, of 2 postpubertal boys who had sterile epididymitis after prolonged therapy with amiodarone were reviewed.
In both cases the onset of scrotal pain and subsequent evaluation led to diagnosis of epidydimitis. Amiodarone was determined to be the cause, and cessation of the drug resulted in symptom resolution in 1 case.
While it remains uncertain, the pathophysiology of amiodarone induced epididymitis is likely related to its high concentration in testicular tissue. Recognition that amiodarone is a rare but significant cause of epididymitis in children is important to prevent unnecessary surgery in high risk patients. Amiodarone induced epididymitis in children tends to be a self-limited process and of secondary importance to the serious cardiac disease. Whereas discontinuing amiodarone risks sudden cardiac death, a reduction in dosage or temporary cessation of the drug may result in rapid resolution of the epididymitis.
Healthcare organizations must evaluate the cost effectiveness of the alternative therapies that are available to treat anemia and improve quality of life (QoL) of patients with cancer, that is, erythropoietic protein therapy and blood transfusion.
Pharmacoeconomic studies that evaluated the cost of not treating anemia or treating with transfusion or erythropoietic protein therapy were reviewed and compared. Studies of individual erythropoietic proteins (epoetin alfa, epoetin beta or darbepoetin alfa) were also assessed. As no prospective trials have compared the erythropoietic proteins, retrospective studies and the results of separate trials were analyzed. The database searched for this review was PubMed (open date to August 2006). Recent conference abstracts were also searched (2003-July 2006).
There is a high cost associated with anemia in cancer patients. Treatment of anemia is likely to lead to increased hemoglobin (Hb) levels and improved QoL as principal outcomes. Therefore, in assessing erythropoietic protein versus transfusion, it is more appropriate to use Hb or QoL as endpoint rather than quality adjusted life year. Studies with the former approach showed that erythropoietic protein therapy is more cost effective than transfusion. Also, its cost effectiveness should be improved with the use of evidence-based guidelines for patient selection and more tailored utilization. Increasing evidence suggests there might be differences among the erythropoietic proteins in terms of response rate, speed of response, and need for dose escalation.
Significant costs are incurred when anemia in cancer is not treated. Erythropoietic protein therapy is more cost effective than blood transfusion for the treatment of cancer-related anemia. Transfusion should be reserved for patients with poor responses to erythropoietic protein or for the emergency setting, when rapid improvement in Hb is required.
Current treatment options for parkinsonism as a neurodegenerative disease are limited and still mainly symptomatic and lack significant disease-modifying effect. Understanding its molecular pathology and finding the cause of dopaminergic cell loss will lead to exploring therapies that could prevent and cure the disease. Mitochondrial dysfunction was found to stimulate releasing of reactive oxygen species (ROS) with subsequent induction of apoptotic neuronal cell death. The aim of the present study was to throw the light on the role of coenzyme Q10 with or without L-dopa in an experimental model of parkinsonism induced by rotenone in rats. The present work showed that rotenone (2.5 mg/kg/day i.p. for 60 days) induced a model of parkinsonism (group II) resembling the basic findings in human characterized by bradykinesia and rigidity manifested as an increase in catalepsy score (detected after 20 days with bad prognosis after 60 days) with marked decrease in striatal dopamine levels. This model confirmed the implication of mitochondrial-apoptotic pathway in the pathogenesis of parkinsonism as there was a decrease in levels of striatal complex I activity and ATP as well as extreme overexpression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2, and also exhibited the role of coenzyme Q10 where its plasma and striatal levels were found to be decreased in comparison to the normal control rats (group I). This proposed pathogenesis was evidenced by the significant correlation between catalepsy score and the neurochemical parameters obtained in the current work. The treated groups started to receive the drug(s) after 20 days from induction of parkinsonism and continued to complete for 60 days. Oral administration of Co Q10 in a low dose 200 mg/kg/day (group III) or a high dose 600 mg/kg/day (group IV), resulted in amelioration of the mitochondrial induced apoptosis by dose-dependent restoration of striatal complex I activity, ATP levels with temperate increase in expression of Bcl-2 as well as decrease in catalepsy score. Although both low and high doses of Co Q10 resulted in significant increase in its plasma and striatal levels, but only the high dose was shown to reach the recommended therapeutic levels. As a current replacement therapy, oral administration of levodopa 10 mg/kg/day (group V), caused symptomatic improvement in the form of reduction of catalepsy score with restoration of striatal dopamine levels, but it did not show any significant effects on either striatal complex I activity, ATP levels or the expression of Bcl-2, pointing to the lack of its disease-modifying role. On the other hand, its administration with high dose of coenzyme Q10 caused the most marked symptomatic improvement in catalepsy score when compared to its administration with low dose of coenzyme Q10, or when compared to either coenzyme Q10 high dose or L-dopa, respectively. Moreover, administration of high dose coenzyme Q10 with L-dopa provided a significant increase in striatal complex I activity, ATP levels and Bcl-2 expression in comparison to group administered coenzyme Q10 low dose with L-dopa, in addition to the significant restoration of striatal dopamine levels and both plasma and striatal Co Q10 levels. Regarding that L-dopa is viewed as a replacement therapy in parkinsonism, it could be concluded that addition of coenzyme Q10 in a high dose in early parkinson's disease could be recommended based on its proved disease-modifying role on several levels of the proposed mechanisms, including improvement of respiratory chain activity and intervention with neuronal apoptosis. A further research to investigate other apoptosis-targeted compounds will open a new era in the treatment of parkinsonism.
This study was designed to determine the effect of inhibitors of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1, COX-2, and the nonselective COX inhibitor naproxen on coronary vasoactivity and thrombogenicity under baseline and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory conditions. We hypothesize that endothelial COX-1 is the primary COX isoform in the canine normal coronary artery, which mediates arachidonic acid (AA)-induced vasodilatation. However, COX-2 can be induced and overexpressed by inflammatory mediators and becomes the major local COX isoform responsible for the production of antithrombotic prostaglandins during systemic inflammation. The interventions included the selective COX-1 inhibitor SC-560 (0.3 mg/kg iv), the selective COX-2 inhibitor nimesulide (5 mg/kg iv), or the nonselective COX inhibitor naproxen (3 mg/kg iv). The selective prostacyclin (IP) receptor antagonist RO-3244794 (RO) was used as an investigational tool to delineate the role of prostacyclin (PGI(2)) in modulating vascular reactivity. AA-induced vasodilatation of the left circumflex coronary artery was suppressed to a similar extent by each of the COX inhibitors and RO. The data suggest that AA-induced vasodilatation in the normal coronary artery is mediated by a single COX isoform, the constitutive endothelial COX-1, which is reported to be susceptible to COX-2 inhibitors. The effect of the COX inhibitors on thrombus formation was evaluated in a model of carotid artery thrombosis secondary to electrolytic-induced vessel wall injury. Pretreatment with LPS (0.5 mg/kg iv) induced a systemic inflammatory response and prolonged the time-to-occlusive thrombus formation, which was reduced in the LPS-treated animals by the administration of nimesulide. In contrast, neither SC-560 nor naproxen influenced the time to thrombosis in the animals pretreated with LPS. The data are of significance in view of reported adverse cardiovascular events observed in clinical trials involving the use of selective COX-2 inhibitors, thereby suggesting that the endothelial constitutive COX-1 and the inducible vascular COX-2 serve important functions in maintaining vascular homeostasis.
Resveratrol, a plant constituent enriched in the skin of grapes, is one of the most promising agents for chemoprevention. In the present study, resveratrol-induced apoptosis in 7, 12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-initiated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) promoted, mouse skin tumors. The chemopreventive effects of resveratrol in terms of delayed onset of tumorigenesis, cumulative number of tumors and average number of tumors/mouse were recorded. Resveratrol treatment resulted in regression of tumors (28%) after withdrawal of the TPA treatment. Induction of apoptosis by resveratrol in DMBA-TPA induced skin tumors was recorded by the appearance of a sub-G1 fraction (30%) using flow cytometry and an increase in the number of apoptotic cells by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Western blot analysis combined with multivariable flow cytometry, showed that resveratrol application induces the expression of the p53 and pro-apoptotic Bax, with concomitant decrease in anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2. Alteration in Bax/Bcl2 ratio by resveratrol treatment resulted in apoptosis, which was associated with the release of cytochrome c and induction of apoptotic protease-activating factor-1(APAF-1). Further, this effect was found to result in cleaved fragments of caspase-9,-3, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). These findings demonstrate for the first time that resveratrol induces apoptosis through activation of p53 activity in mouse skin tumors, thereupon suggesting its chemopreventive activity, through the modulation of proteins involved in mitochondrial pathway of apoptosis.
The goal of a non-inferiority study is to test whether a new treatment has at least as much efficacy as an established treatment. The purpose of this non-inferiority study was to compare the speed of onset of antidepressant efficacy for duloxetine (a dual serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor) and escitalopram (a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor).
This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active comparator-controlled study, in which patients (> or = 18 years) meeting DSM-IV criteria for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) received duloxetine 60 mg once daily (QD; N = 273), escitalopram 10 mg QD (N = 274), or placebo (N = 137) for 8 weeks. The primary objective was to compare the onset of antidepressant efficacy, by testing the hypothesis that the percentage of duloxetine-treated patients achieving onset criteria at Week 2 was not inferior to that in the escitalopram group.
Onset of efficacy was defined as a 20% decrease from baseline on the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD(17)) Maier subscale that was maintained or exceeded at all subsequent visits.
Probabilities of meeting onset criteria at Week 2 for duloxetine- and escitalopram-treated patients were 42.6% versus 35.2%, respectively (treatment difference = 7.4%; 95% confidence interval, -1.3% to 16.2%; p = 0.097). Both drugs showed significant improvement compared with placebo (p < or = 0.05) on the primary efficacy measure (Maier subscale) at Week 1 and endpoint (Week 8). No differences were found between duloxetine, escitalopram, and placebo rates of remission or response at 8 weeks. Adverse events that occurred significantly more frequently among duloxetine-treated patients when compared with those receiving escitalopram were nausea, dry mouth, vomiting, yawning, and irritability. The rate of discontinuation due to adverse events did not differ significantly between treatment groups.
Given the difficulties in constructing appropriate dose comparisons, the results of this study should be interpreted specific to the doses tested and not extrapolated to the drug as a whole. This study employed a fixed-dose design; flexible-dose designs are more likely to find a difference between antidepressants and placebo.
In this study, both duloxetine and escitalopram showed significantly greater improvement on the primary efficacy measure than placebo over the 8-week acute treatment period, while no differences were observed between drugs or between drugs and placebo on response and remission rates at 8 weeks. Escitalopram at a starting dose of 10 mg QD was better tolerated than duloxetine at a starting dose of 60 mg QD. This study met its pre-defined primary objective of assessing if duloxetine was non-inferior to escitalopram in antidepressant onset efficacy, and the results show that duloxetine is at least as fast as (non-inferior to) escitalopram.
The effect of the Ca2+ blocker verapamil on amnesia induced by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or by the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine was studied in male Wistar rats trained in passive avoidance task ("step down"). Clonidine (0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) and ECS induced a pronounced amnesia, significantly reducing the percentage of rats that had acquired the task upon retention tests, given 3 h, 24 h and 7 days after training. Verapamil (10 mg/kg) administered orally for 12 days (5 days before and 7 days after training) completely abolished the ECS- or clonidine-induced amnesia. These data suggest that calcium channel blocker verapamil has a protective effect against experimentally provoked memory deficit and might be useful for the treatment of cognitive disorders.
To inform doctors of potential hazards if opioids are administered in excessive doses to patients with acute pulmonary oedema.
Three elderly patients were unresponsive and hypotensive on arrival in the emergency department. All had received morphine parenterally as a component of prehospital treatment for acute pulmonary oedema.
All were given naloxone intravenously, regained consciousness and had a rise in blood pressure.
Parenteral administration of opioids should be used with caution in acute pulmonary oedema. The authors present a protocol for prehospital drug therapy.
The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction in hypertension (LIFE) study is the first, and, so far, the only endpoint trial in patients with hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) to show a divergent therapeutic outcome of one treatment modality over another with equivalent blood pressure control. The purpose of this article is to review post hoc sub-analyses of LIFE study data and other clinical studies that offer some insight into possible treatment-related differences contributing to the superior stroke outcome of losartan versus atenolol beyond blood pressure reduction.
Relevant randomized clinical trials and review articles were identified through a MEDLINE search of English-language articles published between 1990 and 2006 using the search terms losartan, atenolol, LIFE, hypertension, and LVH. Articles describing major clinical studies, new data, or mechanisms pertinent to the LIFE study were selected for review.
Differences in blood pressure or in the distribution of add-on medications were not evident between study groups in the LIFE study. Thus, the observed outcomes benefits favoring losartan may involve other possible mechanisms, including differential effects of losartan and atenolol on LVH regression, left atrial diameter, atrial fibrillation, brain natriuretic peptide, vascular structure, thrombus formation/platelet aggregation, serum uric acid, albuminuria, new-onset diabetes, and lipid metabolism. Alternative explanations for the LIFE study findings have also been put forward, including the choice of atenolol as an appropriate active comparator and differential effects between treatment groups on central pulse pressure. Additional clinical trials are needed to determine if the beneficial effects of losartan seen in LIFE are shared by other inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system.
Sub-analyses of the LIFE study data suggest that losartan's stroke benefit may arise from a mosaic of mechanisms rather than a single action. Further studies are expected to continue to delineate the mechanisms of differential responses to treatments in LIFE.
Morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) has promising preclinical characteristics and encouraging pharmacokinetic features for acute nociceptive pain. Early studies have produced a good safety profile when compared to morphine sulfate, although in surrogate pain models studies, a mixed picture emerged. A study to evaluate the efficacy and safety profile in a clinical setting was designed.
The authors conducted a double-blind, randomized, dose-finding study of patients scheduled to undergo major joint replacement. One hundred patients of both sexes were included, with 50 patients in each group. A loading dose of 10 mg of study medication was given intravenously at induction of anesthesia, and two further doses were allowed during surgery if required. Bolus doses via a patient-controlled analgesia system were given subcutaneously at 2 mg/dose and set at a 10-min lockout. Assessments of pain intensity and relief were recorded during the 24-h period.
There were no statistically significant differences between the treatments for 24-h mean pain intensity. However, pain intensity was significantly higher in the M6G group than in the morphine group at 30 min and 1 h. There was no statistical difference in 24-h mean pain relief or retrospective pain scores at any time point during the 24-h period. The severity of sedation was significantly greater in the morphine group than in the M6G group at 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, and 24 h. Respiratory depression was greater in the morphine group than in the M6G group, and more patients in the morphine group withdrew from the study because of respiratory depression.
Overall, M6G has an analgesic effect similar to that of morphine over the first 24 h postoperatively. However, M6G may be slower onset initially than morphine; therefore, a larger initial dose may be required.
Kallikrein-related peptidase 10 (KLK10) overexpression is a predictor of poor disease outcome in women with late-stage ovarian cancer. We aimed to identify whether KLK10 overexpression could be attributed to genetic variants, in particular, in hormone response elements or transcription factor binding sites.
Cox regression analysis was used to assess the association between 2 tag and 1 exonic KLK10 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and the survival of 319 patients with ovarian cancer. Four different ovarian cancer cell lines were investigated for KLK10 expression after hormone stimulation, and sequence variation in the 3.6-Kb upstream of the KLK10 start site. In silico analyses of SNPs in cell lines and from published databases were undertaken to identify further research novel and potentially functional SNPs that are not covered by tag SNPs.
The KLK10 SNPs investigated were not associated with ovarian cancer survival. However, steroid hormone treatment of ovarian cell lines showed KLK10 up-regulation in response to estrogen and estrogen plus progesterone treatments in the aggressive cell line PEO1 and affirmed a role for KLK10 in aggressive ovarian cancer. Potentially functional KLK10 SNPs were identified by cell line sequencing and bioinformatic analysis.
Potentially functional candidate KLK10 SNPs require investigation in future association studies of ovarian cancer risk and survival, including rs3760738 identified in aggressive ovarian cancer cell lines and predicted to affect transcription factor binding sites.
The search for an improved clozapine-like compound has resulted in the selection of a new molecule: JL13 (5-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)-8-chloro-pyrido[2,3-b][1,5] benzoxazepine fumarate). Like clozapine, JL13 did not antagonize apomorphine-induced stereotypy and did not produce catalepsy but antagonized apomorphine-induced climbing in rodents (ID50 = 3.9 mg kg-1 s.c.). It was inactive against d-amphetamine-induced stereotypy but antagonized d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity in the mouse (ID50 = 4.4 mg kg-1 i.p.). JL13, like clozapine, was able to antagonize (+/-)-DOI-induced head-twitches in the mouse (ID50 = 2.0 mg kg-1 i.p.). In the open-field test in the rat and forced swimming test in the mouse a high similarity was noted between the two drugs in the same range of doses. In a complex temporal regulation schedule in the dog, JL13 showed a high resemblance with clozapine without inducing sialorrhea, palpebral ptosis or any significant motor side effects. In rats trained to discriminate clozapine, JL13 (10 mg kg-1 i.p.) induced a high level of generalization (70%) to clozapine. In a drug discrimination procedure in the squirrel monkey, JL13 (3-10 mg kg-1 i.m.) produced a full substitution of clozapine. On the basis of these preclinical data, it is thus predicted that JL13 would be a promising atypical antipsychotic drug.
Gout, a common form of inflammatory arthritis, is strongly associated with elevated uric acid concentrations in the blood (hyperuricemia). A recent study in Icelanders identified a rare missense single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the ALDH16A1 gene, ALDH16A1*2, to be associated with gout and serum uric acid levels. ALDH16A1 is a novel and rather unique member of the ALDH superfamily in relation to its gene and protein structures. ALDH16 genes are present in fish, amphibians, protista, bacteria but absent from archaea, fungi and plants. In most mammalian species, two ALDH16A1 spliced variants (ALDH16A1, long form and ALDH16A1_v2, short form) have been identified and both are expressed in HepG-2, HK-2 and HK-293 human cell lines. The ALDH16 proteins contain two ALDH domains (as opposed to one in the other members of the superfamily), four transmembrane and one coiled-coil domains. The active site of ALDH16 proteins from bacterial, frog and lower animals contain the catalytically important cysteine residue (Cys-302); this residue is absent from the mammalian and fish orthologs. Molecular modeling predicts that both the short and long forms of human ALDH16A1 protein would lack catalytic activity but may interact with the hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT1) protein, a key enzyme involved in uric acid metabolism and gout. Interestingly, such protein-protein interactions with HPRT1 are predicted to be impaired for the long or short forms of ALDH16A1*2. These results lead to the intriguing possibility that association between ALDH16A1 and HPRT1 may be required for optimal HPRT activity with disruption of this interaction possibly contributing to the hyperuricemia seen in ALDH16A1*2 carriers.
Individuals with 22q11.2 microdeletions show behavioral and cognitive deficits and are at high risk of developing schizophrenia. We analyzed an engineered mouse strain carrying a chromosomal deficiency spanning a segment syntenic to the human 22q11.2 locus. We uncovered a previously unknown alteration in the biogenesis of microRNAs (miRNAs) and identified a subset of brain miRNAs affected by the microdeletion. We provide evidence that the abnormal miRNA biogenesis emerges because of haploinsufficiency of the Dgcr8 gene, which encodes an RNA-binding moiety of the 'microprocessor' complex and contributes to the behavioral and neuronal deficits associated with the 22q11.2 microdeletion.
Epilepsy and mental retardation limited to females (EFMR) is a disorder with an X-linked mode of inheritance and an unusual expression pattern. Disorders arising from mutations on the X chromosome are typically characterized by affected males and unaffected carrier females. In contrast, EFMR spares transmitting males and affects only carrier females. Aided by systematic resequencing of 737 X chromosome genes, we identified different protocadherin 19 (PCDH19) gene mutations in seven families with EFMR. Five mutations resulted in the introduction of a premature termination codon. Study of two of these demonstrated nonsense-mediated decay of PCDH19 mRNA. The two missense mutations were predicted to affect adhesiveness of PCDH19 through impaired calcium binding. PCDH19 is expressed in developing brains of human and mouse and is the first member of the cadherin superfamily to be directly implicated in epilepsy or mental retardation.
Mydricaine is a mydriatic agent used as a subconjunctival injection to maintain perioperative mydriasis. The drug consists of a mixture of 1.3 mg atropine sulphate, 0.12 mg adrenaline and 8.4 mg procaine hydrochloride in a single vial of 0.4 mL. It is common practice to use mydricaine injections during vitreoretinal surgery in the Royal Adelaide Hospital. Even though the drug is used widely in many vitreoretinal centres, mydricaine is not listed in the British National Formulary nor Monthly Index of Medical Specialities. Therefore, case reports provide the main forum for reporting side-effects.
Malignant gliomas continue to be a significant source of mortality in young and middle aged adults. The introduction of new treatment strategies and multidisciplinary approaches has improved the outcome of patients with these tumors only slightly. Because retinoic acid has growth inhibitory activity against glioma and neuroblastoma cells in cultures, we assessed the efficacy of all-trans-retinoic acid in the treatment of recurrent cerebral gliomas. Thirty-six patients with recurrent cerebral gliomas were entered in the study and treated with 120 or 150 mg/ m2/day of all-trans-retinoic acid as a single agent. The drug was given for 3 weeks followed with one week of rest. Two blocks of 4 weeks constituted one course of treatment. One (3%) of 34 evaluable patients had a minor response and 14 (41%) had stable disease. In the rest of the patients (56%), tumors continued to progress despite treatment. The median time to progression of all evaluable patients was 8 weeks, and for the responders was 17 weeks. The higher dose level (150 mg/m2) was associated with high incidence of headache, which responded to dose reduction. The lower dose level was very well tolerated, with mild, mainly dermatological toxicity. All-trans-retinoic acid as a single agent has no significant activity against recurrent cerebral gliomas.
Early infantile epileptic encephalopathy with suppression-burst (EIEE), also known as Ohtahara syndrome, is one of the most severe and earliest forms of epilepsy. Using array-based comparative genomic hybridization, we found a de novo 2.0-Mb microdeletion at 9q33.3-q34.11 in a girl with EIEE. Mutation analysis of candidate genes mapped to the deletion revealed that four unrelated individuals with EIEE had heterozygous missense mutations in the gene encoding syntaxin binding protein 1 (STXBP1). STXBP1 (also known as MUNC18-1) is an evolutionally conserved neuronal Sec1/Munc-18 (SM) protein that is essential in synaptic vesicle release in several species. Circular dichroism melting experiments revealed that a mutant form of the protein was significantly thermolabile compared to wild type. Furthermore, binding of the mutant protein to syntaxin was impaired. These findings suggest that haploinsufficiency of STXBP1 causes EIEE.
Murine pulmonary adenomas progress to malignancy with many similarities to human pulmonary adenocarcinoma, the most common form of lung cancer. Inbred mice vary in their susceptibility to lung tumor development, and induced genetic modifications are a powerful tool for understanding this susceptibility. Many transgenic and null mutations relevant to lung cancer pathogenesis were derived on the highly resistant C57BL/B6 (B6) background. Since the inability to reliably induce lung tumors in B6 mice limits these studies, we systematically examined several carcinogenesis protocols in B6 mice. Ten weekly ethyl carbamate (EC) doses caused a nearly 100% lung tumor incidence with a tumor multiplicity >2; multiple EC dosing is thus an alternative to the time-consuming transfer of transgenes and null mutations to susceptible backgrounds.
An anti-emetic drug, nabilone, a synthetic cannabinoid, has been compared with prochlorperazine in 24 lung cancer patients receiving cancer chemotherapy. Each of the drugs studied was given orally every 12 hours, starting the night before chemotherapy, during one of two consecutive identical chemotherapy cycles in accordance with a double-blind cross-over random order assignment. Single doses were 2 mg of nabilone, or 15 mg of prochlorperazine. The chemotherapeutic regimens given included the following drugs in various combinations: cis-platinum, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vindesine, and etoposide (VP16). Nabilone was significantly superior to prochlorperazine in the reduction of vomiting episodes. Side effects, mainly vertigo, were evident in nearly half of the patients after nabilone, and three patients were withdrawn from the study due to decreased coordination and hallucinations after nabilone. Side effects from prochlorperazine were limited to mild drowsiness in one patient. Two-thirds of the patients preferred nabilone to prochlorperazine. We conclude that nabilone is a moderately effective anti-emetic drug, but that the unpredictability of its side effects call for careful patient information, especially with elderly outpatients. We recommend that at least after the first dose of nabilone, the patient should be kept under close observation during 4 hours.
A large proportion, from 30% to 50%, of diabetic patients frequently manifests loss of the normal diurnal variation of blood pressure, i.e. their blood pressure does not show at least 10% fall at night (non-dippers). It has been demonstrated that non-dippers are at increased risk of end-organ damage, in particular, renal and cardiovascular complications. As no reliable means of reversing impaired blood pressure variation has been established so far, we aimed at assessing the effect of a long-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor trandolapril on the disturbed circadian blood pressure rhythm in diabetics without hypertension or nephropathy. A total of 18 type 1 diabetes patients (8 male, 10 female), aged 33.5+/-4.8, with duration of diabetes 5.8+/-2.8 years and HbA(1c) 6.6+/-0.4% (range 5.8--7.1%) were enrolled into the study. Ten well-matched type 1 diabetes patients served as an untreated control group. Twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood pressure measurements (ABPM) were performed thrice in each subject: before trandolapril, 2 mg once daily in the morning, was started; after the first dose of the drug; and after 2 weeks of the treatment. Mean (+/-S.D.) values of systolic, diastolic blood pressure, night fall in systolic, and diastolic blood pressure in the treatment group were (1) at baseline: 124.0+/-5.8 mm Hg, 89.3+/-4.2 mm Hg, 3.0+/-2.2%, 5.1+/-3.8%; (2) after the first dose: 116.1+/-7.6 mm Hg (P<.01 vs. baseline), 82.6+/-6.7 mm Hg (P<.01 vs. baseline), 4.2+/-2.6%, 4.7+/-2.5%; and (3) after 14-day treatment: 116.6+/-8.1 mm Hg (P<.01 vs. baseline), 76.9+/-9.6 mm Hg (P<.01 vs. baseline), 17.6+/-6.9% (P<.01 vs. baseline and after 24-h values), 19.4+/-8.0% (P<.01 vs. baseline and after 24-h values), respectively. ABPM results for the untreated controls were similar in all three measurements. In conclusion, within 14 days of trandolapril treatment, circadian blood pressure variation was successfully restored in normoalbuminuric normotensive insulin-dependent diabetic patients.
The effect of nitroglycerin on heart rate and systolic blood pressure was compared in 5 normal subjects, 12 diabetic subjects without autonomic neuropathy, and 5 diabetic subjects with autonomic neuropathy. The magnitude and time course of the increase in heart rate and the decrease in systolic blood pressure after nitroglycerin were similar in the normal and diabetic subjects without autonomic neuropathy, whereas a lesser increase in heart rate and a greater decrease in systolic blood pressure occurred in the diabetic subjects with autonomic neuropathy. It is therefore suggested that caution should be exercised when prescribing vasodilator drugs in diabetic patients, particularly those with autonomic neuropathy.
