The effect of chronic administration of trifluoperazine on the perioral movement profile of Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats was examined. Perioral movements were characterised by visual observations, coupled with electromyographic recording from the masseter muscle. In drug-naive animals from both strains the spectrum of perioral behaviours was essentially identical, primarily consisting of purposeless chewing, accompanied by occasional bursts of facial tremor and teeth chattering, with occasional yawning. Each burst of facial tremor was accompanied by a transient increase in the rate of purposeless chewing. Wistar rats exhibited a higher level of spontaneous purposeless chewing compared to Sprague-Dawley rats. In both strains, chronic administration of trifluoperazine (5 mg/kg per day, PO) for 5 months induced an increase in perioral behaviour, which primarily consisted of enhanced purposeless chewing. In Wistar rats the drug-induced increase in purposeless chewing was accompanied by an increase in the incidence of yawning, with no change in the incidence of either facial tremor or teeth chattering. In contrast, Sprague-Dawley rats displayed a drug-induced increase in purposeless chewing, accompanied by an increase in the incidence of facial tremor and teeth chattering, but not yawning. In Wistar rats withdrawal of trifluoperazine diminished but did not reverse the drug-induced increase in purposeless chewing. Drug withdrawal also precipitated a transient increase in the incidence of facial tremor and teeth chattering, but had no effect on yawning. In Wistar rats, the level of purposeless chewing and the incidence of yawning remained elevated above control levels for at least 13 weeks after drug withdrawal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The treatment of hypertension with high-dose thiazide diuretics results in potassium depletion and a limited benefit for preventing coronary events. The clinical relevance of hypokalemia associated with low-dose diuretics has not been assessed. To determine whether hypokalemia that occurs with low-dose diuretics is associated with a reduced benefit on cardiovascular events, we analyzed data of 4126 participants in the Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP), a 5-year randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial of chlorthalidone-based treatment of isolated systolic hypertension in older persons. After 1 year of treatment, 7.2% of the participants randomized to active treatment had a serum potassium <3.5 mmol/L compared with 1% of the participants randomized to placebo (P<0.001). During the 4 years after the first annual visit, 451 participants experienced a cardiovascular event, 215 experienced a coronary event, 177 experienced stroke, and 323 died. After adjustment for known risk factors and study drug dose, the participants who received active treatment and who experienced hypokalemia had a similar risk of cardiovascular events, coronary events, and stroke as those randomized to placebo. Within the active treatment group, the risk of these events was 51%, 55%, and 72% lower, respectively, among those who had normal serum potassium levels compared with those who experienced hypokalemia (P<0.05). The participants who had hypokalemia after 1 year of treatment with a low-dose diuretic did not experience the reduction in cardiovascular events achieved among those who did not have hypokalemia.
Since its introduction to North America in 1942, the use of epidural catheter analgesia has increased dramatically. Improved equipment, methods and medications have broadened its application to include among others, surgical anesthesia, chronic pain relief and the management of postoperative pain. Numerous techniques for epidural puncture and insertion of the catheter have been described. Although complications have been associated with placement of an epidural catheter, these are rare when performed by an experienced anesthesiologist. Epidural analgesia was first accomplished by blockade with local anesthetics. Bupivacaine has been called the local anesthetic of choice for epidural infusion. Bolus administration of epidural local anesthetics gives effective analgesia; however, its use is limited by brief duration and occasionally severe hypotension. Epidural local anesthetics have been administered by continuous infusion in an attempt to minimize side effects. Nevertheless, hypotension, as well as motor block, numbness, nausea and urinary retention have occurred. Epidural analgesia with local anesthetics is effective in relieving postoperative pain, but its safety and feasibility have been questioned because of the frequent, potentially serious side effects. These problems led to trials of epidural narcotics for postoperative pain management. The exact site of action of epidural narcotic analgesics is debatable; however, the bulk of evidence supports a direct spinal action. Epidural narcotics appear to specifically inhibit nociceptive stimuli. The prolonged and profound analgesia that occurs with epidural narcotics relative to parenteral administration is due to a higher concentration of drug reaching the CSF through the epidural route. Since nervous transmission is not completely blocked this technique cannot provide anesthesia during operation. Morphine has been the most frequently used narcotic for epidural analgesia. Results of several recent, randomized double-blind studies have shown that epidural narcotics give adequate analgesia comparable with that observed with epidural bupivacaine. Epidural morphine provides a greater duration of analgesia and may cause fewer side effects. Improved analgesia has been reported when epidural narcotics are used in combination with local anesthetics. Continuous administration of low dosage epidural narcotics has been shown to have less frequent side effects than bolus administration. Nevertheless, pruritus, urinary retention, hypotension and severe respiratory depression have been reported with both methods.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Glucocorticoids are the most effective anti-inflammatory treatment for asthma, and inhaled corticosteroids are the most effective long-term control therapy for persistent asthma. In the present study, to determine the mechanism of the inhibitory effect of glucocorticoids on airway hyperresponsiveness, the effects of glucocorticoids on the expression and activation of PKC-potentiated protein phosphatase 1 inhibitory protein of 17 kDa (CPI-17) were examined in bronchial smooth muscles of antigen-induced airway hyperresponsive rats. Repeated antigen inhalation to animals sensitized with DNP-Ascaris antigen caused a marked bronchial smooth muscle hyperresponsiveness to acetylcholine, accompanied by upregulation and acetylcholine-induced activation of CPI-17 to result in an increase in myosin light chain (MLC) phosphorylation. Treatment with glucocorticoids (prednisolone or beclomethasone, 10 mg/kg, i.p., respectively) significantly inhibited the airway hyperresponsiveness, and markedly reduced both the protein and mRNA levels of CPI-17 in bronchial smooth muscle. The acetylcholine-induced activation of CPI-17, i.e., phosphorylation of CPI-17, was also significantly inhibited by glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids also prevented the augmented acetylcholine-induced MLC phosphorylation observed in the airway hyperresponsive rats. Therefore, glucocorticoids might inhibit the airway hyperresponsiveness through the inhibition of overexpression and activation of CPI-17.
Thioacetamide (TAA) has been used to develop a rodent model for hepatocarcinogenesis. To determine the genes with epigenetic modifications in early hepatocarcinogenesis, we did a genome-wide scan for hypermethylated promoter regions using CpG island microarrays in TAA-promoted rat liver tissue. Eight genes were selected based on the microarray profile; of these, Yy1 and Wdr45b were confirmed to be hypermethylated by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and pyrosequencing and downregulated by real-time reverse transcription PCR. Non-neoplastic liver cells had nuclear Yy1 immunoreactivity, while preneoplastic foci with glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) immunoreactivity had decreased Yy1 immunoreactivity. The incidence of these foci was proportional to the dose of TAA administered. Co-expression analysis of gene products downstream of Yy1 revealed increased nuclear phospho-c-Myc(+) foci as well as nuclear and cytoplasmic p21(Cip1+) foci in Yy1(-) or GST-P(+) foci in response to TAA-promotion dose. Although the absolute number of cells was low, the incidence of death receptor 5(-) foci was increased in Yy1(-) foci in proportion to the TAA dose. Yy1(-)/GST-P(+) foci revealed a higher number of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-immunoreactive cells than Yy1(+)/GST-P(+) foci, while cleaved caspase-3(+) cells were unchanged between Yy1(-)/GST-P(+) and Yy1(+)/GST-P(+) foci. In the case of Wdr45b, most GST-P(+) foci were Wdr45b(-) and were not increased by TAA promotion. These results suggest involvement of Yy1 in the epigenetic gene regulation at the early stages of TAA promoted cell proliferation and concomitant cell cycle arrest in preneoplastic lesions.
There has been considerable interest in the use of genetically modified mice for detecting potential environmental carcinogens. For this reason, the National Toxicology Program has been evaluating Tg.AC hemizygous and p53 haploinsufficient mice as models to detect potential carcinogens. It was reasoned that these mouse models might also prove more effective than standard rodent models in evaluating the numerous disinfection byproducts that are found in low concentrations in drinking water. Dichloroacetic acid (DCA) is one of the most frequently found disinfection byproducts and DCA has been consistently shown to cause hepatocellular tumors in rats and mice in standard rodent studies. Tg.AC hemizygous and p53 haploinsufficient mice were exposed in the drinking water to DCA for up to 41 weeks. In a second study Tg.AC mice were subjected to dermal DCA exposure for up to 39 weeks. Increased incidences and severity of cytoplasmic vacuolization of hepatocytes were seen in the p53 mice, but there was no evidence of carcinogenic activity at exposures of up to 2000 mg/l in the drinking water. Increased incidences and severity of cytoplasmic vacuolization of hepatocytes were seen in the drinking water study with Tg.AC mice and a modest non-dose-related increase in pulmonary adenomas was observed in males exposed to 1000 mg/l in the drinking water. Dermal exposure up to 500 mg/kg for 39 weeks resulted in increased dermal papillomas at the site of application in Tg.AC mice. No significant increase in papillomas under the same study conditions was seen in the 26-week study. For DCA under these study conditions, the p53 and Tg.AC mice appear less sensitive to hepatocarcinogenesis than standard rodent models. These results suggest caution for the use of Tg.AC and p53 mice to screen unknown chemicals in drinking water for potential carcinogenicity.
Fifty-nine patients who sustained hyphema following blunt trauma were randomly assigned prospectively to either of two dose regimens of epsilon aminocaproic acid (Amicar). Twenty-six took an oral dosage of 50 mg/kg ("half dose") every four hours for five days, up to a maximum of 30 g/day, and 33 patients received 100 mg/kg ("full-dose") every four hours up to a maximum of 30 g/day. Five patients in the full-dose group experienced dizziness, hypotension, and syncope. Half-dose Amicar substantially reduced such serious side effects (P = 0.063), had no adverse effect on the reduced rate of recurrent hemorrhages (P = 0.22), and was more cost effective than the full-dose regimen. When the two patients in the half-dose group receiving 30 g/day of Amicar were deleted, however, the comparison of dizziness and hypotension in the two groups became more significant (P = 0.050). The incidence of nausea and vomiting was approximately the same in both groups (P = 0.52). Serum Amicar levels were within the range of plasminogen inhibition at both dose levels. Prior aspirin ingestion appeared to have no influence on the rate of rebleeding (P = 0.58).
The effects of a combination of melphalan and dexamethasone on cell growth, cell cycle flow, cell loss and DNA cross-links were studied on a myeloma cell line (RPMI 8226). At low concentrations melphalan reduced the cell growth by prolonging the S and G2 stages. Steroid sensitivity of the cell line was characterized by dose-dependent inhibition of cell growth after exposure of up to 1 micron dexamethasone with no cell loss found even at 10-fold saturation concentration. Dexamethasone induced prolongation of all cell cycle phases without any preferences. In combined treatment with melphalan and dexamethasone, inhibition of cell growth was found after 24 h followed by cell loss after 48 h. This cell loss was obtained with concentrations of the drugs which by themselves are only growth inhibitory. Calculation of cell flow showed that cell loss is a delayed process occurring after the cells have left the G1 phase. By alkaline elution it was found that dexamethasone treatment caused an increase in melphalan-induced DNA interstrand crosslinks.
Wnts are expressed in the forming long bones, suggesting roles in skeletogenesis. To examine the action of Wnts in skeleton formation, we developed a genetic system to conditionally express Wnt4 in chondrogenic tissues of the mouse. A mouse Wnt4 cDNA was introduced into the ubiquitously expressed Rosa26 (R26) locus by gene targeting in embryonic stem (ES) cells. The expression of Wnt4 from the R26 locus was blocked by a neomycin selection cassette flanked by loxP sites (floxneo) that was positioned between the Rosa26 promoter and the Wnt4 cDNA, creating the allele designated R26(floxneoWnt4). Wnt4 expression was activated during chondrogenesis using Col2a1-Cre transgenic mice that express Cre recombinase in differentiating chondrocytes. R26(floxneoWnt4); Col2a1-Cre double heterozygous mice exhibited a growth deficiency, beginning approximately 7 to 10 days after birth, that resulted in dwarfism. In addition, they also had craniofacial abnormalities, and delayed ossification of the lumbar vertebrae and pelvic bones. Histological analysis revealed a disruption in the organization of the growth plates and a delay in the onset of the primary and secondary ossification centers. Molecular studies showed that Wnt4 overexpression caused decreased proliferation and altered maturation of chondrocytes. In addition, R26(floxneoWnt4); Col2a1-Cre mice had decreased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). These studies demonstrate that Wnt4 overexpression leads to dwarfism in mice. The data indicate that Wnt4 levels must be regulated in chondrocytes for normal growth plate development and skeletogenesis. Decreased VEGF expression suggests that defects in vascularization may contribute to the dwarf phenotype.
This study assessed effects of aluminum (Al) exposure on the immune function of erythrocytes in rats. Forty male Wistar rats (5 weeks old) weighed 110-120 g were randomly allocated equally into four groups according to their weights and were orally exposed to 0, 64.18, 128.36, and 256.72 mg/kg body weight aluminum trichloride in drinking water for 120 days. Levels of erythrocytes C(3b) receptor rate (RBC-C(3b)RR), erythrocytes C(3b) immune complex rosette rate (RBC-ICR), erythrocytes rosette forming enhancing rate (ERER) and erythrocytes rosette forming inhibitory rate (ERIR) were determined by the end of experiment. The three Al-treated groups had lower values of RBC-C(3b)RR and ERER, and higher values of RBC-ICR and ERIR than those in control group. The levels of RBC-C(3b)RR and ERER decreased, while the levels of RBC-ICR and ERIR increased with the increases of Al content in drinking water. The results suggest that the immune function of erythrocytes in rats is suppressed by Al exposure.
Environmental toxicants, whose actions are often mediated through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) pathway, pose risks to the health and well-being of exposed species, including humans. Of particular concern are exposures during the earliest stages of development that while failing to abrogate embryogenesis, may have long term effects on newborns or adults. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of maternal exposure to the AhR-specific ligand 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on the development of rat pre-implantation embryos with respect to nuclear and cytoskeletal architecture and cell lineage allocation.
We performed a systematic 3 dimensional (3D) confocal microscopy analysis of rat pre-implantation embryos following maternal exposure to environmentally relevant doses of TCDD. Both chronic (50 ng/kg/wk for 3 months) and acute (50 ng/kg and 1 mug/kg at proestrus) maternal TCDD exposure disrupted morphogenesis at the compaction stage (8-16 cell), with defects including monopolar spindle formation, f-actin capping and fragmentation due to aberrant cytokinesis. Additionally, the size, shape and position of nuclei were modified in compaction stage pre-implantation embryos collected from treated animals. Notably, maternal TCDD exposure did not compromise survival to blastocyst, which with the exception of nuclear shape, were morphologically similar to control blastocysts.
We have identified the compaction stage of pre-implantation embryogenesis as critically sensitive to the effects of TCDD, while survival to the blastocyst stage is not compromised. To the best of our knowledge this is the first in vivo study to demonstrate a critical window of pre-implantation mammalian development that is vulnerable to disruption by an AhR ligand at environmentally relevant doses.
Several gene knockout mice have been widely used to analyze the role of drug-metabolizing enzymes in pharmacologic and physiologic responses. The metabolic shift of endogenous and exogenous compounds causes pharmacologic and physiologic alterations. Microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH)-null mice are less susceptible to the skin tumorigenesis, splenic immunotoxicity, and embryonic toxicity of 7,12-dimethylbenz[a] anthracene (DMBA). The production of DMBA-3,4-diol is detected in the target organs of wild-type mice, but not in those of mEH-null mice. Soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH)-null mice exhibit markedly reduced rates of epoxyeicosatrienoic acid conversion to dihydroxyei-cosatrienoic acid in the liver and kidney. Furthermore, sEH-null male mice have a lower blood pressure phenotype compared with male wild-type mice, suggesting the importance of sEH in blood pressure regulation. Nuclear bile acid receptor, farnesoid X receptor (FXR)-null mice are distinguished from wild-type mice by elevated bile acid levels in the liver and serum. However, hepatic lithocholic acid (LCA) levels are lower in LCA-fed FXR-null female mice compared to those in wild-type female mice. Furthermore, FXR-null female mice are less susceptible to liver damage by LCA compared with female wild-type mice. Marked increases in hepattic LCA-sulfating activity and hepatic hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase and biliary sulfated bile acid levels are detected in FXR-null female mice, suggesting the protective role of hydroxysteroid sulfotransferase in LCA-induced liver damage. These and other studies indicate that mice null for drug-metabolizing enzymes and nuclear receptors are of great value in the study of the role of drug-metabolizing enzymes in pharmacologic and physiologic responses.
The acute administration of the pineal hormone melatonin (1 mg/kg) to rats was shown to increase, and the chronic use to decrease intensity of haloperidol-induced catalepsy with the reorganization of the rhythmic pattern of the neuroleptic effect. The direct opposite shifts were observed after pinealectomy or propranolol chronic administration (1 mg/kg). It is suggested that owing to its own adaptive properties the pineal gland can participate in the formation of drug tolerance.
Up to 40% of ceftriaxone is excreted unchanged into the bile and, due to its high calcium-binding affinity, it may form a salt that can provoke biliary lithiasis. Echography revealed that biliary lithiasis was present in 12-45% of patients treated with ceftriaxone as early as the second day of treatment. Lithiasis is usually asymptomatic and disappears in less than 2 months. Symptomatic cases and patients requiring cholecystectomy have been described in the literature. We present four children, evaluated in 1999, who presented asymptomatic cholelithiasis between the second and fourth day of ceftriaxone treatment. Biliary lithiasis was found after 2-4 days of treatment, with resolution of the lithiasis between 1-4 months after the end of therapy.
Many studies in recent years suggest that schizophrenia is a synaptic disease that crucially involves a hypofunction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated signaling. However, at present it is unclear how these pathological processes are reflected in the protein content of the synapse. We have employed two-dimensional gel electrophoresis in conjunction with mass spectrometry to characterize and compare the synaptic proteomes of the human left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in chronic schizophrenia and of the cerebral cortex of rats treated subchronically with ketamine. We found consistent changes in the synaptic proteomes of human schizophrenics and in rats with induced ketamine psychosis compared to controls. However, commonly regulated proteins between both groups were very limited and only prohibitin was found upregulated in both chronic schizophrenia and the rat ketamine model. Prohibitin, however, could be a new potential marker for the synaptic pathology of schizophrenia and might be causally involved in the disease process.
We describe the case of a 32-year-old soldier who presented with acute organic psychosis during an operational tour to Iraq. This was precipitated by excessive consumption of caffeine coupled with additional use of oral nutritional stimulants. Her biochemical profile was compounded by the additional use of exogenous creatine. We present a brief overview of the issue of exercise supplementation and highlight some of the potential problems and clinical issues surrounding their use. This has important implications for both serving soldiers and the wider medical community.
In patients with unexplained pain after cholecystectomy, morphine often induces pain and may increase plasma aspartate aminotransferase activity because of exaggerated or prolonged rises in pressure within the biliary system. Previous studies have demonstrated that patients showing increases in aspartate aminotransferase have increases in plasma concentrations of noradrenaline and dopamine prior to and soon after induction of pain. The purpose of this study was to assess sympathetic activity under basal conditions in patients with (responders) and without (non-responders) increases in aspartate aminotransferase after challenge with morphine. When compared to non-responders, morphine responders had higher plasma concentrations of noradrenaline (p = 0.0001) and dopamine (p = 0.02) and higher urinary excretion of noradrenaline over 24 h (p = 0.03). Plasma and urinary levels of adrenaline were similar in the two groups. These observations indicate higher basal levels of sympathetic activity in the subgroup of patients showing increases in aspartate aminotransferase after challenge with morphine.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) provides a noninvasive method of examining cortical inhibitory and excitatory processes and cortical excitability in awake subjects. There is evidence from clinical and electroencephalographic (EEG) data that cortical excitability may be abnormal in some psychiatric populations. Chronic cocaine abuse influences a number of neurotransmitters that are involved in the excitatory/inhibitory balance of the cerebral cortex. This pilot study was conducted to ascertain the possible utility of TMS in examining cortical excitability in a population of chronic cocaine abusers.
The right and left motor thresholds of ten cocaine-dependent subjects, according to DSM-IV, and ten normal control subjects were examined using single pulse TMS.
The resting motor thresholds resulting from stimulation of the right or the left motor cortical regions were significantly elevated in cocaine-dependent subjects compared with matched control subjects.
These pilot data suggest that chronic cocaine use significantly alters cortical excitability in the direction of increased inhibition or decreased excitability. We hypothesize that this observation reflects adaptation to those effects of cocaine intoxication that promote cortical excitability and seizures.
The role of the membrane attack complex (MAC) as a mediator of renal tissue injury was evaluated in rats affected by bovine serum albumin (BSA)-induced immune complex glomerulonephritis. Immunofluorescence studies revealed concurrent deposits of IgG, BSA, C3, and the MAC along glomerular capillary walls, although the MAC manifested a more restricted distribution than that observed for immune complexes. Immunoelectron microscopic techniques were utilized to demonstrate immune complexes, C3, and the MAC within dense deposits in the subepithelial aspect of the basement membrane. Visceral epithelial foot processes were fused in areas overlying large dense deposits and exhibited intense staining for the MAC, lesser reactivity for C3 but IgG was absent from the foot process membranes. Smaller granular deposits of immune complexes, C3, and the MAC were observed in the subendothelial region of the lamina rara interna and the lamina densa. Immune complexes may activate the classical complement pathway causing diffuse injury to the glomerular basement membrane (GBM), allowing subepithelial accumulation of complexes. These observations implicate the MAC as a mediator of GBM and juxtaposed podocyte membrane injury, thereby contributing to disruption of the glomerular filtration barrier. IgG and C3 were demonstrated within tubulointerstitial regions on the surface of collagen fibers in close proximity to the tubular basement membrane (TBM) of proximal convoluted tubules. Within the TBM, C3 localization was prominent with diminished reactivity for the MAC, but IgG was not detectable. The demonstration of C3 and scant MAC deposits in the TBM of nonimmunized control rats without evidence of interstitial IgG and C3 deposits suggests that both nonimmune and immune processes play a role in the pathogenesis of extraglomerular lesions. Evidence derived from these morphologic studies indicates that the MAC is associated with injury to the GBM, foot process membranes of visceral epithelium, and the TBM. Further experiments designed to selectively enhance or inhibit the deposition of MAC and assess consequent renal dysfunction are required to substantiate hypotheses concerning the in vivo membranolytic potential of the MAC in experimental immune complex glomerulonephritis.
A female adolescent on tetracycline therapy for a dermatologic condition developed pseudotumor cerebri resulting in impaired visual acuity and papilledema. The therapy of pseudotumor cerebri is discussed.
Skin necrosis is an uncommon complication associated with coumarin or heparin therapy. The gross appearance and histology of the lesions--a paradoxical thrombosis of skin vessels--are identical. However, skin necrosis is the symptom of two different disorders. Coumarin necrosis may be related to reduced levels of protein C or S during the early stages of anticoagulation. It is possible to continue the warfarin therapy, simultaneously with heparin, if further anticoagulation is still required. In contrast, heparin necrosis is a manifestation of the potentially fatal heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis syndrome (HATT). Immediate discontinuation of heparin is mandatory.
FAM83H gene mutations are associated with autosomal-dominant hypocalcified amelogenesis imperfecta (ADHCAI), which is typically characterized by enamel having normal thickness and a markedly decreased mineral content. This study tested the hypothesis that there are phenotype and genotype associations in families with FAM83H-associated ADHCAI. Seven families segregating ADHCAI (147 individuals) were evaluated. Phenotyping included clinical, radiographic, histological, and biochemical studies, and genotyping was by mutational analysis. Multiple novel FAM83H mutations were identified, including two 2-bp-deletion mutations, the first non-nonsense mutations identified. Craniofacial deviation from normal was more prevalent in the affected individuals. Affected individuals having truncating FAMH3H mutations of 677 or fewer amino acids presented a generalized ADHCAI phenotype, while those having mutations capable of producing a protein of at least 694 amino acids had a unique and previously unreported phenotype affecting primarily the cervical enamel. This investigation shows that unique phenotypes are associated with specific FAM83H mutations.
We used an experimental rat model to compare the therapeutic efficacy of teicoplanin, linezolid, and quinupristin/dalfopristin with that of vancomycin as standard therapy for infective endocarditis.Aortic endocarditis was induced in rats by insertion of a polyethylene catheter into the left ventricle, followed by intravenous inoculation of 106 colony-forming units of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus 24 hours later. Forty-eight hours after bacterial challenge, intravenous antibiotic therapies were initiated. There were 6 groups of 8 rats each: uninfected control; infected, untreated control; vancomycin-treated (40 mg/kg twice daily); teicoplanin-treated (20 mg/kg twice daily after a loading dose of 40 mg/kg); linezolid-treated (75 mg/kg 3 times daily for 1 day, then 75 mg/kg twice daily); and quinupristin/dalfopristin-treated (30 mg/kg twice daily and an additional 10 mg/kg dalfopristin infusion over 6 to 12 hr daily). At the end of therapy, the aortic valve vegetations in the drug-treated rats were evaluated microbiologically.Compared with the infected, untreated group, all drug-treated groups had significantly reduced bacterial titers in the vegetations. Vancomycin, teicoplanin, and quinupristin/dalfopristin all effectively reduced the quantitative bacterial cultures of aortic valve vegetations. In addition, there was no significant difference in the comparative efficacy of teicoplanin, linezolid, and quinupristin/dalfopristin. Vancomycin significantly reduced bacterial counts in comparison with linezolid, which was nonetheless also effective.Our experimental model showed that each of the investigated antimicrobial agents was effective in the treatment of infective endocarditis.
Five percent of children in the United States have asthma. Status asthmaticus is one of the most common conditions for which children seek care in a pediatric emergency department. beta 2-Agonists such as albuterol are the mainstay of emergency therapy for such children. We present a case of a 4-year-old boy who experienced supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) following albuterol therapy. This is believed to be the first report of adenosine being successfully used to treat a child with albuterol-induced SVT. We also briefly review the recognition and management of SVT in children and the pharmacokinetics of and indications for adenosine.
To determine the prevalence of atrial fibrillation in England and Wales, and examine trends in its treatment with warfarin and aspirin between 1994 and 1998.
Analysis of data from the general practice research database.
England and Wales.
1.4 million patients registered with 211 general practices.
Age and sex specific prevalence rates of atrial fibrillation; percentage of patients with atrial fibrillation treated with oral anticoagulants or aspirin.
The prevalence of atrial fibrillation in 1998 was 12.1/1000 in men and 12.7/1000 in women. Prevalence increased from less than 1/1000 in under 35 year olds to over 100/1000 in those aged 85 years and over. There was a 22% increase in the age standardised prevalence of atrial fibrillation in men and a 14% increase in women between 1994 and 1998. The percentage of patients prescribed oral anticoagulants increased from 20% to 34% in men and from 17% to 25% in women. The percentage of men with atrial fibrillation prescribed aspirin increased from 26% to 36%, and the percentage of women increased from 24% to 36%. Applying the age and sex specific prevalence and treatment rates to the population gives an estimate of around 650 000 cases of atrial fibrillation in England and Wales. The greatest number of cases occurs in the 75-84 year old age group.
The number of patients in the community with identified atrial fibrillation is increasing. There has also been a pronounced increase in the percentage of patients with atrial fibrillation prescribed oral anticoagulants or aspirin.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) is an anticancer agent used for the treatment of breast and ovarian cancer. The major side effects are bone marrow suppression, alopecia, polyneuropathy and cardiac toxicity like bradycardia, myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure and cardiac death.
Intensive care unit (ICU) of a university hospital.
We report on a 58-years-old woman with a metastatic ovarian carcinoma who had chest pain, nausea and collapse during their first Taxol infusion. The infusion was stopped and the patient was submitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) to exclude an acute coronary syndrome.
The electrocardiography (ECG) showed a third-degree heart block and ST elevation in II, III and avF. In the initial and in the control laboratory investigation values of cardiac enzymes (creatininkinase and Troponine T) remained normal. The control ECG after 30 minutes turned back to normal. After one day the patient was submitted back to a normal ward.
Symptomatic bradyarrhythmia and clinical sign of an myocardial infarction are rare but important cardiac side effects in patients treated with Taxol. Those patients should be under intensive care unit until patients conditions improve and acute myocardial ischemia has been excluded.
