Cocaine is a sympathomimetic agent that can cause coronary artery vasospasm leading to myocardial ischaemia, acute coronary syndrome and acute myocardial infarction (ACS/AMI). The management of cocaine-induced ACS/AMI is different to classical atheromatous ACS/MI, because the mechanisms are different.
Knowledge study--Junior medical staff were given a scenario of a patient with ACS and asked to identify potential risk factors for ACS and which ones they routinely asked about in clinical practice. Retrospective study--Retrospective notes reviews of patients with suspected and proven (elevated troponin T concentration) ACS were undertaken to determine the recording of cocaine use/non-use in clinical notes.
Knowledge study--There was no significant difference in the knowledge that cocaine was a risk factor compared to other "classical" cardiovascular risk factors, but juniors doctors were less likely to ask routinely about cocaine use compared to other "classical" risk factors (52.9% vs >90%, respectively). Retrospective study--Cocaine use or non-use was documented in 3.7% (4/109) and 4% (2/50) of clinical notes of patients with suspected and proven ACS, respectively.
Although junior medical staff are aware that cocaine is a risk factor for ACS/AMI, they are less likely to ask about it in routine clinical practice or record its use/non-use in clinical notes. It is essential that patients presenting with suspected ACS are asked about cocaine use, since the management of these patients is different to those with ACS secondary to "classical" cardiovascular risk factors.
Lidocaine and ropivacaine are often combined in clinical practice to obtain a rapid onset and a prolonged duration of action. However, the systemic toxicity of their mixture at different concentrations is unclear. This study aimed to compare the systemic toxicity of the mixture of ropivacaine and lidocaine at different concentrations when administered intravenously in rats.
Forty-eight male Wistar rats were randomly divided into 4 groups (n = 12 each): 0.5% ropivacaine (group I); 1.0% ropivacaine and 1.0% lidocaine mixture (group II); 1.0% ropivacaine and 2.0% lidocaine mixture (group III); and 1.0% lidocaine (group IV). Local anesthetics were infused at a constant rate until cardiac arrest. Electrocardiogram, electroencephalogram and arterial blood pressure were continuously monitored. The onset of toxic manifestations (seizure, dysrhythmia, and cardiac arrest) was recorded, and then the doses of local anesthetics were calculated. Arterial blood samples were drawn for the determination of local anesthetics concentrations by high-performance liquid chromatography.
The onset of dysrhythmia was later significantly in group IV than in group I, group II, and group III (P < 0.01), but there was no significant difference in these groups (P > 0.05). The onset of seizure, cardiac arrest in group I ((9.2 + or - 1.0) min, (37.0 + or - 3.0) min) was similar to that in group II ((9.1 + or - 0.9) min, (35.0 + or - 4.0) min) (P > 0.05), but both were later in group III ((7.5 + or - 0.7) min, (28.0 + or - 3.0) min) (P < 0.05). The onset of each toxic manifestation was significantly later in group IV than in group I (P < 0.01). The plasma concentrations of the lidocaine-alone group at the onset of dysrhythmia (DYS), cardiac arrest (CA) ((41.2 + or - 6.8) min, (59.0 + or - 9.0) min) were higher than those of the ropivacaine alone group ((20.5 + or - 3.8) min, (38.0 + or - 8.0) min) (P < 0.05). The plasma concentrations of ropivacaine inducing toxic manifestation were not significantly different among groups I, II, and III (P > 0.05).
The systemic toxicity of the mixture of 1.0% ropivacaine and 2.0% lidocaine is the greatest while that of 1.0% lidocaine is the least. However, the systemic toxicity of the mixture of 1.0% ropivacaine and 1.0% lidocaine is similar to that of 0.5% ropivacaine alone.
We performed a prospective, double-masked, placebo-controlled, six-period, cross-over study in which normal subjects were randomly assigned to treatment and compared three different formulations of apraclonidine hydrochloride (the present commercially available formulation, and formulations with hydroxypropylmethylcellulose or lysolecithin). We also evaluated the efficacy of a 16-microliters and 30-microliters drop size. The magnitude and duration of decrease in intraocular pressure was comparable for all formulations. Most subjects tolerated all formulations well with only a few reporting any side effects. The best-tolerated formulation was 0.5% apraclonidine hydrochloride delivered with a 16-microliters drop size. Dry mouth developed frequently with the commercially available 1% apraclonidine solution. Blurred vision complicated the use of the formulation containing hydroxypropylmethylcellulose. Both dry mouth (P less than .05) and blurred vision (P = .004) were statistically significant side effects.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a prothrombotic drug reaction caused by platelet-activating antibodies that recognize complexes of platelet factor 4 and heparin.
To describe a syndrome termed delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, in which thrombocytopenia and thrombotic events begin 5 or more days after withdrawal of heparin.
Case series.
Secondary and tertiary care hospitals.
12 patients who presented with serologically confirmed, delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, including 6 outpatients presenting after hospital discharge.
The platelet serotonin-release assay was used to measure IgG-induced heparin-dependent and heparin-independent platelet activation; an enzyme immunoassay that detects IgG against platelet factor 4-heparin complexes was also used.
Patients with delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia presented with thrombocytopenia and associated thrombosis a mean of 9.2 days (range, 5 to 19 days) after stopping heparin therapy. Nine patients received additional heparin, with further decrease in platelet counts. Compared with controls, patients with delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia had higher titers of IgG antibodies to platelet factor 4-heparin and greater IgG-induced heparin-dependent and heparin-independent platelet activation.
Delayed-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia should be suspected when patients present with thrombocytopenia and thrombosis up to 3 weeks after exposure to heparin. This syndrome could be caused by high titers of platelet-activating IgG induced by heparin.
Sedation-analgesia for critically ill patients is usually performed with the combination of a sedative agent and an opioid. Midazolam and propofol are the agents most commonly used for sedation in ICU. The quality of the sedation is quite comparable with both agents, but pharmacokinetic properties of propofol allow a more rapid weaning process from mechanical ventilation. However, implementation of algorithms to adjust drug dosages reduces ventilator days and limits the kinetic differences between propofol and midazolam. Among the adverse events associated with propofol, propofol infusion syndrome is a rare but lethal aspect of propofol therapy. Opioids are the mainstay of analgesic therapy. They interact synergistically with hypnotics. Sufentanil, fentanyl and morphine are the most frequently used opioids. Remifentanil is an ultrashort acting opiate that does not appear to accumulate with prolonged use. The advent of remifentanil has allowed the use of analgesia-based sedation.
Bisphosphonates have shown direct antitumoral activity in vitro, in vivo and even in clinical studies, but the exact mechanism for this has not yet been elucidated. In this study the antiangiogenic potency of zoledronic acid and clodronate were evaluated.
The effects of zoledronic acid and clodronate on the proliferation of endothelial cells and different tumor cells, and on the activity of protein kinases were investigated. Furthermore in vitro experiments were performed to evaluate the underlying antiangiogenic mechanism of action. Both bisphosphonates were examined in vivo at different doses and in daily subcutaneous application in a murine renal cell carcinoma model (RENCA). The antiangiogenic activity was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining (CD31) and by determination of mouse vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) serum concentration.
Zoledronic acid and clodronate inhibited proliferation of endothelial cells at lower concentrations than the different tumor cell lines did. This effect was more pronounced for zoledronic acid. The activity of almost all tested kinases was inhibited by zoledronic acid, whereas clodronate showed no effect. In the RENCA model, a significant effect of zoledronic acid on the primary tumor in a bell-shaped dose response curve with the highest efficacy between 100 Bg/kg 2xd and 200 Bg/kg 1xd, was observed. The mean vessel density (MVD) was significantly reduced by both bisphosphonates at different concentrations. This is the first report on increased mouse VEGF serum concentrations in the RENCA model.
The results indicate that these bisphosphonates, particularly zoledronic acid, possess antitumoral and antiangiogenic activity.
Six of 13 outpatients with schizophrenia who participated in a ten-week open trial of risperidone had an initial good response to the medication followed by development of intolerable affect, including feelings of agitation and depression and periods of crying and insomnia. Patients who developed this syndrome did not differ from other patients in baseline ratings on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) and the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, except that patients who developed the syndrome had a significantly higher mean baseline rating on the BPRS anxiety subscale. The authors suggest that risperidone may increase affect in patients with schizophrenia and that some patients, especially those with anxiety, may have difficulty managing the increase.
Chronic bronchitis is associated with airways obstruction and inflammation. In order to determine whether aerosolized beclomethasone can modulate airway inflammation and diminish airway obstruction, subjects with chronic bronchitis performed spirometry and underwent bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) before and after receiving 6 wk of therapy (five puffs four times a day) with either aerosolized beclomethasone (n = 20) or placebo (n = 10) in a double-blinded, randomized fashion. All subjects received aerosolized albuterol before each use of the study medications. Before BAL, the airways were visually assessed for the appearance of inflammation and assigned a score, the bronchitis index. BAL was performed by instilling five 20-ml aliquots of saline into each of three sites and pooling and separately analyzing the returns from the first aliquots to yield a "bronchial sample." The bronchial lavages were repeated in an additional three sites to increase the volume of fluid available for analysis. The fluid was prepared for cytologic examination by cytocentrifugation. Albumin (as a measure of epithelium permeability) and lactoferrin and lysozyme (as measures of serous cell activity) were measured in unconcentrated BAL fluid by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and concentrations in epithelial lining fluid were estimated using urea as an internal marker for dilution. After treatment, the beclomethasone group, but not the placebo group, showed improvement in FVC (p = 0.02), FEV1 (p = 0.002), and 25 to 75% forced expiratory flow (p = 0.006). Associated with the improvement in spirometry, the bronchitis index fell (13.5 +/- 1.0 versus 10.75 +/- 1.1, p = 0.02) in the beclomethasone-treated group, but not the placebo-treated group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Recent findings indicate that the memory-impairing effects of benzodiazepines may preferentially involve the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. To test this hypothesis we examined the effects on pretrial injection of diazepam into the central as compared to the lateral/basolateral amygdaloid nuclei on memory for a conditioned avoidance response. Rats were implanted bilaterally with cannulae directed to either the central or lateral/basolateral amygdaloid nuclei. Five to 7 days later they were trained on a multitrial inhibitory avoidance (step-down) task to criterion and tested 48 h later. Fifteen minutes before training they were given an injection of either vehicle or diazepam (0.7 or 1.4 nmol) into the central or lateral/basolateral nuclei. Administration of diazepam into the lateral/basolateral nuclei but not the central nucleus induced anterograde amnesia. These results add to the body of data linking the GABA-benzodiazepine system of the lateral/basolateral nuclei to the amnestic effects induced by peripheral as well as central administration of benzodiazepines.
Pharmacological properties and acute toxicity of 2-tolyl 1-phenyl-3-(2-methylpiperidino) propyl ether methyl bromide (R111) and 2-chlorophenyl 1-phenyl-3-(2-methylpiperidino) propyl ether methyl iodide (R97) were examined. The results obtained were as follows: (1) In the analgesic effects, RIII and R97 inhibited markedly the acetic acid-induced writhing in mice, but in reducing pain induced by heat, R111 and R97 showed negative results. The local anesthetic effect of R111 was approximately equal to that of procaine. R111 and R97 showed no effects on spontaneous locomotion, the convulsion induced by strychnine or pentetrazol, and normal body temperature. (2) R111 and R97 antagonized acetylcholine, barium chloride, nicotine and serotonine-induced spasm, but not that of histamine and bradykinin. In particular they possessed marked anti-barium chloride activity, where their effects were 20 to 30 times more active than that of papaverine. (3) R111 and R97 indicated weak mydriatic activity. (4) R111 and R97 showed inhibitory effects on the pilocarpine-induced sialic secretion and the propulsive movements of the small intestine, but their inhibitory effects on the gastric secretion were relatively weak. (5) R111 and R97 displayed protective effects in Shay's ulcer, but had no curative effects on acetic acid ulcer. (6) R111 and R97 induced temporary reduction of arterial blood pressure and blood flow immediately after the administration of the test compounds in anesthetized rabbits. However, these agents induced no change in ECG, heart rate and respiration. (7) Intraperitoneally administered R111 and R97 were effective in inhibiting the carrageenin-induced edema in the hind paw of rats. From the above results, it may be considered that R111 and R97 have together strong cholinergic blocking and muscotropic antispasmodic effects, moreover, no significant effects on the central nervous system.
Proximal tubular cholesterol levels rise within 18 hours of diverse forms of acute renal tubular injury (eg, myoglobinuria, ischemia/reperfusion, urinary tract obstruction). These increments serve to protect against further bouts of tubular attack (so-called "acquired cytoresistance"). Whether these cholesterol increments are merely transitory, or persist into the maintenance phase of acute renal failure (ARF), has not been previously defined. Furthermore, whether subacute/insidious tubular injury [eg, cyclosporine A (CSA), tacrolimus toxicity], nontubular injury (eg, acute glomerulonephritis), or physiological stress (eg, mild dehydration) impact renal cholesterol homeostasis have not been addressed. This study sought to resolve these issues. Male CD-1 mice were subjected to glycerol-induced ARF. Renal cortical-free cholesterol (FC) and cholesterol ester (CE) levels were determined 3, 5, 7, or 14 days later, and the values contrasted to prevailing blood-urea nitrogen concentrations. The impact of 40 minutes of unilateral renal ischemia plus reflow (3 to 6 days) on mouse cortical FC/CE content was also assessed. Additionally, FC/CE levels were measured in rat renal cortex either 10 days after CSA or tacrolimus therapy, or 48 hours after induction of nephrotoxic serum nephritis. Finally, the impact of overnight dehydration on mouse renal cortical/medullary FC/CE profiles was determined. Compared to sham-treated animals, glycerol, CSA, tacrolimus, ischemia-reperfusion, and nephrotoxic serum each induced dramatic CE +/- FC elevations, rising as much as 10x control values. In the glycerol model, striking correlations (r </= 0.99) between FC/CE and blood-urea nitrogen levels were observed. The FC/CE increases were specific to damaged kidney (glycerol did not raise hepatic FC/CE; unilateral renal ischemia did not alter contralateral renal FC/CE levels). Overnight dehydration raised renal CE levels, most notably in the medulla.
FC/CE accumulation is a hallmark of the maintenance phase of ischemic and nephrotoxic ARF, and can reflect its severity. That cholesterol accumulation can result from glomerular injury and dehydration suggests that it is a generic renal stress response, with potential relevance extending beyond just the phenomenon of acquired cytoresistance.
The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of extrapyramidal signs or symptoms (EPS) and clinical symptoms in first-episode schizophrenia, before any treatment, during and after treatment with a novel antipsychotic, risperidone. Twenty-two (17 men; 5 women) patients were examined using the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale, Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness and Improvement, and Global Assessment of Functioning. Three patients (14%) had distinct EPS at baseline, whereas all were free of EPS after treatment with risperidone. On the maximum dose of risperidone (5-8 mg), 32% of the total sample developed mild akathisia or parkinsonism, both of which diminished with dosage reduction. No clinically significant EPS were observed in patients receiving 2 to 4 mg of risperidone. Analysis of symptom response of the lower (2-4 mg) versus the higher (5-8 mg) doses of risperidone resulted in superior outcome in the 2- to 4-mg group for all three symptom clusters of the PANSS. In addition, 91% of the low-dose group achieved a 20% or greater reduction in total PANSS score compared with 27% for the high-dose group. These findings have clinical relevance directed at the early and longer-term treatment of schizophrenia.
Licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra Linne) is a well-known medicinal plant and glabridin is an isoflavan isolated from licorice. In this study, we investigated the anti-obesity effect of glabridin and glabridin-rich supercritical fluid extract of licorice (LSC). Glabridin effectively inhibited adipogenesis in 3T3-L1 cells. Moreover, LSC showed inhibitory effect on adipogenesis in a dose-dependent manner. The inhibitory effect of LSC resulted from inhibiting the induction of the transcriptional factors CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma. Then we fed mice with high-fat diet containing none, 0.1% and 0.25% LSC for 8weeks to explore the anti-obesity effect of LSC in vivo. LSC significantly reduced weight gain by high-fat diet in a dose-dependent manner. The reductions of the hypertrophy of white adipose tissue and of fat cell size were also observed. In the liver, LSC supplementation effectively inhibited high-fat diet-induced hepatic steatosis through downregulation of gluconeogenesis related phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase and glucose 6-phosphatase and upregulation of the β-oxidation related carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1. Taken together, our results suggest that glabridin and glabridin-rich licorice extract would be effective anti-obesity agents.
Acetaminophen (APAP) hepatotoxicity is currently the most frequent cause of acute liver failure in the US and many European countries. Although intracellular signalling mechanisms are critical for hepatocellular injury, a contribution of inflammatory cells, especially neutrophils, has been suggested. However, conflicting results were obtained when using immunological intervention strategies.
The role of neutrophils was investigated using a CD18-deficient mouse model.
Treatment of C57Bl/6 wild type mice with 300 mg/kg APAP resulted in severe liver cell necrosis at 12 and 24 h. This injury was accompanied by formation of cytokines and chemokines and accumulation of neutrophils in the liver. However, there was no difference in the inflammatory response or liver injury in CD18-deficient mice compared with wild-type animals. In contrast to treatment with endotoxin, no upregulation of CD11b or priming for reactive oxygen was observed on neutrophils isolated from the peripheral blood or the liver after APAP administration. Furthermore, animals treated with endotoxin 3 h after APAP experienced an exaggerated inflammatory response as indicated by substantially higher cytokine and chemokine formation and twice the number of neutrophils in the liver. However, liver injury in the two-hit model was the same as with APAP alone.
Our data do not support the hypothesis that neutrophils contribute to APAP hepatotoxicity or that a neutrophil-mediated injury phase could be provoked by a second, pro-inflammatory hit. Thus, APAP-induced liver injury in mice is dominated by intracellular mechanisms of cell death rather than by neutrophilic inflammation.
Acute lung injury is characterized by a diffuse inflammatory parenchymal process, implicated in the context of significant morbidity and mortality. Previously, we have reported that soluble ST2 (sST2), a member of the Toll-interleukin (IL)-1 receptor (TIR) superfamily, represses proinflammatory cytokine production of macrophage exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In this study, we examined the possibility of modulating LPS-induced murine inflammatory pulmonary damage by recombinant adenovirus-mediated sST2-Fc (Ad-sST2-Fc) gene transfer. Single intranasal administration of Ad-sST2-Fc led to a profound decrease in LPS-induced bronchoalveolar lavage leucocyte exudation and lung tissue myeloperoxidase activity (reflecting phagocyte infiltration). Histological examination revealed alveolitis with inflammatory cell infiltration and alveolar haemorrhage in the alveolar airspace was less severe in Ad-sST2-Fc-treated mice when compared with control groups. In addition, high levels of sST2-Fc in vivo reduced the transcription of tumour necrosis factor-α, IL-6 and Toll-like receptor-4 gene remarkably, and suppressed the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-κB in lung tissues in response to LPS challenge. Taken together, these results suggested that administration of Ad-sST2-Fc gene transfer may have therapeutic potential for the immunomodulatory treatment of LPS-mediated inflammatory lung injury.
Emerging evidence has displayed that oxygen free radicals especially ones promoted by "free" iron play an important role in the development of alcoholic liver disease (ALD). Naturally-occurring quercetin has been reported to prevent ALD and iron overload-induced damage aside from the "free" iron. The purpose was to explore the potential mechanisms by which quercetin arrests alcohol-induced "free" iron disorder. Chronic alcohol (30% of total calories) or iron (0.2%)-fed adult male C57BL/J mice for 15 weeks resulted in significantly elevated levels of hepatic iron, labile iron pool-Fe and serum non-transferrin bound iron, accompanied with sustained oxidative damage. The hepatotoxicity was further exacerbated by ethanol and iron. Quercetin (100 mg/kg. body weight) alleviated the detrimental effects induced by ethanol and/or iron. The expressions of divalent metal transporter 1, zinc transporter member 14, mucolipin 1, transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) and ferritin were up-regulated by ethanol and/or iron, which were partially normalized by quercetin. Quercetin prevented ethanol-induced hepatotoxicity, which may be partially attributed to the alleviated disorder of bound iron and "free" iron. The significant suppression of ethanol-stimulated molecules for "free" iron uptake and release may contribute to the hepatoprotective effect of quercetin, although TfR1-mediated physiological pathway of iron uptake also played a role.
Feline leukemia virus (FeLV) infection of cats is a model for the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in humans. The toxicity of zidovudine was evaluated in SPF cats experimentally infected with FeLV. At initiation of the zidovudine study, all cats were antibody positive for FeLV antigens but clinically asymptomatic. Four cats were also viremic. Thirteen, 6- to 10-month-old cats were divided into five dosage groups and given zidovudine po at 0, 7.5, 15, 30, or 60 mg/kg daily in three equally divided doses for 32 to 34 days. Titers of circulating virus antigen remained constant; however, three of six cats receiving the higher doses of zidovudine (greater than or equal to 30 mg/kg) showed an increase in antibody titers to FeLV. Administration of zidovudine resulted in a progressive anemia, dependent upon dose and time. Macrocytes were observed prior to the development of anemia and were also found in several nonanemic cats. Repeated measures regression analyses indicated that an increased dose of zidovudine was associated with decreased packed cell volume, red blood cell count, and hemoglobin. As determined from the packed cell volume, the analyses indicate that anemia is induced only by the two highest doses of zidovudine. The regression model indicates that daily doses of 60 and 30 mg/kg are expected to induce anemia by Day 4 and Day 13, respectively. Progressive absolute neutropenia was observed in the greater than or equal to 30 mg/kg groups. Histopathologic lesions consisted of marked bone marrow hypercellularity in cats given greater than or equal to 30 mg/kg zidovudine and splenic extramedullary hematopoiesis in cats given greater than or equal to 15 mg/kg. Thus, oral toxicity of zidovudine in the cat is manifested by a dose-related anemia and neutropenia as observed in humans.
Studies in cocaine-dependent human subjects have shown differences in white matter on diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) compared with non-drug-using controls. It is not known whether the differences in fractional anisotropy (FA) seen on DTI in white matter regions of cocaine-dependent humans result from a pre-existing predilection for drug use or purely from cocaine abuse. To study the effect of cocaine on brain white matter, DTI was performed on 24 rats after continuous infusion of cocaine or saline for 4 weeks, followed by brain histology. Voxel-based morphometry analysis showed an 18% FA decrease in the splenium of the corpus callosum (CC) in cocaine-treated animals relative to saline controls. On histology, significant increase in neurofilament expression (125%) and decrease in myelin basic protein (40%) were observed in the same region in cocaine-treated animals. This study supports the hypothesis that chronic cocaine use alters white matter integrity in human CC. Unlike humans, where the FA in the genu differed between cocaine users and non-users, the splenium was affected in rats. These differences between rodent and human findings could be due to several factors that include differences in the brain structure and function between species and/or the dose, timing, and duration of cocaine administration.
Abrupt withdrawal of adrenergic blockers in a hypertensive subject may result in acute hypertensive crisis. This crisis results from marked increase in adrenergic discharge and upregulation of adrenoceptors. In a patient with hypertensive crisis following abrupt cessation of clonidine hydrochloride and metoprolol tartrate, intravenous administration of labetalol hydrochloride rapidly reduced blood pressure and heart rate to precrisis levels. The patient was subsequently maintained in a normotensive state by continued oral use of labetalol. This case study demonstrates that alpha- and beta-blocking activities of labetalol may be particularly beneficial in a hyperadrenergic state following abrupt withdrawal of adrenergic blockers.
Inorganic arsenic (iAs) is a well-known human carcinogen recognized by the World Health Organization and the International Agency for Research on Cancer. Currently, most iAs studies in populations are concerned with drinking water and occupational arsenicosis. In Guizhou province, arsenicosis caused by the burning of coal in unventilated indoor stoves is an unusual type of exposure. Because the poisoning mechanism involved in arsenicosis is as yet unknown and no effective therapy exists, progress has been slow on the prevention and therapy of arsenicosis.
We examined the relationship between arsenic (As) exposure from the burning of coal in unventilated indoor stoves and genetic damage in humans, using cellular and molecular indices. We selected villagers from Jiaole township, Guizhou province, China, who had been exposed to milligram levels of As daily via food and air contaminated by the burning of As-containing coal in unventilated indoor stoves.
The As-exposed subjects from Jiaole were divided into four groups according to skin lesion symptoms: nonpatients, mild, intermediate, and severe arsenicosis. Another 53 villagers from a town 12 km from Jiaole were recruited as the external control group. In the four groups of exposed subjects, As concentrations in urine and hair were 76-145 microg/L and 5.4-7.9 microg/g, respectively. These values were higher than those in the external control group, which had As concentrations of 46 microg/L for urine and 1.6 microg/g for hair. We measured sister chromatid exchange and chromosomal aberrations to determine human chromosome damage, and for DNA damage, we measured DNA single-strand breaks and DNA-protein cross-links. All measurements were higher in the four exposed groups compared with the external control group. DNA repair was impaired by As exposure, as indicated by the mRNA of O-6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), X-ray repair complementing defective repair in Chinese hamster cells 1 (XRCC1), and, to a lesser extent, by the mismatch repair gene hMSH2 mRNA. The expression of mutant-type p53 increased with aggravation of arsenicosis symptoms, whereas the expression of p16-INK4(p16) decreased. p53 mutated at a frequency of 30-17% in the carcinoma (n = 10) and precarcinoma (n = 12) groups. No mutation was found in p16, although deletion was evident. Deletion rates were 8.7% (n = 23) and 38.9% (n = 18) in noncarcinoma and carcinoma groups, respectively.
The results showed that long-term As exposure may be associated with damage of chromosomes and DNA, gene mutations, gene deletions, and alterations of DNA synthesis and repair ability.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are currently used as a first-line treatment for depression, as they have a favorable side-effect profile. Escitalopram, a new SSRI, is also well-tolerated and serious side effects are rarely associated with its use. There have been several reports that SSRIs might increase bleeding tendency in some patients by affecting platelet function. However, to our knowledge, there have been no reports about their relation to thrombosis. In this brief report, we present a case of venous thromboembolism associated with escitalopram in a patient with psychotic depression without any major risk factors for thrombosis. SSRIs might have a dual effect on platelet function. The immediate and early effect of SSRI use on platelets might be an increase be an in tendency for thrombosis, whereas the late effect after repeated dosing might be an increase in tendency to bleed, as suggested by previous literature.
Polymorphisms in the proinflammatory cytokine genes tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) and lymphotoxin-alpha (LTA, also called TNF-beta) have been associated with asthma and atopy in some studies. Parental smoking is a consistent risk factor for childhood asthma. Secondhand smoke and ozone both stimulate TNF production.
Our goal was to investigate whether genetic variation in TNF and LTA is associated with asthma and atopy and whether the association is modified by parental smoking in a Mexican population with high ozone exposure.
We genotyped six tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in TNF and LTA, including functional variants, in 596 nuclear families consisting of asthmatics 4-17 years of age and their parents in Mexico City. Atopy was determined by skin prick tests.
The A allele of the TNF-308 SNP was associated with increased risk of asthma [relative risk (RR) = 1.54; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.04-2.28], especially among children of non-smoking parents (RR = 2.06; 95% CI, 1.19-3.55; p for interaction = 0.09). Similarly, the A allele of the TNF-238 SNP was associated with increased asthma risk among children of nonsmoking parents (RR = 2.21; 95% CI, 1.14-4.30; p for interaction = 0.01). LTA SNPs were not associated with asthma. Haplotype analyses reflected the single SNP findings in magnitude and direction. TNF and LTA SNPs were not associated with the degree of atopy.
Our results suggest that genetic variation in TNF may contribute to childhood asthma and that associations may be modified by parental smoking.
The high-affinity IgE receptor comprises a tetramer of the ligand-binding alpha chain, a signal-augmenting beta chain, and a signal-transducing gamma chain dimer on mast cells. We hypothesized that the three subsets of the FCER1 gene may play a role in the development of the aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) phenotype and analyzed these genetic polymorphisms in association with clinical parameters in AIA patients.
Six polymorphisms of FCER1 (FCERIA-344C>T, FCER1A-95T>C, MS4A2-109T>C, MS4A2 E237G, FCER1G-237A>G, FCER1G-54G>T) were genotyped in 126 AIA patients compared to 177 patients with aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) and 222 normal health controls (NC).
A significant difference in the genotype frequencies of FCER1G-237A>G was detected between AIA and ATA patients (p<0.05) both in co-dominant and recessive analysis models, whereas no significant relationships were identified between the frequencies of the other five single-nucleotide polymorphisms and AIA, ATA, and NC subjects. In addition, AIA patients carrying the homozygous AA genotype of FCER1G-237A>G exhibited significantly higher total serum IgE levels than did those with the GG/AG genotype (p=0.012). AIA patients expressing the CT/TT genotype at FCERIA-344C>T showed a higher prevalence of serum IgE specific to Staphylococcal enterotoxin A than did those with the CC genotype (p=0.008).
The FCER1G-237A>G and FCERIA-344C>T polymorphisms may contribute to the development of AIA in a Korean population.
Intravenous verapamil is effective in the acute termination of supraventricular tachycardia but is also used for broad-complex tachycardia when the diagnosis is uncertain. This study analysed the responses to verapamil in 57 episodes of ventricular tachycardia, incorrectly diagnosed as supraventricular tachycardia, in 32 patients. Diagnostic electrocardiographic features of ventricular tachycardia were present in 81% of episodes. Intravenous verapamil (mean dose 9.8 mg) failed to terminate the tachycardia in 45 episodes (79%). 2 patients sustained cardiac arrest after verapamil (1 ventricular fibrillation, 1 asystole), and in 22 episodes severe hypotension occurred. At least one serious adverse effect occurred in 19 patients (59%). Sinus rhythm was restored after verapamil on 10 occasions in 6 patients. Verapamil is ineffective and potentially hazardous in most patients with ventricular tachycardia. It should not be used to treat broad-complex tachycardia unless a supraventricular origin has been established.
In a prospectively randomized study, 17 evaluable patients treated with adriamycin alone, 60 mg/m2 intravenously every 3 wk, were compared with 14 patients treated with adriamycin in the same dose and schedule plus streptozotocin. 500 mg/m2/day intravenously for 5 days every 3 wk. All patients had advanced sarcomas, but none had previously received either adriamycin or streptozotocin. Objective responses were seen in 9 patients on the single drug arm (4 with more than 50% tumor shrinkage and 5 with stabilization of disease), and in 8 patients given the combination drug arm (2 with more than 50% tumor shrinkage and 6 with stabilization of disease). Duration of response and survival from treatment for both treatment groups were similar. Transient hepatic dysfunction, renal function abnormalities, and nausea with vomiting were additive in the combination drug arm, the last two limiting therapy most. Leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and mucositis appeared to be synergistically increased in patients receiving both adriamycin and streptozotocin. Patients with abnormal pretreatment renal function were able to tolerate the combination therapy without undue incidence of severity of renal toxicity. Patients who developed transient streptozotocin-related renal dysfunction were able to tolerate further doses of streptozotocin after their renal parameters normalized. Adriamycin in combination with streptozotocin did not offer any therapeutic advantage over adriamycin alone.
