To assess the in vitro activity of the novel lipoglycopeptide telavancin against staphylococcal biofilms using an in vitro pharmacokinetic model.
Using the Sorbarod model, biofilms were established. The strains tested included methicillin-susceptible and -resistant strains of Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci, as well as glycopeptide-intermediate S. aureus (GISA). The biofilms were exposed to exponentially decreasing concentrations of telavancin and four comparator antibiotics, vancomycin, teicoplanin, linezolid and moxifloxacin and the bactericidal activity of the antibiotics was assessed. The concentrations of the antibiotics used in these experiments corresponded to peak serum levels achievable in humans and the rates at which drug concentrations were decreased corresponded to their elimination half-lives.
All of the drugs tested produced a reduction in the number of bacteria eluted from the biofilms. Telavancin was more effective than the commercially available glycopeptides, vancomycin and teicoplanin, and of the three, was the most active agent against both the non-GISA and GISA strains. Of all the antibiotics tested, moxifloxacin produced the greatest reduction in biofilm cells, but only against the non-GISA strains.
Telavancin exhibited substantial antimicrobial activity against staphylococcal biofilms, including GISA strains. This study supports the case for the evaluation of telavancin in the treatment of staphylococcal biofilm-associated infections.
Although resveratrol, an active ingredient derived from grapes and red wine, possesses chemopreventive properties against several cancers, the molecular mechanisms by which it inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis have not been clearly understood. Here, we examined the molecular mechanisms of resveratrol and its interactive effects with TRAIL on apoptosis in prostate cancer PC-3 and DU-145 cells. Resveratrol inhibited cell viability and colony formation, and induced apoptosis in prostate cancer cells. Resveratrol downregulated the expression of Bcl-2, Bcl-X(L) and survivin and upregulated the expression of Bax, Bak, PUMA, Noxa, and Bim, and death receptors (TRAIL-R1/DR4 and TRAIL-R2/DR5). Treatment of prostate cancer cells with resveratrol resulted in generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), translocation of Bax to mitochondria and subsequent drop in mitochondrial membrane potential, release of mitochondrial proteins (cytochrome c, Smac/DIABLO, and AIF) to cytosol, activation of effector caspase-3 and caspase-9, and induction of apoptosis. Resveratrol-induced ROS production, caspase-3 activity and apoptosis were inhibited by N-acetylcysteine. Bax was a major proapoptotic gene mediating the effects of resveratrol as Bax siRNA inhibited resveratrol-induced apoptosis. Resveratrol enhanced the apoptosis-inducing potential of TRAIL, and these effects were inhibited by either dominant negative FADD or caspase-8 siRNA. The combination of resveratrol and TRAIL enhanced the mitochondrial dysfunctions during apoptosis. These properties of resveratrol strongly suggest that it could be used either alone or in combination with TRAIL for the prevention and/or treatment of prostate cancer.
To investigate the hypothesis that sequential mitomycin C and 5-aminolaevulinic acid (ALA)-mediated photodynamic therapy (PDT) interact additively in both the J82 bladder cancer cell line and its mitomycin-C-resistant derivative, J82/MMC, and to assess the theoretical basis of this interaction by measuring the relative mitochondrial density of the respective cell lines, on the basis that the mitochondria are the intracellular site where ALA is metabolized to the active photosensitizer, protoporphyrin IX.
Cell survival was assayed in J82 cell line and the J82/MMC derivative after treating them with sequential ALA-mediated PDT and mitomycin C, and with the sequence of treatments reversed. Cell survival was estimated using the tetrazolium assay. The relative mitochondrial density of the two cell lines was estimated using flow cytometry to measure 123rhodamine fluorescence.
The effect of sequential mitomycin C followed by ALA-mediated PDT enhanced the effect of PDT in both cell lines. In J82/MMC this effect was marginally supra-additive. When ALA-mediated PDT was administered before mitomycin C, the combined effect was 'sub-additive'. 123Rhodamine fluorescence was > 10 times greater in J82/MMC than J82, suggesting a significantly higher mitochondrial density in the former than the latter.
Mitomycin C appears to enhance ALA-mediated PDT when administered first. This appears to be particularly so in J82/MMC. This phenomenon may have clinical significance in recurrent superficial bladder cancer.
The aims of this clinical study were to evaluate the short-term subjective (by means of questionnaire) and objective (by means of clinical examination) side effects of 0.2% chlorhexidine (CHX) mouthrinse without alcohol used as an adjunct to non-surgical periodontal treatment and to elucidate the relationship between the subjective and objective evaluations.
This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial with two groups: 1) the test group, rinsing with the test product (0.2% CHX without alcohol) twice per day for 1 week, and 2) the control (placebo) group, rinsing with a placebo solution twice per day for 1 week. Following the start of rinsing, patients were subjectively and objectively evaluated for the presence and severity of side effects (pain, burning sensation, pruritus, dryness of mouth, taste disturbance, mucosal irritations, and discoloration of tooth and tongue surfaces) at days 1, 3, and 7 of the rinsing period. The presence of subjective and objective side effects of the groups was compared via use of chi2 and Fisher exact tests. Analysis of the subjective and objective side effects within the evaluation periods was done by McNemar test. Spearman correlation analysis was used to assess the relationships between the subjective and objective side effects.
None of the patients in either group complained of dryness of the mouth. The most commonly reported side effect was the change in color of the labial and buccal mucosa, particularly of the gingiva, after day 3 of rinsing. There were significant (r=0.308 to 0.835; P<0.05) correlations between the discolorations of tongue and tooth surfaces reported by the patients and clinically detected at all evaluation periods. There was a significant and positive relationship between the subjective side effects and the soft tissue irritations when the duration of rinsing increased.
Within the limits of this clinical evaluation, rinsing with 0.2% alcohol-free CHX for 1 week caused more irritation to oral mucosa, greater burning sensation, and increased altered taste perception compared to the placebo rinse.
Rats with partial (36%) 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the striatal dopamine system or sham-lesioned controls were tested for duration of catalepsy after 1.0, 2.0 and 4.0 mg/kg haloperidol. Thereafter, half of each group was given haloperidol (2.0 mg/kg) chronically for 84 days. The cataleptic responses to the 3 doses were tested again on days 13-15 and 74-76 of the chronic injections. Animals that were lesioned and treated with haloperidol chronically had longer durations of catalepsy at the first two dose-response determinations. At the third dose-response determination, there were no differences among the 4 groups. Additionally, all groups displayed an increase in duration of catalepsy at the second and third dose-response determinations, relative to the first. The increase in haloperidol-induced duration of catalepsy in the lesioned group suggests that lower levels of dopamine in the striatum may potentiate extrapyramidal side-effects.
Recently, TDP-43 was identified as a key component of ubiquitinated aggregates in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), an adult-onset neurological disorder that leads to the degeneration of motor neurons. Here we report eight missense mutations in nine individuals--six from individuals with sporadic ALS (SALS) and three from those with familial ALS (FALS)--and a concurring increase of a smaller TDP-43 product. These findings further corroborate that TDP-43 is involved in ALS pathogenesis.
Genome-wide association (GWA) studies have identified multiple loci at which common variants modestly but reproducibly influence risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Established associations to common and rare variants explain only a small proportion of the heritability of T2D. As previously published analyses had limited power to identify variants with modest effects, we carried out meta-analysis of three T2D GWA scans comprising 10,128 individuals of European descent and approximately 2.2 million SNPs (directly genotyped and imputed), followed by replication testing in an independent sample with an effective sample size of up to 53,975. We detected at least six previously unknown loci with robust evidence for association, including the JAZF1 (P = 5.0 x 10(-14)), CDC123-CAMK1D (P = 1.2 x 10(-10)), TSPAN8-LGR5 (P = 1.1 x 10(-9)), THADA (P = 1.1 x 10(-9)), ADAMTS9 (P = 1.2 x 10(-8)) and NOTCH2 (P = 4.1 x 10(-8)) gene regions. Our results illustrate the value of large discovery and follow-up samples for gaining further insights into the inherited basis of T2D.
Kras is commonly mutated in colon cancers, but mutations in Nras are rare. We have used genetically engineered mice to determine whether and how these related oncogenes regulate homeostasis and tumorigenesis in the colon. Expression of K-Ras(G12D) in the colonic epithelium stimulated hyperproliferation in a Mek-dependent manner. N-Ras(G12D) did not alter the growth properties of the epithelium, but was able to confer resistance to apoptosis. In the context of an Apc-mutant colonic tumor, activation of K-Ras led to defects in terminal differentiation and expansion of putative stem cells within the tumor epithelium. This K-Ras tumor phenotype was associated with attenuated signaling through the MAPK pathway, and human colon cancer cells expressing mutant K-Ras were hypersensitive to inhibition of Raf, but not Mek. These studies demonstrate clear phenotypic differences between mutant Kras and Nras, and suggest that the oncogenic phenotype of mutant K-Ras might be mediated by noncanonical signaling through Ras effector pathways.
Biomarkers are central to the molecular epidemiology approach. Since scientific research progress within this standard, a more complete biological understanding of the specific events underlying the multistage carcinogenesis model is essential. Hence the present investigation was designed to assess the anti-initiating potential of Sulforaphane (SFN) against benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P] induced lung carcinogenesis in female Swiss Albino Mice by evaluating the activities of xenobiotic markers, and the balance between phase I and phase II carcinogen/drug metabolizing enzymes. We sought to institute whether orally administered SFN reaches the lung tissue and increases functional capacity of detoxification enzymes in this tissue and compare the biochemical changes associated with the initiation of cancer. We demonstrated the inhibitory effects of orally administered sulforaphane on B[a]P-induced aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) activation which subsequently resulted in decreased Phase-I enzyme activities in vivo. The study also highlights that treatment with sulforaphane enhanced the Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) transcription which reflects its nuclear accumulation and DNA binding in mice, together with the induction of phase II enzymes as evident from our results. These modulations by sulforaphane further result in decreased carcinogen-induced stress. By and large, the results suggest an anti-initiating role of sulforaphane in pre- and post-initiation phase of experimentally induced lung carcinogenesis in female Swiss albino mice.
To identify colorectal cancer (CRC) susceptibility alleles, we conducted a genome-wide association study. In phase 1, we genotyped 550,163 tagSNPs in 940 familial colorectal tumor cases (627 CRC, 313 high-risk adenoma) and 965 controls. In phase 2, we genotyped 42,708 selected SNPs in 2,873 CRC cases and 2,871 controls. In phase 3, we evaluated 11 SNPs showing association at P < 10(-4) in a joint analysis of phases 1 and 2 in 4,287 CRC cases and 3,743 controls. Two SNPs were taken forward to phase 4 genotyping (10,731 CRC cases and 10,961 controls from eight centers). In addition to the previously reported 8q24, 15q13 and 18q21 CRC risk loci, we identified two previously unreported associations: rs10795668, located at 10p14 (P = 2.5 x 10(-13) overall; P = 6.9 x 10(-12) replication), and rs16892766, at 8q23.3 (P = 3.3 x 10(-18) overall; P = 9.6 x 10(-17) replication), which tags a plausible causative gene, EIF3H. These data provide further evidence for the 'common-disease common-variant' model of CRC predisposition.
The aim of the study was to examine the effect of antagonists of the NMDA receptor on the parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity in rats. Reserpine and haloperidol increased the muscle resistance of the hind foot to passive movements, as well as the reflex electromyographic (EMG) activity in the gastroenemius and tibialis anterior muscles. MK-801 (0.32-1.28 mg/kg s.c.), an uncompetitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor, and L-701,324 (5-40 mg/kg i.p.), an antagonist of the glycine site, reduced the muscle tone and the reflex EMG activity enhanced by reserpine or haloperidol. AP-5 (2 and 5 micrograms/0.5 microliter), a competitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor, and 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (1.0-4.5 micrograms/0.5 microliter), the glycine site antagonist injected bilaterally into the rostral striatum, inhibited the muscle rigidity induced by haloperidol. In contrast, AP-5, injected alone bilaterally into the intermediate-caudal striatum induced muscle rigidity. The present results suggest that: (1) the inhibitory effect of the NMDA receptor antagonists on the parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity depends, at least partly, on their action on the rostral striatum; (2) the blockade of NMDA receptors in the intermediate-caudal striatum may reduce the beneficial impact of these compounds.
The frequency and intensity of discomfort and pain at the site of injection during intravenous infusion of theophylline sodium glycinate and theophylline ethylenediamine were compared in a single blind crossover study on 6 healthy adult volunteers. The preparation containing theophylline sodium glycinate was significantly better tolerated than theophylline ethylenediamine.
The efficacy of chemotherapy with sequential methotrexate (MTX) and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in metastatic colorectal cancer was studied in a multicenter phase II trial using a seven-hour time interval. Forty-two patients were evaluable for response and 16 achieved objective tumor regression (greater than 50%). Median survival of all patients was 12.5 months. The result of this study indicates that MTX and 5-FU are synergistic in human colorectal cancer if given sequentially with a seven-hour time interval. This is supported by a review of the literature that reveals a significantly higher response rate in patients treated with a four-hour or more MTX/5-FU interval as compared to a one-hour interval.
Withdrawal from cocaine use often is associated with anxiety and depressive states. In this study the use-dependent, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist bis-(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinyl) sebacate (BTMPS) was studied for its ability to reduce these symptoms in two rat models of anxiety and depression. Rats were administered saline vehicle, or two escalating doses of cocaine, for a period of 5 days and they were evaluated during the period after cocaine discontinuation in the elevated plus maze (anxiety) and the forced swim test (affect). BTMPS (0.25, 0.5, or 0.75mg/kg) was co-administered with saline or cocaine in the dependence phase. Withdrawal from cocaine administration alone resulted in reductions in both the time spent in the open arms of the elevated plus maze test, as well as entries into, and out of, the open arms of the maze. Withdrawal from cocaine also resulted in a reduction of escape behaviors, and the time to first immobility, in the forced swim test. Treatment with BTMPS produced a reversal of cocaine-induced anxiety-like behaviors in the elevated plus maze, including an increase (up to 68%) in time spent in the open arms of the maze and an increase in the number of crossings between open and enclosed arms. BTMPS also reduced depressive-like behaviors associated with the forced swim test, including up to a 62% increase in the time to first immobility and a 50% increase in escape behavior. These results provide proof of concept for the development and use of cholinergic compounds in the treatment of substance abuse.
The author analyzes parkinsonism and hyperkinesia in psychiatric patients with tardive dyskinesia before and during treatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (AMPT, a dopamine antagonist), biperiden (an acetylcholine antagonist), and baclofen (a GABA agonist); and in patients with paralysis agitans and L-dopa-induced hyperkinesia. AMPT and baclofen had similar influences on oral dyskinesia, resulting in reduced frequency, unchanged or slightly reduced amplitude, and increased duration of each movement. The author concludes that: 1) reduced dopaminergic activity may be the primary pathogenetic background for tardive dyskinesia; 2) dopaminergic hypersensitivity and/or cholinergic hypofunction is necessary before hyperkinesia breaks through; and 3) the neurotoxic effects of neuroleptics may be associated with age-dependent changes in nigrostriatal regions representing oral innervation.
Most X-linked diseases show a recessive pattern of inheritance in which female carriers are unaffected. In X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP), however, both recessive and semi-dominant inheritance patterns have been reported. We identified an Israeli family with semi-dominant XLRP due to a missense mutation (p.G275S) in the RPGR gene. The mutation was previously reported in two Danish families with recessive XLRP. Obligate carriers from the two Danish families had no visual complaints and normal to slightly reduced retinal function, while those from the Israeli family suffered from high myopia, low visual acuity, constricted visual fields, and severely reduced electroretinogram (ERG) amplitudes. The disease-related RPGR haplotype of the Israeli family was found to be different from the one found in the two Danish families, indicating that the mutation arose twice independently on different X-chromosome backgrounds. A series of genetic analyses excluded skewed X-inactivation pattern, chromosomal abnormalities, distorted RPGR expression level, and mutations in candidate genes as the cause for the differences in disease severity of female carriers. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first detailed analysis of an identical mutation causing either a recessive or a semi-dominant X-linked pattern of disease in different families. Our results indicate that an additional gene (or genes), linked to RPGR, modulate disease expression in severely affected carriers. These may be related to the high myopia concomitantly found in affected carriers from the Israeli family.
Peripheral neuropathy (PN) is the main side effect with cycles of paclitaxel at standard doses (175 mg/m2 for 21 days). Administration of a single high-dose paclitaxel (HDP) is a novel approach for the treatment of cancer. We have prospectively measured neurotoxicity induced by HDP during a phase I trial. Nineteen patients were treated with escalating doses of paclitaxel by 24-hour infusion. In our study, PN induced by HDP was moderate, reversible, and not dose limiting. Severe PN was seen in patients who had received previous neurotoxic chemotherapy, and caution on the administration of HDP in this setting is warranted.
We designed this study to develop a new animal model of high-risk pregnancy complicated by hypertension and diabetes mellitus.
Female spontaneously hypertensive rats were injected intraperitoneally with 75 mg/kg streptozotocin or vehicle as control at 2 days of age. They were mated with untreated male spontaneously hypertensive rats at 4 to 5 months of age.
Hyperglycemia, defined as > 20 mmol/L plasma glucose level, was maintained during pregnancy in streptozotocin-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats, and systolic blood pressure was significantly higher in the streptozotocin-treated group than in controls before delivery (p < 0.01). Furthermore, urinary albumin excretion was significantly increased in the streptozotocin-treated group during and after pregnancy compared with the prepregnant level (p < 0.05), whereas in controls it remained unchanged. The incidence of low birth weight was significantly higher in male neonates from streptozotocin-treated mothers than those from control mothers (p < 0.05).
Neonatally streptozotocin-treated spontaneously hypertensive rats may be useful for studying the combined effect of hypertension and diabetes mellitus during pregnancy.
A 5-week-old boy became rigid and developed cardiac arrest after receiving succinylcholine. He was resuscitated and ventilated but died at 5 months. Muscle biopsy demonstrated no neurogenic features and numerous cytoplasmic bodies, suggesting the possibility of congenital myopathy with cytoplasmic bodies. However, molecular analysis revealed a homozygous deletion of exons 7 and 8 of the survival motor neuron (SMN) gene, suggesting that the patient had Werdnig-Hoffmann disease. We recommend that every patient with congenital cytoplasmic body myopathy be tested for SMN gene deletion.
The effect of estrogen treatment on risk for cholecystectomy, cholelithiasis, peptic ulcer, and other disorders was investigated using autopsy data from a study of patients randomized to hormonal therapy for prostatic cancer. Treatment with diethylstilbestrol, a nonsteroidal estrogen, was associated with an increased number of cholecystectomies but was unrelated to the presence of cholelithiasis at autopsy. These findings support previous reports of an association between steroidal estrogen use and cholecystectomy, but the risk estimate was more than three times that previously reported. Despite this risk and ample experimental evidence demonstrating that estrogen increases bile lithogenicity, no relationship between estrogen use and cholelithiasis was observed. The absence of such a relationship could not be readily explained by the study size, dose, or duration of estrogen treatment, treatment after leaving the study, or the frequency of preexisting stones. Given these findings the increases cholecystectomy risk may have resulted from estrogen related symptomatology mimicking gallbladder disease or an actual pathophysiologic effect of estrogen on the gallbladder, perhaps involving impaired emptying. In addition, estrogens, orchiectomy, or both were associated with a decreased frequency of peptic ulcer, supporting reports of the efficacy of estrogen in the treatment of peptic ulcer.
Surprisingly, a single topical application of a nitroglycerin (NTG) gel in humans has been shown to cause analgesia and to reduce oedema in thrombophlebitis. In the present investigation, we showed that the NTG gel reduces prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia and blocks neurogenic inflammation induced in rat skin by antidromic electrical stimulation of the saphenous nerve. These results offer an explanation for the effects of topical application of NTG observed in thrombophlebitis, which may be common to other cutaneous pathologies. The data also support the development of nitrates the effects of which are restricted to the site of application.
The goal of this study was to identify clinical characteristics and concurrent medications associated with an increased or decreased incidence of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. The medical records for 62 subjects with head and neck cancer who received cisplatin 100 mg/m2 (day 1) plus fluorouracil 1000 mg/m2 (days 1-5) with or without radiation therapy were reviewed from three medical centers. The demographics, concurrent medication therapy, co-existing illnesses and clinical laboratory values were extracted from the medical records. Nephrotoxicity was defined as a minimum rise in serum creatinine of 0.5 mg/dl or above. The concurrent use of hydrochlorothiazide or multivitamins was associated with a higher incidence of nephrotoxicity after cycle 1. Use of albuterol, atenolol or hydrochlorothiazide was also associated with a higher incidence of nephrotoxicity after cycle 1 or 2. In contrast, subjects prescribed dexamethasone or ondansetron were less likely to experience nephrotoxicity. None of these medications affected treatment response. Race/ethnicity was independently correlated with the incidence of nephrotoxicity; African-American subjects were more likely to develop nephrotoxicity independent of the influence of these concurrent medications. Medications may modulate cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity by altering the metabolic activation of cisplatin to a nephrotoxin. Genetic differences in the drug-metabolizing enzymes may contribute to the correlation with race. The results from this retrospective study provide data to support a larger prospective study to further investigate the associations between these concurrent medications and cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity.
Apoptosis induced by cadmium has been shown in many tissues in vivo and in cultured cells in vitro. However, its molecular mechanism is not fully understood. When the human histiocytic lymphoma cell line U937 was treated with cadmium for 12 h, evidence of apoptotic features, including change in nuclear morphology, DNA fragmentation, formation of DNA ladder in agarose gel electrophoresis, and phosphatidylserine externalization, were obtained. Moreover, loss of the mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) was observed in the cadmium-treated cells and was inhibited by a broad caspase inhibitor (Z-VAD-FMK). Caspase inhibitors suppressed the DNA fragmentation in the order of Z-VAD-FMK > caspase-8 inhibitor > caspase-3 inhibitor. Expression of Bcl-x(L) and Bid decreased significantly in the cadmium-treated cells, although no apparent change in Bcl-2 and Bax expression was found. Tetrakis-(2-pyridylmethyl) ethylendiamine, a cell-permeable heavy metal chelator, partially reversed the increase of fluorescence of Fura-2 in the cadmium-treated cells. In addition, verapamil (70 microm), a voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel blocker, inhibited the DNA fragmentation induced by cadmium less than 100 microm and decreased the fluorescence of Fura-2. Cadmium up-regulated the expression of type 1 inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP(3)R) but not type 2 or type 3 IP(3)R. Calpain inhibitors I and II partially prevented DNA fragmentation. No effects of Z-VAD-FMK on the expression of type 1 IP(3)R or of calpain inhibitors on the loss of Deltapsi(m) were observed. These results suggest that cadmium possibly induced apoptosis in U937 cells through two independent pathways, the Ca(2+)-calpain-dependent pathway and the caspase-mitochondria-dependent pathway.
Vitamin B12 deficiency may induce neuropathy, myelopathy, dementia and optic neuropathy. The diagnosis is established by vitamin B12, homocysteine and methylmalonic acid measurements. Myelin and axon destruction in the white matter of the spinal cord are observed. The posterior column of the cervical and thoracic level is the most common involved area. The involvement of the anterior column is restricted to advanced and relatively severe cases. Treatment is based on vitamin B12 injections, and the prognosis depends on the stage of vitamin deficiency and deterioration at treatment onset. We report a case with transverse myelitis due to vitamin B12 deficiency. This picture is relatively uncommon, however, we believe patients with transverse myelitis should have vitamin B12 studies as part of the diagnosis work up.
To assess the efficacy and safety of etoricoxib 60 mg once daily and naproxen 500 mg twice daily over a 138-week treatment period in patients with osteoarthritis (OA).
Two 1-year randomised, double blind, parallel group two-part base studies (part I 12 weeks; part II 40 weeks), followed by an 86-week extension, in patients with OA (hip or knee) were conducted at 80 clinical centres (19 countries). The studies had identical designs. Patients taking placebo in part I received etoricoxib or naproxen (1:1 ratio) in part II and the extension; patients taking etoricoxib or naproxen in part I continued to receive the same treatment throughout the entire length of the studies. Co-primary efficacy end points were patient global assessment of disease status, and WOMAC questionnaire pain subscale and physical function subscale (100 mm VAS). Efficacy over 138 weeks was assessed by graphical analysis. Safety was assessed by observation of adverse experiences and laboratory and physical evaluations.
997 patients entered (615 completed) the base studies. Of these patients, 463 patients entered the extensions. A total of 161 and 152 patients in the etoricoxib and naproxen groups, respectively, completed 138 treatment weeks. Etoricoxib and naproxen showed similar efficacy throughout the 138 weeks of treatment. For etoricoxib and naproxen, respectively, WOMAC pain assessments were 67 and 67 mm (baseline); 28 and 29 mm (1 year), and 34 and 33 mm (138 weeks). Results for the other efficacy end points were similar to those seen with the WOMAC pain assessments. Both etoricoxib and naproxen were generally well tolerated.
Both etoricoxib and naproxen demonstrated long-term clinical efficacy for the treatment of OA. Etoricoxib and naproxen were generally well tolerated.
Beta-catenin accumulation is often found in lung tumors, but only a few patients have mutations in beta-catenin gene. In addition, activated p53 downregulates beta-catenin. Therefore, we postulated that alteration of the degradation complex AXIN2 (axis inhibition protein 2) and betaTrCP (beta-transducin repeat-containing protein) and p53 regulation could result in beta-catenin protein accumulation in lung cancer. Using the immunohistochemical and sequencing analyses, we found that patients with beta-catenin accumulation without mutation were associated with patients with p53 overexpression and low AXIN2 expression (P=0.023 approximately 0.041). Alteration of AXIN2 was associated with poor survival in early stage patients (P=0.016). Low expression of AXIN2 and betaTrCP was significantly associated with promoter hypermethylation and histone deacetylation. Ectopic expression and knockdown of p53, AXIN2 and betaTrCP genes in A549 (p53 wild-type) and H1299 (p53 null) lung cancer cell lines showed cooperation between p53 and AXIN2/betaTrCP in the reduction of beta-catenin expression. Our clinical and cell model findings provide new evidence that epigenetic silencing of AXIN2/betaTrCP in the degradation complex and deregulation of p53-mediated control lead to wild-type beta-catenin nuclear accumulation in non-small cell lung cancer tumorigenesis. In addition, a high level of p53 downregulates the beta-catenin expression, but this effect is attenuated by non-functional AXIN2 or betaTrCP in lung cancer.
Thrombocytopenia with or without microangiopathy following quinine is often referred to as quinine "hypersensitivity." When schistocytes are present it is frequently termed "quinine-associated TTP/HUS." A severe deficiency of the vWF-cleaving protease, ADAMTS13, is associated with idiopathic TTP. A previous study of patients with "quinine-associated TTP/HUS" found that ADAMTS13 activities were not abnormal in 12/12 patients. A retrospective review of TTP patients with quinine-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) for whom ADAMTS13 was measured before plasma exchange was performed. Six patients were identified. All were females (age range: 43 to 73, mean = 61.7 years) and had taken quinine for leg cramps. Four of the six experienced renal failure requiring dialysis. Five of the patients had D-Dimers levels measured, all were elevated. In four patients the levels were > or = 18 times the upper limit of normal. ADAMTS13 was normal in four patients and mildly decreased in two patients. We conclude that while thrombocytopenia and schistocytosis can be seen in quinine-associated TTP/HUS, the pathophysiology seems to be distinct from that seen in most cases of idiopathic TTP (i.e., severely decreased ADAMTS13 with an inhibitor). We recommend that a TMA in association with quinine be consistently referred to as quinine-associated thrombotic microangiopathy (quinine-TMA) to better distinguish this entity from idiopathic TTP. The use of plasma exchange in quinine-TMA is called into question.
To assess the relationship between cardiovascular risk factors and carotid plaque.
Hypertensive patients were screened for randomization into the Multicenter Isradipine Diuretic Atherosclerosis Study, a trial intended to determine if blood pressure control by isradipine as compared with hydrochlorothiazide will blunt the progression of carotid plaque (intima plus media thickness, 1.3 to 3.5 mm) in patients with serum cholesterol levels of less than 6.85 mmol/L (265 mg/dL) without insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or estrogen therapy. Demographics of those who underwent B-mode ultrasound evaluations at common, bifurcation, and internal carotid artery sites to detect plaque were assessed from a southern and a northern site.
Participants were from ambulatory outpatient clinics associated with medical schools.
The initial screening included 1823 hypertensive volunteer patients who were between 40 and 83 years of age who had a diastolic pressure of 90 to 114 mm Hg (or < 90 mm Hg with treatment).
Complete data were collected on the variables of age, cholesterol, cigarette smoking, race, gender, and the presence of carotid plaque in 1126 patients.
All variables were significantly associated with carotid plaque (intima plus media thickness, > or = 1.3 mm). The adjusted percentage with plaque was 66.4% +/- 3.4% for blacks and 70.1% +/- 2.3% for whites at the southern site and 42.7% +/- 4.5% for blacks and 61.3% +/- 3.2% for whites at the northern site. The rate of plaque was 75.8% among cigarette smokers, despite a mildly elevated cholesterol level.
Although these 1126 cases do not constitute a random sample of patients, these data suggest that there may be regional differences in racial tendencies toward plaque among blacks.
162 children with infantile spasms were treated with ACTH at the Children's Hospital, Helsinki, and at the Aurora Hospital, Helsinki, during 1960--76. In a large proportion (37%) of the children the treatment caused pronounced side effects, and the mortality was 4.9%. The most common complications were infections: septic infections, pneumonias, and urinary and gastrointestinal infections. Other side effects were arterial hypertension (11), osteoporosis (2), hypokalaemic alkalosis (2), and other marked electrolyte disturbances (10). In children necropsy showed fresh intracerebral haemorrhages. Four children developed oliguria and hyperkalaemia during and after withdrawal of ACTH. One of them had tubular necrosis confirmed by renal biopsy. Infections were significantly more common with large doses (120 units) of ACTH than with small ones (40 units). It is concluded that side effects, even severe ones, are more common during treatment than had been assumed. Careful watch is important before and after treatment. The benefit of very high dosages should also be reconsidered.
