Diabetic nephropathy is a serious microvascular complication and one of the main causes of end-stage renal disease. Various studies have revealed that increased oxidative stress is a major pathophysiological mechanism which is involved in the etiology of diabetic nephropathy. Resveratrol, a polyphenolic phytoalexin present in red wine, is known to possess potent antioxidant properties and thus we aimed to examine its effect on renal function and oxidative stress in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ (65 mg/kg) in rats. After 4 weeks of STZ injection, rats were divided into four groups: the control rats, diabetic rats and diabetic rats treated with resveratrol (5 and 10 mg/kg, orally) respectively from week 4 up till week 6. At the termination of the experiments, urine albumin excretion, urine output, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine and urea clearance were measured. The levels of the renal oxidative stress markers malonaldehyde and glutathione and the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase were measured in kidney homogenate. STZ-injected rats showed significant increases in blood glucose, polyuria, proteinuria and a decrease in body weight compared with age-matched control rats. After 6 weeks, diabetic rats exhibited renal dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced creatinine and urea clearance, and proteinuria along with a marked increase in oxidative stress, as determined by lipid peroxidation and activities of key antioxidant enzymes. Treatment with resveratrol significantly attenuated renal dysfunction and oxidative stress in diabetic rats. The present study reinforces the important role of oxidative stress in diabetic kidney and points towards the possible antioxidative mechanism being responsible for the renoprotective action of resveratrol.
The medicinal plants can be used in the prevention or treatment of many diseases. Several studies concerning the potential of bioactive components in plants and food products and their link to obesity and related metabolic disorders, have been gaining big interest. Diabetes is a serious metabolic syndrome. Searching for alternative natural bioactive molecules is considered main strategy to manage diabetes through weight management. In the present study, an edible halophyte Nitraria retusa was selected and in vivo experiment was conducted using db/db model mice. We orally administrated its ethanol extract (NRE) to BKS.Cg-Dock7(m)+/+ Lepr(db/)J mice model for a period of 4 weeks. The effect was evaluated on the body weight and adiposity changes and on the biochemical parameters of db/db NRE-treated mice. The molecular mechanism underlying the anti-obesity effect was investigated by testing the gene expression related to hepatic lipid metabolism. NRE was found to significantly supress increases in body and fat mass weight, decreases triglycerides and LDL-cholesterol levels and enhances gene expression related to lipid homeostasis in liver showing anti-obesity actions. Our findings, indicate that NRE possesses potential anti-obesity effects in BKS.Cg-Dock7(m)+/+ Lepr(db/)J model mice and may relieve obesity-related symptoms including hyperlipidemia through modulating the lipolysis-lipogenesis balance.
1. The effects of chronic lithium pretreatment (600 mg/l in drinking rats, 30 days) on penile erection (PE) induced by apomorphine were investigated in rats. This treatment resulted in a serum Li concentration after 30 days of 0.31 +/- 0.01 mmol/l. 2. Subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of mixed D1/D2 dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine (0.05-0.5 mg/kg) induced PE in a biphasic manner. The maximum effect was obtained with 0.1 mg/kg of the drug while the response decreased with increasing doses of apomorphine from 0.1 to 0.5 mg/kg. 3. Pretreatment of animals with 0.0125-0.1 mg/kg of D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 or D2 dopamine receptor antagonist sulpiride (12.5-100 mg/kg) decreased apomorphine-induced PE. Combination of SCH 23390 (0.025 mg/ kg) with sulpiride (12.5 mg/kg) caused a stronger inhibitory effect on apomorphine response. This indicates that both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors may be involved in PE induced by apomorphine. 4. The response induced by apomorphine (0.05-0.05 mg/kg) was decreased in animals pretreated with chronic lithium. The inhibitory effect of sulpiride on apomorphine response, increased in animals pretreated with lithium, in contrast the inhibitory effect of SCH 23390 did not change in this condition. However, a combination of SCH 23390 with sulpiride increased inhibitory effect on apomorphine response in lithium pretreated rats. 5. It is concluded that chronic lithium inhibits PE induced by dopaminergic mechanism(s).
Cisplatin, a platinum coordinated complex, is a widely used antineoplastic agent for the treatment of metastatic tumors of the testis, metastatic ovarian tumors, lung cancer, advanced bladder cancer and many other solid tumors. The cytotoxic action of the drug is often thought to be associated with its ability to bind DNA to form cisplatin-DNA adducts. The development of resistance to cisplatin during treatment is common and constitutes a major obstacle to the cure of sensitive tumors. Although to understand the clinically relevant mechanisms of resistance, many studies have been aimed at clarifying the biochemical/molecular alterations of cisplatin-resistance cells, these studies did not conclusively identify the basis of cellular resistance to cisplatin. In this review, cisplatin resistance was discussed in terms of the relevant transporters, such as copper transporters (CTRs), organic cation transporters (OCTs) and multi-drug resistance related transporters (MDRs). These transporters seem to be contributed to cisplatin resistance through the reduction of drug accumulation in the cell. Better understanding the mechanism of cisplatin resistance associated with transporters will provide the useful informations for overcoming the cisplatin resistance.
Various drugs, including amantadine, have been reported in the successful treatment of antidepressant-induced sexual dysfunction. Only a regular daily dosing schedule of amantadine has been used for the treatment of sexual dysfunction so far. This case demonstrates that an intermittent dose of amantadine at 100 mg five to six hours prior to coitus could be useful in the treatment of fluoxetine-induced anorgasmia.
Eighty cocaine-dependent individuals enrolled in outpatient treatment took part in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of ritanserin, a 5-HT(2) antagonist, as an adjunct therapy. Participants attended an outpatient day hospital therapy program each day and received tablets containing placebo or 10 mg ritanserin for a 4-week period. Primary outcome measures included retention in treatment, urine drug tests, and self-reports of craving. Secondary outcome measures were depression scores on the Beck and Hamilton inventories, negative mood as measured by the Profile of Mood States, and life functioning as measured by the Addiction Severity Index. Although participants showed improvement over the 4 weeks, there were no group differences on any of the measures. These results fail to support the use of ritanserin as a complement to outpatient psychosocial therapy for cocaine dependence.
In two studies of hypertensive patients the relationship between beta-blocker-induced CNS side-effects and the nightly urinary secretion of melatonin was analysed. In one group (n = 10) placebo, atenolol (mean dose 86 mg/day) or propranolol (mean dose 305 mg/day) were given in a double-blind, randomised design. In the other (n = 13) 100-400 mg metoprolol was given daily (mean dose 197 mg). After 4 weeks of treatment all beta-blockers reduced melatonin excretion, but the effect was significant only for metoprolol. Sleep disturbance records revealed more disturbed nights in the metoprolol group compared with the propranolol and the atenolol groups, even when the difference in age between the groups was controlled for. In the metoprolol group a significant relationship (p less than 0.05) was found between the fall in melatonin and the percentage of disturbed nights. Severe CNS side-effects, such as nightmares, occurred only in patients treated with metoprolol (21%), which in all cases were accompanied by low levels of melatonin. Our data suggest that the CNS side-effects during beta-blockade are related to a reduction of melatonin levels.
Blood plasma renin activity was studied by the radioimmune method in clino- and orthostatism in 36 males with hypertensive disease and in 15 healthy males before and after 3-day medication with furosemide in a daily dose of 120 mg under in-patient conditions. Renin activity proved to be higher in double stimulation (in orthostatism after furosemide intake) than in orthostatism before the intake of the drug. Diversity was revealed between patients with different stages of hypertensive disease. Stage IB of the disease was characterized by increased renin activity in orthostatism and marked reaction to stimulation with furosemide. In stage IIB, on the contrary, renin activity was low and the reaction to stimulation with furosemide weak. Hypotensive effect after intake of furosemide was observed in patients with IIB stage of hypertensive disease.
Copper levels are elevated in a variety of liver fibrosis conditions. Lowering copper to a certain level protects against fibrosis. However, whether severe copper deficiency is protective against liver fibrosis is not known. The purpose of the present study is to evaluate this question by inducing severe copper deficiency using the copper chelator, tetrathiomolybdate (TM), in a bile duct ligation (BDL) rat model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: sham, sham plus TM, BDL, and BDL plus TM. TM was given in a daily dose of 10 mg/kg by body weight by means of intragastric gavage, beginning 5 days after BDL. All animals were killed 2 weeks after surgery. Severe copper deficiency was induced by TM overdose in either sham or BDL rats, as shown by decreased plasma ceruloplasmin activity. Liver injury and fibrosis were exacerbated in BDL rats with TM treatment, as illustrated by robustly increased plasma aspartate aminotransferase and hepatic collagen accumulation. Iron stores, as measured by plasma ferritin, were significantly increased in copper-deficient BDL rats. Moreover, hepatic heme oxygenase-1 expression was markedly down-regulated by copper deficiency in BDL rats. In addition, hepatic gene expression involving mitochondrial biogenesis and β-oxidation was significantly up-regulated in BDL rats, and this increase was abolished by copper deficiency. In summary, severe copper deficiency exacerbates BDL-induced liver injury and liver fibrosis, probably caused by increased iron overload and decreased antioxidant defenses and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Botulinum neurotoxin formulations are safe and effective agents for the treatment of facial rhytides.
A patient is described who complained of metallic taste after each treatment with botulinum toxin A (BTX-A).
The sensation of metallic taste diminished after successive treatments with BTX-A, despite adequate dosing for cosmetic purposes.
Metallic taste is associated with the use of numerous medications; however, the pathogenesis remains unclear. Alteration in zinc metabolism, which may occur with BTX-A administration, has been suggested as a possible mechanism. Although this is the first known report of dysgeusia after BTX-A, physicians and patients may be reassured that the taste alteration was self-limited and was not significantly problematic for the patient in our case.
A 97-year-old woman was provoked a convulsion after taking a new quinolone antibiotic drug Levofloxacin and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug Loxoprofen. At a later time, she was suffered from severe chest pain. An electrocardiogram showed ST segment elevation in leads II, III and aVF, and T-wave inversion in leads V1 to V4. Coronary angiography demonstrated no organic stenosis, however biventriculography revealed apical ballooning akinesis and basal hyperkinesis. Positron emission tomography was also performed to assess the uptake of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) after 75 g oral glucose loading for evaluating myocardial glucose metabolism at 10th day. Severely reduced uptake of FDG was observed in the apical ballooning region. Left ventriculography showed normal wall motion at 19th day. Thallium-201 myocardial single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to determine the status of myocardial perfusion at the 20th hospital day showed normal perfusion. Iodine-123-beta-methyl-p-iodophenyl penta-decanoic acid myocardial SPECT to evaluate myocardial fatty acid metabolism at the 23rd day revealed severely reduced uptake in the apical ballooning region. These findings suggested that the coronary microcirculation was impaired in the apical ballooning region.
Acamprosate (calcium acetylhomotaurinate) is a glutamatergic neuromodulator used for the treatment of alcoholism, but its potential efficacy in the treatment of psychostimulant addiction has not been explored.
The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of acamprosate on cocaine-stimulated locomotor activity, cocaine self-administration, and cue- and cocaine-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior.
All experiments utilized once-daily treatment for 5 consecutive days. First, the effects of saline or acamprosate (100, 300, or 500 mg/kg intraperitoneally) on body weight were examined. On the last day of treatment, locomotor activity was assessed before and after drug treatment, after which all animals received an acute challenge of cocaine (10 mg/kg). Next, a separate group of rats were trained to intravenously (IV) self-administer cocaine (0.6 mg/kg per infusion), subjected to extinction procedures, and then tested for effects of acamprosate on cue- or cocaine-induced reinstatement. A third group of rats was trained to self-administer cocaine as described above and were treated with saline or acamprosate before daily IV self-administration sessions.
Repeated administration of 500 mg/kg acamprosate but not lower doses produced reductions in both body weight and spontaneous locomotor activity, and thus this dose was not tested further. Acamprosate at 300 mg/kg but not 100 mg/kg attenuated both cocaine- and cue-induced reinstatement without altering baseline patterns of cocaine self-administration or cocaine-stimulated hyperlocomotion.
Acamprosate attenuates both drug- and cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior, suggesting that this compound may serve as a potential treatment for preventing relapse in cocaine-addicted humans.
In a proportion of adults with steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome (SRNS), intravenous cyclophosphamide therapy fails. Tacrolimus may be a promising alternative to cyclophosphamide for such patients.
Prospective observational study.
19 adults with SRNS (6 with minimal change nephropathy, 8 with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis [FSGS], and 5 with mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis) that did not respond to intravenous cyclophosphamide therapy were studied from January 2003 to September 2006. Oral tacrolimus was administered (target trough levels, 5 to 10 ng/mL) for 24 weeks, then reduced doses were given (target trough level, 3 to 6 ng/mL) for another 24 weeks.
Histopathologic types: minimal change nephropathy (n = 6), FSGS (n = 8), and mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis (n = 5).
outcome variables included complete remission (decrease in daily proteinuria to protein < or = 0.3 g/d), partial remission (decrease in daily proteinuria to protein < 3.5 g/d but > 0.3 g/d), relapse (increase in daily proteinuria to protein > or = 3.5 g/d in patients who had partial or complete remission), change in kidney function, and tacrolimus dosing and serum levels.
17 patients completed at least 24 weeks of tacrolimus therapy. Complete remission was achieved in 11 patients (64.7%), and partial remission was achieved in 3 (17.6%). Complete or partial remission was achieved in 5 of 5 patients with minimal change nephropathy, 4 of 7 patients with FSGS, and 5 of 5 patients with mesangioproliferative glomerulonephritis. Primary resistance to tacrolimus was seen in 3 patients (17.6%), all with FSGS. Mean times to achieve partial and complete remission were 5.6 +/- 1.4 and 8.0 +/- 5.1 weeks, respectively. In patients who achieved complete or partial remission, 35.7% experienced relapse during follow-up (mean, 37.6 +/- 13.4 months). Two patients had doubling of serum creatinine levels, both with FSGS.
Observational study.
Tacrolimus rapidly and effectively induced remission of SRNS in Chinese adults with disease refractory to treatment with intravenous cyclophosphamide. Treatment may be less effective in patients with FSGS.
Baclofen is a centrally acting gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist used for spasticity of spinal origin and mainly excreted unchanged by the kidneys. We report haemodialysis clearance and the haemodialysis removal rate constant of baclofen in a comatose patient with baclofen overdose due to acute renal failure.
A 60-year-old man with spastic tetraplegia on chronic baclofen therapy was admitted due to pneumonia and acute renal failure. The patient became comatose and, as a result of the baclofen dosage being left unchanged despite a deterioration leading to renal failure due to hypotension, the concentration of baclofen was determined to be in the toxic range (0.70 mg/L). During a 4-hour-long bicarbonate haemodialysis the patient woke up and became completely orientated and cooperative. Baclofen therapy was subsequently stopped, and the patient remained conscious. The pharmacokinetics calculations revealed a baclofen haemodialysis removal rate constant of 0.152 h(-1) and a haemodialysis clearance of 2.14 mL/s.
Patients on a stable baclofen regime can develop baclofen toxicity due to acute renal failure. Haemodialysis removes baclofen as effectively as normal kidneys, and it would appear that haemodialysis is a reasonable treatment modality in patients with accidental baclofen overdose due to acute renal failure.
We examined a novel therapeutic approach for hypertension, a small-molecule direct inhibitor of smooth muscle myosin, CK-2018448 (CK-448), which is an N,N'-alkylurea (U.S. Patent Publication 2009-0275537 A1) in conscious dogs with renal hypertension and compared its efficacy with that of a calcium channel blocker, amlodipine. Dogs were instrumented with a miniature left ventricular pressure gauge, an aortic pressure catheter, and ultrasonic flow probes in the ascending aorta and renal and iliac arteries for measurement of cardiac output and regional blood flow. In the hypertensive state, mean arterial pressure increased from 101 ± 3.8 to 142 ± 1.9 mm Hg. At the doses selected, CK-448 and amlodipine increased cardiac output similarly (30 ± 11% versus 33 ± 6.4%) and similarly reduced mean arterial pressure (-22 ± 3.6% versus -16 ± 3.4%) and total peripheral resistance (-36 ± 5.9% versus -37 ± 5.8%). CK-448 had the greatest vasodilator effect in the renal bed, where renal blood flow increased by 46 ± 9.0%, versus 11 ± 3.4% for amlodipine (p < 0.01). CK-488 produced significantly less vasodilation in the limb, where iliac blood flow did not change; in contrast, it rose by 48 ± 12% with amlodipine (p < 0.01). The minimal effects on limb blood flow could limit the development of peripheral edema, an adverse side effect of Ca(2+) channel blockers. In addition, in a rodent model of hypertension, oral administration of a smooth muscle myosin inhibitor resulted in a sustained antihypertensive effect. Thus, the smooth muscle myosin inhibitor's preferential effect on renal blood flow makes this drug mechanism particularly appealing, because many patients with hypertension have renal insufficiency, and patients with heart failure could benefit from afterload reduction coupled with enhanced renal blood flow.
With the increasing survival of children with malignancies, the long-term effects of chemotherapies are now becoming important and one of these dreadful long-term complications is the development of a second malignancy. Described here is a case of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder developing 8 years following exposure to cyclophosphamide for the treatment of embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma.
Recent advances in molecular genetics have revealed the mechanisms underlying a variety of inherited human disorders. Among them, mutations in G protein-coupled receptors have clearly demonstrated two types of abnormalities, namely loss of function and constitutive activation of the receptors. Thromboxane A2 (TXA2) receptor is a member of the family of G protein-coupled receptors and performs an essential role in hemostasis by interacting with TXA2 to induce platelet aggregation. Here we identify a single amino acid substitution (Arg60-->Leu) in the first cytoplasmic loop of the TXA2 receptor in a dominantly inherited bleeding disorder characterized by defective platelet response to TXA2. This mutation was found exclusively in affected members of two unrelated families with the disorder. The mutant receptor expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells showed decreased agonist-induced second messenger formation despite its normal ligand binding affinities. These results suggest that the Arg60 to Leu mutation is responsible for the disorder. Moreover, dominant inheritance of the disorder suggests the possibility that the mutation produces a dominant negative TXA2 receptor.
The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of chronic exposure to sublethal concentrations of hexavalent chromium (K2Cr2O7) on the immune response and disease resistance of Oreochromis mossambicus (Peters) to bacterial Aeromonas hydrophila infection. Fish (45 to 50 g) were exposed to 0.005, 0.05, 0.5, and 5 mg l(-1) [0.01, 0.1, 1, and 10% LC50, respectively] of hexavalent chromium Cr (VI) for 28 d. The specific immune response was assessed by antibody response to A. hydrophila by bacterial agglutination assay, and to sheep red blood cells (SRBC) by plaque forming cell (PFC) assay. In addition, nonspecific immune mechanisms were assessed by serum lysozyme activity and reactive nitrogen intermediates, the latter in terms of nitric oxide (NO) production by peripheral blood leucocytes. Overall immunity was assessed by disease resistance against live virulent A. hydrophila. The study clearly indicated that chronic exposure of fish to 0.5 and 5 mg l(-1) of chromium (VI) decreased both nonspecific and specific parameters of the immune system, which resulted in a lower disease resistance to A. hydrophila. Interestingly, 0.05 mg l(-1) of Cr (VI) enhanced disease resistance and both nonspecific and specific immune responses to A. hydrophila. Our study revealed a concentration-dependent modulation of the immune system by chromium (VI), as demonstrated by suppressive or stimulatory effects on lymphocytes, lysozyme, phagocytic killing mechanisms, and disease resistance in O. mossambicus.
Pretreatment with the opiate antagonist naloxone, at 1.25-5 mg/kg, increased the intensity of methamphetamine stereotypy, had no effect (over a range of 0.3125-5 mg/kg) on apomorphine stereotypy, and antagonized haloperidol catalepsy in rats at 1.25-5 mg/kg. It is suggested that naloxone, by blocking the opiate receptors located on the nigro-striatal and mesolimbic dopamine (DA) nerve terminals, releases the DA systems from endogenous inhibition, presumably caused by endogenous opiate systems, and thereby potentiates methamphetamine stereotypy and antagonizes haloperidol catalepsy. However, the possibility that naloxone might have affected methamphetamine stereotypy and haloperidol catalepsy by modulating the activity of the central noradrenergic and GABAergic systems, which are reported to influence dopaminergically mediated behaviours, also needs to be considered.
Previous immunohistochemical studies from this laboratory demonstrated that monoclonal antibodies raised against various regions of amyloid precursor protein (APP) (i.e., N-terminus, amyloid beta protein (A beta), and C-terminus) strongly labeled vacuoles in chloroquine-induced myopathy-affected muscle in rats. In this study, we used antibodies end specific for the A beta 40 and A beta 42 species, and a monoclonal antibody to A beta 1-9 which reacts with APP and A beta. Most vacuoles clearly reacted with anti-A beta 1-9, while about half reacted with anti-A beta 42, and only a few reacted with anti-A beta 40. These results demonstrate that vacuoles in chloroquine-induced myopathy-affected muscle contain cleaved A beta, and that distribution of the two major A beta species is similar to what is observed in A beta deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD)-affected brain. This provides further evidence that chloroquine-induced myopathy in rats provides a suitable model to understand APP processing into A beta, and the role of APP in terms of the pathogenesis of AD.
Prenatal alprazolam (APZ) treatment in 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg/day doses during 13-20 days of gestation induced significant increase in open-field ambulation, rearings, self-grooming and faecal pellets in rat offspring. Prenatal APZ treated rats displayed significantly increased anxiogenic behaviour on elevated plus maze (spent less time on open arms, more time on enclosed arms and made less number of entries on open arms) and increased anxiogenecity on elevated zero maz e(APZ treated rats spent less time on open arms and made less number of head dips and stretched attend postures in comparison to control rat offspring). The results indicate persistent behavioural alterations in the rat offspring after prenatal exposure to APZ.
Thirty-one patients with rheumatoid arthritis in the Veterans General Hospital from July 1978 to June 1979 were treated with acetylsalicylic acid. The serum salicylate level was determined twice a week. The dose of acetylsalicylic acid was adjusted to keep the serum salicylate level around 15-30 mg%. All patients were started with an initial dose of 65 mg/kg/day. The serum salicylate levels at the 4th day varied greatly from 5.6 to 29.5 mg%. Tinnitus was noted in 24 patients. It occurred when the serum salicylate level reached 28.41 +/- 1.84 mg%. Abnormal liver function was noted in 19.35% (6/31) patients during treatment. It returned to normal after withdrawal of acetylsalicylic acid in 3 cases, after decrease of the dosage in 2 cases and on the same dosage in 1 case. Patients with positive FANA and RF were more prone to develop abnormal liver function during treatment. Monitoring of serum salicylate level may decrease the incidence of hepatic toxicity and maintain the dosage of acetylsalicylic acid in optimal range.
This study was undertaken to assess the conditions necessary to cause the "coronary steal" phenomenon in human subjects. We studied 42 patients (36 males, 6 females, ages 27--70 years) with known or suspected coronary artery diseases using continuous monitoring of the changes in blood pressure and electrocardiogram, thallium-201 myocardial imaging and selective coronary arteriography. Dipyridamole in a dose of 0.4 mg/Kg was given as an intravenous infusion for 4 min and thallium-201 was injected at the 4th minute after completion of the dipyridamole infusion. None of the 20 patients without significant coronary artery disease complained of anginal chest pain or showed ischemic S-T segment depression. Dipyridamole images showed no perfusion abnormalities in 17 of the 20 patients. On the other hand, in 4 of the 22 patients with significant coronary artery disease, anginal chest pain accompanied with S-T segment depression occurred after the dipyridamole infusion. Dipyridamole images showed perfusion abnormalities in 18 of the 22 patients. The 4 patients who experienced an anginal attack had 3 vessel disease on the coronary arteriogram and showed regional perfusion defects on scintigrams corresponding to the regions receiving collaterals. Before the onset of pain, the double product (heart rate X systolic arterial pressure) was unchanged significantly but there was a reduction in the systemic blood pressure. The overall data exhibit the following conditions under which attacks of angina pectoris are induced by dipyridamole: 1) the presence of multiple vessel disease, 2) a fall in systemic blood pressure, and 3) regional malperfusion caused by dipyridamole.
Dapsone proved to be effective treatment in a patient who suffered from erthema elevatum diutinum. Serious neurological side effects, however, appeared. The basic mechanism appeared to be a distal axonal degeneration of the motor neurons. Sensory conduction studies were normal in five consecutive EMG examinations. A diagnosis of anemia pernicosa was also made bu the blood values returned to normal after starting B12-vitamin therapy. Penicous anemia seemed not be an etiological factor in the polyneuropathy of our patient because we were not able toshow any damage to the sensory axons.
Thyroid hormones are essential for neonatal brain development. It is well established that insufficiency of thyroid hormone during critical periods of development can impair cognitive functions. The mechanisms that underlie learning deficits in hypothyroid animals, however, are not well understood. As impairments in synaptic function are likely to contribute to cognitive deficits, the current study tested whether thyroid hormone insufficiency during development would alter quantitative characteristics of synaptic function in the hippocampus. Developing rats were exposed in utero and postnatally to 0, 3, or 10 ppm propylthiouracil (PTU), a thyroid hormone synthesis inhibitor, administered in the drinking water of dams from gestation d 6 until postnatal day (PN) 30. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials and population spikes were recorded from the stratum radiatum and the pyramidal cell layer, respectively, in area CA1 of hippocampal slices from offspring between PN21 and PN30. Baseline synaptic transmission was evaluated by comparing input-output relationships between groups. Paired-pulse facilitation, paired-pulse depression, long-term potentiation, and long-term depression were recorded to examine short- and long-term synaptic plasticity. PTU reduced thyroid hormones, reduced body weight gain, and delayed eye-opening in a dose-dependent manner. Excitatory synaptic transmission was increased by developmental exposure to PTU. Thyroid hormone insufficiency was also dose-dependently associated with a reduction paired-pulse facilitation and long-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential and elimination of paired-pulse depression of the population spike. The results indicate that thyroid hormone insufficiency compromises the functional integrity of synaptic communication in area CA1 of developing rat hippocampus and suggest that these changes may contribute to learning deficits associated with developmental hypothyroidism.
