To reassess the evidence for management issues related to the care of women with epilepsy (WWE) during pregnancy.
Systematic review of relevant articles published between January 1985 and June 2007.
It is highly probable that intrauterine first-trimester valproate (VPA) exposure has higher risk of major congenital malformations (MCMs) compared to carbamazepine and possible compared to phenytoin or lamotrigine. Compared to untreated WWE, it is probable that VPA as part of polytherapy and possible that VPA as monotherapy contribute to the development of MCMs. It is probable that antiepileptic drug (AED) polytherapy as compared to monotherapy regimens contributes to the development of MCMs and to reduced cognitive outcomes. For monotherapy, intrauterine exposure to VPA probably reduces cognitive outcomes. Further, monotherapy exposure to phenytoin or phenobarbital possibly reduces cognitive outcomes. Neonates of WWE taking AEDs probably have an increased risk of being small for gestational age and possibly have an increased risk of a 1-minute Apgar score of <7.
If possible, avoidance of valproate (VPA) and antiepileptic drug (AED) polytherapy during the first trimester of pregnancy should be considered to decrease the risk of major congenital malformations (Level B). If possible, avoidance of VPA and AED polytherapy throughout pregnancy should be considered to prevent reduced cognitive outcomes (Level B). If possible, avoidance of phenytoin and phenobarbital during pregnancy may be considered to prevent reduced cognitive outcomes (Level C). Pregnancy risk stratification should reflect that the offspring of women with epilepsy taking AEDs are probably at increased risk for being small for gestational age (Level B) and possibly at increased risk of 1-minute Apgar scores of <7 (Level C).
Random chemical mutagenesis of the mouse genome can causally connect genes to specific phenotypes. Using this approach, reduced pinna (rep) or microtia, a defect in ear development, was mapped to a small region of mouse chromosome 2. Sequencing of this region established co-segregation of the phenotype (rep) with a mutation in the Prkra gene, which encodes the protein PACT/RAX. Mice homozygous for the mutant Prkra allele had defects not only in ear development but also growth, craniofacial development and ovarian structure. The rep mutation was identified as a missense mutation (Serine 130 to Proline) that did not affect mRNA expression, however the steady state level of RAX protein was significantly lower in the brains of rep mice. The mutant protein, while normal in most biochemical functions, was unable to bind dsRNA. In addition, rep mice displayed altered morphology of the skull that was consistent with a targeted deletion of Prkra showing a contribution of the gene to craniofacial development. These observations identified a specific mutation that reduces steady-state levels of RAX protein and disrupts the dsRNA binding function of the protein, demonstrating the importance of the Prkra gene in various aspects of mouse development.
Cigarette smoke (CS) imposes a strong oxidative burden on exposed tissues resulting in a severely disturbed oxidant/antioxidant balance, which in the context of chronic exposure is assumed to be a key contributor to CS-related diseases. Because of its emerging central role in orchestrating the general cellular antioxidant response, the pathway leading to the activation of the transcription factor Nrf2 has received mounting attention over the past decade in investigations aimed at elucidating CS-induced pathophysiological mechanisms. To comprehensively characterize the impact of Nrf2 in acute and subchronic smoking scenarios, Nrf2(-/-) mice and their wild-type (wt) ICR littermates were exposed to either ambient air (sham exposure) or one of three doses of CS for up to 5 months, with two postexposure endpoints of 1 and 13 days. The lungs of the mice were monitored for transcriptomic changes on a genome-wide level, which confirmed an impaired expression of antioxidant and phase 2-related genes in CS-exposed Nrf2(-/-) mice. Importantly, in comparison to wt mice, an attenuated cell cycle/mitotic response and intensified stress gene expression pattern were observed in exposed Nrf2(-/-) mice, which was paralleled by clear dose-dependent effects on alveolar destruction and impaired lung function. In contrast, the inflammation-related transcriptional response and scores for various bronchioalveolar inflammation parameters were qualitatively and quantitatively similar in CS-exposed mice of both genotypes. Taken together, these results confirm the protective nature of Nrf2 in oxidative stress scenarios and suggest that the enhanced emphysematous phenotype exhibited by CS-exposed Nrf2(-/-) mice is more likely caused by an imbalance in cell loss and regeneration than by increased inflammation.
Manganese (Mn) is a metal required by biological systems. However, environmental or occupational exposure to high levels of Mn can produce a neurological disorder called manganism, which has similarities to Parkinson's disease. Diethyl-2-phenyl-2-tellurophenyl vinylphosphonate (DPTVP) is an organotellurium compound with a high antioxidant activity, especially in the brain. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of long-term low-dose exposure to Mn in drinking water on behavioral and biochemical parameters in rats and to determine the effectiveness of vinylic telluride in attenuating the effects of Mn. After 4 months of treatment with MnCl(2) (13.7 mg/kg), rats exhibited clear signs of neurobehavioral toxicity, including a decrease in the number of rearings in the open field and altered motor performance in rotarod. The administration of DPTVP (0.150 micromol/kg, ip, 2 weeks) improved the motor performance of Mn-treated rats, indicating that the compound could be reverting Mn neurotoxicity. Ex vivo, we observed that Mn concentrations in the Mn-treated group were highest in the striatum, consistent with a statistically significant decrease in mitochondrial viability and [(3)H]glutamate uptake, and increased lipid peroxidation. Mn levels in the hippocampus and cortex were indistinguishable from controls, and no significant differences were noted in the ex vivo assays in these areas. Treatment with DPTVP fully reversed the biochemical parameters altered by Mn. Furthermore, DPTVP treatment was also associated with a reduction in striatal Mn levels. Our results demonstrate that DPTVP has neuroprotective activity against Mn-induced neurotoxicity, which may be attributed to its antioxidant activity and/or its effect on striatal Mn transport.
Tetrandrine (TET) and fangchinoline (FAN) are two naturally occurring analogues with a bisbenzylisoquinoline structure. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of TET and FAN on the experimental thrombosis induced by collagen plus epinephrine (EP) in mice, and platelet aggregation and blood coagulation in vitro. In the in vivo study, the administration (50 mg/kg, i.p.) of TET and FAN in mice showed the inhibition of thrombosis by 55% and 35%, respectively, while acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, 50 mg/kg, i.p.), a positive control, showed only 30% inhibition. In the vitro human platelet aggregations induced by the agonists used in tests, TET and FAN showed the inhibitions dose dependently. In addition, neither TET nor FAN showed any anticoagulation activities in the measurement of the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), prothrombin time (PT) and thrombin time (TT) using human-citrated plasma. These results suggest that antithrombosis of TET and FAN in mice may be mainly related to the antiplatelet aggregation activities.
Alpha-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT) causes cholestatic hepatitis characterized by intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cell injury and periportal hepatocellular necrosis. The progression of ANIT-induced hepatocyte injury is reported to involve extrahepatic cells including platelets. We showed recently that the procoagulant protein tissue factor (TF) is essential for ANIT-induced coagulation and contributes to ANIT-induced liver necrosis. Platelets have been shown to express TF and can contribute to coagulation cascade activation. To this end, we tested the hypothesis that platelet-dependent coagulation contributes to ANIT-induced liver injury. In ANIT (60 mg/kg)-treated mice, activation of the coagulation cascade occurred prior to a decrease of platelets in the blood. Immunostaining for glycoprotein IIb (CD41) revealed platelet accumulation along the borders of necrotic foci in livers of ANIT-treated mice. Antibody-mediated platelet depletion did not affect coagulation but markedly affected liver histopathology in ANIT-treated mice. Platelet depletion induced marked pooling of blood within necrotic lesions consistent with parenchymal-type peliosis as early as 24 h after ANIT treatment. In contrast, treatment with the P2Y(12) inhibitor clopidogrel significantly reduced ANIT-induced hepatocyte necrosis and serum alanine aminotransferase activity but did not exaggerate bleeding into necrotic foci. Clopidogrel also reduced hepatic neutrophil accumulation but did not affect induction of Intercellular adhesion molecule-1 or chemokine CxC motif ligand-1 messenger RNA expression in liver. The data indicate that ANIT-induced coagulation is platelet independent and that platelets contribute to ANIT-induced hepatocyte necrosis by promoting neutrophil accumulation. In contrast, severe thrombocytopenia induces parenchymal-type peliosis in the livers of ANIT-treated mice, a rare hepatic lesion associated with pooling of blood in the liver.
Mounting evidence suggest that tissue levels of angiotensin (ANG) II are maintained in animals submitted to chronic angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment. We examined the expression levels of transcripts for elastase-2, a chymostatin-sensitive serine protease identified as the alternative pathway for ANG II generation from ANG I in the rat vascular tissue and the relative role of ACE-dependent and -independent pathways in generating ANG II in the rat isolated carotid artery rings of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar normotensive rats (WNR) treated with enalapril for 7 days. Enalapril treatment decreased blood pressure of SHR only and resulted in significantly more elastase-2 mRNA expression in carotid artery of both enalapril-treated WNR and SHR. Captopril induced a comparable rightward shift of concentration-response curves to ANG I in vehicle and enalapril-treated rats, although this effect was of lesser magnitude in SHR group. Chymostatin induced a rightward shift of the dose response to ANG I in vehicle-treated and a decrease in maximal effect of 22% in enalapril-treated WNR group. Maximal response induced by ANG I was remarkably reduced by chymostatin in enalapril-treated SHR carotid artery (by 80%) compared with controls (by 23%). Our data show that chronic ACE inhibition was associated with augmented functional role of non-ACE pathway in generating ANG II and increased elastase-2 gene expression, suggesting that this protease may contribute as an alternative pathway for ANG II generation when ACE is inhibited in the rat vascular tissue.
Primrose syndrome and 3q13.31 microdeletion syndrome are clinically related disorders characterized by tall stature, macrocephaly, intellectual disability, disturbed behavior and unusual facial features, with diabetes, deafness, progressive muscle wasting and ectopic calcifications specifically occurring in the former. We report that missense mutations in ZBTB20, residing within the 3q13.31 microdeletion syndrome critical region, underlie Primrose syndrome. This finding establishes a genetic link between these disorders and delineates the impact of ZBTB20 dysregulation on development, growth and metabolism.
Chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis requires a first-line prolonged treatment with itraconazole or voriconazole. We report a 71-year-old immunocompetent man with polyarteritis and history of multiple lung surgery procedures, who developed a peripheral axonal neuropathy 1 month after voriconazole therapy was started for a chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis. After discontinuation of the treatment and a switch to posaconazole, the neuropathy partly improved. Three other cases of peripheral neuropathy with voriconazole have been already published, all reversible after voriconazole discontinuation.
Eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) is a chronic inflammatory disorder associated with allergic hypersensitivity to food. We interrogated >1.5 million genetic variants in EoE cases of European ancestry and subsequently in a multi-site cohort with local and out-of-study control subjects. In addition to replicating association of the 5q22 locus (meta-analysis P=1.9×10(-16)), we identified an association at 2p23 spanning CAPN14 (P=2.5×10(-10)). CAPN14 was specifically expressed in the esophagus, was dynamically upregulated as a function of disease activity and genetic haplotype and after exposure of epithelial cells to interleukin (IL)-13, and was located in an epigenetic hotspot modified by IL-13. Genes neighboring the top 208 EoE-associated sequence variants were enriched for esophageal expression, and multiple loci for allergic sensitization were associated with EoE susceptibility (4.8×10(-2)<P<5.1×10(-11)). We propose a model to explain the tissue-specific nature of EoE that involves the interplay of allergic sensitization with an EoE-specific, IL-13-inducible esophageal response involving CAPN14.
After the encouraging report on bilateral pallidal stimulation by Siegfried in 1994, we started this procedure in 1995 and will report our experience in 6 patients with a mean follow-up of 1 year. In contrast to the good results of pallidotomy reported in the literature improving the 'on' symptoms as dyskinesias as well as 'off' symptoms such as rigidity, bradykinesia and on-off fluctuations, our results indicate that pallidal stimulation improves the 'off' symptoms only to a minor extent and L-dopa-induced dyskinesias remain the main indication. Considering the overall functional outcome, the question arises whether the medial globus pallidus should be lesioned or stimulated.
Dopaminergic neurotransmission, in particular the mesolimbic pathway, is involved in spontaneous locomotor activity and in morphine-induced hyperactivity, since the drugs acting on DA receptors can modify the action of morphine and this effect could be dependent on the type of DA receptor affected.
In this study, the action of U-99194A maleate, haloperidol, sulpiride and morphine (5, 10, 20, 40 mg/kg) on locomotor activity in male mice was evaluated. Likewise, the effects of these dopaminergic antagonists on morphine-induced hyperactivity were studied.
Animals treated with U-99194A maleate (2.5, 5, 10, 20 mg/kg), haloperidol (0.075, 0.1 mg/kg), sulpiride (20, 40 mg/kg), or morphine (5, 10, 20, 40 mg/kg), and animals treated with these neuroleptics plus morphine were tested in an actimetre at different time points.
It was found that an increase in locomotor activity was produced between 0 and 30 min after the administration of 20 mg/kg U-99194A maleate and between 30 and 60 min after the administration of 20 and 40 mg/kg morphine. This dose of U-99194A maleate and the high dose of sulpiride reverts the hyperactivity induced by 20 mg/kg morphine. Haloperidol reversed the hyperactivity induced by all doses of morphine.
Our results confirm that the action of DA D2 and D3 receptors could be dependent on the dopaminergic state, in this case modified by the action of morphine.
Acid suppressing agents are widely used to treat the iatrogenic ulcers following endoscopic mucosal resection for gastric neoplasms. However, the relative merits of proton pump inhibitor or histamine(2)-receptor antagonist for endoscopic mucosal resection-induced ulcers are not known.
To prospectively compare omeprazole and famotidine for the healing of endoscopic mucosal resection-induced ulcers and for bleeding control.
After endoscopic mucosal resection, patients were randomly assigned to omeprazole (20 mg/day) or to famotidine (40 mg/day) group for a 28-day treatment period. The ulcer sizes and stages, bleeding rates and ulcer-related symptoms were compared.
A total of 100 patients were randomized equally to each group. Forty-one patients in each group were finally compared. The two groups were comparable in terms of baseline characteristics. Twenty-eight days after treatment, the two groups were not different with respect to ulcer stage (P = 0.137) or ulcer reduction ratio (P = 0.380). No difference was observed with respect to ulcer-related symptoms (P = 0.437) and no bleeding episode occurred in any of the 82 patients. In subgroup that underwent endoscopic submucosal dissection, fewer patients in the omeprazole group showed active ulcers than those in the famotidine group (P = 0.035).
Our results demonstrate that omeprazole may be superior to famotidine for iatrogenic ulcers following endoscopic mucosal resection, especially for large ulcers.
Data in laboratory animals suggest that D1 receptor agonists may have potential utility for the treatment of cocaine abuse.
The effects of ABT-431, a selective agonist at the dopamine D1 receptor, on the reinforcing, cardiovascular and subjective effects of cocaine were investigated in humans.
Nine experienced cocaine smokers (8M, 1F), participated in nine self-administration sessions while residing on an inpatient research unit: three doses of ABT-431 (0, 2, 4 mg i.v.) were each given in combination with three doses of smoked cocaine (0, 12, 50 mg). ABT-431 was intravenously administered over a 1-h period immediately prior to cocaine self-administration sessions. A six-trial choice procedure (cocaine versus $5 merchandise vouchers) was utilized, with sessions consisting of: (a) one sample trial, where participants received the cocaine dose available that day, and (b) five choice trials, where participants chose between the available cocaine dose and one merchandise voucher.
ABT-431 did not affect the number of times participants chose to smoke each dose of cocaine, but produced significant dose-dependent decreases in the subjective effects of cocaine, including ratings of "High," "Stimulated," dose liking, estimates of dose value, "Quality," and "Potency." Furthermore, there was a trend for ABT-431 (4 mg) to decrease cocaine craving. ABT-431 also increased heart rate, while decreasing systolic and diastolic pressure at each dose of cocaine.
These data suggest that D1 agonists may have potential utility for the treatment of cocaine abuse.
Exposure to carcinogenic metals, such as trivalent arsenic [As(III)] and hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)], through drinking water is a major global public health problem and is associated with various cancers. However, the mechanism of their carcinogenicity remains unclear. In this study, we used azoxymethane/dextran sodium sulfate (AOM/DSS)-induced mouse colitis-associated colorectal cancer model to investigate their tumorigenesis. Our results demonstrate that exposure to As(III) or Cr(VI), alone or in combination, together with AOM/DSS pretreatment has a promotion effect, increasing the colorectal tumor incidence, multiplicity, size, and grade, as well as cell inflammatory response. Two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry revealed that As(III) or Cr(VI) treatment alone significantly changed the density of proteins. The expression of β-catenin and phospho-GSK was increased by treatment of carcinogenic metals alone. Concomitantly, the expression of NADPH oxidase1 (NOX1) and the level of 8-OHdG were also increased by treatment of carcinogenic metals alone. Antioxidant enzymes, such as superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase, were decreased. Similarly, in an in vitro system, exposure of CRL-1807 to carcinogenic metals increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, the expression of β-catenin, phospho-GSK, and NOX1. Inhibition of ROS generation by addition of SOD or catalase inhibited β-catenin expression and activity. Our study provides a new animal model to study the carcinogenicity of As(III) and Cr(VI) and suggests that As(III) and Cr(VI) promote colorectal cancer tumorigenesis, at least partly, through ROS-mediated Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway.
Altogether 129 children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in remission, all of whom had completed treatment, were assessed using standardised intelligence and attainment tests. A control group of 67 healthy siblings was also assessed. Results showed that the patients were functioning within the average range of intelligence several years after completing treatment but that they had significantly lower intelligence quotients (IQs) than their siblings. Only patients who received cranial irradiation when aged 7 years or more were no different in intelligence from their siblings. Patients who were treated under the age of 3 years were found to have significantly lower IQs than patients who received the same treatment at an older age and a group of healthy children matched for age, sex, and parental occupation. This finding has practical implications for the management and education of younger patients with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
By performing identical studies in humans and rats, we attempted to distinguish vulnerability factors for addiction from neurobiological effects of chronic drug exposure. We focused on the GABAergic system within the hippocampus, a brain region that is a constituent of the memory/conditioning neuronal circuitry of addiction that is considered to be important in drug reinforcement behaviors in animals and craving and relapse in humans.
Using RNA-Seq we quantified mRNA transcripts in postmortem total hippocampus from alcoholics, cocaine addicts and controls and also from alcohol-naïve, alcohol preferring (P) and non-preferring (NP) rats selectively bred for extremes of alcohol-seeking behavior that also show a general addictive tendency. A pathway-targeted analysis of 25 GABAergic genes encoding proteins implicated in GABA synthesis, metabolism, synaptic transmission and re-uptake was undertaken.
Directionally consistent and biologically plausible overlapping and specific changes were detected: 14/25 of the human genes and 12/25 of the rat genes showed nominally significant differences in gene expression (global p values: 9×10⁻¹⁴, 7×10⁻¹¹ respectively). Principal FDR-corrected findings were that GABBR1 was down-regulated in alcoholics, cocaine addicts and P rats with congruent findings in NSF, implicated in GABAB signaling efficacy, potentially resulting in increased synaptic GABA. GABRG2, encoding the gamma2 subunit required for postsynaptic clustering of GABAA receptors together with GPHN, encoding the associated scaffolding protein gephryin, were both down-regulated in alcoholics and cocaine addicts but were both up-regulated in P rats. There were also expression changes specific to cocaine addicts (GAD1, GAD2), alcoholics (GABRA2) and P rats (ABAT, GABRG3).
Our study confirms the involvement of the GABAergic system in alcoholism but also reveals a hippocampal GABA input in cocaine addiction. Congruent findings in human addicts and P rats provide clues to predisposing factors for alcohol and drug addiction. Finally, the results of this study have therapeutic implications.
The Ca(2+)-binding ability of the thrombocytes' membranes did not change within 30 min after administration of hydrocortisone when no significant changes of arterial pressure occur. In stable increase of arterial pressure evoked by thrice repeated administration of hydrocortisone, a redistribution of the intracellular Ca2+ occurs: its contents decreases at the external plasmatic membrane and increases in intracellular membranes. The hypertensive response seems to coincide with the redistribution. The same mechanisms of Ca2+ metabolism disorders seem to underlie both essential and steroid hypertension. The cell's adrenoreceptor mechanisms are probably involved in the process.
In experimental visceral leishmaniasis, acquired resistance to intracellular Leishmania donovani is Th1 cell cytokine dependent and largely mediated by gamma interferon (IFN-gamma); the same response also permits conventional antimony (Sb) chemotherapy to express its leishmanicidal effect. Since the influxing blood monocyte (which utilizes endothelial cell ICAM-1 for adhesion and tissue entry) is a primary effector target cell for this cytokine mechanism, we tested the monocyte's role in host responsiveness to chemotherapy in mice with ICAM-1 gene disruptions. Mutant animals failed to develop any early granulomatous tissue response in the liver, initially supported high-level visceral parasite replication, and showed no killing after Sb treatment; the leishmanicidal response to a directly acting, alternative chemotherapeutic probe, amphotericin B, was intact. However, mutant mice proceeded to express a compensatory, ICAM-1-independent response leading to mononuclear cell influx and granuloma assembly, control over visceral infection, and the capacity to respond to Sb. Together, these results point to the recruitment of emigrant monocytes and mononuclear cell granuloma formation, mediated by ICAM-1-dependent and -independent pathways, as critical determinants of host responsiveness to conventional antileishmanial chemotherapy.
This study was designed to investigate the cardioprotective effect of sesamol on isoproterenol (ISO)-induced myocardial infarction in adult male albino Wistar rats. The heart damage induced by ISO was indicated by elevated levels of the marker enzymes such as alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), creatine kinase (CK), creatine kinase-MB (CK-MB) and the levels of troponin T and I in the plasma. In addition, lipid peroxidative markers such as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), conjugated dienes (CD) and lipid hydroperoxides (LHP) significantly increased in the plasma and heart. Activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glutathione reductase (GR) significantly decreased in the heart and (non-enzymic antioxidants) vitamin C, vitamin E and reduced glutathione (GSH)) levels significantly decreased in the plasma and heart in ISO-rats. Histopathological observations correlated with the biochemical parameters. Administration of sesamol at different doses 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg body weight intraperitoneally for 7 days prevented the above changes and improved towards normality; the 50 mg dose was more effective than the other two doses.
To investigate the peripheral role of nitric oxide (NO) in capsaicin-induced detrusor overactivity (DO), as exogenously applied vanilloids can evoke NO release in urothelial cells but its functional role has not yet been reported.
The effects of N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an inhibitor of NO synthase (NOS), on bladder activity during intravesical capsaicin (30 microm) instillation were examined by using continuous infusion cystometry in urethane-anaesthetized rats. L-NAME was administered intravenously (i.v., 20 mg/kg), intrathecally (i.t., 270 microg/rat), intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v., 270 microg/rat) or intravesically (10 mg/mL) before or during capsaicin instillation.
During cystometry with intravesical saline infusion, L-NAME injected i.v., i.t. and i.c.v., but not intravesically, significantly increased the intercontraction intervals (ICI) and L-NAME injected i.v., but not i.t., i.c.v. or intravesically, increased the maximum voiding pressure (MVP) without affecting the baseline pressure. Capsaicin instillation induced DO evidenced by a significant reduction in the ICI. L-NAME administered i.v. further decreased the ICI and increased the MVP and the baseline pressure during capsaicin instillation. Co-intravesical application of capsaicin and L-NAME also similarly enhanced capsaicin-induced DO. However, L-NAME injected i.t. or i.c.v. had no effect on capsaicin-induced DO. The excitatory effects of i.v and intravesical L-NAME on the ICI, MVP and baseline pressure during capsaicin infusion were significantly suppressed by desensitization of C-fibre afferent pathways by capsaicin pretreatment (125 mg/kg s.c., 4 days before cystometry).
These results indicate that locally released NO can suppress DO induced by capsaicin-mediated C-fibre activation and that central NO pathways are not involved in capsaicin-induced DO.
A combination of histologic and barium perfusion-microangiographic methods have been employed to correlate cytologic and microangiographic characteristics of Streptozotocin-induced renal tumors in rats. Four of 11 rats developed renal tumors within six to seven months following Streptozotocin administration. A total of twelve tumors was found in these animals. The neoplasms displayed a continuum of benign and malignant cytologic characteristics and varied considerably in extent of vascularity, as seen on microangiography. One tumor appeared locally invasive beyond the confines of its pseudo-capsule. Microangiography depicted well the microvascular features of these tumors and correlated closely with the histologic findings.
The two-stage skin carcinogenesis model of initiation and promotion in Carcinogenesis-susceptible (Car-S) mice has been used to investigate the pathways of promotional activity of 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), a phorbol ester tumor promoter, and benzoyl peroxide (BzPo), a free radical-generating compound. To test whether distinct populations of 9,10-dimethyl-1,2-benzanthracene (DMBA)-initiated epidermal keratinocytes are responsive to the two promoters, tandem experiments were performed. DMBA-initiated Car-S mice were promoted twice weekly with maximal promoting doses of TPA or BzPo. When the number of papillomas/mouse reached a plateau, promotion in the TPA and BzPo groups was switched to BzPo or TPA, respectively, until achievement of a new plateau. Mice promoted with BzPo developed 11.0 +/- 1.3 papillomas/mouse and subsequent TPA promotion induced 13.8 additional papillomas, for a total of 24.8 +/- 2.1 papillomas/mouse. TPA-promoted mice developed 23.3 +/- 1.1 papillomas/mouse, and subsequent BzPo promotion for 91 days did not promote additional papillomas. Our results show a less than additive tumor response after sequential promotion with BzPo and TPA, or vice versa, indicating that the pathways of promotional activity of TPA and BzPo are interacting. While the final papilloma yield was similar at the end of the two tandem promotion experiments independently of promoter sequence, the percentage of mice developing carcinomas was significantly higher in mice that were promoted with BzPo in the first stage. No significant differences in the frequency and type of c-Ha-ras mutations were observed in TPA- and BzPo-promoted tumors, suggesting that promotion of DMBA-initiated cells by BzPo requires introduction of additional molecular alterations compared to TPA.
Nephrotoxicity has been described in some patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) treated with 5-aminosalicylates (5-ASA). Our aim was to conduct a retrospective study of IBD patients, both with and without 5-ASA treatment, who underwent regular evaluation of renal function over a 4-year period.
Serum creatinine was measured before the start of 5-ASA therapy, and thereafter yearly up to 4 years. Creatinine clearance (Cl(Cr)) was estimated from serum creatinine (Cockroft and Gault formula). The influence of 5-ASA treatment on renal function was assessed by univariate and multivariate analysis.
A total of 150 IBD patients (ulcerative colitis in 45%, Crohn's disease in 55%) were included. Sixty-two patients were receiving 5-ASAs (95% coated mesalazine, mean dose 1.9 +/- 0.8 g/day). Both serum creatinine levels and ClCr were similar in patients with and without 5-ASA treatment, and remained stable throughout the 4-year follow-up in patients taking 5-ASAs. In the multivariate analysis, 5-ASA treatment (or its dose) was not correlated with serum creatinine levels or Cl(Cr). No interstitial nephritis was reported during follow-up.
5-ASA-related renal disease was not found in our series, suggesting that the occurrence of renal impairment in IBD patients receiving these drugs is exceptional. Our results do not support the recommendation of serum creatinine monitoring in patients receiving 5-ASA treatment.
The incidence of side-effects occurring with epidural diamorphine (0.05 mg.ml-1), fentanyl (2.0 micrograms.ml-1), methadone (0.1 mg.ml-1), morphine (0.05 mg.ml-1) and pethidine (1.0 mg.ml-1) used by infusion in combination with bupivacaine has been compared. One hundred and sixty patients were studied, 32 receiving each opioid. The incidence of nausea and vomiting was significantly greater with morphine than fentanyl (p = 0.0097) and pethidine (p = 0.0021). The incidence of pruritus was significantly greater with morphine and diamorphine than with methadone (p = 0.012) and pethidine (p = 0.027). Morphine was also associated with a significantly greater incidence of urinary retention than pethidine (p = 0.012) and methadone (p = 0.025).
