To investigate the effects of intratympanic dexamethasone injection, which is done because of tinnitus, on transient evoked otoacoustic emission (TEOAE) and so determine whether given dexamethasone cause any damage in the inner ear.
Twenty-six patients, aged between 32 and 75, with subjective tinnitus, were randomly selected. The selected patients were the ones whose improvement had not been achieved through minimum 6 months' medical therapy (eg, Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761, betahistidine, and trimetazidin) and who were free of systemic or otolaryngologic disease (hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypo/hypertyroidi, hypercholesterolemia, Meniere disease, and otosclerosis). Before and after the injections, audiometry including high-frequency tinnitus matching and TEOAE tests were done. The injections of 4 mg/mL dexamethasone were done 5 times in fixed protocols on days 0, 2, 4, 6, and 8. After each injection, the patients were kept supine for 60 minutes with the head turned 45 degrees to opposite ear. Paired t test was used to compare the beginning and final measurements.
Temporary pain and vertigo attacks which lasted at most for 15 minutes occurred in some patients only during injections. Neither infection nor persistent perforation occurred in any patients. After the management, there was no significant difference on patient's pure tone averages ( P = .067) and high-frequency averages ( P = .592). When the obtained TEOAE results before and after management were compared, the only significant increase was detected in the reproducibility values ( P = .042). There was no significant difference in other TEOAE parameters which are stimulus stability, stimulus intensity, and overall signal-to-noise ratio ( P > .05). There is no fixed criteria for rejecting a response solely on the reproducibility. However, a high value of the reproducibility (or increase in reproducibility) is always meaningful.
Intratympanic dexamethasone used for management in many indications, primarily in Meniere and tinnitus patients, was found to increase the reproducibility values of otoacoustic emission. Despite the fact that there was not a reasonable increase in the responses coming from the outer hair cells, the result was considered positive for the study as the responses did not decrease. It is found out that 4 mg/mL dexamethasone given intratympanically does not adversely affect the outer hair cell function as measured by otoacoustic emission. Within the limits of this study, dexamethasone appears to be safe when given intratympanically.
Glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) is a phase 2 drug metabolism enzyme involved in the metabolism and detoxification of a range of chemotherapeutic agents. A single nucleotide polymorphism (Ile105Val) results in a variant enzyme with lower thermal stability and altered catalytic activity. We hypothesized that patients with the less stable variant have a decreased ability to detoxify chemotherapeutic substrates, including melphalan, and have an altered outcome following treatment for multiple myeloma. We have assessed the impact of GSTP1 codon 105 polymorphisms in 222 patients entered into the Medical Research Council (MRC) myeloma VII trial (comparing standard-dose chemotherapy with high-dose therapy). In the standard-dose arm, patients with the variant allele (105Val) had an improved progression-free survival (PFS) (adjusted hazard ratios for PFS were 0.55 for heterozygotes and 0.52 for 105Val homozygotes, compared with 105Ile homozygotes; P for trend =.04); this was supported by a trend to improved overall survival, greater likelihood of entering plateau and shorter time to reach plateau in patients with the 105Val allele. No difference in outcome by genotype was found for patients treated with high-dose therapy. However, the progression-free survival advantage of the high-dose arm was seen only in patients homozygous for 105Ile (P =.008).
Haloperidol given intraperitoneally dose-dependently elicited cataleptic behavior, evaluated by high bar and four-cork tests, in mice. The haloperidol-induced cataleptic behavior was reduced dose-dependently after oral treatment with aspirin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor. The intra-cerebroventricular administration of prostaglandin F2a produced cataleptic behavior of long duration determined by the high bar test. It is suggested that prostaglandins may participate in the induction of cataleptic behavior in part.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the functional regulation of the myocardial postreceptor adenylyl cyclase (AC) system in compensated left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) and the effect of long-term angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition.
Pressure overload LVH was induced in rats by supravalvular aortic banding for 12 weeks. At 12 weeks left ventricular function and inner diameters were analyzed by echocardiography of anesthetized animals, and responsiveness to forskolin (systolic developed pressure) was determined in isolated perfused hearts. Functional activities of AC and the stimulatory G protein Gs were measured as well as mRNA expression (quantitative slot blot analyses) of AC type V, isoforms of Gs alpha and Gi alpha 2. G protein alpha-subunits were also quantified by immunoblotting. Rats were treated with ramipril (Ram, 10 mg/kg per day p.o.) during weeks 7 to 12 to induce regression of LVH or with vehicle (Veh, tap water).
Pressure overload induced severe LVH (3.2 +/- 0.09 g/kg in Veh vs. 1.8 +/- 0.03 in sham; P < 0.05) which was significantly reduced by ramipril (2.7 +/- 0.09; P < 0.05 vs. Veh). In-vivo left ventricular function and diameters were unchanged in LVH. In contrast, in hearts with LVH, responsiveness of left ventricles to forskolin was attenuated and basal, GTP gamma S and forskolin as well as manganese chloride-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was significantly downregulated by approximately 40% (basal 20.8 +/- 1.9 pmol cAMP/mg per min vs. 34.0 +/- 2.2 in sham; P < 0.01). However, no significant changes of AC type V mRNA were found in hypertrophied left ventricles. Functional activity of the stimulatory G protein Gs was reduced in LVH (48 +/- 7 pmol cAMP/mg per min in Veh vs. 68 +/- 3 in sham), whereas mRNA expression of long and short Gs alpha-isoforms was not altered and that of Gi alpha 2 was only slightly increased in ramipril-treated animals. Western analysis showed no significant differences of Gs alpha or Gi alpha 2 subunits. Long-term blockade of the renin-angiotensin system had no effect on the activity of the adenylyl cyclase system.
Functional desensitization of adenylyl cyclase and stimulatory G protein occurred in rat adaptive LVH prior to the onset of severe left ventricular dysfunction which was not restored by ACE-inhibitor treatment. The desensitization seems not to be mediated by significant changes of mRNA expression of AC type V or abundance of regulatory G proteins.
Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) elevation and subsequent prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) production play a major role in bladder inflammation and hyperactivity. EP4 receptor, a subtype of PGE(2) receptors, mediates tissue inflammation and hypersensitivity.
To investigate the effect of intravesical botulinum toxin A (BoNT-A) on COX-2 and EP4 expression in cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis in rats.
Experimental (N=40) and control animals (N=20) were injected with CYP (75 mg/kg intraperitoneally) or saline on days 1, 4, and 7. BoNT-A (1 ml, 20 unit/ml) or saline were administered into the bladder and retained for 1 h on day 2.
Waking cystometrograms (CMGs) were performed. Bladder and L6 and S1 spinal cord were harvested on day 8.
CMG parameters, histology, and COX-2 and EP4 expression by immunostaining or western blotting were measured.
CYP induced increased bladder inflammatory reaction, bladder hyperactivity, and COX-2 and EP4 expression in the bladder and spinal cord. The CYP effects were suppressed by BoNT-A treatment. BoNT-A treatment decreased inflammatory reaction (56.5% decrease), COX-2 expression (77.8%, 61.7%, and 54.8% decrease for bladder, L6, and S1 spinal cord, respectively), EP4 expression (56.8%, 26.9%, and 84.2% decrease for bladder, L6, and S1 spinal cord, respectively), and suppressed bladder hyperactivity (intercontraction interval, 107% increase and contraction amplitude, 43% decrease).
CYP injection activated COX2 and EP4 expression in the bladder and spinal cord and induced bladder inflammation and hyperactivity, which effects were suppressed by BoNT-A treatment. These findings suggest a potential benefit of EP4-targeted pharmacotherapy and BoNT-A treatment for bladder inflammatory conditions.
The use of epidural opiates, unlike the use of epidural local anaesthetics, is considered to have little, if any, effect on the cardiovascular system. A 76-year-old man with a flail chest injury was given a lumber epidural injection of meperidine. During the injection he suddenly complained of feeling cold, shivered vigorously and became tachypneic. His arterial blood pressure rose from 170/70 to 300/100; his pulse rate rose to 150/min. The patient was severely hypertensive for 40 minutes until treated with intravenous phentolamine. There is increasing evidence in the literature implicating the involvement of endogenous opiates in the central control mechanisms of blood pressure control.
Cardiac hypertrophy is associated with altered Ca2+ handling and may predispose to the development of LV dysfunction and cardiac failure. At the cellular level, the re-expression of ANF represents a well-established marker of myocyte hypertrophy while the decreased expression of the sarcoplasmatic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+)-ATPase is thought o play a crucial role in the alterations of Ca2+ handling and LV function. We assessed the dose-dependent effect of chronic ACE inhibition or AT1 receptor blockade on cardiac function in relation to the cardiac expression of the SR Ca(2+)-ATPase and ANF.
Renal hypertensive rats (2K-1C) were treated for 12 weeks with three different doses of the ACE inhibitor benazepril, the AT1-receptor antagonist valsartan (each drug 0.3, 3, and 10 mg/kg per day i.p.) or placebo. LV dimensions, hypertrophy and wall stress were determined in vivo by magnetic resonance imaging and the gene expressions of ANF and SR Ca(2+)-ATPase were quantified by Northern blot. Low doses of both drugs did not affect blood pressure, hypertrophy, systolic wall stress and the ANF and SR Ca(2+)-ATPase gene expression. High doses of each drug reduced systolic blood pressure, wall stress, and LV hypertrophy to a similar extent and to values comparable to normotensive, age-matched rats. In addition, high dose treatment reduced LV end-systolic and end-diastolic volume as compared to untreated 2K-1C animals and normalized the mRNA levels of both ANF and SR Ca(2+)-ATPase (as compared to normotensive animals).
We conclude that in this model, high doses of ACE inhibition and AT1-receptor blockade are necessary to normalize systolic blood pressure, LV hypertrophy and systolic LV wall stress which, in turn, is associated with restoration of a normal cardiac phenotype with respect to SR Ca(2+)-ATPase and ANF and normalization of cardiac function.
Thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT) is a polymorphic enzyme associated with detoxification of azathioprine, an immunosuppressant used after renal transplantation in several Asian countries. Patients with variations of the TPMT gene may be at risk for myelosuppression after they receive a standard dosage of the drug. The frequency of TPMT*3C has been reported to be higher in the Thai population than in other Asian populations, possibly putting the Thais at higher risk for myelosuppression.
The aim of this study was to assess the impact of the heterozygous TPMT*1/*3C genotype on azathioprine-induced myelosuppression in kidney transplant recipients in Thailand.
This study was conducted at Srinagarind Hospital, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, Thailand, and Chulalongkorn Hospital, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand. Eligible patients underwent kidney transplantation from deceased or living-related donors from 1984 to 2007. Electronic medical records were assessed retrospectively for the 6-month period after initiation of azathioprine treatment. TPMT genotyping and phenotyping were studied prospectively using real-time polymerase chain reaction and biochemical assay, respectively. The odds ratios (ORs), sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) were determined.
A total of 139 patients were enrolled (89 men, 50 women; median age, 42 years [range, 17-70 years]; mean weight, 58 kg [range, 37-87 kg]). The heterozygous TPMT*1/*3C genotype was found in 9 of the 139 patients (6.47%) (95% CI, 3.00-11.94). The TPMT activity of those patients was significantly lower than that of patients with the homozygous wild-type genotype (median, 21.37 vs 37.12 nmol 6-methylthioguanine/g . Hb/h, respectively; P < 0.001). The risk for azathioprine-induced myelosuppression in the patients with the heterozygous TPMT*1/*3C genotype was significantly higher than that in patients with the wild-type genotype (adjusted OR, 14.18 [95% CI, 3.07-65.40]; P < 0.005). The sensitivity and specificity of TPMT*3C genotyping for the prediction of azathioprine-induced myelosuppression in these kidney transplant recipients were 27% and 97%, respectively. Assuming a prevalence of azathioprine-induced myelotoxicity of 7% according to previously published data, the PPV and NPV were estimated to be 50% and 95%, respectively.
In these kidney transplant recipients, patients who carried the TPMT*3C allele were at a higher risk for azathioprine-induced myelosuppression than noncarriers.
Ceftriaxone was approved in 1997 for the treatment of otitis media despite previous studies that documented an association of ceftriaxone with elevated hepato-biliary enzymes and transient biliary stasis. The case cited here highlights the need for continued awareness education for physicians who may use ceftriaxone to treat common illnesses such as acute exudative tonsillitis and otitis media in children. Specifically, for children with a family history of gallbladder, biliary tract, liver or pancreas dysfunction, ceftriaxone may not be the drug of choice since the likelihood of complications is increased in this population. Additionally, ceftriaxone may cause problems in either adults or children with preexisting disease, who may not be well-nourished, or who may be dehydrated.
Labetalol is a relatively new and unique hypotensive agent that has both alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blocking properties. 12 patients in fit physical condition who underwent elective oral surgery were subject to hypotensive anesthesia with labetalol to assess the hemodynamic aspects and clinical effects of the drug. All of them had their anesthesia maintained with halothane and N2O in 50% O2 supplemented by fentanyl and vecuronium. Initiation of deliberate hypotension was made with intravenous bolus of labetalol at 0.5 mg/kg and the ideal level of mean arterial pressure at 55 +/- 5 mm Hg was maintained with adjustment of the concentration of halothane. At the termination of deliberate hypotension, the blood pressure was recuperated to the baseline level by lowering the concentration of halothane and administration of 0.5-0.6 mg intravenous atropine. Our results showed that the total dose of labetalol used was 44 +/- 13 mg and blood loss amounted to 354 +/- 136 ml. Important changes of hemodynamic parameters before and after labetalol included the fall of mean BP, HR, mean PAP, CI, LVSWI, SVRI, PVRI and O2 delivery and the increasing of O2 extraction. As to CVP, PCWP, SVI, O2 consumption and shunting the alterations were minimal. Blood gas analysis showed that, save a slight fall of pH indicating mild metabolic acidosis, the PaO2 and PaCO2 remained unchanged following the use of labetalol. Labetalol-induced hypotension could be effectively reversed by using of atropine as shown in our study and all the patients recovered uneventfully from hypotensive anesthesia. They were entirely free from any complication or sequela relevant to the deliberate hypotension after one year's follow-up.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Occasional case reports have shown that acute myopathy may occur in patients treated with massive doses of corticosteroids. The mechanism of this myopathy is poorly understood. Therefore, 60 male rats were randomly assigned to receive daily injection of saline (C), methylprednisolone (M), or triamcinolone (T) 80 mg/kg/d for 5 d. Nutritional intake, measured daily in 15 animals, showed a significant reduction of food intake in the steroid-treated groups (-50 and -79% in M and T, respectively). This was associated with a similar loss in body weight. In the 45 remaining animals, diaphragm contractility and histopathologic features of several muscles were studied. Weights of respiratory and peripheral muscles were similarly decreased after steroid treatment. Maximal twitches of the diaphragm were lower in the C group (653 +/- 174 g/cm(2)) than in the M group (837 +/- 171 g/cm(2); p < 0.05) and the T group (765 +/- 145 g/cm(2), NS). Half-relaxation time was prolonged in both steroid groups, and time to peak tension was longer with M, whereas tetanic tensions were similar. Steroid treatment also induced a leftward shift of the force-frequency curve at 25 and 50 Hz when compared with saline treatment (p < 0.05). ATPase staining of the diaphragm, scalenus medius, and gastrocnemius showed type IIb fiber atrophy in the steroid groups and also diaphragmatic type IIa atrophy with T, whereas histologic examinations revealed a normal muscular pattern with absence of necrosis. Finally, a pair-fed (PF) study, performed in 18 rats (C, T, and PF), showed that muscle atrophy was considerably less pronounced in PF animals than in T-treated animals. We conclude that (1) short-term treatment with massive doses of steroids induced severe respiratory and limb muscle wasting; (2) both types of steroids induced predominantly type IIb atrophy, resulting in the expected alterations in diaphragm contractile properties; (3) neither steroid caused muscle necrosis; (4) type IIb atrophy was not caused by acute nutritional deprivation alone.
A 43-year-old woman was suffered from an increasing headache with nausea and vomiting for nine days. She had received danazol 400 mg daily for endometriosis last two months. CT scan and neurological examinations revealed no evidence of abnormality. MRI showed isosignal intensity on T1-weighted images and high signal intensity on T2-weighted images in the superior sagittal, right transverse, sigmoid and straight sinuses suggesting thrombosis. With angiography, we confirmed extensive dural sinus thrombosis in the superior sagittal, straight, right transverse and sigmoid sinuses. She, then, developed progressing neurological deterioration with dysarthria and drowsy. Microcatheter was placed directly into the thrombus at dural sinus via transfemoral route. Thrombolytic therapy with urokinase was performed in right transverse, confluens sinuum, superior sagittal and straight sinuses. Successful recanalization with remarkable improvement of symptoms was achieved except right transverse sinus. We believe danazol played a role in the occurrence of dural sinus thrombosis. MRI and MRV were noninvasive and useful for diagnosis and follow-up of dural sinus thrombosis. Direct thrombolysis should be considered for dural sinus thrombosis, especially when clinical symptoms are rapidly deterioration with conventional anticoagulant therapy.
The clinical use of adriamycin (AM) is limited by a possible dose-dependent myocardiopathy. Severe lesions of ventricular myocardium widely described by electron microscopy have been correlated to irreversible congestive heart failure. On the other hand, the atrial contractile elements which differ from the ventricular ones because of the presence of the so-called specific granules have rarely been considered. In the work described in this paper, adriamycin was injected into rabbits and mice according to schedules of chronic toxicity. At the end of the treatment the atrial myocells presented diffuse ultrastructural lesions of mitochondria, sarcoplasmic reticulum and myofibrillar bundles. These alterations might be caused by the ribonucleoprotein synthesis inhibition, by a direct drug toxicity or by an energetic crisis due to early mitochondrial lesions. Besides, adriamycin produces a decrease of the specific atrial granules that play a hypothetic role in the metabolism of myocardial cells. However, lack of information about the contents and the exact function of atrial granules does not allow us to conclude that their decrease in treated animals has a pathogenetic significance in myocardiopathy induced by adriamycin.
Two cases of acute dystonic reactions associated with diazepam ingestion are reported. This report is a brief review of drug-induced extra-pyramidal syndromes, and a mechanism for diazepam-induced dystonic reactions is proposed. Intravenous diphenhydramine was successful in treating both patients.
Sodium bicarbonate has been suggested as a possible strategy for prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy, a common cause of renal failure associated with prolonged hospitalization, increased health care costs, and substantial morbidity and mortality.
To determine if sodium bicarbonate is superior to sodium chloride for preventing contrast medium-induced nephropathy in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney dysfunction who are undergoing coronary angiography.
Randomized, controlled, single-blind study conducted between January 2, 2006, and January 31, 2007, and enrolling 353 patients with stable renal disease who were undergoing coronary angiography at a single US center. Included patients were 18 years or older and had an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 60 mL/min per 1.73 m(2) or less and 1 or more of diabetes mellitus, history of congestive heart failure, hypertension, or age older than 75 years.
Patients were randomized to receive either sodium chloride (n = 178) or sodium bicarbonate (n = 175) administered at the same rate (3 mL/kg for 1 hour before coronary angiography, decreased to 1.5 mL/kg per hour during the procedure and for 4 hours after the completion of the procedure).
The primary end point was a 25% or greater decrease in the estimated glomerular filtration rate on days 1 through 4 after contrast exposure.
Median patient age was 71 (interquartile range, 65-76) years, and 45% had diabetes mellitus. The groups were well matched for baseline characteristics. The primary end point was met in 13.3% of the sodium bicarbonate group and 14.6% of the sodium chloride group (relative risk, 0.94; 95% confidence interval, 0.55-1.60; P = .82). In patients randomized to receive sodium bicarbonate vs sodium chloride, the rates of death, dialysis, myocardial infarction, and cerebrovascular events did not differ significantly at 30 days (1.7% vs 1.7%, 0.6% vs 1.1%, 0.6% vs 0%, and 0% vs 2.2%, respectively) or at 30 days to 6 months (0.6% vs 2.3%, 0.6% vs 1.1%, 0.6% vs 2.3%, and 0.6% vs 1.7%, respectively) (P > .10 for all).
The results of this study do not suggest that hydration with sodium bicarbonate is superior to hydration with sodium chloride for the prevention of contrast medium-induced nephropathy in patients with moderate to severe chronic kidney disease who are undergoing coronary angiography.
clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00312117.
We evaluated the effects of swimming and anabolic steroids (AS) on ventricular function, collagen synthesis, and the local renin-angiotensin system in rats. Male Wistar rats were randomized into control (C), steroid (S; nandrolone decanoate; 5 mg/kg sc, 2x/wk), steroid + losartan (SL; 20 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)), trained (T), trained + steroid (T+S), and trained + steroid + losartan (T+SL; n = 14/group) groups. Swimming was performed 5 times/wk for 10 wk. Serum testosterone increased in S and T+S. Resting heart rate was lower in T and T+S. Percent change in left ventricular (LV) weight-to-body weight ratio increased in S, T, and T+S. LV systolic pressure declined in S and T+S. LV contractility increased in T (P < 0.05). LV relaxation increased in T (P < 0.05). It was significantly lower in T+S compared with C. Collagen volumetric fraction (CVF) and hydroxyproline were higher in S and T+S than in C and T (P < 0.05), and the CVF and LV hypertrophy were prevented by losartan treatment. LV-ANG I-converting enzyme activity increased (28%) in the S group (33%), and type III collagen synthesis increased (56%) in T+S but not in T group. A positive correlation existed between LV-ANG I-converting enzyme activity and collagen type III expression (r(2) = 0.88; P < 0.05, for all groups). The ANG II and angiotensin type 1a receptor expression increased in the S and T+S groups but not in T group. Supraphysiological doses of AS exacerbated the cardiac hypertrophy in exercise-trained rats. Exercise training associated with AS induces maladaptive remodeling and further deterioration in cardiac performance. Exercise training associated with AS causes loss of the beneficial effects in LV function induced by exercising. These results suggest that aerobic exercise plus AS increases cardiac collagen content associated with activation of the local renin-angiotensin system.
The antihypertensive effects of nitrendipine were evaluated in 12 subjects with hypertension, one of whom could not tolerate the drug for more than 3 days; hence hemodynamics were studied in the 11 subjects who were treated for 2 wk. In one patient taking 40 mg twice a day, blood pressure reduction was associated with a hemodynamic pattern of hyperkinetic circulation. Of the other 10 subjects, all of whom were taking 20 mg twice a day, two did not respond, but 8 had significant reduction in mean arterial pressure (136 +/- 4.3 to 106 +/- 3.2 mm Hg) resulting from a decrease in total peripheral resistance (52 +/- 3.7 to 35 +/- 2.6 U X m2). Changes in cardiac output, heart rate, and cardiopulmonary volume varied widely among subjects, such that average changes did not attain significance. Heart rate and cardiopulmonary volume, however, changed in the same direction, which suggests that the alterations in both were related to the degree of reflex sympathetic stimulation induced by nitrendipine. Plasma renin activity (PRA) increased during treatment (2.6 +/- 1.0 to 9.3 +/- 4.1 ng/ml/hr), whereas the increase in plasma aldosterone (PA) levels did not attain significance (13.7 +/- 1.6 to 21.5 +/- 4.5 ng/dl). As a result, PA/PRA decreased (16.1 +/- 4.9 to 9.4 +/- 2.6). These results suggest that calcium entry blockade might have interfered with steroidogenesis, thus blunting the effect of increased PRA. Finally, blood pressure response to nitrendipine in the whole group correlated inversely with pretreatment PRA (r = -0.88), suggesting greater activity of the drug in low-renin hypertension.
Idiopathic right ventricular outflow tract-ventricular tachycardia (RVOT-VT) generally occurs when sympathetic nervous system activity is increased, though, in a few patients, it develops when parasympathetic nervous activity (PNA) is increased. Among 101 consecutive patients with RVOT-VT confirmed by endocardial catheter mapping, 5 (4.9%) presented with nocturnal RVOT-VT. Autonomic nervous balance was studied by heart rate variability (HRV) analysis from 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiogram (ECG). Standard programmed ventricular stimulation (PVS), ventricular burst pacing, and drug provocation were performed to induce RVOT-VT. In the studied five patients, the average number of mostly nocturnal ventricular premature contractions (VPCs) was 6649 +/- 4472/day. Two patients had nocturnal nonsustained RVOT-VT on 24-hour ambulatory ECG recordings. The HRV analysis revealed that a progressive increase in high-frequency power coincided with an increase in VPCs or development of RVOT-VT at night, whereas low/high frequency ratio did not change significantly during the 24-hour period. RVOT-VT could not be induced by PVS, ventricular burst pacing, or isoproterenol or adenosine triphosphate i.v. However, RVOT-VT could only be induced by edrophonium, 5 mg i.v., in all patients. An increase in PNA was observed in a few patients before the development of RVOT-VT. Edrophonium facilitated induction of RVOT-VT in such patients.
A typical feature of Parkinson's disease is the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, in which inhibition of mitochondrial complex I activity may play an important role. Rotenone or 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) inhibit the mitochondrial complex I and they cause the death of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, thereby providing acute murine models of Parkinson's disease. We have found that increasing mitochondrial hexokinase II activity can prevent cell death in neuronal cultures treated with rotenone. As a result, we have studied the effects of hexokinase II gene transfer in vivo using a herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) amplicon vector. The placHK2 amplicon vector was injected into substantia nigra of mice that were subsequently administered rotenone or MPTP. Overexpression of hexokinase II prevented both rotenone and MPTP-induced dopaminergic neuronal cell death, as well as reducing the associated motor defects. Our results provide the first proof-of-principle that hexokinase II protects against dopaminergic neurodegeneration in vivo, emphasizing the role of this enzyme in promoting neuronal survival. Thus, the increase of hexokinase II expression by gene transfer or other means represents a promising approach to treat Parkinson's and other neurodegenerative diseases.
The FHIT gene plays important roles in cancer development, including lung cancers, in which the Fhit protein is frequently lost. To determine if Fhit-deficient mice exhibit increased susceptibility to carcinogen-induced lung cancer, mice were treated with the pulmonary carcinogen 4-methylnitrosamino-1-3-pyridyl-1-butanone. Wild-type and Fhit-deficient animals did not exhibit significantly different frequencies of lung lesions, but Fhit-/- mice showed significantly increased average tumor volume (1.62 mm3) and multiplicity in tumor-bearing mice, compared with wild-type mice (0.70 mm3). Tumors of Fhit-/- mice were all carcinomas, whereas Fhit+/+ mice did not develop carcinomas. To determine if Fhit absence, in combination with deficiency of an additional 3p tumor suppressor, would affect the frequency of tumor induction, we examined the spontaneous and dimethylnitrosamine-induced tumor phenotype of Fhit-/-Vhl+/- mice. Whereas no spontaneous lung tumors were observed in Fhit-/- or Vhl+/- mice, 44% of Fhit-/-Vhl+/- mice developed adenocarcinomas by 2 years of age. Dimethylnitrosamine (6 mg/kg body weight) induced lung tumors (adenomas and carcinomas) in 100% of Fhit-/-Vhl+/- mice and adenomas in 40% of Fhit-/- mice by 20 months of age. Thus, double deficiency in murine homologues of 3p suppressor genes, including haploinsufficiency of Vhl, predisposes to spontaneous and induced lung cancers, showing that Fhit-deficient mice will be useful, in combination with other 3p tumor suppressors, in recapitulating a pattern of lung cancer development similar to the human pattern; such double- or triple-deficient mice will be excellent lung cancer prevention and therapy models.
Schizophrenia is a chronic and debilitating disease which is thought to arise from a neuro-developmental disorder. Both the stable tubule-only polypeptide (STOP) protein and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) NR1 subunit are involved in neuronal development and physiology. It has therefore been postulated that transgenic mice lacking either the STOP or the NMDAR1 gene would show a 'schizophrenic-like' phenotype. Here, STOP knockout and NMDA NR1 hypomorphic mice were assessed in a behavioural measure that can be used to detect schizophrenic-like phenotypes: a change in sensorimotor gating, measured through prepulse inhibition (PPI). STOP knockout mice were further assessed in another measure of 'schizophrenic-like behaviour': hyperlocomotion. The PPI deficit exhibited by both the STOP knockout and NMDA knockdown mice could not be reversed by acute treatment with the atyptical antipsychotic, clozapine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) but the hyperlocomotion shown by the STOP knockout mice was reversed with the same acute dose of clozapine.
Solvents, surfactants, cutting fluids, hydrocarbons, and oils cause skin irritation by incompletely understood mechanisms. This study examined histological and molecular changes in rodent skin caused by brief topical exposures to m-xylene. At 0, 1, 2, 4, and 6 h after 1-h exposure, skin samples were removed and analyzed for histopathological changes and interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) protein levels. Histopathological changes (epidermal-dermal separation and granulocyte infiltration) and increases in IL-1 alpha and iNOS protein expression occurred during our observation period. IL-1 alpha levels increased by 80% immediately after exposure and iNOS levels increased about 60% 4 hours after exposure. Our study demonstrates that dermal exposure to m-xylene promotes IL-1 alpha and iNOS production in skin and these proteins may serve as early indicators of skin irritation.
Acute tacrolimus toxicity is manifest by oliguria and elevated serum creatinine. Various vasoregulatory molecules have been implicated in calcineurin inhibitor-mediated nephrotoxicity, including calcium, adenosine and endothelin. Theophylline (THEO), a non-specific adenosine-receptor antagonist prevents renal dysfunction from various nephrotoxins which mediate vasoconstriction. In the setting of acute tacrolimus toxicity, we demonstrated that administration of THEO along with a loop diuretic (LD) enhanced diuresis. This randomized, controlled trial was undertaken to confirm these earlier findings under more rigorous conditions.
Children with non-renal visceral transplant(s) and evidence of tacrolimus nephrotoxicity oliguria with a 25% increase in serum creatinine concentration from baseline, a whole blood tacrolimus concentration >20 ng/dl and oliguria resistant to therapy with a LD were randomized to receive either THEO (n = 10) or normal saline placebo (n = 8). Using pre and post (6 h) timed urine collections and coincident plasma concentrations the following were measured or calculated: urine flow rate, net fluid balance, creatinine clearance, fractional excretion of chloride, free water clearance and distal delivery of chloride.
These patients had markedly impaired creatinine clearance at the onset of tacrolimus toxicity. Urine flow increased in the LD + THEO group by 110% over baseline, but was unchanged in the LD + NS group. An increase in creatinine clearance did not reach statistical significance (P = 0.09). Fractional excretion of chloride and distal solute delivery increased after THEO treatment.
THEO induced a solute diuresis during furosemide-resistant oliguric tacrolimus toxicity in paediatric patients with a trend towards improved renal function.
We present two cases of severe headache associated with the use of bromocriptine for lactation suppression in otherwise healthy women. In each case, the additional use of a therapeutic sympathomimetic agent resulted in extreme worsening of symptoms with development of hypertension and life-threatening complications (ventricular tachycardia and cardiac dysfunction in one case, seizures and cerebral vasospasm in the other). Sympathomimetics in combination with bromocriptine in patients with a bromocriptine-associated headache during the puerperium may be dangerous.
Known atherosclerotic risk factors account today for only 50% of atherogenesis. Evidence is presented that a deficiency of endogenous heparin may account for the other half. Sensitive techniques have shown that there are trace quantities of heparin in plasma of humans. An inverse relationship has been found between plasma heparin levels and triglyceride-bearing Sf 12-400 lipoprotein, and a lower plasma heparin level could be an important determinant of atherogenesis fostering lipid abnormalities. Endogenous heparin also protects endothelium from harmful mediators that can impair normal function. Since atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease process, with monocyte-mediated release of cytokines and activation of integrins and phospholipase A2-mediated generation of platelet activating factor, heparin inhibits many of these events. Endogenous heparin activity thus opposes the effects of inflammatory activators. Heparin is also kown to inhibit complement activation and to suppress endothelin release from endothelial cells. In addition, endogenous heparin may suppress smooth muscle cell proliferation and decrease microthrombi formation on injured endothelial sites. All of these data seem to suggest that a deficiency of endogenous heparin or heparin-like substances predipose to atherosclerosis. It is conceivable that a genetically determined endogenous heparin deficiency is involved in atherosclerosis.
