Polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia, and idiopathic myelofibrosis are clonal myeloproliferative disorders arising from a multipotent progenitor. The loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on the short arm of chromosome 9 (9pLOH) in myeloproliferative disorders suggests that 9p harbors a mutation that contributes to the cause of clonal expansion of hematopoietic cells in these diseases.
We performed microsatellite mapping of the 9pLOH region and DNA sequencing in 244 patients with myeloproliferative disorders (128 with polycythemia vera, 93 with essential thrombocythemia, and 23 with idiopathic myelofibrosis).
Microsatellite mapping identified a 9pLOH region that included the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) gene. In patients with 9pLOH, JAK2 had a homozygous G-->T transversion, causing phenylalanine to be substituted for valine at position 617 of JAK2 (V617F). All 51 patients with 9pLOH had the V617F mutation. Of 193 patients without 9pLOH, 66 were heterozygous for V617F and 127 did not have the mutation. The frequency of V617F was 65 percent among patients with polycythemia vera (83 of 128), 57 percent among patients with idiopathic myelofibrosis (13 of 23), and 23 percent among patients with essential thrombocythemia (21 of 93). V617F is a somatic mutation present in hematopoietic cells. Mitotic recombination probably causes both 9pLOH and the transition from heterozygosity to homozygosity for V617F. Genetic evidence and in vitro functional studies indicate that V617F gives hematopoietic precursors proliferative and survival advantages. Patients with the V617F mutation had a significantly longer duration of disease and a higher rate of complications (fibrosis, hemorrhage, and thrombosis) and treatment with cytoreductive therapy than patients with wild-type JAK2.
A high proportion of patients with myeloproliferative disorders carry a dominant gain-of-function mutation of JAK2.
A 27-year-old man who was a heroin addict had light flashes in front of the right eye and a hemicentral scotoma immediately after intravenous cocaine. The initial ophthalmoscopic appearance was of a white foreign body lying over the papillomacular bundle of the retina in the right eye. This ophthalmoscopic finding was consistent with intraocular talc, cornstarch, or lactose, common diluting agents that are present in intravenous injections of heroin, cocaine, or methylphenidate hydrochloride, and are known to cause systemic embolic phenomena in chronic drug abusers. This glistening crystal on the surface of the retina changed and evolved into a noninfectious but inflammatory organization of retinal granuloma, in which the foreign body crystal could still be visualized at the apex of the lesion. The anterior and posterior segments of the eye remained free of inflammatory signs throughout the course of the organization of the retinal granuloma.
A group of 38 female and 39 male outbred Wistar rats were treated with 500 ppm technical-grade dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) in the diet and 500 ppm sodium phenobarbital (PB) dissolved in drinking-water for lifespan. Twenty-three of 29 (79.3%) female and 13/28 (46.4%) male surviving animals developed primary tumours which were detected starting at 65 weeks of age. Most of the liver tumours were neoplastic nodules, but well-differentiated hepatocellular carcinomas were also found in 3 males and 5 females of the exposed animals. No liver-cell tumour was observed in 59 rats exposed to a diet containing 3% olive oil.
To evaluate the long-term brain metabolite changes on (1)H-MRS in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients who had intrathecal methotrexate (ITMTX) and cranial irradiation (CRT) for central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis against CNS relapse.
Thirty-seven ALL patients (12 females, 25 males) with history of ITMTX and CRT for CNS prophylaxis were studied. Age ranges at the time of diagnosis and at magnetic resonance examination were 0.8-13 years and 12-27 years, respectively. The interval since diagnosis was 5.6-19 years. T2-weighted and gradient-recalled echo (GRE) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) were performed to assess brain injury.
On MRI, 3 leukoencephalopathy (LEP) and 1 infarct were detected. Twenty-two patients had evidence of hemosiderin. On (1)H-MRS no statistically significant difference in choline (Cho)/creatine (Cr) and N-acetylaspartate (NAA)/Cr was associated with LEP. A lower Cho/Cr (p = 0.006) and NAA/Cr (p = 0.078) was observed in brains with hemosiderin. Linear-regression analysis showed no statistically significant relationship between NAA/Cr or Cho/Cr with age at diagnosis, but there was a statistically significant decreasing trend of NAA/Cr and Cho/Cr with the interval since diagnosis.
Long-term brain injury in ALL survivors after CNS prophylaxis with ITMTX and CRT was reflected by decreasing NAA/Cr and Cho/Cr with the interval since diagnosis. The lower Cho/Cr associated with hemosiderin but not LEP suggested a different pathophysiology for these brain lesions.
Development of the pharyngeal region depends on the interaction and integration of different cell populations, including surface ectoderm, foregut endoderm, paraxial mesoderm, and neural crest. Mice homozygous for a hypomorphic allele of Fgfr1 have craniofacial defects, some of which appeared to result from a failure in the early development of the second branchial arch. A stream of neural crest cells was found to originate from the rhombomere 4 region and migrate toward the second branchial arch in the mutants. Neural crest cells mostly failed to enter the second arch, however, but accumulated in a region proximal to it. Both rescue of the hypomorphic Fgfr1 allele and inactivation of a conditional Fgfr1 allele specifically in neural crest cells indicated that Fgfr1 regulates the entry of neural crest cells into the second branchial arch non-cell-autonomously. Gene expression in the pharyngeal ectoderm overlying the developing second branchial arch was affected in the hypomorphic Fgfr1 mutants at a stage prior to neural crest entry. Our results indicate that Fgfr1 patterns the pharyngeal region to create a permissive environment for neural crest cell migration.
In the present study, we characterized oxidative stress-dependent cellular events in dopaminergic cells after exposure to an organic form of manganese compound, methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT). In pheochromocytoma cells, MMT exposure resulted in rapid increase in generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) within 5--15 min, followed by release of mitochondrial cytochrome C into cytoplasm and subsequent activation of cysteine proteases, caspase-9 (twofold to threefold) and caspase-3 (15- to 25-fold), but not caspase-8, in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Interestingly, we also found that MMT exposure induces a time- and dose-dependent proteolytic cleavage of native protein kinase Cdelta (PKCdelta, 72-74 kDa) to yield 41 kDa catalytically active and 38 kDa regulatory fragments. Pretreatment with caspase inhibitors (Z-DEVD-FMK or Z-VAD-FMK) blocked MMT-induced proteolytic cleavage of PKCdelta, indicating that cleavage is mediated by caspase-3. Furthermore, inhibition of PKCdelta activity with a specific inhibitor, rottlerin, significantly inhibited caspase-3 activation in a dose-dependent manner along with a reduction in PKCdelta cleavage products, indicating a possible positive feedback activation of caspase-3 activity by PKCdelta. The presence of such a positive feedback loop was also confirmed by delivering the catalytically active PKCdelta fragment. Attenuation of ROS generation, caspase-3 activation, and PKCdelta activity before MMT treatment almost completely suppressed DNA fragmentation. Additionally, overexpression of catalytically inactive PKCdelta(K376R) (dominant-negative mutant) prevented MMT-induced apoptosis in immortalized mesencephalic dopaminergic cells. For the first time, these data demonstrate that caspase-3-dependent proteolytic activation of PKCdelta plays a key role in oxidative stress-mediated apoptosis in dopaminergic cells after exposure to an environmental neurotoxic agent.
Intraperitoneal administration of zymosan to mice resulted in marked biosynthesis of eicosanoids and influx of neutrophils with distinct time course profiles. 6-Keto-prostaglandin-F1 alpha (6-KPA) increased between 30 and 60 min and rapidly decreased thereafter. Leukotriene (LT)C4 levels showed similar patterns, but were sustained for several hours. LTB4 increased in a biphasic manner with peak increases between 2 to 3 hr. Repeated injections with zymosan suggested that incoming neutrophils generate most of the LTB4. Myeloperoxidase (MPO), an enzyme marker for neutrophils, continued to increase throughout the time course. Mast cells regulate LTB4 biosynthesis and neutrophil trafficking, whereas resident macrophages contribute to 6-KPA and LTC4 biosynthesis. The complement fragment C5a has a minimal role in zymosan-induced inflammation. Selective 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) inhibitors, zileuton [N-(1-benzo[b]thienyl-2yl-ethyl)-N-hydroxyurea], TZI-41127 [2-(4-hydroxy-3,5-dimethylphenyl)-5-methoxy-3-methylindole] and cyclooxygenase (CO) inhibitors selectively modulated eicosanoid biosynthesis. Both 5-LO and CO inhibitors attenuated influx of neutrophils to varying degrees. A LTB4 receptor antagonist, SC-41930 [7-(3-(4-acetyl-3-methoxy-2-propylphenoxy)-propoxy]-3,4-dihydro-8- propyl-2H-1-benzopyran-2-carboxylic acid) and an LTD4 receptor antagonist, LY-171883 [1-(2-hydroxy-3-propyl-4-(4-1H-tetrazol-5-yl)butoxy-phenyl) ethanone)] (i.v.) attenuated influx of neutrophils and associated LTB4 biosynthesis. These results suggest that both 5-LO and CO metabolites regulate neutrophil influx in this model. Marked eicosanoid biosynthesis and cellular influx in response to zymosan provides an attractive experimental paradigm to evaluate anti-inflammatory effects of inhibitors of arachidonate CO or 5-LO pathways.
We present extrapyramidal syndrome in 22 children (5 en 1984 and 17 during 1985) who received clebopride (15), metoclopramide (6) and haloperidol (1), almost all at the level of therapeutic doses, which fact seems to indicated a idiosyncratic factor. Symptoms occurred after 2.36 +/- 1.49 doses (mean+/- SD), and the most frequent was: dyskinetic movements (45.5%), oculogyric crisis (40.9%), uneasiness (40.9%) and hypertonic reaction (36.4%). The symptoms disappeared in all patients after drug administration was stopped and therapy with diphenhydramine or biperiden intravenously.
To examine the relationship between prolonged isoflurane sedation and reversible neurologic dysfunction in children requiring intensive care.
Retrospective, case note review from January 1987 to August 1993.
Pediatric intensive care unit.
Twenty-nine children, aged 6 months to 10 yrs, requiring endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation for upper airway infection.
None.
Fourteen patients with laryngotracheobronchitis (croup) and 15 patients with epiglottitis required endotracheal intubation and ventilation. These children were treated with different sedative and muscle relaxant drugs, including opiates, benzodiazepines and chloral hydrate. Twelve (41%) of 29 children were sedated with isoflurane (0.25% to 1.5%) for > 24 hrs. All patients subsequently developed reversible ataxia, agitation, hallucinations, and confusion lasting < or = 72 hrs postextubation. Neurologic dysfunction was not observed in 12 patients who did not receive isoflurane nor in five patients who received isoflurane for between 1 and 15 hrs. Neurologic signs resolved in all patients before hospital discharge, and all children had normal neurologic examinations 4 to 6 wks later as outpatients.
A high occurrence rate of reversible neurologic dysfunction occurs when isoflurane is used as a sedative for > 24 hrs in pediatric patients.
Therapeutic use of certain peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha agonists (fibrates) for the treatment of dyslipidemia has infrequently been associated with the untoward side effect of myopathy. With interest in PPAR-delta as a therapeutic target, this study assessed whether a PPAR-delta agonist induced similar hepatic and skeletal muscle alterations as noted with some fibrates. PPAR-alpha null (KO) and corresponding wild-type (WT) mice were administered toxicological dosages of a potent PPAR-delta agonist tool ligand (GW0742; which also has weak PPAR-alpha agonist activity) or a potent PPAR-alpha agonist (WY-14,643) for 10 days. Increases in liver weights and clinical chemistry indicators of skeletal muscle damage and/or liver injury were more pronounced in WT mice compared with KO mice administered the PPAR-delta agonist. Likewise, the incidence and severity of skeletal myopathy were greater in WT mice given GW0742 compared with KO mice. Ultrastructural and immunohistochemical analyses revealed significant peroxisome proliferation in muscle and liver of WT mice treated with each agonist; however, KO animals showed little or no evidence of hepatic and muscle peroxisome proliferation. PMP-70 protein expression in liver was consistent with these results. The hepatomegaly, hepatic and skeletal muscle peroxisome proliferation, and skeletal myopathy induced by this PPAR-delta ligand was predominantly mediated by its cross-activation of PPAR-alpha, though PPAR-delta agonism contributed slightly to these effects.
After smoking "crack" cocaine and consuming large quantities of ethanol, a 36-year-old man developed multiple, bilateral, deep, and superficial cerebral hematomas. He was hypertensive for several days, but angiography revealed no evidence of vascular malformation or vasculitis. The multifocality of the hematomas and lack of underlying disease suggest that the hemorrhages resulted from cocaine-induced acute hypertension or arterial spasm, possibly potentiated by heavy ethanol consumption.
The mechanisms by which exposure to arsenic induces its myriad pathological effects are undoubtedly complex, while individual susceptibility to their type and severity is likely to be strongly influenced by genetic factors. Human metabolism of arsenic into methylated derivatives, once presumed to result in detoxification, may actually produce species with significantly greater pathological potential. We introduce a transgenic Drosophila model of arsenic methylation, allowing its consequences to be studied in a higher eukaryote exhibiting conservation of many genes and pathways with those of human cells while providing an important opportunity to uncover mechanistic details via the sophisticated genetic analysis for which the system is particularly well suited. The gene for the human enzyme, arsenic (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase, was introduced into nonmethylating Drosophila under inducible control. Transgenic flies were characterized for enzyme inducibility, production of methylated arsenic species, and the dose-dependent consequences for chromosomal integrity and organismal longevity. Upon enzyme induction, transgenic flies processed arsenite into mono and dimethylated derivatives identical to those found in human urine. When induced flies were exposed to 9 ppm arsenite, chromosomal stability was clearly reduced, whereas at much higher doses, adult life span was significantly increased, a seemingly paradoxical pair of outcomes. Measurement of arsenic body burden in the presence or absence of methylation suggested that enhanced clearance of methylated species might explain this greater longevity under acutely toxic conditions. Our study clearly demonstrates both the hazards and the benefits of arsenic methylation in vivo and suggests a resolution based on evolutionary grounds.
Ventricular arrhythmogenesis in long QT 3 syndrome (LQT3) involves both triggered activity and re-entrant excitation arising from delayed ventricular repolarization. Effects of specific L-type Ca2+ channel antagonism were explored in a gain-of-function murine LQT3 model produced by a DeltaKPQ 1505-1507 deletion in the SCN5A gene. Monophasic action potentials (MAPs) were recorded from epicardial and endocardial surfaces of intact, Langendorff-perfused Scn5a+/Delta hearts. In untreated Scn5a+/Delta hearts, epicardial action potential duration at 90% repolarization (APD90) was 60.0 +/- 0.9 ms compared with 46.9 +/- 1.6 ms in untreated wild-type (WT) hearts (P < 0.05; n = 5). The corresponding endocardial APD(90) values were 52.0 +/- 0.7 ms and 53.7 +/- 1.6 ms in Scn5a+/Delta and WT hearts, respectively (P > 0.05; n = 5). Epicardial early afterdepolarizations (EADs), often accompanied by spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (VT), occurred in 100% of MAPs from Scn5a+/Delta but not in any WT hearts (n = 10). However, EAD occurrence was reduced to 62 +/- 7.1%, 44 +/- 9.7%, 10 +/- 10% and 0% of MAPs following perfusion with 10 nm, 100 nm, 300 nm and 1 mum nifedipine, respectively (P < 0.05; n = 5), giving an effective IC50 concentration of 79.3 nm. Programmed electrical stimulation (PES) induced VT in all five Scn5a+/Delta hearts (n = 5) but not in any WT hearts (n = 5). However, repeat PES induced VT in 3, 2, 2 and 0 out of 5 Scn5a+/Delta hearts following perfusion with 10 nm, 100 nm, 300 nm and 1 mum nifedipine, respectively. Patch clamp studies in isolated ventricular myocytes from Scn5a+/Delta and WT hearts confirmed that nifedipine (300 nm) completely suppressed the inward Ca2+ current but had no effect on inward Na+ currents. No significant effects were seen on epicardial APD90, endocardial APD90 or ventricular effective refractory period in Scn5a+/Delta and WT hearts following perfusion with nifedipine at 1 nm, 10 nm, 100 nm, 300 nm and 1 microm nifedipine concentrations. We conclude that L-type Ca2+ channel antagonism thus exerts specific anti-arrhythmic effects in Scn5a+/Delta hearts through suppression of EADs.
A 70-year-old woman free of renal or hepatic dysfunction developed reversible mental confusion, sinus bradycardia, and extreme QT interval prolongation following initiation of intravenous cimetidine 1200 mg daily. The association of mental confusion with cardiac conduction impairment in a single patient in the context of cimetidine toxicity is highly unusual. We review this and other reports on potentially fatal cimetidine-related cardiac conduction disturbances to suggest that in patients at risk, in addition to reducing cimetidine dosage, electrocardiogram (ECG) follow-up is indicated to identify dangerous bradycardia and QT interval prolongation.
Cocaine, especially in its alkaloidal or "crack" form, has been increasingly associated with cerebrovascular disease. Before the crack epidemic, cocaine hydrochloride (HCl) was also implicated as a cause of stroke. However, less is known about the differences in stroke subtypes, age at stroke onset, or presence of underlying structural cerebrovascular disease with different forms of cocaine use. We compared 26 patients (previously reported) from our four institutions plus 16 cases reported in the literature of stroke associated with alkaloidal cocaine to 63 (57 reported in the literature and six not previously reported from our four institutions) cases of stroke associated with cocaine HCl. Ischemic and hemorrhagic strokes are equally likely after alkaloidal cocaine use, whereas cocaine HCl is more likely (approximately 80% of the time) to cause hemorrhagic stroke, with approximately half the intracranial hemorrhages occurring from ruptured cerebral saccular aneurysms or vascular malformations. The presence of an underlying cerebral aneurysm was more common among patients with cocaine HCl-associated strokes than alkaloidal cocaine-associated strokes. Cerebral infarction was significantly more common among the alkaloidal cocaine users than in all the cocaine HCl users, and this was also true when alkaloidal cocaine users were compared with parenteral cocaine HCl (intravenous and intramuscular) users. Only hemorrhagic stroke has been reported with intravenous cocaine HCl use. We conclude that the pathogenesis of cocaine-related stroke is heterogeneous, and depends, in part, on the form of cocaine used.
We report a patient with occupational contact dermatitis due to sensitization to mancozeb and perhaps metiram used in a vineyard. Patch testing showed strong allergic patch test reactions to 2 of the commercially available preparations used (Dithane Ultra and Polyram WG). Further patch tests showed allergic patch test reactions to mancozeb (0.5 and 1% pet.), a weak reaction to metiram (1% pet.) as well as to 4 other fungicides of the dithiocarbamate group (maneb, nabam, propineb and zineb), which had never been used in the vineyard.
Ursolic acid (UA), a triterpenoid compound isolated previously from Oldenlandia diffusa, which is a Traditional Chinese Medicine used to treat cancer, was found to inhibit the proliferation of doxorubicin-resistant human hepatoma cell line (R-HepG2) through apoptosis as shown by externalization of phosphatidyl serine, morphological changes and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. UA could activate Bak but not Bax, which implied that Bak may play an important role in UA-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, the death of R-HepG2 cells induced by UA was found to be mainly through the caspase-independent apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) signaling pathway which was evidenced by: (a) the pan-caspase inhibitor and the specific caspase inhibitor had only modest protective effect against UA; (b) UA treatment caused the nuclear translocation of AIF, which is retained in the mitochondria in untreated R-HepG2 cells; (c) cells that had been treated with human AIF-specific siRNA could resist cell death induced by UA. In addition, a further animal study showed that UA was effective against R-HepG2 cells in vivo with negligible body weight loss and damage towards the liver, heart and spleen. Most importantly, immunohistochemical staining in animal tissues also suggested that UA also significantly inhibited the growth of R-HepG2 cells in nude mice through the AIF signaling pathway.
BALB/cByJ mice received cocaine (25 mg/kg IP) once a day for 3 days, resulting in a greater locomotor response to cocaine on day 3 than on day 1. On day 4, a dose (0.03 mg/kg SC) of apomorphine, targeted at dopamine autoreceptors, caused the same degree of locomotor depression in cocaine- as in saline-pretreated mice. In addition, no change was found in either the affinity or density of cocaine binding sites in their striatum as measured by the binding of [3H]CFT. C57BL/6ByJ, mice displayed a greater locomotor response to cocaine than BALB/cByJ mice, but had the same number of striatal [3H]CFT binding sites with the same affinity. Factors other than striatal cocaine binding sites, or dopamine autoreceptors as measured by apomorphine-induced depression of locomotion, should be considered for the explanation of the enhancement of the locomotor response upon daily cocaine administration in BALB/cByJ mice, or for the different locomotor response to cocaine of this strain compared with the C57BL/6ByJ strain of mice.
Morphometric analysis of the cerebellar cortex capillary cross-section area performed in experimental valproate encephalopathy using transmission electron microscopy showed that prolongation of VPA application resulted in more enhanced lumen narrowing manifested in gradual reduction in the mean value of the coefficient examined. After 6, 9 and 12 months of experiment this value was statistically different from that obtained in control subgroups, being respectively lower by approximately 22%, 48% and 65%. One month after terminating of chronic administration this value was close to the one found after 12 months of the study. Three months after the drug withdrawal the coefficient was higher by approximately 44% compared to the one after 12 months, which seemed to indicate an increase in capillary lumen patency. The morphometric analysis of the cerebellar cortex capillary cross-section area performed in the present study objectifies the results of qualitative ultrastructural investigations concerning the microcirculation of this CNS structure.
Alcoholic liver disease is associated with a state of hepatic fatty acid overload. We examined the effect of ethanol and different types of dietary fat on the expression of mRNA for liver fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP), peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha), and peroxisomal fatty acyl CoA oxidase (FACO). Four groups of rats (n = 5) were fed intragastrically, a liquid diet with or without ethanol (10-16 g/kg/day) for 4 weeks. Pair-fed controls received isocaloric amounts of dextrose. The source of fat was either corn oil or fish oil. Ethanolfed rats developed fatty liver, necrosis, and inflammation; the changes were more severe in the fish oil-ethanol (FE) rats. PPARalpha mRNA levels were not different between groups, although there was a trend toward increased levels in ethanol-fed rats. We calculated L-FABP/PPARalpha and FACO/PPARalpha ratios as a measure of FACO and L-FABP up-regulation relative to PPARalpha expression. Both FACO/PPARalpha and L-FABP/PPARalpha ratios were significantly decreased in FE rats. However, only L-FABP/PPARalpha was decreased in corn oil plus ethanol rats. Also, the level of L-FABP/mRNA correlated inversely with the degree of fatty liver in ethanol-fed rats. Since expression of PPARalpha response genes was impaired in ethanol-fed rats, we determined whether activation of PPARalpha would normalize the PPARalpha response and prevent the pathological changes in ethanol-fed rats. Treatment with clofibrate, a PPARalpha-activating ligand, led to a marked decrease in fatty liver and complete abrogation of necroinflammatory changes in FE rats. Also, nuclear factor kappaB activation and up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and cyclooxygenase-2 was also abolished in clofibrate-treated rats. We conclude that adaptive gene regulation of FACO and L-FABP by PPARalpha is impaired in ethanol-fed rats and that treatment with clofibrate, a PPARalpha ligand, prevents alcohol-induced pathological liver injury, possibly by reversing the above changes.
FK506, a major immunosuppressive agent, often causes nephrotoxicity accompanied by renal vasoconstriction. It is recognized that endothelin (ET) plays a role in the cyclosporin A-induced nephrotoxicity, but the involvement of ET in the FK506-induced renal dysfunction is still poorly understood. We elicited nephrotoxicity by daily administration of FK506 in spontaneously hypertensive rats, and we examined the renal gene expression of ET and its receptors and the effects of an ET receptor antagonist on FK506-induced renal dysfunction. FK506 administration (4 mg/kg/day, i.m.) for 14 days induced nephrotoxicity, including a renal vasoconstriction and a decrease in glomerular filtration rate. The renal dysfunction was accompanied by an increase in ET-1 mRNA levels, while ET(B)-receptor mRNA was unaffected. Continuous administration of an ET(A)/ET(B) antagonist, TAK-044 (3 mg/day, s.c.), which effectively blocked systemic and renal vascular responses to exogenously administered ET-1, partially attenuated the FK506-induced renal vasoconstriction. However the reduced glomerular filtration rate were not affected by TAK-044. Thus, although enhanced gene expression of ET-1 in the kidney is involved in the renal vasoconstriction, ET does not play a major role in the FK506-induced renal dysfunction.
We aimed to test the hypothesis that COX(cyclooxygenase)-2 inhibitors suppress periprosthetic osteolysis in a rabbit model. Porous coated titanium bar was inserted into distal femur of 24 skeletally mature New Zealand white rabbits. The rabbits were randomized into 3 groups. Group I (8 rabbits) was the control group. In Group II (8 rabbits), 5mg of ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene particles was inserted along with prosthesis. In Group III (8 rabbits), the same procedure as in Group II was done and a COX-2 inhibitor (celecoxib, Pharmacia: 10mg/day) was administered for 7 weeks. Rabbits were sacrificed after 8 weeks of implantation. Gross, radiological, histological, and immunohistochemical assessments were done. Gross examination showed that one implant in Group II was loose. In radiological evaluation, focal osteolysis was found in 2 rabbits of Group II and 1 rabbit of Group III. Linear osteolysis was found in 2 rabbits of Group II and 1 rabbit of Group III. On histological examination, focal area of granulation tissue laden with macrophages was observed in 6 rabbits of Group II and 6 rabbits of Group III. The mean number of osteoclasts as demonstrated by tartarate positive acid phosphatase staining was 0.5+/-0.5 in Group I, 6.5+/-2.7 in Group II, 3.6+/-2.6 in Group III (p<0.05). Immunohistochemical staining for inducible nitric acid synthase and COX-2 did not show significant difference between Groups II and III. The overall results of this study suggest that COX-2 inhibitors in the therapeutic dose may have a place in suppressing the process of periprosthetic osteolysis.
Autistic spectrum disorders are childhood neurodevelopmental disorders characterized by social and communicative impairment and repetitive and stereotypical behavior. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) is an upstream regulator of innate immunity that promotes monocyte/macrophage-activation responses by increasing the expression of Toll-like receptors and inhibiting activation-induced apoptosis. On the basis of results of previous genetic linkage studies and reported altered innate immune response in autism spectrum disorder, we hypothesized that MIF could represent a candidate gene for autism spectrum disorder or its diagnostic components.
Genetic association between autism spectrum disorder and MIF was investigated in 2 independent sets of families of probands with autism spectrum disorder, from the United States (527 participants from 152 families) and Holland (532 participants from 183 families). Probands and their siblings, when available, were evaluated with clinical instruments used for autism spectrum disorder diagnoses. Genotyping was performed for 2 polymorphisms in the promoter region of the MIF gene in both samples sequentially. In addition, MIF plasma analyses were conducted in a subset of Dutch patients from whom plasma was available.
There were genetic associations between known functional polymorphisms in the promoter for MIF and autism spectrum disorder-related behaviors. Also, probands with autism spectrum disorder exhibited higher circulating MIF levels than did their unaffected siblings, and plasma MIF concentrations correlated with the severity of multiple autism spectrum disorder symptoms.
These results identify MIF as a possible susceptibility gene for autism spectrum disorder. Additional research is warranted on the precise relationship between MIF and the behavioral components of autism spectrum disorder, the mechanism by which MIF contributes to autism spectrum disorder pathogenesis, and the clinical use of MIF genotyping.
Analysis of the literature for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) suggests that a low incidence of developmental anomalies occurs in rats given NSAIDs on specific days during organogenesis. Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid [ASA]), an irreversible cyclooxygenase 1 and 2 inhibitor, induces developmental anomalies when administered to Wistar rats on gestational day (GD) 9, 10, or 11 (Kimmel CA, Wilson JG, Schumacher HJ. Teratology 4:15-24, 1971). There are no published ASA studies using the multiple dosing paradigm of GDs 6 to 17. Objectives of the current study were to compare results between Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Wistar strains when ASA is administered on GD 9, 10, or 11; to compare the malformation patterns following single and multiple dosings during organogenesis in SD rats; and to test the hypothesis that maternal gastrointestinal toxicity confounds the detection of low incidence malformations with ASA when a multiple dosing paradigm is used.
ASA was administered as a single dose on GD 9 (0, 250, 500, or 625 mg/kg), 10 (0, 500, 625, or 750 mg/kg), or 11 (0, 500, 750, or 1000 mg/kg) and from GD 6 to GD 17 (0, 50, 125, or 250 mg/kg a day) in the multiple dose study to SD rats. Animals were killed on GD 21, and fetuses were examined viscerally.
The literature evaluation suggested that NSAIDs induce ventricular septal defects (VSDs) and midline defects (MDs) in rats and diaphragmatic hernia (DH), MDs, and VSDs in rabbits (Cook JC et al., 2003); hence, the present study focused on these malformations, even though ASA induces several other low-incidence malformations. In single dose studies, DH, MD, and VSD were induced on GDs 9 and 10. VSD also was noted following treatment on GD 11. In contrast, DH and MD were noted in the multiple dose study design only in the high-dose group, and VSD was noted across all dose groups.
High concordance in major developmental anomalies between Wistar and SD rats were noted with the exception of VSD in the SD rats and hydrocephalus in the Wistar rats. Variations and malformations were similar when ASA was administered as a single dose or during the period of organogenesis (GDs 6 to 17). It was also evident that, by titrating the dose to achieve a maximum tolerated dose, malformations that normally occur at low incidence, as reported from previous single dose studies, could also be induced with ASA given at multiple doses.
Single-strand RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are involved in many aspects of RNA metabolism and in the regulation of gene transcription. The RBP RBM3 was recently suggested to be a proto-oncogene in colorectal cancer; however, such a role has not been corroborated by previous studies in the colon or other tumor types, and the prognostic implications of tumor-specific RBM3 expression remain unclear. Mono-specific antibodies against RBM3 were generated. Antibody specificity was confirmed using siRNA gene silencing, western blotting and immunohistochemistry on a panel of breast cancer cell lines. Using tissue microarrays and IHC, RBM3 protein expression was examined in 48 normal tissues and in 20 common cancers. Additional analysis in two independent breast cancer cohorts (n=1016) with long-term follow-up was also carried out. RBM3 was upregulated in cancer compared to normal tissues. The nuclear expression of RBM3 in breast cancer was associated with low grade (P<0.001), small tumors (P<0.001), estrogen receptor (ER) positivity (P<0.001) and Ki-67 negativity (P<0.001) in both the breast cancer cohorts. An increased nuclear expression of RBM3 was associated with a prolonged overall and recurrence-free survival. The prognostic value was particularly pronounced in hormone receptor-positive tumors and remained significant in multivariate interaction analysis after controlling for tamoxifen treatment (HR: 0.49, 95% CI: 0.30-0.79, P=0.004). These data strongly indicate that nuclear RBM3 is an independent favorable prognostic factor in breast cancer, and seems to have a specific role in ER-positive tumors.
