Investigations of the male reproductive toxicity of ethoxyethanol (ethylene glycol monoethyl ether) have been restricted exclusively to histopathological assessments of the testes. The present study consisted of two experiments designed to document the spermatotoxicity of ethoxyethanol (EE) as reflected in evaluations of ejaculated rat semen. The basic strategy involved the evaluation of individual ejaculates recovered from the genital tract of a female rat prior to exposure of the males to EE. Repeated assessments of the ejaculate were made during the experimental phase according to specified protocols. Adult Long-Evans hooded male rats received 0, 936, 1872 or 2808 mg/kg (PO) of EE for five consecutive days. Semen evaluations were then conducted at weeks 0, 1, 4, 7, 10 and 14 after exposure. Males in the highest two dose groups showed declines in sperm counts by week 4 and were essentially azoospermic by week 7. At this time, males receiving the lowest dose of EE also exhibited decreases in ejaculated sperm counts. An increase in abnormal sperm shapes was also observed. Over the ensuing weeks all males exhibited varying degrees of recovery as reflected by increasing ejaculated sperm counts. In a second experiment, males were treated with 0 or 936 mg/kg of EE daily (5 days/week) for 6 weeks with semen evaluations conducted weekly. By week 5, sperm counts were significantly depressed and there was an increase in the number of abnormal shapes. Sperm motility was depressed by week 6. The temporal trends seen in these experiments suggested a differential sensitivity of the spermatocyte stage to EE toxicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) and different GABA analogues were examined for their cardiovascular actions and their influence on striatal dopamine (DA) levels and GABA accumulation after aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA). Gamma hydroxybutyric acid (GHBA) and baclofen caused hypertension and tachycardia after systemic as well as intracerebroventricular administration, while the opposite was true for GABA and muscimol. The hypertension after GHBA and baclofen was not reduced by picrotoxin or bicuculline and was not influenced by varying GABA levels by 3-mercaptopropionic acid (3-MPA) or AOAA. GHBA and muscimol but not baclofen reduced GABA accumulation induced by AOAA. Picrotoxin in a subconvulsive dose increased GABA accumulation and antagonized the inhibition after GHBA or muscimol. Bicuculline and a moderate dose of picrotoxin tended to decrease GABA accumulation by themselves and if anything augmented the effects of GHBA and muscimol. GHBA and baclofen but not muscimol in combination with AOAA increased DA levels, which was not prevented by picrotoxin or bicuculline. We conclude that the cardiovascular actions of GHBA and baclofen are probably not mediated by mechanisms identical to those of muscimol or exogenous GABA. In view of the biochemical results their actions would however be compatible with a concept of different GABA receptors.
Carvedilol has been shown to decrease the progression of heart failure and improve left ventricular function and survival in patients with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) less than 35%. However, not all patients respond uniformly to this therapy. We proposed to identify variables that could, potentially, be used to predict response to carvedilol therapy as measured by the change in LVEF after treatment (Delta LVEF), and to identify pretreatment variables associated with hospitalization for heart failure after carvedilol therapy.
A retrospective analysis of 98 patients treated with open-label carvedilol for a mean period of 16 months was performed by using bivariate and step-wise multivariate analyses. Bivariate analysis showed a positive correlation of Delta LVEF with heart rate at baseline (P =.001). There was a negative correlation of Delta LVEF with baseline LVEF (P <.01), diabetes mellitus (P =.04), and ischemic cardiomyopathy (P =.0002). Multivariate analysis showed a positive correlation of Delta LVEF with heart rate at baseline (P =.01) and a negative correlation with initial LVEF (P =.02) and ischemic cardiomyopathy (P =.006). Variables associated with hospitalization after initiation of carvedilol therapy were New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification (P =.001), lower extremity edema (P =.001), presence of an S3 (P =.02), hyponatremia (P =.02), elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN) (P =.002), atrial fibrillation (P =.001), diabetes mellitus (P =.02), and obstructive sleep apnea (P =.009).
Heart failure patients with the lowest LVEF or the highest heart rate at baseline had the greatest gain in LVEF after treatment with carvedilol. Patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy derived less benefit. Patients with clinical evidence of decompensated heart failure were at greater risk for hospitalization after initiation of carvedilol therapy.
This study determined the antihyperalgesic effect of CNSB002, a sodium channel blocker with antioxidant properties given alone and in combinations with morphine in rat models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain.
Dose response curves for nonsedating doses of morphine and CNSB002 given intraperitoneally alone and together in combinations were constructed for antihyperalgesic effect using paw withdrawal from noxious heat in two rat pain models: carrageenan-induced paw inflammation and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic neuropathy.
The maximum nonsedating doses were: morphine, 3.2 mg/kg; CNSB002 10.0 mg/kg; 5.0 mg/kg CNSB002 with morphine 3.2 mg/kg in combination. The doses calculated to cause 50% reversal of hyperalgesia (ED50) were 7.54 (1.81) and 4.83 (1.54) in the carrageenan model and 44.18 (1.37) and 9.14 (1.24) in the STZ-induced neuropathy model for CNSB002 and morphine, respectively (mg/kg; mean, SEM). These values were greater than the maximum nonsedating doses. The ED50 values for morphine when given in combination with CNSB002 (5 mg/kg) were less than the maximum nonsedating dose: 0.56 (1.55) in the carrageenan model and 1.37 (1.23) in the neuropathy model (mg/kg; mean, SEM). The antinociception after morphine (3.2 mg/kg) was increased by co-administration with CNSB002 from 28.0 and 31.7% to 114.6 and 56.9% reversal of hyperalgesia in the inflammatory and neuropathic models, respectively (P < 0.01; one-way analysis of variance-significantly greater than either drug given alone).
The maximum antihyperalgesic effect achievable with nonsedating doses of morphine may be increased significantly when the drug is used in combination with CNSB002.
1. Single doses (500 and 1000 mg) of both buffered aspirin and aspirin tablets were compared with placebo in a randomised double-blind trial of parallel design in patients with postoperative pain after third molar surgery. 2. Only buffered aspirin 500 mg provided significant pain relief (P = 0.016) during the 5 h investigation period. 3. A significant correlation (P = 0.004) was observed between overall pain scores after the various aspirin treatments and aspirin esterase activity. 4. Buffered aspirin preparations afforded a slight advantage over aspirin tablets in the control of postoperative pain after third molar surgery. However, the duration of analgesia was short (approximately 2 h). 5. Aspirin esterase activity appears to be an important determinant of the drug's efficacy in postoperative dental pain.
Coronary artery disease and its sequelae remain the most important cause of morbidity and mortality in Western countries. Because the pathophysiologic characteristics of coronary artery disease are multifactorial, impairment of endothelial function featuring enhanced vasoconstriction, increased platelet vessel wall interaction, adherence of monocytes, migration and proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells are crucially involved. Endothelial cells release numerous vasoactive substances regulating function of vascular smooth muscle and trafficking blood cells such as nitric oxide (NO), which is a potent vasodilator also inhibiting cellular growth and migration. In addition, NO possesses antiatherogenic and thromboresistant properties by preventing platelet aggregation and cell adhesion. These effects are counterbalanced by endothelial vasoconstrictors such as angiotensin II and endothelin-1. In the blood vessel wall, the local vascular effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and calcium antagonists are synergistic. ACE inhibitors diminish the conversion of angiotensin I into angiotensin II and the inactivation of bradykinin. Calcium antagonists counteract angiotensin II and endothelin-1 at the level of vascular smooth muscle by reducing Ca2+ inflow and facilitating the vasodilator effects of NO. In hypertensive animals, long-term combination therapy with verapamil and trandolapril is particularly effective in reversing endothelial dysfunction. Further, ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists exert beneficial vascular and complementary hemodynamic effects. Whereas ACE inhibitors inhibit the renin-angiotensin system and reduce sympathetic outflow, calcium antagonists dilate large conduit and resistance arteries. Because small vessels appear to be more dependent on extracellular Ca2+ than larger vessels, nifedipine and verapamil effectively inhibit endothelin-induced vasoconstriction in vitro and in vivo in the resistance circulation. Long-term treatment with ACE inhibitors substantially reduces morbidity and mortality rates in patients with left ventricular dysfunction after myocardial infarction; beneficial effects of verapamil in secondary prevention are confined to patients with normal left ventricular ejection fraction. In summary, long-term combination therapy of ACE inhibitors and calcium antagonists might provide beneficial effects in cardiovascular disease because they exert synergistic hemodynamic, antiproliferative, antithrombotic, and antiatherogenic properties.
Previous work from our laboratory has shown that human ether à go-go (hEAG) K(+) channels are crucial for breast cancer cell proliferation and cell cycle progression. In this study, we investigated the regulation of hEAG channels by an insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), which is known to stimulate cell proliferation. Acute applications of IGF-1 increased K(+) current-density and hyperpolarized MCF-7 cells. The effects of IGF-1 were inhibited by hEAG inhibitors. Moreover, IGF-1 increased mRNA expression of hEAG in a time-dependent manner in parallel with an enhancement of cell proliferation. The MCF-7 cell proliferation induced by IGF-1 is inhibited pharmacologically by Astemizole or Quinidine or more specifically using siRNA against hEAG channel. Either mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) are known to mediate IGF-1 cell proliferative signals through the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk 1/2) and Akt, respectively. In MCF-7 cells, IGF-1 rapidly stimulated Akt phosphorylation, whereas IGF-1 had little stimulating effect on Erk 1/2 which seems to be constitutively activated. The application of wortmannin was found to block the effects of IGF-1 on K(+) current. Moreover, the inhibition of Akt phosphorylation by the application of wortmannin or by a specific reduction of Akt kinase activity reduced the hEAG mRNA levels. Taken together, our results show, for the first time, that IGF-1 increases both the activity and the expression of hEAG channels through an Akt-dependent pathway. Since a hEAG channel is necessary for cell proliferation, its regulation by IGF-1 may thus play an important role in IGF-1 signaling to promote a mitogenic effect in breast cancer cells.
Previous research demonstrated the inhalation teratogenicity of the solvent 2-ethoxyethanol in rats and rabbits. As this is one of a class of widely used industrial solvents, we investigated the teratogenicity of five structurally related compounds. Each chemical was vaporized and administered to approximately 15 pregnant rats in one to three concentrations for 7 hr/day on gestation days 7 to 15, and dams were sacrificed on day 20. Fetuses were individually weighed, and two-thirds of them were fixed in Bouin's solution and examined for soft-tissue anomalies. The other one-third were fixed in alcohol, stained with Alizarin Red and examined for skeletal defects. Data were analyzed on a litter basis; three solvents were compared with a pooled group (N = 34) of sham-exposed controls, and the remaining two were compared with a group of 15 controls. At concentrations which were apparently not maternally toxic, 2-methoxyethanol was highly embryotoxic, producing complete resorptions at 200 ppm; increased resorptions, reduced fetal weights and skeletal and cardiovascular defects occurred at both 100 and 50 ppm. 2-ethoxyethyl acetate at 600 ppm induced complete resorption of litters; 390 ppm reduced fetal weights and induced skeletal and cardiovascular defects, but only a single defect was observed at 130 ppm. 2-Butoxyethanol evidenced slight maternal toxicity at 200 ppm but produced no increase in congenital defects at that concentration. Neither 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethanol (100 ppm) nor 2-methylaminoethanol (150 ppm) was maternally toxic or embryotoxic. In summary, shorter alkyl chained glycol ethers produced greater embryotoxicity than those having longer chains, and the ester produced effects equivalent to the ether, both patterns predictable from the biochemical literature.
Almotriptan is an orally administered, highly selective serotonin 5-HT(1(B)/1(D)) receptor agonist that is effective in the acute treatment of moderate to severe migraine attacks. Since its introduction on to the market in 2001, several studies involving a large number of migraine patients have confirmed its efficacy and tolerability profile. Almotriptan, was found to be among the best-responding triptans in terms of pain relief and pain-free rate at 2 h. It has been reported that almotriptan has the best sustained pain-free (SPF) rate and the lowest adverse events (AEs) rate of all the triptans. When these clinical characteristics were combined to form the composite endpoint SPF and no AEs (SNAE), almotriptan emerged as the triptan with the best efficacy and tolerability profile. It also showed a good efficacy profile during the early treatment (within 1 h of onset) of migraine attacks characterized by moderate pain intensity. On the basis of these findings, almotriptan may be considered a therapeutic option for the acute treatment of migraine attacks.
The aminoglycoside antibiotics are useful in the treatment of gram-negative bacillary infections but are potentially toxic. A method to maximize their therapeutic benefit while minimizing their risk of toxicity is desirable. Serial pharmacokinetic dosing has been proposed as a method to achieve these goals. An audit was conducted comparing optimal dosing of aminoglycosides by physicians of a community hospital using a serial pharmacokinetic dosing service versus its nonuse. Optimal dosing was 81% (81/101) of trough-peak pairs using the service versus 17% (28/161) not using the service (p less than 0.001). This difference was due to greater achievement of therapeutic peak levels with the service (96%, 97/101) than without (32%, 52/161). There was no difference in toxic trough level occurrence, with 15% (15/101) occurrence with the service and 17% (27/161) occurrence without its use (p greater than 0.05). Clinical nephrotoxicity occurred 0% (0/49) of the time with the use of the service versus 7% (6/88) of the time without its use (p greater than 0.05). The data presented here demonstrate that serial pharmacokinetic dosing of aminoglycosides results in the achievement of therapeutic peak levels in most patients. An understanding of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity and pharmacokinetics allows the subsequent adjustment of dosing, if necessary, to avoid nephrotoxicity in most patients.
To report cerebral venous thrombosis as a complication of intravenous corticosteroid treatment in a patient with multiple sclerosis.
A case report. A 44-year-old woman with a previous diagnosis of multiple sclerosis presented with panuveitis and retinal perivasculitis. Intravenous pulse corticosteroid therapy was given for three days.
The panuveitis and retinal periphlebitis began to resolve within one week; however, ten days after the last corticosteroid dose, the patient was hospitalized with the diagnosis of cerebral venous thrombosis.
Although intravenous corticosteroid treatment for uveitis associated with multiple sclerosis can be very helpful, the patient should be monitored closely for systemic side effects.
Obesity and insulin resistance increase the risk of laminitis in horses. Pioglitazone (PG) is an insulin-sensitizing drug used in humans that is absorbed after oral administration to horses.
PG treatment will increase insulin sensitivity and transcript abundance of glucose and lipid transporters in adipose and skeletal muscle tissues.
Sixteen lean, healthy horses.
Eight horses were administered PG (1 mg/kg bodyweight PO) for 12 days before induction of insulin resistance through IV administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Treated and untreated controls (CN; n = 8) were subjected to testing of peripheral insulin sensitivity and biopsies of both subcutaneous (nuchal ligament) adipose tissue and skeletal muscle before and after treatment, and 24 hours after LPS administration.
PG treatment did not improve basal insulin sensitivity (CNs: 1.4 ± 0.3, PG-treated: 1.9 ± 1.3; P > .4) or mitigate LPS-induced insulin resistance (CNs: 0.4 ± 0.3, PG-treated: 0.4 ± 0.3); however, transcript abundance of glucose and lipid transporters was altered in both skeletal muscle and subcutaneous adipose tissue.
Either a higher dose or longer treatment period might be required for physiological effects to be observed. PG is a novel therapeutic agent requiring further investigation in horses in order to determine treatment efficacy.
The comparative effectiveness of beta-carotene (BC) and retinoic acid (RA) was investigated against two-stage rat liver carcinogenesis initiated by a single injection of diethylnitrosamine (DEN, 200 mg/kg i.p.) followed by promotion with phenobarbital (PB, 0.05%) in a basal diet. BC (500 mg/kg) or RA (200 mg/kg) was administered per os daily throughout the entire experiment, before the initiation, or during the promotional stage. Treatment with BC throughout the experiment or before initiation significantly reduced the incidence (p < 0.01), multiplicity (p < 0.05), and size of visible subcapsular hepatocyte nodules (HNs) and reduced (p < 0.001 or 0.05) nodular volume as a percentage of liver volume. The results with RA were of lesser extent than those observed with BC. There was a considerable depletion of hepatic BC and total vitamin A (retinol + ester) in HNs and nonnodular surrounding parenchyma (NNSP) of rats subjected to the DEN-PB regimen than their control counterparts. Treatment with BC significantly elevated hepatic BC and total vitamin A contents in HNs and NNSP compared with DEN-PB control, and the elevation was proportional to the duration of BC treatment. Long-term BC or RA treatment elicited a substantial decrement in reduced glutathione content and gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity and an increment in cytochrome P-450 content and glutathione peroxidase and glutathione S-transferase activities in the HNs and NNSP, which were otherwise reversed in rats that received DEN-PB treatment alone. Our results suggest that BC or RA has the potential to inhibit DEN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis through selective modulation of the antioxidant defense system and xenobiotic detoxification in the liver. It is also apparent that the beneficial effect of BC or RA is primarily exerted on the initiation phase and secondarily during the promotional stage of DEN-initiated rat liver carcinogenesis and that BC affords a better chemopreventive response than RA.
Thalidomide is remarkably active in advanced relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma (MM), so that its use has been recently proposed either in newly diagnosed patients or as maintenance treatment after conventional or high-dose therapy. This latter therapeutic approach has risen the concern of side-effects of long-term therapy with this drug.
We analysed long-term toxicity of 40 patients (27 M, 13 F, median age = 61.5 yr) who received salvage therapy with thalidomide +/- dexamethasone for longer than 12 months (median 15, range 12-44) at our centre. All the patients had achieved at least a stable disease upon treatment with thalidomide alone (200-400 mg/d, n = 20) or thalidomide (200 mg/d) and dexamethasone (40 mg/d for 4 d every 4 wk) (n = 20).
Neurotoxicity was the most troublesome and frequent toxic effect that was observed after long-term treatment, the incidence averaging 75%. Among these 30 patients symptoms included paraesthesias, tremor and dizziness. Neurotoxicity was grade 1 in six patients (15%); grade 2 in 13 patients (32.5%), thus determining thalidomide dose reduction to 100 mg/d; and grade 3 in 11 patients (27.5%) who had subsequently to interrupt therapy despite their response. Electromyographic study, performed in patients with grade >/=2 neurotoxicity, revealed a symmetrical, mainly sensory peripheral neuropathy, with minor motor involvement. The severity of neurotoxicity was not related to cumulative or daily thalidomide dose, but only to the duration of the disease prior to thalidomide treatment, although no patients presented neurological symptoms at study entry. These results suggest that long-term thalidomide therapy in MM may be hampered by the remarkable neurotoxicity of the drug, and that a neurological evaluation should be mandatory prior to thalidomide treatment, in order to identify patients at risk of developing a peripheral neuropathy.
A recent addition to the field of teratology has been the inclusion of functional assessment techniques of offspring after prenatal exposure to exogenous agents. The present paper reviews the behavioral teratogenic effects of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGME, 2-methoxyethanol) and ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE, 2-ethoxyethanol). Groups of 15 pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed via inhalation to 25 ppm EGME or to 100 ppm EGEE on gestation days 7 to 13 or 14 to 20. An equal number of sham-exposed controls were included for both periods of gestation. The only effect noted in the maternal animals was a slightly prolonged gestation in the group exposed to 100 ppm EGEE on days 14 to 20. Litters were culled to four female and four male pups on the day of birth. Pups of each sex from all litters were tested on a variety of behavioral tasks (including tests of neuromuscular ability, activity, and learning ability) extending from postnatal days 10 to 90. In addition, brains from newborn and from 21-day-old offspring were removed and analyzed for concentrations of the neurotransmitters acetylcholine, dopamine, norepinephrine, and 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin). Both the behavioral testing and the neurochemical evaluations revealed functional alterations in the litter groups experiencing prenatal exposure to EGME and EGEE at concentrations which produced no observable effects in the maternal animals.
Uveal coloboma is a potentially blinding congenital ocular malformation caused by failure of the optic fissure to close during development. Although mutations in numerous genes have been described, these account for a minority of cases, complicating molecular diagnosis and genetic counseling. Here we describe a key role of aldh7a1 as a gene necessary for normal eye development. We show that morpholino knockdown of aldh7a1 in zebrafish causes uveal coloboma and misregulation of nlz1, another known contributor to the coloboma phenotype, as well as skeletal abnormalities. Knockdown of aldh7a1 leads to reduced cell proliferation in the optic cup of zebrafish, delaying the approximation of the edges of the optic fissure. The aldh7a1 morphant phenotype is partially rescued by co-injection of nlz1 mRNA suggesting that nlz1 is functionally downstream of aldh7a1 in regulating cell proliferation in the optic cup. These results support a role of aldh7a1 in ocular development and skeletal abnormalities in zebrafish.
The reproductive toxicity of ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) was evaluated in the Fertility Assessment by Continuous Breeding protocol. Both male and female CD-1 mice were given 0, 0.5, 1.0 or 2% EGEE in the drinking water and were housed as breeding pairs continuously for 14 weeks. Significant adverse effects on fertility were seen at 1 and 2% but not at 0.5%. After the continuous breeding phase of this test was completed, treated males were housed with control females and treated females with control males and fertility and reproduction were compared to the corresponding pairs of control male and control female mice. Both males and females from the 1 and 2% groups were affected. Testicular atrophy, decreased sperm motility and increased abnormal sperm were noted in the treated males, but no specific anomalies were detected in the females.
Previous NIOSH studies demonstrated the embryo- and fetotoxicity and teratogenicity of ethylene glycol monoethyl ether (EGEE) applied to the shaved skin of pregnant rats. In the present study ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate (EGEEA), ethylene glycol monobutyl ether (EGBE), and diethylene glycol monoethyl ether (diEGEE) were tested in the same experimental model, using distilled water as the negative control and EGEE as a positive control. Water or undiluted glycols were applied four times daily on days 7 to 16 of gestation to the shaved interscapular skin with an automatic pipetter. Volumes of EGEE (0.25 mL), EGEEA (0.35 mL), and diEGEE (0.35 mL) were approximately equimolar (2.6 mmole per treatment). EGBE at 0.35 mL four times daily (approximately 2.7 mmole per treatment) killed 10 of 11 treated rats, and was subsequently tested at 0.12 mL (0.9 mmole) per treatment. EGEE- and EGEEA-treated rats showed a reduction in body weight relative to water controls that was associated with completely resorbed litters and significantly fewer live fetuses per litter. Fetal body weights were also significantly reduced in those groups. Visceral malformations and skeletal variations were significantly increased in EGEE and EGEEA groups over the negative control group. No embryotoxic, fetotoxic, or teratogenic effects were detected in the EGBE- or diEGEE-treated litters.
Comprehensive monitoring of genotypic and phenotypic antiviral resistance was performed on 673 entecavir (ETV)-treated nucleoside naïve hepatitis B virus (HBV) patients. ETV reduced HBV DNA levels to undetectable by PCR (<300 copies/mL, <57 IU/mL) in 91% of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive and -negative patients by Week 96. Thirteen percent (n = 88) of the comparator lamivudine (LVD)-treated patients experienced a virologic rebound (> or =1 log increase from nadir by PCR) in the first year, with 74% of these having LVD resistance (LVDr) substitutions evident. In contrast, only 3% (n = 22) of ETV-treated patients exhibited virologic rebound by Week 96. Three ETV rebounds were attributable to LVDr virus present at baseline, with one having a S202G ETV resistance (ETVr) substitution emerge at Week 48. None of the other rebounding patients had emerging genotypic resistance or loss of ETV susceptibility. Genotyping all additional ETV patients with PCR-detectable HBV DNA at Weeks 48, 96, or end of dosing identified seven additional patients with LVDr substitutions, including one with simultaneous emergence of LVDr/ETVr. Generally, ETV patients with LVDr were detectable at baseline (8/10) and most subsequently achieved undetectable HBV DNA levels on ETV therapy (7/10). No other emerging substitutions identified decreased ETV susceptibility. In conclusion, ETVr emergence in ETV-treated nucleoside naïve patients over a 2-year period is rare, occurring in two patients with LVDr variants. These findings suggest that the rapid, sustained suppression of HBV replication, combined with a requirement for multiple substitutions, creates a high genetic barrier to ETVr in nucleoside naïve patients.
A combined dominant lethal-fertility study was conducted in which male and female Sprague-Dawley (CD) rats were exposed to 0, 30, 100 or 300 ppm of ethylene glycol monomethyl ether (EGME) vapor for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week for 13 weeks and then mated to untreated counterparts. Among males, fertility was completely suppressed after exposure to 300 ppm. A partial restoration of reproductive function was evident following 13 weeks of recovery. No treatment-related reproductive effects were observed among males exposed subchronically to 100 ppm, or among females exposed to 300 ppm or below of EGME. Studies to assess the effects of inhaled EGME on embryonal and fetal development were also conducted in Fischer 344 rats, CF-1 mice, and New Zealand White rabbits. Rats and rabbits were exposed to concentrations of 0, 3, 10 or 50 ppm for 6 hr/day on days 6-15 or 6-18 of gestation, respectively. Exposure of rabbits to 50 ppm resulted in significant teratologic effects, an increased resorption rate, and decreased fetal body weight. Slight fetotoxicity in the form of skeletal variations were observed among rats exposed to 50 ppm. Exposure of pregnant mice to 0, 10, or 50 ppm for 6 hr/day on days 6-15 of gestation resulted in slight fetotoxicity at 50 ppm. No significant treatment-related effects were observed at 10 ppm of EGME or below in any of the species tested. Separate groups of pregnant rats and rabbits were exposed to 0, 500, 1500 or 3000 ppm of propylene glycol monomethyl ether (PGME) during organogenesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Microsatellite instability (MSI), TP53 mutation, and KRAS mutation status have been reported as prognostic factors in colon cancer. Most studies, however, have included heterogeneous groups of patients with respect to cancer stage. We determined the prognostic relevance of high-frequency MSI (MSI-H), TP53 mutations, and KRAS mutations in a well-defined group of patients with stage III colon cancer (N = 391), randomly assigned for adjuvant treatment with fluorouracil-based chemotherapy.
Three hundred ninety-one tumor specimens were available. MSI was determined in 273 specimens, and mutation analyses of TP53 and KRAS were performed in 220 and 205 specimens, respectively.
In a univariate analysis, MSI-H (44 of 273; 16%) was associated with a longer disease-free survival (DFS; P = .038), but in a multivariate model adjusting for nodal involvement, histology, invasion, and grade of tumor, the association of MSI status with DFS did no longer reach statistical significance, though the risk estimate for microsatellite stability versus MSI-H tumors did not change much. Mutant TP53, found in 116 (53%) of 220 tumors, was associated with a shorter DFS, both in univariate (P = .009) and multivariate analyses (P = .018), whereas KRAS mutations (58 of 205; 28%) did not show any prognostic significance.
Both mutant TP53 and MSI-H seem to be prognostic indicators for disease-free survival, but only TP53 retains statistical significance after adjusting for clinical heterogeneity. Thus, in adjuvantly treated patients with stage III colon cancer, presence or absence of a TP53 mutation should be considered as a better predictor for DFS than MSI status.
This study was undertaken to determine the chronic effects of a long-acting calcium-channel blocker (nitrendipine) on resting left ventricular filling abnormalities in ten patients with essential hypertension. Radionuclide left ventricular curves of these hypertensive patients were compared with the curves of twelve normal volunteers and of eight asymptomatic older patients. The curves were analyzed for ejection fraction, peak filling rate (normalized for end-diastolic counts and for stroke counts), time to peak filling rate and filling fraction in the first-third of diastole normalized for cycle length. Heart rate and ejection fraction were similar in both control groups and hypertensive patients before and after nitrendipine. Before nitrendipine, diastolic filling parameters were significantly different in the hypertensive patients as compared with the volunteers and with the asymptomatic aged patients: peak filling rate was lower, time to peak filling rate was longer and the first-third filling fraction was smaller. After six weeks of nitrendipine therapy, systolic and diastolic blood pressure decreased significantly. After nitrendipine, the time to peak filling rate decreased and the first-third filling fraction and the peak filling rate (normalized for stroke counts) increased significantly. The acute oral administration of 100 mg atenolol induced a further decrease in systolic blood pressure and a significant decrease in heart rate. The effect of combining nitrendipine and atenolol on diastolic indexes was a preserved effect on time to peak filling rate and on the first-third filling fraction. These results suggest that short-term therapy with nitrendipine improves early diastolic dysfunction in hypertensives: the addition of a beta-blocking agent further improved the early diastolic indexes.
