A case of a 57-year-old man with hypertension and stable angina, on aspirin therapy, who was treated for epistaxis with intranasal cocaine, and who subsequently suffered a non-Q wave myocardial infarction is reported. Of note, the cocaine was administered in a manner which differs from that advocated in standard references. Specifically, intranasal packing soaked with 4% cocaine was left in place with continuous nasal mucous membrane contact over 5 to 6 hours. The authors speculate that myocardial infarction occurred on the basis of coronary artery spasm. This case should alert practitioners to myocardial ischemia occurring as a complication of the therapeutic use of intranasal cocaine for the treatment of epistaxis.
The influence of the dosage or duration of treatment on the incidence and severity of clonidine withdrawal responses was examined in normotensive rats. Clonidine (0.01 or 0.1 mg/kg i.m.) was administered either in single doses, or twice daily for 3 days or 3 weeks. Rats were then anesthetized and arterial catheters were inserted. Significant overshoots in blood pressure and heart rate, reaching peak values 16 to 26 hr after the last injection, occurred in all clonidine-treated rats, but in no control rats. The overshoots after single injections of clonidine were as great as those after suspension of sustained treatment. Moreover, withdrawal responses were as great after the low dose as they were after the 10-fold greater dose. Only plasma renin activity showed a significantly greater elevation during withdrawal of the high dose of clonidine. Since ganglionic blockade reduced blood pressures and heart rates to the same levels in rats with clonidine withdrawal hypertension as in control rats, the withdrawal overshoots appear to be nervously mediated. Neither the dosage nor the duration of treatment could be shown to determine the magnitude of the response to withdrawal of clonidine.
We present a case of pemoline-induced autoimmune hepatitis in a 46-yr-old woman who received the drug for management of her multiple sclerosis. The autoimmune nature of the hepatitis is based on elevation of her anti-nuclear antibodies, anti-thyroid antibodies, IgA, and IgM globulins. These features of autoimmunity disappeared with normalization of her liver-associated enzymes and have remained negative for at least 6 months after completion of prednisone therapy.
Further experiments are reported on Lincomycin-induced cholelithiasis in guinea-pigs. The biochemical events in the bile and blood, and the chemical composition of gallstones, have been studied. The gallstones resemble human pigment stones in chemical composition. The clear hepatic bile and the normality of the bile salt--phospholipid--cholesterol equilibrium, the rise in beta-glucuronidase and hexosamine levels with the gallbladder, have reaffirmed that epithelial injury is most probably the primary lithogenic factor. Ligation of the cystic duct and the construction of a common hepatic duct-duodenum bypass did not prevent the development of acute cholecystitis, suggesting the lithogenic factor was mediated through the blood circulation and not through the enterohepatic circulation of bile.
Cimetidine-related neurotoxicity may be characterized by signs of affective dysfunction, toxic delusional state and/or delirium, confusion and/or amnestic signs, coma, epileptic phenomena and focal neurological signs. EEG features are rarely mentioned in the literature. They are discussed here in a patient presenting with cimetidine-related mental impairment and epileptic seizures. Some of the clinical signs are related to our incomplete understanding of the neurotransmitter function of histamine in the brain. It is suggested that transient functional deafferentiation of the cortex may occur with chemical histamine receptor blockade at brain stem level. EEG monitoring may be helpful in patients at risk.
Chemical exposures are important risks for development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). One such chemical, diethylnitrosamine (DENA), is present in food products as well as in industrial and research settings. Further examination of tumors induced by DENA may yield clues to human risk. HCC from seven rhesus macaques exposed to DENA was selected from a tissue archive to examine for evidence of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling events, which are frequently associated with HCC. DENA exposure durations ranged from 8 to 207 months, and total accumulated dose ranged from 0.7 to 4.08 mg. Unexposed colony breeder macaques served as controls. Previously unrecognized HCC metastases were discovered in lungs of three macaques. Overexpression of beta-catenin and glutamine synthetase was detected by immunohistochemistry in six confirmed primary HCC and all metastatic HCC, which implicated Wnt/beta-catenin activation. Concomitant beta-catenin gene mutation was detected in one primary HCC; similar findings have been reported in human and rodent HCC. Neither beta-catenin mutation nor beta-catenin overexpression appeared to influence metastatic potential. Accumulation of intracellular proteins involved in Wnt/beta-catenin signaling during HCC oncogenesis in rhesus macaques exposed to DENA appears to include other mechanisms, in addition to mutation of beta-catenin gene.
Hypertension refractory to standard dialystic maneuvers developed in a 25-year old female who had been on long-term hemodialysis. Lowering the target dry weight and adding antihypertensives did not ameliorate the hypertension. Hypercalcemia, due to vitamin D administration, was discovered and, following its correction, there was subsequent normalization of the blood pressure. This report discusses some of the mechanisms whereby calcium can interface with blood pressure regulatory mechanisms in individuals with end stage renal disease.
Fenofibrate (FF) has previously been shown to induce hepatocellular neoplasia in a conventional mouse bioassay (NDA 1993), but there has been no report to examine the carcinogenic susceptibility of rasH2 mice to this chemical. In the present study, male rasH2 mice were subjected to a two-thirds partial hepatectomy (PH), followed by an N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) initiation twenty-four hours after PH, and given a diet containing 0, 1200, or 2400 ppm FF for seven weeks. The incidences of preneoplastic foci were significantly increased in mice from the FF-treated groups. Immunohistochemistry revealed that significant increases in proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells and cytokeratin 8/18 positive foci were observed in FF-treated groups. In addition, the transgene and several downstream molecules such as c-myc, c-jun, activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), and cyclin D1 were overexpressed in these groups. These results suggest that the hepatocarcinogenic activity of rasH2 mice to FF can be detected in this hepatocarcinogenesis model and that up-regulation of genes for the ras/MAPK pathway and cell cycle was probably involved in the hepatocarcinogenic mechanism of rasH2 mice.
Defective epithelial repair in the setting of chronic lung disease has been suggested to contribute to uncontrolled extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition and development of fibrosis. We sought to directly test this hypothesis through gene expression profiling of total lung RNA isolated from mouse models of selective epithelial cell injury that are associated with either productive or abortive repair. Analysis of gene expression in repairing lungs of naphthalene-exposed mice revealed prominent clusters of up-regulated genes with putative roles in regulation of the extracellular matrix and cellular proliferation. Further analysis of tenascin C (Tnc), a representative matrix protein, in total lung RNA revealed a transient 4.5-fold increase in mRNA abundance 1 day after injury and a return to steady-state levels by Recovery Day 3. Tnc was deposited by the peribronchiolar mesenchyme immediately after injury and was remodeled to basement membrane subtending the bronchiolar epithelium during epithelial repair. Epithelial restitution was accompanied by a decrease in Tnc mRNA and protein expression to steady-state levels. In contrast, abortive repair using a transgenic model allowing ablation of all reparative cells led to a progressive increase in Tnc mRNA within lung tissue and accumulation of its gene product within the subepithelial mesenchyme of both conducting airways and alveoli. These data demonstrate that the ECM is dynamically remodeled in response to selective epithelial cell injury and that this process is activated without resolution in the setting of defective airway epithelial repair.
Fibrous myopathy is a common, well-known side effect of repeated pentazocine injection. However, compression neuropathy due to fibrotic muscle affected by pentazocine-induced myopathy has not previously been reported. In a 37-year-old woman with documented pentazocine-induced fibrous myopathy of triceps and deltoid muscles bilaterally and a three-week history of right wrist drop, electrodiagnostic examination showed a severe but partial lesion of the right radial nerve distal to the branches to the triceps, in addition to the fibrous myopathy. Surgery revealed the right radial nerve to be severely compressed by the densely fibrotic lateral head of the triceps. Decompression and neurolysis were performed with good subsequent recovery of function.
The effect of caffeine when combined with cocaine or amphetamine was studied in rats. Animals were pretreated with intraperitoneal vehicle (normal saline [NS]) or caffeine 100 mg/kg, then challenged with intraperitoneal cocaine (0, 35, 50, 70, or 90 mg/kg) or intraperitoneal d-amphetamine (0, 15, 25, 35, or 42 mg/kg). Animal behavior, time to, and incidences of seizures and death were recorded. This dose of caffeine alone did not cause seizures or death. Caffeine pretreatment significantly increased the incidence of overt seizures induced by either cocaine or amphetamine. Caffeine increased the incidence of cocaine-induced death from 10% to 90% at the 70 mg/kg cocaine dose (P less than .01). Caffeine increased amphetamine-induced death from 0% to 80% at 15 mg/kg (P less than or equal to .01), 10% to 70% at 25 mg/kg (P less than or equal to .01), and 30% to 80% at 35 mg/kg (P less than or equal to .01). To investigate mechanisms, additional animals were pretreated with the adenosine agonist, 2-chloroadenosine (2.5 and 10 mg/kg), before being challenged with NS, 90 mg/kg cocaine, or 42 mg/kg amphetamine. Pretreatment with 2-chloroadenosine had no affect in reducing cocaine or amphetamine toxicity. Combination pretreatment with caffeine and 2-chloroadenosine potentiated cocaine toxicity. The phosphodiesterase inhibitor, pentoxifylline, did not potentiate cocaine toxicity. The authors conclude that caffeine potentiates the acute toxicity of both cocaine and amphetamine, and that the failure of 2-chloroadenosine to alter this suggests that the toxicity of the stimulants cocaine and amphetamine may be modulated by nonspecific rather than specific adenosine- or phosphodiesterase-induced mechanisms.
Severe myoclonus, generalized seizures, and marked stupor occurred in a 39-year-old woman with chronic renal insufficiency after one week of moxalactam 2 g iv q8h. Moxalactam serum levels far exceeded the recommended therapeutic range. The drug half-life was 17 hours (normal 1.9). Excessively high levels of moxalactam, which penetrates the blood-brain-barrier relatively easily, may provoke seizures and encephalopathy.
This study evaluates the cardiac and neurologic risks associated with the antagonization of the benzodiazepine component of mixed drug overdoses, when cyclic antidepressants are also implicated. Twenty-four mongrel dogs were anesthetized and ventilated. Electroencephalogram, electrocardiogram, and tidal carbon dioxide and arterial pressure were continuously recorded. Amitriptyline (1 mg/kg/min) associated with midazolam (1 mg/kg + 1 mg/kg/h) was infused in 12 of the dogs. Midazolam was replaced by saline in the other 12. Drug administration was continued until signs of cardiotoxicity (QRS prolongation greater than 120 milliseconds or sustained arrhythmias) occurred. At that moment, midazolam effects were suddenly reversed by administration of flumazenil 0.2 mg/kg in six dogs out of each group. Placebo was administered in the others. Reactions were observed for the next 120 minutes. Midazolam-induced sedation efficiently protects (P less than .02) against seizures due to amitriptyline toxicity. This protective effect is counteracted by flumazenil. Midazolam has limited influence on the cardiac toxic effects of amitriptyline. The bolus of flumazenil is, however, associated with a significant worsening of electrocardiogram disturbances, and two sudden deaths were recorded. The mechanism of this effect remains unclear, as it could be unrelated to the antagonization of midazolam sedation. Given the problem of extrapolating animal data to humans, these results suggest that bolus administration of high doses of flumazenil in mixed intoxication implicating benzodiazepine and cyclic antidepressants has the potential to precipitate convulsions and/or arrhythmias. A slowly titrated administration of the antidote, as usually recommended, could prevent these effects.
We describe a 68-year-old male patient, treated with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid for 18 days and oral anticoagulants. He developed a cholestatic hepatitis with conjugated bilirubin of 11 mg/dL and a concomitant overdose of oral anticoagulants (INR 7). Nausea, vomiting, jaundice and large ecchymoses occurred 41 days after treatment with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid; the clinical manifestations resolved within 1 week and the liver tests returned to normal 48 days after therapy withdrawal. The mechanism of the amoxicillin-clavulanate-induced hepatitis is probably immunoallergic; this complication occurs mainly in subjects with a metabolic and/or immunologic idiosyncrasy. The pharmacokinetics of this antibiotic, which is not directly metabolized by cytochrome P450, may be affected by the concomitant use of drugs under cytochrome P450 control. When using amoxicillin-clavulanic acid, one should take into account its potential hepatic toxicity and possible interaction with oral anticoagulants. However, it appears to be crucial to follow the correct indications for both drugs. In fact, in the patient described above amoxicillin-clavulanic acid was wrongly administered as prophylaxis after a cutaneous biopsy of the nose. The same occurred with the oral anticoagulants prescribed to the patient for a single episode of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation which had occurred one year previously.
Cardiotoxicity is a rare but serious complication of 5-fluorouracil therapy. Coronary vasospasm and, less frequently, acute myocarditis have been identified as underlying mechanisms. We report a case of severe toxicity in a relatively young and fit male patient being treated for metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma displaying characteristics that cannot be explained by either mechanism alone.
The primary objective of this study was to compare the histopathological consequences of complete versus incomplete ischemia under experimental conditions that limit lactate accumulation. Fasted rats underwent 1 h of either complete or incomplete ischemia by a procedure combining bilateral common carotid artery occlusion, halothane-induced systemic hypotension, and CSF pressure elevation. Histopathological outcome was evaluated 4 h later and was graded on a 4-point scale. Incomplete ischemia resulted in ischemic neuronal damage within selectively vulnerable brain regions. In contrast, complete ischemia, in addition to diffuse neuronal damage, resulted in focal sites of parenchymal necrosis with vascular stasis. Perfusion defects were detected by carbon black infusion within cortical and subcortical regions following only 25 min of complete, but not incomplete, ischemia. Ultrastructural abnormalities at the same duration of complete ischemia included a high frequency of endothelial microvilli and compressed lumina with severe perivascular astrocytic swelling. When recirculation was instituted for 1 h following 1 h of complete ischemia, regions of nonperfusion were detected autoradiographically. Thus, when the degree of lactic acidosis is controlled, prolonged periods of complete ischemia result in a more severe pathological outcome compared to incomplete ischemia. Focally impaired postischemic cerebral perfusion appears to be an important factor in infarct formation under the present experimental conditions.
24 patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (14 stage IIIB and 10 stage IV) with a performance status of 70% or higher and without liver metastases received 120-165 mg/m2 epirubicin as an intravenous bolus every 21-28 days up to the maximum cumulative dose of 900 mg/m2. 6 patients (25%) (95% confidence limits 9.8-46.7%) achieved partial remission for a median duration of 7.5 months (range: 3-13+). The median dose actually administered per course was 120 mg/m2 in responsive and non-responsive patients. The dose-limiting side-effect was neutropenia. 1 patient receiving the higher dose died of drug-related infection. Other non-dose-related grade 3 side-effects were alopecia (100%) and vomiting (17%). In 4 patients, the treatment was interrupted because of a greater than 10% reduction in the left ventricular ejection fraction as calculated by radionuclide angiocardiography. None of these patients suffered from cardiac symptoms. The median survival was 10 months (range 1-16). These data suggest that epirubicin at 120-135 mg/m2 may have higher antitumour activity than standard doses in patients with NSCLC. Further studies are needed to clarify whether or not high-dose epirubicin increases, the risk of cardiotoxicity compared to standard doses.
A 24-year-old woman with acute promyelocytic leukemia was treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) as a remission induction therapy. After pneumonia in the neutropenic period was successfully treated with antibiotic treatment, there was recurrence of high fever alone, followed by the appearance of erythema nodosum with pain in her upper limbs on day 25 of ATRA therapy. Skin biopsy neither revealed infiltration of leukemic cells nor suggested Sweet's syndrome. We considered the eruptions to be associated with ATRA, and prednisolone (30 mg/day for 5 days) was administered. Although the administration of ATRA was continued until complete remission of the leukemia, the erythema nodosum rapidly disappeared following short-term steroid therapy and no recurrence was observed. ATRA-induced erythema nodosum is rare, however it should be recognized as a possible adverse effect in ATRA therapy.
RAS network activation is common in human cancers, and in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) this activation is achieved mainly through gain-of-function mutations in KRAS, NRAS or the receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3. We show that in mice, premalignant myeloid cells harboring a Kras(G12D) allele retained low levels of Ras signaling owing to negative feedback involving Spry4 that prevented transformation. In humans, SPRY4 is located on chromosome 5q, a region affected by large heterozygous deletions that are associated with aggressive disease in which gain-of-function mutations in the RAS pathway are rare. These 5q deletions often co-occur with chromosome 17 alterations involving the deletion of NF1 (another RAS negative regulator) and TP53. Accordingly, combined suppression of Spry4, Nf1 and p53 produces high levels of Ras signaling and drives AML in mice. Thus, SPRY4 is a tumor suppressor at 5q whose disruption contributes to a lethal AML subtype that appears to acquire RAS pathway activation through a loss of negative regulators.
The effects of (-)-huperzine A ((5R,9R,11E)-5-amino-11-ethylidene-5,6,9,10-tetrahydro-7-methyl-5, 9-methanocycloocta[b]pyridin-2(1H)-one), and of the hydrochloride salt of E2020 ((R,S)-1-benzyl-4-[(5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanon)-2-yl]-methyl piperidine) and tacrine (9-amino-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroacridine), on the scopolamine-induced memory deficits in rats were compared in a radial maze, using a 4-out-of-8 baiting procedure. Scopolamine (0.15 mg/kg, i.p.) caused significant impairment in the rats' ability to fulfil the radial maze task. (-)-Huperzine A (0.2-0.4 mg/kg, p.o.; 0.1-0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) had greater efficacy than E2020 (0.6-0.9 mg/kg, p.o.; 0.3-0.6 mg/kg, i.p.) and tacrine (1.5-2.5 mg/kg, p.o.; 0.3-0.6 mg/kg, i.p.) on the improvement of scopolamine-induced working and reference memory errors, respectively. There appeared to be an inverse bell-shape dose-dependent effect for all three compounds tested. The compared data demonstrate that (-)-huperzine A is the most potent and orally active acetylcholinesterase inhibitor of the three, and fits more closely the established criterions for an ideal acetylcholinesterase inhibitor to be used in clinical studies.
We describe a case of Adams-Stokes syncope due to complete atrioventricular block which occurred in a leukemic patient receiving all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). Remission induction therapy was performed for a 46-year-old Japanese man with acute promyelocytic leukemia using ATRA (45 mg/m2), enocitabine (170 mg/m2, 5 days), and mitoxantrone (4 mg/m2, 3 days). On the 25th day of chemotherapy, syncope suddenly occurred. Electrocardiography revealed a complete atrioventricular block, and a temporary pacemaker was inserted on the following day. The block was persistent and the cardiac rhythm was dependent on the pacemaker. ATRA was discontinued on the 29th day because the arrhythmia was believed to be an adverse reaction to the ATRA regimen. The normal sinus rhythm was restored 15 days thereafter, and the patient eventually reached remission. He subsequently received 4 courses of consolidation therapy without any cardiovascular complications. Although ATRA sometimes induces arrhythmias, to the best of our knowledge this is the first report in the literature of such a critical ATRA-related arrhythmia.
Genomic analyses promise to improve tumor characterization to optimize personalized treatment for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Exome sequencing analysis of 243 liver tumors identified mutational signatures associated with specific risk factors, mainly combined alcohol and tobacco consumption and exposure to aflatoxin B1. We identified 161 putative driver genes associated with 11 recurrently altered pathways. Associations of mutations defined 3 groups of genes related to risk factors and centered on CTNNB1 (alcohol), TP53 (hepatitis B virus, HBV) and AXIN1. Analyses according to tumor stage progression identified TERT promoter mutation as an early event, whereas FGF3, FGF4, FGF19 or CCND1 amplification and TP53 and CDKN2A alterations appeared at more advanced stages in aggressive tumors. In 28% of the tumors, we identified genetic alterations potentially targetable by US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved drugs. In conclusion, we identified risk factor-specific mutational signatures and defined the extensive landscape of altered genes and pathways in HCC, which will be useful to design clinical trials for targeted therapy.
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) prevents thromboembolic events by inhibiting platelet function through blocking of cyclooxygenase type 1 (COX-1). A nitroderivate of ASA, 2-(acetyloxy)benzoic acid 3-(nitrooxymethyl)-phenyl ester (NCX 4016) was synthesized, which additionally acts through nitric oxide release. In various in vitro and animal studies NCX 4016 exhibited antithrombotic and anti-platelet properties. We used the standardized model of endotoxin infusion into human volunteers to compare the effects of NCX 4016 and ASA on platelet function and TF-induced coagulation activation. The trial consisted of two parts. In the first part, 10 healthy male volunteers were included in a randomized, open cross-over trial to find a NCX formulation with optimal tolerability and pharmacokinetic data were obtained. The second part was a randomized, double blind placebo controlled clinical trial consisting of 30 healthy male volunteers in three parallel groups (n = 10 per group). Volunteers received either NCX 4016 (800 mg b.i.d.), ASA (425 mg b.i.d.) or placebo for 7 days, before infusion of 2 ng/kg endotoxin on day 8. ASA attenuated the endotoxin-induced platelet plug formation (measured by PFA-100) significantly better than NCX 4016 and placebo (p < 0.004), while there was no difference in soluble P-selectin or VWF-levels. Urine 11-dehydro-thromboxane B(2) levels were significantly lower in the ASA and NCX 4016 groups as compared to placebo (p < 0.05). Neither ASA nor NCX 4016 significantly changed prothrombin fragment(1 + 2), D-Dimer or tissue factor (TF)-mRNA levels. In summary, NCX 4016 had no effect on VWF release, platelet activation as measured by soluble P-selectin or TF gene expression. NCX 4016, at the dose tested, unlike ASA, had no effect on platelet collagen/epinephrine induced plug formation under high shear rates.
Adenylosuccinate lyase (ADSL) deficiency is a rare disease of de novo purine synthesis. The main symptoms are psychomotor retardation, epilepsy, autistic features, occasionally associated with muscular hypotonia. Diagnosis is made by detection of abnormal purine metabolites (succinyladenosine - S-Ado and succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside - SAICAr) in body fluids. The severity of the clinical features correlates with low S-Ado/SAICAr ratio. We report clinical, biochemical and brain MRI findings of a female infant with severe early epilepsy and hypotonia, who died at the age of 10 weeks.
