Hepatic fibrosis continues to be a risk in patients receiving methotrexate for psoriasis. Measurement of amino terminal levels of type III procollagen (P3NP) has been advocated as an effective non-invasive test for ongoing hepatic fibrogenesis that could avoid liver biopsies. An audit was conducted to assess the practice of P3NP monitoring using guidelines produced by Manchester and whether the agreed levels correlate with histological severity. Sixty five patients with 174 P3NP assays and 30 liver biopsies were reviewed between the years 1999 and 2003. Total number of patient-methotrexate years was 278.9 and the mean cumulative dose of methotrexate received was 2000 (SD 1838) mg. A higher cumulative dose of methotrexate correlated significantly with high mean and maximum P3NP levels. Of the 30 liver biopsies, 26 (86.6%) showed normal histology or mild to moderate steatosis, three had focal fibrosis, and one had early cirrhosis. A median P3NP value of 5.8 mug/l or higher had a stronger correlation with histological severity. It is concluded that P3NP assay is a valuable adjunct to the clinical management of patients receiving long term methotrexate that can avoid or reduce unnecessary liver biopsies.
We have previously reported a 62% response rate and 54% 1-year survival rate for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) by 24-hour infusion in combination with carboplatin, using area under the concentration-time curve dosing (FCCC 93-024). Myelosuppression proved dose limiting, but was substantially reduced by the routine use of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor during the second and subsequent cycles. Antitumor activity has been reported with minimal myelosuppression, with paclitaxel 135 and 200 mg/m2 given every 3 weeks by 1-hour infusion to patients with NSCLC. In November 1994, we initiated a phase II trial of paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 given over 1 hour, with carboplatin dosed to a fixed, targeted area under the concentration-time curve of 7.5 every 3 weeks. In the absence of grade 4 myelosuppression, paclitaxel was escalated on an intrapatient basis by 35 mg/m2 per cycle to a maximum dose of 280 mg/m2 by cycle 4. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was not routinely used. Eligibility stipulated advanced, measurable, chemotherapy-naive NSCLC. Of 47 patients accrued, 39 (83%) had Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 1. The median age was 64 years; 40 patients were evaluable for toxicity. Of the first 20 evaluable patients accrued (cohort A), myelosuppression was tolerable. Cumulative peripheral sensory neuropathy grade > or = 1 in 15 (75%) patients and grade 3 in six (30%), however, generally occurring at paclitaxel doses greater than 215 mg/m2, obligated removal from study of at least three patients, despite the absence of disease progression, and proved to be dose-limiting. Consequently, the protocol was revised: the starting dose of paclitaxel was reduced to 135 mg/m2, with intrapatient dose escalation of 40 mg/m2 per cycle to a maximum dose of 215 mg/m2, thus recapitulating the original dosing schema used in FCCC 93-024. To date, 25 patients have been enrolled in this second cohort (cohort B) and treatment has been better tolerated. Of 21 evaluable patients, 13 (62%) have experienced peripheral sensory neuropathy, but only one (5%) has been grade 3. Myelosuppression also has been less pronounced, with 33% grade 4 granulocytopenia and 13% grade > or = 3 thrombocytopenia in cohort B compared with 70% and 50%, respectively, in cohort A. Of the first 22 patients accrued to cohort A, 12 (55%) had major objective responses. Median event-free survival is 23 weeks and median survival is 47 weeks. Of 15 evaluable patients in cohort B, five (33%) have had major objective responses. It is too early to report survival data. In conclusion, paclitaxel by 1-hour infusion in combination with carboplatin at a fixed targeted area under the concentration-time curve of 7.5 is an active regimen in advanced NSCLC. Neurotoxicity, rather than myelosuppression, is dose and protocol limiting at paclitaxel doses exceeding 215 mg/m2.
Although benzene induces leukemias in humans, the compound is not believed to generate chromosomal damage directly. Rather, benzene is thought to act through a series of phenolic- and quinone-based metabolites, especially 1,4-benzoquinone. A recent study found that 1,4-benzoquinone is a potent topoisomerase II poison in vitro and in cultured human cells [Lindsey et al. (2004) Biochemistry 43, 7363-7374]. Because benzene is metabolized to multiple compounds in addition to 1,4-benzoquinone, we determined the effects of several phenolic metabolites, including catechol, 1,2,4-benzenetriol, 1,4-hydroquinone, 2,2'-biphenol, and 4,4'-biphenol, on the DNA cleavage activity of human topoisomerase II alpha. Only 1,4-hydroquinone generated substantial levels of topoisomerase II-mediated DNA scission. DNA cleavage with this compound approached levels observed with 1,4-benzoquinone (approximately 5- vs 8-fold) but required a considerably higher concentration (approximately 250 vs 25 microM). 1,4-Hydroquinone is a precursor to 1,4-benzoquinone in the body and can be activated to the quinone by redox cycling. It is not known whether the effects of 1,4-hydroquinone on human topoisomerase II alpha reflect a lower reactivity of the hydroquinone or a low level of activation to the quinone. The high concentration of 1,4-hydroquinone required to increase enzyme-mediated DNA cleavage is consistent with either explanation. 1,4-Hydroquinone displayed attributes against topoisomerase II alpha, including DNA cleavage specificity, that were similar to those of 1,4-benzoquinone. However, 1,4-hydroquinone consistently inhibited DNA ligation to a greater extent than 1,4-benzoquinone. This latter result implies that the hydroquinone may display (at least in part) independent activity against topoisomerase II alpha. The present findings are consistent with the hypothesis that topoisomerase II alpha plays a role in the initiation of specific types of leukemia that are induced by benzene and its metabolites.
To ascertain the efficacy and tolerability of non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Myocet) and epirubicin combined with cyclophosphamide in the first-line treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer.
One hundred and sixty anthracycline-naïve metastatic breast cancer patients were randomised to receive Myocet (M; 75 mg/m(2)) or epirubicin (E; 75 mg/m(2)) in combination with cyclophosphamide (C; 600 mg/m(2)), every 3 weeks for up to eight cycles.
Response (overall response = complete + partial response rates), time to disease progression, overall survival and cardiac function (left ventricular ejection fraction).
Overall response rates were 46% and 39% for MC and EC treatment, respectively (P=0.42). MC was superior to EC with respect to median time to treatment failure (5.7 versus 4.4 months; P=0.01) and median time to disease progression (7.7 versus 5.6 months; P=0.02). Median survival times were 18.3 and 16.0 months for MC and EC, respectively (P=0.504). Unsurprisingly, given an equimolar comparison, neutropenia and stomatitis/mucositis were significantly more common in patients who received MC. However, there was less injection site toxicity with MC. Both treatments showed a low incidence of cardiotoxicity.
Myocet appears to be an acceptable alternative to epirubicin as a first-line treatment for patients with metastatic breast cancer because it combines the dose-effect reliability of doxorubicin with the level of safety provided by epirubicin.
Fulminant hyperammonaemia as a threshold effect of coma-inducing dose of sodium thiopental has been revealed in rats. Blood ammonia content increased progressively after the introduction of 1.0 LD(50) (but not 0.8 LD(50)) of sodium thiopental three times in 3h and five times in 18h. The urinary ammonia excretion was not impaired while the volatilization of ammoniac from the body of ST-treated rats was higher, giving evidence of the augmentation of ammonia production. Blood urea increased by one third despite of insignificant alterations of haematocrit and blood creatinine. Ammonia hyperproduction in the digestive tract could result from gastrointestinal stasis, which has been verified by roentgenography and confirmed by correlation of hyperammonaemia with the stool retardation. In thiopental coma rats the slope of a dose-dependent increase of the blood ammonia and the blood urea after the intraperitoneal injection of ammonium acetate did not exceed that in intact animals. So the ammonia hyperproduction in the digestive tract could be the main contributing cause of fulminant hyperammonaemia in rats with thiopental coma and thus be involved into pathogenesis of the coma.
Fourteen patients with monocular limitation of downward gaze had vertical saccadic velocity measurements. Patients with orbital floor fracture and endocrine ophthalmopathy were excluded from the group. In four cases (29%), the difference between upward downward saccadic velocities was 20% or less. These patients were not thought to have any evidence of inferior rectus muscle paresis. In ten cases (71%), the difference between upward and downward saccades varied between 46% to 275% (average, 115%), upward saccades being more rapid in each case. These cases were all believed to have moderate to great inferior rectus muscle palsy. In one subject with a lidocaine hydrochloride-induced inferior rectus muscle palsy, upward saccades were 135% faster than downward saccades. These findings were compared with those in patients with monocular limitation of elevation, and the surgical management was reviewed.
The NHL-15 protocol is a novel, dose-intense, dose-dense, sequential chemotherapy program developed to improve outcome in advanced, aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.
The phase II NHL-15 protocol comprised: (i) induction [doxorubicin 60 mg/m(2) i.v. on weeks 1, 3, 5 and 7 plus vincristine 1.4 mg/m(2) i.v. (no cap) on weeks 1, 2, 3, 5 and 7]; and (ii) consolidation (cyclophosphamide 3000 mg/m(2) i.v. on weeks 9, 11 and 13 plus granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 5 microg/kg subcutaneous on days 3-10 following each cyclophosphamide dose). Patients with aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (working formulation: intermediate grade or immunoblastic), bulky stage I and stages II-IV, were eligible.
There are 165 eligible patients with a 6.9-year median follow-up (range 0.5-141 months) and a median age of 48 years. For the entire group, 72.1% achieved complete remission, and at 5 years disease-free survival was 57.8% and overall survival (OS) was 62.2%. Ideal dose delivery was >90%. Acute and late toxicities of treatment were manageable and acceptable. Toxic death on treatment was 2.4%. When the diffuse large cell lymphoma histologies were grouped according to the International Prognostic Index (IPI), complete remission and OS in the low-intermediate (LI), and high-intermediate (HI) risk groups were improved by 5%-15% compared with historical CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone). This improvement was also noted for LI and HI risk groups in the age-adjusted (aa)IPI analysis for patients < or =60 years of age.
The NHL-15 program can be administered safely and effectively to achieve high rates of durable remission when used for the treatment of advanced stage, aggressive, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. The 5%-15% improvement in 5-year OS compared with historical CHOP, according to the IPI/aaIPI model (in LI and HI risk groups), is encouraging. Further evaluation and prospective testing of the NHL-15 protocol appears to be warranted.
Acute cocaine poisoning causes neuroexcitation and can be fatal. The toxic effects of cocaine can be attenuated by antagonists of serotonin, muscarinic cholinergic, and dopamine receptors. Olanzapine, an atypical antipsychotic medication, is an antagonist of these receptors. The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of olanzapine pretreatment for attenuation of acute cocaine toxicity using a mouse model.
Eighty male CF-1 mice were randomly assigned to olanzapine (1 mg/kg) or placebo pretreatment. Fifteen minutes later, all animals received 103 mg/kg intraperitoneal cocaine.
Overall mortality was 11% for olanzapine-treated animals and 45% for placebo. Olanzapine also appeared to alter the characteristics of seizures due to cocaine.
In this model of acute cocaine toxicity, olanzapine pretreatment attenuated acute cocaine toxicity. Olanzapine should be evaluated further as a potential treatment for acute cocaine poisoning.
Published data have suggested a possible link between the tumor promoting activity and the aneugenic properties of griseofulvin. The present study was conducted to explore this relationship. Griseofulvin was evaluated both for its potential promoting activity in liver carcinogenesis in partially hepatectomized F344 male rats initiated by diethylnitrosamine and for its genotoxic potential in the peripheral blood micronucleus assay. Rats were treated daily with 2,000 mg/kg body weight by oral gavage for 12 weeks in the medium-term carcinogenesis bioassay. GST-P-positive foci (mean number and surface area) and altered cell foci were compared in the liver of rats treated with griseofulvin alone, diethylnitrosamine alone,and griseofulvin in addition to diethylnitrosamine by using immunohistochemical and histopathological evaluation, respectively. This evaluation allowed the conclusion that griseofulvin did not initiate the carcinogenic process but rather had a potential in the liver for tumor promoting activity. Griseofulvin was found to be negative in the rat peripheral blood micronucleus test when given at a daily oral dose of 2,000 mg/kg body weight for at least 3 weeks.
A 56 year old male developed bilateral massive adrenal haemorrhage (BMAH) resulting in chronic adrenal insufficiency in the course of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT)-syndrome. Thrombosis of the central adrenal vein (CAV) with subsequent adrenal haemorrhagic infarction is the most probable cause of the rare association of HIT and BMAH. The exorbitantly high catecholamine plasma levels within the CAV in addition to immunogenic platelet activation are discussed as possible underlying pathophysiological mechanisms.
A 10-year-old black girl with a severe hypersensitivity reaction to phenytoin is described. Adverse effects included interstitial nephritis, hepatitis, and toxic epidermal necrolysis. An apparently permanent sequela of universal cutaneous depigmentation developed. Although the presence of clear cells in the basal layer of the epidermis suggested that melanocytes might still be present, these clear cells were shown, by electron microscopy, to be Langerhans cells and not melanocytes. This patient demonstrates a unique outcome, not previously described in the literature.
Although the effects of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on human lung carcinogenesis are suggested from the massive PCBs poisoning that occurred in Japan designated "Yusho," the detailed molecular mechanism are unknown. 1 nitropyrene (1-NP), an ubiquitous and abundant environmental pollutant, is known to be detected in lung tissues derived from patients with lung cancer in Japan, and its relation to lung carcinogenesis is also suggested. We investigated the effects of PCBs (Kanechlor-400) on 1-NP-induced lung tumorigenesis in A/J mice. PCBs were administered intraperitoneally followed by ip injection of 1-NP. The lung lesions were examined 18 weeks after the final treatment. In the control group, no neoplastic lesions were induced in the lung. In the PCB group, preneoplastic lesions such as hyperplasia and adenoma were induced in 2/10 (20%) mice. In 1-NP group and in PCB + 1-NP group, lung lesions including adenocarcinoma were induced in 16/20 (80%) and 13/13 (100%) mice, respectively. Both the number and the size of tumors in PCB + 1-NP group were significantly greater than those in 1-NP group. K-ras gene mutation, CAA to CGA in codon 61 or GGT to GAT in codon 12, was found in either 1-NP group or PCB + 1-NP group but not in the PCB group. There was no difference in the pattern of K-ras mutation associated with the pretreatment with PCBs. These results suggest that PCBs promote 1-NP-induced lung tumorigenesis and may support, at least in part, the mechanism of the high incidence of lung cancer in patients with Yusho.
To report the clinical course of early transient reduction of uncorrected visual acuity (UCVA) after LASIK surgery resulting from steroid-induced elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP).
Twenty-nine eyes of 15 patients who received topical corticosteroids after uneventful myopic LASIK surgery and had a decrease in UCVA within the first 3 weeks were evaluated retrospectively.
Intraocular pressure increased by 4 to 30 mmHg from preoperative to postoperative days 4 to 20. Twenty-seven of 29 eyes had a decrease in UCVA and/or best spectacle-corrected visual acuity (BSCVA). All eyes, except one, had edema without evidence of inflammation in the interface or the remainder of the cornea. Discontinuation of topical corticosteroids and application of anti-glaucoma medications resulted in a decrease of IOP to normal levels, reduction or disappearance of the edema, and recovery of BSCVA.
Early onset steroid-induced elevation of IOP after LASIK may cause corneal edema and a sudden decrease in UCVA. Rapid diagnosis and treatment can control IOP and recover the visual loss.
Exogenous human menopausal gonadotropin (hMG) therapy produces transient hyperprolactinemia during ovulation induction or ovarian hyperstimulation for in vitro fertilization, and hyperprolactinemia has been linked to decreased fertility. Coadministration of clomiphene citrate (CC) with hMG is often used to decrease the total amount of hMG used in such patients, but whether this results in less hyperprolactinemia is not known. As the hyperprolactinemia in this setting is a threshold phenomenon dependent on the strength and duration of estrogen exposure, we investigated whether CC acted as an estrogen to enhance PRL secretion or as an antiestrogen deterring estradiol (E2)- and progesterone (P4)-induced hyperprolactinemia in nonhuman primates. Normally cycling (control) monkeys (n = 4) received E2 benzoate (12.5 micrograms/kg, im, daily) on menstrual cycle days 6-33 and continuous crystalline P4 via Silastic implants on days 20-33, a regimen known to initiate hyperprolactinemia. Treated monkeys (n = 5) received the same regimen, except that oral CC (15 mg daily) was given on days 6-33. Daily serum samples were assayed for E2, P4, and PRL. Both treatments caused significant (P less than 0.05) increases in serum PRL concentrations during P4 administration. The CC-treated monkeys had significantly smaller increases in mean PRL [21 +/- 1.5 (+/- SEM) vs. 44 +/- 6.3 ng/mL (micrograms/L); P less than 0.05] and smaller mean area under the PRL response curve [288 +/- 35 (+/- SEM) vs. 588 +/- 121 ng/day.mL (micrograms/day.L); P less than 0.05] than the control monkeys. We conclude that CC attenuates the hyperprolactinemia response to E2/P4 synergy in monkeys by acting as an antiestrogen. If coadministered with hMG for ovulation induction or ovarian hyperstimulation for in vitro fertilization, CC should attenuate hMG-induced hyperprolactinemia, thereby reducing its potentially adverse effects on fertility.
Noncaseating granulomatous hepatitis may be caused by a variety of drugs, but we have not found, by computer search of the literature, a previous describe of granulomatous hepatitis associated with pyrazinamide. We describe a 52-year-old man with hectic fever, chills, extreme fatigue, liver damage, and hyperuricemia about 4 weeks after commencing pyrazinamide therapy. A liver biopsy specimen showed noncaseating epithelioid granulomas. The patient recovered soon after the interruption of tuberculostatic treatment.
We studied an 11-yr-old girl with asymptomatic hyperthyroxinemia, who remained euthyroid and healthy for 5 yr of follow-up. Besides having elevated serum T4 concentrations, her serum free T4 concentrations were consistently elevated, as measured by three different methods, including equilibrium dialysis and ultrafiltration. Serum total and free T3 concentrations were in the low normal range, and serum 3,5-diiodothyronine (3,5-T2) levels were low, suggesting reduced 5'-deiodination of both T4 and T3. Serum total and free rT3 and total and free 3', 5'-T2 concentrations were all markedly elevated, whereas serum total and free 3,3'-T2 were low, suggesting unaltered 5-deiodination of T4 to rT3 and of rT3 to 3',5'-T2 in combination with reduced 5'-deiodination of rT3 and 3',5'-T2. The girl had a small diffuse goiter, her serum TSH response to TRH was exaggerated, and thyroid radioiodine uptake was elevated, suggesting slightly increased TSH secretion and, consequently, increased thyroid secretion. Both T3 and T4 administration resulted in suppressed basal as well as TRH-stimulated serum TSH concentrations, and radioiodine uptake was suppressed during T3 administration. Our data suggest reduced activity of several (all?) peripheral 5'-deiodination pathways, including possibly also thyrotroph T4 5'-deiodination. Thus, this girl seems to have a previously unrecognized syndrome of generalized 5'-deiodinase deficiency.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) remains a significant contributor to cardiovascular morbidity. Amiodarone is a potent antiarrhythmic drug. The safety and efficacy of oral versus intravenous (i.v.) Amiodarone in the treatment of AF of recent onset (duration <48 h) was investigated.
The study population consisted of 223 patients with symptomatic AF, of whom 110 received 600 mg oral Amiodarone (Group A) in three divided doses and 113 received i.v. Amiodarone (5 mg/kg over 30 min followed by 1000 mg over the next 24 h) (Group B). Digoxin was administered to all patients, who had not previously received it. All patients were monitored for 24 h.
Conversion to sinus rhythm occurred in 85.45% of group A and 82.30% in group B (p=NS). Mean time of cardioversion in group A was 20+/-4.5 h and in group B was 12+/-8 h (p<0,001). However, blood pressure (BP) in group A remained stable for the observation period, whereas it fell significantly in group B. Treatment was not discontinued in any of the patients in either group, however 13 patients in group B developed superficial phlebitis.
Both forms of the drug are extremely efficient in restoring sinus rhythm in AF of recent onset, although the i.v. form acts quicker. The oral form of the drug does not alter significantly the patients' BP.
The movement of key transition metal ions is recognized to be of critical importance in the interaction between macrophages and intracellular pathogens. The present study investigated the role of copper in mouse macrophage responses to Salmonella enterica sv. Typhimurium. The copper chelator BCS (bathocuproinedisulfonic acid, disodium salt) increased intracellular survival of S. Typhimurium within primary mouse BMM (bone-marrow-derived macrophages) at 24 h post-infection, implying that copper contributed to effective host defence against this pathogen. Infection of BMM with S. Typhimurium or treatment with the TLR (Toll-like receptor) 4 ligand LPS (lipopolysaccharide) induced the expression of several genes encoding proteins involved in copper transport [Ctr (copper transporter) 1, Ctr2 and Atp7a (copper-transporting ATPase 1)], as well as the multi-copper oxidase Cp (caeruloplasmin). Both LPS and infection with S. Typhimurium triggered copper accumulation within punctate intracellular vesicles (copper 'hot spots') in BMM as indicated by the fluorescent reporter CS1 (copper sensor 1). These copper hot spots peaked in their accumulation at approximately 18 h post-stimulation and were dependent on copper uptake into cells. Localization studies indicated that the copper hot spots were in discrete vesicles distinct from Salmonella containing vacuoles and lysosomes. We propose that copper hot spot formation contributes to antimicrobial responses against professional intracellular bacterial pathogens.
Atherothrombosis is the major underlying cause of acute coronary syndromes, ischemic stroke, and peripheral artery disease, and thus is the leading cause of death and disability in Western countries. Platelet inhibitors play a major role in preventing these ischemic complications. There is strong evidence from the Antiplatelet Trialists' Collaboration meta-analysis that aspirin reduces the combined risk of stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), or vascular death in atherosclerotic patients. The Ticlopidine Aspirin Stroke Study (TASS) compared aspirin and ticlopidine in the secondary prevention of high-risk patients after ischemic stroke and demonstrated a significant advantage for ticlopidine over aspirin. In peripheral arterial disease, the Swedish Ticlopidine Multicentre Study (STIMS) showed that ticlopidine was very effective against placebo. Intravenous antiplatelet agents, such as abciximab, tirofiban, and eptifibitide were also proven effective in acute coronary syndromes and unstable angina. In the Clopidogrel versus Aspirin in Patients at Risk of Ischaemic Events (CAPRIE) trial, clopidogrel was compared with aspirin in patients with symptomatic atherothrombosis regardless of the initial localization of the ischemic event (coronary, cerebral, or peripheral). The efficacy of clopidogrel based on the first occurrence of ischemic stroke, MI, or vascular death showed a relative risk reduction of 8.7% over and above the 25% reduction currently accepted with aspirin (p < 0.05). The greatest benefit of clopidogrel was in the reduction of fatal and nonfatal MI in the most severe groups of patients, providing a 19% relative risk reduction (p = 0.008). The recent disappointing results obtained with oral glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blocking agents may emphasize the need for other antiplatelet combination therapy, such as aspirin-clopidogrel, in coronary disease, stents, stroke, and possibly atherothrombosis in high-risk patients.
The effects of mexiletine on the sympathetic nervous system and the antiarrhythmic action were studied and compared with those of lidocaine. In isolated blood vessels, mexiletine inhibited the contractile responses to nicotine, tyramine and electrical transmural stimulation, but did not affect the contractile responses to exogenous norepinephrine and KCl. Lidocaine also inhibited the contractile responses to nicotine and electrical transmural stimulation, but such an inhibitory activity was weaker than that of mexiletine. Lidocaine did not affect the contraction induced by tyramine and enhanced significantly contractile responses to exogenous norepinephrine and KCl. Mexiletine and lidocaine inhibited the release of 3H-norepinephrine from the isolated rabbit pulmonary artery induced by transmural electrical stimulation. Mexiletine increased the dose of ouabain required for the occurrence of arrhythmia and cardiac arrest. These effects of mexiletine did not occur after reserpine. Though lidocaine increased the dose of ouabain required for cardiac arrest, the development of arrhythmia was not prevented. The increase in the dose of ouabain required for cardiac arrest induced by lidocaine was not affected by reserpine. On the other hand, mexiletine and lidocaine prevented the epinephrine-induced arrhythmia. These results suggested that the antagonism of mexiletine against ouabain may be due not only to the previously reported quinidine-like direct action on the myocardium, but also partially to the inhibitory action on releasing norepinephrine from the sympathetic nerve terminals.
Renal cortical imaging with 99mTc-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) has become the imaging test of choice for the diagnosis of acute pyelonephritis. An unusual uptake pattern was observed in a child receiving chemotherapy for a bladder rhabdomyosarcoma. Chemotherapy from ifosfamide produces a specific pattern of injury to the renal tubule that alters uptake of DMSA.
Cadmium (Cd(+2)), a known carcinogen mimics the effects of estrogen in the uterus and mammary gland suggesting its possible involvement in the development and progression of breast cancer. This lab showed through analysis of a small set of archival human diagnostic specimens that the third isoform of the classic Cd(+2) binding protein metallothionein (MT-3), is not expressed in normal breast tissue, but is expressed in some breast cancers and that expression tends to correlate with a poor disease outcome. The goals of the present study were to verify that overexpression of MT-3 in a large set of archival human diagnostic specimens tends to correlate with poor disease outcome and define the mechanism of MT-3 gene regulation in the normal breast epithelial cell. The results showed that MT-3 was expressed in approximately 90% of all breast cancers and was absent in normal breast epithelium. The lack of MT-3 staining in some cancers correlated with a favorable patient outcome. High frequency of MT-3 staining was also found for in situ breast cancer suggesting that MT-3 might be an early biomarker for breast cancer. The study also demonstrated that the MCF-10A cell line, an immortalized, non-tumorigenic model of human breast epithelial cells, displayed no basal expression of MT-3, nor was it induced by Cd(+2). Treatment of the MCF-10A cells with the demethylation agent, 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine, or the histone deacetylase inhibitor, MS-275, restored MT-3 mRNA expression. It was also shown that the MT-3 metal regulatory elements are potentially active binders of protein factors following treatment with these inhibitors suggesting that MT-3 expression may be subject to epigenetic regulation.
