Extended-release paliperidone is a new atypical antipsychotic chemically related to the well-known antipsychotic risperidone. It has been formulated in an osmotic controlled-release oral delivery system that minimizes peak-trough fluctuations and, by obviating dose-titration, allows once-daily dosing with a therapeutically active dose from the first day. Its pharmacokinetic profile is characterized by a mean time-to-peak plasma concentration of 24.1 hours and an elimination half-life of approximately 24 hours. A dose of 6 mg of paliperidone extended-release (ER) provides a mean striatal D2 receptor occupancy of 64%, approaching the accepted lower receptor occupancy threshold required for optimal antipsychotic activity without causing extrapyramidal symptoms. It undergoes minimal hepatic biotransformation and is mainly excreted unchanged in the urine with four metabolic products. Three pivotal randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group six-week trials investigated the efficacy, safety and tolerability of paliperidone ER at doses of 3-15 mg/day. All doses produced a significant reduction in schizophrenia symptomatology, with an onset of effect as of day 4. Personal and social functioning also improved as measured by the Personal and Social Performance scale. A prevention of recurrence study showed that paliperidone ER effectively prolonged the time-to-recurrence versus placebo. Paliperidone ER was efficacious in young, elderly and recently diagnosed schizophrenia patients. Beneficial effects on sleep assessed objectively and subjectively with minimal daytime somnolence were demonstrated. Overall, it was well-tolerated and had placebo-like discontinuation rates for adverse events. There were some dose-related extrapyramidal symptoms, mostly mild to moderate in intensity and associated with minimal changes in the rating scales that assessed extrapyramidal symptom severity. Although prolactin elevation occurred with paliperidone ER, only few prolactin-related adverse events were reported. There were no signals for metabolic dysfunction in terms of glucose, insulin, lipid or triglyceride changes or any indicators of clinically relevant cardiac events. Body weight increased slightly, but the changes were acceptable in the context of the doses likely to be used clinically, and patients with higher initial body mass index gained less weight as has been reported for other antipsychotics.
Humans are routinely exposed to bisphenol-A (BPA), an estrogenic compound that leaches from consumer products. Given the sensitivity of the developing organism to hormones, exposure of fetuses and infants is a concern. Here, CD-1 mice were exposed to environmentally relevant doses of BPA during gestation and the lactational period (gestational day 8 through postnatal day 16). At 3, 9 and 12-15 months of age, mammary glands from exposed offspring were examined for structural changes. BPA-exposed females demonstrated altered mammary phenotypes including the appearance of alveolar buds. Additionally, intraductal hyperplasias were observed exclusively in BPA-exposed females. These lesions had the appearance of "beaded" ducts, with epithelial cells present inside the ductal lumen and increased proliferation indexes compared to normal ducts. Similar structures have also been observed following exposure to other estrogens. These results are further evidence that perinatal BPA exposure can alter the morphology of the rodent mammary gland in adulthood.
A controlled study examining the effects of the cardioselective muscarinic cholinergic antagonist methoctramine on fentanyl-induced bradycardia was performed in six dogs. Five doses of methoctramine (6, 10, 20, 30 and 60 micrograms/kg) followed by fentanyl (20 micrograms/kg) were administered randomly on separate days. Fentanyl caused a significant reduction in heart rate from baseline values. Moreover, fentanyl produced a variety of arrhythmogenic actions indicative of vagal hyperactivity, including sinus bradycardia, second-degree atrioventricular block and ventricular and supraventricular escape beats. Administration of methoctramine 5 min before fentanyl injection prevented the bradycardic effects of fentanyl in a dose-dependent manner, with high doses of methoctramine causing sinus tachycardia. Using regression analysis, the dose of methoctramine necessary to prevent fentanyl-induced bradyarrhythmias without causing tachycardia was calculated as 14.4 micrograms/kg. The study confirmed that fentanyl administration in the conscious dog causes profound bradycardia with bradyarrhythmias. The cardioselective muscarinic antagonist agent methoctramine prevented the bradycardic effects of fentanyl.
Thiazide diuretics have a number of well-documented metabolic adverse effects. The aim of this study was to estimate the frequency of hyponatraemia and hypokalaemia amongst patients taking a thiazide diuretic in primary care.
A computerized search of the electronic prescribing and laboratory records of six UK general practices was performed. Of the 32 218 adult patients identified, 3773 had received at least one prescription for a thiazide between the years 1990 and 2002.
Detailed prescribing data were available for 2942 patients of whom 951 (32.3%) had a recorded check of their electrolytes. One hundred and ninety-six (20.6%) had a sodium and/or potassium concentration below the normal range. The sodium distribution had a negative skew (-1.8) and in 130 (13.7%) patients was within the hyponatraemic range. Hypokalaemia was less common, occurring in 79 (8.5%) patients. Hyponatraemia was significantly associated with increased age; the odds ratio for developing hyponatraemia in patients over 70 years was 3.87 compared with those of < or = 70 years. Hypokalaemia was significantly associated with increased thiazide dose.
Prescription of a thiazide diuretic in primary care is associated with a high frequency of hyponatraemia and hypokalaemia. Thiazides should be prescribed at low dose and the risk of hyponatraemia, especially in the elderly, should be considered and monitored for when prescribing these agents.
We evaluated longterm levamisole treatment of 201 rheumatoid patients. Fifty-nine patients in their 1st yr of treatment were not analyzed; of the remaining 142, 69 (49%) still took levamisole with benefit. Levamisole was stopped in 32 patients (22%) for inefficacy and for reversible adverse reactions in 37 (26%). Leukotoxic side-effects were the commonest cause of withdrawal (23 patients = 16%). Since June 1977, we administer levamisole on a 1 d/wk schedule (150 mg), with determination of white blood cells 10 h after intake to detect high-risk patients for agranulocytosis. With disease exacerbation during treatment or lack of response after 6 months, the drug is given on a 2nd non-consecutive day. Since June 1977, cases of agranulocytosis have not been observed. Allergic vasculitis did not occur with a 1 d/wk schedule. The absence of nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity is stressed. Only 4 patients (3%) were lost to follow-up. Comparison is made with longterm use of gold and D-penicillamine. We conclude that levamisole is a useful slow acting antirheumatic drug.
Carvedilol is a beta-adrenoceptor blocker and a potent antioxidant that improves cardiac function in patients with heart failure. The restoration of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase (SERCA2) gene expression may be an underlying mechanism of its beneficial effects on cardiac function. In primary cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes, treatment with either carvedilol or its beta-receptor inactive metabolite, BM910228, attenuated the hydrogen peroxide-mediated decrease in SERCA2 mRNA and protein levels, while metoprolol, a pure beta-blocker, had no effect. Moreover, carvedilol itself significantly enhanced SERCA2 gene transcription, suggesting that carvedilol specifically restores SERCA2 gene transcription. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that two Sp1 sites in the SERCA2 gene promoter region mediated the response to carvedilol under oxidative stress. Further, electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that Sp1 and Sp3 transcription factors correlated with carvedilol-mediated changes in the promoter assays. These studies may provide a mechanistic explanation for the beneficial effects of carvedilol in heart failure.
A 50-year-old woman with acute onset of right lower quadrant pain and hematochezia proved to have segmental ischemic colitis associated with methamphetamine abuse. The diagnosis was established by colonoscopy with biopsy, and abdominal angiography revealed no thrombosis, vasculitis, or vasospasm. The condition resolved within 10 days. Since methamphetamine abuse is increasing, physicians should be aware of its potential to produce intestinal ischemia.
We analyzed the efficacy of ticlopidine and aspirin in the non-white subgroup of patients from the Ticlopidine Aspirin Stroke Study. In this double-blind, randomized, multicenter study, patients received either ticlopidine 250 mg (312 non-white patients) or aspirin 650 mg (291 non-white patients) twice a day. The 1-year cumulative event rate per 100 patients for nonfatal stroke or death from any cause was 5.5 for ticlopidine and 10.6 for aspirin--an apparent 48.1% reduction in risk with ticlopidine relative to aspirin. The 1-year cumulative event rate for fatal or non-fatal stroke was 3.7 for ticlopidine and 9.4 for aspirin--an apparent 60.8% reduction in risk with ticlopidine relative to aspirin. The cumulative event rates for both endpoints also were lower in ticlopidine-treated patients after the 2nd and 3rd years. These reductions were not significantly different between treatment groups, but were of the same order of magnitude as previously found for the total series, which did attain statistical significance (p = 0.048), and the frequency of adverse events was not significantly different between the two treatment groups. Severe neutropenia, the most serious adverse event associated with ticlopidine use, did not occur in non-white patients. These results suggest that ticlopidine is superior to aspirin for stroke prevention in non-whites.
This study examined the effects of synthetic alpha-rat atrial natriuretic peptide (alpha-rANP) on arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR), and renal and lumbar sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) in rats with intact arterial baroreceptors before and after bilateral vagotomy and in those with sinoaortic denervation before and after vagotomy. In intact rats, alpha-rANP decreased AP, which was accompanied by the decrease in renal SNA ad HR and no change in lumbar SNA. In contrast, the increase in lumbar SNA and HR occurred during hypotension caused by nitroglycerin. In rats with intact arterial baroreceptors and vagi sectioned, renal and lumbar SNA and HR did not change during hypotension with alpha-rANP. In addition, alpha-rANP did not alter the gain of arterial baroreflex control of lumbar SNA in these rats. In rats with sinoaortic denervation, alpha-rANP decreased HR and renal and lumbar SNA before vagotomy but did not change them after vagotomy. These results suggest, first, that alpha-rANP activates vagal afferents and thereby inhibits renal and lumbar SNA and HR and, second, that alpha-rANP may reset arterial baroreflex control of SNA and HR to a lower pressure range.
The severity of the developmental disorders of the paraxial mesoderm and neuroectoderm must objectively be compared to determine which of the two structures is more deeply involved in the pathogenesis of encephaloschisis. In the present study, hamster fetuses were obtained from dams that had been treated with retinoic acid, and divided into two groups: fetuses with encephaloschisis and those without apparent external malformations in the cranium and face. Mid-sagittal serial sections of the head were prepared, histologically processed, and utilized for the reconstruction of the profile of the head structures. Using this reconstructed profile, we measured the length of the skull base bone structures (basisphenoid and basiocciput), which develop from the paraxial mesoderm, brain structures (mesencephalon and metencephalon), which develop from the neuroectoderm, and facial bone structures (nasal septum and hard palate), which develop from cephalic neural crest cells. The measured length of each structure was compared between the treated and control groups. It was found that treatment with retinoic acid resulted in significantly (P < 0.05) shortened lengths of the skull base bone structures both in fetuses with encephaloschisis and those without apparent external malformations in the cranium and face. In the brain structure of fetuses without encephaloschisis, as well as in the facial bone structures, however, this shortness was not observed. These results suggest that developmental disorders in the paraxial mesoderm may play an important role in the pathogenesis of encephaloschisis.
This study evaluates the effect of water contaminated with phthalate, benzene and cyclohexane (major components of municipal waste in Nigeria) on the cellular system of Clarias gariepinus. Standard enzyme assays were conducted for alkaline phosphatase, acid phosphatase, alanine transaminase, aspartate transaminase, lactate dehydrogenase, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase of selected tissues of C. gariepinus cultivated in contaminated water over a period of 56 days. Generally, a significant decrease in the activity of the enzymes of the tissues of C. gariepinus cultivated in contaminated water was observed relative to the control (p<0.05). Particularly, activity of alkaline phosphatase of liver of C. gariepinus cultivated in phthalate contaminated water was found to be 8.26+/-1.42 while that of control was 14.42+/-1.09. The activity of serum gamma glutamyl transpeptidase of serum of the same group of fish was found to be twice that of control. It could be inferred that membrane integrity of the tissues studied are compromised and that tissue dysfunction may result. Consumption of C. gariepinus cultivated in water contaminated with phthalate, benzene and cyclohexane could pose threats to public health.
Two boys from separate families presented with hereditary multiple exostoses (EXT) and autism associated with mental retardation. Their fathers both expressed a clinical phenotype of hereditary multiple exostoses milder than those of the patients and without the associated mental disorder. The EXT1 and EXT2 genes from lymphocytes of the affected individuals were analyzed by using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography and direct sequencing. A novel deletion mutation, 1742delTGT-G in exon 9 of EXT1, causing a frameshift was detected in one boy and his father. Another novel deletion mutation, 2093delTT in exon 11 of EXT1, causing transcription termination was detected in the other affected boy and his father. EXT1 is expressed in the brain, and both EXT1 and EXT2 proteins are associated with glycosyltransferase activities required for the biosynthesis of heparan sulfate, which also has activity in the brain. The coincidental association of mental disorders in the boys was not completely excluded. However, these results suggest the involvement of EXT1 in the development of mental disorders, including mental retardation and autism.
Men and women differ in their response to cocaine, and a woman's response varies with the menstrual cycle. For example, women have greater subjective responses to cocaine in the follicular phase of the menstrual cycle when estradiol is predominant, than they do during the luteal phase when both estradiol and progesterone are elevated. Similarly, female rats show significantly more cocaine-induced locomotor behavior and cocaine self-administration during behavioral estrus, shortly after estradiol peaks, than during other stages of the cycle, and estradiol administration to ovariectomized (OVX) females enhances the acquisition of cocaine self-administration. The purpose of this study was to expand upon these findings by studying the effects of progesterone administration to females, and estradiol administration to males, on acquisition of cocaine self-administration. We report here that there are both sex differences in and effects of circulating ovarian hormones on acquisition of cocaine self-administration. We demonstrate that although estradiol administration enhances acquisition of cocaine self-administration in OVX female rats, concurrent administration of progesterone with estradiol inhibits this effect of estradiol. In a separate experiment, we demonstrate that estradiol administration does not enhance acquisition of cocaine self-administration in castrated male rats. We conclude that (1) there is a sex difference in the effects of estradiol on cocaine self-administration: it facilitates acquisition in female, but not male rats; and that (2) in females concurrent progesterone treatment counteracts the facilitory effect of estradiol on cocaine self-administration.
It was investigated whether yohimbine, a primarily alpha 2-receptor blocking agent, may have an antidepressant effect when given in addition to tricyclic antidepressants. After at least two unsuccessful preliminary antidepressant treatments for a minimum of 4 weeks each, patients received, in addition to tricyclics, yohimbine in increasing doses for 7 days. None of the five patients investigated demonstrated any improvement in depressive symptomatology and four of the five suffered from such side effects as severe anxiety, inner restlessness, psychomotor agitation, and tremor. During intravenous administration of 2.5 and 20 mg yohimbine, significant increases in norepinephrine values and systolic blood pressure were observed. It was concluded that a combination of yohimbine and tricyclic antidepressants seems to have little indication due to yohimbine's lack of efficacy and the high incidence of side effects in the treatment of severely depressed inpatients.
Induction of apoptosis and pro-inflammatory cytokine gene expression in influenza virus-infected cells activates production of toxic superoxide by macrophages. Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and nordihydroguaiaretic acid inhibit influenza virus proliferation and scavenge superoxide. These results suggest that they can be potential candidates for a drug of choice for influenza chemotherapy.
The teratogenic effects of the anti-epileptic drug phenytoin have been linked to genetic differences in phenytoin disposition. The goal of this study was to assess the effect of maternal genotype of functional polymorphisms in two genes involved in phenytoin metabolism, CYP2C9 (R144C, I395L) and EPHX1 (Y113H, H139R), on the presence of major craniofacial abnormalities (CFAs) in the child.
We used data from the Collaborative Perinatal Project (1959-1974), a study involving 42 000 mothers and 55 000 children to assess the effect of maternal genotype. We studied 174 pregnancies in 155 women who used phenytoin throughout their pregnancy, gave birth to a live child and had available stored blood specimens suitable for DNA extraction.
Nineteen children had CFA. In a logistic regression model adjusted for history of phenytoin use during the first trimester and maternal epilepsy (N=157 pregnancies), the maternal EPHX1 113 H [per rare allele odds ratio (OR): 2.43, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.16-5.10, P=0.02] and 139 R (per rare allele OR: 2.33, 95% CI: 1.09-5.00, P=0.03) alleles were associated with CFAs in the child. The maternal EPHX1 Y113/H139 (common) haplotype showed a significant protective association with CFAs in the child (OR: 0.29, 95% CI: 0.12-0.68, P=0.004), when compared to other haplotypes. CYP2C9 genotype was not related to fetal endpoints.
Maternal EPHX1 genotype may be associated with risk of fetal anomalies among pregnant women taking phenytoin. Future study is required to confirm these results in larger, independent populations.
To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of oxaliplatin (L-OHP) given on a weekly schedule including fixed doses of leucovorin (LV) and infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), to define the toxicity profile of this regimen and to find preliminary evidence of its activity in pretreated patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC).
Twenty-one patients with progressive disease, treated with fluoropyrimidines and with histologically measurable MCRC entered into this phase I study. Fixed doses of LV (500 mg/m2) followed by a 48-hour 5-FU 2600 mg/m2 infusion (5-FU48h) were administered with escalating doses of L-OHP, starting from 60 mg/m2 and with stepwise increments of 5 mg/m2. No intra-patient dose escalation was allowed. Treatment was given once a week for four consecutive weeks, followed by a one-week rest period.
Three dose levels were tested. The MTD was L-OHP 70 mg/m2 since two of the three patients showed dose-limiting diarrhea and the third developed neutropenia during the first cycle of chemotherapy. Most patients complained of mild peripheral sensitive neurotoxicity, which was related to the cumulative dose of L-OHP. Treatment delays were necessary for a total of 42 cases, but only in II of 42 after the pre-arranged 10% dose reduction of 5-FU (2300 mg/m2). Sixteen patients were evaluable for response: seven (33%; 95% confidence interval (CI): 14.6%-57.0%) were considered to show a major response (one complete), six showed a stable disease, and in addition progressive disease was observed in three patients.
Our results show that L-OHP, LV and 5-FU can be administered safely and repetitively using a weekly schedule. Diarrhea and neutropenia are the DLT of this regimen. Its activity and its manageable toxicity profile deserve further evaluation in chemotherapy-naïve MCRC patients. The doses recommended for phase II trials are: L-OHP 65 mg/m2, LV 500 mg/m2 and 5-FU48h 2300 mg/m2 infusion given on a weekly-times-four schedule followed by a one-week rest period.
The thiazolidinedione PPAR-γ activator drugs rosiglitazone and pioglitazone suppress insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic patients. They lock lipids into adipose tissue triglyceride stores, thereby preventing lipid metabolites from causing insulin resistance in liver and skeletal muscle and β-cell failure. They also reduce the secretion of inflammatory cytokines such as TNFα and increase the plasma level of adiponectin, which increases insulin sensitivity in liver and skeletal muscle. However, they have only a modest effect on dyslipidaemia, and they increase fat mass and plasma volume. Fibrate PPAR-α activator drugs decrease plasma triglycerides and increase HDL-cholesterol levels. PPAR-δ activators increase the capacity for fat oxidation in skeletal muscle.Clinical experience with bezafibrate, which activates PPAR-δ and -α, and studies on the PPAR-α/δ activator tetradecylthioacetic acid, the PPAR-δ activator GW501516, and combinations of the PPAR-α activator fenofibrate with rosiglitazone or pioglitazone have encouraged attempts to develop single molecules that activate two or all three PPARs. Most effort has focussed on dual PPAR-α/γ activators. These reduce both hyperglycaemia and dyslipidaemia, but their development has been terminated by issues such as increased weight gain, oedema, plasma creatinine and myocardial infarction or stroke. In addition, the FDA has stated that many PPAR ligands submitted to it have caused increased numbers of tumours in carcinogenicity studies.Rather than aiming for full potent agonists, it may be best to identify subtype-selective partial agonists or compounds that selectively activate PPAR signalling pathways and use these in combination. Nutrients or modified lipids that are low-affinity agonists may also have potential.
We report a case of acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) after a six weeks' therapy with sulphinpyrazone (Anturane, Ciba-Geigy, Wien). The patient presented with acute renal failure requiring hemodialysis. He died from acute cardiac failure three days after admission. According to our available information, it seems to be the first case of histologically proven acute interstitial nephritis with renal failure requiring hemodialysis after sulphinpyrazone therapy. Our observation underlines the suggestions made by Butler (7) and Mayrhofer et al. (19): During sulphinpyrazone therapy, serum creatinine and urea concentrations should be controlled regularly; the drug must be discontinued immediately when renal function is worsening; and the drug should not be administered in patients with even slightly impaired renal function.
