Valproic acid (VPA) has been shown to cause neural tube defects in humans and mice, but its mechanism of action has not been elucidated. We hypothesize that alterations in embryonic antioxidant status and Hoxa2 gene expression play an important role in VPA-induced teratogenesis. A whole embryo culture system was applied to explore the effects of VPA on total glutathione, on glutathione in its oxidized (GSSG) and reduced (GSH) forms [GSSG/GSH ratio] and on Hoxa2 expression in cultured CD-1 mouse embryos during their critical period of organogenesis. Our results show that VPA can (1) induce embryo malformations including neural tube defects, abnormal flexion, yolk sac circulation defects, somite defects, and craniofacial deformities such as fusion of the first and second arches, and (2) alter glutathione homeostasis of embryos through an increase in embryonic GSSG/GSH ratio and a decrease in total GSH content in embryos. Western blot analysis and quantitative real-time RT-PCR show that VPA can inhibit Hoxa2 expression in cultured embryos at both the protein and mRNA level, respectively. The presence of ascorbic acid in the culture media was effective in protecting embryos against oxidative stress induced by VPA and prevented VPA-induced inhibition of Hoxa2 gene expression. Hoxa2 null mutant embryos do not exhibit altered glutathione homeostasis, indicating that inhibition of Hoxa2 is downstream of VPA-induced oxidative stress. These results are first to suggest VPA may, in part, exert its teratogenicity through alteration of the embryonic antioxidant status and inhibition of Hoxa2 gene expression and that ascorbic acid can protect embryos from VPA-induced oxidative stress.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) has been shown to be clinically effective in treatment of patients with breast and ovarian cancer. It has also shown promising results in various other solid tumours. Paclitaxel has induced apoptosis in the G2/M phase of the cell cycle in both HL-60 and U937 human leukaemia cells. A recent study has shown a dose-dependent cytotoxicity for both taxanes: paclitaxel (taxol) and docetaxel (Taxotere) on fresh leukaemia cells in primary culture from 16 ALL and four AML patients and proposed their use in treatment of acute leukaemia patients. AML is a heterogeneous disease in which malignant transformation and disease progression occur at the level of CD34 positive cells. Also, the multi-drug resistance gene product, P-glycoprotein is expressed only in CD34 positive AML cells. Therefore, an in vitro evaluation of the efficacy of paclitaxel, a P-glycoprotein substrate, in CD34 positive AML cells is warranted before considering its clinical use in acute leukaemia patients. Since all in vitro studies of paclitaxel reported so far have involved only CD34 negative (HL-60, U937, K562) human AML cells, the aim of the present study was to evaluate paclitaxel efficacy against CD34 positive AML cells. The IC50 of paclitaxel for apoptosis was significantly higher in MHH225 CD34 positive cells (12 +/- 2 microM) than in U937 CD34 negative cells (1.7 +/- 0.2 microM), P < 0.001. Paclitaxel has a significantly weaker cytotoxic effect on CD34 positive AML cells. One log higher concentration of paclitaxel was required in MHH225 CD34 positive AML cells to achieve the same apoptosis level achieved in U937 CD34 negative leukaemia cells. Also, at the high concentration achievable in vivo: 10 microM paclitaxel, only half the MHH225 CD34 positive AML cells were apoptotic versus 72% of U937 CD34 negative leukaemia cells. Clearly, paclitaxel has only weak or modest in vitro efficacy compared with several conventional anti-leukaemia drugs used in AML treatment. The present results support the poor level of in vivo induction of apoptosis achieved during a phase I clinical study with paclitaxel therapy in 26 leukaemia patients. Also, the present results have shown a significant increase in nitric oxide production during paclitaxel-induced apoptosis in U937 monocytic leukaemia cells, confirming the vital role of nitric oxide in mediating paclitaxel-induced apoptosis by monocytic cells. In conclusion, the present study has demonstrated a clear difference between the effect of paclitaxel on CD34 negative and CD34 positive AML cells. Given its poor performance in the phase I clinical study of 26 acute leukaemia patients and the present weak in vitro cytotoxic effect, it is unlikely that paclitaxel will have a role in the treatment of acute leukaemia. Also, the present study emphasises the need to use CD34 positive AML cells such as MHH225 rather than the unsuitable lineage-specific CD34 negative cells such as HL-60 or U937 for in vitro pre-clinical screening of potential novel effective anti-leukaemia agents.
Ten patients who received hypotensive anesthesia for surgical correction of a cerebral aneurysm were pretreated for 1 day with propranolol. In the awake state, before start of anesthesia, mean arterial pressure was 91 +/- 3 torr and plasma renin activity 3.0 +/- 0.1 ng/ml/hr. Thirty minutes after the induction of anesthesia mean arterial pressure decreased to 79 +/- 2 torr and plasma renin activity increased to 3.5 +/- 0.1 ng/ml/hr. There was no further significant change in either measurement with surgical stimulation. During sodium nitroprusside-induced hypotension (the dose used was 0.35 +/- 0.02 mg/kg) mean arterial pressure was reduced to 53 +/- 2 torr, and plasma renin activity increased to 8.8 +/- 0.9 ng/ml/hr. Heart rate did not change. Discontinuation of sodium nitroprusside resulted in a gradual reduction of plasma renin activity to the awake level and concurrent gradual increase in mean arterial pressure to its basal anesthetic value. When compared with previous work, these results indicate that propranolol attenuates nitroprusside-induced renin release, reduces the dosage of nitroprusside required to induce hypotension, suppresses reflex tachycardia, and prevents overshoot hypertension on discontinuation of nitroprusside.
Histone deacetylases (HDAC) control gene expression by changing histonic as well as non histonic protein conformation. HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) are considered to be among the most promising drugs for epigenetic treatment for cancer. Recently a strict relationship between histone hyperacetylation in specific tissues of mouse embryos exposed to two HDACi (valproic acid and trichostatin A) and specific axial skeleton malformations has been demonstrated. The aim of this study is to verify if boric acid (BA), that induces in rodents malformations similar to those valproic acid and trichostatin A-related, acts through similar mechanisms: HDAC inhibition and histone hyperacetylation. Pregnant mice were treated intraperitoneally with a teratogenic dose of BA (1000 mg/kg, day 8 of gestation). Western blot analysis and immunostaining were performed with anti hyperacetylated histone 4 (H4) antibody on embryos explanted 1, 3 or 4 h after treatment and revealed H4 hyperacetylation at the level of somites. HDAC enzyme assay was performed on embryonic nuclear extracts. A significant HDAC inhibition activity (compatible with a mixed type partial inhibition mechanism) was evident with BA. Kinetic analyses indicate that BA modifies substrate affinity by a factor alpha=0.51 and maximum velocity by a factor beta=0.70. This work provides the first evidence for HDAC inhibition by BA and suggests such a molecular mechanism for the induction of BA-related malformations.
The location of nephrin has been identified as the slit-diaphragm of the glomerular podocyte. Recent evidence suggests that nephrin could play a key role in the function of the glomerular filtration barrier and the development of proteinuria but its status in long-term diabetes is still not understood. We studied the expression of nephrin in a hypertensive model of diabetic nephropathy and investigated the potential influence of angiotensin II blockade on nephrin gene and protein expression.
Streptozotocin-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats were given either no treatment or the angiotensin II antagonist, irbesartan, at a dose of 15 mg/kg per day by gavage for 32 weeks. Non-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats were used as a control group. Real time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to assess and quantify gene and protein expression of nephrin.
Diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats developed albuminuria and had a reduction in both gene and protein expression of nephrin when compared with control rats. Irbesartan treatment prevented the development of albuminuria and completely abrogated the down regulation of nephrin in diabetic rats.
Long-term diabetes in spontaneously hypertensive rats is associated with a reduction in both gene and protein expression of nephrin within the kidney. These changes in nephrin levels were completely prevented by angiotensin II antagonist treatment, suggesting a potential novel mechanism to explain the antiproteinuric effect of agents which interrupt the renin-angiotensin system.
Changes in podocyte number and morphology have been implicated in the pathogenesis of proteinuria and the progression of human and experimental kidney disease. This study sought to examine podocyte foot process and slit pore architecture in experimental diabetic nephropathy and to determine whether such changes were modified with renoprotective intervention by blockade of the renin-angiotensin system.
The number of filtration slits per 100 microm of glomerular basement membrane was assessed by transmission electron microscopy and quantitated histomorphometrically in control animals and in rats with 24 weeks of streptozotocin-induced diabetes. Diabetic rats were either untreated or received the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril, or the angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist, valsartan.
When compared with control animals, diabetes was associated with a decrease in the number of slit pores per unit length of glomerular basement membrane, indicative of podocyte foot process broadening. Both ramipril and valsartan attenuated these ultrastructural changes to a similar degree. These differences remained after correcting for glomerular volume as a possible confounding variable.
Preservation of podocyte architecture could contribute to the renoprotective effects of renin-angiotensin system blockade in diabetic nephropathy.
Aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity was produced in two groups of Fischer rats by intraperitoneal injection of gentamicin, 40 mg/kg/day for 2 weeks. Beginning 3 days prior to, and continuing throughout the 2-week treatment period, one of the groups (control) received the inert vehicle, polyethylene glycol, while the experimental group was given nitrendipine, a calcium channel blocker, in a dose of 25 mg/kg/day by gavage. Both groups received food and water ad libitum. Gentamicin with vehicle caused a marked decrease in inulin clearance (4.9 ml/min/kg) and paraaminohippurate (PAH) extraction (26%), and extensive renal tubular necrosis. In comparison, the nitrendipine-treated rats had a significantly increased clearance (9.8 ml/min/kg) and PAH extraction (48%), and less histopathologic damage. Renal tissue content of gentamicin was not influenced by nitrendipine after 4 days of dosing. Nitrendipine, a diisopyridine derived calcium channel blocker, offers significant functional and histologic protection against aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in Fischer rats. Its mode of action in this regard is unknown.
We studied an acute generalized exanthematous pustulosis (AGEP) due to sulfamethoxazol in a 48-year-old woman with unusual findings in allergy testing. The histological picture provided evidence for a pustular drug eruption and leukocytoclastic vasculitis. Skin testing with sulfamethoxazol was negative for immediate-type reaction (scratch test) and delayed-type reaction (epicutaneous testing). A lymphocyte transformation test (LTT) showed a significant lymphocyte stimulation (stimulation index 5.04/2.61) toward sulfamethoxazol (200/100 mg/ml) by measuring the rate of built-in tritium-thymidine in the DNS of the patients lymphocytes, implicating a drug-specific hypersensibility of lymphocytes; we could be dealing with a combined type III and IV reaction by Coombs and Gell in this case. LTT may play a possible role in the determination of drug allergy in AGEP despite negative skin testing.
Metabolic acidosis and coma may develop in patients who experience severe hepatic injury after acetaminophen poisoning. The onset of acidosis and coma soon after acetaminophen overdose, but preceding manifest hepatic injury, contrasts with the typical course of poisoning. This pattern has been reported in a limited number of cases. Coingestions and the rare occurrence of these findings after an overdose have engendered controversy as to whether acetaminophen alone is the cause of early coma and acidosis. We describe 4 separate overdoses among 3 patients who arrived at the emergency department comatose with a metabolic acidosis soon after ingesting large amounts of acetaminophen without evidence of toxic liver injury. Our cases support the view that early metabolic acidosis with coma does indeed occur after acetaminophen poisoning, independent of hepatic failure or its complications.
Tartrazine, a common additive in foods and drugs, often causes adverse reactions such as recurrent urticaria, angioedema, and asthma and is frequently implicated in hyperkinesis. This paper summarizes the recent literature on the subject and outlines a practical approach for the practicing physician to diagnose and treat these patients in an optimal manner.
It has been widely reported that interleukin-8 (IL-8) is overexpressed in ovarian cyst fluid, ascites, serum, and tumor tissue from ovarian cancer (OVCA) patients, and elevated IL-8 expression correlates with a poor final outcome and chemosensitivity. However, the role of IL-8 expression in the acquisition of the chemoresistance phenotype and the underlining mechanisms of drug resistance in OVCA cells are not yet fully understood. Here we show that both exogenous (a relatively short period of treatment with recombination IL-8) and endogenous IL-8 (by transfecting with plasmid encoding for sense IL-8) induce cisplatin and paclitaxel resistance in non-IL-8-expressing A2780 cells, while deleting of endogenous IL-8 expression in IL-8-overexpressing SKOV-3 cells (by transfecting with plasmid encoding for antisense IL-8) promotes the sensitivity of these cells to anticancer drugs. IL-8-mediated resistance of OVCA cells exhibits decreased proteolytic activation of caspase-3. Meanwhile, the further study demonstrates that the chemoresistance caused by IL-8 is associated with increased expression of both multidrug resistance-related genes (MDR1) and apoptosis inhibitory proteins (Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and XIAP), as well as activation of PI3K/Akt and Ras/MEK/ERK signaling. Therefore, modulation of IL-8 expression or its related signaling pathway may be a promising strategy of treatment for drug-resistant OVCA.
Carbamazepine, an anticonvulsant and a mood-stabilizing drug, is the main cause of the Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and its related disease, toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), in Southeast Asian countries. Carbamazepine-induced SJS-TEN is strongly associated with the HLA-B*1502 allele. We sought to prevent carbamazepine-induced SJS-TEN by using HLA-B*1502 screening to prospectively identify subjects at genetic risk for the condition.
From 23 hospitals in Taiwan, we recruited 4877 candidate subjects who had not taken carbamazepine. We genotyped DNA purified from the subjects' peripheral blood to determine whether they carried the HLA-B*1502 allele. Those testing positive for HLA-B*1502 (7.7% of the total) were advised not to take carbamazepine and were given an alternative medication or advised to continue taking their prestudy medication; those testing negative (92.3%) were advised to take carbamazepine. We interviewed the subjects by telephone once a week for 2 months to monitor them for symptoms. We used the estimated historical incidence of SJS-TEN as a control.
Mild, transient rash developed in 4.3% of subjects; more widespread rash developed in 0.1% of subjects, who were hospitalized. SJS-TEN did not develop in any of the HLA-B*1502-negative subjects receiving carbamazepine. In contrast, the estimated historical incidence of carbamazepine-induced SJS-TEN (0.23%) would translate into approximately 10 cases among study subjects (P<0.001).
The identification of subjects carrying the HLA-B*1502 allele and the avoidance of carbamazepine therapy in these subjects was strongly associated with a decrease in the incidence of carbamazepine-induced SJS-TEN. (Funded by the National Science Council of Taiwan and the Taiwan Drug Relief Foundation.).
Carbamazepine causes various forms of hypersensitivity reactions, ranging from maculopapular exanthema to severe blistering reactions. The HLA-B*1502 allele has been shown to be strongly correlated with carbamazepine-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS-TEN) in the Han Chinese and other Asian populations but not in European populations.
We performed a genomewide association study of samples obtained from 22 subjects with carbamazepine-induced hypersensitivity syndrome, 43 subjects with carbamazepine-induced maculopapular exanthema, and 3987 control subjects, all of European descent. We tested for an association between disease and HLA alleles through proxy single-nucleotide polymorphisms and imputation, confirming associations by high-resolution sequence-based HLA typing. We replicated the associations in samples from 145 subjects with carbamazepine-induced hypersensitivity reactions.
The HLA-A*3101 allele, which has a prevalence of 2 to 5% in Northern European populations, was significantly associated with the hypersensitivity syndrome (P=3.5×10(-8)). An independent genomewide association study of samples from subjects with maculopapular exanthema also showed an association with the HLA-A*3101 allele (P=1.1×10(-6)). Follow-up genotyping confirmed the variant as a risk factor for the hypersensitivity syndrome (odds ratio, 12.41; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.27 to 121.03), maculopapular exanthema (odds ratio, 8.33; 95% CI, 3.59 to 19.36), and SJS-TEN (odds ratio, 25.93; 95% CI, 4.93 to 116.18).
The presence of the HLA-A*3101 allele was associated with carbamazepine-induced hypersensitivity reactions among subjects of Northern European ancestry. The presence of the allele increased the risk from 5.0% to 26.0%, whereas its absence reduced the risk from 5.0% to 3.8%. (Funded by the U.K. Department of Health and others.).
The Wnt signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in cellular developmental processes and human carcinogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of quercetin on the growth of the colon carcinoma cell line and the regulation effect of quercetin on the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.
MTT assay was used to determine the reduction of cell viability of quercetin on SW480 cells and clone 26 cells. The apoptotic rate and cell-cycle analysis after treatment with quercetin was determined by flow cytometry. Effects of quercetin on mRNA expression of cyclin D(1) and survivin were detected by semiquantitative RT-PCR. After treatment with quercetin, the protein expression of cyclin D(1) and survivin in SW480 cells was analyzed by Western blot analysis. We built a Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway reporter gene model. The regulation effect of quercetin on the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling transcription was investigated by using this reporter gene model.
Quercetin reduced cell viability in a dose- and time-dependent manner in SW480 and clone 26 cells. The percentages of SW480 cells and clone 26 cells at G(2)/M phase were increased significantly after treatment with 40 approximately 80 micromol/L quercetin for 48 hours. Quercetin induced the apoptosis of SW480 cells in a dose-dependent manner at the concentration of 20, 40, 60, anf 80 micromol/L. However, quercetin only induced the apoptosis of clone 26 cells at the concentration of 80 micromol/L. Quercetin downregulated transcriptional activity of beta-catenin/Tcf in SW480 cells transiently transfected with the TCF-4 reporter gene. Within 24 hours of treatment, a 160-mumol/L concentration of quercetin reduced beta-catenin/Tcf transcriptional activity by about 18-fold. Cyclin D(1) and the survivin gene were downregulated markedly by quercetin in a dose-dependent manner at both the transcription and protein expression levels.
The results indicate that the molecular mechanism underlying the antitumor effect of quercetin in SW480 colon cancer cells is related to the inhibition of expression of cyclin D(1) and survivin as well as the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. Therefore, the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway could be qualified as one of the promising targets for innovative treatment strategies of colorectal cancer.
To examine the antihypertensive action of the centrally acting antiadrenergic drugs moxonidine and clonidine, systolic and diastolic blood pressure as well as heart rate were monitored by radio telemetry in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with established high blood pressure. Increasing doses were administered with regular rat chow for 6-8 day periods. Moxonidine reduced (p < 0.05) diastolic blood pressure at a dose of 8 mg/kg/day and systolic blood pressure at 13 mg/kg/day. Heart rate was reduced during high activity of rats corresponding to an antitachycardiac action. After withdrawal of 18 mg/kg administered for only 1 day, blood pressure returned to pretreatment values within 8 days. Clonidine reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure at 0.3 mg/kg/day. At 0.8 and 1.3 mg/kg/day, systolic blood pressure reduction was less pronounced, although heart rate was reduced further, reaching values that were below those of untreated sleeping rats. When 1.3 mg/kg/day clonidine was discontinued, systolic as well as diastolic blood pressure increased above pretreatment values within 1 day. A rebound was also observed in heart rate, which increased by 150 beats/ min. A comparable rebound in blood pressure was observed after withdrawal of 0.3 mg/kg/day. Since a blood pressure rebound occurred also after withdrawal of 0.3 mg/kg/day clonidine in normotensive rats, the rebound phenomenon was independent of the presence of high blood pressure. No blood pressure rebound was observed when moxonidine (8 mg/kg/ day) was administered (chow or gavage) in normotensive rats. These findings in unanesthetized undisturbed rats demonstrate distinct differences in the mode of action of moxonidine and clonidine, which can be accounted for by specific interactions of moxonidine with imidazoline I1-receptors, whereas clonidine would interact not only with I1-receptors but also with alpha2-adrenoceptors, and most probably also with the vagal activity. In view of our previous studies demonstrating a rise in blood pressure and heart rate after a hypercaloric dietary intake, the selective I1-receptor agonist moxonidine appears particularly appropriate for treating overweight hypertension associated with an enhanced sympathetic outflow of the brain. Of importance in this respect is that a moxonidine-induced reduction in sympathetic outflow was not associated with a gain in body weight but resulted in reduced caloric intake.
To identify genetic variants associated with outcome from chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), we genotyped 977 nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in 755 genes with relevance to cancer biology in 425 patients participating in a phase 3 trial comparing the efficacy of fludarabine, chlorambucil, and fludarabine with cyclophosphamide as first-line treatment. Selection of nsSNPs was biased toward those likely to be functionally deleterious. SNP genotypes were linked to individual patient outcome data and response to chemotherapy. The effect of genotype on progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) was assessed by Cox regression analysis adjusting for treatment and clinico-pathologic variables. A total of 78 SNPs (51 dominantly acting and a further 27 recessively acting) were associated with PFS (9 also affecting OS) at the 5% level. These included SNPs mapping to the immune-regulation genes IL16 P434S (P = .03), IL19 S213F (P = .001), LILRA4 P27L (P = .004), KLRC4 S29I (P = .007), and CD5 V471A (P = .002); and DNA response genes POLB P242R (P = .04) and TOPBP1 S730L (P = .02), which were all independently prognostic of immunoglobulin heavy-chain variable region (IgV(H)) mutational status. The variants identified warrant further evaluation as promising prognostic markers of patient outcome. To facilitate the identification of prognostic markers through pooled analyses, we have made all data from our analysis publicly available.
The incidence of ischaemic heart disease related to tobacco smoking was studied in a population of males aged 35-64 years in the Bródno District of Warsaw. The population comprised 2123 subjects (attendance rate 62%). A relationship was demonstrated between cigarette smoking in the past and the ischaemic heart disease, its incidence was twice as high in former smokers than in non-smokers. No significant difference was found in this incidence between non-smokers and present smokers. A more deep analysis shows that former smokers who quitted smoking due to intensification of clinical symptoms are frequently included into the group of non-smokers, and they are the group at highest risk for ischaemic heart disease development.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effects of zatebradine on heart rate, contractility and relaxation with those of its structural analog verapamil. We used isoproterenol, a potent beta-agonist, to see how these effects were modulated by sympathetic activation. We also compared the effects of zatebradine and verapamil on coronary blood flow and coronary blood flow reserve.
Zatebradine, previously called UL-FS 49, is a new bradycardic agent believed to act selectively at the sinoatrial node.
Isolated isovolumetric pig hearts were prepared and left ventricular pressure, its first derivative (dP/dt), tau and heart rate were measured both before and after administration of either 0.975 mg of zatebradine (Group I, n = 8) or 125 micrograms of verapamil (Group II, n = 8). After the effects of each drug reached a plateau, a continuous infusion of isoproterenol was started and measurements were obtained again and compared with a third group of measurements from control hearts infused with isoproterenol after receiving only saline solution (n = 8). We also assessed the effects of zatebradine and verapamil on coronary vascular tone by measuring flow in the left anterior descending coronary artery in intact anesthetized open chest pigs both before and after the intracoronary administration of these drugs (n = 8 for each). All preparations were atrially paced to negate any bradycardiac effects of the drugs.
In the group that received zatebradine, mean (+/- SE) heart rate decreased from 143 +/- 8 to 99 +/- 4 beats/min (p < 0.01) and there was no significant change in either peak left ventricular systolic pressure, dP/dt or tau. In contrast, verapamil produced a lesser decrease in heart rate (136 +/- 7 to 120 +/- 7 beats/min, p < 0.05) but produced substantial decreases in peak left ventricular pressure (100 +/- 3 to 45 +/- 4 mm Hg, p < 0.01) and dP/dt (68% decrease, p < 0.01) and an increase in tau (+26%, p < 0.05). Isoproterenol restored these variables toward normal values in the hearts treated with verapamil, although left ventricular systolic pressure and dP/dt were restored to control values only at the highest isoproterenol concentrations. In the hearts treated with zatebradine, isoproterenol significantly increased left ventricular pressure and contractility and decreased tau; however, heart rate remained unchanged at peak effect. Zatebradine had no effect on coronary blood flow and there was a 100% increase in flow with reactive hyperemia. Conversely, verapamil increased coronary flow by 100%, with no subsequent further increase by reactive hyperemia compared with control values.
Although structurally similar to verapamil, zatebradine is a highly specific bradycardic agent. It has little direct effect on left ventricular developed pressure, contractility, relaxation and coronary vascular tone. Furthermore, the bradycardic effect of zatebradine unlike that of verapamil, is not overcome by doses of isoproterenol that increase developed pressure and contractility and improve relaxation. Because of its highly specific bradycardic effect, this drug may potentially be useful in treating patients with ischemic heart disease or congestive heart failure.
The clinical results of a European Vibravenös multicentre trial are reported as far as 227 patients with infections of the biliary tract and 185 patients with infections of the respiratory tract--mainly pneumonia--are concerned. In 203 of the 227 cases with biliary tract infections (=90%) and in 142 of the 185 cases with respiratory tract infections (=77%) the overall clinical result was good or very good. Toleration of Vibravenös was usually very good, only 4 patients had to be withdrawn from the trial because of side effects: in 3 cases an allergic skin reaction or pruritus occurred and in 1 patient local phlebitis developed at the injection site. Bacteriological tests performed on 71 patients showed that after broad usage doxycycline has an excellent antibacterial activity.
BTS 72664, (R)-7-[1-(4-chlorophenoxy)]ethyl]-1,2,4-triazolo(1,5-alpha)pyrimidine, was identified as a drug development candidate from a research program designed to discover novel, broad-spectrum, non-sedative anticonvulsant drugs. BTS 72664 antagonized bicuculline (BIC)- and maximal electroshock (MES)-induced convulsions with ED(50) values of 1.9 and 47.5 mg/kg p.o., respectively. In rodents, it has a wide spectrum of activity preventing seizures induced by picrotoxin, pentylenetetrazol, i.c.v. 4-aminopyridine or NMDA, and audiogenic seizures in DBA-2 mice and GEPR-9 rats. BTS 72664 was also effective in preventing convulsions in amygdala-kindled rats The lack of sedative potential was predicted on the basis of wide separation between ED(50) in anticonvulsant models and TD(50) for motor impairment in mice in rotating rod and inverted horizontal grid tests. BTS 72664 is likely to produce its anticonvulsant effect by enhancing chloride currents through picrotoxin-sensitive chloride channels, and by weak inhibition of Na(+) and NMDA channels. It does not act, however, at the benzodiazepine binding site. In addition to its potential use in the treatment of epilepsy BTS 72664 may be useful in the treatment of stroke. At 50 mg/kg p.o. x 4, given to rats at 12 hourly intervals, starting at 15 min after permanent occlusion of middle cerebral artery (MCA), it reduced cerebral infarct size by 31% (measured at 2 days after insult) and accelerated recovery in a functional behavioral model. BTS 72664 prevented increases in extraneuronal concentrations of glutamate, glycine and serine brain levels induced by a cortical insult to rats (cf. cortical spreading depression). It may, therefore, have also antimigraine activity.
A 27-year-old white woman developed Heinz-body hemolytic anemia following multiple courses of oral phenazopyridine and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. Her diagnosis was supported by the finding of bite cells on peripheral blood smear. The patient's rapid recovery and reversal of abnormal laboratory parameters were consistent with an acquired hemolytic disorder. This case should sensitize the clinician to the development of drug-induced oxidative hemolysis, its clinical features, and its reversibility. It is also important that the clinician recognize those drugs capable of causing this disorder and appreciate the methods available to establish the diagnosis.
Although opioids are unsurpassed analgesics for surgery, they also induce an N-methyl-D-aspartate-dependent enhancement of postoperative hyperalgesia. Because nitrous oxide (N2O) has anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate properties, the purpose of this study was to evaluate nitrous oxide ability to prevent such an opioid-induced hyperalgesia in rats.
First, preventive effects of 50/50% N2O-O2 on the development of delayed hyperalgesia observed after inflammatory pain (hind paw carrageenan injection on D0) were examined for several days. Second, the ability of nitrous oxide (10-40%) to limit opioid-induced hyperalgesia induced by fentanyl was evaluated in nonsuffering rats. Third, antihyperalgesic effects of various nitrous oxide concentrations (20-50%) were assessed in both inflammatory and incisional pain models in fentanyl-treated rats (4 x 100 microg/kg subcutaneously). Finally, the analgesic effect of a single dose of morphine was evaluated 24 h after fentanyl administration and nitrous oxide (D0) to assess its preventive effect on acute morphine tolerance in both nonsuffering and hind paw-incised rats.
When applied on D0, nitrous oxide reduced delayed hyperalgesia induced by inflammation. Exposure to nitrous oxide on D0 also reduced opioid-induced hyperalgesia in nonsuffering rats in a dose-dependent manner. In fentanyl-treated rats with inflammatory or incisional pain, nitrous oxide strongly limited both magnitude and duration of hyperalgesia. Moreover, nitrous oxide exposure on D0 opposed development of acute tolerance to analgesic effects of morphine administered on D1 in both nonsuffering and incised fentanyl-treated rats.
Nitrous oxide, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, prevented the enhancement of pain sensitivity induced by both nociceptive inputs and fentanyl and opposed acute morphine tolerance. Results suggest that perioperative nitrous oxide use reduces exaggerated postoperative pain and morphine consumption.
Orbital/insular areas of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are implicated in cocaine addiction. However, the role of dopamine D1 receptors in mediating cocaine self-administration in these sub-regions remains unknown.
To define the role of the dorsal agranular insular (AId) sub-region of the PFC, we investigated the effects of D1 receptor manipulation on self-administration behavior maintained by cocaine and cocaine-related stimuli.
Rats were trained to lever press for cocaine (1 mg/kg) under a fixed-interval 5-min (fixed-ratio 5:S) second-order schedule of reinforcement in the presence of conditioned light cues and contextual sound cues. Intra-AId infusions of vehicle, the D1-like receptor agonist SKF 81297 (0.1, 0.2, 0.4 microg/side) or the D1-like receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (1.0, 2.0, 4.0 microg/side), were administered prior to 1-h self-administration test sessions. Food-maintained responding under a second-order schedule was examined in separate rats to determine if pretreatment with D1 ligands produced general impairments in responding.
Infusion of SKF 81297 (0.2 and 0.4 microg/side) reduced active lever responses during the first 30 min of 1-h test sessions, but did not influence cocaine intake. Infusion of 4.0 microg/side SCH 23390 reduced active lever responses and cocaine intake throughout the 1-h test sessions. Additionally, this dose of SCH 23390 disrupted food-maintained responding and intake.
D1 receptor agonists and antagonists in the AId have diverse consequences and time courses of action. D1 receptor stimulation in the AId may reduce the motivating influence of cocaine-related stimuli on responding whereas D1 receptor blockade in this PFC sub-region produces global disruptions in behavior.
The hypotensive effects of spinal anesthesia were investigated in 60 patients aged 75 years or older and divided into two groups: 30 normotensive patients (group 1) and 30 treated hypertensive patients (group 2). In both groups, spinal anesthesia was performed in lateral decubitus position with 3 ml 0.5% isobaric bupivacaine. Hemodynamic measurements were performed before the establishment of spinal blockade and repeated during the 60 minutes following intrathecal injection. Median cephalad level (T10) and ranges of sensory blockade were similar in the two groups. Changes from baseline to lowest blood pressures showed significant decreases in group 2 compared with group 1:10.7% in SPB, 11.2% in MBP, and 14.8% in DBP. Hypotension was observed in three group 1 patients and ten group 2 patients. Five patients in group 2 (but none in group 1) had a SBP decrease of 40% from baseline or more. The decreases in MBP and DBP were persistent after 60 minutes. These results suggest that pre-existing hypertension can be recognized as an important factor to explain blood pressures changes during isobaric bupivacaine spinal anesthesia in elderly patients.
CCl4 is a potent environmental toxin which cause liver damage through free radical mediated inflammatory processes. In this study, hepatoprotective capacity of Nerium indicum leaf extract (NILE) was evaluated on CCl4 induced acute hepatotoxicity in murine model. Animals were divided into 5 groups and treated as following: control group (received only normal saline), CCl4 group (received only CCl4), silymarin group (received CCl4 and 100mg/kg silymarin), NILE low group (received CCl4 and 50mg/kg NILE) and NILE high group (received CCl4 and 200mg/kg NILE). After 10 consecutive days of treatment, the levels of hepatic biochemical markers, malondialdehyde (MDA) content, peroxidase and catalase activities were measured as well as histopathological study was performed. Furthermore, liver explant cultures were set up as following: control (no treatment), CCl4 group (contained 25μl/ml CCl4), silymarin group (contained 25μl/ml CCl4 and 100μg/ml silymarin), NILE low group (contained 25μl/ml CCl4 and 25μg/ml NILE) and NILE high group (contained 25μl/ml CCl4 and 100μg/ml NILE). Hepatic transaminases and phosphatases, tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) expression, nitric oxide (NO) release and cell viability were studied on the explant cultures. Phytochemical fingerprinting of NILE was performed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The results showed that the biochemical parameters were overexpressed due to CCl4 administration, which were significantly normalized by NILE treatment. The findings were further supported by histopathological evidences showing less hepatocellular necrosis, inflammation and fibrosis in NILE and silymarin treated groups, compared to CCl4 group. GC-MS analysis revealed presence of different bioactive phytochemicals with hepatoprotective and antioxidant properties. Therefore, the present study indicate that NILE possesses potent hepatoprotective capacity to ameliorate haloalkane xenobiotic induced injured liver in murine model.
While microarray studies are generating novel insights into the etiology of major psychiatric disorders, the validation of microarray-identified candidate genes and their role in the causality of these disorders has been less often studied. We have previously demonstrated, by microarray, up-regulation of SELENBP1 in the brain and blood of patients with schizophrenia. The main aim of the current study was to validate this finding using quantitative real-time PCR (QPCR) in an independent brain cohort that included patients with bipolar disorder. Our sample consisted of mRNAs from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) of 34 schizophrenic patients, 33 bipolar disorder patients (including 20 with psychotic history), and 34 normal control subjects. QPCR was employed to assess gene expression changes, with C(T) values analyzed using an ANCOVA approach. The results demonstrated that SELENBP1 mRNA was upregulated in schizophrenic brains versus controls (P = 0.046) and, in addition, that SELENBP1 gene expression was strongly positively correlated with presence of psychosis across diagnoses (P < 0.001, increased by 12%). Based on these findings, we conclude that elevated SELENBP1 is a possibly consistent feature in the schizophrenic brain and that this finding could underlie some commonalities of psychosis across the boundaries of diagnoses. Future studies should exploit DNA-based methods and molecular investigations on the role of SELENBP1 in order to gain insights into the nature of its influence on schizophrenia and psychotic symptoms.
