Clofarabine has significant efficiency in children with relapsed or refractory leukemia. In previous pediatric trials, various adverse effects have been described. In this case, we report a child with refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia who developed fatal capillary leak syndrome during clofarabine therapy.
Sulfadiazine is one of the drugs of choice in the treatment of paracoccidioidomycosis. Side effects are uncommon. Cutaneous and gastrointestinal reactions and rarely leucopenia and jaundice may occur. A patient on sulfadiazine 6 g daily exhibiting a good response is reported. On the 12th day, he presented an intense abdominal pain and reduced urinary output. An ultrasonography revealed diffuse calculosis in urinary tract. Peritoneal dialysis, urinary alkalinization and rehydration were instituted with complete restoration of renal function. This case illustrates the importance of an adequate hydratation of patients receiving sulfadiazine, a simple measure in the prevention of this uncommon complication which carries a high morbidity.
Myeloproliferative disorders are clonal haematopoietic stem cell malignancies characterized by independency or hypersensitivity of haematopoietic progenitors to numerous cytokines. The molecular basis of most myeloproliferative disorders is unknown. On the basis of the model of chronic myeloid leukaemia, it is expected that a constitutive tyrosine kinase activity could be at the origin of these diseases. Polycythaemia vera is an acquired myeloproliferative disorder, characterized by the presence of polycythaemia diversely associated with thrombocytosis, leukocytosis and splenomegaly. Polycythaemia vera progenitors are hypersensitive to erythropoietin and other cytokines. Here, we describe a clonal and recurrent mutation in the JH2 pseudo-kinase domain of the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) gene in most (> 80%) polycythaemia vera patients. The mutation, a valine-to-phenylalanine substitution at amino acid position 617, leads to constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation activity that promotes cytokine hypersensitivity and induces erythrocytosis in a mouse model. As this mutation is also found in other myeloproliferative disorders, this unique mutation will permit a new molecular classification of these disorders and novel therapeutical approaches.
The importance of ethanol metabolism in the development of alcoholic liver disease remains controversial. The present study examined the effects of selective inhibition of the cytochrome P450 enzyme CYP2E1 compared with the inhibition of overall ethanol metabolism on the development of alcoholic steatohepatitis. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed via total enteral nutrition for 45 days with or without 10-12g/kg/d ethanol. Some groups were given 200mg/kg/d of the CYP2E1 inhibitor diallyl sulfide (DAS). Other groups were treated with 164mg/kg/d of the alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) inhibitor 4-methylpyrazole (4-MP) and dosed at 2-3g/kg/d ethanol to maintain similar average urine ethanol concentrations. Liver pathology scores and levels of apoptosis were elevated by ethanol (P<.05) but did not differ significantly on cotreatment with DAS or 4-MP. However, liver triglycerides were lower when ethanol-fed rats were treated with DAS or 4-MP (P<.05). Serum alanine aminotransferase values were significantly lower in ethanol-fed 4-MP-treated rats indicating reduced necrosis. Hepatic oxidative stress and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress marker tribbles-related protein 3 were increased after ethanol (P<.05); further increased by DAS but partly attenuated by 4-MP. Both DAS and 4-MP reversed ethanol increases in the cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and the chemokine CXCL-2 (P<.05). However, neither inhibitors prevented ethanol suppression of interleukins IL-4 or IL-12. Moreover, neither inhibitors prevented ethanol increases in tumor growth factor-beta mRNA. Ethanol and DAS additively induced hepatic hyperplasia (P<.05). These data suggest that a significant proportion of hepatic injury after ethanol exposure is independent of alcohol metabolism. Ethanol metabolism by CYP2E1 may be linked in part to triglyceride accumulation, to induction of TNF-alpha, and to chemokine production. Ethanol metabolism by ADH may be linked in part to oxidative and ER stress and necrotic injury.
The activity of thalidomide in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma is widely accepted but not yet demonstrated in a randomised-controlled trial. A systematic review of the published clinical trials of these patients could reduce the possible bias of single phase-II studies. A systematic search identified 42 communications reporting on 1674 patients. Thirty-two trials used an escalating dosing regimen and four a fixed dose regimen (one dose with 50 mg/d, three doses with 200 mg/d). The target dose in the dose escalating trials was 800 mg/d in 17 trials, 400-600 mg/d in 10 and 200 mg/d in one trial. The intention-to-treat population for efficacy was 1629 patients with a median age of 62 years. The complete and partial (>50% reduction in monoclonal protein) response rate was 29.4% (95%-confidence interval, 27-32%). The rates for minor responses or stable disease were 13.8% (12-16%) and 11.0% (9-13%). Progressive disease was reported in 9.9% (8-11%). The median overall survival from all trials was reported at 14 months. Severe adverse events (grade III-IV) included somnolence 11%, constipation 16%, neuropathy 6%, rash 3%, thrombo-embolism 3%, cardiac 2%. In conclusion, thalidomide monotherapy achieved complete and partial responses in 29.4% of patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
The toxicity of several classical acute nephrotoxicants was evaluated in an in vitro system using renal cortical slices prepared from adult male Fischer 344 rats. Gentamicin, cephaloridine, 4-ipomeanol, potassium dichromate (K2Cr2O7), mercuric chloride (HgCl2), carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), and hexachlorobutadiene (HCBD) were preincubated with slices for 2 hr at 37 degrees C at concentrations ranging from 1 x 10(-6) to 1 x 10(-1) M. Following preincubation, slices were removed, rinsed in medium lacking the nephrotoxicant, and subsequently incubated for 90 min at 25 degrees C for physiological assessment of proximal tubular functions. Using a single preparation, slices were monitored for organic ion accumulation, gluconeogenesis, lipid peroxidation, and total glutathione (reduced and oxidized) concentrations. In addition, preincubation and incubation media were assessed for the presence of renal enzymes originating from brush border, cytosol, and lysosomes. The relative degree of toxicity in this model was consistent with nephrotoxic potency in vivo where HgCl2, K2Cr2O7 greater than HCBD greater than CCl4, cephaloridine greater than gentamicin greater than 4-ipomeanol. Effects on organic ion accumulation, gluconeogenesis, and glutathione concentrations occurred simultaneously for each toxicant. Toxicants produced different effects on enzyme release and malondialdehyde formation. These results suggest that toxicity produced in vitro is representative of in vivo nephrotoxicity and support the further use of this model to evaluate mechanisms of nephrotoxicity.
Some but not all human epidemiological studies suggest a higher incidence of colon cancer in rapid acetylator individuals. Aberrant crypts, the earliest morphologically evident preneoplastic lesions in chemical colon carcinogenesis, were measured in rapid and slow acetylator congenic Syrian hamsters administered 3,2' -dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl, an aromatic amine colon carcinogen, to investigate the specific role of the acetylator genotype (NAT2) in colon carcinogenesis. Age-matched rapid (Bio. 82.73/H-Patr) and slow (Bio. 82.73/ H-Pat(s) acetylator female Syrian hamsters congenic at the NAT2 locus received a s.c. injection of 3,2' -dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (100 mg/kg) at the start of weeks 1 and 2. After 10 and 14 weeks, the hamsters were sacrificed, and each whole cecum, colon, and rectum was stained with 0.2% methylene blue, fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde, and examined under a dissecting microscope for the presence of aberrant crypts. Aberrant crypts were identified in the cecums and colons of both rapid and slow acetylator congenic hamsters treated with 3,2' -dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl but not in vehicle controls. The size of the aberrant crypt foci was larger in the colon than in the cecum, and the highest frequency of aberrant crypt foci was observed in the cecum. No aberrant crypts were detected in the rectum. The frequency of aberrant crypt foci was significantly higher (2-3-fold) in rapid versus slow acetylator congenic hamsters in both cecum (P = 0.0352) and colon (P = 0.0006). These results support human epidemiological studies that suggest the rapid acetylator genotype is associated with higher risk of colon cancer induced by aromatic amines.
The importance of Ca(2+) entry in the cardiac hypertrophic response is well documented, but the actual Ca(2+) entry channels remain unknown. Transient receptor potential (TRP) proteins are thought to form either homo- or heteromeric Ca(2+) entry channels that are involved in the proliferation and differentiation of various cells. The purpose of this study was to explore the potential involvement of TRP channels in the development of cardiac hypertrophy. The mRNA and protein expression of several TRP channel subunits were evaluated using hearts from abdominal aortic-banded (AAB) rats. Although TRPs C1, C3, C5, and C6 were constitutively expressed, only TRPC1 expression was significantly increased in the hearts of AAB rats compared to sham-operated rats. Using primary cultures of neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, we detected increases in the expression of TRPC1, brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF), as well as increases in store-operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) and cell surface area, following endothelin-1 (ET-1) treatment. Silencing of the TRPC1 gene via small interfering RNA (siRNA) attenuated SOCE and prevented ET-1-, angiotensin-II (AT II)-, and phenylephrine (PE)-induced cardiac hypertrophy. In HEK 293T cells, overexpression of TRPC1 augmented SOCE, leading to an increase in nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) promoter activity, while co-transfection with dominant-negative forms of TRPC1 suppressed it. In conclusion, TRPC1 functions in Ca(2+) influx, and its upregulation is involved in the development of cardiac hypertrophy; moreover, it plays an important role in the regulation of the signaling pathways that govern cardiac hypertrophy. These findings establish TRPC1 as a functionally important regulator of cardiac hypertrophy.
To compare operating conditions, intraoperative adverse events, recovery profiles, postoperative adverse effects, patient satisfaction, and costs of small-dose lidocaine spinal anesthesia with those of general anesthesia using fentanyl and propofol for elderly outpatient prostate biopsy.
Prospective, randomized, blind study.
Outpatient anesthesia unit at a municipal hospital.
80 ASA physical status I and II patients, aged 65 to 80 years, scheduled for outpatient prostate biopsy.
Patients were assigned to receive either spinal anesthesia with 10 mg of hyperbaric 1% lidocaine (L group, n=40) or anesthetic induction with fentanyl 1 microg.kg-1 IV and 1.0 mg.kg-1 propofol injected at 90 mg.kg-1.h-1, followed by continuous infusion at 6 mg.kg-1.h-1 (F/P group, n=40).
Both anesthetic techniques provided acceptable operating conditions for the surgeon. However, a significantly higher frequency of intraoperative hypotension was found in the F/P group than in the L group (P<0.05). Time to home readiness was shorter in the F/P group (P<0.05). Both techniques had no major postoperative adverse effects and resulted in a high rate of patient satisfaction. Total costs were significantly lower in the L group than in the F/P group (P<0.01).
Spinal anesthesia with 10 mg of hyperbaric 1% lidocaine may be a more suitable alternative to general anesthesia with fentanyl and propofol for ambulatory elderly prostate biopsy in terms of safety and costs.
To present six additional cases of gynecologic tumors in tamoxifen-treated breast cancer patients, review the literature, and recommend measures for surveillance.
The hospital and office records of patients treated with tamoxifen at the University of Kansas Medical Center and Research Medical Center were analyzed. A comprehensive review of tamoxifen in the English and European literature was performed using MEDLINE and the bibliographies of various articles.
From 1985-1992 at our institutions, six tamoxifen-treated breast cancer patients developed gynecologic tumors: three endometrial adenocarcinomas, a mixed müllerian sarcoma, a fallopian tube carcinoma with adenofibroma of the endometrium, and recurrent hyperplastic endometrial polyps. The literature contained 61 cases of adenocarcinoma of the endometrium and possibly four cases of uterine sarcomas in tamoxifen-treated breast cancer patients. The number of gynecologic malignancies reported is now 70. In 35 of the patients, the mean age (+/- standard deviation) was 63.9 +/- 12.0 years, and 61 of 66 patients (92.4%) were postmenopausal. Of the endometrial adenocarcinomas, 25 of 27 (92.6%) were stage I, and 11 of 27 (40.7%) were grade 1. The dose of tamoxifen was 20 mg/day in 15 (23.4%), 30 mg/day in 11 (17.2%), and 40 mg or higher in 38 (59.4%); 57% were treated with tamoxifen for less than 2 years.
Tamoxifen is a safe and reliable treatment of breast cancer, but data suggest an association with endometrial cancer. We propose close monitoring of patients taking tamoxifen and prompt evaluation of any uterine bleeding or pelvic complaint.
Drug-induced hepatotoxicity is a major issue for drug development, and toxicogenomics has the potential to predict toxicity during early toxicity screening. A bead-based Illumina oligonucleotide microarray containing 550 liver specific genes has been developed. We have established a predictive screening system for acute hepatotoxicity by analyzing differential gene expression profiles of well-known hepatotoxic and nonhepatotoxic compounds. Low and high doses of tetracycline, carbon tetrachloride (CCL4), 1-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT), erythromycin estolate, acetaminophen (AAP), or chloroform as hepatotoxicants, clofibrate, theophylline, naloxone, estradiol, quinidine, or dexamethasone as nonhepatotoxic compounds, were administered as a single dose to male Sprague-Dawley rats. After 6, 24, and 72 h, livers were taken for histopathological evaluation and for analysis of gene expression alterations. All hepatotoxic compounds tested generated individual gene expression profiles. Based on leave-one-out cross-validation analysis, gene expression profiling allowed the accurate discrimination of all model compounds, 24 h after high dose treatment. Even during the regeneration phase, 72 h after treatment, CCL4, ANIT, and AAP were predicted to be hepatotoxic, and only these three compounds showed histopathological changes at this time. Furthermore, we identified 64 potential marker genes responsible for class prediction, which reflected typical hepatotoxicity responses. These genes and pathways, commonly deregulated by hepatotoxicants, may be indicative of the early characterization of hepatotoxicity and possibly predictive of later hepatotoxicity onset. Two unknown test compounds were used for prevalidating the screening test system, with both being correctly predicted. We conclude that focused gene microarrays are sufficient to classify compounds with respect to toxicity prediction.
Uranium (U) is a heavy metal used in the nuclear industry and for military applications. U compounds are toxic. Their toxicity is mediated either by their radioactivity or their chemical properties. Mammalian kidneys and bones are the main organs affected by U toxicity. Although the most characteristic response to U exposure is renal dysfunction, little information is available on the mechanisms of its toxicity at the molecular level. This report studied the genotoxicity of U. Apoptosis induction in normal rat kidney (NRK-52(E)) proximal cells was investigated as a function of exposure time or concentrations (0-800microM). In parallel, DNA damage was evaluated by several methods. In order to distinguish between the intrinsic and the extrinsic pathways of apoptosis, caspases-8, -9, -10 assays were conducted and the mitochondrial membrane potential was measured. Three methods were selected for their complementarities in the detection of genetic lesions. The comet assay was used for the detection of primary lesions of DNA. gamma-H2AX immunostaining was achieved to detect DNA double-strand breaks. The micronucleus assay was used to detect chromosomic breaks or losses. DNA damage and apoptosis were observed in a concentration-dependent manner. This study demonstrated that U is genotoxic from 300microM and induces caspase-dependent apoptosis cell death from 200microM mainly through the intrinsic pathway in NRK-52(E) cells. These results suggest that the DNA damage caused by U is reversible at low concentration (200-400microM) but becomes irreversible and leads to cell death for higher concentrations (500-800microM).
Through a review of both the cases in the national pharmacovigilance database and the literature, we evaluated the importance of propofol-induced hallucinations and dreams which are not mentioned in the propofol Summaries of Product Characteristics (SPC). Postoperative hallucinations occurring in patients anaesthetized by propofol is not exceptional even with low doses of propofol. Most of the hallucinations are described as pleasant with a frequent "sexual connotation", uninhibited behavior or a verbal expression of patient's intimate thoughts. In the same way, many studies about anaesthetics highlight the supporting role of propofol in the occurrence of pleasant dreams. Finally these effects should be mentioned in the propofol SPC due to the legal implication they might lead to.
ALS is likely to be a disorder of multifactorial origin. Among all the factors that may increase the risk of ALS, environmental ones are being studied for many years, but in the recent years, several advances have pointed to a new interest in their potential involvement in the disease process, especially for the cyanotoxin BMAA. Food containing BMAA has been found on Guam, a well-known focus of ALS/parkinsonism/dementia and high levels of BMAA have been identified into the brain of these patients. The BMAA cyanotoxin is potentially ubiquitous and have also been found into the food of patients who died from ALS both in Europe and USA. BMAA can be wrongly integrated into the protein structure during mRNA traduction, competing with serine. This may induce abnormal protein folding and a subsequent cell death. Heavy metals, such as lead or mercury may be directly toxic for neuronal cells. Several works have suggested an increased risk of ALS in individuals chronically exposed to these metals. Exposure to pesticides has been suggested to be linked to an increased risk of developing ALS. The mechanism of their toxicity is likely to be mediated by paraoxonases. These proteins are in charge of detoxifying the organism from toxins, and particularly organophosphates. To date, there are insufficient scientific data to suggest that exposure to electromagnetic fields may increase the risk of having ALS. We are particularly missing longitudinal cohorts to demonstrate that risk.
To investigate the effect of haloperidol (HAL) on second messengers in the brain striatum, the concentrations of cAMP and inositol trisphosphate (IP-3) were measured in the striatum of rats in vivo after intravenous administration of HAL, and their concentrations were compared with the severity of catalepsy and changes in dopamine (DA) metabolism in the striatum. Catalepsy developed both in the animals treated with 5 mg/kg and those with 0.5 mg/kg of HAL, but it appeared earlier, and the period of severe catalepsy was longer in the former than in the latter. In the animals treated with 5 mg/kg of HAL, DOPAC and HVA began to increase at 20 min after administration, and their percent increases were correlated with the severity of catalepsy. In the 5 mg/kg animals, both cAMP and IP-3 increased. The IP-3 showed a delayed peak but a greater increase as compared with the cAMP. In the 0.5 mg/kg animals, only IP-3 increased. These findings suggest that HAL might affect not only the adenylate cyclase system but also the phosphoinositide response in the striatum. Moreover, the changes in the phosphoinositide response might be secondarily induced by the blocking of D-2 receptors by HAL.
Myocardial cells in pulmonary veins are thought to play a major role in the initiation and maintenance of atrial arrhythmias, including atrial fibrillation. In experiments on rat pulmonary veins, antiarrhythmic drug niferidil (RG-2) produced increase of APD90% and functional refractory period and decrease of action potential amplitude and slope of APD restitution curve. Thus niferidil (RG-2) exerts stronger action on pulmonary veins than left atrium. This can take important part in Niferidil (RG-2) antiarrhythmic activity.
Haloperidol administered intraperitoneally, and prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha) and PGE2 intraventricularly induced dose-dependent cataleptic behavior in mice. The cataleptic behavior induced by haloperidol was inhibited dose-dependently by oral pretreatment with aspirin and indomethacin, inhibitors of PGs synthetase. Striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and 5-hydroxyindole 3 acetic acid (5-HIAA) were elevated by haloperidol, although dopamine (DA) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels did not change. The increase of DOPAC level in striatum induced by haloperidol was significantly suppressed by aspirin, but not in brain stem. The alteration of DOPAC level by aspirin correlated with the behavioral response. These results suggest that central prostaglandin synthesis may participate in the development of cataleptic behavior, which might also involve alteration of brain catecholaminergic activity.
Isothiocyanates (ITCs) found in cruciferous vegetables have demonstrated cancer preventive activity in animals, and increased dietary intake of ITCs has been shown to be associated with a reduced cancer risk in humans. ITCs exert their cancer chemopreventive action by multiple mechanisms, for example, by modulating the activities of phase I and phase II drug metabolism enzymes, by inhibiting the cell cycle and histone deacetylase, and by causing apoptotic cell death. In cells, protein adducts account for most of total cellular ITC uptake at 4 h after treatment. The time course of this protein binding correlates well with the inhibition of proliferation and the induction of apoptosis. Animal studies have shown that glutathione conjugates are the major products of ITCs. The major urinary excretion products of ITCs in human are N-acetyl cysteine conjugates. Urinary metabolites might provide the exposure history of the last 24 h, if the urine of the full next day is collected. However, this is not feasible in large epidemiological studies. Furthermore, the mercapturic acids of ITC are not stable. Therefore, stable biomarkers are needed that reflect a larger time span of the ITC exposure history. We developed a method to determine stable (not cysteine adducts) reaction products of ITCs with albumin and hemoglobin in humans and mice. We reacted albumin with the ITCs: benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC), phenylethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), sulforaphane (SFN), and allyl isothiocyanate (AITC). After enzymatic digestion, we found one major product with lysine using LC-MS/MS. The identity of the adducts was confirmed by comparing the analyses with synthetic standards: N(6)-[(benzylamino)carbonothioyl]lysine (BITC-Lys), N(6)-{[(2-phenylethyl)amino]carbonothioyl}lysine (PEITC-Lys), N(6)-({[3-(methylsulfinyl)propyl]amino}carbonothioyl)lysine (SFN-Lys), and N(6)-[(allylamino]carbonothioyl]lysine (AITC-Lys). The adduct levels were quantified by isotope dilution mass spectrometry using the corresponding new ITC-[(13)C(6)(15)N(2)]lysines as internal standards. The applicability of the method was tested for biological samples obtained from different experiments. In humans consuming garden cress, watercress, and broccoli and/or in mice exposed chronically to N-acetyl-S-{[(2-phenylethyl)amino]carbonothioyl}-l-cysteine, albumin and hemoglobin adducts were found. BITC-Lys, PEITC-Lys, and SFN-Lys released after enzymatic digestion of the proteins were quantified with LC-MS/MS. This new method will enable quantification of ITC adducts in blood proteins from large prospective studies about diet and cancer. Protein adducts are involved in the chemopreventive effects of ITCs. Therefore, blood protein adducts are a potential surrogate marker for the effects of ITCs at the cellular level. This new technique will improve the assessment of ITC exposure and the power of studies on the relationship between ITC intake and cancer.
In the present experiments we administered an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist (CNQX), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (AP-5), or l-type calcium channel blocker (diltiazem) directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA) before each of four daily systemic cocaine injections in order to assess their influence on the initiation phase of behavioural sensitization. Results indicated that pretreatment with CNQX or AP-5 impaired the initiation of cocaine-induced behavioural sensitization. Intra-VTA administration of diltiazem significantly increased the behavioural activation induced by an acute cocaine injection, but impaired the development of cocaine-induced behavioural sensitization. Because AMPA and NMDA receptors, as well as l-type calcium channels are calcium permeable, we also investigated the role of the calcium-activated second messenger calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM-KII). Similar to the results obtained with diltiazem, administration of the CaM-KII inhibitor KN-93 into the VTA enhanced the acute behavioural response to cocaine but prevented the augmentation of cocaine-induced behavioural hyperactivity following repeated injections. Consistent with this finding, the behavioural hyperactivity produced by cocaine was markedly enhanced among homozygous alpha-CaM-KII knockout mice but the initiation of behavioural sensitization to cocaine was attenuated relative to wild-type mice. Separate experiments performed in rats demonstrated an increase in total protein levels of CaM-KII in the VTA 24 h after the last of seven daily injections of cocaine. Taken together, these results indicate that blocking l-type calcium channels or impairing CaM-KII activity in the VTA augments the acute behavioural hyperactivity induced by cocaine. The present findings also suggest that increased calcium influx through AMPA receptors, NMDA receptors and l-type calcium channels on dopaminergic neurons in the VTA contributes significantly to the initiation of behavioural sensitization by amplifying calcium signalling through CaM-KII.
Sulfasalazine (SSZ) is a drug used in inflammatory bowel disease, whose precise mechanism of action remains to be clarified. Here, we report that incubation of Raw 264.7 cells with SSZ but not salicylates [acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), 4-aminosalicylic acid (4-ASA), and 5-ASA] causes a mixed apoptotic and necrotic form of cell death. In contrast to its metabolites, sulfapyridine and 5-ASA, SSZ exposure in Raw 264.7 cells resulted in a threefold increase in ceramide generation, as well as a robust production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). However, inhibition of ceramide production by fumonisin B1 failed to attenuate cell death. Preincubation with catalase, cyclosporin A (CsA), and bongkrekic acid attenuated ROS production. When dead cells were quantified for apoptotic versus necrotic cell death, catalase and N-acetylcysteine reproducibly attenuated apoptosis, whereas CsA, in addition to reducing apoptosis, was observed to dramatically enhance necrosis. In conclusion, the cell-death response induced by SSZ in Raw 264.7 cells involves ROS in the apoptotic limb but is independent of ceramide formation.
The mechanisms underlying heart failure induced by adriamycin are very complicated and still unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate whether autophagy was involved in the progression of heart failure induced by adriamycin, so that we can develop a novel treatment strategy for heart failure.
3-methyladenine (3MA), a specific inhibitor on autophagy was used in a heart failure model of rats induced by adriamycin. Neonatal cardiomyocytes were isolated from Sprague-Dawley rat hearts and randomly divided into controls, an adriamycin-treated group, and a 3MA plus adriamycin-treated group. We then examined the morphology, expression of beclin 1 gene, mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), and Na+-K+ ATPase activity in vivo. We also assessed cell viability, mitochondrial membrane potential changes and counted autophagic vacuoles in cultured cardiomyocytes. In addition, we analyzed the expression of autophagy associated gene, beclin 1 using RT-PCR and Western blotting in an animal model.
3MA significantly improved cardiac function and reduced mitochondrial injury. Furthermore, adriamycin induced the formation of autophagic vacuoles, and 3MA strongly downregulated the expression of beclin 1 in adriamycin-induced failing heart and inhibited the formation of autophagic vacuoles.
Autophagic cardiomyocyte death plays an important role in the pathogenesis of heart failure in rats induced by adriamycin. Mitochondrial injury may be involved in the progression of heart failure caused by adriamycin via the autophagy pathway.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder with a strong genetic background that has been suggested to be associated with a susceptibility gene, engrailed homeobox 2(EN2), which maps to chromosome 7q36. Our study was aimed to explore the association between EN2 intronic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with autism in an ethnic Han Chinese population.
A total of 193 autism cases and 309 controls were recruited. Five SNPs including rs3824068, rs3824067, rs1861972, rs1861973 and rs3830031 in the intron 1 region were genotyped by using the TaqMan SNP assay.
Both the allelic frequencies and genotype distribution of the EN2 intronic SNPs were found to have statistically significant differences between cases and controls, except rs1861972, rs3024067 and rs3824068. According to the constructed linkage disequilibrium plot using genotype data, it was suggested that further haplotypic analyses can be performed on rs3824068, rs1861972 and rs1861973. After completed analyses by the Unphased and Phase programs and logistic regression analysis, one 2-marker haplotype A-C (beta = -2.897; p = 0.013; OR = 0.055) and one 3-marker haplotype G-A-C (beta = -0.491; p = 0.015; OR = 0.612) were identified that were plausibly associated with autism in the ethnic Chinese population.
The haplotype A-C of rs1861972 and rs1861973 is the core element of the observed haplotype association in this study, which plays a role as a protective factor against autism; in addition, the haplotype G-A-C is less frequent in male cases compared to controls (38.64 vs. 52.51%), which plausibly modulate disease vulnerability to autism. However, further evidence of the haplotype association of EN2 intronic SNPs and uncertain transcription factor interaction is warranted for further clarification.
Combined results from laser capture microdissection of mouse airway epithelial cells followed by high power (MALDI-FTICR) MS, and fluorescent two-dimensional gel elctrophoresis (2D-DIGE) of the whole lung, allowed us to identify proteins differentially expressed after naphthalene induced airway injury. Further, we discovered several novel aspects of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) lung pathology in an F508del-Cftr mouse model using this approach. The combined MALDI-FTICR-MS and 2D-DIGE data show that lung carbonyl reductase (CBR2), involved in prostaglandin metabolism, converting PGE2 to PGF2alpha, is localized to airway cells and is reduced 2-fold in mutant mice compared to normal, both before and after challenge. Further, we observe a downregulation of two key enzymes of retinoic acid metabolism after injury, which is more pronounced in CF mutant mice. These data show that state-of-the-art proteomics can be used to evaluate airway injury in small cell samples. Further, the results suggest the involvement of prostaglandin and retinoic acid metabolism in the abnormal responses of CF mutant mice to injury.
Doxorubicin-induced heart failure is a rare, but serious illness and is well-known to be difficult to treat. Prevention strategies have not demonstrated the expected success and unfortunately, this specific type of heart failure does not respond to the usual medical therapies as do other kinds of heart failure. Therefore, surgical procedures may be necessary in some patients. Cardiac transplantation is performed in most cases but this requires cure of the neoplastic disease. This usually requires a recurrence-free interval of several years which is associated with a high attrition rate in these patients due to their cardiac disease. Therefore, ventricular assist devices may be implanted in selected patients as a bridge to transplantation or destination therapy. This review focuses on the surgical options for doxorubicin-induced heart failure and discusses their efficacy as well as their clinical applicability.
The comparison of treatment effect and co-morbidity between the genders in the Valsartan Heart Failure Trial showed equal benefit of treatment in men and women. Co-morbidities, such as diabetes and coronary artery disease, increased nonfatal cardiac morbidity more in women than in men.
Considerable interest has developed in the modulation of fluorouracil activity by nucleosides. The toxicity of fluorouracil in mice is known to be reduced by concurrent administration of allopurinol, presumably because biochemical pathways activating fluorouracil in normal tissues are blocked. We have given allopurinol (300 mg t.d.s. PO) concurrently with continuous infusions of fluorouracil (2.0--2.25 g/m2/day X 5) to 34 patients with colorectal cancer and 11 patients with various adenocarcinomas. There were 41 patients assessable for toxicity. Stomatitis was the predominant dose-limiting toxicity (22% grade 1, 19% grade 2, and 27% grade 3 toxicity). Neutropenia (Less Than 1,000/mu l) occurred in 17% patients. Among 26 colorectal cancer patients assessable for response there was a 15.4% response rate. We conclude that allopurinol modulates fluorouracil toxicity in man, allowing a two-fold increase in dose. However, at least in colorectal cancer no greater frequency of tumour response is seen than with lower doses of fluorouracil given by standard schedules of administration without allopurinol.
Focal dermal hypoplasia (FDH) is an X-linked dominant multisystem birth defect affecting tissues of ectodermal and mesodermal origin. Using a stepwise approach of (i) genetic mapping of FDH, (ii) high-resolution comparative genome hybridization to seek deletions in candidate chromosome areas and (iii) point mutation analysis in candidate genes, we identified PORCN, encoding a putative O-acyltransferase and potentially crucial for cellular export of Wnt signaling proteins, as the gene mutated in FDH. The findings implicate FDH as a developmental disorder caused by a deficiency in PORCN.
Focal dermal hypoplasia is an X-linked dominant disorder characterized by patchy hypoplastic skin and digital, ocular and dental malformations. We used array comparative genomic hybridization to identify a 219-kb deletion in Xp11.23 in two affected females. We sequenced genes in this region and found heterozygous and mosaic mutations in PORCN in other affected females and males, respectively. PORCN encodes the human homolog of Drosophila melanogaster porcupine, an endoplasmic reticulum protein involved in secretion of Wnt proteins.
