The autosomal recessive Pendred's syndrome is defined by congenital sensorineural deafness, goiter, and impaired iodide organification. It is caused by mutations in the Pendred's syndrome (PDS) gene that encodes pendrin, a chloride/iodide transporter expressed in the thyroid, the inner ear, and the kidney. In this study we performed clinical and molecular analyses in three siblings from a nonconsanguineous Sicilian family who presented with the clinical features of Pendred's syndrome. PATIENTS AND MOLECULAR ANALYSES: In two sisters and one brother, the clinical diagnosis of Pendred's syndrome was established based on the findings of sensorineural hearing loss and large goiters. Thyroid function tests, perchlorate discharge tests, thyroid ultrasound, and scintigraphy were performed in all affected individuals. Exons 2 to 21 of the PDS gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and both strands were submitted to direct sequence analysis.
The clinical diagnosis of Pendred's syndrome was supported by a positive perchlorate discharge test in the three afflicted siblings. Direct sequence analysis of the PDS gene revealed that all three harbored one allele with a novel mutation 890delC leading to a frameshift mutation and premature stop codon at position 302 (FS297 > 302X). On the other allele, two of the siblings had a previously described transition 1226G > A, which results in the substitution of arginine by histidine at position 409 (R409H). In the index patient, no mutation could be identified on the other allele. In functional studies, these mutants lose the ability of pendrin to mediate iodide efflux.
All three patients included in this study presented with the classic Pendred syndrome triad. Two siblings were compound heterozygous for mutations in the coding region of the PDS gene. The third individual could have an unidentified mutation in a regulatory or intronic region of the PDS gene, or an identical phenotype caused by distinct pathogenic mechanisms.
Vitamin B12 is implicated in methylation processes. Myelin basic protein is methylated on one arginine group. A defect in methylation could produce an unstable protein, leading to neurological disorders. In order to study myelin basic protein, we have developed the cultures of newborn rat oligodendrocytes in vitamin B12-depleted medium. As these cells do not grow without serum, vitamin B12 is always present. We overcame this problem by using OH-cobalamin c-lactam, an antagonist of B12. To ensure that the system was vitamin B12 deficient, we measured the concentrations of homocysteine and methylmalonic acid whose accumulations reflect a vitamin B12 deficiency. Methylmalonic acid was measured by mass spectrometry and homocysteine by HPLC. We obtained a powerful model for studying the influence of B12 deficiency on the synthesis of myelin compounds.
Four cases of multivesicular hepatic hydatidosis are reported. Two of them were affected by exogenous growth. All patients had undergone a long-term treatment with mebendazole at the usual doses. We are contrasting our experience in the use of such drug and the previous reports by other authors. In our opinion, as mebendazole acts on the cyst in a double way (both inhibiting glucose uptake by the larva and modifying the structure of the cyst membranes) ir induces the cyst multivesiculation which is a sign of suffering or resistance of the parasite. Despite the fact that previous reports, and also one of the cases reported by us, point to a favourable evolution of the hepatic hydatidosis after treatment with Mebendazole, the possibility that the multivesicular cyst-with a more spreading growth and a surgical treatment which is occasionally more difficult, may be induced by that drug would perhaps discourage its use.
At present sequential monotherapy for chronic hepatitis B with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-polymerase inhibitors is clinical practice. It is unknown to date whether combination therapy with lamivudine plus tenofovir could be superior to sequential therapy with tenofovir after the occurrence of lamivudine resistance.
We conducted a multicenter, 1: 2 matched pair analysis comparing patients with HBV/HIV-coinfection starting an antiretroviral regimen including tenofovir plus lamivudine with patients who had highly replicative, lamivudine resistant HBe-antigen positive chronic hepatitis B and started with tenofovir as the only active HBV polymerase inhibitor subsequent to lamivudine.
At baseline patients on tenofovir plus lamivudine (n = 25) had a median HBV DNA of 5.9 x 10(7) copies/ml compared to 1.37 x 10(8) copies/ml in the tenofovir arm (n = 50; P = 0.32). A sustained undetectable HBV DNA < 1000 copies/ml was achieved in 19/25 (76%) patients on tenofovir plus lamivudine and in 42/50 (84%) on tenofovir (P = 0.53). A loss of HBe-antigen was observed in 9/25 (36%) patients on tenofovir plus lamivudine and in 12/50 (24%) patients on tenofovir (P = 0.29). HBs-antigen loss was found in 1/25 (4%) and 3/50 (6%) patients.
In this cohort of HBV/HIV-coinfected individuals, full HBV DNA suppression was achieved in the majority of patients independent of treatment allocation. Loss of HBe- and HBs-antigen was not different between the two study arms. Over a median treatment period of 116 weeks tenofovir was as effective as tenofovir plus lamivudine. Longer treatment periods may be needed to evaluate potential benefits of first-line combination therapy for chronic hepatitis B.
Aromatase encoding by the CYP19 gene catalyzes the conversion of androgens to estrogens. In order to determine if polymorphisms of the CYP19 gene are associated with breast cancer risk, we analyzed the frequency of tetranucleotide (TTTA) tandem repeats and a 3-bp insertion (I)/deletion (D) polymorphism in intron 4 of the CYP19 gene in genomic DNA from 70 Korean breast cancer patients and 102 age-matched, healthy women. The 3-bp deletion allele was found more frequently in the breast cancer group than in the control group (p=0.001). Logistic regression analysis of the CYP 19 insertion/deletion (I/D) genotype showed a strong association between ID polymorphisms and breast cancer. The frequency of DD and ID alleles was significantly increased in the breast cancer group (DD genotype p=0.004, OR=12.81; and ID genotype p=0.005, OR=2.62). However, there were no differences in the genotype distributions of the (TTTA)n polymorphism of CYP19 between breast cancer patients and healthy controls. A positive association was noted between TTTA polymorphisms with 10 or more repeats and ER-negative tumors, as well as between lower repeat polymorphisms and ER-positive tumors (p=0.019). With respect to TTTA polymorphisms, we confirmed that the expression of aromatase in ER-positive MCF7 cells with 7-3 and 11 allele heterozygosity was significantly higher than in ER-negative MDA-MB231 cells with 11 allele homozygosity. These results suggest that 3-bp I/D polymorphisms of the CYP19 gene may be associated with breast cancer and that the (TTTA)n repeat genotype would be useful in selecting candidates for tamoxifen therapy, as well as predicting breast cancer risk in Korean women.
Tissue organization in Drosophila is regulated by the core planar cell polarity (PCP) proteins Frizzled, Dishevelled, Prickle, Van Gogh and Flamingo. Core PCP proteins are conserved in mammals and function in mammalian tissue organization. Recent studies have identified another group of Drosophila PCP proteins, consisting of the protocadherins Fat and Dachsous (Ds) and the transmembrane protein Four-jointed (Fj). In Drosophila, Fat represses fj transcription, and Ds represses Fat activity in PCP. Here we show that Fat4 is an essential gene that has a key role in vertebrate PCP. Loss of Fat4 disrupts oriented cell divisions and tubule elongation during kidney development, leading to cystic kidney disease. Fat4 genetically interacts with the PCP genes Vangl2 and Fjx1 in cyst formation. In addition, Fat4 represses Fjx1 expression, indicating that Fat signaling is conserved. Together, these data suggest that Fat4 regulates vertebrate PCP and that loss of PCP signaling may underlie some cystic diseases in humans.
Erythropoietin receptor (EpoR) binding mediates neuroprotection by endogenous Epo or by exogenous recombinant human (rh)Epo. The level of EpoR gene expression may determine tissue responsiveness to Epo. Thus, harnessing the neuroprotective power of Epo requires an understanding of the Epo-EpoR system and its regulation. We tested the hypothesis that neuronal expression of EpoR is required to achieve optimal neuroprotection by Epo. The ventral limbic region (VLR) in the rat brain was used because we determined that its neurons express minimal EpoR under basal conditions, and they are highly sensitive to excitotoxic damage, such as occurs with pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (Pilo-SE). We report that (i) EpoR expression is significantly elevated in nearly all VLR neurons when rats are subjected to 3 moderate hypoxic exposures, with each separated by a 4-day interval; (ii) synergistic induction of EpoR expression is achieved in the dorsal hippocampus and neocortex by the combination of hypoxia and exposure to an enriched environment, with minimal increased expression by either treatment alone; and (iii) rhEpo administered after Pilo-SE cannot rescue neurons in the VLR, unless neuronal induction of EpoR is elicited by hypoxia before Pilo-SE. This study thus demonstrates using environmental manipulations in normal rodents, the strict requirement for induction of EpoR expression in brain neurons to achieve optimal neuroprotection. Our results indicate that regulation of EpoR gene expression may facilitate the neuroprotective potential of rhEpo.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether low-dose anticholinergics combined with an α1-receptor antagonist would continue the effect of an alpha-blocker, decrease the side effects of anticholinergics, and improve the symptoms of lower urinary tract symptoms/benign prostatic hyperplasia (LUTS/BPH).
Two hundred nine men with LUTS/BPH with storage symptoms (International Prostate Symptom Score [IPSS] ≥12; storage symptoms ≥4) were randomly assigned in a prospective, multicentered, and single-blind fashion to either the control group (alfuzosin 10 mg, once daily) or the combined group (alfuzosin 10 mg, once daily, and propiverine 10 mg, once daily) for 2 months. IPSS, maximal urinary flow rate (Qmax), and postvoid residual volume (PVR) were used to grade symptoms, side effects, and the impact on quality of life (QoL) at the start of the study and after 1 and 2 months.
There were no significant differences in patient background, including age, prostate size, Qmax, and PVR, between the control group and the combined group. In the combined group, the IPSS total score and the IPSS storage symptom score were significantly improved compared with the control group. The IPSS voiding symptom score, QoL, Qmax, and PVR did not differ significantly. There were no serious side effects in either group.
Management with an α1-receptor antagonist combined with a low-dose anticholinergic improved the total score and storage symptom score of the IPSS compared with α1-receptor antagonist only group without causing serious side effects. This initial combination medication can be considered an effective and safe treatment modality for LUTS/BPH patients with storage symptoms.
A case of intestinal infarction observed in a 41-year-old woman after 20 days of treatment with an estrogen-progestogen combination for a case of dysmenorrhea is reported. The abdominal symptoms were accompanied by a marked leucocytosis (23,000/cu mm). After laparotomy, the woman recovered in 14 days. Other similar cases have been reported and in 1967 the Medical Research Council suggested that intestinal infarction may be among the complications induced by estrogen-progestogen preparations. There appears to be a direct correlation between the ingestion of hormonal contraceptives and intestinal infarction, which might be a result of the effect of these drugs on blood coagulation.
Mutations in PCSK1 cause monogenic obesity. To assess the contribution of PCSK1 to polygenic obesity risk, we genotyped tag SNPs in a total of 13,659 individuals of European ancestry from eight independent case-control or family-based cohorts. The nonsynonymous variants rs6232, encoding N221D, and rs6234-rs6235, encoding the Q665E-S690T pair, were consistently associated with obesity in adults and children (P = 7.27 x 10(-8) and P = 2.31 x 10(-12), respectively). Functional analysis showed a significant impairment of the N221D-mutant PC1/3 protein catalytic activity.
Fibrates, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor a agonists, are widely used as lipid-lowering agents with anti-atherogenic activity. However, conflicting results have been reported with regard to their pharmacological effects on plasma lipoprotein profiles as well as on atherosclerosis in animal models. Furthermore, the anti-atherogenic effects of bezafibrate, one of the most commonly used fibrates, in animal models have not been reported. In the present study, we investigated the effects of bezafibrate on lipoprotein profiles as well as on atherosclerosis in low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout (LDLR-/-) mice fed an atherogenic diet for 8 weeks. Bezafibrate decreased plasma levels of both cholesterol and triglycerides (TG), while increasing plasma levels of high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C). Since hepatic TG production was significantly reduced in the bezafibrate-treated mice lacking LDLR, the plasma lipid-lowering effects of bezafibrate might be primarily mediated by the suppression of hepatic production of apolipoprotein-B-containing lipoproteins. In parallel with the reduced ratio of non-HDL-C to HDL-C, bezafibrate suppressed fatty streak lesions in the aortic sinus by 51%. To determine whether or not bezafibrate directly alters the expression of genes relevant to atherosclerosis, we measured mRNA expression levels of three genes in the aorta by real-time PCR: ATP-binding cassette transporter A1, lipoprotein lipase, and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. The results showed that there were no differences in the expression of these genes between mice treated with bezafibrate and those not. In conclusion, bezafibrate inhibits atherosclerosis in LDLR-/- mice primarily by decreasing the ratio of non-HDL-C to HDL-C.
It is known that the coadministration of itraconazole with cholesterol-lowering statins may induce muscle damage. We describe the case of a patient with steroid-dependent asthma, steroid-induced severe myopathy and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis who developed rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure following a approximately 6-week treatment with itraconazole, even without the concomitant use of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.
New indications and conditioning regimens for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) have emerged in the last 10 years. Previous studies have shown the association of HSCT with late effects such as sleep disorders. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and factors associated with sleep disorders following HSCT in a population considering these new trends. Sixty-one individuals 1-10 years after allogeneic HSCT were surveyed using the DSM-IV-TR criteria for sleep disorders. Factors related to conditioning and graft-versus-host disease were collected from medical records. A prevalence of sleep disorders of 26.2% was found. Busulfan-cyclophosphamide conditioning was an independent risk factor in a multivariate analysis (relative risk, RR: 3.74, 95% CI: 1.1-12.6; p = 0.03), which also included sex (RR: 2.37, 95% CI: 1.0-5.7; p = 0.05) and age (RR: 1.03, 95% CI: 0.99-1.07; p = 0.11). Sleep disorders were frequent following HSCT. Patients who were treated with busulfan-cyclophosphamide had a higher risk of developing this complication. Female sex was also possibly a risk factor.
There are a number of potential drugs for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) currently undergoing clinical studies. A number of antibacterials formulated for delivery by inhalation are at various stages of study; these include dry-powder inhaler versions of colistin, tobramycin and ciprofloxacin, and formulations of azteonam, amikacin, levofloxacin, ciprofloxacin and fosfomycin/tobramycin for nebulization. Clinical trials of anti-inflammatory agents, including glutathione, phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors such as sildenafil, oral acetylcysteine, simvastatin, methotrexate, docosahexaenoic acid, hydroxychloroquine, pioglitazone and alpha1-antitrypsin, are ongoing. Ion channel modulating agents, such as lancovutide (Moli1901, duramycin) and denufosol, which activate alternate (non-CF transmembrane regulator [CFTR]) chloride channels, and GS 9411, a sodium channel antagonist, are now at the stages of clinical study and if successful, will offer a new category of therapeutic agent for the treatment of CF. Correction of the underlying gene effect, either by agents that help to correct the dysfunctional CFTR, such as ataluren, VX-770 and VX-809, or by gene transfer (gene therapy), is a particularly exciting prospect as a new therapy for CF and clinical studies are ongoing. This article reviews the exciting potential drug treatments for CF currently being evaluated in clinical studies, and also highlights some of the challenges faced by research and clinical teams in assessing the efficacy of potential new therapies for CF.
The examination of cocaine self-administration (SA) by rats under conditions that promote escalating patterns of intake should lead to a better understanding of factors that contribute to cocaine addiction. This study investigated the ability of repeated daily exposure to a stressor, electric footshock (EFS), to escalate cocaine SA. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg/kg/inf, i.v.) by pressing a lever under a FR4 schedule during 2-h sessions comprised of four 30-min SA components. Repeated daily EFS consisting of shock sequences (3 x 0.6 mA, 100-ms duration, 1-s frequency) delivered under a variable time 45-s schedule for 5 min before each of the four SA components across 14 days of SA testing produced a significant escalation of cocaine SA. EFS failed to escalate food-reinforced lever pressing and did not alter cocaine SA when administered either inside or outside of the SA context 4 h after daily SA testing. Surgical adrenalectomy along with diurnal corticosterone (CORT) replacement prevented EFS-induced escalation without altering SA in the absence of EFS, indicating that increases in circulating glucocorticoids were necessary for the escalating effects of EFS. Elevation of CORT through repeated daily CORT injections (3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to reproduce the effects of repeated daily EFS on SA, but restored the escalating effects of EFS in adrenalectomized rats with CORT replacement, suggesting that an elevation of glucocorticoids was necessary but alone was not sufficient for the escalation of cocaine SA by EFS.
Several recent studies have demonstrated that organophosphorus insecticides (OPI) possess the potential to disrupt glucose homeostasis leading to hyperglycemia in experimental animals. The propensity of OPI to induce hyperglycemia along with oxidative stress may have far-reaching consequences on diabetic outcomes and associated complications. The primary objective of this study was to assess the potential of monocrotophos (MCP), an extensively used OPI, on hepatic and renal oxidative stress markers and dysregulation of hepatic glucose homeostasis in experimentally induced diabetic rats. Rats rendered diabetic by a single dose of streptozotocin (60mg/kg b.w) were orally administered MCP (0.9mg/kg b.w/d for 5d). Monocrotophos per se caused only a marginal increase in blood glucose levels but significantly elevated the blood glucose levels and also disrupted glucose homeostasis by depleting liver glycogen content and increasing the gluconeogenetic enzyme activities in diabetic rats. Experimentally induced diabetes was also associated with alterations in antioxidant enzymes in liver and kidney. MCP markedly enhanced lipid peroxidation in kidney and altered the enzymatic antioxidant defense mechanisms in both liver and kidney of diabetic rats. Collectively our data provides evidence that MCP has the propensity to augment the oxidative stress and further disrupt glucose homeostasis in diabetic rats.
Several studies have shown that carbamazepine (CBZ) may aggravate idiopathic generalized epilepsy (IGE). Oxcarbazepine (OXC) is a new drug chemically related to CBZ. We report six cases of juvenile IGE with a clear aggravation by OXC.
We retrospectively studied all patients with IGE first referred to our epilepsy department between January 2001 and June 2003 and treated with OXC.
During this period, six patients were identified. All had an aggravation of their epilepsy in both clinical and EEG activities. OXC had been used because of an incorrect diagnosis of focal epilepsy or generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCSs) of undetermined origin (no syndromic classification of the epilepsy). Before OXC, only one patient had experienced a worsening of seizures with an inadequate drug (CBZ). Four had juvenile myoclonic epilepsy, one had juvenile absence epilepsy, and one had IGE that could not be classified into a precise syndrome. OXC (dosage range, 300-1,200 mg/day) was used in monotherapy in all of them except for one patient. Aggravation consisted of a clear aggravation of myoclonic jerks (five cases) or de novo myoclonic jerks (one case). Three patients had exacerbation of absence seizures. One patient had worsened dramatically and had absence status, and one had de novo absences after OXC treatment. The effects of OXC on GTCSs were less dramatic, with no worsening in frequency in three and a slight increase in three.
OXC can be added to the list of antiepileptic drugs that can exacerbate myoclonic and absence seizures in IGE.
Pain from a propofol injection is a common side-effect in paediatric patients. This prospective, randomized, double-blind study evaluated the efficacy of a combined pretreatment of alfentanil with lidocaine on the incidence and severity of propofol injection pain in children.
After obtaining parental consent, 120 paediatric patients were allocated randomly into one of the three groups (n=40, in each). The patients in the alfentanil group received alfentanil 15 microg kg(-1) 90 s before the propofol injection. The patients in the lidocaine group received propofol 3 mg kg(-1) premixed with lidocaine 0.1% over a 15 s period. The patients in the combination group received both alfentanil and lidocaine.
The incidence of propofol injection pain (severity 2 or more) in the combination group (2.6%) was significantly lower than that in the alfentanil and lidocaine groups (30% and 38.5%, respectively) (P=0.001 and <0.001, respectively). No patient in the combination group complained of moderate or severe pain from propofol injection.
Our study demonstrated that the combination treatment of two different analgesic modalities, alfentanil and lidocaine, could prevent the moderate and severe pain on propofol injection, and reduce the incidence of mild pain compared with each drug alone.
Numerous investigators have reported abnormalities of hepatic drug metabolism in hypoinsulinemic animal models with chemically induced diabetes mellitus, but there has been little assessment of hepatic drug metabolism in recently described animal models with genetic diabetes mellitus characterized by hyperinsulinemia and insulin resistance rather than insulin deficiency. Hepatic microsomal cytochrome P-450 content and drug metabolizing activity in obese, diabetic C57BL/KsJ mice homozygous for the diabetes gene mutation (db/db) have been compared with levels found in livers of 1) lean, nondiabetic control mice with the same C57BL/KsJ genetic background and 2) lean C57BL/6J animals made diabetic by streptozotocin treatment. No changes in specific enzyme content or activity were seen in young db/db mice, but microsomal protein and total hepatic cytochrome P-450 content and meperidine demethylation and pentobarbital hydroxylation activity were markedly increased compared to controls. In hyperglycemic, hypoinsulinemic mice with streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus, the amount of microsomal protein did not change, but hepatic cytochrome P-450 content and enzyme activity were significantly increased whether expressed per milligram of microsomal protein or as totals per liver. In old db/db animals, hyperglycemia persisted but plasma insulin levels fell into the normal range so that the insulin-glucose profile of these animals resembled that seen in the streptozotocin treatment group. In association with these changes, hepatic enzyme specific activities in the old db/db mice approximated values found in the streptozotocin group rather than in the young db/db animals. These differences in hepatic microsomal enzymes between hyperinsulinemic and hypoinsulinemic mice with diabetes mellitus suggest that both hyperglycemia and insulin separately and significantly influence cytochrome P-450 turnover and mixed function oxidase activity.
The central cholinergic syndrome developed in a 5 1/2-year-old child after premedication with midazolam and a short volatile anesthetic. Diagnosis was made more difficult because of a history of nephrotic syndrome, convulsions, relative acetylcholinesterase deficiency and chronic medication with a corticosteroid. Successful management of such cases depends on a through differential diagnosis before the institution of physostigmine therapy. Intensive postoperative monitoring is strongly recommended.
We report a case of polyneuropathy associated with chronic B lymphoid leukemia (B-CLL) and HAM. A 65-year-old man had an initial onset with polyneuropathy, then myelopathy appeared. High HTLV-I antibody and anti-ganglioside antibodies were observed. The biopsy examination of the sural nerve showed mainly demyelinated changes. Muscle weakness gradually improved after cyclophosphamide therapy. Anti-ganglioside antibodies were also decreased in titer. This case suggested that the production of antiganglioside antibodies and the occurrence of polyneuropathy might be caused by both factors of HTLV-I infected T cells and B cell tumors.
The successful use of orthotopic liver transplantation in fulminant hepatic failure has created a need for early prognostic indicators to select the patients most likely to benefit at a time when liver transplantation is still feasible. Univariate and multivariate analysis was performed on 588 patients with acute liver failure managed medically during 1973-1985, to identify the factors most likely to indicate a poor prognosis. In acetaminophen-induced fulminant hepatic failure, survival correlated with arterial blood pH, peak prothrombin time, and serum creatinine--a pH less than 7.30, prothrombin time greater than 100 s, and creatinine greater than 300 mumol/L indicating a poor prognosis. In patients with viral hepatitis and drug reactions three static variables [etiology (non A, non B hepatitis or drug reactions), age less than 11 and greater than 40 yr, duration of jaundice before the onset of encephalopathy greater than 7 days] and two dynamic variables (serum bilirubin greater than 300 mumol/L and prothrombin time greater than 50 s) indicated a poor prognosis. The value of these indicators in determining outcome was tested retrospectively in a further 175 patients admitted during 1986-1987, leading to the construction of models for the selection of patients for liver transplantation.
The cardiovascular properties of NSP-804 (4,5-dihydro-6-[4-[(2-methyl-3-oxo-1-cyclopentenyl)-amino] phenyl]-3(2H)-pyridazinone) and NSP-805 (4,5-dihydro-5-methyl-6-[4-[(2-methyl-3-oxo-1-cyclopentenyl) amino]phenyl]-3(2H)-pyridazinone), novel cardiotonic agents, were investigated in vitro and in vivo in comparison with those of other cardiotonic agents. In isolated guinea pig left atria, the positive inotropic EC50 values (microM) in order of potency were about 0.18 (NSP-805), 0.39 (indolidan), 1.1 (MCI-154), 1.7 (NSP-804, milrinone), 2.0 (denopamine), 4.0 (papaverine), 4.4 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, IBMX, 6.5 (imazodan), and 27 (amrinone). In anesthetized dogs, intravenous (i.v.) injection of NSP-804 and NSP-805 produced dose-dependent increases in left ventricular VVdp/dtmax and decreases in aortic blood pressure (ABP) with relatively small increases in heart rate (HR). The ED50 values (micrograms/kg) for LVdP/dtmax of NSP-804, NSP-805, denopamine, milrinone, MCI-154, and indolidan were 15, 12, 22, 23, 15, and 7.3, respectively. When the drugs were administered intraduodenally to anesthetized dogs, the ED50 values (micrograms/kg) for LVdP/dtmax of NSP-804, NSP-805, milrinone and indolidan were approximately 30, 10, 200, and 25 respectively. In the propranolol-induced heart failure model, NSP-804 and NSP-805 completely improved the hemodynamic state of heart failure to normal levels. The in vitro positive inotropic effects of NSP-804 and NSP-805 were accompanied by increases in tissue cyclic AMP and abolished by carbachol. NSP-805 was the most potent and selective inhibitor of guinea pig cardiac phosphodiesterase (PDE) III among the agents examined, and NSP-804 was a potent and selective inhibitor of PDE III similar to indolidan. The cardiovascular properties determined in this study suggest that both NSP-804 and NSP-805 may have beneficial effects for treatment of congestive heart failure (CHF).
Hypertension is closely associated with vascular endothelial dysfunction. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of Angiotensin II (ANG II) receptor antagonist losartan on the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability in L-NAME-induced hypertension and/or in ANG II-induced acute hypertension in normotensive and hypertensive rats. Systolic blood pressure was measured by tail cuff method before, during and following L-NAME treatment (1 g/L). Losartan (3 mg/kg) was given to the animal for five days. Acute hypertension was induced by ANG II (60 microg/kg). Arterial blood pressure was directly measured on the day of the experiment. BBB disruption was quantified according to the extravasation of the albumin-bound Evans blue dye. Losartan significantly reduced the mean arterial blood pressure from 169 +/- 3.9 mmHg to 82 +/- 2.9 mmHg in L-NAME and from 171 +/- 2.9 mmHg to 84 +/- 2.9 in L-NAME plus losartan plus ANG II groups (p < 0.05). The content of Evans blue dye in the cerebral cortex significantly increased in L-NAME (p < 0.01). Moreover, the content of Evans blue dye markedly increased in the cerebellum (p < 0.001) and slightly increased in diencephalon region (p < 0.05) in L-NAME plus ANG II. Losartan reduced the increased BBB permeability to Evans blue dye in L-NAME (p < 0.01) and L-NAME plus ANG II (p < 0.001). These results indicate that L-NAME and L-NAME plus ANG II both lead to an increase in microvascular Evans blue dye efflux to brain, and losartan treatment attenuates this protein-bound dye transport into brain tissue presumably due to its protective effect on endothelial cells of brain vessels.
Statins and fibrates (weak PPARalpha agonists) are prescribed for the treatment of lipid disorders. Both drugs cause myopathy, but with a low incidence, 0.1-0.5%. However, combined statin and fibrate therapy can enhance myopathy risk. We tested the myotoxic potential of PPAR subtype selective agonists alone and in combination with statins in a differentiated rat myotube model. A pharmacologically potent experimental PPARalpha agonist, Compound A, induced myotoxicity as assessed by TUNEL staining at a minimum concentration of 1 nM, while other weaker PPARalpha compounds, for example, WY-14643, Gemfibrozil and Bezafibrate increased the percentage of TUNEL-positive nuclei at micromolar concentrations. In contrast, the PPARgamma agonist Rosiglitazone caused little or no cell death at up to 10 muM and the PPARdelta ligand GW-501516 exhibited comparatively less myotoxicity than that seen with Compound A. An experimental statin (Compound B) and Atorvastatin also increased the percentage of TUNEL-positive nuclei and co-treatment with WY-14643, Gemfibrozil or Bezafibrate had less than a full additive effect on statin-induced cell killing. The mechanism of PPARalpha agonist-induced cell death was different from that of statins. Unlike statins, Compound A and WY-14643 did not activate caspase 3/7. In addition, mevalonate and geranylgeraniol reversed the toxicity caused by statins, but did not prevent the cell killing induced by WY-14643. Furthermore, unlike statins, Compound A did not inhibit the isoprenylation of rab4 or rap1a. Interestingly, Compound A and Compound B had differential effects on ATP levels. Taken together, these observations support the hypothesis that in rat myotube cultures, PPARalpha agonism mediates in part the toxicity response to PPARalpha compounds. Furthermore, PPARalpha agonists and statins cause myotoxicity through distinct and independent pathways.
