In the treatment of coronary atherosclerotic artery disease (CAD), the mechanisms by which lipid lowering, a proven therapy, produces beneficial clinical effects remain unclear. Moreover, although potential mechanisms of benefit are well known and increasingly applied clinically, there are no conclusive data from clinical trials studying primarily the antiischemic effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition in patients with normal heart function. The Simvastatin/Enalapril Coronary Atherosclerosis Trial (SCAT) is designed to clarify some of these issues in CAD patients with normal or mildly elevated cholesterol. DESIGN AND OBJECTIVES: SCAT is a three- to five-year, multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, 2 x 2 factorial trial evaluating the effects of cholesterol lowering therapy by simvastatin and/or ACE inhibition by enalapril on anatomic coronary atherosclerosis progression assessed by quantitative coronary angiography in CAD patients with preserved left ventricular function and total cholesterol levels between 4.1 and 6.2 mmol/L.
Of 460 patients (age 61 +/- 9 years; 409 males, 51 females) enrolled between June 1991 and July 1995, 230 were randomized to simvastatin and 230 to placebo, and 229 to enalapril and 231 to placebo. Average baseline total cholesterol level was 5.20 +/- 0.61 mmol/L, high density lipoprotein cholesterol was 0.99 +/- 0.25 mmol/L, low density lipoprotein cholesterol was 3.36 +/- 0.57 mmol/L and triglycerides were 1.82 +/- 0.75 mmol/L. The trial will be completed in June 1998.
Insights gained from this long term angiographic trial will lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms of benefits of these two treatments, both alone and in combination. Of particular interest is that this trial will be able to examine a suspected beneficial interaction, if present, between these two treatments.
T-2 toxin (T-2), one of the most important and toxic trichothecene mycotoxins, can cause many medical problems, such as diarrhea, nervous disorders, immunodepression and death, and is also believed as an etiological factor of Kashin-Beck disease, an endemic osteochondropathy prevailing in North China. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying T-2 effects on tissue damage remain elusive. We differentiated ATDC5 chondrogenic cells into hypertrophic chondrocytes, and found that T-2 reduced the expression of anabolic genes, and increased the expression of catabolic genes. To uncover the mechanism that T-2 influenced metabolic homeostasis of hypertrophic chondrocytes, we observed that T-2 increased the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the degradation of IκB-α, and up-regulated the expression of hypoxia-induced factor-2α (HIF-2α). Bay11-7085 (an inhibitor of NF-κB pathway) inhibited the up-regulation of HIF-2α, and N-acetyl-l-cysteine (a ROS scavenger) inhibited both the decrease of IκB-α and the up-regulation of HIF-2α. Our results demonstrate that ROS-NF-κB-HIF-2α pathway participates in the effects of T-2 on hypertrophic chondrocytes, and HIF-2α plays an important role as a key mediator in this process.
High-dose steroids are the first line of treatment for acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD). Steroid myopathy is a debilitating steroid-induced complication that significantly impairs a patient's performance status. To determine the frequency and severity of steroid myopathy and other steroid related complications in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML)/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) who developed grade >or=2 aGVHD after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), we performed a retrospective analysis. Patients were included in the analysis if they had a diagnosis of AML/MDS, underwent an allogeneic HSCT between January 1996 and December 2001 and developed grade >or=2 aGVHD that was treated with 2 mg/kg of methylprednisolone and survived at least 100 days post transplant. A total of 70 patients fulfilled our inclusion criteria. Steroid myopathy was identified in 29 (41%) patients. Steroid myopathy was generally of moderate severity with severe debilitating steroid myopathy seen in only 3% of patients. We concluded that steroid myopathy is a common complication of high-dose steroid therapy after allogeneic HSCT in AML/MDS. Interventions aimed at preventing and treating this complication are warranted and need to be explored in prospective clinical trials.
Experimental and clinical studies have revealed that hippocampal DBS can control epileptic activity, but the mechanism of action is obscure and optimal stimulation parameters are not clearly defined. The aim was to evaluate the effects of high frequency hippocampal stimulation on cortical epileptic activity in penicillin-induced epilepsy model.
Twenty-five Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted DBS electrodes. In group-1 (n=10) hippocampal DBS was off and in the group-2 (n=10) hippocampal DBS was on (185 Hz, 0.5V, 1V, 2V, and 5V for 60 sec) following penicillin G injection intracortically. In the control group hippocampal DBS was on following 8 μl saline injection intracortically. EEG recordings were obtained before and 15 minutes following penicillin-G injection, and at 10th minutes following each stimulus for analysis in terms of frequency, amplitude, and power spectrum.
High frequency hippocampal DBS suppressed the acute penicillin-induced cortical epileptic activity independent from stimulus intensity. In the control group, hippocampal stimulation alone lead only to diffuse slowing of cerebral bioelectrical activity at 5V stimulation.
Our results revealed that continuous high frequency stimulation of the hippocampus suppressed acute cortical epileptic activity effectively without causing secondary epileptic discharges. These results are important in terms of defining the optimal parameters of hippocampal DBS in patients with epilepsy.
However currently less used, MAOI (monoamine-oxidase inhibitor) antidepressants have specific indications like refractory or atypical depressions. The main difficulties related to MAOI therapy consist in their potentially very dangerous interactions with certain foods on the one side, many medications on the other side. For example, we report the case of a patient treated for a resistant depression by phenelzine (Nardelzine) who presented a severe delirium after the administration of tramadol (Contramal, Dolzam). This case shows the importance of particular attention before the association of any drug in a patient treated by MAOI.
Anemia is a known adverse effect of sirolimus (SRL) therapy. Sirolimus may contribute to anemia by a direct antiproliferative effect or by increasing inflammation, worsening kidney function, or decreasing iron utilization. After observing the need for high dose exogenous erythropoietin dosage in some patients on SRL, we hypothesized that SRL therapy may influence anemia by inducing a state of erythropoietin resistance.
Twenty-five stable renal transplant patients on maintenance tacrolimus and SRL therapy were enrolled in a prospective trial with conversion from SRL to enteric coated mycophenolate sodium. Measurement of plasma erythropoietin and red cell indices were performed pre- and postconversion.
Renal function remained unchanged after conversion. Serum hemoglobin (Hb) increased in 18/21 (86%) of patients after conversion. Endogenous erythropoietin level decreased from a median of 28.3 (11.5-374) to 16.6 (3.1-78.8) mIU/mL, (P<0.001); and the erythropoietin:Hb ratio dropped from 2.7 (0.7-34.3) to 1.2 (0.2-6.7), (P<0.001); indicating less erythropoietin resistance after conversion. Mean corpuscular volume increased after conversion, but transferrin saturation and ferritin did not change. Conversion was complicated by posttransplant erythrocytosis in two patients.
Conversion from SRL to enteric coated mycophenolate sodium led to an increase in Hb and a decrease in erythropoietin resistance in stable kidney transplant recipients. Increase in Hb seemed to be independent of renal functional changes or changes in iron sequestration.
Five classes of antihypertensive drugs have proven efficacy in the prevention of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Among the remaining antihypertensives, the action of alpha-1-blockers is supported by most clinical evidence; however, in combination therapy, the published data concern their use as third-line drugs at the most. The data from patients with drug-resistant hypertension remain limited. The aim of our study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of doxazosin in this clinical setting. Data from 97 patients with resistant hypertension treated by doxazosin were analysed retrospectively. Doxazosin was usually added as the fifth antihypertensive drug in individuals who were either unresponsive to or intolerant of the combination of other antihypertensives. The dose of doxazosin ranged from 2 to 16 mg/day. The mean duration of follow-up was 21+/-17 months. Adverse events related to doxazosin treatment were rare and led to discontinuation of the therapy in only five patients (5.2%). Data from 34 patients were subjected to analysis of efficacy. In this subgroup, doxazosin therapy led to the reduction of blood pressure from 159+/-20/92+/-14 to 126+/-16/73+/-10 mmHg. We found that doxazosin is a well-tolerated and effective drug for patients with resistant arterial hypertension who require a combination of multiple antihypertensive drugs.
We report that glucocorticoids significantly facilitated the development of cocaine-induced kindled seizures. These results suggest that glucocorticoids may have effects on the development of kindled seizures which are similar to those of the neuropeptide, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), with which they show a close functional relationship. These results may be of interest in the light of data showing that glucocorticoids increase CRH expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala, which is an important site for the development of kindling.
In the cardiovascular system, NO is involved in the regulation of a variety of functions. Inhibition of NO synthesis induces sustained hypertension. In several models of hypertension, elevation of intracellular sodium level was documented in cardiac tissue. To assess the molecular basis of disturbances in transmembraneous transport of Na+, we studied the response of cardiac (Na,K)-ATPase to NO-deficient hypertension induced in rats by NO-synthase inhibition with 40 mg/kg/day N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) for 4 four weeks. After 4-week administration of L-NAME, the systolic blood pressure (SBP) increased by 36%. Two weeks after terminating the treatment, the SBP recovered to control value. When activating the (Na,K)-ATPase with its substrate ATP, no changes in Km and Vmax values were observed in NO-deficient rats. During activation with Na+, the Vmax remained unchanged, however the K(Na) increased by 50%, indicating a profound decrease in the affinity of the Na+-binding site in NO-deficient rats. After recovery from hypertension, the activity of (Na,K)-ATPase increased, due to higher affinity of the ATP-binding site, as revealed from the lowered Km value for ATP. The K(Na) value for Na+ returned to control value. Inhibition of NO-synthase induced a reversible hypertension accompanied by depressed Na+-extrusion from cardiac cells as a consequence of deteriorated Na+-binding properties of the (Na,K)-ATPase. After recovery of blood pressure to control values, the extrusion of Na+ from cardiac cells was normalized, as revealed by restoration of the (Na,K)-ATPase activity.
Hepatic encephalopathy can be a life-threatening complication of fulminant hepatic failure. By understanding the pathophysiology involved in the induction of this neuropsychiatric disorder, future therapeutic and/or preventive attempts could be considered. In this study, an attempt has been made in order to shed more light on the mechanisms involved in the effects of thioacetamide (TAA)-induced fulminant hepatic encephalopathy on: (a) the adult rat brain total antioxidant status (TAS) and (b) the activities of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), (Na(+),K(+))-ATPase and Mg(2+)-ATPase. Moreover, in vitro experiments were conducted in order to evaluate the possible role of ammonia (incubated as NH(4)Cl, in a toxic concentration of 3mM) in the observed effects of TAA-induced fulminant hepatic encephalopathy on the examined adult rat brain enzyme activities. Fulminant hepatic encephalopathy caused a significant decrease in TAS (-22%, p < 0.001) and the activity of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (-26%, p < 0.001), but had non-significant effects on the whole brain AChE and Mg(2+)-ATPase activities. The in vitro experiments (conducted through a 3h incubation with ammonia), showed no significant alterations in any of the examined parameters. Our in vitro and in vivo findings suggest that alterations in AChE and Mg(2+)-ATPase activities are not involved in the pathophysiology of the adult-onset fulminant hepatic encephalopathy, while the observed Na(+),K(+)-ATPase inhibition could be a result of the oxidative stress, neurotransmission deregulation, and/or of the presence of other toxic substances (that appear to act as direct or indirect inhibitors of the enzyme) and not due to the excess accumulation of ammonia in the brain.
Dopamine (DA) receptors play a role in the reinforcing effects of psychomotor stimulants and other drugs. Both D1 and D2 DA receptor agonists have been reported to function as positive reinforcers in maintaining self-administration in non-human subjects. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate, in monkeys, the reinforcing effects of DA D2 receptor agonists that vary in their efficacy as D2 agonists. Rhesus monkeys were prepared with venous catheters and lever pressing was maintained by i.v. cocaine (n=5, 0.03 mg/kg/inj) in daily baseline sessions (2 h/day, fixed ratio 25). Various doses of cocaine or D2 agonists were then made available for at least four to seven sessions, and until responding was stable. At least one dose of the higher-efficacy D2 agonists, R(-)-propylnorapomorphine (NPA) (n=4, 0.001-0.01 mg/kg/inj), R(-)-apomorphine (APO) (n=4, 0.003-0.1 mg/kg/inj) and R(+)-3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-propylpiperidine HCl [R(+)-3-PPP] (n=4, 0.03-0.3 mg/kg/inj), functioned as a positive reinforcer in all the monkeys tested. In contrast, no dose of the lower-efficacy D2 agonists, R(+)-terguride (n=4, 0.001-0.3 mg/kg/inj) and S(-)-3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-propylpiperidine HCl [S(-)-3-PPP] (n=4, 0.001-0.3 mg/kg/inj), maintained self-administration. In in vitro binding studies with monkey brain tissue NPA and terguride had high affinities for the D2 receptor, while APO had intermediate affinity, and the 3-PPPs had low affinity. Among the compounds that were reinforcers potency as a reinforcer was directly related to D2 affinity in three of the four monkeys, consistent with D2 receptor involvement in the reinforcing effect of these compounds. The data suggest that the efficacy at D2 receptors is directly related to the reinforcing effect.
The effects of morphine dependence and withdrawal on prolactin (Prl) and growth hormone (GH) secretion were examined in the rat. Morphine dependence, induced by morphine pellet implantation, had no effect on nonstress concentrations of plasma Prl or GH, but it potentiated the response of Prl secretion to the stress associated with blood collection + injection of saline. Naloxone-induced withdrawal had no demonstrable effect on the changes in Prl and GH secretion produced by stress. In addition, signs of tolerance to both the Prl- and GH -stimulating effects of morphine injection were observed in morphine-dependent rats.
The nephrotoxicity of hydroxygentamicin and amikacin was examined in young adult Fischer 344 rats. Serum creatinine (SCr) and urea nitrogen (BUN) levels were not significantly affected following sc injection of 80 or 160 mg/kg/day of hydroxygentamicin for 15 days. However, 250 mg/kg of amikacin produced significant increases in both parameters and in kidney/body weight ratios. The ratios were also significantly increased after 80 or 160 mg/kg of hydroxygentamicin, but kidneys of rats receiving amikacin were considerably heavier than those of rats treated with hydroxygentamicin. The antibacterial potency of 250 mg/kg of amikacin is comparable to that of 100 mg/kg of hydroxygentamicin. Additional studies, directly comparing hydroxygentamicin, a mutational biosynthetic, with gentamicin or netilmicin, all at 40, 80, and 160 mg base/kg, and incorporating renal function parameters as well as SCr, BUN, organ weight, tissue concentration, and kidney histopathology, revealed a characteristic pattern typical of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in mature adult male rats. In most parameters, values in rats given hydroxygentamicin or netilmicin were normal and comparable to those in controls, but kidney/body weight ratios were significantly increased at high doses. However, kidneys of rats medicated with gentamicin at comparable doses were considerably heavier than those of hydroxygentamicin-treated rats. Significant nephrotoxicity also was seen in rats given low doses of gentamicin or netilmicin. Eosinophilic granulation and vacuolization of renal proximal tubular epithelium, interstitial inflammation, and tubular dilation were observed microscopically with all three drugs in the following descending order of severity: gentamicin greater than netilmicin greater than hydroxygentamicin. The effects on proximal tubular epithelial cells following treatment with amikacin, netilmicin, or hydroxygentamicin correlated reasonably well with renal drug concentrations, but drug concentrations of gentamicin, which produced the most extensive kidney injury, were lower than those of the other three aminoglycosides. Elevated SCr or BUN were indicative of the presence of nephrosis, but early stages of tubular epithelial degeneration were not predicted by increases in BUN or SCr. Although minimal or mild nephrosis was seldom predicted by polyuria, proteinuria, or changes in osmolality, effects observed in renal function parameters usually correlated well with renal histopathology. However, a decrease in osmolality correlated best with enlarged kidneys and changes in renal morphology.
Cyclooxygenase (COX2) expression in primary breast cancer correlates with a worse prognosis. We reported previously that COX2 expression in MCF10A breast epithelial cells of basal subtype induces genomic instability. To understand the role of COX2 in estrogen receptor-positive (non-basal) breast cancer, we transfected the MCF7 cell line with COX2 and analyzed its chromosomal profile, BCL2 protein expression, and resistance to doxorubicin. We also analyzed cell cultures grown as mammospheres to determine whether COX2 expression affects the cancer-initiating ("stem") cell phenotype in MCF7 cells.
MCF7 Tet On cells (obtained from Clontech) were stably transfected with pTRE2pur-COX2 or pTRE2pur-COX2-GFP to produce COX2 or COX2-GFP protein, respectively. BCL2 protein was detected by Western blotting. Sensitivity of cells to drug treatment was analyzed by MTT assay. Groups were compared using Chi-Square test. We analyzed the genomic instability phenotype by chromosome analysis of control and COX2 transfected metaphase-arrested MCF7 cells after Giemsa staining. We assessed the tumorigenic potential of cells grown as mammospheres with a clonogenic assay.
Cytogenetic analysis of early passage COX2 transfected MCF7 cells demonstrated significant genomic instability as compared to parental MCF7 cells. COX2 overexpression was associated with a significant increase in chromosomal aberrations (chromatid breaks, chromosome fusions, C anaphase). COX2 transfected MCF7 cells produced a significantly higher level of the anti-apoptotic protein BCL2 than the parental cells. In a functional assay, we found that COX2 expression correlated with increased resistance to doxorubicin. In a complimentary approach to determine tumorigenic potential of cells, we found that COX2 increased the ability of MCF7 cells to grow as mammospheres in culture, which correlated with an increase in clonogenic efficiency.
We found that COX2 expression in MCF7 breast cancer cells induced genomic instability, BCL2 expression, and doxorubicin resistance, thus making them significantly more tumorigenic. This data suggests that COX-2 may be an important target for breast cancer treatment.
Granulomatous interstitial nephritides are uncommon entities in routine clinical practice. These entities are usually associated with infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, or immune diseases, such as sarcoidosis, systemic lupus erythematosus or cryoglobulinemia. However, these diseases are most frequently associated with drug intake, especially antibiotics, proton pump inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs. An association with prokinetic agents has not previously been reported. We report the case of a 64-year-old woman who developed acute renal failure with this histological pattern after taking the motility promoter cinitapride without her physician's knowledge.
The Syndrome of Inappropriate Antidiuretic Hormone Secretion (SIADH) is a rare but serious complication of chlorpropamide therapy. In 2 elderly women who had diabetes mellitus, the SIADH developed two months after the chlorpropamide dosage had been increased to 500 mg daily. The syndrome disappeared after withdrawal of the drug. In one of these patients, re-administration of chlorpropamide resulted in recurrence of the SIADH. A review of the current literature disclosed certain common denominators, i.e., most of the patients are elderly women whose dosage of chlorpropamide was increased shortly before the development of the SIADH.
Perinatal exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) in rodents has been linked to changes in sensitivity to dopaminergic agents later in life. In an effort to determine the behavioral and neurochemical response to the indirect dopaminergic and serotonergic agonist amphetamine following neonatal exposure to MeHg, male BALB/c mice were administered MeHg during critical periods of neural development and challenged with amphetamine as adults. Mice were observed 15, 30 and 60 min after a single amphetamine injection (7.5 mg/kg i.p.) for presence of stereotypic and self-injurious behaviors, abnormal posture, and hyperthermia. Mice treated with 2 or 4 mg/kg MeHg on alternate days 3-15 of life demonstrated an increase in body temperature and the appearance of stereotypic and self-injurious behaviors not observed when amphetamine was administered to either vehicle-exposed mice or those treated with an equivalent total amount of MeHg administered on postnatal days 13 and 15. Neurochemical analysis of MeHg- and vehicle-exposed mice challenged with amphetamine or saline revealed alterations in dopaminergic and serotonergic activity which corresponded to the sensitized behavioral response to amphetamine. These observations demonstrate a critical window for MeHg exposure affecting the later appearance of amphetamine-induced self-injurious behavior and support the hypothesis that early exposure to environmental neurotoxicants may predispose individuals to engage in aberrant, intrusive behaviors later in life.
The case of a patient who developed aseptic meningitis, hemolytic anemia, hepatitis, and orthostatic hypotension simultaneously during treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is described.
A healthy 37-year-old African- American man was receiving treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole double strength. This was the patient's first experience with trimethoprim- sulfamethoxazole, and he was not taking any other medications during the treatment period. He had been taking trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for approximately eight days when he revisited his family physician, complaining of headaches, dizziness, difficulty with speech, weakness, and itching on the trunk of his body and legs, where a maculopapular rash was noted. Orthostatic hypotension was also noted at that visit, with a standing blood pressure measurement of 95/80 mm Hg. Based on these findings and since the patient had no signs of infection, his physician instructed him to discontinue the drug. The patient was admitted to the emergency department of a local hospital within two days due to ongoing headache, elevated temperature, and nuchal rigidity, symptoms suggestive of meningitis. Because of the presence of hemolysis, the patient underwent testing for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, for which he tested positive. The patient was discharged five days after admission and referred to a hematology clinic for follow-up. The patient has since returned to his routines of daily living and has reported no fatigue or other lingering adverse symptoms.
A 37-year-old African- American man with G6PD deficiency developed hemolytic anemia, hepatitis, orthostatic hypotension, and aseptic meningitis simultaneously after using trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole.
The case of a patient with Charcot-Marie-Tooth syndrome and diffuse large-cell lymphoma, in whom a severe generalized weakness developed after the intravenous administration of vincristine (2 mg) during combination chemotherapy, is reported. Spontaneous resolution of the severe weakness occurred when teniposide was substituted for vincristine in the chemotherapy regimen.
Although uncommon, torsades de pointes (TdP) associated with astemizole and/or erythromycin use have been reported previously. We describe a 30-year-old woman who had congenital prolongation of QT interval and TdP occurred after taking astemizole and erythromycin. Temporary cardiac pacing was successful in suppressing TdP. Prolongation of QT interval had good response to oral propranolol.
Copper is both essential for life and toxic. Aberrant regulation of copper at the level of intracellular transport has been associated with inherited diseases, including Wilson's disease (WND) in humans. WND results in accumulation of copper and the copper and zinc-binding protein metallothionein (MT) in liver and other tissues, liver degeneration, and neurological dysfunction. The toxic milk (TX) mutation in mice results in a phenotype that mimics human WND, and TX has been proposed to be a model of the disease. We characterized TX mice as a model of altered metal ion and MT levels during development, and after treatment with the metal ion chelators tetrathiomolybdate (TTM) and deferiprone (L1). We report that hepatic, renal and brain copper and MT are elevated in TX mice at 3 and 12 months of age. Zinc was significantly higher in TX mouse liver, but not brain and kidney, at both time points. Nodules appeared spontaneously in TX mouse livers at 8-12 months that maintained high copper levels, but with more normal morphology and decreased MT levels. Treatment of TX mice with TTM significantly reduced elevated hepatic copper and MT. Transient increases in blood and kidney copper accompanied TTM treatment and indicated that renal excretion was a significant route of removal. Treatment with L1, on the other hand, had no effect on liver or kidney copper and MT, but resulted in increased brain copper and MT levels. These data indicate that TTM, but not L1, may be useful in treating diseases of copper overload including WND.
A 42-year-old woman underwent outpatient surgery to remove vocal cord polyps. She had a history of depressive syndrome and had previously undergone surgery without complications. Before surgery she received 3.5 mg of midazolam orally. General anesthesia was provided with propofol: one initial bolus of 1 mg/kg followed by an infusion of 6 mg/kg/h. Surgery was uneventful. Upon arrival in the postanesthetic recovery ward, the patient, greatly agitated, accused the orderlies pushing the gurney of forcing her to touch his genitals. Twenty-four hours after surgery she did not remember the incident. Since 1987 various cases of postoperative sexual hallucination have been associated with the use of propofol. Usually the patients are women undergoing minor gynecological procedures and involve male health-care providers in the surgical area. The incidents are characteristically followed by amnesia. This clinical picture has also been described for midazolam and nitrous oxide, but the frequency is higher for propofol owing to its pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties (rapidly recovered awareness and lowering of inhibition). Given the legal implications, the presence of someone of the same sex as the patient is recommended when the patient awakens.
Six epileptic patients are described to whom the addition of Valproic Acid (VPA) to a previously unsatisfactory antiepileptic treatment caused a toxic encephalopathy. This was characterized by alterations of the state of consciousness in all patients a few days after the beninning of the treatment with VPA. These ranged from a marked drowsiness to coma and were often associated with gastrointestinal and neurological (ataxia, asterixis) symptoms. In all cases very high blood ammonia values were found and the EEGs showed a diffuse slowing down of the activity. After the discontinuation of the drug the toxic symptoms quickly ceased and ammonia values returned to the normal values. It is hypothesized that the interference of VPA on the metabolism of ammonia could play an important role in the pathogenesis of the VPA-induced toxic encephalopathy.
Sleep is one of the key regulators for maintaining physical, mental and emotional health. Nonrefreshing sleep and depression are common problems nowadays. The present study was designed to explore the protective effects of trazodone and imipramine on 72-h sleep deprivation-induced anxiety-like behavior and oxidative damage in mice. Albino mice were sleep-deprived for a period of 72 h using the grid suspended over water method. Animals were divided into different groups, each consisting of six animals. Trazodone (5 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) and imipramine (10 and 20 mg/kg i.p.) were administered for 5 days starting 2 days before 72-h sleep deprivation. Various behavioral tests (elevated plus maze, zero maze, mirror chamber for anxiety and actophotometer), followed by oxidative parameter tests (malondialdehyde, glutathione, catalase, nitrite and protein), were assessed in sleep-deprived animals. Treatment with trazodone and imipramine significantly improved locomotor activity and exerted anxiolytic-like effects in all paradigm tasks (mirror chamber, elevated plus maze, zero maze) as compared to untreated 72-h sleep-deprived animals (P < 0.05). Biochemically, both trazodone and imipramine significantly restored depleted reduced glutathione (GSH) levels and catalase activity and attenuated raised lipid peroxidation and nitrite concentrations as compared to untreated sleep-deprived animals. The results of the present study suggest a protective effect for trazodone and imipramine on sleep deprivation-induced anxiety-like behavior and oxidative damage in mice.
Host genetics has an important role in leprosy, and variants in the shared promoter region of PARK2 and PACRG were the first major susceptibility factors identified by positional cloning. Here we report the linkage disequilibrium mapping of the second linkage peak of our previous genome-wide scan, located close to the HLA complex. In both a Vietnamese familial sample and an Indian case-control sample, the low-producing lymphotoxin-alpha (LTA)+80 A allele was significantly associated with an increase in leprosy risk (P = 0.007 and P = 0.01, respectively). Analysis of an additional case-control sample from Brazil and an additional familial sample from Vietnam showed that the LTA+80 effect was much stronger in young individuals. In the combined sample of 298 Vietnamese familial trios, the odds ratio of leprosy for LTA+80 AA/AC versus CC subjects was 2.11 (P = 0.000024), which increased to 5.63 (P = 0.0000004) in the subsample of 121 trios of affected individuals diagnosed before 16 years of age. In addition to identifying LTA as a major gene associated with early-onset leprosy, our study highlights the critical role of case- and population-specific factors in the dissection of susceptibility variants in complex diseases.
