A 71-year-old white man developed direct antiglobulin positive haemolytic anaemia after 16 months of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease. Immunoglobulin G autoantibodies directed against Rh antigens were found in the patient's serum and on his erythrocytes. Reduction of levodopa dosage to one sixth with the aid of a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor (benserazide) largely eliminated autoimmune haemolysis while maintaining adequate control of neurologic symptoms.
Metronidazole is a commonly used antibiotic prescribed for the treatment of anaerobic and protozoal infections of the gastrointestinal and genitourinary tracts. It is associated with numerous neurologic complications, including peripheral neuropathy. Neuropathy is typically detected in patients on chronic therapy, although it has been documented in those taking large doses for acute infections. Numerous case reports have been published describing motor and sensory neuropathy, yet autonomic neuropathy has not been described with metronidazole use. A previously healthy 15-year-old girl presented with complaints of burning pain in her feet following a short course of metronidazole for vaginitis. She could obtain pain relief only by submerging her feet in ice water. Examination revealed cold and swollen lower extremities that became erythematous and very warm when removed from the ice water. Temperature perception was reduced to the upper third of the shin bilaterally. Deep tendon reflexes and strength were preserved. Nerve conduction studies demonstrated a peripheral neuropathy manifested by reduced sensory nerve and compound muscle action potentials. Reproducible sympathetic skin potential responses could not be obtained in the hand and foot, providing evidence of a concurrent autonomic neuropathy. A thorough evaluation revealed no other cause for her condition. Repeated nerve conduction studies and sympathetic skin potentials returned to normal over the course of 6 months, paralleling the patient's clinical improvement. Metronidazole is a potential cause of reversible autonomic neuropathy.
A method for the determination of the copper content of biological materials by flame spectrophotometry is described. The effects of interference by ions such as sodium and phosphate were eliminated by isolating copper as the dithizonate in CCl(4). Results obtained for the urinary excretion of copper by a patient with Wilson's disease before and after treatment with penicillamine are reported.
Subchronic toxicity and long-term tumor-promoting effects of phenobarbital (PB) were investigated in male Syrian golden hamsters. In subchronic studies, PB was administered in drinking water to 5-week-old male hamsters for periods of 8 or 16 weeks at dosage levels of 250, 500, or 1000 ppm. No significant change in the ratio of liver weight to body weight was observed at 8 weeks; however, at 16 weeks there was a dose-dependent increase in the ratio of liver weight to body weight and a significant decrease in body weight gain among animals that received PB at 1000 ppm. The effect of PB on hepatic cytochrome P-450 and P-450-dependent aminopyrine N-demethylase activity was compared in male Syrian golden hamsters, F-344/NCr rats, and B6C3F1 mice. PB enhanced cytochrome P-450 activity in all three species; however, a significant increase (p less than 0.05) in aminopyrine N-demethylase activity was observed only in rats and mice. Potentially preneoplastic hepatocellular hyperplastic foci and hepatocellular neoplasms were studied in weanling male Syrian golden hamsters that received a single ip injection of either 100 mg N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN)/kg body wt or 20 mg methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM)/kg body wt at 5 weeks of age, followed by administration of 500 ppm PB in drinking water that began 2 weeks after the carcinogen injection and continued to 69 weeks of age. Groups of hamsters were killed at 25, 52, and 69 weeks of age; portions of liver and other organs with gross lesions were fixed in Formalin and examined histologically. MAM was a more potent hepatocarcinogen than DEN in male Syrian golden hamsters. PB failed to promote the development of either preneoplastic hepatocellular foci or hepatocellular neoplasms (adenomas or carcinomas) in either DEN- or MAM-initiated hamsters. Also, PB had no effect on the development of nonhepatic lesions occurring either spontaneously or induced by DEN or MAM in these animals.
Nine patients on chronic treatment with propranolol for essential hypertension for 3 months or longer were studied after abrupt discontinuation of the drug. Each patient demonstrated transient supersensitivity to the chronotropic effects of isoproterenol, beginning 2--6 days (median 4 days) after propranolol withdrawal, lasting for 3--13 days (median 6 days), with the maximum sensitivity on day 6. A significantly lower dose of isoproterenol was necessary to increase heart rate 25 beats/min on day 6 (median dose 1.2 microgram, range 0.3--3.4 microgram) compared with after day 14, when sensitivity had stabilized (median dose 2.3 microgram, range 1.4--7.6 microgram). Six patients had transient symptoms (headache, chest pain, palpitations and sweating) after abrupt propranolol withdrawal, coinciding with supersensitivity to isoproterenol in five. Transient increases in plasma catecholamines and blood pressures and sustained increases in heart rate occurred during the period of isoproterenol supersensitivity in most patients, and may have contributed to symptoms noted. The delayed onset and potentially long duration of beta-adrenergic supersensitivity after abrupt propranolol withdrawal have important clinical implications.
Rats with lithium-induced nephropathy were subjected to high protein (HP) feeding, uninephrectomy (NX) or a combination of these, in an attempt to induce glomerular hyperfiltration and further progression of renal failure. Newborn female Wistar rats were fed a lithium-containing diet (50 mmol/kg) for 8 weeks and then randomized to normal diet, HP diet (40 vs. 19%), NX or HP+NX for another 8 weeks. Corresponding non-lithium pretreated groups were generated. When comparing all lithium treated versus non-lithium-treated groups, lithium caused a reduction in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) without significant changes in effective renal plasma flow (as determined by a marker secreted into the proximal tubules) or lithium clearance. Consequently, lithium pretreatment caused a fall in filtration fraction and an increase in fractional Li excretion. Lithium also caused proteinuria and systolic hypertension in absence of glomerulosclerosis. HP failed to accentuante progression of renal failure and in fact tended to increase GFR and decrease plasma creatinine levels in lithium pretreated rats. NX caused an additive deterioration in GFR which, however, was ameliorated by HP. NX+HP caused a further rise in blood pressure in Li-pretreated rats. The results indicate that Li-induced nephropathy, even when the GFR is only modestly reduced, is associated with proteinuria and arterial systolic hypertension. In this model of chronic renal failure the decline in GFR is not accompanied by a corresponding fall in effective renal plasma flow, which may be the functional expression of the formation of nonfiltrating atubular glomeruli. The fractional reabsorption of tubular fluid by the proximal tubules is reduced, leaving the distal delivery unchanged.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We report the case of a 27-year-old Asian man who self-medicated with two capsules of rifampin 1 year after completing a continuous course of chemotherapy for tuberculosis that included that drug. He developed flank pain and edema and presented with uremia requiring dialysis; despite this, he had a serum potassium of only 3.5 mEq/L. Renal biopsy showed interstitial infiltrate with inflammation of the tubules. Renal function began to improve after a 3-week course of prednisone. This case is remarkable for the severity of the renal failure despite such a minimal self-exposure.
Excess mortality from lymphohematopoietic malignancies, in particular myeloid leukemia, and brain cancer has been found in surveys of anatomists, pathologists, and funeral industry workers, all of whom may have worked with formaldehyde. We investigated the relation of mortality to work practices and formaldehyde exposure levels among these professionals to address cancer risk in the funeral industry.
Professionals employed in the funeral industry who died between January 1, 1960, and January 1, 1986, from lymphohematopoietic malignancies (n = 168) or brain tumors (n = 48) (ie, case subjects) were compared with deceased matched control subjects (n = 265) with regard to lifetime work practices and exposures in the funeral industry, which were obtained by interviews with next of kin and coworkers, and to estimated levels of formaldehyde exposure. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated by use of logistic regression. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Mortality from myeloid leukemia increased statistically significantly with increasing number of years of embalming (P for trend = .020) and with increasing peak formaldehyde exposure (P for trend = .036). Compared with subjects who performed fewer than 500 lifetime embalmings, mortality from myeloid leukemia was elevated among those who performed embalmings for more than 34 years (OR = 3.9, 95% CI = 1.2 to 12.5, P = .024), who performed more than 3068 embalmings (OR = 3.0, 95% CI = 1.0 to 9.2, P = .057), and those whose estimated cumulative formaldehyde exposure exceeded 9253 parts per million-hours (OR = 3.1; 95% CI = 1.0 to 9.6, P = .047). These exposures were not related to other lymphohematopoietic malignancies or to brain cancer.
Duration of embalming practice and related formaldehyde exposures in the funeral industry were associated with statistically significantly increased risk for mortality from myeloid leukemia.
Using cytophotometry, contents of DNA, RNA and total protein were measured in the rat's exocrine pancreatocytes (EP) in normal conditions and at different stages of pancreatitis induced by cooling the spleen part of the pancreas with chlorethyl. In the duodenal (not damaged) part of the pancreas some drastic changes in the EP ploidy distribution were shown to occur. They led to the formation of a qualitatively new population pattern with 4c and 2c + 2c cells prevailing (more than 60% of the total content), which are by 1.5-3 times more active in RNA and protein synthesis and accumulation than the normal cells. The population structure rearrangement in the EP and their functional activity rise took place at two stages. At the first one the intracellular defense mechanisms of the EP in response to acute necrobiotic processes in the pancreas tissue were activated, at the second one the supracellular mechanisms regulating synthetic processes leading to a rapid adaptation of viable EP to new conditions were switched on.
Intrahippocampal implants of noradrenaline-rich neural tissue from the fetal locus coeruleus region suppress development of seizures induced by hippocampal kindling stimulation in hyperexcitable, noradrenaline-depleted rats. In the present study the intracerebral microdialysis technique has been used to monitor seizure-induced release of noradrenaline from such grafts. The steady-state output of noradrenaline in the hippocampus of grafted animals (previously treated with intraventricular 6-hydroxydopamine) was similar to the baseline level in normal rats. A generalized seizure gave rise to a threefold increase of hippocampal noradrenaline levels as compared to baseline (15-min samples) in both normal and grafted animals. The maximal increase of extracellular noradrenaline levels occurred within 2-4 min after the onset of seizure activity and the levels then tapered off, reaching baseline after another 6-8 min. In 6-hydroxydopamine-treated animals without grafts baseline noradrenaline levels were markedly reduced compared to those of normal rats and only minor changes were observed in response to seizures. This supports the theory that the high extracellular noradrenaline concentrations measured in conjunction with seizures originate from the grafts. A knife cut transecting the ascending bundle from the locus coeruleus led to a marked attenuation of the seizure-induced increase of noradrenaline release in normal animals. In the intact brain, and probably also in the grafts, this response thus seems to be dependent on impulse flow in locus coeruleus neurons and only to a minor extent on local regulatory mechanisms in the hippocampus. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that grafted locus coeruleus neurons are able to restore both basal and seizure-induced extracellular noradrenaline levels in the hippocampus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The central-nervous-system toxicities of local anesthetic mixtures consisting of lidocaine and etidocaine or lidocaine and tetracaine, administered intravenously to four healthy, non-medicated rhesus monkeys, were evaluated. Toxicities were compared by determining seizure dosages for each drug alone and then in a lidocaine-etidocaine-tetracaine mixture. Arterial plasma levels of lidocaine and etidocaine at which electrical seizure activity occurred also were measured when the drugs were administered alone and in combination. The seizure dosages and arterial plasma levels for the drug mixtures studied were equal to the sums of the dosages and thresholds for individual constituents of the mixtures. Under the conditions of this investigation local anesthetic toxicity was additive. (Key words: Anesthetics, local, lidocaine; Anesthetics, local, etidocaine; Anesthetics, local, tetracaine; Brain, seizure thresholds; Toxicity, convulsions.)
We report the case of a 74-year-old woman who had three episodes of aseptic meningitis in a period of 20 years. These episodes always occurred a few hours after the assumption of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) per os. Nevertheless, the pharmacological anamnesis did not receive proper attention, neither the first nor the second time, and the meningeal syndrome with aseptic liquor was attributed to a viral aggression. However, when the third episode occurred, due to the strict time correlation between the assumption of the drug and the occurrence of symptoms, both the results of the liquoral analysis and the anamnestic records allowed recognition of ibuprofen as the cause of acute meningitis.
Prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) expression correlates with prostate cancer grade and is increased in hormone-refractory prostate cancer. The increased expression of PSMA following androgen deprivation therapy may be a consequence of the down-regulation of PSMA expression by androgen. Moreover, 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25-VD) has been shown to suppress prostate cancer progression as well as cell motility and invasion. Since PSMA is positively correlated with both of these characteristics, we hypothesized that 1,25-VD would regulate PSMA expression.
LNCaP prostate cancer cells were treated with 1,25-VD, followed by analysis of cell surface PSMA expression. The PSMA enhancer, located within the third intron of the PSMA gene, was cloned into a reporter vector and regulation by 1,25-VD was investigated. The role of the androgen receptor (AR) in 1,25-VD mediated suppression of PSMA expression was examined using Casodex and AR specific siRNA.
Surface expression of PSMA was significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner by 10 nM 1,25-VD or greater. Regulation by 1,25-VD occurred at the level of the PSMA enhancer. Over-expression of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) also decreased expression of PSMA. Additionally, suppression of AR translation using siRNA technology blocked the suppressive effect of 1,25-VD on PSMA expression, however inhibition of PSMA expression by 1,25-VD occurred in the absence of androgens.
Suppression of PSMA by 1,25-VD occurs at the level of the PSMA enhancer and is elevated by over-expression of the VDR. This regulation involves the AR, but is not dependent on the presence of androgens.
This is the first report of a catatonic syndrome occurring in a patient receiving disulfiram treatment. A causal relationship is strongly suggested by the mode of onset, the absence of a previous history of catatonia, and the rapid resolution of the syndrome within 72 hours of discontinuance of the disulfiram therapy. Neurophysiological mechanisms which aid in elucidating the role of disulfiram in the etiology of catatonia are discussed. It is important that physicians be alerted to this serious, potentially lethal, complication, as it is readily reversible if the disulfiram is discontinued and appropriate supportive measures are taken. Also, it appears that these patients may be more susceptible to complications with future disulfiram usage and should be strongly counseled to seek alternative therapies for their alcohol problems in the future.
Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome was independently ascertained in two male cousins once removed. Previous studies have shown familial clustering of individuals with tics, but no consistent pattern of inheritance of Tourette's syndrome has been apparent. The onset and later exacerbation of symptoms in our younger patient were associated with the administration of CNS stimulants given for excessive motor activity. The adverse effects of methylphenidate and dextroamphetamine therapy on Tourette's syndrome supports the hypothesis that this condition results from a relative excess of CNS catecholaminergic activity. Physicians prescribing these agents should inquire about the presence of tics in patients and their families.
Toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens-Johnson syndrome are severe cutaneous drug reactions of unknown mechanism. Nitric oxide can cause apoptosis and necrosis. The inducible form of nitric oxide synthase generates large amounts of nitric oxide and has been described in human skin. We propose that a large burst of nitric oxide in toxic epidermal necrolysis and Stevens-Johnson syndrome may cause the epidermal apoptosis and necrosis. Skin biopsies were taken from seven patients with actively progressing Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis. Expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase was examined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and by immunoperoxidase staining for inducible nitric oxide synthase protein. Messenger RNA for inducible nitric oxide synthase was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and confirmed by the sequencing of polymerase chain reaction products. Strong staining for inducible nitric oxide synthase was observed in inflammatory cells in the lower epidermis and upper dermis. Diffuse, weaker staining was observed in keratinocytes. Expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase is consistent with the hypothesis that nitric oxide mediates the epidermal necrosis in toxic epidermal necrolysis and provides a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the suitability of global gene expression profiling for the characterization and identification of mutagens and promutagens in vitro. To enable detection of both mutagenic and promutagenic compounds, we cotreated HepG2 cells with a rat liver S9 fraction as metabolic activation system (MAS), supplementing the limited drug metabolic capability of HepG2 cells. Illumina BeadChip arrays were used to quantify gene expression changes after treatment with three well-known mutagenic, three promutagenic, as well as two non-genotoxic reference compounds for a period of 24 or 48 h. Statistical data analysis revealed 91 genes being most representative for the (pro-)genotoxic response. Several processes such as cellular differentiation and the complex interactive regulation of the stress and DNA damage response via the transcriptional modulators STAT1, SP1, and P53 were differentially regulated. The gene set evaluated was further used to predict the genotoxic characteristics of N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) after its metabolic activation. Although no clear response could be established in P53 activation experiments, DEN was classified correctly as nongenotoxic without S9 and genotoxic in the presence of the MAS by means of its transcriptomic pattern. Our data support that mechanistic profiling in vitro is a useful tool compared with single endpoint detections to predict genotoxicity.
The selective pulmonary vasodilatory effects of inhaled nitric oxide decrease pulmonary artery hypertension and improve arterial oxygenation in patients with ARDS without causing concomitant systemic vasodilation. Inhaled nitrix oxide therapy may decrease the prevalence of pulmonary edema, pulmonary barotrauma, and oxygen toxicity that occur with current ARDS treatment. The effect of nitric oxide on oxygenation and pulmonary artery pressure may allow more time for the lungs to recover. Initial results of clinical trials are encouraging; however, the impact of inhaled nitric oxide therapy on patients with ARDS remains unclear. Further research is needed to develop safe delivery systems and monitoring techniques for routine clinical use, to determine potential adverse and toxic effects of nitric oxide therapy on patients, and to determine the effects of long-term exposure to nitric oxide among healthcare workers. Concomitant administration of other medications with inhaled nitric oxide should also be investigated.
Cytarabine (ara-C) is one of the most effective chemotherapeutic agents in patients with acute leukemia (AL), with a clear dose effect. Use of high-dose ara-C is hampered, however, by a noticeable toxicity, particularly to the CNS. We investigated the usefulness of CNS perfusion imaging with technetium-99m ((99m)Tc)-hexamethyl-propylene-amine oxime (HMPAO) single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) concurrent to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to specifically assess the effects of standard- and high-dose ara-C in children with AL.
Twenty-six perfusion studies using (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT were performed in 12 children (age range, 4 to 15 years) with AL after induction therapy, which consisted of a standard-dose ara-C, immediately after consolidation with high-dose ara-C, and later during follow-up (range, 6 to 44 months). The chemotherapy-related adverse events were monitored and correlated to SPECT and MRI.
After the induction phase, all children were neurologically normal on MRI. On SPECT imaging, four children displayed a slightly heterogeneous perfusion. After high-dose ara-C (4 to 36 g/m(2)), five children had regressive neurologic signs of potential toxic origin. Of these five children, only one had an abnormal MRI scan, whereas all patients showed evidence of diffuse cerebral and/or cerebellar heterogeneous perfusion on SPECT. The seven other patients without any neurologic symptoms had normal MRI scans; SPECT was normal for three patients and abnormal for four patients. On follow-up, for four children who had presented with clinical neurologic toxicity, SPECT improved in three patients and remained unchanged in one patients. In two of these four children, delayed abnormalities (T2 white matter hypersignal and cerebellar atrophy) appeared on MRI scans.
In our series, diffuse heterogeneous brain hypoperfusion is often the sole early objective imaging feature identified by SPECT of high-dose ara-C neurotoxicity, where MRI still demonstrates normal pictures.
The effects of nine benzodiazepines on the locomotor stimulation induced in mice by cocaine (4 mg . kg-1 i.p.) were studied. These benzodiazepines markedly enhanced cocaine-induced hyperactivity. This effect was observed at low doses, e.g. doses at least 8 times lower than those required to depress the stimulation caused by cocaine. Nitrazepam-induced enhancement of the hyperactivity elicited by cocaine was reduced or suppressed by blocking dopaminergic receptors with pimozide (0.015--0.03 mg . kg-1), by interrupting GABAergic transmission with picrotoxin (0.25--0.5 mg . kg-1) or blocking alpha- or beta-adrenergic receptors with prazosin (0.25 mg . kg-1) or dl-propranolol (4 mg . kg-1) respectively. At these doses, neither pimozide, picrotoxin, prazosin nor propranolol were able to modify the spontaneous locomotor activity or the stimulation elicited by cocaine alone. Strychnine (0.25--0.50 mg . kg-1) or methysergide (2 mg . kg-1) failed to alter the enhancement by nitrazepam of cocaine-induced hyperactivity. These results suggest that an interaction of benzodiazepines with some catecholaminergic processes, either directly or through the involvement of a GABAergic link, may account for their facilitatory activity on cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation.
We previously reported that initiating treatment with the angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan, prior to and immediately after balloon injury, attenuates neointimal hyperplasia via induction of smooth muscle cell (SMC) apoptosis in the aorta of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). The present study examines whether losartan can induce regression of an established neointima. Balloon angioplasty was performed in the aorta of 1 1 week-old SHR. Five weeks were allowed for neointima formation before rats received placebo or losartan (30 mg/kg/day) for 1 to 4 weeks. Blood pressure was measured by tail cuff plethysmography. Losartan significantly reduced blood pressure (16%) versus placebo within 2 weeks of treatment. In situ labeling with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase among neointimal SMC was transiently increased with losartan (10-fold at 2 weeks; P=0.004) in correlation with internucleosomal fragmentation of vascular DNA. Accordingly, losartan reversed neointimal hyperplasia by 43% (P=0.002) and 61% (P=0.007) at weeks 2 and 4, respectively, and neointimal mass by 63% (P<0.001) and 75% (P<0.001) at weeks 2 and 4, respectively, as compared to pre-treatment values. No change in aortic medial hyperplasia or mass was observed during losartan treatment. Taken together, endothelial denudation rendered the underlying media resistant to drug-induced remodeling, while losartan treatment induced vascular lesion regression by inducing apoptosis selectively in neointimal SMC, an effect that may contribute to the reduction of cardiovascular complications in hypertension.
The effect of continuous subcutaneous infusion of clonidine and the influence of concomitant treatment with salbutamol as well as the acute effects of the PDE-inhibitor RA 642 on heart rate and blood pressure of conscious normotensive rats were studied. The severity of the cardiovascular clonidine withdrawal symptoms was positively related to the amount of clonidine infused during treatment. Concomitant infusion of salbutamol (12 mg/kg/day) and clonidine (300 microgram/kg/day) attenuated the clonidine withdrawal tachycardia in conscious normotensive rats. No difference existed in the isoprenaline induced tachycardia in pithed normotensive rats, 8-14 h after cessation of infusion with clonidine (300 microgram/kg/day) and saline, clonidine and salbutamol (12 mg/kg/day), or saline alone. The PDE-inhibitor RA 642 (12 mg/kg, i.p.) aggravated the clonidine withdrawal syndrome in conscious normotensive rats. These data may indicate that long-term treatment with clonidine induces a hyperactivation of the adenylate-cyclase/cAMP-system.
Cisplatin is a chemotherapeutic drug whose cytotoxicity is key to its therapeutic and side effects. Nephrotoxicity, mainly due to renal tubular injury, poses its most important therapeutic limitation. Tubular necrosis is derived from epithelial cell death by apoptosis and necrosis in the proximal and distal tubuli. The mode of cell death has been related to drug concentration, with necrosis occurring with high concentrations and apoptosis with lower concentrations. To fully understand the toxic effects of cisplatin to potentially improve its pharmaco-toxicological profile, it is necessary to unravel the cellular events and signaling pathways implicated in the appearance of both modes of cell death. We used cultured human lymphoma and renal tubule cells to investigate the biochemical and phenotypic characteristics of the death mode induced by increasing concentrations of cisplatin. Our results indicate that pronecrotic concentrations of cisplatin early activate the apoptotic machinery, which is in turn directly blocked by cisplatin at the level of effector caspases. Aborted apoptosis induces a death phenotype lacking some typical characteristics of this process, which more closely resembles necrosis. Furthermore, unidentified Bcl-2- and mitochondria-independent pathways are induced by pronecrotic and not by proapoptotic concentrations of cisplatin. Cisplatin-induced cell necrosis is the result of an aborted apoptosis at the level of effector caspases. Yet, Bcl-2-independent effects lead to cell death, which may pose potential targets for pharmacological intervention aimed at reducing cisplatin nephrotoxicity.
