The tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) system is known to inhibit prolactin (PRL) secretion. In young animals this system responds to acute elevations in serum PRL by increasing its activity. However, this responsiveness is lost in aging rats with chronically high serum PRL levels. The purpose of this study was to induce hyperprolactinemia in rats for extended periods of time and examine its effects on dopaminergic systems in the brain. Hyperprolactinemia was induced by treatment with haloperidol, a dopamine receptor antagonist, and Palkovits' microdissection technique in combination with high-performance liquid chromatography was used to measure neurotransmitter concentrations in several areas of the brain. After 6 months of hyperprolactinemia, dopamine (DA) concentrations in the median eminence (ME) increased by 84% over the control group. Nine months of hyperprolactinemia produced a 50% increase in DA concentrations in the ME over the control group. However, DA response was lost if a 9-month long haloperidol-induced hyperprolactinemia was followed by a 1 1/2 month-long extremely high increase in serum PRL levels produced by implantation of MMQ cells under the kidney capsule. There was no change in the levels of DA, norepinephrine (NE), serotonin (5-HT), or their metabolites in the arcuate nucleus (AN), medial preoptic area (MPA), caudate putamen (CP), substantia nigra (SN), and zona incerta (ZI), except for a decrease in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the AN after 6-months of hyperprolactinemia and an increase in DA concentrations in the AN after 9-months of hyperprolactinemia. These results demonstrate that hyperprolactinemia specifically affects TIDA neurons and these effects vary, depending on the duration and intensity of hyperprolactinemia. The age-related decrease in hypothalamic dopamine function may be associated with increases in PRL secretion.
Few randomized, placebo-controlled trials have evaluated the comparative efficacy and tolerability of more than one pharmacological agent for panic disorder.
The primary objective of this study was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of venlafaxine extended release (ER) with placebo in treating panic disorder. Secondary objectives included comparing paroxetine with venlafaxine ER and placebo.
Outpatients aged > or =18 years (placebo, n = 157; venlafaxine ER 75 mg, n = 156; venlafaxine ER 225 mg, n = 160; paroxetine, n = 151), with a primary diagnosis of panic disorder (+/-agoraphobia) based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (Fourth Edition) criteria for > or =3 months were randomly assigned to receive venlafaxine ER (titrated to 75 mg/day or 225 mg/day), paroxetine (titrated to 40 mg/day), or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary efficacy measure was the percentage of patients free of full-symptom panic attacks (> or = four symptoms) at endpoint. Key secondary outcomes included the Panic Disorder Severity Scale (PDSS) mean score change and response.
At endpoint, all active treatment groups showed a significantly (P < 0.01) greater proportion of patients free of full-symptom panic attacks, compared with placebo, and were superior (P < 0.05) on most secondary measures. The venlafaxine ER 225 mg group had significantly (P < 0.05) greater mean PDSS score improvement than the paroxetine group (-12.58 vs -11.87) and a significantly higher proportion of patients free of full symptom panic attacks (70.0 vs 58.3%). Both drugs were generally well tolerated.
Venlafaxine ER 75 mg/days and 225 mg/days and paroxetine 40 mg/day were both well tolerated and effective for short-term treatment of panic disorder.
Zinc is trace element essential for diverse metabolic and cellular signaling pathways for the growth, development, and maintenance. Zinc deficiency is involved in bone malformations and oral disease. Mice deficient in zinc transporter Zip13 show connective tissue and skeletal disorders, abnormal incisor teeth, and reduced root dentin formation in the molar teeth and share a morphologically similar phenotype to nuclear factor I-C (NFI-C)-deficient mice. However, the precise function of zinc in NFI-C signaling-mediated odontoblast differentiation and dentin formation remains unclear. Here, we show that zinc stimulated the expression of metal transcription factor-1, but decreased NFI-C expression in odontoblastic MDPC-23 cells. Zinc also enhanced the phosphorylation of Smad2/3 (p-Smad2/3) and increased the binding efficiency of NFI-C and p-Smad2/3 in the cytoplasm. In contrast, zinc deficiency resulted in the accumulation of NFI-C into nucleus. Consequently, NFI-C had the biologic properties of a transcription factor, including DNA binding affinity for metallothionein-1 and the dentin sialophosphoprotein (DSPP) promoter, and transcriptional activation of the DSPP gene. Furthermore, zinc deficiency condition promoted DSPP expression in odontoblasts and dentin mineralization, while zinc sufficiency condition decreased DSPP expression and slightly delayed dentin mineralization. These data suggest that zinc equilibrium is required for odontoblast differentiation and dentin formation during dentinogenesis through the nuclear accumulation and modulation of NFI-C.
This study was aimed at evaluating the antihypertensive effect of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide administered in the fixed combination of 20 and 12.5 mg, respectively, on clinic and 24-h blood pressure in elderly patients (age, 68.8 +/- 5.8 years, mean +/- SD) with mild-to-moderate essential systodiastolic or isolated systolic hypertension. After a washout period of 4 weeks, patients received once daily lisinopril combined with hydrochlorothiazide for a 6-week period. At the end of the washout and treatment periods, clinic blood pressure was assessed 24 h after dosing, and 24-h ambulatory blood pressure was monitored, taking blood pressure readings every 15 min. Pretreatment clinic blood pressure was 171.3 +/- 14.0/103.7 +/- 5.1 mm Hg (systolic/diastolic) in the group with systodiastolic hypertension (n = 405) and 179.6 +/- 9.4/83.6 +/- 5.4 mm Hg in the group with isolated systolic hypertension (n = 165). The corresponding 24-h average blood pressures were 144.1 +/- 13.9/88.7 +/- 8.4 mm Hg (n = 114) and 150.7 +/- 15.5/80.8 +/- 9.4 mm Hg (n = 40). Clinic blood pressure was significantly reduced by treatment in both groups. This was the case also for ambulatory blood pressure, which was reduced by 9.6 +/- 0.9%/9.9 +/- 0.9% in systodiastolic and by 11.8 +/- 1.3%/8.5 +/- 1.5% in isolated patients with systolic hypertension (p < 0.05 at least for all differences). The antihypertensive effect was similar in patients older and younger than 70 years. In all groups, it was manifest both during the day and the nighttime and was still significant after 24 h. Thus single daily administration of combined lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide effectively reduces blood pressure in elderly patients with hypertension.
Overdose of acetaminophen may cause hepatic injury and fatal fulminant hepatic failure. Acetaminophen is the most common form of drug-induced hepatic injury in Western countries. However, there is no formal report of this important issue in Taiwan. To assess the clinical characteristics and risk factors of acetaminophen-induced hepatitis in Taiwan, we conducted this study.
A total of 71 patients who were intoxicated or overdosed with acetaminophen at Veterans General Hospital-Taipei between February, 1991 and June, 1997 were enrolled in this study. Acetaminophen-induced hepatitis was defined according to the Paris international consensus criteria.
Suicide attempt was the major cause (67/71) of acetaminophen overdose. Sixty-two of the patients were female. The mean patient age was 24.5 +/- 9.7 years (+/- standard deviation, SD). Nineteen of 71 patients had acetaminophen-induced hepatitis. The peak serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and total bilirubin concentrations were 4,181.0 +/- 931.4 IU/l (mean +/- SD), 4,148.0 +/- 1,147.5 IU/l and 2.6 +/- 0.4 mg/dl, respectively. The hepatitis group had higher ingested acetaminophen doses and serum peak acetaminophen levels than did those of the nonhepatitis group (24.9 g vs 12.9 g, p = 0.004; 132.0 mg/l vs 61.7 mg/l, p = 0.013). A higher percentage of alcohol consumption was also noted in the hepatitis group than in the nonhepatitis group (32% vs 12%, p = 0.05). After logistic regression for multivariate analysis, alcohol consumption was the most important risk factor for acetaminophen-induced hepatitis (odds ratio = 8.14, p = 0.018), followed by ingested acetaminophen dose (odds ratio = 1.21, p = 0.001). Most patients received acetylcysteine treatment in time. Two of the 19 patients with hepatitis died.
The majority of acetaminophen-induced hepatitis in Taiwan occurs in young females who attempt suicide. Alcohol consumption and the dose of acetaminophen ingested were the significant risk factors for acetaminophen-induced hepatitis. Alcohol should not be concomitantly used with acetaminophen. Early diagnosis and administration of the antidote are crucial to decrease mortality.
The adverse effects of tobacco on the skin are well known but the role of nicotine is more controversial. Nicotinic receptors are expressed in the skin, on keratinocytes, fibroblasts and blood vessels. Nicotine induces vasoconstriction associated with local hyperaemia. It inhibits inflammation through effects on central and peripheral nervous system and through direct effect on immune cells. It delays wound healing and accelerates skin aging. The role of nicotine on skin diseases remains unclear. Therapeutic effects of nicotine could be possible and this a new stimulating field of research.
It has been shown that the R497K polymorphism of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has attenuated functions in ligand binding, tyrosine kinase activation, and growth stimulation. Because the activation of EGFR results in an unfavorable prognosis of patients with colorectal carcinoma, a pilot study was conducted to assess the influence of this polymorphism on colorectal carcinoma patients.
We retrospectively analyzed the effect of the R497K polymorphism of EGFR on clinicopathologic features in 209 colorectal carcinoma patients, including 100 with stage II/III colorectal carcinoma receiving curative surgery and the other 109 with metastatic diseases.
An excellent correlation in codon 497 statuses examined by patients' WBCs and tumor tissues was found but no significant between-group difference in patients with or without colorectal carcinoma (P = 0.97). A marked decrease on EGFR phosphorylation (P < 0.01) and c-Myc activation (P = 0.02) was observed in patients with R497K polymorphism, which is associated with decreased invasion (P = 0.01), lower nodal involvement (P = 0.02), reduced subsequent metastasis (P < 0.01), and longer disease-free (P < 0.01) as well as overall (P < 0.01) survival in stage II/III colorectal carcinoma patients who had received curative surgery. For patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma, this polymorphism was associated with a higher response to 5-fluorouracil/oxaliplatin treatment (P = 0.02) and a longer survival (P < 0.01). By multivariate analysis, this polymorphism was also identified as an independent prognostic factor (P = 0.03).
These data suggest that the R497K polymorphism of the EGFR, by reducing its activation and a consequential down-regulation of its target genes, could be a key determinant for reduced tumor recurrence of stage II/III colorectal carcinoma patients receiving curative surgery and a longer survival of patients with stage II/III as well as metastatic colorectal carcinoma.
A patient receiving electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), clozapine, and intravenous caffeine sodium benzoate developed supraventricular tachycardia. This was rapidly treated with intravenous verapamil. Subsequent maintenance ECT given without caffeine was well tolerated. We believe the combination of clozapine and caffeine at the time of ECT was responsible for the arrhythmia.
The aim of the present work is to evaluate the effect of a heparin derivative, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) on the biochemical changes, tissue peroxidative damage and abnormal antioxidant levels in adriamycin (ADR) induced cardiac and hepatic toxicity. Male Wistar rats (140 +/- 10 g) were divided into four groups: untreated control (group I), ADR group (a single dose intravenous injection of 7.5 mg/kg ADR--group II), LMWH control (300 microg/day per rat s.c. for 1 week--group III) and ADR plus LMWH group (7.5 mg/kg ADR on day 1 of study period followed by LMWH treatment, 300 microg/day per rat commencing on day 8 and continued for a week. At the end of the 2-week experimental period, all animals were terminated. Cellular damage was assessed in terms of serum and tissue lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), aminotransferases and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities. Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) was assessed in the serum and heart tissue. The role of LMWH in altering the oxidative stress in ADR-induced toxicity was evaluated on the basis of its influence on cardiac and hepatic lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status (enzymatic and non-enzymatic)--superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx), reduced glutathione (GSH), alpha-tocopherol (Vitamin E) and ascorbate (Vitamin C). LMWH administration to ADR-induced rats prevented the rise in serum and tissue levels of LDH, aminotransferases and ALP, while these parameters were significantly elevated in the ADR group in comparison with the control group. Cardiotoxicity indicated by rise in serum CPK in the ADR group was attenuated by LMWH treatment in group IV. LMWH decreased the cardiac and hepatic lipid peroxidation induced by ADR. Histologic examination revealed that the ADR-induced deleterious changes in the heart and liver tissues were offset by LMWH treatment. Restoration of cellular normalcy accredits LMWH with cytoprotective role in adriamycin-induced cardiac and hepatic toxicity.
It has been suggested that current UK thresholds for treating paracetamol overdose should be reduced, following case reports of patients developing fatal liver failure after presenting with paracetamol concentrations below these thresholds.
To determine the frequency of severe liver dysfunction following paracetamol overdose when paracetamol concentrations are below current UK antidote thresholds.
Retrospective case note review.
Details were collected from all patients admitted to liver transplant units in Newcastle and Edinburgh with paracetamol-induced hepatotoxicity.
Of 696 patients admitted to the two liver units following paracetamol overdose, 14 presented between 4 and 15 h after overdose with paracetamol concentrations below current UK treatment thresholds (estimated annual population rate 0.15/million person-years). Over the period of study, >100 000 presentations with paracetamol overdose would be expected in the catchment populations for these liver units.
In view of the rarity of this event, this research does not suggest a need to lower the current thresholds for antidotal treatment.
Maternal ketosis was induced in sows by feeding 20% of the dietary energy as 1,3-butylene glycol (BG), medium-chain triglycerides (MCT), or a combination of the two. Brain development and hepatic glycogen synthetase and phosphorylase were assessed in 105-day-old fetuses as a function of maternal diets. Butylene glycol was more ketogenic than MCT. Furthermore, maternal ketosis induced by BG increased fetal brain weight, protein content, and cell size. Maternal ketosis also increased fetal liver glycogen possibly by causing the accumulation of glucose residues in the liver by suppressing liver glycolysis. In addition, glycogen synthetase alpha was increased by maternal ketosis. A fetal form of synthetase was noted in the liver which was stimulated by glucose-6-phosphate (G6P) in the presence of Na2SO4, an inhibitor of the G6P-dependent form of the enzyme.
Incidence and malignant forms of imported Plasmodium falciparum malaria are increasing, and chemoprevention is more and more replaced by stand-by treatment and radical cure in preventing access on return from malaria areas. Halofantrine is recommended for this radical cure: it's an habitually well-tolerated amino-alcohol with very few side-effects. We report three cases of long QT-interval due to halofantine: three different young women coming back from Africa took halofantrine (500 mg (2 tablets) six hourly for three doses on the first and the seventh day) and all presented with syncopal episodes. Serum electrolyte concentrations and echocardiograms were normal. In one case only, a diagnosis of Plasmodium falciparum malaria was made, without severe manifestations, and in the two other cases, treatment was a radical cure. In two cases, several bursts of torsades de pointes ventricular tachycardia due to halofantrine were proven and electrophysiological cardiac tests concluded that they had a congenital long QT-interval/Romano-Ward syndrome). So far halofantrine cardiac toxicity was unknown with single dose of 24 mg/kg/d. This phenomenon can be very severe in case of preexisting cardiopathy. In spite of the rarity on the congenital Romano-Ward syndrome, systematic electrocardiogram is necessary before giving halofantrine.
To describe the circumstances and consequences of cocaine use in the setting of prostitution.
We performed a qualitative study with fieldwork in 6 Spanish cities. Semi-structured interviews were carried out to 60 persons aged between 18 and 50 years old involved in prostitution in different settings: street, flat and brothel.
The main substances used in prostitution were alcohol and cocaine. Consumption was occasional and instrumental and helped to reduce psychological barriers or inhibition and increase tolerance to long hours of sex work with different clients, thus increasing earnings. Cocaine use was also associated with providing clients with company without having to perform sexual services. Among the consequences of drug use in prostitutes were unprotected sex and a higher risk of violence by clients. Prostitutes developed harm reduction strategies for drug use: dose reduction, simulated drug use, and selection of clients who were users.
This study shows that there is connection between drug use and the provision of sexual services. Drug use can pose a health risk as consumption is associated with unprotected sex.
Advancement of molecular analysis of neoplastic cells demonstrated that multiple genetic changes are associated with the development of tumors. Cancer cell must exhibit a mutator phenotype, which is likely to be responsible for the genomic instability found in cancer tissues. The mutator phenotype, such as defective mismatch repair, is known to cause microsatellite instability, which is associated with certain cases of sporadic cancer. Previously many studies have been carried out to determine the relationship between microsatellite instability and human brain tumors. However information on genomic instability in the animal model of brain tumor is still very limited. In the present course of investigations we genetically characterized our ENU induced brain tumor animal model by using PCR based randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) with three microsatellite probes. ENU induced tumors demonstrated genetic instability, including some microsatellite instability. As single nucleotide polymorphisms of the tumor suppressor gene p53 were associated with diverse types of human cancer, we examined the p53 gene of the tumor cells isolated from ENU induced brain tumor animal model, by PCR based RFLP method in p53 exon-2, -3 and -4. In these studies we showed that the restriction site of p53 exon-3 and 4 were mutated in ENU induced brain tumor indicating a genetic defect associated with ENU induced tumorigenesis. In the therapeutic part, we confirmed the anti-tumor property of T11TS/S-LFA-3 in the ENU induced genetically altered cells. Histological evidences, cytotoxic study, PI-FACS cell-cycle analysis and TUNEL assay confirmed the apoptotic death of glioma cells by T11TS treatment in which p53 is mutated. From the present study we can conclude that ENU administration causes genomic instability along with mutations in p53 during the process of gliomagenesis. Whereas, T11TS/S-LFA3 demonstrated the potential to induce apoptosis of these tumor cells even when p53 is mutated and thus showed its immense potential to be an anti-neoplastic probe against p53 mutated diverse types of tumors.
A total of 311 children who had recurrent otitis media or who had experienced failure of initial treatment of acute otitis media with phenoxymethylpenicillin, amoxicillin, ampicillin esters or cefaclor were entered into a single-blind study in two parallel groups in order to compare the clinical efficacy and safety of amoxicillin/clavulanate suspension given b.i.d. or t.i.d. for seven days. The patients were examined prior to the start of treatment, at an early follow-up visit 9 to 12 days after the start of treatment and at a late follow-up visit about three weeks later. Specimens for bacteriological culture were taken from the nasopharynx at entry, at the early follow-up visit, and at the late follow-up visit if there were symptoms of otitis. Both treatment groups showed a similar response, 90% or more of the patients being cured or showing improvement at the time of the early follow-up visit. The initial nasopharyngeal cultures showed growth of Haemophilus influenzae in 53% of the patients, Moraxella catarrhalis in 43% and Streptococcus pneumoniae in 39%. After treatment, cultures showed elimination of the initial pathogens in 30% of patients in both groups and recolonization in 23% in both groups. Haemophilus influenzae was the bacteria most frequently found in the nasopharynx at the first follow-up visit. Adverse effects, which consisted mostly of gastrointestinal and dermatological reactions, tended to be more common in the b.i.d. group but the difference was not statistically significant.
Carboxyl ester lipase is a digestive pancreatic enzyme encoded by the CEL gene. Mutations in CEL cause maturity-onset diabetes of the young as well as pancreatic exocrine dysfunction. Here we describe a hybrid allele (CEL-HYB) originating from a crossover between CEL and its neighboring pseudogene, CELP. In a discovery series of familial chronic pancreatitis cases, we observed CEL-HYB in 14.1% (10/71) of cases compared to 1.0% (5/478) of controls (odds ratio (OR) = 15.5; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 5.1-46.9; P = 1.3 × 10(-6) by two-tailed Fisher's exact test). In three replication studies of nonalcoholic chronic pancreatitis, we identified CEL-HYB in a total of 3.7% (42/1,122) cases and 0.7% (30/4,152) controls (OR = 5.2; 95% CI = 3.2-8.5; P = 1.2 × 10(-11); formal meta-analysis). The allele was also enriched in alcoholic chronic pancreatitis. Expression of CEL-HYB in cellular models showed reduced lipolytic activity, impaired secretion, prominent intracellular accumulation and induced autophagy. These findings implicate a new pathway distinct from the protease-antiprotease system of pancreatic acinar cells in chronic pancreatitis.
Quercetin has been shown to act as an anticarcinogen in experimental colorectal cancer (CRC). The aim of the present study was to characterize transcriptome and proteome changes occurring in the distal colon mucosa of rats supplemented with 10 g quercetin/kg diet for 11 wk. Transcriptome data analyzed with Gene Set Enrichment Analysis showed that quercetin significantly downregulated the potentially oncogenic mitogen-activated protein kinase (Mapk) pathway. In addition, quercetin enhanced expression of tumor suppressor genes, including Pten, Tp53, and Msh2, and of cell cycle inhibitors, including Mutyh. Furthermore, dietary quercetin enhanced genes involved in phase I and II metabolism, including Fmo5, Ephx1, Ephx2, and Gpx2. Quercetin increased PPARalpha target genes, and concomitantly enhanced expression of genes involved in mitochondrial fatty acid (FA) degradation. Proteomics performed in the same samples revealed 33 affected proteins, of which four glycolysis enzymes and three heat shock proteins were decreased. A proteome-transcriptome comparison showed a low correlation, but both pointed out toward altered energy metabolism. In conclusion, transcriptomics combined with proteomics showed that dietary quercetin evoked changes contrary to those found in colorectal carcinogenesis. These tumor-protective mechanisms were associated with a shift in energy production pathways, pointing at decreased cytoplasmic glycolysis and toward increased mitochondrial FA degradation.
Human genetic factors predispose to tuberculosis (TB). We studied 7.6 million genetic variants in 5,530 people with pulmonary TB and in 5,607 healthy controls. In the combined analysis of these subjects and the follow-up cohort (15,087 TB patients and controls altogether), we found an association between TB and variants located in introns of the ASAP1 gene on chromosome 8q24 (P = 2.6 × 10(-11) for rs4733781; P = 1.0 × 10(-10) for rs10956514). Dendritic cells (DCs) showed high ASAP1 expression that was reduced after Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, and rs10956514 was associated with the level of reduction of ASAP1 expression. The ASAP1 protein is involved in actin and membrane remodeling and has been associated with podosomes. The ASAP1-depleted DCs showed impaired matrix degradation and migration. Therefore, genetically determined excessive reduction of ASAP1 expression in M. tuberculosis-infected DCs may lead to their impaired migration, suggesting a potential mechanism of predisposition to TB.
It is not clear whether environmental exposure to dioxin affects the general population. The aim of this research is to evaluate sarcoma risk in relation to the environmental pollution caused by dioxin emitted by waste incinerators and industrial sources of airborne dioxin. The study population lives in a part of the Province of Venice (Italy), where a population-based cancer registry (Veneto Tumour Registry--RTV) has been active since 1987.
Two hundred and five cases of visceral and extravisceral sarcoma, confirmed by microscopic examination, diagnosed from 01.01.1990 to 31.12.1996, were extracted from the RTV database. Diagnoses were revised using the actual pathology reports and clinical records. For each sarcoma case, three controls of the same age and sex were randomly selected from the population files of the Local Health Units (LHUs). The residential history of each subject, whether case or control, was reconstructed, address by address, from 1960 to the date of diagnosis. All waste incinerators and industrial sources of airborne dioxin in the Province of Venice were taken into account, as was one very large municipal waste incinerator outside the area but close to its boundaries. The Industrial Source Complex Model in Long Term mode, version 3 (ISCLT3), was used to assess the level of atmospheric dispersion. A specific value for exposure was calculated for each point (geo-referenced address) and for each calendar year; the exposure value for each subject is expressed as the average of specific time-weighted values. The analysis takes into account 172 cases and 405 controls, aged more than 14 years.
The risk of developing a sarcoma is 3.3 times higher (95% Confidence Interval--95% CI: 1.24-8.76) among subjects, both sexes, with the longest exposure period and the highest exposure level ; a significant excess of risk was also observed in women (Odds Ratio OR = 2.41, 95% CI: 1.04-5.59) and for cancers of the connective and other soft tissue (International Classification of Diseases, ninth Revision--ICD-IX 171), both sexes (OR = 3.27, 95% CI: 1.35-7.93).
Our study supports the association between modelled dioxin exposure and sarcoma risk.
A program of immunization against hepatitis B, consisting of one dose of hepatitis B immune globulin within 12 hours of birth and three doses of hepatitis B vaccine at 0, 1, and 6 months of age for all infants of carrier mothers, has been operating in British Columbia, Canada, since 1984. The authors report on a survey conducted in 1992 of children immunized between 1984 and 1989. The survey included blood tests obtained from the children and interviews of the mothers. A total of 770 of 1,135 eligible children participated. Thirty-one percent of the mothers had been positive for hepatitis B e antigen prior to the birth of the child. At follow-up, the overall antibody against hepatitis B surface antigen seropositivity rate for children was 87.9 percent. A total of 5.1 percent of children had evidence of previous hepatitis B infection, and 2.3 percent were hepatitis B surface antigen positive. In multiple logistic regression analysis, a delay in the initial dose of vaccine was associated with increased risk of infection, but the age of the child was not, even though antibodies against hepatitis B surface antigen declined with age. The authors conclude that most infections occurred early and resulted from prenatal infection, initial nonresponse, or a delay in the initial dose of vaccine, not from waning immunity. A booster dose of vaccine, at least up to age 8 years, is not necessary.
At least four out of 97 low birth weight (less than 1750 g) newborn infants who had received only limited skin disinfection with 3% hexachlorophane (HCP) emulsion developed spongioform myelinopathy in association with detectable amounts of HCP in their brains. These four cases were found in a post-mortem survey of 20 out of the 27 infants who died. Another nine of these infants had detectable amounts of HCP in the brain but no myelinopathy. It is at present not possible to define a 'safe" level of exposure to 3% HCP emulsion for small preterm infants in the first 2 weeks of life.
To study the effect of purified Xuefu Capsule (PXFC) in treating angina pectoris (AP).
Fifty-seven patients with AP were randomly divided into two groups. Group A (30 cases) was treated with PXFC and western medicine, and group B(27 cases) with western medicine (isosorbide dinitrate, diltiazem or atenolol) alone.
The total effective rates and ECG ST-T changes of AP were 93.3% and 63.3% respectively in group A. These results were all superior to those of group B (P < 0.05). Moreover, in group A the level of plasma endothelin (ET-1) decreased from 85.09 +/- 37.56 ng/L to 61.19 +/- 4.02 ng/L, and that of calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) increased from 58.64 +/- 19.30 ng/L to 88.87 +/- 20.41 ng/L. Comparing with group B, these changes were statistically different (P < 0.01).
The effects of adding PXFC on conventional treatment with western medicine were better than those of western medicine.
Oxidative stress and apoptosis facilitation in the developing central nervous system (CNS) have been inferred as two mechanisms related to lead's neurotoxicity, and excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) can promote oxidative stress and apoptosis facilitation. Few studies systematically investigated the potential relationship among oxidative stress, ROS generation, and apoptosis facilitation after lead exposure in earlier life as a whole. To better understand the adverse effect on the developing central nervous system (CNS) after lead exposure during pregnancy and lactation, the indexes of oxidative stress, apoptosis status, and Bax and Bcl-2 expression of offspring rats' hippocampus were determined. Pregnant rats were randomly divided into four groups and given free access to drinking water which contained 0 %, 0.05 %, 0.1 %, and 0.2 % Pb(AC)(2) respectively from gestation day 0 to postnatal day 21 (PND21). Results showed that ROS and malondialdehyde level of either PND7 or PND21 pups' hippocampus were significantly raised; reduced glutathione level and superoxide dismutase activity were obviously decreased following the increase of blood and brain lead level. Similar to apoptotic indexes, Bax/Bcl-2 ratio increased after 0.1 % and 0.2 % Pb(AC)(2) exposure, especially for the pups on PND7. Comparing with cortex, the hippocampus seemed much more sensitive to damage induced by lead. We concluded that the disruption of pro-oxidant and antioxidant balance and apoptosis facilitation could be associated with the mechanisms of neurotoxicity after lead exposure in earlier life.
We have previously shown that IFN-beta inhibits hepatitis B virus (HBV) replication by noncytolytic mechanisms that either destabilize pregenomic (pg)RNA-containing capsids or prevent their assembly. Using immortalized murine hepatocyte cell lines stably transfected with a doxycycline (dox)-inducible HBV replication system, we now show that replication-competent pgRNA-containing capsids are not produced when the cells are pretreated with IFN-beta before HBV expression is induced with dox. Furthermore, the turnover rate of preformed HBV RNA-containing capsids is not changed in the presence of IFN-beta or IFN-gamma under conditions in which further pgRNA synthesis is inhibited by dox removal. In summary, these results demonstrate that types 1 and 2 IFN activate hepatocellular mechanism(s) that prevent the formation of replication-competent HBV capsids and, thereby, inhibit HBV replication.
In vitro and in vivo studies were carried out to assess the delayed neurotoxicity potential of dichlorvos. In vitro, dichlorvos caused a concentration and time-dependent decrease in the activity of neuropathy target esterase (NTE). The Ki of dichlorvos for NTE was calculated to be 1.28 x 10(3) M-1 min-1. In vitro reactivation and ageing studies revealed that dichlorvos-inhibited NTE became refractory to activation by potassium fluoride after 5 min in the ageing medium, thus indicating the formation of an aged complex between dichlorvos and NTE. In vivo also, dichlorvos (200 mg/kg body wt) given as a single subcutaneous dose inhibited NTE in brain at various intervals after exposure (24 h, 10 days, and 21 days). The delayed neurotoxicity potential of dichlorvos was finally confirmed by the rota rod test, which revealed severe motor deficit in all the exposed animals.
Ischaemia-reperfusion injury is a common occurrence in renal transplantation and may affect the long-term survival of the allograft. Oxidative stress may play a crucial role in this, with reactive oxygen species formed during reperfusion causing direct cellular damage as well as activating pro-inflammatory pathways. A human proximal tubule cell line (HK-2) was subjected to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) stress that resulted in phosphorylation of c-jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) and the transcription factor NF-kappaB at Ser276, both of which have been associated with inflammation. Interleukin (IL)-8 production also increased upon H(2)O(2) stimulation. Pre-incubation of the cells with mycophenolic acid (MPA) resulted in reduced phosphorylation of both JNKs and NF-kappaB, and reduced IL-8 release in H(2)O(2)-stimulated HK-2 cells. MPA also reduced the H(2)O(2)-induced phosphorylation of p38 MAP (mitogen-activated protein) kinase, the extracellular-signal regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), Akt kinase and the transcription factor CREB (cyclic AMP response element binding protein). In rat kidneys subjected to ischaemia-reperfusion, an increase in both pJNK1/2 and pNF-kappaB was observed, which was reduced in kidneys obtained from mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)-treated rats. These results suggest that MPA may inhibit pro-inflammatory responses in the kidney by inhibiting activation of pro-inflammatory molecules in both the kidney and human renal proximal tubular cells subjected to oxidative stress.
Increased urinary concentrations of pentacarboxyl-, precopro- and copro-porphyrins have been associated with prolonged mercury (Hg) exposure in adults, and comparable increases have been attributed to Hg exposure in children with autism (AU).
This study was designed to measure and compare urinary porphyrin concentrations in neurotypical (NT) children and same-age children with autism, and to examine the association between porphyrin levels and past or current Hg exposure in children with autism.
This exploratory study enrolled 278 children 2-12 years of age. We evaluated three groups: AU, pervasive developmental disorder-not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS), and NT. Mothers/caregivers provided information at enrollment regarding medical, dental, and dietary exposures. Urine samples from all children were acquired for analyses of porphyrin, creatinine, and Hg. Differences between groups for mean porphyrin and Hg levels were evaluated. Logistic regression analysis was conducted to determine whether porphyrin levels were associated with increased risk of autism.
Mean urinary porphyrin concentrations are naturally high in young children and decline by as much as 2.5-fold between 2 and 12 years of age. Elevated copro- (p < 0.009), hexacarboxyl- (p < 0.01) and pentacarboxyl- (p < 0.001) porphyrin concentrations were significantly associated with AU but not with PDD-NOS. No differences were found between NT and AU in urinary Hg levels or in past Hg exposure as determined by fish consumption, number of dental amalgam fillings, or vaccines received.
These findings identify disordered porphyrin metabolism as a salient characteristic of autism. Hg exposures were comparable between diagnostic groups, and a porphyrin pattern consistent with that seen in Hg-exposed adults was not apparent.
