Nineteen patients seen at a psychiatric emergency service with amphetamine- or cocaine-induced psychotic disorder were assessed with structured interviews, chart review, and blood and urine testing. All had a predominance of positive symptoms from the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). However, some subjects had substantial Negative Scale scores (26%), bizarre delusions (95%), and Schneiderian hallucinations (63%), mimicking a broad range of schizophrenic symptoms. Several PANSS scores were correlated with treatment intensity: Positive score with seclusion hours, General Psychopathology and Negative scores with hospitalization length, and General Psychopathology score with neuroleptic dose. Presenting symptoms may help in treatment planning.
Cocaine use, often not recognized, is a frequent cause of consultation in the emergency room or by primary care physicians. The use of cocaine causes numerous cardiovascular and pulmonary side effects. In this context, the occurrence of a pneumothorax represents a specific complication, often misunderstood by primary care physicians. We describe here three cases of patients who suffered from subcutaneous emphysema and pneumothorax after taking cocaine and emphasize the importance of always keeping in mind the possibility of illicit substance use in such cases, especially among young and healthy patients.
Galantamine, a drug used to treat Alzheimer's disease, has recently emerged as a potential medical countermeasure against the toxicity of organophosphorus (OP) compounds, including the nerve agent soman. Here, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to characterize the neurotoxic effects of soman and the ability of galantamine to prevent these effects in guinea pigs, the best non-primate model to predict the effectiveness of antidotes against OP toxicity in humans. The brains of treated and untreated guinea pigs were imaged using a clinical 3.0 Tesla MRI scanner at 48 h before and 6-7 h, 48 h and 7 days after their challenge with 1.0xLD50 soman (26.6 microg/kg, sc). Significant brain atrophy was observed among all untreated animals at 7 days after their challenge with soman. In mildly intoxicated animals, significant shortening of spin-spin relaxation times (T2) was observed in the thalamus and amygdala at 7h after the challenge. In severely intoxicated animals, T2 values and T2-weighted signal intensities increased significantly in the piriform cortex, hippocampus, thalamus and amygdala; in most regions, changes were long-lasting. Voxel-based morphometric analysis of the images revealed that other brain regions were also damaged in these animals. Neuronal loss was confirmed histopathologically. In animals that were treated with galantamine (8 mg/kg, im) 30 min prior to the exposure to soman, T2, T2-weighted signal intensities, and CSF volumes were largely unaffected. It is, therefore, concluded that galantamine can effectively prevent the structural brain damage induced by an acute exposure to soman.
The atypical antipsychotics cause weight gain, which is poorly understood in terms of its mechanism and treatment. A usual recommendation for treatment of antipsychotic-induced weight gain includes calorie restriction and exercise. The authors describe their recent clinical experience with calorie restriction in adults with mental retardation treated with risperidone.
A retrospective chart review was performed on the records of 50 adult patients with mental retardation treated with risperidone while residing at a habilitation center. We assessed dose and duration of risperidone treatment, weight, changes in calorie intake, and frequency of aggressive behavior.
Of the 50 patients, 39 had adequate data for analysis. Thirty-seven of the 39 patients gained weight with a mean of 18.8 lb (8.3 kg) over about 2 years. Twenty of the 37 patients were calorie restricted. Three of the 20 calorie-restricted patients lost weight at a rate of 0.2 lb (0.1 kg) per month. The other 17 calorie-restricted patients and the 17 patients who were not calorie restricted continued to gain weight at a rate of 0.8 lb (0.4 kg) per month over about another 2 years of treatment. The amount of weight gain was not dose related. Calorie restriction led to no deterioration in behavior.
The current investigation lends support to data that note weight gain with risperidone in adults with mental retardation. It suggests that calorie restriction does not lead to weight loss or behavioral deterioration and that weight gain is not dose related.
This study evaluated the involvement of hypophyseal-gonadal and hypophyseal-adrenal axes as a possible mechanism of sodium arsenite toxicity in ovary and uterus by the coadministration of hCG. Subchronic treatment of 0.4 ppm of sodium arsenite/(100 g body weight day) via drinking water for seven estrous cycles significantly suppressed the plasma levels of leutinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating hormone, and estradiol along with sluggish ovarian activities of Delta(5),3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase and 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase followed by a reduction in gonadal tissue peroxidase activities in mature female rats at diestrous phase. Noticeable weight loss of the ovary and uterus along with prolonged diestrous phase and increased deposition of arsenic in the plasma and in these reproductive organs were also demonstrated following the ingestion of arsenic. Follicular atresia and thinning of the uterine luminal diameter were evident after sodium arsenite treatment. Effective protection of gonadal weight loss, suppressed ovarian steroidogenesis, and altered ovarian and uterine peroxidase activities were noticed when 1.0 IU hCG/(100 g body weight day) is given in arsenic-intoxicated rats. Normal estrous cyclicity was restored toward the control level after hCG coadministration, though the elimination of elementary arsenic from the plasma and gonadal tissues was impossible. A significant recovery in the restoration of ovarian and uterine histoarchitecture was prominent after hCG treatment. Adrenal hypertrophy and steroidogenic arrest of the adrenal gland along with altered level of brain monoamines in the midbrain and diencephalons following arsenic intoxication were also ameliorated after hCG coadministration.
The activities of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and its synthetic analogs have been extensively studied in humans as well as in preclinical species, and recent data show potential therapeutic utility in cancer treatment. However, their chronic administration leads to changes in blood mineral ion concentrations, and at high doses can result in symptomatic hypercalcemia limiting therapeutic applicability. To overcome this issue, a therapeutic approach based on administration of intermittent, high doses of 1,25(OH)2D3 has been explored in prostate cancer patients. Despite these and other investigations, limited information is available on the effects of acute systemic administration of high doses of 1,25(OH)2D3 or its analogs. Here, we report a comparative analysis of the pro-calcemic effects of the novel 1,25(OH)2D3 analog BXL746 following acute or chronic administration in animals and humans. While chronic administration of BXL746 to rats, dogs and humans leads to similar modulation of calcemia in these species, single dose administration reveals >1000-fold higher sensitivity of dog compared to rat and human in induction of hypercalcemia and consequent systemic toxicity. Our data indicate that the rat is a more relevant species than the dog for the prediction of human results when acute administration of a 1,25(OH)2D3 analog is envisaged.
The exposure of pregnant rats to delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (delta 9-THC), the main psychoactive constituent of Cannabis sativa, during gestation and lactation, affects the gene expression and the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in the brain of their offspring, measured at fetal and early postnatal ages, when the expression of this enzyme plays an important role in neural development. In the present article, we have examined whether delta 9-THC is able to affect TH activity in cultured mesencephalic neurons obtained from fetuses at gestational d 14. Thus, TH activity increased approximately twofold in cells obtained from naive fetuses when exposed for 24 h to medium containing delta 9-THC. In addition, TH activity was also approx twofold higher in cells obtained from fetuses exposed daily to delta 9-THC from d 5 of gestation than in cells obtained from control fetuses, when both were exposed to basal media. This effect of delta 9-THC on TH activity seems to be produced via the activation to cannabinoid receptors, in particular the CB1 subtype, which would presumably be located in these cells. This is because the exposure to medium containing both delta 9-THC and SR141716A, a specific antagonist for CB1 receptors, abolished the effect observed with delta 9-THC alone. SR141716A alone was without effect on TH activity. Collectively, our results support the notion that delta 9-THC increased TH activity in cultured mesencephalic neurons, as previously observed in vivo, and that this effect was produced by activation of CB1 receptors, which seem to be operative at these early ages. All this points to a role for the endogenous cannabimimetic system in brain development.
Carbon dioxide is the preferred insufflating gas for laparoscopy because of greater safety in the event of intravenous embolism, but it causes abdominal and referred pain. Acidification of the peritoneum by carbonic acid may be the major cause of pain from carbon dioxide insufflation. Carbonic anhydrase is an enzyme that increases the rate of carbonic acid formation from carbon dioxide. Because acetazolamide inhibits carbonic anhydrase, the authors hypothesized that the pain caused by carbon dioxide insufflation may be decreased by the administration of acetazolamide.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind study of 38 patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery during general anesthesia was performed. Acetazolamide (5 mg/kg) or a saline placebo was administered intravenously during surgery. Pain was rated on a visual analog scale (0-10) at four times: when first awake, at discharge from the recovery room, when discharged from the hospital, and on the day after surgery. The site and quality of pain were recorded, as were medications and side effects.
Initial referred pain scores were lower after acetazolamide (1.00 +/- 1.98; n = 18) than after placebo (3.40 +/- 3.48; n = 20; P = 0.014), and 78% of patients in the acetazolamide group had no referred pain; however, only 45% patients in the placebo group had no referred pain. Incisional pain scores were not statistically different, and referred pain scores were similar at later times.
Acetazolamide reduces referred but not incisional pain after laparoscopic surgical procedures. The duration of pain reduction is limited to the immediate postsurgical period.
The development of hematologic abnormalities was prospectively evaluated in 50 children treated for ten days each with oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and compared with a control group of 20 children with similar infections treated with amoxicillin trihydrate. Neutropenia (polymorphonuclear neutrophilic leukocyte counts, less than or equal to 1,500/cu mm) developed in 17 (34%) of the 50 children treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole compared with one (5%) in the control group of 20 children (P less than 0.001). Thrombocytopenia (platelet count, less than 150,000/cu mm) developed in six (12%) of the children treated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, but it did not develop in any of the amoxicillin-treated children (P less than .01). Neutropenia occurred mostly during the first week of treatment and lasted a mean of 8.9 days. Thrombocytopenia was noted between the seventh and 16th day (mean, 10.3 days) and lasted a mean of 12.7 days. Both side effects resolved spontaneously without ill effects. Children treated with oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole should be followed up with biweekly leukocyte and platelet counts, and treatment should be discontinued if severe neutropenia or thrombocytopenia develops.
Degeneration of intervertebral discs (IVD) is one of the main causes of back pain and tissue engineering has been proposed as a treatment. Tissue engineering requires the use of highly expensive growth factors, which might, in addition, lack regulatory approval for human use. In an effort to find readily available differentiation factors, we tested three molecules--dexamethasone, triiodothyronine (T3) and insulin--on human IVD cells isolated after surgery, expanded in vitro and transferred into alginate beads. Triplicates containing 40 ng/ml dexamethasone, 10 nM T3 and 10 µg/ml insulin, together with a positive control (10 ng/mL transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta 1), were sampled weekly over six weeks and compared to a negative control. Furthermore, we compared the results to cultures with optimized chondrogenic media and under hypoxic condition (2% O2). Glycosaminoglycan (GAG) determination by Alcian Blue assay and histological staining showed dexamethasone to be more effective than T3 and insulin, but less than TGF-beta1. DNA quantification showed that only dexamethasone stimulated cell proliferation. qPCR demonstrated that TGF-beta1 and the optimized chondrogenic groups increased the expression of collagen type II, while aggrecan was stimulated in cultures containing dexamethasone. Hypoxia increased GAG accumulation, collagen type II and aggrecan expression, but had no effect on or even lowered cell number. In conclusion, dexamethasone is a valuable and cost-effective molecule for chondrogenic and viability induction of IVD cells under normoxic and hypoxic conditions, while insulin and T3 did not show significant differences.
Few diseases are characterized by high homocysteine (HCY) and low folate and vitamin B12 blood levels. Alzheimer disease (AD) is among these. It has already been shown that DNA methylation is involved in amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and beta-amyloid (A beta) production through the regulation of Presenilin1 (PS1) expression and that exogenous S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) can silence the gene reducing A beta production. Here we demonstrate that BACE (beta-secretase), as well as PS1, is regulated by methylation and that the reduction of folate and vitamin B12 in culture medium can cause a reduction of SAM levels with consequent increase in presenilin1 and BACE levels and with increase in A beta production. The simultaneous administration of SAM to the deficient medium can restore the normal gene expression, thus reducing the A beta levels. The use of deprived medium was intended to mimic a mild nutritional deficit involved in the onset of AD.
Indomethacin has consistently been proven to provide complete and sustained relief of symptoms in hemicrania continua (HC) and chronic paroxysmal hemicrania (CPH), but is not devoid of side-effects. The goal of this retrospective study is to assess the dose and side-effects of prolonged indomethacin treatment of HC and CPH. Twenty-six patients with either HC or CPH were followed during an average of 3.8 years after onset of treatment with indomethacin. Relief of symptoms occurred within 3 days of treatment, with 84 +/- 32 mg/day of indomethacin. With time, 42% of patients experienced a decrease of up to 60% in the dose of indomethacin required to maintain a pain-free state. Six (23%) patients showed adverse events, mostly gastrointestinal and relieved with ranitidine. No major side-effects were observed. These results indicate that prolonged indomethacin treatment of HC or CPH has a good safety and tolerability profile with a reduction of up to 60% in the initial dose.
We report on an 18-month-old boy with an interstitial deletion at 10q23.2-q24.1. This region includes the PTEN gene, mutations of which have been reported to cause Cowden disease. Our patient presented with manifestations of Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba (BRR) syndrome. The BRR syndrome is a rare disorder which presents most commonly in childhood. Cowden disease is a disease of adulthood and is inadequately described in children. Because of the considerable phenotypic overlap between the two disorders, and the cytogenetic and molecular findings in our patient, we suggest that BRR syndrome and Cowden disease are allelic.
Patients with metastatic melanoma (MM) have very few therapy options. Based on reports of responses to paclitaxel and carboplatin (PC), 31 patients with MM were treated with PC.
Data regarding patients treated with PC were abstracted from medical records. Clinical outcomes as determined by the treating oncologist were used for this analysis. Response determination was retrospectively confirmed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST).
Thirty-one patients with MM were treated with PC. Patients had a median of 2 previous therapies, with the majority (29; 94%) having failed prior temozolomide (TMZ) or dacarbazine (DTIC) therapy. The most commonly used regimen was weekly paclitaxel (at a dose of 100 mg/m(2)) and carboplatin (area under the curve 2) administered on Days 1, 8, and 15 of a 28-day cycle. An objective partial response was noted in 8 patients (26%) with an additional 6 patients (19%) having stable disease; therefore, a clinical benefit was noted in 45% of those patients treated. The median time to disease progression for the entire group was 3 months (range, 0-7 mos), with a median overall survival of 7.8 months (range, 1-14 mos). The clinical benefit derived by the 14 patients, which lasted for a median of 5.7 months (range, 2.5-7.3 mos), was considered to be clinically significant. At the time of last follow-up, eight patients continued to receive PC therapy.
The PC combination appears to have definite and clinically meaningful activity when used as second-line therapy after TMZ or DTIC. Further evaluation of this regimen, alone or as a 'backbone' for other agents, needs to be considered.
We report a case of postoperative chylous ascites after surgical repair of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in a full-term neonate. Treatment with subcutaneously administered octreotide resulted in rapid resolution of chylous effusion. Octreotide treatment had transient side effects, with bile sludge and cholestasis.
Misoprostol exposure in the first trimester of pregnancy has been related to congenital malformations, particularly the Möbius sequence and terminal transverse limb defects.
Neuropathological findings of three patients with Möbius sequence related to misoprostol are reported. No previous pathological studies have shown these abnormalities to be associated with misoprostol exposure in utero. The brain stem was cut serially, from the rostral mesencephalum to the caudal aspect of the medulla, and all fragments were stained with hematoxylin-eosin and cresyl violet. Old ischemic-anoxic foci of gliosis, with necrosis and calcification, dorsally situated, were present from the pons to the medulla, involving some cranial nerve nuclei (especially the IV, VII, and XII) that were partially or completely depopulated of neural cells.
The findings suggest a circulatory mechanism to the Möbius sequence, with vascular disruption involving the territory of the subclavian artery, occurring in a critical period of embryonic life between six to eight weeks postconception. These cases add further evidence of the role of misoprostol as a teratogen.
Acute renal failure characteristic of acute tubular necrosis developed in an alcoholic man after therapeutic acetaminophen ingestion, without the development of hepatic failure. This case illustrates the need to obtain an adequate drug history of over-the-counter medication in evaluating acute renal failure in an alcoholic patient.
The concept of 'vasculogenic mimicry' (VM) was introduced to describe the unique ability of highly invasive tumor cells to form capillary-like structures (CLS) and matrix-rich patterned network in three-dimensional culture that mimic embryonic vasculogenic network. Recently, we have shown that CLS formation requires apoptotic cell death through activation of caspase-3-dependent mechanism. In this study, to identify some molecular determinants driving aggressive melanoma cells to express a latent 'angiogenic program' that recapitulates the early events of CLS formation, we focused on the involvement of antioxidants (AOs) in the process of melanoma VM. We have studied the effects of resveratrol, (-)-epigallocathechin gallate, N-acetyl-cysteine (NAC) and Trolox on the ability of melanoma cells to form/destroy CLS. We observed that the formation of CLS was strongly related to reactive oxygen species level. In vivo animal experiments confirmed the involvement of reactive oxygen species level in melanoma VM. To understand the molecular mechanisms of this phenomenon, we specifically looked for induction of apoptosis and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) release. Western blot analysis revealed that the level of VEGF, VEGF receptors (VEGF-Rs) and active caspase-3 dramatically decreased in cells treated with AOs. Here, we also report further experiments designed to determine whether the crosstalk between AOs and apoptosis exists in melanoma VM.
We investigated hepatotoxicity induced by ticlopidine (TIC) in glutathione (GSH)-depleted rats by pre-treatment of a well-known GSH synthesis inhibitor, L-buthionine-S,R-sulfoxinine (BSO). Although sole administration of either TIC or BSO showed no signs of hepatotoxicity, combined administration of TIC with BSO induced hepatotoxicity, which was characterized by centrilobular necrosis of the hepatocytes and an elevation of plasma alanine aminotransferase activity. Administration of radio-labeled TIC in combination with BSO resulted in significantly higher covalent binding to rat liver proteins than that observed after sole dosing of radio-labeled TIC. Pre-treatment of 1-aminobenzotriazole, a non-specific inhibitor of P450s, completely suppressed both hepatotoxicity and the increased hepatic covalent binding caused by TIC co-treatment with BSO. The results obtained in this animal model suggest that GSH depletion and covalent binding may be involved in hepatotoxicity induced by TIC. These observations may help to understand the risk factors and the mechanism of hepatotoxicity of TIC in humans.
A series of 52 patients in whom 0.5% bupivacaine was used to produce spinal analgesia for awake Caesarean section is described. Analgesia tended to be asymmetrical and of limited extent until the patients were turned from the left lateral to the right lateral position immediately after injecting the spinal solution. This movement produced a more symmetrical block with better cephalic spread. Initially 26-gauge spinal needles were passed through a Sise introducer, but this was modified to a needle through needle technique whereby a long-shafted 26-gauge needle was passed through a Tuohy needle which was subsequently used to insert an extradural catheter. The optimal volume of bupivacaine was 2.25-2.75 ml. The mean +/- SEM time to achieve maximal spread of analgesia was 17.5 +/- 0.6 min. The mean- +/- SEM time to the administration of the first postoperative analgesic was 163.5 +/- 7.0 min. The disadvantages of the technique were hypotension and the unpredictable spread of analgesia.
The effect of interaction between dexamethasone (DEX) and morphine on locomotor activity in mice was investigated. DEX alone (1.0 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) did not affect the locomotor activity of mice when injected immediately before the beginning of the session. DEX (1.0 mg) injected two hours before the session did not modify the activity of mice whereas the higher dose (10 mg) increased it. Morphine alone (30 mg/kp i.p.) induced a consistent increase in the locomotor activity. DEX (1.0 mg) injected at the same time as morphine reduced the morphine hypermotility, whereas that injected two hours before morphine had no influence on morphine hypermotility. DEX (10 mg) consistently potentiated the morphine hypermotility both when administered together and two hours before morphine. We conclude that DEX exerts an important time- and dose-related influence on morphine-induced hyperactivity in mice.
To present our own experience with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin applied in ovarian cancer patients.
The group of 32 patients with ovarian cancer was treated with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (LPD) in Klinika Onkologii Klinicznej Centrum Onkologii Branch Gliwice between the years 2004 and 2007. Median age was 47 years. The histoclinical variables potentially influencing the occurrence of the hand-foot syndrome were analyzed.
Hand-foot syndrome has been observed in 11 patients (34.4%) treated with the LPD. The lesions have been present on the skin of hands, feet, elbow and knee joints and armpits. In the analyzed group of patients, the risk of the hand-foot syndrome occurrence increased, however non-significantly, with the increase of number of cycles including LPD (p=0.069) and the number of previous lines of chemotherapy (p=0.067). Other analyzed factors had no negative influence on the hand-foot syndrome occurrence.
It is important to inform the patients about the risk of the hand-foot syndrome occurrence and its management. Early diagnosis allows to prevent the worsening of the hand-foot syndrome and makes it possible to continue the chemotherapy without the necessity of dose reduction and breaking from the therapy.
We hereby report our experience with an index case of a pediatric liver transplant patient in whom FK506 administration was associated with the development of proximal renal tubular acidosis (RTA), as well the prevalence of acidosis and renal dysfunction in all pediatric liver transplant patients in our institution followed long term during a 6-year period. Data were grouped according to immunosuppressant regime: cyclosporine (CsA) only, FK506 only, or CsA with conversion to FK506. A 23-month-old female treated with FK506 after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) performed 15 months earlier presented with a 1-wk history of fever, watery diarrhea and metabolic acidosis. Although the acidosis did not improve following correction of her hydration status, administration of oral bicarbonate was effective. Discontinuation of this therapy resulted in acidosis. Since other indirect measurements of renal tubular function were normal, the patient was judged to have an isolated proximal RTA. In our group of pediatric liver transplant patients converted from CsA to FK506, FK506 administration was associated with a decline in serum bicarbonate (19 +/- 1 vs. 16 +/- 1 mEq/l, p < 0.02); neither blood urea nitrogen nor serum creatinine differed between the two groups. The number of rejection episodes/patient/month was comparable, allowing clinically relevant comparison of relative drug nephrotoxicities. We conclude that proximal RTA may be a relatively common treatable complication of FK506 administration in children.
The clinical efficacy of the noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist ketamine for treating orofacial pain has already been reported. Side effects related to psychotomimetic disturbances, however, limit ketamine use as an analgesic. Theoretically, this limitation could be minimized by using low doses of ketamine in combination with other analgesics. In the present study, the potential synergistic antinociceptive interaction between ketamine and morphine in the orofacial capsaicin test in rats was investigated.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subcutaneously injected with solvent, ketamine, morphine, or combination of both drugs. Thirty minutes later, the orofacial capsaicin test was performed by injecting of 1.5 microg/25 microl of a capsaicin solution into the vibrissa pad. Animal behavior was recorded on videotape and analyzed off-line. The total time spent on rubbing-scratching nociceptive behavior during a period of 42 min was measured.
Subcutaneously administered ketamine (0.4, 1.25, 4, 12.5 mg/kg), morphine (0.5, 1, 2, 4 mg/kg) and ketamine + morphine (0.20 + 0.12, 0.40 + 0.24, 0.80 + 0.49, 1.61 + 0.97, 3.21 + 1.94 mg/kg) reduced the rat facial rubbing-scratching behavior in a dose-dependent manner. Isobolographic analysis showed that the ketamine + morphine association inhibited the studied behavior in a superadditive manner.
These results indicate that ketamine and morphine have antinociceptive effects on the orofacial capsaicin test. Furthermore, their combination produces synergistic antinociception. It is therefore suggested that, used together, ketamine and morphine might be clinically efficient at lower doses than those currently used when administered separately. This could provide a useful strategy for the clinical management of orofacial pain.
Aged (875 days old) and young 42 days old) male F344/NCr rats were given sodium phenobarbital (PB) in drinking water for periods up to 233 days. Groups of aged rats were killed at 30 or 60 days or allowed to live their normal life-span, and the cause of death was determined. Young rats killed after 30, 60, and 150 days of PB exposure. Hepatocellular foci were classified into basophilic, eosinophilic, or vacuolated types according to morphologic appearance of the hepatocyte cytoplasm and were characterized by histochemical methods for the presence of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT). The most common contributing causes of death for rats in both groups were large granular lymphocyte (LGL) leukemia and pituitary tumors. PB decreased the incidence of LGL leukemia but increased the incidence and multiplicity of hepatocellular GGT-positive foci, eosinophilic foci, and eosinophilic hepatocellular adenomas. GGT-positive eosinophilic foci increased in diameter and volume, but not in number, after appearing early in the experiment. Hepatocellular basophilic foci and neoplasms in aged control rats were usually GGT-negative and did not appear to respond to dietary PB. GGT-positive foci were seen in aged control rat livers and were composed of vacuolated amphophilic hepatocytes that differed morphologically from hepatocytes in naturally occurring liver tumors. Young rats given PB had few GGT-positive foci by 150 days on test. Aged rat livers were thus more sensitive to the effects of PB than were livers of young rats.
