We describe a 63-year-old female patient with rheumatoid arthritis who developed complete heart block and features of polymyositis within a few weeks of starting treatment with D-penicillamine. We believe she is one of only three published patients in whom complete heart block accompanies penicillamine-induced polymyositis. The literature on penicillamine myositis is reviewed with special emphasis on cardiac problems. Patients taking D-penicillamine who develop features suggestive of polymyositis may develop insidious, but potentially life-threatening cardiac involvement and must be carefully monitored.
Vitamin D is required for the normal development of teeth and bones. When there is excess vitamin D, systemic and dental changes may occur. This is a case report of a girl who experienced hypercalcemia secondary to excess vitamin D derived from the consumption of milk that was incorrectly fortified. The changes in the permanent dentition to date are enamel hypoplasia and focal pulp calcification. These changes correspond to the timing of the toxemia caused by hypervitaminosis D.
The hypermethylation of tumor-suppressor gene promoter regions has been shown to result in the epigenetic inactivation of many genes. ASC/TMS1 is a pro-apoptotic gene that has been shown to be methylated in many different human neoplasms. The methylation status of ASC/TMS1 was analyzed in a series of colorectal cancer (CRC) cell lines, adenomas and primary colorectal cancers and normal colorectal tissue samples using methylation-specific PCR (MSP). The gene expression of ASC/TMS1 in the CRC cell lines was analyzed using reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR). Methylation analysis showed complete methylation of ASC/TMS1 in 5 of 7 (71%) CRC cell lines. RT-PCR showed absence of mRNA expression in these same cell lines, and expression was restored after treatment with the demethylating drug 5-aza-2'-deoxyazacytidine. The two unmethylated cell lines showed ASC/TMS1 mRNA expression both before and after treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxyazacytidine. Methylation was seen in 20 of 115 (17%) of primary colorectal cancer specimens, but no methylation was seen in 30 colorectal adenomas and 11 normal colorectal tissue samples. Methylation status of ASC/TMS1 was correlated with a series of clinicopathological variables using multivariate analysis. Methylation of ASC/TMS1 was more common in right-sided tumors (p = 0.02), concordant with hMLH1 methylation (p = 0.03) and is a late stage event, occurring in 0 of 18 tubular adenomas, 0 of 12 villous adenomas, 2 of 44 (5%) Stage 1 cancers, 8 of 31 (26%) Stage 2 cancers, 8 of 21 (38%) Stage 3 cancers and 2 of 19 (11%) Stage 4 cancers. The ASC/TMS1 gene is frequently silenced in CRC due to promoter hypermethylation. Methylation of ASC/TMS1 appears to be a late-stage event in colorectal carcinogenesis associated with invasive carcinomas but not with normal colorectal tissue or colorectal adenomas. Methylation of ASC/TMS1 may have implications for cancer prognosis.
We report three patients with acute inferior myocardial infarction treated with aspirin (150 mg) and streptokinase (1.5 MU over 60 min), who developed atropine-resistant bradyarrhythmias during or immediately following streptokinase. The bradyarrhythmias responded to aminophylline, thus avoiding the need for temporary pacing.
Severe hemolysis occurred in a 51-year-old female after a 17-day course of intravenous amoxicillin. A strongly positive direct antiglobulin test (anti-IgG titer 1:2,000) ensued which disappeared after withdrawal of the drug. Both the patient's serum and eluate obtained from the patient's red cells contained an IgG antibody which reacted with red blood cells coated in vitro with amoxicillin, but not with uncoated cells. In addition, high-titer antipenicillin, antiampicillin and antiamoxicillin IgG antibodies could be demonstrated in her serum by a RAST-based solid-phase radioimmunoassay. The patient's hemolysis gradually subsided within 1 week after discontinuing the drug. This is the first report of amoxicillin-induced immune hemolytic anemia.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a widespread, persistent, and highly toxic environmental pollutant. The most TCDD-sensitive and the most TCDD-resistant rat strains (Long-Evans [Turku/AB] and Han/Wistar [Kuopio], respectively) were crossbred to separate the alleles of two genes (Ahrand an unidentified gene "B") mediating resistance against TCDD toxicity. During crossbreeding, a new type of toxicity in livers of both sexes was detected, characterized macroscopically by intense dark green to black color and swelling that appeared most frequently after a large dose (300 micro g/kg or more as a single intragastric dose) and a follow-up period of more than three weeks. Therefore, studies were undertaken to identify the causative pigment chemically and to examine the hepatotoxicity histologically. The pigment fractions were separated by thin layer chromatography and then analyzed by HPLC and electrospray mass spectrometry. The pigment was found to consist of biliverdin and several biliverdin-related compounds. In liver histopathology carried out on male rats, progressive sinusoidal distension and hepatic peliosis with membrane-bound cysts were seen. The clinical manifestations of pigment accumulation were recorded most often in intermediately resistant rat lines such as line B (homozygous for the gene B), but never occurred in rats expressing only the Han/Wistar (Kuopio)-type Ah receptor with an altered transactivation domain structure.
The purpose of this study was to appraise the value of PET in the assessment of the effect of supposedly proangiogenic new therapies such as gene therapy with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene and endomyocardial laser therapy.
Thirty-five patients with end-stage coronary artery disease and class III (Canadian Cardiovascular Society) angina were included. Myocardial ischemia was evaluated with dipyridamole PET scanning and exercise tolerance with bicycle ergometry. Ten patients were treated with naked plasmid DNA encoding for human VEGF165 (VEGF) and 12 patients were treated with laser therapy (direct myocardial revascularization [DMR]) using an electromechanical mapping system. Thirteen patients were treated with standard medical therapy (control).
In both active treatment groups, angina was reduced in most subjects, except in 2 VEGF and 5 DMR patients. In the control group, no improvement in anginal classification was found, except in 3 subjects. On the PET scan, solely in the VEGF group, the stress perfusion was significantly improved (from 57 +/- 33 to 81 +/- 55 mL/min/100 g; P = 0.031). Furthermore, in the VEGF group, the number of ischemic segments was reduced from 274 +/- 41 to 234 +/- 48 segments (P = 0.004) but not in the DMR group (from 209 +/- 43 to 215 +/- 52 segments) or in the control group (from 218 +/- 18 to 213 +/- 28 segments). Bicycle exercise duration showed slight nonsignificant changes in the VEGF group (from 3.6 +/- 2.0 to 4.6 +/- 2.1 min), in the DMR group (from 5.1 +/- 1.5 to 4.7 +/- 1.3 min), and in the control group (from 3.3 +/- 1.8 to 3.5 +/- 2.3 min).
PET showed that intramyocardial gene therapy with the human VEGF165 gene in contrast to laser DMR treatment effectively reduces myocardial ischemia.
An adequate level of arginine in the tissue microenvironment is essential for T cell activity and survival. Arginine levels are regulated by the arginine-catabolizing enzyme, arginase (ARG). It has been reported that arginase II (ARG2), one of two ARGs, is aberrantly expressed in prostate cancer cells, which convert arginine into ornithine, resulting in a lack of arginine that weakens tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and renders them dysfunctional. However, immune suppression mediated by ARG2-expressing cancer cells in lung cancer has not been observed. Here we studied the expression of ARG2 in pancreatic ductal carcinoma (PDC) tissue clinicopathologically by examining over 200 cases of PDC. In contrast to prostate cancer, ARG2 expression was rarely demonstrated in PDC cells by immunohistochemistry, and instead ARG2 was characteristically expressed in α-smooth muscle actin-positive cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), especially those located within and around necrotic areas in PDC. The presence of ARG2-expressing CAFs was closely correlated with shorter overall survival (OS; P  = 0.003) and disease-free survival (DFS; P  = 0.0006). Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that the presence of ARG2-expressing CAFs in PDC tissue was an independent predictor of poorer OS (hazard ratio [HR]  = 1.582, P  = 0.007) and DFS (HR  = 1.715, P  = 0.001) in PDC patients. In addition to the characteristic distribution of ARG2-expressing CAFs, such CAFs co-expressed carbonic anhydrase IX, SLC2A1, or HIF-1α, markers of hypoxia, in PDC tissue. Furthermore, in vitro experiments revealed that cultured fibroblasts extracted from PDC tissue expressed the ARG2 transcript after exposure to hypoxia, which had arginase activity. These results indicate that cancer cell-mediated immune suppression through ARG2 expression is not a general event and that the presence of ARG2-expressing CAFs is an indicator of poor prognosis, as well as hypoxia, in PDC tissue.
Thiethylperazine (Torecan) is a piperazine phenothiazine employed to relieve vertigo. Its use may be associated with extrapyramidal side effects (dystonia, akathisia, tardive dyskinesia) (Sulkava, 1984), but parkinsonism has rarely been described. We describe a woman who, 1 month after the onset of thiethylperazine treatment, developed parkinsonism that disappeared 2 months after withdrawal of the drug. However, cerebral single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the dopamine (DA) D2 receptors ligand 123I-iodobenzamide (123I-IBZM) revealed a persistent reduced DA D2 receptors activity (by 45%) in the basal ganglia (BG), which may be clinically not effective.
Multiple regions on the chromosome arm 3p are frequently affected by loss of heterozygosity in human cancers. A candidate tumor suppressor gene is TMEM7, at 3p21.3, which encodes a transmembrane protein. TMEM7 is expressed specifically in the liver, and the encoded protein shares substantial sequence homology with human and mouse 28-kDa interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) responsive protein. In investigation of the possible role of TMEM7 in development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), we examined TMEM7 expression in 20 primary HCC and 18 HCC cell lines and found recurrent functional alterations. Although TMEM7 mRNA was expressed in normal hepatic cells, downregulation or inactivation of the gene was detected in 85% of primary HCC and 33% of HCC cell lines. To identify the mechanisms responsible, we examined genomic deletion and mutation, and also the effect of inhibitors of DNA methyltransferase and histone deacetylase on cells with low or no endogenous TMEM7 expression. Homozygous deletion of TMEM7 was not detected in 17 pairs of human HCC and corresponding noncancerous liver tissues, nor in any of the 18 HCC cell lines. TMEM7 mutation was not detected in the 18 HCC cell lines (low or normal TMEM7 expression). Treatment of two of six cell lines exhibiting downregulation or loss of TMEM7 with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine and trichostatin A yielded additive increase in TMEM7 expression, implicating aberrant DNA methylation and histone deacetylation in transcriptional silencing of this gene. Ectopic expression of TMEM7 in two TMEM7-deficient HCC lines suppressed cell proliferation, colony formation, and cell migration in vitro and reduced tumor formation in nude mice. Treatment of two highly invasive HCC cell lines with IFN-alpha for 7 days significantly increased TMEM7 expression and inhibited cell migration. These findings implicate loss of TMEM7 expression in hepatocarcinogenesis and suggest that modification of TMEM7 expression by IFN-alpha may have therapeutic relevance in a subset of HCC.
We investigated the interaction of class-I antiarrhythmic drugs as they affect intraventricular conduction of human hearts in vivo. QRS duration in signal-averaged electrocardiograms and standard electrocardiograms were measured as an index of intraventricular conduction time in 17 patients with implanted pacemakers at various pacing rates (100-180 ppm, VVI mode). Single intravenous administration of lidocaine, disopyramide or aprindine prolonged the QRS of signal-averaged electrocardiograms in a frequency-dependent manner. Lidocaine (n = 17) produced significant QRS prolongation from pre-drug control at rates > or = 120 ppm (6.2 +/- 1.4% at 180 ppm), whereas disopyramide (n = 17) and aprindine (n = 17) did so from the lowest rate (8.9 +/- 1.8% to 12.3 +/- 2.9% at 100-180 ppm with disopyramide; 14.7 +/- 1.3% to 19.3 +/- 2.2% at 100-180 ppm with aprindine). Addition of lidocaine to disopyramide (n = 17) showed an additive effect; QRS prolongation was enhanced significantly by 1.4-2.8% at rates > or = 150 ppm. In contrast, addition of lidocaine to aprindine (n = 17) showed a subtractive effect; the QRS prolongation was attenuated significantly by 1.6-2.4% at rates < 150 ppm. Combined intravenous administration of class-I antiarrhythmic drugs causes not only additive but also subtractive effects on the intraventricular conduction of the human heart, probably through their interaction on the sodium channel receptor.
Proteasome inhibition is a novel approach to treating malignancy, and bortezomib is the first proteasome inhibitor in this class to be approved for clinical use. In preclinical studies, bortezomib caused cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in myeloma and lymphoma cell lines as well as in other neoplastic cell types. Phase I clinical trials established an optimal dosing strategy and demonstrated a manageable toxicity profile. Cyclical thrombocytopenia and peripheral neuropathy, which generally abate after cessation of treatment, are the most clinically significant toxicities. Two phase II trials, SUMMIT and CREST, demonstrated impressive activity with bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 monotherapy in relapsed and refractory myeloma, with an impressive 35% response rate (complete+partial+minimal responses) in SUMMIT and a 50% response rate in CREST, using the rigorous European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation criteria. A recently completed phase III trial showed the significant clinical benefits of bortezomib over high-dose dexamethasone in patients with relapsed myeloma. Results of ongoing trials with bortezomib in the first-line treatment of myeloma have been extremely encouraging and have demonstrated the benefit of using bortezomib as part of an induction regimen prior to stem cell transplantation. Importantly, two clinical trials with bortezomib as monotherapy in refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma have shown impressive response rates, particularly in aggressive mantle cell lymphoma.
Ca2+- and K+ -activated ATPase activity of cardiac myosin from normal and hypertrophied rat hearts was investigated. Cardiac hypertrophy was induced by isoproterenol treatment. A nearly 40% increase in heart mass was seen after seven consecutive days of isoproterenol injection (5 mg/kg) as determined by either heart weight expressed as per cent of body weight or by dry heart weight and total protein content. The measurement of ATP hydrolysis revealed that cardiac myosin from isoproterenol-treated rats had a significant decrease (P less than 0.01) in Ca2+-activated ATPase activity at low ionic strength (0.05 M KCl) in the presence of 5 and 10 mM Ca2+. In contrast, in a high ionic strength medium (0.50 M KCl) the K+- and Ca2+-activated ATPase activity of myosin prepared from hypertrophied myocardium remained unchanged. Comparative analysis of protein present in the light chains of myosin showed no alteration in the proportion of LC1 to LC2 in the myosin from hypertrophied hearts, however, a decrease in the absorption of myosin in the u.v. region was observed. On the basis of our results one can hypothesize that there may be some conformational change in the myosin molecule from hypertrophied myocardium, thereby modifying both Ca2+-sensitivity and ATPase activity at a low KCl concentration.
To compare the hemodynamic effects of milrinone during weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in patients with a low pre-CPB cardiac index (CI) <2.5 L/min/m2) and in patients with a high pre-CPB CI (> or =2.5 L/min/m2).
Prospective, randomized, double-blind study.
University hospital.
Forty-eight patients scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery.
Patients were divided into 4 groups: (1) low pre-CPB CI/placebo, (2) low pre-CPB CI/milrinone, (3) high pre-CPB CI/placebo, and (4) high pre-CPB CI/milrinone. Patients received a loading dose of 20 microg/kg of milrinone followed by an infusion of 0.2 microg/kg/min or placebo 15 minutes before the anticipated weaning time.
In the low pre-CPB CI/ placebo group, low CIs and high systemic vascular resistances (SVRs) were observed after CPB. High doses of dopamine and dobutamine were needed, and infusion of epinephrine was used in 5 of the 12 patients for hemodynamic support. Milrinone improved CI and reduced SVR in the low pre-CPB CI/milrinone group. Norepinephrine was needed to maintain an adequate systemic blood pressure in 6 of the 12 patients, however. In the high pre-CPB CI/placebo group, satisfactory CIs and SVRs were observed during weaning from CPB with low doses of dopamine and dobutamine. Milrinone significantly increased CI and decreased SVR in the high pre-CPB CI/milrinone group: 10 of the 12 patients had CIs above the upper limit of normal, and 7 patients had SVRs below the lower limit of normal.
Milrinone was effective during weaning from CPB in patients with a low pre-CPB CI. Milrinone in combination with norepinephrine was a good alternative to epinephrine for the treatment of myocardial dysfunction after CPB.
Melatonin is reported to exhibit a wide variety of biological effects, including antioxidant and anti-inflammatory. Evidence shows the important role of oxidative stress in the etiopathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the protective effects of administration of melatonin in rats with carbon tetrachloride-induced fibrosis for 6 weeks. Hepatic fibrotic changes were evaluated biochemically by measuring tissue hydroxyproline levels and histopathogical examinations. Malondialdehyde (MDA), an end product of lipid peroxidation, and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-px) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels were evaluated in tissue homogenates by spectrophotometry. The nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in liver tissue was examined by immunohistochemistry. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) concentrations in Kupffer cells (KCs) culture supernatants were measured with ELISA. The rats injected subcutaneously with CCl4 for 6 weeks resulted in hepatic fibrotic changes increased hydroxyproline and MDA levels, and decreased GSH-px and SOD levels, whereas melatonin reversed these effects. Furthermore, melatonin inhibited the expression of NF-kappaB in liver tissue and decreasing production of proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha and IL-1beta from KCs in fibrotic rats. These present results suggest that melatonin ameliorates carbon tetrachloride-induced hepatic fibrogenesis in rats via inhibition of oxidative stress and proinflammatory cytokines production.
The dynamic pattern of the immunoreactive prolactin (PRL) concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of the 3rd ventricle was explored by push-pull cannulation during either stimulation or blocking of PRL production in the plasma, which itself was sampled by chronic cannulation of the carotid. Some of the results were compared to the PRL concentrations in CSF samples obtained by 3rd-ventricle puncture. Ether stress, which induced a 4- to 6-fold rise in plasma PRL, altered neither the pulsatile circhoral pattern of PRL in the CSF nor the mean level and amplitude of its pulses. However, the sustained intense hyperprolactinemia induced by haloperidol increased the mean PRL level in the CSF and possibly its pulse rate. Surprisingly, hypophysectomy, which suppressed production of PRL in the plasma, did not alter its baseline level or cycling pattern in the CSF. The possibility that tuberal adenohypophysial cells and/or CNS prolactinergic neurons supply the CSF with PRL is discussed.
Cats are altricial mammals; they are born deaf and undergo rapid maturation of the auditory periphery late in the first and throughout the 2nd week of life. Previous studies, using multiple aminoglycoside administration over several days or weeks, have indicated that there is a reduction in the degree of ototoxicity in young animals provided the drug is administered prior to the onset of auditory function. In order to provide a more precise relationship between the degree of ototoxicity and auditory development, we used a single administration of Kanamycin (KA) and the loop diuretic ethacrynic acid (EA), as the co-administration of these drugs is known to produce a rapid and profound hearing loss in adult animals. Thirty kittens were administered with KA and EA at ages that varied from 2 to 16 days after birth (DAB) using a fixed dose per kilogram body weight sufficient to profoundly deafen adult animals. All animals made an uneventful recovery from the procedure. At 26 DAB, tone-pip-evoked auditory brainstem responses (ABR) were recorded from each animal in order to establish the extent of the hearing loss. The degree of hearing loss was compared with normal ABR audiograms recorded from 6 age-matched control animals. All animals treated with KA/EA at 9 DAB or older had a profound hearing loss similar to adult animals. Animals treated between 2 and 8 DAB exhibited severe high-frequency hearing losses. The extent of the loss was correlated with age (r = 0.63) and body weight (r = 0.72) such that hearing loss tended to spread towards lower frequencies as age and/or weight increased. All animals exhibited bilaterally symmetrical hearing losses which remained relatively stable over monitoring periods of up to 6 months following the drug treatment. These findings imply that the onset of ototoxicity is related, at least in part, to the onset of auditory function in the kitten. The rapid onset of deafness following this procedure makes it a useful technique in the study of both ototoxicity and cochlear development.
After 9 years of treatment for Parkinson's disease, a 68-year-old woman developed the complications of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) while she was still receiving levodopa, bromocriptine and amantadine hydrochloride. The patient displayed a high fever (40 degrees C), impaired consciousness, marked systemic muscle rigidity, tremor and bloody stools. The diagnosis of NMS and DIC was made on the basis of the symptoms and the results of blood serological tests. The antiparkinsonian drugs that had been administered until her admission to our hospital were continued unchanged, while the NMS was treated with dantrolene sodium and the DIC, with nafamostat mesilate. Both of the above-mentioned therapies were effective. The present case is rare in that the patient developed NMS and DIC during treatment and not after the discontinuation of the antiparkinsonian drugs.
Loxapine (0.3 mg/kg s.c.), olanzapine (10 mg/kg s.c.) and SCH 23390 (R-(+)-chloro-2, 3, 4, 5-tetrahydro-3-methyl-5-phenyl-1-H-3-benzazepine; 1 mg/kg, s.c.), but not clozapine (10 mg/kg, s.c.), induced catalepsy in rats. Co-administration of clozapine (1, 3 and 10 mg/kg s.c.) dose-dependently inhibited loxapine-induced catalepsy. Clozapine (10 mg/kg s.c.) also prevented the induction of catalepsy by olanzapine. In addition, clozapine abolished the catalepsy induced by loxapine when it was administered after the response had fully developed. In contrast, the duration of SCH 23390-induced catalepsy was prolonged by clozapine, indicating that its anti-catalepsy effects against olanzapine and loxapine are unlikely to be caused by muscle relaxation, sedation or stimulation. Since SCH 23390-induced catalepsy is reported to be blocked by scopolamine, dizocilpine (MK-801) or 8-hydroxy-dipropylamino-tetralin, it is unlikely that muscarinic blockade, NMDA ion channel blockade and 5-HT1A receptor agonism, respectively, are involved in clozapine's action, but the mechanism by which clozapine exerts this anti-cataleptic effect remains unknown.
Seizures, brain swelling, and cortical necrosis have been observed in the newborn rhesus monkey following a 2 to 4-hour period of intrauterine partial asphyxia produced by halothane-induced maternal hypotension. These clinical and neuropathologic findings are similar to those seen in human newborn infants who have experienced an episode of intrauterine asphyxia from such a cause as premature placental separation. The present study strongly indicates that fetal partial asphyxia, from any cause, in the absence of fetal circulatory collapse or fetal head compression, may be the primary event that sets in motion a vicious cycle of brain swelling and impaired cerebral blood flow, leading finally to cerebral necrosis.
Pathogenesis of pseudohypoparathyroidism type 1b (PHP-1b) is related to the loss of methylation at the GNAS exon A/B region, which is combined with epigenetic defects at other differentially methylated GNAS regions in most sporadic cases. In this study, we established a method for evaluating the methylation status of a CpG island in exon A/B using a methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSPCR). We designed two primer pairs specific for the methylated and unmethylated alleles and evaluated the methylation status of GNAS exon A/B in samples from PHP-1b patients and normal controls. We examined 20 Japanese patients and 20 normal controls, and one primer set was found to be appropriate for diagnosis. Furthermore, we evaluated the clinical data of patients. Weight and height of patients were not significantly different from the normal population. Short stature (adult height ≤ 2SD) was observed in one patient and short metacarpals in two. Obesity was observed in six patients, and no patient showed ectopic subcutaneous calcification. Seven patients showed subclinical hypothyroidism because of resistance to thyroid stimulating hormone, but no patient had an abnormally low free thyroxine level, and none received oral thyroid hormone replacement. For diagnosis of PHP-1b, only clinical data is not sufficient because a few PHP-1b patients show clinical features similar to PHP-1a, and hence, molecular biology techniques are required for correct diagnosis. We concluded that MSPCR is applicable for rapid molecular diagnosis of PHP-1b.
2-Chloroethyl-3-sarcosinamide-1-nitrosourea (SarCNU) has been used to treat patients with advanced solid tumours. However, the molecular mechanisms are not well understood. In the present study, we report that SarCNU inhibited proliferation of human HK-1 and CNE-2 nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) in vivo and in vitro. In vitro study showed that wild-type p53 HK-1 cells were 3-fold more sensitive to SarCNU than p53 mutant CNE-2 cells. G2/M arrest, reduction in p21(Cip1/Waf1) and inactivation of cellular cdc-2 activity were seen in both SarCNU-treated HK-1 and CNE-2 cells. Upregulation of p53, phosphorylated p53 at Ser15 and biochemical markers for apoptosis, such as cleaved caspase-3, cleaved caspase-7 and cleaved PARP, were observed in SarCNU-treated HK-1 but not CNE-2 cells. The levels of cyclin B1, Wee1 and phosphorylated cdc-2 but not total cdc-2 in HK-1 cells were significantly reduced by SarCNU treatment. In contrast to HK-1 cells, decrease in total cdc-2 but increase in phosphorylated cdc-2 at Tyr15, cyclin B1 and Wee1 was observed in CNE-2 cells treated with SarCNU. Introduction of mutant p53 into HK-1 cells resulted in growth enhancement in vivo and increased resistance to SarCNU-induced apoptosis in vitro. Furthermore, CNE-2 cells transfected with wild-type p53 became susceptible to SarCNU-induced apoptosis in vitro but not their growth rate in vivo. The data indicate that in NPC cells SarCNU-induced apoptosis was p53-dependent while SarCNU-induced G2/M arrest was mediated by altering the levels of cyclin B1-cdc-2 complex and phosphorylation of cdc-2 at Tyr15 resulting in inactivation of cellular cdc-2 activity. Our data suggest a potential use of SarCNU in the treatment of NPC.
Although ATRA is a potent renoprotective agent, relatively little is known regarding the mechanisms of its action. The present study was designed to further elucidate the mechanisms of ATRA's action to GS rats and compare that with the beneficial effect of benazepril. Male SD rats weighting 160 to 200g were used in this study. GS was induced by unilateral nephrectomy and intravenous injection of adriamycin (6mg/kg). They were divided randomly 20 ones per group into GS group, GS treated with ATRA (20mg/kg/day) group, and GS treated with benazepril (10mg/kg/day) group. The other 20 ones were taken as sham-operation group, injected normal saline into caudal vein. 12weeks later, all rats were subjected to sacrifice. As expected, the GS group exhibited significant lower serum TP and Alb, and higher BUN, Cr and proteinuria than those of the sham group. Administration of ATRA or benazepril did ameliorate these above disorders of biochemical parameters in GS rats. Extensive renal damage was observed in the GS group, such as mononuclear infiltration, mesangial proliferation, focal segment glomerular sclerosis, and tubulointerstitial fibrosis. The pathological changes in both ATRA and benazepril group were alleviated remarkably. Semiquantitative GSI was used to evaluate the degree of GS in all groups. GSI was significantly higher in the GS group than in sham group. GSI decreased from 21.9+/-6.7 in the GS group to 6.9+/-2.8 in the ATRA group and 7.0+/-2.7 in benazepril group respectively. However, no significant difference in GSI between rats treated with ATRA and rats treated with benazepril was found. RT-PCR analysis revealed the renal expression of alpha-SMA mRNA was induced substantially in GS group as compared to sham group, which could be offset completely by ATRA or benazepril administration. However, expression level of alpha-SMA mRNA in GS rats treated with ATRA was identical to that in GS rats treated with benazepril. We also examined immunohistochemical staining for renal alpha-SMA, TGF-beta1, Col IV, and FN in this model. Weak staining was observed in some glomerulus, mesangial cells, and tubular interstitium of sham rats. Staining was markedly enhanced in the majority of glomerulus, mesangial cells, and tubular interstitium of untreated GS rats. Compared with untreated GS animals, intensity and extent of staining for renal alpha-SMA, TGF-beta1, Col IV, and FN were markedly reduced in glomerulus, mesangial cells, and tubular interstitium of GS rats treated with either ATRA or benazepril. However, no significant differences existed between ATRA and benazepril with respect to the glomerular and tubulointerstitial staining scores. Interestingly, our data documented some differences of therapeutic capacities between ATRA and benazepril. In comparison with benazepril, ATRA exerted no improvement in hypoproteinemia, but more significant decrease in serum Cr level in GS rats. The reasons leading to these variations are unclear. Whatever they are, the properties of down-regulate inflammatory/proliferative programs may make ATRA an attractive potential candidate for future therapeutic use in kidney disease.
Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is the most common hereditary peripheral neuropathy, affecting 1 in 2,500 people. The only treatment currently available is rehabilitation or corrective surgery. The most frequent form of the disease, CMT-1A, involves abnormal myelination of the peripheral nerves. Here we used a mouse model of CMT-1A to test the ability of ascorbic acid, a known promoter of myelination, to correct the CMT-1A phenotype. Ascorbic acid treatment resulted in substantial amelioration of the CMT-1A phenotype, and reduced the expression of PMP22 to a level below what is necessary to induce the disease phenotype. As ascorbic acid has already been approved by the FDA for other clinical indications, it offers an immediate therapeutic possibility for patients with the disease.
Several studies and meta-analyses have implicated a polymorphism in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene, 5-HTTLPR in treatment outcomes of selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors in patients with major depression. In this study we investigated the impact of 5-HTTLPR and a functional SNP rs25531 on the treatment outcomes to escitalopram in depressive patients. The study sample consisted of 135 outpatients with major depressive disorder (mean age 31.1+/-11.6 years, 68% females) treated with escitalopram 10-20 mg/day for 12 weeks. There were no significant associations between 5-HTT promoter region polymorphisms and response rate or mean change of depressive symptoms during escitalopram treatment. However we showed that patients carrying S allele of 5-HTTLPR may have increased risk for some side effects, including headache, induced by escitalopram medication.
Delusional parasitosis has been described in a wide range of patients with general medical conditions, but there are few reports about its frequency and possible pathogenic mechanisms in neurological patients. This paper describes this delusional syndrome in a sample of neurological patients.
We reviewed all clinical charts of hospitalized patients at the neuropsychiatry ward of a neurological center, from January 2005 to June 2009. Cases with delusional parasitosis were described in terms of demographic, clinical and brain imaging features.
From a total sample of 1598 patients, we identified 636 patients with neurological disease (39.80%); of these, four patients showed delusional parasitosis (0.62% of the neurological sample). Their diagnoses were brain cysticercosis (n=1), cerebrovascular disease (n=2), and dementia due to vitamin B12 deficit (n=1). They were women in late life, with depressive features. Three of them had significant cognitive decline. Two of them had paraesthesia and pruritus related to peripheral neuropathy. One of them had pruritus of unknown origin (possibly hallucinatory).
Delusional parasitosis was infrequent in this sample of hospitalized neurological patients. Female sex, advanced age, depressive features, cognitive decline, pruritus and paraesthesia of peripheral or central origin may contribute to delusional parasitosis in this population.
Intracerebral microinjection of the cholinergic agonist, carbachol, into the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat, induced a profound behavioral syndrome consisting of repetitive, stereotyped forepaw treading in an upright posture. Electroencephalographic analysis revealed multiple bursts of sharp waves, 200-300 microV, accompanying the carbachol-elicited motor behavior. Pretreatment with intraperitoneal doses of three anticonvulsant drugs, clonazepam, diazepam, and pentobarbital, blocked the manifestation of the motor behavior. These observations suggest that activation of cholinergically innervated regions of the rat medial prefrontal cortex induces an atypical form of seizures.
Marginal differences in adverse effects become the basis of selection among equally effective drugs, especially in outpatient treatment. Desipramine's side effect profile makes it a particularly acceptable drug for the outpatient treatment of depression or depression with panic attacks. Relevant aspects of desipramine's pharmacologic properties and of prescribing practices are reviewed.
Studies of desipramine in depressed inpatients are reviewed and indications for the use of the drug in clinical practice, as well as selection of patients for research, are discussed. The relationship between plasma desipramine concentrations and response is examined in melancholic and elderly patients, and in those with delusional depression. Major adverse reactions and subjective complaints during studies of desipramine treatment are reviewed. Few side effects were associated with elevated plasma desipramine levels. The clinical significance of 2-OH-desipramine levels was studied, but measurement of this metabolite did not enhance understanding of the drug's effects. A new technique for rapid dose adjustment is presented, for which desipramine appears to be particularly well suited.
