Kidney samples of male Fischer 344 (F-344) rats fed a carcinogenic dose of OTA over 7 days, 21 days and 12 months were analysed for various cell signalling proteins known to be potentially involved in chemical carcinogenicity. OTA was found to increase the phosphorylation of atypical-PKC. This was correlated with a selective downstream activation of the MAP-kinase extracellular regulated kinases isoforms 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) and of their substrates ELK1/2 and p90RSK. Moreover, analysis of effectors acting upstream of PKC indicated a possible mobilisation of the insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (lGFr) and phosphoinositide-dependent kinase-1 (PDK1) system. An increased histone deacetylase (HDAC) enzymatic activity associated with enhanced HDAC3 protein expression was also observed. These findings are potentially relevant with respect to the understanding of OTA nephrocarcinogenicity. HDAC-induced gene silencing has previously been shown to play a role in tumour development. Furthermore, PKC and the MEK-ERK MAP-kinase pathways are known to play important roles in cell proliferation, cell survival, anti-apoptotic activity and renal cancer development.
Seven patients developed clinical features simulating myocardial ischemia less than 72 hours after 12 of 13 separate intravenous 5-fluorouracil administrations; 9 episodes were associated with chest pain, 3 with hypotension, 3 with ventricular tachycardia and 1 with cardiogenic shock. Left ventricular dysfunction was demonstrated by echocardiography in 5 separate episodes, 2 with interval improvement upon repeat echocardiograms. Pretreatment with nitrates and/or calcium channel blockers failed to prevent recurrence of cardiotoxicity during 5 of 6 repeat 5-fluorouracil administrations. Therapy with 5-fluorouracil is associated with cardiotoxicity simulating myocardial ischemia with left ventricular dysfunction. Pretreatment with coronary vasodilators may not prevent this phenomenon.
The purpose of this study was evaluation of ethanolic turmeric extract (ETE; Curcuma longa) effect on overall performance including body weight (BW), body weight gain (BWG), feed intake and feed conversion ratio (FCR) weekly and cumulative for a period of 4 weeks with 300 commercial broiler chicks (Ross strain). These chicks were randomly divided into four groups with three replicates of 15 chicks in each replicate. In group A, chickens were fed a basal diet, in group B, chickens were fed a basal diet plus 3 ppm productive aflatoxin. In group C, chickens consumed a basal diet plus 0.05% ETE and in group D, chickens received a basal diet with 0.05% ETE plus 3 ppm productive aflatoxin. Aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus (PTTC NO:1850) in maize was according to the Shotwell method. The results revealed that there were no significant differences in BW, BWG and FCR between groups fed turmeric at 0.05% and the control group. The supplement of ETE in a diet containing 3 ppm aflatoxin can significantly improve performance indices compared with the group that consumed aflatoxin alone. In conclusion, our results suggest that turmeric extract (Curcuma longa) can provide protection against the negative effects of aflatoxin on performance of broiler chickens.
Erythrokeratodermia variabilis (EKV, OMIM 133200) is an autosomal dominant genodermatosis with considerable intra- and interfamilial variability. It has a disfiguring phenotype characterized by the independent occurrence of two morphologic features: transient figurate red patches and localized or generalized hyperkeratosis. Both features can be triggered by external factors such as trauma to the skin. After initial linkage to the RH locus on 1p, EKV was mapped to an interval of 2.6 cM on 1p34-p35, and a candidate gene (GJA4) encoding the gap junction protein alpha-4 (connexin 31, Cx31) was excluded by sequence analysis. Evidence in mouse suggesting that the EKV region harbours a cluster of epidermally expressed connexin genes led us to characterize the human homologues of GJB3 (encoding Cx31) and GJB5 (encoding Cx31.1). GJB3, GJB5 and GJA4 were localized to a 1.1-Mb YAC in the candidate interval. We detected heterozygous missense mutations in GJB3 in four EKV families leading to substitution of a conserved glycine by charged residues (G12R and G12D), or change of a cysteine (C86S). These mutations are predicted to interfere with normal Cx31 structure and function, possibly due to a dominant inhibitory effect. Our results implicate Cx31 in the pathogenesis of EKV, and provide evidence that intercellular communication mediated by Cx31 is crucial for epidermal differentiation and response to external factors.
Differences in catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) activity and genotype may determine individual variations in the therapeutic response to levodopa or Parkinson's disease (PD) susceptibility. The role of functional COMT haplotypes in PD susceptibility and treatment response has not been examined.
In this case-control study, we investigated the association of the most common COMT gene haplotypes (formed by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs): rs6269:A>G; rs4633C>T; rs4818:C>G; and rs4680:A>G) with PD risk and the association of the COMT haplotypes with the dose and complications of levodopa therapy in PD patients.
A total of 679 study participants (322 PD and 357 controls) were included. Each participant was genotyped for four SNPs in the COMT gene, located in a common haploblock, that has been shown to influence COMT enzymatic activity. The influence of COMT haplotypes on the dose of levodopa administered during fifth year of treatment, and occurrence of motor complications were examined in PD patients. The EH program (Jurg Ott, Rockefeller University, New York, USA) was used to estimate haplotype frequencies.
The estimated frequencies of low (A_C_C_G) and medium (A_T_C_A) activity haplotypes tended to be slightly lower among PD patients when compared with controls (P=0.09, G_C_G_G-high activity haplotype as reference). The frequency of G_C_G_G (high activity) haplotype carriers was higher in late onset PD patients (P=0.04) compared with controls. The mean levodopa dose increased with the activity of the functional haplotypes (low<medium<high). Doses prescribed for G_C_G_G (high activity) haplotype carriers (mean 604.2+/-261.9 mg) were significantly higher than those for the noncarriers (mean 512.2+/-133.5 mg, P<0.05). The COMT haplotype seemed to have little influence on the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Our study showed a possible association of functional COMT haplotypes with the risk of PD. Both nonsynonymous and synonymous SNPs within functional COMT haplotype blocks may be more relevant than individual SNPs in conferring PD susceptibility. The doses of levodopa treatment can be influenced by specific COMT haplotypes and this may be useful in instituting individualized therapy for PD patients.
The objectives of this study were to determine the doses of olanzapine (OLZ), risperidone (RIS), and haloperidol (HAL) used in clinical practice in outpatients with schizophrenia and the rates of occurrence of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and other adverse events, clinical response, and use of concomitant medications.
The present study involved a subset of patients from a 6-month, open-label, prospective observational study. Data were collected by 293 psychiatrists at mental health centers and other outpatient treatment facilities in Spain. Medications and doses used, occurrence of EPS and other adverse events, and scores on the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) of Severity Scale and Global Assessment of Function (GAF) were recorded. Clinical response was defined as a decrease of > or = 2 points on the CGI, with a final CGI score < or = 4.
A total of 2657 patients were included in the analysis. The initial and overall mean daily doses for the 3 groups were as follows: OLZ, 12.2 and 13.0 mg, respectively; RIS, 5.2 and 5.4 mg; and HAL, 13.9 and 13.6 mg. Initial and overall median daily doses were the same in each group: OLZ, 10 mg; RIS, 6 mg; and HAL, 10 mg. A significantly lower proportion of OLZ-treated patients (36.9%) experienced EPS compared with RIS-treated (49.6%) and HAL-treated (76.0%) patients (P < or = 0.001). A significantly lower proportion of patients in the OLZ group (47.8%) experienced adverse events compared with patients in the RIS (57.2%) and HAL (79.8%) groups (P < or = 0.001). A significantly greater proportion of OLZ-treated patients (37.3%) were responders compared with RIS-treated patients (31.5%) (P < 0.05). In all 3 groups, patients who had an initial CGI score > or = 5 received significantly higher overall mean daily doses than did patients with an initial CGI score < 5 (P < 0.001). A significantly lower proportion of OLZ-treated patients (10.2%) were receiving concomitant anticholinergic medication at the end of the study (month 6) compared with RIS-treated (19.9%) and HAL-treated (44.0%) patients (P < 0.001).
The mean daily doses recorded in this analysis based on data from a naturalistic setting are consistent with recommendations based on clinical trials. Compared with both RIS- and HAL-treated patients, OLZ-treated patients were less likely to experience EPS or other adverse events, and less likely to use concomitant anticholinergic medications. OLZ-treated patients were also more likely to respond to treatment than were RIS-treated patients.
This parallel-group, double-blind study compared the somnolence and motivation profiles of 2 second-generation antihistamines, loratadine and cetirizine, in patients with allergic rhinitis.
Second-generation antihistamines were developed to provide symptomatic relief from allergic disorders without the unwanted side effects of first-generation antihistamines, including somnolence. Recent research has indicated that not all second-generation antihistamines are comparable with respect to somnolence and other cognitive processes.
Patients aged > or = 12 years and actively exhibiting symptoms of allergic rhinitis were randomized to 2 treatment groups to receive 10 mg loratadine or 10 mg cetirizine daily at 8:00 AM for 1 week. After patients took the medication, their somnolence and degree of motivation to perform activities were recorded in an electronic diary using a visual analog scale 4 times during the workday (8:00 AM, 10:00 AM, noon, and 3:00 PM).
Sixty patients (31 men, 29 women) were randomized to treatment. Somnolence scores were similar for both groups at baseline and at the time of dosing (8:00 AM). However, there was a statistically significant difference in somnolence scores between the loratadine and cetirizine groups at 10:00 AM (P = 0.008), noon (P = 0.001), and 3:00 PM (P < 0.001), with the cetirizine group showing a greater degree of somnolence. The scores on motivation to perform activities were similar for both groups at the baseline and 8:00-AM measurements. In parallel with the somnolence scores, there were statistically significant differences in motivation scores between the loratadine and cetirizine groups at 10:00 AM (P = 0.014), noon (P = 0.001), and 3:00 PM (P < 0.001), indicating that patients taking loratadine were relatively more motivated during the workday.
The results of this study demonstrate that in patients aged > or = 12 years who had allergic rhinitis, cetirizine use promoted somnolence and decreased motivation to perform activities during the workday compared with loratadine.
The nephrotoxicity of vancomycin and cisplatin and the protective effects of fosfomycin and imipenem-cilastatin on renal function have been studied in rats. The renal clearance of vancomycin after the induction of renal dysfunction was also evaluated by calculating the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and its secretory clearance. Plasma concentrations of creatinine and urea nitrogen increased dose-dependently after vancomycin injection. No such increases were observed after co-treatment with fosfomycin or imipenem-cilastatin. Changes of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase activity in the urine of vancomycin-treated rats were not remarkable compared with those in cisplatin-treated animals. The reduced renal clearance of vancomycin in rats with acute renal failure induced by vancomycin was because of a decrease in both GFR and secretory clearance. However, the changes in GFR and secretory clearance were not proportional-the change in GFR was more pronounced than that of secretory clearance in the experimental groups. In addition, the renal clearance of vancomycin was maintained at the control level after co-administration of fosfomycin or imipenem-cilastatin with vancomycin. These results suggest that vancomycin impairs glomerular filtration more markedly than renal tubular function as compared with cisplatin. Co-administration with fosfomycin or imipenem-cilastatin confers significant protection against the nephrotoxic effects of vancomycin.
The purpose of this study was to complete an evaluation of nevirapine (NVP) toxicity in a cohort of HIV+ pregnant women.
This was a retrospective study of 611 women followed from January 1996 to December 2003. All women who used NVP for > 7 days were included. Multivariate logistic regression was used to test independent association of CD4 and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection related to the outcome of toxic effects of NVP.
One hundred ninety-seven women were exposed to NVP for > 7 days, and toxicity occurred in 11 (5.6%), leading to drug discontinuation in 7 patients. One case of Stevens-Johnson syndrome occurred. No serious liver toxicity occurred except for 1 grade 4 cholestasis. Median CD4 was 344 in women without toxicities and 298 in women with toxicities. HCV was the only significant factor associated to toxicity by logistic regression (odds ratio [OR] 15.61, P = .001).
NVP toxicities occurred in a very small fraction of patients and were not associated with fatalities.
Pterostilbene, a natural dimethylated analog of resveratrol, is known to have diverse pharmacologic activities including anticancer, anti-inflammation, antioxidant, apoptosis, anti-proliferation and analgesic potential. However, the effects of pterostilbene in preventing invasion of cancer cells have not been studied. Here, we report our finding that pterostilbene significantly suppressed 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA)-induced invasion, migration and metastasis of human hepatoma cells (HepG(2) cells). Increase in the enzyme activity, protein and messenger RNA levels of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 were observed in TPA-treated HepG(2) cells, and these were blocked by pterostilbene. In addition, pterostilbene can inhibit TPA-induced expression of vascular endothelial growth factor, epidermal growth factor and epidermal growth factor receptor. Transient transfection experiments also showed that pterostilbene strongly inhibited TPA-stimulated nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1)-dependent transcriptional activity in HepG(2) cells. Moreover, pterostilbene can suppress TPA-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinases 1/2 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt and protein kinase C that are upstream of NF-kappaB and AP-1. Significant therapeutic effects were further demonstrated in vivo by treating nude mice with pterostilbene (50 and 250 mg/kg intraperitoneally) after inoculation with HepG(2) cells into the tail vein. Presented data reveal that pterostilbene is a novel, effective, anti-metastatic agent that functions by downregulating MMP-9 gene expression.
Human skin cells (epidermal keratinocytes and dermal fibroblasts) in monolayer culture and human skin in organ culture were exposed to agents that are known to produce irritation (redness, dryness, edema and scaly crusts) when applied topically to skin. Among the agents used were three well accepted contact irritants (i.e., all-trans retinoic acid [RA], sodium lauryl sulfate [SLS] and benzalkonium chloride) as well as the corrosive organic mercury compound, aminophenyl mercuric acetate (APMA), and 5 contact sensitizers (oxazolone, nickel sulfate, eugenol, isoeugenol and ethylene glycol dimethacrylate [EGDM]). As a group, the contact irritants (including the corrosive mercuric compound) were cytotoxic for keratinocytes and fibroblasts and suppressed growth at lower concentrations than the contact sensitizers. The contact irritants also produced histological changes (hyperplasia, incomplete keratinization, loss of the granular layer, acantholysis and necrosis) in organ-cultured skin at dose levels at which the contact sensitizers appeared to be inert. Finally, the profile of secreted molecules from organ-cultured skin was different in the presence of contact irritants versus contact sensitizers. Taken together, these data suggest that the use of organ-cultured skin in conjunction with cells derived from the skin in monolayer culture may provide an initial approach to screening agents for deleterious changes in skin.
Little is known about the molecular mechanism through which 18β-glycyrrhetinic acid (GA) inhibits metastasis and invasion of cancer cells. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the effects of GA on the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in various types of cancer cells. We found that treatment with GA reduces tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)-induced Matrigel invasion with few cytotoxic effects. Our findings also showed that MMP-9 and VEGF expression increases in response to TNF-α; however, GA reverses their expression. In addition, GA inhibited inhibitory factor kappa B degradation, sustained nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) subunits, p65 and p50, in the cytosol compartments, and consequently suppressed the TNF-α-induced DNA-binding activity and luciferase activity of NF-κB. Specific NF-κB inhibitors, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, MG132, and PS-1145, also attenuated TNF-α-mediated MMP-9 and VEGF expression as well as activity by suppressing their regulatory genes. Furthermore, phosphorylation of TNF-α-induced phosphatidyl-inositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt was significantly downregulated in the presence of GA accompanying with the inhibition of NF-κB activity, and as presumed, the specific PI3K/Akt inhibitor LY294002 significantly decreased MMP-9 and VEGF expression as well as activity. These results suggest that GA operates as a potential anti-invasive agent by downregulating MMP-9 and VEGF via inhibition of PI3K/Akt-dependent NF-κB activity. Taken together, GA might be an effective anti-invasive agent by suppressing PI3K/Akt-mediated NF-κB activity.
Drug-induced vascular injury (DIVI) is observed in rat mesenteric arterioles in response to treatment with phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitors (PDE4i). However, the mechanisms responsible for causing the characteristic vascular lesions are unclear. Nitrotyrosine (NT) adducts, markers of local nitric oxide (NO) production, have been observed in close proximity to the arterial lesions and in the inflammatory cells associated with DIVI. To determine if NO has a direct role in DIVI, rats were treated with the PDE4i CI-1044 at 10, 20, or 40 mg/kg alone or in combination with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME (60 mg/kg) or the nitric oxide donor SIN-1 (30 mg/kg). Mesenteries were collected and processed for microscopic evaluation. NT formation was evaluated in situ via immunohistochemical staining. Serum nitrite (SN), a marker of in vivo NO production, was measured. Compared with vehicle controls, treatment with CI-1044 alone resulted in dose-related increases in the frequency and severity of vascular injury, SN levels, and NT residues. SIN-1 coadministration caused vascular injury to occur at lower doses of CI-1044, compared with CI-1044 alone, with the overall incidence and severity of injury being greater across all CI-1044-dose groups. Following administration of 20 or 40 mg/kg CI-1044, there were also increases in NT immunoreactivity when SIN-1 was coadministered and significant increases in SN. Conversely, coadministration of L-NAME resulted in marked reduction of injury, NT, and SN when compared with CI-1044 alone. The present study suggests that NO production is closely linked to PDE4i-induced vascular injury.
Myoclonus has been infrequently observed in patients receiving lithium therapy, and associated electroencephalographic (EEG) changes have not been well described. We report two women, ages 35 and 48, who, after the initiation of lithium carbonate therapy, had several generalized tonic-clonic seizures followed by myoclonic seizures. In both, myoclonus was associated with repetitive sharp waves on the EEG. Although the epileptogenicity of lithium remains controversial, the occurrence of myoclonic seizures associated with lithium treatment suggests a proconvulsant effect of lithium in susceptible individuals.
Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-mediated vasculitis can be induced by propylthiouracil (PTU) and methimazole (MMI) for the treatment of Graves' disease. This study investigated the prevalence of ANCA positivity and its clinical correlates in Taiwanese patients with Graves' disease treated with PTU or MMI.
Eighty nine patients with Graves' disease who were currently being treated with PTU (n = 47) or MMI (n = 42) were included in the study. Sera were screened for ANCA by indirect immunofluorescence. The antigenic specificity of myeloperoxidase or proteinase-3 was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Thyroid autoantibodies against microsomal antibodies (AMA) and thyroglobulin antibodies were detected by indirect passive hemagglutination assays, and thyroid autoantibodies against thyrotropin receptor were detected by a radioreceptor assay. The correlations among ANCAs, clinical manifestations, gender, duration of treatment, and thyroid autoantibodies were analyzed by logistic regression.
20.2% of patients with Graves' disease receiving PTU and MMI were seropositive for ANCA; all of them were perinuclear-ANCA (p-ANCA)-positive. The frequency of p-ANCA-positive status in the PTU treatment group was significantly higher than in the MMI treatment group (31.9% vs 7.1%; p = 0.01). The mean duration of PTU treatment was 25 +/- 16 months, and was 30 +/- 21 months for the MMI treatment. In the PTU treatment group, the average duration of treatment in p-ANCA-positive patients was significantly longer than in p-ANCA negative patients (32.9 +/- 16.3 vs 19.6 +/- 12.1 months, p = 0.04). In addition, the prevalence of AMA positivity was significantly lower in p-ANCA-positive patients than in p-ANCA negative patients (53.3% vs 90.6%; p = 0.01).
Only p-ANCA positivity was found in long-term treatment with PTU and MMI in Graves' disease. A higher frequency of p-ANCA positivity was found in the PTU treatment group than in the MMI treatment group. However, the presence of AMA was less frequent in p-ANCA-positive patients compared to p-ANCA-negative patients treated with PTU.
Hearing impairment is the most commonly occurring condition that affects the ability of humans to communicate. More than 50% of the cases of profound early-onset deafness are caused by genetic factors. Over 40 loci for non-syndromic deafness have been genetically mapped, and mutations in several genes have been shown to cause hearing loss. Mutations in the gene encoding connexin 26 (GJB2) cause both autosomal recessive and dominant forms of hearing impairment. To study the possible involvement of other members of the connexin family in hereditary hearing impairment, we cloned the gene (GJB3) encoding human gap junction protein beta-3 using homologous EST searching and nested PCR. GJB3 was mapped to human chromosome 1p33-p35. Mutation analysis revealed that a missense mutation and a nonsense mutation of GJB3 were associated with high-frequency hearing loss in two families. Moreover, expression of Gjb3 was identified in rat inner ear tissue by RT-PCR. These findings suggest that mutations in GJB3 may be responsible for bilateral high-frequency hearing impairment.
The high-affinity sulfonylurea receptor (SUR1) is, as a subunit of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel, an important regulator of insulin secretion in the pancreatic beta-cell. The aim of this study was to examine if genetic variability of the SUR1 gene was associated with NIDDM or altered pancreatic beta-cell function. Mutational analysis of all the 39 SUR1 exons, including intron-exon boundaries, in 63 NIDDM patients revealed two missense variants, five silent variants in the coding region, and four intron variants. The two missense variants (Asp673Asn and Ser1369Ala) and two sequence variants (ACC-->ACT, Thr759Thr and a c-->t intron variant in position -3 of the exon 16 splice acceptor site) were examined for association with NIDDM and for a possible influence on insulin and C-peptide secretion after intravenous glucose and tolbutamide loads in a random sample of unrelated, healthy, young Danish Caucasians. The Asp673Asn variant in exon 14 was only identified in one NIDDM patient, and the allelic frequency of the Ser1369Ala was similar among 247 control subjects (0.38 [95% CI 0.34-0.42]) and 406 NIDDM patients (0.40 [0.37-0.43]). The allelic frequency of the silent exon 18 Thr775Thr variant was 0.051 (0.035-0.067) in NIDDM patients (n=392) and 0.027 (0.013-0.041) in control subjects (n=246; chi2=4.99, P=0.03). The allelic frequency of the intron variant was similar among NIDDM patients (0.45 [0.42-0.48]) and control subjects (0.44 [0.40-0.48]). Of 386 NIDDM patients, 17 had the combined genotype exon 18 C/T and intron -3c/-3t (0.044 [0.024-0.064]), whereas 3 of 243 control subjects had the same combined genotype (0.012 [0-0.026]; chi2=4.87, P=0.03; odds ratio: 3.69 [1.07-12.71]). Of 380 unrelated, healthy, young Danish Caucasians, 10 (0.026 [0.010-0.042]) had the combined at-risk genotype. These subjects had, on average, a 50% reduction in serum C-peptide and a 40% reduction in serum insulin responses upon tolbutamide injection (P=0.002 and P=0.05, respectively) but normal serum C-peptide and insulin responses upon glucose injection. In conclusion, a silent polymorphism in exon 18 of the SUR1 gene is associated with NIDDM in a Danish Caucasian population. In combination with an intron variant, the association is higher, and young, healthy carriers of the intragenic combination have reduced serum C-peptide and insulin responses to a tolbutamide load.
Increased intestinal permeability is one of the grastointestinal changes observed in alcoholic patients. However, there are no objective definitions as yet of how alcohol induces pathological changes in the various organs. The action of oxygen-free radicals during ethanol metabolism has been considered a determinant factor of these alterations. The present study was undertaken to determine the effect of niacin supplementation on intestinal permeability and oxidative stress in patients with alcoholic pellagra.
The study was divided into two phases: in Phase 1 we studied ten patients with pellagra before treatment with niacin, and in Phase 2 we studied the same patients after 27 days of treatment with niacin. Intestinal permeability was assessed by the (51)CrEDTA test and the antioxidant action of niacin supplementation was assessed by the determination of lipid peroxidation (plasma malondialdehyde, MDA), protein oxidation (plasma carbonyl group) and of the antioxidants plasma vitamin E and erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase.
Comparison of intestinal permeability by the (51)CrEDTA test before and after niacin treatment showed a significant decrease in permeability from 4.29+/-1.92% to 1.90+/-1.19% (P<0.05). Assessment of oxidative stress showed a significant decrease (P<0.05) in lipid and protein peroxidation (MDA: 1.19+/-0.40-0.89+/-0.27 micromol/l; carbonyl groups: 2.22+/-0.36-1.84+/-0.40 nmol/mg protein).
The results suggest that niacin and vitamin E deficiency in patients with pellagra could be important factors in increased intestinal permeability and decreased antioxidant conditions, recovering to normal values after treatment with niacin, associated to alcohol abstinence and a balanced diet.
The acetylator phenotype of 204 tuberculous patients was assessed (152 men and 52 women aged between 15 and 90). The INH dose was adjusted according to Vivien's protocol, measuring the index of inactivation of Isoniazid I3, three hours after the oral dose. In fixing the transition zone of I3 at 0.50 the distribution between slow and rapid acetylators was 53% and 47% respectively. There was no difference for sex, age or ethnic group. The dosage used according to this protocol varied greatly, going from 1.64 mg/kg/day to 13.3 mg/kg/day with a mean value of 2.74 mg/kg/day for slow acetylators and 6.13 mg/kg/day for rapid acetylators. The usual dose advised is 5 mg/kg/day, which may lead equally to over or under treatment though the former is more likely in our experience. Adjusting the dosage is an important feature in good tolerance of the treatment: indeed only 4 of 86 subjects whose dosage has been adjusted showed elevated transaminases, whereas 34 of 118 patients had raised transaminases in the control group on a standard dose before the adjusted treatment was introduced. The difference was significant between the two groups.
To investigate the effects of the water extracts of Danggui Shaoyao San (DGSYS) in rats used the passive avoidance task.
Impairment in learning acquisition in rats was induced by colchicines, and the level of superoxide dismutase in the brain and the effects of DGSYS on the locomotor activity and pain threshold induced by colchicines were detected.
DGSYS (0.1-1.0 g/kg) attenuated the impairment of learning acquisition induced by colchicine (15 microg) and DGSYS (0.5 and 1.0 g/kg) increased the level of SOD (141 +/- 3 and 135.4 +/- 2.0) in the brain. However, DGSYS (0.1 - 1.0 g/kg) did not affect the locomotor activity and pain threshold in the rats treated with colchicines.
DGSYS can improve the learning acquisition deficit induced by colchicine in rats. The action mechanism of DGSYS may be involved in the increase in the level of superoxide dismutase.
Cell proliferation plays an important role in multistage chemical carcinogenesis. Again, several reports demonstrated that upregulation of metallothionein (MT) expression is associated with increased cell proliferation that may contribute to the pathogenesis of preneoplastic phenotype to frank malignancy. In this study, we evaluated the roles of early DNA damage, altered expressions of liver MT and Ki-67 nuclear antigen, and altered hepatic levels of zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu) on cell proliferation and the progression of hepatocarcinogenesis through premalignant, late premalignant and malignant transformation phases in male Sprague-Dawley rats. We have further studied the association between MT expression and cell proliferation in hepatocarcinogenesis. There was substantial induction of DNA single-strand breaks (SSBs) (P<0.001) and development of hepatocellular premalignant lesions along with significant decrease in hepatic levels of Zn and increase in Cu content following a single, necrogenic, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection (200 mg/Kg body weight) of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) at week 4 of the experimental protocol. Moreover, DEN+phenobarbital (PB)-treatment significantly elevated MT-, Ki-67-, and BrdU-immunoexpressions along with their immunolabeling indices. Furthermore, positive correlations between MT- and Ki-67- labeling (P=0.0006) at various time intervals, as well as, between MT immunoreactivity and 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-labeling index (BrdU-LI) (P=0.0007) indicate that, MT expression might be associated with Ki-67 expression and cell proliferation thereby. The study suggests that DEN treatment may lead to alteration of Zn and Cu levels resulting in early DNA damage along with elevation of MT expression that may ultimately lead to hepatic cell proliferation. The results thus provide evidence in support of the role of MT as a potential positive regulator of cell growth during the early stages of hepatocellular transformation in rats.
The aim of this study was to identify the prevalence of metabolic syndrome and its putative precursors in a naturalistic study of non-acute inpatients at a psychiatric hospital.
Anthropometric and biochemical data collected from the hospital's annual cardiometabolic survey, along with information about prescribed medications, were used to assess the prevalence and predictors of physical health problems in patients with schizophrenia.
Of the 167 patients included in the survey, 52.4% met criteria for metabolic syndrome. A shorter duration of hospital admission and clozapine use were significant predictors of metabolic syndrome. Age, gender, duration of admission and clozapine use were all predictors of individual cardiometabolic risk factors.
The findings from this naturalistic study reinforce the high prevalence of physical health problems in patients with schizophrenia and the important influence that psychiatric treatments can have on physical health. The impact of clozapine on cardiometabolic health appears to occur early in the course of treatment and emphasizes the need for proactive monitoring and interventions from the outset of management.
Dextro-naloxone [(+)-naloxone], an isomer with almost no opiate antagonist activity and no effect on spontaneous locomotor activity, can reduce cocaine-induced hyperactivity in mice. The classical opiate antagonist, levo-naloxone [(-)-naloxone], is known to counteract the excitatory motor effects of amphetamine and cocaine, but it has been tacitly assumed that this action of levo-naloxone is dependent on its ability to antagonize endogenous opioids. Our finding that a naloxone isomer with little or no opioid antagonist activity is also able to inhibit the cocaine effect on spontaneous motility, calls for a reconsideration of this assumption.
Although much research has focused on the effects of ovarian hormones on learning and memory in females, less information is available regarding the effects of testicular hormones on learning and memory in males. Additionally, despite evidence of an interaction of testicular hormones and the cholinergic system in areas of the brain implicated in learning and memory, no information is available regarding the behavioral consequences of that interaction.
We assessed the effect of castration in male rats on working memory during acquisition of a radial maze. We also assessed the interactive effects of castration and scopolamine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, as well as mecamylamine, a nicotinic receptor antagonist, on behavior.
Young adult male rats were castrated or underwent sham surgeries. Beginning 10 days after surgeries, performance on a task of working memory was assessed across 24 days of acquisition in an eight-arm radial maze. Following acquisition, scopolamine and mecamylamine dose-effect curves were established.
Castration of male rats significantly decreased arm-choice accuracy during acquisition. Castration significantly exacerbated impairments in arm-choice accuracy produced by scopolamine as well as mecamylamine, without altering the disruptive effects of the drugs on the rate at which rats entered the arms of the maze.
These results indicate that castration in male rats impairs working memory during acquisition of a spatial maze task. Additionally, these results suggest that the absence of testicular hormones increases the sensitivity of male rats to the impairing effects of scopolamine as well as mecamylamine on working memory.
Results concerning morphological and biochemical changes following intravenous administration of different doses of acetaminophen in dogs are reported. Acetaminophen infusion, as a parenteral solution (500 mg per kg per 90 min), produced fulminant hepatitis characterized by a good correlation between Portmann's grade of lesion and percentage of necrosis. All animals died within 76 hr after intoxication. Analysis of biochemical parameters revealed positive correlation between serum bilirubin levels and severity of the hepatic lesion. The experimental model of acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity is proposed as a model for evaluation of the therapeutic efficacy of new medical and surgical procedures.
Although quinine use is very common, hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) following exposure to quinine is only a recently reported phenomenon, with the first description published in 1991. Previous reports have concentrated on the nature of the hematological process and in particular characterization of the quinine-induced antibodies involved. We present a case of HUS with a clear temporal and immunological relationship to quinine which demonstrates the pathognomonic renal features of HUS. An indirect antiglobulin test with the patient's serum agglutinated red blood cells only in the presence of quinine. Renal biopsy features included glomerular and arteriolar endothelial swelling, capillary loop thrombi, mesangiolysis, segmental sclerosis and segmental ischemia. Early empiric treatment with plasma exchange and corticosteroids was instituted and this resulted in recovery of renal function to normal.
Therapeutic inhibition of angiogenesis has a benefit in the treatment of neoplastic diseases. Cisplatin is a widely used anti-cancer agent; however, it has serious side effects on non-tumor cells and causes nephrotoxicity due to its reactive oxygen species-mediated effect. Thus, a combination between cisplatin and angiogenesis inhibitors may be useful in cancer treatment. In the present study, the effect of sunitinib, a multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor, on the antitumor activity as well as the nephrotoxic side effect of cisplatin was examined.
The antitumor activity was evaluated both in vitro using cultured Ehrlich ascites carcinoma (EAC) cells and in vivo using a mouse model of solid tumor. In addition, the effect of cisplatin and/or sunitinib on the angiogenic marker, VEGF, was examined. Nephrotoxicity was induced in rats by single i.p. injection of cisplatin (6 mg/kg).
Sunitinib significantly potentiated the cytotoxic effect of cisplatin in vitro and in vivo. The nephrotoxicity of cisplatin was evidenced by decrease in the body weight, increase in kidney/body weight ratio and decrease in the percent survival of rats. The toxicity was also confirmed biochemically by measuring some kidney function parameters and oxidative stress markers. Sunitinib significantly decreased cisplatin-induced changes in serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine clearance and micro total protein in urine, renal malondialdehyde levels and reduced glutathione contents. In addition, sunitinib effectively blunted cisplatin-induced proximal and distal tubules necrosis.
The potential for sunitinib to ameliorate the cisplatin-evoked toxicity as well as to improve the chemotherapeutic effect could have beneficial implications for patients undergoing chemotherapy with cisplatin.
