Recanalization of a totally occluded saphenous vein graft (SVG) using commercially available urokinase from human kidney cells has been shown to be effective, but the duration of infusion and complications such as allergic reactions, bleeding events, and non-Q-wave myocardial infarction have limited its acceptance. Recently, genetic engineering has allowed the synthesis of recombinant urokinase (r-UK). Patients with an occluded SVG from 37 centers were randomized to receive a 6-hour infusion of either low-dose (125,000 IU/hour) or high-dose (350,000 IU/hour) r-UK followed by up to a maximum of 18 hours of r-UK (125,000 IU/hour) via a subselective catheter directly into the occluded vein graft. The primary study end point was final preintervention achievement of Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) flow > or = 2 using core angiographic analysis. One hundred seven patients were randomized and 98 received the study drug (low dose 52 patients, high dose 46 patients). TIMI flow > or = 2 after completion of the study drug was higher in the high-dose group (51% vs 24%, p = 0.019). This difference narrowed, but a trend was still evident on the final angiogram after adjunctive mechanical intervention (72% vs 58%, p = 0.254). Bleeding complications were frequent; severe or life-threatening bleeding occurred in 12% of patients on the low dose and 11% of patients on the high dose (p = NS), including 2 intracerebral bleeds, both of which were fatal with 1 in each group. Thus, in patients with an occluded SVG, a randomized trial of direct low-dose versus high-dose r-UK infusion demonstrated increased recanalization rates (TIMI flow > or = 2) in the high-dose arm. Percutaneous revascularization of SVG with r-UK can be accomplished with acceptable success rates, but complications are frequent.
Glucocorticoid hormones administered during the perinatal period transiently inhibit postnatal granule cell neurogenesis, and thus interfere with normal hippocampal-dentate gyrus development. Chronic deficits on behavioral tests sensitive to hippocampal-dentate function result from such treatments. In the present study rats of both sexes received either a high dose (100 mg/kg) or low dose (1 mg/kg) of dexamethasone (a synthetic glucocorticoid) on postnatal day four. Control subjects received saline or nutritional deprivation intended to produce body and brain growth suppression comparable to that observed in low dose subjects. Behavioral tests sensitive to cerebellar (motor coordination) and hippocampal (place response acquisition and reversals) dysfunction were conducted in adulthood. Control and nutritional control subjects did not differ from each other on any behavioral measures. Motor coordination tests revealed no evidence of chronic dysfunction in dexamethasone treated or nutritionally deprived subjects. Spatial learning and reversal tests revealed a gender and dose-response effect for dexamethasone treatment. Low dose subjects were impaired relative to controls. High dose subjects exhibited significant learning impairments relative to low dose and saline or nutritional control subjects. Within the high dose group only, female subjects were more impaired than male subjects. These gender dependent effects may be related to enhanced glucocorticoid binding in the hippocampi of female versus male rats.
A 57-year-old man with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) was admitted because of depressive state. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), an antidepressant, was started on the admission day. The throbbing headache in the right temporal region appeared on day 3, and an analgesic drug was not completely effective. Serum sodium value on admission was 131 mEq/l. After SSRI was started the hyponatremia rapidly progressed, and it became 112 mEq/l on day 4. SSRI was discontinued, and headache disappeared; serum sodium was improved to 129 mEq/l. It has been reported that syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) may be associated with ALS. We consider that subclinical SIADH was manifested by SSRI in this case. SSRI seems to be a cause of headache, since headache disappeared completely by discontinuation of SSRI.
The case of a 12-year-old boy who developed polyuria and polydipsia while on amphotericin B treatment is discussed. The clinical and laboratory features are most consistent with partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Several adult patients have been reported with amphotericin B-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. To the knowledge of the authors, this is the first pediatric patient described with this condition. Pharmacological doses of antidiuretic hormone in conjunction with diuretic treatment significantly reduced the polyuria and alleviated the associated symptoms. The authors propose that in amphotericin B-induced partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, pharmacological doses of antidiuretic hormone may offer an additional benefit to commonly used diuretic therapy.
In inflammation, nitric oxide (NO) acts as a pro-inflammatory mediator, which is synthesized by inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in response to pro-inflammatory agents such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Quercetin (Qt) has anti-inflammatory properties through its ability to inhibits nitric oxide production and iNOS expression in different cellular types. In the present study, we evaluated the effect of a semi-synthetic acetyl (quercetin-3,5,7,3'-tetraacetyl: TAQt) Qt derivative and two natural sulphated (quercetin-3-acetyl-7,3',4'-trisulphate: ATS and quercetin-3,7,3',4'-tetrasulphate: QTS) Qt derivatives on the LPS-induced NO production and iNOS expression in J774A.1 cells. Our results demonstrate that only TAQt inhibited the NO production by decreasing the iNOS mRNA and protein levels. In addition, we showed that TAQt blocked the LPS-induced nuclear NF-kappaB translocation by inhibiting the IkappaB-alpha degradation. Hence, as TAQt inhibited the LPS-induced iNOS expression and NO production, it could therefore be considered as a potential therapeutic agent for the treatment of inflammatory diseases related with the NO system.
To determine the analgesic efficacy of dexmedetomidine in the early postoperative period.
Randomized, double-blind, double placebo-controlled clinical trial.
University medical center.
30 ASA physical status I, II, and III patients with cruciate ligament lesion and joint fibrosis who were scheduled for knee arthroscopy.
Patients were prospectively randomized to receive dexmedetomidine one mcg/kg(-1) intravenously (IV), for 10 minutes followed by dexmedetomidine 0.3 mcg/kg(-1) for 50 minutes or propacetamol two g, IV, for 10 minutes.
Pain scores, time to onset analgesia, and morphine consumption were measured. Open-label rescue morphine 5 mg IV was available as needed during the postdosing evaluation period of 8 hours. Hemodynamic data, sedation scores, and renal and hepatic function were assessed for control of adverse events.
Pain scores with dexmedetomidine and propacetamol were similar. There were no differences in the number of patients who required supplemental rescue analgesia (7/15 vs 4/15; P = 0.44), but total morphine requirements were higher with dexmedetomidine (45 mg) versus propacetamol (20 mg) in the 8-hour follow-up (P < 0.05). The most frequent adverse events with dexmedetomidine were bradycardia and hypertension.
Dexmedetomidine provides a modest analgesic effect after knee arthroscopy, but the side effects of this drug, such as hypertension and bradycardia, may restrict the use of large bolus doses.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) has been found to be depleted in a variety of tumor cells as well as in in vitro transformed cell lines, suggesting that MnSOD may function as an anticarcinogen by protecting the cell from oxidant-induced carcinogenesis. The relationship between MnSOD expression and tumor promotion was studied by transfection of a human MnSOD cDNA into the promotable mouse epidermal cell line JB6 clone41. The effect of MnSOD overexpression on the promotion-sensitive phenotype of JB6 cells was assessed by measuring growth characteristics such as growth rate and the ability to form colonies in soft agar. Compared with the parental and vector-transfected (gpt) control cells, MnSOD-overexpressing cells had a slower growth rate and their ability to form colonies in soft agar was significantly decreased in response to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) treatment. Since the transformation-sensitive phenotype of JB6 clone41 cells is associated with increased expression of the transcription factor AP-1, we compared c-jun and c-fos mRNA expression in MnSOD-transfected and control JB6 cells. Overexpression of MnSOD led to a significant decrease in c-jun and c-fos expression in response to treatment with TPA or the oxidant promoter superoxide. These findings indicate that the promotion-sensitive phenotype of JB6 clone41 cells can be reverted by increasing MnSOD intracellularly. A possible mechanism is that elevated MnSOD expression might change the intracellular redox state by altering the balance of reactive oxygen species. This could lead to a modulation of TPA and oxidant-induced signal transduction pathways controlling cell growth and differentiation.
In the treatment of angina pectoris a double-blind evaluation of verapamil (Cordilox) at two dose levels-namely, 80 mg thrice daily and 120 mg thrice daily-propranolol (Inderal) 100 mg thrice daily, and isosorbide dinitrate (Vascardin) 20 mg thrice daily has been made against a placebo. The assessment was based on relief from daily attacks of angina on effort and the response to a whole-body exercise test. We can find no statistically significant difference between the effects of verapamil (120 mg three times a day) and propranolol (100 mg three times a day) in the treatment of angina of effort. Both of these preparations are more effective than a placebo both in the reduction of daily attacks (P < 0.01) and in the prolongation of exercise test (P < 0.05). Isosorbide dinitrate (20 mg three times a day) appears to be no more effective than a placebo in the treatment of angina on effort, but 14 out of 32 patients experienced headache of such severity that even when the dose was reduced to 10 mg thrice daily this drug therapy had to be withdrawn. Both propranolol (100 mg three times a day) and verapamil (120 mg three times a day) had a significant lowering effect on the diastolic blood pressure as measured with the patient standing (P < 0.01).
Essential thrombocythemia (ET) is a clonal myeloproliferative disorder characterized by sustained increase in platelet number and tendency for thromboembolism. A somatic point mutation that causes a constitutive activation of the JAK2 gene is found in one in two ET patients. ET is more common in women, its incidence being 0.6-2.5/100,000 patient/year and the median age at diagnosis is 65-70 years. ET can affect all age groups, including children (0.09 cases/year), and is often diagnosed in the third-fourth decade of life. Rare cases of familial ET have been reported. Miscarriages are 3-4 times more common among women with ET than in the general population, especially in patients carrying JAK2V617F. Microvascular disturbances are typical of ET, but a major thrombosis (2/3 arterial and 1/3 venous; 1, 2-3% patient/year) is the main cause of morbidity and mortality. Age over 60 years and/or previous thrombosis are validated risk factor for thrombosis. Hemorrhages occur in 0.33% patient/year, mainly in those with a platelet count over 1,500 x 10(9)/L. Progression to myelofibrosis and leukemia is more common in patients carrying the JAK2V617F mutation, and is estimated to occur in 0.16% and 0.12% patient/year, respectively. The ET-related mortality ratio with respect to the general population is 1:1, while for polycythemia vera it is 1.6:1. Low-dose aspirin is useful for microvascular disturbances, and in the primary and secondary prevention of major thrombosis in high-risk patients, but it is not recommended in patients with a platelet count over 1,500 x 10(9)/L. Hydroxyurea is used as first-line treatment in high-risk patients. Other drugs available are alpha-interferon, anagrelide, pipobroman and busulphan.
Adapalene is a stable naphthoic acid derivative that displays a strong retinoid agonist pharmacology. This drug controls cell proliferation and differentiation, and possesses significant anti-inflammatory action. The retinoid action of adapalene are mediated by the ligand-activated gene transcription factors retinoic acid receptors RAR beta and RAR gamma. We describe here how an aqueous gel containing adapalene was selected for the topical treatment of acne.
Short-form questionnaires were used to measure the change in quality of life (QOL) of women with urge-predominant urinary incontinence treated with imipramine hydrochloride. Short forms of the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ-7) and the Urogenital Distress Index (UDI-6) were integrated into a patient questionnaire, which was given to 25 patients with urge-predominant urinary incontinence before and after treatment with imipramine. Demographic data and self-reports of the number of incontinent episodes were also recorded. Total and subscale QOL scores and number of incontinent episodes were recorded and compared with Wilcoxson's signed ranks test, as well as correlated to the change in number of incontinent episodes with Pearson's correlation coefficient. Treatment with imipramine resulted in a clinical improvement or cure in 16/22 patients (72.7%), with an average reduction in incontinent episodes of 78.7% (P<0.001). The average per cent improvement in QOL scores for total IIQ-7 was 42.1% (P<0.01) and total UDI-6 score was 44.1% (P<0.001). All subscale QOL differences were also significant (P<0.01). The incidence of side effects to imipramine was 41%, which resulted in dose changes. Fourteen per cent eventually discontinued therapy. Neither total nor subscale QOL improvement scores were correlated with improvement in number of incontinent episodes. The short form IIQ-7 and UDI-6 are effective tools to determine change in QOL, as evidenced by the effectiveness of imipramine for the treatment of urge-predominant urinary incontinence. Significant reductions in incontinent episodes and improvements in IIQ-7 and UDI-6 QOL scores were both seen, but were not correlated. Short-form QOL measures can easily be integrated into a patient questionnaire to objectively measure a very subjective topic.
Results of controlled clinical trials should be confirmed through safety and effectiveness studies in nonselected patient cohorts treated according to routine clinical practice.
Outpatients with schizophrenia (ICD-10 criteria) entered this prospective, naturalistic study when they received a new prescription for an antipsychotic drug. Treatment assignment was based on purely clinical criteria, as the study did not include any experimental intervention. Safety was evaluated through the collection of spontaneous adverse events and a specific questionnaire for extrapyramidal symptoms. Global clinical status was measured through the Clinical Global Impressions-Severity (CGI-S) and the Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) scales.
From the 2967 patients included, 2128 patients were treated with olanzapine as monotherapy or combined with other drugs (olanzapine group), and 821 were treated with other antipsychotic drugs as monotherapy or combined with other drugs (control group). There were no statistical differences between treatment groups at baseline regarding age, gender, disease duration, or severity of symptoms. Olanzapine was well tolerated and effective in this study. Overall incidence of adverse events was significantly lower in the olanzapine group compared with the control group (p < .001). Somnolence and weight gain were significantly more frequent in the olanzapine group, and akathisia, dystonia, extrapyramidal syndrome, hypertonia, hypokinesia, and tremor were significantly higher in the control group. Clinical improvement at endpoint, measured through the mean change in the CGI-S and the GAF, was significantly higher in the olanzapine group compared with the control group (p = .004).
These results show that olanzapine is safe and effective in nonselected schizophrenic outpatients and are consistent with the efficacy and safety profile that olanzapine has shown in previous controlled clinical trials.
Mood stabilizers and atypical antipsychotics are commonly combined for the treatment of bipolar mania. The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness and tolerability of topiramate and divalproex in combination with risperidone for treating acute mania patients in a naturalistic treatment setting. Seventy-four patients who met the DSM-IV criteria for bipolar mania were enrolled in this study. In order to assess the efficacy and the extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Clinical Global Impression (CGI) and Simpson-Angus Rating Scale (SARS) were measured at the baseline and at weeks 1, 3 and 6. From the baseline to the endpoint, the YMRS and CGI scores were reduced by 67.9% and 56.6% in the topiramate plus risperidone group (TPMG). The YMRS and CGI scores were also reduced by 63.7% and 58.2% in the divalproex plus risperidone group (DVPG). The weight and body mass index (BMI) increased significantly by 3.6% and 3.3% from the baseline to the endpoint in the DVPG, while they decreased by 0.5% and 0.4%, respectively, with no significant difference in the TPMG. There were no serious adverse events in either group. Despite the methodological limitations, topiramate was effective and tolerable for treating acute mania and may also be a promising alternative to a weight-gain liable mood stabilizer (MS) such as divalproex.
Paclitaxel (Taxol) is a diterpene plant product and antineoplastic agent that promotes the assembly of microtubules as well as stabilizing their formation by preventing depolymerization. Myelosuppression was found to be dose-limiting, but peripheral neurotoxicity is also a well known side-effect. Central nervous system toxicity is rare, probably because paclitaxel does not cross the blood-brain barrier. We observed three patients who presented with acute encephalopathy within 6 h after infusion of paclitaxel at normal doses. All patients had received prior whole brain irradiation (WBI) and one patient had prior brain metastasectomy. Computer tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed no evidence of cerebral metastases. An effect from other organ toxicities was excluded in all patients. All recovered spontaneously within 4-6 h. From this we can conclude that paclitaxel can cause severe acute transient encephalopathy, which may occur more frequently after prior WBI and/or surgery due to alteration of small vessel function.
Hypotensive effect of the extract of leaves of C. colebrookianum was investigated. An extremely bitter fraction was isolated, which gave positive test for alkaloids. The fraction produced fall of blood pressure in a dose dependent manner. The fall of blood pressure was blocked by atropine. Hypertensive effects of adrenaline and noradrenaline were slightly antagonised by the alkaloidal extract.
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are heterogeneous neoplasms for which there is no standard treatment. We have previously proposed an effective polychemotherapy (5-fluorouracil, dacarbazine and epirubicin), which only produced objective responses of brief duration. The present study aimed to assess in a multidisciplinary manner the efficacy of the same regimen at intensified doses in patients with advanced NETs.
Eighty-two consecutive patients entered the study, of whom 21 had inoperable, locally advanced disease and 61 had metastatic disease. Seventy-two patients were evaluated for objective, biochemical and subjective responses. Response rate, time to progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS) were evaluated based on histotype.
An objective response was observed in 20 patients (intention-to-treat and standard analysis 24.4% and 27.8%, respectively). Complete biochemical and subjective responses were obtained in 25.1% and 38.9% of the cases. The median duration of treatment was 4 months and the objective responses had a median duration of 38 months. After a 60-month follow-up the median TTP and OS were 21 and 38 months, respectively.
Our polychemotherapy regimen is effective, with long duration, and is well tolerated both for gastroenteropancreatic and lung NETs, as well as for tumours with a more aggressive clinical behaviour. The new WHO endocrine tumour histotyping, examining also the tumour biology, may give additional information for selecting patients to chemotherapy.
Cardiovascular adverse effects are amongst the most serious observed with antidepressant drugs and are often due to effects on cardiac conduction and refractoriness. However, such electrophysiologic effects may not be evident when using conventional electrocardiographic measures. Forty patients with major depressive disorder (according to DSM-III-R criteria) were enrolled in a 6-week double-blind parallel group study of fluoxetine (N = 20) or doxepin (N = 20). Cardiac conduction (QRS duration) and repolarization (corrected QT interval, QTc), were measured using signal-averaged electrocardiograms and 12-lead electrocardiogram at baseline and after 2, 4, and 6 weeks of treatment. Patients taking doxepin (mean daily dosage at 6 weeks 169 +/- 42 mg) were similar to those taking fluoxetine (37 +/- 18 mg) for demographic variables and improvement in depression scores but volunteered more side effects (p = 0.011), especially dry mouth (p < 0.001) and dizziness/lightheadedness (p = 0.005). After 6 weeks, doxepin increased heart rate (69 +/- 12 to 81 +/- 13 beats per minute; p = 0.0003) and prolonged QTc (from 417 +/- 36 to 439 +/- 28 msec; p < 0.03); overall QRS duration was not prolonged but was correlated with serum doxepin concentrations (r = 0.78, p < 0.0001). Fluoxetine had no effect on QTc (428 +/- 24 msec at baseline vs. 430 +/- 24 msec at 6 weeks) or QRS duration (97 +/- 12 msec at baseline vs. 94 +/- 12 msec at 6 weeks). The standard 12-lead electrocardiogram showed no significant change in QRS or QTc for either drug. Using a sensitive measure of electrocardiographic effects, doxepin prolongs repolarization and may slow cardiac conduction. Fluoxetine has no measurable electrocardiographic effects, which suggests an increased safety margin for cardiac adverse effects. The ability of the signal-averaged electrocardiogram to resolve small changes in the electrocardiogram is useful in the assessment of drugs with subtle electrophysiologic effects.
A 24-year-old woman presented to the department of plastic surgery for surgical excision of a nevus on her nose. Although her history failed to reveal any cardiac disease, her pre-operative electrocardiogram (ECG) showed an extremely prolonged QT interval of up to 528 msec. Repeated history-taking after admission revealed three syncopal episodes associated with both physical and emotional stress, and because the two-dimensional echocardiography and exercise ECG test were normal except for the prolonged QT interval, an epinephrine test was done to assess QT interval changes after an epinephrine infusion. Immediately after a bolus injection of epinephrine (0.1 microg/kg), marked prolongation of the QT interval developed, followed by polymorphic ventricular tachycardia which was immediately terminated with direct current shock, resulting in the diagnosis of a long QT syndrome (LQTS), probably type 1. Gene studies were recommended, but declined by the patient and her family. She was instructed to avoid competitive sports, and a beta-blocker was prescribed after which she remained symptom-free.
There is increasing evidence that a subgroup of patients with monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis and nocturnal polyuria resistant to desmopressin may have an abnormal circadian rhythm of renal tubular sodium handling. The pathogenesis of this phenomenon remains to be elucidated. If the increased sodium excretion overnight results in desmopressin resistance, decreasing the sodium excretion overnight may result in subsequently better desmopressin response.
We conducted a pilot study of the anti-enuretic and antidiuretic effects of desmopressin combined with 0.5 mg/kg furosemide daily in patients with desmopressin resistant nocturnal polyuria despite dietary sodium and protein restriction. Values were plotted against the reference frame of a desmopressin responsive enuresis group.
Baseline values revealed significantly lower urinary osmolality and higher diuresis rate overnight compared to the reference population (monosymptomatic nocturnal enuresis desmopressin responders). Introduction of desmopressin resulted in normalization of nocturnal urinary osmolality. However, nocturnal polyuria persisted, despite reaching maximal urinary concentration overnight. Although protein and sodium restriction resulted in a significant decrease in urinary osmolality and diuresis rate, the difference was not clinically important enough to reach normal values or to achieve continence. Furosemide in the morning resulted in a significant increase in diuresis and osmotic and sodium excretion during the day, and decreased nighttime diuresis and osmotic excretion. In 9 of 12 patients the nocturnal antidiuretic effect resulted in an anti-enuretic effect, defined as enuresis less than 1 wet night per month. In 3 patients insufficient anti-enuretic effects were obtained despite significant antidiuresis.
This pilot study clearly demonstrates that introduction of early morning furosemide results in a significantly lower nocturnal diuresis rate. Reduced diuresis associated with unchanged urinary osmolality results in decreased nocturnal osmotic excretion in compensation for increased osmotic (sodium) excretion during the daytime.
This study was intended to elucidate the efficacy of an erythropoietin analog in cardiorenal dysfunction syndrome using a rodent model. Cardiorenal dysfunction was induced using doxorubicin hydrochloride (DXR). Lower doses (3 microg/kg) and higher doses (30 microg/kg) of darbepoetin alfa (DA) were used for intervention. Blood examinations for creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, iron, and hemoglobin were performed until 11 weeks after starting DA administration. Urine collection was performed 10 weeks after starting DA, and protein, iron, and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase levels and antioxidation capacity of DA were determined. The dry left ventricular heart weight was measured, when the animals were sacrificed 11 weeks after starting DA administration. Histological analyses were performed for interstitial fibrotic changes and iron deposition in the kidney. Administration of DA markedly improved anemia to the normal control level and significantly alleviated DXR-induced increases of creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, renal interstitial fibrosis, renal iron deposition, and dry left ventricular weight, but serum and urinary iron and urinary protein and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase levels were unchanged. The urinary total radical-trapping antioxidant capacity was improved to the normal control level in DA-treated animals. DA reduced the DXR-induced cardiorenal injury. This improvement was achieved, when anemia was corrected to the normal control level.
