Cannabis increases the risk of schizophrenia in genetically vulnerable individuals. In this study we aim to show that the schizophrenia susceptibility gene neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) modulates the development of tolerance to cannabinoids in mice. Nrg1 heterozygous (HET) and wild-type (WT) mice were treated daily for 15 d with the synthetic analogue of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol, CP55,940 (0.4 mg/kg). We measured the impact of this exposure on locomotor activity, anxiety, prepulse inhibition (PPI), body temperature and FosB/ΔFosB immunohistochemistry. Tolerance to CP55,940-induced hypothermia and locomotor suppression developed more rapidly in Nrg1 HET mice than WT mice. Conversely in the light-dark test, while tolerance to the anxiogenic effect of CP55,940 developed in WT mice over days of testing, Nrg1 hypomorphs maintained marked anxiety even after 15 d of treatment. Repeated cannabinoid exposure selectively increased FosB/ΔFosB expression in the lateral septum, ventral part (LSV) of Nrg1 HET but not WT mice. On day 1 of exposure opposite effects of CP55,940 treatment were observed on PPI, i.e. it was facilitated in Nrg1 hypomorphs and impaired in WT mice, despite the drug significantly impairing the acoustic startle reflex equally in both genotypes. These effects of CP55,940 on PPI were not maintained as both genotypes became tolerant to cannabinoid action with repeated exposure. Our results highlight that Nrg1 modulates the development of cannabinoid tolerance dependent on the parameter being measured. Furthermore, these data reinforce the notion that the VLS is an important brain region involved in Nrg1-cannabinoid interactions.
A comparison was made of the sensitivity of ECG, ultrastructural heart pathology, and plasma enzymes CK-MB and alpha-HBDH as methods to assess doxorubicin cardiotoxicity in adult beagle dogs given doxorubicin 30 mg/m2 i.v. once a week for three times. A progressive increase in JT and QT intervals, in corrected JT (JTc) and QT (QTc) intervals as well as a reduction in both T wave amplitude and RR duration, were observed in doxorubicin-treated dogs; the electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities were associated with doxorubicin-induced ultrastructural changes in cardiac tissue, consisting of dilation of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, multiform, flasklike invaginations of T-tubules containing electrondense material, and interruption of the junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum, which became more severe as the observation period progressed. On the contrary, doxorubicin treatment was associated with transient changes in plasma CK-MB and alpha-HBDH, which were unrelated to the severity of chronic cardiotoxicity. Overall results suggest that the monitoring of the ECG parameters related to the repolarization of the cardiac muscle, and particularly JT and JTc, might be regarded as a noninvasive method for the study of doxorubicin cardiotoxocity in the dog.
The stereospecific 5β-reduction of Δ(4)-3-ketosterols is very difficult to achieve chemically and introduces a 90° bend between ring A and B of the planar steroid. In mammals, the reaction is catalyzed by steroid 5β-reductase, a member of the aldo-keto reductase (AKR) family. The human enzyme, AKR1D1, plays an essential role in bile-acid biosynthesis since the 5β-configuration is required for the emulsifying properties of bile. Deficient 5β-reductase activity can lead to cholestasis and neo-natal liver failure and is often lethal if it remains untreated. In five patients with 5β-reductase deficiency, sequencing revealed individual, non-synonymous point mutations in the AKR1D1 gene: L106F, P133R, G223E, P198L and R261C. However, mapping these mutations to the AKR1D1 crystal structure failed to reveal any obvious involvement in substrate or cofactor binding or catalytic mechanism, and it remained unclear whether these mutations could be causal for the observed disease. We analyzed the positions of the reported mutations and found that they reside in highly conserved portions of AKR1D1 and hypothesized that they would likely lead to changes in protein folding, and hence enzyme activity. Attempts to purify the mutant enzymes for further characterization by over-expression in Escherichia coli yielded sufficient amounts of only one mutant (P133R). This enzyme exhibited reduced K(m) and k(cat) values with the bile acid intermediate Δ(4)-cholesten-7α-ol-3-one as substrate reminiscent of uncompetitive inhibition. In addition, P133R displayed no change in cofactor affinity but was more thermolabile as judged by CD-spectroscopy. When all AKR1D1 mutants were expressed in HEK 293 cells, protein expression levels and enzyme activity were dramatically reduced. Furthermore, cycloheximide treatment revealed decreased stability of several of the mutants compared to wild type. Our data show, that all five mutations identified in patients with functional bile acid deficiency strongly affected AKR1D1 enzyme functionality and therefore may be causal for this disease.
The widespread use of tributyltin (TBT) as biocides in antifouling paints and agricultural chemicals has led to environmental and marine pollution. Human exposure occurs mainly through TBT contaminated seafood and drinking water. It is a well known endocrine disruptor in mammals, but its molecular mechanism in testicular damage is largely unexplored. This study was therefore, designed to ascertain effects of tributyltin chloride (TBTC) on sertoli-germ cell co-culture in ex-vivo and in the testicular tissue in-vivo conditions. An initial Ca(2+) rise followed by ROS generation and glutathione depletion resulted in oxidative damage and cell death. We observed p38 and JNK phosphorylation, stress proteins (Nrf2, MT and GST) induction and mitochondrial depolarization leading to caspase-3 activation. Prevention of TBTC reduced cell survival and cell death by Ca(2+) inhibitors and free radical scavengers specify definitive role of Ca(2+) and ROS. Sertoli cells were found to be more severely affected which in turn can hamper germ cells functionality. TBTC exposure in-vivo resulted in increased tin content in the testis with enhanced Evans blue leakage into the testicular tissue indicating blood-testis barrier disruption. Tesmin levels were significantly diminished and histopathological studies revealed marked tissue damage. Our data collectively indicates the toxic manifestations of TBTC on the male reproductive system and the mechanisms involved.
Cycle-dependent breast complaints in most cases are based on a hormonal dysbalance with estrogen predominance and development of an interstitial edema. They preferably occur between 30-50 years of age with possibly appearing mastopathic tissue changes. Whereas the treatment with antiphlogistic, diuretic and other measures only effects symptomatically, a causal therapy effect can be achieved by systemic and local hormone applications. Within the bounds of a clinical study 92 women were submitted to a local treatment with a one per cent alcoholic progesterone ointment at least lasting a period of 3 months. In 52 Patient with primary ointment treatment an essential improvement of the complaints could be reached in 87% (p less than 0.05). In 40 women with secondary local hormonal application the improvement-rate was 70%. Side effects could be not established. The good therapeutic result and acceptance of this therapy form make clear that the permission of an alcoholic progesterone ointment as standard prescription would represent a therapeutic enrichment.
Leptin plays a pivotal role in the regulation of energy homeostasis and metabolism, primarily by acting on neurons in the hypothalamus that control food intake. However, leptin receptors are more widely expressed in the brain suggesting additional, as yet unknown, functions of leptin. Here we show that both embryonic and adult hippocampal neurons express leptin receptors coupled to activation of STAT3 and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt signaling pathways. Leptin protects hippocampal neurons against cell death induced by neurotrophic factor withdrawal and excitotoxic and oxidative insults. The neuroprotective effect of leptin is antagonized by the JAK2-STAT3 inhibitor AG-490, STAT3 decoy DNA, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt inhibitors but not by an inhibitor of MAPK. Leptin induces the production of manganese superoxide dismutase and the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-xL, and stabilizes mitochondrial membrane potential and lessens mitochondrial oxidative stress. Leptin receptor-deficient mice (db/db mice) are more vulnerable to seizure-induced hippocampal damage, and intraventricular administration of leptin protects neurons against seizures. By enhancing mitochondrial resistance to apoptosis and excitotoxicity, our findings suggest that leptin signaling serves a neurotrophic function in the developing and adult hippocampus.
In West Berlin in the autumn of 1975 through the following 5 months we observed 18 juvenile patients who had a toxic polyneuropathy and had sniffed a glue thinner. The neurological picture consisted of a symmetrical, progressive, ascending, mainly motor, polyneuropathy with pronounced muscle atrophy and characteristic vegetative alterations. The height of the disease was reached after 1 1/2-2 1/2 months and was characterized by tetraplegia in 7 patients. After 8 months all patients still had a motor deficit. Nerve biopsy showed paranodal axon swelling, dense masses of neurofilaments and secondary myelin retraction. The neurological and morphological data correspond to the "glue sniffer's neuropathy" and the n-hexane and MBK polyneuropathy after industrial exposure, as described in 10 cases to date. However, there was no MBK in the glue thinner. The polyneuropathies occurred in close time relation with the denaturation of the thinner with MEK (2-butanone). It is concluded from the data n-hexane and MBK have a common toxic mechanism with primary axonal changes and that there is an additional synergistic effect of MEK.
The complex immunological effects of interferon and ribavirin therapy in hepatitis C virus may also exacerbate or trigger the development of autoimmunity. A rare case of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada disease associated with ribavirin and interferon-alpha treatment for chronic hepatitis C infection is presented. The potential role of interferon and/or ribavirin therapy is discussed. Physicians should be aware of the association between interferon-alpha 2a and ribavirin use for hepatitis C infection and the development of Harada disease. This severe ophthalmological complication requires close follow-up of hepatitis C virus-infected patients on interferon-alpha treatment.
During the past 2 decades there have been chemotherapeutic advances in the management of patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer. Nevertheless, new drug combinations aimed at increasing response and survival and decreasing toxicities are under investigation. The aim of this phase II study is to determine the feasibility, efficacy and toxicity of docetaxel at a dose of 75 mg/m2 in combination with Carboplatin at an area under the curve (AUC) of 6, as first line treatment in patients with advanced ovarian cancer. 37 patients with stage III-IV epithelial ovarian cancer were entered, and are currently evaluable for response and toxicity. Treatment was well tolerated. The most common grade III and IV toxicities were leukopenia and neutropenia. The incidence of febrile neutropenia was 16.2%. Grade II and III sensory peripheral neuropathy occurred in 8.1% of patients. Peripheral neuropathy resolved in two patients and persisted for more than 10 months in one patient. An overall clinical response of 89% was documented (95% CI 74.5% to 96.9%). Carboplatin and docetaxel administered according to our protocol is an effective alternative to other existing platinum-taxane based combinations. This treatment is associated with low incidence of sensory peripheral neuropathy, which is generally associated with better patient compliance and quality of life.
Minocycline is the most widely prescribed systemic antibiotic for the management of acne. In the past several years, increasing attention has been paid to the drug, both for its potential use as a disease-modifying antirheumatic agent and for its propensity to engender untoward autoimmune reactions, including serum sickness-like disease, drug-induced lupus, and autoimmune hepatitis. This paper reviews the evidence for minocycline as an anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory agent, its utility in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, and the spectrum of adverse reactions that have been ascribed to the drug in the past 5 years.
Recently, the USA FDA has made a labeling change to the drug information contained in carbamazepine. Owing to recent data implicating the HLA allele B*1502 as a marker for carbamazepine-induced Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis in Han Chinese, the FDA recommends genotyping all Asians for the allele. This allele is seen in high frequency in many Asian populations other than Han Chinese, but there are few data on whether the allele is a marker for this severe outcome in anyone other than Han Chinese. In fact, the association has not been found in Caucasian patients. We review the data that prompted this recommendation, list data for other ethnic groups, both Asian and non-Asian, and briefly discuss the implication of this recommendation for clinical practice.
The chronic feeding of small amounts (0.3-3% of diet weight) of certain amino derivatives of caproate resulted in hyperglycemia, an elevated glucose tolerance curve and, occasionally, glucosuria. Effective compounds included norleucine, norvaline, glutamate, epsilon-aminocaproate, methionine, and leucine.
Several topical therapies have been proposed to treat acute pain from exposure to oleoresin capsaicin (OC). The purpose of this study was to determine the most beneficial topical treatment for relieving contact dermatitis pain caused by OC exposure.
We performed a single-blind, randomized human experiment evaluating the effectiveness of five different regimens for the treatment of topical facial OC exposure. Forty-nine volunteer, adult law enforcement trainees were exposed to OC during a routine training exercise and were randomized to one of five treatment groups (aluminum hydroxide-magnesium hydroxide [Maalox], 2% lidocaine gel, baby shampoo, milk, or water). After initial self-decontamination with water, subjects rated their pain using a 10-cm visual analog scale (VAS) and then every 10 minutes, for a total of 60 minutes. Subjects were blinded to previous VAS recordings. A two-factor analysis of variance (ANOVA) (treatment, time) with repeated measures on one factor (time) was performed using a 1.3-cm difference as clinically significant.
Forty-four men and five women, with an average age of 24 years, participated in the study. There was a significant difference in pain with respect to time (p < 0.001), but no significant interaction between time and treatment (p > 0.05). There was no significant difference in pain between treatment groups (p > 0.05).
In this study, there was no significant difference in pain relief provided by five different treatment regimens. Time after exposure appeared to be the best predictor for decrease in pain.
Cocaine is rapidly metabolized to major metabolites, benzoylecgonine (BE) and ecgonine methyl ester (EME), and minor metabolites, norcocaine, p-hydroxycocaine, m-hydroxycocaine, p-hydroxybenzoylecgonine (pOHBE), and m-hydroxybenzoylecgonine. This IRB-approved study examined cocaine and metabolite plasma concentrations in 18 healthy humans who provided written informed consent to receive low (75 mg/70 kg) and high (150 mg/70 kg) subcutaneous cocaine hydrochloride doses. Plasma specimens, collected prior to and up to 48 h after dosing, were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (2.5 ng/mL limits of quantification). Cocaine was detected within 5 min, with mean+/-SE peak concentrations of 300.4+/-24.6 ng/mL (low) and 639.1+/-56.8 ng/mL (high) 30-40 min after dosing. BE and EME generally were first detected in plasma 5-15 min post-dose; 2-4 h after dosing, BE and EME reached mean maximum concentrations of 321.3+/-18.4 (low) and 614.7+/-46.0 ng/mL (high) and 47.4+/-3.0 (low) and 124.4+/-18.2 ng/mL (high), respectively. Times of last detection were BE>EME>cocaine. Minor metabolites were detected much less frequently for up to 32 h, with peak concentrations<or=18 ng/mL for all analytes except pOHBE (up to 57.7 ng/mL). These data improve our knowledge of the pharmacokinetics of cocaine and its major and minor metabolites in plasma following controlled subcutaneous cocaine administration.
The widespread environmental pollutant perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), detected in most animal species including the general human population, exerts several effects on experimental animals, e.g., hepatotoxicity, immunotoxicity and developmental toxicity. However, detailed information on the tissue distribution of PFOS in mammals is scarce and, in particular, the lack of available information regarding environmentally relevant exposure levels limits our understanding of how mammals (including humans) may be affected. Accordingly, we characterized the tissue distribution of this compound in mice, an important experimental animal for studying PFOS toxicity. Following dietary exposure of adult male C57/BL6 mice for 1-5 days to an environmentally relevant (0.031 mg/kg/day) or a 750-fold higher experimentally relevant dose (23 mg/kg/day) of ³⁵S-PFOS, most of the radioactivity administered was recovered in liver, bone (bone marrow), blood, skin and muscle, with the highest levels detected in liver, lung, blood, kidney and bone (bone marrow). Following high daily dose exposure, PFOS exhibited a different distribution profile than with low daily dose exposure, which indicated a shift in distribution from the blood to the tissues with increasing dose. Both scintillation counting (with correction for the blood present in the tissues) and whole-body autoradiography revealed the presence of PFOS in all 19 tissues examined, with identification of thymus as a novel site for localization for PFOS and bone (bone marrow), skin and muscle as significant body compartments for PFOS. These findings demonstrate that PFOS leaves the bloodstream and enters most tissues in a dose-dependent manner.
Concentrations of meperidine and its active metabolite, normeperidine, were measured in plasma of patients receiving the drug for analgesia. Meperidine levels in cancer patients were 0.10 to 0.55 microng/ml 1 h after a dose and were 0.05 to 0.14 in patients in the oliguric period after renal transplantation. Normeperidine levels were 0.05 to 0.28 microng/ml in the cancer patients and 0.13 to 0.36 in the renal failure patients. The ratio of normeperidine to meperidine levels was always higher in the renal failure patients than in the cancer patients. Additionally, two patients receiving multiple doses of meperidine had high normeperidine levels and very high normeperidine/meperidine ratios when they showed signs of central nervous system excitation. These data indicate that normeperidine can contribute to the excitatory effects seen after multiple doses of meperidine and suggest that patients with renal failure are particularly susceptible to this problem.
In a systematic review of data on drug use and adverse clinical events in infants with birth weights under 2000 g, we observed an association between germinal matrix-intraventricular hemorrhage and the use of heparin to maintain the patency of vascular catheters. Sixty-six infants with germinal-matrix (periventricular) or intraventricular hemorrhage or both (cases) were matched with 254 infants with other conditions (controls), and analysis, taking the matching factors into account, yielded an odds ratio of 14.0 (95 percent confidence interval, 5.4 to 34). When potential confounding factors were taken into account, the odds ratio was 3.9 (1.4 to 11). The association did not appear to vary according to the severity of hemorrhage or to the method of administration or dose of heparin. The data suggest that the routine use of heparin in neonatal intensive care units is associated with a four-fold increase in the risk of germinal matrix-intraventricular hemorrhage. Because of the possibility that confounding may have been incompletely controlled for, the true risk cannot be determined from these data, and a controlled clinical trial of heparin use in low-birth-weight infants is recommended.
Rats repeatedly exposed to high ambient concentrations of ozone develop mucous cell metaplasia (MCM) in the nasal transitional epithelium (NTE). The present study was designed to determine the temporal relationships of ozone-induced inflammatory and epithelial responses and their correlation with subsequent MCM in the NTE of rats. Male F344/N rats were exposed to 0.5 ppm ozone, 8 h/day for 1, 2, or 3 days. Two h prior to sacrifice, all the rats were injected intraperitoneally with 5'-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) to label epithelial cells undergoing DNA synthesis. Rats exposed to ozone for 1 or 2 days were killed 2 h after the exposure. Rats exposed to ozone for 3 days were killed 2 h or 1, 2, or 4 days after the exposure. Control rats were killed after a 7-day exposure to filtered air. One nasal passage from the anterior nasal cavity of each rat was fixed and processed for light microscopy to morphometrically determine the numeric densities of epithelial cells, neutrophils, and mucous cells, and the amount of intraepithelial mucosubstances in the NTE. The maxilloturbinate from the other nasal passage was processed for analysis of an airway mucin-specific gene (i.e., rMuc-5AC mRNA). Acute ozone exposure induced a rapid increase in rMuc-5AC mRNA levels prior to the onset of MCM, and the increased levels of rMuc-5AC mRNA persisted with MCM. Neutrophilic inflammation coincided with epithelial DNA synthesis and upregulation of rMuc-5AC, but was resolved when MCM first appeared in the NTE. The results of the present study suggest that upregulation of mucin mRNA by acute ozone exposure may be associated with the concurrent neutrophilic inflammation and epithelial hyperplasia in the NTE. Ozone-induced MCM may be dependent on these important pre-metaplastic responses (i.e., mucin mRNA upregulation, neutrophilic inflammation, and epithelial proliferation).
Twenty right-handed patients affected by early/mild Parkinson's disease were evaluated in a randomised study using neuropsychological and clinical assessements during three treatment modalities: when in the off treatment condition, when on pramipexole, and when on l-dopa. In comparison to the off treatment condition, the DA-agonist pramipexole produced a significant impairment of short term verbal memory, attentional-executive functions and verbal fluency, while l-dopa did not. Moreover, pramipexole opposite to l-dopa, failed to improve FAS and Stroop tests. Present findings indicate that pramipexole may worsen cognitive functions although not exceeding normative values.
In the azoxymethane (AOM) model of experimental rodent colon cancer, cholic acid and its colonic metabolite deoxycholic acid (DCA) strongly promote tumorigenesis. In contrast, we showed that ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a low abundance bile acid, inhibited AOM tumorigenesis. Dietary UDCA also blocked the development of tumors with activated Ras and suppressed cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) upregulation in AOM tumors. In this study, we compared the effect of dietary supplementation with tumor-promoting cholic acid to chemopreventive UDCA on Cox-2 expression in AOM tumors. Cholic acid enhanced Cox-2 upregulation in AOM tumors, whereas UDCA inhibited this increase and concomitantly decreased CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta), a transcriptional regulator of Cox-2. In HCA-7 colon cancer cells, DCA activated Ras and increased C/EBPbeta and Cox-2 by a mechanism requiring the mitogen-activated protein kinase p38. UDCA inhibited DCA-induced p38 activation and decreased C/EBPbeta and Cox-2 upregulation. Using transient transfections, UDCA inhibited Cox-2 promoter and C/EBP reporter activation by DCA. Transfection with dominant-negative (17)N-Ras abolished DCA-induced p38 activation and C/EBPbeta and Cox-2 upregulation. Taken together, these studies have identified a transcriptional pathway regulating Cox-2 expression involving Ras, p38, and C/EBPbeta that is inhibited by UDCA. These signal transducers are novel targets of UDCA's chemopreventive actions.
Cell cycle aberration was immunohistochemically examined in relation to preneoplastic liver cell foci expressing glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) at early stages of tumor-promotion in rats with thioacetamide (TAA), a hepatocarcinogen facilitating liver cell regeneration. Immunoexpression of p16(Ink4a) following exposure to other hepatocarcinogens/promoters and its DNA methylation status were also analyzed during early and late tumor-promotion stages. GST-P(+) liver cell foci increased cell proliferation and decreased apoptosis when compared with surrounding liver cells. In concordance with GST-P(+) foci, checkpoint proteins at G(1)/S (p21(Cip1), p27(Kip1) and p16(Ink4a)) and G(2)/M (phospho-checkpoint kinase 1, Cdc25c and phospho-Wee1) were either up- or downregulated. Cellular distribution within GST-P(+) foci was either increased or decreased with proteins related to G(2)-M phase or DNA damage (topoisomerase IIα, phospho-histone H2AX, phospho-histone H3 and Cdc2). In particular, p16(Ink4a) typically downregulated in GST-P(+) foci and regenerative nodules at early tumor-promotion stage with hepatocarcinogens facilitating liver cell regeneration and in neoplastic lesions at late tumor-promotion stage with hepatocarcinogens/promoters irrespective of regenerating potential. Hypermethylation at exon 2 of Cdkn2a was detected at both early- and late-stages. Thus, diverse disruptive expression of G(1)/S and G(2)/M proteins, which allows for clonal selection of GST-P(+) foci, results in the acquisition of multiple aberrant phenotypes to disrupt checkpoint function. Moreover, increased DNA-damage responses within GST-P(+) foci may be the signature of genetic alterations. Intraexonic hypermethylation may be responsible for p16(Ink4a)-downregulation, which facilitates cell cycle progression in early preneoplastic lesions produced by repeated cell regeneration and late-stage neoplastic lesions irrespective of the carcinogenic mechanism.
Interleukin (IL)-10 is an anti-inflammatory and immune regulatory cytokine. IL-10-deficient mice (IL-10(-/-)) develop chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), indicating that endogenous IL-10 is a central regulator of the mucosal immune response. Prostaglandins are lipid mediators that may be important mediators of intestinal inflammation. In this study we assessed the role of prostaglandins in the regulation of mucosal inflammation in the IL-10(-/-) mouse model of IBD.
Prostaglandin (PG) synthesis was inhibited with nonselective or cyclooxygenase (COX)-isoform selective inhibitors. Severity of inflammation was assessed histologically. Cytokine production was assessed by ribonuclease protection analysis and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. PGE(2) levels were assessed by enzyme immunoassay. COX-1 and COX-2 expression was assessed by Western blot analysis.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) treatment of wild-type mice had minimal effect on the colon. In contrast, NSAID treatment of 4-week-old IL-10(-/-) mice resulted in rapid development of colitis characterized by infiltration of the lamina propria with macrophages and interferon gamma-producing CD4(+) T cells. Colitis persisted after withdrawal of the NSAID. NSAID treatment decreased colonic PGE(2) levels by 75%. Treatment of IL-10(-/-) mice with sulindac sulfone (which does not inhibit PG production) did not induce colitis whereas the NSAID sulindac induced severe colitis. COX-1- or COX-2-selective inhibitors used alone did not induce IBD in IL-10(-/-) mice. However, the combination of COX-1- and COX-2-selective inhibitors did induce colitis.
NSAID treatment of IL-10(-/-) mice results in the rapid development of severe, chronic IBD. Endogenous PGs are important inhibitors of the development of intestinal inflammation in IL-10(-/-) mice.
Endothelial function is impaired by oxidative stress in chronic heart failure (HF). Mechanisms that protect against increases in oxidative stress in HF are not clear. The goal of this study was to determine whether manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) plays a key role in protecting against endothelial dysfunction in HF. Endothelial function and gene expression were examined in aorta from wild-type mice (MnSOD(+/+)) and mice deficient in MnSOD (MnSOD(+/-)) 12 wk after ligation of the left coronary artery (LCA). LCA ligation produced similar size myocardial infarctions in MnSOD(+/+) and MnSOD(+/-) mice and reduced ejection fraction to approximately 20% in both groups. Maximal relaxation in response to acetylcholine was 78 +/- 3% (mean +/- SE) and 66 +/- 8% in sham-operated MnSOD(+/+) and MnSOD(+/-) mice, respectively. Expression of antioxidant enzymes increased in MnSOD(+/+) mice with HF, and maximal relaxation to acetylcholine was slightly impaired (68 +/- 4%). Greater endothelial dysfunction was observed in MnSOD(+/-) mice with HF (46 +/- 5%, P < 0.05), which was significantly improved by polyethylene glycol-catalase but not Tempol. Incubation with the nonspecific cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor indomethacin or the COX1 inhibitor valeryl salicylate, but not the COX-2 inhibitor NS-398, significantly improved relaxation to acetylcholine in HF mice (maximum relaxation = 74 +/- 5, 91 +/- 1, and 58 +/- 5%). These data suggest that MnSOD plays a key role in protecting against endothelial dysfunction in HF. A novel mechanism was identified whereby chronic increases in oxidative stress, produced by mitochondrial SOD deficiency, impair vascular function via a hydrogen peroxide-dependent, COX1-dependent, endothelium-derived contracting factor.
Glucocorticoids (gcs) are known to be effective in the treatment of asthma. In chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), however, no beneficial effects are demonstrated in most patients. Hypothetically, this may be explained by an overexpressed beta-glucocorticoid receptor (GR) compared to the alpha-GR. The aim of this study was to investigate alpha- and beta-GR mRNA levels and ratios in patients with COPD with or without glucocorticoid treatment. GR and, as a control, metallothionein (MT) 2 mRNA levels were compared between patients with COPD receiving glucocorticoids (COPD + gcs), glucocorticoid naive COPD-patients (COPD - gcs) and non-COPD control patients not using gcs. Bronchoscopy was performed and bronchial epithelial cells were sampled with brushing. Smoking did not influence alpha- and beta-GR levels and ratios, nor the MT2 mRNA expression level. The alpha-GR mRNA expression was lower in the COPD - gcs group than in controls. Both GR forms were higher in the COPD + gcs patients than in the COPD - gcs patients, but not different from the levels measured in the controls. alpha 1/beta-GR mRNA ratios did not differ between the groups and averaged 1.7, suggesting no inhibitory effect of the beta-GR on the alpha 1 form. MT2 levels were upregulated in the COPD + gcs patients as compared to the COPD - gcs group, indicating a pharmacological glucocorticoid effect. In the present study it is demonstrated that basal GR mRNA levels are lower in patients with COPD. Although this needs to be investigated further, this might explain, in part, the non-responsiveness of patients with COPD to gcs.
Prostaglandin D(2) (PGD(2)) is a cyclooxygenase (COX) product of arachidonic acid that activates D prostanoid receptors to modulate vascular, platelet, and leukocyte function in vitro. However, little is known about its enzymatic origin or its formation in vivo in cardiovascular or inflammatory disease. 11,15-dioxo-9alpha-hydroxy-2,3,4,5-tetranorprostan-1,20-dioic acid (tetranor PGDM) was identified by mass spectrometry as a metabolite of infused PGD(2) that is detectable in mouse and human urine. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, tetranor PGDM was much more abundant than the PGD(2) metabolites, 11beta-PGF(2alpha) and 2,3-dinor-11beta-PGF(2alpha), in human urine and was the only endogenous metabolite detectable in mouse urine. Infusion of PGD(2) dose dependently increased urinary tetranor PGDM > 2,3-dinor-11beta-PGF(2alpha) > 11beta-PGF(2alpha) in mice. Deletion of either lipocalin-type or hemopoietic PGD synthase enzymes decreased urinary tetranor PGDM. Deletion or knockdown of COX-1, but not deletion of COX-2, decreased urinary tetranor PGDM in mice. Correspondingly, both PGDM and 2,3-dinor-11beta-PGF(2alpha) were suppressed by inhibition of COX-1 and COX-2, but not by selective inhibition of COX-2 in humans. PGD(2) has been implicated in both the development and resolution of inflammation. Administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide coordinately elevated tetranor PGDM and 2,3-dinor-11beta-PGF(2alpha) in volunteers, coincident with a pyrexial and systemic inflammatory response, but both metabolites fell during the resolution phase. Niacin increased tetranor PGDM and 2,3-dinor-11beta-PGF(2alpha) in humans coincident with facial flushing. Tetranor PGDM is an abundant metabolite in urine that reflects modulated biosynthesis of PGD(2) in humans and mice.
