Axonal morphology is a critical determinant of neuronal connectivity, and perturbation of the rate or extent of axonal growth during development has been linked to neurobehavioral deficits in animal models and humans. We previously demonstrated that the organophosphorus pesticide (OP) chlorpyrifos (CPF) inhibits axonal growth in cultured neurons. In this study, we used a zebrafish model to determine whether CPF, its oxon metabolite (CPFO), or the excreted metabolite trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCPy) alter spatiotemporal patterns of axonal growth in vivo. Static waterborne exposure to CPFO, but not CPF or TCPy, at concentrations ≥ 0.03 μM from 24- to 72-h post fertilization significantly inhibited acetylcholinesterase, and high-performance liquid chromatography detected significantly more TCPy in zebrafish exposed to 0.1 μM CPFO versus 1.0 μM CPF. These data suggest that zebrafish lack the metabolic enzymes to activate CPF during these early developmental stages. Consistent with this, CPFO, but not CPF, significantly inhibited axonal growth of sensory neurons, primary motoneurons, and secondary motoneurons at concentrations ≥ 0.1 μM. Secondary motoneurons were the most sensitive to axonal growth inhibition by CPFO, which was observed at concentrations that did not cause mortality, gross developmental defects, or aberrant somatic muscle differentiation. CPFO effects on axonal growth correlated with adverse effects on touch-induced swimming behavior, suggesting the functional relevance of these structural changes. These data suggest that altered patterns of neuronal connectivity contribute to the developmental neurotoxicity of CPF and demonstrate the relevance of zebrafish as a model for studying OP developmental neurotoxicity.
The authors report the case of a 68-year old woman treated since 1986 with flecaïnide acetate for atrial disease. She was admitted to hospital in January 1988 for syncopes due to torsades de pointe. The QTc interval reached 0.68 s without change in QRS duration. After flecaïnide was discontinued and water and salts disorders were corrected, the QTc interval returned to normal. Prolongation of QT under flecaïnide is exceptional, and to our knowledge the occurrence of torsades de pointe has not previously been reported with this drug.
Ion-channel beta-subunits are ancillary proteins that co-assemble with alpha-subunits to modulate the gating kinetics and enhance stability of multimeric channel complexes. Despite their functional importance, dysfunction of potassium-channel beta-subunits has not been associated with disease. Recent physiological studies suggest that KCNE1 encodes beta-subunits (hminK) that co-assemble with KvLQT1 alpha-subunits to form the slowly activating delayed rectifier K+ (IKs) channel. Because KVLQT1 mutations cause arrhythmia susceptibility in the long QT syndrome (LQT), we hypothesized that mutations in KCNE1 also cause this disorder. Here, we define KCNE1 missense mutations in affected members of two LQT families. Both mutations (S74L, D76N) reduced IKs by shifting the voltage dependence of activation and accelerating channel deactivation. D76N hminK also had a strong dominant-negative effect. The functional consequences of these mutations would be delayed cardiac repolarization and an increased risk of arrhythmia. This is the first description of KCNE1 as an LQT gene and confirms that hminK is an integral protein of the IKs channel.
Sulindac (Clinoril), an anti-inflammatory drug increasingly used in Australia for the treatment of rheumatological conditions, is unpredictably associated with a cholestatic hepatitis. We present three cases of sulindac hepatitis. The first case exemplifies acute sulindac hepatitis, the second, continuously exposed to sulindac for 18 months, had chronic sulindac hepatotoxicity, and in the third case, the long-term histological outcome after cessation of sulindac is described. The clinical, biochemical, and histopathological characteristics are those of a cholestatic hepatitis which resolves on withdrawal of the drug. We report marked anisonucleosis with cytoplasmic invaginations into the nucleus and binuclearity of hepatocytes as additional histological features of sulindac hepatitis. There is no evidence that sulindac hepatitis progresses to irreversible structural liver damage, although nuclear changes may persist for up to two months after cessation of the drug. The clinical and biochemical features of all reported cases of sulindac hepatitis are summarised.
The effect of subchronic exposure of S-(1,2-dichlorovinyl)-L-cysteine (DCVC), an active metabolite of trichloroethylene (TCE), was investigated in mice, as a part of mechanistic assessment of renal toxicity of TCE. To examine the subchronic effects of DCVC on kidney function, Balb/c male mice were administered DCVC orally and intraperitoneally once a week for 13 weeks at 1, 10 and 30 mg/kg (Main Study) and for 8 weeks at 30 mg/kg (PCR Study). At the terminal sacrifice, mice orally and intraperitoneally administered with 10 and 30 mg/kg showed significantly lower kidney weight and significantly higher blood urea nitrogen levels than the control group. Pathological examination revealed that a dose of 30 mg/kg delivered by both routes resulted in renal tubular degeneration characterized by tubular necrosis and interstitial fibrosis, and in degradation of the cortex. Degenerative changes were accompanied by the increased expression of tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin-6 and cyclooxygenase-2 mRNAs in the kidney of mice treated with 30 mg/kg for 8 weeks. These pathohistological observations mostly corresponded to those in short-term toxicity studies on DCVC. DCVC might be a direct cause of renal toxicity, which is suggested from the aggravation in these symptoms with the dose increase.
The human proton coupled folate transporter (PCFT) is involved in low pH-dependent intestinal folate transport. In this report, we describe a new murine model of the hereditary folate malabsorption syndrome that we developed through targeted disruption of the first 3 coding exons of the murine homolog of the PCFT gene. By 4 weeks of age, PCFT-deficient (PCFT(-/-)) mice developed severe macrocytic normochromic anemia and pancytopenia. Immature erythroblasts accumulated in the bone marrow and spleen of PCFT(-/-) mice and failed to differentiate further, showing an increased rate of apoptosis in intermediate erythroblasts and reduced release of reticulocytes. In response to the inefficient hematologic development, the serum of the PCFT(-/-) animals contained elevated concentrations of erythropoietin, soluble transferrin receptor (sCD71), and thrombopoietin. In vivo folate uptake experiments demonstrated a systemic folate deficiency caused by disruption of PCFT-mediated intestinal folate uptake, thus confirming in vivo a critical and nonredundant role of the PCFT protein in intestinal folate transport and erythropoiesis. The PCFT-deficient mouse serves as a model for the hereditary folate malabsorption syndrome and is the most accurate animal model of folate deficiency anemia described to date that closely captures the spectrum of pathology typical of this disease.
We have previously described a type of selective T cell deficiency (STD) characterized by persistent infections reminiscent of severe combined immunodeficiency. We show here that STD patients carry a mutation of zap-70, resulting in loss of the activity of this kinase. The thymi of zap-70-/- patients show the presence of CD4+CD8+ cells in the cortex; however, only CD4, not CD8, single-positive cells are present in the medulla. Peripheral CD4+ T cells from the zap-70-/- patients exhibit markedly reduced tyrosine phosphorylation, fail to produce interleukin-2, and do not proliferate in response to T cell receptor stimulation by mitogens or antigens. Thus, Zap-70 kinase appears to be indispensable for the development of CD8 single-positive T cells as well as for signal transduction and function of single-positive CD4 T cells.
A number of mutagens/carcinogens in diesel emission particulates are produced and distributed into the atmosphere. On the basis of the results of chemical analysis, it was found that most of the mutagenicity in diesel particulate extracts is due to super-mutagens such as 1,3-, 1,6- and 1,8-DNP, and 3,7- and 3,9-DNF. 3,7- and 3,9-DNF are new mutagens which were isolated in this study and they induced a frameshift type mutation in the Salmonella microsome test. Each derivative of DNP and DNF was detected at a concentration of 0.01 to 0.03 ppm in the particulates while the diesel engine was used under the condition of idling. 1,6- and 1,8-DNP were tumorigenic at the injection site in BALB/c male mice when a total of 2 and 1 mg, respectively, of the compounds was given subcutaneously. The incidences for tumors by 60 weeks were at a ratio of 50 and 30%, respectively, for 1,6- and 1,8-DNP-treated mice. 4-NQO and BaP, as positive control, induced tumors at the injection site in BALB/c mice when a total of 2 and 1 mg, respectively, of the compound was given. The incidences of tumors were observed at a high ratio of 90 and 93.4%, respectively, for 4-NQO- and BaP-treated mice. Histologically the tumors were diagnosed as malignant fibrous histiocytomas in all the tumors which developed. No tumors occurred at the injection site in mice given injections of 1,3-DNP. Tumorigenicity tests of 3,7- and 3,9-DNF are now being attempted using F344/DuCrj male rats. This animal experiment is now in progress. In the 3,9-DNF-treated rats (a total of 1 mg per rat), subcutaneous tumors developed in 8 of 11 rats up to 150 days after injection, and a part of a tumor resected from a rat showed the typical features of rhabdomyosarcoma.
Sevoflurane is a new inhalational anesthetic with desirable clinical properties. In some clinical situations, an understanding of the detailed cardiovascular properties of an anesthetic is important, so the authors evaluated the hemodynamic effects of sevoflurane in healthy volunteers not undergoing surgery.
Twenty-one subjects were randomized to receive sevoflurane, isoflurane, or sevoflurane: 60% N2O. Anesthesia was induced and maintained by inhalation of the designated anesthetic. Hemodynamic measurements were performed before anesthesia, during controlled ventilation, during spontaneous ventilation, and again during controlled ventilation after 5.5 h of anesthesia.
A few subjects became excessively hypotensive at high anesthetic concentrations (2.0 minimum alveolar concentration [MAC] sevoflurane, 1.5 and 2.0 MAC isoflurane), preventing data collection. Sevoflurane did not alter heart rate, but decreased mean arterial pressure and mean pulmonary artery pressure. Cardiac index decreased at 1.0 and 1.5 MAC, but in subjects with mean arterial pressure > or = 50 mmHg returned to baseline values at 2.0 MAC when systemic vascular resistance decreased. Sevoflurane did not alter echocardiographic indices of ventricular function, but did decrease an index of afterload. Sevoflurane caused a greater decrease in mean pulmonary artery pressure than did isoflurane, but the cardiovascular effects were otherwise similar. Administration of sevoflurane with 60% N2O, prolonged administration or spontaneous ventilation resulted in diminished cardiovascular depression.
At 1.0 and 1.5 MAC, sevoflurane was well tolerated by healthy volunteers. At 2.0 MAC, in subjects with mean arterial pressure > or = 50 mmHg, no adverse cardiovascular properties were noted. Similar to other contemporary anesthetics, sevoflurane caused evidence of myocardial depression. Hemodynamic instability was noted in some subjects at high anesthetic concentrations in the absence of surgical stimulation. The incidence was similar to that with isoflurane. The cardiovascular effects of sevoflurane were similar to those of isoflurane, an anesthetic commonly used in clinical practice since 1981.
Chemopreventive activity by retinoic acid (RA) has been demonstrated previously in rat colon. The spontaneous tumourigenesis in the Min/+ mouse, which harbours a germline mutation in the tumour suppressor gene adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc), is characterized by inactivation of Apc, nuclear accumulation of beta-catenin and the enhanced expression of specific genes activated by T cell factor (TCF)/beta-catenin signalling. Recently it was reported that beta-catenin interacts with retinoic acid receptor in a retinoid-dependent manner, reducing beta-catenin/TCF regulated transcription. Our hypothesis was therefore that dietary supplementation with all-trans RA may inhibit the Apc-driven tumourigenesis in Min/+ mice. Surprisingly, in two different experiments the results showed that dietary RA significantly stimulated both the formation and growth of small intestinal tumours. In the first experiment Min/+ mice were exposed to 50 mg 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine/kg bodyweight at day 3-6 after birth and then treated with 50 mg/kg dietary RA in 1-3 weeks from the age of 2 weeks. In the second experiment the mice were not treated with carcinogen, and the diet was supplemented with 5 or 10 mg/kg RA from the age of 4 weeks until termination of the experiment at 11 weeks. Immunohistochemical studies revealed no differences in beta-catenin, cyclin D1 or proliferating cell nuclear antigen staining following RA treatment. There was no intestinal toxicity in mice fed 10 mg/kg RA, indicating that the increased tumourigenesis in Min/+ mice is a specific effect of all-trans RA.
A variety of neurological conditions and disease states are accompanied by pseudobulbar affect (PBA), an emotional disorder characterized by uncontrollable outbursts of laughing and crying. The causes of PBA are unclear but may involve lesions in neural circuits regulating the motor output of emotional expression. Several agents used in treating other psychiatric disorders have been applied in the treatment of PBA with some success but data are limited and these agents are associated with unpleasant side effects due to nonspecific activity in diffuse neural networks. Dextromethorphan (DM), a widely used cough suppressant, acts at receptors in the brainstem and cerebellum, brain regions implicated in the regulation of emotional output. The combination of DM and quinidine (Q), an enzyme inhibitor that blocks DM metabolism, has recently been tested in phase III clinical trials in patients with multiple sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and was both safe and effective in palliating PBA symptoms. In addition, clinical studies pertaining to the safety and efficacy of DM/Q in a variety of neurological disease states are ongoing.
The aim of the study was to compare the distribution of therapeutic efficacy and sexual dysfunction during maintenance paroxetine treatment in 17 males and 38 females genotyped and phenotyped to determine their CYP2D6 metabolic status. Clinical results were monitored on scales Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness Scale (CGIS) and Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX). The phenotype procedure showed 7 males and 12 females with extensive metabolic status (EM) and 10 males and 26 females with poor metabolic status (PM). No variation in therapeutic efficacy between male and female subjects classified as PM and those marked as EM was found. A significantly higher rate of sexual dysfunction (p = 0.01) was recorded among females with a PM phenotype.
Perineal pain after episiotomy is a common problem following vaginal birth. The pain affects either physical or mental function negatively. There are many methods in perineal pain relief such as local ice pack and a bath, ultrasound, oral anesthesia, and intravenous anesthesia. Analgesic rectal suppository is one of various methods in pain relief especially in drowsy patients, or when oral preparation causes gastric discomfort, nausea or vomiting.
To assess the effectiveness of diclofenac rectal suppositories for relief perineal pain after perineorrhaphy.
A randomized double-blinded placebo controlled trial.
Seventy-two term, singleton, pregnant women who gave vaginal birth with second to third degree episiotomy tears were randomized with envelop concealment to either diclofenac or placebo rectal suppositories group. Each group received two tablets of 50 mg diclofenac or two tablets of look-alike placebo rectal suppositories. Visual analogue scale was used for scaling pain score before administration of the medications, and at 30 minutes, 1, 2, 12, and 24 hours after administration.
No differences were found in the median pain scores before administration of medications and at 30 min, 1 hour and 2 hour after administration (p > 0.05), while the median pain scores were significantly reduced in the diclofenac group at 12 and 24 hours after administration compared to the control group (4.5 vs. 0.0; p < 0.001 and 2.0 vs. 0.0; p = 0.02 for 12 hours and 24 hours, consecutively).
The present study suggested that diclofenac suppository was effective on reducing perineal pain after episiotomy, especially at 12 and 24 hours after administration.
VPA axial malformations are related to embryonic somitic histone hyperacetylation. In cancer, histone hyperacetylation activates apoptosis. To verify if apoptosis is involved in somitic abnormalities, VPA-exposed embryos were evaluated for DNA fragmentation and for pro- (p53, acetylated p53, caspase 3) and anti-apoptotic (Sirt 1) protein expression. Pregnant mice were i.p. dosed on day 8 with VPA 400mg/kg or TSA (16 mg/kg). Embryos, collected 3, 5, 9 or 24h after treatment, were examined and processed for apoptosis or protein analysis. An event cascade has been observed at the level of somites and proposed as related to VPA-induced axial skeletal defects: increased p53 (3h), DNA fragmentation (9h), abnormalities (24h). TSA, used as alternative HDAC inhibitor, induced apoptosis and somitic abnormalities, strengthening our hypothesized link between HDAC inhibition and axial defects.
Methyldibromoglutaronitrile (MDBGN) is a preservative, which was approved for use in cosmetics in the mid-1980s. The incidence of allergy to MDBGN rose during the 1990s, but is now decreasing due to regulatory intervention. Experimental studies with other allergens have shown a significant relationship between the patch test and the repeated open application test (ROAT) reactivity.
To study the relationship between elicitation threshold doses at single occluded exposure and repeated open application, using MDBGN as the allergen.
Eighteen subjects allergic to MDBGN were tested with a dilution series of MDBGN in a patch test and a ROAT (duration up to 21 days). Seventeen people with no MDBGN allergy were included as a control group for the ROAT.
The response frequency for the ROAT (in microg MDBGN cm(-2) per application) was significantly higher than the response frequency for the patch test, while the response frequency for the accumulated ROAT dose, at 1, 2 and 3 weeks was very similar to the patch test response frequency; indeed there was no statistical significant difference.
For elicitation of MDBGN allergy the response frequency for the patch test is lower than the response frequency (per application) for the ROAT, but approximately the same as the response frequency for the accumulated ROAT doses. This is important for risk assessment in general.
The peripheral nerve and spinal ganglion of chloramphenicol-administered and normal animals were examined mainly with the electron microscopy. The experimental animals consisted of three dogs and one rabbit. They were highly injected or given orally high doses of chloramphenicol with a duration from 70 to 130 days. Pathological finginds were briefly summarized as follows. In the sural nerve the changes in myelin sheaths and Schwann cells were more prominent than those in axons. The myelin sheaths were swollen and had a tendency to be curled and compress the azon in some fibers. Other fibers showed the degeneration of myelin sheaths, revealing fragmentation, thinning, and honeycomb structure. The changes in axons were mild, showing an increase of neurofilaments and local accumulation of mitochondria. Schwann cells were often hypertrophied and abundant endoplasmic reticula, vacuoles and ribosomes were observed in the cytoplasm. The processes of Schwan cells were not active, but the picture that a myelinated fiber was surrounded by some processes of Schwann cells was seen in some occasions. In the posterior root ganglion at the lumbar cord, some of nerve cells showed changes, such as breakdown of Nissl substance, swollen mitochondria and indentation of nuclear membrane. The satellite cells showed no significant change.
The reproductive toxicity of the insecticide chloropyrifos was studied in male mice. Adult male mice were treated by gavage with chloropyrifos at doses of 0, 5, 15, and 25mg/kg-d for 4 weeks before mating with untreated females. Signs of cholinergic effects were observed in the 15 and 25mg/kg-d treated groups. Brain and skeletal muscle acetylcholinesterase activity was inhibited in the same groups. Chloropyrifos treatment was associated with a decreased number of live fetuses, and an increased number of dead fetuses at 25mg/kg-d. The number of early resorption was decreased in both 15 and 25mg/kg-d treated groups. The percent morphologically normal spermatozoa were affected in 15 and 25mg/kg-d dose groups; however, sperm motility and count were decreased in the same treated groups compared to the control. Histologic examination of brain revealed histological abnormalities in the middle and high groups. Dose related histologic changes, including degeneration of muscle fibers, were observed in the muscles of male mice treated with all the doses of chloropyrifos. The current study demonstrated adverse effects of male chloropyrifos exposure on pregnancy outcome with effects on sperm parameters at 15 and 25mg/kg-d.
Clonidine is experiencing increasing use in the pediatric population as a sedative and analgesic because of its central alpha2-adrenergic agonism. We report three cases of preoperative use of intranasal clonidine in pediatric patients, all for different indications. One patient was treated for preoperative agitation and hallucinations associated with oral midazolam. One patient was given clonidine as a premedicant. The third patient was treated for preoperative agitation and hypertension. All three patients had subjective resolution of indicated symptoms and none experienced adverse outcomes.
Glutethimide poisoning is characterised by coma, anticholinergic poisoning syndrome, hypotension, and other complications. Previous studies have shown that the severity of intoxication does not correlate with plasma glutethimide concentrations in individual patients. Glutethimide is partly converted to 4-hydroxyglutethimide, a metabolite which accumulates in the plasma of humans, and which has been thought to contribute to coma after plasma glutethimide concentrations have fallen. We followed plasma concentrations of glutethimide and 4-hydroxyglutethimide in a man who overdosed with glutethimide. Plasma 4-hydroxyglutethimide concentrations did not correlate with the degree of coma in our patient, and actually rose as the patient awakened. Other studies also indicate that 4-hydroxyglutethimide may not play an important role in glutethimide poisoning.
Emergence agitation (EA) is a postoperative behavior that may occur in children undergoing general anesthesia with inhaled agents.
The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of propofol administered at the end of sevoflurane anesthesia on the incidence and severity of EA in children undergoing magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Eighty-four children, 2-7 years old, undergoing MRI were enrolled in this randomized double-blind study. No sedative premedication was administered prior to anesthesia induction. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with sevoflurane in N(2)O/O(2). Group P received propofol 1 mg.kg(-1) and group S received saline. Pediatric Anesthesia Emergence Delirium scale (PAEDs) was used to evaluate recovery characteristics upon awakening and during the first 30 min after emergence from anesthesia. Children with PAEDs >16 were considered agitated. EA was analyzed using the Mann-Whitney U-test. Demographic data and other side effects were analyzed using the Student's t-test.
Eighty-three children completed the study. There were 42 children in group P. EA was diagnosed in two children in the propofol group (4.8%) and in 11 children in the placebo group (26.8%, P < 0.05). Time to achieving postanesthesia care unit discharge criteria was not different between the two groups.
The addition of propofol 1 mg.kg(-1) can significantly decrease the incidence of EA after sevoflurane general anesthesia in children undergoing nonpainful procedures.
The serotonin transporter promoter length polymorphism (5-hydroxytryptamine transporter length polymorphism; 5-HTTLPR) has long been implicated in autism and other psychiatric disorders. The use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) has a positive effect on treating some symptoms of autism. The effects of these drugs vary in individuals because of the presence of the S or L allele of 5-HTTLPR. Studies performed on various autistic populations have found different allele frequencies for the L and S alleles. Allele frequencies and genotypes of the South African autistic populations (African, mixed, and Caucasian) were compared with matching South African ethnic control populations. The *S/*S genotype was found to be highly significantly associated with all the South African autistic ethnic populations. In the South African African population the *S/*S genotype was present in 7 (33%) of the autistic individuals but in none of the control subjects, yielding infinitely large odds of developing autism. The odds of developing autism with the *S/*S genotype compared to the *L/*L genotype increased 10.15-fold in the South African mixed group and 2.74-fold in the South African Caucasian population. The allele frequency of the South African autistic population was also compared with studies of other autistic populations around the world, and highly significant differences were found with the Japanese, Korean, and Indian population groups. The difference was not significant for the French, German, Israeli, Portuguese, and American groups. This is the first South African study of autistic individuals of different ethnic backgrounds that shows significant differences in allele and genotype frequencies of 5-HTTLPR. The results of this study open new avenues for investigating the role of transmission of the L and S alleles in families with autism in South Africa.
Regular physical activity exerts beneficial effects for mental and physical health, but an intense exercise can cause oxidative stress (OS) in dopaminergic regions and intensify the harmful effects of reserpine. Reserpine-induced neurotoxicity can be accessed by behavioral and biochemical evaluations. The objective of this study was to examine the effect of a gradual intensifying exercise program on an animal model of oxidative stress. Male rats were submitted to swimming sessions (1 h/day, for eleven weeks), and they were loaded gradually during the adaptation period (two weeks) with a weight corresponding to 1-7% of their body weight tied to their back. After the last training, the animals were treated with two doses of vehicle or reserpine (1 mg/kg-sc), an agent that induces orofacial dyskinesia. After behavioral evaluations, the striatum was dissected for enzymatic and biochemical assays. Development of cardiac hypertrophy demonstrated the effectiveness of the physical training. The gradual intense exercise and reserpine increased lipid peroxidation and striatal catalase activity. The results confirm the importance of catalase activity in orofacial dyskinesia which can be related to lipid peroxidation in striatal dopaminergic brain tissue. These results indicate that intense exercise can have some deleterious effect on striatal dopaminergic system.
Estradiol-17beta-D-glucuronide (E(2)17G), an endogenous metabolite of estradiol, induces a potent dose-dependent and reversible inhibition of bile flow in the rat. We analyzed the effect of a single dose of E(2)17G (15 micromol/kg, intravenously) to female rats on bile flow and the endocytic retrieval and function of the canalicular multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2) and the effect of pretreatment with dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (DBcAMP; 20 micromol/kg) on these measures. Bile flow was maximally inhibited by 85% within 10 minutes of E(2)17G and returned to 50% and 100% of control levels within 75 and 120 minutes, respectively. Western analysis of total homogenates and mixed plasma and intracellular membranes suggested partial internalization of Mrp2 during the acute phase of cholestasis at 20 minutes and during the period of recovery from cholestasis at 75 minutes, which returned to control levels by 180 minutes after E(2)17G. Confocal analysis confirmed Western studies and demonstrated endocytic retrieval of Mrp2 from the canalicular membrane into pericanalicular and intracellular domains. The biliary concentration and excretion of the model Mrp2 substrate, dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-SG), was impaired in parallel with the extent of Mrp2 retrieval. Pretreatment with DBcAMP partially protected against maximal E(2)17G cholestasis and the endocytic retrieval and decreased function of Mrp2 at 20 minutes and significantly accelerated the exocytic insertion of Mrp2 into the canalicular membrane and the recovery of bile flow and biliary excretion of DNP-SG. In conclusion, these data indicate that E(2)17G induces endocytic internalization of Mrp2, which occurs in parallel with decreased bile flow and Mrp2 transport activity.
