The authors describe a patient who developed congestive heart failure and had a high plasma concentration of 10-hydroxynortriptyline. They discuss the need for further research to define the contribution of antidepressants' active metabolites to toxic and therapeutic effects.
Injection of a chemical irritant into the radial artery at the wrist causes acute discoloration of the skin, edema, and pain in the hand. Subsequent damage due to vasospasm, endarteritis, particulate embolization, and vascular thrombosis may result in ischemic contractures, amputations, and other functional hand deficits. Injection of a street cocaine preparation into the radial artery of a 22-year-old man produced a constellation of signs and symptoms similar to that described for other irritants. Current thoughts with regard to the pathophysiology and treatment of these injuries are reviewed.
Hemodynamic changes in healthy subjects versus patients with chronic coronary heart disease are compared. In cases of isoproterenol caused tachycardia, the patients developing angina showed a less prominent beneficial inotropic effect as compared with healthy subjects and angina-free patients. The initiation of drug infusion led to a marked increase in the rheographic index of myocardial contractility; however, already in the initial stages of ST segment depression, this parameter was characterized by a reversed time-course which progressed with the increasing electrocardiographic signs of myocardial ischemia. The degree of the observed impairments of the patients' inotropic response correlated with the severity of myocardial ischemia and the nature of the disease course.
In an attempt to explain the triamterene stone diathesis, we studied the excretion and solubility of triamterene, 1, and its metabolite, the sulfate ester of the hydroxy derivative of triamterene, 3. The urinary excretion pattern and metabolism in stone formers was the same as in other chronic users of triamterene or healthy volunteers. The solubility of triamterene in urine was approximately one-half of its solubility in buffer solution, whereas the sulfate ester, 3, was nearly twice as soluble in urine as in the buffer solution. In the majority of the subjects studied, we found concentrations of 3 which approached or exceeded apparent solubility limits in urine. This was not true for triamterene where most measured urine concentrations were less than the apparent solubility as determined by equilibration. Alteration in the metabolism of triamterene is probably not a causative factor for triamterene nephrolithiasis. The saturation of urine with triamterene and especially with the sulfate ester, 3, may be related to stone formation, but other physical factors play a role in determining the relative amounts of drug found in calculus material.
Chemokines are important regulators of directional cell migration and tumor metastasis. A genome-wide transcriptome array designed to uncover novel genes silenced by methylation in lung cancer identified the CXC-subfamily of chemokines. Expression of 11 of the 16 known human CXC-chemokines was increased in lung adenocarcinoma cell lines after treatment with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC). Tumor-specific methylation leading to silencing of CXCL5, 12 and 14 was found in over 75% of primary lung adenocarcinomas and DAC treatment restored the expression of each of the silenced gene. Forced expression of CXCL14 in H23 cells, where this gene is silenced by methylation, increased cell death in vitro and dramatically reduced the in vivo growth of lung tumor xenografts through necrosis of up to 90% of the tumor mass. CXCL14 re-expression had a profound effect on the genome altering the transcription of over 1000 genes, including increased expression of 30 cell-cycle inhibitor and pro-apoptosis genes. In addition, CXCL14 methylation in sputum from asymptomatic early-stage lung cancer cases was associated with a 2.9-fold elevated risk for this disease compared with controls, substantiating its potential as a biomarker for early detection of lung cancer. Together, these findings identify CXCL14 as an important tumor suppressor gene epigenetically silenced during lung carcinogenesis.
Zinc complexes were reported to have anti-ulcer activity and used as drug for the treatment of gastrointestinal disorders. A novel compound dichlorido-zinc(II)-4-(2-(5-methoxybenzylidene amino)ethyl)piperazin-1-iumphenolate (ZnHMS) was synthesized, characterized and evaluated for its gastroprotective activity against ethanol-induced ulcer in rats. Gross and microscopic lesions, histochemical staining of glycogen storage, biochemical and immunological parameters were taken into consideration. Oral administration of ZnHMS (30 and 60 mg/kg; 14 days) dose-dependently inhibited gastric lesions. It significantly increased the mucus content and total acidity compared to the control group (P<0.01). Serum levels of aspartate (AST), alanine (ALT) transaminases, pro-inflammatory interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and anti-inflammatory interleukin-10 (IL-10) in the rats exposed to ethanol induced ulceration have been altered. ZnHMS considerably enhances (P<0.05) the protection of gastric epithelia by modulating the acute alterations of AST, ALT, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-α and stomach glycogen. Interestingly, ZnHMS did interfere with the natural release of nitric oxide. In addition, acute toxicity study revealed no abnormal sign to the rats treated with ZnHMS (2000 mg/kg). These findings suggest that the gastroprotective activity of ZnHMS might contribute in adjusting the inflammatory cytokine-mediated oxidative damage to the gastric mucosa.
NKX3.1 is a homeobox gene, expression of which is largely restricted to the adult prostatic epithelium. Loss of NKX3.1 expression has been linked to prostate carcinogenesis and disease progression and occurs in the absence of mutations in the coding region of the NKX3.1 gene. In this study, we have characterized regulation of NKX3.1 expression by all-trans retinoic acid (tRA), a naturally occurring vitamin A metabolite that is accumulated at high levels in the prostate. Using the prostate cancer cell line LNCaP, Western blot analysis revealed a approximately twofold induction of NKX3.1 protein levels following tRA exposure, with sequential analysis of NKX3.1 protein levels in cycloheximide co-treated cells indicating that tRA does not alter NKX3.1 protein turnover. The approximately 1.6-fold increase in NKX3.1 mRNA levels detected in tRA-treated LNCaP cells also occurred independently of new protein synthesis and was not mediated by changes in NKX3.1 mRNA stability. In contrast, nuclear run-on assays indicated that tRA treatment increased NKX3.1 transcription. To identify retinoid responsive regions of the NKX3.1 gene, DNA sequences encompassing approximately 2 kb of the NKX3.1 promoter or the entire 3'untranslated region (UTR) were cloned into luciferase reporter plasmids. Analysis of induced luciferase activity following transfection of these constructs into prostate cancer cells did not identify tRA responsiveness, however the 3'UTR was found to be strongly androgen responsive. These studies demonstrate that the NKX3.1 gene is a direct target of retinoid receptors and suggest that androgen regulation of NKX3.1 expression is mediated in part by the 3'UTR.
We describe a patient with autism and brachymetaphalangy, meeting criteria for 2q37 deletion syndrome (also called Albright Hereditary Osteodystrophy-like syndrome or Brachydactyly-Mental Retardation syndrome, OMIM 600430). Our molecular cytogenetic studies, including array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), define the extent of the de novo deletion to a 3.5 Mb region on 2q37.3. Although a number of reports of patients with 2q37 deletion syndrome have been published, it remains unclear if gene expression and/or translation are altered by the deletion, thus contributing to the observed phenotypes. To address this question, we selected several candidate genes for the neuropsychiatric and skeletal anomalies found in this patient (autism and brachymetaphalangy). The deleted region in 2q37.3 includes the FERM, RhoGEF and pleckstrin domain protein 2 (FARP2), glypican 1 (GPC1), vigilin (HDLBP), kinesin family member 1A (KIF1A) and proline-alanine-rich STE20-related kinase (PASK), all of which are involved in skeletal or neural differentiation processes. Expression analyses of these genes were performed using RNA from lymphoblastoid cell lines of the patient and his family members. Here we demonstrate that three of these genes, FARP2, HDLBP, and PASK, are considerably downregulated in the patient's cell line. We hypothesize that haploinsufficiency of these genes may have contributed to the patient's clinical phenotype.
In a previous report about the chronic use of bromocriptine in Parkinson disease, a distinctive cutaneous eruption was noted and termed "erythromelalgia." This eruption has occurred in 9 of 110 patients on chronic bromocriptine therapy; histopathologic examination in 3 patients showed a prominent perivascular lymphocytic infiltration and perivascular edema of the dermis, without frank vasculitis. This is a reversible unwanted effect of bromocriptine therapy.
A case of acute renal failure, due to occlusion of renal vessels in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) treated with all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) and tranexamic acid has been described recently. We report a case of acute renal failure in an APL patient treated with ATRA alone. This case further supports the concern about thromboembolic complications associated with ATRA therapy in APL patients. The patients, a 43-year-old man, presented all the signs and symptoms of APL and was included in a treatment protocol with ATRA. After 10 days of treatment, he developed acute renal failure that was completely reversible after complete remission of APL was achieved and therapy discontinued. We conclude that ATRA is a valid therapeutic choice for patients with APL, although the procoagulant tendency is not completely corrected. Thrombotic events, however, could be avoided by using low-dose heparin.
In a series of 887 cases who underwent visceral, orthopedic or vascular surgery and who received systematic post-operative prophylactic anticoagulant treatment (calciparine S.C. or in 4.8% of cases low dose heparin IV), the author reports 31 accidents (3.5%). These included 9 thromboembolic disorders with 2 deaths (0.45%) due to pulmonary embolism, 19 hemorrhagic episodes (2.14%) with 2 deaths, and 3 cases of intolerance to heparin (0.34%): 2 cases of uncomplicated thrombocytopenia and 1 case of white clot successfully treated surgically. In spite of the good results obtained as far as prevention of thromboembolic disease is concerned, this study confirms the significant frequency and severity of iatrogenic accidents. These may be reduced partly by greater care in the prescription and execution of this treatment, but it is impossible to completely avoid them; it is therefore desirable in certain cases to avoid systematic prophylactic treatment by using other first line methods such as early mobilisation, elastic contention, hemodilution or indeed in certain cases the insertion of a vena cava filter. Moreover, in 11 out of 19 patients who presented a hemorrhagic complication of heparin therapy, the insertion of such a filter was judged indispensable in order to avoid possible pulmonary embolism favored by stoppage of anticoagulant treatment.
Diuretics such as torasemide are commonly used to treat chronic heart failure (CHF).
The objective of the TOrasemide In Congestive Heart Failure (TORIC) Study was to investigate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of torasemide in CHF patients compared to furosemide or other diuretics in an open-label, non-randomised, post-marketing surveillance trial.
The present analysis shows the findings of 1377 patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II-III CHF who received diuretic therapy with torasemide 10 mg/day orally (n=778) vs. patients who received furosemide 40 mg/day orally (n=527) or other diuretics (n=72) on top of their existing standard CHF therapy for 12 months. Besides safety and tolerability, efficacy was assessed by documentation of mortality, morbidity, functional class and serum potassium levels every 3 months.
TORIC confirmed the safety and tolerability of torasemide in CHF patients. Mortality was significantly lower in the torasemide (n=17, 2.2%) than in the furosemide/other diuretics group (n=27, 4.5%) (P<0.05). Functional improvement as assessed by NYHA class was observed in more patients who received furosemide torasemide (n=356, 45.8%) than those who received furosemide/other diuretics (n=223, 37.2%) (P=0.00017). At the end of the study abnormally low serum potassium levels were observed in fewer torasemide (n=95, 12.9%) than furosemide/other diuretics patients (n=102, 17.9%) (P=0.013).
Torasemide is safe and well tolerated in CHF patients. Although not designed as a mortality study, TORIC suggests a lower mortality amongst CHF patients treated with torasemide compared to furosemide/other diuretics. A functional improvement and a lower incidence of abnormal serum potassium levels were also observed in patients receiving torasemide as compared to those receiving furosemide/other diuretics.
Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS) is a clinically recognizable multiple congenital anomaly and mental retardation syndrome caused by an interstitial deletion of chromosome 17 pll.2. Although the physical and molecular genetic features of SMS are increasingly well understood, work is more limited on SMS's behavioral phenotype, which includes self-injury, tantrums, aggression, attention deficit, and sleep disturbance. This case-report describes the lowering of the aggression level of a 13 year old individual with SMS.
A 71-year-old man was scheduled for laryngomicrosurgery under total intravenous anesthesia. Anesthesia was induced and maintained with propofol. Seven to eight minutes after induction of anesthesia, convulsion was observed first on his lower limbs and then on his all limbs and the head. This clonicotonic convulsion of a few minute duration lasted for 25 minutes. Later neurological examination revealed normal functions. Although the etiology of convulsion by propofol is controversial, the convulsion observed in our patient seems to be related to glycinergic as well as glutamate receptors. When we administer propofol to patients, we should be careful about the occurrence of convulsion.
The aim was to investigate the incidence and prognosis of, and predictive factors for, acute renal failure following emergent cardiac catheterization.
The study involved 602 consecutive patients who underwent emergent cardiac catheterization. Acute renal failure (ARF) was defined as an increase in serum creatinine level > or =0.5 mg/dL within 72 hours following the procedure. Predictive factors for and the prognosis of ARF were evaluated in an initial cohort of 315 patients, and a risk score was derived. The risk score was validated in a second cohort of 287 patients. The median (interquartile) follow-up time was 1.3 years (0.8-2.0 years).
Seventy-two of the 602 patients (12.0%) developed ARF. In the initial cohort of 315 patients, the following factors were predictors of ARF: cardiogenic shock at admission (odds ratio [OR] 4.56), diabetes mellitus (OR 2.98), time to reperfusion >6 hours (OR 3.18), anterior myocardial infarction (OR 2.61), baseline serum creatinine level > or =1.5 mg/dL (OR 3.51), and baseline serum urea level > or =50 mg/dL (OR 3.00). A risk score based on these variables was constructed in which cardiogenic shock = 3 points and each of the remaining variables = 2 points. Patients in the validation cohort were divided into five risk categories: in those with 0 points, the incidence of ARF was 1.2%; with 2-3 points, 8.7%; with 4-5 points, 12.5%; with 6-7 points, 46.2%; and with > or =8 points, 66.7% (P< .0001). Cox regression analysis showed that ARF was a powerful predictor of total mortality (hazard ratio [HR] 5.97, 95% confidence interval [CI] 2.54-14.03; P< .0001) and of a major cardiovascular event (HR 3.29, 95% CI 1.61-6.75; P=.001).
The incidence of ARF after emergent cardiac catheterization is high. Cardiogenic shock, diabetes mellitus, myocardial infarction location, time to reperfusion, and serum creatinine and urea levels are predictors of ARF. Patients who developed this complication had higher mortality and major cardiovascular events rates.
Protein Z-dependent protease inhibitor (ZPI) is a serpin that inhibits the activated coagulation factors X and XI. The precise physiological significance of ZPI in the control of haemostasis is unknown although a deficiency of ZPI may be predicted to alter this balance. The coding region of the ZPI gene was screened for mutations using denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography. 16 mutations/polymorphisms within the coding region of ZPI were identified including two mutations, which generated stop codons at residues R67 and W303. We observed nonsense mutations within the ZPI gene in 4.4% of thrombosis patients (n = 250) compared with 0.8% of controls (n = 250). The difference in distribution of stop codon mutations between thrombosis patients and controls was significant (P = 0.02) with an odds ratio of 5.7 (95% confidence interval, 1.25-26.0). Our results suggest an association between ZPI deficiency and venous thrombosis and we propose that ZPI deficiency is potentially a new form of thrombophilia.
The term biliary pseudolithiasis was coined by Schaad (1988) to describe the appearance of gallbladder sludge following treatment with ceftriaxone. After cessation of the drug the condition resolves, hence the term "pseudolithiasis." The third generation cephalosporin, cefatriaxone, is a very potent, broad spectrum antibiotic indicated in meningitis, osteomyelitis, pyelonephritis, Lyme disease and many other severe infectious diseases. Up to 46% of those receiving this antibiotic develop gallbladder sludge. Most are asymptomatic, but a small proportion may develop right upper quadrant pain, nausea, vomiting and even cholecystitis. Ultrasonography may demonstrate many, small, echogenic particles within the gallbladder, as well as larger echogenic foci casting acoustic shadows. However, it can not differentiate these pseudostones from real stones. There are reports of surgical intervention in such cases. 2 boys, aged 5 and 10 years, respectively, treated with ceftriaxone for meningitis are presented. Both developed symptoms during treatment and in both gallbladder sludge was identified by ultrasonography. In 1 intraluminal gallbladder findings were identical with the appearance of surgical stones. Follow-up ultrasonography after the drug was stopped showed no evidence of pseudostones in either case. Awareness of this phenomena might save many unnecessary operations.
Suburothelial hemorrhage of the renal pelvis is a well documented complication of anticoagulant therapy. The urographic and CT features of this complication have been described; however, previous reports have included only contrast-enhanced CT. We report a case in which preinfusion CT, with careful evaluation of the attenuation coefficient, was essential in the diagnosis of suburothelial hemorrhage.
Although experimental data confirm the presence of ototoxicity due to topical ear drops, the clinical relevance still remains debatable. Only few case reports document sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) attributable to ototopical preparations in patients with chronic otitis media. A careful review of 134 patients charts evaluated between 1953 and 1995 for possible antibiotic related ototoxicity revealed two patients with bilateral profound SNHL attributable to excessive administration of framycetin- and polymyxin-containing ear drops in the presence of tympanic membrane perforation. Although ototopical preparations are widely used, they rarely induce SNHL. The authors emphasize patient education, application of topical ear drops using soaked gauze strips, and documentation of the patients hearing status at the beginning of the treatment regimen.
Chemopreventive effects of synthetic and naturally occurring antioxidants on heterocyclic amine (HCA)-induced rat carcinogenesis and mechanisms of inhibition were assessed. In a medium-term liver bioassay, combined treatment with 0.03% 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) and synthetic antioxidants such as 1-O-hexyl-2,3,5-trimethylhydroquinone (HTHQ), BHA, BHT, tert-butylhydroquinone (TBHQ) and propyl gallate, each at a dose of 0.25%, and troglitazone at doses 0.5 and 0.1%, potently inhibited development of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci as compared with MeIQx alone values. Of these antioxidants, HTHQ showed the greatest activity. Green tea catechins tended to inhibit GST-P positive foci development, while quercetin, rutin, curcumin, daidzin, ferulic acid and genistin all exerted significant enhancing effects. HTHQ also inhibited 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced colon carcinogenesis in a two stage colon carcinogenesis model using 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) as an initiator. Immunohistochemically detected PhIP-DNA adduct positive nuclei in the colon induced by continuous oral treatment with 0.02% PhIP for 2 weeks decreased by the combined treatment with 0.5 or 0.125% HTHQ. Methoxyresorfin O-demethylase activity in rat liver microsomes in vitro was clearly inhibited by the addition of HTHQ, BHA, BHT, TBHQ or propyl gallate, with particularly strong inhibition being observed in HTHQ. However, the CYP1A2 level in rat liver increased after oral treatment with HTHQ for 2 weeks. These results indicate that synthetic antioxidants, HTHQ in particular, is a very strong chemopreventor of HCA-induced carcinogenesis. It is suggested that depression of metabolic activation rather than antioxidant activity is responsible for the observed effect. However, other mechanisms, including the effects on phase II enzymes cannot be ruled out.
Thrombocyte aggregation with normochromic anaemia occurred in a gravida III of 27 years of age with sonographically confirmed foetal hydrocephalus, after prostaglandin E2 cervical priming. The authors discuss the differential diagnostic possibilities, but the actual genesis of the changes remains unclear. Hence, it is recommended to check with particular care especially in induction of abortion, the coagulation system with the thrombocytes, over and above the well-known prostaglandin side effects. Special attention must be paid to the occurrence of allergic reactions, and it must always be borne in mind that induction of abortion after the 14th week of gestation is a risky matter (1).
Because of a hydrocephalic fetus, the 27 year old mother opted for abortion. This was done in the 21st week of pregnancy by ordinary intracervical application of 0.25 mg prostaglandin e2 gel. 30 minutes later the patient began to complain of nausea and dyspnea. Laboratory analysis revealed leukocytosis of 20800/ml and thrombocytopenia of 22000/ml, down from 150,000 ml before the procedure. There were no clinical indications of bleeding. The leukocytosis lasted 2 days and thrombocytopenia roughly 6 days. Treatment included administration of acetylsalicylic acid 3 x 0.5 g and dipyrimadol tablets 3 x 25 mg/day. After thrombocyte count was normalized, abortion was induced by means of spasmolysis and oxytocin i.v. In this case partial resorption of the prostaglandin indicates a systemic effect. Since the half life of E and F group prostaglandins is usually 1-3 minutes, and it is almost completely eliminated after passing through the liver and lungs, a direct prostaglandin effect leading to thrombocyte aggregation lasting several days is unlikely. Absence of thrombocyte antibodies point to a drug induced immune process in which the prostaglandin molecule could appear as a hapten. Ultimately the thrombocyte aggregation described here and normochromic anemia are of unclear origin. Changes in the patients' coagulation system are probably of no functional relevance. The initial leukocytosis must be considered a nonspecific immediate reaction.
Amiodarone is widely used in ventricular tachyarrhythmias and atrial fibrillation, known to prolong QT-intervals. Concurrent administration of drugs prolonging QT- time can induce life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmia.
QT-interval changes following use of Iohexol contrast-medium for coronarangiography were observed comparing 21 patients taking long-term amiodarone therapy with 21 controls not taking amiodarone or QT-prolonging drugs retrospectively.
Concurrent use of Iohexol and amiodarone was associated with significant prolongation of QTc-interval (433, 95%CI: 419-448 ms vs. 480, 95%CI: 422-483 ms, P < 0.001) the day after coronarangiograpgy. 6/21 patients showed severe prolonged QTc-interval of >500 ms.
Caution is advised until more is known about pro-arrhythmic effects of Iohexol.
Impaired hepatic microcirculation in the steatotic liver has been identified as a considerable factor for increased vulnerability after ischemia/reperfusion (I/R). Changes in regulation and synthesis of vasoactive mediators, such as nitric oxide (NO) and endothelin (ET-1), may result in functional impairment of postischemic sinusoidal perfusion. The aim of the current study was to assess the impact of I/R injury on postischemic gene expression of NO and ET-1 in steatotic livers.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats with or without hepatic steatosis (induced by carbon tetrachloride treatment) were subjected to normothermic I/R injury. Steady-state mRNA levels were assessed using RT-PCR to study the expression of genes encoding ET-1, NO synthase (endothelial cell NO synthase and inducible NO synthase, iNOS). Immunohistochemistry was performed for detection of iNOS.
I/R injury was followed by increased iNOS gene expression (RT-PCR/immunohistochemistry) in animals with hepatic steatosis, predominately in hepatocytes with fatty degeneration. A mild increase in mRNA levels for ET-1 was found in steatotic rat livers. I/R induced a further increase in ET-1 gene expression in some but not all reperfused steatotic livers.
We show an enhanced gene expression of iNOS in postischemic steatotic rat livers. Hepatocytes with fatty degeneration appear to be the major source for NO generation. Furthermore, I/R may also induce ET-1 gene expression. Dysregulation of sinusoidal perfusion by NO and ET-1 is therefore likely to contribute to I/R injury of the steatotic liver.
To compare the efficacy of tramadol and ondansetron in minimizing the pain due to injection of propofol in 100 patients.
An intravenous cannula was inserted in the dorsum of the hand. After tourniquet application to the forearm, tramadol 50 mg (Group 1, n = 50) or ondansetron 4 mg (Group 2, n = 50) was injected. The tourniquet was released after 20 s, and propofol 5 mL was administered over 5 s. The patients were observed and asked if they had pain in the arm and the response was assessed. Nausea and vomiting and degree of sedation were recorded for the first postoperative 24 h.
Twenty-one patients in Group 1 and 14 patients in Group 2 reported no pain. Slight pain was seen in 15 patients in Group 1 and in 18 patients in Group 2. Moderate pain was seen in 10 patients in Group 1 and 15 patients in Group 2. Severe pain was seen in four of the patients in Group 1 and three patients in Group 2. There was no significant difference of pain between Groups 1 and 2, but we found a significant reduction of nausea and vomiting in the ondansetron group compared with the tramadol group (P = 0.033).
Tramadol or ondansetron are equally effective in preventing pain from propofol injection. The added benefit of a reduction in nausea and vomiting after operation in the ondansetron group may be a reason to prefer this drug.
