The study aimed to investigate the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) in maneb (MB)- and paraquat (PQ)-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) phenotype in mouse and its subsequent contribution to lipid peroxidation. Animals were treated intraperitoneally with or without MB and PQ, twice a week for 3, 6 and 9 weeks. In some sets of experiments (9 weeks treated groups), the animals were treated intraperitoneally with or without inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) inhibitor-aminoguanidine, tyrosine kinase inhibitor-genistein, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kB) inhibitor-pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC) or p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor-SB202190. Nitrite content and lipid peroxidation were measured in all treated groups along with respective controls. RNA was isolated from the striatum of control and treated mice and reverse transcribed into cDNA. RT-PCR was performed to amplify iNOS mRNA and western blot analysis was done to check its protein level. MB- and PQ-treatment induced nitrite content, expressions of iNOS mRNA and protein and lipid peroxidation as compared with respective controls. Aminoguanidine resulted in a significant attenuation of iNOS mRNA expression, nitrite content and lipid peroxidation demonstrating the involvement of nitric oxide in MB- and PQ-induced lipid peroxidation. Genistein, SB202190 and PDTC reduced the expression of iNOS mRNA, nitrite content and lipid peroxidation in MB- and PQ-treated mouse striatum. The results obtained demonstrate that nitric oxide contributes to an increase of MB- and PQ-induced lipid peroxidation in mouse striatum and tyrosine kinase, p38 MAPK and NF-kB regulate iNOS expression.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are associated with a high incidence of impotence. Paroxetine is an extensively used SSRI that has been shown to impair erectile function in patients, to induce erectile dysfunction and to inhibit nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and NO production in animal models. NO is a key mediator of penile erection. Vardenafil is a type 5 phosphodiesterase inhibitor that potentiates NO-mediated responses in isolated trabecular smooth muscle and penile erection in men in clinical trials. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of vardenafil on the impairment of erectile responses produced by paroxetine in the rat model. Application of cavernosal nerve electrical stimulation (CNES) produced frequency-related intracavernosal pressure (ICP) increases, which were inhibited by the NOS inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (0.3 mg/kg) and potentiated by vardenafil (0.3 mg/kg). Acute paroxetine treatment (10 mg/kg) significantly reduced ICP-responses to CNES. This inhibition was completely reversed by vardenafil (0.3 mg/kg) administration. The results show that the erectile dysfunction induced by paroxetine in rats can be effectively treated with vardenafil, suggesting that the use of this compound could be a reasonable therapeutic approach to treating erectile dysfunction associated with SSRI administration.
To report development of a seizure after administration of ropivacaine.
A 26-year-old woman was scheduled for a cesarean section because of a stagnation of the uterine neck dilatation after 4.5 hours. After peridural administration of 279 mg of ropivacaine (total dose) over five hours, she presented with oculogyric movements and slurred speech that preceded convulsions of the face and of the upper limbs.
Convulsions are well-known complications of local anesthetics. Ropivacaine, a relatively new agent, is considered safer for the central nervous system. Currently, there are only four published reports that implicate ropivacaine as being associated with convulsions. The likelihood that ropivacaine caused the seizure in our patient was possible based on the Naranjo probability scale.
Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of seizures as an adverse effect of ropivacaine.
To describe a patient who developed adverse reactions to two different lipid formulations of amphotericin B: liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) and amphotericin B colloidal dispersion (ABCD, Amphocil), yet tolerated amphotericin B deoxycholate (Fungizone) despite renal toxicity.
A 72-year-old woman with acute myelomonocytic leukemia was treated with amphotericin B deoxycholate for suspected pulmonary aspergillosis; the drug was well tolerated but resulted in renal failure. Antifungal therapy was then changed to liposomal amphotericin B. Within 10 minutes of liposomal amphotericin B infusion, the patient developed severe dyspnea, chest pain, and a feeling of imminent death. On the following day, liposomal amphotericin B was switched to amphotericin B colloidal dispersion. Again, within 10 minutes of this infusion, the patient developed fever, chills, hypotension, severe chest pain, dsypnea, and a feeling of imminent death. The patient refused any further treatment with these drugs and insisted on switching back to amphotericin B deoxycholate, which was then administered for 10 days and was well tolerated.
Severe adverse reactions, such as anaphylaxis, cardiac toxicity, and respiratory failure, following administration of all three lipid formulations of amphotericin B have been reported. In most reported cases, switching to a different lipid formulation of amphotericin B was well tolerated. This is in contrast to our case, where a severe reaction was repeated when another lipid preparation was given, necessitating switching back to amphotericin B deoxycholate despite its nephrotoxicity.
In some patients, paradoxically, lipid formulations of amphotericin B may be less tolerable than conventional amphotericin B.
The synthesis of a series of N-alkyl 2-amino 2',6'-xylidides is described. The method involved coupling of the N-alkyl-2',6'-xylidine with the appropriate 2-haloacyl halide, followed by ammonolysis. Alternatively, alkylation of the 2-phthalimido 2',6'-xylidide with NaH and the alkyl halide followed by hydrazinolysis was used. All compounds were evaluated for their ability to protect mice against chloroform-induced ventricular fibrillation. The compounds were generally more potent antifibrillatory agents than the corresponding secondary amides. All were more potent than tocainide and several showed less CNS toxicity. Five compounds were further evaluated in dogs with ventricular arrhythmias resulting from myocardial infarction. N-Ethyl-2-aminoaceto-4'-propoxy-2',6'-xylidide was as potent as lidocaine and produced less CNS toxicity.
Loss of p53 sensitizes to antimicrotubule agents in human tumor cells, but little is known about its role during mitosis. We have identified the Polo-like kinase family member serum inducible kinase (Snk/Plk2) as a novel p53 target gene. Snk/Plk2 mutagenesis demonstrated that its kinase activity is negatively regulated by its C terminus. Small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated Snk/Plk2 silencing in the presence of the mitotic poisons paclitaxel (Taxol) or nocodazole significantly increased apoptosis, similar to p53 mutations, which confer paclitaxel sensitivity. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that the apoptosis due to silencing of Snk/Plk2 in the face of spindle damage occurs in mitotic cells and not in cells that have progressed to a G(1)-like state without dividing. Since siRNA directed against Snk/Plk2 promoted death of paclitaxel-treated cells in mitosis, we envision a mitotic checkpoint wherein p53-dependent activation of Snk/Plk2 prevents mitotic catastrophe following spindle damage. Finally, these studies suggest that disruption of Snk/Plk2 may be of therapeutic value in sensitizing paclitaxel-resistant tumors.
We conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of oral azidothymidine (AZT) in 282 patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) or AIDS-related complex. Although significant clinical benefit was documented (N Engl J Med 1987; 317:185-91), serious adverse reactions, particularly bone marrow suppression, were observed. Nausea, myalgia, insomnia, and severe headaches were reported more frequently by recipients of AZT; macrocytosis developed within weeks in most of the AZT group. Anemia with hemoglobin levels below 7.5 g per deciliter developed in 24 percent of AZT recipients and 4 percent of placebo recipients (P less than 0.001). Twenty-one percent of AZT recipients and 4 percent of placebo recipients required multiple red-cell transfusions (P less than 0.001). Neutropenia (less than 500 cells per cubic millimeter) occurred in 16 percent of AZT recipients, as compared with 2 percent of placebo recipients (P less than 0.001). Subjects who entered the study with low CD4 lymphocyte counts, low serum vitamin B12 levels, anemia, or low neutrophil counts were more likely to have hematologic toxic effects. Concurrent use of acetaminophen was also associated with a higher frequency of hematologic toxicity. Although a subset of patients tolerated AZT for an extended period with few toxic effects, the drug should be administered with caution because of its toxicity and the limited experience with it to date.
We report the case of a 13-yr-old girl scheduled for knee surgery under general anesthesia and posterior lumbar plexus block. A ventricular arrhythmia developed 15 min after local anesthetic injection. A 20% lipid emulsion was successful in converting the ventricular arrhythmia to a sinus rhythm. This is consistent with previous reports suggesting that lipid emulsion is an effective emergency treatment of local anesthetic toxicity. We recommend the immediate availability of lipid emulsion along with other emergency therapeutics in operating rooms where local anesthetics are used.
The antihypertensive effect of pindolol has been demonstrated in several hundred clinical trials performed in many countries. The results of several representative trials will be reviewed in this article. In a cooperative study of pindolol by Swiss internists, blood pressure (BP) normalization was achieved in 76% of the patients and a fair response in 9%. In a French trial, BP reduction was found to correlate with the initial pressure level. Pindolol was also found effective in treating renal hypertension (Germany) and was considered particularly useful in hypertensive patients with coexistent angina pectoris (South Africa). A favorable effect on the BP profile registered during the whole day was demonstrated by means of BP telemetry (Germany). A Swedish long-term study showed pindolol to have a sustained antihypertensive effect over 16 months associated with a progressive decrease in systemic vascular resistance. In a study conducted in New Zealand, pindolol compared favorably with drugs previously used for hypertension, (methyldopa, diuretics, rauwolfia, guanethidine, etc.). It proved slightly less effective than methyldopa in a Canadian trial but significantly more effective than this drug in a South African study. Danish investigators found pindolol equivalent to chlorthalidone in lowering the resting BP but more effective than the diuretic in reducing the pressure and pulse response to exercise. Of particular interest are comparisons of pindolol with other beta-blockers performed in Germany, Sweden, Australia, and New Zealand. BP reductions obtained with pindolol did not differ significantly from those obtained with the other beta-blockers, whether they were cardioselective (metoprolol, atenolol) or not (propranolol, timolol, nadolol); however, pindolol produced less slowing of resting heart rate than these five other drugs, which are devoid of intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA). Pindolol proved somewhat more effective than other nonselective beta-blockers with ISA (i.e., oxprenolol), although both produced less bradycardia than propranolol (New Zealand). In resistant cases, the combination of pindolol with diuretics, methyldopa, or hydralazine was found to significantly increase the responder rate.
We sought to compare daptomycin with ceftriaxone for the treatment of patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP).
Two phase-3 randomized, double-blind trials that enrolled adult patients hospitalized with CAP were conducted. Patients received intravenous daptomycin (4 mg/kg) or ceftriaxone (2 g) once daily for 5-14 days. Aztreonam could be added for patients with gram-negative infections. Clinical responses at the test-of-cure visit among patients in the intent-to-treat and clinically evaluable populations were the primary efficacy end points.
After combining data from the trials, the intent-to-treat population included 413 daptomycin-treated patients and 421 ceftriaxone-treated patients, and the clinically evaluable population included 369 daptomycin-treated patients and 371 ceftriaxone-treated patients. In the intent-to-treat population, the clinical cure rate among daptomycin-treated patients with CAP was 70.9%, compared with 77.4% among ceftriaxone-treated patients (95% confidence interval for the difference between cure rates, -12.4% to -0.6%). In the clinically evaluable population, the clinical cure rate was lower among daptomycin-treated patients (79.4%) than among ceftriaxone-treated patients (87.9%; 95% confidence interval for the difference between cure rates, -13.8% to -3.2%). A posthoc analysis revealed that, among those who had received up to 24 h of prior effective therapy, cure rates were similar among daptomycin-treated (90.7%) and ceftriaxone-treated patients (88.0%; 95% confidence interval for the difference between cure rates, -6.1% to 11.5%).
Daptomycin is not effective for the treatment of CAP, including infections caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus. The observation that as little as 24 h of prior effective therapy may impact clinical outcome suggests that trials to evaluate CAP treatment may need to exclude patients who have received any potentially effective therapy before enrollment.
Treatment-emergent mania is a potential risk when patients with bipolar disorder are treated with antidepressant agents. These subanalyses compare treatment-emergent mania rates in bipolar I depressed patients treated with olanzapine, placebo, or olanzapine/fluoxetine combination.
In this 8-week, double-blind investigation, patients with bipolar I depression (DSM-IV criteria) (N = 833, baseline Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale total score > or = 20) were randomly assigned to olanzapine (5-20 mg/day, N = 370), placebo (N = 377), or olanzapine/fluoxetine combination (6/25, 6/50, or 12/50 mg/day; N = 86). Treatment-emergent mania was evaluated with the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), the Clinical Global Impressions-Bipolar Edition (CGI-BP) Severity of Mania scale, and adverse events records.
Overall rates of study discontinuation due to mania were low and not significantly different among the therapy groups (p = .358). Incidence of treatment-emergent mania (defined as a YMRS score < 15 at baseline and > or = 15 at any subsequent visit) did not differ significantly among therapy groups (olanzapine 5.7%, placebo 6.7%, olanzapine/fluoxetine combination 6.4%; p = .861). Subjects receiving olanzapine or olanzapine/fluoxetine combination had greater mean decreases in YMRS scores than those receiving placebo (p < .001 for both). Subjects receiving olanzapine or olanzapine/fluoxetine combination also had greater mean decreases in CGI-BP scores than those receiving placebo (p = .040 and p = .003, respectively).
These results suggest that olanzapine/fluoxetine combination does not present a greater risk of treatment-emergent mania compared to olanzapine or placebo over 8 weeks of acute treatment for bipolar I depression. Due to the cyclical nature of bipolar disorder, patients taking olanzapine/fluoxetine combination for bipolar depression should still be monitored for signs or symptoms of emerging mania.
Fetal alcohol syndrome is characterized by facial dysmorphology, mental and growth retardation, and somatic anomalies including hydronephrosis. The authors sought to determine the influence of exogenous testosterone or estradiol on the incidence of hydronephrosis in a rodent model of fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS).
Pregnant rats were fed a liquid diet containing 35% ethanol-derived calories from gestation day 6 through 15, with exogenous testosterone or estradiol supplementation on day 18. On day 20, fetal kidneys were examined for evidence of hydronephrosis, and fetal serum estradiol concentrations were determined by radioimmunoassay.
Maternal estrogen supplementation resulted in very high fetal serum estradiol levels that were not additionally increased by alcoholism. Despite this fact, the expression of renal malformations was highest in the alcoholic, estradiol-supplemented offspring. Additionally, the rate of renal malformations was significantly higher in the estrogen-supplemented alcoholic group than in the strictly estradiol animals, yet the fetal serum estradiol concentrations did not differ between the two groups.
This suggests that ethanol may act synergistically with estradiol to increase the rate of renal anomalies including hydronephrosis. Such damage may persist via a suppression of normal testosterone-stimulated renal growth and development. FAS includes significant renal anomalies characterized by hydronephrosis in both animal models and affected children. Although the long-term functional sequelae of hydronephrosis and reflux are well known, the progression of renal disease in FAS children remains to be documented.
Chloroquine (CQ), a drug that has been used extensively for the prevention and treatment of malaria, is currently considered safe for use during pregnancy. However, CQ has been shown to disrupt steroid homeostasis in adult rats and similar compounds, such as quinacrine, inhibit steroid production in the Leydig cell in vitro. To explore the effect of in utero CQ exposure on fetal male sexual development, pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were given a daily dose of either water or chloroquine diphosphate from GD 16-18 by oral gavage. Chloroquine was administered as 200 mg/kg CQ base on GD 16, followed by two maintenance doses of 100 mg/kg CQ base on GD 16 and 18. Three days of CQ treatment resulted in reduced maternal and fetal weight on GD 19 and increased necrosis and steatosis in the maternal liver. Fetal livers also displayed mild lipid accumulation. Maternal serum progesterone was increased after CQ administration. Fetal testes testosterone, however, was significantly decreased. Examination of the fetal testes revealed significant alterations in vascularization and seminiferous tubule development after short-term CQ treatment. Anogenital distance was not altered. Microarray and RT-PCR showed down-regulation of several genes associated with cholesterol transport and steroid synthesis in the fetal testes. This study indicates that CQ inhibits testosterone synthesis and normal testis development in the rat fetus at human relevant doses.
In several models of aging, microglia become more inflammatory and reactive to immune challenges. For example, peripheral LPS injection causes exaggerated microglial activation associated with prolonged sickness and depressive-like behavior in aged BALB/c mice. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which age-related amplified microglial activation was associated with reduced sensitivity to the anti-inflammatory and M2 promoting cytokines interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-4. In initial studies with adult mice, LPS induced a time-dependent increase in M1 and M2 mRNA profiles in microglia. Furthermore, peripheral LPS injection markedly increased surface expression of IL-4 receptor-alpha (IL-4Rα), but not IL-10 receptor-1 (IL-10R1) on microglia. In BV-2 cells, IL-4, but not IL-10, re-directed LPS-activated microglia towards an M2 phenotype. Based on these findings, comparisons of M1 and M2 activation profiles, induction of IL-4Rα, and sensitivity to IL-4 were determined in microglia from adult (3-4 mo) and aged (18-22 mo) mice. In aged microglia, LPS promoted an exaggerated and prolonged M1 and M2 profile compared to adults. Moreover, IL-4Rα protein was not increased on aged microglia following LPS injection. To determine the consequence of impaired IL-4Rα upregulation, adult and aged mice were injected with LPS and activated microglia were then isolated and treated ex vivo with IL-4. While ex vivo IL-4 induced an M2 profile in activated microglia from adult mice, activated microglia from aged mice retained a prominent M1 profile. These data indicate that activated microglia from aged mice are less sensitive to the anti-inflammatory and M2-promoting effects of IL-4.
Angiotensin I-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi), which are used to treat common cardiovascular diseases, are associated with a potentially life-threatening adverse reaction known as angioedema (AE-ACEi). We have previously documented a significant association between AE-ACEi and low plasma aminopeptidase P (APP) activity. With eight large pedigrees, we hereby demonstrate that this quantitative trait is partially regulated by genetic factors. We tested APP activity using a variance-component QTL analysis of a 10-cM genomewide microsatellite scan enriched with seven markers over two candidate regions. We found significant linkage (LOD = 3.75) to a locus that includes the XPNPEP2 candidate gene encoding membrane-bound APP. Mutation screening of this QTL identified a large coding deletion segregating in one pedigree and an upstream single-nucleotide polymorphism (C-2399A SNP), which segregates in the remaining seven pedigrees. Measured genotype analysis strongly suggests that the linkage signal for APP activity at this locus is accounted for predominantly by the SNP association. In a separate case-control study (20 cases and 60 controls), we found significant association of this SNP to ACEi-induced AE (P=.0364). In conclusion, our findings provide supporting evidence that the C-2399A variant in XPNPEP2 is associated with reduced APP activity and a higher incidence of AE-ACEi.
The measurement of NAG enzymuria by the spectrofluorimetric assay according to Merle et al. enables an early diagnosis of tubular dysfunction. Urinary NAG activity was determined in 13 patients with various rheumatic diseases during administration of potentially nephrotoxic drugs like nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), aminoglycosides, gold salts, cyclosporin and steroids. The significant decrease of urinary NAG activity was common in patients with recently diagnosed rheumatic diseases, who received steroids. The decrease of NAG enzymuria was correlated with biochemical indices of inflammation like ESR or hemoglobin. The use of two types of potentially nephrotoxic drugs, like NSAID and gentamicin or NSAID with cyclosporin induced significant augmentation of NAG excretion. This occurrence may precede azotemia. The recognition of high NAG enzymuria permits to reduce dosage or discontinue treatment with potentially nephrotoxic drug prior to irreversible renal insufficiency as shown in the case of a patient with psoriatic arthritis treated with simultaneously administered cyclosporin and diclofenac.
Aneuploidy is a major cause of human reproductive failure and plays a large role in cancer. Phenolphthalein (PHT) induces tumors in rodents but its primary mechanism does not seem to be DNA damage. In heterozygous TSG-p53(®) mice, PHT induces lymphomas and also micronuclei (MN), many containing kinetochores (K), implying chromosome loss (aneuploidy). The induction of aneuploidy would be compatible with the loss of the normal p53 gene seen in the lymphomas. In this study, we confirm PHT's aneugenicity and determine the aneugenic mechanism of PHT by combining traditional genetic toxicology assays with image and flow cytometry methods. The data revealed that PHT induces tubulin polymerization abnormalities and deregulates the centrosome duplication cycle causing centrosome amplification. We also show that one of the consequences of these events is apoptosis.
In this study, the infusion of physostigmine in 14 patients with affective disorder who were pretreated with methscopolamine caused significant and often profound increases in the patients' epinephrine levels, pulse rates, and blood pressure. Since physostigmine is being used experimentally in the treatment of elderly subjects who have Alzheimer's disease, these cardiovascular effects may have clinical importance.
Aminoglycoside antibiotics are associated with ototoxicity. The 1555A --> G mutation in the 12S ribosomal RNA gene of mitochondrial DNA has been considered to be associated with susceptibility to aminoglycoside antibiotics. In this study we examined a 79-year-old Japanese patient with a 45-year history of streptomycin-induced tinnitus in an attempt to find a mitochondrial mutation.
DNA was extracted from the patient's leukocytes. Polymerase chain reaction restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) screening for the 1555A --> G mutation was done in order to detect a mitochondrial mutation and then nucleotide sequencing analysis was performed to identify the mutation.
PCR-RFLP screening detected the presence of a mitochondrial mutation in the patient. However, the nucleotide sequencing analysis showed that the mutation was not the 1555A --> G mutation but a novel mutation, 1556C --> T. The mutation was not found in 112 unrelated Japanese control subjects, suggesting that the mutation was specific to our patient.
The 1556C --> T mutation may be a genetic risk factor for aminoglycoside-induced hearing impairment. Our result also suggests that patients with the 1556C --> T mutation exist among those expected to have the 1555A --> G mutation as a result of PCR-RFLP analysis.
To compare the long-term efficacy and tolerability of oral quetiapine with those of intramuscular haloperidol.
Patients with DSM-IV-diagnosed schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder requiring long-term antipsychotic treatment were randomly assigned to open-label oral quetiapine or intramuscular haloperidol decanoate for 48 weeks. Clinicians were instructed to target dosing at 500 mg/day of quetiapine or 200 mg of haloperidol decanoate every 4 weeks. The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale was used to assess efficacy; the Simpson-Angus Scale and the Barnes Akathisia Scale were used to assess safety and tolerability. For statistical analyses, a general linear mixed-model repeated-measures analysis of covariance was used, with change scores for dependent variables computed with the baseline score as covariate. Data were collected from 1998 to 2001.
Thirty-five patients were enrolled, but 6 did not participate after being informed of their treatment assignment; 4 of the 6 withdrawals were assigned to haloperidol decanoate. Mean doses at week 48 were 493 mg/day of quetiapine (N = 16) and 170 mg/28 days of haloperidol decanoate (N = 9). Survival analysis showed no between-group differences in estimates of the number of patients remaining exacerbation-free over time. Both drugs were efficacious, but quetiapine was significantly better than haloperidol decanoate in controlling negative symptoms (p < .05). The incidence of extrapyramidal symptoms was low in both groups; patients receiving quetiapine showed significantly greater improvement in rigidity and akathisia (p < .05).
Oral quetiapine was as efficacious as intramuscular haloperidol in preventing symptom exacerbation over 48 weeks in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, with fewer extrapyramidal symptoms, especially rigidity and akathisia. Quetiapine was more efficacious than haloperidol decanoate in treating negative symptoms.
Neuronal cell death caused by oxidative stress is common in a variety of neural diseases and can be investigated in detail in cultured HT22 neuronal cells, where the amino acid glutamate at high concentrations causes glutathione depletion by inhibition of the glutamate/cystine antiporter system, intracellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and eventually oxidative stress-induced neuronal cell death. Using this paradigm, we have previously reported that resveratrol (3,5,4'-trans-trihydroxystilbene) protects HT22 neuronal cells from glutamate-induced oxidative stress by inducing heme oxygenase (HO)-1 expression. Piceatannol (3,5,4',3'-trans-trihydroxystilbene), which is a hydroxylated resveratrol analog and one of the resveratrol metabolites, is estimated to exert neuroprotective effect similar to that of resveratrol. The aim of this study, thus, is to determine whether piceatannol, similarly to resveratrol, would protect HT22 neuronal cells from glutamate-induced oxidative stress. Glutamate at high concentrations induced neuronal cell death and ROS formation. Piceatannol reduced glutamate-induced cell death and ROS formation. The observed cytoprotective effect was much higher when HT22 neuronal cells were pretreated with piceatannol for 6 or 12 h prior to glutamate treatment than when pretreated for 0.5 h. Piceatannol also increased HO-1 expression and HO activity via its activation of nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2). Interestingly, neuroprotective effect of piceatannol was partly (but not completely) abolished by either down-regulation of HO-1 expression or blockage of HO-1 activity. Taken together, our results suggest that piceatannol, similar to resveratrol, is capable of protecting HT22 neuronal cells against glutamate-induced cell death, at least in part, by inducing Nrf2-dependent HO-1 expression.
Paclitaxel has shown promising activity in gastric cancer and has synergism with cisplatin. This study was performed to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of low-dose paclitaxel (145 mg/m(2)) plus cisplatin chemotherapy in metastatic or relapsed gastric cancer.
Chemotherapy-naïve patients with metastatic or relapsed gastric cancer were enrolled. Paclitaxel 145 mg/m(2) was administered intravenously over 3 h, followed by cisplatin 60 mg/m(2) on Day 1 every 3 weeks in the outpatient setting.
Of 39 patients enrolled, 17 (44%) had partial responses. Twelve (31%) had stable disease and eight (21%) progressive disease. Two patients (5%) were not evaluable because of early drop-out. The median time to progression was 4.7 months and the median overall survival was 12.1 months. The most common hematologic toxicity was anemia (41%). Grade 3/4 neutropenia and thrombocytopenia developed in 14 and 3%, respectively. The most common non-hematologic toxicities were peripheral neuropathy (43%) and emesis (43%). Grade 3/4 non-hematologic toxicities included emesis (11%), peripheral neuropathy (3%), diarrhea (3%) and hepatotoxicity (3%).
Low-dose paclitaxel and cisplatin chemotherapy was active and well-tolerated in chemotherapy-naïve gastric cancer patients. This regimen seems to have comparable efficacy to previously reported higher-dose paclitaxel plus cisplatin-containing regimens and fewer toxicities.
Case report of a 39-year-old woman treated by Danazol for a paroxystic nocturnal hemoglobinuria who developed benign intracranial hypertension and sclerosing cholangitis. Bilateral papilloedema cleared 4 weeks after Danazol was stopped. Twelve similar cases have already been reported in the literature. Danazol should be added to the list of drugs potentially inducing pseudo-tumor cerebri.
Roxindole (EMD 49980, 5-hydroxy-3-[4-(4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridyl(1))-butyl(1)]-indole mesylate), a selective dopamine autoreceptor agonist and a potential antipsychotic drug, shows a clinical antidepressant efficacy. The present paper examined the neuropharmacological profile of roxindole in rats (male Wistar) and mice (male Albino Swiss) in respect of its influence on dopamine system. Used in low doses, roxindole decreased the locomotor activity, but in higher ones it did not induce a locomotor hyperactivity or stereotypy. It antagonized the amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, the amphetamine- or apomorphine-induced stereotypy, apomorphine climbing behaviour and reserpine-induced akinesia. The quinpirole-induced hyperlocomotion was inhibited by roxindole. When given alone, the drug in question, did not induce the catalepsy, but antagonized the catalepsy induced by haloperidol, spiperone and fluphenazine. The immobility time in the forced swimming test was reduced. Like typical antidepressants, roxindole given repeatedly (twice daily, 14 days) increased the hyperlocomotion induced by D-amphetamine. The results described above indicate that roxindole may have an antidepressant and antiparkinsonian activity and should be devoid of extrapyramidal side-effects.
The agouti protein is a paracrine factor that is normally present in the skin of many species of mammals. Agouti regulates the switch between black and yellow hair pigmentation by signalling through the melanocortin 1 receptor (Mc1r) on melanocytes. Lethal yellow (Ay) and viable yellow (Avy) are dominant regulatory mutations in the mouse agouti gene that cause the wild-type protein to be produced at abnormally high levels throughout the body. Mice harboring these mutations exhibit a pleiotropic syndrome characterized by yellow coat color, obesity, hyperglycemia, hyperinsulinemia, and increased susceptibility to hyperplasia and carcinogenesis in numerous tissues, including the liver. The goal of this research was to determine if ectopic expression of the agouti gene in the liver alone is sufficient to recapitulate any aspect of this syndrome. For this purpose, we generated lines of transgenic mice expressing high levels of agouti in the liver under the regulatory control of the albumin promoter. Expression levels of the agouti transgene in the liver were quantified by Northern blot analysis. Functional agouti protein in the liver of transgenic mice was assayed by its ability to inhibit binding of the alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) to the Mc1r. Body weight, plasma insulin and blood glucose levels were analyzed in control and transgenic mice. Control and transgenic male mice were given a single intraperitoneal injection (10 mg/kg) of the hepatocellular carcinogen, diethylnitrosamine (DEN), at 15 days of age. Mice were euthanized at 36 or 40 weeks after DEN injection and the number of tumors per liver and total liver weights were recorded.
The albumin-agouti transgene was expressed at high levels in the livers of mice and produced a functional agouti protein. Albumin-agouti transgenic mice had normal body weights and normal levels of blood glucose and plasma insulin, but responded to chemical initiation of the liver with an increased number of liver tumors compared to non-transgenic control mice.
The data demonstrate that liver-specific expression of the agouti gene is not sufficient to induce obesity or diabetes, but, in the absence of these factors, agouti continues to promote hepatocellular carcinogenesis.
A 91-yr-old man (57 kg, 156 cm, ASA III) received an infraclavicular brachial plexus block for surgery of bursitis of the olecranon. Twenty minutes after infraclavicular injection of 30 mL of mepivacaine 1% (Scandicain) and 5 min after supplementation of 10 mL of prilocaine 1% (Xylonest) using an axillary approach, the patient complained of agitation and dizziness and became unresponsive to verbal commands. In addition, supraventricular extrasystole with bigeminy occurred. Local anesthetic toxicity was suspected and a dose of 200 mL of a 20% lipid emulsion was infused. Symptoms of central nervous system and cardiac toxicity disappeared within 5 and 15 min after the first lipid injection, respectively. Plasma concentrations of local anesthetics were determined before, 20, and 40 min after lipid infusion and were 4.08, 2.30, and 1.73 microg/mL for mepivacaine and 0.92, 0.35, and 0.24 microg/mL for prilocaine. These concentrations are below previously reported thresholds of toxicity above 5 microg/mL for both local anesthetics. Signs of toxicity resolved and the patient underwent the scheduled surgical procedure uneventfully under brachial plexus blockade.
