Child and adolescent catatonia has been poorly investigated. Moreover, diagnosis criteria only exist for adult psychiatry, and there are no therapeutic guidelines. The aim of this paper is to describe the case of a 14-year-old girl presenting an overlap between psychogenic and neuroleptic induced catatonia, acute treatment and ten year's follow-up.
A 14-year-old Caucasian French girl, Elsa, was admitted in February 1998 to a University adolescent mental health center with an acute psychotic disorder. She showed agitation, impulsivity (sudden engagement in inappropriate behaviour), paranoid delusions, visual and auditory hallucinations, diurnal and nocturnal urinary incontinence, lack of self-care, inadequate food intake because of fear of poisoning, and vomiting after meals leading to rapid weight loss of 5 kg. Clinical examination, laboratory tests, EEG and RMI were normal. Toxicological tests were negative. Her IQ, assessed six months before admission, was in the dull average range (70-75). Elsa was treated with loxapine 150 mg per day for one week without improvement and this was then replaced by haloperidol 30 mg per day. One week after the start of haloperidol her agitation, impulsivity, and hallucinatory symptoms decreased. Twenty four days after loxapine introduction and 17 days after the haloperidol, her condition deteriorated rapidly over less than 48 hours. She exhibited immobility, minimal response to stimuli, staring and catalepsy with waxy flexibility. The diagnosis of catatonia was established. Examination revealed tremulous extremities, tachychardia (110 pm) and apyrexia. Creatine phosphokinase levels were 106 UI/l (normal range 0-250). Human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis, listeria and Lyme serology were negative. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was normal. Haloperidol was stopped and intravenous clonazepam 5mg/kg was begun. It was not possible to obtain signed consent from the two parents for Electroconvulsive therapy. The patient was transferred to a pediatric intensive care unit. The treatment was standard parenteral nutrition, nursing, intravenous clonazepam 0.05 mg/kg, with regular attendance by a child psychiatrist. Elsa stayed three weeks in this condition. She then began to notice the child psychiatrist, and a few days later she was able to carry out simple requests. Elsa was transferred to an adolescent psychiatric unit. As soon as she could eat by herself again, carbamazepine 400mg per day was begun. Her agitation reduced at a carbamazepine level of 7 mg/l. One month later her condition was stable. However, language difficulties persisted for a further six months. One year after the episode she scored 66 on a repeat IQ test and her RMI was normal. She exhibited no significant residual symptoms except some cognitive impairment. She integrated into a special education facility. These attempts to stop the carbamazepine were followed by depressed mood, aggressiveness and impulsivity; carbamazepine was finally stopped successfully after seven years. Ten years later, Elsa is the mother of two young children and is able to take care of them. She has never had a relapse of her psychotic disorder or catatonic state.
The etiopathogenic diagnosis is problematic. Some indices in the familial history may suggest a traumatic event. But one to the total residual amnesia it was never confirmed, and traumatic catatonia are extremely rare. Normal CPK levels, with autonomic disturbance limited to tachycardia and the lack of resolution after discontinuance of medication, argues against a diagnosis of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). But CPK levels are non specific, and NMS without pyrexia has been described. The occurrence of the catatonic syndrome 21 days after the first dose of a neuroleptic could be diagnostic. This case involved a non organic catatonic psychosis followed by neuroleptic induced catatonia. Catatonia is described as a risk factor for the development of NMS and some consider NMS to be a variant of malignant catatonia. The interest of this report is (1) it reinforces the need to be cautious before prescribing neuroleptics in adolescents presenting with symptoms of catatonia; (2) the complete recovery from catatonia after treatment with intensive care and more than three weeks of intravenous clonazepam without the use of ECT and (3) the effectiveness of carbamazepine over a long period of follow-up. Although trials on carbamazepine in catatonia are published, there are no data available for the control of residual symptoms or the long term prognosis, especially in child and adolescent psychiatry.
Optic neuritis has been described among the toxic effects of Ethambutol. This side effect is dose related. The mean duration of Ethambutol induced optic neuritis (EON) is three months. We report a case of EON after few days of exposure to Ethambutol and the symptoms resolved after discontinuation of Ethambutol. This most likely represents an idiosyncratic reaction which is different as compared to dose related optic neuritis.
To investigate the curative effect and mechanism of beta-elemene interventional treatment on VX2 carcinoma transplanted on kidney in rabbits.
The rabbits were all transplanted with VX2 carcinoma on kidney. Fifty-five rabbits were randomly divided into 11 groups. Rabbits in these groups were administered interventional treatment of normal saline, iodinated oil, mitomycin, 5-fluorouracil, beta-elemene, cisplatin, carboplatin, adriamycin, thiotepa, cyclophopsphamide, and vincristine, respectively. After corresponding intervention, the tumor volume in each group was measured by ultrasonography and spiral computed tomography, and the tumor growth rate (TGR) was calculated. Nenal and hepatic functions of the rabbits in each group were compared 1 day, 7 and 14 days after the interventional treatment. Morphologic change of the tumor was observed by a light microscopy and a transmission electron microscopy 14 days after interventional treatment. The expressions of Bax and Bcl-2 were measured by immunohistochemical straining.
There was statistical significance in the effects of different medicines intervened on VX2 kidney transplanted carcinoma. The VX2 carcinoma of rabbits had high-sensitivity to iodized oil embolism, mitomycin, cisplatin and carboplatin, which showed serious damage to the kidney function, medium-sensitivity to beta-elemene, adriamycin and 5-fluorouracil, in which beta-elemene showed slight damage to the kidney function, and resistance to thiotepa, cyclohosphamide and vincristine. Most tumor cells displayed apoptosis in the beta-elemene interventional treatment group under light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy, and only few tumor cells displayed necrosis. The Bax expression was up-regulated (P<0.05) and the Bcl-2 expression had no significant difference (P>0.05) in the beta-elemene interventional treatment group.
Intervention treatment of beta-elemene has significant effect on VX2 kidney transplanted carcinoma and little side effect on the kidney function. Its mechanism is related to enhancing the apoptosis of tumor cells, and Bax gene participates in this action.
During a five year period at the Harlem Hospital Center nine heroin addicts were seen with strokes. Four occurred after loss of consciousness following intravenous heroin. Two occurred in patients using heroin at the time, but were not related to overdose or to a particular recent injection. The youth of these patients and lack of other predisposing factors suggests that heroin played a role in their strokes. In the other three patients, the relationships of stroke to heroin is less persuasive. There are several possible mechanisms by which heroin abuse could lead to stroke.
The use of pharmacological treatment during pregnancy has always been extremely controversial, especially if the drugs involved are sex hormones, such as diethylstilbestrol. The percentage of congenital malformations attributable to hormonal therapy during pregnancy is 3%; the period of maximum susceptibility to teratogenic agents is between the 3rd-10th week of gestation, or the period of organogenesis. The 1st reported case of congenital malformation due to hormonal therapy during pregnancy goes back to 1957; since then the literature has published more on this subject. One of the most important studies was done in 1977 by Heinonen on a group of 50,282 pregnant women; 1042 had been treated with sex hormones. 19 infants, or 18.2/1000, had cardiovascular defects. Among the remaining 49,240 patients there were 385 cardiovascular malformations, or 7.8/1000. The problem is still far from being resolved; it is up to the individual physician to give the best possible advice, after careful consideration of the clinical situation of every pregnant patient.
Sixty-six Guatemalans with parasitologically proven cutaneous leishmaniasis were randomly and equally divided into 3 treatment groups: those receiving meglumine antimonate (Glucantime), 850 mg antimony/day im for 15 days; those receiving localized controlled heat from a radio-frequency generator, 50 degrees C for 30 sec, 3 treatments at 7 day intervals; and those receiving treatment with a placebo. Of 53 isolates identified, 40 were Leishmania braziliensis braziliensis and 13 were L. mexicana mexicana. Thirteen weeks after beginning treatment, the number of patients from each group with completely healed and parasitologically negative lesions were as follows: meglumine antimonate, 16 (73%); localized heat, 16 (73%); and placebo, 6 (27%). The cure rate for those with infections due to L. b. braziliensis in each group was as follows: meglumine antimonate, 11 out of 14 (79%); controlled heat, 9 out of 14 (64%); and placebo, 0 out of 11.
Resistance to lamivudine and hyperimmune globulin (HBIG) may cause severe graft reinfection with progression to fulminant hepatic failure in liver transplant recipients. In this report, we describe the clinical course of a patient with perinatally acquired chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and hepatocellular carcinoma who developed severe fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis after living donor liver transplantation because of the emergence of lamivudine and HBIG-resistant chronic hepatitis B. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that more than 30% of hepatocytes stained positively for hepatitis B core antigen. Hepatitis B virus sequence analysis revealed several mutations in the polymerase gene (L528M, M552I, M552V) as well as in the surface gene region encoding the immunogenic major hydrophilic loop of the small surface protein (G130N, M133T, D144G). The amino acid exchange at codon 144 has already been described to escape neutralization by HBIG. Combined treatment with lamivudine and adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) was associated with a dramatic biochemical, virological and clinical response with resolution of jaundice, ascites, peripheral edema and pleural effusions. Serum bilirubin normalized, HBV DNA levels significantly decreased and liver biopsy was remarkable for the absence of viral protein. These results indicate that ADV may provide a sustained rescue treatment for aggressive courses of HBV graft reinfection in liver transplant recipients.
Treatment with some drugs may lead to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), the presence of which is more likely in some populations, including people who are elderly or who take diuretics. Resulting drug-induced hyponatremia is often mild and usually resolves following water restriction and withdrawal of the drug. In some patients, however, it may be a potentially fatal condition that is typically asymptomatic until it becomes severe. In this article, we describe the case of a 59-year-old man with arterial hypertension, already treated with hydrochlorothiazide, who presented with hyponatremia after starting administration of carbamazepine. After excluding other common causes of hyponatremia, a diagnosis of SIADH was established, carbamazepine was withdrawn and SIADH treatment introduced. Our study shows that routine assessment of blood electrolytes is reasonable not only in patients receiving diuretics but also in patients treated with other drugs affecting vasopressin secretion.
In the 24 year old former competitive athelete tocolysis with ritodrin (pre-par) was started at 28 weeks gestation in her second pregnancy for premature labor. Diffuse cardiac ischemia occurred during the intravenous infusion of ritodrin. The betamimetic drug was the factor which started the myocardial ischemia as evidenced by the serial electrocardiograms. The importance of serial electrocardiograms during treatment with ritodrin is emphasized.
X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein-associated factor 1 (XAF1) is a candidate tumor suppressor located at the chromosome 17p13 region, but the molecular basis underlying its inactivation in human tumors and growth-inhibiting function has not been well defined. We explored the candidacy of XAF1 as a suppressor in colorectal tumorigenesis.
XAF1 expression was characterized by polymerase chain reaction-based cloning, isoform-specific polymerase chain reaction, ribonuclease protection, and immunoblot assays. Allelic loss of the gene was evaluated by loss of heterozygosity (LOH) assay, and promoter CG dinucleotide (CpG) site methylation was determined using bisulfite sequencing. The effect of XAF1 on tumor growth was examined using flow cytometry, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling, colony formation, and viability assays.
Expression of 5 XAF1 variants including 2 novel transcripts was down-regulated concomitantly in 11 of 20 (55%) cell lines and 26 of 65 (40%) primary tumors. XAF1 reduction was tumor-specific and showed a correlation with advanced stage and high grade of tumor. LOH of the gene was found in 12 of 33 (36%) tumors. Promoter CpG site methylation was observed frequently in both cell lines and tumor tissues including many LOH tumors, suggesting that biallelic inactivation of XAF1 might be common in colorectal cancers. XAF1 expression suppressed tumor cell growth and enhanced cellular response to various apoptotic stimuli, such as 5-fluorouracil, etoposide, H(2)O(2), gamma-irradiation, ultraviolet, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, whereas knockdown of its expression protected cells from the stresses.
Genetic and epigenetic alteration of XAF1 is a common event in colorectal tumorigenesis and contributes to the malignant tumor progression by providing survival advantages for tumor cells under various stress conditions.
We compared the effect of losartan (50 mg/day) to hydrochlorthiazide (12.5 mg/day) on blood pressure (BP) and arterial stiffness in 11 untreated hypertensive patients aged 47 to 69 years in a 4-week single blind randomized crossover study with an intervening 4-week washout period. Both drugs produced a significant (P <.001) and similar decrease in brachial BP. Only losartan induced a significant decrease in arterial wave reflection (P <.0001), with a preferential reduction in aortic (P <.001) compared to brachial pulse pressure. Losartan also significantly increased pulse pressure amplification and reduced pulse wave velocity. These results suggest that an AT(1) receptor antagonist induces a BP independent decrease in aortic stiffness and arterial wave reflection.
Ciguatoxins (CTX) are polyether neurotoxins that target voltage-gated sodium channels and are responsible for ciguatera, the most common fish-borne food poisoning in humans. This study characterizes the global transcriptional response of mouse liver to a symptomatic dose (0.26 ng/g) of the highly potent Pacific ciguatoxin-1 (P-CTX-1). At 1 h post-exposure 2.4% of features on a 44K whole genome array were differentially expressed (p < or = 0.0001), increasing to 5.2% at 4 h and decreasing to 1.4% by 24 h post-CTX exposure. Data were filtered (/fold change/ > or = 1.5 and p < or = 0.0001 in at least one time point) and a trend set of 1550 genes were used for further analysis. Early gene expression was likely influenced prominently by an acute 4 degrees C decline in core body temperature by 1 h, which resolved by 8 h following exposure. An initial downregulation of 32 different solute carriers, many involved in sodium transport, was observed. Differential gene expression in pathways involving eicosanoid biosynthesis and cholesterol homeostasis was also noted. Cytochrome P450s (Cyps) were of particular interest due to their role in xenobiotic metabolism. Twenty-seven genes, mostly members of Cyp2 and Cyp4 families, showed significant changes in expression. Many Cyps underwent an initial downregulation at 1 h but were quickly and strongly upregulated at 4 and 24 h post-exposure. In addition to Cyps, increases in several glutathione S-transferases were observed, an indication that both phase I and phase II metabolic reactions are involved in the hepatic response to CTX in mice.
A male patient 68 years, suffering from pyoderma gangrenosum which was resistant to conventional treatment, received clofazimine 400 mg daily for 5 months, then reducing to 300 mg daily for the next 6 months. Eleven months after starting the drug, he was admitted to hospital with severe abdominal pain, laparotomy revealing infarction of the spleen, with violaceous congestion of the small bowel. The spleen was removed and post-operative recovery was satisfactory. Histopathological examination of the spleen (removed at operation) and of tissue from a duodenal biopsy (taken postoperatively) showed large numbers of striations and outlines suggestive of crystal deposition. Mesenteric lymph node revealed a massive accumulation of crystals in cortical and medullary sinuses. The findings emphasize that clofazamine should not be used in high dosage over prolonged periods of time, except under close clinical and laboratory supervision, and for conditions not amenable to other drugs.
Curcumin (U1) has a wide spectrum of therapeutic effects such as antitumor and anti-inflammatory effects, including antibacterial, antiviral, antifungal, and antispasmodic activities. By comparison of the structure-activity relationship, tetrahydrocurcumin (THU1), one of the major metabolites, showed the highest antioxidative activity in both in vitro and in vivo systems. U1 has been reported to have the nephroprotective effect to improve creatinine and urea clearance and also protected the chronic renal allograft nephropathy. These beneficial effects have been explained by the protection of oxidative stress and the induction of antioxidative enzymes. The protective effect of THU1 against ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA)-induced oxidative renal damage using male ddY mice was greater than that of U1, by monitoring not only radical scavenging activity measured by ESR, and TBARS, 4-HNE-modified protein and 8-OHdG formation but also induction of anioxidative enzymes and detoxification enzymes. THU1 was also expected to improve redox regulation through glutathione and suppress the oxidative stress in diabetic nephropathy and neuropathy. Earlier studies reported that U1 reduced the iron-induced hepatic damage, aflatoxin- and benzo[a]pyrene- induced mutagenicity and hepatocarcinogenecity and also the formation of the DNA adduct by inhibiting cytochrome P450 in the liver. The hepatoprotective role of U1 has been examined using carbone terachloride-induced liver damage in rats and alcoholic liver disease model rats, but not examined using THU1. Our recent data suggests that THU1 is a more promising hepatprotective agent because of its strong induction activity of antioxidant and phase 2-metabolizing enzymes in liver compared to kidney, although more detaied examinations are required.
We investigated the kinetics of decorin, biglycan and thrombospondin-1 in mercuric chloride-treated Brown Norway (BN) rats. BN rats were injected subcutaneously with 1 mg/kg b.w. of mercuric chloride one or three times. The kidney was examined histopathologically and the kinetics of decorin, biglycan and thrombospondin-1 was also examined using immunohistochemistry and real time RT-PCR. As a result, mercuric chloride induced tubular injury and subsequent tubulointerstitial fibrosis. In this lesion, the expression of thrombospondin-1 mRNA was most prominently elevated. The expression of decorin mRNA was next, but biglycan mRNA expression was not elevated. Moreover, decorin and thrombospondin-1 proteins were localized in tubular epithelial cells and peritubular interstitium. Moreover, kinetics of their mRNA expressions was relatively similar to the kinetics of TGF-beta1 mRNA expression previously reported. The present findings suggest that decorin and thrombospondin-1 may participate in the development of tubulointerstitial fibrosis and may have some relation with TGF-beta1 in mercuric chloride-treated BN rats.
Mild impairment of left ventricular function determined echocardiographically was produced in dogs by serial intravenous administration of adriamycin (1 mg/kg/week for 10 weeks). Mild histological changes were observed including vacuolar degeneration but there was a minimal disruption of myocardial architecture (mean severity score 1.4). Ultrastructure of the heart was relatively intact but focal changes included a slight disarray of cellular structure with mitochondrial swelling and distortion, myocytolysis, sarcoplasmic reticular vacuolization, increased glycogen and lipid levels and rounding of nuclei with large condensed nucleoli. Despite involvement of the sarcoplasmic reticulum in damaged myocytes, the transverse-tubules appeared to be normal. It was felt that these changes represent an early stage of adriamycin cardiomyopathy. Ouabain binding was carried out as a test of sarcolemmal integrity. A significant increase in the total number of ouabain binding sites without a change in the dissociation constant was seen. A correlation was observed between the degree of impairment of left ventricular function and the observed increase in ouabain binding. These results support the concept of sarcolemmal membrane alteration as an early mechanism of adriamycin-induced myocardial functional impairment.
The purpose of the present study was to compare the effect of chronic captopril treatment on blood pressure in young and adult spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and to assess the time course for development of hypertension after captopril withdrawal. SHR received drinking water or captopril solution from 4 weeks of age and were instrumented with radiotelemetry devices at 18 weeks of age to allow continuous monitoring of blood pressure. At 23 weeks of age, mean blood pressure in the captopril group was 100 +/- 1 mm Hg compared with 157 +/- 3 mm Hg in the water group. Pulse pressure also was significantly reduced in the captopril-treated rats. Infusion of angiotensin II into a subset of captopril-treated rats increased pulse pressure and restored blood pressure to levels of water-treated rats. Captopril treatment for 6 weeks in adult, 24-week-old SHR did not reduce blood pressure to the level of rats treated from 4 weeks of age. Ten weeks after cessation of captopril, blood pressure was 125 +/- 4 and 144 +/- 4 mm Hg in SHR treated with captopril from 4 to 30 and from 24 to 30 weeks of age, respectively, compared with control hypertensive rats with mean blood pressure of 160 +/- 6 mm Hg. Results from this radiotelemetry study confirm previous findings that captopril treatment prevents the development of hypertension and produces a persistent reduction of blood pressure after treatment in young SHR. Captopril treatment produced a persistent reduction of blood pressure after discontinuation in adult rats; however, the effect was less than that observed with captopril initiated in young rats.
Ischemic colitis is a rare complication of cocaine abuse. To date, only 15 reports have linked the use of cocaine to ischemic events of the small bowel and colon. We report ischemic colitis in a 36-year-old woman who admitted using crack cocaine twice, 1 and 2 days before onset of symptoms. Patchy areas of necrosis were grossly present in the resected transverse colon. In addition, the gallbladder showed edema and congestion of the wall on gross examination. On microscopy, the gallbladder as well as the colon were noted to have multiple small-vessel thrombi. Colonic mucosa showed ischemic necrosis. Cocaine abuse should be considered in the differential diagnosis of ischemic colitis, especially in a young adult.
Alzheimer disease amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is generated via proteolytic processing of the beta-amyloid precursor protein by beta- and gamma-secretase. Gamma-secretase can be blocked by selective inhibitors but can also be modulated by a subset of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including sulindac sulfide. These drugs selectively reduce the generation of the aggregation-prone 42-amino acid Abeta(42) and concomitantly increase the levels of the rather benign Abeta(38). Here we show that Abeta(42) and Abeta(38) generation occur independently from each other. The amount of Abeta(42) produced by cells expressing 10 different familial Alzheimer disease (FAD)-associated mutations in presenilin (PS) 1, the catalytic subunit of gamma-secretase, appeared to correlate with the respective age of onset in patients. However, Abeta(38) levels did not show a negative correlation with the age of onset. Modulation of gamma-secretase activity by sulindac sulfide reduced Abeta(42) in the case of wild type PS1 and two FAD-associated PS1 mutations (M146L and A285V). The remaining eight PS1 FAD mutants showed either no reduction of Abeta(42) or only rather subtle effects. Strikingly, even the mutations that showed no effect on Abeta(42) levels allowed a robust increase of Abeta(38) upon treatment with sulindac sulfide. Similar observations were made for fenofibrate, a compound known to increase Abeta(42) and to decrease Abeta(38). For mutants that predominantly produce Abeta(42), the ability of fenofibrate to further increase Abeta(42) levels became diminished, whereas Abeta(38) levels were altered to varying extents for all mutants analyzed. Thus, we conclude that Abeta(38) and Abeta(42) production do not depend on each other. Using an independent non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug derivative, we obtained similar results for PS1 as well as for PS2. These in vitro results were confirmed by in vivo experiments in transgenic mice expressing the PS2 N141I FAD mutant. Our findings therefore have strong implications on the selection of transgenic mouse models used for screening of the Abeta(42)-lowering capacity of gamma-secretase modulators. Furthermore, human patients with certain PS mutations may not respond to gamma-secretase modulators.
Arthroscopic shoulder surgery performed on a healthy female could have resulted in a fatal outcome when the epinephrine present in the arthroscopic irrigating solution contributed to the onset of ventricular tachycardia requiring defibrillation during surgery. During this procedure, the shoulder was infiltrated with 30 mL of a 1:100,000 solution of epinephrine into the subacromial space and glenhumeral joint. Subsequently, instrumentation of the glenhumeral joint by the orthopedic surgeon with a standard arthroscopy trocar resulted in a 0.5-cm size lesion to the posterior humeral cortex. Minutes after the start of the surgical procedure, the patient displayed an abrupt onset of ventricular tachycardia and hypertension. These signs and symptoms suggested an intraosseous infusion of both infiltrated and irrigation solution containing epinephrine through the lesion in the humeral cortex. Approximately 800 mL of a .01 mg/mL concentration of irrigation solution containing epinephrine was used. A diagnosis of epinephrine-induced ventricular tachycardia was made. The arthroscopic irrigating solution was immediately discontinued and lidocaine, 100 mg intravenously, was administered; however, the patient's cardiac rhythm degenerated into a sustained ventricular tachycardia that was unresponsive to pharmacologic intervention. A full code was called; the surgeon, anesthesia team, and operating room personnel succesfully provided advanced cardiac life support and cardioverted the patient back into a sinus rhythm with no untoward effects.
ACTH and adrenocortical steroids have been known to raise blood pressure since their introduction into clinical practice. Our experimental studies in normal subjects show that ACTH reproducibly increases blood pressure in association with a rise in cardiac output, plasma and extracellular fluid volumes and exchangeable sodium. The rise in pressure is adrenally dependent and appears due to ACTH-induced increases in cortisol secretion. When ACTH is given by constant intravenous infusion, rates as low as 50 micrograms/day raise pressure. The increase in blood pressure is not dependent on, but modified by, dietary sodium content. Synthetic steroids (prednisolone, methylprednisolone, triamcinolone, dexamethasone) raise pressure in the absence of any increase in plasma volume or urinary sodium retention. Cortisol increases pressor responsiveness to endogenous and exogenous catecholamines, without evidence of any increase in sympathetic nervous activity. The role of this increased pressor responsiveness in ACTH/steroid-induced hypertension remains to be determined. There is some evidence from human studies that steroids may raise pressure by a hypertensinogenic mechanism, distinct from classical mineralocorticoid or glucocorticoid effects.
L-Arginine is the physiological substrate of nitric oxide, a vasodilator that controls blood pressure and renal hemodynamics in the basal state. In the present studies, we produced chronic nitric oxide blockade by oral administration of the L-arginine analogue NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, which produced sustained hypertension and increased renal vascular resistance in conscious rats. Acute excess L-arginine had little effect on blood pressure but completely normalized renal vascular resistance and increased renal plasma flow in chronically nitric oxide-blocked hypertensive rats. In contrast to L-arginine, D-arginine had no renal hemodynamic effects in either normal or chronically nitric oxide-blocked rats. Acutely administered glycine was ineffective in vasodilating the chronically nitric oxide-blocked rat kidney, in a dose that produced renal vasodilation in normal rats. These findings indicate the following: (1) Hypertension induced by chronic nitric oxide blockade due to substituted L-arginine analogue cannot be acutely reversed with excess L-arginine, suggesting that the maintenance of the hypertension is not solely caused by competitive inhibition of nitric oxide production; (2) in contrast, the kidney remains responsive to L-arginine whereas the renal vasodilator response to glycine is abolished in this model of hypertension.
Acatalasemia was one of the earliest described genetic enzyme defects. In 1990, a causal point mutation (a splicing mutation) was first reported in a Japanese patient with acatalasemia. In the present study, the polymerase chain reaction and single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis were used to determine whether the same point mutation was present in unrelated Japanese patients. The subjects studied were the previously examined acatalasemic female, her brother, who is hypocatalasemic, and two other unrelated acatalasemic patients. A single G to A point mutation at the fifth position of intron 4, identical to that previously found, was present in all the studied patients. This finding strongly suggests that only a single mutated allele has spread in the Japanese population.
A number of experimental and clinical investigations support the notion that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB) compounds attenuate renal fibrosis. Fibrosis can be attenuated by either suppressing matrix formation or facilitating matrix degradation. In this study, drugs of ACEi and ARB classes were tested for their ability to facilitate matrix degradation in the kidney. A murine model system in which cyclosporin A (CsA) treatment for a specified period caused interstitial matrix deposition in the kidney was used. CsA was then discontinued, and experimental procedures were initiated to investigate matrix degradation. Benazepril, an ACEi, facilitated matrix degradation via the bradykinin (BK) B2 receptor on tubular epithelial cells in the kidney, whereas CGP-48933, an ARB, did not. In this murine model of CsA nephropathy under ACE blockade, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) expression was decreased in tubular epithelial cells, possibly leading to conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by plasminogen activator and subsequent activation of matrix metalloproteinases. These findings were confirmed in this study by measurements of plasmin activity, collagenolytic activity, and matrix metalloproteinase activities in the kidneys. In tubular epithelial cells stimulated in vitro, BK suppressed PAI-1 gene expression. All of these results suggest that ACEi can decrease PAI-1 expression via BK, thereby facilitating matrix degradation via activation of degradative enzymes to reduce interstitial matrix deposition.
4 cases of adenocarcinoma of the endometrium were reported in young women. All were using and had used for periods of 4-12 years a sequential oral contraceptive, Oracon, manufactured by Mead Johnson Laboratories. Ethinyl estradiol and mestranol, the 3 methyl ether of ethinyl estradiol, are 25 times more potent than diethylstilbestrol, which has recently been implicated in the development of vaginal adenocarcinoma in female offspring of women treated during pregnancy with it. A study is now in progress to determine whether long-term use of Oracon produces premalignant changes in the endometrium. Doctors with patients on similar sequential contraceptives should watch for abnormal vaginal bleeding.
Curcuma longa, a perennial herb, is a member of the Zingiberaceae (ginger) family. The plant grows to a height of three to five feet, and is cultivated extensively in Asia, India, China, and other countries with a tropical climate. It has oblong, pointed leaves and bears funnel-shaped yellow flowers. The rhizome is the portion of the plant used medicinally; it is usually boiled, cleaned, and dried, yielding a yellow powder. Dried Curcuma longa is the source of the spice turmeric, the ingredient that gives curry powder its characteristic yellow color. Turmeric is used extensively in foods for both its flavor and color. Turmeric has a long tradition of use in the Chinese and Ayurvedic systems of medicine, particularly as an anti-inflammatory agent, and for the treatment of flatulence, jaundice, menstrual difficulties, hematuria, hemorrhage, and colic. Turmeric can also be applied topically in poultices to relieve pain and inflammation. Current research has focused on turmeric's antioxidant, hepatoprotective, anti-inflammatory, anticarcinogenic, and antimicrobial properties, in addition to its use in cardiovascular disease and gastrointestinal disorders.
