Amphetamine use in certain parts of the United States has risen dramatically. Methamphetamine, the most-common illicitly abused type of amphetamine, can be inhaled, injected intravenously, or smoked. It is a potent sympathomimetic that may lead to vascular events including myocardial infarction and stroke. Because of the demographics of drug use, these potentially devastating events usually occur in relatively young patients. The pathophysiology of stroke related to amphetamine use is multifactorial. Elevation in blood pressure, vasculitis, or other vascular toxicity are postulated as major mechanisms. Four cases of stroke associated with the use of methamphetamine, all occurring in patients ranging in age from 29-45 years, are described. Methamphetamine use appears to be a risk factor for the development of stroke. The rise in methamphetamine use will undoubtedly result in increased Emergency Department admissions with clinical presentations very similar to those of cocaine intoxication.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is widely used because of its stain-resistant and water-repellant properties. This study aimed to explore the molecular mechanisms undergoing the stimulation effects of PFOA on cancer cell invasion and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) expression. Trans-well filter assay showed that PFOA exposure (≥5 nM) evidently enhanced the invasion ability of the breast cancer cells MDA-MB-231. Luciferase reporter assay, quantitative real-time PCR, western blotting and gelatin zymography consistently demonstrated that mRNA and protein levels of MMP-2/-9 were increased in the cells after PFOA treatment (P<0.05 each). Western blotting revealed that PFOA could activate nuclear factor kappaB (NF-κB) by accelerating NF-κB translocation into the nucleus. Furthermore, addition of NF-κB inhibitor in culture medium could suppress the breast cancer cells invasiveness enhancement and MMP-2/-9 overexpression. This study indicates that PFOA can stimulate breast cancer cells invasion and up-regulate matrix metalloproteinase-2/-9 expression mediated by activating NF-κB, which deserves more environmental health concerns.
Cocaine abuse may be associated with a destructive nasal and pharyngeal process felt to be due to ischemia secondary to vasoconstriction. This report is the first to document a necrotizing granulomatous vasculitis associated with nasal destruction and an oronasal fistula in a chronic cocaine user. Cocaine is an environmental insult that may play a role in triggering cerebral and non-cerebral vasculitis including a necrotizing granulomatous vasculitis of the respiratory tract.
In order to assess ovarian pathological changes and their relationship to changes in female fertility parameters, mifepristone, a progesterone receptor antagonist, was selected as the test article and was administered orally to female rats at dose levels of 0, 0.8, 4, 20 and 100 mg/kg for 2 or 4 weeks in repeated dose-toxicity studies and in a female fertility study at dose levels of 0, 0.8, 4 and 20 mg/kg from > 2 weeks before copulation to postcoital day 7. In the repeated dose toxicity studies, persistent estrus was seen in the vaginal smears, and multiple cysts in the ovaries at necropsy, increases in luteinized cysts and hypertrophy of previously formed corpora lutea were observed in the histopathological examination of ovaries in rats receiving 20 mg/kg or more for 2 or 4 weeks. In female fertility studies, persistent vaginal cornification was also observed at 20 mg/kg and the precoital interval was significantly shortened. All of the animals were completely infertile when dosed with 20 mg/kg during the post-coital period. An increase in pre-implantation losses was observed in the animals treated with 20 mg/kg during the pre-coital phase, while treatment with 4 mg/kg mifepristone during the post-coital phase induced an increase in post-implantation losses. These results suggested that a 2-week administration period would be sufficient to detect the ovarian toxicity of mifepristone in repeated dose toxicity study and the pathological findings in the ovaries would reflect the alterations in female reproductive endpoints in the female fertility study.
To assess whether ovarian histopathological examination in repeated-dose rodent toxicity study could reliably anticipate toxic effects on female reproductive function and to assess whether ovarian change could be detected in a 2-week repeated-dose toxicity study, tamoxifen was administrated orally to female rats at 0.005, 0.03, or 0.2 mg/kg/day for 2 and 4 weeks in the repeated-dose toxicity studies, and for 2 weeks prior to cohabitation, during cohabitation, and through Gestation Day 7 in a female fertility study. The relationship between ovarian histopathological findings and fertility results was investigated. Findings at 0.03 and 0.2 mg/kg/day included decreases in body weight gains associated with decreases in food consumption, in 2- and 4-week repeated-dose toxicity studies and fertility study. The ovarian histopathological findings included increases in large atretic follicles, increases in interstitium cells and absence of newly-formed corpus lutea at 0.2 mg/kg/day in the 2-week study and at 0.03 and 0.2 mg/kg/day in the 4-week study. The treatment induced estrogenic and antiestrogenic reactions in the uterus, while mucinous degeneration was detected in the vagina. Effects on female fertility consisted primarily of disturbance of estrus cycle and decreases in numbers of pregnant rats which were considered to be related to ovarian histopathological changes. Based on these findings, ovarian histopathological evaluation in the repeated-dose toxicity study could anticipate the effects of tamoxifen on female fertility via ovarian dysfunction at slightly toxic doses, and 2-week treatment of tamoxifen at appropriate dose could be sufficient to detect ovarian toxicity by microscopic examination.
The global improvement of all parkinsonian symptoms after stereotactic pallidotomy has been demonstrated by Leksell. Recently, Laitinen, re-evaluating this target in the neurosurgical treatment of Parkinson's disease, confirmed the real value of this approach, and emphasized the necessity of locating the lesion in the ventroposterolateral part of the pallidum internum. Because we know that high-frequency stimulation of the ventrolateral part of the thalamus has the same clinical effect on tremor as high-frequency coagulation, this technique has now been applied bilaterally in one session in three patients who have severe Parkinson's disease, with akinesia and levodopa-induced dyskinesias in the foreground. The very satisfactory clinical results, up to 12 months in the first case, confirm the observation of Laitinen, but with the difference that the approach discussed here is both nondestructive and reversible, and unwanted side effects are avoided.
We investigated the protective effects of two non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, indomethacin (COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors) and nimesulide (specific COX-2 inhibitor) on the hepatic injury induced by lipopolysaccharide in d-galactosamine sensitized (Gal/LPS) mice. ICR male mice were injected with a single dose of Gal/LPS with or without pre-treatment of 3mg/kg indomethacin or 30 mg/kg nimesulide (single i.p. injection). Sixteen hours later, blood and liver tissues of mice were collected for histological, molecular, and biochemical analyses. Our results showed marked reduction of hepatic necrosis, serum ALT, and tissue TBARS levels in both indomethacin- and nimesulide-pre-treated mice when compared with Gal/LPS-treated mice. Western blot and RT-PCR analysis showed decreased levels of iNOS mRNA, iNOS protein, and nitrotyrosine formation in both COX inhibitor pre-treated groups when compared with Gal/LPS-treated group. There was an inverse relationship between COX-1 and COX-2 expressions, as well as between COX-2 and C/EBP-α expressions in COX inhibitors groups, Gal/LPS and control groups. COX inhibitors reduced the expression of TNF-α mRNA and the activity of NF-κB which were elevated by Gal/LPS treatment. We conclude that COX inhibitors protected the liver from Gal/LPS-induced hepatotoxicity. COX inhibitors could be considered as potential agents in the prevention of acute liver failure and sepsis.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is an industrial solvent with widespread occupational exposure and also a major environmental contaminant. Occupational medicamentosa-like dermatitis induced by trichloroethylene (OMLDT) is an autoimmune disease and it has become one major hazard in China. In this study, sera from 3 healthy controls and 3 OMLDT patients at different disease stages were used for a screening study by 2D-DIGE and MALDI-TOF-MS/MS. Eight proteins including transthyretin (TTR), retinol binding protein 4 (RBP4), haptoglobin, clusterin, serum amyloid A protein (SAA), apolipoprotein A-I, apolipoprotein C-III and apolipoprotein C-II were found to be significantly altered among the healthy, acute-stage, healing-stage and healed-stage groups. Specifically, the altered expression of TTR, RBP4 and haptoglobin were further validated by Western blot analysis and ELISA. Our data not only suggested that TTR, RBP4 and haptoglobin could serve as potential serum biomarkers of OMLDT, but also indicated that measurement of TTR, RBP4 and haptoglobin or their combination could help aid in the diagnosis, monitoring the progression and therapy of the disease.
The morphological and functional consequences of epinephrine-induced myocardial infarction were studied in normo- (Wistar) and hypertensive (ISIAH) rats. After experimental myocardial infarction there was an irreversible transition to the "worn-out" stage or "plastic damage" to the myocardium. Thus, myocardial hibernation in ISIAH rats anticipates and determines the development of myocardial stunning, i.e., irreversible myocardial damage, whereas in the normotensive animals, the protective effect of hibernation is fully shown. The ontogenetic features of myocardial response of ISIAH rats to hypoxia promote transformation of adaptive hibernation and stunning to maladaptive pathological changes causing hypoxic alterations.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are implicated in reperfusion injury after focal cerebral ischemia (FCI). Reactive oxygen species regulate activity of transcription factors like NF-kappaB. The authors investigated the role of ROS in NF-kappaB activity after FCI using transgenic mice that overexpressed human copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and that had reduced infarction volume after FCI. Superoxide dismutase transgenic and wild-type mice were subjected to 1 hour of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and subsequent reperfusion. Immunohistochemistry showed SOD1 overexpression attenuated ischemia-induced NF-kappaB p65 immunoreactivity. Colocalization of NF-kappaB and the neuronal marker, microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs), showed that NF-kappaB was up-regulated in neurons after FCI. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that SODI overexpression reduced ischemia-induced NF-kappaB DNA binding activity. Supershift assays showed that DNA-protein complexes contained p65 and p50 subunits. Immunoreactivity of c-myc, an NF-kappaB downstream gene, was increased in the ischemic cortex and colocalized with NF-kappaB. Western blotting showed that SOD1 overexpression reduced NF-kappaB and c-Myc protein levels in the ischemic brain. Colocalization of c-Myc and TUNEL staining was observed 24 hours after FCI. The current findings provide the first evidence that SOD1 overexpression attenuates activation of NF-kappaB after transient FCI in mice and that preventing this early activation may block expression of downstream deleterious genes like c-myc, thereby reducing ischemic damage.
To characterize the effects of maternal arsenic exposure on birth weight.
Hair, toenail, and drinking water samples were collected from pregnant women (n = 52) at multiple time points during pregnancy and from their newborns after birth. Total arsenic was measured using inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry. The association between arsenic and birth weight was investigated using linear and logistic regression models.
Maternal hair arsenic measured early in pregnancy was associated with decreased birth weight (beta = -193.5 +/- 90.0 g, P = 0.04). Maternal hair and drinking water arsenic levels measured at first prenatal visit were significantly correlated with newborn hair arsenic level (rho = 0.32, P = 0.04 and rho = 0.31, P = 0.04).
Results suggest that maternal arsenic exposure early in pregnancy negatively affects newborn birth weight and that maternal hair provides the best integrated measure of arsenic exposure.
Six preterm infants with a persistent ductus arteriosus, who failed to improve with conventional medical management, received indomethacin in an attempt to close the duct pharmacologically. All infants weighed less than 1000 g when the drug was administered. All showed a transient response to indomethacin; however, no infant demonstrated a permanent response, even though 5 of the 6 received multiple doses. One of the patients developed a severe episode of anuria, uraemia, and gastrointestinal bleeding. Of the 6 infants, 3 underwent subsequent successful surgical ligation of the ductus. It is suggested that the extremely preterm infant may be a 'poor responder' to indomethacin. Since the side effects of indomethacin may be life-threatening, it may be wise to consider surgical ligation in lieu of indomethacin administration in these infants.
In a randomized double-blind, parallel groups study, 40 patients undergoing surgical removal of impacted 3rd molar teeth received either midazolam 15 mg orally followed at 35 min by i.v. saline, or oral placebo followed at 35 min by i.v. diazepam 10 mg (Diazemuls). Rapid onset of sedation was seen after midazolam, while the pattern and duration of postoperative sedation, as measured by standard psychometric tests, indicated slower recovery after midazolam than after diazepam. Ratings by the surgeon indicated superior anxiolysis following midazolam and significantly more patients expressed a preference for oral midazolam sedation. Significant, comparable anterograde amnesia was seen with both treatments. No significant cardiovascular complications occurred with either treatment. The findings indicate that rapidly acting oral benzodiazepines such as midazolam provide safe, effect alternatives to i.v. diazepam for conscious sedation in outpatients undergoing minor surgical procedures.
Anemia is a common side effect that begins soon after the initiation of peginterferon/ribavirin in the treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. It can cause symptoms that negatively impact quality of life (QOL) and is the most common reason for reducing the dose and temporarily or permanently discontinuing ribavirin. Such dose modifications have been shown to reduce the efficacy of treatment. Administering erythropoietin can improve anemia caused by peginterferon and ribavirin therapy and is more effective than dose reduction at improving QOL during treatment. However, erythropoietin, which is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in patients with HCV infection, adds another parenteral drug to the patient's treatment regimen, and is associated with additional costs, inconvenience, and potential side effects. A new ribavirin analog, viramidine, is expected to be associated with a lower incidence of anemia and, if proven effective, may eventually be substituted for ribavirin in combination with peginterferon to treat chronic hepatitis C. In the meantime, physicians must make the best possible use of the available options for managing anemia, especially in select patient groups who are most at risk for anemia and its complications.
Peripheral vasodilatation is central to the pathogenesis of the accompanying hyperkinetic circulatory state and portal hypertension in cirrhotic patients. Selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin has been demonstrated to partially correct nitric oxide production in the forearm vasculature of cirrhotic patients.
To examine the effects of selective intestinal decontamination on regional and systemic hemodynamics in cirrhotic patients.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study.
Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
14 patients with alcohol-related cirrhosis and 14 matched healthy controls.
Norfloxacin, 400 mg twice daily, for 4 weeks.
Venous occlusion plethysmography was used to determine forearm blood flow. Cardiac output and the hepatic venous pressure gradient were determined after cardiac catheterization. Glomerular filtration rate was assessed by measuring inulin clearance. Serum levels of endotoxin were determined by chromogenic Limulus amebocytelysate assay.
Norfloxacin significantly diminished serum endotoxin levels (average change, -2.14 EU/mL [95% CI, -3.6 to -0.68 EU/mL]). Derived systemic vascular resistance increased significantly with norfloxacin (2.94 units [CI, 0.74 to 5.11 units]) and was accompanied by an increase in mean arterial pressure (8.70 mm Hg [CI, 2.65 to 14.73]), a trend toward decreased cardiac output (-1.207 L/min [range, 0.05 to -2.37 L/min]), a decrease in forearm blood flow (-0.99 mL/100 mL per min [CI, -1.80 to -0.17 mL/100 mL per min]), and a trend toward reduced hepatic venous pressure gradient (-2.43 mm Hg [CI, -5.2 to 0.34 mm Hg]). Norfloxacin did not significantly alter glomerular filtration rate.
Selective intestinal decontamination with norfloxacin partially reverses the hyperdynamic circulatory state in cirrhotic patients without harming splanchnic or renal hemodynamics.
Novel tricyclic dihydrofuran derivatives were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as melatonin receptor (MT(1)/MT(2)) ligands based on the previously reported 1,6-dihydro-2H-indeno[5,4-b]furan 1a. By screening the central tricyclic cores, we identified 8,9-dihydrofuro[3,2-c]pyrazolo[1,5-a]pyridine as a potent scaffold with a high ligand-lipophilicity efficiency (LLE) value. Subsequent optimization of the side chains led to identification of the potent MT(1)/MT(2) agonist 4d (MT(1), K(i) = 0.062 nM; MT(2), K(i) = 0.420 nM) with good oral absorption and blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration in rats. The oral administration of compound 4d exhibited a sleep-promoting action in freely moving cats at 0.1 mg/kg.
These studies were aimed at characterizing an animal model of inflammation-induced hepatotoxicity that would mimic features of idiosyncratic liver toxicity observed in humans. An attempt was made to identify oxidative damage and the involvement of coagulation system in liver after monocrotaline (MCT) administration under the modest inflammatory condition induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure. Mice were given MCT (200 mg/kg) or an equivalent volume of sterile saline (Veh.) po followed 4 h later by ip injection of LPS (6 mg/kg) or vehicle. Mice co-treated with MCT and LPS showed increased plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT), decrease in platelet number, and a reduction in hematocrit. Accumulation of oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) was remarkably higher in the liver sections of mice co-treated with MCT and LPS compared to those given MCT or LPS alone. A similar trend was observed in the expression of CXCL16 receptor in the same liver sections. Elevated expression of tissue factor (TF) and fibrinogen was also observed in the liver sections of MCT/LPS co-treated mice. The in vitro results showed that incubation of HepG2 cells with CXCL16 antibody strongly diminished uptake of ox-LDL. Expression of ox-LDL, CXCL16, and TF represents an early event in the onset of hepatotoxicity induced by MCT/LPS; thus, it may contribute to our understanding of idiosyncratic liver injury and points to potential targets for protection or intervention.
Malignant gliomas (astrocytomas) are lethal tumors that invade the brain. Invasive cell migration is initiated by extension of pseudopodia into interstitial spaces. In this study, U87 glioma cells formed pseudopodia in vitro as cells pushed through 3 microm pores of polycarbonate membranes. Harvesting pseudopodia in a novel two-step method provided material for proteomic analysis. Differences in the protein profiles of pseudopodia and whole cells were found using differential gel electrophoresis (DIGE) and immunoblotting. Proteins from two-dimensional (2D) gels with M(R)'s of 20-100 kDa and pI's of 3.0-10.0 were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting analysis using mass spectrometry. For DIGE, lysates of pseudopodia and whole cells were each labeled with electrophilic forms of fluorescent dyes, Cy3 or Cy5, and analyzed as mixtures. Analysis was repeated with reciprocal labeling. Differences in protein distributions were detected by manual inspection and computer analysis. Topographical digital maps of the scanned gels were used for algorithmic spot matching, normalization of background, quantifying spot differences, and elimination of artifacts. Pseudopodial proteins in Coomassie-stained 2D gels included isoforms of glycolytic enzymes as the largest group, seven of 24 proteins. Peptide mass fingerprint analysis of DIGE gels demonstrated increased isoforms of annexin (Anx) I, AnxII, enolase, pyruvate kinase, and aldolase, and decreased mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase and transketolase in pseudopodia. Specific antibodies showed restricted immunoreactivity of the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) alpha chain to pseudopodia, indicating localization of its active form. Met (the HGF receptor), actin, and total AnxI were increased in pseudopodial lysates on immunoblots. Increased constituents of the pseudopodial proteome in glioma cells, identified in this study as actin, HGF, Met, and isoforms of AnxI, AnxII, and several glycolytic enzymes, represent therapeutic targets to consider for suppression of tumor invasion.
Adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors are non-pathogenic, integrating DNA vectors in which all viral genes are removed and helper virus is completely eliminated. To evaluate this system in the post-mitotic cells of the brain, we found that an AAV vector containing the lacZ gene (AAVlac) resulted in expression of beta-galactosidase up to three months post-injection in vivo. A second vector expressing human tyrosine hydroxylase (AAVth) was injected into the denervated striatum of unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity was detectable in striatal neurons and glia for up to four months and we also found significant behavioural recovery in lesioned rats treated with AAVth versus AAVlac controls. Safe and stable TH gene transfer into the denervated striatum may have potential for the genetic therapy of Parkinson's disease.
The growing relevance of prostate carcinoma in the developed world requires serious attention to focus on the risk-benefit relationships of the treatments used. Given the increasingly complex therapeutic approach to prostate carcinoma, an extensive range of knowledge is required. Androgen deprivation plays a central role in this disease. The management of androgen deprivation-derived toxicity in the form of hot flashes, metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis, cognitive disorders, etc., is of growing interest. The drug treatment of hot flashes involves hormone management that is not without oncological risk and moreover generates considerable toxicity. Antidepressants in turn play an important role in the non-hormone treatment of this disorder. Trazodone, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor/5-HT2A receptor antagonist affording more selective action upon the receptors implicated in hot flashes, could be of great interest. Trazodone shows great affinity for the 5-HT2A receptors and moderate affinity for the 5-HT1A receptors. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) levels are known to be lowered in postmenopausal women, and normalize when replacement therapy is provided. This suggests that abrupt sexual hormone deprivation gives rise to a reduction in blood serotonin - with a subsequent increase in its hypothalamic 5-HT2A receptors. These receptors would be implicated in the physiopathology of hot flashes; as a result, the blocking of such receptors is one of the principal therapeutic measures. The use of trazodone, increasing the serotonin concentrations and blocking the 5-HT2A and 5-HT1A receptors, could be viewed as a novel management approach more in line with the physiopathology of hot flashes. Well designed comparative studies are needed to establish the efficacy of such treatment. Other issues pending clarification would be the most effective dose and duration of treatment for controlling hot flashes.
Hemoglobin (Hb)-based oxygen carriers (HBOCs) are being developed as resuscitative fluids for use in multiple medical applications and in lieu of blood transfusion. However, cardiovascular, central nervous system, and renal adverse events have largely impeded progress. This has prompted a need to evaluate novel down selection approaches for HBOCs prior to in-depth preclinical and clinical safety testing. In the present study, polymerized bovine Hbs (PolybHbs) were prepared with increasing ratios of glutaraldehyde to bovine Hb (10:1, 20:1, 30:1, and 40:1). The optimal PolybHb candidate selection was based on a priori determined in vivo response to include a long circulating PolybHb with no measurable renal exposure, minimal cardiovascular response, limited oxidation to metHb in vitro, or in circulation and absence of acute end organ toxicity. Guinea pigs were dosed via a 50% blood for PolybHb exchange transfusion. Data suggested that the 30:1 preparation exhibited maximum circulatory exposure (AUC(0)(-∞)) with the lowest level of oxidation (plasma metHb formation) and minimal (< 10%) blood pressure elevation. Additionally, the 30:1 preparation was absent renal iron deposition as well as abnormal glomerular/tubular histopathology or serum creatinine elevation. Clearance pathways predominantly followed those consistent with endogenous Hb clearance based pathways. Therefore, data confirmed the ability to select a single PolybHb from a small library of HBOCs based on a priori determined characteristics. Moreover, the approach to down selection described could be applied to enhance the early predictability of human safety for this class of biological therapeutics to optimize for specific indications.
The relation between changes in the concentrations of some of the neuroactive extracellular amino acids (glutamate, aspartate, gamma-aminobutyric acid, glycine and taurine) and epileptic seizures has been tested in a new experimental model of seizures induced by picrotoxin microdialysis in chronic freely moving rats. During ictal discharges (paroxysmal electroencephalographic discharges associated with behavioral seizures), a significant decrease in the levels of extracellular aspartate and glutamate was observed. However, no changes were found during the interictal discharges (paroxysmal electroencephalographic discharges, without concomitant seizures). Our results suggest that modifications in extracellular aspartate and glutamate may be related to neuronal synchronization rather than to paroxysmal activity, supporting the neurophysiological differences between non-ictal and ictal paroxysmal activity.
The early nephrotoxicity of free and DNA-bound adriamycin (ADR) was compared in left nephrectomized rats. Free ADR induced progressive renal failure within 3 weeks, in association with renal changes characterized by severe tubular distention and vacuolization of podocytes in glomeruli. On the contrary, renal function remained normal and renal lesions were discrete in animals treated with ADR bound to DNA. Thus, the binding of ADR to DNA seems to reduce the early nephrotoxicity of free ADR.
A case of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) following accidental iatrogenic overdose by adrenaline injection is described in a male aged 55 years. This patient was given 1 mg of adrenaline due to anaphylactic symptoms. Afterwards he presented with angina pectoris, dyspnoea and ST-segment elevation in the ECG. Plasma TnT and CK-MB were raised. A coronary angiography revealed a 66% stenosis of RCA. This patient had an asymptomatic RCA stenosis that probably became symptomatic due to coronary artery spasm related to adrenaline injection and thereby presented symptoms and signs of AMI.
To investigate the protective roles of type 4 phosphodiesterase (PDE4) inhibitor in cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced haemorrhagic cystitis, as the PDE4 inhibitor has anti-inflammatory effects but its characterization is still unknown in urinary tract diseases.
In female Sprague-Dawley rats, CYP was administered intraperitoneally and bladders were harvested 24 h after CYP injection. In another group, rolipram as a PDE4 inhibitor was administered before CYP treatment. The effects and mechanisms of CYP with/without rolipram pretreatment were evaluated by microscopic features, bladder wet weight, myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, nitric oxide (NO)-metabolite production and expression levels of inflammation-related genes.
CYP injection resulted in severe cystitis. Pretreatment with rolipram significantly reduced the increase in bladder wet weight and MPO activity, and ameliorated histological inflammatory changes caused by CYP. The levels of inflammation-related transcripts including inducible NO synthase (iNOS), interleukin-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha, induced by CYP, were down-regulated significantly by pretreatment with rolipram. Also, rolipram reduced the NO-metabolite production and iNOS protein expression in the immunohistochemical examination.
These results indicate that rolipram can attenuate the development of CYP-induced cystitis in rats by suppressing cytokine production and iNOS induction. Thus, treatment with PDE4 inhibitor has potential clinical implications of the prevention of bladder inflammatory diseases.
The paper focuses on the possibility of turning up, to a patient suffering of acne during a long treatment using tetracycline, of some alarming neurological modifications accompanied at the eye fundus examination by stasis papillar oedema. The interruption of treatment leads to the disappearance of the whole set of clinical phenomena and modifications of depicted ocular symptoms.
Catalase is an important antioxidant enzyme that detoxifies H2O2 into oxygen and water and thus limits the deleterious effects of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Because chronic exposure to excess ROS may contribute to vascular damage, we investigated whether genetic variation in catalase was associated with susceptibility to essential hypertension (EHYT) in 324 individuals (at least 50 years old) who were randomly sampled from an isolated population living in Xiangchang, China. They were screened for genetic variation in the promoter of catalase by direct sequencing. In total, four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified. The association between the SNPs and EHYT was investigated by a linear regression model under phenotypic selection; in our analyses, we used both SBP>150 mmHg and SBP>160 mmHg as thresholds. A SNP 844 bp upstream of the start codon (SNP-844) demonstrated strong evidence of association with EHYT (SBP>150 mmHg: F=5.09, P=0.008; SBP>160 mmHg: F=7.13, P=0.002). This is the first study to implicate genetic variation in catalase in susceptibility to EHYT and suggests that polymorphisms in promoter regions may be particularly relevant to the study of complex diseases.
High-dosage, tocolytic magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) administered to pregnant women during preterm labor can be toxic, and sometimes lethal, for their newborns (Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (relative mortality risk 2.82, 95% confidence interval 1.2-6.6)). Based on the results of the Magnesium and Neurologic Endpoints Trial and the work of many others, a unifying triangular concept is proposed to account for the increased prevalence of brain lesions, with their likely resultant mortality, in neonates and infants exposed to high-dose MgSO4 in the context of preterm labor. We review the evidence that: (1) elevated circulating levels of serum ionized magnesium occurring in mothers, and therefore in their babies, at the time of delivery are associated with subsequent neonatal intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH); (2) neonatal IVH is strongly associated with lenticulostriate vasculopathy (LSV), an unusual mineralizing lesion involving the thalami and basal ganglia of the neonate; and, (3) exposure to 50 g or more of tocolytic MgSO4 during preterm labor is associated with the development of LSV.
