Oxidative injury in schizophrenia may be caused not only by pathophysiological processes but partly also by treatment with antipsychotics. The purpose of the present study was to examine and to compare the effects of quetiapine (QUE), olanzapine (OLA) and haloperidol (HAL), at final concentrations corresponding to doses used for treatment of acute episodes of schizophrenia, on plasma lipid peroxidation in vitro, measured by the level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS).
Blood from 30 healthy volunteers was collected into ACD (citric acid/citrate/dextrose) solution. The drugs in form of active substances were dissolved in 0.01% dimethyl sulfoxide, added to plasma at the final concentrations [QUE (175 and 275 ng/ml), OLA (20 and 40 ng/ml), HAL (4 and 20 ng/ml)] and incubated for 1 and 24 h at 37 °C. The level of TBARS was measured spectrophotometrically (according to the Rice-Evans method, 1991).
The comparative study in vitro showed that QUE causes a decrease in the TBARS level in plasma, whereas HAL increases the plasma TBARS level. After 24 h of incubation of plasma with QUE or HAL (at lower and higher concentrations),thedifferences in TBARS levels between the drugs were significant (p = 5.9 × 10⁻⁴, p = 2.2 × 10⁻⁵, respectively).
QUE and OLA, contrary to the prooxidative action of HAL, did not induce oxidative stress; moreover, QUE has antioxidant properties.
An ethanolic extract of the leaves of Cissampelos sympodialis Eichl. (Menispermaceae) was found to potentiate the toxicity of pentylenetetrazol in mice. Similar to imipramine, the extract also reduced the immobility period in the forced swimming test in mice and reversed the degree of ptosis and catalepsy induced by reserpine in rats. These results suggest that the extract possesses antidepressant activity and the reported phosphodiesterase inhibitory activity of the plant may account for the observed antidepressant effect.
1. Aluminum administration to susceptible animal species results in neurofilament accumulation in neuronal perikarya and proximal axons. Pathogenetic studies in vivo have shown that aluminum rapidly associates with neuronal chromatin. Whether the effect of aluminum on DNA components plays a role in the production of the neurofibrillary lesion remains unclear. 2. In this study we used Northern analysis and in situ hybridization to evaluate mRNA levels of specific neuronal and glial components in the rabbit spinal cord at various times following aluminum administration. 3. Our results show that (a) all neuronal mRNAs evaluated (neurofilament triplet components, neuronal-specific enolase, and amyloid precursor protein) are markedly decreased, with no decrease in glial fibrillary acidic protein; (b) the effect on neuronal gene expression occurs early and concurrently with the development of the neurofibrillary lesion and reverses rapidly after a single dose of aluminum; and (c) there is a direct correlation between the severity of the neurofibrillary lesion and the decrease in neuronal mRNA levels. 4. We interpret our results to mean that the accumulation of neurofilaments in this model is not due to a selective effect on neurofilament gene expression but may be due to an inhibition of genes coding for components involved in processing of neurofilament proteins.
We studied the medical records of 96 patients who received thalidomide and 104 patients who made up a control group. We found that 53% of patients (52 patients) using thalidomide had a heart rate of <60 beats/min at some point during follow-up and 19% of thalidomide patients (10 patients) developed symptom-related bradycardia. Reducing the thalidomide dose appeared to alleviate symptoms in most patients.
A number of adverse reactions have been associated with sulindac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, but acute hemolytic anemia associated with sulindac has not yet been reported, to our knowledge. We encountered two cases of severe immune hemolytic anemia, one fatal, which appear to have been related to sulindac. In vitro studies provided evidence that antibodies to sulindac and its metabolites were present in the serum of both patients.
Chemotherapy drugs have neurotoxicity associated with treatment, which can become a dose-limiting problem when clinical presentation is severe. However, there is no effective therapy to circumvent the neurotoxicity of anti-cancer drug treatment. In this study, we utilized a newly designed mouse model of cisplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy to determine both the severity of neurotoxicity induced by drug treatment and the effectiveness of the Rho kinase inhibitor Y-27632 in post-treatment recovery. Sensory nerve conduction studies revealed a significant increase in mean distal (peak) latency with cisplatin treatment, indicating a deterioration of sensory nerve function. Also, hind paw touch sensitivity decreased steadily with increasing cumulative dose of cisplatin. Histological and immunohistochemical analyses of the sural nerve using neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) demonstrated abnormal nerve fiber morphology in cisplatin-treated mice. Remarkably, post-treatment with Y-27632 improved the sural nerve distal (peak) latency and sensory threshold to return to pre-treatment levels. Sural nerve histology worsened in the absence of Y-27632 during recovery. These studies suggest that Rho kinase inhibitor Y-27632 can initiate regeneration of damaged nerves following cisplatin treatment.
Diuron is carcinogenic to the rat urinary bladder at high dietary levels. The proposed mode of action (MOA) for diuron is urothelial cytotoxicity and necrosis followed by regenerative urothelial hyperplasia. Diuron-induced urothelial cytotoxicity is not due to urinary solids. Diuron is extensively metabolized, and in rats, N-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)urea (DCPU) and 4,5-dichloro-2-hydroxyphenyl urea (2-OH-DCPU) were the predominant urinary metabolites; lesser metabolites included N-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-3-methylurea (DCPMU) and trace levels of 3,4-dichloroaniline (DCA). In humans, DCPMU and DCPU have been found in the urine after a case of product abuse. To aid in elucidating the MOA of diuron and to evaluate the metabolites that are responsible for the diuron toxicity in the bladder epithelium, we investigated the urinary concentrations of metabolites in male Wistar rats treated with 2500ppm of diuron, the urothelial cytotoxicity in vitro of the metabolites and their gene expression profiles. DCPU was found in rat urine at concentrations substantially greater than the in vitro IC50 and induced more gene expression alterations than the other metabolites tested. 2-OH-DCPU was present in urine at a concentration approximately half of the in vitro IC50, whereas DCPMU and DCA were present in urine at concentrations well below the IC50. For the diuron-induced MOA for the rat bladder, we suggest that DCPU is the primary metabolite responsible for the urothelial cytotoxicity with some contribution also by 2-OH-DCPU. This study supports a MOA for diuron-induced bladder effects in rats consisting of metabolism to DCPU (and 2-OH-DCPU to a lesser extent), concentration and excretion in urine, urothelial cytotoxicity, and regenerative proliferation.
We describe a case of hepatotoxicity, pancreatitis and inappropriate ADH secretion syndrome developed in a patient receiving chronic amiodarone treatment, not related to other causes. Hepatic toxicity is a well known condition. Inappropriate ADH secretion syndrome has not been described yet and there has been a single case-report of pancreatitis in the literature reviewed.
To evaluate the neuroprotective effect of folic acid (FA) and soybean isoflavone (SIF) combined supplementation on the post-neural tube closure of rodents induced by cyclophosphamide (CPA) in vitro and in vivo, pregnant rats were randomly divided into control, model, solo-FA intervention, solo-SIF intervention and co-intervention of FA and SIF groups. Rats in solo-intervention groups and co-intervention group were treated with FA 0.7 mg/kg, SIF 160 mg/kg and FA 0.7 mg/kg+SIF 160 mg/kg at the duration of pregnancy, respectively. On the 13th day of gestation, control rats were given physiological saline and the other four groups were treated with CPA12.5mg/kg. On the 14th day of gestation, three rats selected randomly from every group were executed and the ultrastructure, DNA damage and the proteins expressions of Bcl-2, Bax and P53 on embryo brains were checked. The rest of the rats were executed on the 20th day, the frequency of neural tube closure defects and fetus' development indices were measured. In addition, T-SOD, MDA and NO in serum of the pregnant rats were checked. In vitro, the effect of FA and genistein on the apoptosis was determined. Compared with the model group, the malformation incidence was lower but fetus' development indices were higher in the combination treated group. The combination decreased the damage of CPA, such as damaged nuclear DNA, early apoptotic morphological changes, Bax and P53 expressions on embryo brains and in vivo. Furthermore, T-SOD activity in serum of the pregnant rats increased and the levels of MDA and NO decreased in the combined supplementation group. Our study indicates the neuroprotection of FA and SIF combined administration is superior to solo treatment. Decrease of DNA damage and neuron apoptosis involved in the mechanisms. Furthermore, the up-regulation of Bcl-2 and the down-regulation of Bax and P53 proteins also participate in the effect.
The influence of hypertension on the progression of persistent microalbuminuria in type II diabetes has not yet been clarified. We have studied the effects of 36 months of indapamide treatment (2.5 mg once daily) on blood pressure (BP), albumin excretion rate (AER), urinary immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4), and glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in 10 patients who were mildly hypertensive and had type II microalbuminuric diabetes (AER greater than 30 mg/24 hours and less than 300 mg/24 hours). BP, AER, and IgG4 significantly decreased after 6 months until the end of the study. Mean GFR was 94.4 +/- 7.5 ml/min/1.73 m2 in the baseline and did not change significantly throughout the course of the antihypertensive therapy. AER and IgG4 were directly related (r = 0.57; p less than 0.004), whereas BP did not relate to GFR, AER, or IgG4. The nephropathy index (45.5 +/- 4 in the baseline) significantly decreased at 12 months (38.7 +/- 2.1), 24 months (35.4 +/- 1.6), and 36 months (36.5 +/- 1.5) (at least p less than 0.01). Long-term indapamide treatment reduced BP and urinary protein loss without affecting GFR. These results indicate a potential role of this drug in the long-term renal protection of patients with type II diabetes, mild hypertension, and microalbuminuria.
Hair dye components such as pyrogallol and cresol have been shown previously to promote allergic reactions such as rashes, dermal inflammation, irritation and dermatitis. The objective of this study was to determine the contact sensitization potential of pyrogallol (PYR) and 5-amino-o-cresol (AOC) when applied dermally to female BALB/c mice. Measurement of the contact hypersensitivity response was initially accomplished using the local lymph node assay. For PYR, significant increases in the proliferation of lymph node cells were observed at concentrations of 0.5% (w/v) and higher. For AOC, borderline increases, albeit significant, in auricular lymph node cell proliferation were observed at 5% and 10%. Results from the irritancy assay suggested that PYR, but not AOC, was an irritant. To further delineate whether PYR was primarily an irritant or a contact sensitizer, the mouse ear swelling test (MEST) was conducted. A significant increase in mouse ear thickness was observed at 72h following challenge with 0.5% PYR in mice that had been sensitized with 5% PYR. In contrast, no effects were observed in the MEST in mice sensitized and challenged with the highest achievable concentration of AOC (10%). Additional studies examining lymph node subpopulations and CD86 (B7.2) expression by B cells further support the indication that PYR was a sensitizer in BALB/c mice. The results demonstrate that PYR is both a sensitizer and an irritant in female BALB/c mice. However, the contact sensitization potential of AOC is minimal in this strain of mouse.
Neuronal and glial cell death in the striatum of a rat model of collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage begins at 1 day and continues for at least 3 weeks. We hypothesized that administration of a neurotrophic agent would reduce neuronal loss in this experimental model. Because it has been shown to protect striatal neurons against excitotoxic injury, a second-generation ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) (AXOKINE) was administered by continuous intracerebral infusion (2 microg/day) beginning 28 h after hemorrhage and continuing for 2 weeks. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that the hematoma size was comparable in control and treated rats prior to treatment. Counts of medium-sized striatal neurons within 320 microm of the hematoma 8 weeks after the hemorrhage revealed a slight but statistically significant benefit with a 42.5% loss in treated rats compared to 51.7% loss in controls. The results suggest that AXOKINE might be protective of striatal neurons in the vicinity of a hemorrhagic lesion.
The toadstool death cap (Amanita phalloides) and its subspecies, destroying angel (A. virosa) and death angel (A. verna) are responsible for nearly 95% of all fatal mushroom poisonings. High mortality rate in A. phalloides intoxications is principally a result of the acute liver failure following significant hepatocyte damage due to hepatocellular uptake of amanitins, the major toxins of this mushroom. This study evaluated early morphological and functional alterations in hepatocytes exposed to different concentrations of alpha-amanitin (alpha-AMA). All experiments were performed on cultured canine hepatocytes since intoxicated with A. phalloides dogs have clinical course and pathological findings similar to those seen in humans. The overall functional integrity and viability of cultured hepatocytes were assessed using the MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assay and by measurements of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), total protein, and urea levels. Our results showed that the course of alpha-AMA toxicity in cultured dog hepatocytes is divided into two phases. The first phase comprises functional cell impairments expressed by significant increase of LDH activity and inhibition of protein and urea synthesis when compared with the control group. This is followed by discrete changes in hepatocyte ultrastructure, including marginalization and condensation of nuclear chromatin, as well as formation of the foamlike cytoplasm. The second stage is lethal and is characterized by ongoing necrosis, and/or apoptosis. This may be related to dose of toxin and time of exposure.
The use of doxorubicin is often limited by cardiotoxicity that can lead to congestive heart failure (CHF). Although various techniques have been used to predict its cardiotoxicity, none has proven useful. We reported 2 patients in whom the level of plasma endothelin (ET)-1 rose progressively during doxorubicin treatment of breast cancer, and who subsequently developed CHF. Accordingly, we conducted a prospective study of 30 consecutive patients, 23 with breast cancer and 7 with small-cell lung cancer, who were treated with doxorubicin. Serial changes in plasma ET-1 during doxorubicin treatment were measured by a specific radioimmunoassay, and plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) were determined by a sensitive immunoradiometric assay. M-mode echocardiography was performed serially to monitor the fractional shortening (FS) and the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). The plasma concentrations of ET-1 rose progressively in 5 of the 30 patients during doxorubicin treatment. Two of the 5 patients developed clinically overt CHF after developing cumulative doses of doxorubicin of 500 and 480 mg/m2. Serial measurement of plasma levels of ANP, FS and LVEF showed no abnormalities until the development of CHF. Another 25 patients who had received doxorubicin (cumulative doses ranging from 400 to 660 mg/m2) and had not developed CHF showed no appreciable change in plasma ET-1 or other markers. This prospective study suggests that plasma ET-1 may be useful for predicting the risk of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
Long-term excessive fluoride intake is linked to skeletal disease. Skeletal health is influenced by the balance between bone formation and resorption of which osteoblast function is critical. The objectives of this study were to determine the effect of fluoride treatment on osteoblast proliferation, apoptosis and caspase-3 and caspase-9 mRNA expression in vitro. Neonatal rat osteoblasts were cultured in the presence of varying concentrations (0.5-30 mg/l) of sodium fluoride and effects of treatments were determined. Treatment with sodium fluoride inhibited osteoblast proliferation in a dose-dependent fashion and effects were maximal after 120 h incubation. A significant increase in osteoblast apoptosis was observed (after 24 and 72-h treatment) in response to the lowest dose of sodium fluoride (0.5 mg/l) and osteoblast apoptosis was further increased in response to higher doses. Increased-osteoblast caspase-3 and caspase-9 mRNA was also observed in response to sodium fluoride treatment (5 mg/l) for 72 h. Results indicate that negative effects of excess fluoride on skeletal health may be mediated in part by inhibition of osteoblast survival.
Cerebro-oculo-facio-skeletal (COFS) syndrome is a rapidly progressive neurological disorder leading to brain atrophy with calcification, cataracts, microcornea, optic atrophy, progressive joint contractures, and growth failure. Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a recessively inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by low-to-normal birth weight; growth failure; brain dysmyelination with calcium deposits; cutaneous photosensitivity; pigmentary retinopathy, cataracts, or both; and sensorineural hearing loss. CS cells are hypersensitive to UV radiation because of impaired nucleotide excision repair of UV radiation-induced damage in actively transcribed DNA. The abnormalities in CS are associated with mutations in the CSA or CSB genes. In this report, we present evidence that two probands related to the Manitoba Aboriginal population group within which COFS syndrome was originally reported have cellular phenotypes indistinguishable from those in CS cells. The identical mutation was detected in the CSB gene from both children with COFS syndrome and in both parents of one of the patients. This mutation was also detected in three other patients with COFS syndrome from the Manitoba Aboriginal population group. These results suggest that CS and COFS syndrome share a common pathogenesis.
The inhibitory effects of a variety of established and putative antipsychotic compounds on the hypermotility induced by D-amphetamine at two dose levels (0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg) have been studied. Classical antipsychotics (haloperidol, fluphenazine and cis(Z)-flupentixol) and the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist remoxipride inhibit hypermotility in the two conditions with similar potencies, whereas sertindole, clozapine, risperidone, ziprasidone and olanzapine preferentially inhibit the effect of the low dose of D-amphetamine (selectivity ratios between 6.5 and 18). Seroquel, amperozide and the selective 5-HT2A receptor antagonist MDL 100.151 ((+/-)-alpha-(2,3-dimethoxyphenyl)-1-[2-(4-fluorophenylethyl)]-4-p iperidine - methanol) have no effect on D-amphetamine 2.0 mg/kg, but inhibit the response to D-amphetamine 0.5 mg/kg. The alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin inhibits the motility response to D-amphetamine 0.5 mg/kg with slightly higher potency than that to D-amphetamine 2.0 mg/kg, whereas the 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonist ritanserin selectively inhibits the effect of D-amphetamine 0.5 mg/kg. The histamine H1 receptor antagonist mepyramine is ineffective in both models. All compounds, except remoxipride, MDL 100.151 and ritanserin (which are ineffective) inhibit spontaneous locomotor activity at dose levels close to those inhibiting the response to D-amphetamine 2.0 mg/kg. Prazosin has partial inhibitory effect. In conclusion, dopamine antagonism has similar inhibitory effect on hyperactivity induced by low and high D-amphetamine dosages, alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonism also contributes to both effects, whereas 5-HT2 receptor antagonism selectively interacts with the low D-amphetamine dose. This indicates that the responses to D-amphetamine 0.5 and 2.0 mg/kg are differently modulated by these neurotransmitters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Resveratrol, a polyphenolic-stilbene, has received increased attention in the last decade due to its wide range of biological activities. Beta(β)-thalassemias are inherited red cell disorders, found worldwide, characterized by ineffective erythropoiesis and red cell oxidative damage with reduced survival. We evaluated the effects of low-dose-resveratrol (5 μM) on in vitro human erythroid differentiation of CD34(+) from normal and β-thalassemic subjects. We found that resveratrol induces accelerated erythroid-maturation, resulting in the reduction of colony-forming units of erythroid cells and increased intermediate and late erythroblasts. In sorted colony-forming units of erythroid cells resveratrol activates Forkhead-box-class-O3, decreases Akt activity and up-regulates anti-oxidant enzymes as catalase. In an in vivo murine model for β-thalassemia, resveratrol (2.4 mg/kg) reduces ineffective erythropoiesis, increases hemoglobin levels, reduces reticulocyte count and ameliorates red cell survival. In both wild-type and β-thalassemic mice, resveratrol up-regulates scavenging enzymes such as catalase and peroxiredoxin-2 through Forkhead-box-class-O3 activation. These data indicate that resveratrol inhibits Akt resulting in FoxO3 activation with upregulation of cytoprotective systems enabling the pathological erythroid precursors to resist the oxidative damage and continue to differentiate. Our data suggest that the dual effect of resveratrol on erythropoiesis through activation of FoxO3 transcriptional factor combined with the amelioration of oxidative stress in circulating red cells may be considered as a potential novel therapeutic strategy in treating β-thalassemia.
Mouse models have markedly improved our understanding of cancer development and tumor biology. However, these models have shown limited efficacy as tractable systems for unbiased genetic experimentation. Here, we report the adaptation of loss-of-function screening to mouse models of cancer. Specifically, we have been able to introduce a library of shRNAs into individual mice using transplantable Emu-myc lymphoma cells. This approach has allowed us to screen nearly 1,000 genetic alterations in the context of a single tumor-bearing mouse. These experiments have identified a central role for regulators of actin dynamics and cell motility in lymphoma cell homeostasis in vivo. Validation experiments confirmed that these proteins represent bona fide lymphoma drug targets. Additionally, suppression of two of these targets, Rac2 and twinfilin, potentiated the action of the front-line chemotherapeutic vincristine, suggesting a critical relationship between cell motility and tumor relapse in hematopoietic malignancies.
Valproic acid (VPA) may induce hyperammonemic encephalopathy. On the other hand, seizure-inducing effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may be a paradoxical reaction or a result of AED-induced encephalopathy (commonly induced by VPA).
We present the case of a 19-year-old male who developed acute mental status changes consistent with encephalopathy evolving into repetitive seizures with oral automatisms induced by relatively small doses of VPA.
Although serum hepatic enzymes, such as AST and ALT, were normal, serum ammonia concentration was high, i.e. 70 micromol/l (normal range 9-33 micromol/l). Administration of VPA was discontinued immediately after admission. The patient's condition improved during the second week of hospitalization and ammonium levels returned to normal.
In conclusion, although uncommon, a possible induction of non-convulsive status epilepticus by valproate-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy should be taken into account and properly managed by discontinuation of the drug.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are antiulcer agents that have both gastric antisecretory and mucosal protective actions. The mechanisms of PPI-induced gastric mucosal protection are not known. The present study was designed to examine the mechanism for lansoprazole-induced gastric mucosal protection in rats. Rats were given 0.5, 5, and 50 mg/kg/day lansoprazole alone or both lansoprazole (50 mg/kg/day) and a specific gastrin receptor antagonist 3R-1-(2,2-diethoxyethyl)-((4-methylphenyl)amino-carbonyl methyl)-3-((4-methylphenyl)ureidoindoline-2- one) (AG-041R) (3, 10, and 30 mg/kg/day) for 14 days. Serum gastrin concentrations were measured. The expression of cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and COX-2) in the gastric mucosa was analyzed using Western blotting and immunohistochemical staining. Another series of rats was used to examine the 1) levels of prostaglandin (PG) E2 in gastric mucosa, 2) influences of the drugs on gastric damage caused by absolute ethanol, and 3) effects of a COX-2-specific inhibitor on PGE2 in the gastric mucosa and the mucosal protection afforded by lansoprazole. Lansoprazole dose dependently increased the serum gastrin concentration and enhanced the mucosal expression of COX-2 but not that of COX-1. Lansoprazole increased gastric mucosal PGE2 and reduced gastric damage caused by ethanol. Concomitant administration of AG-041R abolished the lansoprazole-induced COX-2 expression, and increased mucosal PGE2 and mucosal protection. A specific COX-2 inhibitor blocked the lansoprazole-induced increase in mucosal PGE2 and mucosal protection. Activation of gastrin receptors by endogenous gastrin has a pivotal role in the effects of lansoprazole on COX-2 up-regulation and mucosal protection in the rat stomach.
Antigen challenge by patch ovalbumin emulsion induced an eczema-like skin lesion in epicutaneously sensitized guinea pigs. Diseased skin sites were macroscopically characterized by manifestations of dermatitis, such as erythema, edema, and papules, and microscopically characterized by acanthosis, spongiosis, and dermal infiltration by eosinophils. Using such lesions as a model of eczema, we evaluated the potential value of TAK-427 [2-[6-[[3-[4-(diphenylmethoxy)piperidino]propyl]amino] imidazo[1,2-b]pyridazin-2-yl]-2-methylpropionic acid dihydrate] as a therapeutic agent for atopic dermatitis by comparing it with dexamethasone and antihistamines. TAK-427 (0.3-30 mg/kg, p.o.) and dexamethasone (3 and 10 mg/kg, p.o.) inhibited eosinophil infiltration into the skin and ameliorated the dermatitis manifestations and epidermal damage. By contrast, none of the antihistamines tested (azelastine, ketotifen, terfenadine, and cetirizine) suppressed the eosinophil infiltration or dermatitis manifestations. To elucidate the mechanism by which TAK-427 inhibited the development of eczema, we investigated cytokine expression in the affected skin. Both TAK-427 and dexamethasone suppressed the increased mRNA expression of interleukin (IL)-13, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor, IL-1alpha, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma, and IL-8, but not IL-10, suggesting that TAK-427 inhibits allergic inflammation of the skin leading to the development of eczema by inhibiting the expression of proinflammatory cytokines after antigen challenge.
We investigated changes of urinary and renal gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GPT) activities in rat with renal damages caused by nephrotoxic agents in order to clarify the onset and the course of these nephrotoxicities. Cisplatin (CDDP) which is an antitumor agent, cephaloridine (CER) which is the first-generation cephem, and gentamicin (GM) which is an aminoglycoside were employed as tested nephrotoxic agents. We administered three fourth of LD50 of each agent to male Fischer 344 rats, intra-peritoneally. And the time-course changes of serum creatinine (s-Cr) value, creatinine clearance (Ccr) and urinary gamma-GTP activity were observed after administration of each agent. Finally, we measured renal gamma-GTP activities and observed pathological changes of the kidneys. The elevation of s-cr values and the reduction of Ccr appeared 3 days and 12 hours after the administration of CDDP and CER, respectively. And the peak appeared 7 days and 3 days after the administration of CDDP and CER, respectively. Increase of urinary gamma-GTP activities occurred earlier than the peak of s-cr value and Ccr in each group and as early 12 hours after the administration. In CER groups, the peak of urinary gamma-GTP activities was observed within 12 hours after the administration. And the peak of urinary gamma-GTP activities was observed at 24 hours and in 3 days after the administration of GM and CDDP, respectively. In addition, renal gamma-GTP activities reduced around 40% of those of control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
