Morphine administration to neonatal rats on days 1-7 after birth produced long-term changes in behavior and brain function. The pups were smaller than saline-treated littermates and showed retarded motor development. As adults, the morphine-treated rats had impaired motor coordination, altered gait, and altered patterns of activity in an open field. Several brain regions of the adult rats, including motor areas, had decreased metabolic activity as measured by the 2-deoxy-glucose technique, suggesting decreased functional activity in these areas. These results may be relevant to findings that children exposed in utero to narcotics tend to have impaired motor development.
This multicenter, double-masked, randomized, forced-titration, parallel-group trial was designed to determine whether we could confirm the results of a previous trial that demonstrated a significantly greater antihypertensive effect for mibefradil compared with diltiazem CD. Two hundred thirty-nine patients with uncomplicated mild-to-moderate essential hypertension and a baseline sitting diastolic blood pressure (SDBP) between 95 and 114 mm Hg were randomized to receive once-daily treatment with mibefradil 50 mg (n = 119) or diltiazem CD 180 mg (n = 120). After 4 weeks of treatment, all patients underwent forced titration to mibefradil 100 mg or diltiazem CD 360 mg for an additional 8 weeks. After 12 weeks of active treatment, the mean reduction from baseline in trough SDBP was significantly greater with mibefradil than with diltiazem CD (-14.3 +/- 6.6 mm Hg vs -11.7 +/- 7.4 mm Hg, respectively). In addition, significantly more patients receiving mibefradil had a decrease in SDBP > or = 10 mm Hg or a decrease to < or = 90 mm Hg by week 12 than did patients receiving diltiazem CD (82% vs 72%, respectively). The tolerability of mibefradil and diltiazem CD were comparable, with similar percentages of patients in both groups reporting at least one adverse event (21% vs 22%, respectively) that was considered to be at least remotely related to the study drug. The results of this study confirm those of the previous trial. Once-daily treatment with mibefradil 100 mg is significantly more effective than diltiazem CD 360 mg in lowering both diastolic and systolic blood pressure. Both drugs are well tolerated.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 116--241 g were injected i.p. with ketamine hydrochloride, 80 mg per kilo of body weight. Immediately after loss of righting reflex, scopolamine, physostigmine, and mecamylamine were administered i.p. to different groups of rats. Control animals received sterile saline by the same route. The ketamine-induced sleeping time was significantly prolonged by physostigmine and scopolamine, but not by mecamylamine. After the delayed injection of physostigmine, the ketamine sleeping time was longer. These results, although too preliminary for a mechanistic interpretation, suggest that multiple neurotransmitter systems, probably including the cholinergic system, are involved in the mechanism of action of ketamine-induced narcosis.
Breast cancer tissue contains a small population of cells that have the ability to self-renew, these cells are known as breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs). The Hedgehog signal transduction pathway plays a central role in stem cell development, its aberrant activation has been shown to contribute to the development of breast cancer, making this pathway an attractive therapeutic target. Salinomycin (Sal) is a novel identified cancer stem cells (CSCs) killer, however, the molecular basis for its anticancer effects is not yet clear. In the current study, Sal's ability to modulate the activity of key elements in the Hedgehog pathway was examined in the human breast cancer cell line MCF-7, as well as in a subpopulation of cancer stem cells identified within this cancer cell line. We show here that Sal inhibits proliferation, invasion, and migration while also inducing apoptosis in MCF-7 cells. Interestingly, in a subpopulation of MCF-7 cells with the CD44(+)/CD24(-) markers and high ALDH1 levels indicative of BCSCs, modulators of Hedgehog signaling Smo and Gli1 were significantly down-regulated upon treatment with Sal. These results demonstrate that Sal also inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of BCSCs, further establishing it as therapeutically relevant in the context of breast cancers and also indicating that modulation of Hedgehog signaling is one potential mechanism by which it exerts these anticancer effects.
To explore the relationship between lithium dose and serum lithium level on the occurrence of untoward or toxic effects of lithium in the treatment of 20 hospitalized aggressive and/or mood-disordered children aged 4 through 6 years.
Clinical and research records of 20 children treated with lithium according to an established inpatient protocol were reviewed. Side effects as reported by psychiatric staff were categorized by organ system affected and severity.
During the initial 2 weeks of lithium treatment, 60% of the children manifested one or more types of side effects, most commonly central nervous system effects. Side effects were seen at doses of 25.6 to 52.1 mg/kg per day and at serum levels from 0.65 to 1.37 mEq/L. In general, adverse effects were associated with higher lithium doses and lithium levels and were most common during the first week of treatment. A potential interaction between concurrent infection and more severe side effects was seen.
Side effects occur frequently in children aged 6 years and younger during the initiation phase of lithium treatment; are related to higher milligram per kilogram doses, higher serum lithium levels, and phase of treatment; and may be related to concurrent medical illness.
Inhibition of bradykinin metabolizing enzymes (BMEs) can cause acute angioedema, as demonstrated in a recent clinical trial in patients administered the antihypertensive, omapatrilat. However, the relative contribution of specific BMEs to this effect is unclear and confounded by the lack of a predictive pre-clinical model of angioedema.
Rats were instrumented to record blood pressure and heart rate; inhibitors were infused for 35 min and bradykinin was infused during the last 5 min to elicit hypotension, as a functional marker of circulating bradykinin and relative angioedema risk.
In the presence of omapatrilat bradykinin produced dose-dependent hypotension, an effect abolished by B(2) blockade. In the presence of lisinopril (ACE inhibitor), but not candoxatril (NEP inhibitor) or apstatin (APP inhibitor), bradykinin also elicited hypotension. Lisinopril-mediated hypotension was unchanged with concomitant blockade of NEP or NEP/DPPIV (candoxatril+A-899301). However, hypotension was enhanced upon concomitant blockade of APP and further intensified in the presence of NEP inhibition to values not different from omapatrilat alone.
We demonstrated that bradykinin is degraded in vivo with an enzyme rank-efficacy of ACE>APP>NEP or DPPIV. These results suggest the effects of omapatrilat are mediated by inhibition of three BMEs, ACE/APP/NEP. However, dual inhibition of ACE/NEP or ACE/NEP/DPPIV elicits no increased risk of angioedema compared to ACE inhibition alone. Thus, novel BME inhibitors must display no activity against APP to avoid angioedema risk due to high prevalence of ACE inhibitor therapy in patients with diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
Clonidine (0.075-0.225 mg/day) and chlorthalidone (0.15-0.45 mg/day) were associated in the management of 23 cases of arterial hypertension of varying nature and gravity. A significant and satisfactory decrease in pressure was accompanied by reduced cardiac frequency. Diuresis, body weight and the main biohumoral indices were not significantly affected. The mechanism of action of the two drugs is explained and the reason why success was obtained with their combination in less-than-normal doses is discussed.
Omphalocele is a congenital anomaly with substantial morbidity. Rieger syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder, is characterized by craniofacial abnormalities and abdominal wall defects. PITX2 mutations are etiologic in >40% of cases of Rieger syndrome. We demonstrate that the birth prevalence of omphalocele is significantly higher in Rieger syndrome than in the general population, with omphaloceles found in 0.03% in the Iowa newborn population and 4.3% of patients with Rieger syndrome. Our objective was to screen coding and conserved non-coding regions of PITX2 for mutations in 209 patients with omphalocele. We identified remarkable evolutionarily conserved regions by comparing the 3'UTR of Pitx2 in 13 vertebrate and 3 invertebrate species. No mutations changing the amino acid sequence were found within the omphalocele population. In one case of omphalocele with VATER-like additional anomalies, a three nucleotide deletion was found in the 3'UTR. This deletion was not seen in 1,186 controls. Also in the 3'UTR, we identified a single nucleotide polymorphism at a highly conserved residue. Our findings suggest additional studies of PITX2 conserved regions will be valuable. We also screened the omphalocele cases for mutations in exon 5 of the gene FLNA. Mutations in FLNA have been shown to cause a broad range of congenital malformations, including otopalatodigital syndrome type 2 in which a missense mutation occurring in exon 5 of FLNA results in omphalocele as part of the phenotype. We did not find any mutations in exon 5 of FLNA in 179 omphalocele cases studied.
To report a case of rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with gemfibrozil monotherapy of hyperlipidemia.
A 30-year-old white man with hypertension, type 1 diabetes mellitus, and hyperlipidemia was hospitalized due to myalgias, nausea, and vomiting that began after he started working as a jackhammer operator 4 days previously. His medications were lisinopril, aspirin, insulin, and gemfibrozil. Creatine kinase and creatinine, which previously had been mildly elevated and normal, respectively, were markedly elevated, consistent with rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure.
As of December 8, 2003, this is the only report of a patient with normal baseline creatinine level who developed rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure associated with gemfibrozil monotherapy. Strenuous exertion, hypovolemia, and lisinopril use may have contributed to the severity of illness. An objective causality assessment revealed that an adverse drug reaction to gemfibrozil was possible.
Gemfibrozil monotherapy of hyperlipidemia may predispose to rhabdomyolysis with acute renal failure. Patients using gemfibrozil should be cautioned regarding strenuous exertion, dehydration, and the need for prompt evaluation of myalgias.
During early abstinence, many cocaine-dependent individuals experience symptoms such as anhedonia, craving, fatigue, insomnia, and dysphoria. While several studies have shown an association between depressive symptoms and negative treatment outcome, the reasons for this association are unclear. The authors conducted this study in order to determine the association between severity of depressive symptoms during early abstinence and subjective effects of experimentally administered cocaine.
Seventeen cocaine-dependent individuals achieved 5 days of abstinence in a hospital setting. Forty mg of cocaine was given intravenously on the fifth day of abstinence, and participants were asked to rate the subjective effects produced by the cocaine. The relationship between the subjective high produced by cocaine and the symptoms experienced during the 5 days of abstinence was evaluated.
Individuals experiencing more intense depressive symptoms experienced a significantly greater high from the 40-mg cocaine infusion than individuals who did not.
These data suggest that the severity of depressive symptoms experienced during initial abstinence is associated with the intensity of the subsequent high produced by cocaine. This finding could help explain why individuals who experience greater levels of depression-like symptoms during abstinence appear to be at greater risk for unsuccessful treatment outcome.
Acute interstitial nephritis secondary to administration of antibiotics is a well-described entity. Oxacillin, however, has never been directly implicated. An 80-year-old man had a rising creatinine level and eosinophiluria while receiving oxacillin sodium. These findings disappeared when use of the drug was discontinued. We conclude that oxacillin is an additional penicillin that can cause interstitial nephritis.
A prospective study of 208 patients treated for up to 12 months with isoniazid (INH((R))) for tuberculosis prophylaxis was made. Levels of serum glutamic oxaloacetic acid transaminase (SGOT) became elevated in 20 percent of the adults followed and in 30 percent predominantly nonspecific symptoms developed, in 11 percent simultaneously with SGOT elevation; SGOT levels became elevated in two of 33 children and 1 was symptomatic. Mild SGOT elevations in asymptomatic adults were self-limited; however, a small percentage of symptomatic adults showed prolonged SGOT elevation for months after INH was completed. Results of liver biopsy studies in the early stages of SGOT elevation generally showed portal and periportal lymphocytic infiltrations with lesser numbers of plasma cells, neutrophils and eosinophils.
Nifedipine gastrointestinal therapeutic system (GITS) is an extended-release dosage formulation that provides sustained blood concentrations of nifedipine over 24 hours. A 20-week, postmarketing surveillance study of the effectiveness and patient tolerability of nifedipine GITS 30 or 60 mg was conducted in the offices of 187 Canadian general practitioners from September 1992 to March 1994. A total of 1700 patients previously or newly diagnosed with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension (sitting diastolic blood pressure, 95 to 114 mm Hg) were included. The 20-week treatment period was completed by 1326 patients. Patients received nifedipine GITS 30 mg initially; the dose could be titrated upward to 60 mg after 3 and 6 weeks. Of all patients entered, 605 (35.6%) reported one or more adverse events. The three most frequently occurring adverse events were headache (12.2%), peripheral edema (8.1%), and dizziness (2.9%). The frequency of adverse events was highest in the first 3 weeks and decreased subsequently. The overall incidence of adverse events was 29.8% in patients receiving 30 mg of nifedipine GITS and 25.3% in those receiving 60 mg; adverse events were the cause of study discontinuation in 12.3% of patients. The overall health status of patients as measured by the SF-36 questionnaire was comparable to that previously reported for healthy individuals. At baseline, mean (+/- SE) systolic/diastolic blood pressure values for all patients were 160.1 +/- 0.4/97.4 +/- 0.2 mm Hg. Final blood pressure readings after 20 weeks of treatment in the 30-mg group (141.5 +/- 0.4/84.8 +/- 0.2 mm Hg) and the 60-mg group (146.6 +/- 0.8/88.8 +/- 0.4 mm Hg) were significantly decreased from baseline. At week 20, the 30-mg dose was sufficient to maintain blood pressure in 74.5% of patients; 25.5% of patients required 60 mg. Subgroup analysis revealed similar responses in patients who had received blood pressure medication before study initiation and those who had not. Response was also independent of age and type of previous antihypertensive therapy. In general medical practice, the 30-mg and 60-mg doses of nifedipine GITS were both effective and well tolerated and had minimal or no negative effects on the overall health status of treated individuals.
c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) links several cellular processes, including proliferation and survival, and is believed to be involved in carcinogenesis. However, the role of JNK in gastric tumorigenesis is unknown. Immunohistochemical analysis reveals that JNK is frequently activated in human gastric cancer tissue. We investigated whether JNK1, a major JNK isozyme, is involved in chemically induced gastric cancer development. Mice lacking JNK1 exhibited a marked decrease in gastric carcinogenesis induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, relative to their wild-type counterparts. Impaired tumor development correlated with decreased tumor initiation, which is associated with the production of reactive oxygen species. We also found that lower levels of tumorigenesis were correlated with the decreased expression of cyclin D and CDK as well as decreased cell proliferation. Taken together, JNK seems to be involved in both tumor initiation and promotion and may be an attractive target for the prevention of gastric carcinogenesis.
Six stable psychiatric outpatients with hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea/oligomenorrhea associated with their neuroleptic medications were treated with bromocriptine. Daily dosages of 5-10 mg corrected the hyperprolactinemia and restored menstruation in four of the six patients. One woman, however, developed worsened psychiatric symptoms while taking bromocriptine, and it was discontinued. Thus, three of six patients had their menstrual irregularity successfully corrected with bromocriptine. This suggests that bromocriptine should be further evaluated as potential therapy for neuroleptic-associated hyperprolactinemia and amenorrhea/galactorrhea.
To report a case of probable acute venous thrombosis caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) in a pediatric patient with a normal platelet count after prolonged enoxaparin therapy.
An 11-year-old African American female with Crohn's disease developed extensive vena cava thrombosis. Her deep vein thrombosis (DVT) was treated with intravenous unfractionated heparin followed by extended outpatient warfarin therapy. Four months later, the warfarin was stopped and subcutaneous enoxaparin 1.5 mg/kg once daily was substituted prior to an elective colonoscopy. She was readmitted 6 weeks later with acute DVT with a platelet count of 233 x 10(3)/mm3, significantly lower than the count of 550-700 x 10(3)/mm3 5 months previously and the count of 433 x 10(3)/mm3 3 months earlier. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for heparin-platelet factor 4 antibodies was strongly positive and a d-dimer was elevated at 2.9 mg/L (normal <1.5). She was treated with lepirudin followed by warfarin when repeat d-dimer on day 3 was normal. An ultrasound at that time showed no clot extension, and the platelet count had risen to >300 x 10(3)/mm3. Over the next 4 months, there was no further thrombosis.
HIT appears to be rare in the pediatric population, and only a few cases treated with a direct thrombin inhibitor have been reported. This is the first case report to our knowledge of a pediatric patient developing HIT secondary to enoxaparin. An interesting feature of this case is the development of HIT in the face of a normal platelet count, which is rare but has been reported in adults.
Pediatric patients receiving low-molecular-weight heparin are still at risk for developing HIT. Treatment of HIT should involve the initial use of a direct thrombin inhibitor to manage thrombosis until the platelet count returns to higher values. Once the platelet count returns, warfarin can be used for long-term thrombosis management.
1 The anticholinergic effects of atropine and two antihistamines (terfenadine and mequitazine) were investigated vs placebo in a double-blind study. 2 Salivary secretion, basal pupil diameter, pilocarpine (0.25%) induced miosis and heart rate were determined in eight healthy volunteers, seven male and one female, aged between 23 and 35 years. Each volunteer received all four separate courses of treatment: i.e. terfenadine 60 mg or mequitazine 5 mg twice daily for 3 days, and one single dose on the day of the trial; for the placebo or atropine courses they received the placebo twice daily during 3 days and, on the morning of test day, either the placebo again or atropine 1 mg. Pupillary diameter was measured under standardized conditions using a pupil gauge (Smith and Nephew Pharmaceuticals Ltd). 3 Atropine significantly reduced salivary output (-2.25 +/- 0.36 ml from control values of 4.17 +/- 0.42 ml, P less than 0.001) and heart rate (-9.7 +/- 3.7 beats min-1 from 77.5 +/- 2.7, P less than 0.05). These maximal effects were observed 3 h after atropine dosing for salivary secretion and 1 h for heart rate. Atropine did not affect basal pupil diameter or pilocarpine-induced miosis. 4 Mequitazine and terfenadine did not affect salivary flow, heart rate or pilocarpine-induced miosis. 5 Terfenadine and mequitazine had no anticholinergic effect in these tests involving a limited number of subjects.
The gradient between wedged and free hepatic venous pressures was measured in patients with alcoholic cirrhosis before and 1, 3, and 9 months after continuous oral administration of propranolol at doses reducing the heart rate by 25% or after administration of a placebo. The gradient between wedged and free hepatic venous pressures decreased throughout the duration of propranolol administration, and it did not significantly change in the patients receiving placebo. Since the gradient between wedged and free hepatic venous pressures closely reflects portal venous pressure in alcoholic cirrhosis, it is concluded that continuous oral administration of propranolol produced sustained reduction in portal venous pressure in these patients.
The effects of oral administration of ethanol [1.1 ml/kg 95% ethanol administered as a 20% (by volume) solution] and intravenous administration of the alpha 2 adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine hydrochloride (0.4 mg/kg), alone and in combination, were compared using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Twelve healthy subjects completed 4 test days during which drug effects on subjective measures of intoxication and anxiety, plasma levels of the norepinephrine (NE) metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylethylene glycol (MHPG) and cortisol, and cardiovascular indices were assessed. Acutely administered oral ethanol significantly increased the subjective measures of intoxication and anxiety, plasma MHPG, and sitting systolic blood pressure compared with placebo. Intravenous yohimbine significantly increased subjective measures of intoxication and anxiety, plasma MHPG and cortisol, and blood pressure relative to placebo. The ethanol-induced increase in plasma MHPG was significantly greater than that following yohimbine, whereas yohimbine resulted in significantly greater increases in anxiety, plasma cortisol, and blood pressure measurements than ethanol. The combined administration of ethanol and yohimbine had a clear additive effect of increasing the severity of acute intoxication compared with ethanol or yohimbine alone, and resulted in a significantly greater plasma MHPG response compared with either drug given alone. Although the pharmacokinetic effects of ethanol administration on NE metabolism must be considered, these findings suggest that the intoxicating and anxiogenic effects of acute ethanol administration may be associated with increased NE turnover, as measured by plasma MHPG, in healthy human subjects. In addition, these results indicate that ethanol and yohimbine may act additively to increase ethanol intoxication and that they may increase NE turnover through different physiological mechanisms.
beta(1) and beta(2)-adrenoceptors coexist in murine heart but beta(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated effects have not been detected in atrial and ventricular tissues, possibly due to marked phosphodiesterase (PDE) activity. We investigated the influence of the PDE3 inhibitor cilostamide and PDE4 inhibitor rolipram on the effects of (-)-adrenaline in three regions of murine heart.
(-)-Adrenaline-evoked cardiostimulation was compared on sinoatrial beating rate, left atrial and right ventricular contractile force in isolated tissues from 129SvxC57B1/6 cross mice. Ventricular arrhythmic contractions were also assessed.
Both rolipram (1 microM) and cilostamide (300 nM) caused transient sinoatrial tachycardia but neither enhanced the chronotropic potency of (-)-adrenaline. Rolipram potentiated 19-fold (left atrium) and 7-fold (right ventricle) the inotropic effects of (-)-adrenaline. (-)-Adrenaline elicited concentration-dependent ventricular arrhythmias that were potentiated by rolipram. All effects of (-)-adrenaline were antagonized by the beta(1)-adrenoceptor-selective antagonist CGP20712A (300 nM). Cilostamide (300 nM) did not increase the chronotropic and inotropic potencies of (-)-adrenaline, but administered jointly with rolipram in the presence of CGP20712A, uncovered left atrial inotropic effects of (-)-adrenaline that were prevented by the beta(2)-adrenoceptor-selective antagonist ICI118551.
PDE4 blunts the beta(1)-adrenoceptor-mediated effects of (-)-adrenaline in left atrium and right ventricle but not in sinoatrial node. Both PDE3 and PDE4 reduce basal sinoatrial rate in a compartment distinct from the beta(1)-adrenoceptor compartment. PDE3 and PDE4, acting in concert, prevent left atrial beta(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated inotropy. PDE4 partially protects the right ventricle against (-)-adrenaline-evoked arrhythmias.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) was studied in mice and rats with regard to its antidepressant activity. CBZ did not counteract hypothermia and ptosis induced by reserpine, hypothermia evoked by apomorphine, or sedation and hypothermia induced by clonidine. CBZ shortened the immobility time in the behavioral despair test in rats (but not in mice). It attenuated hyperactivity evoked by d-amphetamine, not affecting stereotypy induced by that drug. CBZ inhibited head twitches evoked by 5-HTP, as well as the hind limb flexor reflex of the spinal rat, having no effect on its stimulation by noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine agonists. CBZ administered repeatedly did not enhance clonidine aggressiveness or d-amphetamine locomotor hyperactivity, acting differently than many antidepressant drugs. The obtained results indicate that CBZ is not similar in its action to typical and many atypical antidepressants.
p,p'-DDT (600 mg/kg) produces myoclonic activity in mice which can be reduced by L-5-hydroxytryptophan (L-5HTP) (200 mg/kg), H75/12 (25 mg/kg), serotonin uptake blockers and two alpha-receptor blockers, phenoxybenzamine (5 mg/kg) and trazodone (5 mg/kg). Decreasing endogenous brain serotonin by pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (400 mg/kg i.p.) blocked the antimyoclonic action of all of these drugs except L-5HTP. Seven other alpha-receptor blockers (phentolamine, tolazoline, yohimbine, azapetine, aceperone, nicergoline and prazosin) potentiated the antimyoclonic activity of a small dose of L-5HTP (50 mg/kg) in this animal model. We postulate that an alpha noradrenergic inhibitory synapse may be located in the neural circuit connecting a serotonergic neuron to the final motor response (p,p'-DDT-induced myoclonus).
The glycoprotein Wnt-7a participates in a signaling pathway that transmits information among uterine cell types. Disruption of this pathway by the transplacentally acting carcinogen diethylstilbestrol (DES) is associated with morphological abnormalities of the female reproductive tract (FRT). This raises the question whether estrogens in the diet might also interfere with this pathway. Therefore, this study investigated the influence of the steroid hormone 17beta-estradiol (E2), the mycotoxin zearalenone (ZEN), the soy phytoestrogen genistein (GEN), and DES on the expression of Wnt-7a in an endometrial adenocarcinoma cell line (Ishikawa cells) by reverse transcription/competitive PCR. In addition, the enzymatic activity of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) was determined, which is estrogen receptor (ER)-dependently regulated in Ishikawa cells. After treatment of Ishikawa cells with E2, ZEN, GEN, and DES, a decrease in the gene expression of Wnt-7a was observed. Maximum effect (50% reduction) was observed after treatment with concentrations that induced maximum expression of the ALP. Experiments in the presence of the ER antagonist (ICI 182,780) suggested that the ER is involved in the regulation of Wnt-7a in Ishikawa cells. In conclusion, interference with the expression of Wnt genes in the FRT might be a novel mechanism by which estrogens disrupt the function of the FRT.
We conducted an analysis of biopsy specimens of non-episode renal allografts from patients treated with tacrolimus (FK506) or cyclosporine (CsA) to evaluate chronic drug-induced nephropathy in stable allografts. A total of 38 biopsy specimens from stable functioning renal allografts were examined. The patients had been treated with FK506 (n = 16) or CsA (n = 18) as main immunosuppressant for 0.3 to 7.4 years. Of the 38 biopsy specimens, 15 showed mild drug-induced arteriolopathy (hyalinosis or insudative change of arterioles and small arteries) with striped-form interstitial fibrosis, 10 showed minimum interstitial cellular infiltration (borderline rejection), 2 showed IgA nephropathy, 4 showed evidence of chronic rejection (transplant nephropathy) and 12 showed no abnormal findings. Of 34 renal allograft biopsy specimens with stable function, 22 (65%) showed pathological evidence of drug-induced nephropathy. There were no significant qualitative or quantitative differences between FK506- and CsA-associated nephropathy.
Chronic renal failure occurs in about 20% of long-term survivors treated with bone marrow transplant (BMT) regimens that include total-body irradiation (TBI); this syndrome is called BMT nephropathy. In a previous study in a syngeneic rat BMT model it was shown that captopril (an inhibitor of angiotensin-converting enzyme) could be used to treat experimental BMT nephropathy. Current studies were designed to determine whether captopril could also be used to prevent BMT nephropathy. Rats received 14 to 18.5 Gy TBI in six fractions over 3 days followed by syngeneic BMT. Seven days before TBI half the rats were started on captopril (500 mg/liter in the drinking water). Blood urea nitrogen, ratios of urine protein to creatinine, serum creatinine, and blood pressure were used to assess renal function. In animals receiving TBI alone, BMT nephropathy developed 3 to 6 months after transplant. At 6 months after TBI, captopril-treated animals had lower systolic blood pressure and better-preserved renal function than animals receiving TBI alone, with dose-modifying factors of about 1.3. The captopril treatment had no effect on bone marrow ablation by TBI. Captopril appears to be safe and effective in the prophylaxis of BMT nephropathy.
A new class of nitrovinyl biphenyl compounds based on the structures of colchicines and allocolchicines were designed, synthesized, and shown to inhibit tubulin polymerization and cause mitotic arrest. A majority of these compounds were found to possess potent anticancer properties, with IC(50) values in the range of 0.05-7 μM, and are equally potent with colchicine in HeLa and MCF-7 cells. Compounds 14 e and 14 f inhibited tubulin assembly by more than 60 %, and flow cytometry studies indicated growth arrest of cells in the G(2)/M phase of the cell cycle in a concentration-dependent manner. Treatment of cells with 14 f resulted in upregulation of cyclin B1 and aurora kinase B mRNA levels, corresponding to growth arrest in the G(2)/M phase of the cell cycle as the mode of action.
Developed for the treatment of migraine, sumatriptan is an agonist of 5-hydroxytryptamine-1-receptors. Though a pressure sensation is a common complaint, significant ECG changes have not been reported after subcutaneous administration of sumatriptan. A case history is given where angina pectoris after sumatriptan self-administration was experienced on two occasions by a 61-year old man with a history of minor myocardial infarction--without post-infarction angina--two years previously. The angina after sumatriptan was accompanied on both occasions by significant ST-segment depression on ECG-monitoring. An extracranial vasoconstrictor action of sumatriptan in patients with ischaemic heart disease is suggested.
Tobacco use is a global pandemic. The most common pharmacological treatments of tobacco use and dependence include nicotine replacement therapy and nonnicotine medications. Bupropion sustained release (SR) is the only first-line nonnicotine medication recommended by the US Public Health Service Clinical Practice Guideline. Randomized controlled clinical trials have shown that bupropion SR doubles abstinence rates compared with placebo. Long-term treatment with bupropion SR may reduce or delay smoking relapse. Bupropion SR has an excellent adverse effect profile, although a risk exists for serious adverse effects such as seizures. The risk of serious adverse effects associated with bupropion SR can be reduced by careful selection of patients. This article reviews the evidence of efficacy and common adverse effects of bupropion SR and delineates the clinical characteristics of patients at higher risk for adverse effects when bupropion SR is prescribed for treatment of tobacco use and dependence.
