We discuss a case with significant progressive peripheral neurological deterioration following administration of both fludarabine and cytarabine as part of the FLA (fludarabine and cytarabine) regime. Of particular interest is that toxicity only occurred during the second course of FLA and sixth course of Ara-C containing chemotherapy. At this point, a new antifungal agent had been commenced, suggesting a possible drug interaction enhancing the risk of known neurological toxicity with this regime.
Premature labor and patent ductus arteriosus are two potentially fatal hazards of the human newborn infant. Prostaglandin synthetase antagonists have thus been used to suppress early labor and to close the ductus of the neonate. Indomethacin has been most effective but not free of significant complications. Neuronal necrosis may result from numerous systemic aberrations. A controlled rat model study was therefore devised to investigate fetal neuronal necrosis in relation to maternal indomethacin dose. Dams were given various treatments of 2 mg/kg of 4 mg/kg indomethacin within the last 3 days of gestation. Liquid chromatography was used to assess serum maternal and fetal drug levels. From light microscopy of more than 200 brains it was apparent that fetal neuronal necrosis correlates with maternal dose.
This work describes a new animal model of neuropathic pain produced by the single intraperitoneal administration of Taxol (32 mg/kg) to male Sprague-Dawley rats. During the course of the experiment, the clinical status of the rats remained satisfactory and motor function was not altered. A number of classical behavioural tests of nociception as well as histological and electrophysiological investigations were performed. Taxol administration produced an important and rapidly developing mechanical hyperalgesia, a thermal hypoalgesia but no mechanical or thermal allodynia. Degenerative changes were observed in the sciatic nerve, the nerve fibres in the paw subcutaneous tissue and in the lumbar spinal cord. When Taxol or vehicle (a mix of Cremophor and ethanol) were repeatedly injected once a week for 5 weeks, similar nociceptive disorders were observed in addition to a decrease in peripheral nerve conduction velocity. The selective dysfunction of high-diameter myelinated fibres observed after one single administration of Taxol (32 mg/kg) may be attributable to paclitaxel-induced neuropathy, however other mechanisms causing neurochemical dysfunction must also be involved.
Dibromoacetic acid (DBA) is a haloacetic acid that is present in drinking water as a by-product of chlorinated disinfection. To evaluate its potential adverse health effects, the immunotoxicological effects of DBA on the thymus and spleen of BALB/c mice were investigated. Groups of mice (10 mice per group) were administered DBA at doses of 0, 5, 20, and 50 mg/kg body weight daily for 28 days via oral gavage. The mice orally administered DBA exhibited obvious immunotoxicity, as indicated by changes in the thymus and spleen. DBA induced a dose-dependent decrease and increase in thymus weight and spleen weight, respectively. The histological changes were cortical atrophy of the thymus, white pulp shrinkage of the spleen, and apoptosis of many splenic and thymic lymphocytes; these observations were confirmed by morphometric analysis of the electron microscope scans. Lymphocytes proliferation analysis indicated that the proliferative function of the splenic and thymic lymphocytes was altered after DBA exposure. Cell death via apoptosis was analyzed with an annexin-V/propidium iodide assay by flow cytometry, and we observed that the percentage of apoptosis increased in a dose-dependent manner after DBA treatment. In addition, DBA treatment altered the expression of a few apoptosis-related genes such as Fas, TRAF2, bcl-2, and bax in a dose-dependent manner. Western blot analysis revealed increased expression of the Fas and FasL proteins. In conclusion, DBA induces obvious immunotoxicity in the thymus and spleen, and immune-cell apoptosis mediated by the Fas/FasL pathway may be the potential mechanism underlying this immunotoxicity.
It is well known that the myoglobinuric acute renal failure caused by drugs is an important clinical aspect of nephrology. On the other hand, neuroleptic malignant syndrome is an uncommon, but potentially fatal, idiosyncratic reaction to neuroleptics and is characterized by muscular rigidity, fever, autonomic dysfunction and altered consciousness. The most common serious complication of malignant syndrome is rhabdomyolysis. We investigated 10 cases with acute renal failure induced by haloperidol and other neuroleptics. At the time they developed acute renal failure, the patients were taking a wide variety of medications. However, seven of the patients who developed acute renal failure, had received haloperidol, phenothiazine and anticholinaergic drugs, and 2 cases with acute renal failure were taking lithium. Characteristic clinical manifestations of malignant syndrome were observed in 7 patients who had been administered haloperidol orally or intravenously. All of the patients with acute renal failure induced by haloperidol, lithium and other neuroleptics were treated successfully with blood purification therapy (HD or HDF). We concluded that acute renal failure associated with malignant syndrome evoked by haloperidol is an indication for blood purification therapy.
In soleus muscles of rats treated for 2 to 11 days with high doses of chloroquine or chlorphentermine, muscle fibres showed autophagocytosis followed by segmental contracture and necrosis. Vascuolar degeneration, "splitting", and internal nuclei were absent. At variance with findings in progressive muscular dystrophy, the incidence of intramembrane particles was unchanged and membrane defects in necrotizing fibres were absent. Autophagic vacuoles were formed by cup-shaped cisternae derived from tubules that often enclosed single mitochondria. Golgi complexes occurred in the centre of the fibres; dilated vesicles of the sarcoplasmic reticulum contained an electrondense substance, possibly lysosomal enzymes. Exocytosis of autophagic vacuoles and of almost undigested mitochondria was observed. The changes in the plasma membrane were as in other cells: a bulge was formed that was cleared of intramembrane particles; the membrane fused with the limiting membrane of the autophagic vacuole, the content of which was expelled through an orifice. Inside autophagic vacuoles, persisting phospholipids arranged themselves into protein-free lipid bilayers, that formed concentric membranes or single-layered vesicles. Both drugs are known to inhibit degradation of phospholipids; the findings indicate that the rate of autophagocytosis and exocytosis were enhanced as well. Fibre necrosis was probably due to the fact that fibres eventually became unable to maintain their integrity.
A 74-year-old man with hypertension and diabetes mellitus was admitted to our hospital because of acute exacerbation of chronic renal failure after treatment with urokinase for a cerebral infarction. A percutaneous renal biopsy was performed to examine the cause of renal damage, revealing glomerulosclerosis and cholesterol clefts in the small arteries. Subsequently eosinophil was increased to 21% and livedo reticularis was found in the patient's foot. A skin biopsy was performed, and cholesterol clefts were again found in the small arteries. For the reason, our diagnosis was cholesterol crystal embolism. Although 30 mg of prednisolone was administered, the patient's renal function did not improve and maintenance hemodialysis therapy was necessary. This is a rare case of cholesterol crystal embolism caused by urokinase without any invasive vascular procedures.
Even though uroplakins (UPs) are believed to serve a strong protective barrier against toxic materials, cyclophosphamide (CP) causes extensive cystitis. We investigated the expression of UPs in the urothelium in CP induced mouse cystitis. A total of 27 ICR female mice received a single intraperitoneal injection of 200 mg CP/kg. Nine CP-treated mice and 6 controls were sequentially killed at 12, 24, and 72 hr post injection. Extensive cystitis and an increased vesical weight were seen. These all peaked within 12 hr post injection and they tended to decrease thereafter. The level of all the UPs mRNA, the protein expressions of UP II and III on immunoblotting study, and the expression of UP III on immunolocalization study were maximally suppressed within 12 hr; this partially recovered at 24 hr, and this completely recovered at 72 hr post CP injection. In conclusion, CP reduced the expression of UPs. The reduction of the UPs mRNA and protein was time dependent, and this peaked within 12 hr after CP injection. However, the damage was rapidly repaired within 24 hr. This study demonstrates a dynamic process, an extensive reduction and rapid recovery, for the UPs expression of the mouse urinary bladder after CP injection.
Dopamine receptor subtypes have been classified generally as D1-like (e.g., D1, D5) or D2-like (D2, D3, D4), and converging evidence suggests that D2-like receptors may be especially important in mediating the abuse-related effects of cocaine. However, it has been difficult to differentiate the roles of the D2-like receptor subtypes in the behavioral effects of cocaine because of the relatively low selectivity of drugs for D2, D3, and D4 receptors in vivo. The goal of the present series of studies was to investigate the contributions of D2-like receptor subtypes in the reinforcing effects of cocaine using new genetic and pharmacological tools. First, we evaluated cocaine self-administration behavior, and related effects of nonselective D2-like drugs, in mutant mice that lack the D2 receptor but express D3 and D4 receptors. When high doses of cocaine on the descending limb of the cocaine dose-effect function were available, D2 mutant mice self-administered at higher rates than their heterozygous or wild-type littermates, but the ascending limb of the cocaine dose-effect function did not differ between genotypes. Elevated rates of drug intake were not attributable to nonspecific increases in response rate, because response rates maintained by presentation of a range of food concentrations were significantly lower in D2 mutant mice than in wild-type mice. In wild-type mice, pretreatment with the D2-like antagonist eticlopride increased rates of self-administration of high doses of cocaine, and the D2-like agonist quinelorane served as a positive reinforcer when substituted for cocaine. However, these effects of eticlopride and quinelorane were not observed in mice that lacked the D2 receptor. Next, we compared the effects of novel antagonists selective for different D2 receptor subtypes on cocaine self-administration behavior in outbred rats. In rats, a D2 selective antagonist increased rates of self-administration of high doses of cocaine and also combinations of cocaine and the D2-like agonist quinelorane, whereas D3/D4 antagonists were ineffective. Collectively, these findings suggest that the D2 receptor is not necessary for cocaine self-administration, but this receptor subtype is involved in mechanisms that limit rates of high-dose cocaine self-administration. Our results also suggest that D3 and D4 receptors do not play major roles in the modulation of cocaine self-administration by D2-like drugs.
Prophylactic agents acutely administered in response to anticholinesterases intoxication can prevent toxic symptoms, including fasciculations, seizures, convulsions and death. However, anticholinesterases also have long-term unknown pathophysiological effects, making rational prophylaxis/treatment problematic. Increasing evidence suggests that in addition to excessive cholinergic stimulation, organophosphate compounds such as diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP) induce activation of glutamatergic neurons, generation of reactive oxygen (ROS) and nitrogen species (RNS), leading to neurodegeneration. The present study investigated multiple affectors of DFP exposure critical to cerebral oxidative damage and whether antioxidants and NMDA receptor antagonist memantine provide neuroprotection by preventing DFP-induced biochemical and morphometric changes in rat brain. Rats treated acutely with DFP (1.25 mg/kg, s.c.) developed onset of toxicity signs within 7-15 min that progressed to maximal severity of seizures and fasciculations within 60 min. At this time point, DFP caused significant (p<0.01) increases in biomarkers of ROS (F2-isoprostanes, F2-IsoPs; and F4-neuroprostanes, F4-NeuroPs), RNS (citrulline), and declines in high-energy phosphates (HEP) in rat cerebrum. At the same time, quantitative morphometric analysis of pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA1 region revealed significant (p<0.01) reductions in dendritic lengths and spine density. When rats were pretreated with the antioxidants N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN, 200 mg/kg, i.p.), or vitamin E (100 mg/kg, i.p./day for 3 days), or memantine (18 mg/kg, i.p.), significant attenuations in DFP-induced increases in F2-IsoPs, F4-NeuroPs, citrulline, and depletion of HEP were noted. Furthermore, attenuation in oxidative damage following antioxidants or memantine pretreatment was accompanied by rescue from dendritic degeneration of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 hippocampal area. These findings closely associated DFP-induced lipid peroxidation with dendritic degeneration of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 hippocampal area and point to possible interventions to limit oxidative injury and dendritic degeneration induced by anticholinesterase neurotoxicity.
In 1930 thousands of cases of muscle pain, weakness of upper and lower extremities, and minimal sensory impairment occurred in the United States. The illness was caused by the consumption of an adulterated Jamaica ginger extract ("Jake"), an illicit beverage then popularly used in the southern and midwestern United States to circumvent prohibition statutes. The additive tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate caused severe, only partially reversible damage to the spinal cord and peripheral nervous tissue. Victims with resultant gait impairment, sometimes permanent, were said to have the "Jake Leg" or "Jake Walk." Twelve commercial phonographic recordings made between 1928 and 1934 by southern rural artists, white and black, refer to Jake or Jake-induced infirmity. These reveal preepidemic cultural familiarity with Jake, and the later, postepidemic performances reflect a whimsical, even cynical, cultural attitude that those with "Jake Leg" were suffering the wages of sin and should not be regarded as objects of pity or sympathy.
Studies have shown that Resveratrol (RE) can inhibit cancer initiation, promotion, and progression. However the gene expression profile in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) in response to RE treatment has never been reported. To understand the potential anticancer effect of RE on RCC at molecular level, we profiled and analyzed the expression of 2059 cancer-related genes in a RCC cell line RCC54 treated with RE. Biological functions of 633 genes were annotated based on biological process ontology and clustered into functional categories. Twenty-nine highly differentially expressed genes in RE treated RCC54 were identified and the potential implications of some gene expression alterations in RCC carcinogenesis were identified. RE was also shown to inhibit cell growth and induce cell death of RCC cells. The expression alterations of selected genes were validated using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. In addition, the gene expression profiles under different RE treatments were analyzed and visualized using singular value decomposition. The findings from this study support the hypothesis that RE induces differential expression of genes that are directly or indirectly related to the inhibition of RCC cell growth and induction of RCC cell death. In addition, it is apparent that the gene expression alterations due to RE treatment depend strongly on RE concentration. This study provides a general understanding of the overall genetic response of RCC54 to RE treatment and yields insights into the understanding of the cancer preventive mechanism of RE in RCC.
Quercetin (QUE; 3,5,7,3',4'-tetrahydroxyflavone) has been shown to possess several beneficial biological activities including antitumor, anti-inflammation and antioxidant properties; however, the effects of QUE in preventing invasion by breast carcinoma cells are still undefined. Increases in the protein, messenger RNA and enzyme activity levels of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 were observed in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-treated MCF-7 cells, and these were blocked by QUE, but not by quercitrin or rutin. A translocation of protein kinase C (PKC)delta from the cytosol to the membrane followed by activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and c-Jun/activator protein-1 (AP-1) by TPA was demonstrated, and TPA-induced MMP-9 activation and migration were inhibited by the pan PKC inhibitor, GF109203X, the specific PKCdelta inhibitor, rottlerin, an ERK inhibitor (PD98059) and an AP-1 inhibitor (curcumin). Application of QUE significantly suppressed TPA-induced activation of the PKCdelta/ERK/AP-1-signaling cascade. To elucidate the importance of hydroxyl (OH) substitutions to QUE's inhibition of tumor migration, several structurally related flavones of QUE including 3',4'-diOH, 3',4'-diOCH(3), 3,5,7-triOH, 3,4',4'-triOH, 3,3',4'-triOCH(3), luteolin and fisetin were used. Results suggested that OH groups at both C3' and C4' play central roles in QUE's inhibition of TPA-induced MMP-9 activation and migration, and an additional OH at C3, C5 or C7 may increase the inhibitory potency of the 3',4'-diOH flavone against TPA-induced MMP-9 activity and migration. The antitumor invasion and migration effects of breast carcinoma cells induced by QUE with the structure-activity relationship analysis were identified.
Carmustine [i.e., 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU)] is a drug with cholestatic potency both in experimental animals and in humans. To study the mechanisms involved in the development of the hepatic lesions, early changes in liver function in rats pretreated with the drug were investigated. Dosages and sampling times that did not result in hepatocellular injury, as indicated by release of marker enzymes, were applied. In isolated perfused livers from pretreated rats, bile flow and maximal secretion rate of taurocholate were decreased. An increase in biliary [14C]sucrose clearance suggested enhanced permeability of the bile tract and was correlated with increased inorganic phosphate concentration in bile. To assess the contribution of paracellular and transcellular pathways of sucrose, [14C]sucrose access into bile was analyzed by biliary off-kinetics after omission of the radioactive marker from the perfusion medium. An improved method was developed to quantitate the permeability of the bile tract by applying the classical flow equation to the paracellular portion of biliary sucrose clearance. With this method it was shown that pretreatment of rats with BCNU resulted in an increase in both diffusion and convection of paracellular sucrose from perfusate into bile. Accordingly, the fast access of horseradish peroxidase from perfusate into bile was facilitated in isolated perfused livers of BCNU-treated rats. The results indicate that an increase in paracellular permeability is an early alteration that may contribute to the development of hepatotoxic lesions caused by BCNU. It is shown that inert solute clearance can be used to assess paracellular permeability if the paracellular fraction is determined.
Acute toxicity of nicotine was examined in old (24 months) and young (6 weeks) Wistar rats. There were no significant age differences in the mortality and convulsive responses induced by an intraperitoneal injection of nicotine (24.5 mg/kg). The lethal nicotine levels in blood and cortex and the latent period to death in old rats were larger than those in young rats. Cortical and blood nicotine levels 15 min. after the nicotine injection in old rats were also higher than those in young rats. Nicotine significantly increased dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid levels in striatum and hippocampus in young rats, but not those in old rats. Moreover, nicotine-induced elevations in blood levels of corticosterone in old rats were also less than those in young rats. On the other hand, the cytochrome P-450 content, the nicotine oxidase activity and the flavin-containing monooxygenase activity in liver showed age-related decreases in the young, the middle-aged (12 months) and the old rats. These results indicate that the acute toxicity of nicotine in old rats reflects the decreases in hepatic nicotine metabolism and in brain sensitivity to nicotine.
The therapeutic usefulness of doxorubicin, an antineoplastic drug, is limited by its cardiotoxicity whose mechanism is as yet unknown. Several hypotheses have been postulated including also the release of vasoactive substances, so the aim of the present investigations was to study the relationship between the release of vasoactive substances and the development of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. The effects of the following drugs on doxorubicin-induced (cumulative dose of 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally) cardiotoxicity in rats have been evaluated: verapamil (1 and 10 mg/kg orally), that inhibits the slow channel influx of calcium and catecholamine release, acetylsalicylic acid (50 and 100 mg/kg orally), that inhibits the prostaglandin biosynthesis and release, and cromolyn sodium (cromolyn; 1 and 10 mg/kg orally), that inhibits the secretion of histamine. Our results showed that verapamil reduced and delayed doxorubicin-induced mortality, and limited doxorubicin-induced body weight decrease and ECG changes. Acetylsalicylic acid and cromolyn did not protect against doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. These findings suggest that the release of vasoactive substances does not play a prevalent role in the development of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. The protective effect of verapamil is probably due to the inhibition of doxorubicin-induced intracellular calcium overload.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) are additive flame retardants that are environmentally persistent and bioaccumulative. The developmental effects of in ovo exposure to environmentally relevant levels of the PBDE technical mixture, DE-71, on male reproductive physiology in captive American kestrels (Falco sparverius) was determined. Males were exposed in ovo by direct maternal transfer to DE-71 at three mean concentrations of 289 ng/g ww (low exposure), 1131 ng/g ww (high-exposure), or background levels of 3 ng/g ww (control). As adults, males were paired with unexposed females for breeding and, 1 year later, sacrificed for testes evaluation. While breeding, high-exposure males demonstrated a trend of reduced circulating testosterone levels when their female mate commenced egg laying when compared with controls (p = 0.056). No differences in circulating free T₄ or T₃ were detected. Sperm numbers were elevated on the perivitelline layer of the first egg of both high- and low-exposure males when compared with controls (p = 0.021). High-exposure males had a higher gonadosomatic index (p = 0.046) and heavier right testis than controls (p = 0.034) with a similar trend for their left testis (p = 0.055). High-exposure males had more seminiferous tubules containing lumen than controls (p = 0.030), and in proportion to the total number of tubules, low-exposure males had more tubules containing lumen than did controls (p = 0.016). Only high-exposure males had fewer than half of tubules containing final spermatids (43%). The results of the present study demonstrate that embryonic exposure to technical DE-71 affects the reproductive tract of adult male kestrels.
Based on evidence that pregnant women with multiple sclerosis (MS) show a decline in the relapse rate during the third trimester and an increase during the first 3 months postpartum, the suggestion was made that high levels of circulating sex steroids are responsible for pregnancy-mediated neuroprotection. As both estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone exert neuroprotective and myelinating effects on the nervous system, the effects of sex steroids were studied in the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) model of MS.
EAE was induced in female C57BL/6 mice by administration of a myelin oligodendrocyte protein (MOG(40-45)) peptide. Clinical signs of EAE, myelin protein expression and neuronal parameters were determined in mice with or without hormonal treatment.
Progesterone given prior to EAE induction attenuated the clinical scores of the disease, slightly delayed disease onset and decreased demyelination foci, according to luxol fast blue staining (LFB), myelin basic protein (MBP) and proteolipid protein (PLP) and mRNA expression. Motoneuron expression of Na,K-ATPase mRNA was also enhanced by progesterone. In turn, combined E(2) plus progesterone therapy more effectively prevented neurological deficits, fully restored LFB staining, MBP and PLP immunoreactivity and avoided inflammatory cell infiltration. On the neuronal side, steroid biotherapy increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA.
Early treatment with progesterone alone or more evidently in combination with E(2) showed a clinical benefit and produced myelinating and neuroprotective effects in mice with MOG(40-45)-induced EAE. Therefore, sex steroids should be considered as potential novel therapeutic strategies for MS.
To report three cases of hepatitis related to the use of nitrofurantoin.
Two patients who had been taking nitrofurantoin for several years, presented with severe liver failure. In both, the drug had been continued despite evidence of liver injury. A third patient presented with acute hepatitis after six weeks of nitrofurantoin therapy.
One of the patients with liver failure died and the other underwent a successful liver transplantation. The third patient recovered after withdrawal of the drug.
These cases emphasise the potential for serious hepatic reactions with nitrofurantoin, the danger of continuing the drug once liver damage has occurred and the need for careful monitoring of liver function during long-term therapy.
In the present study, we have demonstrated that multiple first-generation H1-antagonists caused behavioral and EEG seizures in rats. The epileptogenic property of pyrilamine was more potent than either chlorpheniramine or diphenhydramine. In contrast, the second-generation H1-antagonists, loratadine and ebastine did not induce detectable epileptogenic activity. Intraperitoneal injection of histidine inhibited the EEG seizures induced by pyrilamine, diphenhydramine or chlorpheniramine; however no antagonism was observed with physostigmine. These results clearly suggest that the epileptogenic activity of first-generation H1-antagonists is dependent upon a centrally acting histaminergic mechanism.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is of limited therapeutic benefit for the treatment of solid tumors. Genistein exhibits anticancer and pro-oxidant activities, making it a potential candidate to enhance the efficacy of ATO whose cytotoxicity is oxidation-sensitive. This study sought to determine whether genistein synergizes with ATO to combat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Three human HCC cell lines, namely HepG2, Hep3B, and SK-Hep-1, were incubated with ATO, genistein, or ATO + genistein. The cells were also pretreated with antioxidant agents N-acetyl-L-cysteine (NAC) or butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA). Cell viability, apoptosis, intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim), expression of Bcl-2, Bax, caspase-9, and -3, and release of cytochrome c into the cytosol were examined. The synergistic effect of ATO and genistein was also assessed using HepG2 xenografts subcutaneously established in BALB/c nude mice. The results show that genistein synergized with ATO to reduce viability, induce apoptosis, and diminish the DeltaPsim of cells. The combination therapy down-regulated Bcl-2 expression, up-regulated Bax expression, enhanced the activation of caspase-9 and -3, and increased the release of cytochrome c. The synergistic effect of ATO and genistein was diminished by pretreatment with NAC or BHA. Genistein increased the production of intracellular ROS, while ATO had little effect. Genistein synergized with a low dose of ATO (2.5 mg/kg) to significantly inhibit the growth of HepG2 tumors, and suppress cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in situ. There were no obvious side effects, as seen with a high dose of ATO (5 mg/kg). Combining genistein with ATO warrants investigation as a therapeutic strategy to combat HCC.
RG13965, a pseudotetrapeptide analogue of Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD), inhibited collagen-induced dog, monkey, human, hamster, mouse, and pig platelet aggregation in vitro with IC50 values of 3.7, 4.6, 6.3, 126, 136 and 1600 microM, respectively. RG13965 (3, 10, and 30 mg/kg, i.v.) decreased the incidence of collagen/epinephrine-induced thrombosis in mice from 90% in untreated animals to 63, 37, and 0%, respectively. In hamsters, RG13965 (10 and 30 mg/kg, i.v.) prolonged the time required for formation of a hemostatic plug in severed mesenteric arteries by 1.6- and 3.6-fold, respectively. In a canine model of repetitive platelet thrombus formation in the coronary artery, RG13965 (0.1, 0.3, and 1 mg/kg, i.v.) reversibly inhibited cyclic flow reductions (CFRs) and inhibited ADP-induced ex vivo platelet aggregation by 29, 57, and 77%, respectively. RG13965 (1 mg/kg) completely inhibited CFRs for at least 40 min. Platelet count was not altered at any dose and template bleeding time was prolonged modestly (1.8-fold) at only the highest dose. RG13965 dose-dependently and reversibly inhibited thrombus formation at doses which did not completely inhibit ex vivo platelet aggregation and only modestly prolonged template bleeding time.
Observations are presented on 3 patients, including one autopsy report, with peripheral neuropathy due to perhexilene maleate (Pexid). Clinically and biochemically perhexilene neuropathy presents features unusual for a drug-induced neuropathy. Patients liable to develop neuropathy can be recognised from clinical criteria or by the use of routine electrophysiological determinations of nerve conduction velocities. At this stage the neuropathy is readily reversible if perhexilene therapy is discontinued. We have sought to examine the problems entailed in the future safety of perhexilene and allied drugs.
Treatment of the mouse gluteus maximus with the organophosphorus anticholinesterase ecothiopate, 4-aminopyridine and caffeine caused necrosis of the endplate region of the muscle fibres. When these drugs were given 12 h prior to partial denervation of the muscle there was a significant reduction in the amount of nodal sprouting seen 48 h after nerve section. No such reduction was seen if the drugs were given immediately after nerve section. In the former case both innervated and denervated fibres are necrotic; in the latter, only innervated fibres are necrotic. The amount of terminal sprouting was significantly increased in the former group, showing that the drug treatment and necrosis were not directly inhibitory to nerve growth. The reduction of nodal sprouting is therefore likely to be due to necrosis of denervated fibres; this supports the hypothesis that the denervated endplate is the source of a stimulus to nodal sprouting of motoneurones.
This study was undertaken primarily to identify genetic markers of oedema and inflammation. Mild pulmonary injury was induced following the instillation of the oedema-producing agent, bleomycin (0.5 units). Oedema was then confirmed by conventional toxicology (lavage protein levels, free cell counts and lung/body weight ratios) and histology 3 days post-bleomycin instillation. The expression profile of 1176 mRNA species was determined for bleomycin-exposed lung (Clontech Atlas macroarray, n=9). To obtain pertinent results from these data, it was necessary to develop a simple, effective method for bioinformatic analysis of altered gene expression. Data were log10 transformed followed by global normalisation. Differential gene expression was accepted if: (a) genes were statistically significant (P < or = 0.05) from a two-tailed t test; (b) genes were consistently outside a two standard deviation (SD) range from control levels. A combination of these techniques identified 31 mRNA transcripts (approximately 3%) which were significantly altered in bleomycin treated tissue. Of these genes, 26 were down-regulated whilst only five were up-regulated. Two distinct clusters were identified, with 17 genes classified as encoding hormone receptors, and nine as encoding ion channels. Both these clusters were consistently down-regulated. The magnitude of the changes in gene expression were quantified and confirmed by Q-PCR (n = 6), validating the macroarray data and the bioinformatic analysis employed. In conclusion, this study has developed a suitable macroarray analysis procedure and provides the basis for a better understanding of the gene expression changes occurring during the early phase of drug-induced pulmonary oedema. This work has been presented orally, in part at the British Association for Lung Research Summer Meeting, University of Brighton, 3-5 September, 2003 and in full at the British Toxicology Society Annual Congress, Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh, 21-24 April 2004.
