The effects of the stereochemically pure psychoactive cannabinoid (-)-11-OH-delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol-dimethylheptyl (HU-210) on blood pressure (BP) and heart rate (HR) were determined in rats. In pentobarbital-anesthetized animals, the compound produced dose-related, long-lasting hypotension and bradycardia at doses between 10 and 1,000 micrograms/kg. BP began to decrease immediately after drug administration, and in no case was an initial pressor response observed. Previous vagotomy (VX) or pretreatment with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) did not affect hypotension. Bradycardia was inhibited by VX, but only 60 min after administration of HU-210; it was enhanced by 6-OHDA. The cannabinoid blocked reflex bradycardia induced by phenylephrine (PE). HU-210 also decreased BP and HR in conscious rats. Hypotension lasted 2 h, whereas bradycardia was still present 8 h after drug administration. HU-210 thus shares with delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) the ability to decrease BP and HR, but is 5-10 times more potent than the natural compound. Its lack of an initial pressor effect, such as that described for THC, could be related to its specificity for the type-1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor. Hypotension and bradycardia after HU-210 administration are not due to sympathetic withdrawal. Enhanced parasympathetic tone is involved in bradycardia only at a late stage of the response.
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (anovulatory hyperandrogenism) is marked by adolescent onset of systemic hyperinsulinism, oligoovulation, hirsutism, excessive LH and androgen secretion, and variable reduction in fertility. Insulin and LH are believed to act in concert to promote ovarian androgen hypersecretion in this disorder. Administration of troglitazone, an insulin-sensitizing agent and putative PPAR gamma agonist, can decrease hyperinsulinism, suppress T production, and ameliorate oligoovulation in some women with this endocrinopathy. The present study tests the hypothesis that troglitazone directly inhibits de novo androgen biosynthesis stimulated jointly by LH and insulin in primary cultures of (porcine) thecal cells. We show that troglitazone dose-dependently antagonizes LH/insulin's combined stimulation of androstenedione and T production by thecal cells in vitro. Consistent steroidogenic inhibition of 80-95% was achieved at drug concentrations of 3-6.8 microM (P < 0.001). Exposure of thecal cells to the thiazolidinedione derivative also blocked bihormonally stimulated accumulation of CYP17 (cytochrome P450 17 alpha-hydroxylase/C(17-20) lyase) gene expression, as reflected by decreased accumulation of cognate heterogeneous nuclear RNA and mRNA (by 30-65%; P < 0.05). Moreover, troglitazone suppressed LH/insulin-induced phosphorylation of the 52-kDa immunoprecipitated CYP17 enzyme by 88% (P < 0.001). A putative natural agonist of PPAR gamma nuclear transcription, 15-deoxy-delta-12,14-prostaglandin J(2), also inhibited LH/insulin-driven androstenedione biosynthesis and CYP17 gene expression in thecal cells. In conclusion, a synthetic thiazolidinedione (troglitazone) and a natural ligand of PPAR gamma (15-deoxy-delta-12,14-prostaglandin J(2)) effectively impede the concerted stimulation by LH and insulin of in vitro thecal cell androgen production, CYP17 gene expression, and CYP17 protein phosphorylation. This ensemble of inhibitory actions on LH/insulin-stimulated steroidogenesis offers a plausible mechanistic basis for at least part of the observed clinical efficacy of troglitazone in mitigating androgen excess in women with polycystic ovarian syndrome.
Anti-arrhythmic drugs such as amiodarone have the potential to prolong QT intervals, which can result in torsades de point arrhythmia. It is unknown whether amiodarone, given to a recipient prior to cardiac transplantation, can cause arrhythmia in a newly transplanted donor heart. We report on a case of a 71-year-old male patient who had received intravenous and oral amiodarone prior to transplantation, which was associated with QT prolongation in the transplanted heart after re-exposure to the drug during subsequent episodes of ventricular fibrillation. An ICD was implanted, which has not been described that soon after cardiac transplantation. Amiodarone, given to a recipient, might cause QT prolongation in a donor heart after transplantation, possibly due to its long half-life and increased bioavailability caused by interaction with immunosuppressive drugs.
The production of free radicals seems to be involved in the mechanisms of ototoxicity. Aminoglycosides produce ototoxicity, which can be determined through distortion product otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) that measure the activity of the outer hair cells of the organ of Corti. An ototoxic chart was obtained in rats using gentamicin or tobramycin. Together with this treatment, the animals ingested melatonin in the drinking water, or melatonin was injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly. The distortion product OAEs were determined over a prolonged period of time for each of the groups. The effect of melatonin on the antibiotic capacity of the aminoglycosides used was also studied. Antibiograms inoculated with Escherichia coli or Pseudomonas aeruginosa and treated with gentamicin or tobramycin in the presence or absence of melatonin at quantities from pharmacological to physiological doses were performed. The ototoxicity produced by gentamicin and tobramycin was maximal from days 3 to 5 post-treatment, returning to normal values in 2 wk. When melatonin was present, the recovery was at day 5 post-treatment, independently of the means of administration of the pineal product. The antibiograms showed that melatonin had no effect on the antibiotic capacity. It is concluded that the ototoxicity caused by gentamicin and tobramycin is ameliorated by melatonin and that the pineal hormone does not interfere with the antibiotic capacity of these antibiotics.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is associated with several symptoms, including impulsivity, aggression, and intense unstable affect, which can be targeted with anticonvulsant agents. Divalproex extended-release (ER) is used widely in clinical practice, which leads to the question of its efficacy and tolerability in treating BPD.
This study assessed the efficacy and tolerability of divalproex ER in 20 adult outpatients with Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition BPD via a 12-week open-label trial. Primary outcome measures included the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) scale and the Global Assessment Scale. Secondary outcome measures assessed aggression (Aggression Questionnaire, Overt Aggression Scale-Modified); affective disturbance (Affective Intensity Measure, Affective Lability Scale); dissociation (Dissociative Experiences Scale); and general psychopathology (Symptom-Checklist 90-Revised).
Thirteen subjects were male and seven were female with a mean age of 37.0+/-11.3 years. Treatment was associated with statistically significant improvement on the CGI-I, the Global Assessment Scale, the Overt Aggression Scale-Modified irritability subscale, and the Aggression Questionnaire. A trend toward significant improvement was observed on the Affective Intensity Measure. Seven out of 10 completers (70%) were treatment responders, with an endpoint CGI-I of 2 (much improved) or 1 (very much improved). There was no significant decline in affective lability or in dissociation. One participant discontinued treatment due to adverse events.
These findings support that divalproex ER is an efficacious and well-tolerated pharmacologic agent for BPD, with the additional advantage of single daily dosing at bedtime. Placebo-controlled trials are needed for replication.
Nearly 500 long-term rodent carcinogenicity studies carried out by the National Cancer Institute and the National Toxicology Program were examined, and 12 chemicals were identified that produced nasal tumors: allyl glycidol ether, p-cresidine, 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane, 1,2-dibromoethane, 2,3-dibromo-1-propanol, dimethylvinyl chloride, 1,4-dioxane, 1,2-epoxybutane, iodinated glycerol, procarbazine, propylene oxide, and 2,6-xylidine. All 12 of these chemicals produced nasal tumors in rats, and 5 also produced nasal tumors in mice. Most of the nasal carcinogens (1) produced tumor increases in both sexes, (2) produced tumors at other sites as well, (3) had significantly reduced survival at doses that were carcinogenic, and (4) were genotoxic. Only 5 of the 12 nasal carcinogens were administered by inhalation. A variety of different types of nasal cavity tumors were produced, and specific tumor rates are given for those chemicals causing multiple tumor types. Increased incidences of nasal neoplasms were often accompanied by suppurative/acute inflammation, epithelial/focal hyperplasia and squamous metaplasia. However, high incidences of these nonneoplastic nasal lesions were also frequently seen in inhalation studies showing no evidence of nasal carcinogenicity, suggesting that in general nasal carcinogenesis is not associated with the magnitude of chronic toxicity observed at this site.
Case reports and epidemiological studies of workers exposed to benzene have demonstrated associations with a number of lymphohematopoietic diseases, but the association with multiple myeloma (MM) has been less apparent. Data from all of the "benzene cohort studies" conducted to date have been selected and evaluated for inclusion in a meta-analysis. The analysis demonstrates a significant excess in the relative risk (RR) of MM in relation to benzene exposure. Pooling the data from seven cohort studies, a meta-analysis yields a statistically significant weighted RR estimate of 2.13 (95% CI = 1.31-3.46). In the analysis of cohort data, an understanding of the cohort follow-up period in relation to benzene exposure and RR of MM is important. Exposure-related RRs of disease decline after the median latency periods are exceeded, particularly when exposure has terminated decades earlier. The positive epidemiological evidence for benzene as a cause of MM is supported by biological plausibility for such an effect from benzene exposure. Studies of refinery workers are difficult to interpret in relation to benzene exposure and risk of MM, but are limited in the study design and analysis. Nonetheless, they provide some support for an association between refinery work and MM.
Frequency of drug-induced liver diseases is increasingly, more than 200 different drugs being incriminated in hepatic disorders. We performed a retrospective study on 65 cases of deaths due to drug intoxications and an experimental model of subacute hepatitis induced by acetaminophen. In our experimental model, we observed various histological lesions: granular degeneration, vascular congestion, lymphoplasmocyte infiltration, cytonecrosis. Histological criteria are not specifically, but very usefully, because based on these criteria we can suspect a drug etiology in hepatic disorders when any other cause is absent. Ultrastructural study of hepatocytes revealed some modifications, in addition to data provided by optical microscopy.
Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu-18FDG) was measured in 6 cases with rigid type Parkinson's disease (PD) (2 cases with dopa-induced dyskinesia = DID), 6 cases with chorea (Ch), 5 cases with essential tremor (EssT) and 2 cases with normal subjects (N). The effects of L-Dopa on rCMRGlu was studied in 3 cases with PD. With the aid of depth microrecording study, stereotactic pallidotomy was performed in all cases with PD. Thalamotomy was performed in 3 cases with Ch. In the EssT and N group, the metabolic pattern was high in the frontal cortex (FCx) but low in the lenticular nucleus (LN). In contrast, all cases with a rigid type PD showed lower rCMRGlu in FCx (premotor, prefrontal area). However, 4 out of 6 cases were higher in LN than the control group. Administration of L-Dopa shifted rCMRGlu toward the normal pattern in this group. Five out of 6 cases with Ch represented higher rCMRGlu in FCx (3 focal, 2 diffuse) but lower in LN. Moreover, when DID occurred, it showed almost the same pattern as in Ch. Electrophysiological studies showed high background neuronal activity (BNA) in the medial segment of the globus pallidus (GP) but low BNA in the lateral segment of the GP in the rigid type of PD. In cases with Ch, irregular burst discharges were often encountered in ventro-oral thalamus. From these results, the on-going changes of basal ganglia-thalamocortical motor circuit in cases with a rigid type PD, DID and Ch are discussed. The underlying mechanisms of Parkinsonian rigidity was considered to contrast with those of DID and Ch within the same motor circuit.
In breast cancers, only a minority of patients fully benefit from the different chemotherapy regimens currently in use. Identification of markers that could predict the response to a particular regimen would thus be critically important for patient care. In cell lines or animal models, tumor protein p53 (TP53) plays a critical role in modulating the response to genotoxic drugs. TP53 is activated in response to DNA damage and triggers either apoptosis or cell-cycle arrest, which have opposite effects on cell fate. Yet, studies linking TP53 status and chemotherapy response have so far failed to unambiguously establish this paradigm in patients. Breast cancers with a TP53 mutation were repeatedly shown to have a poor outcome, but whether this reflects poor response to treatment or greater intrinsic aggressiveness of the tumor is unknown.
In this study we analyzed 80 noninflammatory breast cancers treated by frontline (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy. Tumor diagnoses were performed on pretreatment biopsies, and the patients then received six cycles of a dose-dense regimen of 75 mg/m(2) epirubicin and 1,200 mg/m(2) cyclophosphamide, given every 14 days. After completion of chemotherapy, all patients underwent mastectomies, thus allowing for a reliable assessment of chemotherapy response. The pretreatment biopsy samples were used to determine the TP53 status through a highly efficient yeast functional assay and to perform RNA profiling. All 15 complete responses occurred among the 28 TP53-mutant tumors. Furthermore, among the TP53-mutant tumors, nine out of ten of the highly aggressive basal subtypes (defined by basal cytokeratin [KRT] immunohistochemical staining) experienced complete pathological responses, and only TP53 status and basal subtype were independent predictors of a complete response. Expression analysis identified many mutant TP53-associated genes, including CDC20, TTK, CDKN2A, and the stem cell gene PROM1, but failed to identify a transcriptional profile associated with complete responses among TP53 mutant tumors. In patients with unresponsive tumors, mutant TP53 status predicted significantly shorter overall survival. The 15 patients with responsive TP53-mutant tumors, however, had a favorable outcome, suggesting that this chemotherapy regimen can overcome the poor prognosis generally associated with mutant TP53 status.
This study demonstrates that, in noninflammatory breast cancers, TP53 status is a key predictive factor for response to this dose-dense epirubicin-cyclophosphamide regimen and further suggests that the basal subtype is exquisitely sensitive to this association. Given the well-established predictive value of complete responses for long-term survival and the poor prognosis of basal and TP53-mutant tumors treated with other regimens, this chemotherapy could be particularly suited for breast cancer patients with a mutant TP53, particularly those with basal features.
The beta-D-endoglycosidase heparanase has been proposed as an important contributor to loss of glomerular charge in proteinuria. Expression of heparanase was, therefore, determined in acute puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephrosis.
A rabbit polyclonal antibody was produced against a 17-amino acid peptide derived from the predicted amino acid sequence of heparanase. The antibody was validated by Western blot. Immunohistochemical staining and Western blotting were used to localize heparanase protein in normal kidneys and kidneys from rats with PAN nephrosis. Northern blot analysis was used to determine mRNA expression.
Immunohistochemical staining showed that heparanase protein was localized to tubular cells in the distal convoluted tubules, thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle, and transitional cell epithelium in normal kidney. Minimal expression was noted in normal glomeruli. Western blot analysis of protein from isolated normal glomeruli showed minimal expression of the 65 kD proheparanase protein. A marked increase in the staining for heparanase was found at day 5 of the PAN nephrosis model, at approximately the time of onset of proteinuria, and at day 14. Expression was predominantly seen in podocytes. At day 5, only the 65 kD proheparanase species was identified, but at day 14, mature 58 kD heparanase also was present. Northern blot analysis of sieved glomeruli at day 14 confirmed an increase in heparanase mRNA. The human podocyte cell line 56/10A1 also produced both proheparanase and mature heparanase, suggesting that podocytes can activate heparanase without other cell types.
The previously mentioned data confirm that the novel beta-D-endoglycosidase heparanase is up-regulated and activated in glomeruli from rats with proteinuria. Heparanase may be involved, therefore, in the loss of glomerular charge seen in proteinuria. Moreover, the presence of heparanase in normal tubules suggests that it may also be involved in cell migration or turnover.
Several epidemiologic studies have demonstrated relationships between prenatal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and modest cognitive impairments in infancy and early childhood. However, few studies have followed cohorts of exposed children long enough to examine the possible impact of prenatal PCB exposure on psychometric intelligence in later childhood. Of the few studies that have done so, one in the Great Lakes region of the United States reported impaired IQ in children prenatally exposed to PCBs, whereas another found no association.
This study was designed to determine whether environmental exposure to PCBs predicts lower IQ in school-age children in the Great Lakes region of the northeastern United States.
We measured prenatal exposure to PCBs and IQ at 9 years of age in 156 subjects from Oswego, New York. We also measured > 50 potential predictors of intelligence in children, including repeated measures of the home environment [Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment (HOME)], socioeconomic status (SES), parental IQ, alcohol/cigarette use, neonatal risk factors, and nutrition.
For each 1-ng/g (wet weight) increase in PCBs in placental tissue, Full Scale IQ dropped by three points (p = 0.02), and Verbal IQ dropped by four points (p = 0.003). The median PCB level was 1.50 ng/g, with a lower quartile of 1.00 ng/g and an upper quartile of 2.06 ng/g. Moreover, this association was significant after controlling for many potential confounders, including prenatal exposure to methylmercury, dichlorodiphenyldichloroethylene, hexachlorobenzene, and lead.
These results, in combination with similar results obtained from a similar study in the Great Lakes conducted 10 years earlier, indicate that prenatal PCB exposure in the Great Lakes region is associated with lower IQ in children.
Coal burning provides 70% of the energy for China's industry and power, but releases large quantities of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and other pollutants. PAHs are reproductive and developmental toxicants, mutagens, and carcinogens.
We evaluated the benefit to neurobehavioral development from the closure of a coal-fired power plant that was the major local source of ambient PAHs.
The research was conducted in Tongliang, Chongqing, China, where a coal-fired power plant operated seasonally before it was shut down in May 2004. Two identical prospective cohort studies enrolled nonsmoking women and their newborns in 2002 (before shutdown) and 2005 (after shutdown). Prenatal PAH exposure was measured by PAH-DNA adducts (benzo[a]pyrene-DNA) in umbilical cord blood. Child development was assessed by the Gesell Developmental Schedules at 2 years of age. Prenatal exposure to other neurotoxicants and potential confounders (including lead, mercury, and environmental tobacco smoke) was measured. We compared the cohorts regarding the association between PAH-DNA adduct levels and neurodevelopmental outcomes.
Significant associations previously seen in 2002 between elevated adducts and decreased motor area developmental quotient (DQ) (p = 0.043) and average DQ (p = 0.047) were not observed in the 2005 cohort (p = 0.546 and p = 0.146). However, the direction of the relationship did not change.
The findings indicate that neurobehavioral development in Tongliang children benefited by elimination of PAH exposure from the coal-burning plant, consistent with the significant reduction in PAH-DNA adducts in cord blood of children in the 2005 cohort. The results have implications for children's environmental health in China and elsewhere.
Systemic pretreatment with ketanserin, a relatively specific type-2 serotonin receptor antagonist, significantly attenuated the muscle rigidity produced in rats by the potent short-acting opiate agonist alfentanil. Following placement of subcutaneous electrodes in each animal's left gastrocnemius muscle, rigidity was assessed by analyzing root-mean-square electromyographic activity. Intraperitoneal ketanserin administration at doses of 0.63 and 2.5 mg/kg prevented the alfentanil-induced increase in electromyographic activity compared with animals pretreated with saline. Chlordiazepoxide at doses up to 10 mg/kg failed to significantly influence the rigidity produced by alfentanil. Despite the absence of rigidity, animals that received ketanserin (greater than 0.31 mg/kg i.p.) followed by alfentanil were motionless, flaccid, and less responsive to external stimuli than were animals receiving alfentanil alone. Rats that received ketanserin and alfentanil exhibited less rearing and exploratory behavior at the end of the 60-min recording period than did animals that received ketanserin alone. These results, in combination with previous work, suggest that muscle rigidity, a clinically relevant side-effect of parenteral narcotic administration, may be partly mediated via serotonergic pathways. Pretreatment with type-2 serotonin antagonists may be clinically useful in attenuating opiate-induced rigidity, although further studies will be necessary to assess the interaction of possibly enhanced CNS, cardiovascular, and respiratory depression.
The question of whether air pollution contributes to asthma onset remains unresolved.
In this study, we assessed the association between asthma onset in children and traffic-related air pollution.
We selected a sample of 217 children from participants in the Southern California Children's Health Study, a prospective cohort designed to investigate associations between air pollution and respiratory health in children 10-18 years of age. Individual covariates and new asthma incidence (30 cases) were reported annually through questionnaires during 8 years of follow-up. Children had nitrogen dioxide monitors placed outside their home for 2 weeks in the summer and 2 weeks in the fall-winter season as a marker of traffic-related air pollution. We used multilevel Cox models to test the associations between asthma and air pollution.
In models controlling for confounders, incident asthma was positively associated with traffic pollution, with a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.29 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.07-1.56] across the average within-community interquartile range of 6.2 ppb in annual residential NO2. Using the total interquartile range for all measurements of 28.9 ppb increased the HR to 3.25 (95% CI, 1.35-7.85).
In this cohort, markers of traffic-related air pollution were associated with the onset of asthma. The risks observed suggest that air pollution exposure contributes to new-onset asthma.
To assess tetrabenazine (TBZ) efficacy by evaluating the change in Huntington disease-associated chorea resulting from TBZ treatment withdrawal.
Thirty patients treated in the long term were randomized to 1 of 3 groups assigned to withdraw from TBZ in a double-blind, staggered fashion during a 5-day period.
The chorea scores of subjects withdrawn from TBZ treatment increased by 5.3 units from days 1 to 3, whereas the scores of the group with partial or no withdrawal of TBZ treatment increased by 3.0 units (P = 0.0773). A post hoc analysis of the linear trend was positive for reemergent chorea (P = 0.0486). No serious adverse events were reported after abrupt withdrawal of TBZ treatment.
The trend for reemergence of chorea in patients with Huntington disease who were withdrawn from TBZ treatment is consistent with the findings from previous studies, thus showing the effectiveness of TBZ in reducing chorea.
Diuretic treatment (hydrochlorothiazide) induced a marked decrease of red cell membrane Na+K+ ATPase activity in excessive potassium loser hypertensive patients. The decreased activity occurred within 2-4 weeks of treatment and returned to baseline in 4-6 weeks after cessation of treatment. Simultaneously, red cell sodium increased, potassium decreased together with increased 24-h urinary excretion. The persistent low serum potassium may be due to impaired absorption of potassium from the gut as a result of suppressed enzyme activity since total body potassium appears also to decrease. The decreased Na+K+ ATPase activity may be due to a direct effect of the diuretic on cell membrane.
The clinical significance of the hepatitis B virus core-related antigen (HBcrAg) assay in monitoring the antiviral effects of lamivudine is reviewed.
The HBcrAg assay simultaneously measured serum levels of hepatitis B core (HBc) and e (HBe) antigens using monoclonal antibodies which recognize common epitopes of these two denatured antigens.
Although serum HBcrAg levels correlated linearly with those of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA in natural course, the decrease in HBcrAg was significantly slower than in HBV DNA after initiation of lamivudine administration. We analyzed the clinical significance of HBV DNA and HBcrAg levels to predict the occurrence of lamivudine resistance. HBV DNA measurement may be useful to identify patients who are at high risk of developing lamivudine resistance, and HBcrAg measurement may help to detect patients who are at low risk of drug resistance. The measurement of HBcrAg was also found to be a useful prognosticator for reactivation of hepatitis after cessation of lamivudine administration.
The HBcrAg assay is indeed useful for monitoring the antiviral effects of lamivudine, and we propose that it be adopted as a serum marker which reflects the amount of HBV covalently closed circular DNA in hepatocytes.
Lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor (LOX-1/OLR1) has been suggested to play a role in the progression of atherogenesis. We analyzed the OLR1 gene and found a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), G501C, in patients with ischemic heart disease from a single family, which resulted in the missense mutation of K167N in LOX-1 protein. We compared the group of patients with myocardial infarction (MI) (n=102) with a group of clinically healthy subjects (n=102), and found that the MI group had a significantly high frequency of 501G/C+501C/C (38.2%) compared with the healthy group (17.6%; p<0.002). The odds ratio for the risk of MI associated with the 501G/C+501C/C genotype was 2.89 (95% CI, 1.51-5.53). These findings suggest that OLR1 or a neighboring gene linked with G501C SNP is important for the incidence of MI. Manipulating LOX-1 activity might be a useful therapeutic and preventative approach for coronary artery disease, especially for individuals with the G501C genotype of OLR1.
1. We set out to ascertain the role of tachykinins, neurokinin A and substance P, in castor oil-induced diarrhoea in rats as disclosed by the inhibitory effect of the non-peptide NK1- and NK2-receptor antagonists. SR 140333 and SR 48968, respectively. 2. SR 48968 (0.02 to 20 micrograms kg-1, s.c. or p.o.), and the opioid receptor agonist loperamide (1-10 mg kg-1, p.o.), dose-dependently prevented castor oil effects: % inhibition vs castor oil, diarrhoea 0 to 100, increase in faecal mass 7 to 90 and water content 16 to 90. SR 140333 (0.02 to 20 micrograms kg-1, s.c.) and the platelet activating factor antagonist SR 27417 (5 to 500 micrograms kg-1, p.o.) did not prevent the increase in faecal water content, but reduced faecal mass (35 to 66%) and diarrhoea (0 to 57%). 3. The R-enantiomers of tachykinin NK1 and NK2 receptor antagonists, SR 140603 and SR 48605 (both at 2 or 20 micrograms kg-1, s.c.) had no effect other than reducing faecal mass at the highest dose tested. 4. SR 48968 (20 micrograms kg-1, p.o.) but not loperamide (10 mg kg-1, p.o.) given 24 h before castor oil, still slightly but significantly reduced by 30% the increase of faecal mass output; both treatments significantly reduced (30 to 70%) the effect of castor oil on faecal water content, although the incidence of diarrhoea was only slightly less than in controls. 5. In castor oil-treated rats, naloxone (2 mg kg-1, s.c.) completely blocked the antidiarrhoeal action of loperamide (10 mg kg-1, p.o.) but not of SR 48968 (20 micrograms kg-1, p.o.): a similar result was obtained on faecal mass and water content. 6. Castor oil strongly increased the occurrence of manometrically recorded propulsive giant contractions (500 to 1000% over control values) of transverse and distal colon, this effect being significantly prevented (80 to 100%) by SR 48968 and loperamide and partially by SR 140333 (35% distal colon, 70% transverse colon). 7. In castor oil free rats, loperamide but not SR 48968 or SR 140333 significantly reduced by 50% the gastrointestinal transit of a charcoal test meal, as well as 24 h faecal mass output. Consistently, loperamide, unlike the tachykinin receptor antagonists, had a dramatic effect on manometric recordings of intestinal motility, reducing all kinds of colonic contractions. 8. Our findings suggest that castor oil diarrhoea in rats entails activation of NK1 and NK2 receptors by endogenous tachykinins, whose antagonists may have a potential as antidiarrhoeal agents free from the constipating action of opioids.
Erythrosine and sodium fluorescein, two colors used as a dental plaque disclosing agents, have similar chemical structures differing only in that erythrosine has four iodine atoms in the molecule while sodium fluorescein has no iodine. A comparative toxicological profile was made on both compounds employing oral dose ranges and acute oral toxicity tests in mice and rats. The results show erythrosine to be approximately twice as toxic as sodium fluorescein with LD50 values of 2558 +/- 1.35 mg/kg in mice and 2891 +/- 1.02 mg/kg in rats for erythrosine and 4738 +/- 1.23 mg/kg in mice and 6721 +/- 1.26 mg/kg in rats for sodium fluorescein. The major toxic manifestations of both compounds were those indicative of central nervous system depression.
The molecular mechanism of C3 deficiency in an Afrikaans patient with recurrent pyogenic infections was studied. Restriction enzyme analysis showed a gene deletion of 800 base pairs (bp) mapping to the alpha chain of C3. Amplification of genomic DNA, using the PCR, demonstrated that the deletion included exons 22 and 23 of the C3 gene. Truncated mRNA was shown in an Epstein-Barr virus-transformed B-cell line by PCR amplification of first-strand cDNA. A consequence of this deletion was that the RNA transcribed 3' to the deletion was out of frame, resulting in formation of a stop codon 19 bp downstream from the deletion. The molecular basis of the deletion was compatible with homologous recombination between two Alu sequences located in introns 21 and 23. An unrelated nonconsanguineous relative and two of a sample of 174 Afrikaans-speaking individuals were heterozygous carriers of the same gene deletion. The wide prevalence of this null allele in this population is probably due to the effects of a small founder population. The presence of this deletion in the C3 gene is not compatible with production of any functional C3, supporting the idea that study of such patients offers a valid model for understanding physiological activities of C3 in vivo in humans.
Although calcium antagonists produce salutary effects after shock and ischemia, it is unknown whether such agents restore the depressed cardiac output (CO) and renal function in a nonheparinized model of trauma-hemorrhage and resuscitation. To study this, rats underwent a midline laparotomy (i.e., trauma induced) and were bled to and maintained at a mean arterial pressure of 40 mmHg until 40% of the maximum bleedout was returned in the form of Ringer lactate (RL). They were then resuscitated with four times the volume of shed blood with RL over 60 min. Diltiazem (400 micrograms/kg body wt) or an equal volume of saline was infused intravenously over 95 min. This infusion was started during the last 15 min of resuscitation. CO was determined by indocyanine green dilution. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was assessed with [3H]inulin clearance, and cortical microcirculation was examined by laser Doppler flowmetry. Results indicate that crystalloid resuscitation alone transiently restored but did not maintain CO after hemorrhage. Diltiazem infusion in conjunction with crystalloid resuscitation, however, restored and maintained CO and cortical microcirculation. Although GFR decreased in both groups, the values in diltiazem-treated animals were significantly higher than those in the sham-operated animals. Furthermore, diltiazem markedly decreased tissue water content. Thus diltiazem appears to be a promising adjunct in the treatment of hemorrhagic shock even in the absence of blood resuscitation.
Long-term androgen suppression plus radiotherapy (AS+RT) is standard treatment of high-risk prostate cancer. A randomized trial, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group trial 9902, was undertaken to determine whether adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel, estramustine, and etoposide (TEE) plus AS+RT would improve disease outcomes with acceptable toxicity.
High-risk (prostate-specific antigen 20-100 ng/mL and Gleason score >or=7; or Stage T2 or greater, Gleason score 8, prostate-specific antigen level <100 ng/mL) nonmetastatic prostate cancer patients were randomized to AS+RT (Arm 1) vs. AS+RT plus four cycles of TEE (Arm 2). TEE was delivered 4 weeks after RT. AS continued for 2 years for both treatment arms. RT began after 8 weeks of AS began.
The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 9902 trial opened January 11, 2000. Excess thromboembolic toxicity was noted, leading to study closure October 4, 2004. A total of 397 patients were accrued, and the data for 381 were analyzable. An acute and long-term toxicity analysis was performed. The worst overall toxicities during treatment were increased for Arm 2. Of the 192 patients, 136 (71%) on Arm 2 had RTOG Grade 3 or greater toxicity compared with 70 (37%) of 189 patients on Arm 1. Statistically significant increases in hematologic toxicity (p < 0.0001) and gastrointestinal toxicity (p = 0.017) but not genitourinary toxicity (p = 0.07) were noted during treatment. Two Grade 5 complications related to neutropenic infection occurred in Arm 2. Three cases of myelodysplasia/acute myelogenous leukemia were noted in Arm 2. At 2 and 3 years after therapy completion, excess long-term toxicity was not observed in Arm 2.
TEE was associated with significantly increased toxicity during treatment. The toxicity profiles did not differ at 2 and 3 years after therapy. Toxicity is an important consideration in the design of trials using adjuvant chemotherapy for prostate cancer.
Treatment of rabbits with D-penicillamine at doses up to 30 mg/kg, beginning either before or after the onset of antigen-induced experimental arthritis, diminished the severity of the inflammatory synovitis in a considerable proportion of animals as judged by both external joint measurements and terminal histopathological assessment. D-penicillamine treatment had no effect on serum haptoglobin concentration, haemoglobin concentration, or platelet count. The venous blood white cell count was raised when D-penicillamine treatment was started before immunisation but not when treatment began after the onset of arthritis. A transient loss of appetite was observed in animals starting D-penicillamine treatment.
