Approximately 5% of patients administered gentamicin (GM), an aminoglycoside antibiotic, experience vestibular ototoxicity resulting in balance dysfunction. In the present study, we sought to identify susceptibility genes associated with GM-induced vestibular dysfunction using a case/control design.
White cases (n=137; 55 men, 82 women) were recruited based on physician-confirmed unilateral or bilateral vestibular dysfunction attributed to GM administration. Controls (n=126; 54 men, 72 women) were healthy, age-matched individuals without vestibular dysfunction or balance impairment. Buccal cell samples were obtained from all subjects and DNA was genotyped for 15 polymorphisms in 9 genes. Candidate genes were identified primarily for their roles in oxidative stress based on predicted mechanisms of gentamicin-induced ototoxicity. Statistical analyses included the multi-dimensionality reduction (MDR) method for identifying gene x gene interactions across multiple candidate genes.
Both single gene and MDR analyses revealed the NOS3 (ENOS) p.Glu298Asp polymorphism as significantly associated with GM-induced vestibular dysfunction (both p <or= 0.03). MDR analysis revealed a three-gene combination, consisting of NOS3 (p.Glu298Asp), GSTZ1 (p.Lys32Glu), and GSTP1 (p.Ile105Val), that provided the highest predictive model for GM-induced vestibular dysfunction (64% accuracy; p=0.009).
The results indicate that carriers of risk alleles at three oxidative stress-related genes have increased susceptibility to GM-induced vestibular dysfunction.
Fifteen middle aged or elderly patients with chronic solar damage of the skin, eight patients with melasma and three patients with xeroderma pigmentosum were treated with topical tretinoin for 6 months. There was a significant improvement in fine surface lines in periorbital region, but no significant improvement was observed in deep furrows. No significant change was induced in melasma despite the improvement in smoothness of the skin surface. Global improvement was also seen in one patient with xeroderma pigmentosum. With regard to the functions of the stratum corneum that was assessed on the flexor surface of the forearms, values of water content as well as transepidermal water loss were found to increase one month after start of the application of tretinoin cream. On the other hand, there was no significant change in the amino acid content of the stratum corneum when measured after 4 months of the treatment. It is concluded that tretinoin cream is capable of partly reversing fine surface lines in photodamaged facial skin of the Japanese. However the irritation induced by 0.1% tretinoin cream was unexpectedly severe in the Japanese as compared to that reported in Caucasians.
Pancreatic cancer is one of the most common invasive malignancies and the fourth leading cause of cancer related mortality in U.S., thus developing new strategies to control pancreatic cancer is an important mission. We investigated the mechanism of capsaicin, the major pungent ingredient of red-chili pepper, in inducing apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells. Treatment of AsPC-1 and BxPC-3 cells with capsaicin resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of cell-viability and induction of apoptosis which was associated with the generation of ROS and persistent disruption of mitochondrial membrane potential. These effects were significantly blocked when the cells were pretreated with a general antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine (NAC). Exposure of AsPC-1 and BxPC-3 cells to capsaicin was also associated with increased expression of Bax, down-regulation of bcl-2, survivin and significant release of cytochrome c and AIF in the cytosol. On the contrary, above-mentioned effects were not observed in the normal acinar cells in response to capsaicin-treatment. Capsaicin-treatment resulted in the activation of JNK and JNK inhibitor SP600125 afforded protection against capsaicin-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, capsaicin when given orally markedly suppressed the growth of AsPC-1 pancreatic tumor xenografts in athymic nude mice, without side effects. Tumors from capsaicin treated mice demonstrated increased apoptosis, which was related to the activation of JNK and increased cytosolic protein expression of Bax, cytochrome c, AIF and cleaved caspase-3, as compared with controls. Taken together, these results show that capsaicin is an effective inhibitor of in vitro and in vivo growth of pancreatic cancer cells. These findings provide the rationale for further clinical investigation of capsaicin against pancreatic cancer.
To establish underlying molecular mechanisms of pro-atherogenic effects of probucol in apo E-KO mice.
Affymetrix Gene Chip System, GenMAPP/MAPPFinder software and real-time PCR techniques were used to identify alterations in gene expression and biological pathways in the liver and aorta of both male apo E-KO and male wild-type mice treated with or without probucol (1%, w/w) for 18 weeks. Plasma levels of lipids, cytokines, liver function test, and the extent of atherosclerosis and liver histology were examined.
Probucol treatment paradoxically reduced plasma cholesterol levels, increased plasma cytokine levels and atherogenesis in apo E-KO mice. Three hundred and sixty genes/transcripts and 110 biological processes were significantly differentially expressed in the liver of probucol-treated apo E-KO mice. The response to biotic stimulus, immune response and inflammatory response were the most prominent processes expressed in the liver. The expression of 60 of these genes involved in immune response including inflammatory responses, antigen presentation, humoral immune response, immune cell activation, innate immune response, and regulation of immune response was over-expressed. Many of these genes were also over-expressed in the aorta of probucol-treated apo E-KO mice. Such effects of probucol were not observed in the liver and aorta of wild-type mice. A significant interaction between apo E deficiency and probucol treatment was observed. Histological examinations showed a significant infiltration of inflammatory cells in the liver of probucol-treated apo E-KO mice, but not in C57BL/6 mice. These findings suggest that probucol-induced atherogenesis may be mediated through a pro-inflammatory state.
Patch test results with products brought in by the patients collected by the members of the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK) between 1998 and 2002 were analysed. 5911 patients were patch tested with their own cosmetics and toiletries during this period. The 34 082 single test preparations applied to these 5911 patients were manually assigned to 1 of 26 categories, based on the EU Classification Annex I to 76/768/EEC, which had been further refined. The leave-on product category most commonly tested was 'creams, emulsions, lotions, gels and oils for the skin' (n = 3621 tested, n = 312 positive). The rinse-off product type most commonly tested was 'bath and shower preparations' (n = 1333 tested, n = 71 positive). In one-third of patients tested positive to these products, no other positive test result was observed. In the remainder, positive reactions to the fragrance mix, Myroxylon pereirae resin, methyldibromo glutaronitrile, (chloro-)methylisothiazolinone, 2-bromo-2-nitropropane-1,3-diole and further ingredients of cosmetics and toiletries were more common than in product-negative patients. However, in view of the potential for false-positive reactions mainly to rinse-off products, the results must be interpreted with caution. In conclusion, testing of patients' own products can be regarded as efficient and safe, if in accordance with current recommendations.
The muscarinic cholinergic receptor (mAChR) antagonist scopolamine was used to induce transient cognitive impairment in monkeys trained in a delayed matching to sample task. The temporal relationship between the occupancy level of central mAChRs and cognitive impairment was determined. Three conscious monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were subjected to positron emission tomography (PET) scans with the mAChR radioligand N-[(11)C]methyl-3-piperidyl benzilate ([(11)C](+)3-MPB). The scan sequence was pre-, 2, 6, 24, and 48 h post-intramuscular administration of scopolamine in doses of 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg. Occupancy levels of mAChR were maximal 2 h post-scopolamine in cortical regions innervated primarily by the basal forebrain, thalamus, and brainstem, showing that mAChR occupancy levels were 43-59 and 65-89% in doses of 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg, respectively. In addition, dose-dependent impairment of working memory performance was measured 2 h after scopolamine. A positive correlation between the mAChR occupancy and cognitive impairment 2 and 6 h post-scopolamine was the greatest in the brainstem (P<0.00001). Although cognitive impairment was not observed 24 h post-scopolamine, sustained mAChR occupancy (11-24%) was found with both doses in the basal forebrain and thalamus, but not in the brainstem. These results indicate that a significant degree of mAChRs occupancy is needed to produce cognitive impairment by scopolamine. Furthermore, the importance of the brainstem cholinergic system in working memory in monkey is described.
We studied the effect of cannabinoid receptor agonists anandamide and WIN 55,212-2 on the central pain syndrome induced by intraspinal injection of penicillin sodium salt in rats. Cannabinoids suppressed allodynia and spontaneous attacks in rats with the central pain syndrome. The analgesic effect was most pronounced after intrathecal injection of cannabinoid receptor agonist in a dose of 100 microg in 10 microl. After systemic treatment the analgesic effect was produced by only WIN 55,212-2 in a dose of 1 mg/kg. WIN 55,212-2 was superior to anandamide by the duration and intensity of the effect on allodynia and spontaneous attacks.
From urethra of 40 men with CTU, 190 bacterial strains were isolated, 110 before and 80 after treatment with OFX (400 mg daily for 5 days). Among the strains coexisting with Chlamydia trachomatis, Staphylococcus epidermidis (30.9%), Micrococcus (13.6%), Streptococcus group D (10.9%) and Staphylococcus aureus (10.9%) were isolated more frequently than others. The in vitro susceptibility testing showed that, in comparison to erythromycin, doxycycline, oxytetracycline and co-trimoxazole, OFX was the most active antimicrobial agent against the majority of bacteria (except streptococci) isolated from urethra in CTU cases in men. The OFX treatment was found to reduce the total number of isolated strains, including Staphylococcus aureus and Staphylococcus saprophyticus, without disturbing normal urethral flora.
We describe a 15-month-old boy referred to the hospital because of delayed development of motor skills and growth retardation. Blood samples and X-rays of the wrists and knees revealed rickets. He was treated with oral calcium and vitamin D with modest clinical and biochemical effect. 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D was undetectable in laboratory tests. Vitamin D1alpha-hydroxylase deficiency was suspected and confirmed by DNA analysis, which revealed a 7 bp duplication in exon 8 of the CYP27B1 gene. The treatment was changed to an activated formula of vitamin D, alphacalcidol, whereupon the clinical and biochemical symptoms rapidly improved.
Increased sialyltransferase (ST) activity promotes cancer cell metastasis, and overexpression of cell surface sialic acid correlates with poor prognosis in cancer patients. To seek therapies targeting metastasis for cancer treatment, we developed a novel ST inhibitor, Lith-O-Asp, and investigated its antimetastatic and antiangiogenic effects and mechanisms. We found that cells treated with Lith-O-Asp showed a reduction of activity on various ST enzymes by in vitro and cell-based activity analyses. Lith-O-Asp inhibited migration and invasion abilities in various cancer cell lines and showed inhibitory effect on the angiogenic activity of human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Indeed, Lith-O-Asp treatment consequently delayed cancer cell metastasis in experimental and spontaneous metastasis assays in animal models. Importantly, Lith-O-Asp decreased the sialic acid modification of integrin-β1 and inhibited the expression of phospho-FAK, phospho-paxillin, and the matrix metalloprotease (MMP) 2 and MMP9. Lith-O-Asp attenuated the Rho GTPase activity leading to actin dynamic impairment. In addition, 2DE-MS/MS and immunoblotting analyses showed that Lith-O-Asp altered the protein expression level and phosphorylation status of various proteins involved in crucial metastasis and angiogenesis pathways such as vimentin and ribonuclease/angiogenin inhibitor RNH1. Furthermore, Lith-O-Asp treatment significantly inhibited the invasive ability exerted by ectopic overexpression of various ST enzymes catalyzing α-2,6- or α-2,3-sialylation. Our results provide compelling evidence that the potential pan-ST inhibitor, Lith-O-Asp, suppressed cancer cell metastasis likely by inhibiting FAK/paxillin signaling and expressing antiangiogenesis factors. Lith-O-Asp is worthy for further testing as a novel antimetastasis drug for cancer treatment.
Addiction is a complex maladaptive behavior involving alterations in several neurotransmitter networks. In mammals, psychostimulants trigger elevated extracellular levels of dopamine, which can be modulated by central cholinergic transmission. Which elements of the cholinergic system might be targeted for drug addiction therapies remains unknown. The rewarding properties of drugs of abuse are central for the development of addictive behavior and are most commonly measured by means of the conditioned place preference (CPP) paradigm. We demonstrate here that adult zebrafish show robust CPP induced by the psychostimulant D-amphetamine. We further show that this behavior is dramatically reduced upon genetic impairment of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) function in ache/+ mutants, without involvement of concomitant defects in exploratory activity, learning, and visual performance. Our observations demonstrate that the cholinergic system modulates drug-induced reward in zebrafish, and identify genetically AChE as a promising target for systemic therapies against addiction to psychostimulants. More generally, they validate the zebrafish model to study the effect of developmental mutations on the molecular neurobiology of addiction in vertebrates.
The study investigated the effects of metabolic syndrome on urinary bladder nerve-growth factor (NGF) and p75(NTR) expression in fructose-fed obese rats. Age-matched male Wistar rats were divided into four groups; group I: normal control rats; group II: 6-week fructose-fed rats (FR); group III: 9-week FR; and group IV: 12-week FR. In vivo cystometry under anesthesia was performed. In vitro bladder NGF levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Expressions of the mRNAs that encoded NGF and NGF receptor p75(NTR) in control and 9-week FR bladder were studied using the method of reverse transcription combined with polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The three groups of FR showed significant increases in body weight, blood pressure, plasma glucose, insulin and triglyceride levels when compared to control rats. The bladder NGF levels in the 9-week and 12-week FR were significantly lower than the control (66.8+/-5.4, 49.4+/-7.1 and 95.2+/-6.5 pg/microg protein; p<0.05 and p<0.01 respectively, for n=8 in each group). The bladder emptying function was deteriorated in these two groups of FR as shown by the significantly increased residual volume and decreased emptying fraction. The mRNA expressions of bladder NGF and p75(NTR) in the 9-week FR were significantly decreased when compared to the control group (p<0.05 and p<0.001 respectively, n=8 in each group). In conclusion, long-term metabolic syndrome in FR significantly decreases bladder NGF and p75(NTR) expression. These alterations are associated with deterioration in bladder emptying function.
An open study of azaribine was carried out on 38 psoriatic patients for two years. Thirty-five patients had previously taken methotrexate. Thirty-four patients had liver biopsies performed before azaribine therapy and 14 had liver biopsies performed after azaribine therapy. Of these 14, five had grade 1 liver biopsies before and after therapy; one had grade III before and after therapy; and three had grade IV before and after therapy. Liver biopsy findings were slightly worse in two patients, and three patients showed improvement in liver biopsy findings.
Inflammation influences carcinogenesis. In the current study, we investigated whether ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) can inhibit colitis-related mouse colon carcinogenesis and compared it with the effects of sulfasalazine.
Male CD-1 mice were given a single i.p. injection of azoxymethane followed by 1-week oral exposure of 1% dextran sodium sulfate in drinking water. They are then maintained on a basal diet mixed with UDCA (0.016%, 0.08%, or 0.4%) or sulfasalazine (0.05%) for 17 weeks. At week 20, the tumor-inhibitory effects of both chemicals were assessed by counting the incidence and multiplicity of colonic neoplasms. The immunohistochemical expression of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling index in colonic epithelial malignancies was also assessed. Finally, at week 5, the mRNA expressions for cyclooxygenase-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha were measured in nontumorous mucosa.
Feeding the mice with UDCA at all doses significantly inhibited the multiplicity of colonic adenocarcinoma. The treatment also significantly lowered the proliferating cell nuclear antigen labeling index in the colonic malignancies. UDCA feeding reduced the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA in the colonic mucosa, while not significantly affecting the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 mRNA and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma mRNA. Sulfasalazine caused a nonsignificant reduction in the incidence and multiplicity of colonic neoplasia and did not affect these mRNA expression.
Our findings suggest that UDCA rather than sulfasalazine could serve as an effective suppressing agent in colitis-related colon cancer development in mice.
Exposure to trace metals can disrupt olfactory function in fish leading to a loss of behaviors critical to survival. Cadmium (Cd) is an olfactory toxicant that elicits cellular oxidative stress as a mechanism of toxicity while also inducing protective cellular antioxidant genes via activation of the nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) pathway. However, the molecular mechanisms of Cd-induced olfactory injury have not been characterized. In the present study, we investigated the role of the Nrf2-mediated antioxidant defense pathway in protecting against Cd-induced olfactory injury in zebrafish. A dose-dependent induction of Nrf2-regulated antioxidant genes associated with cellular responses to oxidative stress was observed in the olfactory system of adult zebrafish following 24h Cd exposure. Zebrafish larvae exposed to Cd for 3h showed increased glutathione S-transferase pi (gst pi), glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit (gclc), heme oxygenase 1 (hmox1) and peroxiredoxin 1 (prdx1) mRNA levels indicative of Nrf2 activation, and which were blocked by morpholino-mediated Nrf2 knockdown. The inhibition of antioxidant gene induction in Cd-exposed Nrf2 morphants was associated with disruption of olfactory driven behaviors, increased cell death and loss of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Nrf2 morphants also exhibited a downregulation of OSN-specific genes after Cd exposure. Pre-incubation of embryos with sulforaphane (SFN) partially protected against Cd-induced olfactory tissue damage. Collectively, our results indicate that oxidative stress is an important mechanism of Cd-mediated injury in the zebrafish olfactory system. Moreover, the Nrf2 pathway plays a protective role against cellular oxidative damage and is important in maintaining zebrafish olfactory function.
We sought to determine whether changes in the expression of early response genes (GADD153, p21 and c-Jun) are indicators of chemotherapy response in gastric cancer. Three human gastric cancer cell lines were exposed to 5-fluorouracil or cisplatin in vitro. Xenografts of TMK-1 cells in nude mice were also treated with 5-fluorouracil or cisplatin in vivo. For each of these treatments, we tested for a correlation between early gene expression levels and inhibition ratios derived at a later time. A 5-fluorouracil derivative, S-1, and cisplatin were administered to 12 patients with advanced gastric cancer for 3 weeks. Gene expression levels were measured using biopsy specimens obtained by endoscopy soon after initiation of chemotherapy. There was a significant correlation between expression levels of these genes at 24 h and inhibition ratios at 72 h in vitro. Cut-off values determined from receiver-operating characteristic curves were 1.3 for GADD153, 1.8 for p21 and 2.1 for c-Jun There was also a significant correlation between gene expression levels at 2 days and inhibition ratios at 21 days in vivo. Cut-off values were 1.8 for GADD153, 1.9 for p21 and 2.2 for c-Jun. Levels of early response gene expression in patients showing progressive disease were significantly lower than those in patients with partial response. Changes in the expression of the three early response genes soon after drug administration could improve predictions of the final outcome of chemotherapy in gastric cancer.
In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study, we examined the effect of Org 2766--a corticotropin (4-9) analogue--on neurotoxicity in 28 patients with lymphoma who were treated with combination chemotherapy containing Vinca alkaloids (vincristine and vinblastine). The patients received a total dose of 12 mg of vincristine in the case of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and a total dose of 16 mg of vincristine in the case of Hodgkin's disease. Moreover, the patients with Hodgkin's disease received a mean total dose of 84 mg of vinblastine. Subcutaneous injections of 2 mg of Org 2766 or placebo were administered to patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma on days 1 and 10 of each chemotherapy course and to patients with Hodgkin's disease on days 1 and 8 of each chemotherapy course. The first injection was always given before the administration of vincristine. Assessment of neurologic symptoms and signs and measurement of sensory thresholds (vibration sense and temperature sense) were performed on day 1 of the first, fourth, and sixth (or eighth) courses and 6 weeks after cessation of chemotherapy. Thirteen patients (mean age, 44.7 years) received Org 2766 and 15 patients (mean age, 54.7 years) received placebo. More symptoms occurred in the placebo group, but only numbness and autonomic complaints occurred significantly more often in the placebo group. Motor deficit and sensory disturbances were more severe and also occurred significantly more often in the placebo group. There was no difference with respect to reflex examination findings and sensory thresholds.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cholestatic jaundice is a rare complication of penicillamine therapy. We report here a 35-year-old patient who developed fever, a rash and cholestatic jaundice 16 days after commencing treatment with penicillamine for cystinuria. The jaundice subsided slowly after discontinuation of the drug and with prolonged therapy with prednisone. The literature on penicillamine-induced liver injury is reviewed.
Metoclopramide is an antiemetic drug used frequently both in general practice and hospitals. The drug has few side effects, mainly drowsiness, and can be used both in pregnancy and breastfeeding. Acute dystonia is a rare side effect mostly affecting children and young adults within 1-3 days after start of the medication. Women are more frequently affected than men.
We present a clinical description of two patients admitted to our department with acute dystonia precipitated by metoclopramide.
Both patients received treatment with biperiden; one received additional benzodiazepine. Both recovered rapidly and were discharged symptom free the next day.
Metoclopramide-induced dystonia is frightening both for the patient and the family. Because of concomitant anxiety and psychiatric symptoms, individuals are often regarded as hysterical. The attack can be abbreviated by parenteral administration of anticholinergic drugs. It is important that all doctors prescribing metoclopramide know of this side effect, especially when their patients are young females.
The effects of usual or low doses of inhaled corticosteroids on airway mucosal inflammation have not yet been examined. We therefore, compared the effects of inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) 336 microg x day(-1) on asthma control outcomes and markers of airway inflammation. Twenty-four adult subjects with mild and moderate asthma were randomized to receive either BDP or placebo for four weeks; then subjects entered a single blind four week placebo run-in period. We found that the BDP group had significantly greater improvements in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), morning peak flow, and rescue salbutamol use than the placebo-treated group. The improvement in FEV1 largely reversed one week after treatment was stopped. The decrease in the median percentage of eosinophils in induced sputum in the BDP group from 3.8% to 3.4% was not significant, but because eosinophils increased from 8.4% to 12.7% in the placebo group, there was a significant difference between treatment groups (p=0.03). There was no significant difference between groups during treatment in the levels of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP), tryptase mucin-like glycoprotein, or fibrinogen in induced sputum. The change in FEV1 in the BDP group did not correlate significantly with the change in eosinophil percentage or ECP levels. We concluded that four weeks of treatment with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate 336 microg x day(-1) was associated with significant improvements in peak flow, forced expiratory volume in one second, and rescue salbutamol use in asthmatic subjects but was not associated with large reductions in markers of eosinophilic inflammation, bronchovascular permeability, or mucus hypersecretion.
Adriamycin is a potent, broad-spectrum chemotherapeutic agent effective against solid tumors and malignant hematological disease. The major limiting factor for adriamycin is its cardiotoxicity. Thus, the objective of this study was to investigate the role of cardiomyocyte and endothelial cell apoptosis in adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy, in vivo and in vitro. For in vivo study, intraperitoneal injections of adriamycin were administered to nine adult male Wistar rats and normal saline to six rats as control. Eight of the nine rats in the adriamycin group, but none in the control group, developed marked ascites and DNA ladders in agarose gel electrophoresis of genomic DNA extracted from the rat hearts (P<0.001). The ratio of apoptotic nuclei in the cardiomyocytes was significantly higher for the adriamycin-treated rats (162+/-149/10(6) cells) than for the controls (4.2+/-1.3/10(6) cells; P<0.01) by TUNEL assay. Increased endothelial cell apoptosis was detected in the small coronary vessels of the myocardium of the adriamycin-treated rats. Increased immuno-reactive Caspase-3 expression was also noted for both cardiomyocytes and endothelial cells of adriamycin-treated rats. In vitro adriamycin treatment for cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes and human umbilical vein endothelial cells, respectively, showed a dose-related increase in apoptosis as determined by flowcytometry, DNA ladder analysis, TUNEL assay and/or electron-microscope examination. A dose-related increase in the expression of Fas antigen, Bax and Caspase-3, as well as a decrease in the expression of Bcl-2, were determined for the adriamycin-treated cardiomyocytes using Northern blot analysis, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and ribonuclease protection assay. RT-PCR also revealed increased Fas antigen expression, decreased Bcl-2 expression, and no change in Bax expression for the adriamycin-treated human umbilical vein cells. Further, pretreatment with broad caspase inhibitor, but not neutralizing FasL antibody, resulted in inhibition of adriamycin-induced endothelial cell apoptosis. In conclusion, these results indicate that both adriamycin-induced cardiomyocyte and endothelial cell death can occur via apoptosis which is dose-related, and can occur both in vitro and in vivo with changes in the expression of the apoptosis-related genes. Adriamycin-induced endothelial cell apoptosis is mediated by caspase activation but is Fas/FasL signal pathway independent. Our data provides evidence that both cardiomyocyte and endothelial cell apoptosis may play an important role in adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy.
A patient developed pulmonary infiltration, pleural effusions and pericarditis three months after starting dantrolene sodium. Peripheral blood eosinophilia and a raised ESR were present. Symptoms and signs resolved after the drug was discontinued. Dantrolene toxicity should be considered in the differential diagnosis of pneumonitis and pleuro-pericarditis.
Epidermal growth factor receptor-dependent mechanisms have been implicated in growth signal transduction pathways that contribute to cancer development, including dermal carcinogenesis. Detection of the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR ECD) in serum has been suggested as a potential biomarker for monitoring this effect in vivo. Arsenic is a known human carcinogen, producing skin and other malignancies in populations exposed through their drinking water. One such exposed population, which we have been studying for a number of years, is in Bangladesh. The purpose of this study was to examine the EGFR ECD as a potential biomarker of arsenic exposure and/or effect in this population. Levels of the EGFR ECD were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in the serum samples from 574 individuals with a range of arsenic exposures from drinking water in the Araihazar area of Bangladesh. In multiple regression analysis, serum EGFR ECD was found to be positively associated with three different measures of arsenic exposure (well water arsenic, urinary arsenic and a cumulative arsenic index) at statistically significant levels (p<or=0.034), and this association was strongest among the individuals with arsenic-induced skin lesions (p <or= 0.002). When the study subjects were stratified in tertiles of serum EGFR ECD levels, the risk of skin lesions increased progressively for each increase in all three arsenic measures (also stratified in tertiles) and this increasing risk became more pronounced among subjects within the highest tertile of EGFR ECD levels. These results suggest that serum EGFR ECD levels may be a potential biomarker of effect of arsenic exposure and may indicate those exposed individuals at greatest risk for the development of arsenic-induced skin lesions.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common chronic inflammatory disease of the lungs with little or no response to glucocorticoids and a high level of oxidative stress. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity is reduced in cells of cigarette smokers, and low concentrations of theophylline can increase HDAC activity. We measured the effect of theophylline on HDAC activity and inflammatory gene expression in alveolar macrophages (AM) from patients with COPD. AM from normal smokers showed a decrease in HDAC activity compared with normal control subjects, and this was further reduced in COPD patients (51% decrease, P < 0.01). COPD AMs also showed increased basal release of IL-8 and TNF-alpha, which was poorly suppressed by dexamethasone. Theophylline induced a sixfold increase in HDAC activity in COPD AM lysates and significantly enhanced dexamethasone suppression of induced IL-8 release, an effect that was blocked by the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A. Therefore, theophylline might restore steroid responsiveness in COPD patients.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) was suggested to play a role in endothelial dysfunction that is associated with a number of cardiovascular diseases. We hypothesized that PARP may play an important role in atherogenesis and that its inhibition may attenuate atherosclerotic plaque development in an experimental model of atherosclerosis.
Using a mouse (apolipoprotein E [ApoE](-/-)) model of high-fat diet-induced atherosclerosis, we demonstrate an association between cell death and oxidative stress-associated DNA damage and PARP activation within atherosclerotic plaques. PARP inhibition by thieno[2,3-c]isoquinolin-5-one reduced plaque number and size and altered structural composition of plaques in these animals without affecting sera lipid contents. These results were corroborated genetically with the use of ApoE(-/-) mice that are heterozygous for PARP-1. PARP inhibition promoted an increase in collagen content, potentially through an increase in tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2, and transmigration of smooth muscle cells to intima of atherosclerotic plaques as well as a decrease in monocyte chemotactic protein-1 production, all of which are markers of plaque stability. In PARP-1(-/-) macrophages, monocyte chemotactic protein-1 expression was severely inhibited because of a defective nuclear factor-kappaB nuclear translocation in response to lipopolysaccharide. Furthermore, PARP-1 gene deletion not only conferred protection to foam cells against H2O2-induced death but also switched the mode of death from necrosis to apoptosis.
Our results suggest that PARP inhibition interferes with plaque development and may promote plaque stability, possibly through a reduction in inflammatory factors and cellular changes related to plaque dynamics. PARP inhibition may prove beneficial for the treatment of atherosclerosis.
Rad (Ras associated with diabetes) GTPase is the prototypic member of a subfamily of Ras-related small G proteins. The aim of the present study was to define whether Rad plays an important role in mediating cardiac hypertrophy.
We document for the first time that levels of Rad mRNA and protein were decreased significantly in human failing hearts (n=10) compared with normal hearts (n=3; P<0.01). Similarly, Rad expression was decreased significantly in cardiac hypertrophy induced by pressure overload and in cultured cardiomyocytes with hypertrophy induced by 10 micromol/L phenylephrine. Gain and loss of Rad function in cardiomyocytes significantly inhibited and increased phenylephrine-induced hypertrophy, respectively. In addition, activation of calcium-calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII), a strong inducer of cardiac hypertrophy, was significantly inhibited by Rad overexpression. Conversely, downregulation of CaMKIIdelta by RNA interference technology attenuated the phenylephrine-induced hypertrophic response in cardiomyocytes in which Rad was also knocked down. To further elucidate the potential role of Rad in vivo, we generated Rad-deficient mice and demonstrated that they were more susceptible to cardiac hypertrophy associated with increased CaMKII phosphorylation than wild-type littermate controls.
The present data document for the first time that Rad is a novel mediator that inhibits cardiac hypertrophy through the CaMKII pathway. The present study will have significant implications for understanding the mechanisms of cardiac hypertrophy and setting the basis for the development of new strategies for treatment of cardiac hypertrophy.
Autism, characterized by profound impairment in social interactions and communicative skills, is the most common neurodevelopmental disorder, and its underlying molecular mechanisms remain unknown. Ca(2+)-dependent activator protein for secretion 2 (CADPS2; also known as CAPS2) mediates the exocytosis of dense-core vesicles, and the human CADPS2 is located within the autism susceptibility locus 1 on chromosome 7q. Here we show that Cadps2-knockout mice not only have impaired brain-derived neurotrophic factor release but also show autistic-like cellular and behavioral phenotypes. Moreover, we found an aberrant alternatively spliced CADPS2 mRNA that lacks exon 3 in some autistic patients. Exon 3 was shown to encode the dynactin 1-binding domain and affect axonal CADPS2 protein distribution. Our results suggest that a disturbance in CADPS2-mediated neurotrophin release contributes to autism susceptibility.
