Anabolic steroids and creatine supplementation is one of the current abuse used by body builders. It is less known that this combination beside of many deleterious effects may also cause renal damage. Authors report a case of diffuse membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis type I in a 22-year-old man who had been taking continuously methandion in a large quantity and 200 grams of creatine daily, and was sent to the outpatient nephrologic unit with typical clinical signs of nephrosis syndrome. They also call attention to the role of the continuously consumed creatine in the renal failure.
A group of 90 breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy were assessed prospectively to estimate the prevalence of acute (post-treatment) and anticipatory emesis in the 1990s. For this purpose, two protocols of chemotherapy were analysed separately: cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/5-fluorouracil (CMF) and 5-fluorouracil/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (FAC). All patients were treated with antiemetic therapy, which included one corticoid plus ondansetron (in the FAC regimen), or one corticoid plus thiethylperazine (in the CMF regimen). For at least one cycle of chemotherapy 86.1% and 91.7% patients in the FAC protocol presented vomiting and nausea respectively: 11.1% had anticipatory vomiting and 30.6% had anticipatory nausea. In the CMF protocol, 79.6% had post-chemotherapy vomiting and 71.7% had post-chemotherapy nausea associated with at least one cycle. In this group, 7.4% had anticipatory vomiting and 16.6% had anticipatory nausea. A high proportion of patients suffered anticipatory anxiety in both groups (75% in FAC, 74.1% in CMF). The stimuli most frequently associated with the appearance of anticipatory emesis were olfactory stimuli and cognitive stimuli. In summary, as a result of the advances made in antiemetic control during the last decade, the severity of chemotherapy-induced emesis seems to have significantly decreased, but the prevalence of these symptoms along the course of the treatment still remains high.
The aim of this study was to investigate tactile sensitivity near the site of primary hyperalgesia evoked by capsaicin applied topically to the dorsolateral aspect of the hand. In the first experiment (N = 15), touch thresholds increased in the fifth finger ipsilateral to the topically applied capsaicin, but remained unchanged at greater distances from the site of capsaicin treatment. In a second experiment (N = 12), the effect of the capsaicin treatment on sensations evoked not only by light touch but also by warmth, heat-pain, and pressure-pain to a 2-mm diameter steel probe was investigated in the fifth finger. Again, tactile sensitivity was inhibited at the fifth finger, even though stimulation with a cotton bud evoked no discomfort; moreover, sensitivity to warmth and heat-pain were unimpaired. However, sensitivity to pressure-pain increased in the fifth finger after the capsaicin treatment, possibly due to activation of nociceptors sandwiched between the probe tip and bone that normally responded to sharp stimuli. These findings suggest that the central mechanisms that mediate secondary mechanical hyperalgesia suppress sensitivity to innocuous tactile sensations. This effect may contribute to tactile hypoesthesia in chronic pain conditions.
The existence of reservoirs of cells latently infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a major obstacle to the elimination of HIV infection. We studied the changes in cellular gene expression that accompany the reactivation and completion of the lytic viral cycle in cell lines chronically infected with HIV-1. We found that several genes exhibited altered expression in the chronically infected cells compared to the uninfected parental cells prior to induction into lytic replication. A number of gene classes showed increased expression in the chronically infected cells, notably including genes encoding proteasomes, histone deacetylases, and many transcription factors. Following induction of the lytic replication cycle, we observed ordered, time-dependent changes in the cellular gene expression pattern. Approximately 1,740 genes, many of which fall into 385 known pathways, were differentially expressed (P < 0.001), indicating that completion of the HIV replication cycle is associated with distinct, temporally ordered changes in host cell gene expression. Maximum changes were observed in the early and intermediate phases of the lytic replication cycle. Since the changes in gene expression in chronically infected cells suggested that cells latently infected with HIV have a different gene expression profile than corresponding uninfected cells, we studied the expression profiles of three different chronically infected cell lines to determine whether they showed similar changes in common cellular genes and pathways. Thirty-two genes showed significant differential expression in all cell lines studied compared to their uninfected parental cell lines. Notable among them were cdc42 and lyn, which were downregulated and are required for HIV Nef binding and viral replication. Other genes previously unrelated to HIV latency or pathogenesis were also differentially expressed. To determine the effects of targeting products of the genes that were differentially expressed in latently infected cells, we treated the latently infected cells with a proteasome inhibitor, clastolactacystin-beta-lactone (CLBL), and an Egr1 activator, resveratrol. We found that treatment with CLBL and resveratrol stimulated lytic viral replication, suggesting that treatment of cells with agents that target cellular genes differentially expressed in latently infected cells can stimulate lytic replication. These findings may offer new insights into the interaction of the latently infected host cell and HIV and suggest therapeutic approaches for inhibiting HIV infection and for manipulating cells latently infected with HIV so as to trigger lytic replication.
Cytosolic glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity is confined to the proximal convoluted and straight tubules. Damage to these parts of the nephron should result in leakage of GST into the urinary space. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), in contrast, is more generally distributed along the nephron. Measurement of both enzyme activities could therefore be expected to discriminate between different localizations of nephrotoxicity. To test this hypothesis, we determined both enzyme activities in 24 h urine samples from 10-12 female Sprague-Dawley rats, each treated with single i.p. injections of puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN, 130 mg/kg), Na2 CrO4 10, 20, 30 mg/kg), mercuric chloride (HgCl2, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0 mg/kg), folic acid (125, 350, 375 mg/kg), ethyleneimine (0.5, 2.0, 5.0 microliters/kg). Bovine serum albumin (BSA) was injected by the same method, twice daily on 3 consecutive days (2.5, 7.14 g/kg). The results obtained indicate a characteristic dose- and time-dependent pattern of excreted enzyme activities for each of the tested compounds. In both models with primarily glomerular damage, proximal tubular parts were also affected, as could be demonstrated by increased urinary GST and histopathological changes. Damage, mainly to the S1/S2 segment by 20 or 30 mg Na2 CrO4/kg, resulted in moderate to marked increases in LDH excretion, while GST was only moderately elevated at 30 mg/kg. Extreme increases in GST and LDH output were measured after predominant S3 segment damage after 0.75 and 1.0 mg HgCl2/kg. The distally active compounds, folic acid and ethyleneimine, did not increase GST excretion at lower doses. At the high doses, a small rise in GST excretion indicated some, probably secondary, proximal tubular involvement, which correlated with the histopathological findings in these groups.
Phthalates impair rodent testicular function and have been associated with anti-androgenic effects in humans, including decreased testosterone levels. Low testosterone in adult human males has been associated with increased prevalence of obesity, insulin resistance, and diabetes.
Our objective in this study was to investigate phthalate exposure and its associations with abdominal obesity and insulin resistance.
Subjects were adult U.S. male participants in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) 1999-2002. We modeled six phthalate metabolites with prevalent exposure and known or suspected antiandrogenic activity as predictors of waist circumference and log-transformed homeostatic model assessment (HOMA; a measure of insulin resistance) using multiple linear regression, adjusted for age, race/ethnicity, fat and total calorie consumption, physical activity level, serum cotinine, and urine creatinine (model 1); and adjusted for model 1 covariates plus measures of renal and hepatic function (model 2). Metabolites were mono-butyl phthalates (MBP), mono-ethyl phthalate (MEP), mono-(2-ethyl)-hexyl phthalate (MEHP), mono-benzyl phthalate (MBzP), mono-(2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl) phthalate (MEHHP), and mono-(2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl) phthalate (MEOHP).
In model 1, four metabolites were associated with increased waist circumference (MBzP, MEHHP, MEOHP, and MEP; p-values </= 0.013) and three with increased HOMA (MBP, MBzP, and MEP; p-values </= 0.011). When we also adjusted for renal and hepatic function, parameter estimates declined but all significant results remained so except HOMA-MBP.
In this national cross-section of U.S. men, concentrations of several prevalent phthalate metabolites showed statistically significant correlations with abdominal obesity and insulin resistance. If confirmed by longitudinal studies, our findings would suggest that exposure to these phthalates may contribute to the population burden of obesity, insulin resistance, and related clinical disorders.
Five adults were treated successfully for severe theophylline poisoning due to intentional overdosage. Clinical features included nausea, tremor, delirium, hypotension and cardiac arrhythmias, metabolic acidosis, hyperglycemia, hypokalemia and hypophosphatemia. No seizures or deaths occurred despite very high serum theophylline concentrations (between 96 and 194 mug per ml). Extreme elevations of plasma catecholamines were documented and are implicated in the toxicity. beta-Blockade with intravenous administration of propranolol hydrochloride was the most effective therapy for theophylline-induced hypotension. All patients were treated with resin hemoperfusion, which resulted in significant clinical improvement and rapid lowering of the serum theophylline level.
Dietary restriction (DR) is known to have potential health benefits including enhanced resistance of neurons to excitotoxic, oxidative and metabolic insults, cancer, stress, diabetes, reduced morbidity, and increased life span. In the present study, we examined the effect of DR (alternate day feeding regimen) on neurogenesis, expression of immature neuronal marker polysialic acid neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) and neurotrophic factors from different brain regions such as subventricular zone (SVZ), subgranular zone (SGZ) of hippocampus, median eminence arcuate (ME-ARC) region of hypothalamus, and piriform cortex (PIR) of adult male rats and further challenged ad libitum fed (AL) and DR rats with pilocarpine to induce excitotoxic injury. The quantitative analysis of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling revealed a significant increase in the proliferation rate of neuronal progenitor cells from discrete brain regions in DR rats with and without pilocarpine induced seizures as compared to AL rats. DR significantly enhanced the expression of PSA-NCAM and neurotrophic factors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). There was a marked reduction in neuronal cell death in SVZ and PIR cortex after pilocarpine administration in DR rats. These results add to the accumulating evidence that DR may be an effective intervention to enhance the resistance of brain to excitotoxic injury.
We investigated the pharmacokinetics and safety of saquinavir/ritonavir when administered with omeprazole simultaneously and 2 h apart to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) subjects. Saquinavir/ritonavir 12-h pharmacokinetics was assessed with and without omeprazole 40 mg. Subjects were randomized to group A (saquinavir/ritonavir and omeprazole simultaneously/2 h apart) or group B (saquinavir/ritonavir and omeprazole 2 h apart/simultaneously). Saquinavir/ritonavir pharmacokinetics was assessed on days 1, 8, and 22. Within-subject changes were evaluated by geometric mean ratios and 90% confidence interval (CI). Twelve subjects completed the study. GM (90% CI) for saquinavir area under the curve (AUC)(0-12) (ng h/ml), trough concentration (C(trough)) (ng/ml), and maximum concentration (C(max)) (ng/ml) were 14,698 (13,242-20,636), 433 (368-758), 2,513 (2,243-3,329) without omeprazole; 22,646 (18,536-131,861), 750 (619-1,280), 3,890 (3,223-5,133) with omeprazole simultaneously; and 24,549 (20,884-38,894), 851 (720-1,782), 4,141 (3,554-5,992) with omeprazole 2 h earlier. Simultaneous administration of omeprazole significantly increased saquinavir AUC(0-12), C(trough), and C(max) by 54, 73, and 55%, whereas staggered administration by 67, 97, and 65%. No grade 3/4 toxicity or lab abnormalities were observed. In the presence of omeprazole, saquinavir plasma exposure is significantly increased in HIV-infected subjects whether administered simultaneously or 2 h apart.
The ability of thyroid cells to take up iodide, which enables (131)I radiotherapy for thyroid cancer, is due to the expression of the sodium iodide symporter at their plasma membrane. Expression of this symporter has been found in some nonthyroid cancers. However, it is mostly accumulated in the cytoplasm, and its functionality has not been demonstrated. We have investigated sodium iodide symporter expression and functionality in human liver cancer, and in a diethylnitrosamine induced Wistar rat model of primary liver cancer at different stages of carcinogenesis.
Sodium iodide symporter mRNA and protein were studied in tissues from patients with hepatocellular- or cholangio-carcinomas using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, immunoblot, and immunohistochemistry. We studied the dynamics of hepatic iodine uptake in the animal model using nuclear imaging.
Sodium iodide symporter expression showed up in all 20 cholangiocarcinomas, but in only 2 of the 26 hepatocellular carcinomas, investigated. It was also found in normal bile duct cells and in the ductular reaction present in cirrhotic tissues. It was located at the plasma membrane in 10 of 20 cholangiocarcinoma. In rat liver cancer, a functional sodium iodide symporter expression was triggered as from the early preneoplastic steps, and was amplified during clonal tumor cell expansion, allowing complete tumor suppression after (131)I radiotherapy.
A significant proportion of human cholangiocarcinomas expresses membrane sodium iodide symporter, which may permit radioiodine therapy. Our data also suggest that (131)I acts on a crucial target for liver cancer development.
Two cases of absence status are described, one case following metrizamide myelography and the other from omnipaque myelography. Metrizamide has been well known to cause convulsive seizures even in patients without epilepsy. The exact mechanism is not known but appears to be direct neuronal toxic effects possibly due to competitive inhibition of hexokinase activity. The acute confusional state following myelography from water soluble agents is reviewed. In view of the difficulty in clinical diagnosis and the excellent response to anticonvulsant therapy, the possibility of this clinical entity should be specifically excluded by EEG in any person suffering from prolonged confusion following myelography with water soluble agents.
Ribavirin (RBV) in combination with pegylated interferon alpha (pegIFN) is currently the standard treatment of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. The development of anemia requires a reduction in RBV doses in a substantial proportion of patients, limiting their chances of treatment response. The primary goal of this study was to assess if early monitoring of RBV plasma levels could help to predict anemia as well as early HCV RNA response in HIV/HCV-coinfected individuals. The secondary goal was to evaluate if antiretroviral drugs might influence RBV plasma levels. Plasma RBV concentrations were measured at weeks 4 and 12 in 98 HIV/HCV-coinfected individuals who initiated therapy with pegIFN-2a (180 microg/wk) plus RBV (800-1200 mg/d). RBV plasma levels correlated with RBV dose per kilogram of body weight (P = 0.02). Larger drops in hemoglobin levels were independently associated with higher RBV plasma levels and zidovudine (ZDV) use (P < 0.001). Likewise, higher RBV levels (P = 0.007) and HCV genotype 3 (P < 0.001) were found to be independent predictors of virologic response at week 4. Similar findings were obtained at week 12. Patients receiving ZDV concomitantly showed significantly higher RBV plasma concentrations compared with those who did not (3.28 mug/mL vs. 2.51 mug/mL; P = 0.002). RBV levels were not significantly altered by the coadministration of other nucleoside/nucleotide analogues. In summary, RBV plasma levels correlate with the development of anemia and with the achievement of an early virologic response. Therefore, early therapeutic drug monitoring might help to tailor RBV dosages, improving the efficacy and safety of anti-HCV treatment.
A 72-year-old woman was admitted because of severe acute tetraparesis, more marked proximally. For six months she had been taking ibuprofen, up to 4800 mg daily, for a painful ulcer of the lower leg.
Biochemical tests revealed marked hypokalaemia (serum potassium 1.4 mmol/l) with a metabolic acidosis (pH 7.29). The ECG showed changes of hypokalaemia (ST-segment depression and U wave).
Within two days of administering potassium and bicarbonate the pareses completely regressed. Transitorily abnormal renal functions also rapidly normalized after ibuprofen had been discontinued.
The biochemical findings suggest renal tubular acidosis, type 2, most likely caused by the excess intake of ibuprofen, a drug which can cause renal dysfunctions with life-threatening electrolyte abnormalities.
We studied the use of esmolol in patients experiencing minor side effects of palpitations, anxiety, nervousness, and tremors associated with dobutamine stress echocardiography.
Dobutamine stress echocardiography is frequently used in the assessment of coronary artery disease. Esmolol administration may enhance patient comfort.
Sixty consecutive patients who experienced minor side-effects during dobutamine stress echocardiography were given 0.3 mg/kg esmolol intravenously in the recovery period and compared retrospectively to sixty consecutive controls who underwent dobutamine stress echocardiography, who did not receive esmolol, during the same time period. Both groups were matched for age, ejection fraction, and peak dose of dobutamine. Heart rate and blood pressure were assessed during and after dobutamine administration.
Both groups had similar baseline blood pressure (mmHg) (142 +/- 19/72 +/- 14 vs 139 +/- 20/72 +/- 14) and heart rate (beats per minute) (75 +/- 14 vs 75 +/- 17) (esmolol and control respectively, p = ns), but peak heart rate was higher in the esmolol group (126 +/- 14 vs. 116 +/- 14, p < 0.01). In the group who received esmolol, symptomatic relief paralleled the statistically significant decrease in heart rate which occurred within 1 minute of esmolol administration (99.7 +/- 15.3 vs 108.5 +/- 13.1 p < 0.0001); the heart rate in the esmolol group remained significantly lower than the control group for 5 minutes following esmolol administration (92.0 +/- 10.3 vs 96.7 +/- 11.8 p < 0.05). As a percentage of peak heart rate the esmolol group remained significantly lower than the control for 7 minutes (74% vs 80% p < 0.05). Esmolol induced a significant reversal of dobutamine-induced diastolic hypotension (diastolic blood pressure at peak 66 +/- 17 vs 8 min recovery 70 +/- 12, p < 0.03) that was not seen in controls (diastolic blood pressure at peak 64 +/- 18 vs 8 min recovery 65 +/- 14, p = ns). Systolic blood pressure and heart rate remained elevated in both groups 8 min into recovery compared to baseline, suggesting persistent dobutamine effect beyond the expected 2 min pharmacologic half-life of dobutamine. No side-effects from esmolol were seen despite it being used in 9 patients with EF < 35%.
Esmolol is effective and well tolerated for the management of dobutamine-related minor side-effects. The mechanism of benefit, in addition to heart rate reduction, may involve a reversal of dobutamine-induced diastolic hypotension. Blood pressure and heart rate recovery are slower than expected from previously published pharmacokinetic data.
Naringin (NAR) from grapefruit has exhibited potential protective effects against atherosclerosis development. However, specific mechanisms responsible for such effects are poorly understood. Thus, we aimed to investigate the antiatherogenic effects of NAR in different mouse models of hypercholesterolemia and decipher its molecular targets in the aorta using transcriptomic approach. Two mouse models of hypercholesterolemia, wild-type mice fed a high-fat/high-cholesterol diet and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice fed a semisynthetic diet, were studied. Mice were fed a respective control diets supplemented or not for 18 weeks with 0.02% of NAR, that is, nutritional supplementation. NAR supplementation reduced plaque progression only in wild-type mice fed the high-fat/high-cholesterol diet (-41%). Consistent with this protective effect, NAR reduced plasma non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations as well as biomarkers of endothelial dysfunction. Microarray studies performed on aortas demonstrated differentially expressed genes encoding proteins involved in cell adhesion, actin cytoskeleton organization and cell division. Thus, the changes in gene expression induced by NAR could suggest a limited atherosclerosis progression by preventing immune cell adhesion and infiltration in the intima of vascular wall, as well as smooth muscle cell proliferation. Furthermore, this hypothesis was strengthened by in vitro experiments, which showed the ability of naringenin to reduce monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells and smooth muscle cell proliferation. In conclusion, this study revealed the antiatherogenic effect of NAR supplemented at a nutritionally achievable dose, specifically toward diet-induced atherosclerosis, and depicted its multitarget mode of action at the vascular level.
The behaviors associated with the neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine were evaluated in BALB/c mice. Hyperthermia and behavioral observations were measured 60 min after each subcutaneous injection of methamphetamine (4x4 or 8 mg/kg) or saline, each given 2 h apart. The behavioral observations included stereotyped behaviors, incidence of hemorrhage in breast, salivation and self-injurious behavior (SIB). Repeated administration of methamphetamine produced these behavioral changes and hyperthermia, but resulted in hypothermia by the final injection (8 mg/kg). In addition, the methamphetamine treatment induced a long-lasting dopamine depletion of similar magnitude in the 4 and 8 mg/kg-treated animals. In a time course study striatal monoamine levels were measured 60 min after each injection of these doses. The first and second injections of methamphetamine (8 mg/kg) produced a drastic increase in striatal 3-methoxytyramine; this failed to occur after the third or fourth injection of the same dose. In contrast, 4 mg/kg of methamphetamine also produced an increase in 3-methoxytyramine after the second and third injections of the drug and, in this case, these were maintained for the duration of the treatment. Striatal 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels also drastically decreased following both doses of methamphetamine, suggesting inhibition of monoamine oxidase in striatum. Moreover, a single injection of methamphetamine increased striatal 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid formation. These results suggest that the incidence of hyperthermia, SIB and striatal dopamine neurotoxicity are closely linked to striatal dopamine release and inhibition of monoamine oxidase produced by methamphetamine in BALB/c mice.
Zinc is an essential element, necessary for sustaining all life. Zinc deficiency causes taste impairments, immune deficiency, skin problems, and growth and mental retardation. Recent reports suggest that zinc is associated with an increased risk of cancer, although it is still unclear whether zinc or its transporters are involved in cancer progression. Here we show that zinc and its transporter ZIP10 are involved in the invasive behavior of breast cancer cells. The screening of clinical samples for ZIP10 mRNA expression suggested that ZIP10 was significantly associated with the metastasis of breast cancer to the lymph node. In addition, the expression of ZIP10 mRNA was higher in the invasive and metastatic breast cancer cell lines MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-435S than in less metastatic breast cancer cell lines, such as MCF7, T47D, ZR75-1 and ZR75-30. In in vitro cell migration assays, the depletion of zinc transporter ZIP10 and intracellular zinc inhibited the migratory activity of MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-435S cells. These results showed that zinc and ZIP10 play an essential role in the migratory activity of highly metastatic breast cancer cells, and suggest ZIP10 as a possible marker for the metastatic phenotype of breast cancer and a promising target of novel treatment strategies.
Motor dysfunction associated with dyskinesia can be caused by imbalance between dopaminergic and cholinergic actions. Antimuscarinic agents are used to treat extrapyramidal symptoms in Parkinson's disease and extrapyramidal side effects of antipsychotics. These therapeutic effects are mediated by blockade of the striatal muscarinic receptors, which comprise five distinct subtypes (M(1-5)). To evaluate the role of muscarinic M(4) receptors, we have generated mutant mice lacking this subtype (muscarinic M(4) receptor-knockout mice) and analyzed their cataleptic responses induced by haloperidol (an animal model of extrapyramidal side effects). While the muscarinic M(4) receptor-knockout mice developed the cataleptic response normally, systemic administration of scopolamine could not suppress the cataleptic response. These results suggest that acute, but not chronic, blockade of muscarinic M(4) receptors plays important roles in the therapeutic effects of antimuscarinic agents.
Clonazepam is a potent, long-acting benzodiazepine approved for use in myoclonic and petit mal seizures. Initial reports have demonstrated encouraging results with clonazepam in the treatment of acute mania as well as a favorable side-effect profile. A trial of adjunctive clonazepam was initiated in a 41-year-old patient with chronic schizophrenia. Two weeks later, while on an 8-mg dosage, he became manic, developing pressured speech, euphoria, inflated esteem, agitation, and insomnia. Initiation of electroconvulsive therapy with gradual tapering and discontinuation of the clonazepam resulted in amelioration of the manic episode and a return to his previous clinical status. Clinicians should be alerted to the potential of clonazepam to cause manic-like behavior in susceptible patients.
A large body of evidence showed that arsenic trioxide (As2O3), a front-line drug for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia, induced abnormal cardiac QT prolongation, which hampers its clinical use. The molecular mechanisms for this cardiotoxicity remained unclear. This study aimed to elucidate whether microRNAs (miRs) participate in As2O3-induced QT prolongation.
A guinea pig model of As2O3-induced QT prolongation was established by intravenous injection with As2O3. Real-time PCR and Western blot were employed to determine the expression alterations of miRs and mRNAs, and their corresponding proteins.
The QT interval and QRS complex were significantly prolonged in a dose-dependent fashion after 7-day administration of As2O3. As2O3 induced a significant upregulation of the muscle-specific miR-1 and miR-133, as well as their transactivator serum response factor. As2O3 depressed the protein levels of ether-a-go-go related gene (ERG) and Kir2.1, the K(+) channel subunits responsible for delayed rectifier K(+) current IKr and inward rectifier K(+) current IK1, respectively. In vivo transfer of miR-133 by direct intramuscular injection prolonged QTc interval and increased mortality rate, along with depression of ERG protein and IKr in guinea pig hearts. Similarly, forced expression of miR-1 widened QTc interval and QRS complex and increased mortality rate, accompanied by downregulation of Kir2.1 protein and IK1. Application of antisense inhibitors to knockdown miR-1 and miR-133 abolished the cardiac electrical disorders caused by As2O3.
Deregulation of miR-133 and miR-1 underlies As2O3-induced cardiac electrical disorders and these miRs may serve as potential therapeutic targets for the handling of As2O3 cardiotoxicity.
1. The effects of two unselective potassium (K(+)-) channel blockers, quinine (12.5, 25 and 50 mg/kg) and 4-aminopyridine (1 and 2 mg/kg), on conditioned place preference and biphasic changes in motor activity induced by morphine (10 mg/kg) were tested in Wistar rats. Quinine is known to block voltage-, calcium- and ATP-sensitive K(+)-channels while 4-aminopyridine is known to block voltage-sensitive K(+)-channels. 2. In the counterbalanced method, quinine attenuated morphine-induced place preference, whereas 4-aminopyridine was ineffective. In the motor activity test measured with an Animex-activity meter neither of the K(+)-channel blockers affected morphine-induced hypoactivity, but both K(+)-channel blockers prevented morphine-induced secondary hyperactivity. 3. These results suggest the involvement of quinine-sensitive but not 4-aminopyridine-sensitive K(+)-channels in morphine reward. It is also suggested that the blockade of K(+)-channels sensitive to these blockers is not sufficient to prevent morphine-induced hypoactivity whereas morphine-induced hyperactivity seems to be connected to both quinine- and 4-aminopyridine-sensitive K(+)-channels.
Double transgenic mice bearing fusion genes consisting of mouse albumin enhancer/promoter-mouse c-myc cDNA and mouse metallothionein 1 promoter-human TGF-alpha cDNA were generated to investigate the interaction of these genes in hepatic oncogenesis and to provide a general paradigm for characterizing both the interaction of nuclear oncogenes and growth factors in tumorigenesis as well as to produce an experimental model to test how environmental chemicals might interact with these genes during the neoplastic process. Coexpression of c-myc and TGF-alpha as transgenes in the mouse liver resulted in a tremendous acceleration of neoplastic development in this organ as compared to expression of either of these transgenes alone. The two distinct cellular reactions that occurred in the liver of the double transgenic mice prior to the appearance of liver tumors were dysplastic and apoptotic changes in the existing hepatocytes followed by emergence of multiple focal lesions composed of both hyperplastic and dysplastic cell populations. These observations suggest that the interaction of c-myc and TGF-alpha, during development of hepatic neoplasia contributes to the selection and expansion of the preneoplastic cell populations which consequently increases the probability of malignant conversion. Treatment of the double transgenic mice with both genotoxic agents such as diethylnitrosamine and IQ as well as the tumor promoter phenobarbital greatly accelerated the neoplastic process. These results suggest that selective transgenic mouse models may provide important tools for testing both the carcinogenic potential of environmental chemicals and the interaction/cooperation of these compounds with specific genes during the neoplastic process.
Local anesthetics that are commonly used in ophthalmic surgery (0.75% bupivacaine hydrochloride, 2.0% mepivacaine hydrochloride, and 2.0% lidocaine hydrochloride plus 1:100,000 epinephrine) were injected into the retrobulbar area of rat eyes. Controls were injected with physiological saline. All three anesthetics produced massive degeneration of the extraocular muscles. Muscle degeneration is followed by regeneration of the damaged muscle fibers. In addition to muscle damage, severe damage was also seen in harderian glands, especially after exposure to mepivacaine and lidocaine plus epinephrine. With these findings in rats, it is hypothesized that the temporary diplopia sometimes seen in patients after ophthalmic surgery might be due to anesthetic-induced damage to the extraocular muscles.
More than 80 deaths have occurred after the use of midazolam (Versed), often in combination with opioids, to sedate patients undergoing various medical and surgical procedures. We investigated the respiratory effects of midazolam (0.05 mg.kg-1) and fentanyl (2.0 micrograms.kg-1) in volunteers. The incidence of hypoxemia (oxyhemoglobin saturation less than 90%) and apnea (no spontaneous respiratory effort for 15 s) and the ventilatory response to carbon dioxide were evaluated. Midazolam alone produced no significant respiratory effects. Fentanyl alone produced hypoxemia in half of the subjects and significant depression of the ventilatory response to CO2, but did not produce apnea. Midazolam and fentanyl in combination significantly increased the incidence of hypoxemia (11 of 12 subjects) and apnea (6 of 12 subjects), but did not depress the ventilatory response to CO2 more than did fentanyl alone. Adverse reactions linked to midazolam and reported to the Department of Health and Human Services highlight apnea- and hypoxia-related problems as among the most frequent adverse reactions. Seventy-eight per cent of the deaths associated with midazolam were respiratory in nature, and in 57% an opioid had also been administered. All but three of the deaths associated with the use of midazolam occurred in patients unattended by anesthesia personnel. We conclude that combining midazolam with fentanyl or other opioids produces a potent drug interaction that places patients at a high risk for hypoxemia and apnea. Adequate precautions, including monitoring of patient oxygenation with pulse oximetry, the administration of supplemental oxygen, and the availability of persons skilled in airway management are recommended when benzodiazepines are administered in combination with opioids.
Hyperglycemia during acute ischemic stroke may augment brain injury, predispose to intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH), or both.
To analyze the relationship between admission glucose level and clinical outcomes from acute ischemic stroke, the authors performed multivariate regression analysis with the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) Stroke Trial data. Neurologic improvement was defined as improvement on the NIH Stroke Scale by 4 or more points from baseline to 3 months, or a final score of zero. Favorable outcome was defined as both Glasgow Outcome score of 1 and Barthel Index 95 to 100 at 3 months. Symptomatic ICH was defined as CT-documented hemorrhage temporally related to clinical deterioration within 36 hours of treatment. Potential confounding factors were controlled, including acute treatment (rt-PA or placebo), age, baseline NIH Stroke Scale score, history of diabetes mellitus, stroke subtype, and admission blood pressure.
There were 624 patients enrolled within 3 hours after stroke onset. As admission glucose increased, the odds for neurologic improvement decreased (odds ratio [OR] = 0.76 per 100 mg/dL increase in admission glucose, 95% CI 0.61 to 0.95, p = 0.01). The relation between admission glucose and favorable outcome depended on admission mean blood pressure (MBP): as admission MBP increased, the odds for favorable outcome related to increasing admission glucose levels progressively decreased (p = 0.02). As admission glucose increased, the odds for symptomatic ICH also increased (OR = 1.75 per 100 mg/dL increase in admission glucose, 95% CI 1.11 to 2.78, p = 0.02). Admission glucose level was not associated with altered effectiveness of rt-PA.
In patients with acute ischemic stroke, higher admission glucose levels are associated with significantly lower odds for desirable clinical outcomes and significantly higher odds for symptomatic ICH, regardless of rt-PA treatment. Whether this represents a cause and effect relationship remains to be determined.
