The protective effect of propylthiouracil (PTU) pretreatment against acetaminophen-induced erythrocyte osmotic fragility was determined in the male Fisher rat. Hepatotoxicity was assessed for comparative purposes. PTU (0.15%) was fed in chow for a period of 12 days. Acetaminophen (1 g/kg body wt) was then administered orally by a stomach tube after an overnight fast. The rats were killed either 4 or 24 hr later. Erythrocyte osmotic fragility was determined by the extent of hemolysis in various concentrations of NaCl solutions. Hepatotoxicity was assessed by a rise in serum transaminases and by histological examination of hepatic tissue. PTU treatment when compared with control not only protected rats against acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity as reported before, but also protected against erythrocyte osmotic fragility. The time course of acetaminophen toxicity seems to be similar for liver and erythrocyte since both showed damage after 24 hr but not after 4 hr of acetaminophen administration. The data show that PTU pretreatment affords protection against acetaminophen-induced increased erythrocyte osmotic fragility even when their glutathione concentrations were not significantly different, suggesting that PTU per se has a protective effect.
We report a total of 23 novel mutations of the SLC2A2 ( GLUT2) gene in 49 patients with a clinical diagnosis of Fanconi-Bickel syndrome (FBS). Molecular genetic analysis has now been performed in more than 50% of the 109 FBS cases from 88 families that we have been able to locate world-wide since the original report in 1949. In these 49 patients, 33 different SLC2A2 mutations (9 missense, 7 nonsense, 10 frameshift, 7 splice-site) have been detected. Thus, our results confirm that mutations of SLC2A2 are the basic defect in patients with FBS. Mutations of SLC2A2 were detected in historical FBS patients in whom some of the characteristic clinical features (hepatorenal glycogen accumulation, glucose and galactose intolerance, fasting hypoglycemia, a characteristic tubular nephropathy) and the effect of therapy were described for the first time. Mutations were also found in patients with atypical clinical signs such as intestinal malabsorption, failure to thrive, the absence of hepatomegaly, or renal hyperfiltration. No single prevalent SLC2A2 mutation was responsible for a significant number of cases. In a high percentage (74%) of FBS patients, the mutation is homozygous, so we conclude that the prevalence of SLC2A2 mutations is relatively low in most populations. No mutational hot spots within SLC2A2 or even within homologous sequences among the genes for facilitative glucose transporters were detected.
The HIV-infected population is known to be oxidatively stressed and deficient in antioxidant micronutrients. Since in vitro replication of HIV is increased with oxidative stress, this study assessed the effect of antioxidant vitamin supplementation on lipid peroxidation, a measure of oxidative stress, and viral load in humans.
A randomized placebo-controlled, double-blind study.
Forty-nine HIV-positive patients were randomized to receive supplements of both DL-alpha-tocopherol acetate (800 IU daily) and vitamin C (1000 mg daily), or matched placebo, for 3 months. Plasma antioxidant micronutrient status, breath pentane output, plasma lipid peroxides, malondialdehyde and viral load were measured at baseline and at 3 months. New or recurrent infections for the 6-month period after study entry were also recorded.
The vitamin group (n = 26) had an increase in plasma concentrations of alpha-tocopherol (P < 0.0005) and vitamin C (P < 0.005) and a reduction in lipid peroxidation measured by breath pentane (P < 0.025), plasma lipid peroxides (P < 0.01) and malondialdehyde (P < 0.0005) when compared with controls (n = 23). There was also a trend towards a reduction in viral load (mean +/- SD changes over 3 months, -0.45 +/- 0.39 versus +0.50 +/- 0.40 log10 copies/ml; P = 0.1; 95% confidence interval, -0.21 to -2.14). The number of infections reported was nine in the vitamin group and seven in the placebo group.
Supplements of vitamin E and C reduce oxidative stress in HIV and produce a trend towards a reduction in viral load. This is worthy of larger clinical trials, especially in HIV-infected persons who cannot afford new combination therapies.
Postoperative morphine titration frequently induces sedation. The assumption is made that patients sleep when their pain is relieved. Some patients complain of persistent pain when they awake. We studied the time-course of sedation and analgesia to understand the determinants of patients' sleep during morphine titration.
Seventy-three patients requiring morphine titration in a post-anaesthetic care unit after major surgery, were studied. Fifty-two patients slept (Sleep group) and 21 did not (Awake group). When a patient slept during titration, morphine was discontinued. Visual analogue pain scale (VAS), Ramsay score (RS), and the bispectral index (BIS) were recorded at the beginning of titration (STonset), at sleep onset (STsleep), then 5, 10, 20, and 30 min afterwards (ST4).
In the Sleep group, mean (SD) RS increased from 1.7 (0.4) to 2.4 (0.6) (P<0.05 vs STonset) and BIS decreased from 95 (5.0) to 89.8 (10.2) between STonset and STsleep (P<0.05), RS remained stable thereafter. Conversely, RS and BIS remained unaltered in the Awake group. The reduction in VAS was comparable between groups (from 78 (17) to 39 (21), and from 64 (16) to 30.4 (11), respectively). Even though mean (SD) VAS was 39 (21) at ST4 in the Sleep group, 13 patients (25%) maintained a VAS above 50 mm.
We observed dissociated effects of morphine on the time-course of sedation and analgesia with sedation occurring first, followed by analgesia. Therefore, morphine-induced sedation should not be considered as an indicator of an appropriate correct level of analgesia during i.v. morphine titration.
We report three new cases of chronic interstitial nephritis occurring in two patients with Crohn's disease and one patient with ulcerative colitis treated with mesalazine. In the three cases asymptomatic renal disease was revealed by an increase in serum creatinine which was normal before treatment. Renal biopsy showed features of severe chronic interstitial nephritis. Mesalazine withdrawal and administration of steroids in two cases led to partial improvement of renal function. Mechanism of renal toxicity of mesalazine is unknown. These observations stress the need for monitoring renal function in patients with inflammatory bowel disease treated with mesalazine.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in industrialized countries. Pulmonary adenocarcinoma (PAC) is the most common histologic type of lung cancer, and it is reproducibly induced by the tobacco-specific nitrosamine 4-(methylnitrosamino)- 1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) in laboratory rodents. We have recently shown that the growth of cell lines derived from human PACs is controlled by beta-adrenergic receptors, and that NNK is a high affinity agonist for this receptor family.
In the current study, we have tested the relevance of these in in vitro findings for in vivo NNK-induced lung tumorigenesis, using a well-established hamster model of NNK-induced PAC.
Our experiments demonstrate a significant increase in NNK-induced PAC multiplicity in animals chronically exposed to the beta-adrenergic agonist epinephrine or theophylline which causes intracellular accumulation of the beta-adrenergic second messenger cAMP. On the other hand, our data show that administration of the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol prior to each NNK injection significantly inhibited the development of PACs.
Our findings support the hypothesis that the development of tobacco-associated PAC may be modulated by beta-adrenergic agents, and that the interaction of NNK with beta-adrenergic receptors contributes to the genesis of this histologic lung cancer type.
The anticonvulsant activity of BmK AS, a sodium channel site 4-selective modulator purified from scorpion venom (Buthus martensi Karsch), was investigated in unanesthetized rats with acute pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)- and pilocarpine-induced seizures. Rats were microinjected in the CA1 region with either saline or BmK AS, followed by epileptogenic doses of PTZ or pilocarpine 30 minutes later. The anticonvulsant efficacy of BmK AS in PTZ- or pilocarpine-evoked seizure-like behavior and cortical epileptiform EEG activity was assessed. Intrahippocampal injections of BmK AS (0.05-1 μg in 1 μL) produced dose-dependent anticonvulsant activity in the PTZ model, suppressing seizure-associated behavior and reducing both the number and duration of high-amplitude, high-frequency discharges (HAFDs) on the EEG. In contrast, BmK AS did not affect the epileptiform EEG in the pilocarpine model over the same dose range, although it did increase the latency to status epilepticus onset and slightly, but significantly, reduced the seizure score. In summary, our results demonstrate that the sodium channel site 4-selective modulator BmK AS is an effective inhibitor of PTZ- but not pilocarpine-induced acute seizures. These results indicate that BmK AS may serve as a novel probe in exploring the role of different sodium channel subtypes in an epileptogenic setting and as a potential lead in developing antiepileptic drugs specifically for the therapy of sodium channel site 4-related epilepsy.
Human can be exposed to bis(hydroxyphenyl)methane (bisphenol F or BPF) and its derivatives as environment and food's contaminants. This study was investigated to identify and to compare toxic potency of BPF, BFDGE, and two of BPF metabolites using in vitro methods. BPF did not induce any genic mutation in bacteria when the Ames test was performed according to the OECD guideline. In contrast, using Human cell lines and Comet assay, we demonstrated that BPF and Bisphenol F Diglycidyl Ether (BFDGE) were effective on HepG2 cell DNA fragmentation at non-cytotoxic concentrations. DHB was also positive but at higher concentrations, near its limit of solubility. Neither BPF, nor DHB induced a positive response in the micronucleus assay. The increase of micronuclei observed when cells were exposed to BFDGE was mostly due to a cytotoxic effect. Concerning endocrine activities, BPF increased the luciferase activity in HepG2 cells transiently transfected with a concentration dependant pattern, DHB also induced a positive response but at highest concentrations. Estrogenic responses in the HepG2 cells differed with the estrogen receptor (ER) involved. Using MDA-kb2 cell line stably transfected with pMMTV-neo-Luc, only BPF was anti-androgenic at the highest concentration (10(-5)M). Then, we demonstrated using human cell lines, especially HepG2, BPF was the most toxic compound in term of genotoxicity and endocrine activities compared to DHB and BPF-OH, the free metabolites identified in rat urine when BPF was administrated to rats.
Valproic acid (VPA)-induced encephalopathy is a rarely considered side effect, with somnolence, reduced motor activity and severe deterioration of cognitive and behavioural abilities. In accordance with the increasing clinical importance of valproate clinical symptoms, causes and possibilities of treatment are reviewed by reporting on two cases of valproate-induced encephalopathy. In comparison to VPA intoxication, which is associated to increased VPA blood levels, the mechanisms of encephalopathy may include interactions of the hepatic enzymes, a direct toxic effect on the cerebral receptors, as well as drug interactions, a paradoxical epileptogenic effect and metabolic interactions. In most cases withdrawal of VPA produces regression of the symptoms within a few days; the role of L-carnitin or citrullin supplementation in clinical treatment remains unclear.
The accelerated course of hepatic fibrosis that occurs in some patients after liver transplantation is a major clinical problem. This response may be caused by the antirejection therapeutics, and in an earlier report we showed that FK-506 enhanced the fibrogenic process in in vivo and in vitro models of liver fibrosis. In the present study, the aim was to determine whether a new immunosuppressive agent, rapamycin, enhances or inhibits liver fibrosis.
Effects of rapamycin were investigated in a carbon tetrachloride model of hepatic fibrosis in rats and on hepatic stellate proliferation in vitro.
Rapamycin inhibited extracellular matrix deposition in the rat model of fibrogenesis as determined by histological analysis, collagen content, messenger RNA levels of procollagen and transforming growth factor beta1, and tissue transglutaminase activity. Moreover, rapamycin decreased platelet growth factor-induced proliferation of hepatic stellate cells.
These findings indicate that the new antirejection agent rapamycin inhibits hepatic fibrosis and thus may become a valuable addition to the immunosuppression armamentarium.
Treatment of neonatal mice with the phytoestrogen genistein (50 mg/kg/day) results in complete female infertility caused in part by preimplantation embryo loss in the oviduct between Days 2 and 3 of pregnancy. We previously demonstrated that oviducts of genistein-treated mice are "posteriorized" as compared to control mouse oviducts because they express numerous genes normally restricted to posterior regions of the female reproductive tract (FRT), the cervix and vagina. We report here that neonatal genistein treatment resulted in substantial changes in oviduct expression of genes important for the FRT mucosal immune response, including immunoglobulins, antimicrobials, and chemokines. Some of the altered immune response genes were chronically altered beginning at the time of neonatal genistein treatment, indicating that these alterations were a result of the posteriorization phenotype. Other alterations in oviduct gene expression were observed only in early pregnancy, immediately after the FRT was exposed to inflammatory or antigenic stimuli from ovulation and mating. The oviduct changes affected development of the surviving embryos by increasing the rate of cleavage and decreasing the trophectoderm-to-inner cell mass cell ratio at the blastocyst stage. We conclude that both altered immune responses to pregnancy and deficits in oviduct support for preimplantation embryo development in the neonatal genistein model are likely to contribute to infertility phenotype.
Drug-induced immunoallergic hepatitis typically affects a minority of patients exposed to a particular drug. Its rarity is believed to be due to metabolic or immunologic idiosyncrasy. The presence of an immunologic idiosyncrasy might imply an HLA association. Previous studies reporting an HLA association of drug-induced hepatitis included only small numbers of patients and used serological HLA typing.
We studied 35 patients with biopsy-documented amoxicillin-clavulanate-induced hepatitis. HLA-A and -B were typed using alloantisera and compared with those of 300 controls (volunteer bone marrow donors). HLA-DRB and -DWB were typed by polymerase chain reaction-line probe assay, with 60 volunteer bone marrow donors serving as controls.
The study group was characterized by a higher frequency of DRB1*1501-DRB5*0101-DQB1*0602 haplotype (57.1% vs. 11.7% in controls, P < 0.000005; after correction for the large number of comparisons, P < 0.0002). Patients with DRB1*1501-DRB5*0101-DQB1*0602 haplotype were more likely than patients without it to have a cholestatic (70% vs. 60%) or mixed (30% vs. 13%) than a hepatocellular pattern of hepatitis (0% vs. 27%) (P < 0.05).
Amoxicillin-clavulanate-induced hepatitis is associated with the DRB1*1501-DRB5*0101-DQB1*0602 haplotype. The data support the view that an immunologic idiosyncrasy, mediated through HLA class II antigens, plays a role in the pathogenesis of drug-induced immunoallergic hepatitis. HLA association has a limited impact on the expression of hepatitis.
An 18-year-old boy was brought to the hospital with jaundice, confusion, abdominal discomfort and distension. He had a history of oral intake of nimesulide for three days. Clinical and laboratory findings were compatible with fulminant hepatitis. Exclusion of other causes of liver injury strongly favored drug-induced toxicity. All of the signs, symptoms and laboratory abnormalities returned to normal after cessation of the nimesulide and supportive treatment, and he was discharged on the 15th day after admission. This case differs from the other cases in the literature regarding the time of onset, and indicates that nimesulide may induce fulminant hepatitis in the first few days of administration. Therefore, patients receiving nimesulide should be frequently monitored with serial serum transaminases, beginning from the first week of intake.
Although more than 2,400 genes have been shown to contain variants that cause Mendelian disease, there are still several thousand such diseases yet to be molecularly defined. The ability of new whole-genome sequencing technologies to rapidly indentify most of the genetic variants in any given genome opens an exciting opportunity to identify these disease genes. Here we sequenced the whole genome of a single patient with the dominant Mendelian disease, metachondromatosis (OMIM 156250), and used partial linkage data from her small family to focus our search for the responsible variant. In the proband, we identified an 11 bp deletion in exon four of PTPN11, which alters frame, results in premature translation termination, and co-segregates with the phenotype. In a second metachondromatosis family, we confirmed our result by identifying a nonsense mutation in exon 4 of PTPN11 that also co-segregates with the phenotype. Sequencing PTPN11 exon 4 in 469 controls showed no such protein truncating variants, supporting the pathogenicity of these two mutations. This combination of a new technology and a classical genetic approach provides a powerful strategy to discover the genes responsible for unexplained Mendelian disorders.
A detailed description is made of an acute closed cranial window method. The method is used for the study of cerebral pial microcirculation by intravital microscopy in the rat. Using these methods and techniques, the effects of systemic hypotension by SNP, i.v., on pial microvessel hemodynamics and on ICP were simultaneously measured and characterized under normophysiological conditions. The pH, PO2, PCO2 and temperature of the artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the closed cranial window, intermittently measured, remained relatively constant, 30 to 60 min following the period of stabilization of the preparation. The infusion of SNP (6.2-35.0 micrograms/kg/min, 0.02% sol., i.v.) significantly decreased BP (52.1 +/- 13.4 mm Hg, mean +/- SD). From measurement of microvessels internal diameter (I. D.) and microhemodynamics, significant increases in pial arteriolar I.D. (from 35.4 +/- 10.1, microns, to 47.1 +/- 5.7, microns, mean and S.D., 33.0%) and estimated bulk flow (51.2%), occurred during the hypotension. The changes in hemodynamic parameter were predominantly in the arteriolar system. Only minimal changes in the venular diameter occurred during the SNP hypotension. The observed moderate (22.0%) increase in ICP during SNP hypotension in pentobarbital anesthetized rat correlates well with the microhemodynamic changes of the cerebral microcirculatory system.
AHN 1-055, a benztropine (BZT) analog, binds with high affinity to the dopamine transporter (DAT), possesses behavioral, pharmacokinetic (PK) and brain microdialysate dopamine (DA) profiles distinct from cocaine. Accordingly, the objectives of this study were to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and dopamine release of AHN 1-055, in the presence of cocaine.
Male Sprague Dawley rats ( approximately 300 g) were administered 5 mg/kg of AHN 1-055 and cocaine i.v. and blood and brain samples were collected over 36 h. In addition, dialysis probes were stereotaxically implanted into the nucleus accumbens and extracellular fluid (ECF) DA levels were measured. PK and PD models were used to describe the relationship between the AHN 1-055, cocaine and DA levels.
No significant (p< 0.05) differences were found in the PK parameters of AHN 1-055 alone (V(dss) = 18.7 l/kg, Cl = 1.8 l/h/kg and t(1/2) = 7.69 h) or AHN 1-055 with cocaine (V(dss)=17.4 l/kg, Cl = 1.9 l/h/kg and t(1/2) = 6.82 h). The brain-to-plasma (B/P) ratios (B/P(AHN 1-055) = 4.8 vs B/P(with cocaine) = 4.4) and half-lives (t(1/2(AHN 1-055)) = 6.2 h vs t(1/2(cocaine) = )5.6 h for AHN 1-055 alone and with cocaine were comparable. AHN 1-055 DA profiles were significantly different after co-administration with cocaine. There were no differences in the IC(50) for AHN 1-055, with cocaine, however, the IC(50) for cocaine was significantly reduced with AHN 1-055.
The PK parameters of AHN 1-055 were not changed, however, the effect on DA levels was affected when cocaine was administered with AHNDA profile is affected when dosed with cocaine. This latter effect is a desirable attribute in the development of a medication as a potential substitute therapeutic medication for the treatment of cocaine abuse.
Growth arrest-specific protein 6 (Gas 6) is involved in inflammatory kidney diseases, vascular remodeling, cell adhesion, and thrombus formation. We explored a role for Gas 6 in aldosterone-induced target organ damage. We observed that Gas 6 was upregulated in rats with high aldosterone levels. Mineralocorticoid receptor blockade prevented target organ damage and decreased the elevated Gas 6 expression. Vascular smooth muscle cells given aldosterone increased their Gas 6 expression in vitro. To test the pathophysiological relevance, we investigated the effects of deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) on Gas 6 gene-deleted ((-/-)) mice. After 6 weeks DOCA, Gas 6(-/-) mice developed similar telemetric blood pressure elevations compared to wild-type mice but were protected from cardiac hypertrophy. Cardiac expression of interleukin 6 and collagen IV was blunted in Gas 6(-/-) mice, indicating reduced inflammation and fibrosis. Gas 6(-/-) mice also had an improved renal function with reduced albuminuria, compared to wild-type mice. Renal fibrosis and fibronectin deposition in the kidney were also reduced. Gas 6 deficiency reduces the detrimental effects of aldosterone on cardiac and renal remodeling independent of blood pressure reduction. Gas 6 appears to play a role in mineralocorticoid receptor-mediated target organ damage. Furthermore, because warfarin interferes with Gas 6 protein expression, the findings could be of clinical relevance for anticoagulant choices.
The dioxin congener 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) causes a wide range of toxic effects in rodent species, all of which are mediated by a ligand-dependent transcription-factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). The Han/Wistar (Kuopio) (H/W) strain shows exceptional resistance to many TCDD-induced toxicities; the LD₅₀ of > 9600 μg/kg for H/W rats is higher than for any other wild-type mammal known. We previously showed that this resistance primarily results from H/W rats expressing a variant AHR isoform that has a substantial portion of the AHR transactivation domain deleted. Despite this large deletion, H/W rats are not entirely refractory to the effects of TCDD; the variant AHR in these animals remains fully competent to up-regulate well-known dioxin-inducible genes. TCDD-sensitive (Long-Evans, L-E) and resistant (H/W) rats were treated with either corn-oil (with or without feed-restriction) or 100 μg/kg TCDD for either four or ten days. Hepatic transcriptional profiling was done using microarrays, and was validated by RT-PCR analysis of 41 genes. A core set of genes was altered in both strains at all time points tested, including CYP1A1, CYP1A2, CYP1B1, Nqo1, Aldh3a1, Tiparp, Exoc3, and Inmt. Outside this core, the strains differed significantly in the breadth of response: three-fold more genes were altered in L-E than H/W rats. At ten days almost all expressed genes were dysregulated in L-E rats, likely reflecting emerging toxic responses. Far fewer genes were affected by feed-restriction, suggesting that only a minority of the TCDD-induced changes are secondary to the wasting syndrome.
A common polymorphism (825 C/T) in exon 10 of the GNB3 gene, that encodes for the beta-3 subunit, has been associated with different degrees of activation of heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins). Many hormones and neurotransmitters use specific receptors that interact noncovalently with G proteins in the transmembrane signaling process. Among them, insulin uses an inhibitory G protein-sensitive mechanism that is involved in metabolic and vascular events, leading to enhanced glucose transport and vasodilation. We hypothesized differences in peripheral and vascular insulin sensitivity according to GNB3 gene polymorphism in type 2 diabetic patients. To address this issue, we used an intervention-optimization protocol to examine whether diabetic patients with the variant show a different response in terms of insulin-sensitivity. Interindividual differences in baseline insulin sensitivity and vascular dysfunction (vasodilatory response to glyceryl trinitrate) were not attributable to this polymorphism of the GNB3 gene. However, in contrast to normal homozygotes, insulin sensitivity (S(I)) significantly improved (P=0.01) in carriers of the 825T variant. Parallel to these findings, stimulated C-peptide tended to decrease, and the response to glyceryl trinitrate significantly improved (P=0.004) among 825T carriers. Body mass index, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, heart rate, or serum lipid levels did not significantly change in either group. Our findings suggest an effect of GNB3 gene polymorphism on important phenotypic variations in type 2 diabetes mellitus. The GNB3 gene polymorphism might be an example of pharmacogenetics, with the underlying etiological genetic defect altering the response to treatment.
To present cases exhibiting possible effects of angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs) received in pregnancy on the fetus.
Retrospective analysis included women who delivered between 2002 and 2006 at Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Ljubljana.
Antihypertensive medications were prescribed to 346 of the 26,735 women. ARBs were given in only five pregnancies: two women received losartan, and three irbesartan. The therapy was stopped between 5 and 23 weeks of gestation. Two women delivered healthy babies at term; another term baby had one additional finger and toe. Other two pregnancies were complicated with oligohydramnios and ended in preterm delivery. One preterm infant had transient abnormal renal function tests.
Women should be informed that ARB-antihypertensive therapy must be replaced/stopped before planning their pregnancy or at least as soon as the pregnancy is confirmed. Fetal morphology scan and monitoring of amniotic fluid volume should be obligatory, if ARBs are prescribed accidentally.
Type 2 diabetes is characterized by glucose intolerance and insulin resistance. Obesity is the leading cause of type 2 diabetes. Growing evidence suggests that chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic (iAs) also produces symptoms consistent with diabetes. Thus, iAs exposure may further increase the risk of diabetes in obese individuals.
Our goal was to characterize diabetogenic effects of iAs exposure and high-fat diet (HFD) in weaned C57BL/6 mice.
Mice were fed HFD or low-fat diet (LFD) while exposed to iAs in drinking water (25 or 50 ppm As) for 20 weeks; control HFD and LFD mice drank deionized water. Body mass and adiposity were monitored throughout the study. We measured glucose and insulin levels in fasting blood and in blood collected during oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) to evaluate the diabetogenic effects of the treatment.
Control mice fed HFD accumulated more fat, had higher fasting blood glucose, and were more insulin resistant than were control LFD mice. However, these diabetes indicators decreased with iAs intake in a dose-dependent manner. OGTT showed impaired glucose tolerance for both control and iAs-treated HFD mice compared with respective LFD mice. Notably, glucose intolerance was more pronounced in HFD mice treated with iAs despite a significant decrease in adiposity, fasting blood glucose, and insulin resistance.
Our data suggest that iAs exposure acts synergistically with HFD-induced obesity in producing glucose intolerance. However, mechanisms of the diabetogenic effects of iAs exposure may differ from the mechanisms associated with the obesity-induced type 2 diabetes.
Cerebral toxoplasmosis is optimally treated with the combination of high doses of sulphadiazine and pyrimethamine. We described two patients with AIDS treated for cerebral toxoplasmosis who developed renal failure due to sulphadiazine-induced crystalluria. Symptoms and renal failure were rapidly reversed with urine alkalinization and hydration. A careful monitoring and adequate hydration of patients with AIDS treated with high doses of sulphadiazine appears mandatory to avoid this complication.
A case of ventricular tachycardia in a healthy child subsequent to onset of a succinylcholine infusion is described. A 9-year-old male patient was scheduled for an adenoidectomy and bilateral tonsillectomies. There was no history of cardiac arrhythmia. Anesthesia was induced by mask with nitrous oxide and halothane. Immediately after the infusion of 20 mg of succinylcholine, the heart rate was 150 beats/min and then the electrocardiograph (ECG) revealed a short run of ventricular tachycardia. The patient was given 1 mg of propranolol, and enflurane and 100% oxygen were administered. Soon after the propranolol was given, normal sinus rhythm returned. Ventricular tachycardia may occur after a single dose of succinylcholine in a healthy anesthetized child without predisposing disease.
We wanted to assess polymorphisms in the uridine diphosphoglucuronosyl transferase 1A1 (UGT 1A1) gene: the TATA box polymorphism and UGT 1A1 G71R and Y486D mutations in the coding sequence, the main mutations characterizing Gilbert's syndrome, as predictors of severe toxic event occurrence after irinotecan (CPT-11) administration. Therefore, we set up a rapid, sensitive, and reliable technique in routine practice to detect before CPT-11 treatment, the at-risk patients.
Seventy-five patients with advanced colorectal cancer and treated with CPT-11 and 5-fluorouracil, entered the study. We used the Pyrosequencing technology a real-time sequencing method, to detect the UGT 1A1 TATA box polymorphisms and mutations in the coding regions. Patients were also assessed for both biochemical and clinical evaluation and tolerance to treatment.
No G71R and Y486D mutations were found in our population. Frequencies for UGT 1A1 TATA box polymorphisms were 41, 47, and 9% for wild-type 6/6, heterozygous 6/7, and Gilbert's syndrome 7/7, respectively. Tolerance to treatment decreased with increased number of TA repeat with 71% of the patients in 7/7 group who experienced grade 3/4 toxicity.
The method we set up is suitable for the detection of UGT 1A1 polymorphism in routine practice before irinotecan treatment. It could help to detect the patients homozygous or heterozygous for Gilbert's syndrome, at-risk of CPT 11-induced toxicity, and thus could help to individualize the dose to optimize efficacy and limit toxicity.
Hypertension and nephrotoxicity are well-known side-effects of cyclosporine A (CsA). CsA-induced vasoconstriction of the afferent glomerular arteriole probably plays a role in at least the nephrotoxicity. Frequently renal transplant recipients on CsA have to be treated with antihypertensive drugs and for this purpose also beta-blockers are used. Tertatolol is a new beta-blocker with specific vasodilatory properties, and thus might be particularly useful in CsA-treated transplant recipients.
We studied the systemic and renal haemodynamic effects of atenolol and tertatolol in 12 hypertensive renal transplant recipients on cyclosporine A (CsA). In a cross-over way, all patients were treated with atenolol and tertatolol for 4 weeks each, separated by a wash-out period also of 4 weeks. At the end of each period, the mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF) were measured.
The mean arterial pressure was lower (P < 0.05) during atenolol (124 +/- 2 mm Hg) and tertatolol (125 +/- 2 mm Hg) treatment compared with washout (132 +/- 4 mm Hg). Also the heart rate was lower (P < 0.01) during atenolol and tertatolol (54 +/- 3 and 55 +/- 2 beats/min respectively) than in the wash-out period (65 +/- 3 beats/min). GFR and RPF were not changed by either beta-blocker.
In CsA treated renal transplant recipients both atenolol and tertatolol effectively reduced blood pressure. In these patients we found no evidence of a specific vasodilatory effect of tertatolol. Both beta-blockers had no negative influence on renal function. Hence, these cardioprotective agents are an attractive and safe choice for the treatment of hypertension in such patients.
The antianginal effect and tolerability of isosorbide mononitrate (ISMN), 20 mg 2-3 times daily, orally were investigated in an open study in 28 patients, suffering from coronary heart disease and stable angina pectoris. Ergometric exercise tests were carried out before treatment and 2 h after drug intake, every 3 months during the first year and at 6-month intervals during the following 2 years. At the conclusion of the 3-year study the reduction of ST-segment depression, which had amounted to 58% after 1 year, could be improved to 78% (p less than 0.01). The frequency of angina was markedly reduced during the treatment with ISMN. While 14 of the patients had more than 3 episodes per day prior to the study, 16 patients were symptom-free at the end of the three years' therapy, and none of the patients had more than 1 or 2 attacks per day. The consumption of sublingual nitroglycerin diminished by 94% after one year and by 98% after 3 years of therapy (p less than 0.01). Headache was the only adverse effect observed in some of the patients (at the initiation of the treatment only). In conclusion this study demonstrated (1) the good tolerability of ISMN, at the doses used, and (2) the fact that the antianginal efficacy may be enhanced during the course of the therapy.
Opioid addiction is associated with cardiovascular disease. However, mechanisms linking opioid addiction and cardiovascular disease remain unclear. This study investigated the role of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) 1 receptor in mediating somatic signs and the behavioural states produced during withdrawal from morphine dependence. Furthermore, it studied the efficacy of CRF1 receptor antagonist, CP-154,526 to prevent the cardiac sympathetic activity induced by morphine withdrawal. In addition, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) phosphorylation pathways were evaluated. Like stress, morphine withdrawal induced an increase in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and an enhancement of noradrenaline (NA) turnover. Pre-treatment with CRF1 receptor antagonist significantly reduced morphine withdrawal-induced increases in plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) levels, NA turnover and TH phosphorylation at Ser31 in the right ventricle. In addition, CP-154,526 reduced the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) after naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal. In addition, CP-154,526 attenuated the increases in body weight loss during morphine treatment and suppressed some of morphine withdrawal signs. Altogether, these results support the idea that cardiac sympathetic pathways are activated in response to naloxone-precipitated morphine withdrawal suggesting that treatment with a CRF1 receptor antagonist before morphine withdrawal would prevent the development of stress-induced behavioural and autonomic dysfunction in opioid addicts.
