Autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is now a feasible and effective treatment for selected patients with severe autoimmune diseases. Worldwide, over 650 patients have been transplanted in the context of phase I and II clinical trials. The results are encouraging enough to begin randomised phase III trials. However, as predicted, significant transplant-related morbidity and mortality have been observed. This is primarily due to complications related to either the stage of the disease at transplant or due to infections. The number of deaths related to cardiac toxicity is low. However, caution is required when cyclophosphamide or anthracyclines such as mitoxantrone are used in patients with a possible underlying heart damage, for example, systemic sclerosis patients. In November 2002, a meeting was held in Florence, bringing together a number of experts in various fields, including rheumatology, cardiology, neurology, pharmacology and transplantation medicine. The object of the meeting was to analyse existing data, both published or available, in the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation autoimmune disease database, and to propose a safe approach to such patients. A full cardiological assessment before and during the transplant emerged as the major recommendation.
Serotonin syndrome is the syndrome resulting from brain tissue serotonin accumulation and accompanying by central nervous system dysfunction and circulatory collapse, which leads to a serious mortal danger to life. A female patient aged 31 years, diagnosed as having chronic psychosis in the history, was admitted to an intensive care unit in a critical state for having taking an increased moclobemide dose. The patient developed cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was initiated. A 15-minute CPR recovered sinus rhythm and pulse on the peripheral arteries of the limbs. When consciousness and respiration improved, the patient was weaned from resuscitation and extubated on the second day. On day 4, the patient was transferred from the intensive care unit to the department of psychiatry. The authors consider that patients with overdosage of antipsychotic agents at a risk for such serious complications, such as cardiac arrest, should be necessarily monitored in the intensive care unit.
Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by macrocephaly, deterioration of motor functions with ataxia, and spasticity, eventuating in mental decline. The brain appears swollen on magnetic resonance imaging, with diffuse white-matter abnormalities and the invariable presence of subcortical cysts. MLC was recently localized on chromosome 22q(tel). We have narrowed down the critical region by linkage analysis of 11 informative families with MLC to a region of approximately 250 kb, containing four known genes. One family with two patients who were siblings did not display linkage between the MLC phenotype and any of the analyzed microsatellite markers on chromosome 22q(tel), suggesting genetic heterogeneity and the existence of at least a second MLC locus. The maximum two-point LOD score for the 11 families was 6.6 at recombination fraction .02. Twelve different mutations in seven informative and six uninformative families were found in one of the candidate genes, KIAA0027, which we renamed "MLC1." The gene encodes a putative membrane protein with eight predicted transmembrane domains. The patients of one family were compound heterozygotes for mutations that both introduced stop codons. The mutations further included frameshifts, splice-acceptor mutations, a putative splice-donor mutation, and amino acid substitutions of residues in predicted transmembrane domains. These data provide strong evidence that mutations of MLC1 cause the disease.
The cause of Parkinson disease (PD) is still unknown, but genetic factors have recently been implicated in the etiology of the disease. So far, four loci responsible for autosomal dominant PD have been identified. Autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (ARJP) is a clinically and genetically distinct entity; typical PD features are associated with early onset, sustained response to levodopa, and early occurrence of levodopa-induced dyskinesias, which are often severe. To date, only one ARJP gene, Parkin, has been identified, and multiple mutations have been detected both in families with autosomal recessive parkinsonism and in sporadic cases. The Parkin-associated phenotype is broad, and some cases are indistinguishable from idiopathic PD. In > or = 50% of families with ARJP that have been analyzed, no mutations could be detected in the Parkin gene. We identified a large Sicilian family with four definitely affected members (the Marsala kindred). The phenotype was characterized by early-onset (range 32-48 years) parkinsonism, with slow progression and sustained response to levodopa. Linkage of the disease to the Parkin gene was excluded. A genomewide homozygosity screen was performed in the family. Linkage analysis and haplotype construction allowed identification of a single region of homozygosity shared by all the affected members, spanning 12.5 cM on the short arm of chromosome 1. This region contains a novel locus for autosomal recessive early-onset parkinsonism, PARK6. A maximum LOD score 4.01 at recombination fraction .00 was obtained for marker D1S199.
During chemotherapy with bleomycin and etoposide a 28-year-old male, suffering from germ-cell cancer, developed acute myocardial infarction. Under treatment with heparin and aspirin the patient revealed no Q-waves in ECG and recovery was without complications. Four weeks after onset of infarction, thallium-201 scintigraphy showed only a small irreversible, posteroseptal perfusion defect; coronary angiography was not performed. The chemotherapy regimen was continued and modified to etoposide as well as cisplatin and ifosfamide without recurrence of cardiac symptoms or ECG changes.
Pseudohypoparathyroidism (PHP) is characterized by hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia in association with an increased secretion of parathyroid hormone (PTH) due to decreased target tissue responsiveness to PTH. Patients with PHP type Ia are not only resistant to PTH, but also to other hormones that bind to receptors coupled to stimulatory G protein (Gsalpha). PHP Ia and Albright hereditary osteodystrophy (AHO) are caused by a reduced activity of the Gsalpha protein. Heterozygous inactivating Gs alpha (GNAS) gene mutations have been identified in these patients.
We studied a boy with PHP Ia. During follow-up the patient developed elevated liver enzyme serum levels and abdominal discomfort. Gsalpha activity was measured in erythrocyte membranes from the patient and the GNAS coding region of Gsalpha sequenced.
Gsalpha activity was reduced (62%) and molecular analysis revealed a new heterozygous GNAS gene mutation (D196N). Gallstones were diagnosed and cholecystectomy was performed. Biochemical analysis revealed cholesterol stones, a condition that was not reported before in PHP Ia.
Cholesterol gallstones may rarely be associated with PHP Ia and should be taken into account.
A case of a 36-year male patient with chronic active hepatitis B is described. A short-term prednisone therapy resulted in the exacerbation of the disease leading to hepatic failure and patient's death. A short-term corticotherapy in some patients with chronic active hepatitis B may prove fatal.
Carbon nanotubes (CNT) come in a variety of types, but one of the most common forms is multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT). MWCNT have potential applications in many diverse commercial processes, and thus human exposures are considered to be likely. In order to investigate the pulmonary toxicity of MWCNT, we conducted an in vivo dose-response and time course study of MWCNT in mice in order to assess their ability to induce pulmonary inflammation, damage, and fibrosis using doses that approximate estimated human occupational exposures. MWCNT were dispersed in dispersion medium (DM) and male C57BL/6J mice (7 weeks old) received either DM (vehicle control), 10, 20, 40 or 80mug MWCNT by aspiration exposure. At 1, 7, 28 and 56 days post-exposure, MWCNT-induced pulmonary toxicity was investigated. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) studies determined pulmonary inflammation and damage was dose-dependent and peaked at 7 days post-exposure. By 56 days post-exposure, pulmonary inflammation and damage markers were returning to control levels, except for the 40mug MWCNT dose, which was still significantly higher than vehicle control. Histopathological studies determined that MWCNT exposure caused rapid development of pulmonary fibrosis by 7 days post-exposure, that granulomatous inflammation persisted throughout the 56-day post-exposure period, and also demonstrated that MWCNT can reach the pleura after pulmonary exposure. In summary, the data reported here indicate that MWCNT exposure rapidly produces significant adverse health outcomes in the lung. Furthermore, the observation that MWCNT reach the pleura after aspiration exposure indicates that more extensive investigations are needed to fully assess if pleural penetration results in any adverse health outcomes.
There are currently no approved antifibrotic therapies for liver cirrhosis. We used vitamin A-coupled liposomes to deliver small interfering RNA (siRNA) against gp46, the rat homolog of human heat shock protein 47, to hepatic stellate cells. Our approach exploits the key roles of these cells in both fibrogenesis as well as uptake and storage of vitamin A. Five treatments with the siRNA-bearing vitamin A-coupled liposomes almost completely resolved liver fibrosis and prolonged survival in rats with otherwise lethal dimethylnitrosamine-induced liver cirrhosis in a dose- and duration-dependent manner. Rescue was not related to off-target effects or associated with recruitment of innate immunity. Receptor-specific siRNA delivery was similarly effective in suppressing collagen secretion and treating fibrosis induced by CCl(4) or bile duct ligation. The efficacy of the approach using both acute and chronic models of liver fibrosis suggests its therapeutic potential for reversing human liver cirrhosis.
Progressive hearing loss is common in the human population, but little is known about the molecular basis. We report a new N-ethyl-N-nitrosurea (ENU)-induced mouse mutant, diminuendo, with a single base change in the seed region of Mirn96. Heterozygotes show progressive loss of hearing and hair cell anomalies, whereas homozygotes have no cochlear responses. Most microRNAs are believed to downregulate target genes by binding to specific sites on their mRNAs, so mutation of the seed should lead to target gene upregulation. Microarray analysis revealed 96 transcripts with significantly altered expression in homozygotes; notably, Slc26a5, Ocm, Gfi1, Ptprq and Pitpnm1 were downregulated. Hypergeometric P-value analysis showed that hundreds of genes were upregulated in mutants. Different genes, with target sites complementary to the mutant seed, were downregulated. This is the first microRNA found associated with deafness, and diminuendo represents a model for understanding and potentially moderating progressive hair cell degeneration in hearing loss more generally.
A 46-year-old man with borderline lepromatous leprosy with type-2 reaction being treated with multi-bacilliary-multiple drug therapy and steroids presented with an acute onset of flaccid quadriparesis. A nerve conduction study and CSF analysis were similar to that seen in Guillain Barre syndrome. Muscle weakness improved considerably with an increased dose of corticosteroid; after 6 months the patient recovered completely.
To date, there has not been an in-depth investigation to identify differences in the effects of bleeding prevention among different routes of administration of H2 receptor antagonists to treat gastric ulcers following endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR).
To prospectively compare the frequency of bleeding following EMR between patients treated with intravenous (IV) famotidine and those with oral famotidine.
Fifty-three patients with neoplastic gastric lesions (33 carcinoma and 20 adenoma) treated by EMR were included. Subjects underwent EMR with circumferential mucosal incision assisted by submucosal injection of sodium hyaluronate (EMRSH), followed by IV or oral (PO) administration of famotidine at a dosage of 40 mg/day for 2 days. Patients with odd ID numbers were assigned to IV therapy (30 cases) while even numbers were given PO therapy (23 cases). Frequencies and endoscopic findings of bleeding during the first 2 days after EMR were examined.
Frequency of bleeding within 2 days after EMR was 3 and 4% in IV and PO patients, respectively, showing no significant difference. No significant difference was seen in the endoscopic findings of bleeding and therapy, either, with respective IV and PO findings at 23 and 26%.
No significant difference was observed in frequency of bleeding within 2 days after gastric EMR between IV and oral administrations of famotidine.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) bind to complementary sites in their target mRNAs to mediate post-transcriptional repression, with the specificity of target recognition being crucially dependent on the miRNA seed region. Impaired miRNA target binding resulting from SNPs within mRNA target sites has been shown to lead to pathologies associated with dysregulated gene expression. However, no pathogenic mutations within the mature sequence of a miRNA have been reported so far. Here we show that point mutations in the seed region of miR-96, a miRNA expressed in hair cells of the inner ear, result in autosomal dominant, progressive hearing loss. This is the first study implicating a miRNA in a mendelian disorder. The identified mutations have a strong impact on miR-96 biogenesis and result in a significant reduction of mRNA targeting. We propose that these mutations alter the regulatory role of miR-96 in maintaining gene expression profiles in hair cells required for their normal function.
It has been reported that inhibitors of gastric acid secretion prevent bleeding after endoscopic mucosal resection for mucosal gastric neoplasm. However, uncertain whether an histamine2-receptor antagonist or proton-pump inhibitor is more effective.
To evaluate prospectively the effectiveness of famotidine or omeprazole for ulcer management after endoscopic mucosal resection.
From July 2003 to October 2004, 57 patients were randomly assigned to famotidine or omeprazole for the management of endoscopic mucosal resection. Both drugs were given intravenously for the first 2 days, thereafter by mouth. The bleeding rates after endoscopic mucosal resection, the effects on the healing of endoscopic mucosal resection-induced ulceration, and cost-benefits were compared.
Twenty-eight patients received famotidine and 29 received omeprazole. No significant difference was observed between the two groups in patient characteristics. The bleeding rates after endoscopic mucosal resection were not significantly different (18% vs. 14%) between the groups. Similarly, no differences were seen in the size of the endoscopic mucosal resection-induced ulceration at 1, 30 and 60 days after resection between groups. The total costs of anti-secretory agents demonstrated a significant cost-benefit to those treated with famotidine (10,420 yen vs. 17,782 yen).
Famotidine is suggested as a better alternative to omeprazole for the management of endoscopic mucosal resection, as it showed a clear cost-benefit, and the healing results after endoscopic mucosal resection were similar for the two treatment strategies.
5-Azacytidine is being used for reactivation of tumor suppressor genes. However, its administration during DNA repair pontentiates hepatocarcinogenesis. We observed chemopreventive activities by vitamin A and beta-carotene during early hepatocarcinogenesis. Thus, in the present study we evaluated vitamin A and beta-carotene chemopreventive potential during early hepatocarcinogenesis potentiated by 5-azacytidine. Wistar rats received vitamin A (VAA group), beta-carotene (betaCA group) or corn oil (CO and COA groups). After three weeks of treatment, all animals were initiated with 1,2-dimethylhydrazine. Twelve hours later VAA, betaCA and COA groups received a single dose of 5-Azc. Hepatocytes were selected/promoted by 2-acetylaminofluorene and 70% partial hepatectomy. All animals were sacrificed six weeks after initiation. Compared to CO group (without 5-azacytidine), COA group presented higher (p<0.05) nodule multiplicity, larger (p<0.05) gamma-GT positive lesions that occupied a larger (p<0.05) area of liver section. Compared to COA group, VAA group presented decreased (p<0.05) nodule multiplicity while betaCA group tended to present smaller gamma-GT positive lesions and to decrease occupied liver section. These results reinforce vitamin A and beta-carotene chemopreventive potential. Considering that 5-azacytidine potentiates hepatocarcinogenesis, more studies are needed to elucidate the efficacy and safety of this drug for cancer control.
The aim of study was the analysis of cyclosporine A (CyA) treatment efficacy in children with steroid-dependent nephrotic syndrome (NS).
The examined group consisted of 21 children (F--8, M--16) at the mean age 12.1 +/- 4.6 years with the relapses NS in the course of minimal change nephrotic syndrome (MCSN) in 9 (43%) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) in 12 (57%) cases. All children were administrated CyA (Sandimun Neoral f. Novartis Pharma AG), together with prednisone (Encorton f. Polfa Pabianice) (0.2 - 0.5 mg/kg b.w./24 h) and ACE inhibitor (Enap f. Krka). The concentration of cyclospornine A in serum was measured by monoclonal antibody fluorescence polarization immunoassay. Serum concentration of creatinine, uric acid, albumin, cholesterol and creatinine clearance (Schwartz method) and proteinuria was analysed: A - before treatment, B--in 3rd day, C--in 3rd month, D--in 6th month, E--in 12th month of CyA treatment and F--after 3-6 months after finishing treatment. Blood pressure was measured by ABPM in examination A, D, E, and F.
During administration of CyA the urinary protein excretion decreased successively and in 12th month of treatment was 4.5 +/- 3.9 mg/kg bw/24 h. The serum creatinine concentration increased by 33.9%, and uric acid by 52.8% in comparison to the initial level. Mean systolic blood pressure (RRs) in ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) during 24 hours was 120.5 +/- 9.2 mmHg before treatment and increased by about 6% after 12 months of treatment. Respectively diastolic blood pressure (RRr) was 66.7 +/- 4.3 mmHg and increased to 71.0 +/- 2.5 mmHg at the end of 12 h month. The nocturnal fall of RRs before treatment was 14.2 +/- 2.8%, and RRr 14.9 +/- 2.1%. During treatment nocturnal fall of both RRs and RRr decreased to 9.2 +/- 2.7% for RRs and 9.8 +/- 2.7% for RRr after 6 months of treatment. After 12 months of treatment and in remission the nocturnal fall of blood pressure was still below 10%.
CyA is an effective drug in children with relapses of steroid-dependent in the course of MCSN and FSGS. Side effects after CyA treatment, under the control of its concentration in serum and parameters of renal function are occasional and transient. Cyclosporine A disturbs the 24 hours rhythm of arterial blood pressure.
Niacin (nicotinic acid) reduces cardiovascular events in patients with dyslipidemia. However, symptoms associated with niacin-induced vasodilation (e.g., flushing) have limited its use. Laropiprant is a selective antagonist of the prostaglandin D(2) receptor subtype 1 (DP1), which may mediate niacin-induced vasodilation. The aim of this proof-of-concept study was to evaluate the effects of laropiprant (vs placebo) on niacin-induced cutaneous vasodilation. Coadministration of laropiprant 30, 100, and 300 mg with extended-release (ER) niacin significantly lowered flushing symptom scores (by approximately 50% or more) and also significantly reduced malar skin blood flow measured by laser Doppler perfusion imaging. Laropiprant was effective after multiple doses in reducing symptoms of flushing and attenuating the increased malar skin blood flow induced by ER niacin. In conclusion, the DP1 receptor antagonist laropiprant was effective in suppressing both subjective and objective manifestations of niacin-induced vasodilation.
There is a lack of evidence for the efficacy of preventive medications for peptic ulcers (PUs) among long-term users of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in Japan.
To estimate the preventive effect by normal dose, not high-dose histamine-H2 receptor antagonists (H2RA) for NSAID-induced ulcers.
We designed two different studies to assess the efficacy of anti-ulcer agents in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in patients treated over a long term with NSAIDs. An investigative survey divided patients into those not taking anti-ulcer agents (non-medication group); those taking mucosal protective agents (mucosal protectant group), H2RA (H2RA group), proton pump inhibitors (PPI group), or a prostaglandin E1 analog (PG) (PG group). The second study compared prospectively the preventive effects of either famotidine 20 mg bd (famotidine group) or lansoprazole 15 mg daily (lansoprazole group) in patients with PU scars.
The prevalence of PU in the H2RA group was significantly lower compared to the mucosal protectant group (P < 0.05), and the mucosal protectant group was not significantly different to the non-medication group. The prospective study revealed that the PU onset rate of the famotidine group was 8% (1/13), and lansoprazole group was 15% (2/13), indicating no significant differences between the two.
In Japan, normal-dose H2RA is expected to be a new PU preventive treatment strategy in patients requiring long-term NSAID therapy.
The aim of this study was to explore the environment of Echinococcus granulosus (E. granulosus) protoscolices and their relationship with their host.
Proteins from the hydatid-cyst fluid (HCF) from E. granulosus were identified by proteomics. An inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectrometer (ICP-AES) was used to determine the elements, an automatic biochemical analyzer was used to detect the types and levels of biochemical indices, and an automatic amino acid analyzer was used to detect the types and levels of amino acids in the E. granulosus HCF.
I) Approximately 30 protein spots and 21 peptide mass fingerprints (PMF) were acquired in the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) pattern of hydatid fluid; II) We detected 10 chemical elements in the cyst fluid, including sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, copper, and zinc; III) We measured 19 biochemical metabolites in the cyst fluid, and the amount of most of these metabolites was lower than that in normal human serum; IV) We detected 17 free amino acids and measured some of these, including alanine, glycine, and valine.
We identified and measured many chemical components of the cyst fluid, providing a theoretical basis for developing new drugs to prevent and treat hydatid disease by inhibiting or blocking nutrition, metabolism, and other functions of the pathogen.
IL-8 is an important activator and chemoattractant for neutrophils that is produced by normal human bronchial epithelial (NHBE) cells through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) p65 pathways. Dapsone, a synthetic sulfone, is widely used to treat chronic neutrophil dermatoses. We investigated the effects of dapsone on polarized IL-8 secretion from lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated NHBE cells and further evaluated its ability to decrease LPS-induced inflammation in the ferret airway.
NHBE cells were grown at air-liquid interface (ALI) to ciliated differentiation. Baseline and endotoxin (LPS)-stimulated IL-8 secretion was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay at air and basal sides with and without dapsone. Western blotting was used to determine signaling pathways. In vivo, ferrets were exposed to intratracheal LPS over a period of 5 days. Once inflammation was established, oral or nebulized dapsone was administered for 5 days. Intraepithelial neutrophil accumulation was analyzed histologically, and mucociliary transport was measured on the excised trachea.
Dapsone, 1 μg/mL, did not influence unstimulated (basal) IL-8 secretion. Apical LPS stimulation induced both apical and basolateral IL-8, but basolateral LPS increased only basolateral IL-8. Dapsone inhibited polarized IL-8 secretion from ALI-conditioned cells. Dapsone also decreased LPS-induced IL-8 mRNA level. LPS led to phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2, but not p38 MAPK or c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase. LPS also induced NF-κB p65 phosphorylation, an effect that was inhibited by dapsone. Both oral and aerosol dapsone decreased LPS-induced intraepithelial neutrophil accumulation, but only treatment with aerosol dapsone restored mucociliary transport to normal.
Dapsone, given either systemically or as an aerosol, may be useful in treating neutrophilic airway inflammation.
The development of cataract in farmed Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) has been related to changes in feed composition resulting in sub-optimal lens nutrition. The present study was performed to investigate the ability of Atlantic salmon lenses to withstand oxidative stress ex vivo, with focus on the nutritional lipid history and exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) as a relevant dietary contaminant. Since dietary histidine has been shown to have a mitigating effect on the prevalence of cataract in farmed salmon, the antioxidative abilities of histidine and NAH, a major imidazole in the salmon lens, was also investigated ex vivo. Lenses from Atlantic salmon prefed diets based on either fish oil (FO) or vegetable oil (VO) as lipid source, with or without addition of 5 mg MeHgkg(-1) feed, were cultured for 96 h in normal medium (control), medium added 5 mM H(2)O(2) or in histidine enriched medium. Lipid class composition of the lenses was not affected by the dietary lipids; while VO fed fish had a decrease in lens n-3/n-6 fatty acid ratio due to minor but significant increase in the concentration of 18:2 n-6 and 20:4 n-6, and decrease in 20:5 n-3 fatty acids compared to FO fed fish. The lenses accumulated mercury in response to dietary levels, but neither the oxidative status nor any physiological responses were affected. The cultured lenses responded to H(2)O(2) exposure with loss of transparency, accumulation of auto-fluorescent compounds, volume increase and reduced glutathione concentration similarly and irrespective of the dietary history. Lenses extracted histidine from the media, and synthesised NAH during the culture period. The innate antioxidative defence system appeared to be influenced both by the dietary lipid history and histidine enrichment on a transcriptional level. Catalase and SPARC were expressed higher in lenses from FO fed fish, and glutaredoxin showed elevated expression levels in FO lenses cultured in histidine enriched medium, suggesting that histidine is related to the innate antioxidant defence in salmon lenses. Further, the concentration of NAH was significantly reduced in oxidatively stressed lenses. Based on the results from this study it is suggested that NAH has a novel role as antioxidant in the Atlantic salmon lens.
Serotonin antagonist reuptake inhibitor (SARI) drugs that block both 5-HT(2) receptors and the serotonin transporters have been developed. The human 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor has been implicated in several neurological conditions, and potent selective 5-HT(2A/2C) ligands may have therapeutic potential for treatment of CNS diseases such as depression. An imidazole moiety usually provides good pharmacokinetic properties as a drug substance, and thus considerable efforts have been devoted to develop imidazole derivatives into drug candidates. The imidazole series of compounds was evaluated against 5-HT(2A/2C) and serotonin reuptake inhibition. A few of the compounds in the series showed promising IC(50) values and antidepressant-like effect in in vivo forced swimming test (FST). On the basis of these results, further lead optimization studies resulted in identifying promising compounds potentially for therapeutic use.
Effects of acute and chronic exposure to caffeine on the behavior of juvenile rats were assessed in three experiments. In Experiment 1, two indices of play fighting--pin frequency and duration--were decreased and locomotor activity was increased in dose dependent fashions by caffeine. Social investigation of another juvenile was not affected by the drug. In Experiment 2, juvenile rats were isolated and given caffeine in their drinking fluid for 10-11 days. Play fighting was increased by all except the highest caffeine dose. In Experiment 3, juveniles were housed in groups of four and received either tap water or caffeine in their drinking fluid. Pin frequency of caffeine treated subjects was lower than controls on days 2-4, and higher than controls on days 9-11 after caffeine treatment was initiated. Evidently, caffeine has inhibitory and facilitatory effects on juvenile play fighting behavior, contingent on duration of exposure to the drug.
Fenvalerate, a widely used pyrethroid insecticide, has been associated with poor semen quality. As yet, little is known about the effects of prenatal fenvalerate exposure on testicular development. The present study investigated the effects of prenatal fenvalerate exposure on testicular development and spermatogenesis. The pregnant mice were administered fenvalerate (30 mg/kg) by gavage daily from gestational day (gd) 13 to gd 18. The weights of testes and epididymides were significantly decreased in mice whose mothers were exposed to fenvalerate during pregnancy. Importantly, maternal fenvalerate exposure during pregnancy markedly decreased the number of mature seminiferous tubules (stages VII and VIII) in testes of adult male offspring. In addition, maternal fenvalerate exposure during pregnancy significantly reduced the number of epididymal spermatozoa in adult male offspring. Additional experiments showed that the level of serum testosterone (T) was significantly decreased in male fetuses whose mothers were exposed to fenvalerate during pregnancy. Correspondingly, mRNA and protein levels of P450(17alpha), a T synthetic enzyme, were significantly decreased in fetal testes. Moreover, the disruptive effect of prenatal fenvalerate exposure on testicular T synthesis was irreversible. In conclusion, prenatal fenvalerate exposure irreversibly impairs testicular development and spermatogenesis at least into early adulthood.
In response to insulin, chromium(III) is moved from the blood to the tissues where it is ultimately lost in the urine, apparently as the oligopeptide chromodulin; this transfer of chromium is mediated by the protein transferrin. To examine the effects of type 1 and type 2 diabetes on the transport of chromium, the fate of chromium from intravenously introduced (51)Cr(2)-labelled transferrin was monitored after 2 h in healthy and diabetic model rats; the effects of insulin on the transport of chromium in these groups were also examined. Diabetic rats had greater urinary chromium loss, greater movement of chromium from the blood to the tissues, most notably to the skeletal muscle, and an alteration of the distribution of chromium in the blood plasma.
Low-dose aspirin and diuretics are commonly co-utilized in patients with cardiovascular diseases. The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of a low-dose aspirin-diuretic drug combination on renal function.
In this cross-sectional retrospective study, all patients, excluding those on renal dialysis, admitted to the Internal Medicine Department of the Al-Watani Hospital, Nablus, Palestine, were included in the study. Medical data were obtained from patients' medical files. Estimation of creatinine clearance was carried out using the Cockcroft-Gault equation. Patients on the target drug combination were compared with patients who were not receiving the target drug combination. An independent paired t-test and 1-way ANOVA were used to test for significance between groups. Statistics were carried out using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS), version 13.
A total of 340 subjects (54.4% men) were included in the study. There were 90 patients on the target drug combination and designated as the study group. Of the remaining 250 patients comprising the control group, 114 received none of the target drugs and 136 received only one target medication. There was a significant (p < 0.001) difference in the levels of creatinine clearance between the two groups. Patients on the target drug combination had significantly lower creatinine clearance levels than those in the control group. Men in the study group had lower creatinine clearances than men in the control group and similar results were found for women. Patients in the study group with > or = 2 chronic diseases, had lower creatinine clearances than patients in the control group with > or = 2 chronic diseases. Similar results were found in patients with < 2 chronic diseases.
Administration of a low-dose aspirin-diuretic drug combination was associated with significantly lower creatinine clearance levels. This finding was independent of gender and the number of chronic diseases present. Monitoring kidney function in patients receiving this drug combination is recommended.
This study was carried out employing the model of dog with acute heart failure induced by phenobarbital natricum. It was shown that i.v. TFH 4.8 and 9.7 mg/kg could significantly increase CO, CI, + LVdP/dtmax and LVSP; shorten R-dP/dtmax in 9.7 mg/kg; raise - LVdP/dtmax, reduce LVEDP and T value; decrease MVO2I and TPVR; MAP and HR were not changed significantly. The results suggest that i.v. TFH can strengthen cardiac pump function and myocardial contractility in canine with heart failure; significantly improve myocardial diastolic function and hemodynamic performance; markedly decrease myocardia-used oxygen index and total peripheral vessel resistance, thus proving that TFH is good for heart failure.
