Domperidone is a prokinetic agent widely prescribed in adults and children with gastrointestinal disorders. Recently several Regulatory Agencies published safety information on the risk of long QT syndrome associated with the use of domperidone. We conducted a literature review using PubMed (1966 - Jan 2010) with the aim to locate articles on ventricular arrhytmias, Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD), long QT syndrome and Torsade de Pointes (TdP) following domperidone administration. Twenty-two papers were included in the review: three studies in vitro models, one animal study, five case reports/series, twelve clinical studies and one editorial. In vitro studies demonstrated cardiac electrophysiological effects of domperidone on the rapid component of the cardiac delayed rectifier K(+) current (I(Kr)) through the blockade of channels encoded by the Human Ether-a-go-go Related Gene (HERG). A total of fourteen cases of cardiotoxicity following intravenous (12 cases) or oral (2 cases) domperidone administration from case reports/series were identified. A case - control study, performed on a general practice observational database reported an OR: 3.8 (95% CI: 1.5-9.7) for SCD after domperidone exposure. Prescribers and other healthcare professionals should take into account the risk of QT syndrome in domperidone users and avoid administering domperidone in patients concomitantly taking strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or other QT prolonging drugs.
Trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene (resveratrol), a phytoalexin present in grapes and grape products such as wine, has been identified as a chemopreventive agent. Recent studies performed with MCF-7 human breast cancer cells have demonstrated superestrogenic effects with resveratrol. In contrast, studies performed using estrogen receptor-transfected cell lines have shown that resveratrol acts as a mixed agonist/antagonist. The major objective of this study was to characterize the estrogen-modulatory effects of resveratrol in a variety of in vitro and in vivo mammary models. Thus, the effect of resveratrol alone and in combination with 17beta-estradiol (E2) was assessed with MCF-7, T47D, LY2, and S30 mammary cancer cell lines. With cells transfected with reporter gene systems, the activation of estrogen response element-luciferase was studied, and using Western blot analysis, the expression of E2-responsive progesterone receptor (PR) and presnelin 2 protein was monitored. Furthermore, the effect of resveratrol on formation of preneoplastic lesions (induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene) and PR expression (with or without E2) was evaluated with mammary glands of BALB/c mice placed in organ culture. Finally, the effect of p.o. administered resveratrol on N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mammary tumors was studied in female Sprague Dawley rats. As a result, in transient transfection studies with MCF-7 cells, resveratrol showed a weak estrogenic response, but when resveratrol was combined with E2 (1 nM), a clear dose-dependent antagonism was observed. Similar mixed estrogenic/antiestrogenic effects were noted with S30 cells, whereas resveratrol functioned as a pure estrogen antagonist with T47D and LY2 cells. Furthermore, in MCF-7 cells, resveratrol induced PR protein expression, but when resveratrol was combined with E2, expression of PR was suppressed. With T47D cells, resveratrol significantly down-regulated steady-state and E2-induced protein levels of PR. With LY2 and S30 cells, resveratrol down-regulated presnelin 2 protein expression. Using the mouse mammary organ culture model, resveratrol induced PR when administered alone, but expression was suppressed in the presence of E2 (1 nM). Furthermore, resveratrol inhibited the formation of estrogen-dependent preneoplastic ductal lesions induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene in these mammary glands (IC50 = 3.2 microM) and reduced N-methyl-N-nitrosourea-induced mammary tumorigenesis when administered to female Sprague Dawley rats by gavage. Therefore, in the absence of E2, resveratrol exerts mixed estrogen agonist/antagonist activities in some mammary cancer cell lines, but in the presence of E2, resveratrol functions as an antiestrogen. In rodent models, carcinogen-induced preneoplastic lesions and mammary tumors are inhibited. These data suggest that resveratrol may have beneficial effects if used as a chemopreventive agent for breast cancer.
We determined the effects of low-level prenatal MeHg exposure on neuronal migration in the developing rat cerebral cortex using in utero electroporation. We used offspring rats born to dams that had been exposed to saline or various doses of MeHg (0.01 mg/kg/day, 0.1 mg/kg/day, and 1 mg/kg/day) from gestational day (GD) 11-21. Immunohistochemical examination of the brains of the offspring was conducted on postnatal day (PND) 0, PND3, and PND7. Our results showed that prenatal exposure to low levels of MeHg (0.1 mg/kg/day or 1 mg/kg/day) during the critical stage in neuronal migration resulted in migration defects of the cerebrocortical neurons in offspring rats. Importantly, our data revealed that the abnormal neuronal distribution induced by MeHg was not caused by altered proliferation of neural progenitor cells (NPCs), induction of apoptosis of NPCs and/or newborn neurons, abnormal differentiation of NPCs, and the morphological changes of radial glial scaffold, indicating that the defective neuronal positioning triggered by exposure to low-dose of MeHg is due to the impacts of MeHg on the process of neuronal migration itself. Moreover, we demonstrated that in utero exposure to low-level MeHg suppresses the expression of Rac1, Cdc42, and RhoA, which play key roles in the migration of cerebrocortical neurons during the early stage of brain development, suggesting that the MeHg-induced migratory disturbance of cerebrocortical neurons is likely associated with the Rho GTPases signal pathway. In conclusion, our results provide a novel perspective on clarifying the mechanisms underlying the impairment of neuronal migration induced by MeHg.
The growth and differentiation of epidermal cells in vitro show a marked dependence on the calcium concentration of the medium. In this study the effect of experimentally produced hyper- and hypocalcaemia on the rat epidermis in vivo has been investigated. Hypercalcaemia, induced by injections of calcium chloride, produced a decrease in epidermal labelling index and some epidermal thinning. On the other hand hypocalcaemia, induced by calcitonin, failed to lead to changes in these measurements. The diurnal variation in epidermal labelling index and serum calcium levels was also measured. Whilst the labelling index decreased considerably over the period 09.00 hours to 18.00 hours, no significant changes were observed in serum calcium. These results suggest that while, under certain circumstances in vivo, the epidermal cell shows the same sensitivity to calcium as it does in vitro, calcium is not a major regulator of epidermopoiesis.
Endometrium was collected from 20 high-dose progestogen-treated patients and examined for leukocyte populations by immunohistochemistry and phloxine-tartrazine staining. A labelled streptavidin-biotin-alkaline phosphatase technique was used with antibodies against leukocyte common antigen (LCA), T cells (CD3), neutrophils (NP57), macrophages] (CD68, KP1) and B cells (CD20). The numbers of LCA (1070 +/- 117/mm2), CD3 (459 +/- 60/mm2), CD68 (129 +/- 21/mm2) positive cells and endometrial granulated lymphocytes (EGL) (236 +/- 41/mm2) were significantly higher than those in the control group (P < 0.001). Of these, EGL increased most (6.7 times). NP57 positive (NP57+) neutrophils were present in five out of 20 progestogen-treated samples and NP57 negative (NP57-) neutrophils in another six out of 20; while a neutrophil was only identified in one control tissue (P = 0.002). Three progestogen-exposed endometrial samples had either focal or extensive necrosis, and many NP57+ and NP57- neutrophils were present in the necrotic areas. EGL, neutrophils and macrophages are known to release a number of cytolytic and cell toxic molecules which may play a role in the initiation or acceleration of progestational endometrial necrosis.
Intravenous dipyridamole was given for routine thallium-201 myocardial perfusion imaging. The patient developed chest discomfort followed by cardiovascular collapse with sinus arrest and a nodal escape rhythm at 28 beats per minute. He was rapidly resuscitated without adverse sequelae. A reversible posteroinferior perfusion defect and proximal right coronary artery occlusion were found. Symptomatic bradycardia after dipyridamole may be mediated by ischaemia.
A behavioral study was made of the mechanisms underlying the aggressive behavior induced by high doses of clonidine in mice. The frequency of clonidine-induced aggressive responses such as attacking and biting was increased dose-dependently from 10 to 50 mg/kg. Aggressive behavior induced by clonidine at doses of 10-30 mg/kg was potentiated under conditions of isolation and food deprivation for 24 h. Clonidine (30 mg/kg)-induced aggressive behavior was attenuated by adenosine (10 mg/kg IP) or dipyridamole (10 mg/kg IP), but markedly antagonized by combined pretreatment with both drugs. The behavior was strongly reduced by potent adenosine analogs, such as N6-cyclohexyl adenosine (CHA, 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg IP) and N6-(L-phenyl isopropyl) adenosine (L-PIA, 0.2 mg/kg IP), but conversely was potentiated by phentolamine (10 mg/kg IP) or theophylline (10 mg/kg IP). Diazepam (2.5 mg/kg IP) and Ro15-1788 (2.5 mg/kg IP), a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, also blocked the aggressive behavior. The inhibition by CHA (0.2 mg/kg IP) or diazepam (2.5 mg/kg) of clonidine-induced aggression was not antagonized by additional pretreatment with bicuculline (2 mg/kg IP). The aggressive response to apomorphine (8 mg/kg IP) was not affected by those drugs which inhibited the response to clonidine. The results suggest that the aggressive behavior evoked by high doses of clonidine, but not that by apomorphine, involves a blockade of adenosine receptors.
The m-BACOD regimen attempted to lower the dose of methotrexate in the M-BACOD (methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, dexamethasone) program. Between July 1981 and January 1985, 87 previously untreated or minimally treated patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma were treated with the m-BACOD regimen (methotrexate 200 mg/m2 on days 8 and 15, bleomycin 4.0 mg/m2 on day 1, doxorubicin 45 mg/m2 on day 1, cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 on day 1, vincristine 1.0 mg/m2 on day 1, and dexamethasone 6 mg/m2 on days 1 to 5; leucovorin was given 24 hours after methotrexate at 10 mg/m2 every six hours for eight doses orally). Of 86 evaluable patients, 59 (68.5%) had a complete remission (CR). Partial response was seen in 21 patients with six still surviving (5 to over 15 months). Of the seven patients who had no change, all have died. The median duration of follow-up for the entire series was 30 months (range, 2 to 61). Relapse from CR occurred in 15 of 59 (25%). Currently, 56 of 87 patients (64%) survive; all but 12 are in their first remission. Overall survival was 84% for those achieving an apparent CR. The major toxic effect of the m-BACOD regimen was myelosuppression with severe leukopenia and fever, which required hospitalization for about 33% of patients. Mucositis occurred in 39 patients; 19 had severe mucositis. No significant difference in overall survival was seen between the high-dose methotrexate M-BACOD and the low-dose m-BACOD regimens.
Previous studies have established CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) as the standard of comparison for treatment programs for patients with advanced stages of aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. Three sequential CHOP studies conducted by the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) showed a complete remission (CR) rate of 53% for 418 patients. This rate did not vary among the three studies. Median age was over 55 years. Relapse-free survival of CRs plateaued at 4 to 5 years. Approximately 21% of all patients in the first study and 33% of all patients in the following two studies are long-term survivors and presumed cured. Survival was clearly a function of patient age. Approximately 45% of all patients under age 55 at the time of treatment are cured by CHOP chemotherapy. To determine the toxicity, CR rate, and patient survival of m-BACOD (methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, dexamethasone), ProMACE-CytaBOM (prednisone, methotrexate, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, cytarabine, bleomycin, vincristine, methotrexate), and MACOP-B (methotrexate, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, bleomycin), SWOG initiated a series of phase II studies. Of 118 eligible patients in the m-BACOD study, the median age of 85 patients treated with the full-dose regimen was 54 years, while the median age of 33 patients who started therapy at reduced doses was 67 years. Fatal toxicity was observed in 6% of patients receiving full doses and 13% of those receiving reduced doses. Life-threatening toxicity occurred in 31% of patients on the full-dose regimen and 34% on the reduced-dose regimen. CR was 65% for full-dose treatment, but 27% for reduced doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A new form of congenital hyperinsulinism characterized by hypoglycemia and hyperammonemia was described recently. We hypothesized that this syndrome of hyperinsulinism and hyperammonemia was caused by excessive activity of glutamate dehydrogenase, which oxidizes glutamate to alpha-ketoglutarate and which is a potential regulator of insulin secretion in pancreatic beta cells and of ureagenesis in the liver.
We measured glutamate dehydrogenase activity in lymphoblasts from eight unrelated children with the hyperinsulinism-hyperammonemia syndrome: six with sporadic cases and two with familial cases. We identified mutations in the glutamate dehydrogenase gene by sequencing glutamate dehydrogenase complementary DNA prepared from lymphoblast messenger RNA. Site-directed mutagenesis was used to express the mutations in COS-7 cells.
The sensitivity of glutamate dehydrogenase to inhibition by guanosine 5'-triphosphate was a quarter of the normal level in the patients with sporadic hyperinsulinism-hyperammonemia syndrome and half the normal level in patients with familial cases and their affected relatives, findings consistent with overactivity of the enzyme. These differences in enzyme insensitivity correlated with differences in the severity of hypoglycemia in the two groups. All eight children were heterozygous for the wild-type allele and had a mutation in the proposed allosteric domain of the enzyme. Four different mutations were identified in the six patients with sporadic cases; the two patients with familial cases shared a fifth mutation. In two clones of COS-7 cells transfected with the mutant sequence from one patient, the sensitivity of the enzyme to guanosine 5'-triphosphate was reduced, findings similar to those in the child's lymphoblasts.
The hyperinsulinism-hyperammonemia syndrome is caused by mutations in the glutamate dehydrogenase gene that impair the control of enzyme activity.
Neuromuscular blocking drugs cause excitement and seizures when introduced into the central nervous system. We examined the possibility that these drugs produce paradoxical activation of acetylcholine or glutamate receptors, the chief types of brain receptors involved in excitatory neurotransmission.
Because activation of central glutamate or acetylcholine receptors causes calcium influx into postsynaptic neurons, we measured intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) as an index of receptor activation. Changes in [Ca2+]i were compared in brain slices exposed to neuromuscular blocking drugs or acetylcholine and glutamate receptor agonists. [Ca2+]i was measured with the fluorescent dye fura-2.
Pancuronium and vecuronium caused sustained increases in [Ca2+]i in approximately the same potency ratio as for seizure activity in vivo (concentrations at which the increase in [Ca2+]i was 95% of maximal: 100 and 400 microM, respectively). Atracurium and laudanosine did not increase [Ca2+]i in cortical slices. Increases in [Ca2+]i caused by both pancuronium and vecuronium were prevented by the non-subtype-specific nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist D-tubocurarine and were reduced 44-73% by atropine. Blockade of glutamate receptors or voltage-gated calcium or sodium channels had no effect on calcium influx.
The results suggest that the acute excitement and seizures caused by introduction of pancuronium and vecuronium into the central nervous system is due to accumulation of cytosolic calcium caused by sustained activation of acetylcholine receptor ion channels.
To investigate the expression of growth hormone receptor (GHR) and mRNA of GHR in cirrhotic livers of rats with the intension to find the basis for application of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) to patients with liver cirrhosis.
Hepatic cirrhosis was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by administration of thioacetamide intraperitoneally for 9-12 weeks. Collagenase IV was perfused in situ for isolation of hepatocytes. The expression of GHR and its mRNA in cirrhotic livers was studied with radio-ligand binding assay, RT-PCR and digital image analysis.
One class of specific growth hormone-binding site, GHR, was detected in hepatocytes and hepatic tissue of cirrhotic livers. The binding capacity of GHR (R(T), fmol/mg protein) in rat cirrhotic liver tissue (30.8+/-1.9) was significantly lower than that in normal control (74.9+/-3.9) at the time point of the ninth week after initiation of induction of cirrhosis (n=10, P<0.05), and it decreased gradually along with the accumulation of collagen in the process of formation and development of liver cirrhosis (P<0.05). The number of binding sites (X10(4)/cell) of GHR on rat cirrhotic hepatocytes (0.86+/-0.16) was significantly lower than that (1.28+/-0.24) in control (n=10, P<0.05). The binding affinity of GHR among liver tissue, hepatocytes of various groups had no significant difference (P>0.05). The expression of GHR mRNA (riOD, pixel) in rat cirrhotic hepatic tissues (23.3+/-3.1) was also significantly lower than that (29.3+/-3.4) in normal control (n=10, P<0.05).
The growth hormone receptor was expressed in a reduced level in liver tissue of cirrhotic rats, and lesser expression of growth hormone receptors was found in a later stage of cirrhosis. The reduced expression of growth hormone receptor was partly due to its decreased expression on cirrhotic hepatocytes and the reduced expression of its mRNA in cirrhotic liver tissue.
A case of intercerebral hematoma due to warfarin-induced coagulopathy is presented. The 39-year-old woman had spread a warfarin-type rat poison around her house weekly using her bare hands, with no washing post application. Percutaneous absorption of warfarin causing coagulopathy, reported three times in the past, is a significant risk if protective measures, such as gloves, are not used. An adverse drug interaction with piroxicam, which she took occasionally, may have exacerbated the coagulopathy.
Toxicity of a relative new flame retardant, namely decabromodiphenyl ethane (DBDPE), marketed as an alternative to decabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-209) was assessed both in vivo and in vitro using the freshly separated fish hepatocyte assay and standardized water flea and zebrafish egg-larvae tests. The fish hepatocyte assay, based on the synthesis and secretion of vitellogenin from isolated male liver cells produced a clear dose-response curve in the presence of DBDPE. DBDPE induced the induction of hepatic ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD) activity at low test concentrations, but started to inhibit the activity at higher concentrations. Also, the induction of the hepatocyte conjugation activity, uridinediphosphoglucuronosyltransferase (UDPGT), was induced with no signs of inhibition even at the highest test concentration. The reduced EROD activity resulted in a drop in the production of vitellogenin by the cells. In vivo tests showed that DBDPE was acutely toxic to water fleas, the 48 h EC-50 value being 19 microg/L. Moreover, DBDPE reduced the hatching rates of exposed zebra-fish eggs and raised significantly the mortality of hatched larvae. Because there is hardly any information available on the effects of DBDPE on the aquatic environments, it is crucial to obtain more data on the effects and effective concentrations of DBDPE along with its occurrence in the environment. Such data would enable reliable assessments of the risks posed by this flame retardant.
We describe a patient with biopsy-proven pulmonary talc granulomas (secondary to the long-term intravenous injection of crushed tablets of pentazocine) who had two episodes of transient pulmonary hypertension following the injection of this oral medication. We established a canine model and measured the right lymph duct flow, mean pulmonary arterial pressures, and pulmonary vascular resistance to determine the short-term effects on hemodynamics and the flow of lymph after intravenous administration of crushed pentazocine tablets (3 to 4 mg/kg of body weight) or pure talc (2.5 to 3 mg/kg). A typical response to both agents consisted of short-term elevations of mean pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular resistance to approximately twice baseline values, with a slow decrement over 30 to 45 minutes. The average flow of lymph tripled, peaking at approximately two hours after injection. The lymph contained high levels of albumin. We concluded that the talc filler in oral tablets of pentazocine induces the pulmonary hypertension, probably by mechanical obstruction of the pulmonary vasculature. Association with this transient pulmonary hypertension is an increase in the permeability of the pulmonary microvasculature.
Up-regulation of LOX-1 is implicated in apoptosis in both vascular smooth muscle cells and in endothelial cells. We examined the effects of doxorubicin on LOX-1 expression in H9c2 cardiomyocytes and the role played by LOX-1 up-regulation in doxorubicin-induced apoptosis. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation was assessed by DCF flow cytometry. LOX-1 mRNA and protein expression was assessed by RT-PCR and Western blotting. Apoptosis was evaluated by flow cytometry with annexin/PI double staining. Doxorubicin-induced LOX-1 expression in a concentration- and time-dependent fashion. The doxorubicin-induced ROS formation and the LOX-1 expression were significantly attenuated by pre-treatment with antioxidants. By exposing cells that had been pre-treated with doxorubicin to oxidized-LDL, a LOX-1 agonist, in the presence or in the absence of k-carrageenan, a LOX-1 receptor antagonist, we documented that doxorubicin-induced LOX-1 expression plays a role in inducing apoptosis. These findings suggest that LOX-1 up-regulation is redox-sensitive and may contribute to doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.
We sought evidence that azathioprine causes cell death through reduced glutathione (GSH) depletion and mitochondrial injury.
Studies were conducted in primary cultures of rat hepatocytes and cultured Hep G2 cells.
Azathioprine toxicity to rat hepatocytes was preceded by depletion of GSH. Prior GSH depletion (by treatment with buthionine sulfoximine) enhanced toxicity whilst supplemental GSH or N-acetylcysteine was protective. In hepatocytes, GSH is consumed during metabolism of azathioprine to 6-mercaptopurine. 6-Mercaptopurine was not toxic to hepatocytes, suggesting that the later steps in azathioprine metabolism were not related to the pathogenic mechanism. In Hep G2 cells, azathioprine did not alter levels of GSH and was not toxic. Ultrastructural studies showed hepatocyte mitochondrial lesions after exposure to azathioprine, but no features of apoptosis. Azathioprine produced rapid and profound depletion of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP). Cyclosporin A and glycine afforded protection against azathioprine toxicity, and Trolox and high-dose allopurinol also attenuated injury.
The mechanism of azathioprine toxicity to hepatocytes involves depletion of GSH leading to mitochondrial injury with profound depletion of ATP and cell death by necrosis. Cell death was prevented by potent antioxidants, glycine and blocking the mitochondrial permeability transition pore.
Activation of hepatic stellate cells is the earliest step in fibrogenesis. Alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), expressed by activated hepatic stellate cells, and C-terminal procollagen alpha1(III) propeptide (PIIICP) are early markers of fibrogenesis and should precede fibrosis.
Determine if suppression of hepatitis B virus replication with lamivudine would decrease fibrogenesis as measured by immunohistochemical markers.
Paired liver biopsies from patients with hepatitis B before and after therapy with lamivudine (n=47) or placebo (n=33) were studied. alpha-SMA and PIIICP were detected in paraffin-embedded tissue by immunohistochemistry and quantified in a blinded manner by video imaging analysis.
Liver biopsies from patients treated with lamivudine showed a significant decrease in alpha-SMA expression (1.06+/-0.23 vs. 0.58+/-0.11, pre vs. post, P<0.05). Placebo recipients had increased levels of alpha-SMA (0.82+/-0.14 vs. 1.32+/-0.21, P<0.05). PIIICP was similarly decreased after lamivudine. Among subjects whose Histologic Activity Index fibrosis score was unchanged or worsened, the mean change in alpha-SMA expression was significantly decreased in the lamivudine group compared with placebo.
Lamivudine decreased markers of hepatic stellate cell activation and collagen synthesis. Immunohistochemical techniques are sensitive for assessing fibrogenesis and will be useful in trials of antiviral and antifibrotic agents.
Two adolescents with acute B-cell leukemia (Burkitt leukemia) had acute severe neurotoxicity after treatment with intrathecal (IT) cytosine arabinoside (AraC) at a dose of 50 mg/day for three consecutive days.
A 16-year-old boy had a rapidly ascending myelopathy and encephalopathy 20 hours after receiving the third dose of IT AraC. He remained quadriplegic and required ventilatory assistance for 10 months until his death from progressive tumor. A 12-year-old girl had acute encephalopathy, seizures, and focal neuroimaging abnormalities in the cerebellum and brain stem within 32 hours of the third AraC dose and 8 hours after IT methotrexate (MTX, 12 mg). Her clinical neurologic deficits resolved during the ensuing month. Patient 1 represents the first report to the authors' knowledge of acute severe neurotoxicity after AraC administered as the only IT drug. In Patient 2, IT AraC neurotoxicity may have been potentiated by the single dose of MTX.
IT AraC administered for 3 or more consecutive days may lead to profound neurologic dysfunction and require discontinuation of therapy.
Six weeks after antiretroviral treatment with lamivudin (a nucleoside analogue) had been started (300 mg daily) in a 31-year-old man with AIDS developed pain and weakness in his muscles. On admission he had myalgia on pressure and movement as well as weakness of the entire body musculature, especially of the arms. The history and findings suggested bacterial or HIV-associated myositis.
Creatinekinase activity (4442 U/l) and myoglobin concentration (3250 micrograms/l) were greatly increased, while creatine (96 mumol/l) and C-reactive protein (22 mg/l) levels were only slightly raised. Serology was negative for acute and bacterial infections and autoimmune myositis. Magnetic resonance imaging and biopsy indicated marked rhabdomyolysis without myositis.
After excluding other causes, lamivudin and other drugs were discontinued, drug-induced rhabdomyolysis being suspected. This and the administration of prednisolone (100 mg daily) improved the symptoms. Creatinekinase activity and myoglobin level became normal within 14 days. On renewed administration of lamivudin creatinekinase and myoglobin concentrations in serum doubled to 180 U/l and 110 micrograms/l, respectively. Cessation of medication once again restored them to normal.
Rhabdomyolysis is a serious but rare side effect of lamivudin treatment. Appropriate biochemical monitoring should therefore be undertaken when it is used in the treatment of HIV-positive patients.
Our objective was to compare the effectiveness of buprenorphine (BUP) and methadone maintenance treatment in opiate-addicted patients in a clinical nonexperimental setting.
We used a naturalistic observational prospective study of 24 months' duration.
Subjects were enrolled and treated at a drug addiction outpatient clinic of the National Health System Local Unit in Milan, Italy.
Two hundred fifty-seven subjects meeting the DSM-IV criteria for opioid dependence and opioid-seeking substitutive pharmacological treatment participated in the study.
One hundred twenty-one subjects received BUP at a mean daily dose of 11 +/- 6 mg (median = 8; range = 2-30) for a mean duration of 249 days. One hundred thirty-six subjects received methadone at a mean daily dose of 54 +/- 29 mg (median = 50; range = 4-140) for a mean duration of 267 days.
The main efficacy parameters were treatment retention rates and illicit substance abuse, as assessed by urinalysis.
Retention rates were comparable in both treatment groups, but BUP-treated subjects had significantly lower rates of illicit opiate consumption (p < .0001).
The results confirm that, in a nonexperimental clinical practice setting, BUP is as effective as methadone in the treatment of heroin dependence, with significantly better opiate abuse control, thus possibly allowing longer and more effective treatment programs with reduced relapse rates.
Chronic exposure to a weak irritant leads to inflammatory changes which may be followed by pigmentary changes and accommodation. The inflammatory responses to acute exposure to an irritant have been extensively studied. This study investigated quantitatively the inflammatory reactions produced in photodamaged skin with chronic application of a weak chemical irritant (tretinoin cream 0.025%) over a period of 9 months (36 weeks). Forty-eight subjects with moderately to severely photodamaged skin were enrolled in a 36-week, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Tretinoin cream was applied nightly on the distal two thirds of one dorsal forearm and placebo on the other. The proximal third of each dorsal forearm received no treatment and served as control. Clinical assessments and diffuse reflectance measurements were made at 7 time points during treatment. Apparent concentrations of oxyhemoglobin (HbO2), deoxyhemoglobin (Hb) and melanin were estimated by analysis of the diffuse reflectance spectra. No changes were observed in the apparent HbO2 or the Hb concentration of the placebo-treated or control sites, thus establishing a reliable baseline. The apparent HbO2 concentration of the tretinoin-treated sites increased significantly from baseline to a maximum at 12-18 weeks of treatment, then returned to baseline with continued applications. The changes in HbO2 concentration agreed closely with clinical assessments of erythema. The apparent melanin concentration, corresponding to diffuse hyperpigmentation, showed a large seasonal decrease in both the control and the treated sites, with an additional decrease in the treated sites between 12 and 18 weeks. Erythema appeared after repeated applications and eventually resolved under continuous treatment. The maximum decrease in hyperpigmentation occurred simultaneously with the maximum increase in erythema.
Thiamazole is a widely used antithyroid agent that has been approved for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. Although thiamazole-induced hepatotoxicity is a main side effect, it may progress to liver failure in a very few cases.
We described a 24-year-old patient with hyperthyroidism and trilogy of Fallot, who developed liver failure due to thiamazole. Liver biopsy showed intrahepatic cholestasis, mild inflammatory infiltrates, as well as significant fibrosis, indicating both acute and chronic liver injuries. Although a series of potent therapies were given, the patient deceased due to severe liver decompensation.
This case suggests that thiamazole-induced hepatotoxicity in the setting of advanced fibrosis increases the risk of poor outcome. Regular liver function monitoring during thiamazole therapy is therefore important.
