The 26-week oral toxicity of diheptyl phthalate (DHP), a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor α (PPARα) agonist, with special emphasis on the potential induction of hepatocellular proliferative lesions was investigated in this study. DHP was administered to male F344 rats via gavage at 0 (control), 1,000 or 2,000 mg/kg/day for 26 weeks. Body weight gain was significantly lower, whereas food and water consumption was significantly higher in DHP-treated rats compared with controls. DHP-treated rats exhibited decreases in blood triglyceride, total cholesterol, phospholipid and glucose levels, which were likely related to biological effects of the PPARα agonist. Absolute and relative organ weights of the livers with pale brown discoloration and dark brown spots significantly increased in DHP-treated rats. Histopathological examinations revealed remarkable diffuse hypertrophy of hepatocytes with ground-glass appearance, intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies and/or vacuolation in the DHP-treated groups. These findings were associated with increases in serum aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and γ-glutamyltranspeptidase. The number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form positive foci, a marker of hepatocellular preneoplastic lesions in rats, significantly increased in DHP-treated groups. Additionally, proliferating cell nuclear antigen positive liver cell counts in DHP-treated groups were significantly higher than those of the controls. Testicular alterations were not detected histopathologically, whereas absolute and relative prostate weights significantly decreased at both doses. These results indicate that DHP induces liver pre-neoplastic foci, and suggest the possibility that DHP is a possible genotoxic carcinogen in the liver of rats.
To determine the threshold dose of β-Naphthoflavone (BNF) that induces hepatocellular tumor promoting effects, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) formation, and drug-metabolizing enzymes that protect against ROS generation, two-stage liver carcinogenesis model was used. Partial hepatectomized rats (n = 11 to 12) were fed diets containing 0, 0.03, 0.06, 0.125 or 0.25% BNF for 6 weeks after an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) to initiate hepatocarcinogenesis. Histopathologically, glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P)-positive foci significantly increased in rats given 0.25% BNF. No marked changes in ROS production and TBARS contents were observed between the BNF treated and DEN alone groups. Real-time RT-PCR showed that the expression of Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, Cyp1b1 and Nqo1 significantly increased in the groups given 0.03% BNF or more, but Ugt1a6, Akr7a3 and Gstm1 significantly increased in the groups given 0.125% BNF or more. Gpx2 and Yc2 significantly increased in the groups given 0.06% BNF or more and 0.25% BNF, respectively. Inflammation-related genes such as Ccl2, Mmp12, Serpine1 and Cox-2 significantly increased in the 0.25% BNF group. In immunohistochemistry, the number of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2)-positive cells increased in rats given 0.25% BNF. These results suggest that 0.25% BNF is the threshold dose for liver tumor promotion, and the fact that inflammation-related genes and COX-2 protein increased in the 0.25% BNF group strongly suggests that inflammation is involved in the liver tumor promoting effect of BNF in rats.
Doxorubicin is widely prescribed in the chemotherapy of haematological malignancies and solid tumours. The major side effect of doxorubicin is oxidative injury-related cardiotoxicity, which has dramatically hindered its usage. Procyanidins from grape seeds are potent free radical scavengers that have been shown to protect against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. In the present study, we tested whether procyanidins would prevent the doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in rats. Rats were intraperitoneally treated with doxorubicin at a cumulative dose of 15 mg/kg with and without pre-administration of procyanidins. Our data showed that doxorubicin led to cardiac function deterioration, myocardial injury and increased oxidative stress in cardiac tissues. The cardiac function deterioration by doxorubicin included increased QT-interval and ST-interval in electrocardiograph (ECG) and decreased left ventricular developed pressure. Doxorubicin-induced myocardial injury was shown by the increased creatine kinase, alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase in serum as well as in myocardial lesions. Pretreatment with procyanidin (150 mg/kg daily) effectively hindered the adverse effects of doxorubicin, such as myocardial injury and impaired heart function. Procyanidin pretreatment attenuated cytoplasmic vacuolization, increased left ventricular developed pressure and improved the ECG. The cardioprotective effect of procyanidin corresponded to the decrease of lipid peroxidation and the increase of cardiac antioxidant potency in doxorubicin-treated rats that were also given procyanidin. An in vitro cytotoxic study showed that procyanidins did not attenuate the antineoplastic activity of doxorubicin to A549 adenocarcinoma cells. All the above lines of evidence suggest that procyanidins protect cardiomyocytes from doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity via suppression of oxidative stress.
L-DOPA is the most effective pharmacological agent used for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease but long-term L-DOPA treatment induces involuntary abnormal movements such as dyskinesias. The present study, using in vivo microdialysis, investigated the effects of a single or subchronic administration of L-DOPA to adult rats with a unilateral 6-OHDA lesion of dopamine neurons on GABA release in the substantia nigra, pars reticulata (SNr). The results indicate that a challenge injection of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increases GABA levels in the SNr of rats treated with a daily repeated administration of L-DOPA (50 mg/kg, i.p.). Further statistical analysis between groups also showed that extracellular GABA levels were significantly higher in the subchronic L-DOPA group than in the group receiving only one injection of L-DOPA. These results show that the subchronic administration of L-DOPA results in a sensitization of enhanced extracellular GABA levels in the SNr.
Capecitabine, a fluoropyrimidine carbamate with antineoplastic activity, is an oral agent that was developed as a prodrug of 5-fluorouracil and is used in the treatment of metastatic colorectal and breast cancers. Multiple cutaneous adverse effects had been described with the use of this drug, but to our knowledge, specific association with capecitabine and hand-foot syndrome with sclerodactyly-like changes has been described only once. We report a patient with a colon adenocarcinoma who presented with hand-foot syndrome, with sclerodactyly-like changes induced by capecitabine.
Outcome and the issue of recurrence of disease in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) renal transplant recipients is still a matter of controversy. There is a lack of comparative studies with non-SLE patients. The aim of this paper is to compare renal transplantation in lupus patients with a similar matched non-SLE group.
Forty-five patients with systemic lupus erythematosus subjected to 48 kidney transplants were studied. For comparative purposes, a case-control population was selected, matched for gender, race, type of donor, age, and time of transplantation. Patients with non-glomerulonephritis diseases were excluded.
No differences in acute episodes of rejection, causes of kidney loss or patient death were observed. General as well as infectious complications were similar. Pregnancy rates and outcomes were similar with no deleterious effect on patients or grafts. Actuarial 1- and 5-year patient survivals (97.7 and 91.1% for SLE and 95.4 and 87% for controls, respectively) and graft survivals (93.1 and 80.7% for SLE and 88.8 and 70.2% for controls, respectively) were similar. Long-term renal function expressed by serum creatinine was the same. No differences in immunosuppressive drug (azathioprine, prednisone, and cyclosporin) requirements were found. Clinical SLE recurrence was suspected only once (a patient with thrombocytopenia, hypocomplementaemia with low complement levels and positive antiplatelet antibodies). Two SLE patients showed mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis compatible with recurrence. Both grafts were lost. Two further patients showed membranous glomerulonephritis with an immunofluorescence pattern compatible with recurrence. A fifth patient had necrotizing arteritis which recovered after treatment with cyclophosphamide and another patient showed focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis. Histology of biopsies from five patients in the control group showed signs compatible with recurrence of focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis and membranous glomerulonephritis. There was a wide variation in serum levels of antinuclear antibodies. A wide variation in complement levels was also observed, but with a tendency towards low C4 levels.
The safety of renal transplantation in SLE patients is equivalent to a matched case-control group with a similar rate of recurrence of disease.
Recent genome-wide association (GWA) studies of lipids have been conducted in samples ascertained for other phenotypes, particularly diabetes. Here we report the first GWA analysis of loci affecting total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and triglycerides sampled randomly from 16 population-based cohorts and genotyped using mainly the Illumina HumanHap300-Duo platform. Our study included a total of 17,797-22,562 persons, aged 18-104 years and from geographic regions spanning from the Nordic countries to Southern Europe. We established 22 loci associated with serum lipid levels at a genome-wide significance level (P < 5 x 10(-8)), including 16 loci that were identified by previous GWA studies. The six newly identified loci in our cohort samples are ABCG5 (TC, P = 1.5 x 10(-11); LDL, P = 2.6 x 10(-10)), TMEM57 (TC, P = 5.4 x 10(-10)), CTCF-PRMT8 region (HDL, P = 8.3 x 10(-16)), DNAH11 (LDL, P = 6.1 x 10(-9)), FADS3-FADS2 (TC, P = 1.5 x 10(-10); LDL, P = 4.4 x 10(-13)) and MADD-FOLH1 region (HDL, P = 6 x 10(-11)). For three loci, effect sizes differed significantly by sex. Genetic risk scores based on lipid loci explain up to 4.8% of variation in lipids and were also associated with increased intima media thickness (P = 0.001) and coronary heart disease incidence (P = 0.04). The genetic risk score improves the screening of high-risk groups of dyslipidemia over classical risk factors.
Several multikinase angiogenesis inhibitors demonstrate mitochondrial and/or cardiovascular toxicity, suggesting an on-target pharmacologic effect. To evaluate whether cardiotoxicity is directly related to vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibition, we investigated the effects of sunitinib, sorafenib, and pazopanib on myocardial function and structure. We used a rat model to assess myocardial effects of the inhibitors concurrently exposed to the cardiac stressor dobutamine. Echocardiographic abnormalities including premature ventricular contractions, decreases in heart rate, circumferential strain, and radial and circumferential strain rates were noted with sorafenib, but not with sunitinib or pazopanib. Ultrastructural analysis of ventricular cardiomyocytes by transmission electron microscopy revealed mitochondrial swelling, dense deposits, and matrix cavitation in rats given sunitinib and disrupted mitochondrial cristae in rats given sorafenib, but there were no effects with pazopanib. Effects on neonatal rat cardiomyocyte cultures were assessed, which identified decreases in mitochondrial membrane potential with sunitinib treatment, but not with sorafenib or pazopanib. Intracellular adenosine triphosphate depletion was observed with sunitinib and sorafenib, but not pazopanib. Our results show that cardiotoxicity is not necessarily related to a pharmacologic classwide effect of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor inhibition, and the rat myocardial structural and functional changes identified in this study may be instead a result of inhibition of other kinase pathways, the mechanism of which may be associated with mitochondrial toxicity.
Concern has been expressed over the cardiovascular risks associated with rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. This study investigates the association between oral antihyperglycaemics (rosiglitazone, pioglitazone, sulfonylureas and metformin) with myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, angina pectoris, stroke and transient ischaemic attack.
We used Taiwan's 2000-5 National Health Insurance database to conduct a population-based, retrospective cohort study of 473 483 newly diagnosed patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. We classified study patients into five basic groups based on the agents they were prescribed during the study period: (i) rosiglitazone monotherapy; (ii) pioglitazone monotherapy; (iii) sulfonylurea-based therapy; (iv) metformin-based therapy; and (v) sulfonylurea and metformin-based therapy. Cox proportional hazards models were used to evaluate the association between the use of rosiglitazone or pioglitazone and the occurrence of cardiovascular events.
Patients receiving rosiglitazone monotherapy were at higher risk for any cardiovascular event (hazard ratio [HR] 1.89; 95% CI 1.57, 2.28), myocardial infarction (HR 2.09; 95% CI 1.36, 3.24), angina pectoris (HR 1.79; 95% CI 1.39, 2.30) and transient ischaemic attack (HR 2.57; 95% CI 1.33, 4.96) than those receiving metformin monotherapy. Overall, add-on rosiglitazone and pioglitazone were associated with comparable cardiovascular risk. Based on our point estimates, pioglitazone as an add-on therapy was found to have a favourable, but nonsignificant, effect on outcome.
Our findings extend the evidence from current literature to a real-world setting and support data from clinical trials that the disadvantages or harm caused by thiazolidinediones, especially rosiglitazone, may outweigh their benefits in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Guinea pigs treated with a single s.c. injection of a slowly released morphine suspension (300 mg/kg) exhibited a quantifiable withdrawal syndrome after naloxone injection (0.01-10 mg/kg s.c.). Ileum removed from such animals responded to naloxone (1-300 ng/ml) by contracting. These contractions could be blocked by scopolamine or tetrodotoxin. Both the in vivo and in vitro responses were specific for the opiate-dependent state and were dependent on naloxone dose. Time courses of the development and decline of the two responses were similar. Weaker opioids, pentazocine and codeine, were less effective than morphine in producing a dependent state and sensitizing ileum to naloxone. 1-(-)-delta9-Tetrahydrocann abinol [1-(-)-delta9-THC] antagonized the effect of naloxone on ileum without affecting responses to acetylcholine. 1-(-)-delta9-THC produced a stereospecific, dose-dependent (1-10 mg/kg p.o.) inhibition of naloxone-precipitated withdrawal in guinea pigs and rats that was more complete than and different from that produced by sedatives. Pentobarbital inhibited withdrawal only at doses that produced ataxia. 1-(-)-delta9-THC had a biphasic effect on locomotor activity of guinea pig in the dose range that inhibited withdrawal, stimulation at 1 mg/kg and depression at 3 to 10 mg/kg. Our results suggest that cannabinoids may be useful in opiate detoxification. The inhibition by 1-(-)-delta9-THC of the action of naloxone in "dependent" ileum seems to be via reduction in acetylcholine release. Whereas the end result of 1-(-)-delta9-THC action in brain may not necessarily be a reduction in acetylcholine release as in ileum, the mechanism by which it produces this effect in the ileum model may explain its ability to antagonize withdrawal.
Bioidentical hormones, including implanted estradiol-17beta pellets, have received considerable interest in the lay media. It is thought that parenteral estrogens have fewer gastrointestinal side effects than oral products.
A 46-year-old woman in surgical menopause was transferred due to persistent abdominal pain and nausea after cholecystectomy in the setting of long-term hyperestrogenemia. She denied recent use of hormone therapy. Significant findings included biliary dyskinesia, hypertriglyceridemia and focal nodular hyperplasia of the liver with fatty infiltration. Laboratory findings were significant for hyperestrogenemia with markedly suppressed gonadotropin levels and undetectable inhibin level. The patient eventually disclosed receiving serial implants of estradiol-17beta and testosterone pellets by another provider.
Serum levels from hormone pellets are unpredictable and can remain elevated for years. Lack of standardized dosing parameters for this nonregulated product likely contributes to the chance of hyperestrogenemia. Despite bypassing first-pass metabolism, supraphysiologic levels of these hormones can cause significant metabolic and gastrointestinal impairments.
An immune complex mechanism for ceftriaxone sodium- induced severe autoimmune hemolytic anemia has previously been demonstrated using routine blood bank techniques. We describe herein a patient with severe hemolysis that subsided once the drug was discontinued. Serologic techniques demonstrated immune complex-mediated ceftriaxone-dependent red cell antibodies. These findings were further supported by the results of flow cytometry, in which a change in basal red cell autofluorescence was seen in the presence of the antibody and the drug. Our case illustrates the adjunctive value of flow cytometry in the diagnosis of ceftriaxone-dependent red cell antibody.
Acute liver failure induced by hepatotoxic drugs results from rapid progression of injury. Substantial research has shown that timely liver regeneration can prevent progression of injury leading to a favorable prognosis. However, the mechanism by which compensatory regeneration prevents progression of injury is not known. We have recently reported that calpain released from necrotic hepatocytes mediates progression of liver injury even after the hepatotoxic drug is cleared from the body. By examining expression of calpastatin (CAST), an endogenous inhibitor of calpain in three liver cell division models known to be resistant to hepatotoxicity, we tested the hypothesis that increased CAST in the dividing hepatocytes affords resistance against progression of injury. Liver regeneration that follows CCl(4)-induced liver injury, 70% partial hepatectomy, and postnatal liver development were used. In all three models, CAST was upregulated in the dividing/newly divided hepatocytes and declined to normal levels with the cessation of cell proliferation. To test whether CAST overexpression confers resistance against hepatotoxicity, CAST was overexpressed in the livers of normal SW mice using adenovirus before challenging them with acetaminophen (APAP) overdose. These mice exhibited markedly attenuated progression of liver injury and 57% survival. Whereas APAP-bioactivating enzymes and covalent binding of the APAP-derived reactive metabolites remained unaffected, degradation of calpain specific target substrates such as fodrin was significantly reduced in these mice. In conclusion, CAST overexpression could be used as a therapeutic strategy to prevent progression of liver injury where liver regeneration is severely hampered.
Prostacyclin (PGI2) injected ivc in doses of 25 and 100 micrograms/rat increased body temperature, decreased spontaneous locomotor activity and amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity in Wistar rats, in a dose of 100 micrograms inhibited apomorphine-induced stereotypy and potentiated haloperidol-induced catalepsy. PGI2 in both doses decreased noradrenaline level, in a dose of 100 micrograms it increased the cerebral level of dopamine but did not influence the utilization of these amines in the rat brain. PGI2 in a dose of 100 micrograms also increased the concentration of serotonin, but did not change the cerebral 5-hydroxyindoloacetic acid concentration.
A series of 49 wrist and metacarpal blocks were done with the use of 0.25% or 0.5% bupivacaine in 44 patients for surgical and therapeutic purposes. Seven patients developed hypesthesia in the blocked nerve distribution lasting from 1 week to 4 months. One patient had pain and a positive Tinel sign in a dorsal branch of a digital nerve lasting 2 1/2 months. Since no neuropathies were reported in large series of nerve blocks with bupivacaine in other anatomic areas, it is postulated that bupivacaine in anatomically confined areas can cause a transient neuropathy possibly caused by a large local dose of the drug.
This study describes neuropsychiatric side effects in patients after treatment with mefloquine. Reactions consisted mainly of seizures, acute psychoses, anxiety neurosis, and major disturbances of sleep-wake rhythm. Side effects occurred after both therapeutic and prophylactic intake and were graded from moderate to severe. In a risk analysis of neuropsychiatric side effects in Germany, it is estimated that one of 8,000 mefloquine users suffers from such reactions. The incidence calculation revealed that one of 215 therapeutic users had reactions, compared with one of 13,000 in the prophylaxis group, making the risk of neuropsychiatric reactions after mefloquine treatment 60 times higher than after prophylaxis. Therefore, certain limitations for malaria prophylaxis and treatment with mefloquine are recommended.
In genome-wide association (GWA) data from 2,151 nondiabetic French subjects, we identified rs1387153, near MTNR1B (which encodes the melatonin receptor 2 (MT2)), as a modulator of fasting plasma glucose (FPG; P = 1.3 x 10(-7)). In European populations, the rs1387153 T allele is associated with increased FPG (beta = 0.06 mmol/l, P = 7.6 x 10(-29), N = 16,094), type 2 diabetes (T2D) risk (odds ratio (OR) = 1.15, 95% CI = 1.08-1.22, P = 6.3 x 10(-5), cases N = 6,332) and risk of developing hyperglycemia or diabetes over a 9-year period (hazard ratio (HR) = 1.20, 95% CI = 1.06-1.36, P = 0.005, incident cases N = 515). RT-PCR analyses confirm the presence of MT2 transcripts in neural tissues and show MT2 expression in human pancreatic islets and beta cells. Our data suggest a possible link between circadian rhythm regulation and glucose homeostasis through the melatonin signaling pathway.
Non-ketotic hyperglycinaemia (NKH) is an inborn error of metabolism characterised by accumulation of glycine in body fluids and various neurological symptoms. NKH is caused by deficiency of the glycine cleavage multienzyme system with three specific components encoded by GLDC, AMT and GCSH. Most patients are deficient of the enzymatic activity of glycine decarboxylase, which is encoded by GLDC. Our recent study has suggested that there are a considerable number of GLDC mutations which are not identified by the standard exon-sequencing method.
A screening system for GLDC deletions by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) has been developed. Two distinct cohorts of patients with typical NKH were screened by this
the first cohort consisted of 45 families with no identified AMT or GCSH mutations, and the second cohort was comprised of 20 patients from the UK who were not prescreened for AMT mutations.
GLDC deletions were identified in 16 of 90 alleles (18%) in the first cohort and in 9 of 40 alleles (22.5%) in the second cohort. 14 different types of deletions of various lengths were identified, including one allele where all 25 exons were missing. Flanking sequences of interstitial deletions in five patients were determined, and Alu-mediated recombination was identified in three of five patients.
GLDC deletions are a significant cause of NKH, and the MLPA analysis is a valuable first-line screening for NKH genetic testing.
The concept of mast cell heterogeneity is well established. Recent data indicate that human conjunctival tissue mast cells and human connective tissue mast cells respond to various secretagogues in similar fashion. It is now recognized that different mast cell populations respond differently to anti-allergic drugs.
The purpose of the study is to compare the effects of three new ocular anti-allergic drugs (nedocromil, olopatadine, and pemirolast) on mediator release from the target human conjunctival mast cell population with those of cromolyn sodium. The affinity of the compounds for the histamine H1 receptor was also compared.
A monodispersed suspension of partially purified human conjunctival mast cells was prepared from cadaver conjunctival tissue. Mast cells (5 x 10(3)) were challenged with anti-human IgE in the presence or absence of test drugs, and histamine content of the cell supernatants was determined using a specific radioimmunoassay. H1 receptor binding activity was assessed using a radioligand binding assay.
Cromolyn and pemirolast (100 nM to 1 mM) failed to significantly inhibit histamine release from human conjunctival mast cells using exposure times of 1 and 15 minutes prior to challenge. Using identical nedocromil concentrations and exposure times, statistically significant (P < .05) inhibition (28%) of histamine release was observed at only the 100 microM concentration and 1-minute exposure time. In contrast, olopatadine inhibited histamine release in a concentration-dependent fashion (r = 0.891, n = 59, IC50 = 653 microM). Only olopatadine exhibited significant H1 receptor binding activity at relevant concentrations (Ki = 36 nM, n = 13).
These data indicate that olopatadine possesses anti-allergic activity in the appropriate targets for topical ocular anti-allergic drug therapy, human conjunctival mast cells. Coupled with the compound's antihistaminic activity, this suggests that olopatadine will have efficacy advantages in allergic conjunctivitis patients over the other drugs tested.
We investigated the behavioral and biochemical events appearing in rats after withdrawal for 24 h or 8-12 days from two classical neuroleptics, haloperidol and pimozide. The neuroleptics were given for 14 days alone or shortly after injection of the Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine. We have found that withdrawal effects after haloperidol and pimozide were different. After haloperidol treatment we observed an increase in cortical Ca2+ channel and limbic dopamine D1 receptor density and an increase in spontaneous motor activity and apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and stereotypy. In contrast no biochemical changes were observed during pimozide withdrawal, and locomotor activity and responses to apomorphine were depressed. Co-administration of nifedipine with haloperidol prevented the observed biochemical and behavioral symptoms of withdrawal. Nifedipine administration did not change the depressant effects of pimozide. Our results suggest that the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel is involved in the observed withdrawal syndrome of neuroleptics, and that the absence of this syndrome after pimozide may be related to its considerable Ca2+ channel-blocking properties.
A one-year-old boy presented with hypercalciuria and nephrolithiasis following a course of ACTH therapy for infantile spasms. After a successful cystolithotripsy, therapy with chlorothiazide was followed by regression of the hypercalciuria within 42 months. Neither nephrolithiasis nor nephrocalcinosis recurred. Therapy with thiazides to prevent hypercalciuria caused by ACTH is proposed.
It has been previously shown that myocardial contrast echocardiography is a valuable technique for delineating regions of myocardial underperfusion secondary to coronary occlusion and to critical coronary stenoses in the presence of hyperemic stimulation. The aim of this study was to determine whether myocardial contrast echocardiography performed with a stable solution of sonicated albumin could detect regions of myocardial underperfusion resulting from various degrees of coronary stenosis. The perfusion defect produced in 16 open chest dogs was compared with the anatomic area at risk measured by the postmortem dual-perfusion technique and with thallium-201 single-photon emission tomography (SPECT). During a transient (20-s) coronary occlusion, a perfusion defect was observed with contrast echocardiography in 14 of the 15 dogs in which the occlusion was produced. The perfusion defect correlated significantly with the anatomic area at risk (r = 0.74; p less than 0.002). During dipyridamole-induced hyperemia, 12 of the 16 dogs with a partial coronary stenosis had a visible area of hypoperfusion by contrast echocardiography. The four dogs without a perfusion defect had a stenosis that resulted in a mild (0% to 50%) reduction in dipyridamole-induced hyperemia. The size of the perfusion defect during stenosis correlated significantly with the anatomic area at risk (r = 0.61; p = 0.02). Thallium-201 SPECT demonstrated a perfusion defect in all 14 dogs analyzed during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia; the size of the perfusion defect correlated with the anatomic area at risk (r = 0.58; p less than 0.03) and with the perfusion defect by contrast echocardiography (r = 0.58; p less than 0.03). Thus, myocardial contrast echocardiography can be used to visualize and quantitate the amount of jeopardized myocardium during moderate to severe degrees of coronary stenosis. The results obtained show a correlation with the anatomic area at risk similar to that obtained with thallium-201 SPECT.
Scalp EEG localization of epileptic foci may be obscured by electromyographic (EMG) artifact produced by ictal contraction of cranial muscles. Injection of botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) into frontotemporal scalp muscles reduces EMG activity. Initial scalp video-EEG monitoring in three patients suggested partial seizures, but definitive lateralization or localization was precluded by EMG artifact.
EMG-guided BTX-A injection to bilateral frontotemporal muscles was performed. When artifact persisted, BTX-A administration was selectively repeated. Patients subsequently underwent scalp video-EEG monitoring 1 week later.
All patients had reduction of EMG artifact during subsequent scalp video-EEG monitoring. No patient had adverse effects after BTX-A administration. All three patients had localization to either frontal or temporal lobes and definitive lateralization. Two of the three patients were able to proceed to invasive placement of frontotemporal subdural grid electrodes based on the BTX-A scalp video-EEG localization, and the third patient was determined to have a multifocal seizure disorder.
Paralysis of frontotemporal scalp muscle after BTX-A administration reduces EMG artifact and may improve localization and lateralization of a seizure focus, providing a noninvasive technique for advancement toward epilepsy surgery.
Recently, we developed a transgenic mouse with cardiac-specific Gsalpha overexpression (TG mouse), which exhibits enhanced postsynaptic beta-adrenergic receptor signaling, ultimately developing a cardiomyopathy. The goal of the present study was to determine whether cardiac Gsalpha overexpression alters autonomic cardiovascular control, which could shed light on the mechanism responsible for the later development of cardiomyopathy. Mean arterial pressure was increased (P<.05) in conscious, chronically instrumented TG mice (123+/-1 mm Hg) compared with age-matched wild-type (WT) control mice (103+/-1 mm Hg). Respiratory frequency was increased (P<.05) in TG mice (269+/-26/min) compared with WT mice (210+/-20/min). By use of telemetric techniques, baseline heart rate (HR) was elevated (P<.05) in conscious, untethered TG mice (696+/-13 bpm) compared with WT mice (568+/-28 bpm). Intrinsic HR, after propranolol and atropine or after ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium, was not different between TG and WT mice. Both the normal minute-to-minute and circadian variations of HR observed in WT mice were markedly blunted in TG mice. HR variability was assessed by the time-domain and frequency-domain methods. At baseline, time-domain analysis indices were reduced (P<.05) in TG mice compared with WT mice. Although the low frequency (LF) component was higher (P<.05) than the high frequency (HF) component in WT mice, the LF component was less (P<.05) than the HF component in TG mice. In addition, arterial baroreflex regulation of HR was markedly blunted in TG mice in response to both nitroglycerin-induced hypotension and phenylephrine-induced hypertension. The reduced LF/HF ratio in TG mice was surprising in view of enhanced beta-adrenergic signaling and may be due to reduced neural tone secondary to the elevated arterial pressure or alterations in arterial baroreflex control. Dobutamine infusion in WT mice also resulted in depressed HR variability. The combination of elevated baseline HR, arterial pressure, and respiratory frequency suggests that enhanced beta-adrenergic signaling in TG mice results in reduced HR variability, in terms of both minute-to-minute variability and the lack of circadian variations in HR. The lack of normal HR variability in general and the failure of HR to decline, even during sleep, may actually be critical mechanisms contributing to the ultimate development of cardiomyopathy in these animals.
The study objective was to evaluate the quality of parent-child interactions in preschool-aged children exposed prenatally to cocaine. African-American mothers and their full-term newborns (n = 343) were enrolled prospectively at birth and classified as either prenatally cocaine-exposed (n = 157) or non-cocaine-exposed (n = 186) on the basis of maternal self-report and bioassays. Follow-up evaluations at 3 years of age (mean age, 40 mo) included a videotaped dyadic play session and maternal interviews to assess ongoing drug use and maternal psychological distress. Play interactions were coded using a modified version of Egeland et al's Teaching Task coding scheme. Regression analyses indicated cocaine-associated deficits in mother-child interaction, even with statistical adjustment for multiple suspected influences on interaction dynamics. Mother-child interactions were most impaired in cocaine-exposed dyads when the mother continued to report cocaine use at the 3-year follow-up. Multivariate profile analysis of the Egeland interaction subscales indicated greater maternal intrusiveness and hostility, poorer quality of instruction, lower maternal confidence, and diminished child persistence in the cocaine-exposed dyads.
Heterotrimeric G proteins of the Gq class have been implicated in signaling pathways regulating cardiac growth under physiological and pathological conditions. Knockout mice carrying inactivating mutations in both of the widely expressed G alpha q class genes, G alpha q and G alpha 11, demonstrate that at least two active alleles of these genes are required for extrauterine life. Mice carrying only one intact allele [G alpha q(-/+);G alpha 11(-/-) or G alpha q(-/-);G alpha 11(-/+)] died shortly after birth. These mutants showed a high incidence of cardiac malformation. In addition, G alpha q(-/-);G alpha 11(-/+) newborns suffered from craniofacial defects. Mice lacking both G alpha q and G alpha 11 [G alpha q(-/-);G alpha 11(-/-)] died at embryonic day 11 due to cardiomyocyte hypoplasia. These data demonstrate overlap in G alpha q and G alpha 11 gene functions and indicate that the Gq class of G proteins plays a crucial role in cardiac growth and development.
The amiodarone-induced optic neuropathy seldom occurs and so far, only 17 cases have been reported. These results are summarized here and the differences between them and the ischemic optic neuropathy are pointed out. We report on a 62-years-old patient who, when treated with amiodarone, developed an optic atrophy with slightly decreased visual acuity and severe visual field defects of the left eye. On the right eye we discovered shortly after discontinuing the amiodarone therapy, how, a mild swelling of the optic disc changed to an optic atrophy with analogous, irreversible changes of visual acuity and visual fields.
Non-myeloablative cytoreduction is used in clinical hematopoietic stem cell gene therapy trials to increase engraftment of gene-modified cells. We utilized an infant rhesus monkey model to identify an optimal dosage of busulfan that results in efficient long-term gene marking with minimal toxicities.
Bone marrow (BM) was harvested, followed by a single 2-hour intravenous infusion of busulfan at escalating dosages of 0 to 160 mg/m(2). CD34(+) cells were immunoselected from BM, transduced overnight with a simian immunodeficiency virus-based lentiviral vector carrying a non-expressed marker gene, and injected intravenously 48 hours post-busulfan administration. Pharmacokinetics were assessed, as well as adverse effects and peripheral blood and BM gene marking.
Increasing dosages of busulfan resulted in increased area-under-the-curve (AUC) with some variability at each dosage level, suggesting interindividual variation in clearance. Blood chemistries were normal and no adverse effects were observed as a result of busulfan infusion. At 120 and 160 mg/m(2), transient neutropenia and thrombocytopenia were noted but not lymphopenia. Over the 6 months of study posttransplantation, a busulfan dosage-related increase in gene marking was observed ranging from undetectable (no busulfan) up to 0.1% gene-containing cells in animals achieving the highest busulfan AUC. This corresponds to a more than 100-fold increase in gene marking over the busulfan dosage range studied.
These data indicate that increased gene marking of hematopoietic stem cells can be achieved by escalating busulfan dosages from 40 to 160 mg/m(2) without significant toxicity in infant nonhuman primates.
A phase I multicenter trial was performed to determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of epirubicin, given on 3 consecutive days every 3 weeks to previously untreated patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
After appropriate staging and a baseline multiple-gated angiogram (MUGA) scan, at least four patients were entered at each dose level, starting at 35 mg/m2 of epirubicin given intravenously (IV) daily for 3 days (105 mg/m2) and escalating by 5 mg/m2 per injection in each dose level (15 mg/m2 per course). Epirubicin was administered up to a maximum dose of 60 mg/m2/d for 3 days (180 mg/m2). The MTD was determined to be 55 mg/m2/d for 3 days (165 mg/m2) after treating a total of 35 (33 assessable) patients. Nadir granulocyte counts and associated febrile episodes comprised the dose-limiting toxicity, but there were no treatment-related deaths. A phase II trial was performed using a dose of 50 mg/m2/d for 3 days (150 mg/m2) every 3 weeks with no dose escalation, but with dose reduction for toxicity as required. A total of 30 patients were entered onto this phase of the study.
The major toxicity, as in the phase I trial, was neutropenia with five febrile episodes, again with no treatment-related deaths. An overall response rate of 12 of 63 (19%) was noted in the combined patient population of the phase I-II trial, with 95% confidence intervals of 10% to 31%. When the response rate was analyzed by histology, only one of 17 (6%) patients with squamous histology, as compared with 11 of 46 (24%) with non-squamous histology, responded, but this did not reach statistical significance (P = .15).
High-dose epirubicin is tolerable and is an active single agent in NSCLC. It should be combined with relatively nonmyelosuppressive agents such as cisplatin to try to obtain higher response rates and extend the survival in this disease.
