The blood pressure response to different doses of methylprednisolone was examined in the rat. It is concluded that doses varying from 2.5 mg/kg/week to 20 mg/kg/week of this agent caused clear-cut elevations in arterial pressure. The methylprednisolone-induced arterial hypertension was accompanied by elevation in Plasma Renin Activity and administration of captopril or saralasin caused significant drops in systemic arterial pressure. Concomitant long term administration of captopril and methylprednisolone caused a delay in appearance and smaller elevations in arterial pressure. It is concluded the methylprednisolone in the rat causes arterial hypertension which is at least partially dependent upon renin angiotensin system activation. However elevated blood pressure levels were noticeable even during chronic captopril administration leading to the conclusion that other mechanism (s) may participate in the pathogenesis of this experimental model of hypertension in rats.
Episodic acidification resulting in increased acidity and inorganic aluminum (Al(i)) is known to interfere with the parr-smolt transformation of Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), and has been implicated as a possible cause of population decline. To determine the extent and mechanism(s) by which short-term acid/Al exposure compromises smolt development, Atlantic salmon smolts were exposed to either control (pH 6.7-6.9) or acid/Al (pH 5.4-6.3, 28-64 microgl(-1) Al(i)) conditions for 2 and 5 days, and impacts on freshwater (FW) ion regulation, seawater (SW) tolerance, plasma hormone levels and stress response were examined. Gill Al concentrations were elevated in all smolts exposed to acid/Al relative to controls confirming exposure to increased Al(i). There was no effect of acid/Al on plasma ion concentrations in FW however, smolts exposed to acid/Al followed by a 24h SW challenge exhibited greater plasma Cl(-) levels than controls, indicating reduced SW tolerance. Loss of SW tolerance was accompanied by reductions in gill Na(+),K(+)-ATPase (NKA) activity and Na(+),K(+),2Cl(-) (NKCC) cotransporter protein abundance. Acid/Al exposure resulted in decreased plasma insulin-like growth factor (IGF-I) and 3,3',5'-triiodo-l-thyronine (T(3)) levels, whereas no effect of treatment was seen on plasma cortisol, growth hormone (GH), or thyroxine (T(4)) levels. Acid/Al exposure resulted in increased hematocrit and plasma glucose levels in FW, but both returned to control levels after 24h in SW. The results indicate that smolt development and SW tolerance are compromised by short-term exposure to acid/Al in the absence of detectable impacts on FW ion regulation. Loss of SW tolerance during short-term acid/Al exposure likely results from reductions in gill NKA and NKCC, possibly mediated by decreases in plasma IGF-I and T(3).
To establish the feasibility and tolerability of gefitinib (ZD1839, Iressa) with radiation (RT) or concurrent chemoradiation (CRT) with cisplatin (CDDP) in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
In this multicenter Phase I study, 5 patients with unresectable NSCLC received 250 mg gefitinib daily starting 1 week before RT at a dose of 63 Gy (Step 1). After a first safety analysis, 9 patients were treated daily with 250 mg gefitinib plus CRT in the form of RT and weekly CDDP 35 mg/m(2) (Step 2). Gefitinib was maintained for up to 2 years until disease progression or toxicity.
Fourteen patients were assessed in the two steps. In Step 1 (five patients were administered only gefitinib and RT), no lung toxicities were seen, and there was no dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Adverse events were skin and subcutaneous tissue reactions, limited to Grade 1-2. In Step 2, two of nine patients (22.2%) had DLT. One patient suffered from dyspnea and dehydration associated with neutropenic pneumonia, and another showed elevated liver enzymes. In both steps combined, 5 of 14 patients (35.7%) experienced one or more treatment interruptions.
Gefitinib (250 mg daily) in combination with RT and CDDP in patients with Stage III NSCLC is feasible, but CDDP likely enhances toxicity. The impact of gefitinib on survival and disease control as a first-line treatment in combination with RT remains to be determined.
This laboratory has previously shown that acute exposure to a variety of brief stressful events can have a very long-lasting influence on subsequent responsiveness to pharmacological and non-pharmacological stressors. In some cases the response to these agents is enhanced, while in others it is diminished: the common denominator being that in each instance the influence of the initial stressor grows stronger with the passage of time. Here, we identify one factor that determines which time-dependent effect is manifest. In 3 separate experiments, male rats were subjected to a single exposure to stressors of either lower or higher intensity and their effects on haloperidol-induced catalepsy and dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels in the nucleus accumbens and medial frontal cortex, measured either 1-2 h or 2 weeks later. The stressors were either environmental (needle jab or 1 h of immobilization), metabolic (200 or 750 mg/kg, i.p. of 2-deoxy-D-glucose), or no effect on haloperidol-induced catalepsy when stressors preceded such behavioral testing by 1-2 h. By contrast, when the interval was 2 weeks, the lower-intensity stressors all increased haloperidol catalepsy, whereas the higher-intensity stressors decreased the same response. In other words, a process that progressed with the passage of time was observed regardless of whether sensitization or diminution of haloperidol's action occurred. In contrast to the uniform bipolar behavioral effects observed, depending on the intensity of the prestressor, the neurochemical findings failed to show any evidence of bipolarity whatever.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. With a double-blind cross-over protocol, 20 hypertensive captopril-treated patients were studied by adding in a variable sequence a placebo and propranolol (80 mg three times a day) to their captopril regimen (200 mg three times a day), during periods each lasting 1 month. During captopril--placebo treatment their diastolic blood pressure remained elevated between 90 and 114 mmHg. 2. The additional administration of propranolol produced a significant hypotensive effect, but no alterations of the plasma angiotensin II and aldosterone concentrations and of the urinary aldosterone excretion occurred. The present data indicate that in captopril-treated patients the hypotensive effect of propranolol is achieved independently of changes in the plasma angiotensin II and aldosterone concentration. 3. The additional administration of propranolol also produced an increase in the serum potassium levels in the absence of any change in plasma aldosterone concentration or in the urinary aldosterone excretion.
The effect of thymoquinone (TQ), the main constituent of the volatile oil of Nigella sativa seeds, on the nephropathy and oxidative stress induced by doxorubicin (DOX) in rats was investigated. A single intravenous injection of DOX (6 mg/kg) induced a severe nephrotic syndrome (after 5 weeks) associated with hypoalbuminemia, hypoproteinemia, elevated serum urea, hyperlipidemia, and a high urinary excretion of protein, albumin and N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG). In the kidney, DOX induced a significant increase in total triglycerides (TG), total cholesterol (TC), and lipid peroxides and a significant decrease in non-protein sulfhydryl (NPSH) content and catalase (CAT) activity. Treatment of rats with TQ (10 mg/kg per day) supplemented with the drinking water for 5 days before DOX, and daily thereafter, significantly lowered serum urea, TG, and TC. Similarly, TG, TC and lipid peroxides in the kidneys of TQ-treated rats were decreased significantly compared with DOX alone. Moreover, NPSH content and CAT activity in the kidneys of TQ-treated DOX group were significantly elevated compared with DOX alone. Treatment with TQ significantly suppressed DOX-induced proteinuria, albuminuria, and urinary excretion of NAG. The results confirm the involvement of free radicals in the pathogenesis of nephropathy induced by DOX. Likewise, the study demonstrates the high antioxidant potential of TQ and its marked effect on the suppression of DOX-induced nephropathy. The data suggest that TQ might be applicable as a protective agent for proteinuria and hyperlipidemia associated with nephrotic syndrome.
Rats that had been prenatally exposed to cocaine were tested later in life for their sensitivity to cocaine-kindled seizures and acute cocaine-induced seizures. When treated daily with cocaine, beginning at one month of age, males prenatally exposed to 40 mg/kg cocaine developed seizures in a fewer number of days than those prenatally exposed to saline. Prenatally cocaine-treated females did not seize more rapidly than controls in the cocaine kindling paradigm; however, they were more susceptible to seizures in response to an acute high dose of cocaine. These results suggest that rats prenatally cocaine-treated are more sensitive to the seizure-producing effects of cocaine later in life, and this enhanced sensitivity is differentially expressed in males and females.
The efficacy of ciprofloxacin in treatment and prophylaxis of Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis in rats infected with a strain tolerant to the standard anti-staphylococcal antibiotics cloxacillin, vancomycin and teicoplanin was compared with its non-tolerant variant. After 5 days of treatment with ciprofloxacin 30 mg/kg subcutaneously every 8 h bacterial densities in vegetations from animals infected with the tolerant and the non-tolerant strain were similar. Resistance to ciprofloxacin did not emerge in either strain of S. aureus during treatment. In prophylaxis experiments a single dose of ciprofloxacin (30 mg/kg) administered 30 min before bacterial challenge afforded almost full protection for both the tolerant and the non-tolerant strain. At a lower dose of 6 mg/kg the protective effect was less compared with the higher dose, but no difference in the proportion of sterile vegetations was found between the two strains. Thus tolerance influenced neither treatment nor prophylaxis with ciprofloxacin. For strains of S. aureus tolerant to the usual anti-staphylococcal antibiotics ciprofloxacin could be a useful alternative for the treatment of infections.
Blockade of cannabinoid CB1 receptors has been reported to inhibit cocaine- or cocaine cue-induced reinstatement of drug seeking. However, the mechanisms underlying this action are poorly understood. Given the importance of dopamine, glutamate, and GABA in cocaine reward and relapse, we studied the effects of AM251 [N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophonyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], a novel highly selective CB1 receptor antagonist, on cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior and on cocaine-induced changes in extracellular DA, glutamate, and GABA in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) under reinstatement conditions. We found that systemic administration of AM251 selectively inhibited cocaine-induced, but not sucrose plus sucrose cue-induced, reinstatement of reward-seeking behavior. AM251 alone did not trigger reinstatement. Local perfusion of AM251 into the NAc or the dorsal striatum also inhibited cocaine-triggered reinstatement. AM251 alone dose dependently elevated NAc glutamate in a voltage-dependent Na+ channel-dependent manner. AM251 did not affect NAc DA or GABA. Pretreatment with AM251 dose dependently inhibited cocaine-induced increases in NAc glutamate but not in DA. Blockade of NAc metabotropic glutamate mGluR2/3 receptors by LY341495 [(2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid] slightly facilitated cocaine-enhanced glutamate release but blocked the antagonism of cocaine-induced reinstatement by AM251. These data suggest the following: (1) CB1 receptors exert tonic inhibition over NAc glutamate release under cocaine-extinction conditions; (2) blockade of CB1 receptors by AM251 inhibits cocaine-enhanced NAc glutamate release and cocaine-triggered reinstatement; and (3) these effects appear to be mediated by activation of presynaptic mGluR2/3 autoreceptors secondary to AM251-induced increase (disinhibition) of NAc glutamate release.
Torsade de pointes is rarely associated with chronic amiodarone treatment, despite the effect of amiodarone on QT interval prolongation.
To identify risk factors and associated conditions that may cause TdP in patients on chronic amiodarone treatment.
We reviewed the data of six consecutive patients on chronic amiodarone treatment who were admitted to the intensive cardiac care unit due to syncope and TdP.
The patients' median age was 73.5 years, and five were women. Concomitantly, loratadine was given to two patients and trazodone to one patient. Associated and attributing conditions to the development of TdP were hypokalemia in three patients, drug-induced bradycardia in one and reduced left ventricular function in four.
TdP associated with chronic amiodarone treatment may occur when amiodarone is co-administered with drugs that may potentially prolong QT interval. Additional risk factors for amiodarone-associated TdP include female gender, hypokalemia, reduced left ventricular function and bradycardia.
Acute effects of seizure-inducing doses of the organophosphate compound diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP, 1.25 mg/kg s.c.) or the carbamate insecticide carbofuran (CF, 1.25 mg/kg s.c.) on nitric oxide (NO) were studied in the brain of rats. Brain regions (pyriform cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus) were assayed for citrulline as the determinant of NO and for high-energy phosphates (ATP and phosphocreatine) as well as their major metabolites (ADP, AMP, and creatine). Rats, anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (50 mg/kg i.p.), were killed using a head-focused microwave (power, 10 kW; duration, 1.7 s). Analyses of brain regions of controls revealed significantly higher levels of citrulline in the amygdala (289.8+/-7.0 nmol/g), followed by the hippocampus (253.8+/-5.5 nmol/g), and cortex (121.7+/-4.3 nmol/g). Levels of energy metabolites were significantly higher in cortex than in amygdala or hippocampus. Within 5 min of CF injection, the citrulline levels were markedly elevated in all three brain regions examined, while with DFP treatment, only the cortex levels were elevated at this time. With either acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, the maximum increase in citrulline levels was noted 30 min post-injection (> 6- to 7-fold in the cortex, and > 3- to 4-fold in the amygdala or hippocampus). Within 1 h following DFP or CF injection, marked declines in ATP (36-60%) and phosphocreatine (28-53%) were seen. Total adenine nucleotides and total creatine compounds were reduced (36 58% and 28-48%, respectively). The inverse relationship between the increase in NO and the decease in high-energy phosphates, could partly be due to NO-induced impaired mitochondrial respiration leading to depletion of energy metabolites. Pretreatment of rats with an antioxidant, the spin trapping agent N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN, 200 mg/kg i.p.), prevented DFP- or CF-induced seizures, while the antioxidant vitamin E (100 mg/kg i.p. per day for 3 days) had no anticonvulsant effect. Both antioxidants, however, significantly prevented the increase of citrulline and the depletion of high-energy phosphates. It is concluded that seizures induced by DFP and CF produce oxidative stress due to a marked increase in NO, causing mitochondrial dysfunction, and thereby depleting neuronal energy metabolites. PBN pretreatment provides protection against AChE inhibitor-induced oxidative stress mainly by preventing seizures. Additional antioxidant actions of PBN may contribute to its protective effects. Vitamin E has direct antioxidant effects by preventing excessive NO production.
Aberrations of the Wnt canonical pathway (WCP) are known to contribute to the pathogenesis of various types of cancer. We hypothesize that these defects may exist in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Both the upstream and downstream aspects of WCP were examined in MCL cell lines and tumors. Using WCP-specific oligonucleotide arrays, we found that MCL highly and consistently expressed Wnt3 and Wnt10. beta-catenin, a transcriptional factor that is a downstream target of WCP, is localized to the nucleus and transcriptionally active in all 3 MCL cell lines examined. By immunohistochemistry, 33 (52%) of 64 MCL tumors showed nuclear localization of beta-catenin, which significantly correlated with the expression of the phosphorylated/inactive form of GSK3beta (p-GSK3beta; P = .011, Fisher). GSK3beta inactivation is directly linked to WCP stimulation, since addition of recombinant sFRP proteins (a naturally occurring decoy for the Wnt receptors) resulted in a significant decrease in p-GSK3beta. Down-regulation of DvL-2 (an upstream signaling protein in WCP) by siRNA or selective inhibition of beta-catenin using quercetin significantly decreased cell growth in MCL cell lines. To conclude, WCP is constitutively activated in a subset of MCL and it appears to promote tumorigenesis in MCL.
Tamoxifen is a potent rat liver carcinogen, currently being used as a long-term chemopreventative for breast cancer in healthy women. The mechanism by which tamoxifen causes liver cancer in rats is known to be associated with the accumulation of tamoxifen DNA adducts in this organ. We have examined the dose-response relationship of tamoxifen-induced DNA adducts in the liver and the subsequent increase in the development of liver cancer, with and without phenobarbital promotion. Female Wistar (Han) rats were fed 420 ppm tamoxifen in the diet for 0, 1, 4, 8 or 12 weeks after which time rats were either examined immediately for hepatic tamoxifen-induced DNA damage using the 32P-Postlabelling assay, or left for lifetime for tumour assessment. A proportion of rats left for lifetime study were given phenobarbital in their drinking water. There was a clear dose-response relationship with respect to duration of tamoxifen exposure for both accumulation of DNA adducts and lifetime risk of liver cancer. In the absence of phenobarbital promotion there was a threshold value for tamoxifen-induced DNA adducts (180 adducts/10(8) nucleotides) and the subsequent induction of liver cancer. This study demonstrates the relationship between the accumulation of hepatic tamoxifen-induced DNA adducts and the development of liver cancer and establishes the threshold for hepatocarcinogenesis in terms of DNA adduct formation. These data could provide useful information in interpreting the relevance of low levels of DNA adducts in humans.
Blockade of alpha(1)-adrenoreceptors with prazosin produces bradycardia. The degree of this bradycardia in rats depends on age. In adult (20-week-old) rats bradycardia is pronounced, in 3-week-old rats it is insignificant, and in 1-week-old rats bradycardia does not develop. Prazosin moderates bradycardia induced by vagal stimulation in rats of different age.
Epileptiform seizures occurred in a 34-year-old woman who was receiving amitriptyline and lithium carbonate therapy for treatment of endogenous depression. While receiving amitriptyline maintenance therapy, she was given lithium on two separate occasions, and despite serum levels of lithium in the therapeutic range, grand mal seizures developed. The seizures may represent a toxic reaction either to lithium or to combined drug therapy. Controlled studies are needed to evaluate both the efficacy and toxicity of combined drug therapy in affective disorders.
One the basis of two special typical cases, the authors detail the symptoms and signs and consider the physiopathology of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone related to vincristine. Urinary ADH was measured in both cases. ADH levels could be studied on ten consecutive occasions during the course of one of the cases (obs. n 1). Eleven similar cases have been found in the literature. ADH was measured in only three of them. Methods of treatment are considered, with particular emphasis on the role of demeclocycline.
We report the case of myasthenia gravis in a 74-year-old woman, 2 weeks after acebutolol had been introduced as the sole treatment for systemic hypertension. The disease developed at a fulminant and fatal course despite drug withdrawal. The possibilities of coincidental association between the two events, triggering of a preexisting latent myasthenia gravis or full induction of the disease by acebutolol, are discussed.
Panic disorder is a common and disabling condition which can be treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Although many subjects respond well to such treatment, there is substantial inter-individual variation implicating genetic factors.
102 patients with a diagnosis of panic disorder receiving sertraline or paroxetine took part in study. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale score, CGI and panic attack frequency (per month) were assessed before and after 6 weeks of SSRI treatment with 1 week of titration period. All patients were genotyped for the -1019C/G 5-HT1A receptor and ins/del 5-HT transporter polymorphisms.
The 5-HT1A receptor -1019C/G polymorphism was strongly associated with response to treatment, in which 20 subjects with the GG genotype showed minimal changes in panic attack frequency with a relative risk of no response of 4.73. This association was also found with each drug independently. However, no association of the ins/del 5-HT transporter polymorphism with treatment response was observed.
Larger numbers of subjects and longer period of SSRI treatment would confirm and strengthen these preliminary findings.
These results indicate the importance of a 5-HT1A receptor gene polymorphism in the response to SSRI treatment of panic disorder.
In a group of 69 patients receiving levamisole the drug had to be discontinued in 15 (21-7%) because of intolerable but reversible side-effects including gastrointestinal upset, "flu-like" syndrome, central nervous system disturbances, and skin rash. Reversible agranulocytosis with life-threatening sepsis occurred in a patient receiving levamisole immunotherapy for colonic carcinoma. Neutrophils and platelets were both severely affected. Levamisole-dependent leucoagglutinins appeared with circulating immune complexes during the acute phase of the illness, suggesting an immune drug reaction.
In experiments on rats administration of apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg twice a day for 14 days) caused the intensification of aggressiveness. This exerted no substantial effect on stereotyped behavior. Haloperidol produced inhibitory effect both on aggressiveness and stereotypy. The GABA derivative phenybut did not change the effects of apomorphine. Administration of morphine and diazepam produced a selective inhibition of aggressiveness. In doses exerting antiaggressive effect these substances produced no substantial effect on stereotypy. This antiaggressive effect of morphine and diazepam was suppressed by nalorphine. It is suggested that the endogenous opiate system of the CNS participates in the development of the apomorphine-induced aggressiveness.
The atypical antipsychotics have been touted by many as having minimal extrapyramidal symptoms. This case series from the Tripler Army Medical Center Psychiatry Graduate Medical Education Program presents the extrapyramidal symptoms observed with four different atypical antipsychotic medications. Also reviewed are the mechanisms of action that atypical antipsychotics and first-generation antipsychotics use to treat the symptoms of schizophrenia. Cases reviewed include a schizophrenic male patient whose dose of risperidone was doubled from 6mg to 12mg overnight and developed an acute dystonic reaction; a young male patient with a substance-induced psychosis who unintentionally doubled his ziprasidone dose in 24 hours, resulting in an acute dystonic reaction; a young female patient on paroxetine who also recently started olanzapine and had complaints consistent with akathisia that resolved with treatment; and an adolescent female patient on escitalopram for obsessive-compulsive disorder who after starting aripiprazole developed Parkinsonism. All four cases illustrate that even though atypical antipsychotics are less likely to cause extrapyramidal symptoms than their first generation cousins, the physician should be aware that these symptoms may still occur and need to be treated.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a moderate diet restriction on the progression of preneoplastic foci into hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) and whether such an effect was related to altered cell proliferation, apoptosis, and/or tumour contents of lipid-soluble antioxidants.
Male Wistar rats were exposed to diethylnitrosamine as initiator and 2-acetylaminofluorene plus partial hepatectomy as promoter. Six weeks after initiation the animals were given a diet restricted to 75%-80% of that given to controls until being killed 45 weeks later. Macroscopic liver tumours were histologically classified. In hepatocellular carcinomas the numbers of S-phase (labelling index) and DNA-fragmented (apoptotic index) nuclei were calculated immunohistochemically, and the tumour contents of alpha-tocopherol and ubiquinone were determined.
The number of animals with HCC and the number of HCCs per animal were significantly reduced in restricted-diet animals compared with controls. In HCCs the contents of ubiquinone-9 and -10 were significantly increased, labelling indices were enhanced 3-fold, and apoptotic indices 12-fold as a response to food restriction. Neither the size nor the differentiation of HCCs was altered by food restriction. The numbers and areas of preneoplastic foci were similar in restricted-diet animals compared with those of controls.
Moderate, long-term food restriction inhibits the progression of preneoplastic liver foci into HCC. Possible mechanisms of this inhibition are a shift in the balance between apoptosis and cell division towards cell death and an adaptive response to oxidative stress by increased tumour contents of ubiquinones.
It is not uncommon for patients who are receiving antipsychotic medication to be given anticholinergic agents, such as biperiden, despite the relative absence of neurological side-effects. Two cases of schizophrenia are reported in which insomnia developed after biperiden withdrawal or reduction. The insomnia continued until biperiden treatment was reinstated, despite the fact that the patients did not exhibit signs or report symptoms indicative of antipsychotic drug-induced neurological side-effects. The occurrence of insomnia following the withdrawal of biperiden or reduction in the dose has not been previously reported. One potential explanation for the insomnia is cholinergic rebound following the withdrawal of biperiden.
Adipose tissue growth and development are thought to be associated with angiogenesis and extracellular matrix remodeling. Because ginseng has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity, we hypothesized that adipose tissue growth and obesity can be regulated by Korean ginseng (Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer). Wild-type C57BL/6J mice were fed for 8 weeks with a low fat diet, a high fat diet (HFD), or HFD supplemented with 0.5% or 5% Korean red ginseng extract. We measured body weight, adipose tissue mass, food intake, MMP activity, and the expression of genes involved in angiogenesis and MMPs. Administering ginseng to HFD-induced obese mice produced reductions in body weight and adipose tissue mass compared with untreated counterparts. Ginseng treatment decreased blood vessel density and MMP activity in adipose tissues. Ginseng also reduced mRNA levels of angiogenic factors (e.g., VEGF-A and FGF-2) and MMPs (e.g., MMP-2 and MMP-9), whereas it increased mRNA levels of angiogenic inhibitors (e.g., TSP-1, TIMP-1, and TIMP-2) in adipose tissues. These results demonstrate that ginseng effectively reduces adipose tissue mass and prevents obesity in diet-induced obese mice and that this process may be mediated in part through the anti-angiogenic actions of ginseng.
A patient developed disseminated intravascular coagulation with purpura fulminans 1 month after starting Dilantin therapy for a seizure disorder. In addition, the patient developed exfoliative dermatitis, hepatitis, cutaneous vasculitis, and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. She was successfully treated with adrenal steroids and heparin for her purpura fulminans. The hepatitic dermatologic, along with hemorrhagic, complications of Dilantin are reviewed, and the possible origin of the vasculitis and disseminated intravascular coagulation is discussed.
The N-hydroxyurea derivatives 70C ((E)-N-[3-[3- (4-fluorophenoxy)phenyl[-1-(R,S)-methylprop-2-enyl]-N-hydroxyurea) and its (R) 225C and (S) 404C enantiomers, which were being developed as 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors for the treatment of certain allergic and inflammatory conditions, were found to cause severe glomerulonephropathy in the rat. The lesion appeared to be of greater severity in female rats compared with male rats. In addition, 70C and 225C treated animals appeared more severely affected than 404C treated animals. Detailed examination of the lesion in animals dosed with 225C showed that there was a clear relationship between the onset of the lesion and the dose given, i.e. the higher the dose the sooner the lesion developed. The earliest changes detected in the kidney by transmission electron microscopy were noted in the glomeruli, in which the visceral cells appeared enlarged and showed varying degrees of foot process loss. In the more advanced lesion, the degree of foot process loss became more obvious and changes in the kidney tubules were seen by light microscopy. The morphological changes were mirrored by a dose-related increase in water consumption, an increased kidney to body weight ratio and gastrointestinal oedema, suggesting impaired renal function. Shortly after the onset of foot process loss, decreases in the total plasma protein and albumin and increases in the plasma cholesterol, triglycerides, urea and creatinine were recorded. These changes, particularly the foot-process loss, together with increased proteinuria, hypoalbuminaemia, hypercholesterolaemia and lipaemia, are all characteristic of "minimal change nephrotic syndrome". Because of the serious nature of the kidney lesion caused by these N-hydroxyureas in the rat, it was considered that it precluded their development as therapeutic agents for use in man.
