The present study was designed to test the therapeutic effect of a new antimalarial drug, artesunate in experimental model of nephrotic syndrome. To induce this experimental model, Adriamycin was given once by a single intravenous injection (7.5 mg/kg) through the tail vein. Six days after injection of Adriamycin, therapeutic protocol was developed by intraperitoneally (IP) administration of 5 mg/kg artesunate (ARS). Total of IP injections were 14, of which 5 injections were made every day and 9 injections were carried out at regular 48-h intervals. Therapeutic protocol was terminated on day 28 and animals were killed on day 49. The results showed that treatment with ARS caused a significant reduction in the level of proteinuria, urine urea and urine sodium compared with nontreated controls. In addition, decrease in serum triglyceride and increase in the level of serum albumin was significant in treated group with ARS compared with nontreated controls. Moreover, treatment with ARS significantly reduced glomerular polymorphonuclear (PMN) and mononuclear cells infiltration, hypercellularity, karyorrhexis, wire loops, and hydropic change in capillary network within the renal cortex, as well as decreased hyalin casts. On the other hand, healthy controls receiving ARS showed a significant decrease in amounts of serum triglyceride, urine urea, and urine sodium and potassium compared with normal group. These data suggest that artesunate therapy can ameliorate proteinuria, and suppress the progression of glomerular lesions in experimental model of nephrotic syndrome; it may also be recommended as a lipid-lowering drug.
Restrictive valvular heart disease has been reported in patients with Parkinson's disease treated with pergolide. However, few data are available on frequency, severity, dose dependency, and reversibility of pergolide-induced disease, nor on the pulmonary pressures of these patients. We aimed to clarify these characteristics in a large group of patients.
78 patients with Parkinson's disease treated with pergolide and 18 never treated with an ergot-derived dopamine agonist (controls) were evaluated by echocardiography. A valvular scoring system was used, ranging from 1 (proven ergot-like restrictive valvular heart disease) to 4 (no disease). For the mitral valve, tenting areas and tenting distances were measured. Systolic pulmonary artery pressures were derived from the tricuspid regurgitant jet.
Restrictive valvular heart disease of any type was present in 26 (33%) patients in the pergolide group and none in controls (p=0.0025). Important disease (score 1 or 2) was present in 15 (19%) patients in the pergolide group and none in controls (p=0.066). Mean tenting distances and tenting areas of the mitral valve were 1.08 cm (range 0.55-2.66) and 2.39 cm2 (0.88-4.59) in the restrictive mitral valve group versus 0.63 cm (0.22-1.20) and 1.39 cm2 (0.39-3.23) in the non-restrictive group (p=0.003 and p<0.0001, respectively). Significant correlation was noted between cumulative doses of pergolide and tenting areas of the mitral valves (r=0.412, p=0.017). Mean systolic pulmonary artery pressures were 39.3 mm Hg (range 25-71) in the high-dose group versus 38.5 mm Hg (20-65) in the low-dose group (p=0.76) and 31 mm Hg (25-40) in controls (p=0.02 vs all patients given pergolide). In six patients, pergolide treatment was stopped because of restrictive valvular heart disease, in two of whom regression of disease was shown.
Restrictive valvular heart disease is not a rare finding in patients treated with pergolide. Clinicians should consider changing to a non-ergot drug if this disease is diagnosed.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is widely recognized as an effective compound in the treatment of chronic hepatitis and is known to modulate the redox state of the liver accompanied by an increase of GSH. In the present study, to access the antioxidative effect of UDCA and to clarify the molecular basis of the action on GSH level, we evaluated its effects in HepG2 cells exposed to excessive iron. UDCA inhibited both a decrease in the GSH level and an increase in the reactive oxygen species caused by excessive iron in the cells. UDCA increased the gene expression of the catalytic- and modifier-units of glutamine-cysteine ligase (GCL), which is a key enzyme in GSH synthesis. We further investigated the effect of UDCA on the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway, and obtained results showing that UDCA-induced increase in the GSH level was prevented by LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor. In addition, Western blot analysis of Akt showed that, while the total Akt level remained unchanged, the phosphorylated Akt level was increased by UDCA, and this increase was also prevented by LY294002. Moreover, UDCA promoted the translocation of a transcription factor, nuclear factor-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2), into the nucleus, and this action was inhibited by LY294002. From these results, it was indicated that UDCA increased the GSH synthesis through an activation of the PI3K/Akt/Nrf2 pathway. This may be a primary mechanism of antioxidative action of UDCA concerned with its therapeutic effectiveness in chronic hepatitis.
It is still unclear what happens in the glomerulus when proteinuria starts. Using puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) rats, we studied early ultrastructural and permeability changes in relation to the expression of the podocyte-associated molecules nephrin, α-actinin, dendrin, and plekhh2, the last two of which were only recently discovered in podocytes.
Using immune stainings, semiquantitative measurement was performed under the electron microscope. Permeability was assessed using isolated kidney perfusion with tracers. Possible effects of ACE inhibition were tested.
By day 2, some patchy foot process effacement, but no proteinuria, appeared. The amount of nephrin was reduced in both diseased and normal areas. The other proteins showed few changes, which were limited to diseased areas. By day 4, foot process effacement was complete and proteinuria appeared in parallel with signs of size barrier damage. Nephrin decreased further, while dendrin and plekhh2 also decreased but α-actinin remained unchanged. ACE inhibition had no significant protective effect.
PAN glomeruli already showed significant pathology by day 4, despite relatively mild proteinuria. This was preceded by altered nephrin expression, supporting its pivotal role in podocyte morphology. The novel proteins dendrin and plekhh2 were both reduced, suggesting roles in PAN, whereas α-actinin was unchanged.
Depression in women is a public health problem. Studies have reported positive associations between pesticides and depression, but few studies were prospective or presented results for women separately.
We evaluated associations between pesticide exposure and incident depression among farmers' wives in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective cohort study in Iowa and North Carolina.
We used data on 16,893 wives who did not report physician-diagnosed depression at enrollment (1993-1997) and who completed a follow-up telephone interview (2005-2010). Among these wives, 1054 reported physician diagnoses of depression at follow-up. We collected information on potential confounders and on ever use of any pesticide, 11 functional and chemical classes of pesticides, and 50 specific pesticides by wives and their husbands via self-administered questionnaires at enrollment. We used inverse probability weighting to adjust for potential confounders and to account for possible selection bias induced by the death or loss of 10,639 wives during follow-up. We used log-binomial regression models to estimate risk ratios and 95% confidence intervals.
After weighting for age at enrollment, state of residence, education level, diabetes diagnosis, and drop out, wives' incident depression was positively associated with diagnosed pesticide poisoning, but was not associated with ever using any pesticide. Use of individual pesticides or functional or chemical classes of pesticides was generally not associated with wives' depression. Among wives who never used pesticides, husbands' ever use of individual pesticides or functional or chemical classes of pesticides was generally not associated with wives' incident depression.
Our study adds further evidence that high level pesticide exposure, such as pesticide poisoning, is associated with increased risk of depression and sets a lower bound on the level of exposure related to depression, thereby providing reassurance that the moderate levels of pesticide exposure experienced by farmers' wives likely do not increase risk.
Propofol, a commonly used anesthetic, often causes pain on injection. Several methods have been described to reduce this pain, however, complete inhibition has not been achieved. Our randomized, placebo controlled, double blind study has been conducted to compare the analgesic efficacy of iv pretreatment of ketamine, meperidine, thiopental, lidocaine to minimize the injection pain of propofol. 125 patients ASA I and II were randomly allocated into 5 groups and received. Group K, ketamine 0.4 mg/kg; Group T, thiopental 0.5 mg/kg; Group M, meperidine 0.5 [corrected] mg/kg; Group L, lidocaine 1 mg/kg; Group S, saline 3 ml. All pretreatment drugs were made into 4 ml solutions and were accompanied by manual venous occlusion for 1 min, followed by tourniquet release and slowly IV administration of propofol. Pain was assessed with a four point scale. All treatment groups had a significantly lower incidence of pain than placebo group (p <0.05). However, it has been observed that pretreatment with ketamine was the most effective in attenuating pain associated with propofol injection (p <0.05). For painless injection of propofol, routine pretreatment with ketamine 0.4 mg/kg along with venous occlusion is recommended.
Induction of p53 gene expression in cancer cells can lead to both cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. To clarify whether the level of p53 expression determines the apoptotic response of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, we assessed the effect of various levels of expression of p53 gene on a p53-deficient HCC cell line, Hep3B, utilizing a doxycycline (Dox)-regulated inducible p53 expression system. Our results showed that apoptosis was induced in HCC cells with high levels of p53 expression. However, lower level of p53 expression induced only cell cycle arrest but not apoptosis. Bax expression was up-regulated following high levels of p53 expression, while bcl-2 expression was not altered by the level of p53 expression. Moreover, p21 expression was observed in both high and low expression of p53. These results suggest the level of p53 expression could determine if the HCC cells would go into cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. Bax may participate, at least in part, in inducing p53-dependent apoptosis and the induction of p21 alone was able to cause cell cycle arrest but not apoptosis.
The occurrence of abnormal movements or perserverative/compulsive behaviors was noted in 34 (76%) of a group of 45 hyperactive boys during a double-blind crossover treatment trial of methylphenidate and dextroamphetamine given in a wide range of doses. These adverse effects were often subtle and transient, and they usually occurred only on one drug. There was only one case where treatment was discontinued due to the severity of the tic the subject developed during his initial treatment phase. Dextroamphetamine tended to produce more compulsive behaviors, which were also more likely to resemble clinical obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), than did methylphenidate. Abnormal movements and compulsive behaviors tended to co-occur on methylphenidate only; no general "Tourette-OCD diathesis" was found for this population.
The selective CB1 receptor antagonist rimonabant (SR141716) was shown to perform a number of biological effects in several pathological conditions. Emerging findings demonstrate that rimonabant exerts antitumor action in thyroid tumors and breast cancer cells. In our study, human colorectal cancer cells (DLD-1, CaCo-2 and SW620) were treated with rimonabant and analyzed for markers of cell proliferation, cell viability and cell cycle progression. Rimonabant significantly reduced cell growth and induced cell death. In addition, rimonabant was able to alter cell cycle distribution in all the cell lines tested. Particularly, rimonabant produced a G2/M cell cycle arrest in DLD-1 cells without inducing apoptosis or necrosis. The G2/M phase arrest was characterized by a parallel enhancement of the number of mitoses associated to elevated DNA double strand breaks and chromosome misjoining events, hallmarks of mitotic catastrophe. Protein expression analyses of Cyclin B1, PARP-1, Aurora B and phosphorylated p38/MAPK and Chk1 demonstrated that rimonabant-induced mitotic catastrophe is mediated by interfering with the spindle assembly checkpoint and the DNA damage checkpoint. Moreover, in the mouse model of azoxymethane-induced colon carcinogenesis, rimonabant significantly decreased aberrant crypt foci (ACF) formation, which precedes colorectal cancer. Our findings suggest that rimonabant is able to inhibit colorectal cancer cell growth at different stages of colon cancer pathogenesis inducing mitotic catastrophe in vitro.
We report two patients who experienced status epilepticus after carbamazepine overdose. The first patient was an 18-year-old female with a history of epilepsy. She experienced 4 hour of persistent and prolonged seizures resistant to sodium amytal therapy. The status epilepticus ended with her death. The second patient was an 18-year-old male with a history of bipolar disorder. He experienced 5 hour of persistent and prolonged seizures that appeared to be resistant to diazepam, phenytoin, and phenobarbital. The seizures abated with the infusion of midazolam. This is a report of status epilepticus associated with wide complex tachycardia after carbamazepine overdose, which may be resistant to conventional therapy.
The objective of this study was to evaluate and compare the effect of treatment with orlistat vs. metformin on the hormonal and biochemical features of patients with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). Twenty-one Caucasian women with PCOS [mean (+/-SEM) age 27 +/- 0.9 yr and body mass index 36.7 +/- 3.3 kg/m(2)] participated in this prospective, randomized, open-labeled study. All subjects had an 8-wk run-in period of dietary modification and then randomized to receive either metformin (500 mg three times daily) or orlistat (120 mg three times daily) for 3 months. Weight, blood pressure, and fasting blood samples were taken at screening, randomization, and on completion. Insulin resistance (IR) was calculated using the homeostasis model of assessment (HOMA)-IR method [HOMA-IR = (insulin x glucose)/22.5]. The results are expressed as mean +/- SEM. When compared with baseline, treatment with both orlistat [93.5 +/- 11.5 ng/dl (3.24 +/- 0.4 nmol/liter) vs. 114.5 +/- 11.5 ng/dl (3.97 +/- 0.4 nmol/liter), P = 0.039] and metformin [97.2 +/- 11.5 ng/dl (3.37 +/- 0.4 nmol/liter) vs. 120.0 +/- 8.7 ng/dl (4.16 +/- 0.3 nmol/liter), P = 0.048] produced a significant reduction in total testosterone. Treatment with orlistat produced a 4.69% reduction in weight (99.0 +/- 6.0 vs. 94.6 +/- 6.1 kg, P = 0.002), and this reduction was more significant than the reduction produced by metformin (4.69 vs. 1.02%, P = 0.006). There was no significant reduction seen after either treatment group for fasting insulin, HOMA-IR, SHBG, or any of the lipid parameters studied. In this study, orlistat produced a significant reduction in weight and total testosterone. The reduction in total testosterone was similar to that seen after treatment with metformin. Therefore, orlistat may prove to be a useful adjunct in the treatment of PCOS.
A 61-year-old woman who presented with diabetes, nausea, weight loss and sweating was found to have a phaeochromocytoma secreting adrenaline, with a small amount of N-methyladrenaline. There was no significant increase in noradrenaline secretion. She was normotensive, and developed profound hypotension in response to the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phenoxybenzamine. These features are unusual in phaeochromocytoma, but similar features occurred in the very few previous reported cases of pure adrenaline-secreting phaeochromocytoma. We conclude that it is important to identify such patients, so that they should not be given alpha-adrenergic antagonist drugs.
To study central nervous system airborne PM related subchronic toxicity, SD male rats were exposed for eight weeks to either coarse (32 μg/m³), fine (178 μg/m³) or ultrafine (107 μg/m³) concentrated PM or filtered air. Different brain regions (olfactory bulb, frontal cortex, striatum and hippocampus), were harvested from the rats following exposure to airborne PM. Subsequently, prooxidant (HO-1 and SOD-2), and inflammatory markers (IL-1β and TNFα), apoptotic (caspase 3), and unfolded protein response (UPR) markers (XBP-1S and BiP), were also measured using real-time PCR. Activation of nuclear transcription factors Nrf-2 and NF-κB, associated with antioxidant and inflammation processes, respectively, were also analyzed by GSMA. Ultrafine PM increased HO-1 and SOD-2 mRNA levels in the striatum and hippocampus, in the presence of Nrf-2 activation. Also, ultrafine PM activated NF-κB and increased IL-1β and TNFα in the striatum. Activation of UPR was observed after exposure to coarse PM through the increment of XBP-1S and BiP in the striatum, accompanied by an increase in antioxidant response markers HO-1 and SOD-2. Our results indicate that exposure to different size fractions of PM may induce physiological changes (in a neuroanatomical manner) in the central nervous system (CNS), specifically within the striatum, where inflammation, oxidative stress and UPR signals were effectively activated.
The effects of berberine on the expression of hepatocyte nuclear factor-4alpha (HNF-4alpha) in liver of rats with fructose-induced insulin resistance and the molecular mechanism of berberine preventing insulin resistance were investigated. The experimental animals were divided into two groups of 16 animals each. The control group received a control routine diet containing 60% carbohydrate, and the study group a high-fructose diet containing 60% fructose as the sole source of carbohydrate. At the end of 6 weeks these were each subdivided into two groups. One was administered with berberine [187.5 mg/(kg x d) in 5 g/L carboxymethyl cellulose] by intragastric intubation and the other group was treated with a vehicle (5 g/L carboxymethyl cellulose). The rats were fed on the same dietary regimen for the next 4 weeks. After the experimental period of 10 weeks, plasma glucose, insulin and triglyceride levels were measured. HOMA insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR) was assayed. Immunohistochemistry, semiquantitative RT-PCR and western blot were used to detect the expression of HNF-4alpha in liver. Compared with control diet, fructose feeding induced hyperinsulinemia, HOMA-IR and increased triglyceride (all P<0.01). Berberine prevented the rise in plasma insulin (P<0.01), HOMA-IR (P<0.01) and triglyceride (P<0.05) in the fructose-fed rats. No change in plasma glucose was seen among these groups. The mRNA and protein expression of HNF-4alpha was decreased in the fructose-fed rats, but berberine could promote its expression. It was concluded that berberine could prevent fructose-induced insulin resistance in rats possibly by promoting the expression HNF-4alpha in liver.
Hereditary angioedema (HAE) is an autosomal dominant, potentially life-threatening condition, manifesting as recurrent and self-limiting episodes of facial, laryngeal, genital, or peripheral swelling with abdominal pain secondary to intra-abdominal edema. The estimated prevalence of HAE in the general population is one individual per 50,000, with reported ranges from 1:10,000 to 1:150,000, without major sex or ethnic differences. Various treatment options for acute attacks and prophylaxis of HAE are authorized and available in the market, including plasma-derived (Berinert®, Cinryze®, and Cetor®) and recombinant (Rhucin® and Ruconest™) C1 inhibitors, kallikrein inhibitor-ecallantide (Kalbitor®), and bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist-icatibant (Firazyr®). Some of these drugs are used only to treat HAE attacks, whereas others are only approved for prophylactic therapies and all of them have improved disease outcomes due to their different mechanisms of action. Bradykinin and its binding to B2 receptor have been demonstrated to be responsible for most of the symptoms of HAE. Thus icatibant (Firazyr®), a bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist, has proven to be an effective and more targeted treatment option and has been approved for the treatment of acute attacks of HAE. Rapid and stable relief from symptoms of cutaneous, abdominal, or laryngeal HAE attacks has been demonstrated by 30 mg of icatibant in Phase III clinical trials. Self-resolving mild to moderate local site reactions after subcutaneous injection of icatibant were observed. Icatibant is a new, safe, and effective treatment for acute attacks of HAE. HAE has been reported to result in enormous humanistic burden to patients, affecting both physical and mental health, with a negative impact on education, career, and work productivity, and with substantial economic burdens. The timely and proper use of disease-specific treatments could improve patients' quality of life, reduce the disease-specific morbidity and mortality, and, last but not least, reduce costs associated with hospitalizations and emergency room visits. Therefore, the paradigm of HAE treatment has the potential to evolve significantly, thereby exponentially improving a patient's quality of life.
Reports of cefotetan-associated haemolytic anaemia have prompted a US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) review of the overall number, severity, and causality of such cases.
A search of the FDA's Spontaneous Reporting System and the World Health Organization's database revealed 85 cases of haemolytic anaemia since the approval of cefotetan in 1985, 15 of them fatal. Moderate to severe haemolysis was reflected in a mean fall in haemoglobin levels by 6.65 mg/dl (n = 20) and a mean final haemoglobin concentration of 5.2 mg/dl (n = 52). Transfusion of packed red blood cells was required in 47 patients (55.3%). New onset renal dysfunction was noted in 7 patients (8.2%). The direct antiglobulin test was positive in 50 patients (59%), and serological studies revealed antibodies to cefotetan in 30 patients (35%).
These data suggest that treatment with cefotetan may induce severe autoimmune haemolytic anaemia.
L-Pipecolic acid oxidase activity is deficient in patients with peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs). Because its role, if any, in these disorders is unknown, we cloned the associated human gene and expressed its protein product. The cDNA was cloned with the use of a reverse genetics approach based on the amino acid sequence obtained from purified L-pipecolic acid oxidase from monkey. The complete cDNA, obtained by conventional library screening and 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends, encompassed an open reading frame of 1170 bases, translating to a 390-residue protein. The translated protein terminated with the sequence AHL, a peroxisomal targeting signal 1. Indirect immunofluorescence studies showed that the protein product was expressed in human fibroblasts in a punctate pattern that co-localized with the peroxisomal enzyme catalase. A BLAST search with the amino acid sequence showed 31% identity and 53% similarity with Bacillus sp. NS-129 monomeric sarcosine oxidase, as well as similarity to all sarcosine oxidases and dehydrogenases. No similarity was found to the peroxisomal D-amino acid oxidases. The recombinant enzyme oxidized both L-pipecolic acid and sarcosine. However, PBD patients who lack the enzyme activity accumulate only L-pipecolic acid, suggesting that in humans in vivo, this enzyme is involved mainly in the degradation of L-pipecolic acid.
One hundred and twenty-six patients with radiolucent gallstones in 'functioning' gallbladders were treated with 8-10 mg ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) kg/day and followed to a treatment conclusion. Complete or partial gallstone dissolution was achieved in 74 (59 per cent). However, only 22 achieved complete gallstone dissolution, as judged by two normal oral cholecystograms; ultrasonograms were performed in 16 of these patients, and all were normal. UDCA was stopped in 76 patients: because of cystic duct obstruction (n = 12), severe biliary pain (n = 13), non-response (n = 25) or partial stone dissolution with arrested progress (n = 26). Life-table analysis showed that complete gallstone dissolution rates at four years were 25-30 per cent (two normal oral cholecystograms) and 17-19 per cent (two normal oral cholecystograms plus one ultrasonogram). All patients with complete gallstone dissolution had shown partial stone dissolution at 6-12 months; of those with partial stone dissolution at six months, only 25 per cent went on to complete gallstone dissolution, and then always within two years. Efficacy correlated inversely with stone size but not with age, sex, obesity or on-treatment saturation indices. Acquired surface gallstone calcification developed in 13 patients (life-table analysis 22 +/- 7 per cent at four years); none of these patients achieved complete gallstone dissolution and only five achieved partial stone dissolution. Thus, despite relatively high partial gallstone dissolution rates, the ultimate efficacy of UDCA in achieving complete gallstone dissolution is low.
We investigated the effect of etoricoxib, a selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor, and indomethacin, a non-selective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, on experimental periodontitis, and compared their gastrointestinal side effects. A ligature was placed around the second upper left molars of female Wistar rats (160 to 200 g). Animals (6 per group) were treated daily with oral doses of 3 or 9 mg/kg etoricoxib, 5 mg/kg indomethacin, or 0.2 mL saline, starting 5 days after the induction of periodontitis, when bone resorption was detected, until the sacrifice on the 11th day. The weight and survival rate were monitored. Alveolar bone loss (ABL) was measured as the sum of distances between the cusp tips and the alveolar bone. The gastric mucosa was examined macroscopically and the periodontium and gastric and intestinal mucosa were examined by histopathology. The ongoing ABL was significantly inhibited (P < 0.05) by 3 and 9 mg/kg etoricoxib and by indomethacin: control = 4.08 +/- 0.47 mm; etoricoxib (3 mg/kg) = 1.89 +/- 0.26 mm; etoricoxib (9 mg/kg) = 1.02 +/- 0.14 mm; indomethacin = 0.64 +/- 0.15 mm. Histopathology of periodontium showed that etoricoxib and indomethacin reduced inflammatory cell infiltration, ABL, and cementum and collagen fiber destruction. Macroscopic and histopathological analysis of gastric and intestinal mucosa demonstrated that etoricoxib induces less damage than indomethacin. Animals that received indomethacin presented weight loss starting on the 7th day, and higher mortality rate (58.3%) compared to etoricoxib (0%). Treatment with etoricoxib, even starting when ABL is detected, reduces inflammation and cementum and bone resorption, with fewer gastrointestinal side effects.
In patients heterozygous for familial hypercholesterolemia, the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowering effect of beta-hydroxy-beta-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors may depend on the nature of the mutation in the LDL receptor gene. To test this hypothesis, we compared the response to simvastatin, 20 mg daily for 9 weeks, between heterozygous carriers of functionally different classes of mutations, i.e. mRNA negative or mRNA positive mutations. Out of 116 consecutive, unrelated patients with familial hypercholesterolemia, 27 patients were selected for molecular analyses: 14 patients with mRNA negative and 13 with mRNA positive mutations. Before simvastatin treatment, patients with mRNA negative mutations had higher levels of LDL cholesterol, lower levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol and significantly more often tendon xanthomas, compared to patients with mRNA positive mutations. Simvastatin reduced the mean fasting LDL cholesterol levels to a similar percentage in the mRNA negative and mRNA positive patients (37, 36%, respectively, 95% CI of difference--8 to 5%, P = 0.2). This effect was similar to the 37% decrease observed in our total series of patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (n = 116). The increase in mean concentration of HDL cholesterol was greater in the mRNA negative group than in the mRNA positive group (16, 0%, respectively, 95%, CI of difference 8-25%, P = 0.002) independent of the response of total triglycerides to simvastatin. The percentage LDL cholesterol lowering response varied among multiple carriers of the same mutation, even in the case of mRNA negative mutations. We conclude that the percentage LDL lowering response to simvastatin treatment was similar in patients with mRNA negative and mRNA positive mutations. Moreover, variation of this response within multiple carriers of the same mutation suggests an influence of additional factors.
Townes-Brocks syndrome (TBS, OMIM #107480) is a rare autosomal-dominant malformation syndrome with a combination of anal, renal, limb and ear anomalies. Cytogenetic findings suggested that the gene mutated in TBS maps to chromosome 16q12.1, where SALL1 (previously known as HSAL1), a human homologue of spalt (sal), is located. SAL is a developmental regulator in Drosophila melanogaster and is conserved throughout evolution. No phenotype has yet been attributed to mutations in vertebrate sal-like genes. The expression patterns of sal-like genes in mouse, Xenopus and the fish Medaka, and the finding that Medaka sal is regulated by Sonic hedgehog (Shh; ref. 11), prompted us to examine SALL1 as a TBS candidate gene. Here we demonstrate that SALL1 mutations cause TBS in a family with vertical transmission of TBS and in an unrelated family with a sporadic case of TBS. Both mutations are predicted to result in a prematurely terminated SALL1 protein lacking all putative DNA binding domains. TBS therefore represents another human developmental disorder caused by mutations in a putative C2H2 zinc-finger transcription factor.
The effects of potassium chloride (as Slow-K 600 mg three times daily) and spironolactone (as Aldactone A 25 mg four times daily) were compared in hypertensive African patients on frusemide. Mean plasma-potassium levels in patients on frusemide plus Slow-K and frusemide plus Aldactone-A rose from 3.6 to 3.8 mOsm/L whilst on frusemide alone mean plasma-potassium fell from 3.7 to 3.6 mOsm/L. The mean blood pressure, both systolic and diastolic, was significantly reduced in the frusemide plus Aldactone-A group when compared with patients on frusemide alone or on frusemide plus Slow-K.
There are a number of potential mechanisms linking cholesterol homeostasis to processes that are tightly linked with carcinogenesis. Statins, which are inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoAR), the rate-limiting enzyme in the mevalonic acid synthesis pathway, exert cytostatic and cytotoxic effects towards tumor cells. It seems that the cytostatic and cytotoxic effects of statins result from blocking protein prenylation, leading to inhibition of isoprenoid compound synthesis. Another compound which affects cholesterol metabolism is the plant alkaloid berberine. The aim of this study was to investigate potential antitumor effects of lovastatin combined with berberine. Combined with berberine, lovastatin appeared to exert potentiated cytostatic and/or cytotoxic effects against human MDA-MB231 breast cancer and murine Panc 02 pancreatic cancer cells. The obtained results indicated that the effect of berberine is not dependent on blocking protein prenylation in cells, and the toxic effect of lovastatin combined with berberine is reversed by addition of the substrates of this pathway to the level brought out by lovastatin alone. Lovastatin-berberine combination caused cell cycle inhibition in G1 phase after 48 h of incubation with drugs. In a Panc 02 pancreatic cancer model in mice, lovastatin-berberine combination slightly, but significantly, slowed down tumor growth. Taking into account the number of patients treated with the investigated drugs one may suppose that the described interactions may be of clinical value.
We describe four patients, two with Tourette's syndrome, one with the combination of idiopathic dystonia and essential-like tremor, and one with tardive dystonia, who noted marked exacerbation of their movement disorders after exposure to cocaine. These patients provide support for the hypothesis that dopaminergic preponderance plays an important role in the pathogenesis of certain hyperkinetic movement disorders. Cocaine should be regarded as an important cause or precipitant of hyperkinetic movement disorders.
To analyse incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events in a series of ambulatory patients receiving acenocoumarol in a rural area of Spain (1997-2007).
Out of 1,544 patients, 1,086 are receiving acenocoumarol at present (2% of our region's population). The total follow-up was 5,462 patients-years. Median age was 74 years. INR therapeutic range was 2.0-3.0 in 82.5%. Atrial fibrillation (AF) was the most frequent indication (73%). Incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events was 2.27 and 0.2/100 patients-year, respectively. Gastrointestinal tract was the most frequent site of bleeding. In multivariate analysis, patients with AF and prosthetic heart valves (PHV) had increased risk of bleeding (OR 2.1 and 4.8, respectively). Age and therapeutic ranges of INR were not associated with increased risk of bleeding.
2% of our population is receiving acenocoumarol. Incidence of hemorrhagic and thrombotic events was low. Patients with AF and PHV had increased risk of bleeding.
Azathioprine is a useful agent for the treatment of Crohn's disease but side effects occur in 10% of patients. Hepatic toxicity is well recognized and is usually associated with abnormalities of liver function tests. We describe a female patient who was on azathioprine for the treatment of Crohn's disease for a total of 216 months. She developed portal hypertension complicated by variceal haemorrhage. This required the insertion of a trans-jugular intra-hepatic porto-systemic shunt to control the bleeding. Subsequent histology has shown mild nodular regenerative hyperplasia, and other causes of liver disease have been excluded. The only liver function abnormalities were mild elevation of bilirubin and a low albumin in the later stages.
A case of aortic and mitral valve disease associated with ergotamine abuse is reported. A 34-year-old woman presented with dyspnea after a long standing history of peripheral vascular pathology associated with ergotamine abuse. Cardiac dysfunction was rapidly progressive. At surgery, nodular thickening of both valves and fusion of the posterior leaflet of the mitral valve were seen. Microscopy revealed proliferation of myofibroblasts with little destruction of normal valvular elements. The similarity to lesions in carcinoid heart disease and in methysergide-associated valvular disease suggests direct stimulation of myofibroblast growth by serotonin agonist effect.
