Cyclosporine A (CSA) is a widely used immunosuppressant for transplant patients and is also used for the treatment of a wide variety of systemic diseases with immunologic components. A prominent side effect of CSA administration is gingival overgrowth (hyperplasia). It has been postulated that CSA alters fibroblast activity through effects on various growth factors/cytokines. However, as yet, data concerning the molecular mechanisms involved in pathologic connective tissue proliferation are preliminary in nature. Our previous investigations concerning phenytoin-induced effects on platelet-derived growth factor B (PDGF-B) gene expression have demonstrated that other drugs which cause gingival overgrowth can upregulate macrophage PDGF-B gene expression in vitro and in vivo. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate PDGF-B gene expression in gingival tissues of patients receiving CSA therapy and exhibiting gingival overgrowth to determine if similar PDGF-B upregulation occurs in response to CSA and to identify PDGF-B producing cells in these tissues. Quantitative competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (QC-RTPCR) techniques were utilized to measure PDGF-B mRNA levels in CSA overgrowth patients and normal controls (N = 6/group). Results were expressed as mean +/- mRNA copy number and tested for significance using unpaired t-tests. Gingival samples were harvested (standardized for local inflammation at the sample site), total RNA was extracted, and QC-RTPCR was performed using specific PDGF-B primers and a corresponding competitive internal standard. CSA-treated patients exhibiting gingival overgrowth demonstrated approximately 48-fold increase in PDGF-B mRNA (7667.1 +/- 477.4 copies for CSA patients vs. 158.2 +/- 37.1 copies for controls; P < 0.001). Additionally, dual fluorescence immunohistochemistry for mature macrophage marker antigen (CD51) and intracellular PDGF-B was utilized to identify and localize PDGF-B producing cells were demonstrated to be macrophages distributed in a non-uniform manner throughout the papillary connective tissue. These results further support the hypothesis that the molecular mechanisms responsible for drug-induced gingival overgrowth may involve upregulation of PDGF-B macrophage gene expression. We continue to investigated specific CSA-induced alterations of macrophage PDGF-B gene expression in vitro and in vivo.
To study the fibrinolytic activity in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) and its alteration in all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and/or arsenic trioxide (ATO) treatment.
Plasma fibrinogen concentration was determined with the conventional method, and the levels of fibrin degradation products (FDP) and D-dimer were quantified with ELISA. Plasminogen was measured by chromogenic assay. Cell surface expression of Annexin II and u-PAR and their mRNA levels were measured by flow cytometry and real time-PCR, respectively.
The levels of FDP and D-dimer in APL were remarkably higher in APL patients than that in normal controls, while fibrinogen and plasminogen were lower. Both Annexin II and u-PAR were highly expressed on APL cells, which declined after treatment with ATRA and/or ATO, but remained higher than those on normal bone marrow mononuclear cells.
Abnormally high levels of Annexin II and u-PAR expression on APL cells may contribute to the increased production of plasmin, leading to primary hyperfibrinolysis in APL. ATRA and ATO therapy induces down-regulation of Annexin II and u-PAR expression, which may be contribute, at least in part, to the relief of the hemorrhagic complications in APL.
Cataracts are characterized by an opacification of the eye lens, often caused by protein misfolding and aggregation. The intermediate filament protein vimentin, which is highly expressed in lens fiber cells and in mesenchymal tissues, is a main structural determinant in these cells forming a membrane-connected cytoskeleton. Additional functions of vimentin remain to be identified. Here, we demonstrate that a mutation in VIM causes a dominant, pulverulent cataract. We sequenced the complete human VIM gene in 90 individuals suffering from congenital cataract and found a G596A change in exon 1 in a single individual, causing the missense mutation E151K in coil 1B of vimentin. The mutant vimentin formed an aberrant vimentin cytoskeleton and increased the proteasome activity in transfected cells. Furthermore, this mutation causes a severe kinetic defect in vimentin assembly both in vitro and in vivo. Hence, in conjunction with available mouse and cell culture models, our results reveal for the first time an important functional role for vimentin in the maintenance of lens integrity. Finally, this invites novel therapy approaches for cataracts.
Heparin reduces ischemia-reperfusion injury to myocardium. This effect has been attributed to complement inhibition, but heparin also has other activities that might diminish ischemia-reperfusion. To further probe these mechanisms, we compared heparin or an o-desulfated nonanticoagulant heparin with greatly reduced anticomplement activity. When given at the time of coronary artery reperfusion in a canine model of myocardial infarction, heparin or o-desulfated heparin equally reduced neutrophil adherence to ischemic-reperfused coronary artery endothelium, influx of neutrophils into ischemic-reperfused myocardium, myocardial necrosis, and release of creatine kinase into plasma. Heparin or o-desulfated heparin also prevented dysfunction of endothelial-dependent coronary relaxation following ischemic injury. In addition, heparin and o-desulfated heparin inhibited translocation of the transcription nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) from the cytoplasm to the nucleus in human endothelial cells and decreased NF-kappaB DNA binding in human endothelium and ischemic-reperfused rat myocardium. Thus heparin and nonanticoagulant heparin decrease ischemia-reperfusion injury by disrupting multiple levels of the inflammatory cascade, including the novel observation that heparins inhibit activation of the proinflammatory transcription factor NF-kappaB.
The protective effect of 16, 16-dimethylprostaglandin E2 (dm-PGE2) against acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity was determined in the rat. The dm-PGE2 was administered at two dose levels both before and after acetaminophen administration. The hepatotoxicity was evaluated by a rise in serum transaminases 24 h after acetaminophen administration and by histological examination of liver preparations. The urinary acetaminophen and its metabolites were determined by high-pressure liquid chromatography. The results suggest that exogenous dm-PGE2 administration had a modest protection against acetaminophen-induced hepatotoxicity, in contrast to its well established cytoprotective effect against many noxious agents in the gastrointestinal tract. Prostaglandin treatment had little effect on acetaminophen metabolites excretion in the urine, suggesting that it did not affect the cytochrome P-450-dependent mixed-function oxidase drug-metabolizing enzyme system. The livers from dm-PGE2-acetaminophen-treated rats showed less advanced necrosis compared to those from saline-acetaminophen-treated rats. Whereas only 2 of 13 rats died in the prostaglandin-treated group, 4 of 13 rats died in the saline-treated group.
Transient hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a rare sequela of both glucocorticoid and insulin excess. We report two ELBW infants who developed hypertrophic cardiomyopathy as an iatrogenic complication of the concurrent therapeutic administration of a glucocorticoid and insulin. In both cases the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy resolved completely on cessation of therapy. We advise caution when using this therapeutic combination and stress the need for regular echocardiography.
Carbaryl is a carbamate insecticide with a broad spectrum of uses in agricultural, commercial and household settings. It has previously been linked with non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) but studies of cancer risk in humans are limited. We examined occupational carbaryl use and risk of all cancers in the Agricultural Health Study, a prospective study of a cohort of pesticide applicators in North Carolina and Iowa. This analysis included 21,416 subjects (1,291 cases) enrolled from 1993-1997 and followed for cancer incidence through 2003. Pesticide exposure and other data were collected using self-administered questionnaires. Poisson regression was used to calculate rate ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) while controlling for potential confounders. Carbaryl was not associated with cancer risk overall. Relative to subjects who never used carbaryl, melanoma risk was elevated with >175 lifetime exposure-days (RR = 4.11; 95%CI, 1.33-12.75; p-trend = 0.07), >10 years of use (RR = 3.19; 95%CI, 1.28-7.92; p-trend = 0.04), or >or=10 days of use per year (RR = 5.50; 95%CI, 2.19-13.84; p-trend < 0.001). Risk remained after adjusting for sunlight exposure. Although not significant, there appeared to be a trend of decreasing prostate cancer risk with increasing level of exposure. A small increase in NHL risk was observed using some, but not all, exposure measures. No associations were observed with other examined cancer sites. Because the observed results were not hypothesized a priori and because of limited study of their biological plausibility, they should be interpreted with caution.
Seizures are uncommon, but serious, adverse effects of antidepressant drugs. A better understanding of drug-related seizure risk, its predictors, and its neurophysiologic basis might help clinicians avoid this adverse event. A better understanding of the factors involved in the determination of seizure risk would be helpful for interpretation of seizure rates reported.
The authors review case reports, series of cases, and information from clinical trials of antidepressants to determine antidepressant-related seizure risk. Predisposing factors are identified. Effects of dose, blood levels, and duration of treatment on seizure risk are examined. Electrophysiologic and in vitro models of drug-related seizure induction are discussed.
A significant proportion of drug-related seizures occurs in individuals with an identifiable predisposition, such as previous seizures, sedative or alcohol withdrawal, and multiple concomitant medications. Seizure risk for most antidepressants increases with dose (or blood level), and comparisons between drugs should consider seizure rates at the effective dose (or blood level) for each drug. For imipramine, the most frequently studied tricyclic, the literature indicates a seizure rate between 0.3% and 0.6% at effective doses. In unselected patients and at higher doses, these rates may be higher. Fluoxetine, sertraline, fluvoxamine, trazodone, nomifensine, and the monoamine oxidase inhibitors have a lower seizure risk. Estimates for recently marketed antidepressants with intermediate seizure risk are complicated by the fact that effective doses and blood levels are not well established.
Assessment of seizure risk in individuals involves consideration of predisposing factors, the antidepressant selected, and the bioavailability of the drug. Future studies of seizure risk would benefit from the use of specified criteria for determination of probable seizure events, a priori definition of predisposing exclusions, samples sufficiently large to provide adequate power, blood level monitoring, and inclusion of duration of drug treatment in the calculation of risk.
To describe spontaneously reported cases of torsades de pointes (TdP) in Sweden and to investigate if this adverse drug reaction (ADR) was labelled in the summary of product characteristics (SPC) for the drugs implicated.
Reported cases of TdP 1991-2006 were identified and evaluated with regard to drug use and other possible risk factor.
Among a total of 61 788 ADRs, 88 cases of TdP were identified. In these cases, 27 different suspected drugs were implicated. Cardiac drugs were involved in most reports (74%; 65/88), with sotalol being the most frequently suspected drug (57%, 58/88). In addition to drug treatment two or more established risk factors were present in 85% of the cases (75/88). Heart disease (90%; 79/88) was the most common risk factor followed by age over 65 years (72%; 63/88) and female gender (70%; 62/88). TdP or QT prolongation were labelled in the SPC for 33% (9/27) of the drugs implicated in the 88 cases. However, supporting evidence for an association was found elsewhere in 56% (15/27) for the different drugs implicated in the reports. Although citalopram was the third most common suspected drug in the reports (10%; 9/88), TdP was not listed in the SPC.
TdP is a rarely reported ADR. Several risk factors are often present. In two thirds of the drugs implicated in the reports neither TdP nor QT prolongation was labelled in the SPC. Further investigations are needed regarding the association between citalopram and TdP.
The aim of this study was to determine whether individuals who experience transient cocaine-induced paranoia are vulnerable to psychosis.
The subjects were 20 cocaine-dependent men who had been using more than 5 g of cocaine per week and were undergoing substance abuse treatment; half reported binge-limited cocaine-induced paranoia. The men were assessed with the Perceptual Aberration Scale and the Magical Ideation Scale, self-report measures of symptoms thought to precede the development of functional psychosis.
The combined scores on the Perceptual Aberration Scale and Magical Ideation Scale were strongly correlated with a history of cocaine-induced paranoia. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive power were 80.0%, 90.0%, 88.9%, and 81.8%, respectively.
Heavy cocaine users who experience transient paranoia while intoxicated may be at higher risk for development of psychosis than cocaine users who do not experience paranoia.
To address the issue of whether probucol reduces clinical events after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), we surveyed clinical status at 1 year after PTCA of 101 patients who had entered the Probucol Restenosis Angioplasty Trial. Repeat angioplasty at index lesions were required in 5 patients in the probucol group and in 12 in the control group, suggesting that probucol administered beginning 4 weeks before PTCA reduces repeat revascularization rates for 1 year.
Sixteen female patients underwent signal-averaged electrocardiography and radionuclide angiography for the assessment of the resting left ventricular ejection fraction in the course of chemotherapy with mitoxantrone (MTX) for advanced breast cancer. Nine patients had received prior cardiotoxic treatments. Our findings indicate that patients treated with MTX may develop late potentials.
Tacrolimus (TAC)-induced pancreatic islet injury is one of the important causes of new-onset diabetes in transplant recipients. This study was performed to evaluate whether a dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV) inhibitor is effective in improving TAC-induced diabetes mellitus by reducing pancreatic islet injury.
Rats were treated with TAC (1.5 mg/kg, subcutaneously) and the DPP IV inhibitor MK-0626 (10 or 20 mg/kg, oral gavage) for 4 weeks. The effect of MK-0626 on TAC-induced diabetes was evaluated by assessing pancreatic islet function, histopathology. TAC-induced incretin dysfunction was also examined based on active glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) levels in the serum after glucose loading. The protective effect of MK-0626 was evaluated by measuring markers of oxidative stress, oxidative resistance, and apoptosis. To determine whether enhanced GLP-1 signaling is associated with these protective effects, we measured the expression of the GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R) and the effect of the GLP-1 analog exendin-4 on cell viability and oxidative stress in isolated islets.
MK-0626 treatment attenuated TAC-induced pancreatic islet dysfunction and islet morphology. TAC treatment led to a defect in active GLP-1 secretion; however, MK-0626 reversed these effects. TAC treatment increased the level of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), the number of apoptotic death, and the level of active caspase-3, and decreased the level of manganese superoxide dismutase and heme oxygenase-1; MK-0626 treatment reversed these changes. MK-0626 treatment restored the expression of GLP-1R, and direct administration of exendin-4 to isolated islets reduced TAC-induced cell death and 8-OHdG expression.
The DPP IV inhibitor MK-0626 was an effective antidiabetic agent that exerted antioxidative and antiapoptotic effects via enhanced GLP-1 signaling in TAC-induced diabetics.
Chromium deficiency in diabetic patients is a debatable problem. The prevailing opinion suggests the presence of low serum concentrations in such patients and therefore an early, long-term addition of chromium to the standard therapy is recommended.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of chromium on the insulin resistance in diabetic patients with type II diabetes mellitus.
We have studied a total of 34 overweight patients with type II diabetes mellitus, who were distributed in two study sub-groups--patients with very good metabolic control and patients with bad control. For sixty days the patients of both groups received 30 microg of chromium picolinate as food additive. We measured the serum concentration of chromium (using atom-absorption methods), immune-reactive insulin and the insulin resistance index at baseline and at the end of the two-month period.
The serum concentrations of chromium was significantly lower in diabetic patients than in the healthy individuals used as controls (2.18 +/- 0.87 nmol/l versus 4.03 +/- 0.96 nmol/l; p < 0.001). We found a significant decrease of the immune-reactive insulin and the insulin resistance index after a two-month application of chromium 30 microg daily (1 tablet of chrome picolinate). The effects of this trace element are analysed in the light of an improved first phase of secretion of insulin or facilitated post-receptor insulin sensibility as a way of potentiating the insulin action.
Chromium included early in the complex therapy of diabetes is beneficial in the reduction of the degree of insulin resistance.
In 10 children with asthma and reversible bronchial obstruction the effect on lung function (VC, FVC and FEV1) of salbutamol was tested comparing oral administration, inhalation or a combination of both. The oral treatment was carried out as a randomized double-blind salbutamol-placebo cross-over study followed by inhalation of salbutamol in all patients. In agreement with previous findings in adults, the study showed a significant increase of FEV1, FVC and VC (P less than 0.005) after oral salbutamol. Combined oral and inhalation medication of salbutamol gave a significantly higher increase of FEV1, VC (P less than 0.01) and FVC (P less than 0.05) when compared with oral therapy only. Compared with salbutamol inhalation only, the combined therapy gave a significantly higher FEV1 (P less than 0.01). The relatively high oral dose used produced no side effects.
Approximately 30% of coronary angiograms are negative for significant coronary artery disease and patients are classified as having noncardiac chest pain (NCCP). So far, no systematic diagnostic approach to patients with NCCP investigating for possible esophageal, psychiatric and musculoskeletal abnormalities exists. Furthermore, coping strategies and quality of life are poorly characterized in NCCP patients.
A simple diagnostic approach was applied to 37 consecutive patients (21 female, age 61+/-12 years) with angina-like chest pain and normal coronary angiograms. Twenty-one patients were found to suffer from psychiatric disorders (combined anxiety (A) and depression (D): n = 10, D: n = 5, panic disorder (P): n = 3, somatization (S): n = 3) based on their Symptom Check List 90 scores and according to DSM IV-R criteria. Sixteen patients had an improvement of their chest pain after oral esomeprazole (40 mg for 7 days) and were therefore diagnosed with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Musculoskeletal abnormalities including chostochondritis (n = 4), thoracic spondylodynia (n = 1), and fibromyalgia (n = 1) were found in six patients. Multiple diagnoses were confirmed in six patients with GERD (additional D n = 3, additional musculoskeletal disorders n = 3). Patients with psychiatric disorders showed a diminished quality of life (MOS-SF 36), more frequent chest pain, less treatment satisfaction (Seattle Angina Questionnaire) and more rumination (Trier Coping Scales) compared to GERD patients.
Immediate combined psychiatric and orthopedic evaluation as well as esomeprazole administration following exclusion of coronary artery disease may confirm the causes of noncardiac chest pain. Identification of psychiatric disorders seems especially warranted since these patients experience a reduced quality of life and exhibit pathologic coping strategies.
1-(Carboxymethyl)-3,5-diphenyl-2-methylbenzene (CDB), a novel arylacetic acid, was evaluated in vivo for its ability to inhibit acute and chronic inflammation as well as acute pain.
The effects of CDB were evaluated using the following assays: 1) acute inflammation induced by the injection of carrageenan, bradykinin and serotonin into the subplantar region of the hind paw of rats; 2) chronic inflammation produced by the injection of Mycobacterium butyricum into the base of the tail of rats; 3) acute pain induced by the i.p. injection of phenyl-p-quinone into mice resulting in the production of writhes; 4) cyclooxygenase (COX) activity, including COX-1 and COX-2, evaluated using whole blood; and 5) activity of peptidylglycine alpha-monooxygenase (PAM) isolated from Xenopus laevis skin.
CDB (10 to 100mg/kg s.c.) produced a dose-dependent inhibition of carrageenan edema (ED50 of 41 mg/ kg at 3 h) which continued for up to 12 h. Using a therapeutic dosing regimen, this compound inhibited hind paw inflammation (>70%) and arthogram scores in rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis. This compound also possessed significant analgesic activity in mice (70% inhibition with 50mg/kg). CDB, however, lacked inhibitory activity on bradykinin and serotonin-induced edema. In addition, CDB significantly inhibited COX-I activity (IC50 approximately = 17 microM) while having only a weak inhibitory activity on both COX-2 and PAM activity.
CDB is an effective anti-inflammatory/analgesic agent whose mechanism of action appears to be associated with inhibition of COX-1 activity.
Multiple coactivator and corepressor complexes play an important role in endocrine processes and breast cancer; in particular, estrogen and estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) promote the proliferation of breast cancer cells. Menin is a tumor suppressor encoded by Men1 that is mutated in the human-inherited tumor syndrome multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1); it also serves as a critical link in the recruitment of nuclear receptor-mediated transcription. Here, we show that menin expressed in breast cancer cell line MCF-7 is colocalized with ERalpha and functions as a direct coactivator of ER-mediated transcription in breast cancer cells. In MCF-7 cells, coexpression of menin and estrogen-response element-luciferase induced the activity of the latter in a hormone-dependent manner. Cells knocked down for ERalpha exhibited impaired ERE-luciferase activity induced by menin. Mammalian two-hybrid assay and GST pull-down assays indicated that menin could interact with the AF-2 domain of ERalpha. These results indicate that menin is a direct activator of ERalpha function. Tamoxifen inhibited the binding of menin to AF-2 in mammalian two-hybrid assay, but in menin-overexpressing clones, tamoxifen suppressed ERE-luciferase activity only to the levels of nontreated wild-type MCF-7. In a clinical study with 65 ER-positive breast cancer samples-all of which had been treated with tamoxifen for 2-5 years as adjuvant therapies--menin-positive tumors had a worse outcome than menin-negative ones. These indicated that menin can function as a transcriptional regulator of ERalpha and is a possible predictive factor for tamoxifen resistance.
The specific pathogenesis of increased vulnerability to cocaine-induced paranoia/psychosis is unknown. Weight loss has been long observed in patients abusing stimulants (including cocaine and the amphetamines). In the current study, we compared Body Mass Index (calculated as weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters) in Cocaine-Induced Psychosis cases, referred to as "Cocaine-Induced Psychosis-prone" (n=40) and non-Cocaine-Induced Psychosis cases, referred to as "Cocaine-Induced Psychosis-resistant" (n=29) consecutively admitted to a research substance abuse unit to determine whether Body Mass Index is associated with Cocaine-Induced Psychosis. Height and weight were measured and Body Mass Index calculated by a licensed nutritionist using a standardized protocol. Cocaine-induced psychosis and cocaine use patterns were assessed using the Cocaine Experience Questionnaire.
Body Mass Index in the Cocaine-Induced Psychosis-prone patients was significantly lower than in the Cocaine-Induced Psychosis-resistant patients (i.e., 23.1 kg/m2 +/-2.5 vs. 25.4 kg/m2 +/-3.5 (P=.003), respectively). Percentage of Ideal Body Weight also differed significantly between the two groups.
The data suggest that lower Body Mass Index may be associated with increasing proneness to developing psychotic symptoms in the context of crack cocaine use or that higher Body Mass Index might be associated with some protection against Cocaine-Induced Psychosis in the context of similar use patterns. In the Discussion the authors speculate as to why Cocaine-Induced Psychosis is more commonly observed in the patient population with lower Body Mass Index and lower percentage of Ideal Body Weight. They evoke possible involvement of cocaine's influence on the anorexigenic cytokine Tumor Necrosis Factor, Cocaine-and-Amphetamine-Regulated Transcript, or suppression of the appetite stimulating Neuropeptide Y, or cocaine-induced deficits in nicotinic cholinergic neural-transmission, all of which have not only been linked to weight and appetite, but also to idiopathic psychosis. It could be speculated that one or more of these systems might be differentially affected by cocaine addiction in the psychosis prone Cocaine-Induced Psychosis group vs. the psychosis resistant non-Cocaine-Induced Psychosis group. Further exploration of these possible associations seem warranted. Such findings would have implications for the cocaine model of psychosis proneness and perhaps for the stimulant model of psychoses in general.
The presence of cyanobacterial toxins in drinking and recreational waters represents a potential public health risk. Microcystin-LR (MC-LR) is a potent cyclic heptapeptide hepatotoxin produced by the blue-green alga Microcystis aeruginosa. Chemoprotectant studies have indicated that membrane-active antioxidants such as vitamin E may offer protection against microcystin toxicity. This study investigated the effect of vitamin E supplementation on microcystin toxicity in mouse liver. Groups of mice were fed vitamin E supplements (8.33 or 33.3 U/mouse/day) for 4 weeks, with intraperitoneal doses of MC-LR extract (70% LD(50)) every 3 days from day 8. The potential benefits of vitamin E were evaluated based on lipid peroxidation, alanine transaminase (ALT), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) levels. Vitamin E supplementation at 33.3 U/mouse/day offered some protection against lipid peroxidation induced by repeated exposure to MC-LR extract and limited both the toxin-induced increase in ALT leakage and decrease in GST activity. Vitamin E supplementation at 66.6 U/mouse/day significantly increased the time to death and reduced the increase in liver percentage body weight induced in mice given a lethal dose challenge of MC-LR extract. Therefore, vitamin E, taken as a dietary supplement, may have a protective effect against chronic exposure to MC-LR.
Ten patients with Parkinson's disease and levodopa induced dyskinesias (LIDs) took part in this randomised, placebo controlled, double blind, crossover trial to assess the efficacy and tolerability of high dose oral naltrexone for LIDs in Parkinson's disease. Patients received naltrexone (5 mg/kg/day) or placebo for 2.5 weeks with 1 week wash out in between. Dyskinesias and motor function were assessed with a levodopa challenge, unified Parkinson's disease rating scale (UPDRS), the unified dyskinesia rating scale (UDRS), and patient diaries. Eight patients completed the trial. There was a small reduction in LIDs measured by patient diaries with naltrexone (20.5 (SD 24.9)%) compared with placebo (-4.1 (SD 22.6)%), p<0.05, although no difference was found by other subjective or objective measures. Naltrexone was well tolerated and caused no significant differences in UPDRS motor scores or off time. This study suggests that short term therapy with high dose naltrexone (250-350 mg/day) has no or minimal effect on reducing LIDs in Parkinson's disease.
Cocaine use has increased considerably during the last twenty years and several related complications can be identified. Clinical features of cocaine intoxication are variable, but predominantly involve cardiovascular events. Chest pain is the most main complaint; myocardial ischemia must be ruled out. Other cardiovascular manifestations are left ventricular dysfunction, arrhythmia, endocarditis and aortic dissection. Non-cardiac complications include neurological (seizures, stroke, cerebral hemorrhage), respiratory (asthma, interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary edema), renal (acute renal failure, rhabdomyolysis) and obstetrical disorders. Detection of cocaine in the urine provides the diagnosis. Symptomatic treatment is generally given, combining conventional treatment of the complication and broad use of benzodiazepines.
Organophosphate-induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP) is initiated by inhibition/aging of more than 70-75% of neuropathy target esterase (NTE). Di-n-butyl-2,2-dichlorovinyl phosphate (DBDCVP) (1 mg/kg s.c.) inhibited 96%, 86% and 83% of NTE in brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerve, respectively, and induced a typical central peripheral distal axonopathy in hens. A lower dose (0.45 mg/kg s.c.) caused 90%, 83% and 54% NTE inhibition in the same organs; by contrast, hens developed a spastic ataxia with axonal degeneration in spinal cord but not in peripheral nerve. With a dose of 0.2 mg/kg s.c., a suprathreshold inhibition of NTE was produced in brain (78%) but not in spinal cord (56%) and peripheral nerve (33%) and no morphological or clinical signs of neuropathy developed in hens. With doses up to 4.0 mg/kg s.c., acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition was similar throughout the nervous system. In vitro time-course inhibition studies showed a different sensitivity to DBDCVP of NTE from peripheral nerve (ka = 5.4 x 10(6)) relative to that from spinal cord (ka = 13.9 x 10(6)) or brain (ka = 20.6 x 10(6)). In vitro I50s of DBDCVP for AChE were similar in brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerve (11-17 nM). These data support the hypothesis that the critical target for initiation of OPIDP is located in the nerve fiber, possibly in the axon and also suggest that peripheral nerve NTE has a different sensitivity to DBDCVP than the brain enzyme.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Depression is a common problem in elderly patients and is frequently treated with selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs).
To report a case of delayed recurrent hyponatremia after switching from one SSRI to another.
An 87-year-old depressed woman began treatment with fluvoxamine. One week later, she was diagnosed with hyponatremia, most likely syndrome of inadequate antidiuretic hormone. Following discontinuation of fluvoxamine, the serum sodium concentration normalized. Later, she began treatment with paroxetine. Sixteen months after initiating paroxetine, she developed symptomatic recurrent hyponatremia. After paroxetine was discontinued, the sodium concentration normalized.
In this case, unlike those previously reported, hyponatremia recurred 16 months after a different SSRI was initiated. The Naranjo probability scale indicates a probable relationship between recurrent hyponatremia and paroxetine. The mechanism of SSRI-induced hyponatremia is multifactorial.
This case illustrates that replacement of one SSRI with another can cause delayed, recurrent hyponatremia in elderly patients. Plasma sodium concentrations must be monitored, not only in the first weeks of treatment, but throughout the full course.
To report a patient with Parkinson disease (PD) who developed zoophilia as a possible complication of dopaminergic therapy.
A 74-year-old man with advanced PD, who had wearing-off motor fluctuations, with a marked disability during the off periods and severe peak-of-dose choreiform dyskinesias, developed hypersexuality with zoophilia 5 days after standard levodopa was substituted for controlled-release levodopa and the dose of bromocriptine was increased. The abnormal sexual behavior disappeared 2 days after the doses of standard levodopa and of bromocriptine were reduced.
Hypersexuality is a known complication in PD patients undergoing dopaminergic therapy. However, the possible development of zoophilia due to these drugs, as was the case in our patient, is exceptional.
Zoophilia should be considered as a possible behavioral complication of dopaminergic therapy in PD patients.
