Behavioural, electroencephalographic and neuropathological responses to increasing doses of pilocarpine (100-400 mg/kg) administered intraperitoneally to rats were studied. At the dose of 400 mg/kg pilocarpine produced a sequence of behavioural alterations including staring spells, olfactory and gustatory automatisms and motor limbic seizures that developed over 1-2 h and built up progressively into limbic status epilepticus. Smaller doses showed different threshold for these behavioural phenomena but a similar time course of development. The earliest electrographic alterations occurred in the hippocampus and then epileptiform activity propagated to amygdala and cortex. Subsequently electrographic seizures appeared in both limbic and cortical leads. The ictal periods recurred each 5-15 min and were followed by variable periods of depression of the electrographic activity. The sequence of electrographic changes correlated well with the development of behavioural phenomena. Histological examination of frontal forebrain sections revealed disseminated, apparently seizure-mediated pattern of brain damage. Neuropathological alterations were observed in the olfactory cortex, amygdaloid complex, thalamus, neocortex, hippocampal formation and substantia nigra. Pretreatment of animals with scopolamine (20 mg/kg) and diazepam (10 mg/kg) prevented the development of convulsive activity and brain damage. These results show that systemic pilocarpine in rats selectively elaborates epileptiform activity in the limbic structures accompanied by motor limbic seizures, limbic status epilepticus and widespread brain damage. It is suggested that a causative relationship between excessive stimulation of cholinergic receptors in the brain and epileptic brain damage may exist.
An opioid withdrawal syndrome was induced in rats by repeated morphine administration and final naloxone injection. The withdrawal causes alteration of several physiological signs. The aim of the study was to prevent the altered physiological profiles by utilising otilonium bromide. Morphine was administered in three daily i.p. injections for 4 days at doses of 9, 16 and 25 mg/kg (1st day), 25, 25 and 50 mg/kg (2nd day), 50, 50 and 50 mg/kg (3rd day) and 50, 50 and 100 mg/kg (4th day). Naloxone was injected (30 mg/kg) i.p. 180 min after the last morphine injection. Otilonium bromide was administered orally at 0, 2, 4 and 8 mg/kg, 120 min before the naloxone administration. Signs like faecal and urine excretion, rectal temperature and pain threshold levels, salivation, jumping and wet dog shakes were affected in different ways. Notably the administration of otilonium bromide in rats receiving morphine together with naloxone decreased the intensity of certain withdrawal symptoms, such as excretion of faeces, wet dog shake behaviour, and elevated the nociceptive threshold values. The effects exhibited by otilonium bromide administration may be explained through its calcium antagonist activity interfering with a mechanism involved in the regulation of these previously mentioned withdrawal symptoms. The use of this drug is thus suggested as a possible control of some acute opioid withdrawal signs in heroin addicts.
We previously reported the induction of calcium-dependent calcium release and depolarization of membrane potential of cardiac mitochondria from rats treated chronically (13 weeks) with doxorubicin. The fact that this was inhibited by cyclosporine A and ruthenium red suggests induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition and calcium cycling. The objective of this investigation was to characterize the cumulative dose-dependent interference with mitochondrial calcium transport by doxorubicin and to assess whether alteration of mitochondrial calcium regulation is manifested as an increased sensitivity to calcium-induced injury to cardiomyocytes isolated from rats exposed in vivo. Mitochondria or cardiomyocytes were isolated from rats treated with 2 mg/kg/week doxorubicin s.c. for 1-9 weeks. Mitochondria isolated from hearts of doxorubicin-treated rats exhibited a dose-dependent increase in sensitivity to calcium-induced calcium release and membrane depolarization, both of which were inhibited by cyclosporine A. Cardiomyocytes isolated from rats treated for 6 weeks with doxorubicin expressed an increased sensitivity to calcium-induced cell killing. The calcium intolerance was prevented by adding either cyclosporine A or ruthenium red to block mitochondrial calcium cycling. These data demonstrate that doxorubicin treatment in vivo causes: (1) a dose-dependent interference with mitochondrial calcium transport and calcium-dependent regulation of membrane potential indicative of induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition, and (2) an increased sensitivity to calcium-induced loss of cell viability. The fact that blocking mitochondrial calcium cycling protected cardiomyocytes from the calcium intolerance suggests that altered regulation of mitochondrial calcium transport may be a critical event in doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
31P NMR spectroscopy was used in conjunction with conventional biochemical techniques to study metabolic abnormalities in normal rats, in rats with CCl4-induced acute liver failure and in rats with paracetamol-induced acute liver failure. Studies were carried out before and after a metabolic challenge in the form of a fructose infusion. Prior to fructose infusion the ATP levels in the groups with acute liver failure were significantly lower than in control rats, despite their having a similar ATP/Pi ratio. Following a fructose infusion in control animals, the changes in phosphomonoesters, ATP and inorganic phosphate were consistent with previously reported findings. However, in both test groups the percentage changes in phosphomonoesters and ATP were significantly smaller. Intracellular pH declined in control animals, but did not change significantly in the animals with acute liver failure. Fructose clearance from the blood in control animals was not significantly different from that in animals with CCl4-induced acute liver failure. Metabolic changes measured using a horizontal magnet were very similar to those obtained with a vertical magnet.
Chronic exposure to inorganic arsenic (iAs) has been associated with increased risk of various forms of cancer and of noncancerous diseases. Metabolic conversions of iAs that yield highly toxic and genotoxic methylarsonite (MAsIII) and dimethylarsinite (DMAsIII) may play a significant role in determining the extent and character of toxic and cancer-promoting effects of iAs exposure. In this study we examined the relationship between urinary profiles of MAsIII and DMAsIII and skin lesion markers of iAs toxicity in individuals exposed to iAs in drinking water. The study subjects were recruited among the residents of an endemic region of central Mexico. Drinking-water reservoirs in this region are heavily contaminated with iAs. Previous studies carried out in the local populations have found an increased incidence of pathologies, primarily skin lesions, that are characteristic of arseniasis. The goal of this study was to investigate the urinary profiles for the trivalent and pentavalent As metabolites in both high- and low-iAs-exposed subjects. Notably, methylated trivalent arsenicals were detected in 98% of analyzed urine samples. On average, the major metabolite, DMAsIII, represented 49% of total urinary As, followed by DMAsV (23.7%), iAsV (8.6%), iAsIII (8.5%), MAsIII (7.4%), and MAsV (2.8%). More important, the average MAsIII concentration was significantly higher in the urine of exposed individuals with skin lesions compared with those who drank iAs-contaminated water but had no skin lesions. These data suggest that urinary levels of MAsIII, the most toxic species among identified metabolites of iAs, may serve as an indicator to identify individuals with increased susceptibility to toxic and cancer-promoting effects of arseniasis.
Systemic administration of caffeine reinstates extinguished cocaine self-administration behavior in rats, but the mechanism mediating this behavioral effect has not been established. The present study examined the role of adenosinergic A2 and dopaminergic mechanisms in caffeine-produced cocaine seeking. Following extinction of cocaine self-administration, experimenter-administered injections of caffeine (1.25-20 mg/kg) and theophylline (1-10 mg/kg) dose-dependently reinstated extinguished cocaine-seeking behavior. Administration of the adenosinergic A2 antagonist, 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX; 0.546-2.18 microg/kg), failed to produce cocaine seeking. Pretreatment with doses of the adenosine A1/A2 agonist 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA; 0.003-0.03 mg/kg) that were below those that produced marked sedation failed to block reinstatement. These data suggest that methylxanthine-produced cocaine seeking is not due to adenosine A2 receptor antagonism. In contrast, pretreatment with the dopaminergic D1-like antagonist SCH 23390 (0.005-0.02 mg/kg) or the D2-like antagonist eticlopride (0.03-0.3 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent attenuation of caffeine-produced reinstatement at doses that did not decrease cocaine self-administration. These findings suggest that dopaminergic mechanisms underlie the ability of caffeine to reinstate extinguished cocaine-taking behavior.
It has been suggested previously that conditioned effects on drug-seeking behaviour are in part mediated through glutamatergic neurotransmission.
To optimise a second-order schedule of IV cocaine reinforcement in Wistar rats and investigate the effects of the systemic AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist CNQX on cocaine-seeking behaviour under this schedule.
Free-feeding Wistar rats were trained to respond for an IV cocaine infusion (0.25 mg/infusion) under a FI15 min(FR7:S) schedule, whereby the completion of FR7 responses led to the presentation of a conditioned stimulus (CS). After two 15-min fixed intervals, rats were allowed to respond for cocaine under an FR4(FR7:S) second-order schedule for another 120 min. After acquisition of stable responding, the cocaine unit dose was increased to 0.50 mg/infusion. The effects of CNQX (0, 0.75, 1.5, and 3 mg/kg IP) on cocaine seeking were then examined using a within-subjects design.
Increasing the cocaine unit dose increased responding during the first and second intervals, with a decrease in the latency to the first CS. CNQX decreased the number of cocaine responses in a dose-dependent manner during the first 15-min cocaine-free interval, but did not affect cocaine responding during either the second interval or the latter part of the session under the FR4(FR7:S) schedule. In the locomotor activity test, reductions in rearing were produced by higher CNQX doses than those that attenuated significantly responding during the first fixed interval.
These results suggest that AMPA/kainate receptors are involved in mediation of cocaine-seeking behaviour controlled partly by cocaine-associated cues.
Dipyridamole-thallium-201 imaging is often performed in patients unable to exercise because of peripheral vascular disease. Many of these patients are taking pentoxifylline (Trental), a methylxanthine derivative which may improve intermittent claudication. Whether pentoxifylline inhibits dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia like other methylxanthines such as theophylline and should be stopped prior to dipyridamole-thallium-201 imaging is unknown. Therefore, we studied the hyperemic response to dipyridamole in seven open-chest anesthetized dogs after pretreatment with either pentoxifylline (0, 7.5, or 15 mg/kg i.v.) or theophylline (3 mg/kg i.v.). Baseline circumflex coronary blood flows did not differ significantly among treatment groups. Dipyridamole significantly increased coronary blood flow before and after 7.5 or 15 mm/kg i.v. pentoxifylline (p less than 0.002). Neither dose of pentoxifylline significantly decreased the dipyridamole-induced hyperemia, while peak coronary blood flow was significantly lower after theophylline (p less than 0.01). We conclude that pentoxyifylline does not inhibit dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia even at high doses.
Supv3L1 is a conserved and ubiquitously expressed helicase found in numerous tissues and cell types of many species. In human cells, SUPV3L1 was shown to suppress apoptotic death and sister chromatid exchange, and impair mitochondrial RNA metabolism and protein synthesis. In vitro experiments revealed binding of SUPV3L1 to BLM and WRN proteins, suggesting a role in genome maintenance processes. Disruption of the Supv3L1 gene in the mouse has been reported to be embryonic lethal at early developmental stages. We generated a conditional mouse in which the phenotypes associated with the removal of exon 14 can be tested in a variety of tissues. Disruption mediated by a Mx1 promoter-driven Cre displayed a postnatal growth delay, reduced lifespan, loss of adipose tissue and muscle mass, and severe skin abnormalities manifesting as ichthyosis, thickening of the epidermis, and atrophy of the dermis and subcutaneous tissue. Using a tamoxifen-activatable Esr1/Cre driver, Supv3L1 disruption resulted in growth retardation and aging phenotypes, including loss of adipose tissue and muscle mass, kyphosis, cachexia, and premature death. Many of the abnormalities seen in the Mx1-Cre mice, such as hyperkeratosis characterized by profound scaling of feet and tail, could also be detected in tamoxifen-inducible Cre mice. Conditional ablation of Supv3L1 in keratinocytes confirmed atrophic changes in the skin and ichthyosis-like changes. Together, these data indicate that Supv3L1 is important for the maintenance of the skin barrier. In addition, loss of Supv3L1 function leads to accelerated aging-like phenotypes.
The neuropharmacological profile of Y-931, 8-fluoro-12- (4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)- 6H-[1]benzothieno [2,3-b][1,5]benzodiazepine maleate, was investigated in comparison with those of typical and claimed atypical antipsychotic drugs. Similar to clozapine and olanzapine, Y-931 interacted with multiple neurotransmitter receptors such as dopaminergic, serotonergic, alpha-adrenergic, muscarinic and histaminergic receptors. Y-931, as well as the other antipsychotics, was active in a dose-dependent manner in established tests which are indicative of potential antipsychotic activity such as inhibition of apomorphine-induced hyperactivity and suppression of conditioned avoidance responses, however, only Y-931 and clozapine were devoid of cataleptogenic potential. In models of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor hypofunction, Y-931 demonstrated the most potent protective action against the dizocilpine-induced neurotoxicity (neuronal vacuolization) in the rat retrosplenial cortex ([Y-931 (ED(50); 0.20 mg/kg, p.o.), olanzapine (1.1), clozapine (5.7), risperidone (6.9), haloperidol (19)). Furthermore, Y-931 and clozapine, unlike the other antipsychotics used, reversed the dizocilpine-induced social deficits at the same doses at which their neuroprotective action was exhibited. The present results suggest that Y-931 may be a novel potential atypical antipsychotic drug with a low risk of extrapyramidal syndrome (EPS) and the property to ameliorate NMDA receptor hypofunction.
The carcinogenic effects of in utero exposure to 3-methylcholanthrene (MC) have been demonstrated in the tumor-resistant C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA (D2) strains of mice. In this study, we determined the effects of in utero exposure to MC in BALB/c mice, a strain which demonstrates greater susceptibility to lung tumor induction, and compared our findings with those previously found in [D2xB6D2F(1)]F(2) mice. In addition, we assessed the molecular pathogenesis of the chemically induced tumors and examined the effects of the putative lung tumor promoter butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) in BALB/c mice. BALB/c mice were treated on day 17 of gestation with 5, 15 or 45 mg/kg MC and 6 weeks after birth with BHT for 6 consecutive weeks. Mice were killed at 6 months of age. Ki-ras, p16Ink4a and p19ARF gene loci were amplified from paraffin-embedded lung tumor tissue and screened for the presence of point mutations via allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization and single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analyses. Ki-ras point mutations were found in 56% (20/36) of BALB/c lung tumors, with 33% (2/6) of the hyperplasias, 58% (10/19) of the adenomas and 73% (8/11) of the carcinomas exhibiting point mutations at this gene locus. Similar incidences of Ki-ras mutations were previously found following transplacental exposure of [D2xB6D2F(1)]F(2) mice to MC and treatment of adult A/J mice with urethane. Interestingly, a strain-dependent difference was observed in the mutational spectrum. Sixty-two and 38% of the lung lesions in BALB/c mice exhibited G-->C and G-->T transversions, respectively, in contrast to the 13 and 84% incidences previously observed in [D2xB6D2F(1)]F(2) mice. SSCP analysis of the tumor suppressor gene p16Ink4a showed a 6% incidence of point mutations, consistent with that found in [D2xB6D2F(1)]F(2) mice. No mutations were found in exon 1beta of the p19ARF gene of either strain. BHT, a lung tumor promoter in adult mice, had no statistically significant effects on either tumor incidence, tumor multiplicity or the mutational spectrum produced in the Ki-ras gene by in utero MC treatment. However, though not significant, there was an observable trend in increased tumor multiplicity in mice co-treated with BHT. These data demonstrate the transplacental carcinogenic effect of MC in BALB/c mice and show that mutagenic damage to Ki-ras is a critical early event mediating murine lung tumorigenesis in both the tumor-sensitive and tumor-resistant strains. Unlike what occurs when adult BALB/c mice are treated with MC, BHT does not appear to significantly promote the formation of lung tumors following transplacental exposure to MC, possibly due to the rapid growth and cell proliferation in the developing organism. Strain-dependent differences in the Ki-ras mutational spectrum may be associated with their differential susceptibility to lung tumor initiation.
Rats were treated with different doses of isoniazid (INH) causing convulsions. Lethal dose (DL50) and effective convulsant dose (ED50) were calculated. Reduced glutathione (GSH) and related aminoacids were administered to rats receiving INH: the latency and duration of convulsions were recorded; cerebral gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) concentrations were determined in rats receiving INH and an association of GSH and INH. GSH and its related aminoacids as cysteine and glycine greatly decreased the duration of INH-induced seizures, while glutamic acid did not protect against convulsions caused by INH. Furthermore, INH causes a decrease in cerebral GABA levels to about half and GSH repeated pretreatment did, however, not prevent the INH induced decline of GABA content: hence, the anticonvulsant effect of GSH can not be ascribed to the restoration of normal levels of anti-epilectically acting GABA, but can be attributed to cysteine and glycine, aminoacids linked to GSH.
Clonidine given i.v. at a dose of 0.1 mg and 0.2 mg was found to cause miosis in a placebo controlled double-blind study in six healthy volunteers. In a further single-blind placebo controlled study in three of these volunteers, the alpha 2-adrenoreceptor antagonist RX 781094 at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg i.v. reversed the miosis induced by i.v. clonidine 0.2 mg. At a dose of 0.05 mg/kg the miosis was partially reversed.
Anthracyclines are effective anticancer drugs for childhood cancer with dose-limiting cardiotoxicity. Children who have received anthracyclines thus need periodical cardiac evaluation. The plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) have been shown to increase in proportion to severity of cardiac dysfunction. We examined whether plasma levels of ANP and BNP, in addition to echocardiographic evaluation, can be used as specific markers for doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxic effects in children.
Consecutively, 34 patients (18 boys and 16 girls) who had previously received doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy were enrolled in this study. Plasma ANP and BNP were assayed simultaneously at the time of first cardiac function evaluation by echocardiography.
Of the 34 patients, 8 (23.5%) had left ventricular dysfunction as assessed by echocardiography. Both ANP and BNP plasma levels in these patients were significantly elevated in comparison with healthy controls (P < 0.01) or patients with normal cardiac function (P < 0.05). It should be also noted that ANP and BNP levels were correlated significantly with cardiac systolic function, but not with diastolic function.
These results suggest that plasma ANP and BNP levels could be markers for doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in children. Measurement of natriuretic peptide levels during treatment may allow earlier-identification of individuals at risk for severe cardiac damage.
Autism is a childhood neuropsychiatric disorder that, despite exhibiting high heritability, has largely eluded efforts to identify specific genetic variants underlying its etiology. We performed a two-stage genetic study in which genome-wide linkage and family-based association mapping was followed up by association and replication studies in an independent sample. We identified a common polymorphism in contactin-associated protein-like 2 (CNTNAP2), a member of the neurexin superfamily, that is significantly associated with autism susceptibility. Importantly, the genetic variant displays a parent-of-origin and gender effect recapitulating the inheritance of autism.
Bronchoscopy was undertaken in 79 outpatients using local anaesthesia plus an i.v. injection of flunitrazepam 0.01 mg kg-1. The co-operation of the patients and the ease of bronchoscopy were good regardless of the age of the patient. There was an increase in amnesia for the bronchoscopy with increasing age, but the most distinct difference between different age groups was that the amnesic action of flunitrazepam was evident earlier and persisted longer in patients of more than 60 yr. Eye co-ordination and ability to stand steadily and walk on a line returned to normal more slowly in patients more than 60 than in those less than 60 yr, but no differences in recovery were noted between patients less than 40 and those of 40--59 yr, or between those 60--69 and those more than 70 yr.
Methotrexate (MTX) is used for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) treatment showing a wide toxicity profile. This study aimed to evaluate the influence of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes encoding for MTX transporters with the occurrence of MTX-related toxicity (overall and gastrointestinal). A total of 233 Portuguese RA patients were genotyped for 23 SNPs. Haplotype analyses were performed and a toxicogenetic risk index (TRI) was created for SNPs that revealed to be statistically significant. Regarding MTX overall toxicity, an increased risk was associated to SLC19A1 rs7499 G carriers (p = 0.017), SLC46A1 rs2239907 GG (p = 0.030) and, SLCO1B1 rs4149056 T carriers (p = 0.040) and TT (p = 0.019). TRI revealed that patients with Index 3 were 18-fold more likely to present an adverse drug reaction when compared to those with Index 1 (p = 0.001). For MTX gastrointestinal toxicity, results demonstrated an increased risk associated with SLC19A1 rs7499 G carriers (p = 0.012) and GG (p = 0.045), SLC19A1 rs1051266 G carriers (p = 0.034), SLC19A1 rs2838956 A carriers (p = 0.049) and, SLCO1B1 rs4149056 T carriers (p = 0.042) and TT (p = 0.025). Haplotype analyses showed association between GGAG haplotype for SLC19A1 rs7499, rs1051266, rs2838956 and rs3788200 with MTX gastrointestinal toxicity (p = 0.029). TRI revealed that patients with Index 4 were 9-fold more likely to present a gastrointestinal disorder when compared to those with Index 1 (p = 0.020). This study demonstrated that SLC19A1, SLC46A1 and SLCO1B1 genotypes may help to identify patients with increased risk of MTX-related overall toxicity and that SLC19A1 and SLCO1B1 genotypes, and SLC19A1 haplotypes may help to identify patients with increased risk of MTX-related gastrointestinal toxicity.
We report the first case of granulomatous tubulointerstitial nephritis induced by all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Acute renal failure during treatment with ATRA has been previously reported as a part of an ATRA syndrome or a thrombotic complication of a hypercoagulable state. This case indicates an alternative mechanism of acute renal failure occurring during ATRA therapy.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the arteries resulting from interactions between lipids, monocytes, and arterial wall cells. The effects of resveratrol supplements (RV, 0.02% and 0.06% each, w/w) with regard to the modulation of lipid profiles, cholesterol synthesis, and anti-atherogenesis were examined in apo E-deficient (apo E(-/-)) mice fed a normal diet. The concentration of total-cholesterol (total-C) and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) in plasma was significantly lower in the resveratrol-supplemented groups compare to the control group over the entire experimental period. The plasma HDL-C concentration was significantly elevated, and the ratio of HDL-C/total-C was significantly higher in the CF and RV groups than in the control group. Plasma paraoxonase (PON) activity was significantly higher in the 0.06% resveratrol group. The hepatic HMG-CoA reductase (HMGR) activity was significantly lower in the clofibrate and resveratrol groups than in the control group. Resveratrol supplements attenuated the presence of atherosclerotic lesions and periarterial fat deposition in the apo E(-/-) mice. The presence of intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in atherosclerotic vessels was diminished in the resveratrol-supplemented apo E(-/-) mice. These results provide new insight into the anti-atherogenic and hypocholesterolemic properties of resveratrol in apo E(-/-) mice that were fed a normal diet.
Chronic arsenic exposure causes vascular diseases associated with systematic dysfunction of endogenous nitric oxide. Replacement of heavily arsenic-contaminated drinking water with low-arsenic water is a potential intervention strategy for arsenosis, although the reversibility of arsenic intoxication has not established. In the present study, we examined urinary excretion of cyclic guanosine 3 ,5 -monophosphate (cGMP), a second messenger of the vasoactive effects of nitric oxide, and signs and symptoms for peripheral vascular function in 54 arsenosis patients before and after they were supplied with low-arsenic drinking water in an endemic area of chronic arsenic poisoning in Inner Mongolia, China. The arsenosis patients showed a marked decrease in urinary excretion of cGMP (mean +/- SEM: male, 37.0 +/- 6.1; female, 37.2 +/- 5.4 nmol/mmol creatinine), and a 13-month period of consuming low-arsenic drinking water reversed this trend (male, 68.0 +/- 5.6; female, 70.6 +/- 3.0 nmol/mmol creatinine) and improved peripheral vascular response to cold stress. Our intervention study indicates that peripheral vascular disease in arsenosis patients can be reversed by exposure cessation and has important implications for the public health approach to arsenic exposure.
Statins confer therapeutic benefits in systemic and pulmonary vascular diseases. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) receptors serve essential signaling functions in cardiovascular development and skeletal morphogenesis. Mutations in BMP receptor type II (BMPR2) are associated with human familial and idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension, and pathologic neointimal proliferation of vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells within small pulmonary arteries. In severe experimental pulmonary hypertension, simvastatin reversed disease and conferred a 100% survival advantage. Here, modulation of BMPR2 gene expression by simvastatin is characterized in human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T, pulmonary artery smooth muscle, and lung microvascular endothelial cells (HLMVECs). A 1.4kb BMPR2 promoter containing Egr-1 binding sites confers reporter gene activation in 293T cells which is partially inhibited by simvastatin. Simvastatin enhances steady-state BMPR2 mRNA and protein expression in HLMVEC, through posttranscriptional mRNA stabilization. Simvastatin induction of BMPR2 expression may improve BMP-BMPR2 signaling thereby enhancing endothelial differentiation and function.
Mitomycin C associated Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (HUS) is a potentially fatal but uncommon condition that is not yet widely recognised. It consists of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and progressive renal failure associated with mitomycin C treatment and affects about 10% of patients treated with this agent. The renal failure usually develops about 8-10 mth after start of mitomycin C treatment and the mortality is approximately 60% from renal failure or pulmonary edema. Renal lesions are similar to those seen in idiopathic HUS and include arteriolar fibrin thrombi, expanded subendothelial zones in glomerular capillary walls, ischemic wrinkling of glomerular basement membranes and mesangiolysis. The mechanism of action is postulated as mitomycin C-induced endothelial cell damage. We describe the clinical course and pathological findings in a 65 yr-old man with gastric adenocarcinoma who developed renal failure and thrombocytopenia while on treatment with mitomycin C and died in pulmonary edema.
We investigated the effect of phenylephrine (PE)- and isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy on subcellular localization and expression of caveolin-3 and STAT3 in H9c2 cardiomyoblast cells. Caveolin-3 localization to plasma membrane was attenuated and localization of caveolin-3 to caveolae in the plasma membrane was 24.3% reduced by the catecholamine- induced hypertrophy. STAT3 and phospho-STAT3 were up-regulated but verapamil and cyclosporin A synergistically decreased the STAT3 and phospho- STAT3 levels in PE- and ISO-induced hypertrophic cells. Both expression and activation of STAT3 were increased in the nucleus by the hypertrophy. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that the catecholamine- induced hypertrophy promoted nuclear localization of pY705-STAT3. Of interest, phosphorylation of pS727- STAT3 in mitochondria was significantly reduced by catecholamine-induced hypertrophy. In addition, mitochondrial complexes II and III were greatly down- regulated in the hypertrophic cells. Our data suggest that the alterations in nuclear and mitochondrial activation of STAT3 and caveolae localization of caveolin-3 are related to the development of the catecholamine-induced cardiac hypertrophy.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be associated with new adverse events after abrupt discontinuation. Hypothesizing that the long half-life of fluoxetine would be protective, this study analyzed the effects of abrupt fluoxetine discontinuation during a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of depression maintenance treatment. After 12 weeks of fluoxetine treatment (20 mg/day), 395 responders were abruptly randomized to placebo (N = 96) or to continued fluoxetine (N = 299). Patients were seen at weeks 1, 2, 4, and 6 after randomization. Reports of new or worsened adverse events were similar for both groups at each visit after randomization. Patient discontinuations related to adverse events were also similar in both groups. Mild, self-limited lightheadedness or dizziness occurred in a small percentage of patients who discontinued fluoxetine treatment but was of little clinical significance. No cluster of symptoms suggestive of a discontinuation syndrome was observed. Abrupt discontinuation of fluoxetine treatment was well tolerated and did not seem to be associated with significant clinical risk. Fluoxetine may offer a potential safety advantage over shorter-acting agents with respect to treatment interruption and/or discontinuation and may be a better choice for those patients who are likely to miss doses because of travel or forgetfulness.
To evaluate the clinical PK/PD of PTH(1-34) delivered by a novel transdermal drug-coated microneedle patch system (ZP-PTH) for the treatment of osteoporosis.
Phase 1 PK studies evaluated the effect of site of administration, patch wear time and dose in normal volunteers, ages 40-85 yrs. Phase 2 was conducted in post-menopausal women with osteoporosis to determine the patch dose response compared to placebo patch and FORTEO® injection.
Phase 1 ZP-PTH patch delivery demonstrated a rapid PTH plasma pulse profile with T(max) 3 times shorter and apparent T(1/2) 2 times shorter than FORTEO®. In Phase 2, ZP-PTH 20, 30 and 40 µg doses showed a proportional increase in plasma PTH AUC. Inter-subject and intra-subject AUC variability was similar for all patch doses and comparable to injection. All patch doses produced a significant increase in spine bone mineral density. Unexpectedly, ZP-PTH also produced an early increase in hip bone mineral density, an effect not observed with the injection.
These studies suggest that this novel ZP-PTH patch system can deliver a consistent and therapeutically relevant PTH PK profile. Based on encouraging Phase 2 safety and efficacy data, the program is advancing into a pivotal Phase 3 clinical study.
In 30 patients with essential hypertension and 30 healthy control subjects, we evaluated blood concentrations of B cell leukemia-2 (bcl-2), a protooncogene that can reduce apoptosis. Bcl-2 concentrations were higher in hypertensive than in normotensive subjects. The increase in pressure due to a cold pressor test caused a further increase in blood bcl-2 concentrations, in both hypertensive and normotensive subjects. Treatment of hypertensive patients with hypotensive drugs caused a reduction in bcl-2 concentrations, which was more marked after administration of lisinopril than of nifedipine. The results suggest that concentrations of bcl-2 are increased in patients with hypertension, which could be an important factor in cell proliferation underlying posthypertensive vascular remodeling. Moreover, lisinopril and nifedipine appear to be capable of reducing bcl-2 concentrations, with potentially beneficial effects on vascular modifications in patients with hypertension.
Developing Janus kinase 2 (Jak2) inhibitors has become a significant focus for small molecule drug discovery programs in recent years due to the identification of a Jak2 gain-of-function mutation in the majority of patients with myeloproliferative disorders (MPD). Here, we describe the discovery of a thienopyridine series of Jak2 inhibitors that culminates with compounds showing 100- to >500-fold selectivity over the related Jak family kinases in enzyme assays. Selectivity for Jak2 was also observed in TEL-Jak cellular assays, as well as in cytokine-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) and whole blood assays. X-ray cocrystal structures of 8 and 19 bound to the Jak2 kinase domain aided structure-activity relationship efforts and, along with a previously reported small molecule X-ray cocrystal structure of the Jak1 kinase domain, provided structural rationale for the observed high levels of Jak2 selectivity.
Trichloroacetic acid, an oxidative metabolite of trichloroethylene (TRI), is a ligand of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPAR) alpha, which is involved in lipid homeostasis and anti-inflammation.
We examined the role of mouse and human PPARalpha in TRI-induced hepatic steatosis and toxicity.
Male wild-type (mPPARalpha), Pparalpha-null, and humanized PPARalpha (hPPARalpha) mice on an Sv/129 background were exposed via inhalation to 0, 1,000, and 2,000 ppm TRI for 8 hr/day for 7 days. We assessed TRI-induced steatosis or hepatic damage through biochemical and histopathological measurements.
Plasma alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities increased in all mouse lines after exposure to 1,000 and 2,000 ppm TRI. Exposure induced hepatocyte necrosis and inflammatory cells in all mouse lines, but hepatic lipid accumulation was observed only in Pparalpha-null and hPPARalpha mice. No differences were observed in TRI-mediated induction of hepatic PPARalpha target genes except for a few genes that differed between mPPARalpha and hPPARalpha mice. However, TRI significantly increased expression of triglyceride (TG)-synthesizing enzymes, diacyl-glicerol acyltransferases, and PPARgamma in Pparalpha-null and hPPARalpha mice, which may account for the increased TG in their livers. TRI exposure elevated nuclear factor-kappa B (NFkappaB) p52 mRNA and protein in all mice regardless of PPARalpha genotype.
NFkappaB-p52 is a candidate molecular marker for inflammation caused by TRI, and PPARalpha may be involved in TRI-induced hepatosteatosis. However, human PPARalpha may afford only weak protection against TRI-mediated effects compared with mouse PPARalpha.
