Severe pulmonary hypertension (SPH) is characterized by precapillary arteriolar lumen obliteration, dramatic right ventricular hypertrophy, and pericardial effusion. Our recently published rat model of SPH recapitulates major components of the human disease. We used this model to develop new treatment strategies for SPH. SPH in rats was induced using VEGF receptor blockade in combination with chronic hypoxia. A large variety of drugs used in this study, including anticancer drugs (cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel), the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril, the antiangiogenic agent thalidomide, and the peroxisome proliferator-actived receptor-gamma agonist PGJ2, failed to decrease mean pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) or right ventricular hypertrophy. In contrast, treatment of rats with established SPH with simvastatin markedly reduced mean PAP and right ventricular hypertrophy, and this reduction was associated with caspase-3 activation and pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell apoptosis. Simvastatin partially restored caveolin-1, caveolin-2, and phospho-caveolin expression in vessel walls. In rat primary pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells, simvastatin induced caspase 3 activation and Rac 1 expression while suppressing Rho A and attenuated levels of Akt and ERK phosphorylation. We conclude that simvastatin is effective in inducing apoptosis in hyperproliferative pulmonary vascular lesions and could be considered as a potential drug for treatment of human SPH.
Treatment of cardiomyopathy, when detected early, may slow myocardial deterioration and even reverse its course. However, no efficient, noninvasive measure of cardiac function is yet able to detect the early signs of cardiomyopathy. The aim of this study was to determine whether ultrasound speckle tracking analysis is a more sensitive measure of early changes of cardiac function than standard echocardiographic parameters. Eight Wistar rats were injected with doxorubicin and scanned weekly by ultrasound in order to follow the early stages of cardiomyopathy. Apical short-axis scans were analyzed by a novel speckle tracking imaging program, enabling layer-specific assessment of myocardial function. Only four of eight rats survived the full treatment. They showed a significant elevation of endocardial apical rotation (P<0.006) after 4 weeks of treatment (25.1+/-3.7 deg) versus baseline values (8.0+/-2.8 deg), while ejection fraction remained normal (78.5+/-3.5%). Thus, in the rat model, layer-specific assessment of myocardial function may detect cardiomyopathy at its early stages.
Ginseng (the root of Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer, family Araliaceae), which contains protopanaxadiol ginsenoside Rb1 and protopanaxatriol ginsenoside Re as main constituents, is frequently used to treat cancer, inflammation, and stress. In the preliminary study, protopanaxatriol ginsenoside Re inhibited NF-κB activation in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated murine peritoneal macrophages. Therefore, we investigated its anti-inflammatory effect in peptidoglycan (PGN)-, LPS-, or tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α)-stimulated peritoneal macrophages and, in addition, in LPS-induced systemic inflammation and 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in mice. Ginsenoside Re inhibited IKK-β phosphorylation and NF-κB activation, as well as the expression of proinflammatory cytokines, TNF-α and IL-1β, in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages, but it did not inhibit them in TNF-α- or PG-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Ginsenoside Re also inhibited IRAK-1 phosphorylation induced by LPS, as well as IRAK-1 and IRAK-4 degradations in LPS-stimulated peritoneal macrophages. Ginsenoside Re inhibited the binding of Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated LPS to TLR4 on peritoneal macrophages. Furthermore, ginsenoside Re inhibited the binding of LPS to TLR4 on peritoneal macrophages transiently transfected with MyD88 siRNAs. Orally administered ginsenoside Re significantly inhibited the expression of IL-1β and TNF-α on LPS-induced systemic inflammation and TNBS-induced colitis in mice. Ginsenoside Re inhibited colon shortening and myeloperoxidase activity in TNBS-treated mice. Ginsenoside Re reversed the reduced expression of tight-junction-associated proteins ZO-1, claudin-1, and occludin. Ginsenoside Re (20 mg/kg) inhibited the activation of NF-κB in TNBS-treated mice. On the basis of these findings, ginsenoside Re may ameliorate inflammation by inhibiting the binding of LPS to TLR4 on macrophages.
Metronidazole-induced central nervous system (CNS) toxicity causes a spectrum of neurological symptoms including ataxia, encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy. It is associated with characteristic MRI changes of high signal intensity in the dentate nuclei. Given the increasing use of metronidazole, it is import to recognise this drug as a cause of ataxia, as it is entirely reversible on drug withdrawal.
The pain of cluster headache attacks is severe, excruciating and selectively responsive to subcutaneous sumatriptan. Serious cardiovascular events attributed to sumatriptan are extremely rare and have most often been reported in patients at significant cardiovascular risk, or in overt cardiovascular disease. They also have occurred, however, in patients without evidence of cardiovascular disease. We describe a 42-year-old man with episodic cluster headache without history of coronary artery disease who was admitted to our coronary care unit for acute myocardial infarction after 3 h of subcutaneous injection of sumatriptan. During hospitalisation cluster headache attacks were successfully treated with e.v. indomethacin.
Three cases of carbamazepine-induced granulomatous hepatitis are reported. Each patient had ingested carbamazepine for less than 1 month before presenting with a febrile illness suggestive of biliary tract infection. After withdrawal of carbamazepine, symptoms disappeared rapidly. Histologically, all patients had granulomatous hepatitis. Two patients also had acute cholangitis. Carbamazepine-induced liver injury can be confused clinically and pathologically with biliary tract infection.
Marked, and in some cases long-lasting, taste disturbances occurred in three patients on thiamazole. In addition, all three had a rise in serum transaminases and alkaline phosphatase levels, due to associated liver parenchymal damage. Cause of these changes was the high thiamazole dosage (160 and 120 mg/d). Reduction in dosage restored normal taste sense in all three, but in two the drug had to be discontinued because of persisting high transaminase levels.
Hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopamine (TIDA) neurons remain unaffected in Parkinson disease (PD) while there is significant degeneration of midbrain nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) neurons. A similar pattern of susceptibility is observed following acute exposure to the neurotoxicant 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), and the resistance of TIDA neurons to MPTP is associated with increased expression of parkin and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L-1 (UCHL-1). In the present study, the response of TIDA and NSDA neurons to acute MPTP administration following chronic MPTP exposure was examined. Mice were treated with ten injections of either MPTP (20mg/kg; s.c.; every 3.5 days) or saline vehicle (10 ml/kg; s.c.; every 3.5 days). Following a 21 day recovery period, chronic saline- and MPTP-treated mice received an additional injection of either saline (10 ml/kg; s.c.) or MPTP (20mg/kg; s.c.) and were sacrificed 24h later. NSDA neurons displayed significant axon terminal degeneration (as reflected by decreases in DA, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and DA transporter concentrations in the striatum) as well as loss of TH-immunoreactive (IR) neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) following MPTP, whereas TIDA neurons revealed no overt axon terminal pathology or loss of TH-IR cell bodies. NSDA neuronal pathology was associated with transient decreases in concentrations of parkin and UCHL-1 protein in the SN, which returned to normal levels by 21 days following cessation of chronic neurotoxicant exposure. Resistance of TIDA neurons to MPTP toxicity was correlated with a transient increase in UCHL-1 and a sustained elevation in parkin in the arcuate nucleus. TIDA neurons represent a DA neuron population with a unique and inherent ability to adapt to acute and chronic toxicant administration with a sustained elevation of the neuroprotective protein parkin. The correlation between the ability to increase parkin and UCHL-1 expression and the resistance of DA neurons to neurotoxicant exposure is consistent with a functional link between these features and an underlying differential susceptibility to toxicant-associated neurodegeneration.
Human cancer is controlled by a complex interaction between genetic and environmental factors. Such environmental factors are well defined for smoking-induced lung cancer; however, the roles of specific genes have still to be elucidated. Glutathione transferase pi (GSTP) catalyzes the detoxification of electrophilic diol epoxides produced by the metabolism of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a common constituent of tobacco smoke. Activity-altering polymorphisms in Gstp have therefore been speculated to be potential risk modifiers in lung cancer development. To clearly establish a role for GSTP in lung tumorigenesis, we investigated whether deletion of the murine Gstp genes (Gstp1 and Gstp2) alters susceptibility to chemically induced lung tumors following exposure to BaP, 3-methylcholanthrene (3-MC), and urethane. Gstp-null mice were found to have substantially increased numbers of adenomas relative to wild-type mice following exposure to all three compounds (8.3-, 4.3-, and 8.7-fold increase for BaP, 3-MC, and urethane, respectively). In Gstp-null mice, the capacity of pulmonary cytosol to catalyze conjugation of the BaP diol epoxide was significantly reduced. Concomitant with this, a significant increase in the level of BaP DNA adducts was measured in the lungs of null animals; however, no increase in DNA adducts was measured in the case of 3-MC exposure, suggesting that an alternative protective pathway exists. Indeed, significant differences in pulmonary gene expression profiles were also noted between wild-type and null mice. This is the first report to establish a clear correlation between Gstp status and lung cancer in vivo.
Among the most distressing symptoms experienced by patients who have undergone high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation are nausea and vomiting. The chemotherapy regimens used in high-dose conditioning protocols are highly emetogenic. The 5HT3 receptor antagonists are very effective in the prevention and abolition of nausea and vomiting resulting from chemotherapeutic drugs. One of them, tropisetron, is a selective antagonist of serotonin 5HT3 receptors with proven efficacy against emesis. Dexamethasone is also known as an effective agent against nausea and vomiting. The addition of dexamethasone to a 5HT3 receptor antagonist is synergistic, as has been shown in many trials with highly emetogenic drugs. The aim of the present trial was to study the efficacy and safety profile of the combination of tropisetron and dexamethasone in controlling nausea and vomiting in patients receiving megatherapy prior to stem cell transplantation. We studied 31 patients. All of them were evaluable for response and toxicity. The majority of patients achieved complete or major protection against acute vomiting (71-83%), and 67-84% of the patients had no or mild nausea. The combination was tolerated well, and only a minority of patients reported side effects. Among them the most common were headache (in three patients) and constipation. No patient withdrew from the study because of toxicity. It has become evident from our data that the administration of 5 mg tropisetron daily in combination with 20 mg dexamethasone for 8 days can prevent the acute emesis otherwise experienced by patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy as conditioning in stem cell transplantation programmes.
Most common causes of hypercalcemia are hyperparathyroidism, malignancy, vitamin D-mediated conditions such as sarcoidosis, and vitamin D toxicity. Less commonly, hypercalcemia can be caused by drugs such as thiazide diuretics and lithium. Mild hypercalcemia is usually asymptomatic but severe hypercalcemia is associated with nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, excessive thirst, muscle weakness, lethargy, confusion, and fatigue. We are reporting a case of abdominal pain and altered mental status caused by thiazide-induced severe hypercalcemia of 19.8 mg/dL. This is the most severe case of thiazide-induced hypercalcemia that we have seen reported. Patients on thiazide diuretics should have their electrolytes frequently checked, especially patients on calcium supplements. Management usually includes hydration and discontinuation of drugs causing hypercalcemia.
Pharmacological studies revealed that SR 25776 possesses marked stimulant activity characteristic of a partial inverse agonist of benzodiazepine receptor. The effects of SR 25776 500 mg alone and in combination with triazolam 0.25 mg on psychomotor performance and memory were assessed in 8 healthy consenting male volunteers in a double-blind placebo controlled trial. Treatment effects were monitored before and two and half hours following oral medication. The present study suggest that at the studied dose SR 25776 may incompletely antagonize the sedative and amnesic effects of a benzodiazepine agonist without producing marked effects of its own.
The presence of cysteine and methionine groups together with an ability to bind long-chain fatty acid (LCFA) oxidation products makes liver fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP) an attractive candidate against hepatocellular oxidative stress. In this report, we show that pharmacological treatment directed at modulating L-FABP level affected hepatocellular oxidant status. L-FABP expressing 1548-hepatoma cells, treated with dexamethasone or clofibrate, decreased and increased intracellular L-FABP levels, respectively. Oxidative stress was induced by H2O2 incubation or hypoxia-reoxygenation. The fluorescent marker, dichlorofluorescein (DCF), was employed to measure intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS). Hepatocellular damage was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level. Dexamethasone treatment resulted in a significant increase in DCF fluorescence with higher LDH release compared to control cells. Clofibrate treatment, however, resulted in a significant decrease in both parameters (p<0.05). Drug treatments did not affect cytosolic activities of glutathione peroxidase (GPx), superoxide dismutase (SOD), or catalase suggesting that the differences between treated and control cells may likely be associated with varying L-FABP levels. We conclude that L-FABP may act as an effective endogenous cytoprotectant against hepatocellular oxidative stress.
Adriamycin is a chemotherapeutic agent that can cause severe cardiotoxicity, which potentially carries a poorer long-term prognosis than other forms of cardiomyopathy. Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) has been shown to improve quality of life, exercise capacity, left ventricular ejection fraction, and survival in selected patients with heart failure. It is unclear if patients with Adriamycin-induced cardiomyopathy (AIC) respond to CRT. We reviewed clinical and echocardiographic data on 18 consecutive patients with AIC who underwent implantation of a CRT device at the Cleveland Clinic from February 2000 to April 2007. Changes in clinical and echocardiographic parameters were compared to 189 consecutive patients with other forms of nonischemic cardiomyopathy (NIC) using similar end points. Patients with AIC demonstrated significant improvements in ejection fraction, left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic diameters, mitral regurgitation, and New York Heart Association functional class with CRT. These changes were similar to patients in the NIC cohort. In conclusion, patients with AIC may derive a significant echocardiographic and symptomatic benefit from CRT, which is similar to that seen in other forms of NIC.
The safety and efficacy of combination ezetimibe/simvastatin (E/S) plus extended-release niacin was assessed in 942 patients with type IIa/IIb hyperlipidemia for 64 weeks in a randomized, double-blind study. Patients received E/S (10/20 mg) plus niacin (to 2 g) or E/S (10/20 mg) for 64 weeks, or niacin (to 2 g) for 24 weeks and then E/S (10/20 mg) plus niacin (2 g) or E/S (10/20 mg) for an additional 40 weeks. The primary end point, the safety of E/S plus niacin, included prespecified adverse events (ie, liver, muscle, discontinuations due to flushing, gallbladder-related, cholecystectomy, fasting glucose changes, new-onset diabetes). The secondary end points included the percentage of change from baseline in high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, non-HDL cholesterol, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, other lipids, lipoprotein ratios and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein. The anticipated niacin-associated flushing led to a greater rate of study discontinuations with the E/S plus niacin regimen than with E/S alone (0.7%, p <0.001). The rate of liver and muscle adverse events was low (<1%) in both groups. Four patients had gallbladder-related adverse events; 1 patient in the E/S and 1 in the E/S plus niacin group underwent cholecystectomy. The occurrence of new-onset diabetes was 3.1% for the E/S and 4.9% for the E/S plus niacin group. The fasting glucose levels increased to greater than baseline during the first 12 weeks (E/S, 3.2 mg/dl; E/S plus niacin, 7.7 mg/dl) and gradually decreased to pretreatment levels by 64 weeks in both groups. E/S plus niacin significantly improved HDL cholesterol, triglycerides, non-HDL cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, apolipoprotein B and A-I, and lipoprotein ratios compared with E/S (p <or=0.004). The changes in high-sensitivity C-reactive protein were comparable for both groups. In conclusion, the combination of E/S plus niacin was generally well tolerated, aside from niacin-associated flushing, and was significantly superior to E/S alone in improving several lipoprotein parameters during a 64-week trial in patients with hyperlipidemia. E/S plus niacin provided a broad, lipid-altering therapeutic option for these patients, even in the presence of diabetes with glucose monitoring.
In this paper, we reviewed data regarding to the pivotal role played by the zinc-gene interaction in affecting some relevant cytokines (IL-6 and TNF-alpha) and heat shock proteins (Hsp70-2) in ageing, successful ageing (nonagenarians) and in some age-related diseases (atherosclerosis and infections). The polymorphisms of the genes codifying these proteins are predictive on one hand in longevity, such as IL-6 -174G/C locus, on the other hand 1267 Hsp70-2A/B or TNF-alpha -308G/A polymorphisms are associated to worsening atherosclerosis or severe infections, respectively, rather than longevity. Taking into account that longevity has a strong genetic component but, at the same time, is affected by life style and environmental factors, the analysis of these polymorphisms in association to some immune parameters (NK cell cytotoxicity) and nutritional factors (zinc) is a useful tool to unravel the role played by these genetic factors in longevity and in the appearance of age-related diseases. Indeed, these polymorphisms are associated with chronic inflammation, low zinc ion bioavailability, depressed innate immune response and high gene expression of metallothioneins, which have a limited zinc release for an optimal innate immune response in ageing. Therefore, the nutrient (zinc)-gene (IL-6, TNF-alpha and Hsp70-2) interaction is pivotal to keep under control the inflammatory/immune response with subsequent longevity, indicating these genes as "robust" for "healthy ageing".
Cardiac hypertrophy in hypertension is related to increased peripheral vascular resistance and reduced aortic compliance. Non-invasive measurement of pulse wave velocities and systolo-diastolic variations of the diameter of the aortic arch show that an increase in the elastic modulus of the aorta is closely related to the increase in cardiac mass. This relationship holds even after correction for mean arterial pressure. Therefore, it has been suggested that, in hypertension, the decreased aortic compliance leads to a disproportionate increase in systolic blood pressure and end systolic wall stress, predisposing to cardiac hypertrophy. The blood pressure, arterial haemodynamics of the forearm (by pulsed Doppler flow measurement) and echocardiographic parameters were studied in 16 patients with permanent essential hypertension, before and 3 months after treatment with perindopril, an ACE inhibitor. In a simple blinded study versus placebo, perindopril was shown to significantly reduce the blood pressure (p less than 0.01) while brachial blood flow increased (p less than 0.01) because of a simultaneous increase in blood flow velocity and arterial diameter. During 5 minutes' occlusion at the wrist, blood flow velocity decreased more in patients taking perindopril than those on placebo (p less than 0.01) whilst the reduction in arterial diameter was equivalent, indicating that the increase in arterial diameter with perindopril could not be explained by flow-dependent dilatation alone but by a direct effect of the drug on the artery. During the treatment phase, brachial arterial compliance increased (p less than 0.01) and pulse wave velocity decreased (p less than 0.01) and there was no change in arterial shear stress defined as the product of mean blood pressure and arterial diameter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Relapse, even following an extended period of withdrawal, is a major challenge in substance abuse management. Delayed neurobiological effects of the drug during prolonged withdrawal likely contribute to sustained vulnerability to relapse. Stress is a major trigger of relapse, and the hippocampus regulates the magnitude and duration of stress responses. Recent work has implicated hippocampal plasticity in various aspects of substance abuse. We asked whether changes in stress regulatory mechanisms in the hippocampus may participate in the neuroadaptations that occur during prolonged withdrawal. We therefore examined changes in the rat stress system during the course of withdrawal from extended daily access (5-hours) of cocaine self-administration, an animal model of addiction. Tissue was collected at 1, 14 and 28 days of withdrawal. Plasma corticosterone levels were determined and corticosteroid receptors (GR, MR, MR/GR mRNA ratios) and expression of other stress-related molecules (HSP90AA1 and HSP90AB1 mRNA) were measured in hippocampal subfields using in situ hybridization. Results showed a delayed emergence of dysregulation of stress genes in the posterior hippocampus following 28 days of cocaine withdrawal. This included increased GR mRNA in DG and CA3, increased MR and HSP90AA1 mRNA in DG, and decreased MR/GR mRNA ratio in DG and CA1. Corticosterone levels progressively decreased during the course of withdrawal, were normalized following 28 days of withdrawal, and were correlated negatively with GR and positively with MR/GR mRNA ratio in DG. These results suggest a role for the posterior hippocampus in the neuroadaptations that occur during prolonged withdrawal, and point to a signaling partner of GR, HSP90AA1, as a novel dysregulated target during cocaine withdrawal. These delayed neurobiological effects of extended cocaine exposure likely contribute to sustained vulnerability to relapse.
Sexual adverse effects are common with psychotropics. Rational polypharmacy may confound etiology. This case report describes development of ejaculatory inhibition in a male patient with co-morbid psychiatric diagnoses treated with fluoxetine, divalproex sodium, lamotrigine, trazodone, and clonazepam. Detailed psychotropic history with time-line of adverse effect onset implicated trazodone. Within 48 hours of trazodone discontinuation, ejaculatory inhibition was resolved. Clinicians should be aware that trazodone may cause ejaculatory inhibition, understand that determination of sexual adverse effects necessitates directed and periodic questioning as these symptoms may increase in severity over time, and appreciate that religious patients may find discussing this issue difficult.
To study the effect of FK506 in promoting apoptosis of peripheral blood-derived macrophages activated by homogenate of allogenic nerve tissues.
Homogenate of the allogenic nerve tissues was prepared using the sciatic nerve and injected in one-month-old SD rats, from which the macrophages activated by the homogenate were collected from the abdominal cavity and cultured in vitro. The cells were divided into 4 groups according to different concentrations of FK506 for treatment, namely 0 (group A, control group), 0.25 ng/ml (group B), 0.5 ng/ml (group C), and 1.0 ng/ml (group D). The cells of the 4 groups were inoculated into 96-well plate respectively for detecting the viability of the macrophages by MTT assay and for morphological evaluation of the cell apoptosis by transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy.
The cells in groups B and C exhibited reduced viability and signs of apoptosis, and necrosis was observed in group D. Transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence microscopy identified early apoptotic changes and the presence of apoptotic body in the macrophages. The apoptotic rates of groups B and C were much higher than that in group A found by flow cytometry.
FK506 can promote the apoptosis of macrophage activated by allogenic nerve homogenate and reduce macrophage-mediated immunological rejection of peripheral nerve allograft.
Authors describe the results obtained with weekly low-dose (20 or 30 mg/total) of intravenous bolus epirubicin, used as second line chemotherapy, after CMF, in 29 advanced breast carcinoma patients. 29% objective response rate (1 complete + 6 partial responses) has been observed in 24 evaluable patients, with median response duration of 4 months (range 1-7+). The discrete response rate and the minimal incidence of side effects call for further studies and more extensive evaluation of epirubicin given alone or in combination through this new treatment schedule.
We present a case of capecitabine-induced cardiac toxicity manifested by chest pain, ST-segment elevation and ventricular tachycardia. Symptoms and ECG alterations were completely reversible after withdrawal of the drug. Coronary angiography demonstrated the absence of epicardial coronary spasm. We suggest cardiac monitoring with ECG Holter and effort ECG during the first days of drug administration. Prompt evaluation of chest pain in this setting is of paramount importance.
Laser acupuncture is defined as the stimulation of traditional acupuncture points with low-intensity, non-thermal laser irradiation. We explored the clinical efficacy of a very low level diode laser wavelength 670 nm (Biolite LP020, RGM, Genoa, Italy), used to stimulate acupoints ST36 Zu San Li and TH5 Waiguan, on well-established experimental models of acute and persistent pain in the rat, e.g. acute inflammatory pain, muscle pain, visceral pain and neuropathic pain. We report the anti-edema and anti-hyperalgesia effects of laser acupuncture in models of acute inflammatory pain, e.g. CFA-induced inflammation and myofascial pain. We also indicate that spontaneous pain and thermal hyperalgesia are reduced in a neuropathic pain model, e.g. axotomy. On the contrary, no effects due to laser-acupuncture were observed on discomfort indices in a model of visceral pain, e.g. cystitis due to cyclophosphamide. We thus provide evidences that acupoints stimulation using a very low intensity laser irradiation can control pain and edema in specific experimental conditions.
Dynorphin A in the spinal cord is considered to contribute to nociceptive stimuli. However, it has not yet been determined whether activation of the spinal dynorphinergic system under nociceptive stimuli plays a role in direct acceleration of the ascending nociceptive pathway. In this study, the authors investigated the role of spinal dynorphinergic transmission in ongoing brain activation under noxious stimuli in mice.
The changes in prodynorphin messenger RNA expression and dynorphin A (1-17)-like immunoreactivity in the mouse spinal cord were determined after the intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant in mice. The signal intensity in different brain regions after the intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant or intrathecal injection of dynorphin A (1-17) was measured by a pharmacological functional magnetic resonance imaging analysis.
Complete Freund's adjuvant injection produced pain-associated behaviors and induced a dramatic increase in signal intensity in the mouse cingulate cortex, somatosensory cortex, insular cortex, and thalamic nuclei. These effects were not seen in prodynorphin knockout mice. Prodynorphin messenger RNA expression and dynorphin A (1-17)-like immunoreactivity on the ipsilateral side of the spinal cord were markedly increased in complete Freund's adjuvant-injected mice. Furthermore, intrathecal injection of dynorphin A (1-17) at relatively high doses caused pain-associated behaviors and a remarkable increase in the activities of the cingulate cortex, somatosensory cortex, insular cortex, and medial and lateral thalamic nuclei in mice.
These findings indicate that spinally released dynorphin A (1-17) by noxious stimuli leads to the direct activation of ascending pain transmission.
Central nervous system (CNS) prophylaxis has led to a significant improvement in the outcome of patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Liposomal cytarabine (Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Piscataway, NJ; Skye Pharma, San Diego, CA), an intrathecal (IT) preparation of cytarabine with a prolonged half-life, has been shown to be safe and effective in the treatment of neoplastic meningitis. Liposomal cytarabine was given for CNS prophylaxis to 31 patients with newly diagnosed ALL. All patients were treated concurrently with hyper-CVAD chemotherapy (fractionated cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, and dexamethasone) including high-dose methotrexate (MTX) and cytarabine on alternating courses. Liposomal cytarabine 50 mg was given intrathecally on days 2 and 15 of hyper-CVAD and day 10 of high-dose MTX and cytarabine courses until completion of either 3, 6, or 10 IT treatments, depending on risk for CNS disease. Five patients (16%) experienced serious unexpected neurotoxicity, including seizures, papilledema, cauda equina syndrome (n = 2), and encephalitis after a median of 4 IT administrations of liposomal cytarabine. Toxicities usually manifested after the MTX and cytarabine courses. One patient died with progressive encephalitis. After a median follow-up of 7 months, no isolated CNS relapses have been observed. Liposomal cytarabine given via intrathecal route concomitantly with systemic chemotherapy that crosses the blood-brain barrier such as high-dose MTX and cytarabine can result in significant neurotoxicity.
Paclitaxel is a widely used chemotherapeutic drug for breast and ovarian cancer. Unfortunately, it induces neuropathic pain, which is a dose-limiting side effect. Free radicals have been implicated in many neurodegenerative diseases. The current study tests the hypothesis that a free radical scavenger plays an important role in reducing chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
Neuropathic pain was induced by intraperitoneal injection of paclitaxel (2 mg/kg) on four alternate days (days 0, 2, 4, and 6) in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Phenyl N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN), a free radical scavenger, was administered intraperitoneally as a single dose or multiple doses before or after injury. Mechanical allodynia was measured by using von Frey filaments.
The administration of paclitaxel induced mechanical allodynia, which began to manifest on days 7-10, peaked within 2 weeks, and plateaued for at least 2 months after the first paclitaxel injection. A single injection or multiple intraperitoneal injections of PBN ameliorated paclitaxel-induced pain behaviors in a dose-dependent manner. Further, multiple administrations of PBN starting on day 7 through day 15 after the first injection of paclitaxel completely prevented the development of mechanical allodynia. However, an intraperitoneal administration of pbn for 8 days starting with the first paclitaxel injection did not prevent the development of pain behavior.
This study clearly shows that PBN alleviated mechanical allodynia induced by paclitaxel in rats. Furthermore, our data show that PBN given on days 7 through 15 after the first paclitaxel injection prevented the development of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain. This clearly has a clinical implication.
The epidemiology of extrapyramidal reactions to prochlorperazine and haloperidol in the United Kingdom has been studied using reports in the Adverse Reactions Register of the Committee on the Safety of Medicines (CSM) and from general practitioner prescribing data. Between 1967 and 1982 there were an estimated 37.0 million prescriptions for prochlorperazine and 3.2 million for haloperidol; in this time there were 104 reports of adverse reactions to prochlorperazine and 62 to haloperidol. The predominant extrapyramidal reaction reported was dystonia-dyskinesia (99 reports for prochlorperazine and 47 for haloperidol). The remaining reactions reported were of Parkinsonism. Dystonia-dyskinesia usually occurred within three days of commencing treatment, and for both drugs the incidence, expressed per million prescriptions, varied significantly with age, the highest incidence being in patients under 20 years. Thus young patients appear at particular risk of acute extrapyramidal reactions to dopamine receptor antagonists.
