Retention of bile acids (BAs) in the liver during cholestasis plays an important role in the development of cholestatic liver injury. Several studies have reported that high concentrations of certain BAs induce cell death and inflammatory response in the liver, and BAs may promote liver tumorigenesis. Macroautophagy (hereafter referred to as autophagy) is a lysosomal degradation process that regulates organelle and protein homeostasis and serves as a cell survival mechanism under a variety of stress conditions. However, it is not known if BAs modulate autophagy in hepatocytes. In the present study, we determined autophagic flux in livers of farnesoid X receptor (FXR) knockout (KO) mice that have increased concentrations of hepatic BAs and in primary cultured mouse hepatocytes treated with BAs. The results showed that autophagic flux was impaired in livers of FXR KO mice and in BA-treated primary mouse hepatocytes. Mechanistically, BAs did not affect the activities of cathepsin or the proteasome, but impaired autophagosomal-lysosomal fusion likely due to reduction of Rab7 protein expression and targeting to autophagosomes. In conclusion, BAs suppress autophagic flux in hepatocytes by impairing autophagosomal-lysosomal fusion, which may be implicated in bile acid-induced liver tumor promotion observed in FXR KO mice.
Despite six decades of clinical experience with the polymyxin class of antibiotics, their dose-limiting nephrotoxicity remains difficult to predict due to a paucity of sensitive biomarkers. Here, we evaluate the performance of standard of care and next-generation biomarkers of renal injury in the detection and monitoring of polymyxin-induced acute kidney injury in male Han Wistar rats using colistin (polymyxin E) and a polymyxin B (PMB) derivative with reduced nephrotoxicity, PMB nonapeptide (PMBN). This study provides the first histopathological and biomarker analysis of PMBN, an important test of the hypothesis that fatty acid modifications and charge reductions in polymyxins can reduce their nephrotoxicity. The results indicate that alterations in a panel of urinary kidney injury biomarkers can be used to monitor histopathological injury, with Kim-1 and α-GST emerging as the most sensitive biomarkers outperforming clinical standards of care, serum or plasma creatinine and blood urea nitrogen. To enable the prediction of polymyxin-induced nephrotoxicity, an in vitro cytotoxicity assay was employed using human proximal tubule epithelial cells (HK-2). Cytotoxicity data in these HK-2 cells correlated with the renal toxicity detected via safety biomarker data and histopathological evaluation, suggesting that in vitro and in vivo methods can be incorporated within a screening cascade to prioritize polymyxin class analogs with more favorable renal toxicity profiles.
The ingestion of the herbicide paraquat (PQ) can cause multiple organ injury including cardiac lesions. However, the underlying mechanism of myocardial damage is not known. Toll-like receptor 4 (TRL4) is a pattern-recognition receptor in the innate immune response to microbial pathogens. TLR4 is involved in heart dysfunction such as septic shock or myocardial ischemia. We investigated whether TLR4 would be linked to the pathogenesis of heart disease due to PQ exposure. Wild type mice (WT) and TLR4-deficient mice were injected intraperitoneally with 75mg/kg of PQ to induce myocardial damage and tested for echocardiographic assessment, histopathology, pro-inflammatory cytokine and TLR4 expression. WT mice after PQ exposure displayed deteriorate cardiac function, pathological damages, increased TLR4 mRNA and protein levels as well as myocardial TNF-α and IL-1β levels. Compared with WT mice, TLR4-deficient mice were significantly resistant to the PQ-induced injury. We concluded that the TLR4 was required as a mediator and played an important role in myocardial damage due to PQ.
Cimetidine, a histamine-2 (H2) receptor antagonist, has been demonstrated to have anticancer effects on colorectal cancer, melanoma and renal cell carcinoma. In the current study, we clarified that cimetidine inhibits both epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced cell proliferation and migration in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell lines.
HCC cell lines (Hep3B, HLF, SK-Hep-1, JHH-2, PLC/PRF/5 and HLE) were used and cell proliferation was assessed by [3H]-thymidine incorporation assay. Cell migration was measured by in vitro cell migration assay. Biological effects of cimetidine were assessed with human EGF receptor (EGFR)-expressing mouse fibroblast cells (NR6-WT). The autophosphorylation of EGFR and the activation of other downstream effectors were analyzed by immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting. The concentration of intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) was measured by competitive enzyme immunoassay.
Cimetidine inhibited both EGF-induced cell proliferation and migration in Hep3B, HLF, SK-Hep-1 and JHH-2, while cimetidine did not affect EGF-induced cell proliferation and migration in PLC/PRF/5 and HLE. Cimetidine was revealed to disrupt the EGF-induced autophosphorylation of EGFR and its downstream effectors, mitogen activated protein kinases and phospholipase C-gamma. To define the molecular basis of this negative regulation, we identified that cimetidine significantly decreased intracellular cAMP levels and that decrement of cAMP inhibited autophosphorylation of EGFR. The cell permeable cAMP analog, CPT-cAMPS reversed the cimetidine-induced inhibition of EGF-induced cell proliferation and cell migration by restoring autophosphorylation of EGFR.
Cimetidine inhibited EGF-induced cell proliferation and migration in HCC cell lines by decreasing the concentration of intracellular cAMP levels. Cimetidine may be a candidate chemopreventive agent for HCC.
Before the advent of gonadotropin-releasing-hormone analogues, cyproterone acetate (CPA) had been widely prescribed for the treatment of precocious puberty. Although it is usually well tolerated, liver toxicity has been recognized as a complication of its long-term use. We report the occurrence of cirrhosis in a 10-year-old boy with hypothalamic syndrome and precocious puberty who was treated with CPA for over 50 months. Despite discontinuation of the medication, the liver disease progressed. The patient died of sepsis and multiorgan failure at the age of 14 years. This is the first paediatric report of substantial liver damage and liver toxicity progressing to cirrhosis associated with CPA treatment.
Prolonged cyproterone acetate treatment may induce cirrhosis. Monitoring of liver function both during treatment and for several months after discontinuation of therapy is recommended.
Adverse reactions ranging from tachycardia and cutaneous vasodilatation to severe hypotension and apnoea occurred in three children who were given codeine phosphate intravenously. The cause of these reactions is discussed and a review of the literature on the parenteral use of codeine phosphate is presented. The findings indicate that the standard reference formularies and pharmacopeoiae, with one exception, deal inadequately with the parenteral use of codeine phosphate. On the evidence of the cases presented we would support the conclusion of the American Medical Association's drug evaluations, that codeine phosphate should not be used intravenously in children.
The multidrug resistance protein 2 (MRP2) is a drug efflux transporter that is expressed predominantly at the apical domain of hepatocytes but seems also to be expressed at the apical membrane of brain capillary endothelial cells that form the blood-brain barrier (BBB). MRP2 is absent in the transport-deficient (TR(-)) Wistar rat mutant, so that this rat strain was very helpful in defining substrates of MRP2 by comparing tissue concentrations or functional activities of compounds in MRP2-deficient rats with those in transport-competent Wistar rats. By using this strategy to study the involvement of MRP2 in brain access of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), we recently reported that phenytoin is a substrate for MRP2 in the BBB. However, one drawback of such studies in genetically deficient rats is the fact that compensatory changes with upregulation of other transporters can occur. This prompted us to study the brain expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp), a major drug efflux transporter in many tissues, including the BBB, in TR(-) rats compared with nonmutant (wild-type) Wistar rats.
The expression of MRP2 and Pgp in brain and liver sections of TR(-) rats and normal Wistar rats was determined with immunohistochemistry, by using a novel, highly selective monoclonal MRP2 antibody and the monoclonal Pgp antibody C219, respectively.
Immunofluorescence staining with the MRP2 antibody was found to label a high number of microvessels throughout the brain in normal Wistar rats, whereas such labeling was absent in TR(-) rats. TR(-) rats exhibited a significant up-regulation of Pgp in brain capillary endothelial cells compared with wild-type controls. No such obvious upregulation of Pgp was observed in liver sections. A comparable overexpression of Pgp in the BBB was obtained after pilocarpine-induced seizures in wild-type Wistar rats. Experiments with systemic administration of the Pgp substrate phenobarbital and the selective Pgp inhibitor tariquidar in TR(-) rats substantiated that Pgp is functional and compensates for the lack of MRP2 in the BBB.
The data on TR(-) rats indicate that Pgp plays an important role in the compensation of MRP2 deficiency in the BBB. Because such a compensatory mechanism most likely occurs to reduce injury to the brain from cytotoxic compounds, the present data substantiate the concept that MRP2 performs a protective role in the BBB. Furthermore, our data suggest that TR(-) rats are an interesting tool to study consequences of overexpression of Pgp in the BBB on access of drugs in the brain, without the need of inducing seizures or other Pgp-enhancing events for this purpose.
Anti-inflammatory effect of desloratadine (DL), including, but not limited to depression of production of IL-4, IL-6 and IL-8, has been shown in several in vitro experiments but only a few in vivo studies refer to this findings. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the influence of DL on levels of IL-4, IL-10, IL-18 and TGF-beta in sera of patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis (SAR). Sixty-nine subjects suffering from SAR with hypersensitivity to grass pollen were included into the evaluation of clinical efficacy of DL (5mg once daily). None of them was taking any H(1) receptor antagonist during the pollen season before inclusion into the study. Samples of peripheral blood were taken before and after 4 weeks of treatment. Levels of cytokines were determined using the ELISA method. The mean level of IL-4 was 0.212+/-0.07pg/ml before and 0.221+/-0.1pg/ml after the treatment (p=0.52); IL-10 5.13+/-3.14 and 4.71+/-0.88 (p=0.69); IL-18 54.45+/-26.09 and 44.80+/-22.42 (p=0.48); TGF beta 949.17+/-401.5 and 955.7+/-391.2 (p=0.97)pg/ml before and after the treatment, respectively. Unless in vitro DL demonstrates not only anti-allergic but also anti-inflammatory activities data from this in vivo study in a group of patients suffering from SAR do not support previous pre-clinical findings.
A 64 year old man receiving long term amiodarone treatment presented with dyspnea, cough, and weight loss. Radiographs and computed tomography showed a lung mass with associated multiple pulmonary nodules. Biopsies of the pulmonary mass showed foamy histiocytes without malignant cells. However, findings on FDG-PET scan were consistent with a malignant tumour. These findings on computed tomography and PET scan and the unusually late resolution of the pulmonary lesions after withdrawal of amiodarone treatment posed a challenging diagnostic problem.
Many antineoplastic drugs kill tumor cells by inducing apoptosis. This highly controlled mechanism of cell death is thought to be physiologically advantageous because apoptotic cells are removed by phagocytosis before they lose their permeability barrier, thus preventing induction of an inflammatory response to the dying cells. In contrast, necrotic cells lyse and release their contents into the extracellular space, thus inducing inflammation. In this report, we examine the effects of oxidative stress on chemotherapy-induced cell killing. We find that H(2)O(2) inhibits the ability of 4 different chemotherapy drugs (VP-16, doxorubicin, cisplatin, and AraC) to induce apoptosis in human Burkitt lymphoma cells. H(2)O(2) shifts the form of cell death from apoptosis to pyknosis/necrosis, which occurs after a significant delay compared with chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. It can also lower the degree of cell killing by these drugs. These effects of H(2)O(2) can be prevented by the antioxidant agents Desferal, Tempol, and dimethylsulfoxide. Phagocytosis by monocyte-derived macrophages of VP-16-treated lymphoma cells is also inhibited by H(2)O(2). Cells killed with H(2)O(2) (with or without VP-16) do ultimately undergo phagocytosis, but this occurs only after they have lost their permeability barrier. Thus, membrane-intact apoptotic cells are recognized and phagocytosed by monocyte-derived macrophages, but membrane-intact pyknotic/necrotic cells are not. The results suggest that chemotherapy-induced apoptosis and phagocytosis of cancer cells may be enhanced by including certain antioxidant agents in the treatment protocol.
To examine the presence of atherosclerosis in a series of giant cell arteritis (GCA) patients attended to in a community hospital and to determine whether clinical features or steroid therapy might be associated with the development of atherosclerotic disease.
Forty consecutive patients diagnosed with biopsy-proven GCA, periodically followed at the rheumatology outpatient clinic of Hospital Xeral-Calde, Lugo (Spain), who had ended steroid therapy and had at least 3 years of followup were assessed for the presence of atherosclerosis by determination of the carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) and carotid plaques using high-resolution B-mode ultrasound. Forty matched controls were also studied.
GCA patients exhibited less carotid artery IMT than did matched controls (mean +/- SD 1.01 +/- 0.16 mm versus 1.13 +/- 0.20 mm; P = 0.005; difference in means 0.12, 95% confidence interval 0.04-0.20). Patients who required steroid therapy for >2 years had greater mean +/- SD carotid IMT (1.04 +/- 0.17 mm versus 0.95 +/- 0.15 mm) but the difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.10). A positive correlation between age at the time of the study and the carotid artery IMT in GCA patients was observed (r = 0.673, P < 0.001). However, adjusting for age, sex, and classic atherosclerosis risk factors, no significant correlation between carotid IMT and the routine laboratory markers of inflammation assessed at the time of disease diagnosis, disease duration, or cumulative prednisone dose was found.
The present study demonstrates that atherosclerotic macrovascular disease is not increased in patients with GCA.
To report oculogyric crisis in patients receiving cetirizine and inform clinicians on the characteristics of this drug-induced ocular side effect.
For this retrospective, observational case series, case reports were collected from the National Registry of Drug-Induced Ocular Side Effects (Casey Eye Institute, Portland, Oregon). The World Health Organization Causality Assessment Guide of Suspected Adverse Reactions was used to categorize the cases.
Nine cases were reported, with eight occurring in the pediatric age group. Dosage ranged from 5 to 10 mg orally and onset of symptoms ranged from 3 to 184 days. Six cases of oculogyric crisis had positive rechallenge data. Eight cases had complete neurologic consultation including radiographic studies.
Cetirizine can cause oculogyric crisis, especially in the pediatric age group. Extensive neurologic workups may be avoided if clinicians recognize this drug-induced ocular side effect.
To describe the adverse effects associated with human serum albumin (HSA) administration.
A MEDLINE search and bibliography scanning were used to identify pertinent review articles, clinical studies, and case reports.
Emphasis was placed on reporting the results of human studies with the primary objective of investigating adverse effects attributable to HSA administration. Clinical trials that reported the occurrence of adverse effects possibly associated with HSA were also reviewed. Animal data were included where pertinent.
Although isolated case reports were reviewed, data were primarily extracted from human studies involving large series of patients or studies that were randomized and prospective in nature.
Alterations in coagulation, renal, cardiovascular, and pulmonary functions were identified as potential adverse effects following the administration of HSA. Occurrences of hypersensitivity reactions, trace metal loading, and serum amino acid alterations associated with these infusions were also noted and are described here. Pulmonary and cardiovascular systems appear to be particularly prone to complications from excessive HSA administration. Adverse effects such as HSA-induced hypersensitivity reactions may be severe, but occur infrequently.
Controlled studies involving large numbers of patients are not currently available for an accurate assessment of the incidence of adverse effects attributable to HSA administration. Many of the reported reactions appear to be extensions of albumin's pharmacologic activities and would be expected to worsen following large doses of HSA.
Abies koreana Wilson (A. koreana) is a shrub or broadly pyramidal evergreen tree endemic in the mountainous regions of South Korea. We obtained the essential oil (EO) from alpine needle leaves of A. koreana by the supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) method. EO was analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and 68 compounds were identified constituting 95.66% of the oil. The major components were elemol (11.17%), terpinen-4-ol (9.77%), sabinene (8.86%), 10(15)-cadien-4-ol (7.16%), alpha-terpineol (6.13%), alpha-pinene (6.07%) and gamma-terpinene (4.71%). To investigate the memory-enhancing effects, we conducted a passive avoidance test using a scopolamine (1 mg/kg, ip)-induced amnesia mouse model. A peritoneal injection of EO from A. koreana (100 mg/kg) showed a memory enhancing effect of 72.7% compared with the control. These results suggest that EO of A. koreana may be a useful therapeutic agent against such amnesia-inducing diseases as Alzheimer and vascular dementia.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy (lowering diastolic blood pressure to 90 mm Hg or less) of urapidil, a postsynaptic alpha-blocker with central action with that of captopril in a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study. Two hundred ninety-five essential hypertensives (WHO I/II) (140 male, 155 female, age 56-60 years) were treated for 12 weeks with either 30 to 90 mg urapidil bid or 12.5 to 50 mg captopril bid. Supine blood pressure values (mmHg, mean +/- SD) at the end of the 12-week treatment dropped for the urapidil group (n = 142) from 175/103 +/- 19/6 to 154/89 +/- 17/9 (P less than 0.001), and in the captopril group (n = 153) from 175/103 +/- 19/6 to 154/90 +/- 19/9 (P less than 0.001), corresponding to 62% urapidil and 58% captopril responder rates. The results demonstrate that the two antihypertensive medications with different modes of action control blood pressure with equal efficacy at three dose levels. A dose decrease was possible in 20% of each group, but a dose increase was necessary in 39% of urapidil and 44% of captopril group.
Multiple genetic loci associated with obesity or body mass index (BMI) have been identified through genome-wide association studies conducted predominantly in populations of European ancestry. We performed a meta-analysis of associations between BMI and approximately 2.4 million SNPs in 27,715 east Asians, which was followed by in silico and de novo replication studies in 37,691 and 17,642 additional east Asians, respectively. We identified ten BMI-associated loci at genome-wide significance (P < 5.0 × 10(-8)), including seven previously identified loci (FTO, SEC16B, MC4R, GIPR-QPCTL, ADCY3-DNAJC27, BDNF and MAP2K5) and three novel loci in or near the CDKAL1, PCSK1 and GP2 genes. Three additional loci nearly reached the genome-wide significance threshold, including two previously identified loci in the GNPDA2 and TFAP2B genes and a newly identified signal near PAX6, all of which were associated with BMI with P < 5.0 × 10(-7). Findings from this study may shed light on new pathways involved in obesity and demonstrate the value of conducting genetic studies in non-European populations.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) involves the progressive degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord and motor cortex. It has been shown that 15-20% of patients with familial ALS (FALS) have defects in the Sod1 gene that encodes Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD). To elucidate the pathological role of mutated Cu, Zn-SODs in FALS, the susceptibility of mutants to glycation was examined. Mutated Cu, Zn-SODs (G37R, G93A, and I113T) related to FALS and wild type were produced in a baculovirus/insect cell expression system. Glycated and nonglycated proteins were separated on a boronate column, and the nonglycated fraction was then incubated with glucose. The mutated Cu, Zn-SODs were found to be highly susceptible to glycation compared with the wild-type enzyme as estimated by Western blot analysis using an anti-hexitol lysine antibody. The mutated Cu, Zn-SOD incubated with glucose generated higher levels of hydrogen peroxide than the wild-type enzyme. Mutated Cu, Zn-SODs were also shown to be highly susceptible to fructation, and the fructated mutant also produced higher levels of hydrogen peroxide than the wild type. These results suggest that high susceptibility of mutated Cu, Zn-SODs to glycation could be the origin of the oxidative stress associated with neuronal dysfunction in FALS.
Hypogeusia is a reported side effect of captopril. Linkage of hypogeusia to zinc deficiency has been suggested. We objectively assessed taste acuity using Henkin's three-drop stimulus technique and measured plasma zinc (PZn) level and urinary zinc excretion in 31 hypertensive patients. Of these, 11 were long-term, high-dose captopril recipients (more than 6 months, 266 +/- 34 mg/day), six were short-term captopril recipients (less than 6 months, 104 +/- 40 mg/daily dose), and the remaining 14 served as noncaptopril controls. Compared to controls, the long-term captopril group had significantly higher taste detection and recognition thresholds, lower PZn (91 +/- 3 vs. 100 +/- 3 micrograms/dl, P less than 0.05) and higher urinary zinc excretion (1017 +/- 89 vs. 609 +/- 76 micrograms/day, P less than 0.005). The short-term captopril group did not differ significantly from the noncaptopril group except for higher taste-recognition thresholds for NaCl and sucrose (P less than 0.05). Discontinuing captopril improved taste acuity and almost normalized zinc parameters in two patients on long-term captopril. These results suggest that abnormalities of taste are commonly associated with captopril therapy and may be related to changes in zinc metabolism. This is especially true in patients on long-term, high-dose captopril therapy.
With increased use of anticoagulant agents, femoral neuropathy subsequent to spontaneous hemorrhage within the ileo-psoas muscle has become a serious and more frequent clinical problem. The authors describe one case of femoral neuropathy from iliac muscle hematoma during heparin administration. The successful surgical treatment by decompression and drainage is reported. The anatomical and CT scanning features with the suspected pathogenesis are emphasized, as well as the role of early diagnosis in the assessment of prognosis and for successful operative decompression.
Individual vulnerability to drug-induced liver injury (DILI) might result from deficiencies in the detoxification process, which determines the level of exposure to the reactive metabolite. We evaluated whether a genetically determined reduction in the ability to detoxify electrophilic compounds, such as that expected among individuals with glutathione S-transferase (GST) null genotypes, might play a role in determining the risk for DILI and its clinical expression. Genomic DNA from 154 patients (74 men, 80 women; mean age, 53 years) with a diagnosis of DILI as assessed with the Council for International Organizations of Medical Science scale and 250 sex- and age-matched healthy controls were analyzed. A multiplex polymerase chain reaction-based method was used to detect GSTM1 and GSTT1 gene deletions. Carriers of double GSTT1-M1 null genotypes had a 2.70-fold increased risk of developing DILI compared with noncarriers (odds ratio 2.70, 95% confidence interval 1.45-5.03; P = 0.003). The odds ratio for DILI patients receiving antibacterials, and NSAIDs were 3.52 (P = 0.002), and 5.61 (P = 0.001), respectively. Patients with amoxicillin-clavulanate hepatotoxicity (n = 32) had a 2.81-fold increased risk (P = 0.037). Patients classified by the combined GSTT1 and GSTM1 null genotypes did not differ with regard to the type of injury, clinical presentation, or outcome, except for the predominance of women in the combined null genotype (P < 0.001).
The double-null genotype for GSTT1 and GSTM1 might play a role in determining the susceptibility to develop DILI, as a general mechanism that occurs regardless of the type of drug involved, and predominantly in women.
Treatment added to statin monotherapy to further modify the lipid profile may include combination therapy to either raise the high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level or further lower the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level.
We enrolled patients who had coronary heart disease or a coronary heart disease risk equivalent, who were receiving long-term statin therapy, and in whom an LDL cholesterol level under 100 mg per deciliter (2.6 mmol per liter) and an HDL cholesterol level under 50 mg per deciliter for men or 55 mg per deciliter for women (1.3 or 1.4 mmol per liter, respectively) had been achieved. The patients were randomly assigned to receive extended-release niacin (target dose, 2000 mg per day) or ezetimibe (10 mg per day). The primary end point was the between-group difference in the change from baseline in the mean common carotid intima-media thickness after 14 months. The trial was terminated early, on the basis of efficacy, according to a prespecified analysis conducted after 208 patients had completed the trial.
The mean HDL cholesterol level in the niacin group increased by 18.4% over the 14-month study period, to 50 mg per deciliter (P < 0.001), and the mean LDL cholesterol level in the ezetimibe group decreased by 19.2%, to 66 mg per deciliter (1.7 mmol per liter) (P < 0.001). Niacin therapy significantly reduced LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels; ezetimibe reduced the HDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels. As compared with ezetimibe, niacin had greater efficacy regarding the change in mean carotid intima-media thickness over 14 months (P = 0.003), leading to significant reduction of both mean (P = 0.001) and maximal carotid intima-media thickness (P < or = 0.001 for all comparisons). Paradoxically, greater reductions in the LDL cholesterol level in association with ezetimibe were significantly associated with an increase in the carotid intima-media thickness (R = -0.31, P < 0.001). The incidence of major cardiovascular events was lower in the niacin group than in the ezetimibe group (1% vs. 5%, P = 0.04 by the chi-square test).
This comparative-effectiveness trial shows that the use of extended-release niacin causes a significant regression of carotid intima-media thickness when combined with a statin and that niacin is superior to ezetimibe. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00397657.)
A large percentage of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients have serological evidence of a past or present hepatitis B virus infection (HBV). Long-term survival is increasing for HIV patients because of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Therefore, the chronic hepatitis B infection may become an important determinant of disease outcome in these co-infected patients. We describe two HIV/HBV co-infected patients who were treated with extended antiviral therapy, initially indicated for the HIV infection. Lamivudine, a suppressor of viral replication in both infections, was one of these antiviral drugs. One patient showed a severe rebound of the HBV after withdrawal of lamivudine, the other patient developed a mutant hepatitis B virus after 18 months of treatment. This mutation was exclusively induced by lamivudine. These patients show that, with improved HIV-related survival, the HBV infection should be monitored carefully, thereby enabling the physician to interfere with therapy when necessary.
Obesity is a disorder with a complex genetic etiology, and its epidemic is a worldwide problem. Although multiple genetic loci associated with body mass index, the most common measure of obesity, have been identified in European populations, few studies have focused on Asian populations. Here we report a genome-wide association study and replication studies with 62,245 east Asian subjects, which identified two new body mass index-associated loci in the CDKAL1 locus at 6p22 (rs2206734, P = 1.4 × 10(-11)) and the KLF9 locus at 9q21 (rs11142387, P = 1.3 × 10(-9)), as well as several previously reported loci (the SEC16B, BDNF, FTO, MC4R and GIPR loci, P < 5.0 × 10(-8)). We subsequently performed gene-gene interaction analyses and identified an interaction (P = 2.0 × 10(-8)) between a SNP in the KLF9 locus (rs11142387) and one in the MSTN (also known as GDF8) locus at 2q32 (rs13034723). These findings should provide useful insights into the etiology of obesity.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder with no effective protective treatment, characterized by a massive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SNpc) and the subsequent loss of their projecting nerve fibers in the striatum. To elucidate PD pathogenic factors, and thus to develop therapeutic strategies, a murine PD model based on the administration of the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) has been used extensively. It has been demonstrated that activated microglia cells actively participate in the pathogenesis of MPTP-induced PD through the release of cytotoxic factors. Because current treatments for PD are not effective, considerable research focused lately on a number of regulatory molecules termed microglia-deactivating factors. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), a neuropeptide with a potent anti-inflammatory effect, has been found to be protective in several inflammatory disorders. This study investigates the putative protective effect of VIP in the MPTP model for PD. VIP treatment significantly decreases MPTP-induced dopaminergic neuronal loss in SNpc and nigrostriatal nerve-fiber loss. VIP prevents MPTP-induced activation of microglia in SNpc and striatum and the expression of the cytotoxic mediators, iNOS, interleukin 1beta, and numor necrosis factor alpha. VIP emerges as a potential valuable neuroprotective agent for the treatment of pathologic conditions in the central nervous system, such as PD, where inflammation-induced neurodegeneration occurs.
Nicotine exposure during prenatal to adolescent neurodevelopment causes morphologic changes in the CNS and persistent alterations of neurotransmission systems. Maternal smoking on the one hand and nicotine dependency and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in the offspring on the other are significantly associated. There is even evidence that nicotine abuse during adolescence may result in deficits of the brain's attentional network. In contrast, any effects of nicotine exposure on the development of various psychiatric diseases are still unclear. The somatic consequences of smoking and the resulting economic problems are already well known, but the effects of nicotine on neurodevelopment are still underestimated. More public awareness training and medical education are required to avoid nicotine abuse in pregnant women, children, and adolescents.
Sixty-four patients with refractory acute leukemia were treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside given at a dosage of 3 g/m2 intravenously over two hours every 12 hours for four to 12 doses, repeated at two- to three-week intervals. Complete remissions were observed in 16 patients (25 percent), and the median duration of remission was three months (range, one to 10 months). Remission rates were similar for patients with acute myelogenous and acute lymphocytic leukemia (24 and 27 percent, respectively). Response rates were significantly higher in patients with initial remission durations of more than six months than in those with shorter remissions or those in whom there was no response to front-line therapy (41 and 9 percent; p less than 0.01). Similarly, patients with disease sensitive to conventional cytosine arabinoside had higher response rates than did those with resistant disease (54 and 17 percent; p = 0.03). Serial in vivo measurements of intracellular concentrations of the active metabolite of cytosine arabinoside in peripheral blasts following the initial dose demonstrated considerable individual variation. Favorable intracellular pharmacology of this active metabolite, manifested by its higher intracellular concentrations 12 hours after the first dose, by longer half-lives of active metabolite levels, and by higher values of the measured area under the curve of its accumulation and retention, was associated with higher response rates. Central nervous system toxicity occurred in 24 percent of patients, and pulmonary toxicity occurred in 22 percent; both were dose-limiting and dose-related. Other toxicities included nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, conjunctivitis, photophobia, cytosine arabinoside fever, skin rashes, and hepatic dysfunction. Response rates were similar for schedules utilizing four to six doses at two-week intervals or nine doses at three-week intervals (27 percent versus 25 percent). The schedule of 12 doses had a more rapid antileukemic effect but resulted in significantly higher toxicity and mortality rates during therapy with a similar overall response rate (21 percent). Thus, high-dose cytosine arabinoside is an effective regimen with substantial toxicity in patients with acute leukemia.
