In the present study we tested the effects of the antihyperalgesic compound gabapentin on dorsal horn neurones in adult spinal cord. Slices were taken from control and hyperalgesic animals suffering from streptozocin-induced diabetic neuropathy. At concentrations up to 100 microM, bath application failed to affect the resting membrane properties of dorsal horn neurones taken from both groups of animal. In contrast, bath application of gabapentin dramatically reduced the magnitude of the excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) in neurones taken from hyperalgesic animals without altering the magnitude of the EPSC in control animals. Using a paired pulse stimulation protocol, together with analysis of miniature EPSC's, it was possible to demonstrate that gabapentin mediated these effects via a pre-synaptic site of action.
Etomidate was used in eight patients to control status epilepticus which had been refractory to previous anticonvulsant therapy. Cortical activity was measured using a Cerebral Function Analysing Monitor and etomidate administered to achieve a 5 microV mean amplitude, avoiding burst suppression if possible with obliteration of any paroxysmal increase in amplitude. Neuromuscular blockade facilitated endotracheal intubation and mechanical ventilation, and corticosteroid replacement was provided. Rapid control of seizure activity, with cardiovascular stability, was obtained in all cases. Initially the mean infusion rate of etomidate required to achieve adequate suppression of cortical activity was 25 micrograms kg-1 min-1, but several patients exhibited tachyphylaxis. Weaning from the infusion presented difficulties in four patients due to recurring seizures. Adrenocortical function returned to normal within 96 hrs of stopping the infusion. At six month follow up, two patients had died, and two patients had significant reduction in cerebral function compared with their pre-morbid state.
A comprehensive clinical, therapeutical, laboratory, and follow-up examination of 239 patients with chronic alcoholism has made it possible not only to specify the structure and proportion of complications associated with teturam therapy but also to validate an important role of disorders of the acid-base and water-electrolyte balance (levels of potassium and sodium in the plasma and red blood cells and the volume of the circulating blood and its components) in the pathogenesis of chronic alcoholism and in complications of teturam therapy. The results of examination have evidenced that the initial parameters of the acid-base equilibrium, the volume of the circulating blood and electrolyte balance may serve as prognostic signs indicating the possibility of the development of teturam therapy complications. The authors validate an important role of correction of pathological changes in hemostatic parameters for the prevention of teturam therapy complications, and outline differential routes of prophylaxis depending on the severity of the above pathological shifts determined by biochemical, pathophysical, and clinical parameters of the disease.
We describe a 53-year-old man who developed partial and full thickness skin loss associated with pyrexia, diarrhoea, liver, renal and bone marrow failure, during treatment for an aggressive B cell lymphoblastic lymphoma. The clinical features and histology were compatible with both toxic epidermal necrolysis and graft vs. host disease, causing a diagnostic and therapeutic dilemma. We discuss the possibility that methotrexate was the causative drug, with review of its cutaneous side-effects. Histologically our patient demonstrated the sparse dermal infiltrate with full thickness epidermal necrosis typical of toxic epidermal necrolysis and graft vs. host disease. We discuss this finding with respect to the pathogenesis of toxic epidermal necrolysis.
We report the case of a patient who developed severe hypernatraemic dehydration following a head injury. Ten years previously he had been diagnosed to have lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and lithium therapy had been discontinued. He remained thirsty and polyuric despite cessation of lithium and investigations on admission showed him to have normal osmoregulated thirst and vasopressin secretion, with clear evidence of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Lithium induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is considered to be reversible on cessation of therapy but polyuria persisted in this patient for ten years after lithium was stopped. We discuss the possible renal mechanisms and the implications for management of patients with lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus.
Although lithium has a narrow therapeutic range, it is widely used in psychiatry because of its antipsychotic and antidepressant properties. During long-term treatment, the onset of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus is common, but few cases of severe hypotonic polyuria, which would be an aggravating factor, have been reported. Appropriate treatment in such cases is an open question.
We report a case of acute lithium poisoning in a 42-year-old man, due to chronic lithium treatment (plasma lithium=2.6 mmol/L). This patient, admitted to our intensive care unit, presented neurological disorders complicated by the early emergence of severe nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. After perfusion of hypotonic solution and intravenous treatment with ketoprofen (100 mg x 3/24 h), the polyuria improved rapidly.
The beneficial action of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs lies in their capacity to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis. Lithium causes excess production of prostaglandins, which decrease the ability of kidneys to reabsorb free water. Some publications report indomethacin to be effective in this case. Because it is available only in oral or rectal forms, however, its effect may be delayed. Our case suggests that intravenous ketoprofen, with its rapid onset of action, is effective in the treatment of severe lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Rehydration must be strictly monitored because of the risk of renal failure connected with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs.
Microarray techniques hold great promise for identifying risk factors for schizophrenia (SZ) but have not yet generated widely reproducible results due to methodological differences between studies and the high risk of type I inferential errors. Here we established a protocol for conservative analysis and interpretation of gene expression data from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of SZ patients using statistical and bioinformatic methods that limit false positives. We also compared brain gene expression profiles with those from peripheral blood cells of a separate sample of SZ patients to identify disease-associated genes that generalize across tissues and populations and further substantiate the use of gene expression profiling of blood for detecting valid SZ biomarkers. Implementing this systematic approach, we: (i) discovered 177 putative SZ risk genes in brain, 28 of which map to linked chromosomal loci; (ii) delineated six biological processes and 12 molecular functions that may be particularly disrupted in the illness; (iii) identified 123 putative SZ biomarkers in blood, 6 of which (BTG1, GSK3A, HLA-DRB1, HNRPA3, SELENBP1, and SFRS1) had corresponding differential expression in brain; (iv) verified the differential expression of the strongest candidate SZ biomarker (SELENBP1) in blood; and (v) demonstrated neuronal and glial expression of SELENBP1 protein in brain. The continued application of this approach in other brain regions and populations should facilitate the discovery of highly reliable and reproducible candidate risk genes and biomarkers for SZ. The identification of valid peripheral biomarkers for SZ may ultimately facilitate early identification, intervention, and prevention efforts as well.
Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a maternally inherited form of retinal ganglion cell degeneration leading to optic atrophy which is caused by point mutations in the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA). Three pathogenic mutations (positions 11778/ND4, 3460/ND1 and 14484/ND6) account for the majority of LHON cases and they affect genes that encode for different subunits of mitochondrial complex I. Excitotoxic injury to retinal ganglion cells and the optic nerve has been previously hypothesized, especially given the high susceptibility of this neural cell type to glutamate toxicity. Osteosarcoma-derived cytoplasmic hybrids (cybrids) generated from six unrelated LHON patients, two cell lines for each pathogenic mutation, were compared with cybrids obtained from three healthy controls. Molecular and biochemical analyses showed that excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (EAAT1)/GLAST is the most active glutamate transporter in this cellular model. The glutamate uptake maximal velocity was significantly reduced in all LHON cybrids compared with control cybrids. This reduction was correlated in a mutation-specific fashion with the degree of mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species, which is enhanced in LHON cybrids. Our findings support the hypothesis that the genetically determined mitochondrial dysfunction in LHON patients leads to impaired activity of the EAAT1 glutamate transporter. This observation is particularly relevant since EAAT1 is the major means of glutamate removal in the inner retina and this prevents retinal ganglion cells being damaged as a result of excitotoxicity.
Aspirin and ibuprofen may cause a decrease in renal function which, although statistically significant, is usually small. We report a patient with active systemic lupus erythematosus and apparent acute renal failure associated with the administration of these drugs. Renal biopsy revealed no light microscopic evidence of drug nephrotoxicity although patchy nonspecific ultrastructural changes in the tubular epithelium were seen. The renal failure reversed rapidly when the drugs were withdrawn.
Mefloquine is a relatively new antimalarial drug which has been associated with a wide variety of adverse effects, including skin reactions. In order to evaluate the range and frequency of mefloquine's dermatological effects, we searched the scientific literature for published case reports of such effects. We found 74 case reports, published between the years 1983 and 1997. Pruritus and maculopapular rash are the dermatological effects most commonly associated with mefloquine: their approximate frequency is 4-10% for pruritus, and up to 30% for nonspecific maculopapular rash. Adverse effects associated less commonly with mefloquine include urticaria, facial lesions and cutaneous vasculitis. One case of Stevens-Johnson syndrome and one fatal case of toxic epidermal necrolysis occurred. Appropriate primary studies of mefloquine use should be carried out to elucidate the epidemiology and aetiology of dermatological and other adverse effects of the drug.
Inguinal herniorrhaphy is commonly performed as an outpatient procedure. Spinal anesthesia offers some advantages over general anesthesia in this setting.
Forty patients were randomly divided into two groups according to a double-blind protocol: Group L had spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine 6.0 mg and Group H with bupivacaine 7.5 mg; in both groups, fentanyl 25 micro g was added to the spinal anesthetic. The sensory block was measured by 'pin-prick' and the motor block was evaluated by a modified Bromage scale.
No differences were seen in the spread, duration and regression of sensory block between the groups on the operated side. A greater number of patients required analgesics during the operation in Group L (6) compared with Group H (1) (P<0.05). The return of the modified Bromage scale to grade 0 was earlier in Group L than in Group H (P<0.05) but the time to mobilization and discharge was similar. Seven patients (17%) needed to be catheterized and two had the catheter retained overnight. Times to home discharge (median) were 350 and 445 min, respectively, in Groups L and H. Postoperatively and during the first week, visual analog pain scores, analgesic requirements and side-effects were similar between the groups. In Group H, 95% of the patients and in Group L 85% would have the same anesthetic again if operated upon for a similar procedure.
Spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine 7.5 mg and fentanyl offers an alternative to general or local anesthesia for ambulatory inguinal herniorrhaphy. However, the long discharge times and risk for urinary retention restrict its routine use in all patients.
A poorly differentiated transitional cell carcinoma in C3H/He mice results from the oral ingestion of the urinary tract carcinogen FANFT. This model, designated MBT2, is readily transplantable into syngeneic animals and has proven to be very useful in the development of chemotherapy. Prior to the use of this model for the testing of potential immunotherapeutic strategies, we have attempted to characterize the immunobiology of this tumor line. We report that the primary growth of this tumor in the footpad and its metastasis to lung are correlated with the development of increased numbers of suppressor cells, characterized by the expression of a surface histamine H2 receptor. These cells are originally evident in spleen and become maximal approximately 4 weeks after tumor implantation. This is followed by the migration of these cells from spleen to peripheral blood, an event that parallels the growth and eventual metastasis of this implanted transitional cell carcinoma. These events may have important significance for the development of immunomodulating therapy against bladder cancer.
A double-blind cross-over trial extending over 4 weeks with administration of 0.2 g zinc sulphate 3 times daily and a placebo was carried out on 12 patients having grave acetazolamide-induced side-effects manifesting themselves as gustatory disorder, anorexia, and paraesthesia. All the patients had S-zinc levels within the normal range. These rose during zinc therapy periods, to fall again within placebo periods. Recording of the degrees of subjective side-effects based on interviews showed the side-effects to abate towards the conclusion of the trial period, independently of the randomizing programme. In other words, no significant difference was demonstrable between zinc period and placebo period. Taste tests according to Börnstein showed the gustatory disorders to be related exclusively to beverages containing carbon dioxide. However, in no more than 3 out of 10 patients did the gustatory sense return to normal after administration of zinc and one after placebo. Thus, this controlled trial has not served to disclose any statistically significant effect of zinc administration on acetazolamide-induced side-effects.
A 66-year-old man was admitted with acute oliguric renal failure. The patient was known to have chronic heart failure (ejection fraction 13%) and his medication included furosemide, digoxin and triamterene. Physical examination was unremarkable, and blood pressure was 170/80 mm Hg. Serum creatinine was 1,173 mumol/l. Renal ultrasound, CT scan and angiogram were normal. Despite correction of potential reversible factors and discontinuation of triamterene, renal function did not improve. Renal biopsy showed tubular obstruction with deposition of birefringent crystals and interstitial lymphocytic infiltration; the crystals emitted a blue autofluorescence at 425 nm, typical of triamterene. Renal tissue contained large amounts of triamterene (6.44 mg/g kidney at the initial biopsy and 400 micrograms/g kidney 5 months later). Triamterene has been previously reported to cause acute reversible renal failure, but to our knowledge, this is the first case of irreversible renal failure due to intratubular obstruction by triamterene crystal deposition.
The medicinal fungus Ganoderma lucidum has been shown to have hepatoprotective effects. G. lucidum contains triterpenes and polysaccharides, and the Sporoderm-broken G. lucidum powder is particular beneficial. This study utilized G. lucidum spore to examine its effect on [Cd(II)]-induced hepatotoxicity in mice and the mechanism of the protection. Mice were pretreated with G. lucidum spore (0.1, 0.5, and 1.0 g/kg, po, for 7 days), and subsequently challenged with a hepatotoxic dose of Cd(II) (3.7 mg/kg, ip). Liver injury was evaluated 8h later. G. lucidum spore protected against Cd(II)-induced liver injury in a dose-dependent manner, as evidenced by serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase and histopathology. To examine the mechanism of protection, subcellular distribution of Cd(II) was determined. G. lucidum spore decreased Cd(II) accumulation in hepatic nuclei, mitochondria, and microsomes, but increased Cd(II) distribution to the cytosol, where Cd(II) is sequestered by metallothionein, a protein against Cd(II) toxicity. Indeed, G. lucidum spore induced hepatic metallothionein-1 mRNA 8-fold, and also increased metallothionein protein as determined by the Cd(II)/hemoglobin assay. Cd(II)-induced oxidative stress was also decreased by G. lucidum spore, as evidenced by decreased formation of malondialdehyde. In summary, G. lucidum spore is effective in protection against Cd(II)-induced hepatotoxicity, and this effect is due, at least in part, to the induction of hepatic metallothionein to achieve beneficial effects.
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (C/EBPalpha) is mutated in 10% of acute myeloid leukemias, resulting in either a truncated protein or an altered leucine zipper (C/EBPalphaLZ) that prevents DNA binding. C/EBPalpha induces bcl-2 in cooperation with nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) p50 to inhibit apoptosis. We now demonstrate that C/EBPalpha or a C/EBPalphaLZ oncoprotein binds the bcl-2 P2 promoter in chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and induces the promoter dependent on the integrity of a kappaB site. C/EBPalpha expressed as a transgene in B cells binds and activates the bcl-2 promoter, but not in nfkb1-/- mice lacking NF-kappaB p50. Bcl-2 is central to the intrinsic apoptotic pathway, whereas FLICE inhibitory protein (FLIP) modulates caspase-8, the initiator caspase of the extrinsic pathway. C/EBPalpha and C/EBPalphaLZ also bind the FLIP promoter and induce its expression dependent upon NF-kappaB p50. Moreover, induction of FLIP by C/EBPalpha protects splenocytes from Fas ligand-induced apoptosis, but only if p50 is present. We also demonstrate the direct interaction between bacterially produced C/EBPalpha and NF-kappaB p50, mediated by the C/EBPalpha basic region. These findings indicate that C/EBPalpha or its oncoproteins activate the bcl-2 and FLIP genes by tethering to their promoters through bound NF-kappaB p50. Targeting their interaction may favor apoptosis of transformed cells.
Quantitative thermal and mechanical algometry was studied in 4 human subjects exposed to various concentrations of capsaicin administered topically to the skin of the palm or forearm. Treated skin patches were assessed for changes in heat pain threshold and in mechanical pain threshold at various controlled temperatures. The results showed that: (1) in addition to heat hyperalgesia, capsaicin consistently induces overt mechanical hyperalgesia; (2) thermal and mechanical hyperalgesias are linearly dependent on the log of capsaicin dose; (3) mechanical hyperalgesia is increased by increasing skin temperature; (4) mechanical hyperalgesia is abolished by cooling the skin to a point about 10 degrees C below the threshold for heat pain, a temperature that does not impair touch or sharp pain sensation. These sensory effects of capsaicin are mediated by C fibres, since dissociated A fibre block established by compression-ischaemia does not abolish either spontaneous pain or mechanical hyperalgesia. In addition, abolition of mechanical hyperalgesia by cooling persists during A fibre block. Cooling thus appears to act directly, presumably decreasing hyperexcitability of the C nociceptor. Hyperalgesia is also transiently depressed for at least 30 min during the postischaemic period, well beyond the duration of paraesthesiae or overt hyperaemia. Sensory changes identical to those induced experimentally by capsaicin have been observed in patients with a particular variety of neuropathic pain (ABC syndrome) and have been termed polymodal hyperalgesia and cross modality threshold modulation (Ochoa, 1986; Ochoa et al., 1987). Based on these overall observations, it is postulated here that the sensory abnormalities induced by capsaicin and those observed in this particular variety of patients relate to primary hyperalgesia and share a common mechanism in that the excitable receptor membrane of polymodal C nociceptors behaves as if it 'misreads' temperature.
In animal models, lipid emulsion therapy has been shown to ameliorate toxicity from a number of lipid soluble agents. This preliminary study addresses the hypothesis that pretreatment with lipid emulsion protects against propranolol toxicity in rodents.
Ten spontaneously ventilating Rattus norvegicus rats were pretreated with either lipid emulsion or 0.9% normal saline before undergoing a constant infusion of propranolol until death. An electrocardiogram (ECG) sampling of heart rate and a QRS duration was performed at two-minute intervals until demise.
There was no significant difference in lethal doses of propranolol between groups. Comparison of percent change in QRS prolongation and heart rate reduction was performed at 60% of the mean lethal dose in control animals. The percent change in QRS duration was reduced (from -0.9 to 17.3, p=0.016) in the intralipid pretreatment group. Attenuation of propranolol-induced bradycardia observed in the lipid emulsion group approached statistical significance (0% vs. 10.3%, p=0.06).
The results suggest that lipid emulsion may be effective in ameliorating propranolol toxicity in rats. Previous work gives reason to postulate a pharmacokinetic mechanism for this effect. The results represent encouraging exploratory work, and further work is planned to evaluate the role of lipid emulsion therapy in propranolol toxicity.
While the pathological changes that occur in the brain following seizure have been well characterized, the molecular mechanisms underlying these events are poorly understood. Cell death, reactive gliosis, and axonal sprouting are among the best studied alterations in the epileptic brain. Previous work in both the peripheral and the central nervous systems suggests that cytokines are capable of affecting each of these processes. To better understand the role of cytokines in seizures and their sequelae, we have characterized cytokine expression in an animal model of epilepsy. Using pilocarpine to chemically induce seizures, and RNase protection assays to assess mRNA levels, we have quantified changes in expression of several members of the neuropoietic cytokine family following a single, prolonged seizure. Levels of oncostatin M (OSM), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), cardiotrophin-1, and ciliary neurotrophic factor were all increased in the hippocampus after seizure, though to differing extents and with markedly different time courses. Cells expressing the most dramatically up-regulated cytokines, LIF and OSM, were identified by combined in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The majority of LIF(+) cells in the hippocampus were glial fibrillary acidic protein(+) astrocytes, while the majority of OSM(+) cells had the morphology of interneurons and were occasionally colabeled with neurofilament markers. Both the time course and the localization of cytokine up-regulation following seizure suggest possible roles for these intercellular signaling molecules in epilepsy.
Zic family genes encode zinc finger proteins, which are homologues of the Drosophila pair-rule gene odd-paired. In the present study, we characterized the fifth member of the mouse Zic family gene, mouse Zic5. Zic5 is located near Zic2, which is responsible for human brain malformation syndrome (holoprosencephaly, or HPE). In embryonic stages, Zic5 was expressed in dorsal part of neural tissues and limbs. Expression of Zic5 overlapped with those of other Zic genes, most closely with Zic2, but was not identical. Targeted disruption of Zic5 resulted in insufficient neural tube closure at the rostral end, similar to that seen in Zic2 mutant mice. In addition, the Zic5-deficient mice exhibited malformation of neural-crest-derived facial bones, especially the mandible, which had not been observed in other Zic family mutants. During the embryonic stages, there were delays in the development of the first branchial arch and extension of the trigeminal and facial nerves. Neural crest marker staining revealed fewer neural crest cells in the dorsal cephalic region of the mutant embryos without significant changes in their migration. When mouse Zic5 was overexpressed in Xenopus embryos, expression of a neural crest marker was enhanced. These findings suggested that Zic5 is involved in the generation of neural crest tissue in mouse development. ZIC5 is also located close to ZIC2 in humans, and deletions of 13q32, where ZIC2 is located, lead to congenital brain and digit malformations known as the "13q32 deletion syndrome". Based on both their similar expression pattern in mouse embryos and the malformations observed in Zic5-deficient mutant mice, human ZIC5 might be involved in the deletion syndrome.
The farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a bile acid-activated transcription factor belonging to the nuclear receptor superfamily. FXR deficiency in mice results in cholestasis, metabolic disorders, and tumorigenesis in liver and intestine. FXR is known to contribute to pathogenesis by regulating gene transcription; however, changes in the post-transcriptional modification of proteins associated with FXR modulation have not been determined. In the current study, proteomic analysis of the livers of wild-type (WT) and FXR knockout (FXR-KO) mice treated with a FXR synthetic ligand or vehicle was performed. The results identified five proteins as novel FXR targets. Since FXR deficiency in mice leads to liver tumorigenesis, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase family, member 1 (Parp1) that is important for DNA repair, was validated in the current study by quantitative real-time PCR, and 1- and 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis/western blot. The results showed that Parp1 mRNA levels were not altered by FXR genetic status or by agonist treatment. However, total Parp1 protein levels were increased in FXR-KO mice as early as 3 month old. Interestingly, total Parp1 protein levels were increased in WT mice in an age-dependent manner (from 3 to 18 months), but not in FXR-KO mice. Finally, activation of FXR in WT mice resulted in reduction of phosporylated Parp1 protein in the liver without affecting total Parp1 protein levels. In conclusion, this study reveals that FXR genetic status and agonist treatment affects basal levels and phosphorylation state of Parp1, respectively. These alterations, in turn, may be associated with the hepatobiliary alterations observed in FXR-KO mice and participate in FXR agonist-induced protection in the liver.
Fentanyl is frequently used for analgesia during emergency procedures. We present the cases of 2 patients who developed agitation and delirium after intravenous fentanyl administration. These patients were chronically taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Both developed neuromuscular examinations consistent with serotonin syndrome, a diagnosis that must be established on the basis of clinical criteria. Although they required aggressive supportive care, including mechanical ventilation, both patients made a full recovery. Use of fentanyl for procedural sedation may precipitate serotonin syndrome in patients taking SSRIs or other serotonergic drugs.
Environmental lead exposure has been found to be associated with an increased risk of hypertension. Individuals vary greatly in susceptibility to lead toxicity, and genetic susceptibility has often been cited as the probable cause for such variation.
The main objective is to determine the role of the aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALAD) gene, which encodes the main carrier protein of lead in blood, in the association between lead exposure and blood pressure (BP) and hypertension in the U.S. population.
We analyzed data from individuals >or= 17 years of age who participated in the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for whom DNA was available (n = 6,016). Multivariable logistic and linear regressions stratified by race/ethnicity were used to examine whether hypertension and BP were associated with ALAD and blood lead levels (BLL).
BLL was associated with systolic BP in non-Hispanic whites and with hypertension and systolic and diastolic BP in non-Hispanic blacks. BLL was not associated with BP outcomes in Mexican Americans. Non-Hispanic white ALAD2 carriers in the highest BLL quartile (3.852.9 microg/dL) had a significantly higher adjusted prevalence odds ratio for hypertension compared with ALAD1 homozygous individuals. We also found a significant interaction between lead concentration and the ALAD2 allele in non-Hispanic whites and non-Hispanic blacks in relation to systolic BP.
BLL may be an important risk factor for hypertension and increased systolic and diastolic BP. These associations may be modified by ALAD genotype.
To investigate the usage pattern of indapamide and other antihypertensive drugs in patients attending a community-based government outpatient clinic (GOPC) or a hospital-based specialist clinic (SC). The plasma potassium concentrations of patients receiving indapamide and other diuretics were also examined.
Prescriptions from the SC and the GOPC were reviewed and collected during January 1998. Patients' plasma potassium concentrations and the date of initiation of each medication were retrieved from the hospital computer databases at SC. An age- and sex-matched control group of patients on non-diuretic antihypertensive drugs was identified.
A total of 1648 and 773 prescriptions were collected from the SC during a 1-week period and GOPC during a 1-month period, respectively. Approximately half (45%) of the patients received antihypertensive treatment. Indapamide was five times more frequently prescribed in GOPC than SC (84.7 vs. 17.7%, P<0.001). Calcium channel blocking agents were the commonest antihypertensive drugs used in both clinics. The mean plasma potassium concentration of patients taking indapamide was lower than that of the control group (P = 0.037). Multiple linear regression analysis showed that consumption of indapamide (P =0.002) and duration of diuretic therapy (P = 0.023) were significantly related to changes in plasma potassium concentrations [multiple regression equation for potassium level = 4.09-0.145 (thiazide = 1)-0.377 (indapamide = 1) -0.00468 (duration of diuretic therapy in months)].
Indapamide was used extensively in the community clinic and less in the hospital-based outpatient clinic. Patients receiving indapamide had a significantly lower plasma potassium concentration as compared to other diuretics or antihypertensive groups and this was predicted by a multiple linear regression model. Monitoring plasma electrolytes before initiation of indapamide treatment and at regular intervals thereafter is essential for detecting the hypokalaemia that may occur in Chinese patients.
We studied the effect of oral administration of resveratrol, a natural constituent of grapes, on tumorigenesis in Min mice. Min mice are congenic mice genetically predisposed to develop intestinal tumors as a result of a mutation of the Apc gene. Resveratrol (0.01% in the drinking water containing 0.4% ethanol) was administered for seven weeks to Min mice starting at five weeks of age. The control group was fed the same diet and received water containing 0.4% ethanol. Resveratrol prevented the formation of colon tumors and reduced the formation of small intestinal tumors by 70%. Comparison of the expression of 588 genes in the small intestinal mucosa showed that resveratrol downregulated genes that are directly involved in cell cycle progression or cell proliferation (cyclins D1 and D2, DP-1 transcription factor, and Y-box binding protein). In addition, resveratrol upregulated several genes that are involved in the recruitment and activation of immune cells (cytotoxic T lymphocyte Ag-4, leukemia inhibitory factor receptor, and monocyte chemotactic protein 3) and in the inhibition of the carcinogenic process and tumor expansion (tumor susceptibility protein TSG101, transforming growth factor-beta, inhibin-beta A subunit, and desmocollin 2). Our data highlight the complexity of the events associated with intestinal tumorigenesis and the multiplicity of the molecular targets of resveratrol. The high potency and efficacy of resveratrol support its use as a chemopreventive agent in the management of intestinal carcinogenesis.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HATT) syndrome is a severe complication of heparin therapy. Since patients admitted for rehabilitation are at high risk for deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, prophylactic doses of subcutaneous heparin are frequently used. We report the case of a 73-year-old woman with a history of heparin exposure, admitted to a comprehensive rehabilitation program for management of severe back pain. The patient was started on subcutaneous heparin. After 18 days of hospitalization, she developed marked thrombocytopenia and a massive venous thrombosis in the right lower extremity. On intravenous heparin therapy, the platelet count continued to decline. The thrombocytopenia resolved with discontinuation of heparin. This case illustrates a devastating complication of heparin therapy and emphasizes that physiatrists should be aware of this acute and preventable drug reaction.
Chemotherapy-induced emesis is one of the major problems in the treatment of oncologic patients. Recently, a novel class of compounds, the selective 5HT3 receptor antagonists, has been introduced, achieving a dramatic improvement in the control of emesis. The absence of extrapyramidal side effects adds to their safety and good tolerability. The Authors herein analyse their experience on 269 cycles of chemotherapy in 47 patients treated for gynaecological and breast malignancies, with particular regard to adverse events such as headache. Their most frequent side-effects are headache and constipation, that are usually mild and self-limiting. Nevertheless, in some cases, severe, rebel headache has been reported, leading in our experience in 6.4% of cases to discontinuation of the antiemetic regimen. A previous history of recurrent or severe headache or migraine is not correlated with the occurrence of ondansetron-induced headache, as severe headache occurred after ondansetron only in 28.4% of the patients with positive anamnesis, and 70% of the patients that experienced had never suffered from severe headache before. In those patients complaining of severe headache, the Authors suggest an antiemetic association, with a loading dose of ondansetron i.v., followed by metoclopramide i.m. orally for the following days.
