Neuropathy target esterase (NTE), the putative target enzyme for organophosphate induced delayed polyneuropathy (OPIDP), can be measured in lymphocytes but has rarely been assessed in acute human poisoning. Serum autoantibodies to nervous system proteins develop in hens poisoned with neuropathic insecticides and also have not been studied after human poisoning. Serial lymphocyte NTE (LNTE) was measured in a 16-year-old boy after acute poisoning with methamidophos for evaluation as a predictor of subsequent neuropathy. The profiles of serum autoantibodies to neurofilament triplet proteins, myelin basic protein, and glial fibrillary acidic protein were measured in order to characterize changes occurring as a result of OPIDP. Clinical neuropathy characterized by steppage gate and profound lower extremity weakness, decreased grip and pinch strength, and decreased ulnar and absent tibial compound muscle action potentials developed 2 weeks following poisoning. Sensory examination and nerve conduction studies were normal. On day 3 following poisoning LNTE was depressed (77% compared with subsequent baseline enzyme activity). Marked increases in serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) autoantibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein and to neurofilament 200 were observed after the development of OPIDP. We conclude that inhibition of lymphocyte NTE is predictive of subsequent OPIDP. Serum autoantibody titers to nervous system proteins may be useful markers of neuropathy.
Prenatal glucocorticoids are often administered to pregnant women to accelerate pulmonary maturation. We have demonstrated that administration of dexamethasone during specific periods of pregnancy in the rat causes hypertension in the offspring when they are studied as adults. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether the hypertension due to prenatal dexamethasone was mediated by renal nerves. We administered dexamethasone to rats daily for 4 days between days 15 and 18 of gestation. Rats underwent bilateral renal denervation or sham operation at 6 wk of age, and blood pressure was measured at 8 wk of age. Prenatal dexamethasone in the sham operation group resulted in an increase in blood pressure compared with vehicle-treated sham controls (134 +/- 3 vs. 145 +/- 3 mmHg, P < 0.05). Renal denervation did not affect blood pressure significantly in the prenatal vehicle-treated control group but resulted in normalization in blood pressure in the prenatal dexamethasone group and (130 +/- 3 and 128 +/- 5 mmHg, respectively). Prenatal dexamethasone increased type 3 Na+/H+ exchanger (NHE3), Na+K+-2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC2), and Na+-Cl(-) cotransporter (NCC), but not alpha-, beta-, and gamma-epithelial Na+ channel (ENaC) protein abundance compared with controls. The increase in NHE3, NKCC2, and NCC protein abundance by prenatal dexamethasone was not seen in 8-wk-old rats 2 wk after renal denervation. Renal denervation did not affect NHE3, NKCC2, and NCC protein abundance in prenatal vehicle-treated animals. This study is consistent with renal nerves playing a role in mediating the hypertension by prenatal programming by dexamethasone.
CRL 40028 (benzhydryl sulfinyl acetohydroxamic acid)-induced stimulation in mice, measured as an increase in locomotor activity was studied following an intraperitoneal injection of drugs known to block alpha-adrenergic receptors. Phenoxybenzamine (20 mg/kg), prazosin (0.5-1 mg/kg) and yohimbine (2 mg/kg) prevented the development of CRL 40028-induced hyperactivity. These results suggest that stimulation of an alpha-adrenergic postsynaptic receptor is of importance for the stimulant effect of CRL 40028.
Long-term treatment with 3-azido-3-deoxy thymidine (AZT) is often associated with myelosuppression. In AZT-treated Swiss mice, similar toxicological manifestations in terms of reduction of red blood and white blood cell counts and hemoglobin content had been observed as in AZT-treated AIDS patients. Pretreatment of animals with Protein A (PA) of Staphylococcus aureus Cowan I (1 microgram/ml), twice a week for two weeks, alleviated such hematopoietic toxicity due to AZT. AZT-induced reduction in colony-forming unit-erythroid (CFU-E) and colony-forming unit-granulocyte monocyte (CFU-GM) were also reversed by the combined treatment of AZT and PA. PA treatment showed an increased level of erythropoietin in the blood plasma, and cellularity of spleen, thymus, and bonemarrow was also increased in the group receiving combined treatment (PA+AZT), higher than that in the AZT group. AZT or its metabolites inhibited the activities of liver microsomal monooxygenases, which, however, could be regenerated in an accelerated manner by pretreatment of mice with PA. Moreover, the PA-treated group showed an accelerated clearance of AZT and/or its metabolites. These results suggest that such an immunopharmacologic approach might substantially reduce the toxic effects of drugs, such as AZT.
Experiments in mice tested previous evidence that activation of cholinergic systems promotes catalepsy and that cholinergic mechanisms need to be intact for full expression of neuroleptic-induced catalepsy. Large doses of the cholinomimetic, pilocarpine, could induce catalepsy when peripheral cholinergic receptors were blocked. Low doses of pilocarpine caused a pronounced enhancement of the catalepsy that was induced by the dopaminergic blocker, haloperidol. A muscarinic receptor blocker, atropine, disrupted haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Intracranial injection of an acetylcholine-synthesis inhibitor, hemicholinium, prevented the catalepsy that is usually induced by haloperidol. These findings suggest the hypothesis that the catalepsy that is produced by neuroleptics such as haloperidol is actually mediated by intrinsic central cholinergic systems. Alternatively, activation of central cholinergic systems could promote catalepsy by suppression of dopaminergic systems.
Drug-induced ocular motor disorders occurring during coma may be difficult to distinguish from structural cerebral lesions. We recently encountered a case of reversible amitriptyline-induced external ophthalmoplegia, which was first described by Mladinich and Carlow in 1977. We suggest that the mechanism for gaze paresis and loss of vestibulo-ocular reflex due to amitriptyline overdose involves the modulation of neurons of the pontine paramedian reticular formation, the rostral fasciculus longitudinalis medialis, and the vestibulo-ocular reflex. Clinical features that might be useful when distinguishing amitriptyline-induced ophthalmoplegia from structural brain lesions--such as basilar thrombosis--include the preservation of corneal response, purposeful withdrawal from noxious stimuli, rapid recovery within 24 hours, and the reversal of symptoms by physostigmine.
It has been reported that autism is a hypoglutamatergic disorder. Therefore, it was of interest to assess the efficacy of piracetam, a positive modulator of AMPA-sensitive glutamate receptors in autistic disorder. About 40 children between the ages three and 11 years (inclusive) with a DSM IV clinical diagnosis of autism and who were outpatients from a specialty clinic for children were recruited. The children presented with a chief complaint of severely disruptive symptoms related to autistic disorder. Patients were randomly allocated to piracetam + risperidone (Group A) or placebo + risperidone (Group B) for a 10-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The dose of risperidone was titrated up to 2 mg/day for children between 10 and 40 kg and 3 mg/day for children weighting above 40 kg. The dose of piracetam was titrated up to 800 mg/day. Patients were assessed at baseline and after 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 weeks of starting medication. The measure of the outcome was the Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Community (ABC-C) Rating Scale (total score). The ABC-C Rating Scale scores improved with piracetam. The difference between the two protocols was significant as indicated by the effect of group, the between subjects factor (F = 5.85, d.f. = 1, P = 0.02). The changes at the endpoint compared with baseline were: -11.90 +/- 3.79 (mean +/- SD) and -5.15 +/- 3.04 for group A and B respectively. A significant difference was observed on the change in scores in the ABC-C Rating Scale in week 10 compared with baseline in the two groups (t = 6.017, d.f. = 38, P < 0.0001). The results suggest that a combination of atypical antipsychotic medications and a glutamate agent such as piracetam, might have increase synergistic effects in the treatment of autism.
Diuretics are an important cause of symptomatic hyponatraemia in the elderly. The hyponatraemia is often associated with hypokalaemia which may play a role in the aetiology. Diuretic induced hyponatraemia must be considered in the differential diagnosis of elderly patients presenting with altered sensorium or seizures. This is especially important in those known to be hypertensives since diuretics are frequently used to treat hypertension in the elderly.
The importance of genetic and epigenetic alterations maybe in their aggregate role in altering core pathways in tumorigenesis.
Merging genome-wide genomic and epigenomic alterations, we identify key genes and pathways altered in colorectal cancers (CRC). DNA methylation analysis was tested for predicting survival in CRC patients using Cox proportional hazard model.
We identified 29 low frequency-mutated genes that are also inactivated by epigenetic mechanisms in CRC. Pathway analysis showed the extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling pathway is silenced in CRC. Six ECM pathway genes were tested for their prognostic potential in large CRC cohorts (n = 777). DNA methylation of IGFBP3 and EVL predicted for poor survival (IGFBP3: HR = 2.58, 95% CI: 1.37-4.87, P = 0.004; EVL: HR = 2.48, 95% CI: 1.07-5.74, P = 0.034) and simultaneous methylation of multiple genes predicted significantly worse survival (HR = 8.61, 95% CI: 2.16-34.36, P < 0.001 for methylation of IGFBP3, EVL, CD109, and FLNC). DNA methylation of IGFBP3 and EVL was validated as a prognostic marker in an independent contemporary-matched cohort (IGFBP3 HR = 2.06, 95% CI: 1.04-4.09, P = 0.038; EVL HR = 2.23, 95% CI: 1.00-5.0, P = 0.05) and EVL DNA methylation remained significant in a secondary historical validation cohort (HR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.05-1.89, P = 0.022). Moreover, DNA methylation of selected ECM genes helps to stratify the high-risk stage 2 colon cancers patients who would benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy (HR: 5.85, 95% CI: 2.03-16.83, P = 0.001 for simultaneous methylation of IGFBP3, EVL, and CD109).
CRC that have silenced genes in ECM pathway components show worse survival suggesting that our finding provides novel prognostic biomarkers for CRC and reflects the high importance of integrative analyses linking genetic and epigenetic abnormalities with pathway disruption in cancer.
Here we describe two families with retinitis pigmentosa, a hereditary neurodegeneration of rod and cone photoreceptors in the retina. Affected family members were homozygous for loss-of-function mutations in IDH3B, encoding the beta-subunit of NAD-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase (NAD-IDH, or IDH3), which is believed to catalyze the oxidation of isocitrate to alpha-ketoglutarate in the citric acid cycle. Cells from affected individuals had a substantial reduction of NAD-IDH activity, with about a 300-fold increase in the K(m) for NAD. NADP-specific isocitrate dehydrogenase (NADP-IDH, or IDH2), an enzyme that catalyzes the same reaction, was normal in affected individuals, and they had no health problems associated with the enzyme deficiency except for retinitis pigmentosa. These findings support the hypothesis that mitochondrial NADP-IDH, rather than NAD-IDH, serves as the main catalyst for this reaction in the citric acid cycle outside the retina, and that the retina has a particular requirement for NAD-IDH.
Labrador retrievers are the most common dog breed in the world, with over 200,000 new kennel club registrations per year. The syndrome of exercise-induced collapse (EIC) in this breed is manifested by muscle weakness, incoordination and life-threatening collapse after intense exercise. Using a genome-wide microsatellite marker scan for linkage in pedigrees, we mapped the EIC locus to canine chromosome 9. We then used SNP association and haplotype analysis to fine map the locus, and identified a mutation in the dynamin 1 gene (DNM1) that causes an R256L substitution in a highly conserved region of the protein. This first documented mammalian DNM1 mutation is present at a high frequency in the breed and is a compelling candidate causal mutation for EIC, as the dynamin 1 protein has an essential role in neurotransmission and synaptic vesicle endocytosis.
S-312, S-312-d, but not S-312-l, L-type calcium channel antagonists, showed anticonvulsant effects on the audiogenic tonic convulsions in DBA/2 mice; and their ED50 values were 18.4 (12.8-27.1) mg/kg, p.o. and 15.0 (10.2-23.7) mg/kg, p.o., respectively, while that of flunarizine was 34.0 (26.0-44.8) mg/kg, p.o. Although moderate anticonvulsant effects of S-312-d in higher doses were observed against the clonic convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazole (85 mg/kg, s.c.) or bemegride (40 mg/kg, s.c.), no effects were observed in convulsions induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate, picrotoxin, or electroshock in Slc:ddY mice. S-312-d may be useful in the therapy of certain types of human epilepsy.
Suppression of the renin-angiotensin system during lactation causes irreversible renal structural changes. In this study we investigated 1) the time course and the mechanisms underlying the chronic kidney disease caused by administration of the AT(1) receptor blocker losartan during lactation, and 2) whether this untoward effect can be used to engender a new model of chronic kidney disease. Male Munich-Wistar pups were divided into two groups: C, whose mothers were untreated, and L(Lact), whose mothers received oral losartan (250 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)) during the first 20 days after delivery. At 3 mo of life, both nephron number and the glomerular filtration rate were reduced in L(Lact) rats, whereas glomerular pressure was elevated. Unselective proteinuria and decreased expression of the zonula occludens-1 protein were also observed, along with modest glomerulosclerosis, significant interstitial expansion and inflammation, and wide glomerular volume variation, with a stable subpopulation of exceedingly small glomeruli. In addition, the urine osmolality was persistently lower in L(Lact) rats. At 10 mo of age, L(Lact) rats exhibited systemic hypertension, heavy albuminuria, substantial glomerulosclerosis, severe renal interstitial expansion and inflammation, and creatinine retention. Conclusions are that 1) oral losartan during lactation can be used as a simple and easily reproducible model of chronic kidney disease in adult life, associated with low mortality and no arterial hypertension until advanced stages; and 2) the mechanisms involved in the progression of renal injury in this model include glomerular hypertension, glomerular hypertrophy, podocyte injury, and interstitial inflammation.
In an evaluation of the safety of new chemicals, of products containing them, or of novel formulations of existing chemicals which may come into contact with the skin, it is important to incorporate an assessment of specially susceptible sub-populations. Such a group is represented by those who are more likely to experience sensory effects such as stinging. Since these individuals are easily and rapidly identifiable, we investigated whether they represented a group who were also more susceptible to the effects of an irritant. The primary purpose was to discover whether 'stingers' might represent an easily and rapidly identifiable sub-population with a more generally increased tendency to give skin responses. The response to a 0.3% sodium dodecyl sulphate patch test was assessed in a group of 25 'stingers' and compared to the response in 25 'non-stingers'. There was no difference in either the pattern or strength of the irritant response assessed by subjective erythema and dryness scores. Thus the data suggest that there is no correlation between the susceptibility of an individual to a skin stinging response and an irritation reaction.
The possible relation between alpha-2-adrenoceptor function-as assessed by changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and heart rate, as well as level of sedation, after administration of clonidine (2.0 microg/kg, i.v.)-and length of time of alcohol dependence or duration of remission was investigated in 17 male subjects with alcohol dependence in full sustained remission. Six healthy males were used as control subjects. The clonidine-induced scores for level of sedation were found to correlate with duration of time in remission (r = 0.60; P <.02). Median split of duration of remission revealed that subjects with short-term (2 +/- 1 years) duration of remission had significantly lower scores for clonidine-induced level of sedation than the scores for both subjects with long-term (12 +/- 5 years) duration of remission (P <.004) and control subjects (P <.02). There was also a significant correlation between duration of remission and values for clonidine-induced reduction of systolic blood pressure (r = 0.51; P <.05). Results indicate an extremely long recovery period in some aspects of alpha-2-adrenoceptor function, especially for clonidine-induced increase in level of sedation, with a normalization time of 4 to 5 years.
We evaluated the tolerability and preliminary efficacy of levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra) in reducing levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease (PD) in an open-label pilot study. Nine PD patients who were experiencing peak-dose dyskinesias for at least 25% of the awake day and were at least moderately disabling were treated with LEV in doses up to 3,000 mg for up to 60 days. The primary outcome measure was the percent of the awake day that patients spent on without dyskinesia or with nontroublesome dyskinesia (good on time). The mean dose of LEV at endpoint was 625+/-277 mg/day. LEV significantly improved percent of the awake day on without dyskinesia or with nontroublesome dyskinesia at endpoint compared to baseline (43% +/- 12% vs. 61% +/- 17%; P=0.02). Percent on time with troublesome dyskinesia decreased from 23% +/- 10% at baseline to 11% +/- 6% at endpoint, although not significantly. There was no significant increase in off time from baseline to endpoint. There was a 56% dropout rate, mostly due to somnolence. In PD patients who experienced peak-dose dyskinesia for at least 25% of the awake day, LEV significantly improved on time without dyskinesia or with nontroublesome dyskinesia.
Berberine was reported to protect against the intestinal injury and improve the survival rate in sepsis, and glutamine deficiency was considered to be correlated with mortality in sepsis. We found that berberine pretreatment ameliorated lipopolysaccharide-induced direct intestinal injury and mucosal hypoplasia and attenuated impairments of intestinal glutamine transport and glutaminase activity, B(0)AT1 mRNA and protein expressions, and glutaminase protein expression. These findings showed the first time that berberine pretreatment could improve intestinal recovery and attenuate the impairment of glutamine transport and glutaminase activity in rat sepsis. This might be one of the mechanisms for the beneficial effect of berberine on sepsis.
A healthy young woman developed marked depression and loss of libido while taking cimetidine. Her symptoms promptly resolved after discontinuation of cimetidine suggesting that her symptoms represent an adverse drug reaction. Mental confusion and other neurologic symptoms have been attributed to cimetidine administration, but depression has not been previously reported. This case can not be explained by the presently accepted theory regarding the pathogenesis of cimetidine-associated central nervous system abnormalities.
We studied the systemic and coronary hemodynamic effects of a new antihypertensive agent, pinacidil, in nine morphine-sedated chronically instrumented dogs with one-kidney renal hypertension and eight similarly treated sham-operated normotensive dogs. The renal hypertensive dogs exhibited higher mean aortic blood pressure, total peripheral vascular resistance, and plasma renin activity before pinacidil administration than the sham-operated animals. The renal hypertensive dogs also had a lower left ventricular norepinephrine content, but the two groups did not differ significantly in plasma norepinephrine levels, cardiac output, or heart rate. Pinacidil decreased mean aortic pressure and total peripheral vascular resistance and increased cardiac output and heart rate in both groups. The changes in aortic pressure, total peripheral vascular resistance, and cardiac output were similar between the two groups, but the increase in heart rate was attenuated in renal hypertension. The peak rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (dP/dt), the ratio of left ventricular dP/dt and the developed pressure during isovolumic contraction (dP/dt/P), myocardial oxygen consumption, and plasma norepinephrine levels increased after pinacidil administration in the sham-operated dogs, but did not change in the renal hypertension group. The two groups did not differ in their responses of left ventricular dP/dt to intravenous isoproterenol. Pinacidil also caused coronary vasodilation in both groups, as evidenced by an increase in coronary blood flow and decreases in coronary vascular resistance and myocardial oxygen extraction. The decrease in myocardial oxygen extraction was similar in the two groups, but the increase in coronary blood flow was significantly less (p less than 0.05), probably because of the absence of an increase in myocardial oxygen consumption in the renal hypertensive dogs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A 33-year-old woman with an atrial septal defect associated with severe pulmonary hypertension underwent suture closure of the defect after assessment of operability by lung biopsy. Postoperative course was complicated by suprasystemic refractory pulmonary hypertension, and she became dependent upon treatment with inhaled nitric oxide. After multiple attempts to withdraw nitric oxide, dipyridamole was administered and blunted the rebound pulmonary hypertension after subsequent nitric oxide withdrawal.
Because the aberrantly activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway renders tumor cells resistant to cytotoxic insults, including those related to anticancer drugs, inhibition of the pathway may possibly restore or augment the effectiveness of chemotherapy. Using the human malignant glioma cell lines U87, A172, LN18, and LN229, we examined effects of the PI3K inhibitor LY294002 on both apoptosis and cytotoxicity induced by chemotherapeutic agents, including antimicrotubule agents vincristine and paclitaxel, an alkylating agent 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, a topoisomerase II inhibitor etoposide, and a DNA cross-linking agent cisplatin (cis-diamminedichloroplatinum), and we compared the LY294002-induced enhancement of effects of those agents. Ten to 20 micro M LY294002 augmented both apoptosis and caspase 3-like activity caused by antimicrotubule agents to a larger extent than induced by 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea, etoposide, and cisplatin in all four malignant glioma cell lines examined. The same doses of LY294002 enhanced cytotoxicity more efficiently with antimicrotubule agents than with other chemotherapeutic agents. Quantitative analyses using a modified isobologram and median effect plot method revealed that enhancement by LY294002 of vincristine- or paclitaxel-induced cytotoxicity was synergistic, whereas enhancement by the PI3K inhibitor of the other chemotherapeutic agent-induced cytotoxicity was additive. Our study indicates that the synergistic augmentation of the cytotoxicity by LY294002 occurs specifically with antimicrotubule agents, at least partially through an increase in caspase 3-dependent apoptosis, and we suggest that inhibitors of the PI3K/Akt pathway in combination with antimicrotubule agents may induce cell death effectively and be a potent modality to treat patients with malignant gliomas.
It has been postulated that the R- and S-equol enantiomers have different biological properties given their different binding affinities for the estrogen receptor. S-(-)equol is produced via the bacterial conversion of the soy isoflavone daidzein in the gut. We have compared the biological effects of purified S-equol to that of racemic (R and S) equol on breast and prostate cancer cells of varying receptor status in vitro. Both racemic and S-equol inhibited the growth of the breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 (> or = 10 microM) and the prostate cancer cell lines LNCaP (> or = 5 microM) and LAPC-4 (> or = 2.5 microM). The compounds also showed equipotent effects in inhibiting the invasion of MDA-MB-231 and PC-3 cancer cells through matrigel. S-equol (1, 10, 30 microM) was unable to prevent DNA damage in MCF-7 or MCF-10A breast cells following exposure to 2-hydroxy-4-nonenal, menadione, or benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide. In contrast, racemic equol (10, 30 microM) prevented DNA damage in MCF-10A cells following exposure to 2-hydroxy-4-nonenal or menadione. These findings suggest that racemic equol has strong antigenotoxic activity in contrast to the purified S-equol enantiomer implicating the R-, rather than the S-enantiomer as being responsible for the antioxidant effects of equol, a finding that may have implications for the in vivo chemoprotective properties of equol.
In response to an increased frequency of Staphylococcus epidermidis infections in postoperative cardiac surgery patients, antibiotic prophylaxis was changed to include both vancomycin and cefazolin pre- and intraoperatively. Subsequent to the addition of vancomycin prophylaxis, clinical impression and retrospective analysis supported a correlation between vancomycin administration and post-cardiopulmonary bypass norepinephrine use.
A prospective, double-blind, randomized study.
Tertiary care center in a university hospital.
A total of 58 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass surgery under high-dose fentanyl anesthesia.
Patients were randomized to receive cefazolin and either vancomycin or normal saline pre-, intra-, and postoperatively in a double-blinded protocol.
Hemodynamic profiles and doses of administered vasoactive agents were calculated and recorded for all patients for both intra- and postoperative time periods. Hypotension consistent with vasodilation was treated with a norepinephrine infusion. The rate and frequency of norepinephrine infusions were tabulated for both groups. Hemodynamic profiles that were obtained after the administration of the initial dose of vancomycin or normal saline and before the induction of general anesthesia and those profiles obtained after the induction of general anesthesia until the initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass showed no difference between groups and no evidence of vasodilation secondary to vancomycin administration. However, subsequent doses of vancomycin in the intra- and postoperative periods were associated with a significantly greater frequency of norepinephrine infusions to maintain normal hemodynamic indices. In the vancomycin group, 50% of patients received a norepinephrine infusion in the intra- and/or postoperative period as compared with 14% in the normal saline group (p < .01). Furthermore, the group of patients who received vancomycin and subsequently required a norepinephrine infusion had significantly lower mean systolic arterial pressure, mean arterial pressure, and systemic vascular resistance as compared with all other groups. There were no differences between groups in the use of vasopressors (other than norepinephrine) or fluid balance.
The results show that a significantly greater number of patients who received vancomycin required a norepinephrine infusion and that, despite norepinephrine infusion therapy, systemic vascular resistance was not normalized in this group of patients. The study supports the conclusion that perioperative administration of vancomycin in cardiac surgery patients may result in hypotension requiring the use of a vasopressor in an attempt to normalize hemodynamic indices.
Forty-five patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer were randomly allocated to receive vindesine (3 mg/m2 every week) plus either high-dose cisplatin (120 mg/m2 every 4 weeks) or low-dose cisplatin (80 mg/m2 every 3 weeks). All patients were previously untreated. The response rate for the high-dose regimen of cisplatin was 39% (9/23) and that for the low-dose regimen of cisplatin was 33% (7/21); the difference was not statistically significant. Only one patient treated with high-dose cisplatin achieved complete response, lasting 6.5 months. The median duration of response was 5.6 months (range, 2.7-7.7) in the high-dose cisplatin group and 6.8 months (range, 1.9-8.9) in the low-dose cisplatin group. The median survival times for the 23 patients treated with the high-dose regimen of cisplatin and for the 21 patients treated with the low-dose regimen of cisplatin were 9.0 and 10.8 months, respectively. Significantly more azotemia occurred in the high-dose cisplatin group than in the low-dose cisplatin group (P less than 0.05). Combination chemotherapy with cisplatin and vindesine showed significant antitumor activity in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. However, the high-dose regimen of cisplatin did not result in a significantly better response rate or survival advantage, and was associated with greater toxicity.
Side-effects of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, such as a slight decrease in hematocrit, are increasingly being reported. A 14-year-old renal transplant patient on enalapril therapy developed anemia with reticulocytosis. She was investigated for other causes of anemia and enalapril therapy was ceased. Her hemoglobin level increased and reticulocyte count decreased after cessation of therapy. No other cause of anemia was found. Although anemia in patients receiving ACE inhibitors such as enalapril has previously been reported, this is the first reported patient who developed anemia associated with mild reticulocytosis and macrocytosis.
1. An emerging body of evidence indicates that PGE(2) has a privileged anti-inflammatory role within the airways. Stimulants of protease-activated receptor-2 (PAR(2)) inhibit airway smooth muscle tone in vitro and in vivo predominantly via cyclooxygenase (COX)-dependent generation of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)). Thus, the current study tested the hypothesis that PAR(2)-induced generation of PGE(2) inhibits the development of allergic airways inflammation and hyperresponsiveness. 2. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid recovered from ovalbumin (OVA)-sensitised and -challenged (allergic) mice contained elevated numbers of eosinophils, which peaked at 48 h postchallenge. Intranasal (i.n.) administration of a PAR(2)-activating peptide (PAR(2)-AP) SLIGRL (25 mg kg(-1), at the time of OVA challenge) caused a 70% reduction in the numbers of BAL eosinophils (compared to the scrambled peptide LSIGRL, 25 mg kg(-1)). 3. Pretreatment of allergic mice with either indomethacin (1 mg kg(-1), dual COX inhibitor) or nimesulide (3 mg kg(-1), COX-2-selective inhibitor) blocked SLIGRL-induced reductions in BAL eosinophils. 4. I.n. SLIGRL, but not LSIGRL, inhibited the development of antigen-induced airways hyperresponsiveness. The inhibitory effect of SLIGRL was blocked by indomethacin. 5. Exposure of isolated tracheal preparations from allergic mice to 100 microM SLIGRL was associated with a 5.0-fold increase in PGE(2) levels (P<0.05, compared to 100 microM LSIGRL). SLIGRL induced similar increases in PGE(2) levels in control mice (OVA-sensitised, saline-challenged). 6. I.n. administration of PGE(2) (0.15 mg kg(-1)) to allergic mice significantly inhibited eosinophilia and airways hyperresponsiveness to methacholine. 7. In anaesthetised, ventilated allergic mice, SLIGRL (5 mg kg(-1), i.v.) inhibited methacholine-induced increases in airways resistance. Consistent with this bronchodilator effect, SLIGRL induced pronounced relaxation responses in isolated tracheal preparations obtained from allergic mice. LSIGRL did not inhibit bronchomotor tone in either of these in vivo or in vitro experiments. 8. In summary, a PAR(2)-AP SLIGRL inhibited the development of airway eosinophilia and hyperresponsiveness in allergic mice through a COX-dependent pathway involving COX-2-mediated generation of the anti-inflammatory mediator PGE(2). SLIGRL also displayed bronchodilator activity in allergic mice. These studies support the concept that PAR(2) exerts predominantly bronchoprotective actions within allergic murine airways.
We investigated a family with an autosomal recessive syndrome of cafe-au-lait patches and childhood malignancy, notably supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumor. There was no cancer predisposition in heterozygotes; nor was there bowel cancer in any individual. However, autozygosity mapping indicated linkage to a region of 7p22 surrounding the PMS2 mismatch-repair gene. Sequencing of genomic PCR products initially failed to identify a PMS2 mutation. Genome searches then revealed a previously unrecognized PMS2 pseudogene, corresponding to exons 9-15, within a 100-kb inverted duplication situated 600 kb centromeric from PMS2 itself. This information allowed a redesigned sequence analysis, identifying a homozygous mutation (R802X) in PMS2 exon 14. Furthermore, in the family with Turcot syndrome, in which the first inherited PMS2 mutation (R134X) was described, a further truncating mutation was identified on the other allele, in exon 13. Further whole-genome analysis shows that the complexity of PMS2 pseudogenes is greater than appreciated and may have hindered previous mutation studies. Several previously reported PMS2 polymorphisms are, in fact, pseudogene sequence variants. Although PMS2 mutations may be rare in colorectal cancer, they appear, for the most part, to behave as recessive traits. For technical reasons, their involvement in childhood cancer, particularly in primitive neuroectodermal tumor, may have been underestimated.
