The Studies of Left Ventricular Dysfunction (SOLVD) examined the effect of an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, enalapril on mortality and hospitalization in 6,797 patients with low ejection fraction (EF < 0.35). Patients requiring treatment for heart failure were entered to the treatment trial (n = 2,569) while those patients not receiving pharmacological treatment for heart failure were entered in the prevention trial (n = 4,228). In the treatment trial, there was a 16% (95% confidence interval [CI], 5% to 26%) reduction in mortality with the largest reduction in deaths due to progressive heart failure (22%, 95% CI, 6 to 35%). There was also a 26% (95% CI, 18 to 34%) reduction in mortality or hospitalization for worsening heart failure. In the prevention trial there was an 8% (95% CI, -8 to 21%) reduction in mortality, 12% (95% CI, -3 to 26%) reduction in cardiovascular mortality, and a 29% (95% CI, 21 to 36%) reduction in mortality or development of heart failure. In addition, there was a 20% (95% CI, 9 to 30%) reduction in mortality or hospitalization for heart failure. There were consistent effects among subgroups defined by baseline serum sodium, vasodilator use, etiology and NYHA functional class. The effect of enalapril on mortality and hospitalization for heart failure was significantly greater for patients with the lowest ejection fraction. In both trials, there were highly significant reductions in myocardial infarction (23%, 95% CI, 11 to 34%) and hospitalizations for unstable angina (20%, 95% CI, 9 to 29%).
A 16-year-old student was admitted with acute, oliguric renal failure complicating staphylococcal sepsis. During treatment with methicillin drug hypersensitivity was suspected, and antibiotic was changed to vancomycin; by day 19 hemodialysis was discontinued. Renal biopsy showed two pathologic processes: acute exudative glomerulonephritis and widespread tubulointerstitial nephritis. In addition to glomerular immunoglobulin and C'3 deposits, interstitial and focal tubular basement membrane deposits of IgG were seen. Antiserum to DPO (methicillin) haptens localized apparently to the same tubular sites, as did fluorescein-conjugated antibodies from the patient's serum. The data suggest that interstitial nephritis was caused by serum antibodies to methicillin which bound to sites in renal tubules to which methicillin also had fixed. The acute tubulointerstitial nephritis complicated acute oliguric glomerulonephritis of staphylococcal sepsis.
Hodgkin's disease occurs frequently in women of reproductive age. Anthracyclines in general and doxorubicin in particular are integral parts of therapy.
A 24-year-old primigravida had dilated cardiomyopathy diagnosed at 34 weeks'gestation. Three years earlier she had been treated with chest radiation and combination chemotherapy, including doxorubicin, for Hodgkin's disease.
The clinician should be aware of this manifestation. Multidisciplinary supervision throughout pregnancy as well as planned timing and mode of delivery are mandatory.
1. Anesthetized rats received the TCA desipramine (DMI) 60 mg kg-1 i.p. Administration of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester-(L-NAME) 15 min after DMI reversed hypotension within 5 min (P < 0.05). In contrast to its beneficial effect on blood pressure, L-NAME worsened DMI-induced prolongation of the electrocardiographic QRS interval. Dexamethasone, an inhibitor of NOS induction, did not prevent DMI-induced hypotension. 2. To study the effect of L-NAME on survival, DMI was administered to anesthetized rats as a continuous i.v. infusion until death. Despite initially improving blood pressure, L-NAME decreased the mean survival time by 33% (P < 0.01) compared to control treatment. Administration of the nitric oxide (NO) donor nitroglycerine to rats during DMI infusion likewise decreased the mean survival time. 3. L-NAME partially reversed the hypotensive effect of nitroprusside in both anesthetized and awake rats. 4. These data suggest that NO production attributable to constitutive NOS (cNOS) activity aggravates the hypotension associated with DMI toxicity in the anesthetized rat, and contributes to the pathophysiology of this overdose. The shortened survival time produced by both increasing and decreasing NO production suggests that cNOS activity during DMI overdose is regulated and adaptive. Ongoing cNOS activity also contributed to nitroprusside-induced hypotension, and may represent a feature common to other drug-induced hypotensive states.
A serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT)-releasing drug, p-chloroamphetamine elicited decreases in 5-HT levels in the mouse frontal cortex. 5-HT reduction elicited by p-chloroamphetamine was inhibited by the 5-HT(2A/2B/2C) receptor antagonist, LY 53857 and the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, ketanserin. However, the 5-HT(2B/2C) receptor antagonist, SB 206553, enhanced it. LY 53857 and ketanserin can inhibit hyperthermia elicited by p-chloroamphetamine, although SB 206553 enhances it. The effects of the 5-HT(2) receptor antagonists on neurotoxicity are very similar to those on hyperthermia. Since hyperthermia facilitates neurotoxicity induced by amphetamine analogue, these 5-HT(2) receptor antagonists may modify 5-HT depletion induced by p-chloroamphetamine through responses to body temperature.
Methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT) is an organic manganese-containing compound which is used as an additive in unleaded gasoline. One neurotoxic effect of MMT in mice is seizure activity. In this study, seizures were observed in mice treated with MMT in propylene glycol or corn oil. The LD50 associated with seizure activity was lower in mice receiving MMT in propylene glycol (152 mg/kg) than in those receiving MMT in corn oil (999 mg/kg). Manganese concentrations in the brains of mice which showed seizure activity due to MMT were higher than in those that did not (2.45 micrograms/g vs. 1.14 micrograms/g for MMT treated in propylene glycol and 3.25 micrograms/g vs. 1.63 micrograms/g for MMT in corn oil). Mice treated with manganese chloride (MnCl2) showed increases in brain manganese comparable to those of the mice showing seizure activity due to MMT, but exhibited no sign of seizure activity. MMT in non-lethal seizure-inducing doses had no effect on the accumulation of 4-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in mouse brain. However, MMT inhibited the binding of t-[3H]t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate [3H]-TBOB (a ligand for the GABA-A-receptor linked chloride channel) in mouse brain membranes with an IC50 value of 22.8 microM. The data suggest that MMT (organic manganese) or a closely related metabolite and not elemental manganese itself is responsible for the seizure activity observed. The seizure activity may be the result of an inhibitory effect of MMT at the GABA-A receptor linked chloride channel.
It is increasingly apparent that cocaine can provoke lethal cardiac events, including ventricular fibrillation (VF). Cocaine-induced accumulation of intracellular calcium could contribute significantly to the development of these lethal arrhythmias. In order to test this hypothesis, a 2-min coronary occlusion was initiated during the last minute of exercise in instrumented mongrel dogs. Twenty-eight animals were selected in which this test failed to induce ventricular arrhythmias. The test was repeated after cocaine HCl (1.0 mg/kg). Cocaine significantly (P < .01) increased heart rate, left ventricular pressure and d(left ventricular pressure)/dt maximum, and elicited VF in 21 animals. The cocaine exercise+ischemia test was repeated in the animals that developed VF after the pretreatment with the following calcium channel antagonists: diltiazem (n = 8, 1.0 mg/kg), flunarizine (n = 7, 2.5 mg/kg), magnesium sulfate (n = 7, 100 mg/kg), nifedipine (n = 7 100 micrograms/kg), Ro 40-5967 (n = 7, 1.0 mg/kg) and verapamil (n = 6, 250 micrograms/kg). Diltiazem, flunarizine, nifedipine, Ro 40-5967 and verapamil completely suppressed cocaine-induced VF, whereas magnesium prevented VF in five of seven animals. Many of the calcium channel antagonists attenuated the heart rate and systolic pressure increases provoked by cocaine, as well as the heart rate increase induced by the ischemia. Heart rate was therefore matched to the cocaine values by ventricular pacing (verapamil+pace, n = 5), whereas the pressure increases were prevented by nitroprusside (n = 4). Even with heart rate held constant, verapamil prevented VF, whereas nitroprusside failed to protect any animal. Thus, myocardial calcium entry may play a critical role in cocaine-induced VF, whereas calcium antagonists can prevent these malignant arrhythmias independently of their vascular action.
Vasodilator drugs reduce peripheral vascular resistance but lead to a secondary baroreflex-mediated chronotropic effect. After angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition, blood pressure falls without associated tachycardia. In a previous study it was observed that enalapril increased vagal tone in essential hypertensive patients. In order to evaluate the effect of enalapril on sympathetic stimulation 10 mild to moderate hypertensive patients were studied during static (hand grip) and dynamic exercise (bicycle ergometer), after 2 weeks of placebo and after 1 month of treatment with 20-40 mg enalapril once daily. Enalapril significantly reduced blood pressure and the rate-pressure product at rest and at peak dynamic exercise. There was no effect on supine and maximal heart rate. Enalapril also significantly reduced blood pressure during hand grip, but did not interfere with the rate of the increase. Thus, enalapril does not seem to interfere with sympathetic adaptation to stress.
Autism is a behaviorally characterized disorder with impairments in social interactions, as well as stereotyped, repetitive patterns of behaviors and interests. Exposure of rat fetuses to thalidomide (THAL) or valproic acid (VPA) on the ninth day of gestation has been reported as a useful model for human autism. We have shown that early serotonergic neural development is disrupted in these rats. In the current study, we used a radial maze and open field experimental paradigm to investigate whether these rats present behavioral and/or learning aberrations. THAL (500mg/kg), VPA (800mg/kg), or vehicle was administered orally to E9 pregnant rats at 7-10 weeks of age. Although the mean number of correct and incorrect arm choices in the initial eight arm choices did not differ between control and teratogen-exposed groups, achievement of learning (seven or eight consecutive correct choices for 3 consecutive days for individual rats) seemed to be impaired in teratogen-exposed groups. Interestingly, average time to explore the maze task was shorter in the teratogen-exposed groups, indicating that correct choice might be due to mere coincidence (i.e., nonexploratory movement). Unexpectedly, no significant differences were observed in social interaction in these rats. These results indicate that prenatal exposure to THAL and VPA might alter behavior in a manner that is, in part, consistent with human autism.
d-Amphetamine is known to have effects on heart rate, body temperature and locomotor activity. However, it is not known if GABAB receptor stimulation modifies these actions of d-amphetamine.
Using telemetry recordings, this study examined the interactions between the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen and d-amphetamine, on heart rate responses, body temperature and locomotor activity, and whether these effects could be blocked by the GABAB receptor antagonist SCH 50911.
Rats were prepared with telemetry implants, which allowed continuous monitoring of heart rate, core temperature and spontaneous locomotor activity. Drugs were subsequently administered subcutaneously to the animals for simultaneous recording over a period of 180 min.
d-Amphetamine alone (0.3, 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg) produced a dose-related increase in heart rate, but was without any effect on body temperature, whilst at 1.0 mg/kg, it significantly increased locomotor activity. Baclofen increased heart rate without affecting locomotor activity, and, at the highest dose of 10.0 mg/kg, it induced a significant reduction in body temperature. Graded doses of baclofen (3.0-10.0 mg/kg), when co-administered with d-amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg), did not modify the d-amphetamine-induced increase in heart rate, but the combination produced significant reductions of body temperature. The latter was only partially reversed by the GABAB receptor antagonist SCH 50911 (10.0 mg/kg). By contrast, the increase in locomotor activity by d-amphetamine was markedly blocked by baclofen in a dose-related manner, and this effect was abolished by SCH 50911 (10.0 mg/kg). SCH 50911 alone at doses of 3.0, 6.0 and 10.0 mg/kg had no effect on temperature or locomotor activity. Heart rate was increased significantly, but the magnitude of change was small.
The results of the present study suggest that stimulation of GABAB receptors by baclofen completely blocks the locomotor stimulatory effects of d-amphetamine. Baclofen did not significantly modify the increase in heart rate produced by d-amphetamine and decreased body temperature, both alone and in combination with d-amphetamine. GABAB receptor ligands may well have potential as pharmacotherapies in the treatment of amphetamine abuse and dependence.
Children whose mothers used cocaine during pregnancy appear to have an increased incidence of certain neurobehavioral deficits. Rodent models of prenatal cocaine exposure have mimicked these deficits in the offspring, yet the biochemical basis of the behavioral abnormalities is unknown. We have been able to reproduce short-term memory deficits in our rat intravenous model of prenatal cocaine exposure, and as short-term memory is dependent on the function of dopamine neurons innervating the medial prefrontal cortex, we hypothesized that prenatal cocaine induces a dysfunction in the regulation of this pathway. Here we report that mild footshock stress, which preferentially activates the mesoprefrontal dopamine system, leads to an enhanced increase in dopamine turnover in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex of adolescent (postnatal day 35-37) rats exposed to cocaine in utero, suggesting that the dopamine neurons innervating this region are hyperresponsive in these rats. Thus, this biochemical alteration may be central to some of the cognitive deficits exhibited by offspring that were exposed to cocaine during fetal development.
The author describes a case of early onset of asymptomatic renal insufficiency in a young patient with ulcerative colitis, treated by large doses of mesalazine. After discontinuation of the drug rapid restoration of renal functions occurred. Contrary to all hitherto published cases, this patient developed renal failure very soon. Urea serum levels reached pathological values after 27 days and the creatinine level already 15 days after the onset of mesalazine administration. The renal affection was unequivocally confirmed by examination of the urine (semiquantitative and quantitative) and dynamic functional scintigraphy.
Antacids and gastric acid inhibitors are effective in the self-treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). The aim was to investigate onset of action of the antacid hydrotalcite compared with the OTC H2-receptor antagonist famotidine in patients suffering from heartburn.
A total of 53 patients with endoscopically diagnosed GERD grade 0-1 took part in this open, randomized, parallel-group comparison trial: 26 patients received a single dose of 1000 mg hydrotalcite and 27 patients a single dose of 10 mg famotidine on the occasion of a symptomatic reflux episode. Severity of heartburn and accompanying symptoms were documented on a four-point verbal rating scale (VRS) at baseline and up to four hours after intake. Onset and duration of action were defined by the number of patients experiencing improvement of heartburn from severe or moderate to mild or none compared with baseline.
Hydrotalcite was significantly superior (p<0.001) to famotidine in increasing the proportion of responders within the first 45 minutes, starting 10 minutes after drug intake. Between 60 and 120 minutes, both compounds showed equal efficacy. Three hours after intake the response rate was 90.9% for hydrotalcite and 92.0% for famotidine. After four hours the response rates were 86.4% for hydrotalcite and 96.0% for famotidine. In both groups, no adverse events were observed.
The results indicate that hydrotalcite relieves the symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux faster than OTC famotidine and is equally effective for up to two hours. It is a safe and effective self-medication for on-demand treatment of heartburn.
This study was designed to compare at the same level of hypotension (-30%) nitroprusside (SNP) and nicergoline (NIC) effects on systemic haemodynamics and carotid haemodynamics (pulsed Doppler) and on plasma renin activity (PRA) in 20 anaesthetized dogs before and at the 20th minute of hypotension. In SNP group (n = 9) cardiac output (CO) and heart rate (HR) increased. Stroke volume (SV), pulmonary wedge pressure (PWP), central venous pressure (CVP) and systemic vascular resistance (SVR) decreased. Common carotid diameter (D) increased and blood flow velocity (V) decreased with constant common carotid blood flow (CCBF). CCBF/CO ratio was unchanged. PRA levels increased. In NIC group (n = II), HR, CO, SV were unchanged and PWP, CVP, SVR decreased. D, V and CCBF were unchanged. CCBF/CO ratio increased and PRA was unchanged. NIC provoked mild hypotension without reflex sympathetic activation unlike SNP. Only SNP dilated large arteries. The autoregulation of CCBF is maintained with both drugs but CCBF/CO ratio is increased only with NIC.
Continuous midazolam infusion is commonly used for the management of status epilepticus (SE). The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of midazolam and mortality in childhood refractory generalized convulsive SE.
We included 27 children with refractory generalized convulsive SE. Midazolam was given 0.2 mg/kg as bolus, followed by 1-5 microg/kg/min as continuous infusion. Clinical data and response to treatment were recorded for each patient.
Acute symptomatic SE accounted for 52%, and central nervous system (CNS) infections were the most frequently associated etiologic condition (44%). Complete control of seizures was achieved with midazolam infusion in the 26 (96%) children within 65 min; at a mean midazolam infusion rate of 3.1 microg/kg/min. Adverse effects such as hypotension, bradycardia or respiratory depression did not occur during midazolam infusion. In one (4%) patient with acute meningoencephalitis, SE could not be controlled. Five (19%) patients died; four had acute symptomatic aetiology and one had progressive encephalopathy.
Midazolam is effective and safe in the control of refractory generalized convulsive SE. The response to treatment and mortality were related to the underlying aetiology.
The relative contributions of glutamate and dopamine within the nucleus accumbens to cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior were assessed. When extinguished cocaine self-administration behavior was reinstated by a cocaine-priming injection, extracellular levels of both dopamine and glutamate were elevated in the nucleus accumbens. However, when yoked cocaine or saline control subjects were administered a cocaine prime, only dopamine levels were elevated. Thus, glutamate increased only when animals reinstated lever pressing, whereas dopamine increased regardless of behavior. The increase in glutamate was not accounted for simply by the act of lever pressing itself, because the cocaine self-administration group still demonstrated elevated glutamate when the levers were withdrawn from the operant chamber. Moreover, reinstatement of lever pressing for food did not elevate extracellular glutamate, indicating that increased glutamate initiated responding selectively for a drug reinforcement. The source of glutamate was shown to be glutamatergic afferents from the prefrontal cortex because inhibiting prefrontal cortical glutamatergic neurons that project to the accumbens prevented the rise in glutamate. Together, these data demonstrate that activation of a glutamatergic projection from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens underlies cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior.
Significant numbers of patients receiving azidothymidine (AZT) develop anaemia requiring an adjustment of AZT dosage. Fear of red blood cell (RBC) alloimmunization may act as a deterrent to exposing a patient to long-term transfusion therapy which is the alternative to AZT dosage reduction or discontinuation. This retrospective study was done to assess the incidence of RBC alloimmunization in transfused patients on AZT. Records of 72 patients receiving long-term AZT were analysed to assess the incidence of alloimmunization. Other study parameters included duration of transfusion therapy, total number of pRBC units transfused/patient, alloantibody specificity, rates of autoantibody detection and their specificity. For comparison, a parallel analysis was carried out on 188 male patients transfused during the same period of time for chronic renal failure (CRF). Only one of 72 AZT patients (1.4%) developed an alloantibody compared with seven of the 118 CRF patients (5.9%) (P = NS). The incidence of autoantibodies and positive direct antiglobulin testing in the AZT and CRF populations was found to be similar (9.7% v. 7.6% respectively; P = NS). The two populations were similar with respect to mean number of pRBC units transfused (AZT: 10.5 v. CRF: 11.5 units; P = NS); however, there was a significant difference in the mean duration of transfusion therapy (AZT: 4.5 months v. CRF 19.4 months; P less than 0.001). We conclude there is an insignificant incidence of alloimmunization in the multiply-transfused AZT population. Furthermore, in this study the incidence of RBC autoantibodies in AZT patients appears to be low and no different from that of patients with chronic renal failure.
Diphenylthiourea (DPTU) is a known skin sensitizer commonly used as a vulcanization accelerator in the production of synthetic rubber, for example, neoprene. The versatile usage of neoprene is due to the multifaceted properties of the material; for example, it is stretchable, waterproof, and chemical- and abrasion-resistant. The wide application of neoprene has resulted in numerous case reports of dermatitis patients allergic to DPTU. The mechanism by which DPTU works as a contact allergen has not been described; thus, the aim of the present study was to investigate if DPTU is a prohapten that can be activated by skin metabolism. The metabolic activation and covalent binding of (14)C-labeled DPTU to proteins were tested using a skinlike cytochrome P450 (P450) cocktail containing the five most abundant P450s found in human skin (CYP1A1, 1B1, 2B6, 2E1, and 3A5) and human liver microsomes. The incubations were carried out in the presence or absence of the metabolite trapping agents glutathione, methoxylamine, and benzylamine. The metabolism mixtures were analyzed by LC-radiochromatography, LC-MS, and LC-MS/MS. DPTU was mainly metabolically activated to reactive sulfoxides resulting in desulfurated adducts in both enzymatic systems used. Also, phenylisothiocyanate and phenylisocyanate were found to be metabolites of DPTU. The sensitizing capacity of the substrate (DPTU) and three metabolites was tested in the murine local lymph node assay. Two out of three metabolites tested were strong skin sensitizers, whereas DPTU itself, as previously known, was negative using this mouse model. In conclusion, DPTU forms highly reactive metabolites upon bioactivation by enzymes present in the skin. These metabolites are able to induce skin sensitization and are probable causes for DPTU allergy. To increase the possibilities of diagnosing contact allergy to DPTU-containing items, we suggest that suitable metabolites of DPTU should be used for screening testing.
Air pollution is a complex mixture of gases (e.g., ozone), particulate matter, and organic compounds present in outdoor and indoor air. Dogs exposed to severe air pollution exhibit chronic inflammation and acceleration of Alzheimer's-like pathology, suggesting that the brain is adversely affected by pollutants. We investigated whether residency in cities with high levels of air pollution is associated with human brain inflammation. Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2), an inflammatory mediator, and accumulation of the 42-amino acid form of beta-amyloid (Abeta42), a cause of neuronal dysfunction, were measured in autopsy brain tissues of cognitively and neurologically intact lifelong residents of cities having low (n:9) or high (n:10) levels of air pollution. Genomic DNA apurinic/apyrimidinic sites, nuclear factor-kappaB activation and apolipoprotein E genotype were also evaluated. Residents of cities with severe air pollution had significantly higher COX2 expression in frontal cortex and hippocampus and greater neuronal and astrocytic accumulation of Abeta42 compared to residents in low air pollution cities. Increased COX2 expression and Abeta42 accumulation were also observed in the olfactory bulb. These findings suggest that exposure to severe air pollution is associated with brain inflammation and Abeta42 accumulation, two causes of neuronal dysfunction that precede the appearance of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease.
1. Procaine has previously been shown to diminish the nephrotoxicity of cisplatin and the nephrotoxic effects of cisplatin and a new cisplatin complex (cis-diamminechloro-[2-(diethylamino) ethyl-4-aminobenzoate, N4]-chlorideplatinum (II) monohydrochloride monohydrate; DPR), that contains procaine hydrochloride were compared with rat renal cortical slices. 2. Cisplatin at 1 mM caused toxicity to the slices, as shown by an increase in the leakage of aspartate aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase from the slices into the incubation medium and a decrease in the reduction of a tetrazolium dye (MTT assay). Addition of procaine (1 mM) protected against cisplatin-induced toxicity. DPR either at 1 mM or at 4 mM had no effect either on the enzyme leakage or MTT reduction by the renal slices, but DPR at 10 mM produced a similar magnitude of enzyme leakage to cisplatin (1 mM). 3. DPR lowered the concentration of ATP and glutathione (GSH) in the slices but was less potent than cisplatin. Thiobarbituric acid reactive substances, indicators of lipid peroxidation, released into the medium were increased by the highest concentration of DPR (10 mM), which suggests that DPR has the potential to cause oxidative stress. 4. The results suggest that DPR was far less toxic than either cisplatin alone or a mixture of cisplatin and procaine.
Alcohol consumption during pregnancy results in morphological abnormalities in the fetuses of humans and experimental animals, and is referred to as fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS). However, the molecular mechanism underlying FAS has not been completely elucidated. The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential molecular mechanisms of ethanol-induced FAS in the developing embryo and fetus. cDNA microarray analysis was used to screen for altered gene profiles. Ethanol at a teratogenic dosage (3.8 g/kg, twice a day) was administered intraperitoneally to pregnant C57Bl/6J mice from gestation day (GD) 6 to 8. Morphologic observations showed excessive malformations of the craniofacial regions (reduction of the face, the absence of eyes, nose, jaw, and mandible, underdevelopment of vibrissae areas, cleft lip, and palate) in ethanol-exposed embryos (GD 10) and fetusus (GD 15). cDNA microarray analysis showed alterations in several gene profiles, including the "palate, lung, and nasal epithelium clone (plunc), "neurofilament, " and "pale ear. " Of these genes, the expressions of plunc were confirmed by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and whole-mount in situ hybridization. The plunc was highly expressed in the craniofacial region, specifically in upper airways and nasopharyngeal epithelium. RT-PCR analysis revealed that normal plunc mRNA expression levels were present in GD 15 fetuses, but not in GD 10 embryos. Interestingly, ethanol significantly downregulated the plunc expression in GD 15 fetuses. Our results suggest that ethanol-induced FAS is due in part to the downregulation of plunc expression in the fetus, and this gene may be a candidate biological marker for FAS.
Repeated cocaine causes enduring changes in dopamine and glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens, and dopamine and glutamate terminals synapse on GABAergic accumbens neurons. The present study demonstrates that there are changes in GABA transmission in the accumbens at 3 weeks after discontinuing daily cocaine injections. No-net flux microdialysis revealed a significant increase in the basal levels of extracellular GABA in the accumbens of cocaine-treated rats. The elevated extracellular GABA was normalized by blocking voltage-dependent Na+ channels and provided increased tone on GABA(B) presynaptic autoreceptors and heteroreceptors because blocking GABA(B) receptors produced a greater elevation in extracellular GABA, dopamine, and glutamate in cocaine-treated compared with control subjects. For many G-protein-coupled receptors, increased agonist can cause receptor desensitization. Consistent with GABA(B) receptor desensitization, baclofen-stimulated GTPgammaS binding was reduced, and the reduction in G-protein coupling was accompanied by reduced Ser phosphorylation of the GABA(B2) receptor subunit. No effect by repeated cocaine was found in the levels of total GABA(B1) or GABA(B2) protein. Together, these data demonstrate that withdrawal from repeated cocaine treatment produces an increase in the basal levels of extracellular GABA in the accumbens that depends on neuronal activity. The increase may be mediated in part by functional desensitization of GABA(B) receptors, likely the result of diminished Ser phosphorylation of the GABA(B2) receptor.
To evaluate the effect of S-allylcysteine (SAC) on CWR22R, a human androgen-independent (AI) prostate cancer xenograft, in nude mice. Despite extensive research worldwide there is no effective way to control the growth of prostate cancer, and we previously reported that SAC and S-allylmercaptocysteine (SAMC), two water-soluble derivatives of garlic, inhibit cancer cell invasion through restoration of E-cadherin expression in vitro.
The effects of SAC on tumour cell proliferation markers such as Ki-67 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen, and apoptotic regulators including Bcl-2 and cleaved caspase-3, were assessed by immunohistochemical staining. The inhibitory effects of SAC on prostate cancer invasion was examined by immunoreactivity of E-cadherin and its binding proteins alpha, beta and gamma-catenins. The serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level at three different times (initiation, middle and end of treatment) and toxicity of SAC on several organs after treatment were assessed.
Treatment with SAC resulted in inhibition of the growth of CWR22R, with no detectable toxic effect on nude mice. The SAC-induced growth reduction was correlated with a concurrent reduction in serum PSA level and proliferation rate of xenografts, together with an inhibition of invasion through the restoration of E-cadherin and gamma-catenin expression. Furthermore, the apoptotic rate of SAC-treated tumours increased together with a decrease in Bcl-2 and increase in cleaved caspase-3.
These results suggest that this garlic-derived compound might be a potential therapeutic agent for suppressing AI prostate cancer.
Tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate (TRCP), a flame retardant, produces a dose-, sex-, and species-dependent lesion in the hippocampal region of the brain following subchronic oral administration. This lesion is more common and more severe in female F344 rats than in male F344 rats, and is not observed in B6C3F1 mice. The present investigation of the metabolism of TRCP was designed to detect sex and species variations that might account for differences in toxicity. Elimination of TRCP-derived radioactivity was more rapid in mice, which excreted greater than 70% of an oral dose of 175 mg/kg in urine in 8 hr vs. approximately 40% for male or female rats. However, the metabolic profile of TRCP-derived radioactivity in urine was similar for both species. The major metabolite in female rat urine was identified as bis(2-chloroethyl) carboxymethyl phosphate. This metabolite co-chromatographed with the major metabolite found in both male rat and mouse urine. Two additional metabolites identified in female rat urine were bis(2-chloroethyl) hydrogen phosphate and the glucuronide of bis(2-chloroethyl) 2-hydroxyethyl phosphate. These metabolites also cochromatographed with metabolites found in male rat and mouse urine. TRCP metabolism in rats was not induced or inhibited by nine daily 175 mg/kg doses. Toxicity, as evidenced by seizures, was potentiated in male rats pretreated with inhibitors of aldehyde dehydrogenase.
A case is reported in which anticoagulant therapy for thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism produced bilateral massive intrarenal hematomas (pseudotumors). The role of radiologic investigation (nephrotomography, renal scan and selective high dose arteriography) was found to identify and localize the intrarenal hematomata and exclude underlying renal pathology. Although an abnormal kidney is more likely to bleed, this case presentation demonstrates that even carefully monitored anticoagulation within the therapeutic range can induce massive intrarenal hemorrhage in previously normal kidneys. The renal architecture returned to normal on late follow-up examination on simple conservative management.
Alendronate is a potent bisphosphonate that has been studied for the treatment of osteoporosis and Paget's disease of the bone. To examine the pharmacokinetics of this drug, several groups of postmenopausal women were dosed intravenously in several studies. Twelve patients with metastatic bone disease were administered an intravenous dose of 10 mg of 14C-labeled alendronate (approximately 26 muCi), and plasma, feces, and urine samples were collected for 72 hours. Radioactivity was excreted almost exclusively in urine, and all of it was accounted for by alendronate. Overall recovery accounted for 47% of dose, with the remainder presumed to be retained in bone. Metabolism of alendronate was not observed. Renal clearance of alendronate was 71 mL/min. An additional 10 subjects were given repeated i.v. administrations of alendronate to demonstrate that previous exposure does not alter the pharmacokinetic behavior of the drug. Examination of the findings from these and other studies in which alendronate was administered intravenously revealed that disposition of single doses is linear in the range of 0.125 to 10 mg. With the possible exception of a somewhat greater skeletal retention of a systemically administered dose, the pharmacokinetics of i.v. alendronate were found to be similar to those of other bisphosphonates.
Although recent clinical studies have indicated that angiotensin II receptor blocker is as effective in treating heart failure as an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, it is unknown whether their effects are different. Dahl salt-sensitive rats were treated with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril, and an angiotensin II receptor blocker candesartan from 11 weeks old. We examined cardiac geometry and function by echocardiography, and histology and gene expression by high-density oligonucleotide arrays using Affymetrix U34 (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA, U.S.A.). Dahl salt-sensitive rats fed a high salt diet showed a marked increase in blood pressure and developed concentric hypertrophy at 11 weeks, followed by left ventricle dilation and congestive heart failure by 20 weeks after birth. Although both medications had only a mild antihypertensive effect, they strongly suppressed the development of cardiac hypertrophy, fibrosis and heart failure to the same extent. Gene expression pattern examined by Affymetrix GeneChip (Affymetrix) is quite different between the two drug groups, indicating that angiotensin II receptor blocker and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor prevent heart failure by different mechanisms.
Vincristine (VCR) peripheral neuropathy is a dose-limiting side effect. Several studies have shown that tropisetron, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, exerts anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties. Current study was designed to investigate a suppressive effect of tropisetron on VCR-induced neuropathy and whether this effect exerts through the 5-HT3 receptor or not. Neuropathy was induced in rats by administration of vincristine (0.5mg/kg, 3 intraperitoneal injections on alternate days) and in treatment group, tropisetron (3mg/kg); m-chlorophenylbiguanide (mCPBG), a selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist (15mg/kg); tropisetron (3mg/kg) plus mCPBG (15mg/kg); granisetron, another selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist (3mg/kg) were administered intraperitoneally 1h prior to vincristine injection. Hot plate, open field tests (total distance moved, mean velocity and percentage of total duration of the movement) and motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) were performed to evaluate the sensory and motor neuropathy. Further, plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and interleukin-2 (IL-2) and the level of TNF-α in sciatic nerve were assessed as well as histological examination. In only VCR-treated rats hot plate latencies were significantly increased, total distance moved, mean velocity, total duration of the movement and sciatic MNCV significantly decreased compared with control. In tropisetron and tropisetron plus mCPBG groups, one injection of tropisetron prior to each VCR injection robustly diminished TNF-α and IL-2 levels, and also prevented mixed sensory-motor neuropathy, as indicated by less mortality rate, better general conditions, behavioral and electrophysiological studies. Moreover, pathological evidence confirmed the results obtained from other findings. But granisetron and mCPBG had no significant effect on the mentioned parameters. In conclusion, these studies demonstrate that tropisetron significantly suppressed VCR-induced neuropathy and could be a neuroprotective agent for prevention of VCR-induced neuropathy via a receptor-independent pathway.
Available treatments for hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative chronic hepatitis B are associated with poor sustained responses. As a result, nucleoside and nucleotide analogues are typically continued indefinitely, a strategy associated with the risk of resistance and unknown long-term safety implications.
We compared the efficacy and safety of peginterferon alfa-2a (180 microg once weekly) plus placebo, peginterferon alfa-2a plus lamivudine (100 mg daily), and lamivudine alone in 177, 179, and 181 patients with HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B, respectively. Patients were treated for 48 weeks and followed for an additional 24 weeks.
After 24 weeks of follow-up, the percentage of patients with normalization of alanine aminotransferase levels or hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA levels below 20,000 copies per milliliter was significantly higher with peginterferon alfa-2a monotherapy (59 percent and 43 percent, respectively) and peginterferon alfa-2a plus lamivudine (60 percent and 44 percent) than with lamivudine monotherapy (44 percent, P=0.004 and P=0.003, respectively; and 29 percent, P=0.007 and P=0.003, respectively). Rates of sustained suppression of HBV DNA to below 400 copies per milliliter were 19 percent with peginterferon alfa-2a monotherapy, 20 percent with combination therapy, and 7 percent with lamivudine alone (P<0.001 for both comparisons with lamivudine alone). Loss of hepatitis B surface antigen occurred in 12 patients in the peginterferon groups, as compared with 0 patients in the group given lamivudine alone. Adverse events, including pyrexia, fatigue, myalgia, and headache, were less frequent with lamivudine monotherapy than with peginterferon alfa-2a monotherapy or combination therapy.
Patients with HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B had significantly higher rates of response, sustained for 24 weeks after the cessation of therapy, with peginterferon alfa-2a than with lamivudine. The addition of lamivudine to peginterferon alfa-2a did not improve post-therapy response rates.
