The goal was to study the pulmonary, biochemical, and morphologic effects of a persistent patent ductus arteriosus in a preterm baboon model of bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
Preterm baboons (treated prenatally with glucocorticoids) were delivered at 125 days of gestation (term: 185 days), given surfactant, and ventilated for 14 days. Twenty-four hours after birth, newborns were randomly assigned to receive either ibuprofen (to close the patent ductus arteriosus; n = 8) or no drug (control; n = 13).
After treatment was started, the ibuprofen group had significantly lower pulmonary/systemic flow ratio, higher systemic blood pressure, and lower left ventricular end diastolic diameter, compared with the control group. There were no differences in cardiac performance indices between the groups. Ventilation index and dynamic compliance were significantly improved with ibuprofen. The improved pulmonary mechanics in ibuprofen-treated newborns were not attributable to changes in levels of surfactant protein B, C, or D, saturated phosphatidylcholine, or surfactant inhibitory proteins. There were no differences in tracheal concentrations of cytokines commonly associated with the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The groups had similar messenger RNA expression of genes that regulate inflammation and remodeling in the lung. Lungs from ibuprofen-treated newborns were significantly drier (lower wet/dry ratio) and expressed 2.5 times more epithelial sodium channel protein than did control lungs. By 14 days after delivery, control newborns had morphologic features of arrested alveolar development (decreased alveolar surface area and complexity), compared with age-matched fetuses. In contrast, there was no evidence of alveolar arrest in the ibuprofen-treated newborns.
Ibuprofen-induced patent ductus arteriosus closure improved pulmonary mechanics, decreased total lung water, increased epithelial sodium channel expression, and decreased the detrimental effects of preterm birth on alveolarization.
Glucocorticoids (GCs) are widely used to prevent chronic lung disease in immature newborns. Emerging evidence indicates that GC exposure in early life may interfere with kidney function and is associated with hypertension in later life. In this study, we have investigated the effect of neonatal dexamethasone (DEX) administration on renal function in rats. Male rats were treated with DEX in the first 3 days after birth, controls received saline (SAL). Severe renal damage associated with premature death was found at 50 wks upon DEX treatment, while renal function and morphology were normal in controls. A subsequent time-course study was performed from 2 days to 32 wks. Compared with controls, neonatal DEX administration led to significant and persistent growth retardation. Progressive proteinuria and increased systolic blood pressure were found from 8 wks onwards in DEX-treated animals. Renal alpha-SMA gene expression was elevated from wk 24 onwards and morphological fibrosis was noted at 32 wks of age following DEX treatment. Markedly increased renal gene expression of TNF-alpha and MCP-1 in DEX -treated rats was observed at day 7, probably contributing to the permanent increase in interstitial macrophage numbers that started at 14 days. Permanently elevated renal TGF-beta gene expression was induced by DEX administration from 4 wks onwards. Our data indicate that neonatal DEX administration in rats leads to renal failure in later life, presumably due to an early inflammatory trigger that elicits a persistent pro-fibrotic process that eventually results in progressive renal deterioration.
Phenytoin (sodium salt), a developmental neurotoxicant, was administered orally by gavage (50-150 mg/kg) to pregnant rats on days 7-18 of gestation. Various developmental and behavioral indices were evaluated. Results indicated that phenytoin produced decreases in maternal and pup body weight gains, pup hindbrain, and F1 adult forebrain, whole brain, and cerebellar weights. Behavioral/developmental effects included performance deficits in a modified Morris water maze assay, in air righting and auditory startle responses, and increases in locomotor activity, accelerated eye opening, incisor eruption, negative geotaxis, and olfactory orientation. Female offspring appeared to be more severely affected when measuring incisor eruption, negative geotaxis, air righting, reactivity, and locomotor and maze activity. Males appeared to be more affected when measuring eye opening, olfactory orientation, and decreases in startle response. This study suggests that prenatal phenytoin exposure may result in developmental changes and behavioral deficits that may differ depending on the sex of the offspring.
The combined application of Tolazoline and Dopamine for the treatment of the persistent fetal circulation syndrome showed that Dopamine prevented the most common side effects of Tolazoline i.e. systemic hypotension and oliguria. The authors emphasize the importance of continuous monitoring of the systemic blood pressure in infants during this treatment.
In order to clarify the mechanism by which pGlu-Asn-Cys(Cys)-Pro-Arg-Gly-NH(2) (vasopressin-(4-9)), a major metabolite C-terminal fragment of [Arg(8)]-vasopressin (vasopressin-(1-9)), improves learning and memory, we used several different drugs such as an acetylcholine receptor antagonist, a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II inhibitor, vasopressin receptor antagonists and L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker to disrupt spatial memory in rats. Moreover, we examined the effect of vasopressin-(4-9) on acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus using microdialysis. Vasopressin-(4-9) (10 fg/brain, i.c.v.) improved the impairment of spatial memory in the eight-arm radial maze induced by scopolamine, pirenzepine and Ca(2+)/calmodulin -dependent protein kinase II inhibitor. Pirenzepine, a vasopressin V(1A) receptor antagonist, and L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, but not a vasopressin V(2) receptor antagonist, suppressed the effects of vasopressin-(4-9) on scopolamine-induced impairment of spatial memory. Moreover, vasopressin-(4-9) did not affect acetylcholine release in the ventral hippocampus of intact rats or of scopolamine-treated rats as assessed by microdialysis. These results suggest that vasopressin-(4-9) activates vasopressin V(1A) receptors on the postsynaptic membrane of cholinergic neurons, and induces a transient influx of intracellular Ca(2+) through L-type Ca(2+) channels to interact with muscarinic M(1) receptors. The activation of these processes by vasopressin-(4-9) is critically involved in the positive effect of vasopressin-(4-9) on scopolamine-induced impairment of spatial memory.
Anthracyclines are important in the treatment of numerous malignant diseases but the use is limited by a risk of heart failure (CHF). LVEF (left ventricular ejection fraction) measurements by radionuclide ventriculography with multiple gated acquisition (MUGA) is often used for cardiac monitoring. However, diastolic variables have been proposed as sensitive supplements. It was hypothesized that a change in diastolic filling variables measured by MUGA could identify individuals after epirubicin treatment (ET) in risk of developing heart failure. A retrospective analysis of registered raw data. Individuals completing high-dose ET for breast cancer were selected from a 2-year period. All had MUGA-scans performed prior to and after ET and were observed clinically for late development of CHF. Eleven of 34 individuals developed CHF. A significant LVEF-reduction was recorded after ET with only minor changes in diastolic parameters. Development of CHF was related to dose, entry-blood pressure and inversely to post-epirubicin LVEF. Risk of CHF was high if LVEF <50% (Hazard ratio 3.31). Epirubicin induces considerable decrease in LVEF and a high risk of CHF. The risk of CHF is significantly higher if LVEF is reduced after ET. Diastolic MUGA-variables seem to add little information to conventional measurements of LVEF.
We describe a case of severe osteomalacia and secondary myopathy due to anticonvulsant drugs--barbiturates and phenytoin. The clinical course of the patient, a 29-year-old epileptic woman subject to anorexia, demonstrates the importance of alimentary intake in the pathogenesis of the disease. Muscle biopsy performed before and after treatment showed the efficacy of therapy with 25-hydroxy cholecalciferol. However, in both biopsies tubular aggregates were found: this unusual ultrastructural finding probably indicates the direct action of the anticonvulsant drugs on the sarcoplasmic reticulum membranes. This is the second case of osteomalacic myopathy due to anticonvulsants confirmed by histologic and ultrastructural examinations; it is also the first report of tubular aggregates in this muscular disease.
In a previous study, we observed that N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced mammary lesions are promoted to overt mammary cancers by exogenous administration of estradiol (E) and progesterone (P). The purpose of the present study was to identify the early molecular events occurring during the hormonal promotion of mammary carcinogenesis and persistent activation of molecular pathways responsible for tumor growth. Seven-week-old female Copenhagen (COP) rats, which are resistant to MNU-induced mammary carcinogenesis, were intraperitoneally administered a single dose of MNU (50 mg/kg body weight). Six weeks after carcinogen administration, the rats were treated with E+P, killed at 15th week and 43rd week to obtain mammary lesions and tumor tissues and the molecular analysis were performed. Quantitative RT-PCR experiments showed increased mRNA expression of Igfr, Grb2, Sos1, and Shc1 in mammary lesions and tumors. Immunoblot data also showed increased protein levels of IGFR, GRB2 and SHC1 in mammary lesions and tumors, which is in correlation with their respective RT-PCR data. Activation of AKT and ERK1/2 were up regulated in E+P treated mammary lesions and tumors. Molecular analysis of mTOR pathway proteins revealed increased phosphorylation of p70S6K and 4EBP1 in the hormone treated tumors indicating the activation of mTOR signaling. E+P treatment reduced the protein expression of BAX and increased BCL2 expression along with down regulation of active caspase 3 and 8. Together, these data demonstrate that ovarian hormones promote the lesions to mammary tumors by enhancing IGFR and Akt/mTOR signaling along with inhibition of apoptotic stimuli.
Histological examination of brain after a single high (40 mg/kg) dose of D-methamphetamine (METH) was used to determine the relationships between blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption, hyperthermia, intense seizure activity, and extensive degeneration that this exposure often produces. In very hyperthermic mice (body temperatures > 40.5 degrees C) exhibiting status epilepticus, increase in mouse IgG immunoreactivity (IgGIR) in the medial and ventral amygdala was observed within 90 min after METH exposure. In a few instances, where body temperature was in the 40.0 degrees C range, such IgGIR was also seen in animals that had exhibited status epilepticus. Variable increases in IgGIR, which correlated with neurodegeneration, also occurred within 12 h in the hippocampus, indicating BBB disruption in this region also. Degenerating neurons, Fluoro-Jade C (FJ-C) labeled, were first detected 4 h after METH in the amygdala and hippocampus. Extensive neurodegeneration occurred in the amygdaloid and hippocampal pyramidal cell regions in animals with marked IgGIR increase in these regions by 12 and 24 h after METH. A very rapid activation of brain microglia and/or infiltration of macrophages in regions of notable IgGIR increase with intense neurodegeneration were seen within 24 h. The phagocytosis rate of neurons in the hippocampus was so rapid that FJ-C labeling was virtually nonexistent 3 days after METH. METH did not produce IgGIR increase or neurodegeneration in the limbic regions in the absence of hyperthermia and seizures. Thus, high doses of METH can cause damage to the BBB when hyperthermia occurs, resulting in rapid and extensive hippocampal and amygdalar damage. The BBB disruption in the medial amygdala occurs first, and may well be contributing to the induction and severity of seizures, while BBB disruption in the hippocampus is likely a result of the seizures and hyperthermia. This hippocampal damage should be sufficient to compromise learning and memory.
The authors report a case of a patient with schistosomiasis (S. mansoni) treated with one single dose (15 mg/kg/BWT) of oral oxamniquine who presented Mobitz type I second-degree AV block and sinus arrest with ventricular escape as a side-effect. They conclude that in spite of the safety and good activity of oxamniquine it may be a determinant of cardiotoxicity.
Administration of cocaine causes a locomotor stimulant effect and increases extracellular levels of serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine (DA) in the brains of rodents. Previous studies show that 5-HT1A receptor agonist and antagonist modify the cocaine-induced behavioral and neurochemical effects in the rats. However, the role of the 5-HT system on the effects of cocaine has not been studied in the prefrontal cortex. The present study examined in ddY-strain male mice the effects of the 5-HT1A receptor agonist osemozotan and the receptor antagonist WAY100635 on cocaine-induced locomotor stimulant effect and increases in extracellular levels of 5-HT and DA in the prefrontal cortex. The cocaine-induced locomotor stimulant effect was attenuated by osemozotan and enhanced by WAY100635. The cocaine-induced increase in extracellular levels of 5-HT was attenuated by osemozotan, and enhanced by WAY100635. The cocaine-induced increase in extracellular levels of DA was enhanced by osemozotan, but not affected by WAY100635. These results suggest that the prefrontal 5-HT system plays a pivotal role in the locomotor stimulant effect of cocaine in mice.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a molecularly diverse malignancy with a poor prognosis whose largest subgroup is characterized by somatic mutations in NPM1, which encodes nucleophosmin. These mutations, termed NPM1c, result in cytoplasmic dislocation of nucleophosmin and are associated with distinctive transcriptional signatures, yet their role in leukemogenesis remains obscure. Here we report that activation of a humanized Npm1c knock-in allele in mouse hemopoietic stem cells causes Hox gene overexpression, enhanced self renewal and expanded myelopoiesis. One third of mice developed delayed-onset AML, suggesting a requirement for cooperating mutations. We identified such mutations using a Sleeping Beauty transposon, which caused rapid-onset AML in 80% of mice with Npm1c, associated with mutually exclusive integrations in Csf2, Flt3 or Rasgrp1 in 55 of 70 leukemias. We also identified recurrent integrations in known and newly discovered leukemia genes including Nf1, Bach2, Dleu2 and Nup98. Our results provide new pathogenetic insights and identify possible therapeutic targets in NPM1c+ AML.
Recent evidence suggests that neuropeptide Y (NPY) may be involved in the neurobiological responses to drugs of abuse. This study was designed to assess the possible contribution of NPY to opiate withdrawal behaviors. Here we report that mice lacking the NPY gene show normal conditioned place aversion to opiate withdrawal, but show attenuated opiate withdrawal somatic signs.
Administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in primates induced a parkinsonian syndrome that could be reversed by levodopa treatment. Animals quickly developed an apparent restlessness ("akathisia") of the lower limbs after as little as five doses. After 4-10 weeks of regular levodopa therapy, animals developed "peak dose" choreiform movements in the lower limbs that spread, with time, to involve the upper limbs and orofacial musculature. With further treatment (5-21 months), animals developed "peak dose" dystonia that variably involved the limbs and orofacial musculature. These conditions represent novel models of levodopa-induced chorea and dystonia in humans. They depend on the same underlying neuropathology and treatment regimen as their human counterparts. It is to be anticipated that these models of dyskinesia will be useful in determining the mechanisms underlying chorea and dystonia in humans and are ideally suited for experimental evaluation of new treatment strategies.
Evidence is emerging to support the concept that the failing heart is "energy depleted" and that defects in energy metabolism are important determinants in the development and the progression of the disease. We have shown previously that depressed mitochondrial function in cardiac and skeletal muscles in chronic heart failure is linked to decreased expression of the gene encoding transcriptional proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha, the inducible regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis and its transcription cascade, leading to altered expression of mitochondrial proteins. However, oxidative capacity of the myocardium of patients treated for chronic heart failure and pathophysiological mechanisms of mitochondrial dysfunction are still largely unknown.
In patients with chronic heart failure treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition, cardiac oxidative capacity, measured in saponin-permeabilized fibers, was 25% lower, and proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha protein content was 34% lower compared with nonfailing controls. In a rat model of myocardial infarction, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition therapy was only partially able to protect cardiac mitochondrial function and transcription cascade. Expression of proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha and its transcription cascade were evaluated after a 48-hour exposure of cultured adult rat ventricular myocytes to endothelin-1, angiotensin II, aldosterone, phenylephrine, or isoprenaline. Endothelin-1 (-30%) and, to a lesser degree, angiotensin II (-20%) decreased proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha mRNA content, whereas other hormones had no effect (phenylephrine) or even increased it (aldosterone, isoprenaline).
Taken together, these results show that, despite angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition treatment, oxidative capacity is reduced in human and experimental heart failure and that endothelin-1 and angiotensin II could be involved in the downregulation of the mitochondrial transcription cascade.
Visceral leishmaniasis is a worldwide, disseminated intracellular protozoal infection that usually manifests by fever, hepatosplenomegaly, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia and hypergammaglobulinemia. Although anemia is a usual finding, Coombs' positive hemolytic anemia has rarely been reported in association with this disease. Pentavalent antimonials have been the preferred treatment for this disease for decades, but increasing numbers of treatment failure with antimony are being reported. Liposomal amphotericin B is a new drug which is highly efficacious in the treatment of visceral leishmaniasis and produces minimal toxicity. Here we report an infant with visceral leishmaniasis associated with Coombs' positive hemolytic anemia who was successfully treated with liposomal amphotericin B.
Side effects of cefoxitin and cefuroxime were noted in 2 different studies during intravenous treatment for at least 14 days. In the cefoxitin group of 33 patients thrombophlebitis was observed in 3 cases and diarrhoea in 4 cases. In the cefuroxime group of 31 patients 1 case of thrombophlebitis was noted and 5 cases of diarrhoea occurred. Most patients with diarrhoea had decreased renal function or received higher dosage of the antibodies than the other patients.
Suberonylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) is an orally administered histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI) that has shown significant antitumor activity in a variety of tumor cells. To evaluate if SAHA has an activity against liver cancer, and with an aim to identify the altered cellular factors upon SAHA treatment, human HepG2 cancer cell line was used as a model, and proteomic approach was utilized to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying SAHA's antitumor activity.
Cell growth inhibition was measured by MTT method, and apoptosis was detected by means of flow cytometry analysis and TUNEL assay. Protein expression profiles were analyzed by 2-DE coupled with MALDI-Q-TOF MS/MS analysis.
A total of 55 differentially expressed proteins were visualized by 2-DE and Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) staining. Of these, 34 proteins were identified via MS/MS analysis. Among the identified proteins, six proteins also displayed significant expression changes at earlier time points upon SAHA treatment, and such alterations were further confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Together, at both the mRNA and protein levels, SAHA suppressed the expression of reticulocalbin 1 precursor (RCN1), annexin A3 (ANXA3) and heat shock 27 kDa protein 1 (HSP27), while increasing the expression of aldose reductase (AR), triosephosphate isomerase 1 (TPI) and manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2).
SAHA remarkably inhibited proliferation of HepG2 cancer cells, and induced apoptosis in vitro. Using proteomics approaches, a variety of differentially expressed proteins were identified in HepG2 cancer cells before and after treatment with SAHA. This study will enable a better understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying SAHA-mediated antitumor effects at the protein level.
The present study investigated the pharmacological properties of a piperidine-based novel cocaine analog, namely, (+)-methyl 4beta-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-methylpiperidine-3alpha-carboxylic acid [(+)-CPCA]. Like cocaine, (+)-CPCA inhibited rat synaptosomal dopamine and norepinephrine uptake with high affinity, but was 33-fold less potent than cocaine in inhibiting serotonin uptake. Like cocaine, (+)-CPCA is a locomotor stimulant, although it was less potent and efficacious than cocaine. Importantly, pretreatment with (+)-CPCA dose dependently blocked the locomotor stimulant effects of cocaine in rats. (+)-CPCA completely substituted for cocaine in drug discrimination tests, although it was about 3 times less potent than cocaine. It was also self-administered by rats. Unexpectedly, (+)-CPCA did not enhance cocaine-induced convulsions in mice. As expected from rodent studies, rhesus monkeys readily self-administered (+)-CPCA. However, compared with cocaine, (+)-CPCA showed limited reinforcing properties in rats as assessed by both fixed and progressive ratio intravenous drug self-administration tests. These results collectively suggest that (+)-CPCA has an atypical pharmacological profile having both cocaine-like "agonist" and some cocaine "antagonist" properties. These properties of (+)-CPCA suggest that it may have utility in the treatment of cocaine craving and dependence.
It has been well demonstrated that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) can retard the progression of renal failure and kidney sclerosis in patients and animal models with glomerular diseases. The aim of this study was to observe the influences of ACEI on intrarenal Ang II and TGFbeta1 local formation and their relation to renal protective effects. Experimental glomerulosclerosis with nephrotic syndrome was induced in unilateral nephrectomized rats with repeated injections of adriamycin. Rats were randomly divided into three groups: 1) a sham-operated control group (n=8); 2) an NS group treated with ACEI (benazepril 4 mg/kg/d) (n=10), and 3) an NS group not treated (n=10). After 8 wk, serum, urine and renal tissue were collected for study. ACE activity and Ang II concentration in renal tissue were measured by colorimetry and radioimmunoassay, respectively. Immunohistochemistry staining was employed for transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGFbeta1) and extracellular matrix (ECM) examination. TGFbeta1 mRNA was assessed by in situ hybridization. Compared with those of non-treated nephropathy rats, ACE activity (13.39+/-5.02 vs. 49.13+/-12.92 U/ml, p< 0.01) and Ang II (402.61+/-80.22 vs. 751.63+/-137.45 pg/mg/pr p < 0.01) in renal tissue were significantly inhibited in the rats treated with ACEI. At the same time, proteinuria was significantly reduced (155.06+/-103.56 vs. 421.11+/-148.45 mg/24 h, p < 0.01) and renal function improved (Scr 76.3+/-33.1 vs. 107.1+/-71.0, p < 0.05), concomitant with a reduction in the glomerular sclerosis index (30.6+/-19.5 vs. 120.3+/-61.9, p < 0.01) and a reduction in ECM accumulation such as Col IV, III, LN and FN (29.2+/-9.8 vs. 76.8+/-12.4; 29.5+/-12.4 vs. 85.9+/-11.5; 26.0+/-5.1 vs. 69.6+/-1.73; 32.4+/-12.4 vs. 70.5+/-13.5; p< 0.01 in all cases). In the ACEI treated group, these histologic benefits coincided with a reduced expression of TGFbeta1 in both tubular cells and sclerosed glomeruli in protein as well as mRNA level. These findings provide further evidence that ACEI (benazepril) can prevent the progression of renal damage in both the function and morphologic changes which associated with a down-regulation of intrarenal Ang II level through the relative inhibition of renal ACE activity. The blocking of the intrarenal renin angiotensin system (RAS) might contribute to the inhibition of TGFbeta1 local formation and the TGFbeta1-mediated ECM accumulation that are related to the renal protective effects of ACEI.
The objective of this work was to study the gastric emptying (GE) of liquids in fasted and sucrose-fed rats with toxic hepatitis induced by acetaminophen. The GE of three test meals (saline, glucose and mayonnaise) was evaluated in Wistar rats. For each meal, the animals were divided into two groups (N = 24 each). Group I was fed a sucrose diet throughout the experiment (66 h) while group II was fasted. Forty-two hours after the start of the experiment, each group was divided into two subgroups (N = 12 each). Subgroup A received a placebo and subgroup B was given acetaminophen (1 g/kg). Twenty-four hours later, the GE of the three test meals was assessed and blood samples were collected to measure the serum levels of alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and acetaminophen. In group IB, the mean AST and ALT values were 515 and 263 IU/l, respectively, while for group IIB they were 4014 and 2472 IU/l, respectively. The mean serum acetaminophen levels were higher in group IIB (120 micrograms/ml) than in group IB (87 micrograms/ml). The gastric retention values were significantly higher in group IIB than in group IIA for all three test meals: saline, 51 vs 35%; glucose, 52 vs 38% and mayonnaise, 51 vs 29% (median values). The correlation between gastric retention and AST levels was significant (P < 0.05) for group IIB for the three test meals: r = 0.73, 0.67 and 0.68 for saline, glucose and mayonnaise, respectively. We conclude that GE is altered in rats with hepatic lesions induced by acetaminophen, and that these alterations may be related to the liver cell necrosis caused by the drug.
The neural mechanisms that mediate dystonia were investigated in a novel experimental primate model of dopamine agonist-induced dystonia. This condition was produced by long-term (15 months) dopamine agonist therapy of a macaque monkey that had been rendered hemiparkinsonian by unilateral infusion of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine into the right common carotid artery. The 2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) metabolic mapping technique was applied to the animal during the expression of active unilateral dystonia, and regional brain uptake of 2-DG was assessed autoradiographically. The results demonstrate that dystonia is associated with marked increases in 2-DG uptake in the constituent nuclei of the basal ganglia (caudate nucleus, putamen, medial and lateral segments of the globus pallidus) and in the subthalamic nucleus, but decreased uptake in the structures that receive output of the basal ganglia (ventral anterior/ventral lateral thalamic complex and lateral habenula). Based on these findings it is suggested that dystonia is characterized by increased activity in the putaminopallidal and pallidosubthalamic pathways, and decreased activity in the subthalamopallidal and pallidothalamic pathways.
A 79-year-old woman with three vessel disease and mitral as well as tricuspid regurgitation underwent operation twice. Preoperatively she had atrial fibrillation and heart failure. The first operation was coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), and the second was mediastinal dissection for mediastinitis one month after the CABG. In both operations she developed rapid atrial fibrillation and ventricular fibrillation, showing her cardiac irritablility. Both operations were performed under cardiopulmonary bypass and support. In the first operation digoxin and verapamil partly reduced heart rate of rapid atrial fibrillation from 140-170 to 110-140 beats x min-1, which made us use another drug, a short acting selective beta 1 blocker landiolol in the second operation. Landiolol successfully reduced the heart rate of rapid atrial fibrillation from 140-160 to 80-90 beats x min-1. This case demonstrates that landiolol can be safely used in a patient with heart failure due to rapid atrial fibrillation resistant to digoxin and verapamil.
In a double-blind cross-over study, 10 patients with stable angina pectoris owing to coronary heart disease were investigated in supine position during rest and bicycle exercise for the effect of 0.4 mg of intravenous (i.v.) isradipine in comparison to 2 mg i.v. nifedipine on cardiac hemodynamics and myocardial ischemia. At rest, both drugs significantly decreased total peripheral resistance (TPR) and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), whereas heart rate (HR) increased. The pressures and resistance of the pulmonary circulation remained uninfluenced at rest. During symptom limited-exercise, both medications reduced TPR despite an unchanged MAP. Mean pulmonary artery pressure decreased significantly after both medications, whereas right atrial pressure (RAP), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) decreased significantly only after nifedipine. The improvement of mean ischemic ST-segment depression averaged 44 +/- 6% (mean +/- SEM, p less than or equal to 0.01) after nifedipine and 45 +/- 7% (p less than or equal to 0.01) after isradipine. The time until angina appeared increased after isradipine by 89 +/- 28% (p less than or equal to 0.05) and after nifedipine by 105 +/- 42% (p less than or equal to 0.01). Significant differences between the two medications appeared only for cardiac output (CO) at rest (p less than or equal to 0.05), during which state the increase after isradipine was higher than after nifedipine, and for exercise HR (p less than or equal to 0.01), during which state only nifedipine induced a significant increase in frequency. We conclude that at the chosen dosages the hemodynamic and antiischemic effects of isradipine are similar to the effects that occur after nifedipine.
Moxalactam, a third-generation cephalosporin, has been demonstrated to have an ultrawide spectrum of antibacterial activity. One important gap in this impressive spectrum is the enterococcus. Superinfections and colonization with enterococci have been reported following moxalactam therapy. Sites involved have included the urinary tract, wounds, middle ear, and blood stream. To our knowledge, we report the first case of enterococcal liver abscess following moxalactam therapy. The abscess was localized by ultrasound examination and microbiologic diagnosis made by aspiration using a skinny needle. Without surgical drainage or therapeutic aspiration, institution of appropriate antibiotic therapy in optimum dosage resulted in complete resolution. The literature on enterococcal superinfections in association with moxalactam therapy and nonsurgical management of liver abscesses is reviewed.
Pathological hypertrophy is commonly induced by activation of protein kinases phosphorylating class II histone deacetylases (HDACs) and desuppression of transcription factors, such as nuclear factor of activated T cell (NFAT). We hypothesized that nifedipine, an L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, inhibits Ca(2+) calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaMKII) and NFAT, thereby inhibiting pathological hypertrophy. Mice were subjected to sham operation or transverse aortic constriction (TAC) for 2 weeks with or without nifedipine (10 mg/kg/day). Nifedipine did not significantly alter blood pressure or the pressure gradient across the TAC. Nifedipine significantly suppressed TAC-induced increases in left ventricular (LV) weight/body weight (BW; 5.09 +/- 0.80 vs. 4.16 +/- 0.29 mg/g, TAC without and with nifedipine, n = 6,6, p < 0.05), myocyte cross-sectional area (1,681 +/- 285 vs. 1,434 +/- 197 arbitrary units, p < 0.05), and expression of fetal-type genes, including atrial natriuretic factor (35. 9 +/- 6.4 vs. 8.6 +/- 3.3 arbitrary units, p < 0.05). TAC-induced increases in lung weight/BW (7.7 +/- 0.9 vs. 5.5 +/- 0.5 mg/g, p < 0.05) and decreases in LV ejection fraction (65.5 +/- 3.1% vs. 75.7 +/- 3.3%, p < 0.05) were attenuated by nifedipine. Nifedipine caused significant inhibition of TAC-induced activation of NFAT-mediated transcription, which was accompanied by suppression of Thr 286 phosphorylation in CaMKII. Nifedipine inhibited activation of CaMKII and NFAT by phenylephrine, accompanied by suppression of Ser 632 phosphorylation and nuclear exit of HDAC4 in cardiac myocytes. These results suggest that a subpressor dose of nifedipine inhibits pathological hypertrophy in the heart by inhibiting activation of CaMKII and NFAT, a signaling mechanism commonly activated in pathological hypertrophy.
Nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA, meso-1) possesses four phenolic hydroxyl groups. Treatment of NDGA with 0.50-4.1 equiv of dimethyl sulfate and 3.0-6.0 equiv of potassium carbonate in acetone at 56 degrees C gave nine methylated products. Eight of those mono-, di-, tri-, and tetra-O-methylated NDGAs were isolated in pure form, and their structures were identified unambiguously by spectroscopic methods. A preparative amount of tetramethyl NDGA M4N (10) was obtained in 99% yield from NDGA by use of 4.1 equiv of dimethyl sulfate for the methylation. Among the eight different methylated NDGAs (2-6 and 8-10), tetra-O-methyl-NDGA (10) showed the strongest anti-HIV activity (IC50 11 microM). Chemically synthesized 3'-O-methyl-NDGA ((+/-)-2) showed identical anti-HIV activity (IC50 25 microM) to the lignan isolated from Creosote Bush. Lignans with methylated catecholic hydroxyl groups can be produced in large quantities with low cost. At drug concentrations below 30 microM tetramethyl NDGA (10) was a stronger anti-HIV agent than mono- and dimethylated NDGAs.
