Gemcitabine has mild renal toxicity, but cases of gemcitabine-associated hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) have been reported.
A case is presented of a 45-year-old woman on prolonged gemcitabine treatment for ovarian cancer who developed HUS and recovered after drug discontinuation. A mini-review of the literature based on a MEDLINE search follows.
Including our own patient, a total of 26 cases of gemcitabine-associated HUS were identified. Median patient age was 52 years. Treatment was for various tumors at advanced stages, and in some patients, other anticancer drugs previously had been administered. Mean time between initiation of gemcitabine therapy and onset of HUS was 7.4 +/- 3.5 months, or 21.9 +/- 10.9 doses of gemcitabine. The calculated median cumulative dose of gemcitabine was 20,000 mg/m(2) (range, 2,450 to 48,000 mg/m(2), or a total of 70,000 mg). The onset of disease was noted up to 2 months after the last gemcitabine infusion. Diagnosis of HUS was confirmed histologically in 13 patients and based on clinical findings in the other 15. Treatment included drug discontinuation, steroids, fresh frozen plasma, hemodialysis, absorption chromatography, plasmapheresis, and various combinations thereof. Of 23 patients with reported outcome, 11 died within a few weeks. In two cases, death was believed to be a direct consequence of HUS. Reexposure to the drug was reported in three patients but was uncomplicated in only one.
There are only a few confirmed cases of gemcitabine-associated HUS despite the widespread use of the drug. This potentially fatal complication is difficult to treat and should be widely known.
Arsenic trioxide (ATO) is a known environmental toxicant and a potent chemotherapeutic agent. Significant correlation has been reported between consumption of arsenic-contaminated water and occurrence of liver cancer; moreover, ATO-treated leukemia patients also suffers from liver toxicity. Hence, modulation of ATO action may help to prevent populations suffering from arsenic toxicity as well as help reduce the drug-related side effects. Dithiothreitol (DTT) is a well-known dithiol agent reported to modulate the action of ATO. Controversial reports exist regarding the effect of DTT on ATO-induced apoptosis in leukemia cells. To the best of our knowledge, no report illustrates the modulatory effect of DTT on ATO-induced liver toxicity, the prime target for arsenic. Mitochondria serve as the doorway to apoptosis and have been implicated in ATO-induced cell death. Hence, we attempted to study the modulatory effect of DTT on ATO-induced dysfunction of mammalian liver mitochondria and human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line (Hep3B). We, for the first time, report that ATO produces complex I-mediated electron transfer inhibition, reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, respiration inhibition, and ATO-induced ROS-mediated mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) opening. DTT at low concentration (100 muM and less) prevents the effect of ATO-induced complex I-malfunctions. DTT protects mitochondria from ATO-mediated opening of MPT and membrane potential depolarization. DTT also prevented ATO-induced Hep3B cell death. Thus, at low concentrations DTT abrogates the effect of ATO on rat liver mitochondria and Hep3B cell line. Therefore, the present result suggests, that use of low concentration of dithiols as food supplement may prevent arsenic toxicity in affected population.
Trichloroethylene (TCE) is widely used as a cleaning and decreasing agent and has been shown to cause liver tumours in rodents and a small incidence of renal tubule tumours in male rats. The basis for the renal tubule injury is believed to be related to metabolism of TCE via glutathione conjugation to yield the cysteine conjugate that can be activated by the enzyme cysteine conjugate β-lyase in the kidney. More recently TCE and its major metabolite trichloroethanol (TCE-OH) have been shown to cause formic aciduria which can cause renal injury after chronic exposure in rats. In this study we have compared the renal toxicity of TCE and TCE-OH in rats to try and ascertain whether the glutathione pathway or formic aciduria can account for the toxicity. Male rats were given TCE (500mg/kg/day) or TCE-OH at (100mg/kg/day) for 12 weeks and the extent of renal injury measured at several time points using biomarkers of nephrotoxicity and prior to termination assessing renal tubule cell proliferation. The extent of formic aciduria was also determined at several time points, while renal pathology and plasma urea and creatinine were determined at the end of the study. TCE produced a very mild increase in biomarkers of renal injury, total protein, and glucose over the first two weeks of exposure and increased Kim-1 and NAG in urine after 1 and 5 weeks exposure, while TCE-OH did not produce a consistent increase in these biomarkers in urine. However, both chemicals produced a marked and sustained increase in the excretion of formic acid in urine to a very similar extent. The activity of methionine synthase in the liver of TCE and TCE-OH treated rats was inhibited by about 50% indicative of a block in folate synthesis. Both renal pathology and renal tubule cell proliferation were reduced after TCE and TCE-OH treatment compared to controls. Our findings do not clearly identify the pathway which is responsible for the renal toxicity of TCE but do provide some support for metabolism via glutathione conjugation.
The natural product caffeic acid is a specific inhibitor of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX); it also possesses antioxidant and antiinflammatory properties. The current study was designed to determine whether the neuroprotective properties of caffeic acid are due to inhibition of 5-LOX. Cerebral damage was induced in mice by intracerebroventricular microinjection of aluminum (5.0 microg aluminum in 2.0 microL, once a day, for 5 days). Caffeic acid was administered intragastrically at 30 min prior to aluminum and repeated daily for an additional 10 days. The brain injury was determined by observation of behavioral changes in mice, as well as by measuring biochemical and pathological changes in the cerebral tissue. The levels of 5-LOX proteins and 5-LOX mRNA expression were measured in brain tissue. Aluminum impaired learning and memory in mice produced neuronal death in hippocampi, elevated brain malondialdehyde levels, increased protein expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP), amyloid beta, and 5-LOX. It also increased 5-LOX mRNA expression and decreased choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) protein expression in the brain tissue of mice. Caffeic acid prevented brain damage as well as behavioral and biochemical changes caused by aluminum overload. The results of this study suggest that overexpression of 5-LOX accompanies the cerebral injury induced by aluminum overload in mice, and that selective inhibitors of 5-LOX may have potential value in the treatment of aluminum neurotoxicity and conceivably of diseases associated with neuronal injury.
Valproate (VPA) is one of the most frequently used antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). Concern has recently been raised regarding VPA medication during pregnancy and teratogenic effects in the offspring. Both neural tube defects (5, 18, 34) and a constellation of signs termed the fetal valproate syndrome (1, 12) have been reported. Benzodiazepines (BZDs) are also widely used and sometimes as effective adjunctives in AED therapy. Both VPA and BZD have close connections to GABA transmission. Recently, clinical and epidemiological human studies (26, 27, 37, 39), supported by animal studies (17, 24, 40), have indicated that BZDs may act as human teratogens. We report on 7 children with congenital malformations, dysmorphism and abnormal neurological signs from birth. The mothers had well controlled primary generalized absence epilepsy without major seizures during pregnancy. Five children had been exposed to VPA monotherapy and two children to VPA and BZD combined during the first trimester. Those two infants had myelomeningoceles and the most pronounced dysmorphism in the group. We propose that these observations indicate a possible amplifying action of BZDs on VPA teratogenicity. Unrecognized BZD use during pregnancies exposed to VPA may be of importance when estimating the teratogenic risks of VPA therapy.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare and potentially fatal complication precipitated by the use of antipsychotic medications, most notably haloperidol. Criteria previously described include: exposure to the neuroleptic class of medications; hyperthermia; muscle rigidity; a cluster of laboratory and physical findings that may include mental status changes, autonomic instability, creatine phosphokinase elevation and leukocytosis, and exclusion of other causes for the patient's condition. A prodrome of mental status changes, autonomic instability, tremors, diaphoresis, excess salivation, and extrapyramidal signs may precede NMS. Prior reports of NMS linked to olanzapine have been in patients who had been previously treated with other neuroleptic agents or in patients who had previous episodes of NMS precipitated by other neuroleptics. Several cases included patients treated with olanzapine in addition to another neuroleptic. This report describes a case of NMS associated with olanzapine in a patient who had not previously been exposed to the neuroleptic drug class. At the time this patient presented, there were no reports in the literature of NMS associated with olanzapine alone. Treatment of NMS includes: immediate withdrawal of all neuroleptics; supportive care; fever control; management of autonomic instability (tachycardia, tachypnea, blood pressure fluctuations); and pharmacologic management with dantrolene and bromocriptine.
Beryllium (Be) metal and several of its analogues have been shown to be carcinogenic in rats. In addition, workers employed at Be processing plants have been shown to have a slight excess of lung cancer. In this study, a single inhalation exposure to Be metal produced a 64% incidence of lung tumors in the F344/N rat. The most frequent tumor type observed was adenocarcinoma. These Be metal-induced lung carcinomas were examined for genetic alterations in the K-ras, p53, and c-raf-1 genes. DNA isolated from lung neoplasms was analyzed by PCR amplification and direct DNA sequence analysis, immunohistochemical analysis and Southern blot analysis. No K-ras codon 12, 13 or 61 mutations were detected in 24 lung tumors by direct sequencing. Using a more sensitive K-ras codon 12 mutation selection assay, K-ras codon 12 GGT-GTT transversions were detected in two of 12 adenocarcinomas. These results suggest that activation of the K-ras protooncogene is both a rare and late event, possibly stemming from genomic instability during the progression of some Be-induced rat adenocarcinomas of the lung. No mutant p53 nuclear immunoreactivity was observed in any Be-induced tumor. Because immunohistochemical analysis of the p53 protein only detects missense mutations, exons 5-8 of this gene were also analyzed by direct DNA sequencing. In order to perform the p53 sequence analysis, it was necessary to first characterize and sequence the p53 intron sequences flanking exons 5-8 and their splice sites. Details of this expanded intron DNA sequence information are given here. No mutations were detected within exons 5-8 of the p53 gene. No rearrangement of the c-raf-1 protooncogene was detected by Southern blot analysis. These results indicate that the mechanisms underlying the development of Be-induced lung cancer in rats do not involve gene dysfunctions commonly associated with human non-small-cell lung cancer.
MBOCA (4,4' methylenebis (2-chloroaniline) is a structural analogue of benzidine and is carcinogenic in mice, rats, and dogs. MBOCA has not yet been demonstrated to be carcinogenic in humans and is not regulated as an occupational carcinogen in the United States. We report two noninvasive papillary tumors of the bladder identified in a screening study of 540 workers exposed to MBOCA during its production at a Michigan chemical plant from 1968 to 1979. Both tumors occurred in men under 30 years old who had never smoked. Although the prevalence of grade 1-2 tumors among asymptomatic males in this age group is unknown, the incidence of clinically apparent tumors on U.S. males aged 25-29 is only 1 per 100,000 per year. The detection of the two tumors in young, nonsmoking males is consistent with the hypothesis that MBOCA induces bladder neoplasms in humans.
The authors describe two series of patients: 12 treated simultaneously with fluoxetine and a monoamine oxidase inhibitor and 6 patients started on treatment with an MAOI 10 days or more after stopping fluoxetine treatment. All patients had extremely refractory depression and were treated in open fashion before general knowledge was obtained of the side effects that may accompany the fluoxetine-MAOI combination. During the fluoxetine-MAOI trial, most patients continued to receive other psychotropic combinations that had been partially helpful. The use of fluoxetine and an MAOI, either together or in close succession, was accompanied by a very high incidence of adverse effects, especially the "serotonergic syndrome." This syndrome was characterized by mental status changes, such as hypomania and confusion, and physical symptoms, such as myoclonus, hypertension, tremor, and diarrhea. Because of the high incidence of side effects and the lack of definite efficacy, the concurrent use of fluoxetine and MAOIs should generally be avoided. The long half-lives of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine, as well as the prolonged metabolic effects of MAOIs, may also dispose patients to an interaction if one of the drugs is started soon after stopping the other.
Omeprazole (OPZ), a proton pump inhibitor, is a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A1/2 inducer. Some CYP1A inducers are known to have liver tumor promoting effects in rats and the ability to enhance oxidative stress. In this study, we performed a two-stage liver carcinogenesis bioassay in rats to examine the tumor promoting effect of OPZ (Experiment 1) and to clarify a possible mechanism of action (Experiment 2). In Experiment 1, male F344 rats were subjected to a two-third partial hepatectomy, and treated with 0, 138 or 276 mg/kg OPZ by oral gavage once a day for six weeks after an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Liver weights significantly increased in the DEN+OPZ groups, and the number and area of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci significantly increased in the DEN+276 mg/kg OPZ group. In Experiment 2, the same experiment as Experiment 1 was performed, but the dosage of OPZ was 0 or 276 mg/kg. The number and area of GST-P positive foci as well as liver weights significantly increased in the DEN+276 mg/kg OPZ group. The number of proliferative cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cells also significantly increased in the same group. Real-time RT-PCR showed that the expression of AhR battery genes including Cyp1a1, Cyp1a2, Ugt1a6 and Nqo1, and Nrf2 battery genes including Gpx2, Yc2, Akr7a3, Aldh1a1 Me1 and Ggt1 were significantly upregulated in this group. However, the production of microsomal reactive oxygen species (ROS) and formation of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) decreased, and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) content remained unchanged in this group. These results indicate that OPZ, CYP1A inducer, is a liver tumor promoter in rats, but oxidative stress is not involved in the liver tumor promoting effect of OPZ.
Approximately equianalgesic oral doses of codeine, an oxycodone compound resembling Percodan, and pentazocine were compared for adverse effects in a double-blind, randomized study of four doses of each drug given over two days to 247 postsurgical patients with pain. Placebo and parenteral morphine were also treated as negative and positive controls, respectively. Approximately 50 patients each received one of the five drugs. Codeine, pentazocine, and morphine had the same incidence of adverse effects (22 to 28 per cent). One capsule of oxycodone compound was the analgesic equivalent of 12.5 mg morphine with an adverse effect incidence of 4 per cent (placebo 8 per cent). Smoking made no difference in analgesic effect or adverse effects. Analgesics given in the evening intervening between the two days may have affected the analgesic performance of placebo.
Cochineal extracts (CE) is a coccid-derived natural food colorant containing carminic acid (CA) as an active ingredient that potentiates inhibition of tissue proteolysis mediated by activation of plasma hyaluronan-binding protein (PHBP). In our previous study, dietary administered CE (CA: 28.5% in CE) has shown to promote the macroscopic development of capsular invasive carcinomas (CICs) associated with up-regulation of angiogenesis-related genes in an intracapsular invasion model of experimental thyroid cancers using rats. However, the promoting effect of CE could not be confirmed histopathologically. The purpose of the present study was to confirm the promoting effect of CE through direct injections to animals on the development of CICs using this cancer invasion model. One week after initiation with N-bis(hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine, male F344/NSlc rats were administered CA-enriched CE (CA: 52.6% in CE) by intraperitoneal injections every other day (10 mg/kg body weight) during the promotion with 0.15% sulfadimethoxine in the drinking water for 8 weeks. The multiplicities of macroscopical CICs and the mean area of early capsular invasive foci estimated by Tenascin (TN)-C-immunoreactivity in the thyroid significantly increased with CE-treatment, while the number of TN-C-positive foci did not change with CE. Transcript level of Phbp and downstream genes unchanged; however, transcript level of angiogenesis-related genes, i.e, Vegfb and its transcription factor gene, Hif1a, those being downstream of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)/Akt signaling, up-regulated in the thyroid tissue with CE-administration. These results suggest that CE potentiates promotion activity by facilitating angiogenesis through activation of PTEN/Akt signaling without accompanying modification of PHBP-related proteolysis.
To examine the incidence and severity of myocardial ischaemia provoked in the course of perfusion scintigraphy by coronary vasodilators using endocardial recordings of steady state monophasic action potentials as an independent marker of early localised myocardial ischaemia.
31 men undergoing routine cardiac catheterisation for investigation of chest pain were studied.
A tertiary cardiac referral centre.
Single site monophasic action potentials were recorded from the left or right ventricle or both (50 recording sites) during intravenous infusion of dipyridamole (0.015 mg/kg/min) for four minutes. Heart rate was held constant with atrial pacing at 20% above the patient's resting rate. Technetium-99m hexakis-2-methoxy-2-methylpropyl-isonitrile (MIBI) was administered four minutes after dipyridamole, and single photon emission tomographic imaging was performed an hour later. Rest images were obtained the next day (two day, two dose protocol). Recordings were divided into three groups based on the scintigraphic perfusion characteristics and coronary anatomical data for the action potential recording site: group 1--recordings from areas with a normal perfusion pattern (n = 30), group 2--recordings from areas with a perfusion defect and subtended by significantly narrowed coronary arteries without obvious angiographic collateral supply (n = 10), and group 3--recordings from areas with a perfusion defect and subtended by occluded arteries with angiographically evident collaterals from adjacent vessels (n = 10).
There were changes in the duration of the monophasic action potential indicative of ischaemia--that is, shortening of duration of steady state action potential--in 18 of the 20 recordings from areas of abnormal perfusion. Peak changes were apparent eight minutes from the start of the dipyridamole infusion. Mean (SEM) values for duration of the action potential between control and peak effect at eight minutes were 276.5 (5.3) ms v 276.6 (5.4) for group 1 (NS), 289.6 (4.7) ms v 278.4 (4.9) ms for group 2 (p less than 0.001), and 269.6 (5.7) ms v 242.0 (4.4) for group 3 (p less than 0.0001). These changes were significantly different between the three groups (p less than 0.01). ST segment changes on the surface electrocardiogram were seen in only eight patients, all with areas of viable myocardium supplied by collateral vessels.
These data provide strong evidence for the presence of myocardial ischaemia in regions of reversible perfusion defects induced by dipyridamole. This study also shows that such ischaemia is more intense and more likely to be seen when myocardial viability is dependent on collateral circulation.
To evaluate the occurrence of megaloblastic anemia induced by the infusion of therapeutic or prophylactic methotrexate in patients with acute leukemia.
Data on 3 patients with acute leukemia receiving intrathecal methotrexate were prospectively analyzed.
Large tertiary-care center.
All 3 patients with acute leukemia developed megaloblastic anemia confirmed by examination of the bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. Two of the 3 patients had low folic acid levels, while all patients had normal serum B(12) levels. All patients responded favorably to a therapeutic trial of folic acid. The median time for recovery of the hematologic parameters in these patients was 7 days.
Intrathecally administered methotrexate may result in megaloblastic changes in the bone marrow of leukemic patients. The morphologic clues suggestive of folate deficiency in patients with acute leukemia may be masked by coexisting factors, such as the effects of cytotoxic treatment, prior transfusions, or persistent changes from the leukemic clone itself. Caution should be exercised to avoid attributing these changes to the neoplastic process, since the prognosis and treatment for the conditions involved are totally different. Repeat examination of the bone marrow, obtaining folic acid and vitamin B(12) levels, and a therapeutic trial of folic acid may help identify and reverse these changes.
Temporary neurologic abnormalities were detected in 9 of 60 patients undergoing treatment with high-dose methotrexate and citrovorum factor rescue (MTX-CF) for osteosarcoma. The incidence of abnormalities and abnormalities themselves were more severe than previously reported. This was attributed to an increased dose and more frequent administration of MTX-CF. In view of the transient nature of the abnormalities, a biochemical cause is implicated, and the mechanisms by which it may occur are discussed.
Thirty previously untreated patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma were randomized as part of two multicenter Phase III trials. Twenty-two patients were randomized to receive either 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/interferon alfa-2A (IFN-alpha) or 5-FU/leucovorin (11 patients in each arm). Eight patients were randomized to receive 5-FU/IFN-alpha or 5-FU alone (4 patients in each arm).
Twenty-three patients (13 patients treated with 5-FU/IFN-alpha and 10 patients treated with 5-FU/leucovorin or 5-FU alone) were evaluated regularly for response by computed tomography (CT) scans of the abdomen when treatment began and then every 6-8 weeks.
Incidentally, four patients developed hepatic steatosis during treatment with IFN-alpha and 5-FU. The diagnosis was based on a decreased CT value of the liver parenchyma by repeated CT scans of the abdomen during treatment, and this diagnosis was verified histologically by liver biopsy. There was no relationship to cumulative IFN-alpha or 5-FU dose. Based on posttreatment CT scans, the liver parenchyma changes were reversible after therapy was stopped, and there were no significant clinical sequelae. No patients treated with 5-FU/leucovorin or 5-FU alone experienced a decreased CT value of the liver parenchyma.
Hepatic steatosis was been observed in approximately 30% of patients treated with IFN-alpha and 5-FU. The hepatic changes were fully reversible after the treatment was stopped. Recognition of this condition is important to prevent a patient from being labeled as having progressive hepatic metastases.
We report here a new family with thyroid hormone resistance (RTH), with phenotypic variability among subjects. Particular emphasis is given to the clinical and hormonal outcome after 2 years of triiodothyroacetic acid (TRIAC) treatment in an affected child with peripheral thyrotoxic features (pituitary RTH [PRTH]). The genetic defect was a substitution in position 1642 (C to A) within the exon 10 of thyroid hormone receptor beta1 (TRbeta1) gene, resulting in the codon change P453T. The mutant receptor had a significantly reduced triiodothyronine (T3) binding affinity. Within this family, the child and the mother suffered from hyperthyroidism and were clinically classified as PRTH, while the maternal grandmother was clinically euthyroid, indicating a generalized form of the disease (GRTH). Rapid normalization of heart rate was initially obtained by the association of the cardioselective beta-blocker atenolol with TRIAC. Nevertheless, long-term TRIAC therapy, through its lowering action of serum thyrotropin (TSH) and thyroid hormone levels, maintained a normal heart rate after atenolol discontinuation and normalized the neurological disturbances and the clinical signs in the child, without any apparent side effect. In fact, growth velocity remained unchanged and no alteration of several parameters of thyroid hormone action at the tissue level was observed, whereas soluble interleukin-2 receptor levels improved significantly, confirming the safety and efficacy of long-term TRIAC therapy for PRTH also during childhood. We thus recommend testing the efficacy of TRIAC therapy in all RTH patients presenting with clinical features of hyperthyroidism.
An investigation was undertaken to determine the dosage of etomidate required to maintain sleep in adults undergoing surgery under regional local anesthesia. Premedication of diazepam 10 mg and atropine 0.5 mg was given, and sleep was induced and maintained by intermittent intravenous injections of etomidate 0.1/mg/kg, given whenever the patient would open his eyes on request. A mean overall dose of etomidate 17.4 microgram/kg/min. was required to maintain sleep, but great individual variation occurred, with older patients requiring less drug. The investigation was discontinued after 18 patients because of the frequency and intensity of side-effects, particularly pain and myoclonia, which caused the technique to be abandoned in two cases. It is considered unlikely that etomidate will prove to be the hypnotic of choice for a totally intravenous anesthetic technique in adults because of the high incidence of myoclonia after prolonged administration. In several patients uncontrollable muscle movements persisted for many minutes after complete recovery of consciousness.
Wistar rats were injected with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) to induce massive proteinuria and were raised on a low protein diet to determine whether the urinary protein excretion might be reduced. Although PAN nephrotic rats fed with a normal protein diet containing 20% protein (group A) did not show any reduction of their urinary protein excretion, PAN rats fed with a low protein diet containing 6% protein (group B) revealed a marked reduction at day 9 of the present study in comparison with group A. The total serum protein levels were low in groups A and B as compared to group C, the non-treated control. However, group A recovered to normal levels at day 13. In terms of the absolute amount of oral protein intake, marked differences were observed between groups B and C, but little difference was observed between groups A and C. The body weight in all three groups was decreased at 8 days after the start of this study. The serum levels of creatinine were elevated to 1.1 +/- 0.3 mg/dl and 1.0 +/- 0.2 mg/dl in groups A and B, respectively, on day 7, but abruptly recovered to normal levels by day 12. These data indicate that the decreased urinary protein excretion in group B might be dependent on the total protein volume intake, and not on the renal function nor serum levels of total protein.
The incidence of lung metastasis in rats with hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) induced by ciprofibrate, a peroxisome proliferator and the expression of gammaglutamyl transeptidase (GGT) in the metastatic lesions was studied. HCC were induced in 75 male F-334 rats by chronic dietary administration of ciprofibrate (0.025% w/w) for 16-22 months. The incidence of lung metastasis was 25% in rats killed between 14 and 16 months which increased to 56% in rats killed between 20 and 22 months. The lung metastases were multifocal and present in both the blood vessels and parenchyma. All the metastatic foci examined for the expression of GGT by histochemical stain were devoid of this enzyme. The results of this study clearly demonstrate the malignant behavior of ciprofibrate-induced liver tumors and the absence of GGT expression in metastatic lesions a phenotypic property that is peculiar to the primary HCC induced by several peroxisome proliferators.
We examined whether daunomycin rats could be used as an experimental model of human chronic renal failure in terms of their osseous changes and mineral metabolism. The daunomycin rats revealed hyperphosphatemia and osteodystrophic bone changes. In this respect, they were similar to human chronic renal failure. A high calcium level was found in the daunomycin rats at first due to the effect of the daunomycin injection, but later there was a lower calcium level than in the control rats due to chronic renal failure. We conclude that daunomycin rats can be successfully used as an experimental model of chronic renal failure from the standpoint of their osseous changes and mineral metabolism.
Novel thiazolidinedione analogues as 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH) inhibitors were synthesized. Compounds 2, 3, and 4 exhibited IC(50) of 25, 8, and 19 nM, respectively. They also significantly increased levels of PGE(2) in A549 cells. To assess the influence of 15-PGDH inhibitor on cochlear blood flow (CBF), 2 was applied intravenously to guinea pigs. It increased their CBFs. Scratch wounds were also analyzed in confluent monolayers of HaCaT cells. Cells exposed to 4 showed significantly improved wound healing with respect to a control.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is known to be an endocrine disruptor that affects the development of reproductive system. The aim of the present study was to investigate a group of testicular genes dysregulated by prenatal exposure to BPA. Pregnant ICR mice were treated with BPA by subcutaneous administration on days 7 and 14 of pregnancy. Tissue and blood samples were collected from 6-week-old male offspring. Testes were subjected to gene expression analysis using a testis-specific microarray (Testis2), consisting of 2,482 mouse cDNA clones annotated with Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) terms indicative of testicular components and functions. To interpret the microarray data, we used the MeSH terms significantly associated with the altered genes. As a result, MeSH terms related to androgens and Sertoli cells were extracted in BPA-treated groups. Among the genes related to Sertoli cells, downregulation of Msi1h, Ncoa1, Nid1, Hspb2, and Gata6 were detected in the testis of mice treated with BPA (twice administered 50 mg/kg). The MeSH terms associated with this group of genes may provide useful means to interpret the testicular toxicity of BPA. This article concludes that prenatal BPA exposure downregulates expression of genes associated with Sertoli cell function and affects the reproductive function of male offspring. Additionally, a method using MeSH to extract a group of genes was useful for predicting the testicular and reproductive toxicity of prenatal BPA exposure.
After cardioplegia, ischemia/reperfusion injury can induce apoptosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate our ex vivo microperfusion model on human myocardium during simulated cardioplegia (cp) and reperfusion (rep). In addition, the aim was to verify the anti-apoptotic properties of the phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor milrinone.
Cardiac biopsies were retrieved from the right auricle of patients undergoing elective CABG prior to induction of cardiopulmonary bypass. Biopsies were exposed to ex vivo conditions with varying periods of cp/rep (30/10, 60/20, 120/40 min). Group I consisted of untreated controls (n=15), Group II of treated controls who had cp/rep (n=15) while Group III had cp/rep+milrinone (n=15). For the detection of apoptosis, anti-activated caspase-3 and PARP-1 cleavage immunostaining were used.
The percentage of apoptotic cardiomyocytes in Group I was significantly (P<0.05) lower compared to Group II, revealing a time-dependent increase. In Group III with milrinone treatment, apoptosis was significantly suppressed (P<0.05).
Milrinone significantly suppressed apoptosis in our ex vivo setting. This finding warrants further study aiming to evaluate the potential beneficial effects of milrinone on the suppression of ischemia/reperfusion injury in a clinical setting.
We describe a girl with mild facial anomalies, mild mental retardation, and atypical autism with a remarkable behavioral phenotype of persistent anger, aggression, and dysphoria. The occurrence of late-onset tremor and premature ovarian failure in the maternal branch of the family pointed to a possible defect in the FMR1 gene. Indeed, the patient carried a full FMR1 mutation. Unexpectedly, both alleles of the gene were almost completely methylated. Cytogenetic examination of the patient revealed in addition a large de novo deletion in band Xp22 on one of her X chromosomes. The deletion was fine mapped using oligonucleotide array CGH, and its breakpoints were localized using sequencing. The size of the deletion was about 17.4 Mb, and it contained more than 90 protein-coding genes. Microsatellite analysis indicated paternal origin of the aberrant chromosome. The large rearrangement was the most probable cause of the X-inactivation skewing, thus explaining the methylation of not only the expanded (maternal) but also the normal (paternal) FMR1 alleles. This pattern of skewed X-inactivation was confirmed using the analysis of methylation at the AR locus. The relatively mild phenotype of the patient resulted most likely from unmasking of the FMR1 defect. Although the deleted region contained many important genes, the phenotypic contribution of the rearranged X chromosome was probably limited by its almost complete inactivation. However, reduced dose of several genes escaping X-inactivation might also play a role in the phenotype of the patient.
