Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors in combination with an anticholinergic, particularly anticholinergics with antiglutamatergic properties, can effectively protect against nerve agent-induced seizures and lethality. The objective of the present study was to examine potential behavioral side effects of the anticholinesterases physostigmine (0.1mg/kg), galantamine (3mg/kg), huperzine (0.5mg/kg), and donepezil (2.5mg/kg) alone or each drug in combination with anticholinergic procyclidine (3mg/kg). The results showed that rats injected intraperitoneally with galantamine displayed a mild cognitive deficit in terms of reduced preference for novelty that was similarly found among animals treated with procyclidine combined with either galantamine or donepezil. Locomotor activity and rearing were radically depressed in all groups treated with anticholinesterases as well as in combination with procyclidine. Reductions in activity were most prominent for rats injected with galantamine alone. Equalizing effects of cholinesterase inhibitors and anticholinergics were absent in the present context. Findings from previous studies that both systemic and local (amygdala) application of physostigmine cause increased fear-motivated freezing response in rats, may explain the marked reductions in activity among the present rats. In view of these findings, use of anticholinesterases (crossing the blood-brain barrier) as prophylactics against nerve agents must be carefully examined to avoid severe side effects.
To study the effects of interleukin-10 on hepatic stellate cells and liver tissue in experimental rats hepatic fibrosis.
Rat hepatic fibrosis model induced by carbon tetrachloride was established. Liver tissues were harvested from the rats administered CCl4 with or without IL-10 treatment and the animals of the control group. The expression of TGF-beta1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 in the liver tissues was measured by S-P immunohistochemistry. In addition, another model was established; HSCs in rats in each group were isolated. RT-PCR was employed to analyze TGF-beta1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 mRNA expression in cells and immunocytochemistry was performed to detect protein expression of alpha-SMA, NF-kappaB, TGF-beta1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 in HSCs.
Rat hepatic fibrosis was developed successfully. The fibrosis changes were partially reversed by simultaneous administration of IL-10. The positive signals of TGF-beta1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 were observed more frequently (P<0.05) in the CCl4-treated group compared to those in the IL-10-treated group and the control group. HSCs were successfully isolated. TGF-beta1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 mRNA in HSCs increased obviously during the course of hepatic fibrosis, and their levels were decreased after the treatment with IL-10 (P<0.05). The immunocytochemistry positive levels for TGF-beta1, MMP-2, TIMP-1, alpha-SMA and NF-kappaB in the fibrogenesis group were increased significantly compared to the normal group (P<0.01). The positive signals decreased significantly (P<0.05) after the treatment with IL-10.
The expression of TGF-beta1, MMP-2 and TIMP-1 increased in liver or in HSC of hepatic fibrosis rats and decreased after treatment with IL-10. The IL-10 could inhibit the activation of HSCs and make an antifibrogenic process come into effect in this way.
An inhaled glucocorticoid is currently the medication of choice for long-term control of persistent asthma in children. The role of long-acting beta2-adrenergic-receptor agonists, such as salmeterol, needs to be defined.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, one-year study of 241 children (mean [+/-SD] age, 9.3+/-2.4 years) with clinically stable asthma and less than one month of prior glucocorticoid use. We compared inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (200 microg twice daily) with salmeterol xinafoate (50 microg twice daily) and placebo (lactose). The primary outcome measure, airway responsiveness (as assessed with a methacholine challenge) was evaluated before treatment; after 3, 6, 9, and 12 months of treatment (12 and 36 hours after study medications had been withheld); and 2 weeks after the end of treatment. Spirometry, symptoms, use of rescue medication (200 microg of albuterol inhaled as needed), and adverse effects were also assessed.
During months 1 through 12 overall, beclomethasone was associated with significantly less airway hyperresponsiveness than salmeterol (P= 0.003) or placebo (P<0.001). This effect was lost two weeks after treatment had been stopped. As compared with placebo, beclomethasone was associated with less variability between morning and evening in the peak expiratory flow (P=0.002), as was salmeterol (P=0.02). Beclomethasone was also associated with a reduced need for albuterol as rescue therapy (P<0.001) and fewer withdrawals because of asthma exacerbations (P=0.03), but salmeterol was not (P=0.09 and 0.55, respectively). During months 1 through 12, linear growth was 3.96 cm in the children receiving beclomethasone, as compared with 5.40 cm in the salmeterol group (P=0.004) and 5.04 cm in the placebo group (P=0.018). Height was not measured after treatment ended.
Beclomethasone was effective in reducing airway hyperresponsiveness and in controlling symptoms of asthma, but it was associated with decreased linear growth. Salmeterol was not as effective as beclomethasone in reducing airway hyperresponsiveness or in controlling symptoms; however, it was an effective bronchodilator and was not associated with rebound airway hyperresponsiveness, masking of symptoms, or adverse effects.
The efficacy of fluoxetine in the acute management of bulimia nervosa is well established; however, few controlled studies have examined whether continuation of pharmacotherapy provides protection from relapse. This study compared the efficacy and safety of treatment with fluoxetine versus placebo in preventing relapse of bulimia nervosa during a 52-week period after successful acute fluoxetine therapy.
Patients who met DSM-IV criteria for bulimia nervosa, purging type, were assigned to single-blind treatment with 60 mg/day of fluoxetine. After 8 weeks of treatment, patients were considered responders if they experienced a decrease > or =50% from baseline in the frequency of vomiting episodes during 1 of the 2 preceding weeks. Responders were randomly assigned to receive 60 mg/day of fluoxetine or placebo and were monitored for relapse for up to 52 weeks. Patients met relapse criteria if they experienced a return to the baseline vomiting frequency that persisted for 2 consecutive weeks.
Of the 232 patients who entered the acute phase, 150 patients (65%) met response criteria and were randomly assigned to receive fluoxetine (N=76) or placebo (N=74). Fluoxetine-treated patients exhibited a longer time to relapse than placebo-treated patients. Quantitative analysis of other efficacy measures, including frequency of vomiting episodes, frequency of binge eating episodes, Clinical Global Impression severity and improvement scores, the patient's global impression score, and Yale-Brown-Cornell Eating Disorder Scale score, indicated that the efficacy of fluoxetine treatment was statistically superior, compared to placebo. There were no clinically relevant differences in safety between groups. Attrition in this study was high, especially in the first 3 months after random assignment to treatment groups.
Continued treatment with fluoxetine in patients with bulimia nervosa who responded to acute treatment with fluoxetine improved outcome and decreased the likelihood of relapse.
Total and N-terminal isoform selective p73 knockout mice show a variety of central nervous system defects. Here we show that TAp73 is a transcriptional activator of p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) and that p75(NTR) mRNA and protein levels are strongly reduced in the central and peripheral nervous systems of p73 knockout mice. In parallel, primary cortical neurons from p73 knockout mice showed a reduction in neurite outgrowth and in nerve growth factor-mediated neuronal differentiation, together with reduced miniature excitatory postsynaptic current frequencies and behavioral defects. p73 null mice also have impairments in the peripheral nervous system with reduced thermal sensitivity, axon number, and myelin thickness. At least some of these morphological and functional impairments in p73 null cells can be rescued by p75(NTR) re-expression. Together, these data demonstrate that loss of p75(NTR) contributes to the neurological phenotype of p73 knockout mice.
Alverine citrate is one of the most commonly used antispasmodic drugs for patients with irritable bowel syndrome. Alverine-citrate-induced hepatotoxicity is extremely rare, with only a few cases having been reported worldwide. We present a case of a 75-year-old female patient who experienced complicated jaundice and abdominal discomfort after taking alverine citrate. Other causes of hepatitis were ruled out and the results of the liver function test returned to normal after ceasing the drug. This is the first case report in Korea of alverine-citrate-induced hepatotoxicity.
It is well known that the subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays an important role in regulating motor function, but recent studies suggest the STN is also involved in regulating motivated behavior. For example, bilateral lesions of the STN increase motivation for both food and cocaine as assessed by 'breakpoint' on a progressive ratio schedule. However, the psychological mechanism(s) by which STN lesions increase motivation for rewards is unknown. We hypothesized that STN lesions might influence one specific component of motivation, the attribution of incentive value (incentive salience) to reward-related cues. We tested this hypothesis by quantifying the ability of a discrete cue that had been paired with the non-contingent delivery of either food or cocaine to elicit approach towards it (ie, to produce a 'sign-tracking' conditioned response, CR). STN lesions made prior to training increased asymptotic levels of sign-tracking behavior directed towards a cue paired with either food or cocaine. In addition, when STN lesions were made after animals had already undergone Pavlovian training, and animals were tested under extinction conditions, the STN lesion still facilitated a sign-tracking CR. Finally, reintroduction of the US (food) following extinction immediately restored robust sign-tracking behavior in animals with STN lesions. We speculate, therefore, that the STN is part of a neural system that moderates the amount of incentive salience attributed to reward-related stimuli. Activity in this neural system may help mitigate the development of compulsive behavioral disorders, such as addiction, which are characterized by pathological control over behavior by reward-associated cues.
The aim of this study was to investigate the activity and safety of a regimen containing carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients affected by recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer. Eligible patients were treated with a 3-week combination of paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 and carboplatin area under the concentration time curve 5 mg/ml/min for a maximum of four cycles. A total of 27 patients entered the study. One patient (3.7%) had a complete response, whereas six patients (22.2%) obtained a partial response. Stable disease was observed in seven patients (25.9%). The disease control rate was 51.8% (95% confidence interval: 32.0-71.3), whereas overall response rate was 25.9% (95% confidence interval: 11.1-46.3). The median overall survival was 8.0 months (range: 2-27), with a 1-year survival of 30.5%. The median progression-free survival was 1.0 month (range: 0-14). Treatment-related deaths or episodes of neutropenic fever were not registered. Grades 3-4 neutropenia was observed in two patients (7.4%), grades 3-4 anaemia and thrombocytopenia in four (14.8%) and one (3.7%) patients, respectively. Nine patients (33.3%) experienced grades 1-2 and one patient (3.7%) grade 3 peripheral neuropathy. The combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel is safe and moderately effective for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer.
A phase II study was conducted to assess the efficacy and toxicity of combination therapy with capecitabine and cisplatin in patients with de-novo advanced gastric cancer, and in patients with refractory/recurrent gastric cancer after previous nonplatinum-based therapy. Sixty-four patients were enrolled in the study. Of these, 50 patients had untreated gastric cancer, and 14 had received previous therapy with nonplatinum-based therapy. All patients received oral capecitabine 1250 mg/m2 twice daily, days 1-14, and intravenous cisplatin 60 mg/m2 on day 1. This cycle was repeated every 3 weeks. Among the 50 previously untreated patients, three achieved complete response, and 19 had partial response, giving a response rate of 44% in the intention-to-treat population. The median time to progression and median overall survival were 6 months [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.4-10.6] and 9 months (95% CI: 5.7-12.3), respectively. In patients who had received previous therapy, clinical usefulness was evaluated resulting in response rate of 14%, disease control rate of 28.5%, and median overall survival of 4 months (95% CI: 3.1-4.9). The principal grade 3/4 adverse events were neutropenia (20%), anemia (14%). No neutropenic fever or treatment-related deaths. Capecitabine in combination with cisplatin is effective and well tolerated as first-line treatment in patients with advanced gastric cancer. Unfortunately, we could not positively suggest the usefulness of the same combination regimen as salvage therapy in patients with progressive or recurrent disease after nonplatinum-based therapy.
Chemical burns are slow healing injuries and their depth is difficult to assess. Tissue destruction continues as long as active material is present in the wound site. The routine therapy for treatment of full thickness chemical burns is early excision; it shortens hospitalization and reduces morbidity. However, presently there is no specific treatment for chemical burns of partial thickness. This study examined several treatment modalities for partial thickness chemical burns: surgical excision; laser ablation and chemical debridement with Debridase or trypsin-linked to gauze. Chemical burns were inflicted with nitrogen mustard (NM -- a nitrogen analog to sulfur mustard -- mustard gas) in an experimental guinea pig model. Debridase was most effective and reduced significantly lesion area of burns after 'humid' exposure to 2 mg NM. The healing action of Debridase was also evident in the significantly higher histopathological score of biopsies from local tissue obtained on day 5. Laser ablation was most effective and accelerated healing of burn lesions after 'dry' exposure to 5 mg NM. The histopathology score of the laser treated burns was higher on day 4 compared to untreated controls. It is concluded that for partial thickness chemical burns early nonsurgical removal of the damaged tissues accelerates wound healing.
A young woman ingested approximately 13 gm of an over-the-counter acetaminophen preparation and died seven days later in profound coma. Postmortem findings included massive centrilobular hepatic necrosis and renal tubular necrosis. Although hepatotoxicity secondary to acetaminophen overdose is well recognized in Britain, this entity has received little emphasis in the United States. Recognition of the potentially severe consequences is important because early treatment with sulfhydryl compounds may prevent serious liver injury.
A strong association between polymorphisms of the cytochrome P450 (CYP/Cyp) 2D6 gene and risk to Parkinson's disease (PD) is well established. The present study investigated the neuroprotective potential of Cyp2d22, a mouse ortholog of human CYP2D6, in maneb- and paraquat-induced parkinsonism and the mechanisms involved therein along with the effects of resveratrol on various parameters associated with Cyp2d22-mediated neuroprotection. The animals were treated intraperitoneally with resveratrol (10mg/kg, daily) and paraquat (10mg/kg) alone or in combination with maneb (30 mg/kg), twice a week, for 9 weeks, along with their respective controls. The subsets of animals were also treated intraperitoneally with a Cyp2d22 inhibitor, ketoconazole (100mg/kg, daily). Maneb and paraquat reduced Cyp2d22 and vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT-2) expressions, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells, and dopamine content and increased paraquat accumulation in the nigrostriatal tissues, oxidative stress, microglial activation, neuroinflammation, and apoptosis. Cyp2d22 inhibitor significantly exacerbated all these neurodegenerative indexes. Resveratrol cotreatment, partially but significantly, ameliorated the neurodegenerative changes by altering Cyp2d22 expression and paraquat accumulation. The results obtained in the study demonstrate that Cyp2d22 offers neuroprotection in maneb- and paraquat-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration and resveratrol enhances its neuroprotective credentials by influencing Cyp2d22 expression and paraquat accumulation.
Although intrathecal (i.t.) administration of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine has a pronounced analgesic effect, the clinical use of clonidine is limited by its side effects. Previously, our laboratory has demonstrated that the subcutaneous injection of diluted bee venom (DBV) into an acupoint (termed apipuncture) produces significant analgesic effect in various pain animal models. The present study was designed to examine whether DBV injection into the Zusanli acupoint (ST-36) could enhance lower-dose clonidine-induced analgesic effects without the development of hypotension, bradycardia, or sedation. In the mouse formalin test, DBV injection produced a dramatic leftward shift in the dose-response curve for clonidine-induced analgesia. In a rat neuropathic pain model i.t. clonidine dose dependently suppressed chronic constriction injury (CCI)-induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia, and this clonidine-induced analgesic effect was significantly potentiated by apipuncture pretreatment. DBV apipuncture alone or in combination with a low dose of i.t. clonidine produced an analgesic effect similar to that of the high dose of clonidine, but without significant side effects. The analgesic effect produced by the combination of i.t. clonidine and apipuncture was completely blocked by pretreatment with an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist. These data show that DBV-apipuncture significantly enhances clonidine-induced analgesia and suggest that a combination of low dose clonidine with acupuncture therapy represents a novel strategy for pain management that could eliminates clonidine's side effects.
This study demonstrated that intrathecal clonidine-induced analgesia is significantly enhanced when it is combined with chemical acupuncture treatment. The administration of low-dose clonidine in combination with acupuncture produced a potent analgesic effect without significant side effects and thus represents a potential novel strategy for the management of chronic pain.
To observe the effect of rosiglitazone sodium on survival of pancreatic beta-cell of STZ induced diabetic rats and explore its impact on JNK pathway.
Total 34 SD rats were randomly assigned into three groups: control group (6 rats), diabetic group (14 rats) and rosiglitazone sodium-treated diabetic group (14 rats). STZ was administered intraperitoneally at a dose of 50 mg/kg for the latter two groups, then rosiglitazone sodium (4 mg/kg x d) was force-fed to diabetic rats in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group. Ten (10) weeks later, all the animals were subjected to oral glucose tolerance test to evaluate the function of pancreatic islet, then the rats were sacrified to obtain pancreatic tissue for histopathological study. The expression levels of INS, Caspase-3 and P-JNK in pancreatic islet were measured by immunohistochemistry and the apoptosis rates of beta-cells were measured by TUNEL.
1) Compared with non-treated diabetic group, the levels of blood glucose (BG) in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group were lower at 0 h, 0.5 h, 1 h, 2 h in OGTT, which were (22.8 +/- 5.79) mmol/L vs (9.9 +/- 6.99) mmol/L, (29.33 +/- 3.29) mmol/L vs (25.63 +/- 4.56) mmol/L, (31.90 +/- 2.56) mmol/L vs (26.07 +/- 4.75) mmol/L, (25.08 +/- 3.53) mmol/L vs (21.47 +/- 6.64) mmol/L respectively (P<0.05). The levels of INS at 0 h and 2 h were [(17.49 +/- 4.59) microU/L (non-treated)] vs [(23.59 +/- 4.59) microU/L (treated)] and [(20.24 +/- 3.32) microU/L (non-treated)] vs [(30.98 +/- 9.15) microU/L (treated)] respectively, which showed INS of rosiglitazone sodium-treated group were higher, but without statistical significance (P=0.056). The function of pancreatic islet in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group seemed better than that of non-treated group. 2) Compared with non-treated diabetic group, the margin of pancreatic islets in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group were clearer, beta-cells were more regularly arranged, chromatin were more abundant. 3) The levels of INS expression in islets were significantly higher in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group than that of non-treated diabetic group (P<0.05). 4) TUNEL assay showed that the apoptosis rate (%) of beta-cells in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group was smaller than that of non-treated group (6.52 +/- 0.77 vs 10.33 +/- 1.07), and the difference was statistical significance (P<0.05). At the same time, the expression of caspase-3 was significantly deceased in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group compared with diabetic control group (P<0.05). 5) A lower level of P-JNK expression in pancreatic islet was observed in rosiglitazone sodium-treated group than that in non-treated group (P<0.05).
Rosiglitazone sodium can reduce the apoptosis rates of beta-cells, improve the function of pancreatic islet of STZ induced diabetic rats and decrease blood glucose. The anti-apoptosis effect of Rosiglitazone sodium on beta-cell may be induced through JNK pathway.
Of 66 patients undergoing hypotensive anaesthesia for oto-rhino-laryngological surgery, a sufficient low-pressure state was obtained in only 72% of patients when nitroglycerine was used. The cumulative nitroglycerine-consumption varied between 4.0 and 98.6 mg (0.05-1.698 mg/kg body weight). In 40 cases a normal or weak nitroglycerine-effect was accentuated by dihydralazine and the extend and time course of the interaction were investigated. The exceedingly marked additional effect of this substance indicates a mutual potentiation of both drugs. The maximum of the dihydralazine-action appeared after 25-35 minutes. In 16 further cases dihydralazine was given intravenously before the nitroglycerine infusion as a premedication, whereby always constant and satisfactory hypotension could be produced. A disadvantage of these combinations, occurring in several cases, was the decreased manoeuvrability of hypotension. The continuation of the long-term sodium nitroprusside-hypotension by using nitroglycerine was succesful. Even after nitroglycerine application longer than 3 hours (up to 6 hours) the acid-base-status remained normal.
1. The occurrence of IGF-I was investigated in rabbits with experimentally daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. IGF-I was measured in the heart, serum, liver and skeletal muscle. 2. A significant increase in the IGF-I was found in the left heart ventricle in daunorubicin cardiomyopathy (152.9 +/- 10.0 ng/g vs 95.1 +/- 4.2 ng/g in the control group). This site of increased IGF-I activity corresponded well with the maximum of morphological changes (dispersed cytolysis of cardiomyocytes mostly without developed subsequent interstitial myofibrosis). 3. The highest levels of IGF-I were present in right and left cardiac atrium (but without significant differences between the groups). Furthermore, in skeletal muscle, the levels of IGF-I in the daunorubicin group (839.0 +/- 142.1 ng/g) were significantly higher in comparison with the control group (482.5 +/- 83.1 ng/g). 4. The level of IGF-I in the left ventricle in the daunorubicin group (but not in the control group) was significantly higher than that in the liver. There were no correlations observed between the levels of IGF-I in the heart and in the serum. 5. The increase in IGF-I concentrations in the left heart ventricle after the administration of daunorubicin may thus reflect possible autocrine/paracrine role of IGF-I in cardiomyopathy.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of carvedilol, a beta 1&2-adrenergic blocker and vasodilator, on cirazoline-mediated changes in arterial blood pressure and isoproterenol-mediated changes in heart rate after acute and chronic administration. Conscious, chronically instrumented male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with carvedilol (1 mg/kg, IV), prazosin (0.3 mg/kg, IV), or propranolol (1 mg/kg, twice daily for 8 days. After administration of the first dose of carvedilol on day 1, the vasopressor response to cirazoline (60 +/- 3 mmHg predrug) and the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia (152 +/- 13 beats/min predrug) were blocked (e.g., 7 +/- 4 mmHg postdrug and 11 +/- 3 beats/min postdrug, respectively). After the administration of carvedilol on day 8, the cirazoline vasopressor response was 2 +/- 1 mmHg and the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia was 4 +/- 3 beats/min, indicating effective alpha 1- and beta-adrenergic blockade after chronic dosing with carvedilol. Prazosin blocked the cirazoline-induced vasopressor response on both days 1 and 8 but had no effect on the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia. Propranolol blocked the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia on both days 1 and 8 but had no effect on the cirazoline vasopressor response. These data indicate that only carvedilol effectively blocked both alpha- and beta-adrenergic hemodynamic responses and that the antagonism of these responses with carvedilol was not diminished after chronic dosing of twice-a-day treatment for 8 days.
To identify and describe the frequency and severity of hepatotoxicity in patients who received flutamide therapy for prostate cancer, 22 patients were treated with the combination of flutamide and goserilin or orchiectomy. After diagnosis and staging of prostate cancer, baseline results were obtained for a set of five liver function tests (LF Ts). Hepatotoxicity was assessed according to the WHO criteria. After initiation of flutamide therapy, LF Ts were performed at 4, 8 and 12 weeks and every 2 months thereafter. Severe hepatotoxicity appeared in two of 22 (9%) patients. Following the discontinuation of flutamide, one patient died due to acute liver failure. On the other patient an improvement of LF Ts occurred after cessation of flutamide. The observed severe hepatotoxicity in two of 22 (9%) patients occurred more frequent than is predicted in the literature. Patients treated with flutamide, having symptomatic or asymptomatic liver enzyme elevations, should be taken off therapy as soon as possible.
To investigate the dose-related effects of cocaine with or without alcohol use on the CNS by measuring performance on neurobehavioral tests.
Chronic use of cocaine is associated with persistent decrements in cognitive function that are most pronounced in heavy users. Specific neurobehavioral deficits in areas such as executive function and impulsivity would make it difficult for the cocaine abuser to discontinue using drugs. Because alcohol is often used in conjunction with cocaine, the CNS effects of alcohol when taken with cocaine deserve further investigation.
The authors evaluated the dose-related effects of cocaine and alcohol use on performance in a variety of neuropsychological tests after 1 to 3 days of abstinence and again after 4 weeks of abstinence. Fifty-six chronic cocaine abusers who had used cocaine during the past 24 to 48 hours volunteered to perform a battery of neuropsychological tests on two separate occasions during a period of enforced abstinence. In addition to using cocaine, most of the volunteers consumed alcohol. Approximately half of the participants consumed more than 10 alcohol-containing drinks per week.
After controlling for the effects of age, sex, and intelligence on performance, the authors found dose-related associations between neurobehavioral performance and cocaine dose and alcohol dose. When the influences of cocaine and alcohol on neurobehavioral performance were taken separately, cocaine and alcohol each selectively affected performance on different neurobehavioral tests after 1 to 3 days of abstinence, with these effects persisting after 4 weeks of abstinence.
The concomitant use of cocaine and alcohol may have additive negative effects on the brain as compared to the use of only one of these two substances.
Although congestive heart failure has been reported with the combination of a beta blocker and either verapamil or nifedipine, it has not previously been reported for combination therapy that includes diltiazem. The following case documents the occurrence of clinical congestive failure in a patient with baseline left ventricular dysfunction and severe angina pectoris. Although the patients had tolerated propranolol therapy for years without difficulty, and high-dose diltiazem monotherapy with an excellent clinical response, the combination of diltiazem and propranolol resulted in the development of congestive heart failure. Thus, although generally well tolerated, given the suitable scenario of reduced left ventricular function, the combination of diltiazem and a beta blocker may adversely affect left ventricular performance.
To identify the clinical and radiologic features of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in aspirin users.
Although the benefits of aspirin outweigh its hemorrhagic risks for patients at high risk of vascular diseases, prolonged use of aspirin is associated with an increased risk of ICH.
The authors enrolled consecutive patients with acute stroke who were admitted to a regional hospital from 1993 to 1998 into a stroke registry. From this registry, they identified all stroke patients who had ICH confirmed by CT scan and then selected those taking regular aspirin before ICH as the study group. For each study patient, they selected the immediate next two patients with ICH but not taking aspirin as controls.
The authors identified 58 aspirin users and 1193 nonusers among all patients hospitalized for ICH. From the group of nonusers, they selected 116 patients as controls. The locations of the hematoma were different (p = 0.002), with more lobar hematoma in the aspirin group (32.8%) than in the control group (10.3%). Prior cerebrovascular disease was the reason for taking aspirin in 37 (64%) patients but five patients had prior ICH.
The propensity for lobar hematoma in aspirin-associated ICH suggests its pathology may be somewhat different from spontaneous ICH among nonaspirin users. Further research to examine the risks and benefits of aspirin use in certain subgroups at risk of both thrombotic and hemorrhagic events is needed.
The antimalarial agent mefloquine has been reported to cause a number of possible side effects. Here we describe a case demonstrating a previously unreported complication, the postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS).
A 44-year-old woman presented with symptoms of severe orthostatic intolerance (palpitations and dizziness) in combination with postural tachycardia (but no fall in blood pressure) following the use of mefloquine prophylaxis. Investigations revealed evidence of autonomic dysfunction (with loss of ECG R-R interval variation) consistent with POTS. Her symptoms responded well to beta-blockade with propranolol.
The possibility of POTS should be considered in patients presenting with symptoms of palpitations, dizziness, presyncope or other features suggestive of autonomic dysfunction following the use of mefloquine.
Visceral leishmaniasis has now emerged as an important opportunistic disease in patients coinfected with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1). Although the effectiveness of HIV-1 protease inhibitors, such as nelfinavir, in antiretroviral therapies is well documented, little is known of the impact of these drugs on Leishmania in coinfected individuals.
Here, we show that nelfinavir generates oxidative stress in the parasite, leading to altered physiological parameters such as an increase in the sub-G1 DNA content, nuclear DNA fragmentation and loss of mitochondrial potential, which are all characteristics of apoptosis. Pretreatment of axenic amastigotes with the caspase inhibitor z-VAD-fmk did not inhibit the increase in sub-G1 DNA content in nelfinavir-treated parasites, suggesting therefore that this antiviral agent does not kill Leishmania amastigotes in a caspase-dependent manner. Furthermore, we observed that the mitochondrial resident protein endonuclease G is involved. We also demonstrate that parasites overexpressing GSH1 (the rate limiting enzyme of glutathione biosynthesis) were more resistant to nelfinavir when compared to untransfected controls.
These data suggest that nelfinavir induces oxidative stress in Leishmania amastigotes, culminating in caspase-independent apoptosis, in which DNA is degraded by endonuclease G. This study provides a rationale for future, long-term design of new therapeutic strategies to test nelfinavir as a potential antileishmanial agent as well as for possible future use in Leishmania/HIV-1 coinfections.
Treatment with benzarone or benzbromarone can be associated with hepatic injury. Both drugs share structural similarities with amiodarone, a well-known mitochondrial toxin. Therefore, we investigated the hepatotoxicity of benzarone and benzbromarone as well as the analogues benzofuran and 2-butylbenzofuran. In isolated rat hepatocytes, amiodarone, benzarone, and benzbromarone (20 micromol/L) decreased mitochondrial membrane potential by 23%, 54% or 81%, respectively. Benzofuran and 2-butylbenzofuran had no effect up to 100 micromol/L. In isolated rat liver mitochondria, amiodarone, benzarone, and benzbromarone, but not benzofuran, decreased state 3 oxidation and respiratory control ratios for L-glutamate (50% decrease of respiratory control ratio at [micromol/L]: amiodarone, 12.9; benzarone, 10.8; benzbromarone, <1). Amiodarone, benzarone, and benzbromarone, but not benzofuran, also uncoupled oxidative phosphorylation. Mitochondrial beta-oxidation was decreased by 71%, 87%, and 58% with 100 micromol/L amiodarone or benzarone and 50 micromol/L benzbromarone, respectively, but was unaffected by benzofuran, whereas ketogenesis was not affected. 2-Butylbenzofuran weakly inhibited state 3 oxidation and beta-oxidation only at 100 micromol/L. In the presence of 100 micromol/L amiodarone, benzarone or benzbromarone, reactive oxygen species production was increased, mitochondrial leakage of cytochrome c was induced in HepG2 cells, and permeability transition was induced in isolated rat liver mitochondria. At the same concentrations, amiodarone, benzarone, and benzbromarone induced apoptosis and necrosis of isolated rat hepatocytes. In conclusion, hepatotoxicity associated with amiodarone, benzarone, and benzbromarone can at least in part be explained by their mitochondrial toxicity and the subsequent induction of apoptosis and necrosis. Side chains attached to the furan moiety are necessary for rendering benzofuran hepatotoxic.
Drugs prescribed for rheumatoid arthritis are often associated with gastrointestinal toxicity, and proton pump inhibitors may be coadministered for gastroprotection. In this open-label study, the effect of lansoprazole 30 mg qd and naproxen 500 mg bid on the pharmacokinetic profile of methotrexate was investigated. Twenty-seven adult rheumatoid arthritis patients on stable oral methotrexate doses (7.5-15 mg/week) for a minimum of 3 months were enrolled. Methotrexate pharmacokinetics were assessed on days -1 (methotrexate alone) and 7 (methotrexate with lansoprazole and naproxen). Pharmacokinetics of methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate were not altered by coadministration of methotrexate with lansoprazole and naproxen; point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the peak plasma concentration and area under the plasma concentration-time curve of methotrexate and 7-hydroxymethotrexate were within the 0.80 to 1.25 boundaries. Therefore, coadministration of naproxen and lansoprazole for 7 days does not affect the pharmacokinetic profile of low doses of methotrexate.
Genetic epidemiologic and clinical data suggest that comorbid panic disorder may define a subtype of bipolar disorder. Comorbid panic disorder might thereby influence the strength of association between bipolar disorder and genes that have been implicated in bipolar disorder on the basis of their function in monoamine neurotransmission and previously reported linkage results. Polymorphic markers at catechol O-methyltransferase (COMT), serotonin transporter (5-HTT), and tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) genes were analyzed in a case-control association study of bipolar disorder patients with or without lifetime panic disorder.
Unrelated subjects of Italian descent meeting DSM-III-R criteria for lifetime bipolar disorder (N=111), with (N=49) or without (N=62) comorbid lifetime panic disorder, were compared to 127 healthy subjects. DNA was extracted from blood leukocytes. The frequencies of COMT Val158Met, 5-HTTLPR, and TPH IVS7+218C>A polymorphisms were determined. Genotype and allele frequency comparisons between affected (bipolar disorder, bipolar disorder without panic disorder, or bipolar disorder with panic disorder) and unaffected individuals were carried out with chi-square tests or Fisher's exact tests.
Relative to the comparison subjects, subjects with bipolar disorder without panic disorder, but not those with comorbid bipolar disorder and panic disorder, showed significantly higher frequencies of the COMT Met158 and the short 5-HTTLPR alleles and genotypes. The differences in the frequencies of the TPH IVS7+218A alleles and genotypes approached statistical significance.
The findings support the hypothesis that comorbid panic disorder identifies a genetic subtype of bipolar disorder and suggest a role for COMT and 5-HTT in vulnerability to these disorders.
This pilot study was designed to evaluate ABT-089, a neuronal nicotinic receptor partial agonist, as treatment for adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Adults with ADHD received placebo, 2 mg, 4 mg, or 20 mg of ABT-089 for 2 weeks each in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 4 x 4 Latin square design for a total of 8 weeks. In addition to the primary outcome, the Conner's Adult ADHD Rating Scale (CAARS), secondary rating scales, and neuropsychological and safety assessments were completed.
A total of 11 adults with well-characterized ADHD completed this crossover study. ABT-089 b.i.d. was superior to placebo for the CAARS Total Symptom Score, which was the primary endpoint (placebo: 38.0 +/- 1.9; 2 mg b.i.d.: 32.2 +/- 1.9, one-tail p = .021; 4 mg b.i.d.: 33.2 +/- 1.9, p = .047; 20 mg b.i.d.: 33.5 +/- 1.9, p = .056). ABT-089 was also superior to placebo for the CAARS ADHD Index and Hyperactive/Impulsive scores and the Clinical Global Impression-ADHD Severity score. On the clinical efficacy endpoints, CAARS Total Symptom Score and CAARS Hyperactive/Impulsive score, a shallow inverted U-shaped dose-response curve was observed; however, the dose-response curve for attention and memory effects as measured by computerized cognitive testing seemed dose-linear. No clinically meaningful findings in safety assessments or side effect profile were observed.
Data from this pilot study suggest that ABT-089 might be effective in treating adult ADHD and that it is well tolerated. On the basis of these promising results, larger, parallel-group ABT-089 studies of longer duration are warranted.
Leishmaniasis is emerging as a common and serious opportunistic infection in HIV-infected patients in endemic areas (such as Mediterranean countries), and may occur with various clinical presentations, ranging from typical visceral forms to atypical cases, including cutaneous disease. Although pentavalent antimony compounds have been the mainstay of antileishmanial treatment for half a century, new drugs seem today reliable, including liposomal amphotericin B and pentamidine isethionate. However, the most effective therapy is still unknown. An HIV-infected i.v. drug abuser patient with a very uncommon disseminated cutaneous leishmaniasis, following an initial visceral disease, is described. Primary and recurrent visceral forms of protozoan infection have been treated with liposomal amphotericin B, while pentamidine isethionate was successfully employed as treatment for subsequent cutaneous relapse and as secondary prophylaxis.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a persistent environmental contaminant that elicits a wide range of toxic effects on the developing organism. In this study, we demonstrate that the fetal and neonatal rat lung contains a responsive Ahr-signaling pathway which upon activation by a gestational exposure to TCDD, leads to altered lung development. Pregnant Holtzman rats received a single oral dose of TCDD (1.5 or 6 microg/kg) on gestation day (GD) 10 or a vehicle control with fetal and neonatal analysis occurring on GD20 or postnatal day (PND) 7. Components of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr) signaling pathway (Ahr and Arnt) were identified in the fetal and neonatal lung tissue through the use of real-time PCR and immunohistochemical staining at both time points. Additionally, the Ahr-signaling pathway was found to be responsive to the gestational TCDD exposure as demonstrated by the induction of Cyp1a1, Cyp1b1, and Ahrr in both fetal and neonatal lung tissue. Morphometric analysis of GD20 and PND7 fixed lung tissue sections revealed that treated pups had significant decreases in total airspace area while having significantly wider tissue septa separating the airspaces as well as a decreased dry lung weight to body weight ratio when compared with controls; indicative of lung immaturity and hypoplasia. Finally, the assessment of respiratory mechanics on PND7 pups revealed functionally different pressure-volume curves in TCDD-exposed pups when compared with control animals. Together, these data identify a responsive Ahr-signaling pathway in the developing lung which may be related to the pulmonary immaturity and hypoplasia induced by TCDD and demonstrates that gestational exposure to TCDD alters lung development in such a manner that changes in lung morphology are associated with functional differences in respiratory mechanics.
