Trypanoxyuris microon is a pinworm that infects New World nonhuman primates, including Aotus nancymae. Although it typically is clinically insignificant, infection may serve as a significant variable during experimental data analysis. In this study we sought to determine the most effective anthelmintic therapy for eradication of T. microon infection in A. nancymae. Animals confirmed to be infected with T. microon by perianal tape test were treated twice (on days 0 and 14) with pyrantel pamoate, ivermectin, or thiabendazole and evaluated for eggs by daily perianal tape test throughout the entire 28-d period. Successful clearance of eggs was defined as 5 consecutive negative perianal tape tests. Pyrantel pamoate and ivermectin were significantly more effective at egg clearance than were thiabendazole and no treatment. Overall, 100% of the pyrantel pamoate and ivermectin treatment groups were cleared of infection after 2 treatments, whereas only 60% of the thiabendazole group became negative for pinworm eggs. In addition, the time after treatment until clearance was 1 to 2 d for pyrantel pamoate, 2 to 4 d for thiabendazole, and 4 to 6.5 d for ivermectin. These results indicate that pyrantel pamoate was the most effective and rapidly acting anthelmintic for the treatment of adult T. microon infection, with ivermectin as a suitable alternative. However because of the potential for continued development of immature stages or reinfection, anthelmintic doses should be repeated after 1 to 2 wk, in combination with effective environmental sanitation.
Nitric oxide (NO), an important regulatory molecule for immune response and cytotoxicity, is endogenously generated from L-arginine by NO synthase (NOS). One mechanism for NO-induced cytotoxicity is through its interaction with superoxide to produce peroxynitrite, which causes DNA damage. Three distinct isoforms of NOS have been isolated and represent the products of three different genes. The inducible form, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), is a mediator of inflammation and a regulator of epithelial cell growth. Upregulation of iNOS has been linked to epithelial tumorigenesis in various human and animal tissues. In the current investigation, normal esophagus and N-nitrosomethylbenzylamine (NMBA)-induced preneoplastic and papillomatous lesions of the rat esophagus were characterized for expression of iNOS. F344 rats were injected subcutaneously with NMBA (0.5 mg/kg body weight) three times per week for 5 wk. At 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24, 30, and 36 wk following initiation of NMBA treatment, esophagi were collected from 12 untreated and 12 NMBA treated animals. Results of reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a correlation between the upregulation of iNOS and neoplastic progression in the rat esophagus. The expression of iNOS mRNA in preneoplastic tissues and papillomas was significantly elevated when compared to normal tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis showed more extensive cytoplasmic staining of iNOS protein in preneoplastic tissues and papillomas than in normal tissues. Our data suggest, therefore, that the production of iNOS by the epithelium of the esophagus is associated with the development of NMBA-induced esophageal tumorigenesis in rats.
Severe liver damage can occur after treatment with cyclophosphamide. The possible linkage to genetically deficient drug metabolic capacity is unknown. A 58-year-old woman with rheumatoid arthritis was treated with oral cyclophosphamide 50 mg twice daily for 2 months. Due to poor response the dose was doubled and liver failure requiring transplantation developed within weeks. After surgery PCR amplification using DNA from leukocytes showed that she was homozygous for the mutated allele CYP2D6B, which is predictive of the poor metaboliser phenotype for debrisoquine, occurring in 7% of Caucasians. Our patient may have accumulated high levels of the hepatotoxic 4-hydroxylated cyclophosphamide metabolite. Pharmacogenetic methods can help in exploring mechanisms of unexpected severe adverse effects.
Cocaine and its metabolites can produce vasospasm. Cocaine-dependent (CD) patients are at increased risk for stroke, and a high frequency of brain perfusion defects has been observed in clinically asymptomatic CD subjects. This is the first controlled magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study of clinically asymptomatic CD subjects.
Two age-matched groups of male subjects (61 CD and 57 control) participated in the study. Subjects with a history of neurologic symptoms or major medical or neurologic illness, such as hypertension, diabetes, or significant head trauma, were excluded. The severity of hyperintense lesions observed on T2-weighted MRI images were rated on a 0-3-point scale by an experienced radiologist who was blind to all clinical data. Ratings of 3 were felt to be significant indicators of a possible disease process and were used in the data analysis. Three regions were separately rated: the cerebral white matter, subinsular white matter, and subcortical gray matter (basal ganglia and thalamus region).
Despite the exclusion criteria minimizing risk factors for cerebrovascular events, 17 of the 61 (27.9%) CD subjects and 4 of 57 (7%) of the control subjects had severe hyperintense lesions suggestive of subclinical or "silent" anoxic vascular events. Significant group differences were observed in the two white matter regions but not in the subcortical gray matter region. The risk of severe white matter lesions in the CD group increased with age, reaching 50% in the oldest age quartile (46-58 years), and this increase was not related to the number of years cocaine was used.
The data suggest that asymptomatic CD patients are a heterogeneous population with a significantly increased age-related risk of white matter neurovascular toxicity. Premature neurovascular damage may impact treatment outcomes and, as the CD population ages, may manifest as an increased incidence of cognitive deficits.
The paper reports the results of ribomunil trial in chronic bronchitis (CB) patients who suffered from frequent exacerbations. The drug was found to act primarily on a phagocytic component of the immunity and local immunity of the respiratory mucosa. Because of its vaccine-like effect, ribomunil administration is most beneficial in CB remission. Ribomunil treatment results in reduction of the number and duration of CB exacerbations, of the scope of antibacterial therapy.
Years of exposure to tobacco smoke substantially increase the risk for stroke. Whether long-term exposure to outdoor air pollution can lead to stroke is not yet established. We examined the association between long-term exposure to traffic-related air pollution and incident and fatal stroke in a prospective cohort study.
We followed 57,053 participants of the Danish Diet, Cancer and Health cohort in the Hospital Discharge Register for the first-ever hospital admission for stroke (incident stroke) between baseline (1993-1997) and 2006 and defined fatal strokes as death within 30 days of admission. We associated the estimated mean levels of nitrogen dioxide at residential addresses since 1971 to incident and fatal stroke by Cox regression analyses and examined the effects by stroke subtypes: ischemic, hemorrhagic, and nonspecified stroke.
Over a mean follow-up of 9.8 years of 52,215 eligible subjects, there were 1984 (3.8%) first-ever (incident) hospital admissions for stroke of whom 142 (7.2%) died within 30 days. We detected borderline significant associations between mean nitrogen dioxide levels at residence since 1971 and incident stroke (hazard ratio, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.99-1.11, per interquartile range increase) and stroke hospitalization followed by death within 30 days (1.22; 1.00-1.50). The associations were strongest for nonspecified and ischemic strokes, whereas no association was detected with hemorrhagic stroke.
Long-term exposure to traffic-related air pollution may contribute to the development of ischemic but not hemorrhagic stroke, especially severe ischemic strokes leading to death within 30 days.
Thienopyridines are commonly prescribed antiplatelets drugs, extremely useful for the acute and chronic management of patients with cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. The occurrence of their side effects is fortunately uncommon, although unpredictable. We thereby describe a case of prescription of clopidogrel in a patient with ticlopidine-induced hepatitis confirmed by liver biopsy that had undergone multiple percutaneous coronary stenting procedures necessitating subsequent compulsory antiplatelets treatment. The description of this exceptional clinical case is of relevant knowledge to orientate a physician treating a patient with absolute need of antiplatelets and history of previous drug-induced reactions.
Liver enlargement and muscle wastage occurred in Wistar rats following the subcutaneous administration of prednisolone. In the liver both the content of RNA and the biosynthesis of ribosomal RNA increased while both the RNA content and ribosomal RNA biosynthesis were reduced in the gastrocnemius muscle. It is suggested that the drug acted in a selective and tissue-specific manner to enhance ribosomal RNA synthesis in the liver and depress such synthesis in the muscle. This view supports the contention that the liver and muscle are independent sites of prednisolone action.
Propylene (PE) was not carcinogenic in long-term studies in rodents. However, its biotransformation to propylene oxide (PO) raises questions about a carcinogenic risk. PO alkylates macromolecules, is a direct mutagen, and caused tumors in rodents at high concentrations. In order to acquire knowledge on the species-specific PO concentrations in blood resulting from PE exposure, we exposed male Fischer 344/N rats in closed exposure chambers to constant PE concentrations, between 20.1 and 3000 ppm (7 h at least), and four male volunteers to mean constant PE concentrations of 9.82 and 23.4 ppm (180 min) in inhaled air. In the animal experiments, PE and PO were measured in the chamber atmosphere, PE by gas chromatography with flame ionization detection (GC/FID), PO by GC/FID or GC with mass-selective detection (GC/MSD). In the human studies, PE was measured in inhaled and exhaled air by GC/FID. PO was quantified by GC/MSD from exhaled breath collected in gasbags. Blood concentrations of PO were calculated based on the measured PO concentrations in air using the blood-to-air partition coefficients of 60 (rat) and 66 (human). In rats, PO blood concentrations ranged from 53 nmol/l at 20.1 ppm PE to 1750 nmol/l at 3000 ppm PE. In humans, mean blood concentrations of PO were 0.44 and 0.92 nmol/l at mean PE concentrations of 9.82 and 23.4 ppm, respectively. These findings should be taken into consideration when estimating the carcinogenic risk of PE to humans based on carcinogenicity studies in PE- or PO-exposed rats.
Chloroquine is a drug that is widely used in rheumatology and occasionally prescribed in dermatology. From a neurotoxicological point of view, chloroquine can have effects on the peripheral nerves, muscles, neuromuscular junctions and the central nervous system. In this study we analyse the clinical, neurophysiological and anatomopathological findings in two patients with chloroquine induced neuromyopathy, which took the form of a polyradiculoneuropathy.
Case 1: a 75 year old female with rheumatoid arthritis treated with daily doses of 250 mg of chloroquine for four years. The patient visited because of several months history of predominantly proximal progressive tetraparesis with areflexia. Analytical tests and lumbar puncture were normal. Electromyogram (EMG): proximal myopathic and distal neuropathic patterns. Muscular biopsy: vacuolar myopathy with accumulations of phagolysosomes, lipids, lipofuscin, myelinic curvilinear bodies. Case 2: a 74 year old female with arthropathy treated with daily doses of 250 mg of chloroquine for nine months. The patient presented a progressive proximal paraparesis with generalised areflexia. Analytical tests and lumbar puncture were normal. EMG: mixed sensory motor polyneuropathy, myogenic pattern with high frequency discharges in the iliac psoas and a neurogenic pattern in the distal muscles. Muscular biopsy: vacuolar myopathy suggesting a myopathy due to chloroquine. After stopping treatment with this drug the patients progressed favourably.
Chloroquine can induce a clinical pattern that suggests a polyradiculoneuropathy. It is important to establish a history of having taken this drug. If this is indeed the case, then an electromyographic study of the most proximal muscles should be performed in order to detect a myogenic pattern and the same exploration should be applied to the distal muscles to reveal a neurogenic pattern. The final diagnosis will be established by muscular biopsy.
The association between exposure to Isotretinoin, the development of depression and suicide attempts is controversial.
To retrospectively assess pattern of utilization of mental health services in the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) during a 5-year period for all subjects exposed to Isotretinoin in comparison to a control group consisting of army conscripts suffering from psoriasis. All subjects were young adults (18 to 21 years old) in compulsory military service.
Exposure to Isotretinoin mandates reporting and marking as a coded medical profile in the IDFs' computerized medical record of each conscript and soldier. Medical data, tracked by military medical profiles, were summarized from medical records of all subjects treated by Isotretinion during the years 1999-2003 and for the control group for the same period. Use of mental health services was the a-priori defined primary outcome measure.
During the study period 1419 subjects were exposed to Isotretinoin and 1102 suffered from psoriasis. Utilization of mental health services was highest for the index group wherein 17.2% (245/1419) of subjects were evaluated or treated compared to 12.5% in the control group (psoriasis). The inter-group differences were statistically significant; Chi-square=15.9 (df=2), p=0.0003.
We suggest that psychiatric evaluation be regularly undertaken prior to initiation of Isotretinion treatment in young adults at risk, as well as providing follow-up visits during and at completion of treatment.
Troglitazone has been shown to improve peripheral insulin resistance in type 2 diabetic patients and animal models. We examined the effect of troglitazone on the expression of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) in muscle and adipose tissue from Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rat, an animal model of obese type 2 diabetes mellitus. In addition, the effects of troglitazone on GLUT4 translocation and on glucose transport activity in adipocytes were also evaluated. Muscle and adipose tissues were isolated from 35-week-old male troglitazone-treated and untreated OLETF rats at a dose of 150 mg/kg per day for 14 days. In skeletal muscle, the protein and mRNA levels of GLUT4 were not significantly different between OLETF and control rats and they were not affected by troglitazone. On the other hand, GLUT4 protein and mRNA levels in adipose tissue from OLETF rats were significantly decreased (P<0.01) compared with control rats and they were significantly increased (1.5-fold, P<0.01) by troglitazone. Troglitazone had no major effect on GLUT4 translocation in adipocytes, but it significantly increased (1.4-fold, P<0.05) the basal and insulin-induced amounts of GLUT4 in plasma membrane (PM) in adipocytes from OLETF rats. Consistent with these results, the basal and insulin-induced glucose uptakes in adipocytes from troglitazone-treated OLETF rats were significantly increased (1.5-fold, P<0.05) compared with untreated OLETF rats. Our results suggest that troglitazone may exert beneficial effects on insulin resistance by increasing the expression of GLUT4 in adipose tissue.
Bradykinin (BK) liberates nitric oxide, prostacyclin, and tissue plasminogen activator from endothelial cells. We hypothesized that BK B2 receptor knockout (KO) mice (BKB2R(-/-)) have increased thrombosis risk. Paradoxically, the BKB2R(-/-) mice have long bleeding times and delayed carotid artery thrombosis, 78 +/- 6.7 minutes, versus 31 +/- 2.7 minutes in controls. The mechanism(s) for thrombosis protection was sought. In BKB2R(-/-) plasma coagulation, fibrinolysis and anticoagulant proteins are normal except for an increased prekallikrein and decreased factor XI. BKB2R(-/-) mice have elevated BK 1-5 (160 +/- 75 fmol/mL, vs 44 +/- 29 fmol/mL in controls) and angiotensin II (182 +/- 41 pg/mL, vs 49 +/- 7 pg/mL in controls). Ramipril treatment shortens vessel occlusion time. BKB2R(-/-) mice have elevated plasma 6-keto-PGF1alpha (666 +/- 232 ng/mL, vs 23 +/- 5.3 ng/mL in controls) and serum nitrate (61 +/- 5.3 microM, vs 24 +/- 1.8 microM in controls). Treatment with L-NAME (NG-mono-methyl-L-arginine ester) or nimesulide shortens the thrombosis time. BKB2R(-/-) mice have increased angiotensin receptor 2 (AT2R) mRNA and protein expression. Treatment with an AT2R antagonist, PD123 319, normalizes the thrombosis time and nitrate and 6-keto-PGF1alpha. The long bleeding times in BKB2R(-/-) mice also correct with L-NAME and nimesulide therapy. In BKB2R(-/-) mice, angiotensin II binding to an overexpressed AT2R promotes thromboprotection by elevating nitric oxide and prostacyclin. These investigations indicate a pathway for thrombosis risk reduction via the plasma kallikrein/kinin and renin angiotensin systems.
To assess the effect of a combination treatment using anti-hyperuricaemic agents with fenofibrate and/or losartan on uric acid metabolism in hypertriglyceridaemic and/or hypertensive patients with gout.
Twenty seven patients with gout were included in a fenofibrate plus anti-hyperuricaemic agents combination study, and 25 in a losartan plus anti-hyperuricaemic agents combination study. Serum uric acid concentration, uric acid clearance, and 24 hour urinary uric acid excretion were measured before and two months after the addition of fenofibrate (300 mg once daily) or losartan (50 mg once daily) to anti-hyperuricaemic agents.
Combination therapy of fenofibrate or losartan with anti-hyperuricaemic agents, which included benzbromarone (50 mg once daily) or allopurinol (200 mg twice a day), significantly reduced serum uric acid concentrations in accordance with increased uric acid excretion.
A combination of fenofibrate or losartan with anti-hyperuricaemic agents is a good option for the treatment of gout patients with hypertriglyceridaemia and/or hypertension, though the additional hypouricaemic effect may be modest.
Bilirubin is a natural and potent antioxidant that accumulates in the blood of newborn children and leads to physiological jaundice. Breastfed infants have higher serum levels of bilirubin than formula-fed infants and are at risk for bilirubin-induced neurological dysfunction (BIND). Clearance of bilirubin requires the expression of uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1; we investigated its role in the association between breast feeding with jaundice in mice.
We studied mice in which the original Ugt1 locus was disrupted and replaced with the human UGT1 locus (hUGT1 mice); these mice spontaneously develop neonatal hyperbilirubinemia and BIND. We fed human breast milk or formula to neonatal hUGT1 mice and examined activation of the intestinal xenobiotic receptors pregnane X receptor and constitutive androstane receptor. We also examined inflammatory signaling pathways in mice with disruptions in IκB-kinase-α and IκB kinase-β in the intestinal epithelium.
hUGT1 mice that were fed breast milk developed severe hyperbilirubinemia because of suppression of UGT1A1 in the gastrointestinal tract. Formula-fed hUGT1 mice had lower serum levels of bilirubin, which resulted from induction of UGT1A1 in the gastrointestinal tract. hUGT1/Pxr-null mice did not develop severe hyperbilirubinemia, whereas hUGT1/Car-null mice were susceptible to BIND when they were fed breast milk. Breast milk appeared to suppress intestinal IκB kinase α and β, resulting in inactivation of nuclear factor-κB and loss of expression of UGT1A1, leading to hyperbilirubinemia.
Breast milk reduces expression of intestinal UGT1A1, which leads to hyperbilirubinemia and BIND; suppression of this gene appears to involve inactivation of nuclear factor-κB. Hyperbilirubinemia can be reduced by activation of pregnane X receptor, constitutive androstane receptor, or nuclear factor-κB.
Nephrotoxicity manifested by renal insufficiency is a well-known consequence of aminoglycoside administration in hospitalized patients. We report two cases of aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity as manifested by proximal tubular dysfunction (Fanconi's syndrome). In the two patients reported, the tubular dysfunction occurred at the extremes of renal function. In both patients, tubular function returned to normal when the antibiotic was discontinued. Because of the widespread use of these antibiotics in the critically ill patient, it may be prudent to recognize this disorder when managing fluids, electrolytes, and nutrition.
Serine hydrolase KIAA1363 is an acetyl monoalkylglycerol ether (AcMAGE) hydrolase involved in tumor cell invasiveness. It is also an organophosphate (OP) insecticide-detoxifying enzyme. The key to understanding these dual properties was the use of KIAA1363 +/+ (wildtype) and -/- (gene deficient) mice to define the role of this enzyme in brain and other tissues and its effectiveness in vivo in reducing OP toxicity. KIAA1363 was the primary AcMAGE hydrolase in brain, lung, heart and kidney and was highly sensitive to inactivation by chlorpyrifos oxon (CPO) (IC50 2 nM) [the bioactivated metabolite of the major insecticide chlorpyrifos (CPF)]. Although there was no difference in hydrolysis product monoalkylglycerol ether (MAGE) levels in +/+ and -/- mouse brains in vivo, isopropyl dodecylfluorophosphonate (30 mg/kg) and CPF (100 mg/kg) resulted in 23-51% decrease in brain MAGE levels consistent with inhibition of AcMAGE hydrolase activity. On incubating +/+ and -/- brain membranes with AcMAGE and cytidine-5'-diphosphocholine, the absence of KIAA1363 activity dramatically increased de novo formation of platelet-activating factor (PAF) and lyso-PAF, signifying that metabolically-stabilized AcMAGE can be converted to this bioactive lipid in brain. On considering detoxification, KIAA1363 -/- mice were significantly more sensitive than +/+ mice to ip-administered CPF (100 mg/kg) and parathion (10 mg/kg) with increased tremoring and mortality that correlated for CPF with greater brain acetylcholinesterase inhibition. Docking AcMAGE and CPO in a KIAA1363 active site model showed similar positioning of their acetyl and trichloropyridinyl moieties, respectively. This study establishes the relevance of KIAA1363 in ether lipid metabolism and OP detoxification.
Lead, cadmium and arsenic represent well recognized toxic agents which in a specific manner disturb function of cardiovascular system. Cystatin C has been accepted to be a significant prognostic factor for cardiovascular diseases. The study aimed at defining relationship between occupational exposure to lead, cadmium and arsenic on one hand and concentration of cystatin C on the other. The studies were performed on 282 men occupationally exposed to lead, cadmium and arsenic. Among the tested individuals several groups of persons were distinguished: exposed exclusively to lead (Pb group), cadmium (Cd group), arsenic (As group), to lead and cadmium (Pb/Cd group), to lead and arsenic (Pb/As group) or to cadmium and arsenic (Cd/As group). In all the individuals serum concentration of cystatin C was estimated. Concentration of cystatin C was found to be significantly higher in Pb group than in Cd and As groups, also in Pb/Cd group higher than in Cd group and in Pb/As group than in As group. Positive linear correlations were established between Pb concentration in blood (Pb-B) and serum concentration of cystatin C (r=0.59; p<0.05) as well as between urinary concentration of As (As-U) and serum concentration of cystatin C (r=0.41; p<0.05). Regression analysis demonstrated that higher blood level of lead, higher urinary level of arsenic, more advanced age and higher body mass index represented independent risk factors of an increased serum concentration of cystatin C in the group of persons exposed to lead, cadmium and arsenic.
Higher blood level of lead and higher urinary level of arsenic represented independent risk factors of an increased serum concentration of cystatin C in the group of persons occupationally exposed to lead, cadmium and arsenic. Concentration of lead in blood was significantly influencing serum concentration of cystatin C. The highest mean serum concentration of cystatin C was detected in the group of foundry workers exposed simultaneously to lead and arsenic.
Diuretics, especially thiazide-type diuretics, are widely used in the treatment of essential hypertension. The most frequent adverse reactions are hypotension, photosensitivity, hypokalaemia, anorexia and epigastric distress. Life-threatening adverse reactions are rare. We report a case of pulmonary oedema associated with low left ventricular filling pressures and hypotension, occurring in a patient shortly after ingestion of 12.5 mg of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ). By reviewing the literature (Medline search) 49 similar cases were found. We compared the findings of all these patients in an attempt to reveal the underlying mechanism of this non-cardiogenic pulmonary oedema and shock. We believe that an allergic type III reaction is most likely the underlying mechanism of this adverse drug reaction to HCTZ. It is important to recognize the causality of the symptoms of this rare but life-threatening side effect of thiazide-type diuretics, in order to stop the drug intake immediately and to prevent any unthoughtful reinitiation of this treatment.
A healthy 4-year-old boy presented to the pediatric emergency department after inserting a black-eyed pea into his right external ear canal. Initial attempts at removal of this foreign body were unsuccessful, resulting in patient agitation. After administration of intramuscular ketamine for sedation, the patient was observed to experience one ineffective respiration followed by a period of apnea. No excessive oropharyngeal secretions or laryngospasm were noted. Spontaneous respirations resumed after 40 seconds, and the child recovered with no apparent ill effects. This case illustrates the need for adequate monitoring and preparation for emergency airway management when using ketamine for sedation in the ED.
Atrioventricular (AV) conduction, ventriculoatrial (VA) conduction, and the mechanism of tachycardia, were studied by programmed electrical stimulation before and after the administration of verapamil, in 10 patients with paroxysmal re-entrant supraventricular tachycardia. In 7 patients the tachycardia circuit was confined to the AV node. In 3 patients an accessory pathway conducting only in the ventriculoatrial direction was used during tachycardia. When administered intravenously during tachycardia, verapamil terminated the arrhythmia in 9 patients. Verapamil lengthened the effective and the functional refractory period of the AV node and the AV nodal transmission time in all patients in whom this could be studied. As a result of these changes, it was not possible to initiate tachycardia in 3 patients. The width of the zone of atrial premature beats able to initiate tachycardia (the tachycardia zone) narrowed in 5 patients, and increased in 2 patients. In 6 of these 7 patients the tachycardia zone shifted to longer premature beat intervals. Verapamil resulted in slowing of the heart rate during tachycardia. Apart from slowing in heart rate during tachycardia and termination of tachycardia after intravenous verapamil, the 3 patients with an accessory pathway showed no beneficial effect of verapamil on the mechanism of initiation of tachycardia. Five patients were restudied after 2 to 3 weeks of oral administration of verapamil. Though less, effects were similar to those obtained after intravenous administration.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been reported to protect against the development of colon cancer. However, the mechanism(s) by which NSAIDs exert their effects is not clear.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of NSAIDs on mRNA expression of tumour suppressor adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene in rat colon mucosa.
Starting at six weeks of age, three groups of rats (groups 1, 2, and 3) were treated with azoxymethane (AOM), a colon specific carcinogen, and another three groups (groups 4, 5, and 6) were not given AOM. Groups 2 and 3 were given 10 mg/kg of sulindac or etodolac, respectively, three times weekly during the experiment. Groups 4 and 5 were also given sulindac or etodolac, respectively, in the same manner as in groups 2 and 3. Group 6 (untreated control) was not given any agent (AOM or NSAIDs). At 10 weeks of age, preneoplastic lesions (aberrant crypt foci (ACF)) induced by AOM in the colon were counted, and the level of expression of APC mRNA in the colonic mucosa was estimated by the reverse transcription-competitive polymerase chain reaction method and northern blot analysis.
Mean occurrence of ACF in rats in groups 2 and 3 was reduced to approximately 50% of that in group 1. The level of APC mRNA expression in group 1 (AOM alone) was lower than that in group 6 (untreated control) (p<0.05); however, levels of APC mRNA expression in groups 2, 3, 4, and 5, to which NSAIDs had been administered, were significantly increased compared with levels in groups 1 and 6 (p<0.01).
Both sulindac and etodolac reduced the occurrence of ACF and induced an increase in APC mRNA in rat colon mucosa.
We sought to determine whether continuous intrathecal delivery of baclofen can effectively decrease spastic hypertonia due to stroke.
Stroke patients with >6 months of intractable spasticity were screened via a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover design of either intrathecal normal saline or 50 microgram baclofen. Those who dropped an average of 2 points in either their affected lower extremity side Ashworth or Penn spasm frequency scores were then offered computer-controlled pump implantation for continuous ITB and followed prospectively for up to 12 months.
In 21 stroke patients 6 hours after the active drug bolus, the average (+/-SD) lower extremity Ashworth score on the affected extremities decreased from 3.3+/-1.2 to 1.4+/-0.7 (P<0.0001), spasm score from 1.2+/-1.2 to 0.1+/-0.3 (P=0.0224), and reflex score from 2.1+/-1.2 to 0.1+/-0.5 (P<0.0001). The average upper extremity Ashworth score on the affected extremities decreased from 2.8+/-1.1 to 1.8+/-0.8 (P<0.0001), spasm score from 0.7+/-1.0 to 0.2+/-0.4 (P=0.1544), and reflex score from 2.1+/-0.9 to 1.2+/-0.9 (P=0.0004). All active drug scores were statistically different from placebo scores at 6 hours (P<0.05). With up to 12 months of continuous infusion of ITB in 17 implanted patients, the average lower extremity Ashworth score on the affected extremities decreased from 3.7+/-1.0 to 1.8+/-1.1 (P<0.0001), the spasm score dropped from 1.2+/-1.3 to 0.6+/-1.0 (P=0.4282), and the reflex score decreased from 2.4+/-1.3 to 1.0+/-1.3 (P<0.0001). The average upper extremity Ashworth score in the affected extremities decreased from 3.2+/-1.1 to 1.8+/-0.9 (P<0.0001), the spasm score dropped from 0.7+/-1.0 to 0.3+/-0.8 (P=0.8685), and the reflex score decreased from 2.4+/-0.8 to 1.5+/-1.2 (P=0.3337). The average continuous ITB dose required to attain these effects was 268 microgram/d.
Intrathecal infusion of baclofen is capable of maintaining a reduction in the spastic hypertonia resulting from stroke.
To investigate whether anterior thalamic nucleus (AN) lesions are protective against spontaneous recurrent seizures in the chronic phase of the pilocarpine model of epilepsy.
Two groups of rats were treated with bilateral AN radiofrequency thalamotomies or sham surgery 2 weeks after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus. After the lesions, animals were videotaped from the 2nd to the 8th week after status epilepticus (total 180 h).
During the 6 weeks of observation, no differences in the frequency of spontaneous seizures were found between animals that had bilateral AN lesions (n = 26; 3.1 +/- 0.6 seizures per animal) and controls (n = 25; 3.0 +/- 0.6 seizures per animal; p = 0.8).
We conclude that AN thalamotomies were not effective in reducing the frequency of seizures during the chronic phase of the pilocarpine model of epilepsy.
A patient with chronic schizophrenia treated with fluphenazine developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome, characterized by fever, obtundation, rigidity, and tremulousness. Hyperthermia and elevated serum creatine kinase were successfully corrected by parenteral treatment with dantrolene. Obtundation, rigidity, and tremulousness responded to high doses of bromocriptine.
