Using the metabolomics-guided screening coupled to N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-mediated mutagenesis, we identified mice that exhibited elevated levels of long-chain acylcarnitines. Whole genome homozygosity mapping with 262 SNP markers mapped the disease gene to chromosome 5 where candidate genes Hadha and Hadhb, encoding the mitochondria trifunctional protein (MTP) alpha- and beta-subunits, respectively, are located. Direct sequencing revealed a normal alpha-subunit, but detected a nucleotide T-to-A transversion in exon 14 (c.1210T>A) of beta-subunit (Hadhb) which resulted in a missense mutation of methionine to lysine (M404K). Western blot analysis showed a significant reduction of both the alpha- and beta-subunits, consistent with reduced enzyme activity in both the long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase and the long-chain 3-ketoacyl-CoA thiolase activities. These mice had a decreased weight gain and cardiac arrhythmias which manifested from a prolonged PR interval to a complete atrio-ventricular dissociation, and died suddenly between 9 and 16 months of age. Histopathological studies showed multifocal cardiac fibrosis and hepatic steatosis. This mouse model will be useful to further investigate the mechanisms underlying arrhythmogenesis relating to lipotoxic cardiomyopathy and to investigate pathophysiology and treatment strategies for human MTP deficiency.
To compare the clinical efficacy, effect on serum C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid A (SAA), and plasma interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels, and safety of tenidap with a combination of hydroxychloroquine-plus-piroxicam, and piroxicam alone, in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.
A double-blind, randomized, multicenter study in which patients with active RA were treated with tenidap 120 mg/day, hydroxychloroquine 400 mg/day and piroxicam 20 mg/day, or piroxicam alone 20 mg/day, for 24 weeks.
At weeks 12 and 24, tenidap produced greater improvements than piroxicam based on 5 primary efficacy parameters; this improvement showed statistical significance in 4 of the 5 measures at week 12, and in 3 of the 5 measures at week 24. Clinical improvements in the hydroxychloroquine-plus-piroxicam-treated with tenidap. Compared with piroxicam, tenidap was associated with significantly greater reductions in serum CRP concentrations at 4, 12, and 24 weeks, and significantly greater reductions in SAA concentrations at weeks 12 and 24. The decrease in SAA concentrations was also significantly greater at weeks 4 and 24 in the tenidap-treated group than in the hydroxychloroquine-plus-piroxicam-treated group. Significant reductions in plasma IL-6 levels were observed at weeks 4, 12, and 24 within the tenidap group, and at week 24 within the hydroxychloroquine-plus-piroxicam-treated group. The overall occurrence of side effects, including gastrointestinal side effects, was similar in all 3 treatment groups. A small proportion of tenidap-treated patients (6.4%) manifested mild, nonprogressive, reversible proteinuria of presumed renal proximal tubular origin, and 3-4% of patients had elevated transaminase levels.
In the treatment of patients with RA, tenidap is as effective as the combination of hydroxychloroquine-plus-piroxicam, and is more effective than piroxicam alone; moreover, tenidap's safety profile is comparable to that observed with piroxicam alone, and with hydroxychloroquine-plus-piroxicam. The clinical response observed in this study, as well as the prompt decreases in acute-phase protein levels of CRP and SAA, and in plasma IL-6 levels, suggest that tenidap represents a new type of antiarthritic medication, with properties similar to, but not identical to, a therapeutic combination of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug with disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.
The authors evaluated the effects of midazolam, propofol, thiopental, and fentanyl on volunteer participants' memory for words and pictures at equisedative concentrations.
Sixty-seven healthy volunteers were randomized to receive intravenous infusions of midazolam (n = 11), propofol (n = 11), thiopental (n = 10), fentanyl with ondansetron pretreatment (n = 11), ondansetron alone (n = 8), or placebo (n = 16) in a double-blind design. Three increasing and then two decreasing sedative concentrations were achieved by computer-controlled infusion in each volunteer. Measures of sedation, memory, and drug concentration were obtained at each target concentration. Drug concentrations were normalized to equisedative effects using both Emax and logistic regression methods of pharmacodynamic modeling. The serum concentrations at 50% memory effect (Cp50s) were determined using four different memory end points. The relative potencies compared with midazolam for memory impairment were determined.
Equisedative concentrations were midazolam, 64.5 +/- 9.4 ng/ml; propofol, 0.7 +/- 0.2 microg/ml; thiopental, 2.9 /- 1.0 microg/ml; and fentanyl, 0.9 +/- 0.2 ng/ml. The Cp50s for 50% loss of memory for words were midazolam, 56 +/- 4 ng/ml; propofol, 0.62 +/- 0.04 microg/ml; thiopental, 4.5 +/- 0.3 microg/ml; and fentanyl, 3.2 +/- 0.4 ng/ml. Compared with midazolam, relative potencies (with 95% confidence intervals) were propofol, 0.96 (0.44-1.78); thiopental, 0.76 (0.52-0.94); and fentanyl, 0.34 (0.05-0.76). Large effects on memory were only produced by propofol and midazolam.
At equal sedation, propofol produces the same degree of memory impairment as midazolam. Thiopental has mild memory effects whereas fentanyl has none. Ondansetron alone has no sedative or amnesic effects.
3-Methylcholanthrene (MC), a polycylic aromatic hydrocarbon, induces atherogenesis in mice fed an atherogenic diet. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that MC would induce DNA adducts in mouse aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs) and that cytochrome P4501B1 (CYP1B1) plays an important role in the activation of MC to genotoxic intermediates.
Cultured SMCs were treated with MC or the vehicle dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and DNA was isolated after 24 h. In some experiments, the cells were pre-treated with the CYP1B1 inhibitor 1-ethynylpyrene (EP) prior to exposure to MC. DNA adducts were determined by the 32P-postlabeling assay. Aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase assay was measured by fluorimetry.
MC induced formation of 12 DNA adducts that were not observed in DMSO-treated cells. DNA adduct formation was dose-dependent, with maximum response observed at 3 microM. Pre-treatment of cells with EP dramatically suppressed DNA adduct formation by MC. MC treatment caused induction of CYP1B1, but not CYP1A1.
The induction of high levels of multiple DNA adducts in SMCs by MC suggests that SMCs have a functional enzymatic machinery capable of metabolically activating MC to genotoxic metabolites. The significant inhibition by EP of MC-induced DNA adduct formation indicated that CYP1B1 was the primary CYP enzyme responsible for formation of genotoxic metabolites that may play a role in the induction of atherosclerosis by MC.
A total of 60 patients with chronic urinary tract infections were included in this comparative study. 29 patients received cinoxacin and 31 nalidixic acid for a period of ten days. There were five therapy failures in the cinoxacin group and nine in the nalidixic acid group. Drug-related side-effects were reported by 11 patients in the cinoxacin group and by 13 patients in the nalidixic acid group. Gastrointestinal and central nervous disturbances were the adverse reactions which occurred most frequently. In all cases side-effects disappeared quickly after therapy was discontinued.
Several reports have focused on the involvement of the endocannabinoid system in hyperexcitability, particularly in seizure and epilepsy models. Our laboratory recently characterized a novel plasticity change of the cannabinoid type 1 (CB(1)) receptor in hippocampi of epileptic rats following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). This long-term redistribution included selective layer-specific changes in CB(1) receptor expression within distinct hippocampal subregions. However, the temporal characteristics of this redistribution during the development of epilepsy had not been examined. Therefore, this study was initiated to evaluate the time course by which pilocarpine-induced SE produced changes in CB(1) receptor expression. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that within 1 week following SE, there was a pronounced loss in CB(1) receptor expression throughout the hippocampus, while staining in many interneurons was preserved. By 1 month post-SE, pilocarpine-treated animals began to display epileptic seizures, and CB(1) receptor expression was characteristic of the redistribution observed in long-term epileptic rats, with decreases in CB(1) receptor immunoreactivity in the stratum pyramidale neuropil and dentate gyrus inner molecular layer, and increases in the strata oriens and radiatum of CA1-3. Observed changes in CB(1) receptor expression were confirmed at multiple time points by western blot analysis. The data indicate that overall decreases in expression following SE preempt a long-lasting CB(1) receptor redistribution, and that differential responses occur within the hippocampus to initial CB(1) receptor losses. This suggests a role for dysregulation of the endocannabinoid system during epileptogenesis and indicates that the CB(1) receptor redistribution temporally correlates with the emergence of epileptic seizures.
To systematically analyze the efficacy and safety of aliskiren for the treatment of hypertension in comparison to placebo, other monotherapy, and various combination therapies.
A PubMed database (1966-June 2008) search was conducted with aliskiren as a search term with limits of humans, written in English, and in title only. Phase III pivotal clinical studies retrieved by PubMed database and resources such as printed labeling, approval letter, pharmacology reviews, and medical reviews posted in Drug@FDA website were evaluated with regard to study design and outcomes of efficacy and safety.
Six Phase III pivotal clinical studies compared various doses of aliskiren to placebo and some studies compared aliskiren to treatment with other monotherapies or combinations. Aliskiren in doses of 300 mg showed a statistically significant reduction in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure versus placebo. Comparison to other antihypertensive treatments suggest that aliskiren doses of 150 and 300 mg may induce blood pressure changes similar to those seen with moderate doses of hydrochlorothiazide or angiotensin receptor blockers. Aliskiren in combination with angiotensin receptor blockers or hydrochlorothiazide showed additional blood pressure reduction only when higher doses of aliskiren were used. Aliskiren appears to be well tolerated, with diarrhea being the only statistically significant adverse event.
Aliskiren is a novel antihypertensive that exerts its effects through the direct inhibition of renin. Although the drug is well tolerated, its modest effects on blood pressure and the present lack of evidence of impact on objective cardiovascular outcomes appear to limit its utility in the general treatment of hypertension at this time.
Twenty patients with dermatitis herpetiformis treated with di(4-aminophenyl)-sulphone (Dapsone) were analyzed with respect to serum hemopexin concentration as well as some other haematological parameters. With one exception, there were normal concentrations of serum hemopexin when the haptoglobin and methaemoglobin concentrations were normal. Ten out of 11 patients with haptoglobin below 0.3 g/l, which is the lower limit of reference interval at this laboratory, had their hemopexin concentrations reduced to various extents. There was an inverse relationship between the concentration of serum hemopexin and blood methaemoglobin. There was no correlation between amount of Heinz bodies and the concentrations of blood methaemoglobin, serum haptoglobin or serum hemopexin. It is concluded that serum hemopexin measurement should be of value in the assessment of the severity of the haemolysis caused by the drug treatment in those cases who have a low serum haptoglobin concentration.
The prevention of cell apoptosis is a promising strategy for neuroprotection against brain injury in seizures. X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) is regarded as the most potent inhibitor of cell apoptosis. In the present study, we fused the protein transduction domain (PTD) of Antennapedia Homeodomain of Drosophila (AntpHD) to XIAP (BIR3-RING) and explored the neuroprotective effect of XIAP in rats with seizures induced by kainic acid (KA). KA triggered neuronal death in the ipsilateral CA3 subfield of the hippocampus and activation of caspase-3 and -9. PTD-XIAP fusion protein can be delivered into cos7 cells in vitro. We used intraperitoneal injection to deliver the PTD-XIAP fusion protein which can enter into brain, significantly decrease the TUNEL positive cells and increase the number of surviving cells in the ipsilateral CA3 subfield of the hippocampus at 24 h after KA-induced seizures. Furthermore, PTD-XIAP fusion protein attenuated activated caspase-3 and -9. These results demonstrate the neuroprotective effect of PTD-XIAP fusion protein against brain injury possibly through the inhibition of caspase. The significance of these findings in the treatment of epilepsy still needs to be extensively studied.
We report a patient who, while receiving probenecid and colchicine for acute gouty arthritis, developed severe hemolytic anemia in association with a generalized rash. The hemolysis was immune mediated as shown by a positive direct Coombs' test. In vitro hematologic studies showed that a probenecid dependent antibody was present.
We describe a normotensive patient who developed posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome following prolonged use of dexamethasone for nausea control with cisplatin and pemetrexed chemotherapy. A 32-year-old woman with advanced intraperitoneal mesothelioma developed new-onset seizures and cognitive impairment. MRI of the brain demonstrated several areas of increased signal on T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequences within the subcortical white matter of both hemispheres. Chemotherapy was discontinued and dexamethasone tapered-off. She returned to her baseline with resolution of MRI abnormalities. We hypothesize that extended use of dexamethasone potentiated the relatively uncommon complication of leukotoxicity associated with cisplatin, and we elaborate on dexamethasone's contribution.
Progressive diabetes is associated renal remodeling, which we previously showed correlated to reduced protein abundance of several major renal sodium transporters and channel subunits in the obese Zucker rat. Here we test whether rosiglitazone (RGZ), a peroxisome proliferator-activated subtype gamma receptor agonist, would be protective and attenuate these changes.
Male, obese and lean Zucker rats (9 weeks old) were randomly divided (n = 6/group) to receive control diet with or without RGZ at 3 mg/kg.bw/day for 12 weeks.
RGZ normalized blood glucose and plasma fructosamine levels in obese rats. Obese control rats had relatively increased fractional excretion of sodium (FE(Na), sodium excretion relative to creatinine). Nonetheless, both obese and RGZ-treated rats had relatively higher 24-hour net sodium balances. Immunoblotting revealed obese rats had significantly reduced renal cortical protein abundances of the bumetanide-sensitive Na-K-2Cl cotransporter (NKCC2) and the sodium hydrogen exchanger (NHE3). RGZ normalized NKCC2 abundance and increased the abundance of the alpha-subunit of the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). In contrast, in the outer medulla, obese rats had increased abundance of NKCC2, gamma-ENaC (85-kDa), and endothelial NOS. Furthermore, RGZ caused a decrease in the abundance of cortical beta- and gamma-ENaC (85-kDa). Finally, the whole kidney abundances of alpha-1 Na-K-ATPase, alpha- beta-, and gamma-ENaC (70-kDa band) positively correlated with net sodium balance, whereas NKCC2 was negatively correlated to FE(Na).
Chronic RGZ treatment of obese Zucker rats may preserve renal sodium reabsorptive capacity by its indirect actions to attenuate hyperglycemia as well as direct effects on transporter abundance and activity.
The liver is the central organ for the detoxification of numerous xenobiotics, including carcinogens. We studied the influence of cholestasis and biliary cirrhosis on the detoxification, elimination, and tissue distribution of a model compound and food derived carcinogen, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP).
Wistar rats were injected with (14)C-PhIP into the portal vein one or six weeks after common bile duct ligation (CBDL). Bile flow was reconstituted, bile and urine were collected over 120 minutes, and metabolites were analysed using high performance liquid chromatograpy. Total tissue radioactivity levels in several organs as well as tissue bound (ethanol insoluble tissue fraction) radioactivity levels were determined.
Significant downregulation of the transport proteins multidrug resistance associated protein 2 and breast cancer resistance protein was observed in biliary cirrhosis. Biliary excretion of radioactivity was significantly reduced in cholestasis and biliary cirrhosis compared with controls (15 (2.9)% and 3.2 (1)% of the dose v 36.5 (2)%, respectively). Phase II metabolism was severely reduced in cirrhotic rats, resulting in a twofold increase in tissue radioactivity levels in the liver, kidney, and colon. Biliary cirrhosis increased tissue binding of reactive metabolites, as expressed in cpm/100 mg tissue in the liver and the colon (3267 (1218) v 1191 (429) in the liver, 3044 (1913) v 453 (253) in the colon).
Biliary cirrhosis induced by CBDL causes impaired metabolism and elimination of PhIP, and leads to higher tissue levels of potentially genotoxic metabolites in the liver and colon of rats. These data may explain the increased incidence of hepatic and extrahepatic cancers in cholestasis and liver cirrhosis.
To report 4 patients with pigment dispersion syndrome (PDS) who had delayed intraocular pressure (IOP) spikes after pharmacologic pupillary dilation.
Four patients with a diagnosis of PDS with documented IOP spike after pharmacologic pupillary dilation were included. Study patients were examined before and after pupillary dilation. The amount of pigment present in the anterior chamber and the IOP were measured at hourly intervals.
Although maximal pigment liberation occurred immediately after maximal dilation, the IOP continued to elevate for at least 1.5 hours.
The increase in IOP after pupillary dilation may not occur simultaneously with maximal pigment liberation but may follow it after the pigment has settled out of the anterior chamber. This has implications for monitoring patients with PDS after dilation to detect and treat rises in IOP.
Cyclophosphamide (CPA) is widely used for peripheral blood stem cell mobilization, and a dose adjustment of CPA in the presence of renal failure has not been suggested. However, we describe a myeloma patient with renal failure (serum creatinine 4.2 mg/dl, creatinine clearance 11.2 ml/min) receiving CPA 2 g/m2 for 2 days, who developed unexpectedly severe toxicity, including myopericarditis and prolonged myelosuppression. The serial serum concentrations of CPA metabolites were persistently much higher than those in a myeloma patient with normal renal function. We consider, therefore, that the dose of CPA should be reduced in the presence of severe renal failure when used as high-dose therapy or to mobilize peripheral blood stem cells.
The evoked expression of the immediate early gene-encoded proteins c-Fos and Krox-24 was used to study activation of hindbrain neurons as a function of the development of cyclophosphamide (CP) cystitis in behaving rats. CP-injected animals received a single dose of 100 mg/kg i.p. under transient volatile anesthesia and survived for 1 to 4 h in order to cover the whole postinjection period during which the disease develops. CP-injected groups included: (1) animals with minor simple chorionic edema, an early characteristic of inflammation (1 h postinjection); (2) animals with well-developed simple chorionic edema (2 h postinjection); (3) animals with mild inflammation (chorionic edema accompanied by epithelial cleavage; 3 h postinjection); and (4) animals with complete inflammation (4 h postinjection). In addition to onset of chorionic edema, the earliest postinjection period also included the general aspects of the nervous reaction consecutive to the injection process (handling, transient volatile anesthesia and postanesthesia awakening, abdominal pinprick, CP-blood circulating effects). Controls included both noninjected animals and saline-injected animals surviving for the same times as CP-injected ones. Quantitative results come from c-Fos expression. It has been shown that: (1) saline injection is a significant stimulus for only nucleus O and central gray pars alpha and nucleus medialis of the dorsal vagal complex; (2) all structures driven by CP injection (nucleus O and central gray pars alpha, locus coeruleus, Barrington's nucleus and parabrachial area mostly in its ventral and lateral subdivisions, dorsal vagal complex, ventrocaudal portion of lateral bulbar reticular formation) responded vigorously shortly after injection, but only two (dorsal vagal complex, ventrocaudal portion of lateral bulbar reticular formation) showed increased or renewed activity when cystitis completely developed, i.e., when noxious visceral inputs reached highest levels. Regarding the sequential activation of these structures in relation to postinjection time, evidence is given that: (1) a large variety of hindbrain structures are differentially involved in either the general reaction consecutive to the injection process or to various degrees of cystitis; (2) these structures extend from the brain-spinal cord to the pons-mesencephalon transitional junction levels; (3) the two structures most powerfully driven by visceronociceptive inputs are also the most caudal ones, being located at the brain-spinal cord junction level; and (4) the dorsal vagal complex could be the main hindbrain visceral pain center, with three particular subdivisions, the nucleus medialis, nucleus commissuralis, and ventralmost part of area postrema, being involved.
An accidental death caused by the combined use of a new designer drug, 4-methylmethcathinone (mephedrone), and heroin is reported. A 22-year-old Caucasian male was found unresponsive in his living quarters and was transported to the hospital where he died. During autopsy, needle marks were found along the decedent's lower legs and ankles. Investigators discovered the decedent and his roommate had been using "Black Tar" heroin and mephedrone. Routine toxicological analysis detected morphine in the decedent's blood at 0.06 mg/L. Additionally, 6-acetylmorphine, morphine, codeine, and doxylamine were detected in his urine. A designer drug screen, employing a basic liquid-liquid extraction followed by pentafluropropionic anhydride derivatization, was used to isolate mephedrone from both blood and urine specimens. The derivatized extracts were analyzed by gas chromatography- mass spectrometry (GC-MS) operating in full-scan mode. Quantitative analysis of mephedrone was performed by GC-MS operating in selective ion monitoring mode using methamphetamine-d(14) as an internal standard. Mephedrone was confirmed in the decedent's blood and urine at 0.50 and 198 mg/L, respectively. The physiological and pharmacological effects of mephedrone and any associated toxicity have not been reported. However, because of its structural similarities with methcathinone and the high concentration in the decedent's blood, the overall contribution of mephedrone to the death could not be minimized. Therefore, the medical examiner reported the cause of death as multiple-drug toxicity and the manner of death as accidental.
The role of vascular sympatholytic activity of carvedilol in its antihypertensive effect in N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) hypertensive rats was assessed by means of enantioselective pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic (PK-PD) modelling.
Male Wistar rats were randomly divided into two groups: control rats received tap water to drink for 2 weeks while L-NAME rats received L-NAME solution to drink for 2 weeks. The effects of carvedilol (1 and 5 mg/kg i.v.) on blood pressure, heart rate and blood pressure variability were recorded. Enantioselective carvedilol plasma pharmacokinetics were studied by means of traditional blood sampling. The relationship between carvedilol concentrations and their hypotensive and bradycardic effects was established by means of PK-PD modelling. Vascular sympatholytic activity of carvedilol was assessed by the estimation of drug effects on low frequency blood pressure variability by means of spectral analysis.
A dose-dependent increase in volume of distribution, as well as a greater volume of distribution and clearance of S-carvedilol as compared with the R-enantiomer was found in both experimental groups. Although the PK-PD properties of the S-carvedilol chronotropic effect were not altered in L-NAME rats, hypertensive rats showed greater potency and efficacy to the carvedilol hypotensive response. Greater potency of carvedilol for inhibition of sympathetic vascular activity was found in L-NAME rats.
Carvedilol showed enantioselective non-linear pharmacokinetic properties in both groups. An enhanced hypotensive activity of carvedilol was found in L-NAME hypertensive rats compared with control rats, which may be explained by the greater potency of carvedilol for sympathetic vascular tone inhibition.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias are abnormal involuntary movements that develop as a side-effect of long-term treatment with levodopa for Parkinson's disease. The mechanisms underlying such effects are unclear but may include abnormal stimulation of dopamine D(3) receptors. Elevations in dopamine D(3) receptor mRNA and binding are seen in the denervated striatum of hemiparkinsonian rats treated chronically with levodopa, and these changes correlate well with behavioural sensitization in this model. Further investigation of dopamine D(3) receptor involvement in levodopa-induced dyskinesias is hampered by the lack of appropriately selective ligands for this receptor. Here, in vivo administration of an antisense oligonucleotide designed to reduce striatal dopamine D(3) receptor expression provides a level of specificity not available through traditional pharmacological approaches. Following chronic treatment with levodopa, hemiparkinsonian rats received intrastriatal infusion of oligonucleotide antisense to dopamine D(3) receptor mRNA for 5 days. Antisense treatment effectively and selectively reduced striatal dopamine D(3) receptor binding and blocked behavioural sensitization to the effects of repeated levodopa. These findings confirm the importance of the D3 receptor in the expression of behavioural sensitization to levodopa in animals with dopaminergic denervation and contribute to our limited understanding of the functional significance of this receptor. In that sensitization to the effects of repeated levodopa in this setting may be analogous to medication-induced dyskinesias in humans, our findings furthermore suggest that drugs which block D(3) function may be helpful in the treatment of dyskinesias, without necessarily exacerbating Parkinsonism.
Glyphosate, a common herbicide, is not toxic under normal exposure circumstances. However, this chemical, when combined with a surfactant, is cytotoxic. In this study, the mechanism of the additive effect of glyphosate and TN-20, a common surfactant in glyphosate herbicides, was investigated. After exposure of rat H9c2 cells to glyphosate and TN-20 mixtures, following assays were performed: flow cytometry to determine the proportion of cells that underwent apoptosis and necrosis; western blotting to determine expression of mitochondrial proteins (Bcl-2 and Bax); immunological methods to evaluate translocation of cytochrome C; luminometric measurements to determine activity of caspases 3/7 and 9; and tetramethyl rhodamine methyl ester assay to measure mitochondrial membrane potentials. Bcl-1 intensity decreased while Bax intensity increased with exposure to increasing TN-20 and/or glyphosate concentrations. Caspase activity increased and mitochondrial membrane potential decreased only when the cells were exposed to a mixture of both TN-20 and glyphosate, but not after exposure to either one of these compounds. The results support the possibility that mixtures of glyphosate and TN-20 aggravate mitochondrial damage and induce apoptosis and necrosis. Throughout this process, TN-20 seems to disrupt the integrity of the cellular barrier to glyphosate uptake, promoting glyphosate-mediated toxicity.
We report a case of Goodpasture-like syndrome developing in a patient who was treated with D-penicillamine for the diffuse form of systemic sclerosis. This unusual pulmonary-renal syndrome has been described on rare occasions in patients receiving D-penicillamine. This complication appeared to be uniformly fatal unless treated with aggressive immunotherapy. We review the cases reported to date in the literature and describe the clinical characteristics, therapy, and outcome of this group of patients.
Obesity-related disorders are associated with the development of ischemic heart disease. Adiponectin is a circulating adipose-derived cytokine that is downregulated in obese individuals and after myocardial infarction. Here, we examine the role of adiponectin in myocardial remodeling in response to acute injury. Ischemia-reperfusion in adiponectin-deficient (APN-KO) mice resulted in increased myocardial infarct size, myocardial apoptosis and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha expression compared with wild-type mice. Administration of adiponectin diminished infarct size, apoptosis and TNF-alpha production in both APN-KO and wild-type mice. In cultured cardiac cells, adiponectin inhibited apoptosis and TNF-alpha production. Dominant negative AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) reversed the inhibitory effects of adiponectin on apoptosis but had no effect on the suppressive effect of adiponectin on TNF-alpha production. Adiponectin induced cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-dependent synthesis of prostaglandin E(2) in cardiac cells, and COX-2 inhibition reversed the inhibitory effects of adiponectin on TNF-alpha production and infarct size. These data suggest that adiponectin protects the heart from ischemia-reperfusion injury through both AMPK- and COX-2-dependent mechanisms.
The effect of phenobarbital (PB), p,p'-dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT) or carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) on dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in Syrian golden hamsters was examined. Hamsters were given a single injection of DMN (6 mg/kg body wt) followed by either PB or DDT in the diet or repeated CCl4 gavage for 30 weeks. The numbers of both altered liver cell foci and hepatocellular neoplasms in the hamsters given 0.1 ml CCl4, i.g. once every 2 weeks after the DMN were significantly higher than in the animals given DMN alone. PB or DDT (500 p.p.m. in the diet) after DMN did not produce a significantly higher incidence of altered foci or hepatocellular neoplasms compared to DMN alone. Thus, an enhancing effect of CCl4 on DMN-induced hepatocarcinogenesis in the hamster was demonstrated, but neither PB or DDT--both liver neoplasm promoters in rats and mice--displayed promoting activity under the conditions of study.
Previous studies revealed that copper (Cu)-induced regression of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy is associated with enhanced activity in the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1 (VEGFR-1) signaling pathway. The mechanism by which Cu enhances the activity of VEGFR-1 pathway remains to be defined. The present study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that Cu enhances the VEGFR-1 signaling pathway via suppression of the VEGFR-2 signaling pathway. Primary cultures of neonatal rat cardiomyocytes were exposed to phenylephrine (PE) at a final concentration of 100 µM in cultures for 48 h to induce cell hypertrophy. The hypertrophic cardiomyocytes were exposed to copper sulfate at a final concentration of 5 µM Cu in cultures for 24 h. Western blot analysis showed that PE increased the protein levels of both VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2. Cu supplementation significantly reduced the increase in VEGFR-2, but had no effect on the elevation of VEGFR-1. Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis found no difference in the mRNA levels between the VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2 under the conditions defined above. This study thus demonstrated that Cu selectively suppressed PE-elevated VEGFR-2 levels likely via post-translational regulation, leading to the VEGFR-1 signaling pathway becoming dominant and thereby regressing cardiomyocyte hypertrophy.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP) peptides are expressed and regulated in sensory afferents of the micturition pathway. Although these studies have implicated PACAP in bladder control, the physiological significance of these observations has not been firmly established. To clarify these issues, the roles of PACAP and PACAP signaling in micturition and cystitis were examined in receptor characterization and physiological assays. PACAP receptors were identified in various tissues of the micturition pathway, including bladder detrusor smooth muscle and urothelium. Bladder smooth muscle expressed heterogeneously PAC(1)null, PAC(1)HOP1, and VPAC(2) receptors; the urothelium was more restricted in expressing preferentially the PAC(1) receptor subtype only. Immunocytochemical studies for PAC(1) receptors were consistent with these tissue distributions. Furthermore, the addition of 50-100 nM PACAP27 or PACAP38 to isolated bladder strips elicited transient contractions and sustained increases in the amplitude of spontaneous phasic contractions. Treatment of the bladder strips with tetrodotoxin (1 muM) did not alter the spontaneous phasic contractions suggesting direct PACAP effects on bladder smooth muscle. PACAP also increased the amplitude of nerve-evoked contractions. By contrast, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide had no direct effects on bladder smooth muscle. In a rat cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis paradigm, intrathecal or intravesical administration of PAC(1) receptor antagonist, PACAP6-38, reduced cystitis-induced bladder overactivity. In summary, these studies support roles for PACAP in micturition and suggest that inflammation-induced plasticity in PACAP expression in peripheral and central micturition pathways contribute to bladder dysfunction with cystitis.
