The results presented here provide evidence of the enhancing effect of oral fluoropyrimidine derivative S-1 in concomitant chemoradiotherapy for head and neck cancer and further insights into its biological mechanism.
To investigate the additive effect of S-1 and radiation for human hypopharyngeal cancer.
Nude mice bearing hypopharyngeal cancer cells (H891) were used for an in vivo model. S-1 was administered at a volume of 0.01 mg/g body weight per mouse for 14 days, and tumors were irradiated with 2.0 Gy on days 1 and 8. Mice treated with either radiation or S-1 alone were used as controls. The growth of tumors in each group was measured and, after completion of the treatment, a focused DNA array was used to determine mRNA expression levels in the tumors of 132 genes related to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), radiation or carcinogenesis.
The additive antitumor effect of S-1 and radiation was statistically confirmed on day 14 (p=0.01). DNA array assay showed significant changes in expression of several genes, including DNA repair gene POLD, angiogenesis-related genes bFGF and TP, DNA topoisomerase TOP2A, and nucleoside transporter gene ENT1.
PAK6 is a member of the p21-activated kinase (PAK) family of serine/threonine kinases that was originally cloned from prostate cancer (PCa) cells as an androgen receptor interacting protein, but its cellular distribution and functions have not been established.
An affinity purified rabbit anti-PAK6 antiserum was generated to assess PAK6 protein expression. PAK6 associated proteins were identified by immunopurification of 3xFlag-tagged PAK6 followed by LC/MS/MS.
We confirmed that PAK6 protein is expressed in prostate and breast cancer cell lines. PAK6 expression in LNCaP PCa cells was not directly androgen regulated, but was markedly increased when the cells were cultured for 6-8 weeks in steroid hormone depleted medium. By immunohistochemistry, PAK6 was weakly expressed in normal prostate epithelium. Its expression was increased in primary and metastatic PCa, and was further increased in tumors that relapsed after androgen deprivation therapy. LC/MS/MS identified IQ motif containing GTPase activating protein 1 (IQGAP1) and protein phosphatase 1B (PP1B) as candidate PAK6 interacting proteins, and these findings were confirmed by coimmunoprecipitation.
These results indicate that PAK6 contributes to PCa development and progression after androgen deprivation therapy, and that it may play roles in the regulation of motility and in stress responses.
Environmental pollutants act as risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD), mainly affecting the aging population. We investigated early manifestations of AD-like pathology by a mixture of arsenic (As), cadmium (Cd), and lead (Pb), reported to impair neurodevelopment. We treated rats with As+Cd+Pb at their concentrations detected in groundwater of India, ie, 0.38, 0.098, and 0.22 ppm or 10 times of each, respectively, from gestation-05 to postnatal day-180. We identified dose-dependent increase in amyloid-beta (Aβ) in frontal cortex and hippocampus as early as post-weaning. The effect was strongly significant during early-adulthood, reaching levels comparable to an Aβ-infused AD-like rat model. The metals activated the proamyloidogenic pathway, mediated by increase in amyloid precursor protein (APP), and subsequent beta secretase (BACE) and presenilin (PS)-mediated APP-processing. Investigating the mechanism of Aβ-induction revealed an augmentation in oxidative stress-dependent neuroinflammation that stimulated APP expression through interleukin-responsive-APP-mRNA 5'-untranslated region. We then examined the effects of individual metals and binary mixtures in comparison with the tertiary. Among individual metals, Pb triggered maximum induction of Aβ, whereas individual As or Cd had a relatively non-significant effect on Aβ despite enhanced APP, owing to reduced induction of BACE and PS. Interestingly, when combined the metals demonstrated synergism, with a major contribution by As. The synergistic effect was significant and consistent in tertiary mixture, resulting in the augmentation of Aβ. Eventually, increase in Aβ culminated in cognitive impairments in the young rats. Together, our data demonstrate that exposure to As+Cd+Pb induces premature manifestation of AD-like pathology that is synergistic, and oxidative stress and inflammation dependent.
A rapid and excessive increase in extracellular dopamine(DA) after L-DOPA administration is considered one of the major causes for L-DOPA-induced peak-dose dyskinesia. Therefore, inhibition of excessive rise in L-DOPA-derived DA is likely to be an ideal treatment for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Based on our previous experimental studies that 8-OH-DPAT, a potent 5-HT1A agonist, attenuates an increase in L-DOPA-induced extracellular DA in the striatum of the rat model of Parkinson's disease, we hypothesized that L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson's disease is alleviated by a 5-HT1A agonist. In the present study, we administered tandospirone citrate, a selective 5-HT1A agonist, to patients with Parkinson's disease suffering from L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Tandospirone(15-60 mg/day) was administered to 10 patients with L-DOPA-induced peak-dose dyskinesia. Twelve weeks after tandospirone treatment, duration of dyskinesia, subjective and objective severity of dyskinesia, and parkinsonian features were evaluated. Severity of dyskinesia was decreased in 5 patients; among these, 3 patients experienced slight worsening of parkinsonian features. Four patients showed no change in dyskinesia; among these, 2 patients showed worsening of parkinsonian features. One patient had slight worsening of dyskinesia without any change in parkinsonian features. The present study demonstrated that tandospirone is effective in alleviating L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in 50% of the patients. However, at the same time 50% patients showed slight worsening of parkinsonian features. Both the anti-dyskinetic effect and the worsening of parkinsonian features are thought to be induced by tandospirone's potent 5-HT1A agonistic activity. Diverse effect of tandospirone may be caused by its partial agonist activity on 5-HT1A receptors, or may indicate that other causes for the expression of dyskinesia exist apart from excessive rise in brain DA levels. Administration of a 5-HT1A agonist is a choice for patients with dyskinesia if the care is taken so as not to induce worsening of parkinsonian features. Further studies such as double-blind trials are needed to confirm the usefulness of a 5-HT1A agonist for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that exposure to road traffic is associated with adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
We aimed to identify specific traffic-related air pollutants that are associated with the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) morbidity and mortality to support evidence-based environmental policy making.
This population-based cohort study included a 5-year exposure period and a 4-year follow-up period. All residents 45-85 years of age who resided in Metropolitan Vancouver during the exposure period and without known CHD at baseline were included in this study (n=452,735). Individual exposures to traffic-related air pollutants including black carbon, fine particles [aerodynamic diameter ≤ 2.5 µm (PM(2.5))], nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)), and nitric oxide were estimated at residences of the subjects using land-use regression models and integrating changes in residences during the exposure period. CHD hospitalizations and deaths during the follow-up period were identified from provincial hospitalization and death registration records.
An interquartile range elevation in the average concentration of black carbon (0.94 × 10(-5)/m filter absorbance, equivalent to approximately 0.8 µg/m(3) elemental carbon) was associated with a 3% increase in CHD hospitalization (95% confidence interval, 1-5%) and a 6% increase in CHD mortality (3-9%) after adjusting for age, sex, preexisting comorbidity, neighborhood socioeconomic status, and copollutants (PM(2.5) and NO(2)). There were clear linear exposure-response relationships between black carbon and coronary events.
Long-term exposure to traffic-related fine particulate air pollution, indicated by black carbon, may partly explain the observed associations between exposure to road traffic and adverse cardiovascular outcomes.
Masseter muscle rigidity during general anesthesia is considered an early warning sign of a possible episode of malignant hyperthermia. The decision whether to continue or discontinue the procedure depends on the urgency of the surgery and severity of masseter muscle rigidity. Here, we describe a case of severe masseter muscle rigidity (jaw of steel) after succinylcholine (Sch) administration during general anesthetic management for rigid bronchoscopic removal of a tracheal foreign body. Anesthesia was continued uneventfully with propofol infusion while all facilities were available to detect and treat malignant hyperthermia.
Currently, many millions of people treated for various ailments receive high doses of salicylate. Consequently, understanding the mechanisms by which salicylate induces tinnitus is an important issue for the research community. Behavioral testing in rats have shown that tinnitus induced by salicylate or mefenamate (both cyclooxygenase blockers) are mediated by cochlear NMDA receptors. Here we report that the synapses between the sensory inner hair cells and the dendrites of the cochlear spiral ganglion neurons express NMDA receptors. Patch-clamp recordings and two-photon calcium imaging demonstrated that salicylate and arachidonate (a substrate of cyclooxygenase) enabled the calcium flux and the neural excitatory effects of NMDA on cochlear spiral ganglion neurons. Salicylate also increased the arachidonate content of the whole cochlea in vivo. Single-unit recordings of auditory nerve fibers in adult guinea pig confirmed the neural excitatory effect of salicylate and the blockade of this effect by NMDA antagonist. These results suggest that salicylate inhibits cochlear cyclooxygenase, which increased levels of arachidonate. The increased levels of arachidonate then act on NMDA receptors to enable NMDA responses to glutamate that inner hair cells spontaneously release. This new pharmacological profile of salicylate provides a molecular mechanism for the generation of tinnitus at the periphery of the auditory system.
We recently reported that following a toxic dose of acetaminophen to mice, tyrosine nitration occurs in the protein of cells that become necrotic. Nitration of tyrosine is by peroxynitrite, a species formed from nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide. In this manuscript we studied the effects of the NO synthase inhibitors N-monomethyl-l-arginine (l-NMMA), N-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (NAME), l-N-(1-iminoethyl)lysine (l-NIL), and aminoguanidine on acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. Acetaminophen (300 mg/kg) increased serum nitrate/nitrite and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, indicating increased NO synthesis and liver necrosis, respectively. None of the NO synthase inhibitors reduced serum ALT levels. In fact, l-NMMA, l-NIL, and aminoguanidine significantly augmented acetaminophen hepatotoxicity at 4 h. A detailed time course indicated that aminoguanidine (15 mg/kg at 0 h and 15 mg/kg at 2 h) significantly increased serum ALT levels over that for acetaminophen alone at 2 and 4 h; however, at 6 and 8 h serum ALT levels in the two groups were identical. At 2 h following acetaminophen plus aminoguanidine NO synthesis was significantly increased; however, at 4, 6, and 8 h NO synthesis was significantly decreased. Aminoguanidine also decreased acetaminophen-induced nitration of tyrosine. Acetaminophen alone did not induce lipid peroxidation, but acetaminophen plus aminoguanidine significantly increased hepatic lipid peroxidation (malondialdehyde levels) at 2, 4, and 6 h. These data are consistent with NO having a critical role in controlling superoxide-mediated lipid peroxidation in acetaminophen hepatotoxicity. Thus, acetaminophen hepatotoxicity may be mediated by either lipid peroxidation or by peroxynitrite.
The pesticide lindane (gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane) is a mammalian neurotoxin and hepatocarcinogen. Lindane can inhibit gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) and this effect may contribute to its toxic properties. The mechanism of inhibition of GJIC by lindane in WB-F344 rat liver epithelial cells was studied to determine if altered gap junction permeability, gap junction number, and/or gap junction protein (connexin43) expression were involved. GJIC was monitored by fluorescent Lucifer Yellow CH dye microinjection (dye-coupling). Gap junction number was quantified visually after indirect immunostaining of gap junctions using an anti-connexin43 monoclonal antibody. Connexin43 mRNA and protein levels were determined by Northern and Western blotting, respectively. Short-term treatment (10-30 min) with lindane (50 microM) resulted in the rapid (within 10 min), nearly complete loss of dye-coupling but no changes in gap junction number of connexin43 mRNA or protein levels. Medium-term treatment (1-4 hr) resulted in the loss of dye-coupling, gap junctions, and phosphorylated connexin43 proteins. Long-term treatment (1-14 days) led to reductions in dye-coupling, total connexin43 protein, and connexin43 mRNA. Nuclear run-on assays indicated that transcription of the connexin43 gene was reduced nonspecifically by lindane. These data indicate that reductions in gap junction permeability, number, and expression may be involved in the inhibition of GJIC depending on pesticide treatment duration.
Intrathecal chemotherapy with methotrexate or cytosine arabinoside is the standard approach to prophylaxis and treatment of central nervous system leukemia in children. Progressive paraplegia, one of the devastating neurologic complications related to this mode of treatment, has been attributed to spinal cord toxicity. Reported are three children who developed progressive paraparesis after intrathecal methotrexate administration followed by complete or partial recovery. Gadolinium enhancement of anterior lumbosacral spinal nerve roots was demonstrated in all three patients, and an elevation of cerebrospinal fluid immunoglobulin G synthesis was evident in two patients with more severe symptoms. The clinical data suggest that anterior lumbosacral radiculopathy is also a type of neurologic complication associated with intrathecal methotrexate treatment.
Emergence agitation or delirium (ED) is a frequent phenomenon in children recovering from general anesthesia (GA). Dexmedetomidine, an alpha2 receptor agonist, has analgesic and sedative properties that might be helpful in the management of ED. We studied the effects of a continuous perioperative infusion of 0.2 microg.kg(-1).h(-1) dexmedetomidine on the incidence of ED in 50 children aged 1-10 years scheduled for sevoflurane-based GA.
Following inhalation induction of GA, the children were randomly assigned into dexmedetomidine or placebo Groups D and S, respectively. The infusion of 0.2 microg.kg(-1).h(-1) dexmedetomidine or equal volume of saline was started after securing the airway. Depth of anesthesia was maintained by adjusting the concentration of sevoflurane to achieve a Bispectral Index Score of 40-60. Intraoperative hemodynamics were recorded every 5 min and the trachea was extubated at the end of the procedure. Perioperative pain management was determined by the blinded anesthesia team, and the study drug infusion was maintained for 15 min following the postanesthesia care unit (PACU) admission. ED and pain scores were evaluated by a blinded observer.
The incidence of ED was statistically significantly different between the two groups, 26% in Group D Vs 60.8% in Group S (P = 0.036). Additionally, the number of episodes of ED was lower in Group D (P < 0.017). Pain scores and the times to extubate and discharge from PACU were the same.
The perioperative infusion of 0.2 microg.kg(-1).h(-1) dexmedetomidine decreases the incidence and frequency of ED in children after sevoflurane-based GA without prolonging the time to extubate or discharge.
Increased exposure of the tubular epithelium to filtered protein is a proposed mechanism of progressive renal failure associated with glomerular disease, but how this protein overload translates into tubular damage remains unclear. We have examined a model of adriamycin-induced proteinuria to determine the effect of locally synthesized C3, the central proinflammatory protein of the complement cascade. C3-/- kidney isografts placed in wild-type C3+/+ mice were protected from proteinuria-associated complement activation, tubular damage, and progressive renal failure despite the presence of abundant circulating C3. The quantity of urinary protein was unaffected by the absence of C3, and thus the influence of C3 was not explained by alteration in the filtered protein load. These results suggest that local synthesis of complement from renal epithelial cells is a critical mediator of tubular damage in proteinuria-associated renal disease. Our results concur with previous findings of increased synthesis of C3 in human tubular epithelium exposed to high concentrations of protein in vitro. Because progressive renal damage in humans associates with proteinuria regardless of cause, our findings have implications for the pathogenesis and treatment of renal failure from many common causes, immunological and nonimmunological.
Although it is well known that histamine induces gastric mucosal lesions in laboratory animals, the fundamental mechanisms remain unclear. In order to further analyze the vascular mechanisms underlying histamine-induced lesions, a new model was developed in the glandular stomach via administration of histamine (40 mg/kg, s.c.) twice to rats with partial gastric vascular occlusion (ligated left gastric artery and vein) also subjected to pylorus ligation. Both antagonists of histamine H(2)-receptors (roxatidine and famotidine) and H(1)-receptors (epinastine and tripelennamine) significantly inhibited lesion formation at doses that did not inhibit acid secretion. Combined treatment of tripelennamine and famotidine synergistically inhibited lesion formation. Nitro L-arginine methyl ester inhibited lesion development; inhibition was reversed by concomitantly administered L-arginine. Indomethacin, diclofenac, and SC-560 (a selective COX-1 inhibitor), but not rofecoxib (a selective COX-2 inhibitor), significantly inhibited lesion formation. In addition, sodium bicarbonate, pirenzepine, S-0509 (a gastrin/CCK(2) inhibitor), omeprazole, sucralfate, and a prostaglandin analog also significantly inhibited lesion formation. It was concluded that the mechanism by which histamine induces gastric lesions in rats with partial gastric vascular occlusion appears to involve extensive vasodilation resulting from histamine acting on microvasculature histamine H(1)- and H(2)-receptors, generation of endogenous nitric oxide and prostaglandins, with the presence of gastric acid.
Propylthiouracil, which is commonly used in the treatment of hyperthyroidism, has been associated in adults with antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody, a serologic marker of vasculitis. Severe renal disease has not been reported as a complication of therapy with this drug. We report severe antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody-positive vasculitis in children receiving propylthiouracil, as well as rapidly progressive crescentic glomerulonephritis after administration of this drug.
There are few objective studies of the benefit/risk ratio of H1-receptor antagonists in children. We hypothesized that terfenadine would provide as effective peripheral H1 blockade as chlorpheniramine in young patients, but would cause less central nervous system dysfunction. We tested this hypothesis with epicutaneous histamine tests to monitor peripheral H1 blockade, P300-event-related potentials as a measure of cognitive processing, and a visual analog scale for somnolence, in a double-blind, single-dose, placebo-controlled, three-way crossover study in 15 children with allergic rhinitis (mean age, 8.5 +/- 1.4 years). On 3 different days the children received terfenadine, 60 mg, chlorpheniramine, 4 mg, or placebo; the tests were performed before and 2 to 2 1/2 hours after dosing. Both terfenadine and chlorpheniramine suppressed the histamine-induced wheal and flare compared with baseline and with placebo; terfenadine was significantly more effective (p < 0.05). Terfenadine did not increase the latency of P300-event-related potentials at the parietal (Pz) or frontal (Fz) scalp electrodes compared with baseline, in contrast to chlorpheniramine and placebo, which did increase P300 latency. Terfenadine and placebo did not increase somnolence compared with baseline, but chlorpheniramine did. In children, as previously documented in adults, terfenadine has a more favorable benefit/risk ratio than chlorpheniramine, as shown by production of significantly greater peripheral histamine blockade and significantly less central nervous system dysfunction.
Seventy-eight patients with serious gram-negative bacillary infections were assigned at random to receive either amdinocillin or an aminoglycoside. In addition, each patient was also given a broad-spectrum penicillin or cephalosporin antibiotic. The clinical response to treatment was comparable in the two groups. Cures were effected in 35 (92 percent) of 38 patients treated with amdinocillin and a beta-lactam antibiotic, compared with 37 (93 percent) of 40 patients who were treated with an aminoglycoside/beta-lactam combination. For the entire group, only five (7 percent) of the 75 infecting organisms were resistant in vitro to the treatment beta-lactam or amdinocillin combination, and similarly only two (3 percent) organisms were resistant to the treatment aminoglycoside (p = 0.44). Although drug-related toxicity occurred with equal frequency in the two groups, six patients treated with an aminoglycoside experienced nephrotoxicity compared with none of the patients who received amdinocillin (p = 0.034). Thus, amdinocillin plus a broad-spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic may provide suitable empiric therapy for many patients with presumed gram-negative infection and so avoid the risk of aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity.
Excessive bleeding caused by aspirin therapy in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery is an increasing problem. This case report of six patients illustrates the benefits of using desmopressin to control aspirin-induced coagulopathy. A brief review of the mechanism of coagulation disturbances associated with aspirin and its correction by desmopressin is presented.
Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity is believed to be related to the generation of reactive oxygen species by at least two mechanisms: enzymatic reduction of the quinone with subsequent redox cycling and/or formation of an iron-anthracycline complex capable of intramolecular reduction and redox cycling. Both pathways may lead to the production of superoxide anions and highly reactive metabolites, such as hydroxyl radicals and hydrogen peroxide. As a result, membrane lipid peroxidation may ensue, producing damage in tissues like the heart, which have low antioxidant defenses (superoxide dismutase glutathione and especially, glutathione-peroxidase). Pharmacologic methods of interrupting this cycle have involved numerous antioxidants, such as the sulfhydryls N-acetylcysteine and cysteamine, and the lipophilic vitamin alpha tocopherol. Unfortunately, none of these compounds has been proven to be cardioprotective in patients receiving doxorubicin. In contrast, the water-soluble d-isomer of the iron chelator razoxane, dexrazoxane or ICRF-187, has been shown to reduce doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. This has afforded greater cumulative doses of doxorubicin to be safely administered. The cytoprotective effect is apparently limited to the heart since there is no effect on antitumor efficacy and, unfortunately, no reduction in gastrointestinal toxicity, and with a slight increase in myelosuppression. More recent preclinical studies have also demonstrated cardioprotective activity for the aminothiol amifostine (WR-2721). In vitro, this agent has been shown to scavenge superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals, the latter effect mediated by the active (dephosphorylated) metabolite, WR-1065. In tumor-bearing mice, amifostine reduces the lethality of high doses of doxorubicin without affecting antitumor activity. Finally, in vitro studies in neonatal rat heart cells have shown direct evidence of anthracycline cardioprotection for both amifostine and WR-1065. Cytoprotective drug levels of either agent were limited to 2.0 microg/mL, which is one tenth of the achievable peak plasma levels in humans. At this concentration, a 15-minute sulfhydryl pretreatment significantly prevented doxorubicin-induced depressions of myocyte adenosine triphosphate levels. Overall, these studies suggest that amifostine may have cytoprotective activity against doxorubicin-induced cardiac damage. Animal studies in a chronically dosed doxorubicin model are indicated; if positive, clinical trials testing this hypothesis will be warranted.
We present evidence that calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol) decreases tumor takes and tumor growth of subcutaneous retinoblastomas in athymic mice. Histopathologic studies showed that the calcitriol also induced necrosis of the retinoblastomas. The calcitriol, however, did not induce tumor calcification. Unfortunately, the dose of calcitriol used in this experiment caused significant toxic effects. If the toxicity of vitamin D can be alleviated without compromising its antineoplastic effect, vitamin D may be a useful chemotherapeutic agent against retinoblastoma.
15-deoxy-delta (12,14)prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) has been identified as a natural ligand of the PPARgamma subtype. PPAR activation in nonadipose tissues seems to inhibit iNOS and COX2 expression. Vasoactive compounds like nitric oxide and prostaglandins are increased in pancreatic tissue from streptozotocin-diabetic rats. We hypothesize that 15d-PGJ(2) may regulate the production of these proinflammatory compounds that lead to beta cell destruction in the diabetic pathology. In this work we evaluated Ca(2+)-dependent (cNOS) and Ca(2+)-independent (iNOS) activity, nitrate/nitrite levels, 15-dPGJ(2) and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) levels in isolated pancreatic islets, and 15d-PGJ(2) levels in plasma from control and streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Our results show that cNOS is predominant in control, while iNOS isoform is increased in the diabetic islets (P < 0.01). 15d-PGJ(2) 10(-5)M inhibits cNOS and iNOS activity both in control and diabetic islets (P < 0.05). Nitrate/nitrite and PGE(2) levels are higher in diabetic than in control islets (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). 15d-PGJ(2) 10(-5)M decreases nitrate/nitrite and PGE(2) levels both in control and in diabetic islets. Bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE), a recently described PPARgamma antagonist, seems to act as a PPARgamma agonist, diminishing nitrate/nitrite and PGE2 levels in control and diabetic islets. 15d-PGJ(2) production is lower in islets from diabetic animals compared to control (P < 0.05). Our observations suggest that 15d-PGJ(2) is able to diminish the production of vasoactive proinflammatory agents in pancreatic islets. The diminished 15d-PGJ(2) levels in the diabetic islets are probably related to the diminished capacity to limit the inflammatory response due to experimental diabetes in the rat.
Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS) syndrome is a rare serious adverse effect associated with a variety of medications. We present a case of minocycline-induced DRESS syndrome, which resulted in acute renal failure, transient thyroiditis, and transaminitis, and a persistent lymphocytic myocarditis resulting in congestive heart failure. To our knowledge, this is the third reported case of minocycline-induced myocarditis. Additionally, we report successful plasmapheresis and rituximab treatment for minocycline-induced myocarditis associated with the DRESS syndrome.
Cocaine is the most common abused drug in patients presenting to the emergency room with chest pain and frequently leads to cardiac catheterization procedure. The extent of severity underlying coronary artery disease (CAD) in this subgroup of patients has not been well defined. This study set out to define the coronary anatomy as well as the extent of CAD in patients with cocaine-associated myocardial infarction (MI) and correlate that to the presenting electrocardiogram (ECG).
Ninety-seven consecutive patients with documented MI and positive urine drug screen for cocaine metabolites were included in the study. Demographic, clinical, ECG and coronary angiography variables were collected.
ST elevation MI was encountered in 32% of the patients. Other ECG findings included ST segment depression, T-wave inversion, left ventricular hypertrophy, conduction blocks and/or old MI in more than 80% of cases. Of the total of 66 patients who underwent angiography, 82% had obstructive CAD, with single-vessel disease being the most frequent finding. None of these presenting ECG findings correlated with angiographic location or severity of obstructive CAD. In nearly one-fifth of the patients, troponin elevation suggestive of cardiac myonecrosis occurred in the absence of ECG findings or angiographic coronary disease.
The majority of patients with cocaine-associated MI have obstructive CAD with predominant single-vessel disease. Although ECG abnormalities are frequently encountered, they are of limited diagnostic value in the clinical decision making.
A 75-year-old man on anticoagulant therapy suddenly experienced an excruciating back pain and subsequently developed a paraplegia. At operation a subarachnoid and a subdural haematoma were found, extending between the levels of the vertebrae T3 and L2. This extremely rare combination of haematomas may have been caused either by rupture of a small vessel in the arachnoid membrane or by rupture of the arachnoid membrane itself, secondary to a massive haemorrhage in the subarachnoid space.
Administration of subconvulsive dose of pilocarpine (30 mg/kg s.c.) to rats pretreated with lithium chloride (3 meq/kg i.p.) produced a state of status epilepticus in animals. The animals showed characteristic symptoms of generalized convulsions, wet dog shakes (WDS), forelimb clonus and falling back. The symptoms of status epilepticus (SE) developed within 26.8 +/- 3.6 min after administering pilocarpine and these symptoms continued uninterrupted. The phenomenon was totally reproducible, with a consistent latency of onset of seizures and a high mortality rate. The symptoms were blocked by atropine, scopolamine and the GABAergic agents GABA, sodium valproate, (+)-baclofen and clonazepam when given prior to pilocarpine, but not when administered 30 min after pilocarpine administration.
Propofol, an intravenous (i.v.) sedative-hypnotic agent, is commonly used for the induction of general anesthesia. It has, however, a substantial potential for causing burning pain at the i.v. site. Several preinduction pharmacologic agents are used routinely to blunt or diminish this burning sensation. Little is published on the effect of a preinduction dose of propofol for pain reduction. Lidocaine, the most studied agent, is recommended by the manufacturer of propofol as a preinduction agent to minimize this burning sensation. If lidocaine could be eliminated, time and cost savings from decreased use of drug, syringes, needles, and alcohol swabs would be realized. The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical effectiveness of administering preinduction doses of lidocaine vs propofol for decreasing pain experienced during anesthetic induction with propofol. Thirty unmedicated patients, ASA physical status I or II, scheduled to undergo general anesthesia for a surgical procedure were included. Patients were randomly assigned, using a random number chart, to receive 20 mg propofol or 40 mg lidocaine intravenously before entering the operating room suite. A minimum of 30 seconds, but not more than 45 seconds, following the administration of randomized drug with open-flow i.v. fluid, the induction dose of propofol (2.5 mg/kg) was begun through the same i.v. site. When one half of the dose had been administered and cleared the tubing by visualization, the patient was asked whether any discomfort was felt in the hand. If the response was yes, the patient was asked to rate the pain as mild, moderate, or severe. Then, the anesthetic process continued normally. No statistically significant difference occurred in pain prevention between treatment groups. In the lidocaine group, 53% (8/15) of patients were pain-free; in the propofol group, 47% (7/15) were painfree. However, when pain occurred, it was more likely to be classified as severe by the propofol group, 50% (4/8), compared with the lidocaine group, 14% (1/7). No difference existed in the ability of propofol or lidocaine to decrease the incidence of pain during an induction dose of propofol. The incidence of severe pain, however, was more frequent in the propofol group. The small number of patients experiencing severe pain precluded statistical analysis. Blunting pain associated with propofol warrants further study.
