Human exposures to inorganic arsenic (iAs) have been linked to an increased risk of diabetes mellitus. Recent laboratory studies showed that methylated trivalent metabolites of iAs may play key roles in the diabetogenic effects of iAs. Our study examined associations between chronic exposure to iAs in drinking water, metabolism of iAs, and prevalence of diabetes in arsenicosis-endemic areas of Mexico.
We used fasting blood glucose (FBG), fasting plasma insulin (FPI), oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), and insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) to characterize diabetic individuals. Arsenic levels in drinking water and urine were determined to estimate exposure to iAs. Urinary concentrations of iAs and its trivalent and pentavalent methylated metabolites were measured to assess iAs metabolism. Associations between diabetes and iAs exposure or urinary metabolites of iAs were estimated by logistic regression with adjustment for age, sex, hypertension and obesity.
The prevalence of diabetes was positively associated with iAs in drinking water (OR 1.13 per 10 ppb, p < 0.01) and with the concentration of dimethylarsinite (DMAsIII) in urine (OR 1.24 per inter-quartile range, p = 0.05). Notably, FPI and HOMA-IR were negatively associated with iAs exposure (β -2.08 and -1.64, respectively, p < 0.01), suggesting that the mechanisms of iAs-induced diabetes differ from those underlying type-2 diabetes, which is typically characterized by insulin resistance.
Our study confirms a previously reported, but frequently questioned, association between exposure to iAs and diabetes, and is the first to link the risk of diabetes to the production of one of the most toxic metabolites of iAs, DMAsIII.
Mechanisms underlying the multiple developmental defects observed in Fanconi anemia (FA) patients are not well defined. We have identified the zebrafish homolog of human FANCD2, which encodes a nuclear effector protein that is monoubiquitinated in response to DNA damage, targeting it to nuclear foci where it preserves chromosomal integrity. Fancd2-deficient zebrafish embryos develop defects similar to those found in children with FA, including shortened body length, microcephaly, and microophthalmia, which are due to extensive cellular apoptosis. Developmental defects and increased apoptosis in Fancd2-deficient zebrafish were corrected by injection of human FANCD2 or zebrafish bcl2 mRNA, or by knockdown of p53, indicating that in the absence of Fancd2, developing tissues spontaneously undergo p53-dependent apoptosis. Thus, Fancd2 is essential during embryogenesis to prevent inappropriate apoptosis in neural cells and other tissues undergoing high levels of proliferative expansion, implicating this mechanism in the congenital abnormalities observed in human infants with FA.
In considering possible effects of ketamine, and its interactions with drugs that might be administered following ketamine abuse, researchers investigated the effects of administering combinations of saline, naloxone, and/or ketamine on open-field activity levels and frequencies of turning, reverse locomotion, head weaving, and rearing in 50-day-old rats. Female subjects having received ketamine combined with saline showed significant increases in open-field activity as compared with male subjects and subjects having received combinations of saline and/or naloxone. When combined with ketamine, naloxone caused an increase in the aforementioned ketamine-induced hyperactivity in female rats. In addition, ketamine caused increases in turning in female rats and increases in reverse locomotion and head weaving in male and female rats. Decreases in rearing were reported in both males and females with administration of ketamine. In general, naloxone had little, if any, effect on these behaviors. Thus, the primary effect of administration of naloxone reported in this study is an exacerbation of ketamine-induced open-field hyperactivity. The authors discuss the results with respect to indirect effects of ketamine on endogenous opiate and dopamine systems on the aforementioned behaviors. The researchers also consider sex differences and possible precautions when dealing with individuals having ingested psychedelic anesthetics.
In the present study, the effects of intraperitoneal injections of GABA(A) receptor agonist and antagonist on memory formation and morphine state-dependent learning were investigated in rats. Pre-training administration of morphine (1-15 mg/kg) in a step-down passive avoidance task induced state-dependent learning with impaired memory retrieval on the test day. The impairment of memory was restored after the pre-test administration of the same dose of morphine. The pre-test administration of the GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol (0.01, 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg), significantly decreased state-dependent retrieval induced by pre-test morphine (5 mg/kg). The state-dependency effect of morphine (1 mg/kg) was significantly potentiated by the pre-test administration of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist, bicuculline (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg). Furthermore, the pre-training injection of muscimol (0.01 mg/kg) impaired memory retrieval which was restored by pre-test morphine (1, 3 and 5 mg/kg) administration. However, the pre-training administration of bicuculline did not affect retention by itself. In addition, amnesia induced by pre-training morphine (5 mg/kg) was significantly reversed in rats which had received pre-test injections of muscimol (0.01, 0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg). Pre-test injections of bicuculline (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) significantly decreased morphine-induced amnesia. It is concluded that the GABA(A) receptor mechanisms may be involved in the memory formation and it is postulated that these receptors may play an important role in morphine state-dependent learning.
Aspirin hypersensitivity represents two distinct clinical syndromes, such as aspirin exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD) and aspirin-intolerant chronic urticaria/angioedema (AICU) which have different clinical phenotypes resulting from different genetic backgrounds in a Korean population. Persistent eosinophilic inflammation in airway is a characteristic feature of AERD and chemokine CC motif receptor 3 (CCR3) plays an important role in eosinophilic infiltration into the asthmatic airway.
The main objective of this study is to investigate the association between CCR3 gene polymorphisms and aspirin hypersensitivity, including AERD and AICU.
CCR3 mRNA expression was measured after an aspirin provocation test by real-time PCR. In total, 330 patients with aspirin hypersensitivity (191 AERD and 139 AICU) and 217 normal healthy controls (NC) were genotyped for two CCR3 promoter polymorphisms (-520T/G and -174C/T), and the functional effects of the polymorphisms were analyzed applying a luciferase reporter assay and an electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
CCR3 mRNA expression was significantly increased after aspirin provocation in AERD patients (P=0.002) but not in AICU patients. An in vitro functional study showed that the reporter construct having a -520G allele exhibited significantly higher promoter activity compared with the construct having a -520T allele in human myeloid (U937), lymphoid (Jurkat), and mast (HMC-1) cell lines (P<0.001). We found -520G and -174T specific bands on EMSA.
This result suggests that the CCR3 genetic polymorphisms may contribute to the development of the AERD phenotype and may be used as a genetic marker for differentiating between the two major aspirin hypersensitivity phenotypes.
To define risk factors for complications that occur during warfarin therapy.
Retrospective cohort study.
Five anticoagulation clinics.
Nine hundred twenty-eight consecutive patients receiving 1103 courses of warfarin.
Hemorrhagic and thromboembolic complications.
In 1950 patient-years of follow-up, there were 1332 bleeding events (4 were classified as fatal, 31 as life-threatening, 226 as serious, and 1071 as minor). The cumulative incidence of fatal bleeding was 1% at 1 year and 2% at 3 years. The cumulative incidences of first episodes of life-threatening and serious bleeding at 1, 2, 4, and 8 years were 1%, 2%, 5%, and 9% and 12%, 20%, 28%, and 40%, respectively. Of 156 patients who had a serious or life-threatening hemorrhage, 32% suffered a recurrence, typically within 1 year. Independent predictors of a first episode of serious bleeding included a mean prothrombin time ratio (PTR) of 2.0 or more during the course of treatment (relative risk, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.9 to 4.7); recent initiation of warfarin therapy (relative risk during the first 3 months compared with the rest of the first year, the second year, and anytime thereafter, 1.9 [CI, 1.3 to 3.0], 3.0 [CI, 1.8 to 4.8], and 5.9 [CI, 3.8 to 9.3], respectively); variability of the PTR over time (relative risk for the highest compared with the lowest tertile, 1.6 [CI, 1.2 to 2.7]); and the presence of 3 or more comorbid conditions (RR, 1.4 [CI, 1.1 to 2.5]). Age, reason for anticoagulation, use of interfering drugs, and hypertension were not associated with risk for bleeding. The risk for a thromboembolic complication at a PTR of less than 1.3 was 3.6 (CI, 2.1 to 6.4) times higher than at a PTR of 1.3 to 1.5.
The incidence of warfarin-associated bleeding may be reduced by attending to modifiable risk factors (that is, highly variable PTRs and values greater than 2.0), frequent monitoring early in treatment, and careful patient selection. Older age, in and of itself, is not a risk factor.
An investigation was made to evaluate the pharmacological importance of fruit peel extracts of Mangifera indica (MI), Citrullus vulgaris (CV) and Cucumis melo (CM) with respect to the possible regulation of tissue lipid peroxidation (LPO), thyroid dysfunctions, lipid and glucose metabolism. Pre-standardized doses (200mg/kg of MI and 100mg/kg both of CV and CM), based on the maximum inhibition in hepatic LPO, were administered to Wistar albino male rats for 10 consecutive days and the changes in tissue (heart, liver and kidney) LPO and in the concentrations of serum triiodothyronine (T(3)), thyroxin (T(4)), insulin, glucose, alpha-amylase and different lipids were examined. Administration of three test peel extracts significantly increased both the thyroid hormones (T(3) and T(4)) with a concomitant decrease in tissue LPO, suggesting their thyroid stimulatory and antiperoxidative role. This thyroid stimulatory nature was also exhibited in propylthiouracil (PTU) induced hypothyroid animals. However, only minor influence was observed in serum lipid profile in which CM reduced the concentrations of total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), while CV decreased triglycerides and very low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (VLDL-C). When the combined effects of either two (MI+CV) or three (MI+CV+CM) peel extracts were evaluated in euthyroid animals, serum T(3) concentration was increased in response to MI+CV and MI+CV+CM treatments, while T(4) level was elevated by the combinations of first two peels only. Interestingly, both the categories of combinations increased T(4) levels, but not T(3) in PTU treated hypothyroid animals. Moreover, a parallel increase in hepatic and renal LPO was observed in these animals, suggesting their unsafe nature in combination. In conclusion the three test peel extracts appear to be stimulatory to thyroid functions and inhibitory to tissue LPO but only when treated individually.
Treatment of patients with mitoxantrone for worsening multiple sclerosis (MS) requires careful monitoring for possible adverse events. Common side effects that are minor and easily managed include transient leukopenia and elevated liver enzymes, nausea, alopecia, bluish discoloration of urine, and urinary tract infections. Amenorrhea, severe infection, cardiac toxicity, and toxic leukemias are more serious adverse events associated with mitoxantrone treatment but occur infrequently. The potential for clinically significant heart failure is low and is dose-related. Subclinical reductions in left ventricular ejection fraction may occur with serial doses, underscoring the importance of careful monitoring before initiating and during treatment. The risk for chronic cardiomyopathy limits the approved cumulative dose of mitoxantrone for treatment of MS to 140 mg/m2. Dexrazoxane has a cardioprotective effect when used with anthracycline in the treatment of patients with neoplasms. Studies under way address whether concomitant administration of dexrazoxane with mitoxantrone might decrease the risk for cardiac toxicity in MS patients and perhaps increase the allowable cumulative dose of mitoxantrone. A phase IV clinical study of mitoxantrone (RENEW) is in progress to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of treatment. Careful laboratory and cardiac monitoring can reduce the possibility of adverse events and enhance patient safety.
Cadmium is a widespread environmental pollutant which induces severe toxic alterations, including osteomalacia and osteoporosis, likely by estrogen receptor-dependent mechanisms. Indeed, cadmium has been described to act as an endocrine disruptor and its toxicity is exerted both in vivo and in vitro through induction of apoptosis and/or necrosis by not fully clarified intracellular mechanism(s) of action. Aim of the present study was to further investigate the molecular mechanism by which cadmium might alter homeostasis of estrogen target cells, such as osteoblast homeostasis, inducing cell apoptosis and/or necrosis. Human osteoblastic cells (hFOB 1.19) in culture were used as an in vitro model to characterize the intracellular mechanisms induced by this heavy metal. Cells were incubated in the presence/ absence of 10-50 μM cadmium chloride at different times and DNA fragmentation and activation of procaspases- 8 and -3 were induced upon CdCl(2) treatment triggering apoptotic and necrotic pathways. Addition of caspase-8 and -3 inhibitors (Z-IETD-FMK and Z-DQMD-FMK) partially blocked these effects. No activation of procaspase-9 was observed. To determine the role of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) in these events, we investigated c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), p38 and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK1/2) phosphorylation which were activated by 10 μM CdCl(2). Chemical inhibitors of JNK, p38, and ERK1/2, SP600125, SB202190, and PD98059, significantly reduced the phosphorylation of the kinases and blunted apoptosis. In contrast, caspase inhibitors did not reduce the cadmium-induced MAPK phosphorylation, suggesting an independent activation of these pathways. In conclusion, at least 2 pathways appear activated by cadmium in osteoblasts: a direct induction of caspase-8 followed by activation of caspase-3 and an indirect induction by phosphorylation of ERK1/2, p38, and JNK MAPK triggering activation of caspase-8 and -3.
Atrial fibrillation is a frequently occurring arrhythmia after thoracic operations. Preventive strategies for this complication have been extensively evaluated after cardiac operations.
We performed a prospective, open randomized study, comparing intravenous verapamil and placebo in 199 patients after pneumonectomy or lobectomy at the University Hospital of Leuven. Verapamil was administered as a bolus of 10 mg over 2 minutes followed by a 30-minute infusion of 0.375 mg/min and then 0.125 mg/min for 3 days. The patients were continuously monitored in the postoperative intensive care unit.
Atrial fibrillation occurred in 15% of the patients receiving placebo and in 8% of the patients receiving verapamil (difference not significant). The verapamil infusion was interrupted in 9% of the patients because of bradycardia and in 14% because of hypotension.
If tolerated, continuous intravenous verapamil infusion showed only a modest prophylactic efficacy for the occurrence of atrial fibrillation after lung operations. In the dose employed the verapamil infusion was accompanied with a high incidence of side effects necessitating interruption of the therapy.
The possibility that non-sedating antihistamines could elicit sedation in mice due to drug-induced inhibition of brain PgP was evaluated by measuring the ability of desloratadine alone or in combination with verapamil to cause ataxia in mice. Also, the concentrations of desloratadine in plasma and in brain homogenates were measured by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Relative to methylcellulose (control) treatment, verapamil plus desloratadine decreased rotarod performance of mice. Plasma concentrations of desloratadine appeared comparable in the mice treated with either desloratadine or verapamil plus desloratadine, however the rate of decline of desloratadine from brain tissue was slower in mice treated with verapamil plus desloratadine compared to mice treated with desloratadine only. These data suggest that inhibition of brain PgP can convert desloratadine to a sedating antihistamine in mice.
This study aimed to investigate the suppressive effect of nicotine on fetal adrenal steroidogenesis and to explore the potential role of epigenetic modification of steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1) transcriptional activity in this process. Nicotine was intragastrically administered to pregnant rats and NCI-H295A cells were treated with nicotine or trichostatin A (TSA). The pathomorphology of fetal adrenals, steroid hormone levels, the expression of SF-1 and its target genes, and histone deacetylase (HDAC) mRNA were analyzed. Histone modification and DNA methylation of the SF-1 promoter region were assessed using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and bisulfite sequencing PCR. The interaction between SF1 and its target genes was observed. Prenatal nicotinic exposure decreased fetal body weight, increased the IUGR rate and caused detrimental changes in fetal adrenal. In addition, the levels of corticosterone, the expression of SF-1 and its target genes were decreased while HDAC2 expression was enhanced. Nicotine treatment decreased histone H3K9 and H3K14 acetylation levels while there was no effect on the methylation frequency on the SF-1 promoter region. Furthermore, in nicotine-treated NCI-H295A cells, lower levels of steroidogenic synthesis, lower expression of SF-1 and its target genes were observed while the expression of HDACs was enhanced. The interaction between SF1 and StAR decreased with nicotine treatment. Nicotine treatment decreased histone H3K9 and H3K14 acetylation levels, and addition of TSA reversed the inhibition of nicotine-mediated SF-1 and its partial target genes. Thus, nicotine-mediated reduction of SF-1 expression resulted in an inhibitory effect on the expression of its target genes and steroid production via histone deacetylation.
Desflurane has been reported to produce more tachycardia and hypertension on induction than isoflurane. The present study employed microneurography to determine whether these cardiovascular effects were related to sympathetic outflow.
In 14 healthy, young (age 20-31 yr) volunteers, arterial pressure was measured from the radial artery, forearm blood flow was derived by strain gauge plethysmography, and sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) directed to skeletal muscle blood vessels was recorded from a tungsten needle placed percutaneously into the peroneal nerve. Heart rate, blood pressure, muscle SNA, respiration, tidal volume, end-tidal carbon dioxide, and desflurane or isoflurane concentrations (infrared spectroscopy) were continuously monitored before and during anesthesia. Two minutes after administering thiopental (5 mg/kg) and vecuronium (0.2 mg/kg), desflurane (n = 7) or isoflurane (n = 7) was titrated gradually to the inspired gas over several minutes to 1.5 MAC.
The initiation of desflurane anesthesia resulted in significant changes that included a 2.5-fold increase in SNA, hypertension (peak mean arterial pressure 114 +/- 3 mmHg), tachycardia (peak heart rate 102 +/- 6 beats/min), facial flushing, and tearing. Moderate upper airway obstruction developed in three subjects approximately 4 min after initiating desflurane, despite neuromuscular blockade. These responses were not observed in subjects receiving isoflurane. After tracheal intubation, the anesthetic concentration was maintained at 0.5 MAC for 30 min. Steady-state measurements of hemodynamics and SNA were obtained. Similar steady-state measurements were obtained 15 min after establishing 1.0 and 1.5 MAC. Both anesthetics produced a progressive reduction in blood pressure and forearm vascular resistance, and muscle SNA gradually increased. In subjects receiving desflurane, heart rate remained unchanged until the 1.5-MAC level was reached, at which time tachycardia (a 10-beat/min increase) was noted. The transition from 1.0 to 1.5 MAC desflurane resulted in significant heart rate increases (> 30 beats/min), hypertension (> 30 mmHg), and a doubling of SNA that persisted for several minutes. These responses did not occur in the isoflurane group.
Titration of desflurane following thiopental induction and increasing the concentration of desflurane from 1.0 to 1.5 MAC result in sympatho-excitation, hypertension and tachycardia in healthy, young volunteers. Until methods are determined to attenuate these responses, desflurane should be administered with great caution to patients who may be placed at risk by these responses.
We report the case of normoaldosterone spironolactone sensitive hypertension. Patients suffering from this recently identified form of arterial hypertension exhibit clinical symptoms resembling the symptoms of primary aldosteronism. The described disturbances may be misdiagnosed as essential hypertension because plasma aldosterone levels and aldosterone/renin ratio in patients are within the normal ranges. In the described state of the examined female, detection of the disease and implementation of spironolactone treatment not only normalised arterial blood pressure but also allowed to avoid unnecessary administration of many antihypertensive agents.
This study examines whether neural structures in the region of the optic recess of the third ventricle may be involved in the genesis of adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-induced hypertension in sheep. Five sheep were prepared with lesions in an area of the forebrain that included the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (OVLT) and surrounding periventricular tissue. In these animals the dipsogenic response to systemically infused hypertonic sodium chloride (NaCl) was abolished. ACTH treatment (20 micrograms/kg/day) for 5 days caused an increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 19 mm Hg, a response identical to that seen in normal sheep. With ACTH treatment, increases in plasma osmolality were greater than normal, but polydipsia did not occur in the lesioned sheep. In six other sheep with lesions either lateral or anterior to the optic recess of the third ventricle, the dipsogenic response to hypertonic NaCl and pressor response to ACTH were normal. These studies establish that in ACTH-treated sheep the integrity of the anterior ventral part of the third ventricle is not essential for the development of the hypertension. This is in contrast to the finding in other models of experimental hypertension in the rat.
To determine the prevalence of poor response to aspirin (ASA) therapy over 12-month follow-up in patients with lower extremity peripheral arterial disease (PAD), and to compare the classification agreement among different ASA response assays.
Patients with PAD on ASA therapy at baseline were included from the ongoing Effect of Lipid Modification on Peripheral Arterial Disease after Endovascular Intervention Trial (ELIMIT), which is a randomized trial testing whether combination treatment with ezetimibe, niacin, and a statin will halt/regress atherosclerosis compared with statin monotherapy. Patients who had baseline platelet testing and repeat testing at 6-month or 12-month follow-up were included. ASA responsiveness was tested using three different assays: Optical aggregation with 0.5 mg/mL of arachidonic acid (AA), optical aggregation with 10 μM of adenosine diphosphate (ADP), and platelet function analyzer-100 (PFA-100) testing with collagen/epinephrine (Epi) loaded cartridges. ASA response was defined as AA aggregation <30%, ADP aggregation <70%, or PFA-100 Epi >164 seconds. Patients who showed response to ASA at baseline were classified as Responders. Poor response to ASA was defined as AA aggregation ≥ 30%, ADP aggregation ≥ 70%, or PFA-100 Epi ≤ 164 seconds. Patients who showed poor response (PR) to an assay at baseline, but then were responsive at follow-up visits were classified as Initial PRs. Patients who showed poor response at baseline and all follow-up visits were classified as Persistent PRs. The classification agreement between assays was tested using the kappa statistic.
Of 102 patients randomized in ELIMIT, 80 patients satisfied inclusion criteria. There were no significant baseline demographic differences between Responders, Initial PRs, and Persistent PRs. The prevalence of persistent poor response varied by the assay used; 5% of subjects (4/80) were Persistent PRs by AA aggregation, compared with 27.5% (22/80) of subjects by ADP aggregation and 9.9% (7/71) of patients by PFA-100 Epi. Regarding the agreement of the assays, only AA aggregation and PFA-100 Epi agreed significantly (K = 0.3223; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.15-0.493; P = .0001), and though statistically significant, the magnitude of this agreement is small. AA aggregation and ADP aggregation did not agree (K = 0.1161; 95% CI -0.004-0.236; P = .029), nor did ADP aggregation and PFA-100 Epi (K = 0.0044; 95% CI -0.151-0.160; P = .48).
Between 5% and 27.5% of PAD patients were Persistent PRs to ASA over 6- to 12-month follow-up using different platelet assays. Further, these commonly used platelet assays show weak agreement in determining poor response to aspirin.
Protective influence of verapamil upon ouabain-induced cardiac arrhythmias was investigated in anesthetized (alpha-chloralose 60 mg/kg and urethane 500 mg/kg) open-chest guinea pigs. Verapamil in doses between 100 and 150 micrograms/kg significantly increased (80-90%) the dose of ouabain, necessary to cause ventricular arrhythmias. This was also associated with a larger survival rate. A larger dose of verapamil (225 micrograms/kg) caused a further increase in the dose of ouabain, necessary for the initiation of arrhythmias, but in all the cases second or third degree heart block occurred. Verapamil (150 micrograms/kg) also prevented the development of fatal arrhythmias and death, when it was administered at the onset of ventricular ectopy. However, once the arrhythmias were firmly established, verapamil was ineffective in reversing the toxic response. The data suggests that verapamil exerts a protective effect against the development of digitalis-induced cardiac arrhythmias in doses which are comparable to therapeutic levels in humans. The larger doses of verapamil, however, will be contradicted because of the slowing of AV node and the likelihood of complete heart block.
Lithium toxicity has been shown to cause lasting neurological sequelae in certain cases.
The authors present a case of choreoathetosis in the aftermath of a presumed episode of lithium toxic reaction.
The patient was treated by aggressive rehydration; lithium and, ultimately, all psychotropic medication was withheld for a period.
The patient showed marked improvement in orientation and movement control; however, some of the choreoathetoid symptoms persisted.
Patients on combination therapy with lithium and other psychotropics need to be closely monitored for the development of choreoathetoid and other symptoms of overmedication.
We have shown that direct reaction of catechol with nitric oxide (NO) results in generation of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species (RNS) through semiquinone radical formation, leading to oxidative DNA damage in rat forestomach. In the present study, we investigated whether dietary catechol systemically exerts the same effects under NO-rich circumstances, when given before and during induction of inflammatory lesions. Male ICR mice were treated with or without 0.8% catechol in the diet for 2 weeks followed by acetaminophen (APAP) administration at a dose of 300mg/kg by single i.p. injection. Along with several indicators of APAP-induced hepatitis, 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) levels and immunohistochemistry for 3-nitrotyrosine (NO(2)Tyr) in the livers were examined at 1.5, 4 and 24h after APAP injection. 8-OHdG was significantly increased at 24h in the co-treatment group, but not with either catechol or APAP alone. Elevation of serum ALT and AST activities, decrease of reduced glutathione levels and histopathological liver changes were observed to the same extents in both APAP-treated groups. In view of the finding of positive hepatocytes for NO(2)Tyr prior to generation of 8-OHdG, the process of oxidative DNA damage might involve RNS formation. Precise quantitative analysis of NO(2)Tyr by means of liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in an additional study with the same experimental protocol confirmed increase of RNS due to the reaction of catechol with NO produced after APAP-induced hepatitis. The overall data imply that antioxidants with a catechol structure can cause oxidative DNA damage under inflammatory conditions.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the selective loss of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons, which leads to disabling motor disturbances. Sulforaphane (SFN), found in cruciferous vegetables, is a potent indirect antioxidant and recent advances have shown its neuroprotective activity in various experimental models of neurodegeneration. This study was undertaken to examine the effects of SFN on behavioral changes and dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice exposed to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). For this purpose, mice were treated with SFN (5mg/kg twice a week) for four weeks after the unilateral intrastriatal injection of 6-OHDA. The increase in 6-OHDA-induced rotations and deficits in motor coordination were ameliorated significantly by SFN treatment. In addition, SFN protected 6-OHDA-induced apoptosis via blocking DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 activation. These results were further supported by immunohistochemical findings in the substantia nigra that showed that SFN protected neurons from neurotoxic effects of 6-OHDA. The neuroprotective effect of SFN may be attributed to its ability to enhance glutathione levels and its dependent enzymes (glutathione-S-transferase and glutathione reductase) and to modulate neuronal survival pathways, such as ERK1/2, in the brain of mice. These results suggest that SFN may potentially be effective in slowing down the progression of idiopathic PD by the modulation of oxidative stress and apoptotic machinery.
Fibrin impairs surfactant function in vitro, and inhibition of fibrinolysis by plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) is thought to promote fibrin accumulation in acute lung injury (ALI). This has led to speculation that impaired PAI-1 and fibrin accumulation should protect lung function in ALI. We tested this hypothesis by investigating ALI severity in fibrinogen-deficient (Fgn-/-) and PAI-1-deficient (PAI-1-/-) mice. PAI-1-/-, C57BL/6, Fgn-/-, and Fgn+/- females were anesthetized and allowed to aspirate 4 microl/g of hydrochloric acid (pH 1.0) and then reanesthetized and connected to a ventilator 48 h later. Naive C57BL/6 and Fgn+/- females served as controls. Following deep inflation (DI), forced oscillations were delivered periodically over 8 min to measure changes in elastance (H) as a surrogate of lung derecruitment, at positive end-expiratory pressures (PEEP) of 6, 3, and 1 cmH(2)O. Increases in H following DI in acid-injured mice were greater than naive strain-matched controls. Increases in H were no different between injured PAI-1-/- and C57BL/6, or between injured Fgn-/- and +/- mice, at any PEEP. Pressure-volume curves were no different between injured groups. Total lung fibrin was lower in injured PAI-1-/- and Fgn-/- mice relative to injured C57BL/6 and Fgn+/- mice, respectively, but indices of permeability were no different between strains. Unexpectedly, neither fibrin nor PAI-1 deficiency protects lung mechanical function in mice with acid-induced ALI. We speculate that in vivo lung function may be more closely tied to permeability and alveolar protein in general, rather than being linked specifically to fibrin.
Nociceptin, also known as orphanin FQ, binds to opioid receptor like-1 (NOP) receptors. Nociceptin and NOP receptor play important roles in several physiological functions in the central nervous system. We reported that although high doses of nociceptin impaired learning and memory and these effects were blocked by nocistatin, naloxone benzoylhydrazone and [NPhe(1)]nociceptin(1-13)NH(2), low doses of nociceptin improved scopolamine- or mecamylamine-induced impairment of learning and memory, and these ameliorating effects were not blocked by these antagonists. In the present study, to confirm our previous findings, the effects of [Arg(14), Lys(15)]nociceptin and [(pF)Phe(4)]nociceptin(1-13)NH(2), highly potent and long-lasting nociceptin analogs, on the memory impairment induced by scopolamine using the Y-maze and step-down type passive avoidance tests were investigated. [Arg(14), Lys(15)]Nociceptin (0.1 and/or 1 pmol/mouse, i.c.v.) significantly improved impairment of memory function. Although this analog was about 30 times more potent than nociceptin, the doses ameliorating these memory impairments were comparable to those of the natural ligand nociceptin. The ameliorating effects of [Arg(14), Lys(15)]nociceptin were not blocked by an NOP receptor antagonist, [NPhe(1)]nociceptin(1-13)NH(2). Interestingly, another potent nociceptin analog, [(pF)Phe(4)]nociceptin(1-13)NH(2) could not improve impairment of memory function. These results confirmed that there are novel mechanisms underlying these ameliorating effects and these seem not to be mediated via an NOP receptor.
To evaluate the large pore radius of the glomerular capillary filter, plasma-to-urine fractional clearances of a number of endogenous proteins were assessed in normal and in nephrotic Wistar rats in which proximal tubular reabsorption had been inhibited using lysine. The proteins studied varied in radius from 16.2 A (Beta 2-microglobulin) to 90 A (alpha 2-macroglobulin). The nephrotic syndrome was induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN). A marked restriction of the transport of large proteins across the glomerular capillary wall was found, indicating that there are no non-discriminatory 'shunt pathways' in the glomerular barrier. Rather, there seems to be large pores of radius 110 to 115 A accounting for the clearance of large proteins into the primary urine. This protein excretion pattern was almost the same for control and nephrotic rats, except that in the latter, the number of large pores was increased 170 times. The ratio between the number of large and small pores was calculated to be approximately equal to 7 x 10(-7) in normal rats and to 1.2 x 10(-4) in PAN nephrotic rats, assuming no classic shunt pathways. If classic shunt pathways had still existed, they would normally contribute to no more than approximately equal to 10(-5) of the total glomerular filtration rate. We postulate that very large macromolecules like IgM will not pass the glomerular filter at all under normal conditions, whereas the urine concentration of alpha2-macroglobulin will normally be extremely low.
Both lobeline and lobelane attenuate methamphetamine self-administration in rats by decreasing methamphetamine-induced dopamine release via interaction with vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT2). A novel derivative of nor-lobelane, cis-2,5-di-(2-phenethyl)-pyrrolidine hydrochloride (UKCP-110), and its trans-isomers, (2R,5R)-trans-di-(2-phenethyl)-pyrrolidine hydrochloride (UKCP-111) and (2S,5S)-trans-di-(2-phenethyl)-pyrrolidine hydrochloride (UKCP-112), were evaluated for inhibition of [(3)H]dihydrotetrabenazine binding and [(3)H]dopamine uptake by using a rat synaptic vesicle preparation to assess VMAT2 interaction. Compounds were evaluated for inhibition of [(3)H]nicotine and [(3)H]methyllycaconitine binding to assess interaction with the major nicotinic receptor subtypes. In addition, compounds were evaluated for inhibition of methamphetamine-evoked endogenous dopamine release by using striatal slices. The most promising compound, UKCP-110, was evaluated for its ability to decrease methamphetamine self-administration and methamphetamine discriminative stimulus cues and for its effect on food-maintained operant responding. UKCP-110, UKCP-111, and UKCP-112 inhibited [(3)H]dihydrotetrabenazine binding (K(i) = 2.66 ± 0.37, 1.05 ± 0.10, and 3.80 ± 0.31 μM, respectively) and had high potency inhibiting [(3)H]dopamine uptake (K(i) = 0.028 ± 0.001, 0.046 ± 0.008, 0.043 ± 0.004 μM, respectively), but lacked affinity at nicotinic receptors. Although the trans-isomers did not alter methamphetamine-evoked dopamine release, UKCP-110 inhibited (IC(50) = 1.8 ± 0.2 μM; I(max) = 67.18 ± 6.11 μM) methamphetamine-evoked dopamine release. At high concentrations, UKCP-110 also increased extracellular dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. It is noteworthy that UKCP-110 decreased the number of methamphetamine self-infusions, while having no effect on food-reinforced behavior or the methamphetamine stimulus cue. Thus, UKCP-110 represents a new lead in the development of novel pharmacotherapies for the treatment of methamphetamine abuse.
Ospemifene is a new selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that is being developed for the treatment of urogenital atrophy and osteoporosis. Similarly to other SERMs, ospemifene exhibits antiestrogenic effects in breast tissue, which led to the hypothesis that it may be a potential breast cancer chemopreventive agent. We first assessed the ability of ospemifene, compared to tamoxifen and raloxifene, to prevent dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA)-induced mammary tumors in female Sencar mice. Ospemifene (N = 18), tamoxifen (N = 20) and raloxifene (N = 17), each dosed at 50 mg/kg, were administered daily by oral gavage, in combination with 20 microg DMBA for the first 6 weeks. Control mice (N = 21) received vehicle plus DMBA only for the first 6 weeks. Daily treatment then continued for 37 weeks. As hypothesized, ospemifene greatly reduced the incidence of mammary carcinomas compared to control mice (p = 0.003), similar to tamoxifen (p = 0.0004); however, in the raloxifene group, no significant effect was seen in mammary tumor prevention (p = 0.20). A follow-up study comparing ospemifene (N = 20) to tamoxifen (N = 20) in the same model was then performed to confirm the results of the first study. The results of the follow-up study, which extended the treatment to 52 weeks, confirmed the results of our previous study, with ospemifene (p = 0.01) and tamoxifen (p = 0.004) significantly decreasing mammary carcinomas compared to controls. The results of these two studies suggest that women taking ospemifene for osteoporosis and/or urogenital atrophy may further benefit from ospemifene's breast cancer chemopreventive effects.
In a double-blind dose response study in 26 children, 3, 6, or 12 microgram/kg of terbutaline sulfate was compared with 10 microgram/kg of epinephrine administered subcutaneously. In the first hour after injection, all doses of terbutaline and epinephrine resulted in improvement in mean clinical score, mean forced vital capacity, mean forced expiratory volume in the first second, and mean forced expiratory flow from 25% to 75% of vital capacity. Terbutaline epinephrine. However, while adverse effects following terbutaline were clinically imperceptible, epinephrine produced unpleasant headache and excitement in a few patients. Terbutaline did not change mean PaO2 or PaCO2 significantly in a subgroup of patients. The 12 microgram/kg dose of terbutaline was superior to 3 or 6 microgram/kg in relieving obstruction to airflow measured at the midportion of the vital capacity. This dose caused tremor in some children, but the tremor was not apparent to patients or their parents.
