Lysine specific demethylase 1 (LSD1) has been identified and biochemically characterized in epigenetics, but the pathological roles of its dysfunction in lung cancer remain to be elucidated. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of LSD1 expression in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and to define its exact role in lung cancer proliferation, migration and invasion.
The protein levels of LSD1 in surgically resected samples from NSCLC patients were detected by immunohistochemistry or Western blotting. The mRNA levels of LSD1 were detected by qRT-PCR. The correlation of LSD1 expression with clinical characteristics and prognosis was determined by statistical analysis. Cell proliferation rate was assessed by MTS assay and immunofluorescence. Cell migration and invasion were detected by scratch test, matrigel assay and transwell invasion assay.
LSD1 expression was higher in lung cancer tissue more than in normal lung tissue. Our results showed that over-expression of LSD1 protein were associated with shorter overall survival of NSCLC patients. LSD1 was localized mainly to the cancer cell nucleus. Interruption of LSD1 using siRNA or a chemical inhibitor, pargyline, suppressed proliferation, migration and invasion of A549, H460 and 293T cells. Meanwhile, over-expression of LSD1 enhanced cell growth. Finally, LSD1 was shown to regulate epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in lung cancer cells.
Over-expression of LSD1 was associated with poor prognosis in NSCLC, and promoted tumor cell proliferation, migration and invasion. These results suggest that LSD1 is a tumor-promoting factor with promising therapeutic potential for NSCLC.
Cardiotoxicity due to antineoplastic agents such as doxorubicin, daunorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristin, vinblastin, cisplatin and busulfan is well known. However, 5-fluorouracil-induced cardiotoxicity is yet to be widely recognized by cardiologists. We report a patient who developed 5-fluorouracil-induced cardiotoxicity syndrome.
African-American patients with colorectal cancer were observed to have increased 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-associated toxicity (leukopenia and anemia) and decreased overall survival compared with Caucasian patients. One potential source for this disparity may be differences in 5-FU metabolism. Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), the initial and rate-limiting enzyme of 5-FU catabolism, has previously been shown to have significant interpatient variability in activity. Several studies have linked reduced DPD activity to the development of 5-FU toxicity. Although the distribution of DPD enzyme activity and the frequency of DPD deficiency have been well characterized in the Caucasian population, the distribution of DPD enzyme activity and the frequency of DPD deficiency in the African-American population are unknown.
Healthy African-American (n=149) and Caucasian (n=109) volunteers were evaluated for DPD deficiency using both the [2-(13)C]uracil breath test and peripheral blood mononuclear cell DPD radioassay.
African-Americans showed significantly reduced peripheral blood mononuclear cell DPD enzyme activity compared with Caucasians (0.26+/-0.07 and 0.29+/-0.07 nmol/min/mg, respectively; P=0.002). The prevalence of DPD deficiency was 3-fold higher in African-Americans compared with Caucasians (8.0% and 2.8%, respectively; P=0.07). African-American women showed the highest prevalence of DPD deficiency compared with African-American men, Caucasian women, and Caucasian men (12.3%, 4.0%, 3.5%, and 1.9%, respectively).
These results indicate that African-Americans, particularly African-American women, have significantly reduced DPD enzyme activity compared with Caucasians, which may predispose this population to more 5-FU toxicity.
Fifty-three patients who had a high-grade osteosarcoma had either a limb-salvage resection or an amputation. They all received adjuvant therapy that consisted of administration of Adriamycin (doxorubicin) and whole-lung irradiation. At the time of follow-up, the surgical margin was assessed by examination of the surgical specimen. Each patient was followed for at least three years or until death. The data suggested that a wide surgical margin is adequate to control a primary osteosarcoma. When a wide surgical margin can be used and a functional limb can be salvaged, an amputation probably is not required.
The case of a patient with highly gentamicin-resistant Enterococcus faecalis endocarditis treated with an ampicillin + ceftriaxone combination is described. We have designed a method to evaluate synergism between the antibacterial activity of patient's serum taken during a given antibiotic regimen (ampicillin) to which another antibiotic (ceftriaxone) is added in vitro. In this patient the two-drug combination was able to stop the bacteremia and prevent the infection of the prosthetic valve.
Forty antiviral compounds were screened for inhibitory effect on hepatitis A virus (HAV) antigen expression in the human hepatoma cell line PLC/PRF/5. Ribavirin, amantadine, glycyrrhizin, and pyrazofurin were selected in this screening test and were studied further. The selectivity indices of these four compounds, calculated as the ratio of 50% cytotoxic dose (determined by the trypan blue exclusion and by inhibition of [3H] leucine incorporation) to the 50% effective dose (determined by the viral antigen expression), were 4.6 and 3.0 with ribavirin, 5.3 and 5.9 with amantadine, 15.2 and 16.9 with glycyrrhizin, and 45.4 and 74.6 with pyrazofurin. All four compounds resulted in concentration-dependent reductions of HAV antigen expression and HAV infectivity. Ribavirin, amantadine, pyrazofurin, and glycyrrhizin emerged, from the present study, as promising candidates for chemotherapy of acute hepatitis A.
To compare efficacy of remaining on duloxetine 60 mg to increasing to 120 mg q.d. in patients without remission of major depressive disorder (MDD) after 6 weeks at 60 mg.
This double-blind, parallel study was conducted in adults with MDD (DSM-IV-TR criteria). Patients initially randomly assigned to duloxetine 60 mg for 6 weeks with a 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D-17) score > 7 (nonremitters) were randomly reassigned to 60 mg or 120 mg duloxetine for 8 weeks. Patients with a HAM-D-17 score < or =7 (remitters) continued on duloxetine 60 mg. The primary objective was to compare time to remission (HAM-D-17 score < or =7) between rerandomized groups. Secondary objectives included evaluation of HAM-D-17 and Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology assessments and safety and tolerability evaluations in nonremitters and remitters. Patients were enrolled from November 2004 to January 2006.
Nonremitters randomly reassigned to 60 mg and 120 mg achieved similar time to remission and similar improvements on efficacy measures. Remission was achieved in 30.0% and 30.5% in the 60-mg and 120-mg groups, respectively. Of the remitters, 85.5% continued to be in remission at study end. Other than a greater incidence of hyperhidrosis and chest pain in the 120-mg group, adverse events were similar between groups, as were discontinuations due to adverse events.
Nonremitters to 60 mg of duloxetine for 6 weeks randomly reassigned to 60 mg or 120 mg of duloxetine demonstrated continued symptom improvement in the 8-week extension. Patients randomly reassigned to 120 mg showed no advantage over those who continued on 60 mg. Duloxetine was well tolerated at both doses and had similar safety profiles.
To study the protective effect of eukaryotic expression plasmid encoding augmenter of liver regeneration (ALR) on acute hepatic injury and hepatic failure in rats.
The PCR-amplified ALR gene was recombined with pcDNA3 plasmid, and used to treat rats with acute hepatic injury. The rats with acute hepatic injury induced by intraperitoneal injection of 2 mL/kg 50% carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) were randomly divided into saline control group and recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid treatment groups. Recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid DNA (50 or 200 microg/kg) was injected into the rats with acute hepatic injury intravenously, intraperitoneally, or intravenously and intraperitoneally in combination 4 h after CCl(4) administration, respectively. The recombinant plasmid was injected once per 12 h into all treatment groups four times, and the rats were decapitated 12 h after the last injection. Hepatic histopathological alterations were observed after HE staining, the expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) in liver tissue was detected by immunohistochemical staining, and the level of serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was determined by biochemical method. The recombinant plasmid DNA (200 microg/kg) and saline were intraperitoneally injected into the rats with acute hepatic failure induced by intraperitoneal injection of 4 mL/kg 50% CCl(4) after 4 h of CCl(4) administration, respectively. Rats living over 96 h were considered as survivals.
The sequence of ALR cDNA of recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid was accordant with the reported sequence of rat ALR cDNA. After the rats with acute hepatic injury were treated with recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid, the degree of liver histopathological injury markedly decreased. The pathologic liver tissues, in which hepatic degeneration and necrosis of a small amount of hepatocytes and a large amount of infiltrating inflammatory cells were observed, and they became basically normal in the most effective group after four times of injection of recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid. The indexes of PCNA significantly increased in the recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid treatment groups compared to model group. The level of serum AST and ALT remarkably reduced in recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid treatment groups compared to model group. The results showed that the effect of 200 microg/kg recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid in the rats with acute liver injury was stronger than that of 50 microg/kg pcDNA3-ALR DNA. The effect of intravenous injection of recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid was better. After the rats with acute hepatic failure were treated with recombinant pcDNA3-ALR plasmid, the survival rate (40%) significantly increased in treatment groups compared to control group (15%, P<0.01).
The ALR gene may play an important role in relieving acute hepatic injury and hepatic failure by promoting hepatic cell proliferation and reducing level of AST and ALT in CCl(4)-intoxicated rats.
Previous work provided preliminary evidence that different patterns of use among ecstasy users may impact on perceived side-effects. Participants recruited via an ecstasy-related bulletin board differed in their responses compared to those recruited via other means. The present investigation compares self-reports of psychobiological difficulties among ecstasy users recruited either via a bulletin board or by alternative methods. Qualitative data included reports of any negative or positive changes attributable to ecstasy use and reasons for cessation of use. An Internet-based design was utilized and 209 volunteers completed the study, 117 of whom were recruited via a bulletin board devoted to discussion of ecstasy. Psychobiological difficulties attributable to ecstasy use varied, with mood fluctuation the most common. Differences between the two groups in the extent to which these problems were reported was found. Bulletin board recruits were less likely to report anxiety or poor concentration, but more likely to report tremors/twitches. For the whole sample, lifetime use was associated more with psychobiologial problems, although this pattern was stronger and more pervasive for the non-bulletin board participants. Bulletin board recruits were more aware of possible negative psychological effects and were more likely to report adopting harm reduction strategies. From the qualitative data three negative consequences of use were identified, the most common of which was "psychological problems". In support of the quantitative findings the likelihood of reporting psychological problems increased with lifetime exposure to ecstasy in both recruitment conditions but interestingly this did not appear to impact on reasons for cessation of use. Participants also reported a number of effects that they regarded as beneficial. Future research should also take these aspects of use into account.
Our objective was to study the impact of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 polymorphism on the tolerability of metoprolol in a real-life primary care setting. The adverse effects studied comprised effects related to the central nervous system, cardiovascular effects, and sexual dysfunction.
Patients in whom treatment with metoprolol was considered were enrolled into this prospective, 6-week multicenter study. The dosage of metoprolol was determined on an individual basis and could be freely adjusted on clinical grounds. The indication for treatment was hypertension in about 90% of cases. Systolic and diastolic blood pressure, resting heart rate, and plasma metoprolol and alpha-hydroxymetoprolol concentrations were measured. CYP2D6 genotyping covered alleles *3 to *10 and *41 and the duplications. Possible adverse effects of metoprolol were systematically assessed over a 6-week period by means of standardized rating scales and questionnaires.
The final study population comprised 121 evaluable patients (all white patients); among them, there were 5 ultrarapid metabolizers (UMs) (4.1%), 91 extensive metabolizers (EMs) (75%), 21 intermediate metabolizers (IMs) (17%), and 4 poor metabolizers (PMs) (3.3%). Plasma metoprolol concentrations normalized for the daily dose and metoprolol/alpha-hydroxymetoprolol ratios at steady state were markedly influenced by CYP2D6 genotype and displayed a gene-dose effect. The median of the dose-normalized metoprolol concentration was 0.0088 ng/mL, 0.047 ng/mL, 0.34 ng/mL, and 1.34 ng/mL among UMs, EMs, IMs, and PMs, respectively (P<.0001). There was no significant association between CYP2D6 genotype-derived phenotype (EMs and UMs combined versus PMs and IMs combined) and adverse effects during treatment with metoprolol. There was a tendency toward a more frequent occurrence of cold extremities in the PM plus IM group as compared with the EM plus UM group (16.0% versus 4.2%, P=.056; relative risk, 3.8 [95% confidence interval, 1.03--14.3]).
CYP2D6 genotype-derived phenotype was not significantly associated with a propensity for adverse effects to develop during treatment with metoprolol. However, the results concerning tolerability of metoprolol in PMs were inconclusive because of the small number of PMs enrolled.
Long-term cocaine and alcohol use is associated with neuropsychological impairments that implicate poor inhibitory mechanisms of behavioural control. This study tested acquisition and discrimination-reversal learning in a group of polydrug users (n 20) with a history of cocaine and heavy alcohol use and a group of age-matched controls (n 20). A cued go/nogo task measured subjects' ability to learn stimulus-response associations that involved the quick activation and sudden inhibition of responses. Compared with controls, drug users displayed similar acquisition, but impaired discrimination-reversal learning of both inhibitory and activational responses. The results suggest that some drug-related neuropsychological deficits might reflect specific impairments of the ability to inhibit interference from prior learning. The findings contribute to growing evidence that suggests cocaine and alcohol use could produce broad inhibitory impairments that increase the risk for learning deficits and poor impulse control.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor has shown dramatic efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients harboring ALK rearrangements in phase I trial. Herein we report two cases of NSCLC patients with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis (LM), treated with ALK inhibitor under emergent use of investigational new drug combined with intrathecal methotrexate treatment. Progression free survival was 10 months and 6 months, respectively, and little additional toxicities were observed. These results suggest that ALK inhibitor might be safely administered even in patients or those with metastases in central nervous system.
To evaluate the cerebral oxygenation effects of hypotension induced by prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) during fentanyl-oxygen anaesthesia.
Ten patients who underwent elective cardiac surgery received infusion of PGE1. After measuring the baseline arterial, mixed venous and internal jugular vein blood gases, systemic haemodynamics, and regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2) estimated by INVOS 3100R, PGE1 was continuously infused at 0.25-0.65 microgram.kg-1.min-1 (mean dosage: 410 +/- 41.4 mg.kg-1.min-1) intravenously. Ten, 20 and 30 minutes after the start of drug infusions, blood gases described above were obtained simultaneously with the measurement of systemic haemodynamics and rSO2. Thirty minutes from the start of drug infusions, administration of PGE1 was stopped. The same parameters were measured again 10, 30 minutes after the stop of drug infusion.
PGE1 decreased mean arterial pressure (MAP) to approximately 70% of the baseline value (P < 0.05). PGE1 increased mixed venous saturation, but in contrast did not affect internal jugular pressure, internal jugular oxygen saturation and rSO2.
These results suggest that PGE1 is a suitable drug for induced hypotension because flow/metabolism coupling of brain and regional cerebral oxygenation were well maintained during hypotension.
We developed an inducible in vivo reporter system to examine expression of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) during development in zebrafish (Danio rerio). AhR is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the toxic actions of environmental contaminants such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Induction of cytochrome P4501A1 (CYP1A1) is an early biomarker of AhR activation. A 1905 base pair region of the human CYP1A1 promoter/enhancer region was regulated by AhR in zebrafish liver cells after exposure to TCDD (10 nM) in a transient transfection assay. This regulatory region was fused to the cDNA sequence encoding green fluorescent protein (GFP) of jellyfish (Aequorea victoria). Transgenic zebrafish were generated to express this AhR-regulated GFP construct. Injected fish exposed to TCDD exhibited induction of GFP in the eye, nose, and vertebrae of zebrafish embryos (48 and 72 hr after fertilization) compared to vehicle controls (DMSO), which did not express GFP. To investigate whether AhR-regulated GFP expression correlated with sites of TCDD toxicity, we exposed wild-type zebrafish to DMSO or TCDD and examined them for morphologic abnormalities. By 5 days after fertilization, TCDD-exposed fish exhibited gross dysmorphogenesis in cranio-facial and vertebral development.
Prion diseases are characterized by the accumulation of altered forms of the prion protein (termed PrP(Sc)) in the brain. Unlike the normal protein, PrP(Sc) isoforms have a high content of beta-sheet secondary structure, are protease-resistant, and form insoluble aggregates and amyloid fibrils. Evidence indicates that they are responsible for neuropathological changes (i.e. nerve cell degeneration and glial cell activation) and transmissibility of the disease process. Here, we show that the antibiotic tetracycline: (i) binds to amyloid fibrils generated by synthetic peptides corresponding to residues 106-126 and 82-146 of human PrP; (ii) hinders assembly of these peptides into amyloid fibrils; (iii) reverts the protease resistance of PrP peptide aggregates and PrP(Sc) extracted from brain tissue of patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease; (iv) prevents neuronal death and astrocyte proliferation induced by PrP peptides in vitro. NMR spectroscopy revealed several through-space interactions between aromatic protons of tetracycline and side-chain protons of Ala(117-119), Val(121-122) and Leu(125) of PrP 106-126. These properties make tetracycline a prototype of compounds with the potential of inactivating the pathogenic forms of PrP.
Sensory neurons in the stomach mucosa are closely apposed to mast cells and blood vessels. Mucosal hyperemia, after exposure to capsaicin, is mediated by calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) from these neurons, which also contain substance P (SP). However, the role of this peptide in blood flow regulation remains unclear. Therefore, this study examines the effect of SP on capsaicin-induced mucosal hyperemia and mast cells.
Gastric mucosal blood flow was measured with laser Doppler flow velocimetry in chambered rat stomachs. SP, aprotinin (serine protease inhibitor), and ketotifen (mast cell stabilizer) were infused into the splenic artery of rats. Mast cells were counted by microscopy.
Mucosal exposure to capsaicin (640 mumol/L) evoked a 70% increase in mucosal blood flow, which was abolished by SP, whereas aprotinin infused with SP and pretreatment with ketotifen before SP infusion restored the hyperemic response. Morphometry showed that ketotifen inhibited mast cell degranulation in SP-treated animals. Preservation of mast cells in SP-treated rats was linearly correlated to increased mucosal blood flow after exposure to capsaicin.
These data suggest that SP participates in regulation of gastric mucosal blood flow by activation of mast cells most likely by releasing proteases from mast cells that cleave and inactivate CGRP.
N-Benzyl-D-glucaminedithiocarbamate (BGD), diethyldithiocarbamate (DDTC), dihydroxyethyldithiocarbamate (DHED), trans-1,2-cyclohexanediamine N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (CDTA) and meso-2,3-dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) were studied for their protective effects against the pulmonary toxicity in mice induced by acute exposure to nickel. Nickel injection increased lipid peroxidation, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity and the concentrations of protein, phospholipids (PL) and essential metals such as Ca, Fe and Zn and decreased the reduced glutathione (GSH) concentration and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity in the lungs. At 30 min after Ni treatment, DMSA, BGD and DDTC effectively depressed Ni concentration in the lungs. At 24 h after Ni treatment, DMSA and BGD were effective in mobilizing Ni from the lungs. Both DMSA and BGD significantly prevented increases in lipid peroxidation and in the concentrations of PL, Ca, Fe and Zn, and decreases in GSH concentration and ALP activity in the lungs of mice caused by Ni injection. Treatment with DMSA or BGD was more effective than that with other chelating agents in decreasing the pulmonary Ni concentration and preventing other changes caused by acute exposure to Ni, resulting in effective protection against Ni-induced pulmonary damage.
The adenosine receptor system, which mediates the psychoactive effects of caffeine, is also thought to be involved in the regulation of anxiety. In this study, we examined the association between variations in anxiogenic responses to caffeine and polymorphisms in the A1 and A2a adenosine receptor genes. Healthy, infrequent caffeine users (N=94) recorded their subjective mood states following a 150 mg oral dose of caffeine freebase or placebo in a double-blind study. We found a significant association between self-reported anxiety after caffeine administration and two linked polymorphisms on the A2a receptor gene, the 1976C>T and 2592C>Tins polymorphisms. Individuals with the 1976T/T and the 2592Tins/Tins genotypes reported greater increases in anxiety after caffeine administration than the other genotypic groups. The study shows that an adenosine receptor gene polymorphism that has been associated with Panic Disorder is also associated with anxiogenic responses to an acute dose of caffeine.
To investigate the anti-lipid peroxidation and protection of liver mitochondria against injuries in mice with liver damage by picroside II.
Three animal models of liver damage induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4): 0.1 mL/10 g, ip), D-galactosamine (D-GalN: 500 mg/kg, ip) and acetaminophen (AP: 0.15 g/kg, ip) were respectively treated with various concentrations of picroside II (5, 10, 20 mg/kg, ig). Then we chose the continuously monitoring method (recommended by International Clinical Chemistry League) to analyze serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) values, Marland method to detect the activity of manganese-superoxide dismutase (SOD) in liver mitochondria, TBA colorimetry to determine the content of malonicdialdehyde (MDA) in liver tissue, DTNB method to evaluate the activity of glutathioneperoxidase (GSH-Px) and Lowry method to detect protein level in liver tissue. Meanwhile, effects of picroside II on the activity of ATPase and swelling extent of mitochondria in hepatocytes damaged by AP were also evaluated.
Picroside II could significantly prevent liver toxicity in the three models of liver damage. It decreased the high levels of ALT and AST in serum induced by the administration of CCl(4), D-GalN and AP, reduced the cellular damage of liver markedly, and appeared to be even more potent than the positive control drug of biphenyl dimethyl dicarboxylate pilules (DDB). In groups treated with different doses of picroside II, compared to the model group, the content of MDA in serum decreased evidently, whereas the content of SOD and GSH-Px increased in a dose-dependent manner, and the difference was statistically significant. Further, in the study of AP model, picroside II inhibited AP-induced liver toxicity in mice, enhanced the activity of ATPase, improved the swelling extent of mitochondria and helped to maintain a normal balance of energy metabolism.
Picroside II can evidently relieve hepatocyte injuries induced by CCl(4), D-GalN and AP, help scavenge free radicals, protect normal constructions of mitochondria membrane and enhance the activity of ATPase in mitochondria, thereby modulating the balance of liver energy metabolism, which might be part of the mechanisms of hepatoprotective effects of picroside II.
The visual acuity of the patient with ethambutol optic neuropathy will recover within 3 to 4 months after discontinuing the drug. We studied the extent of the recovery of other visual functions. Thirty-six axial type ethambutol optic neuropathy patients, who visited our neuro-ophthalmology clinic from January, 1990, to December, 1993, were included in this study. Fifteen patients (29 eyes) regained their visual acuity to better than 1.0. The average follow-up period following the recovery is 21.7 months. Pattern reversal VEP, Farnsworth-Munsell 100-Hue color vision test, critical flicker frequency (CFF), visual field perimetry, contrast sensitivity and edge-light pupil cycle time were assessed for every affected eye. Latency (P100) of visually evoked potential was delayed in 34.5% (10/29) of eyes. In color vision, 48.3% (14/29) of eyes had deutan or tritan defect. An abnormality of red CFF with value lower than 31 Hz was revealed 51.7% (15/29) eyes. In the visual field, 58.6% (17/29) of eyes had paracentral scotoma, arcuate scotoma, or enlargement of physiologic blind spot. Contrast sensitivity was depressed in 62.1% (18/29) of eyes, mainly at middle and low spatial frequency. Pupil cycle time was prolonged in 72.4% (21/29) of eyes. Aside from visual acuity, other visual functions of the recovered ethambutol optic neuropathy patients were incomplete. The extent of recovery of the visual function is as follows: visual acuity-VEPs-color sense-CFF-visual field-contrast sensitivity-pupil cycle time.
In recent years, intrathecal baclofen (ITB) treatment in patients with refractory spasticity has been accepted as an effective therapy. However, this treatment modality may cause life-threatening complications. This report describes the clinical presentation, unfamiliar dilemmas, and treatment of a patient with ITB toxicity and raises awareness of problems that may arise.
A 33-year-old man with refractory spasticity due to diffuse white matter injury was admitted for ITB treatment. The patient had respiratory difficulty followed by a generalized seizure and developed coma minutes after the drug administration. The patient was transferred into an intensive care unit immediately and managed accordingly.
After proper management, the patient was followed and continued to receive ITB treatment.
ITB therapy is a very effective method of rehabilitation and medication in patients with refractory spasticity, but physicians must be aware of the serious complications that may develop just minutes after the drug is administered. Although safe, baclofen pumps are nevertheless mechanical devices that may malfunction. Therefore, physicians should be mindful of the possibility of life-threatening complications that may develop and lead to a patient's death if proper treatment is not performed.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD), an irreversible, debilitating granulomatous lung disease is caused by exposure to beryllium. This occupational hazard occurs in primary production and machining of Be-metal, BeO, beryllium - containing alloys, and other beryllium products. CBD begins as an MHC Class II-restricted, T(H)1 hypersensitivity, and the Human Leukocyte Antigen, HLA-DPB1E(69), is associated with risk of developing CBD. Because inbred strains of mice have not provided good models of CBD to date, three strains of HLA-DPB1 transgenic mice in an FVB/N background were developed; each contains a single allele of HLA-DPB1 that confers a different magnitude of risk for chronic beryllium disease: HLA-DPB1*0401 (OR approximately 0.2), HLA-DPB1*0201 (OR approximately 3), and HLA-DPB1*1701 (OR approximately 46). The mouse ear swelling test (MEST) was employed to determine if these different alleles would support a hypersensitivity response to beryllium. Mice were first sensitized on the back and subsequently challenged on the ear. In separate experiments, mice were placed into one of three groups (sensitization/challenge): C/C, C/Be, and Be/Be. In the HLA-DPB1*1701 mice, the strain with the highest risk transgene, the Be/Be group was the only group that displayed significant maximum increased ear thickness of 19.6% +/- 3.0% over the baseline measurement (p < 0.05). No significant changes were observed in the other transgenic strains for any treatment condition. In addition, inter-strain differences in response to beryllium in seven inbred strains were investigated through use of the MEST, these included: FVB/N, AKR, Balb/c, C3H/HeJ, C57/BL6, DBA/2, and SJL/J. The FVB/N strain was least responsive, while the SJL/J and C57/BL6 strains were the highest responders. Our results suggest that the HLA-DPB1*1701 transgene product is an important risk factor for induction of the beryllium-sensitive phenotype. This model should be a useful tool for investigating beryllium sensitization.
A phase III clinical trial assessed the recurrence of adenomatous polyps after treatment for 36 months with difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) plus sulindac or matched placebos. Temporary hearing loss is a known toxicity of treatment with DFMO, thus a comprehensive approach was developed to analyze serial air conduction audiograms. The generalized estimating equation method estimated the mean difference between treatment arms with regard to change in air conduction pure tone thresholds while accounting for within-subject correlation due to repeated measurements at frequencies. Based on 290 subjects, there was an average difference of 0.50 dB between subjects treated with DFMO plus sulindac compared with those treated with placebo (95% confidence interval, -0.64 to 1.63 dB; P = 0.39), adjusted for baseline values, age, and frequencies. In the normal speech range of 500 to 3,000 Hz, an estimated difference of 0.99 dB (-0.17 to 2.14 dB; P = 0.09) was detected. Dose intensity did not add information to models. There were 14 of 151 (9.3%) in the DFMO plus sulindac group and 4 of 139 (2.9%) in the placebo group who experienced at least 15 dB hearing reduction from baseline in 2 or more consecutive frequencies across the entire range tested (P = 0.02). Follow-up air conduction done at least 6 months after end of treatment showed an adjusted mean difference in hearing thresholds of 1.08 dB (-0.81 to 2.96 dB; P = 0.26) between treatment arms. There was no significant difference in the proportion of subjects in the DFMO plus sulindac group who experienced clinically significant hearing loss compared with the placebo group. The estimated attributable risk of ototoxicity from exposure to the drug is 8.4% (95% confidence interval, -2.0% to 18.8%; P = 0.12). There is a <2 dB difference in mean threshold for patients treated with DFMO plus sulindac compared with those treated with placebo.
Febrile seizures (FSs) are the most common form of childhood seizures, and genetic factors play a role in susceptibility to FS.
To identify novel loci and genes associated with susceptibility to FS.
Study participants were the FS probands and family members of 59 Japanese nuclear families (223 members including 112 affected children). Forty-eight of these families had at least two affected children for which genome-wide linkage screening was carried out. The Genehunter software was used to perform nonparametric multipoint linkage analysis. Mutational and association analyses were conducted in all 59 Japanese FS families.
Genotyping data of 407 microsatellite markers suggested linkage of FSs to chromosome 18p11.2 (non-parametric linkage score = 3.68, p = 0.0001). This region includes the IMPA2 gene, which encodes myo-inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) 2. In the phosphatidylinositol-signaling pathway, IMPase is inhibited by lithium, which has a proconvulsant effect, and is stimulated by carbamazepine, an anticonvulsant. A systematic search was performed for mutations in IMPA2 in 24 unrelated randomly selected Japanese FS patients; seven variants were detected. Haplotype analysis revealed an association of a common haplotype in IMPA2 with FSs (p = 0.0009).
The authors found a novel locus on chromosome 18p11.2 for febrile seizures (FSs). IMPA2 is likely to be an FS susceptibility gene.
Low erythrocyte membrane protein sulfhydril concentrations are a risk factor for ribavirin-induced anemia. We further studied the role of oxidative stress and erythrocyte membrane alterations in ribavirin-induced anemia.
The levels of thioredoxin, glutathione peroxidase, protein sulfhydrils, and protein-mixed disulfides, as well as the electrophoretic membrane protein pattern, were determined in freshly isolated erythrocytes from healthy control subjects, patients without severe anemia during previous ribavirin treatment (still hepatitis C virus [HCV]-positive), and patients who had had severe anemia with ribavirin (still HCV-positive or HCV-negative), 6 months after full recovery. Erythrocytes were also incubated with buffer, ribavirin, phenylhydrazine, or dehydroepiandrosterone, and concentrations of protein sulfhydrils, protein-mixed disulfides, thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances, and total and oxidized glutathione, as well as osmotic resistance, were determined.
Patients with previous severe ribavirin-induced anemia had lower levels of protein sulfhydrils (30.9 nmol/mg protein versus 43.2 nmol/mg protein, P<.001) and thioredoxin (0.6 nmol/g hemoglobin versus 1.2 nmol/g hemoglobin, P<.001), higher levels of protein-mixed disulfides (1.5 nmol/g hemoglobin versus 0.5 nmol/g hemoglobin, P<.001) and glutathione peroxidase (618 mU/mg protein versus 393 mU/mg protein, P<.001), and a membrane protein pattern consistent with band 4 dimer disaggregation. These differences were independent of HCV seropositivity. There were negative correlations between levels of glutathione peroxidase and thioredoxin (r=-0.87) and between levels of protein sulfhydrils and protein-mixed disulfides (r=-0.93). In vitro studies showed that erythrocytes of patients who had had hemolysis during treatment of HCV are more susceptible to oxidative stress.
Pronounced differences in markers of oxidative stress and membrane proteins exist between patients with and without a history of ribavirin-induced anemia. Our findings suggest that there are erythrocyte-related risk factors for ribavirin-induced severe anemia.
The purpose of the present study was to determine whether the physiological dopamine prodrug, L-dopa, could suppress streptozotocin-induced diabetic glomerular hyperfiltration, and thus prevent further evolution of the diabetic nephropathy. Male Wistar rats treated with streptozotocin (60 mg/kg, intravenously) rapidly developed hyperglycemia which was stabilized (congruent to 4 g/L) by a daily insulin injection. Within two weeks, a significant increase in glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and a rise in the filtration fraction were observed as described in the early stage of diabetic nephropathy. Increase in both GFR and in the filtration fraction were normalized by treating the rats with L-dopa (10 mg/kg, subcutaneously, twice a day for one week). The effects of L-dopa were linked to endorenal DA synthesis and to DA-1 receptor stimulation since both carbidopa and SCH 23390 suppressed them.
Piratoxin-I (PrTX-I) is a Lys-49 phospholipase (PLA(2)) homologue, isolated from Bothrops pirajai snake venom, that has no phospholipase activity. In this study, we investigated the in vivo oedematogenic activity of PrTX-I in both the rat and the rabbit as well as the ability of PrTX-I to activate rat mast cells in vitro. In the rat paw and skin, PrTX-I (3-100 microg/paw) induced a dose-dependent oedema that was associated with extensive mast cell degranulation. The involvement of mast cells in PrTX-I-mediated oedema formation in the rat was further confirmed by the findings that this protein significantly activated rat peritoneal mast cells in vitro, causing the release of [(14)C]5-hydroxytryptamine ([(14)C]5-HT; 51 +/- 1%). In the rabbit, PrTX-I (10-100 microg/site) also induced dose-dependent skin oedema formation that was not affected by either mepyramine (a histamine H(1) receptor antagonist) or cyproheptadine (1.0 microg/site), indicating that mast cells do not play a role in this animal species. The bradykinin B(2) receptor antagonist Hoe 140 (0.5 microg/site) and the platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor antagonist WEB 2086 (200 microg/site) also failed to affect the PrTX-I-induced rabbit skin oedema, ruling out the involvement of kinins and PAF. The PLA(2) inhibitor p-bromophenacyl bromide greatly reduced the PrTX-I-induced oedema in both the rat and the rabbit, and also inhibited the rat in vitro mast cell activation induced by this PLA(2) homologue. The polyanions heparin and dermatan sulphate efficiently prevented oedema formation in both species, and heparin inhibited PrTX-I-induced rat mast cell degranulation. Our results are consistent with the suggestion that the cationic charge of PrTX-I plays a major role in the inflammatory responses induced by this PLA(2) homologue.
