A method was developed for measuring cocaine and its metabolites, benzoylecgonine, ecgonine methyl ester, norcocaine, ecgonine ethyl ester, cocaethylene, and m-hydroxybenzoylecgonine, in breast milk by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Limits of detection for this method ranged from 2.5 to 10 ng/mL, and limits of quantitation ranged from 5 to 50 ng/mL. For each of the compounds measured by this method, linear response was demonstrated to 750 ng/mL. Breast milk was collected from 11 mothers who admitted to drug use during pregnancy and ten drug-free volunteers serving as control subjects. Cocaine was detected in six of the specimens obtained from drug-exposed subjects, and in none of the drug-free control subjects. In breast milk specimens where cocaine and one or more of its metabolites were detected, the concentration of parent compound was greater than any of the metabolites. The highest cocaine concentration found was over 12 microg/mL. Breast-fed infants of cocaine abusing mothers may be exposed to significant amounts of drug orally.
The nerve agents soman, sarin, VX, and tabun are deadly organophosphorus (OP) compounds chemically related to OP insecticides. Most of their acute toxicity results from the irreversible inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), the enzyme that inactivates the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. The limitations of available therapies against OP poisoning are well recognized, and more effective antidotes are needed. Here, we demonstrate that galantamine, a reversible and centrally acting AChE inhibitor approved for treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease, protects guinea pigs from the acute toxicity of lethal doses of the nerve agents soman and sarin, and of paraoxon, the active metabolite of the insecticide parathion. In combination with atropine, a single dose of galantamine administered before or soon after acute exposure to lethal doses of soman, sarin, or paraoxon effectively and safely counteracted their toxicity. Doses of galantamine needed to protect guinea pigs fully against the lethality of OPs were well tolerated. In preventing the lethality of nerve agents, galantamine was far more effective than pyridostigmine, a peripherally acting AChE inhibitor, and it was less toxic than huperzine, a centrally acting AChE inhibitor. Thus, a galantamine-based therapy emerges as an effective and safe countermeasure against OP poisoning.
Sirt1, a mammalian homolog of silent information regulator 2 (Sir2), is the founding member of class III histone deacetylase (HDAC).
In this study, we examined whether Sirt1 is involved in the modification of acetylated histone H3, acetylated p53 and Werner syndrome protein (WRN), which is stabilized by Sirt1-mediated deacetylation, in cisplatin (CDDP)-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in rats.
Administration of CDDP (5 mg/kg body weight) caused an increase in the Sirt1 protein level by 6 h; this increase peaked at day 5 and declined until day 14. Sirt1 was induced to a greater extent in rats with severe ARF. In contrast, HDAC3 and HDAC5 were not induced within 24 h after CDDP administration. The level of acetylated histone H3 in the kidney decreased early, i.e., at 6 h, and was minimal at day 5, after which the level gradually increased by day 14. CDDP marginally induced acetylated p53 within 24 h after administration. Increased WRN also became evident at 6 h, and continued to be upregulated until day 5, accompanied by an increase in proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Transfection of Sirt1 to human embryonic kidney 293 cells mitigated the CDDP-induced cellular damage.
These findings collectively suggest that CDDP increases the level of Sirt1 protein in the kidneys in association with histone H3 deacetylation and increased WRN and PCNA production. The induced Sirt1 may work defensively to mitigate CDDP-induced tubular damage by inactivating core histone transcriptionally, and by repairing DNA damage.
Colchicine may produce a neuromuscular disorder even when given in customary doses. We report the electrodiagnostic features in eight pathologically proven cases of colchicine-induced myoneuropathy. Myopathic motor unit potentials and early recruitment were found in proximal limb and truncal muscles, frequently with fibrillations, positive sharp waves, or complex repetitive discharges. These electromyographic findings correlated with the course of the weakness, which rapidly resolved within weeks of drug discontinuation, indicating that the major functional disturbance in the patients was myopathy. The accompanying signs of axonal neuropathy persisted longer, with little functional consequence. Although often misrecognized as polymyositis, colchicine myoneuropathy was identifiable by the rapid clinical and electrophysiologic improvement following drug withdrawal as well as by its distinctive morphology.
A 24-year-old man presenting with fever, rash, and myalgias subsequently developed hypercapnic respiratory failure and severe limb muscle weakness. Muscle biopsy revealed eosinophilic myositis, due to the ingestion of large quantities of L-tryptophan as a dietary supplement. Complete recovery occurred with corticosteroid administration. Significant involvement of the respiratory muscles can be a predominant feature of this newly described disease entity.
Protein kinase C (PKC) and calcineurin are known to play a pivotal role in the development of cardiomyocyte growth. However, its role in Isoproterenol-induced (Iso) cardiac hypertrophy has not been characterized so far and were focus of the current study. After chronic beta-adrenergic stimulation of male Wistar rats with Iso (2mg/kg x day) for 2 and 7 days using osmotic minipumps, we determined a) cardiac PKC-activity, b) the expression of cardiac PKC isozymes (PKC-alpha, PKC-delta and PKC-epsilon) both at the protein and the mRNA-level and c) the expression of calcineurin using Western blot analysis. Iso-treatment for 2 and 7 days results in cardiac hypertrophy with an increase of the heart weight-to-body weight ratio by 36% and 27%. Iso-induced myocardial growth was associated with an enhanced total PKC-activity and a significant increased protein expression of cytosolic PKC-alpha (day 2: +38%; day 7: +43%), PKC-delta (day 2: 85%; day 7: +78%) and PKC-epsilon (day 7: +58%). The protein amount of calcineurin was not significantly altered by Iso compared with sham-operated controls. The increased expression of PKC-alpha, PKC-delta and PKC-epsilon in the cytosol was paralleled by a transcriptional upregulation of the absolute mRNA-levels of these PKC-isozymes as determined by quantitative RT-PCR.
A new topical corticosteroid formulation, 0.1 percent amcinonide cream, was compared with 0.1 percent betamethasone valerate cream in a double-blind, parallel study of the management of eczematous dermatitis. Both treatment groups showed statistically significant improvement in most symptoms and in overall disease status after one and two weeks of treatment. The amcinonide group had greater improvement in individual symptoms and significantly greater overall improvement than did the betamethasone valerate group. Side effects were few and minor in both groups. The amcinonide cream was found to be both safe and effective for the management of eczematous dermatitis.
1 The receptors involved in mediating the haemodynamic effects of three 5-HT1B/D receptor agonists were investigated in pentobarbitone anaesthetized rats (n = 6-17 per group). 2 Cumulative intravenous (i.v.) infusions of rizatriptan and sumatriptan (from 0.63 to 2500 microg kg(-1); each dose over 5 min) induced dose-dependent and marked hypotension (-42+/-6 and -34+/-4 mmHg at the highest dose, respectively; both P<0.05 vs vehicle: +5+/-3 mmHg) and bradycardia (-85+/-16 and -44+/-12 beats min(-1) at the highest dose, respectively; both P<0.05 vs vehicle: +16+/-6 beats min(-1)). Zolmitriptan evoked only moderate hypotension at the highest dose (-19+/-9 mmHg; P<0.05 vs vehicle). 3 A high dose of the 5-HT1B/D receptor antagonist, GR 127935 (0.63 mg kg(-1), i.v.), failed to antagonize the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by sumatriptan (-35+/-6 mmHg and -52+/-19 beats min(-1), respectively; both not significant vs sumatriptan in untreated rats), but moderately reduced the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by rizatriptan (-20+/-5 mmHg and -30+/-17 beats min(-1), respectively; both P<0.05 vs vehicle and vs rizatriptan in untreated rats). 4 The selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY 100635 (0.16 and 0.63 mg kg(-1), i.v.), dose-dependently attenuated the haemodynamic responses evoked by rizatriptan and sumatriptan, which were almost abolished by the higher dose of WAY 100635 (-4+/-3 mmHg and -15+/-8 beats min(-1); both not significant vs vehicle and P<0.05 vs rizatriptan in untreated rats). A slight but statistically significant reduction in mean arterial pressure (MAP) persisted at the highest dose of sumatriptan (-13+/-4 mmHg following the higher dose of WAY 100635; P<0.05 vs vehicle). 5 In pithed rats with MAP normalized by angiotensin II, rizatriptan failed to induce hypotension or bradycardia (+5+/-4 mmHg and -6+/-16 beats min(-1), respectively; both NS vs vehicle and P<0.05 vs rizatriptan in untreated rats). Similarly, sumatriptan failed to induce bradycardia in pithed rats (+5+/-6 beats min(-1); not significant vs vehicle and P<0.05 vs sumatriptan in untreated rats), whereas a slight but statistically significant reduction in MAP, compared to controls, occurred at the highest dose (-9+/-9 mmHg; P<0.05 vs both vehicle and sumatriptan in untreated rats). 6 In bilaterally vagotomized and atropine-treated (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) rats, the reductions in MAP and heart rate evoked by rizatriptan (-31+/-4 mmHg and -64+/-9 beats min(-1), respectively; both P<0.05 vs vehicle and not significant vs rizatriptan in controls) and sumatriptan (-47+/-8 mmHg and -56+/-10 beats min(-1), respectively; both P<0.05 vs vehicle and not significant vs sumatriptan in controls) were not statistically significantly different from those observed in controls. 7 In conclusion, the 5-HT1B/D receptor agonists, rizatriptan and sumatriptan, elicit hypotension and bradycardia in the normotensive anaesthetized rat predominantly via activation of central 5-HT1A receptors, and a consequent reduction in sympathetic outflow.
In order to study effects of theophylline on sleep, a randomised double-blind cross-over study with slow release theophylline vs. placebo was performed on 13 healthy male volunteers (mean age 24 years), eight of whom were considered caffeine-sensitive and five caffeine-insensitive. A sleep diary was filled in during the entire period. At the end of each 2 week study period a sleep questionnaire was filled in and a sleep recording was conducted. Seven of the eight caffeine-sensitive persons reported that their sleep was disturbed during the theophylline period, while none of the five caffeine-insensitive experienced any difference between the periods. Analysis of the sleep diaries (mean +/- SD) revealed a significant increase in sleep latency (16 +/- 11 vs 4 +/- 7 min) and decrease in sleep efficiency (95 +/- 3 vs 98 +/- 3%) among the caffeine-sensitive persons during the theophylline period compared with the placebo period, while no such difference was found among the caffeine-insensitive. We conclude that theophylline seems to disturb sleep mainly in caffeine-sensitive persons.
Sequential bleeding times were performed on 25 preterm infants receiving intravenous indomethacin for closure of the patent ductus arteriosus. Prolongation of bleeding time was observed after the initial dose of indomethacin, with an increase from a pretreatment mean of 3.6 minutes to 8.7 minutes. The bleeding time was not further prolonged at the end of the three-dose course of indomethacin, but was still elevated 48 hours after the completion of therapy. Clinical bleeding developed in six of the patients, but was generally limited to occult hematuria. Serial echoencephalography during indomethacin therapy showed progression from mild periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage to moderate or severe grades in five of 21 infants at risk for this complication. However, no clear temporal relationship between indomethacin administration and intraventricular hemorrhage extension was observed, and no difference in the degree of bleeding time prolongation was noted between infants with and without hemorrhage extension. Other factors, including surfactant deficiency, amount of volume expansion used, and lowest PO2 in the first day of life, did distinguish those with hemorrhage extension. The results suggest that indomethacin-induced platelet dysfunction is not associated with major hemorrhagic complications in the majority of preterm infants with patent ductus arteriosus.
Caveolin-1, a principal component of caveolae, modulates growth signaling, endocytosis, and intracellular transport. We examined the expression of caveolin-1alpha and its relation to cell cycle and caveolin-interacting growth factor receptors in regenerating proximal tubules (PTs) after gentamicin-induced acute renal failure in rats. Caveolin-1alpha appeared in regenerating PTs as early as day 4 after last gentamicin, peaked at days 6 to 8, and showed cytoplasmic pattern after day 8. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed caveolin-1alpha-positive caveolae on the cell membrane and in cytoplasms in regenerating PTs at days 4 to 8 and caveolin-positivity confined to cytoplasms after day 10. The number of PT cells with proliferation markers peaked at day 6 and decreased afterwards as expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors increased. Platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta (PDGFR-beta) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) were colocalized with caveolin-1alpha in proliferating PTs as early as day 4. Phosphorylated EGFR increased at day 8 and afterwards when caveolins dissociated from EGFR or decreased. In case of PDGFR-beta, phosphorylation seemed to be associated with the increase and association of caveolins to the receptors. Our results suggest that transient expression of caveolin-1alpha in early regenerating PTs might contribute to the regenerating process of PTs through modulating growth factor receptors.
Cardiotoxicity is a serious but relatively unknown side-effect of treatment with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). The underlying mechanism of 5-FU cardiotoxicity has not been defined. The aim of the present study was to determine whether hemorheological factors might in part explain 5-FU cardiotoxicity. Changes of blood and plasma viscosity, fibrinogen and hematocrit were studied in 11 patients treated by 5-FU. The study showed a decrease in blood and plasma viscosity during treatment with 5-FU, probably caused by a decrease of plasma fibrinogen. Reversible cardiotoxic effects were demonstrated in four patients.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is known to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. In the present study, we demonstrate the effects of SA13353 (1-[2-(1-Adamantyl)ethyl]-1-pentyl-3-[3-(4-pyridyl)propyl]urea), a novel orally active inhibitor of TNF-alpha production, in animal models, and its mechanism of action on TNF-alpha production. SA13353 significantly inhibited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced TNF-alpha production in a dose-dependent manner in rats. Moreover, SA13353 exhibited a binding affinity for the rat vanilloid receptor and increased neuropeptide release from the rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. However, its effects were blocked by pretreatment with the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) antagonist capsazepine. The ability of SA13353 and capsaicin to inhibit LPS-induced TNF-alpha production was eliminated by sensory denervation or capsazepine pretreatment in vivo. Although they inhibited LPS-induced TNF-alpha production in mice, these effects were not observed in TRPV1 knockout mice. SA13353 provoked the release of neuropeptides without nerve inactivation, even when chronically administered to rats. These results suggest that SA13353 inhibits TNF-alpha production through activation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons mediated via TRPV1 in vivo. Post-onset treatment of SA13353 strongly reduced the hindpaw swelling and joint destruction associated with collagen-induced arthritis in rats. Thus, SA13353 is expected to be a novel anti-arthritic agent with a unique mechanism of action.
Manipulations of attack parameters in murine agonistic encounters have shown that moderate attack terminating at the first unambiguous display of the upright submissive posture results in nonopioid analgesia. By contrast, attack continuing significantly beyond this behavioural marker results in decreases in nociception mediated by opiodergic mechanisms. However, these effects have only been demonstrated immediately upon termination of encounters. As such, little is known of the influences of agonistic encounters on nociceptive responding beyond this. Tail-flick latencies of male DBA/2 mice that had been exposed to opioid activating attack parameters were established at 15-minute intervals up to 90 min postattack. Data suggest the existence of at least two distinct phases in nociceptive responding with 1) analgesia being evident in the early phase (0-45 min) and 2) short-lasting (detectable only at 75 min postattack) hyperalgesia in the late phase. Further studies revealed both of these effects to be reversed by low (1-10 mg/kg) doses of naloxone. Interestingly, alterations in responsivity to noxious stimulation postmorphine (1-20 mg/kg) administration followed a similar pattern, with analgesia being detectable 0-2 hr and hyperalgesia being evident at 4 hr postinjection of either 10 or 20 mg/kg morphine. However, only the hyperalgesia induced by 20 mg/kg morphine was reversed by 10 but not 1 mg/kg naloxone. These data together suggest a relationship between the dose of morphine required to induce hyperalgesia and the amount of naloxone needed to reverse this response. The naloxone-reversibility of postencounter or morphine-induced hyperalgesia suggests that these effects are not a consequence of the absence of opiates/opioids per se.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Millions of people worldwide are chronically exposed to arsenic through drinking water, including 35-77 million people in Bangladesh. The association between arsenic exposure and mortality rate has not been prospectively investigated by use of individual-level data. We therefore prospectively assessed whether chronic and recent changes in arsenic exposure are associated with all-cause and chronic-disease mortalities in a Bangladeshi population.
In the prospective cohort Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study (HEALS), trained physicians unaware of arsenic exposure interviewed in person and clinically assessed 11 746 population-based participants (aged 18-75 years) from Araihazar, Bangladesh. Participants were recruited from October, 2000, to May, 2002, and followed-up biennially. Data for mortality rates were available throughout February, 2009. We used Cox proportional hazards model to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) of mortality, with adjustment for potential confounders, at different doses of arsenic exposure.
407 deaths were ascertained between October, 2000, and February, 2009. Multivariate adjusted HRs for all-cause mortality in a comparison of arsenic at concentrations of 10.1-50.0 microg/L, 50.1-150.0 microg/L, and 150.1-864.0 microg/L with at least 10.0 microg/L in well water were 1.34 (95% CI 0.99-1.82), 1.09 (0.81-1.47), and 1.68 (1.26-2.23), respectively. Results were similar with daily arsenic dose and total arsenic concentration in urine. Recent change in exposure, measurement of total arsenic concentrations in urine repeated biennially, did not have much effect on the mortality rate.
Chronic arsenic exposure through drinking water was associated with an increase in the mortality rate. Follow-up data from this cohort will be used to assess the long-term effects of arsenic exposure and how they might be affected by changes in exposure. However, solutions and resources are urgently needed to mitigate the resulting health effects of arsenic exposure.
US National Institutes of Health.
Systemic treatments with acetylcholine (ACh) or dopamine (DA) receptor antagonists during hours 0-4 but not during hours 5-8 following training on a radial arm maze (RAM) or lesions of the dorsal striata impair learning. This suggested that intra-striatal infusions of ACh or DA receptor antagonists during hours 0-4 following training may impair learning. Rats were randomly assigned to groups (ns=5-11) receiving dorsal striatal infusions of the ACh receptor antagonist scopolamine (0-18 microg/microL at 0 and 2h or at 4 and 6h after training), the DA receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (0-25 microg/microL at 0, 4 or 12h after training) or the inactive isomer trans-flupenthixol (6 microg/microL at 0 h after training). Scopolamine and cis-flupenthixol impaired the habit-learning version of the task. Given after hours 0-4 following training, the effects of scopolamine were diminished but those of cis-flupenthixol were not. Trans-flupenthixol produced less impairment than cis-flupenthixol. Results suggest that ACh and DA receptors in the dorsal striatum during hours 0-4 following training play a role in habit learning.
The present study examined the interaction of opioidergic systems in the hypotensive action of atenolol. Anesthetized, adult spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats were instrumented to monitor blood pressure and heart rate. Atenolol (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.) produced a decrease in blood pressure of similar magnitude in both SHR and WKY rats. However, the bradycardia was greater in SHR. Pretreatment with naloxone (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) 15 min prior to the administration of atenolol completely prevented the hypotensive response in SHR and decreased the maximum hypotensive response by approximately 50% in WKY rats. The atenolol-induced bradycardia was unaffected in both groups of animals. Additionally, pretreatment with yohimbine, an alpha 2-receptor antagonist, inhibited the hypotensive response of atenolol in SHR. Collectively, these results suggest an interaction between opioidergic and catecholaminergic systems as a possible site of action of antihypertensive drugs.
D-methamphetamine is abused for its euphoric effects and stimulatory action on cognitive function. Its abuse can, however, be associated with massive hypertension resulting in strokes, ruptured aneurysms, or myocardial infarction. We examined the utility of isradipine, a dihydropyridine-class calcium channel antagonist, in treating d-methamphetamine induced hypertension and evaluated its effects on cognitive function, both of which are mediated by dopaminergic mechanisms. D-methamphetamine dose-dependently increased all vital signs (systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure, and pulse rate) parameters. Isradipine significantly reduced d-methamphetamine-induced increases in diastolic and mean arterial pressure; however, this potentially beneficial therapeutic effect was offset by a significant reflex rise in pulse rate. D-methamphetamine also improved attention, accuracy of reasoning ability, and performance on computerized cognitive function tasks. D-methamphetamine's cognitive improving effects were not altered significantly by isradipine. Isradipine increased the false responding rate but was without significant effect on any other attentional task, or on reasoning ability, or performance. Isradipine does not appear to enhance cognitive function in healthy humans.
1,5-Diphenyl pyrroles were previously identified as a class of compounds endowed with high in vitro efficacy against M. tuberculosis. To improve the physical chemical properties and drug-like parameters of this class of compounds, a medicinal chemistry effort was undertaken. By selecting the optimal substitution patterns for the phenyl rings at N1 and C5 and by replacing the thiomorpholine moiety with a morpholine one, a new series of compounds was produced. The replacement of the sulfur with oxygen gave compounds with lower lipophilicity and improved in vitro microsomal stability. Moreover, since the parent compound of this family has been shown to target MmpL3, mycobacterial mutants resistant to two compounds have been isolated and characterized by sequencing the mmpL3 gene; all the mutants showed point mutations in this gene. The best compound identified to date was progressed to dose-response studies in an acute murine TB infection model. The resulting ED(99) of 49 mg/Kg is within the range of commonly employed tuberculosis drugs, demonstrating the potential of this chemical series. The in vitro and in vivo target validation evidence presented here adds further weight to MmpL3 as a druggable target of interest for anti-tubercular drug discovery.
5-aminosalicylate compounds (mesalazine, sulfasalazine) are widely used in therapy of inflammatory bowel diseases. Mesalazine-induced interstitial nephritis is a rare complication; however, the morbidity in an affected individual is high. Regular renal screening in patients treated with 5-aminosalicylate compounds is important. A 15-year-old boy with treated idiopathic proctocolitis, consequent mesalazine-induced nephritis, and a favorable response to corticotherapy is presented.
Although several new anticoagulant drugs are in development, heparin remains the drug of choice for most anticoagulation needs. The clinical effects of heparin are meritorious, but side effects do exist. Important untoward effects of heparin therapy including heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, heparin-associated osteoporosis, eosinophilia, skin reactions, allergic reactions other than thrombocytopenia and alopecia will be discussed in this article.
Activating mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene are extremely rare in small-cell lung cancer (SCLC). Here, we present a case of an EGFR-mutant gefitinib-responsive non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) of adenocarcinoma histology occurring in a never-smoker followed by subsequent diagnosis of metastatic SCLC carrying an EGFR mutation. Although gefitinib therapy of the primary NSCLC resulted in disease control for over 3 years, the patient subsequently developed metastatic SCLC to the liver. Epidermal growth factor receptor mutation analysis revealed that the exon 21 L858R activating mutation was present in both the original lung adenocarcinoma and the metastatic SCLC. We hypothesize that SCLC either evolved from the previously diagnosed NSCLC or that both arose from a common precursor. Further comparative molecular analysis of these histologically distinct tumors would be of value to better understand the potential role of EGFR in the pathogenesis of SCLC in never-smokers, and the role of selection for an EGFR-mutant SCLC subclone as an unusual mechanism of acquired resistance to EGFR inhibitors in NSCLC.
Cefprozil is a novel third generation, broad-spectrum oral cephalosporin. Serum sickness-like reaction and rash caused by cefprozil have been previously reported, but liver damage has not been documented. We report on a 15 years-old female with tonsillopharyngitis who developed hepatitis after treatment with cefprozil. Following discontinuation of cefprozil therapy, her liver functions returned to normal limits within four weeks. We suggest that for patients presenting with hepatitis associated with drugs, Cefprozil should be considered in the differential diagnosis of hepatitis.
Prolonged wound healing is a complication that contributes to the morbidity and mortality of protein malnutrition (PM). The molecular mechanisms that underlie impaired wound healing in PM may begin in the early inflammatory stage of the process. We hypothesized that the impaired wound healing observed in PM occurs as a consequence of excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) production that impairs the wound healing process by depressing nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB) activation and the subsequent synthesis and release of proinflammatory cytokines that are critical mediators of the inflammatory response. In this study, we showed that the time to wound closure was significantly prolonged in PM mice. During the early wound healing in PM, inhibitory kappa B alpha (IkappaBalpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) expression and neutrophil infiltration were significantly decreased in PM mice. The role of excess ROS in PM was demonstrated by using transgenic mice with overexpression of copper zinc superoxide dismutase and with dietary supplementation of N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Both interventions improved the extent of wound closure in PM mice. Moreover, NAC supplementation in PM mice restored the expression of IkappaBalpha, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha and infiltration of neutrophils to levels observed in control animals. These findings support the notion that wound healing defects in PM may result from dysregulation of ROS-mediated and NFkappaB-regulated signaling pathways.
The nephrotoxicity of amikacin (AK) was prevented with pentoxifylline (PTX) in a rat model. Rats were received a single injection of AK (1.2 g/kg, i.p.) with or without PTX pretreatment (25 mg/kg, orally). Renal morphology was investigated by light microscopy. Tissue samples and trunk blood were also obtained to determine renal malondialdehyde (MDA), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and creatinine (Cr) levels. MDA production was found to be higher in AK group. PTX administration caused a significant decrease in MDA production. Morphological damage in rats given AK was severe in the kidney, whereas in rats given AK plus PTX, no histological changes occurred. It is concluded that PTX could be useful for reducing the nephrotoxic effects of AK.
In a study of 101 patients undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, 90% of patients had complete amnesia for the procedure after intravenous midazolam (average dose 10 mg), but only 61% had complete amnesia after intravenous diazepam in lipid emulsion (average dose 18.4 mg) (P = 0.0006). However, when assessed by two different tests, recovery within the first hour was significantly more rapid after diazepam (P less than 0.0001). Prolonged sedation (over 20 hours after injection) was reported occasionally by patients who had received either drug. Thus, as with patients who have been sedated with diazepam, those who have been sedated with midazolam should also be advised to avoid driving or operating machinery for at least 24 hours after injection.
Neuronal nicotinic receptor systems have been shown to play key roles in cognition. Nicotine and nicotinic analogs improve attention and nicotinic antagonists impair it. This study was conducted to investigate the role of α4β2 nicotinic receptors in sustained attention using a novel selective α4β2 nicotinic receptor ligand, sazetidine-A.
Female rats were trained to perform the signal detection task to a stable baseline of accuracy. The rats were injected with saline, sazetidine-A (0.01, 0.03, and 0.1 mg/kg), dizocilpine (0.05 mg/kg), or their combination; or, in another experiment, the rats were injected with the same doses of sazetidine-A, scopolamine (0.02 mg/kg), or their combination.
Percent hit and percent correct rejection showed that dizocilpine caused significant (p < 0.025) impairments in performance, which were significantly reversed by each of the sazetidine-A doses. Response omissions were significantly (p < 0.05) increased by dizocilpine, and this was also significantly reversed by each of the sazetidine-A doses. None of the sazetidine-A doses had significant effects on hit, correct rejection, or response omissions when given alone. Scopolamine also caused significant (p < 0.0005) impairments in percent hit and percent correct rejection and increased response omissions, which were significantly attenuated by all the sazetidine-A doses for percent hit and response omissions and by the highest dose of sazetidine-A for percent correct rejection. Both scopolamine and dizocilpine significantly (p < 0.0005) increased response latency, an effect which was significantly attenuated by sazetidine-A coadministration.
These studies imply an important role for α4β2 nicotinic receptors in improving sustained attention under conditions that disrupt it. Very low doses of sazetidine-A or drugs with a similar profile may provide therapeutic benefit for reversing attentional impairment in patients suffering from mental disorders and/or cognitive impairment.
