To describe a possible case of ofloxacin-induced generalized tonic-clonic seizure. Although the etiology is unknown, ofloxacin most likely precipitated this patient's seizure threshold because of sepsis or secondary to drug accumulation due to the patient's compromised renal function.
A 69-year-old white woman with non-small-cell lung cancer and a history of central nervous system metastatic disease treated with radiation therapy presented to the emergency department with symptoms of urosepsis. Because of multiple drug allergies she was started on ofloxacin (hospital formulary quinolone). After 4 days of therapy she developed a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. A computed tomography scan of the head with and without contrast was negative. The ofloxacin was discontinued and aztreonam therapy was started. Phenytoin therapy was instituted and, despite serum concentrations below the conventional therapeutic range, there was no recurrence of seizure. Subsequent discontinuation of phenytoin did not result in a seizure for this patient.
Seizures induced by the fluoroquinolones are uncommon. The histopathologic features of this phenomenon are currently unknown. In this patient, imaging studies were negative for structural defects, ruling out metastasis as the cause of the seizure. Therefore, an investigation of drug-related causes ensued. The most likely offending agent was ofloxacin. Ofloxacin has been reported in the literature as a cause of seizures in patients with compromised renal function.
This case and other reports indicate that fluoroquinolones, including ofloxacin, may contribute to seizure development in patients with or without a history of epilepsy. Fluoroquinolone therapy should be used with caution in patients with risk factors for the development of drug-induced seizures.
In a double-blind cross-over study, the intraocular pressure-lowering action and side effects of a 5% guanethidine/1% adrenaline combination were studied and compared with those of two components alone. The subjects were 63 glaucoma patients divided into three random groups given the three preparations in a different order. The pressure-lowering effect of the combination is significantly better (P less than 1%) than that of either component alone but the side effects were more severe.
Craniofacial abnormality is one of the major clinical manifestations of Smith-Magenis syndrome (SMS). Previous analyses in a mixed genetic background of several SMS mouse models--including Df(11)17/+ and Df(11)17-1/+, which have 2-Mb and 590-kb deletions, respectively, and Rai1(-/+)--revealed that the penetrance of the craniofacial phenotype appears to be influenced by deletion size and genetic background. We generated an additional strain with a 1-Mb deletion intermediate in size between the two described above. Remarkably, the penetrance of its craniofacial anomalies in the mixed background was between those of Df(11)17 and Df(11)17-1. We further analyzed the deletion mutations and the Rai1(-/+) allele in a pure C57BL/6 background, to control for nonlinked modifier loci. The penetrance of the craniofacial anomalies was markedly increased for all the strains in comparison with the mixed background. Mice with Df(11)17 and Df(11)17-1 deletions had a similar penetrance, suggesting that penetrance may be less influenced by deletion size, whereas that of Rai1(-/+) mice was significantly lower than that of the deletion strains. We hypothesize that potential trans-regulatory sequence(s) or gene(s) that reside within the 590-kb genomic interval surrounding Rai1 are the major modifying genetic element(s) affecting the craniofacial penetrance. Moreover, we confirmed the influence of genetic background and different deletion sizes on the phenotype. The complicated control of the penetrance for one phenotype in SMS mouse models provides tools to elucidate molecular mechanisms for penetrance and clearly shows that a null allele caused by chromosomal deletion can have different phenotypic consequences than one caused by gene inactivation.
N-Methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) is an alkylating agent having genotoxic potential to cause gene mutations and antiproliferative cytotoxic activity on developing brains to cause microcephaly by mid-gestational exposure in rodents. This study investigated the transient genotoxic and cytocidal effect of MNU at the beginning of the subgranular zone (SGZ) formation in the hippocampal dentate gyrus on neurogenesis in later life using rats. Pregnant rats were injected with MNU at 0 (vehicle controls), 1 or 3mg/kg body weight intraperitoneally from gestational day (GD) 18 to GD 20 once a day. In offspring, effects were observed at 3mg/kg. Fetal brains on GD 21 after the last MNU injection increased TUNEL(+) apoptotic cells in the tertiary germinal matrices. At postnatal day (PND) 21 on weaning, offspring displayed decrease of doublecortin (Dcx)(+) cells and cell proliferation in the SGZ and increase of calbindin (Calb1)(+) interneurons in the dentate hilus. Postnatal single bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injection on PND 3 resulted in an increase of BrdU(+)/Dcx(+) cells. On PND 77, Dcx(+) cells recovered in number, but cell proliferation increased in the SGZ. Thus, late-gestational maternal MNU exposure may induce reversible reductions of type-3 progenitor and/or immature granule cells and cell proliferation on weaning in response to progenitor cell apoptosis, as well as delayed neurogenesis due to cell cycle arrest. Increases of Calb1(+) interneurons on weaning and SGZ cell proliferation later on may reflect compensatory mechanism for MNU-induced aberrant neurogenesis. Considering the lack of effects on PND 77, MNU may mainly target transient populations of highly proliferative progenitor cells without affecting their stem cells to undergo progenitor production. Protective and plasticity mechanism may be operated against genotoxic agents on hippocampal neurogenesis.
We observed two unrelated consanguineous families with malformation syndromes sharing anophthalmia and distinct eyebrows as common signs, but differing for alveolar capillary dysplasia or complex congenital heart defect in one and diaphragmatic hernia in the other family. Homozygosity mapping revealed linkage to a common locus on chromosome 15, and pathogenic homozygous mutations were identified in STRA6, a member of a large group of "stimulated by retinoic acid" genes encoding novel transmembrane proteins, transcription factors, and secreted signaling molecules or proteins of largely unknown function. Subsequently, homozygous STRA6 mutations were also demonstrated in 3 of 13 patients chosen on the basis of significant phenotypic overlap to the original cases. While a homozygous deletion generating a premature stop codon (p.G50AfsX22) led to absence of the immunoreactive protein in patient's fibroblast culture, structural analysis of three missense mutations (P90L, P293L, and T321P) suggested significant effects on the geometry of the loops connecting the transmembrane helices of STRA6. Two further variations in the C-terminus (T644M and R655C) alter specific functional sites, an SH2-binding motif and a phosphorylation site, respectively. STRA6 mutations thus define a pleiotropic malformation syndrome representing the first human phenotype associated with mutations in a gene from the "STRA" group.
The molecular basis of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia (LID), one of the major hindrances in the current therapy for Parkinson's disease, is still unclear. We show that attenuation of cAMP signaling in the medium spiny neurons of the striatum, achieved by genetic inactivation of the dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32 kDa (DARPP-32), reduces LID. We also show that, in dyskinetic mice, sensitized cAMP/cAMP-dependent protein kinase/DARPP-32 signaling leads to phosphorylation/activation of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). The increase in ERK1/2 phosphorylation associated with dyskinesia results in activation of mitogen- and stress-activated kinase-1 (MSK-1) and phosphorylation of histone H3, two downstream targets of ERK involved in transcriptional regulation. In line with these observations, we found that c-Fos expression is abnormally elevated in the striata of mice affected by LID. Persistent enhancement of the ERK signaling cascade is implicated in the generation of LID. Thus, pharmacological inactivation of ERK1/2 achieved using SL327 (alpha-[amino[(4-aminophenyl)thio]methylene]-2-(trifluoromethyl)benzeneacetonitrile), an inhibitor of the mitogen-activated kinase/ERK kinase, MEK, during chronic L-DOPA treatment counteracts the induction dyskinesia. Together, these results indicate that a significant proportion of the abnormal involuntary movements developed in response to chronic L-DOPA are attributable to hyperactivation in striatal medium spiny neurons of a signaling pathway including sequential phosphorylation of DARPP-32, ERK1/2, MSK-1, and histone H3.
In pathological conditions, oxidative burst generates hyaluronan (HA) fragmentation with a consequent increase in the number of small HA oligosaccharides. These fragments are able to stimulate an inflammatory response in different cell types by activating the CD44 and the toll-like receptors 4 (TLR-4) and 2 (TLR-2). The stimulation of CD44 and TLRs in turn activates the NF-kB which induces the production of several pro-inflammatory mediators that amplify and perpetuate inflammation. We aimed to study the antioxidant effect of the SOD mimic, synthetic manganese porphyrin, Mn(III) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(N-methylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin (MnTM-2-PyP(5+)) on preventing HA degradation in mouse articular chondrocytes stimulated with Fe (II) plus ascorbate. Fe (II) plus ascorbate stimulation induced oxidative burst confirmed by high levels of hydroxyl radical/peroxynitrite production, increased lipid peroxidation and HA degradation. HA fragments highly induced mRNA expression and the related protein production of CD44, TLR-4 and TLR-2, NF-kB activation and significantly up-regulated the inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and other pro-inflammatory mediators, i.e. matrix metalloprotease 13 (MMP-13) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Treatment of cells with MnTM-2-PyP(5+)was able to attenuate oxidative burst, HA degradation and NF-kB activation, and markedly decreased mRNA expression of CD44, and TLRs and the related protein synthesis, as well as the levels of up-regulated inflammatory mediators. Adding a specific HA-blocking peptide (PEP-1) to cells significantly reduced all the inflammatory parameters up-regulated by Fe (II) plus ascorbate, and increased MnTM-2-PyP(5+) activity. These findings suggest that HA degradation plays a key role in the initial inflammatory response of cartilage and antioxidants and could be a useful tool to prevent the propagation of this mechanism.
Ataxia telangeictasia (A-T) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by immune dysfunction, genomic instability, chronic oxidative damage, and increased cancer incidence. Previously, desferal was found to increase the resistance of A-T, but not normal cells to exogenous oxidative stress in the colony forming-efficiency assay, suggesting that iron metabolism is dysregulated in A-T. Since desferal both chelates iron and modulates gene expression, we tested the effects of apoferritin and the iron chelating flavonoid quercetin on A-T cell colony-forming ability. We demonstrate that apoferritin and quercetin increase the ability of A-T cells to form colonies. We also show that labile iron levels are significantly elevated in Atm-deficient mouse sera compared to syngeniec wild type mice. Our findings support a role for labile iron acting as a Fenton catalyst in A-T, contributing to the chronic oxidative stress seen in this disease. Our findings further suggest that iron chelators might promote the survival of A-T cells and hence, individuals with A-T.
Serotonin (5HT) can induce coronary artery spasm (CAS) in patients with variant angina (VA). We have previously reported that 5HT(1B) and 5HT(2A) receptors gene were expressed in human coronary arterial smooth muscle cells and that isolated coronary artery from a patient with VA showed the supersensitivity to sumatriptan (SMT), a 5HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist. The aim of the present study was to determine whether SMT can provoke CAS directly or indirectly through platelet aggregation in patients with VA.
We evaluated the effects of intracoronary infusion of graded concentrations of SMT on coronary arteries in 9 patients, including 5 documented VA and 4 participants with atypical chest pain as control.
SMT provoked CAS in all patients with VA. SMT could not induce CAS in control. SMT (10(-4) M) caused significant contractions (%diameter of baseline; median [interquartile range], 0 [0-18.4]% in VA, as compared with control (proximal segments; 92.6 [77.9-118.9]%, p<0.05 vs. VA, distal segments; 92.9 [65.3-158.5]%, p<0.01 vs. VA). In control, minor dilation occurred at SMT concentration up to 10(-5) M. SMT could induce in vitro platelet aggregation neither in healthy subjects nor in patients with VA.
These findings suggest that activation of 5HT(1B) receptor by SMT can induce CAS directly in patients with VA without platelet activation. This is the first report directly demonstrating the effect of 5HT(1B) receptor activation on human coronary arteries in vivo.
A single administration of cocaine or D-amphetamine produces acute hyperlocomotion and long-lasting increased sensitivity to subsequent injections. This locomotor sensitization reveals the powerful ability of psychostimulants to induce brain plasticity and may participate in the alterations that underlie addiction. We investigated the role of cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1-R) in the effects of a single injection of psychostimulants. The acute locomotor response to cocaine was normal in mice pretreated with the CB1-R inverse agonist N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251), whereas no sensitization was observed in response to a second administration a week later. Locomotor responses to cocaine and D-amphetamine were decreased in CB1-R-deficient mice, and sensitization was impaired. To determine how CB1-R controls long-lasting effects of psychostimulants, we studied cocaine-activated signaling pathways. Cocaine-induced cAMP-dependent phosphorylation of glutamate receptor 1 was altered in the striatum of CB1-R mutant mice but not of AM251-treated mice. In contrast, cocaine-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) was blocked in both CB1-R mutant and antagonist-pretreated mice. Conditional deletion of CB1-R in forebrain principal neurons or GABAergic neurons prevented cocaine-induced ERK activation in dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. Our results provide strong evidence for the role of the endocannabinoid system in regulating neuronal circuits critical for long-lasting effects of cocaine, presumably by acting on CB1-R located on terminals of striatal medium spiny neurons.
Selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibition by rofecoxib was associated with increased risk of cardiovascular events. We hypothesized that concomitant treatment with thromboxane prostanoid receptor antagonist S18886 might ameliorate possible negative effects. We evaluated the effects of S18886, rofecoxib, and the interaction of both compounds in a combined treatment on myocardial infarct (MI) size and cardiac function after experimental ischemia/reperfusion injury in hyperlipidemic APOE*3Leiden transgenic mice.
Prospective, randomized, control trial.
Research laboratory.
Hyperlipidemic APOE*3Leiden transgenic mice.
After four weeks of feeding an atherogenic diet, MI was induced by a 30-min ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, followed by reperfusion. Oral compound treatment was initiated 90 mins before MI, and continued daily by gavage for seven days. Four treatment groups (n = 12, each) were studied: solvent (Control), S18886, rofecoxib, and S18886 plus rofecoxib.
One week after MI, the mice were anesthetized and cardiac function was quantified by left ventricular (LV) pressure-volume relationships obtained by miniature pressure-conductance catheters. The ischemic area was measured by morphometry and expressed as percentage of LV area. No significant differences in infarct size were found between groups. Compared with control, treatment with S18886 did not affect heart function whereas the rofecoxib group had significantly lower cardiac output (4.5 +/- 0.8 vs. 3.2 +/- 1.1 mL/min, p < 0.01), lower ejection fraction (40 +/- 8 vs. 27 +/- 11%, p < 0.005), and increased end-systolic volume (18.6 +/- 5.7 vs. 28.6 +/- 9.0 muL, p < 0.05). The group with combined (S18886+rofecoxib) treatment was not different from control. Statistical analysis showed significant interactive effects between S18886 and rofecoxib indicating that negative effects of rofecoxib on cardiac function were prevented by S18886 treatment.
Rofecoxib treatment reduced global and systolic LV function after ischemia-reperfusion injury in APOE*3Leiden mice. These negative effects are prevented by combined treatment with thromboxane prostanoid-receptor antagonist S18886 (terutroban).
Increased plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) levels are associated with a number of pathophysiological complications; among them is obesity. Resveratrol was proposed to improve obesity-related health problems, but the effect of resveratrol on PAI-1 gene expression in obesity is not completely understood. In this study, we used SGBS adipocytes and a model of human adipose tissue inflammation to examine the effects of resveratrol on the production of PAI-1. Treatment of SGBS adipocytes with resveratrol reduced PAI-1 mRNA and protein in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Further experiments showed that obesity-associated inflammatory conditions lead to the upregulation of PAI-1 gene expression which was antagonized by resveratrol. Although signaling via PI3K, Sirt1, AMPK, ROS, and Nrf2 appeared to play a significant role in the modulation of PAI-1 gene expression under noninflammatory conditions, those signaling components were not involved in mediating the resveratrol effects on PAI-1 production under inflammatory conditions. Instead, we demonstrate that the resveratrol effects on PAI-1 induction under inflammatory conditions were mediated via inhibition of the NF κ B pathway. Together, resveratrol can act as NF κ B inhibitor in adipocytes and thus the subsequently reduced PAI-1 expression in inflamed adipose tissue might provide a new insight towards novel treatment options of obesity.
Amiodarone effectively blocks both the sodium and calcium channels and beta-adrenoceptors, in addition to blocking several potassium currents including IKr, IKs, Ito, IK1, IKACh and IKNa. The incidence of clinical torsade de pointes (TdP) associated with amiodarone has been reported to be low and the present study compared the proarrhythmic potential of amiodarone with that of a selective IKr channel blocker, sematilide, using a canine chronic atrioventrucular block model. Amiodarone or sematilide (3 and 30 mg/kg; n=4 for each group) was administered orally without anesthesia under continuous ECG monitoring. Both drugs prolonged the QT interval, although the onset was faster for sematilide. The high dose of sematilide induced TdP in 3 of 4 animals, which caused their death, but neither the low dose of sematilide nor the 2 dosages of amiodarone induced lethal ventricular arrhythmias. These results suggest that IKr channel inhibition by amiodarone with its additional ion channel blocking action may contribute to the prevention of TdP.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of oxcarbazepine in patients with diabetic neuropathy in a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging 16-week study.
A total of 347 patients were randomized to oxcarbazepine 600 mg/day (n = 83), 1,200 mg/day (n = 87), 1,800 mg/day (n = 88), or placebo (n = 89). The primary efficacy variable was change in mean visual analog scale (VAS) score from baseline to the last week of the study.
No difference between any oxcarbazepine group and the placebo group was noted for the primary efficacy variable. Both the 1,200- and 1,800-mg/day groups showed a trend toward statistical significance (P = 0.101, P = 0.096, respectively). Statistically significant differences were found between the oxcarbazepine 1,200-mg/day (P = 0.038) and 1,800-mg/day (P = 0.005) groups and placebo in the overall mean weekly VAS scores for the entire double-blind treatment phase.
Although the primary efficacy variable did not reach statistical significance, patients taking oxcarbazepine 1,200 and 1,800 mg/day showed improvements in VAS scores compared with placebo. Oxcarbazepine may provide clinically meaningful pain relief in patients with painful diabetic neuropathy.
It has been reported recently that resveratrol preconditioning can protect the brain from ischemia-reperfusion injury. However, it was unclear whether resveratrol administration after stroke was beneficial to the delayed phases after focal cerebral ischemia injury. This study investigated the effects and possible protective mechanism of resveratrol on the delayed phase after focal cerebral ischemia injury in mice.
Mice were randomly assigned to five groups according to the time of administration of resveratrol. Control group mice received a corresponding volume of saline solution (0.9% NaCl) containing 20% hydroxypropyl h-cyclodextrin by gavage and were exposed to middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion and reperfusion injury. The treatment groups received resveratrol (50 mg/kg/d, gavage) until day 7. Ischemia group mice received their first dose 5 minutes before MCA ischemia, reperfusion group mice received their first dose 5 minutes before MCA reperfusion, first-day, group mice received their first dose 24 hours after MCA reperfusion, and third-day group mice received their first dose at 72 hours after MCA reperfusion. Brain injury was evaluated by triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining and neurologic examination 7 days after reperfusion. The microvascular cell number was examined with immunohistochemistry staining. Effect of resveratrol on matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene expression was investigated with reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot.
The mean neurologic scores and infarct volumes of the ischemia and reperfusion groups were lower than that of the control group at 7 days after MCA reperfusion (P < .05). Immunohistochemistry staining showed significantly less reduction in the number of microvessels in the cortical area of mice of the ischemia and reperfusion groups compared with controls. The ischemic hemispheres of the ischemia and reperfusion groups showed significantly (P < .05) elevated levels of protein of MMP-2 and VEGF.
Resveratrol administration by gavage provided an important neuroprotective effect on focal cerebral ischemic injury in the delayed phase. The elevated MMP-2 and VEGF levels might be important in the neuroprotective effect of resveratrol administration by inducing angiogenesis.
The role of Interleukin-2 (IL-2)-based biochemotherapy (BCT) for patients with metastatic melanoma remains controversial and few data of patients treated outside a specialized trial setting are available.
Sixty-six consecutive patients treated with BCT for stage IV melanoma were analyzed retrospectively. All patients received BCT consisting of dacarbazine, cisplatin and vinblastine (CVD), interferon alfa-2a (IFN), and IL-2. IL-2 was administered at two different dose levels: 3 x 10(6) U/m(2)/day (BCT-3) and 9 x 10(6) U/m(2)/day (BCT-9), each intravenously on 4 consecutive days (days 5-8, 17-20, 26-29).
Nine of 66 patients achieved a complete (CR) and 11 patients a partial response (PR), resulting in an overall response rate of 30%. Five responses (2 CR and 3 PR) were observed in the 29 patients treated according to the BCT-3 protocol, 15 responses (7 CR and 8 PR) in the 37 patients treated according to the more IL-2 dose-intense BCT-9 protocol (17 vs. 41%; p = 0.033). Median overall survival (OS) for all 66 patients was 10 (range 3-119+) months. Responders had a superior OS than nonresponders (14 vs. 7 months, p < 0.001). After a median follow-up of 70 months, 5 patients are alive. Among them, 4 are in stable CR at 30+, 48+, 79+ and 119+ months, respectively, amounting to a disease-free survival rate of 6% (4/66).
Long-term disease-free survival for patients with stage IV melanoma can be achieved with BCT outside a highly specialized clinical trial setting. Better selection criteria are needed in order to avoid the unnecessary toxic treatment of the majority of patients.
Hearing loss as a possible side effect of azithromycin has been recognized since 1994. Most reports suggesting a link between sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) and this drug have been in association with prolonged doses for treatment of Mycobacterium lung disease. Mild-moderate, gradual, and reversible SNHL in the speech frequencies has been most often reported.
We describe irreversible SNHL in a patient in association with low-dose oral azithromycin prescribed for acute otitis media. We summarize the available evidence, including a systematic literature review, in support of a possible causal association between SNHL and low-dose azithromycin therapy.
Physicians should be aware of the potential for even low-dose, oral azithromycin to cause irreversible SNHL as a serious adverse drug reaction in some patients.
During the last 2 1/2 years, 38 patients with ovarian cancer were treated with a combination of cisplatinum (CPDD), 50 mg/m2, adriamycin, 30 mg/m2, cyclophosphamide, 300 mg/m2, on day 1; and hexamethylmelamine (HMM), 6 mg/kg daily, for 14 days. Each course was repeated monthly. 2 patients had stage II, 14 stage III and 22 stage IV disease. 14 of the 38 patients were previously treated with chemotherapy, 1 with radiation, 6 with both chemotherapy and radiation, and 17 did not have any treatment before CPDD combination. 31 of the 38 cases (81.5%) demonstrated objective responses lasting for 2 months or more. These responses were partial in 19 and complete in 12 cases. Hematologic toxicity was moderate and with reversible anemia developing in 71% of patients. Gastrointestinal side effects from CPDD were universal. HMM gastrointestinal toxicity necessitated discontinuation of the drug in 5 patients. Severe nephrotoxicity was observed in 2 patients but was reversible. There were no drug-related deaths.
The methylxanthine derivative pentoxifylline, widely used as a hemorrheologic agent in the treatment of peripheral vascular disease, is now being evaluated for potential applications in patients with cancer. Recent studies have shown that pentoxifylline can modulate a number of neutrophil functions at in vitro concentrations of at least 50 micrograms/ml. Using a standard51chromium-release assay, we studied the suppressive effects of pentoxifylline on natural killer (NK) cell activity and found that pentoxifylline, at concentrations of 50 and 100 micrograms/ml, suppressed the in vitro NK cell activity of healthy volunteers by 25% and 75%, respectively. Postreaction supernatants from chromium-release studies were then assayed for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Concentrations of both PGE2 and TNF-alpha were increased by more than five times in those assay wells containing pentoxifylline. Moreover, the addition of 1 microgram/ml indomethacin to the NK assay system containing pentoxifylline, completely inhibited PGE2 production and abrogated the pentoxifylline-induced NK suppression. The addition of PGE2 (1 x 10(-6) mol/L) to the assay system suppressed NK activity, whereas addition of 1 or 10 ng/ml TNF-alpha did not. Theophylline, another methylxanthine, failed to suppress NK activity like pentoxifylline at equimolar concentrations. Our studies provide the first evidence that concentrations of pentoxifylline of at least 50 micrograms/ml suppressed NK cell function by inducing PGE2 synthesis from effector peripheral-blood mononuclear cells.
We conducted an analysis of 37 patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) who received pentamidine for the treatment of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia to quantitate the incidence and severity of pentamidine-induced hypoglycemia. Ten of these patients (27%), nine of whom were symptomatic, developed hypoglycemia during or shortly after pentamidine therapy. The mean nadir blood glucose concentration in those who developed hypoglycemia during or shortly after pentamidine therapy was 38 mg/dl (range 20 to 55 mg/dl). The hypoglycemia frequently persisted after the end of pentamidine therapy. The incidence of nephrotoxicity in patients who developed hypoglycemia was 100%, as compared with 38% in the group who remained euglycemic (P less than 0.01). The overall incidence of pentamidine-induced hypoglycemia with AIDS is several-fold higher than previously reported for patients with other immunocompromising diseases who receive pentamidine. We conclude that pentamidine-induced hypoglycemia is a frequent adverse reaction in patients with AIDS and is potentially life-threatening if not recognized.
Initial and transient increases in the basal levels of cyclic GMP in the heart were noted prior to cardiac hypertrophy in rats administered isoproterenol. Increased levels of cyclic AMP-phosphodiesterase (in both the soluble and particulate fractions) and stimulatory modulator of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase, however, were associated with the progression, or the state, of cardiomegaly, with their levels returning to the control values upon regression of the hypertrophy. The levels of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase in the soluble fraction were lower, whereas those in the particulate fraction were higher, in the hypertrophied heart than the control. In cardiac hypertrophy, the maximal activity ratio(--cyclic AMP/+cyclic AMP) of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in the incubated minced heart caused by isoproterenol was lower, whereas the concentration of isoproterenol required to increase the activity ratio half-maximally was higher than controls; the reduced responsiveness to the drug, however, was reversed when the hypertrophy regressed. These observations, taken collectively, appear to suggest that the desensitization of the beta-adrenergic mechanism seen in the cardiac hypertrophy produced by repeated administration of isoproterenol is associated with adaptive modifications in certain parameters of the cyclic nucleotide systems.
In the search for more potent but still short-acting beta-blockers (BB), the methyl, ethyl, isopropyl, tert-butyl, cyclohexyl, 2-(1-adamantyl)ethyl, and methylthiomethyl esters of the acidic inactive metabolite of bufuralol were synthesized based on the "inactive metabolite" approach. The cleavage of the ester bond by blood and tissue esterases rapidly deactivates these compounds, resulting in an ultrashort duration of action. The beta-antagonist potencies and time courses of actions of the new "soft" BBs were characterized by recording ECG and intra-arterial blood pressure (BP) in rats. In the isoproterenol-induced tachycardia model, while bufuralol at an iv dose of 1 mg/kg (3.8 micromol/kg) diminished heart rate (HR) for at least 2 h, the effects of the soft drugs lasted for only 10-30 min at equimolar dose. The inactive metabolite did not decrease HR significantly. The first four members of this series of compounds showed the highest beta-blocking potencies, ranging between 25% and 50% of that of bufuralol. Next, the effects of these most active compounds on resting HR and BP were evaluated in comparison to esmolol. Infused for 10 min at a rate of 20 micromol/kg/min, esmolol decreased HR and mean arterial pressure (MAP) by 40% and 60%, respectively. The soft drugs at doses ranging only between 2 and 4 micromol/kg/min resulted in a 20-40% decrease in HR and a 30-50% reduction in MAP. However, the time courses of both the bradycardic and hypotensive effects of the soft drugs were superimposable to that of esmolol, diminishing within 60 min after the discontinuation of the infusions.
