Insufficiency of renal function and high blood pressure influence each other and eventually result in life-threatening endstage renal disease. It has been proposed that proteinuria per se is a determinant of the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD). The therapeutic strategy for patients with proteinuric CKD and hypertension should therefore be targeted with a view not merely toward blood pressure reduction but also toward renoprotection.
We examined the effect of the angiotensin (AT)1 receptor antagonist losartan and the calcium channel blocker amlodipine, throughout a period of 12 months, on reduction of blood pressure and renoprotection. This was done by assessing amounts of urinary protein excretion, serum creatinine (SCr), and creatinine clearance (CCr) in patients with hypertension (systolic blood pressure [SBP] > or = 140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure [DBP] > or = 90 mmHg) and CKD (male, body weight [BW] > or = 60 kg: 1.5 < or = SCr < 3.0 mg/dl; female or male BW < 60 kg: 1.3 < or = SCr < 3.0 mg/dl), manifesting proteinuria of 0.5 g or more/day. Losartan was administered once daily at doses of 25 to 100 mg/day, and amlodipine was given once daily at 2.5 to 5 mg/day. No antihypertensive combination therapy was allowed during the first 3-month period.
A 3-month interim analysis revealed that, despite there being no difference in blood pressure between the two groups, there was a significant reduction in 24-h urinary protein excretion in the losartan group ( n = 43), but there was no change in the amlodipine group ( n = 43). Analysis of stratified subgroups with proteinuria of 2 g or more/day and less than 2 g/day showed that losartan lowered proteinuria by approximately 24% in both subgroups, while amlodipine lowered proteinuria by 10%, but only in the subgroup of less than 2 g/day (NS). SCr and CCr did not change throughout the period of 3 months in either group. No severe or fatal adverse event was experienced in either group during the study period.
Losartan appeared to be efficacious for renoprotection in patients with proteinuric CKD and hypertension, with the mechanism being independent of its antihypertensive action.
Mitoxantrone/prednisone was the 2002 palliative reference treatment for hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). Paclitaxel and carboplatin has demonstrated antitumor activity in HRPC. The therapeutic benefit of such treatment was compared with that of mitoxantrone.
A randomized Phase II study was conducted that included 40 patients with HRPC who had not undergone chemotherapy. Patients in arm A received paclitaxel (175 mg/m2 every 3-week cycle) and carboplatin (area under the curve of 5 every 3-week cycle). Patients in arm B received mitoxantrone (12 mg/m2 every 3-week cycle). All the patients treated were receiving low-dose prednisone. The primary endpoint was the prostate-specific antigen response.
The prostate-specific antigen response to paclitaxel and carboplatin was significantly greater (40% [95% confidence interval 18.5% to 61.5%] versus 10% [95% confidence interval 1% to 32%], P = 0.031) and more durable (8.6 versus 2 months, P = 0.015) than the response to mitoxantrone. A tendency was noted for patients with measurable disease who were receiving paclitaxel and carboplatin to have a somewhat greater objective response rate than those who received mitoxantrone (23% [95% confidence interval 5.3% to 55%] versus no objective response, P = 0.060). The median overall survival was 14.5 months for the paclitaxel and carboplatin arm compared with 11.1 months for the mitoxantrone arm. The group given paclitaxel and carboplatin had significantly greater rates of sensitive neuropathy (50% versus 0%, P = 0.00026).
The 3-week regimen of paclitaxel and carboplatin induced a greater and more durable prostate-specific antigen response than did mitoxantrone for HRPC treatment. The major additive toxicity induced was peripheral neuropathy due to paclitaxel. Investigations with paclitaxel and carboplatin regimens merit large Phase III studies.
There is evidence that exposure to environmental factors is at least partly responsible for changes in semen quality observed over the past decades. The detection of reproductive toxicants under Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH) will impact animal use for regulatory safety testing. We first validated a model of culture of rat seminiferous tubules for toxicological studies on spermatogenesis. Then, using this model of culture, we assessed the deleterious effects of 1, 10, and 100 microg/l hexavalent chromium [Cr(VI)] on meiotic cells. The prophase I of meiosis was studied in vivo and ex vivo. Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was used to describe the kinetics of germ cell differentiation. SCP3 labeling allowed to establish the distribution of the stages of the meiotic prophase I and to perform a qualitative study of the pachytene stage in the absence or presence of Cr(VI). The development of the meiotic step of pubertal rats was similar in vivo and ex vivo. The number of total cells appeared not affected by the presence of Cr(VI) irrespective of its concentration. However, the numbers of late spermatocytes and of round spermatids were decreased by Cr(VI) even at the lower concentration. The percentage of synaptonemal complex abnormalities increased slightly with the time of culture and dramatically with Cr(VI) concentrations. This model of culture appears suitable for toxicological studies. This study shows that Cr(VI) is toxic for meiotic cells even at low concentrations, and its toxicity increases in a dose-dependent manner.
There is now evidence to suggest a central role for the dopaminergic system in restless legs syndrome (RLS). For example, the symptoms of RLS can be dramatically improved by levodopa and dopamine agonists, whereas central dopamine D2 receptor antagonists can induce or aggravate RLS symptoms. To our knowledge, there is no previous report regarding whether domperidone, a peripheral dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, can also induce or aggravate symptoms of RLS. Mirtazapine, the first noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant (NaSSA), has been associated with RLS in several recent publications. The authors report here a depressed patient comorbid with postprandial dyspepsia who developed RLS after mirtazapine had been added to his domperidone therapy. Our patient started to have symptoms of RLS only after he had been treated with mirtazapine, and his RLS symptoms resolved completely upon discontinuation of his mirtazapine. Such a temporal relationship between the use of mirtazapine and the symptoms of RLS in our patient did not support a potentiating effect of domperione on mirtazapine-associated RLS. However, physicians should be aware of the possibility that mirtazapine can be associated with RLS in some individuals, especially those receiving concomitant dopamine D2 receptor antagonists.
Abnormalities of cortisol production or metabolism are involved in the genesis of hypertension in Cushing's syndrome, apparent mineralocorticoid excess and liquorice abuse and possibly in chronic renal failure and essential hypertension. We have studied the physiological mechanisms by which cortisol raises blood pressure in short term studies of cortisol administration in normal men. Cortisol induced hypertension cannot be explained by increases in vasopressor or decreases in vasodepressor hormone concentrations, or by any increase in sympathetic nervous activity. The hypertension is accompanied by substantial sodium retention but a significant component of the blood pressure rise is sodium independent. The hypertension is characterized by an increase in cardiac output but a rise in output is not essential for the rise in blood pressure. Our working hypothesis is that cortisol induced hypertension is a consequence of increases in renal vascular resistance.
Dupuytren disease is a proliferative fibroplasia of the subcutaneous palmar tissue, occurring in the form of nodular and cords. Evidence is certainly accumulating for raised levels in Dupuytren's tissue of growth factors known to stimulate fibroblasts, Interleukin-1, basic fibroblast growth factor, transforming growth factor-beta, prostaglandin-F2, prostaglandin-E2, platelet derived growth factor and connective tissue growth factor have been suggested to have a role. Immune modification of profibrotic cytokines would provide a novel means to treat dupuytren contracture. Imiquimod cream 5% (Aldara) is an immune modifier, that downregulates transforming growth factor-beta and fibroblast growth factor-2 (the two most important cytokine in producing fibrosis). Based on previous mentioned evidence we suggest: imquimod as a potential drug for dupuytren contracture treatment.
The relationships between excessively high theophylline doses, the incidence of theophylline toxicity, and toxic serum theophylline concentrations in hospitalized patients were investigated. During a 24-month period, the medical records of patients whose serum theophylline content was above 20 micrograms/ml were studied. Demographic and medical information was recorded, including symptoms attributable to theophylline toxicity, and concurrent disease states and medications. A total of 3112 serum theophylline determinations were made during the study (January 1978 through December 1979); 17% were above 20 micrograms/ml. The medical records of 128 patients were available; 87 of these were studied. The patients were divided into three groups: Group 1--serum theophylline concentrations between 20 and 29.9 micrograms/ml (42 patients); Group 2--30-39.9 micrograms/ml (26 patients); Group 3--above 40 micrograms/ml (19 patients). In Group 1, 81% of the patients had at least one symptom of toxicity. In the other groups, all patients had one or more symptoms of toxicity. Tachycardia was the most common symptom. Four patients had seizures attributable to theophylline toxicity; all four had serum theophylline concentrations above 40 micrograms/ml. Of the 87 study patients, 77 (89%) had received theophylline doses above recommended guidelines. It is concluded that serum theophylline concentrations above 20 micrograms/ml result in a high incidence of toxic symptoms. Serum theophylline determinations should be obtained when treating patients with theophylline.
Several cases of TNF antagonist-related reactivation of hepatitis B have been reported. Here, we describe 4 cases in patients with spondyloarthropathies. Long-term monitoring of the hepatitis B virus (HBV) load is in order in HBV-positive patients treated with TNF antagonists.
There were 3 men and 1 woman, aged 30-40 years. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 5 years. In 2 patients, the HBV infection was not discovered until the pre-TNF antagonist therapy workup. A viral load increase was noted after a TNF antagonist was added to methotrexate in 2 patients, whose viral load values returned to baseline after the introduction of the antiviral agent lamivudine. Lamivudine was started at the same time as the TNF antagonist in the other 2 patients, whose viral loads remained undetectable. Escape phenomenon requiring a switch to another antiviral agent was required in 1 patient after more than 4 years of treatment with 3 TNF antagonists.
These 4 case reports illustrate the challenges raised by latent HBV infection in patients who require TNF antagonist therapy. They support routine HBV testing before treatment initiation, followed in HBV-positive patients by viral load monitoring. Antiviral therapy can be used preventively and should be given if the viral load increases under TNF antagonist therapy. In patients on antiviral therapy, viral load monitoring should be continued, given the risk of escape phenomenon after several years.
Isolated rat heart was perfused with 18 microM doxorubicin in the recirculating buffer. This treatment resulted in progressive contractile impairment. Aortic flow and minute work (i.e the product of cardiac output and peak systolic pressure) were reduced up to 20 and 29% of basal values, respectively. These parameters were partially restored in hearts perfused with 400 microM spermine, a naturally occurring polyamine, and 18 microM doxorubicin in the recirculating buffer. The results suggest the need for an investigation of the possible antagonistic role of polyamines against anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
Cerebral microsomal membrane properties were assessed in the chronic condition of generalized seizure induced by picrotoxin (PTX) in rats. PTX-induced seizures resulted in increased lysophosphatidyl glycerol, phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidic acid components, while phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylinositol were significantly reduced by 19-73%. The cholesterol (CHL) content increased considerably by 25% without alteration in total phospholipids content. Microsomal membrane was more fluidized in the epileptic condition. Possible consequences of microsomal membrane alterations are discussed in terms of deregulation of Ca2+ homeostasis. In conclusion, alterations in the microsomal membrane properties may have a significant influence on the cerebral function in the chronic epileptic condition.
The demographic, clinical and therapeutic features of the respiratory subtype of panic disorder (PD) versus the non-respiratory subtype were studied in a prospective design. Sixty-seven PD outpatients (DSM-IV), who had previously been categorized into respiratory (n=35) and non-respiratory (n=32) subgroups, were openly treated with clonazepam for a 3-year period. The principal measure of efficacy was the number of panic attacks, obtained from the Sheehan Panic and Anticipatory Anxiety Scale. In the first 8 weeks of treatment (acute phase), the respiratory subtype group had a significantly faster response to clonazepam. During the follow-up (weeks 12-156), the two subgroups did not differ significantly in the number of panic attacks experienced from baseline to end point. Patients in the respiratory subtype were characterized by a later onset of disorder and a family history of PD. Patients in the non-respiratory subgroup had a significantly higher number of past depressive episodes than those in the respiratory subgroup. The respiratory subgroup had a faster response after 8 weeks of treatment and an equivalent response in the 3-year follow-up period. Clonazepam had a sustained therapeutic effect over the entire treatment period.
Puerarin has multiple pharmacological effects and is widely prescribed for patients with cardiovascular diseases, including hypertension, cerebral ischemia, myocardial ischemia, diabetes mellitus, and arteriosclerosis. While puerarin is a useful therapeutic agent, its mechanisms of action have not been well defined. Understanding puerarin metabolism, in particular its interactions with metabolizing enzymes, will contribute to our understanding of its toxic and therapeutic effects and may help to elucidate potential negative drug-drug interactions. In this study, the major metabolite of puerarin was obtained from the urine of rats administered puerarin, by a semi-preparative high-performance liquid chromatography method. The major metabolite was identified as puerarin-7-O-glucuronide. In vitro, we used a UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) reaction screening method with 12 recombinant human UGTs to demonstrate that formation of puerarin-7-O-glucuronide was catalyzed by UGT1A1, 1A9, 1A10, 1A3, 1A6, 1A7, and 1A8. UGT1A1, 1A9, and 1A10 significantly catalyzed puerarin-7-O-glucuronide formation, and the activity of UGT1A1 was significantly higher than those of 1A9 and 1A10. The V (max) of UGT1A1 was two- to threefold higher than the levels of UGT1A9 or 1A10, with a lower K ( m ) value and a higher V (max)/K ( m ) value. The kinetics of puerarin-7-O-glucuronide formation catalyzed by UGT1A1 were similar to those of the pooled human liver microsomes (HLMs), with V (max) values of 186.3 and 149.2 pmol/min/mg protein, and K ( m ) values of 811.3 and 838.9 μM, respectively. Furthermore, bilirubin and β-estradiol, probe substrates for UGT1A1, significantly inhibited the formation of puerarin-7-O-glucuronide in HLMs.
Kupffer cells (KCs) have been demonstrated to play a role in the regulation of intra-hepatic lipid metabolism through the synthesis and secretion of biologically active products. The involvement of KCs in the disturbance of lipid metabolism that induced by perfluorononanoic acid (PFNA), a known agonist of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARα), was investigated in this study. Rats were exposed to PFNA or PFNA combined with gadolinium chloride, an inhibitor of KCs, for 14 days. PFNA exposure dose-dependently increased absolute and relative liver weights, induced triglyceride accumulation, up-regulated the expression of both SERBP-1c and PPARα, and stimulated the release of TNFα and IL-1β. Inactivation of KCs markedly lowered TNFα and IL-1β level, enhanced PFNA-induced expression of PPARα and its target genes, and reduced liver triglyceride levels. In vitro, PFNA-induced expression of PPARα in primary cultured hepatocytes was suppressed by recombinant rat TNFα and IL-1β. However, inhibition of the NF-κB pathway prevented this. Transient transfection and promoter analysis further revealed that these two cytokines and NF-κB were coordinately involved in the suppression of PPARα promoter activity. Our data demonstrate that TNFα and IL-1β released from KCs following PFNA exposure can suppress the expression of PPARα via NF-κB pathway, which partially contribute to the evident accumulation of triglycerides in rat liver.
Previous studies have revealed that 5-HT(1A) agonists ameliorate antipsychotic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) through postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. Here, we conducted an intracerebral microinjection study of (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin ((+/-)8-OH-DPAT) to determine the action site of the 5-HT(1A) agonist in alleviating EPS. Bilateral microinjection of(+/-)8-OH-DPAT (5 microg/1microL per side) either into the primary motor cortex (MC) or the dorsolateral striatum (dlST) significantly attenuated haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. The anticataleptic action of (+/-)8-OH-DPAT was more prominent with the MC injection than with the dlST injection. WAY-100135 (a selective 5-HT(1A) antagonist) completely antagonized the reversal of haloperidol-induced catalepsy both by intracortical and intrastriatal (+/-)8-OH-DPAT. Furthermore, lesioning of dopamine neurons with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (30 mg/kg/day, i.p., for 4 days) did not alter the anti-EPS actions of (+/-)8-OH-DPAT in a mouse pole test. The present results strongly suggest that 5-HT(1A) agonist alleviates antipsychotic-induced EPS by activating postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the MC and dlST, probably through non-dopaminergic mechanisms.
Management of secondary hyperparathyroidism has included the use of active vitamin D or vitamin D analogs for the suppression of parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion. Although, these agents are effective, therapy is frequently limited by hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, and/or elevations in the calcium-phosphorus (Ca x P) product. In clinical studies, paricalcitol was shown to be effective at reducing PTH concentrations without causing significant hypercalcemia or hyperphosphatemia as compared to placebo. A comparative study was undertaken in order to determine whether paricalcitol provides a therapeutic advantage to calcitriol.
A double-blind, randomized, multicenter study comparing the safety and effectiveness of intravenous paricalcitol and calcitriol in suppressing PTH concentrations in hemodialysis patients was performed. A total of 263 randomized patients were enrolled at domestic and international sites. Following the baseline period, patients with serum Ca x P < 75, and a PTH level > or =300 pg/mL were randomly assigned to receive either paricalcitol or calcitriol in a dose-escalating fashion for up to 32 weeks. Dose adjustments were based on laboratory results for PTH, calcium, and Ca x P. The primary end point was the greater than 50% reduction in baseline PTH. Secondary end points were the occurrence of hypercalcemia and elevated Ca x P product.
Paricalcitol-treated patients achieved a > or =50% reduction from baseline PTH significantly faster than did the calcitriol-treated patients (P = 0.025) and achieved a mean reduction of PTH into a desired therapeutic range (100 to 300 pg/mL) at approximately week 18, whereas the calcitriol-treated patients, as a group, were unable to achieve this range. Moreover, paricalcitol-treated patients had significantly fewer sustained episodes of hypercalcemia and/or increased Ca x P product than calcitriol patients (P = 0.008).
Paricalcitol treatment reduced PTH concentrations more rapidly with fewer sustained episodes of hypercalcemia and increased Ca x P product than calcitriol therapy.
Leflunomide, a new immunomodulatory agent, was prescribed to a 67-year-old female patient with rheumatoid arthritis. Fifteen days later she developed diarrhoea and elevated liver enzymes. A liver biopsy showed a pattern of acute hepatitis. The patient was homozygous for the rare CYP2C9*3 allele, which determines the slowest metabolic rate for CYP2C9 enzymatic activity, that is probably involved in the metabolism of leflunomide. Liver damage subsided in few weeks. This case illustrates the risk of hepatotoxicity by leflunomide and suggests that it is possibly related to CYP2C9 polymorphism.
Our recent studies have indicated that hyperhomocysteinemia (hHcys) may induce podocyte damage, resulting in glomerulosclerosis. However, the molecular mechanisms mediating hHcys-induced podocyte injury are still poorly understood. In the present study, we first demonstrated that an intact NADPH oxidase system is present in podocytes as shown by detection of its membrane subunit (gp91(phox)) and cytosolic subunit (p47(phox)). Then, confocal microscopy showed that gp91(phox) and p47(phox) could be aggregated in lipid raft (LR) clusters in podocytes treated with homocysteine (Hcys), which were illustrated by their colocalization with cholera toxin B, a common LR marker. Different mechanistic LR disruptors, either methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MCD) or filipin abolished such Hcys-induced formation of LR-gp91(phox) or LR-p47(phox) transmembrane signaling complexes. By flotation of detergent-resistant membrane fractions we found that gp91(phox) and p47(phox) were enriched in LR fractions upon Hcys stimulation, and such enrichment of NADPH oxidase subunits and increase in its enzyme activity were blocked by MCD or filipin. Functionally, disruption of LR clustering significantly attenuated Hcys-induced podocyte injury, as shown by their inhibitory effects on Hcys-decreased expression of slit diaphragm molecules such as nephrin and podocin. Similarly, Hcys-increased expression of desmin was also reduced by disruption of LR clustering. In addition, inhibition of such LR-associated redox signaling prevented cytoskeleton disarrangement and apoptosis induced by Hcys. It is concluded that NADPH oxidase subunits aggregation and consequent activation of this enzyme through LR clustering is an important molecular mechanism triggering oxidative injury of podocytes induced by Hcys.
We examined the effect of aspirin on urodynamic parameters in normal and cyclophosphamide-induced cystitic rats and compared them in rats with or without sensory denervation. Cystometry was performed under urethane anesthesia; and volume threshold for micturition (VT), micturition frequency (MF), micturition pressure (MP), and micturition volume (MV) were determined. Cystitis was induced by pretreatment with cyclophosphamide and sensory denervation was performed by pretreating animals with a large dose of capsaicin. PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) contents in the bladder were determined by ELISA. Sensory intact, cystitic rats showed decrement of VT and increment of MF. Aspirin increased VT and decreased MF in the cystitic condition. Both PGE(2) and 6-keto-PGF(1alpha) contents in the bladder were significantly increased in cystitic rats, but such increases were completely inhibited by aspirin. In sensory denervated rats, aspirin showed a marginal tendency of increment of VT. Cystitic rats showed overflow micturition in the sensory denervated condition, but VT was the same as that of normal rats. Furthermore, following capsaicin pretreatment, aspirin had no effect on the cystometrogram in cystitic rats. From these findings, it is concluded that suppression of sensory C-fiber via inhibition of PGs synthesis in the bladder is involved in the pharmacological action of aspirin in the detrusor hyperactivity.
In earlier studies, it was shown that there were gender differences in several aspects of the pharmacological profile of morphine, including its antinociceptive activity, discriminative stimulus properties and its reinforcing effects. The purpose of the present studies was to examine whether there might also be gender-related differences in the development of physical dependence, as reflected in the expression of an opiate withdrawal syndrome upon cessation of chronic morphine administration. We found that a more severe spontaneous withdrawal syndrome was produced by chronic morphine injections or morphine pellet implantation in male rats than in females. The duration of the withdrawal syndrome was also longer. In contrast to our observations with spontaneous withdrawal, we found no gender differences in the naloxone-precipitated withdrawal syndrome induced by chronic morphine administration. These observations suggest that there are gender differences only in the expression of the spontaneous withdrawal syndrome, but not in the neuro-adaptive changes associated with the generation of physical dependence as reflected by naloxone-precipitated withdrawal.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the role of spinal voltage-dependent calcium channel alpha(2)delta-1 subunit in the expression of a neuropathic pain-like state induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation in mice. In cultured spinal neurons, gabapentin (GBP), which displays the inhibitory effect of alpha(2)delta-1 subunit, suppressed the extracellular Ca(2+) influx induced by KCl, whereas it failed to inhibit the intracellular Ca(2+) release induced by inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate. Seven days after sciatic nerve ligation, the protein level of alpha(2)delta-1 subunit in the ipsilateral spinal cord was clearly increased compared to that observed in sham-operated mice. In addition, the mRNA level of alpha(2)delta-1 subunit was significantly increased in the dorsal root ganglion, but not in the spinal cord, of nerve-ligated mice. Under these conditions, a marked decrease in the latency of paw-withdrawal against a thermal stimulation and tactile stimulation, induced by sciatic nerve ligation was abolished by repeated intrathecal (i.t.) treatment with GBP. Additionally, the persistent reduction in the nociceptive threshold by i.t. treatment with GBP at the early stage of the neuropathic pain-like state was maintained for 7 days even after GBP withdrawal. It is of interest to note that a single i.t. post-injection of GBP showed a marked and transient inhibitory effect on the developed neuropathic pain-like state, whereas repeated i.t. post-treatment with GBP produced a persistent inhibitory effect during the treatment. In conclusion, we propose here that the neuropathic pain-like state with sciatic nerve ligation is associated with the increased level of the alpha(2)delta-1 subunit of Ca(2+) channels at the sensory nerve terminal in the spinal dorsal horn of mice. Furthermore, the present data provide evidence that the neuropathic pain may be effectively controlled by repeated treatment with GBP at the early stage.
A trial of droperidol as an antiemetic was undertaken during 48 courses of cisplatin chemotherapy in 31 patients with cancer. The optimal loading dose was 10 mg iv, with a maintenance dose of 4 mg iv every 2 hours for four additional doses. Beyond this level, cardiovascular side effects became problematic.
Differential protein arrays between nuclear extracts of human thyroid cell lines obtained from tumors with different degree of differentiation were exploited to define molecular alterations occurring during thyroid tumor progression. Nuclear extracts from the well differentiated TPC-1 (from papillary carcinoma) and the poorly differentiated ARO (from anaplastic carcinoma) cells showed an overall similar pattern of protein expression as revealed by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis. However, manganese-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) was clearly identified by mass spectrometry procedures as significantly less expressed in ARO compared to TPC-1 cells. A reduced expression of Mn-SOD in the nuclear compartment was confirmed by Western blot and immunofluorescence analysis. A similar expression pattern of nuclear Mn-SOD was detected by immunohistochemistry in human thyroid tumors, with the lowest or absent detection in anaplastic carcinomas. Moreover, the levels of nuclear Mn-SOD in tumor cells were lower than in the normal thyrocytes. These data indicate that an altered nuclear expression of Mn-SOD parallels, together with changes in other elements of the antioxidant protective system, the loss of differentiation occurring during the progression of thyroid tumors.
We evaluated retrospectively, 10 MRSA meningitis cases in our hospital that occurred between January 1999 and June 2004. All were post-neurosurgical and were considered to have hospital-acquired meningitis. Fever, leukocytosis, variable conscious levels were the most common findings. Six patients were treated with regimens including teicoplanin, and four with vancomycin. Mean duration of treatment was 23.5+/-18.8 days (range, 3-60 days). One patient died. In cases of MRSA meningitis, intravenous vancomycin is the mainstay of therapy. However, six of these 10 patients were successfully treated with regimens including teicoplanin, suggesting that this agent may be an alternative to vancomycin in the therapy of these cases.
In utero exposure of the fetus to benzo(a)pyrene [B(a)P], a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon, is thought to dysregulate cardiovascular development. To investigate the effects of in utero B(a)P exposure on cardiovascular development, timed-pregnant Long Evans Hooded (LEH) rats were exposed to diluent or B(a)P (150, 300, 600 and 1200 μg/kg/BW) by oral gavage on embryonic (E) days E14 (the metamorphosing embryo stage) through E17 (the 1st fetal stage). There were no significant effects of in utero exposure to B(a)P on the number of pups born per litter or in pre-weaning growth curves. Pre-weaning profiles for B(a)P metabolite generation from cardiovascular tissue were shown to be dose-dependent and elimination of these metabolites was shown to be time-dependent in exposed offspring. Systolic blood pressure on postnatal day P53 in the middle and high exposure groups of offspring were significantly elevated as compared to controls. Microarray and quantitative real-time PCR results were directly relevant to a biological process pathway in animal models for "regulation of blood pressure". Microarray and quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed upregulation of mRNA expression for angiotensin (AngII), angiotensinogen (AGT) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in exposed offspring. Biological network analysis and gene set enrichment analysis subsequently identified potential signaling mechanisms and molecular pathways that might explain the elevated systolic blood pressures observed in B(a)P-exposed offspring. Our findings suggest that in utero exposure to B(a)P predispose offspring to functional deficits in cardiovascular development that may contribute to cardiovascular dysfunction in later life.
Insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia may play an important role in both the development of hypertension and its accompanying metabolic aberrations. In order to investigate this possibility, nine non-obese, non-diabetic, non-smoking, middle-aged men with untreated hypertension were treated with metformin 850 mg b.i.d. for 6 weeks as a pilot study and within-patient comparison. Metformin decreased total and LDL-cholesterol (P less than 0.01), triglyceride (P less than 0.01), fasting plasma insulin (P less than 0.01) and C-peptide levels (P less than 0.02). Glucose disposal, an indicator of insulin action measured by means of the euglycaemic clamp technique, increased (P less than 0.001). Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity increased (P less than 0.02), and t-PA antigen decreased (P less than 0.01), whereas plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) and fibrinogen were unaffected by metformin treatment. Body weight remained unchanged. Withdrawal of metformin was associated with the return of both blood pressure and metabolism towards the initial levels. In conclusion, metformin treatment increased insulin action, lowered blood pressure, improved the metabolic risk factor profile and tended to increase the fibrinolytic activity in these mildly hypertensive subjects. These results support the view that insulin resistance plays a role in hypertension, and may open up a new field for the alleviation of abnormalities associated with cardiovascular disease.
Resveratrol is a major constituent of traditional Asian medicinal herbs and red wine and is suggested to be a potential antiatherosclerotic drug due to its proposed hypolipidemic, anti-inflammatory and antioxidative properties. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether resveratrol protects against atherosclerosis development in APOE*3-Leiden.CETP (E3L.CETP) mice and adds to the antiatherogenic effect of mild statin treatment, currently the most widely used antiatherogenic therapy. E3L.CETP mice were fed a cholesterol-rich diet without (control) or with resveratrol (0.01% w/w), atorvastatin (0.0027% w/w) or both for 14 weeks. During the study plasma lipid, inflammatory and oxidative stress parameters were determined. Resveratrol reduced atherosclerotic lesion area (-52%) in the aortic root, comparable to atorvastatin (-40%) and the combination of both drugs (-47%). The collagen/macrophage ratio in the atherosclerotic lesion, a marker of plaque stability, was increased by resveratrol (+108%), atorvastatin (+124%) and the combination (+154%). Resveratrol decreased plasma cholesterol levels (-19%) comparable to atorvastatin (-19%) and the combination (-22%), which was completely confined to (very)low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in all groups. Post hoc analyses showed that the antiatherogenic effect of atorvastatin could be explained by cholesterol lowering, while the antiatherosclerotic effect of resveratrol could be attributed to factors additional to cholesterol lowering. Markers of inflammation and oxidative stress were not different, but resveratrol improved macrophage function. We conclude that resveratrol potently reduces atherosclerosis development and induces a more stable lesion phenotype in E3L.CETP mice. However, under the experimental conditions tested, resveratrol does not add to the antiatherogenic effect of atorvastatin.
