The present study was undertaken to clarify the effects of anti-dementia drugs on sleep pattern in rats. Electrodes were chronically implanted into the frontal cortex and the dorsal neck muscle of rats for the electroencephalogram (EEG) and electromyogram (EMG), respectively. EEG and EMG were recorded with an electroencephalograph. SleepSigh ver. 2.0 was used for analysis of the sleep-wake state. Total times of waking, non-rapid eye movement (non-REM) sleep, and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were measured from 10:30 to 16:30. Galantamine had no significant influence on the sleep pattern. On the other hand, donepezil and memantine showed significant increases in sleep latency and total waking time and a decrease in total non-REM sleep time. Furthermore, memantine decreased total REM sleep time. To investigate the characteristics of non-REM sleep in detail, non-REM sleep was classified as stage 1, 2, or 3 according to the depth of sleep. Different from donepezil and galantamine, memantine significantly decreased stage 1 and increased stage 3 in non-REM sleep. From these findings, it can be concluded that galantamine caused no sleep disturbance, different from donepezil and memantine.
Add on adefovir (ADV) to ongoing lamivudine (LAM) has been recommended as a standard therapy for the treatment of LAM resistance. In the past, switch to ADV monotherapy was suggested as an option for the treatment of LAM resistance, leading to frequent development of ADV resistance. However, ADV monotherapy has been still used in LAM-resistant patients because of low cost in Korea. The aims of this study were to evaluate the virologic response and virologic breakthrough during adding on LAM in LAM-resistant patients receiving ADV monotherapy.
The study population comprised 99 patients with LAM-resistance. We divided them into 3 groups (Group 1: switch to ADV monotherapy, N=58, Group 2: add on ADV to ongoing LAM, N=25, Group 3: add on LAM to ADV monotherapy, N=16). HBV DNA levels were assessed at baseline and every 3 months during therapy. Serum HBV DNA levels were measured by bDNA assay or the COBAS TaqMan(TM) HBV test.
The median treatment duration for group 1, group 2, and group 3 was 42.0, 20.6, and 31.8 (18.7 mon. of ADV13.1 mon. of LAM) months, respectively. Cumulative rate of virologic breakthrough in group 1 was 5.2%, 19.0%, and 25.9% at 12, 24, and 36 months of treatment, respectively. Virologic breakthrough was not detected in group 2 and group 3 (p=0.016, group 1 vs. group 2 or 3). In group 3, median serum HBV DNA levels were 4.22 log10 copies/mL prior to LAM administration. Median serum HBV DNA changes from baseline (log10 copies/mL) were -0.91, -1.93, -1.87 and -1.74 at week 12, 24, 36 and 48, respectively.
Later add on LAM to ADV monotherapy prevented the development of ADV resistance in patients with LAM resistance effectively, comparable to ADV add on to continuing LAM therapy.
Syphilis and cocaine abuse are posing a growing public health problem on a global and national scale. Clinicians are increasingly likely to come across associated oral manifestations. We present two cases of palatal perforations caused by tertiary syphilis and cocaine abuse respectively. The literature review discusses issues specific to palatal perforations and those general to both conditions. The purpose of the report is to focus attention on syphilis and cocaine abuse as rising problems for the dental profession.
The frequency of tumour incidence in rats subjected to the single action of diethylnitrosamine to regenerating liver cells synchronized in different phases of the mitotic cycle was maximal in rats exposed to carcinogen when 62.5% of regenerating liver hepatocytes were in the S-phase. Dietary added phenobarbital increased the number and size of hepatocarcinomas especially in rats which received DENA in the G2-M phase of hepatocytes or during maximal proliferation of nonparenchymal cells. The role of proliferation of different cell populations in initiation and promotion of carcinogenesis is discussed.
1. Intravenous injection of paeoniflorin, a glycoside purified from the root of Paeonia lactiflora, reversed guanethidine-induced hypotension in Wistar rats. 2. Pretreatment with the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine inhibited this effect of paeoniflorin in a dose-dependent manner. 3. The action of paeoniflorin was not modified by 8-(p-sulfophenyl)theophylline, the polar antagonist of the adenosine A1 receptor, which is not able to enter the central nervous system. 4. We conclude that paeoniflorin can reverse guanethidine-induced hypotension via activation of adenosine A1 receptors in the brain of Wistar rats.
Acute toxicity of cefodizime sodium (THR-221) was examined in mice of both sexes, rats of both sexes (including 5-day-old young), and male dogs. The LD50 values of THR-221 (mg/kg) were as follows: (1) mice: intravenous, 7200 for males and 5000 for females; intraperitoneal, 10500 for males and 11000 for females; subcutaneous, 17500 for males and 16500 for females; and oral, 28000 for males and 29000 for females. (2) rats (adult): intravenous, 7000 for males and 8200 for females; intraperitoneal, 9500 for males and 8800 for females; subcutaneous, 17000 for males and 15500 for females; oral, more than 20000 for both sexes; and intramuscular, more than 3200 for both sexes. (3) 5-day-old rats: subcutaneous, 5278 for males and 5314 for females. (4) male dogs: intravenous, more than 5000. Major changes in general conditions observed in mice and rats were decreased spontaneous activity, lying prone, respiratory changes, staggering gait, clonic or clonic-tonic convulsions, and cyanosis, and in the animals dosed orally, diarrhea or salivation was also noted. The changes in 5-day-old rats were respiratory changes, agony, loss of reflex to an external stimulus, and congestion at the injection site, and those in dogs were vomiting, dryness of the nose, and soft or mucous stools. Autopsies on the mice and rats which died revealed hemorrhage on the brain surface. In addition, the following were seen: intraperitoneal retention of fluid and dark red spots on the abdominal wall (i.p.), subcutaneous retention of fluid or jellylike material and hemorrhage at the injection site (s.c.), and retention of fluid and dark red spots on the mucosa in the digestive tract (mice p.o.). In 5-day-old rats which died, the subcutaneous tissue at the injection site showed hemorrhage macroscopically and inflammatory changes microscopically. Hematological and blood chemical tests performed in dogs showed an increase in white blood cells and changes suggesting anemia, increases in GOT, LDH and ALP activities, and slight changes in urea nitrogen and inorganic phosphorus. In one animal given a low dose of 2500 mg/kg, an increase in GPT activity was also seen. However, these changes were all transient. Microscopic findings in dogs were slight inflammatory changes in the subcutaneous tissue around the injection site.
To evaluate estrogen receptors as a therapeutic target for human bladder cancer.
The ability of the selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) tamoxifen and raloxifene to inhibit 5637 human transitional cell carcinoma cell proliferation was determined in vitro and in xenograft studies using 5637 cells in female athymic BALB/c nu/nu mice.
Treatment with tamoxifen, raloxifene, or the pure antiestrogen ICI 182,780 inhibited proliferation of 5637 cells in vitro. In the first xenograft study, raloxifene (10, 100, or 1000 microg/day) administered by oral gavage inhibited the growth of tumors compared with placebo or untreated controls (P <0.05). In a second experiment, tamoxifen (8.3, 125, or 1250 microg/day) delivered by time-release pellet inhibited tumor growth compared with placebo-treated controls (P <0.01). A comparison study in which tamoxifen (8.3 or 125 microg/day) or raloxifene (100 microg/day) was administered by slow-release pellet demonstrated that both SERMs reduced growth compared to placebo-treated controls (P <0.05), with comparable effectiveness. There was no detectable tumor in 17 of 30 treated mice. In all studies, average tumor volumes in SERM-treated animals declined over the course of treatment.
Selective estrogen receptor modulators inhibit the growth of 5637 transitional cell carcinoma cell xenografts, supporting the rationale to evaluate these agents as targeted therapeutics for patients with urothelial carcinoma.
We examined whether the food mutagen 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) could increase intestinal tumorigenesis in neonatal C57BL/6J-Min/+ mice, a murine model for familial adenomatous polyposis. Min/+ mice are heterozygous for a nonsense mutation in the adenomatous polyposis coli gene and spontaneously develop multiple intestinal adenomas, primarily in the small intestine. Neonatal Min/+ mice (3-6 days old) were exposed to PhIP via breast milk from lactating dams given 8 s.c. injections of 50 mg/kg PhIP three times a week or to 8 s.c. injections of 25 or 50 mg/kg PhIP directly, over the same period. At the age of 11 weeks, the number, diameter and location of the intestinal tumors were scored. Remarkably, a 2- to 4-fold increase in the number of small intestinal tumors was seen in Min/+ mice exposed to PhIP via breast milk (P < 0.001). To our knowledge, this is the first time PhIP has been reported to induce tumors following exposure via breast milk from PhIP-exposed dams. Upon direct exposure to 50 mg/kg PhIP, a 6- to 9-fold increase in the number of small intestinal tumors was observed (P < 0.001). The diameter of the PhIP-induced small intestinal tumors was slightly increased (P < 0.001). In the colon, a 3- to 4-fold increase in the number of tumors was seen in Min/+ mice exposed to PhIP via breast milk (P = 0. 004). Direct exposure to 50 mg/kg PhIP caused a 2- to 6-fold increase in the number of colonic tumors (P = 0.014). The PhIP-induced colonic tumors were located more distally and displayed a smaller diameter than the tumors from the controls (P < 0.05). In contrast to a previous study, where PhIP showed only a moderate tumorigenic effect in adult Min/+ mice, the present study demonstrates a strong tumorigenic effect of PhIP in neonatally exposed Min/+ mice, even after exposure via breast milk from PhIP-exposed dams.
Approximately 30 patients with familial hypomagnesemia-hypercalciuria have been reported. We describe an 8-year-old girl with cardinal findings of familial hypomagnesemia-hypercalciuria (hypomagnesemia, hypermagnesiuria, hypercalciuria, renal insufficiency, hyperuricemia, elevated serum parathormone, hyposthenuria and nephrocalcinosis), who received combination therapy consisting of magnesium salts, thiazide diuretic and potassium supplementation. At the 4-year follow-up investigation under this treatment, the patient was found to have cerebral pseudotumor (increased intracranial pressure with normal or small ventricles on neuroimaging, no evidence of an intracranial mass and normal cerebrospinal fluid composition) with papilledema and visual field defects. Thiazide therapy was terminated and the cerebral pseudotumor disappeared. The authors hypothesize that cerebral pseudotumor in this patient was related to severe hypocalcemia, as a consequence of profound hypomagnesemia induced by protracted thiazide treatment. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a child with familial hypomagnesemia-hypercalciuria who developed pseudotumor cerebri after thiazide therapy.
Pramipexole (SND 919; 2-amino-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-6-propyl-amino-benzthiazole-dihydroc hlo ride) is a novel dopamine D2 family receptor agonist with a predominant action on D2 autoreceptors and with some D3 vs. D2 receptor preference. The central behavioural effects of pramipexole given subcutaneously to rats (male Wistar) and mice (Albino Swiss) are presented in this paper. Used in low doses (0.001-0.1 mg/kg), pramipexole induced locomotor hypoactivity which was antagonized by a low dose of spiperone; at higher doses (0.3, 1 mg/kg) it evoked hyperactivity which was inhibited by haloperidol, sulpiride and clozapine, but not by SCH 23390 (R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3- benzazepine hydrochloride). Pramipexole (0.1-1.0 mg/kg) antagonized the akinesia induced by combined pretreatment with reserpine (5 mg/kg) and alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (250 mg/kg). Pramipexole (0.1-1 mg/kg) potentiated the hyperkinetic effect of L-DOPA (L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine) (50 and 200 mg/kg, together with benserazide, 50 mg/kg) in naive and monoamine-depleted (reserpine + alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine) rats. The higher doses of pramipexole (1 and 3 mg/kg) evoked stereotypy which was antagonized by pretreatment with sulpiride or clozapine. The catalepsy induced by haloperidol, spiperone or fluphenazine was antagonized by pramipexole (1-3 mg/kg). Pramipexole (1 mg/kg) induced hypothermia in mice, which was antagonized by sulpiride. The obtained results indicate that pramipexole: (i) at low doses stimulates the dopamine D2 presynaptic autoreceptors; (ii) at higher doses stimulates dopamine D2 postsynaptic receptors. An effect on the dopamine D3 receptor cannot be excluded. At low doses pramipexole may have antipsychotic activity, and at higher ones antiparkinsonian activity.
More than 50% of Lobund-Wistar (L-W) strain rats developed large, palpable prostate adenocarcinomas (PAs) following treatments with N-nitroso-N-methylurea (CAS: 684-93-5) and testosterone propionate [(TP) CAS: 57-85-2], and most of the tumor-bearing rats manifested metastatic lesions. The incubation periods averaged 10.6 months. Within the same timeframe, no L-W rat developed a similar palpable PA when treated only with TP. In L-W rats, TP acted as a tumor enhancement agent, with primary emphasis on the development of prostate cancer.
Congenital heart defects (CHDs) are among the most common birth defects in humans (incidence 8-10 per 1,000 live births). Although their etiology is often poorly understood, most are considered to arise from multifactorial influences, including environmental and genetic components, as well as from less common syndromic forms. We hypothesized that disturbances in left-right patterning could contribute to the pathogenesis of selected cardiac defects by interfering with the extrinsic cues leading to the proper looping and vessel remodeling of the normally asymmetrically developed heart and vessels. Here, we show that heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in the human GDF1 gene contribute to cardiac defects ranging from tetralogy of Fallot to transposition of the great arteries and that decreased TGF- beta signaling provides a framework for understanding their pathogenesis. These findings implicate perturbations of the TGF- beta signaling pathway in the causation of a major subclass of human CHDs.
In the striatum, dopamine D(2) receptors are co-localized with adenosine A(2A) receptors on the GABAergic neurons of the striopallidal pathway. Moreover, blockade of A(2A) receptors has been previously shown to suppress parkinsonian-like symptoms (catalepsy, akinesia, muscle rigidity) in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Since it is believed that main motor symptoms of PD are due to the overactivity of the GABAergic striopallidal pathway, the aim of the present study was to find out whether SCH 58261, a selective antagonist of the adenosine A(2A) receptors, is capable of counteracting both the catalepsy and the enhancement of proenkephalin (PENK) mRNA expression in the rat striatum, induced by haloperidol administered at 1.5 mg/kg s.c. 3 times, every 3 h. Systemic administration of SCH 58261 (5 mg/kg i.p., 3 times, every 3 h, 10 min before haloperidol), partially decreased the haloperidol-induced catalepsy and the increase in the PENK mRNA expression in both dorsolateral and ventrolateral parts of the striatum at all three examined levels. No such changes were seen in the medial striatum and in the nucleus accumbens. Moreover, SCH 58261 given alone did not influence the level of PENK mRNA in any examined part of the striatum. The present results suggest that similarly to other A(2A) receptor antagonists, SCH 58261 normalizes activity of the striopallidal pathway, enhanced by blockade of dopamine D(2) receptors with haloperidol, which may result in recovery of motor functions.
Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) binds transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) which is mitogenic for hepatocytes. Diverse lines of evidence suggest that activation of the TGF-alpha /EGFR pathway contributes to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) formation. Herein, we developed an experimental model of cirrhosis giving rise to HCC and tested the antitumoral effect of gefitinib, a selective EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, in this model. Rats received weekly intraperitoneal injections of diethylnitrosamine (DEN) followed by a 2-week wash-out period that caused cirrhosis in 14 weeks and multifocal HCC in 18 weeks. Hepatocyte proliferation was increased in diseased tissue at 14 weeks compared with control liver and at even higher levels in HCC nodules compared with surrounding diseased tissues at 18 weeks. Increased proliferation was paralleled by upregulation of TGF-alpha messenger RNA expression. A group of DEN-treated rats received daily intraperitoneal injections of gefitinib between weeks 12 and 18. In rats treated with gefitinib, the number of HCC nodules was significantly lower than in untreated rats (18.1 +/- 2.4 vs. 3.7 +/- 0.45; P < .05), while EGFR was activated to a lesser extent in the diseased and tumoral tissues of these animals compared with untreated rats. HCC nodules from both untreated and gefitinib-treated animals displayed insulin-like growth factor 2 overexpression that contributed to tumor formation in treated animals. In conclusion, the blockade of EGFR activity by gefitinib has an antitumoral effect on the development of HCC in DEN-exposed rats, suggesting that it may provide benefit for the chemoprevention of HCC.
Aspidin BB, an effective phloroglucinol derivative from Dryopteris fragrans (L.) Schott, has been previously reported to exert high biological activities. In this study, we analyzed the underlying mechanisms of aspidin BB on human ovarian cancer cell line, HO-8910. Aspidin BB significantly inhibited HO-8910 cell proliferation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The IC50 values were 15.02, 25.79 and 68.81μM after 72, 48 and 24h treatment, respectively. Meanwhile, aspidin BB markedly induced apoptosis evidenced by characteristic apoptotic morphological changes, nuclear DNA fragmentation, annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide (PI) double staining and S peak. Western blot analysis showed that aspidin BB suppressed Bcl-2 expression and enhanced Bax expression to desintegrate the outer mitochondrial membrane, then caused cytochrome c release which led to the activation of effector caspase-3, and further cleaved the poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) in the nucleus, finally induced cell apoptosis. Furthermore, aspidin BB provoked S phase arrest in HO-8910 cells with up-regulation of pRb, E2F1, CDK2, cyclin E and cyclin A proteins. Taken together, these findings support the conclusion that aspidin BB exhibits cytotoxicity towards human ovarian cancer HO-8910 cells through induction of apoptosis via mitochondrial pathway and arresting cell cycle progression in S phase.
To describe the association between the use of the fluoroquinolone ofloxacin in an elderly man and an unusual acute encephalopathy with characteristics suggestive of Tourette's syndrome.
An unusual syndrome was observed in a 71-year-old man temporally related to the initiation of ofloxacin therapy that resolved completely after discontinuation of the drug. The most remarkable phenomena were spitting and profuse swearing; other features were echolalia, echopraxia, orofacial and limb automatisms, hypersalivation, and amnesia for the episode on recovery. The clinical syndrome had several features in common with Tourette's syndrome and possibly with frontal lobe onset complex partial seizures. The electroencephalographic, neuroradiologic, and cerebrospinal fluid examinations were normal.
The reported neurotoxic effects of the fluoroquinolones include insomnia, seizures, delirium, and psychosis, best explained by the gamma-aminobutyric acid-antagonistic properties of this class of drugs. This is the first reported case of a Tourette-like syndrome associated with the use of any quinolone, suggesting a possible interaction with central dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems.
Use of drugs such as ofloxacin that have improved central nervous system penetration, disease- or age-related reductions in renal function, concomitant use of drugs such as theophylline and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, and possibly increased pharmacodynamic sensitivity place the elderly at special risk for quinolone neurotoxicity. Dosing modifications and an awareness of possible central nervous system adverse effects are warranted.
To investigate the association between cancer risk and proximity of place of residence to the Guadalajara nuclear power plants: Trillo and Zorita.
Case-control study. Cases were patients admitted with cancer and controls were non-tumorous patients, both admitted to Guadalajara Hospital (period 1988-99). Exposure factor: place of residence (areas within 10, 20, and 30 km of each plant). Odds ratios (ORs) of those areas closest to the plants were calculated with respect to those furthest away; a linear trend analysis was also performed.
In the extreme areas in the vicinity of Trillo, an OR of 1.71 was obtained (95% CI 1.15 to 2.53), increasing in magnitude in the subgroup of more radioinducible tumours and in the period considered as post-latency (1997-99). Risk increased linearly with proximity to the two plants, significantly in Trillo (p < 0.01) but not in Zorita (p = 0.19).
There is an association between proximity of residence to Trillo and cancer risk, although the limitations of the study should be kept in mind when interpreting the possible causal relation.
A patient who received antithymocyte globulin therapy for aplastic anemia due to D-penicillamine therapy is described. Bone marrow recovery and peripheral blood recovery were complete 1 month and 3 months, respectively, after treatment, and blood transfusion or other therapies were not necessary in a follow-up period of more than 2 years. Use of antithymocyte globulin may be the optimal treatment of D-penicillamine-induced aplastic anemia.
Intravenous administration of cimetidine may occasionally cause profound hypotension. Cimetidine 200 mg was administered as a bolus injection to patients whilst on cardiopulmonary bypass and subsequent changes in systemic arterial pressure were recorded. A statistically significant fall in arterial pressure was observed (p less than 0.001), which was attributable to a fall in systemic vascular resistance.
Providing amnesia about a surgery is a desired side effect of a medication. This study compares anterograde amnesic effects of midazolam with hydroxyzine in children undergoing dental treatment with those drugs plus nitrous oxide, using a recall test. Thirty ASAI children 24-28 months, were shown a Standard-Binet intelligence scale-memory for objects subtest before entering treatment room. Twenty-lone randomly determined children received 3.7 mg/kg hydroxyzine 45 min before treatment or 0.2 mg/kg intranasal midazolam in two succeeding appointments, alternatively. Recall in the 30-subject treatment group was 90%. Recall in the 21-subject treatment group was 71% for hydroxyzine and 29% for midazolam. Midazolam was more effective in creating amnesia than hydroxyzine in this study.
Osteoporosis is a major public health problem and the most obvious preventive strategy, hormone replacement therapy, has lost favor due to recent findings of the Women's Health Initiative regarding increased risks of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease. Resveratrol, a naturally occurring compound possessing estrogenic activity, is thought to have considerable potential for therapy of osteoporosis. In the present study, resveratrol was found to exhibit bone-protective effects equivalent to those exerted by hormone replacement therapy and decrease the risk of breast cancer in the in vivo and in vitro models. Forkhead proteins were found to be essential for both effects of resveratrol. The bone-protective effect was attributable to induction of bone morphogenetic protein-2 through Src kinase-dependent estrogen receptor activation and FOXA1 is required for resveratrol-induced estrogen receptor-dependent bone morphogenetic protein-2 expression. The tumor-suppressive effects of resveratrol were the consequence of Akt inactivation-mediated FOXO3a nuclear accumulation and activation. Resveratrol is therefore anticipated to be highly effective in management of postmenopausal osteoporosis without an increased risk of breast cancer.
The occurrence of multiple myeloma is described in a patient receiving phenytoin (diphenylhydantoin) for 43 years. In this article, five cases of multiple myeloma and one of immunoblastic lymphadenopathy associated with diclonal gammopathy diagnosed after longterm phenytoin therapy are reviewed. These cases are characterized by lymphadenopathy, hepatosplenomegaly, and no or equivocal bone lesions, which are quite unusual in multiple myeloma. Because of the association of lymphomas with phenytoin, the role of the drug in the etiology of multiple myeloma or plasma cell dyscrasias is still in controversy, but highly suspected. It is suggested that a periodic examination of patients receiving phenytoin may be useful in an early detection of M-component. The possibility of reversing multiple myeloma by removal of phenytoin early in the course of the disease should be investigated.
The effects of several NMDA receptor antagonists on pentylenetetrazole-induced diazepam-withdrawal seizure were examined in mice. The decrease in the seizure threshold for pentylenetetrazole during diazepam withdrawal was inhibited by pretreatment with MK-801 ((+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cycloheptan-5,10-imine maleate), 7-chlorokynurenic acid and ifenprodil. Furthermore, MK-801 and ifenprodil, at doses which did not affect the threshold of pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure in control mice, also significantly suppressed the decrease in the seizure threshold during diazepam withdrawal, whereas 7-chlorokynurenic acid did not. These findings suggest that overactivity of an ion channel site and an ifenprodil binding site on the NMDA receptor may play an important role in the hypersensitivity of pentylenetetrazole-induced seizure in diazepam-withdrawn mice.
Nephrotoxicity of cefodizime sodium (THR-221), a new cephem antibiotic, was studied in rats by comparing its toxic effect with those of other cephem antibiotics including cephaloridine (CER), cefazolin (CEZ) and cefmetazol (CMZ). Each drug was administered single and consecutive 14-day dosage with its alone or in combination with either furosemide or gentamicin. The results are summarized as follows: 1. In the single dosage study, the rats treated with THR-221 at dose levels of 1200 mg/kg and more showed slight changes in urinary protein and glucose. In rats treated with CER at a dose of 1200 mg/kg, creatinine level in plasma and weights of kidneys were increased, and degeneration and/or necrosis of the renal proximal tubular epithelia were observed. Furthermore, by the consecutive dosage of CER at a dose of 1000 mg/kg, remarkable renal responses including increase in urinary protein and glucose, and weights of kidneys, were observed. In addition, histopathological examinations showed degeneration and/or regeneration of the renal proximal tubular epithelia. 2. No enhanced effect of nephrotoxicity by combination with furosemide or gentamicin was observed except in case of combination of CER with furosemide. 3. The above results indicate that the nephrotoxic potency among these four antibiotics on the single and consecutive dosage studies is CER much greater than THR-221 greater than or equal to CEZ = CMZ and CER much greater than THR-221 = CEZ = CMZ, in the decreasing order.
To report a rare but severe adverse effect of intravenous itraconazole, anaphylactic shock with hypotension and hypoxemia, in a female patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).
A 36-year-old woman with ALL received antifungal therapy for pulmonary fungal infections. On day 17 of itraconazole treatment, she developed hypotension and hypoxemia shock after intravenous administration of itraconazole 200 mg, which was eventually reversed by steroid treatment. On days 18 and 19, the patient developed the same type of shock 2 more times in the course of itraconazole administration. These 2 episodes of shock occurred more quickly after intravenous itraconazole administration (100 mg on day 18, 40 mg on day 19), and were reversed by stopping itraconazole and applying steroid treatment. In the modified antifungal therapy, intravenous administration of itraconazole was replaced by oral administration of voriconazole 200 mg twice daily. Shock did not recur after discontinuation of itraconazole treatment. The Naranjo probability scale showed a probable relationship between itraconazole treatment and shock occurrence.
Itraconazole is a widely used antifungal drugs and is well tolerated. However, long-term itraconazole treatment might lead to serious and even life-threatening adverse effects such as anaphylactic shock, as seen in our patient. T cell reduction caused by immunosuppression and itraconazole accumulation in patients with ALL are considered to be important causal factors for this delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction.
Anaphylactic shock represents a previously undocumented severe adverse effect associated with long-term itraconazole treatment; patients receiving this therapy and should be monitored closely.
To determine whether dogs that received eyedrops containing phenylephrine and scopolamine would have a higher mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) when anesthetized than would dogs that did not receive the eyedrops.
37 nondiabetic and 29 diabetic dogs anesthetized for phacoemulsification and 15 nondiabetic dogs anesthetized for corneal ulcer repair (control dogs).
Medical records were reviewed to identify study dogs. Dogs undergoing phacoemulsification received 2 types of eyedrops (10% phenylephrine hydrochloride and 0.3% scopolamine hydrobromide) 4 times during a 2-hour period prior to the procedure. Control dogs did not receive these eyedrops. Heart rate and MAP were measured before surgery in all dogs 10 and 5 minutes before, at the time of (t0), and 5 (t5) and 10 (t10) minutes after atracurium administration.
MAP was greater in the 2 groups that received the eyedrops than in the control group at t0 and t5; at t10, it was greater only for the nondiabetic dogs that received eyedrops. Nine nondiabetic dogs and 1 diabetic dog anesthetized for phacoemulsification had at least 1 MAP value>131 mm Hg; 73% of MAP values>131 mm Hg were detected within 10 minutes after atracurium administration. At no time did a control dog have an MAP value>131 mm Hg.
Anesthetized dogs pretreated with eyedrops containing phenylephrine and scopolamine had higher MAP values than dogs that did not receive the eyedrops, suggesting the drops caused hypertension. Atracurium may interact with the eyedrops and contribute to the hypertension.
