Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) measured as vibration of the human eardrum have been successfully used to estimate hearing threshold. The estimates have proved more accurate than similar methods using sound-pressure DPOAEs. Nevertheless, the estimation accuracy of the new technique might have been influenced by endogenous noise, such as heart beat, breathing and swallowing. Here, we investigate in an animal model to what extent the accuracy of the threshold estimation technique using velocity-DPOAEs might be improved by reducing noise sources. Velocity-DPOAE I/O functions were measured in normal and hearing-impaired anaesthetized guinea pigs. Hearing loss was either conductive or induced by furosemide injection. The estimated distortion product threshold (EDPT) obtained by extrapolation of the I/O function to the abscissa was found to linearly correlate with the compound action potential threshold at the f(2) frequency, provided that furosemide data were excluded. The standard deviation of the linear regression fit was 6 dB as opposed to 8 dB in humans, suggesting that this accuracy should be achievable in humans with appropriate improvement of signal-to-noise ratio. For the furosemide animals, the CAP threshold relative to the regression line provided an estimate of the functional loss of the inner hair cell system. For mechanical losses in the middle ear and/or cochlear amplifier, DPOAEs measured as velocity of the umbo promise an accuracy of hearing threshold estimation comparable to classical audiometry.
Arsenic in drinking water is a global environmental health problem, and the exposure may increase cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases mortalities, most likely through causing atherosclerosis. However, the mechanism of atherosclerosis formation after arsenic exposure is still unclear. To study the mechanism of atherosclerosis formation after arsenic exposure and explore the role of high cholesterol diet (HCD) in this process, we fed spontaneous hypertensive rats and Wistar Kyoto rats with basal diet or HCD and provided with them drinking water containing arsenic at different ages and orders for 20 consecutive weeks. We measured high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), total cholesterol, triglycerides, heat shock protein 70 (HSP 70), and high sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) at predetermined intervals and determined expressions of cholesteryl ester transfer protein-1 (CETP-1) and liver X receptor β (LXRβ) in the liver. Atherosclerosis was determined by examining the aorta with hematoxylin and eosin stain. After 20 weeks, we found arsenic, alone or combined with HCD, may promote atherosclerosis formation with transient increases in HSP 70 and hs-CRP. Early combination exposure decreased the HDL-C/LDL-C ratio without changing the levels of total cholesterol and triglyceride until 30 weeks old. Both CETP-1 and LXRβ activities were suppressed, most significantly in early combination exposure. In conclusion, arsenic exposure may induce atherosclerosis through modifying reverse cholesterol transport in cholesterol metabolism and suppressing LXRβ and CEPT-1 expressions. For decreasing atherosclerosis related mortality associated with arsenic, preventing exposure from environmental sources in early life is an important element.
Our previous work in the acute puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) model has demonstrated up-regulation of heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF) mRNA and protein within glomerular epithelial cells (GECs) prior to the onset of proteinuria.
To determine whether increased HB-EGF expression in the acute PAN model contributes to the pathogenesis of proteinuria, a monoclonal antibody (DE10) was produced against recombinant human HB-EGF.
The specificity of DE10 for human HB-EGF was confirmed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, immunohistochemical staining, and flow cytometry of transfected cells expressing human and rat HB-EGF, and inhibition of cell proliferation. DE10 also reacted with cells transfected with rat HB-EGF cDNA. Administration of 0.5 mg affinity-purified DE10 to normal rats did not cause significant albuminuria compared with controls. Five days after the induction of the acute PAN model, albuminuria was significantly greater in animals treated with 0.5 mg DE10 than a control mAb (162.6 +/- 32.4 vs. 64.8 +/- 10.2 mg/day, respectively, P < 0.01). Rats treated with DE10 had an earlier onset of severe albuminuria, but no increase in maximal albuminuria at later time points. Electron microscopy showed marked podocyte effacement in both DE10-treated and control animals, but no obvious difference between groups. However, adhesion of the human GEC line 56/10 A1 to laminin and fibronectin, but not to collagens I or IV, was reduced by DE10.
This study suggests that HB-EGF contributes to the integrity of the glomerular filtration barrier, particularly when the podocyte has been injured. Following podocyte injury, adhesion to laminin in the glomerular basement membrane by HB-EGF may be important in reducing albuminuria.
In the present work we assessed the effect of treatment of rats with gum Arabic on acute renal failure induced by gentamicin (GM) nephrotoxicity. Rats were treated with the vehicle (2 mL/kg of distilled water and 5% w/v cellulose, 10 days), gum Arabic (2 mL/kg of a 10% w/v aqueous suspension of gum Arabic powder, orally for 10 days), or gum Arabic concomitantly with GM (80mg/kg/day intramuscularly, during the last six days of the treatment period). Nephrotoxicity was assessed by measuring the concentrations of creatinine and urea in the plasma and reduced glutathione (GSH) in the kidney cortex, and by light microscopic examination of kidney sections. The results indicated that concomitant treatment with gum Arabic and GM significantly increased creatinine and urea by about 183 and 239%, respectively (compared to 432 and 346%, respectively, in rats treated with cellulose and GM), and decreased that of cortical GSH by 21% (compared to 27% in the cellulose plus GM group) The GM-induced proximal tubular necrosis appeared to be slightly less severe in rats given GM together with gum Arabic than in those given GM and cellulose. It could be inferred that gum Arabic treatment has induced a modest amelioration of some of the histological and biochemical indices of GM nephrotoxicity. Further work is warranted on the effect of the treatments on renal functional aspects in models of chronic renal failure, and on the mechanism(s) involved.
A female patient with diagnosis of combined system degeneration due to vitamin B12 deficiency and multi-level cervical disc herniation underwent a comprehensive neurophysiologic tests.
Central conduction time (CCT) was calculated after recording of the SSEPs from cervical, brainstem, and parietal sensory cortex to peripheral stimulation.
The CCT between the lower cervical spine and brainstem was 3.63 msec and 3.41 msec for left and right side. All values were within the normal range. The visual EPs and brain-stem auditory EPs were also normal. The MR imaging of the cervical region was remarkable for multi-level degenerative changes as well as osteophyte formation at C4-7 segments causing canal stenosis.
It is possible that her symptoms are related to two separate chronic problems. The first is history of B12 deficiency, causing a subacute systems degeneration syndrome. The second is evidence of a cervical spondylotic myelopathy.
Glutathionyl hydroquinone (GHQ), a highly reactive metabolite of benzene, has been implicated as a causative intermediate of benzene toxicity. To substantiate, the bioreactivity of GHQ was investigated under in vitro and in vivo conditions using end points, characteristic of benzene toxicity. Under in vitro conditions, the presence of GHQ: (a) linearly increased the release of aldehydic products from L-glutamate or deoxyuridine at GHQ concentrations of 5-25 microM and from rat liver homogenates at GHQ concentrations of 50-250 microM; (b) cleaved plasmid pUC 18 supercoiled DNA through a single strand nick to yield open circular relaxed DNA, and through a double strand cut to give out linear DNA at GHQ concentrations of 25-200 microM, with evidence of protection by catalase and superoxide dismutase; and (c) induced cross-linking and polymerization of lymphocyte nuclear DNA through in situ generation of GHQ, which was protected by pretreatment of lymphocytes with N-ethylmaleimide. In vivo exposure of Swiss albino mice to GHQ (100 mg/kg, intraperitoneally once daily for 30 days) resulted in significant increase of liver weight and inhibition of mitotic index in the bone marrow. The other test parameters, namely spleen weight, hematological indices, hepatic sulphahydryl content and nonenzymatic lipid peroxidation, and chromosomal aberrations in the bone marrow were, however, unaffected by GHQ treatment. The observations indicate pro-oxidant and cytotoxic potential of GHQ, mediated by the reactive oxygen species generated during the course of its auto-oxidation. Bioreactivity of GHQ with cellular macromolecules in vitro and inhibition of mitotic index of bone marrow on in vivo exposure have relevance to benzene toxicity, although in situ generation of GHQ at the site of action appears critical in bringing about hematological and chromosomal effects that were probably spared due to rapid metabolic disposition and, consequently, poor bioavailability of intraperitoneally administered GHQ.
Two patients who were concomitantly undergoing methadone maintenance treatment and receiving phenytoin suffered continuing opioid withdrawal symptoms as a results of phenytoin's acceleration of methadone metabolism. When anticonvulsant therapy was discontinued, these patients had seizures. One patient was switched to carbamazepine as an alternative anticonvulsant, but this treatment resulted in a similar clinical problem. When both patients received valproic acid instead, the withdrawal symptoms disappeared and their conditions stabilized.
2,4,6-Trinitrotoluene (TNT) is an important occupational and environmental pollutant. In TNT exposed humans, the notable toxic manifestations have included aplastic anemia, toxic hepatitis, cataract, hepatomegaly and liver cancer. Therefore, we developed methods to biomonitor workers exposed to TNT. The workers were employed in a typical ammunition factory in China. The controls were recruited from the same factory. We determined hemoglobin (Hb) adducts and urine metabolites of TNT. Hb-adducts of TNT, 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene (4ADNT) and 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene (2ADNT), and the urine metabolites of TNT, 4ADNT and 2ADNT were found in all the workers and in a few controls. 4ADNT was the main product. Although the levels of 2ADNT correlated well with 4ADNT, 2ADNT was not found in all the samples. Therefore, 4ADNT was the best marker of exposure for Hb-adducts and urine metabolites. The levels of the urine metabolites and Hb-adducts were related to the health status of the workers. The Hb-adduct 4ADNT was statistically significantly associated with risk of hepatomegaly, splenomegaly and cataract. The odds ratio (OR) for cataract, splenomegaly and hepatomegaly were 6.4 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.4-29.6], 9.6 (1.1-85.3) and 7.6 (1.3-43.7), respectively. No correlation was found between urine metabolites and health effects. These results were tested for confounding factors like age, workyears, smoker status, smoke years, cigarettes per day and hepatitis B status using stepwise forward logistic regression analysis. In the case of splenomegaly, hepatitis B status is a confounder. In the case of cataract, age is a confounder. The Hb-adduct, 4ADNT, is a good biomarker of exposure and biomarker of biological effect.
Body copper homeostasis is regulated by the liver, which removes excess copper via bile. In Wilson's disease (WD), this function is disrupted due to inactivation of the copper transporter ATP7B resulting in hepatic copper overload. High urinary copper is a diagnostic feature of WD linked to liver malfunction; the mechanism behind urinary copper elevation is not fully understood. Using Positron Emission Tomography-Computed Tomography (PET-CT) imaging of live Atp7b(-/-) mice at different stages of disease, a longitudinal metal analysis, and characterization of copper-binding molecules, we show that urinary copper elevation is a specific regulatory process mediated by distinct molecules. PET-CT and atomic absorption spectroscopy directly demonstrate an age-dependent decrease in the capacity of Atp7b(-/-) livers to accumulate copper, concomitant with an increase in urinary copper. This reciprocal relationship is specific for copper, indicating that cell necrosis is not the primary cause for the initial phase of metal elevation in the urine. Instead, the urinary copper increase is associated with the down-regulation of the copper-transporter Ctr1 in the liver and appearance of a 2 kDa Small Copper Carrier, SCC, in the urine. SCC is also elevated in the urine of the liver-specific Ctr1(-/-) knockouts, which have normal ATP7B function, suggesting that SCC is a normal metabolite carrying copper in the serum. In agreement with this hypothesis, partially purified SCC-Cu competes with free copper for uptake by Ctr1. Thus, hepatic down-regulation of Ctr1 allows switching to an SCC-mediated removal of copper via kidney when liver function is impaired. These results demonstrate that the body regulates copper export through more than one mechanism; better understanding of urinary copper excretion may contribute to an improved diagnosis and monitoring of WD.
Hypercholesterolemia is combined with enhanced lipid peroxidation, which can promote atherogenesis by inducing endothelial adhesion molecule expression. Statins may protect vascular endothelium in hypercholesterolemia by reducing enhanced plasma levels of low-density lipoprotein and decreasing oxidative stress. Herein, we describe increased circulating levels of soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and E-selectin and total 8-iso-prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (8-iso-PGF(2 alpha)) concentrations, as indexes of endothelial activation and lipid peroxidation, respectively, in 67 hypercholesterolemic patients compared with 32 normocholesterolemic subjects. Significant cholesterol reductions were achieved in hypercholesterolemic patients after 6 months under either simvastatin (40 mg/d) or bezafibrate (800 mg/d) treatment, given according to a randomized double-blind trial. Simvastatin but not bezafibrate simultaneously reduced soluble adhesin and total 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations also. Vitamin E supplementation (400 IU/d) further reduced indexes of endothelial activation and lipid peroxidation in simvastatin-treated patients and significantly reduced the above indexes in bezafibrate-treated patients. Changes in circulating soluble adhesion molecule levels were directly correlated with changes in total 8-iso-PGF(2 alpha) concentrations in simvastatin-treated patients also receiving vitamin E supplementation. All together, our data demonstrated that hypercholesterolemia was combined with endothelial activation and lipid peroxidation, which were efficaciously counteracted by simvastatin but not bezafibrate treatment. Thus, a different vascular protection can be achieved by different lipid-lowering treatments.
PURPOSE Recently, a 36-kDa variant of estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha66), ER-alpha36, has been identified and cloned. ER-alpha36 predominantly localizes on the plasma membrane and in the cytoplasm and mediates a membrane-initiated "nongenomic" signaling pathway. Here, we investigate the association between ER-alpha36 expression and tamoxifen resistance in patients with breast cancer. PATIENTS AND METHODS ER-alpha36 protein expression in tumors from 896 women (two independent cohorts, 1 and 2) with operable primary breast cancer was assessed using an immunohistochemistry assay. Results In the first cohort of 710 consecutive patients, overexpression of ER-alpha36 was associated with poorer disease-free survival (DFS) and disease-specific survival (DSS) in patients with ER-alpha66-positive tumors who received tamoxifen treatment (chemotherapy plus tamoxifen or tamoxifen alone, n = 307). In contrast, ER-alpha36 was not associated with survival in patients with ER-alpha66-positive tumors who did not receive tamoxifen (chemotherapy alone, n = 129) and in patients with ER-alpha66-negative tumors whether they received tamoxifen (n = 73) or not (n = 149). In the second cohort of 186 patients who only received tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy, overexpression of ER-alpha36 was significantly associated with poorer DFS and DSS in 156 ER-alpha66-positive patients from this cohort, and ER-alpha36 remained an independent unfavorable factor for both DFS and DSS in these 156 patients by a multivariate analysis (DFS: hazard ratio [HR] = 5.47; 95% CI, 1.81 to 16.51; P =. 003; DSS: HR = 13.97; 95% CI, 1.58 to 123.53; P = .018). CONCLUSION Women with ER-alpha66-positive tumors that also express high levels of ER-alpha36 are less likely to benefit from tamoxifen treatment.
The objective of the study was to determine the expression of HOXA10 in human endometrial tissue in endometrial hyperplasia and carcinomas, and regulation by sex steroids in Ishikawa cells.
Endometrial tissue was obtained from 133 subjects with normal endometria, endometrial hyperplasia, or endometrial adenocarcinoma. Among 133 specimens, 20 were normal endometria, 19 were simple hyperplasias without atypia, 20 were complex hyperplasias without atypia, 33 were atypical hyperplasias, and 41 were endometrial adenocarcinomas. The expression of HOXA10 was analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Ishikawa cell lines were incubated with 17β estradiol (10⁻⁸ mol/L) alone, medroxyprogesterone acetate (10⁻⁶ mol/L) alone, or the combination of estrogen and progesterone for 48 hours, respectively. In certain experiments, the antiprogestin antagonist, RU486 (10⁻⁵ mol/L), was also added to Ishikawa cells along with estradiol and medroxyprogesterone acetate for 48 hours. The expression of HOXA10 gene was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting.
HOXA10 was expressed in both normal and neoplastic endometria. No significant difference in HOXA10 expression was found between normal and hyperplastic endometrial tissues. The expression of HOXA10 was decreased in endometrial adenocarcinomas compared with normal endometria. Estrogen alone, progestin alone, or progestin combined with estrogen could significantly increase the expression of HOXA10 gene (P<0.05). RU486 could inhibit the effect of up-regulation of HOXA10 expression by progestin.
The expression of HOXA10 was deregulated in endometrial carcinomas and up-regulated by sex hormones.
Five babies who presented with supraventricular tachycardia were treated with verapamil intravenously. All developed severe hypotension and two died. Verapamil should not be used in the initial management of supraventricular tachycardia in neonates.
Interest in the association of obsessive-compulsive (OC) symptoms and schizophrenia has been reawakened since the introduction of clozapine for treatment of schizophrenia. We describe the appearance of this disorder and examine the efficacy of adding fluvoxamine to ongoing clozapine treatment of the OC and schizophrenic symptoms. Four patients with DSM-III-R schizophrenic disorder, in whom OC symptoms appeared during the course of clozapine treatment, are reported. In two patients, fluvoxamine, a serotonin-selective reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), was added to clozapine under open-trial conditions. The patients were serially assessed by using the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale, and Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms. The de novo occurrence and eventual spontaneous reduction of OC symptoms were noted in two schizophrenic patients treated with clozapine. In the other two patients, one with previous and the other with a family history of OC disorder, the addition of fluvoxamine to clozapine was effective in eliminating the OC symptoms. A concomitant improvement in the schizophrenic symptomatology was seen as well. It appears that disabling OC symptoms may occur as in response to clozapine treatment in chronic drug-resistant schizophrenic patients. Some of the latter may benefit from the addition of an SSRI to the ongoing clozapine regimen.
To present a case of thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (TPP) in a Hispanic man and to discuss the potential precipitating mechanisms.
We review the clinical and laboratory findings relative to the occurrence of TPP in a 34-year-old Hispanic man, who had been diagnosed as having Graves' disease.
TPP is a rare complication of thyrotoxicosis. The two known triggers of TPP are high carbohydrate intake and rest after strenuous physical activity. Other precipitating factors include ingestion of alcohol, infection, trauma, emotional stress, and exposure to cold. Nonselective beta-adrenergic blocking agents are used as prophylaxis for the paralytic attacks. Glucocorticoids have been used to treat nonresponsive and recurrent episodes. Nevertheless, our patient, a 34-year-old Hispanic man, had received propranolol for 7 days and one single dose of prednisone 2 hours before the onset of the paralysis. In patients with TPP, the Na+/K+-adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase) pump activity is considerably increased by excess thyroid hormones, resulting in an increased intracellular potassium shift. Insulin activates the Na+/K+-ATPase pump as well; thus, the precipitating effect of a high carbohydrate diet is explained. Glucocorticoids have been shown to increase the number of Na+/K+-ATPase molecules in skeletal muscle. They also increase insulin secretion in the basal state and the first-phase insulin release after a glucose load.
In our patient with TPP, the onset of the attack was not prevented by the use of propranolol and was likely triggered by the administration of prednisone.
The effect of anti-Parkinson therapy on the urinary excretion of 5-S-cysteinyldopa (5SCD), a catechol metabolite of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) and marker for the melanocyte, was studied by means of high performance liquid chromatography. 5SCD was normal in Parkinson patients treated with anticholinergics. DOPA administration increased 5SCD excretion. Carbidopa and DOPA together elevated 5SCD markedly in a dose-dependent manner to values higher than seen in some patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. The effect of anti-Parkinson therapy should be considered when using 5SCD as a tumor marker or when a Parkinson patient has a melanoma.
Both genetic and environmental factors affect the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The presence of cortical Lewy bodies in AD patients is associated with an altered presentation of AD pathology suggestive of an interaction between the pathogenesis of Lewy bodies and AD lesions. Since the CYP2D6B mutant allele is often present in patients with Lewy body diseases (Parkinson's disease and Lewy body variant of AD), we extended these prior observations by studying the neuropathology associated with the presence of the CYP2D6B mutant allele in a pure AD population without Lewy bodies. AD patients who possessed the CYP2D6B mutant allele, in comparison with those without the CYP2D6B allele, were found to have a smaller decline in two synaptic markers, choline acetyltransferase and synaptophysin, in the frontal cortex relative to normal control values. On the other hand, senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were not significantly affected by the presence of the CYP2D6B mutant allele in the frontal cortex of AD patients. Association of the CYP2D6B mutant allele with Lewy body formation in both Parkinson's disease and the Lewy body variant of AD and with the milder synaptic pathology in pure AD without Lewy bodies suggest that depending on the contribution of other genetic and environmental factors, this mutant allele may be involved with different aspects of neurodegeneration.
Transgenic mice were prepared by homologous recombination with a Col11a2 targeting gene in which an inverted neomycin-resistant gene was inserted between restriction sites in exons 27 and 28. The targeted allele was transcribed in shortened mRNAs, which could be detected by Northern blotting. However, translation of the full-length Col11a2 chain was unable to occur because of the presence of premature termination codons within the inverted neomycin-resistant gene. Analysis of pepsin-resistant collagen chains from rib cartilage of homozygous mice demonstrated the lack of synthesis of intact alpha2(XI) chains. However, pepsin-resistant collagen chains of either alpha1(XI) or alpha1(V) were still detected on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Therefore, alpha2(XI) chains are not essential for the assembly of some molecular forms of triple-helical type V/XI collagen. The phenotype was milder than in the cho/cho mouse in which, as the result of mutation, translation of the full-length alpha1(XI) chain fails to occur and the mice die at birth (Li et al., 1995). Homozygous mice without expression of an alpha2(XI) chain had a smaller body size, receding snouts, and deafness. Nasal bones in the homozygous transgenic mice were specifically shorter and dimpled on their external surfaces. Chondrocytes in growth plates of all long bones were markedly disorganized and failed to align in columns. Analysis of growth plates from transgenic mice by in situ hybridization showed expression of alpha1(II) and alpha1(XI) but not of alpha1(I) or alpha1(V) which, in contrast, were expressed in the developing bone and in the bone collar. Expression of alpha1(X) specifically in the hypertrophic cartilage was observed in normal and transgenic mice. No obvious osteoarthritis was observed throughout the life of homozygous mice up to 1 year of age, although minor morphologic anomalies in the articular cartilages were discernible. The mild phenotype is consistent with similar mutations in the COL11A2 gene seen in patients with nonocular Stickler syndrome and some patients with otospondylomegaepiphyseal dysplasia (OSMED), as well as in patients with a nonsyndromic form of deafness called DFNA13.
Exogenous substances such as the appetite suppressant fenfluramine are known to be causally related to the development of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). In these cases, the clinical course as well as the pulmonary vascular disease pathologically is indistinguishable from idiopathic PAH. Other exogenous substances, such as amphetamines, cocaine, and meta-amphetamines, have been considered to be potential risk factors for inducing PAH. SOPHIA (the study of pulmonary hypertension in America), in addition to confirming previous reports of a causal association between the appetite suppressant fenfluramine and PAH, unexpectedly found a significantly increased risk for the development of PAH with exposure to over-the-counter antiobesity agents containing phenylpropanolamine. The first case is reported of fatal PAH in a child heavily treated with cold remedies containing phenylpropanolamine, which, in addition to the results of SOPHIA, strengthens the hypothesis that phenylpropanolamine is a risk factor for the development of PAH.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) is associated with exercise intolerance that cannot be entirely explained by hypoperfusion of the skeletal muscles. We studied the contractile properties of fast-twitch (extensor digitorum longus; EDL) and slow-twitch (soleus; SOL) skeletal muscles in doxorubicin-induced CHF in rats, and evaluated the defective steps of excitation-contraction coupling. Both types of muscles-obtained from CHF rats displayed significant reduction in twitch and tetanic contractions. Twitch half-relaxation times of CHF SOL muscles were prolonged while there was no significant difference in EDL muscles. High K(+) application induced lower contracture amplitudes in CHF muscles. Caffeine-induced contractures were significantly diminished in CHF SOL. Verapamil application depressed tetanic contractions in all preparations while depression was more pronounced in CHF SOL. Immunohistochemistry revealed reduced expression of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase-1 and -2 in CHF EDL and in CHF SOL, respectively. Sarcolemmal excitability and spontaneous neurotransmitter release were unaffected since resting membrane potential, action potential and miniature end-plate potentials were unaltered in CHF muscles. We conclude that CHF induces contractile impairment that occurs predominantly in rat slow-twitch skeletal muscles. Our results suggest that this muscle-type-specific effect of CHF is related to the defective intracellular Ca(2+) release and uptake mechanisms and reduced sarcolemmal-dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca(2+) channel activity.
Asterixis (flapping tremor) can be induced by treatment with psychopharmacologic agents. We observed 10 cases of asterixis in psychiatric inpatients, most with affective spectrum disorders being treated with combination therapy. The drugs most often used were clozapine (eight cases), lithium (seven cases), and carbamazepine (seven cases). There were neither metabolic disorders nor structural brain lesions that might explain the occurrence of asterixis. Because dosage in general was moderate and serum levels were within therapeutic boundaries in most cases, the symptom seemed to have been caused by an interaction of drugs rather than by a single agent. Therefore clozapine, carbamazepine, and lithium should be combined with each other only with great care.
Interactions between environmental contaminants can lead to non-additive effects that may affect the toxicity and risk assessment of a mixture. Comprehensive time course and dose-response studies with 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), non-dioxin-like 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexachlorobiphenyl (PCB153) and their mixture were performed in immature, ovariectomized C57BL/6 mice. Mice were gavaged once with 30 μg/kg TCDD, 300 mg/kg PCB153, a mixture of 30 μg/kg TCDD with 300 mg/kg PCB153 (MIX) or sesame oil vehicle for 4,12, 24,72 or 168 h. In the 24h dose-response study, animals were gavaged with TCDD (0.3,1, 3, 6, 10, 15, 30, 45 μg/kg), PCB153 (3,10, 30, 60, 100, 150, 300, 450 mg/kg), MIX (0.3+3, 1+10, 3+30, 6+60, 10+100, 15+150, 30+300, 45 μg/kg TCDD+450 mg/kg PCB153, respectively) or vehicle. All three treatments significantly increased relative liver weights (RLW), with MIX eliciting significantly greater increases compared to TCDD and PCB153 alone. Histologically, MIX induced hepatocellular hypertrophy, vacuolization, inflammation, hyperplasia and necrosis, a combination of TCDD and PCB153 responses. Complementary lipid analyses identified significant increases in hepatic triglycerides in MIX and TCDD samples, while PCB153 had no effect on lipids. Hepatic PCB153 levels were also significantly increased with TCDD co-treatment. Microarray analysis identified 167 TCDD, 185 PCB153 and 388 MIX unique differentially expressed genes. Statistical modeling of quantitative real-time PCR analysis of Pla2g12a, Serpinb6a, Nqo1, Srxn1, and Dysf verified non-additive expression following MIX treatment compared to TCDD and PCB153 alone. In summary, TCDD and PCB153 co-treatment elicited specific non-additive gene expression effects that are consistent with RLW increases, histopathology, and hepatic lipid accumulation.
To determine biophysical parameters from the complication probability data during and after radiotherapy of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), based on the number of gastrointestinal side effects that were found in the multicenter HD8 trial of the German Hodgkin Lymphoma Study Group.
Between 1993 and 1998, 1204 patients with newly diagnosed, histology-proven HL in clinical Stages I/IIA/IIB with defined risk factors and stage IIIA without risk factors were enrolled into the multicenter HD8 study. Patients were randomized to receive two cycles of COPP (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, prednisone) alternating with two cycles of ABVD (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, dacarbazine) followed by radiotherapy (RT) of 30 Gy extended field plus 10 Gy to bulky disease (Arm A) or 30 Gy involved field plus 10 Gy to bulky disease (Arm B). For 910 patients, the rates of acute gastrointestinal side effects during and after RT could be determined. Comparison showed differences between Arms A and B (Grade 1-2: 16.6 vs. 3.9; Grade 3-4: 0.9 vs. 0.2; p < 0.001). From the dose-volume histograms for a "standard patient" (volume intestine 2300 cm3), we determined the normal tissue complication probability (NTCP) (V, D, m, n, TD50), the biophysical parameter TD50, and n (volume dependent) in such a manner that the observed NTCP in Arm A in cases of supradiaphragmatic involvement only and in cases of infradiaphragmatic involvement correlated with the calculated values.
Of 1,204 patients randomized, 1,064 patients were informative for the comparison of study arms. The median observation time was 54 months. The overall survival for all eligible patients was 91%, and freedom from treatment failure was 83%. Survival rates at 5 years after start of RT revealed no differences in terms of freedom from treatment failure (85.8% in Arm A, 84.2% in Arm B) and overall survival (90.8% and 92.4%). There were also no differences between the two arms in terms of complete remission, progressive disease, relapse, death, and secondary neoplasias. In contrast, acute side effects, including leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, nausea, gastrointestinal toxicity, and pharyngeal toxicity, were more frequent in the extended field arm. Concerning gastrointestinal toxicity, the different radiation treatment volumes resulted in different NTCPs. On the basis of these findings, values of n = 0.09 and TD50 = 32 Gy were derived. However, this biophysical model is sensitive to variations of the parameters. A deviation of 1% of TD50 results in a deviation of 10% of the NTCP.
Radiotherapy volume reduction from extended field to involved field after two cycles of COPP/ABVD chemotherapy gives similar results and less toxicity in patients with early-stage, unfavorable HL. Biophysical parameters could be determined from the complication probability data after RT of HL. Because of the exponential dependence, this biophysical model is unstable. It represents a "start model" until further data can be incorporated.
Motor neuron disease is a devastating neurodegenerative condition, with the majority of sporadic, non-familial cases being of unknown etiology. Several epidemiological studies have suggested that occupational exposure to chemicals may be associated with disease pathogenesis. We report the case of a patient developing progressive motor neuron disease, who was chronically exposed to pesticides and organic solvents. The patient presented with leg spasticity and developed gradually clinical signs suggestive of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which was supported by the neurophysiologic and radiological findings. Our report is an evidence based case of combined exposure to organochlorine (DDTs), organophosphate pesticides (OPs) and organic solvents as confirmed by laboratory analysis in samples of blood and hair confirming systematic exposure. The concentration of non-specific dialkylphosphates metabolites (DAPs) of OPs in hair (dimethyphopshate (DMP) 1289.4 pg/mg and diethylphosphate (DEP) 709.4 pg/mg) and of DDTs (opDDE 484.0 pg/mg, ppDDE 526.6 pg/mg, opDDD 448.4 pg/mg, ppDDD+opDDT 259.9 pg/mg and ppDDT 573.7 pg/mg) were considerably significant. Toluene and n-hexane were also detected in blood on admission at hospital and quantified (1.23 and 0.87 μg/l, respectively), while 3 months after hospitalization blood testing was found negative for toluene and n-hexane and hair analysis was provided decrease levels of HCHs, DDTs and DAPs.
