A short-term 5-day cigarette smoke exposure study was conducted in Fischer 344 rats to identify smoke-induced lung protein changes. Groups of 10 male and 10 female rats at 5 weeks of age were randomly assigned to one of four exposure groups. Animals received filtered air (control) or 75, 200, or 400 mg total particulate matter (TPM)/m(3) of diluted Kentucky reference 3R4F cigarette smoke. Nose-only exposures were conducted for 3 hours/day for 5 consecutive days. Mean body weights were significantly reduced only in male rats exposed to 400 mg TPM/m(3). Body weight gains were significantly reduced in 200- and 400-mg TPM/m(3)-exposed males and in all smoke-exposed females compared with controls. Alveolar histiocytosis increased slightly in all smoke exposed-females and 200- and 400-mg TPM/m(3)-exposed males. Cyclooxygenase-2 staining increased at 400 mg TPM/m(3). Matrix metalloproteinase-12 staining of alveolar macrophages and bronchiolar epithelia increased in smoke-exposed animals, especially 400-mg TPM/m(3)-exposed females. Protein kinase C-alpha staining increased in macrophages at 200- and 400-mg TPM/m(3) doses. c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinases staining decreased in smoke-exposed tissues. The identified changed proteins play roles in inflammation, transformation, proliferation, stress activation, and apoptosis.
Arsenic and cadmium are both priority hazardous substances and human carcinogens. Although there is the potential for simultaneous exposure to both metals, the interactions of cadmium and arsenic are not well defined. We examined the toxicity of these metals when given alone or in alternating sequence to adult male Fischer rats. In the first study, a non-toxic dose of arsenic (22.5 micromol NaAsO2/kg, s.c.) was given 24 h before cadmium (10, 20, or 30 micromol CdCl2/kg, s.c.) and toxicity was assessed 24 h later. Arsenic pretreatment markedly reduced mortality in rats given the high dose of cadmium (9 survivors/10 treated) compared to rats given cadmium alone (2/10). Arsenic pretreatment also reduced cadmium-induced hepatotoxicity, as indicated by serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase (SGOT) activity, and markedly reduced cadmium-induced testicular hemorrhagic necrosis. Arsenic pretreatment produced an 8-fold increase in hepatic levels of metallothionein (MT), a metal-binding protein often associated with cadmium tolerance. In the second study, a non-toxic dose of cadmium (3 micromol CdCl2/kg, s.c.) was given 24 h before arsenic (68, 79, 84, or 90 micro/mol NaAsO2/kg. s.c.) and toxicity was assessed 24 h later. Cadmium pretreatment did not alter the lethality of the high dose of arsenic and had no effect on arsenic-induced hepatotoxicity. Although cadmium pretreatment had no effect on arsenic toxicity, it produced large increases in hepatic MT (26-fold) before the arsenic challenge and greatly enhanced MT induction after the challenge. Thus, even though both arsenic and cadmium induce MT synthesis, only arsenic pretreatment protects against cadmium intoxication, and cadmium pretreatment does not effect arsenic toxicity. Thus, toxic interactions of arsenic and cadmium appear to depend on the sequence of exposure.
Serial liver biopsies before and after Methotrexate therapy were performed in each of eight patients with severe, recalcitrant psoriasis treated for years with Methotrexate in a single, weekly, oral dose not exceeding 25 mg per dose. A total of 31 liver biopsies was studied. The study revealed liver damage commencing with small foci of piecemeal necrosis, followed by the destruction of the limiting plate and the occurrence of stellate periportal fibrosis. Eventually, partial and then whole fibrous septa developed between portal tracts and between portal tracts and central veins, with resultant distortions of the lobular architecture. In two patients with an admitted daily alcoholic intake, additional findings were seen, including alcoholic hepatitis, centrilobular fibrosis and development of partial and whole fibrous septa between the central vein area, and portal tracts adding to the number of septa running between the portal tracts and central veins which split up the lobules. The following conclusions seem probable: 1) Methotrexate therapy in psoriatics may cause development of fibrosis or cirrhosis; 2) the morphological changes during this development follow a consistent pattern; and 3) the pathogenesis of the development of fibrosis and cirrhosis is mixed in some cases, being dependent on both alcoholic and Methotrexate intake.
Human blood polymorphonuclear cells, which biosynthesize eicosanoids from the 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) pathway, are likely to be involved in asthma, in which glucocorticoids represent the first line of therapy. Their effects on leukotriene release after a short course of treatment, which have been reported in several studies, are controversial.
We sought to investigate whether long-term oral glucocorticoids inhibit lipid mediators from the 5-LO pathway.
Twelve normal control subjects, 29 asthmatic subjects, and 50 glucocorticoid-dependent asthmatic subjects were included in the study. Polymorphonuclear cells were studied for endogenous and transcellular metabolism of eicosanoids.
Total leukotriene B(4) production was significantly lower in cells from glucocorticoid-dependent asthmatic subjects (mean +/- SD, 177 +/- 26 ng/10(7) cells) than in control subjects (406 +/- 27), untreated asthmatic subjects (421 +/- 34), and asthmatic subjects treated with inhaled glucocorticoids (290 +/- 56). When incubated with arachidonic acid, these polymorphonuclear cells released very low amounts of 5(S)- and 12(S)-hydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acid (HETE), whereas endogenous 15(S)-HETE was found in substantial amounts. The transformation of exogenous 15(S)-HETE into 5(S),15(S)-diHETE and lipoxins was significantly more important in untreated asthmatic subjects than in control subjects and glucocorticoid-dependent asthmatic subjects.
This study showed that long-term oral corticotherapy affects the 5-LO activity and leads to a decrease production of all metabolites in contrast to short-term or inhaled glucocorticoids. This study also questions the site of action of glucocorticoids in regulating the availability of arachidonic acid and potential eicosanoid regulation, as previously held in phospholipase A2 studies.
Serum and biliary lipid metabolism were examined in 13 patients with different types of hyperlipoproteinemia before and after 4 weeks of treatment with either bezafibrate or fenofibrate. In patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), bezafibrate (n = 5) and fenofibrate (n = 7) produced a similar significant reduction of total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides by 21, 23, and 32%, respectively. In patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia (CHL), only triglycerides decreased markedly. Biliary lipid secretion rates in patients with heterozygous FH were not different from those of young male volunteers, indicating that a reduction of hepatic LDL receptors did not affect hepatic elimination of cholesterol or bile acids. Biliary cholesterol secretion increased significantly from 57 to 75 mg/hr during bezafibrate therapy (n = 8) and from 62 to 71 mg/hr during fenofibrate therapy (n = 9). No consistent change in bile acid or phospholipid secretion was observed. The elevated output of biliary cholesterol increased cholesterol saturation significantly from 147 to 185% and from 152 to 173% during administration of bezafibrate and fenofibrate, respectively. The present study indicates that treatment with bezafibrate or fenofibrate is effective in lowering LDL cholesterol in patients with heterozygous FH, but both drugs increase cholesterol saturation of bile, which might enhance the risk of cholesterol gallstone formation.
Intravenous antihypertensive agents are used in clinical situations in which the immediate, precise control of blood pressure is a clinical necessity. Clevidipine is a new, vascular-selective, dihyrdopyridine Ca(2+) channel blocker, which exerts its hemodynamic effects through selective arterial vasodilation without effects on the venous circulation. Because it is a potent coronary vasodilator, reduction in mean arterial pressure does not impair coronary perfusion. The unique properties of clevidipine include an ultra-short pharmacodynamic duration of action and a half-life after intravenous administration of approximately 2 min, resulting in very rapid onset and offset of antihypertensive effects. In clinical trials performed in patients undergoing cardiac surgery, clevidipine proved superior to nitroprusside and nitroglycerin in maintaining blood pressure within predetermined ranges during the perioperative period. Its safety profile is comparable to nicardipine and nitroglycerin and, in one study, was associated with reduced 30-day mortality compared with nitroprusside. Clevidipine constitutes a useful addition to available intravenous agents and could prove particularly valuable in circumstances that require the ability to rapidly terminate the blood pressure-lowering effects of administered agents.
Hyperlipoproteinemia contributes both to kidney disease progression and the development of atherosclerosis. Elevated high density lipoprotein cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I (apoA-I) serum levels are independent factors protective against the atherosclerotic process. We examined the effects in a transgenic rat model of human apoA-I expression on the hyperlipoproteinemia and edema after puromycin aminonucleoside-induced nephrosis in three groups of animals: low line (TgR[hAI]low, human plasma apoA-I = 16.0 mg/dl); high line (TgR[hAI]high, 284 mg/dl); and non-transgenic litter mates (TgR[hAI]non). Nephrosis increased total plasma apoA-I levels 2-fold in TgR[hAI]non rats (75 vs. 162 mg/dl) and 4-fold in the TgR[hAI]low (97 vs. 458 mg/dl) and TgR[hAI]high rats (356 vs. 1,346 mg/dl). In both transgenic lines, this increase was due mainly to elevations of serum human apoA-I. The hepatic steady-state levels of rat apoA-I mRNA increased 5- to 7-fold in all three groups, while human apoA-I mRNA levels increased 21- and 65-fold in the low and high expressing groups, respectively, indicating a different degree of responsiveness of the rat and human genes. While nephrotic TgR[hAI]non and TgR[hAI]low rats showed severe hyperlipoproteinemia and edema, much lower levels of edema and of serum triglycerides, phospholipids, and cholesterol were seen in the TgR[hAI]high group. Urinary excretion of apoA-I, phospholipids, and cholesterol was significantly increased in the TgR[hAI]high group, indicating this as one possible mechanism for the relatively lower serum levels of these lipids. We conclude that the human apoA-I gene is responsive to nephrosis and that human apoA-I-transgenic rats with this syndrome provide an animal model for the study of human high density lipoprotein and apoA-I metabolism.
To explore congenital heart diseases (CHD) in their offsprings in association with parental methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene C677T, cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) gene T833C, and environmental factors.
A 1:1 case-control study was carried out to investigate 115 pairs of case and controlled children and their parents, and the parents' MTHFR gene 677 C-->T mutation and CBS gene 833 T-->C mutation were also identified. The possible risk factors were analysed by simple and multiple factors logistic regression methods.
Results revealed that 5 factors were related to the occurrence of CHD in the offsprings: maternal exposures to pesticides in the early stage of pregnancy (OR = 8.62), suffering from diseases during pregnancy (OR = 2.069), catching cold in the early stage of pregnancy (OR = 4.125), under depressed or nervous condition during pregnancy (OR = 4.653), maternal MTHFR 677TT genotype (OR = 3.872).
These results suggested that maternal MTHFR 677TT genotype was one of the risks to the occurrence of CHD in offspring but parents' CBS gene 833 T-->C mutation did not get involved in CHD. In addition, the occurrence of CHD was related to maternal exposures to pesticides, catching a cold, suffering from diseases, depressed or under nervous condition in the early stage of pregnancy or during pregnancy.
Despite being the most widely consumed psychoactive substance in the world, there is considerable confusion regarding the effects of caffeine. This study examined objective indices of performance, and self-reported mood, headache, and sleep in 36 healthy male and female habitual caffeine consumers exposed to a pattern of moderate intake. A double-blind placebo-controlled cross-over design with counterbalancing was employed in which all subjects participated in four experimental conditions involving the ingestion of placebo or caffeine 3 times daily for 6 days followed by a 7th (challenge) day of placebo or caffeine ingestion. No evidence was found that caffeine improved performance, either in the context of acute or habitual use. On the contrary, performance was found to be significantly impaired when caffeine was withdrawn abruptly following habitual use. Participants reported feeling more alert and less tired following acute ingestion of caffeine, but feeling less alert in conjunction with chronic exposure to the drug. In addition, caffeine withdrawal was associated with reported increases in frequency and severity of headache, and with reports of sleeping longer and more soundly.
To compare the management and outcome of raised intraocular pressure (IOP) in uveitis patients with a corticosteroid hypertensive response and those who are noncorticosteroid responders and to determine the impact of intraocular corticosteroid use on IOP in uveitic eyes.
Retrospective study.
Eight hundred and ninety-one uveitis patients were observed in a specialized clinic over 3 months. The main outcome measures were frequency, characterization, management, and outcome of uveitis-related ocular hypertension and glaucoma.
Of 891 patients with uveitis, 191 (275 eyes) had IOP elevation (21.4%). Of these, 95 (34.5%) eyes had glaucoma. IOP elevation attributed to corticosteroid-response (61.1%) was controlled more easily than that resulting from other causes (38.9%), requiring fewer eye drops (mean, 2.06 vs 2.52; P = .009) and less filtration surgery (8.9% vs 22.4%). Among eyes with uveitis and raised IOP, elevated IOP developed in 18 eyes (6.5%) after intravitreal triamcinolone, including 64.7% to 30 to 39 mm Hg and 35.3% to 40 mm Hg or more. Prostaglandin analogs were used in 49.2% of 246 eyes; no increase in inflammation was seen in these eyes.
In this tertiary center series, most instances of raised IOP were attributable to corticosteroid response. Raised IOP induced by corticosteroid response was controlled more easily and less often resulted in optic nerve or visual field changes of glaucoma. Although intravitreous triamcinolone was associated with substantial risk of corticosteroid-response IOP elevation, all cases were controlled medically without experiencing glaucomatous injury. Prostaglandin-induced uveitis was not observed despite extensive use of prostaglandin IOP-lowering agents.
N-methyl carbamate insecticides are widely used in homes, gardens and agriculture. They share the capacity to inhibit cholinesterase enzymes with organophosphates and therefore share similar symptomatology during acute and chronic exposures. One of the serious effects of organophosphate and carbamate intoxication is the development of acute pancreatitis and subsequent intrapancreatic fluid formation.
An 18-year old Caucasian man was admitted to our Intensive Care Unit with cholinergic crisis symptomatology, after the ingestion of an unknown amount of a carbamate insecticide (methomyl). Pseudocholinesterase levels were 2 kU/L on the day of admission (reference range: 5.4-13.2 kU/L). Two days after admission, an abdominal CT scan revealed blurring of the peripancreatic fat planes, inflammation and swelling of the pancreas, and a substantial amount of ascitic fluid in the left anterior pararenal space and pelvis. Paracentesis and analysis of the ascitic fluid demonstrated findings diagnostic of pancreatic ascites. There had been no other evident predisposing factors for acute pancreatitis, other than methomyl intoxication. Eleven days after admission, pseudocholinesterase levels returned to normal, while a new abdominal CT scan revealed the formation of intrapancreatic fluid collection. The patient was discharged in good physical condition two weeks after admission. A follow up abdominal CT scan performed one month later showed a significant reduction in the size of the intrapancreatic fluid.
Acute pancreatitis is not uncommon after organophosphate intoxication and carbamates share the same risk as organophosphorus pesticides. The development of acute pancreatitis and subsequent intrapancreatic fluid collection after methomyl intoxication has not previously been reported. This is the first case reported of acute pancreatitis and pancreatic ascite formation after anticholinesterase insecticide ingestion.
Arsenic is a ubiquitous toxic compound that exists naturally in many sources such as soil, groundwater, and food; in which vast majority forms are arsenite (As(3+)) or arsenate (As(5+)). The mechanism of arsenic detoxification in humans still remains obscured. Epidemiologic studies documented that arsenic pollution caused black foot disease, cardiovascular diseases (hypertension, hypotension, cardiomyopathy), bladder cancer and skin cancer in many countries in which Taiwan is considered as high arsenic exposure country for long time ago. However, the effects of arsenic to cardiac functions still lacked of investigation while some studies mainly focus on inflammatory and cancer mechanisms. In the present study, we found cardiac hypertrophy signaling may be the most significant pathway for up regulated genes in arsenic exposed patients via bioinformatics approach. To verify our bioinformatics prediction, arsenic was fed orally to rats at different concentration based on previous studies in Taiwan. Using hemodynamic method as the main tool to measure the changes in blood pressure, left ventricular pressure and left ventricular contractility index, the findings suggest that highly exposure to arsenic lead to hypertension; elevated left ventricular diastolic pressure and alteration in cardiac contractility which are supposed to be the interaction between arsenic and cardiac nerves activity via the changing in calcium homeostasis. Collectively, based on our real-time PCR and western blot data strongly suggest that calcium homeostasis may also go through MEF2A, TNNI3, CAMKK2, CALM3 and cardiac hypertrophy relative signaling pathway.
This study investigates the possible involvement of opioid receptors in the action of a variety of anticonvulsant agents. The opioid antagonist naloxone (0.3, 1 mg/kg IP) and the selective mu-opioid antagonist cyprodime (3 mg/kg IP) significantly inhibited the increase in electroshock seizure threshold induced by phenytoin (3 mg/kg IP) in mice. The anticonvulsant effects of ethanol (1 g/kg IP) were also significantly antagonised by naloxone (1 mg/kg IP) but not by a 0.3 mg/kg IP dose or by cyprodime (3 mg/kg IP). The results with naloxone were confirmed using higher doses of phenytoin (10 mg/kg IP) and ethanol (1.5 g/kg IP). In contrast to the above findings, naloxone (0.3, 1 mg/kg IP) had no effect on the increase in seizure threshold induced by sodium valproate (200 mg/kg IP) or dizocilpine (MK801, 0.5 mg/kg IP) and paradoxically potentiated the increase in seizure threshold produced by phenobarbitone (15 mg/kg IP); carbamazepine (10 mg/kg IP) and the benzodiazepine agonist loprazolam (1 mg/kg IP), clearly differentiating these compounds from phenytoin and ethanol. These findings suggest that the anticonvulsant effects of phenytoin and ethanol (as assessed by their ability to prevent tonic hindlimb extension in the mouse electroshock model) may be mediated, at least in part, by the release of endogenous opioids and subsequent activation of opioid receptors (mu, in the case of phenytoin, but non-mu, in the case of ethanol) although direct activity at opioid receptors cannot be precluded.
The effect of 15 min/day of immobilization (IM) stress on oral self-administration (SA) of morphine (0.5 mg/ml) or fentanyl (25 micrograms/ml) and withdrawal was examined in rats. In addition, the role of conditioning factors in these effects was assessed. For each drug, four groups of subjects were exposed for 50 days to IM stress prior to the drug SA period [Paired-Stress (P-S) groups], to IM stress prior to the drug SA period on half of the days and after the drug SA period on the rest of the days [Partial Paired-Stress (PP-S) groups], to IM stress several hours after the drug SA period [Unpaired-Stress (UP-S) groups], or to no IM stress [Control (C) groups]. The P-S and PP-S groups increased their drug SA during choice days in which both the opioid solution and water were available, and tended to manifest a more severe withdrawal syndrome after a naloxone challenge compared with the UP-S and C groups. Reinstatement of the opioid SA under conditions of paired-stress or no stress was further examined after 3 weeks without exposure to either stress or drugs. The paired stress animals had higher levels of drug SA and manifested a more severe withdrawal syndrome than those tested without stress. These results indicate that the learned association between exposure to stress and the drug availability may mediate, in part, the stress-induced enhancement of opioid SA and withdrawal effects.
Irinotecan is an active drug after fluorouracil (FU) failure in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Also a modest activity of cisplatin and dacarbazine combination in FU resistant patients have been reported. We aimed to assess the efficacy of irinotecan, cisplatin and dacarbazine combination in previously treated patients with measurable advanced CRC.
Treatment schedule was irinotecan 150 mg/m2, iv, d1; cisplatin 20 mg/m2 and dacarbazine 200 mg/m2 iv, d1-d3; every 21 days. 48 patients with a median age of 51 were entered the study.
Objective response rate was 33.3%. The overall disease stabilization rate was 75.6%. The median survival was 14 months, and the median progression-free survival was 7 months. Main toxicities were grade 2-3 vomiting (39.2%) and grade 3-4 neutropenia (17.4%).
CPD combination seems to be very active, with acceptable safety profile, in patients with advanced CRC resistant to FUFA.
We report a 70-year-old man who developed theophylline-associated seizure with postictal fever and postictal pleocytosis. He was admitted to our hospital for a left hemiconvulsion lasting for two hours. The concentration of theophylline was high (21.6ng/ml), and electroencephalogram demonstrated periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges. Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging showed high signal intensity lesions in the right cingulated gyrus, insula and thalamus. Temperature above 38.0° was detected 5.5 hours after seizure and lasted for 60 hours. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis on day 2 demonstrated pleocytosis (62/uL) with a predominance of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (90%). Temperature and CSF pleocytosis subsided after sedation. Intracranial inflammatory or infectious disease is the first consideration in epilepsy with fever and CSF pleocytosis, and then diagnosis of postictal fever and postictal pleocytosis should be made only by rigorous exclusion of that possibility.
Intracranial hemorrhage was observed in a man, aged 66, after a second thrombolytic treatment due to myocardial reinfarction. The patient presented no potential risk factors which have often been associated to intracranial hemorrhage whereas no complications had occurred when thrombolytic therapy was given some months before because of the first infarction. This report emphasizes that a previous thrombolytic treatment with no secondary effects involves no lack of intracranial hemorrhage risk for a second thrombolysis. More research is needed in order to elucidate intracranial hemorrhage mechanisms associated to thrombolytic therapy.
The mechanism by which forced swimming reverses, haloperidol-induced catalepsy was examined by measuring dopamine (DA) turnover in the nucleus accumbens-ventromedial caudate (NAC-C) and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in rats. DA and its metabolites 3,4-dihydroxiphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were assessed by microdialysis and high pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ED) after systemic administration of a cataleptic dose of haloperidol (5 mg/kg) or saline. Haloperidol-induced catalepsy was temporarily suppressed by forced swimming. Haloperidol-treated rats showed an increase of DA, DOPAC, and HVA overflow in the PFC and the NAC-C. This increase was greater in the PFC of rats that were forced to swim. Rats that were not treated with haloperidol but were forced to swim (control group) showed an increase of DA, DOPAC, and HVA in the PFC but not in the NAC-C. Zero micrograms, 5 micrograms, 10 micrograms, and 20 micrograms of DA was bilaterally injected in the PFC of cataleptic rats to evaluate the hypothesis that DA in the PFC reverses catalepsy. Haloperidol-induced catalepsy was diminished by bilateral microinjections of 10 micrograms and 20 micrograms but not by 5 micrograms of DA in the PFC. The higher the dose of DA, the longer the decrease of catalepsy. These results suggest that an increase of DA turnover in the PFC might mediate temporal suppression of haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The mechanism by which the mesocortical DA system reduces catalepsy is discussed.
The etiological role of dysregulated autophagy in neurodegenerative diseases has been a subject of intense investigation. While manganese (Mn) is known to cause dopaminergic (DAergic) neurodegeneration, it has yet to be determined whether the dysregulation of autophagy plays a role in Mn-induced neuronal injury. In this study, we investigated the effect of Mn on autophagy in a rat model of manganism, a neurodegenerative disease associated with excessive exposure to Mn. After a single intrastriatal injection of Mn, the short- (4-12 h) and long-term (1-28 days) effect of Mn on DAergic neurons and autophagy were examined. Marked reduction in the number of TH-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) as well as TH protein expression, and a significant increase of apomorphine-induced rotations were observed in rats after Mn injection. Manganese also induced the down-regulation of dopamine levels and D1 dopamine receptor expression. In addition, autophagy was dysregulated and inhibited, as evidenced by increased number of abnormal lysosomes, decreased protein expression of Beclin1, and decreased ratio of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) II over LC3 I, concomitant with activated mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)/p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70s6k) signaling. In contrast, in the early phase of Mn exposure, the level of autophagy was not be suppressed but compensatorily activated. Although the morphology of the DAergic neuron was intact in the early phase, Mn caused a significant decrease in TH-immunoreactivity and a significant increase in apomorphine-induced rotations in the presence of wortmannin, an inhibitor of autophagy. Taken together, these results demonstrate, for the first time, that autophagy may play a protective role against Mn-induced neuronal damage, whilst dysregulation of autophagy at later phases may mediate DAergic neurodegeneration.
The efficacy of cefepime, a new broad-spectrum cephalosporin, was compared with those of cefpirome, ceftazidime, vancomycin, imipenem-cilastatin and penicillin G in a rat model of endocarditis caused by a methicillin-susceptible strain of Staphylococcus aureus. Rats were infected intravenously with approximately 10(5) cfu of a penicillin-resistant strain of S. aureus 24 h after placement of a catheter into the left ventricle of the heart via the carotid artery. Efficacy was evaluated by comparing bacterial counts in the cardiac vegetations of treated rats with those of untreated controls. Rats treated with cefepime, cefpirome, ceftazidime, imipenem-cilastatin and vancomycin showed a reduction in the number of bacteria recovered from cardiac vegetations compared with infected control animals; penicillin G was ineffective in this respect. Serum concentrations of the study antimicrobials were determined at selected times following the administration of a single subcutaneous dose. The pharmacokinetic parameters of the cephalosporins were similar in these animals. This study shows that cefepime may be of value in the treatment of staphylococcal endocarditis.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether xanthohumol may exert chemoprotective activity through the modulation of the nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) pathway in immortalized normal THLE-2 hepatocytes and a hepatocellular carcinoma HepG2 cell line. Cells were incubated in the presence of xanthohumol and the activation of Nrf2 and expression of genes controlled by this transcription factor were evaluated. Additionally, p53 level was assessed. Xanthohumol increased the expression and led to the activation of Nrf2 in both cell lines. However, in contrast to normal cells the expression of genes controlled by this transcription factor was not affected in HepG2 cells, except for GSTA and GSTP. Xanthohumol, beside the induction of GSTs and HO-1, significantly elevated NQO1 expression in concert with p53 level in normal hepatocytes. The activation of Nrf2 pathway and subsequently phase II enzymes in concert with p53 induction in normal hepatocytes may account for the molecular mechanism of the chemopreventive activity of xanthohumol. On the other hand its cytotoxicity towards HCC cells shown in this study indicates that it may also be considered as potentially chemotherapeutic.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and large-scale replication studies have identified common variants in 79 loci associated with breast cancer, explaining ∼14% of the familial risk of the disease. To identify new susceptibility loci, we performed a meta-analysis of 11 GWAS, comprising 15,748 breast cancer cases and 18,084 controls together with 46,785 cases and 42,892 controls from 41 studies genotyped on a 211,155-marker custom array (iCOGS). Analyses were restricted to women of European ancestry. We generated genotypes for more than 11 million SNPs by imputation using the 1000 Genomes Project reference panel, and we identified 15 new loci associated with breast cancer at P < 5 × 10(-8). Combining association analysis with ChIP-seq chromatin binding data in mammary cell lines and ChIA-PET chromatin interaction data from ENCODE, we identified likely target genes in two regions: SETBP1 at 18q12.3 and RNF115 and PDZK1 at 1q21.1. One association appears to be driven by an amino acid substitution encoded in EXO1.
Epileptic encephalopathies are a phenotypically and genetically heterogeneous group of severe epilepsies accompanied by intellectual disability and other neurodevelopmental features. Using next-generation sequencing, we identified four different de novo mutations in KCNA2, encoding the potassium channel KV1.2, in six isolated patients with epileptic encephalopathy (one mutation recurred three times independently). Four individuals presented with febrile and multiple afebrile, often focal seizure types, multifocal epileptiform discharges strongly activated by sleep, mild to moderate intellectual disability, delayed speech development and sometimes ataxia. Functional studies of the two mutations associated with this phenotype showed almost complete loss of function with a dominant-negative effect. Two further individuals presented with a different and more severe epileptic encephalopathy phenotype. They carried mutations inducing a drastic gain-of-function effect leading to permanently open channels. These results establish KCNA2 as a new gene involved in human neurodevelopmental disorders through two different mechanisms, predicting either hyperexcitability or electrical silencing of KV1.2-expressing neurons.
The pharmacological profile of the enantiomers of the proposed selective dopamine (DA) autoreceptor agonist 3-PPP [3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-N-n-propylpiperidine] has been studied. In vitro both enantiomers showed weak DA agonistic activity, and (--)-3-PPP some DA antagonistic effect on DA-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. Both enantiomers in low doses had a similar profile in vivo: Inhibition of locomotor activity of mice and rats, induction of contralateral circling behaviour in 6-hydroxy-DA-lesioned rats and an emetic effect in dogs. At higher doses, differential effects of the enantiomers were found: (+)-3-PPP induced hyperactivity, weak stereotyped behaviour and ipsilateral circling in hemitransected rats. (--)-3-PPP had depressant effects in high doses, inhibited d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and d-amphetamine-, methylphenidate- and apomorphine-induced stereotyped licking/biting in rats and antagonized apomorphine-induced emesis in dogs. However, (+)-3-PPP also showed a weak antagonistic activity against d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and d-amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced stereotypy in rats and inhibited apomorphine-induced emesis in dogs. It is suggested that both enantiomers have significant effects on postsynaptic DA receptors in high doses: (--)-3-PPP with weak antagonistic activity in some test models and (+)-3-PPP with agonistic and antagonistic effect. Since these effects of (+)-3-PPP were of low intensity at high doses, (+)-3-PPP may be a partial DA agonist at postsynaptic receptors in high doses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NAME), a potent inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthase, injected into different brain areas on penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine or oxytocin was studied in male rats. The compound was found to be able to prevent the above behavioral responses dose dependently when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), but not in the caudate nucleus, medial septum, preoptic area, and the CA1 field of the hippocampus. When injected in the PVN, 5 micrograms of NAME induced a 30% reduction of apomorphine and oxytocin responses, while 20 micrograms induced an almost complete reduction. The effect of NAME seems to be related to the inhibition of guanylate cyclase secondary to the prevention of NO formation, because a dose-dependent reduction of apomorphine and oxytocin responses was obtained also with the inhibitor of guanylate cyclase methylene blue injected intracerebroventricularly (100-400 micrograms ICV), but not into the PVN. The results provide further support for a neurotransmitter role of central NO in the control of penile erection and yawning.
Chloramphenicol, despite its well-recognized toxic side effects, is a cheap and useful antibiotic in the management of meningitis, typhoid, brain abscess and severe Haemophilus influenza infections. Where possible, drug levels should be monitored.
