Amantadine and dextromethorphan suppress levodopa (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease patients and abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) rat model. These medications have been hypothesized to exert their therapeutic effects by a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist mechanism, but they also have known serotonin (5-HT) indirect agonist effects that could suppress AIMs. This raised the possibility that NMDA antagonists lacking 5-HTergic effects would not have the anti-dyskinetic action predicted by previous investigators. To test this hypothesis, we investigated MK-801, the most widely-studied NMDA antagonist. We found that chronic low-dose MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) had no effect on development of AIMs or contraversive rotation. In addition, in L-DOPA-primed rats, low-dose MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) had no effect on expression of AIMs, contraversive rotation, or sensorimotor function. Conversely, higher doses of MK-801 (0.2-0.3 mg/kg) suppressed expression of AIMs. However, as we show for the first time, anti-dyskinetic doses of MK-801 also suppressed L-DOPA-induced contralateral rotation and impaired sensorimotor function, likely due to non-specific interference of MK-801 with L-DOPA-induced behavior. We conclude that noncompetitive NMDA antagonists are unlikely to suppress dyskinesia clinically without worsening parkinsonism.
Seven patients with congestive heart failure receiving long-term diuretic treatment (more than three years) experienced idionodal tachycardia in the presence of apparently normal serum digoxin levels. Intravenous bolus administration of magnesium (Mg) sulfate, followed by intramuscular Mg repletion, abolished the digitalis-toxic arrhythmia. The finding of decreased lymphocyte Mg and potassium contents proved the existence of cellular Mg depletion associated with normal serum Mg levels in five patients and with hypomagnesemia in the other two. Decreased cellular Mg content with normal serum Mg level predisposes to digitalis-toxic arrhythmias.
Gene expression changes in rat asbestos-induced malignant mesothelioma (MM) cells were investigated by differential mRNA display. A mRNA transcript identified by this approach was abundant in normal rat mesothelial cells but not expressed in rat MM cell lines. Northern blot analysis confirmed that this transcript is uniformly silenced in rat MM cell lines and primary tumors. Nucleotide sequence analysis revealed that this transcript is encoded by the rat glypican 3 gene (GPC3), whose human homolog is mutated in the Simpson-Golabi-Behmel overgrowth syndrome. Allelic loss at the GPC3 locus was infrequent (6.9%) in MM cell lines, and no mutations were found. GPC3 transcript levels were markedly decreased in 16 of 18 primary tumors and 17 of 22 human MM cell lines. Most of the cell lines were shown to have aberrant methylation of the GPC3 promoter region. In two of four human MM cell lines tested, GPC3 expression was restored after 2-deoxy 5-azacytidine (DAC)-mediated demethylation of its promoter region. Ectopic expression of GPC3 inhibited in vitro colony formation of human MM cells. Collectively, these data suggest that down-regulation of GPC3 is a common occurrence in MM and that GPC3, an X-linked recessive overgrowth gene, may encode a negative regulator of mesothelial cell growth.
1. Plasma noradrenaline was measured in 125 patients with stable essential hypertension (WHO I-II) and in 107 normotensive control subjects lying and standing. 2. In normotensive subjects and in patients with essential hypertension no sex-related differences of plasma noradrenaline were found between age-matched groups. 3. Plasma noradrenaline was not related to sodium balance indexed by urinary sodium/creatinine ratio. 4. In patients with essential hypertension plasma noradrenaline increases with age. 5. Mean plasma noradrenaline concentrations are significantly higher in patients with essential hypertension compared with age-matched normotensive subjects both lying and standing. 6. In patients with essential hypertension diastolic blood pressure and heart rate correlated significantly with supine plasma noradrenaline concentrations.
Previous studies have suggested that EGF or other members of the EGF family of mitogenic proteins are involved in proliferation of renal tubular epithelial cells occurring during recovery from injury to the kidney. The present studies examined whether expression of mRNA for the recently identified heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor (HB-EGF) is regulated in response to renal injury induced by either ischemia/reperfusion or mercuric chloride. Increased expression of HB-EGF mRNA was demonstrated in the post-ischemic kidney within 45 min of unilateral ischemia/reperfusion in the rat. Induction of HB-EGF mRNA occurred only when ischemia was followed by reperfusion, and was not eliminated by removal of blood cells from the post-ischemic kidney by saline perfusion. In situ hybridization with 35S-labeled antisense riboprobes of HB-EGF indicated that compared with control, there was increased HB-EGF mRNA expression in the 6 h post-ischemic kidney in the inner cortex and outer medulla in a patchy distribution, with the greatest expression in the inner stripe of the outer medulla. Expression occurred primarily in tubular epithelial cells. Recombinant human HB-EGF stimulated [3H]-thymidine incorporation in both primary cultures of rabbit proximal tubule cells and NRK 52E normal rat kidney epithelial cells, with potency similar to that of EGF. Induction of HB-EGF mRNA was observed in tubules freshly isolated from rat renal cortex or outer medulla when the tubules were subjected to reoxygenation after incubation in anoxic conditions. The nephrotoxin, mercuric chloride, also caused induction of HB-EGF mRNA both in vivo and in isolated rat cortical tubules. The anoxia/reoxygenation-induced expression of HB-EGF mRNA in isolated tubules was inhibited by the free radical scavengers, di- and tetra-methylthiourea, indicating involvement of reactive oxygen species. These findings indicate that HB-EGF mRNA is inducible in the kidney in vivo by acute tubular injury and suggest that HB-EGF may act as an autocrine/paracrine growth factor involved in proliferation of tubular epithelial cells and repair of the kidney.
Fatalities resulted from aluminium phosphide (ALP) intoxication in completely healthy children with no preceded clinical sings or symptoms were presented. Data regarding circumstances, autopsy reports, histopathological examination, toxicological investigation, and police enquiries were also collected and evaluated. The affected children were females, and 6-16 years old. They were completely healthy and died suddenly in relation to some physical activities such as running, walking, and bathing, without any prior complain. The viscera showed intense congestion with moderate to severe pulmonary edema. The cause of the sudden termination of life in the reported cases is mostly cardiac ones. Physical exertion may precipitate death due to increased cardiac stress, increased oxygen demand, and by aggravating metabolic acidosis. The absence of clinical symptoms before death may be due to the low level ALP, or due to the occurrence of death in the early stages after exposure to poison. Death due to ALP could result in cases of mild, moderate, or severe ALP intoxication. This may explain partly the differences encountered in clinical, autopsy, and histopathology findings of ALP intoxication. Fatalities are not the mere consequences of the dose of the poison, but factors such as physical activity and low oxygen level may be quite important.
Two previously described pedigrees with familial hyperproinsulinemia have elevated proinsulin conversion intermediates resulting from amino acid substitutions in the proinsulin molecule. In contrast, a third family with elevated levels of an apparently normal proinsulin molecule may have a defect in the converting process. To determine if the defect in this family lies in the insulin gene region, we used restriction fragment length polymorphisms adjacent to the insulin gene to examine cosegregation with hyperproinsulinemia. We demonstrate linkage of hyperproinsulinemia and the insulin gene in this family with a LOD score of 1.8, suggesting that the defect lies in or near the insulin gene. This method has wide applicability in determining whether hyperproinsulinemia or hyperinsulinemia is the result of defects at the insulin gene, and should permit the detection of new defects at or near this locus.
To evaluated the role of hyoscine butyl bromide in facilitating retrograde ileoscopy.
Retrograde terminal ileoscopy was attempted in 200 consecutive patients undergoing colonoscopy. After intubation of the cecum and visualization of the ileocecal valve, butyl bromide injection or normal saline was given intravenously to the patients in a double blind random fashion. The pulse rate and oxygen saturation were measured continuously. After completion of the procedure, endoscopists were then asked to score the ease of intubation and the ease of visualization of the terminal ileum on a visual scale of 1 to 10. The patients were also asked to score the pain after receiving hyoscine butyl bromide injection on a score of 1 to 10.
Terminal ileoscopy could be performed in 188 patients. The mean (SD) visual analogue score for the ease of intubation of the cecum was 7.4 (0.65) in the injection group and 5.9 (0.8) in the placebo group (P < 0.001). The mean (SD) length of ileum visualized in the injection group was 14.4 (3.3) cm and 10.4 (2.7) cm in the placebo group (P < 0.001). The mean (SD) visual analogue score for ease of visualization of the terminal ileum was 7.5 (0.69) in the injection group and 5.9 (0.7) in the placebo group (P < 0.001). The pain score experienced by the patients was 6.5 (0.7) in the injection group and 6.7 (0.69) in the placebo group (P < 0.008). Although the pulse rate increased significantly in patients receiving the drug, no statistically significant difference was noted in the oxygen saturation between the two groups either before or after administration of the drug. No complications were observed in either of the groups.
Hyoscine butyl bromide injection is a useful adjunct in helping the intubation and visualization of terminal ileum during colonoscopy.
Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), a major form of tea catechin, has anti-allergic properties. To elucidate the anti-allergic mechanisms of EGCG, we investigated its regulation of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP-9) expression in toluene diisocyanate (TDI)-inhalation lung tissues as well as TNF-alpha and Th2 cytokine (IL-5) production in BAL fluid. Compared with untreated asthmatic mice those administrated with EGCG had significantly reduced asthmatic reaction. Also, increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation by TDI inhalation was diminished by administration of EGCG in BAL fluid. These results suggest that EGCG regulates inflammatory cell migration possibly by suppressing MMP-9 production and ROS generation, and indicate that EGCG may be useful as an adjuvant therapy for bronchial asthma.
The cataleptic state induced by the depot-type preparations of fluphenazine (FZ) was investigated in mice. Intramuscular injections of FZ-enanthate or FZ-decanoate produced a marked and long-lasting catalepsy, which was antagonized by trihexyphenidyl, biperiden and promethazine but not by l-dopa. These anticataleptic effects disappeared after several hours and catalepsy occurred again. The cataleptic effects of FZ-enanthate and FZ-decanoate were increased by (D-Ala2, MePhe4, Met(0)5-ol)-enkephalin, aminooxyacetic acid and haloperidol. The results indicate that the cataleptic effects of FZ-enanthate and FZ-decanoate correspond with their long duration of antipsychotic effects and that the catalepsy may involve enkephalinergic, GABAergic and cholinergic as well as dopaminergic neuron activity.
The prostate has been identified as a target for 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP)-induced carcinogenesis. Humans are exposed to PhIP through ingestion of well-done cooked meats, and there is evidence from epidemiological studies that implicates red meat consumption in prostate carcinogenesis. The alpha and pi class isoforms of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) have been shown to inhibit adduction of activated PhIP metabolites to DNA in cell-free systems. In humans, silencing of GST pi(GSTP1) through CpG island hypermethylation is found in nearly all prostate carcinomas and is believed to be an early event in prostate carcinogenesis. We hypothesized that suppressed GSTP1 expression in prostate cells would increase their vulnerability to cytotoxicity and DNA adduct formation mediated by activated PhIP metabolites. To test this hypothesis, the human prostate adenocarcinoma cell line, LNCaP, which contains a silenced GSTP1 gene, was genetically modified to constitutively express high levels of GSTP1. Both LNCaP and LNCaP-GSTP1 cells exposed to N-OH-PhIP, but not parent PhIP, for 24 h showed a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability. GSTP1-overexpressing cells had LC50s 30-40% higher than cells transfected with the vector alone. PhIP-DNA adducts isolated from LNCaP-derived cells and primary human prostate tissue cultures exposed to N-OH-PhIP were analyzed by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Primary cultures of human prostate tissue and LNCaP-GSTP1 cells had approximately 50% lower adduct levels than parental LNCaP and vector control cells. Bioactivation assays using LNCaP cytosols showed that enzymatic activation of N-OH-PhIP to a DNA binding species was dependent on ATP and could be inhibited by recombinant human GSTP1 in the presence of glutathione. This evidence confirms that N-OH-PhIP can be bioactivated to a DNA binding species in human prostate and human prostate-derived cells. These observations provide the basis for using LNCaP and LNCaP-GSTP1 cells as a model system for studying the role of this enzyme in protection against N-OH-PhIP induced DNA damage in prostate carcinogenesis. Loss of GSTP1 expression in human prostate may, therefore, enhance its susceptibility to carcinogenic insult by compounds such as N-OH-PhIP. Conversely, induction of GSTs in early-stage prostate carcinogenesis may be a useful protective strategy.
1. The present study was designed to investigate tolerance to several pharmacological effects of apomorphine. 2. Changes in blood pressure, heart rate, plasma noradrenaline levels, rectal temperature, respiratory rate and retching plus vomiting were compared after administration of apomorphine (200 micrograms kg-1, i.v. as a bolus) or saline at different time intervals (30, 120 and 720 min) in four groups of chloralose-anaesthetized dogs. 3. The first administration of apomorphine induced a significant decrease in blood pressure and rectal temperature, a marked rise in heart rate with no change in noradrenaline plasma levels or respiratory rate. Emesis occurred in 71% of the animals. 4. A second administration of apomorphine 30 min later failed to modify blood pressure or heart rate. In contrast, the magnitude of apomorphine-induced changes in blood pressure and heart rate was similar to that observed after the first administration when apomorphine was given 120 or 720 min later. 5. The apomorphine-induced decrease in rectal temperature evoked by a second dose of apomorphine was less marked when given 30 and 120 min after the first dose and unchanged when given 720 min later. 6. The number of animals exhibiting retching and vomiting was lower when apomorphine was reinjected after 30 min than when the time between two successive injections of apomorphine was 120 or 720 min. 7. These results show that tolerance to apomorphine involves its cardiovascular, hypothermic and emetic effects. The time course of tolerance to repeated injections of apomorphine is longer for its hypothermic than for its hypotensive or emetic effects. This suggests a tissue-specific regulation of D2 dopamine receptors to repeated injections of apomorphine.
To assess whether older age is independently associated with hemorrhage risk in patients with atrial fibrillation, whether or not they are taking warfarin therapy.
Cohort study.
Integrated healthcare delivery system. Thirteen thousand five hundred fifty-nine adults with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
Patient data were collected from automated clinical and administrative databases using previously validated search algorithms. Medical charts were reviewed from patients hospitalized were for major hemorrhage (intracranial, fatal, requiring >or=2 units of transfused blood, or involving a critical anatomic site). Age was categorized into four categories (<60, 60-69, 70-79, and >or=80), and multivariable Poisson regression was used to assess whether major hemorrhage rates increased with age, stratified by warfarin use and adjusted for other clinical risk factors for hemorrhage.
A total of 170 major hemorrhages were identified during 15,300 person-years of warfarin therapy and 162 major hemorrhages during 15,530 person-years off warfarin therapy. Hemorrhage rates rose with older age, with an average increase in hemorrhage rate of 1.2 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.0-1.4) per older age category in patients taking warfarin and 1.5 (95% CI=1.3-1.8) in those not taking warfarin. Intracranial hemorrhage rates were significantly higher in those aged 80 and older (adjusted rate ratio=1.8, 95% CI=1.1-3.1 for those taking warfarin, adjusted rate ratio=4.7, 95% CI=2.4-9.2 for those not taking warfarin) than in those younger than 80.
Older age increases the risk of major hemorrhage, particularly intracranial hemorrhage, in patients with atrial fibrillation, whether or not they are taking warfarin. Hemorrhage rates were generally comparable with those reported in previous randomized trials, indicating that carefully monitored warfarin therapy can be used with reasonable safety in older patients.
The objectives of this study were to assess the benefits of 1) mitoxantrone after three years of follow-up and 2) disease-modifying treatment (DMT) after stopping mitoxantrone. A retrospective analysis was performed on 304 patients with active relapsing-remitting (RR) or progressive multiple sclerosis (PMS) who were treated with mitoxantrone. After mitoxantrone therapy, some patients received DMT (interferon-beta or glatiramer acetate) while others did not. The disease course of the two groups was evaluated by the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) before and after mitoxantrone and then every year for three years. The mean EDSS score at starting mitoxantrone and three years after stopping mitoxantrone respectively, were: 3.3 (1.3) and 3.2 (1.7) for the RRMS patients and 5.9 (1.2) and 6.4 (1.4) for the PMS patients. Before starting mitoxantrone, demographic and clinical parameters of predictive disability were not significantly different between patients who received DMT or not. The variation of EDSS between time of stopping mitoxantrone and three years later was significantly different (+0.9 versus +0.3; P=0.03) for patients with RRMS. We found that mitoxantrone treatment induces stable disease up to two years after discontinuation of mitoxantrone therapy. In the third year, patients without DMT deteriorated.
Tobramycin-impregnated bone cement is frequently used in revision procedures of infected total hip and knee arthroplasties. Aminoglycoside-impregnated cement is typically fashioned into beads or block spacers, which are temporarily placed in infected joint spaces. The use of aminoglycoside-impregnated bone cement has allowed the local concentration to exceed the minimum inhibitory concentration breakpoint of susceptible organisms while serum concentrations after 48 hours were usually not detected. Nephrotoxic complications are rarely encountered with this type of antibiotic delivery method. However, we report the case of an 85-year-old man with a history of renal insufficiency who experienced acute renal failure after undergoing revision treatment of an infected knee arthroplasty with the combined use of tobramycin-cefazolin bone cement and a block spacer. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for aminoglycoside-induced nephrotoxicity from the use of this combination.
Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) and hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1alpha) are both up-regulated in glioblastoma multiforme (GBMs), particularly in invasive zones. Because FAK may play an important role in the invasion of glioma cells into the surrounding brain, we sought an agent that causes down-regulation of FAK phosphorylation as a potential inhibitor of brain tumor invasion and growth. Geldanamycin (GA), a benzoquinone ansamycin antibiotic, binds to heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) and interferes with its function. GA inhibits the proliferation of various non-glial cells and has anti-tumor activity. Moreover, GA blocks HIF-regulated transcription of VEGF and inhibits the VEGF-induced phosphorylation of FAK and migration of endothelial cells. Here, we tested the effect of GA on glioma cell migration in vitro and its potential to down-regulate HIF-1alpha induction. Our results demonstrate that GA (i) decreases U87MG, LN229, and U251MG glioma cell migration; (ii) reduces cell migration independent of p53 and PTEN status; (iii) prevents migration at non-toxic concentrations; (iv) reduces phosphorylation of FAK; and (v) inhibits cobalt chloride (CoCl(2))-mediated induction of HIF-1alpha in glioma cells. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report showing that GA can inhibit phosphorylation of FAK concomitant with a decrease in cellular migration. One of the most clinically relevant aspects of this study is that GA interferes with the induction of HIF-1alpha that has been linked with glioma cell migration and angiogenesis. Given the fact that GA is a small lipophilic molecule capable of penetrating the blood brain barrier together with the data presented here provide a strong rationale for its use or its analogues in the treatment of highly invasive GBMs.
Invasive breast cancer is the major cause of death among females and its incidence is closely linked to HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2) overexpression. Pterostilbene, a natural analog of resveratrol, exerts its cancer chemopreventive activity similar to resveratrol by inhibiting cancer cell proliferation and inducing apoptosis. However, the anti-invasive effect of pterostilbene on HER2-bearing breast cancer has not been evaluated. Here, we used heregulin-β1 (HRG-β1), a ligand for HER3, to transactivate HER2 signaling. We found that pterostilbene was able to suppress HRG-β1-mediated cell invasion, motility and cell transformation of MCF-7 human breast carcinoma through down-regulation of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity and growth inhibition. In parallel, pterostilbene also inhibited protein and mRNA expression of MMP-9 driven by HRG-β1, suggesting that pterostilbene decreased HRG-β1-mediated MMP-9 induction via transcriptional regulation. Examining the signaling pathways responsible for HRG-β1-associated MMP-9 induction and growth inhibition, we observed that pterostilbene, as well as SB203580 (p38 kinase inhibitor), can abolish the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 kinase), a downstream HRG-β1-responsive kinase responsible for MMP-9 induction. In addition, HRG-β1-driven Akt phosphorylation required for cell proliferation was also suppressed by pterostilbene. Taken together, our present results suggest that pterostilbene may serve as a chemopreventive agent to inhibit HRG-β1/HER2-mediated aggressive and invasive phenotype of breast carcinoma through down-regulation of MMP-9, p38 kinase and Akt activation.
Inorganic arsenic [As(V)+As(III)] and its metabolites, especially the trivalent forms [monomethylarsonous acid, MMA(III), and dimethylarsinous acid, DMA(III)], are considered the forms of arsenic with the highest degree of toxicity, linked to certain types of cancer and other pathologies. The gastrointestinal mucosa is exposed to these forms of arsenic, but it is not known what toxic effect these species may have on it. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the toxicity and some mechanisms of action of inorganic arsenic and its metabolites [monomethylarsonic acid, MMA(V), dimethylarsinic acid, DMA(V), MMA(III) and DMA(III)] in intestinal epithelial cells, using the Caco-2 human cell line as a model. The results show that the pentavalent forms do not produce toxic effects on the intestinal monolayer, but the trivalent species have a different degree of toxicity. As(III) induces death mainly by necrosis, whereas only apoptotic cells are detected after exposure to MMA(III), and for DMA(III) the percentages of apoptosis and necrosis are similar. The three forms produce reactive oxygen species, accompanied by a reduction in intracellular GSH and lipid peroxidation, the latter being especially notable in the dimethylated form. They also alter the enzyme activity of glutathione peroxidase and catalase and induce expression of stress proteins and metallothioneins. The results indicate that the trivalent forms of arsenic can affect cell viability of intestinal cells by mechanisms related to the induction of oxidative stress. Further studies are needed to evaluate how the effects observed in this study affect the structure and functionality of the intestinal epithelium.
Environmental or occupational exposure to low doses of arsenic induces a series of health problems including cancer. The molecular events in arsenic-induced carcinogenicity remain to be defined. In the NuLi-1 immortalized human lung epithelial cell line with p53 and pRb deficiency, exposure to low doses of arsenic trioxide for 72 h promoted cell proliferation and upregulated the gene transcription levels of FOXM1, CDC6, CDC25A, and cyclin D1, which are both critical cell cycle regulatory genes and proto-oncogenes. Continuous in vitro exposure to 1 µM arsenic trioxide for 34 wks induced malignant cell transformation, as evidenced by enhanced anchorage-independent cell growth. The expression of FOXM1, CDC6, CDC25A, and Cyclin D1 was dynamically elevated at the gene transcription and protein levels in the process of cell transformation. The carcinogenic ability of transformed cell colonies coincides with the expression levels of FOXM1 in in vitro anchorage-independent growth assays and in vivo tumor xenograft formation assays. In reverse, the knockdown of FOXM1 in lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells or arsenic-transformed NuLi-1 cells significantly decreased anchorage-independent cell growth and tumor xenograft formation. The transformed NuLi-1 cells showed genomic instability in the form of copy number variation (CNV) at chromosome 1, 5, 6, 18, and 20, but not loss of heterozygosity (LOH). These results showed for the first time that chronic exposure to low doses of arsenic trioxide promoted lung carcinogenicity, in part by aberrantly upregulating FOXM1 and its associated oncogenes, when the tumor suppressor genes p53 and pRb were inactivated.
Pesticides, common environmental exposures, have been examined in relation to breast cancer primarily in occupational studies or exposure biomarker studies. No known studies have focused on self-reported residential pesticide use. The authors investigated the association between reported lifetime residential pesticide use and breast cancer risk among women living on Long Island, New York. They conducted a population-based case-control study of 1,508 women newly diagnosed with breast cancer between August 1996 and July 1997 and 1,556 randomly selected, age-frequency-matched controls. Comprehensive residential pesticide use and other risk factors were assessed by using an in-person, interviewer-administered questionnaire. Unconditional logistic regression was used to calculate odds ratios and 95% confidence intervals. Breast cancer risk was associated with ever lifetime residential pesticide use (odds ratio = 1.39, 95% confidence interval: 1.15, 1.68). However, there was no evidence of increasing risk with increasing lifetime applications. Lawn and garden pesticide use was associated with breast cancer risk, but there was no dose response. Little or no association was found for nuisance-pest pesticides, insect repellents, or products to control lice or fleas and ticks on pets. This study is the first known to suggest that self-reported use of residential pesticides may increase breast cancer risk. Further investigation in other populations is necessary to confirm these findings.
To investigate if iron deposition and fat accumulation in the liver play a pathogenetic role in dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrosis in rat.
Thirty rats were treated with DMN at does consecutive days of 10 microL/kg daily, i.p., for 3 consecutive day each week for 4 wk. Rats (n=30) were sacrificed on the first day (model group A) and 21(st) d (model group B) after cessation of DMN injection. The control group (n=10) received an equivalent amount of saline. Liver tissues were stained with hematoxylin and eosin (HE) and Masson and Prussian blue assay and observed under electron microscopy. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and liver tissue hydroxyproline (Hyp) content were tested.
The liver fibrosis did not automatically reverse, which was similar to previous reports, the perilobular deposition of iron accompanied with collagen showed marked characteristics at both the first and 21(st) d after cessation of DMN injection. However, fat accumulation in hepatocytes occurred only at the 21(st) d after cessation of DMN injection.
Iron deposition and fat accumulation may play important roles in pathological changes in DMN-induced rat liver fibrosis. The detailed mechanisms of these characteristics need further research.
A 20-year-old male with ulcerative colitis complicated by mesalazine-associated severe aplastic anemia is described. The patient developed aplastic anemia four months after the start of mesalazine therapy. He was treated with antithymocyte globulin, cyclosporine, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) and responded well. Hematological complications of mesalazine are rare, but if bone marrow suppression is detected, immediate cessation of the drug and intensive immunosuppressive treatment with G-CSF should be considered.
Transverse rectus abdominus myocutaneous (TRAM) flap is one of the commonly used techniques for breast reconstruction. Postoperative pain relief is of paramount importance following TRAM flap breast reconstruction to avoid potentially preventable complications like chest infection. Several methods of pain control are available, including intrapleural anesthesia. Here we report a case of a patient who developed ventricular standstill as a complication of intrapleural bupivacaine.
Gemfibrozil-statin combination therapy is a well-known risk factor for myopathy and rhabdomyolysis. Cerivastatin is a currently available statin with dual elimination; it is therefore expected to cause less drug-drug interaction. This case is the second reported case with severe rhabdomyolysis caused by cerivastatin-gemfibrozil combination. Moreover, in this case, the rhabdomyolysis was more severe and caused severe renal failure and death. The authors discuss how these drugs cause rhabdomyolysis and how rhabdomyolysis can cause renal failure.
Although various manifestations of pentamidine-induced cardiotoxicity have been reported, to our knowledge, second-degree heart block associated with this agent has not been described. In addition, cardiac adverse effects usually develop after at least 6 days of therapy. We describe a 54-year-old, human immunodeficiency virus-positive man with a history of sulfonamide allergy who received treatment with pentamidine for Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. After only the third dose of pentamidine, it was noted that the patient's heart rate had decreased to 48 beats/minute. Subsequently, five episodes of Wenckebach (Mobitz type 1) heart block with a ventricular rate of 28 beats/minute were observed on continuous cardiac telemetry. Serum electrolyte and creatinine levels remained within normal limits. Within 4 days of discontinuing the pentamidine, the patient's heart rate stabilized at 80 beats/minute without further intervention. Clinicians should be vigilant when monitoring for cardiotoxicity in patients receiving pentamidine throughout the duration of therapy. In addition, they should continue to reserve its use for moderate-to-severe Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia for which trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole is ineffective or contraindicated.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the hepatic manifestation of obesity and metabolic syndrome and contributes to increased risk of cardiovascular disease and liver-related morbidity and mortality. Indeed, obese patients with metabolic syndrome generate greater amounts of thrombin, an indication of coagulation cascade activation. However, the role of the coagulation cascade in Western diet-induced NAFLD has not been investigated. Using an established mouse model of Western diet-induced NAFLD, we tested whether the thrombin receptor protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR-1) and hematopoietic cell-derived tissue factor (TF) contribute to hepatic steatosis. In association with hepatic steatosis, plasma thrombin-antithrombin levels and hepatic fibrin deposition increased significantly in C57Bl/6J mice fed a Western diet for 3 months. PAR-1 deficiency reduced hepatic inflammation, particularly monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 expression and macrophage accumulation. In addition, PAR-1 deficiency was associated with reduced steatosis in mice fed a Western diet, including reduced liver triglyceride accumulation and CD36 expression. Similar to PAR-1 deficiency, hematopoietic cell TF deficiency was associated with reduced inflammation and reduced steatosis in livers of low-density lipoprotein receptor-deficient mice fed a Western diet. Moreover, hematopoietic cell TF deficiency reduced hepatic fibrin deposition. These studies indicate that PAR-1 and hematopoietic cell TF are required for liver inflammation and steatosis in mice fed a Western diet.
The hypomethylating chemotherapeutic drug 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5AzadC) has been shown to induce cell differentiation in some systems, while promoting neoplastic transformation in others. Using both in vitro and in vivo models, we have explored the relationship between oncogene expression and the susceptibility of cells to malignant transformation by 5AzadC. The study involved several nontumorigenic subclones of NIH3T3 fibroblasts, including cells transfected with deregulated c-myc, as well as phenotypic revertants expressing v-Ki-ras or long terminal repeat-activated c-Ha-ras. Transient 5AzadC treatment of the oncogene-bearing cell lines was associated with a rapid and efficient neoplastic transformation. In some cases, over 50% of the cell population exhibited loss of contact inhibition of growth within 1 week of treatment. The transformants were capable of forming s.c. tumors and experimental lung metastases in recipient nude mice. In contrast, 5AzadC failed to induce malignant properties in control 3T3 cultures transfected with the bacterial neor gene; rather, treatment of these cells was associated with differentiation into adipocytes and myotubes. The differential response to 5AzadC was also observed in vivo, in mice first inoculated s.c. with the premalignant cells and then treated with 5AzadC 24 h later. In agreement with the in vitro model, tumor development in mice correlated with the presence of cells with activated ras or myc oncogenes. Cytidine analogs that do not inhibit DNA methylation (i.e., 6-azacytidine and 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosyl cytosine) had no effect on cell phenotype. The results indicate that exposure of cells to 5AzadC can lead to tumor progression both in vitro and in vivo and suggest that preexisting alterations in oncogene expression may facilitate the evolution of cancerous growth induced by hypomethylating agents.
Human Respiratory Syncytial Virus (HRSV) is an important pathogen and is associated with mortality in the young, old, and immuno-compromised. Due to the lack of effective therapeutic antivirals or a vaccine, there is a critical need for continued research in this field. Here we tested the ability of the FDA approved proteasome inhibitor bortezomib to inhibit HRSV in vitro and in vivo. We observed significant inhibition of HRSV replication in Vero cells at bortezomib concentrations from 20 to 40 ng/ml. Bortezomib was well tolerated in mice when administered intranasally at concentrations of < or = 0.3 mg/kg or intraperitoneally at 1.0 mg/kg. However, treatment of HRSV-infected mice with doses as low as 0.01 mg/kg resulted in increased pulmonary inflammation and mortality compared to mock treated-infected control animals. Examination of cytokine expression levels from lungs of bortezomib treated HRSV-infected mice revealed an increase in G-CSF, IL-6, MCP-1, and RANTES levels and a decrease in total IL-12 compared to mock treated-infected control animals. These data indicate that treatment with bortezomib during HRSV infection may alter the immune response and could potentially create a risk for patients treated with bortezomib in the event of a respiratory tract infection.
