Moxifloxacin (MXF) is an 8-methoxyquinolone with high activity against Gram-positive bacteria. In an experimental model of aortic valve endocarditis (EAVE), the efficacy of MXF was evaluated against a strain of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Rabbits with catheter-induced aortic valve vegetations were randomly assigned to a control group or to groups receiving MXF 20 mg/kg intravenous (i.v.) twice a day (bid) or vancomycin (VAN) 30 mg/kg i.v. bid for a total of eight doses (4 days). Rabbits were sacrificed 15 h after the last dose of antibiotics. In another group, treatment with MXF was extended to 5 days and rabbits were sacrificed 5 days after the last dose (10th dose) of MXF in order to detect possible relapses of endocarditis after the end of treatment (test-of-cure (TOC) study). Both MXF and VAN significantly reduced the bacterial load in vegetations (P < 0.001 vs. controls). All animals in the MXF-TOC group had sterile vegetations. MXF given at a dose of 20 mg/kg i.v. bid for 4 days was equally effective as VAN in the treatment of EAVE due to MRSA. When treatment with MXF was extended to 5 days, the cure rate reached 100% and no relapses of endocarditis were observed.
Alfentanil, a short-acting and powerful analgesic, when injected peripherally to rats (0.5 mg/kg) produced a catatonic state characterized by a rigid akinesia. The present study was designed to explore the neuroanatomical location of the opiate receptors mediating the alfentanil induced catatonia. The catatonic effect of alfentanil was measured using a bar test and depression of locomotor activity in rats tested in photocell cages during an active nocturnal phase of their cycle. Methylnaloxonium HCl (MN), a quaternary derivative of naloxone which does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier, injected into the lateral ventricle significantly reduced the catatonia at doses of 0.125-2.0 micrograms as measured in both the locomotor and bar test. MN perfusion of similar doses directly into the nucleus raphe pontis, but not in the caudate nucleus significantly antagonized the catatonia. These data complement results on alfentanil-induced muscular rigidity (Blasco et al., see companion paper) where EMG indices of rigidity in rats were reversed by microinjections of low doses of MN (0.125 and 0.5 microgram) in the nucleus raphe pontis, but not the caudate nucleus even at a high dose (4.0 micrograms). Together these results suggest that the region of the nucleus raphe pontis is an important neural substrate for opiate-induced muscular rigidity, and that the catatonic state produced by opiates depends on more diffuse opiate receptor activation of which one important component may be the nucleus raphe pontis.
Chemoresistance has become a major obstacle to the successful treatment of leukemia. Autophagy, a regulated process of degradation and recycling of cellular constituents, has recently caught increasing attention for its roles in conferring resistance to various commonly used anticancer therapies. Here we showed that the member of the S100 calcium-binding protein family, S100A8, is a critical regulator of chemoresistance in the autophagy process. It positively correlated with the clinical status in childhood acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) and it was released from leukemia cells after chemotherapy-induced cytotoxicity. Knockdown of S100A8 expression increased the sensitivity of leukemia cells to chemotherapy and apoptosis. Moreover, suppressing S100A8 expression decreased autophagy as evaluated by the increased expression of the autophagic marker microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3)-II, degradation of SQSTM1/Sequestosome 1 (p62) and formation of autophagosomes. Furthermore, stimuli that enhanced reactive oxygen species (ROS) promoted cytosolic translocation of S100A8 and thereby enhanced autophagy. S100A8 directly interacted with the autophagy protein Beclin1 displacing Bcl-2. These results suggest that S100A8 is a critical pro-autophagic protein that enhances cell survival and regulates chemoresistance in leukemia cells likely through disassociating the Beclin1-Bcl-2 complex.
A novel mutation, repro5, was isolated in a forward genetic screen for infertility mutations induced by ENU mutagenesis. Homozygous mutant mice were phenotypically normal but were infertile. Oocytes from mutant females appeared normal, but were severely maturation-defective in that they had reduced ability to progress to metaphase II (MII), and those reaching MII were unable to progress beyond the two pronuclei stage following in vitro fertilization (IVF). Mutant males exhibited defective spermiogenesis, resulting in oligoasthenoteratospermia. Genetic mapping, positional cloning, and complementation studies with a disruption allele led to the identification of a mutation in Brwd1 (Bromodomain and WD repeat domain containing 1) as the causative lesion. Bromodomain-containing proteins typically interact with regions of chromatin containing histones hyperacetylated at lysine residues, a characteristic of chromatin in early spermiogenesis before eventual replacement of histones by the protamines. Previous data indicated that Brwd1 is broadly expressed, encoding a putative transcriptional regulator that is believed to act on chromatin through interactions with the Brg1-dependent SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling pathway. Brwd1 represents one of a small number of genes whose elimination disrupts gametogenesis in both sexes after the major events of meiotic prophase I have been completed.
The present investigation relates to the influence of andrographolide, an active compound of Andrographis paniculata Nees. It reverses an experimental liver carcinogenic condition of mice to normal and might be a potential therapeutic/preventive agent for human liver cancer.
A. paniculata (Kalmegh) is extensively used in the Indian traditional system of medicine as a hepatoprotective and hepatostimulative agent and has been reported to have protective effect against different hepatotoxins.
Histomorphological, ultrastructural, and biochemical studies were performed for the effect of the andrographolide on control mice, mice treated with hexachlorocyclohexane (BHC) only and BHC + andrographolide. Enzymes for liver function tests were analyzed by spectrophotometric method.
The BHC experimental model forms an irreversible liver tumor in male mice. The histological and ultrastructural changes observed in andrographolide supplementation emphasize the recovery of the damaged liver. This recovery was also reflected in the neoplastic nodule formation. The activity of phosphorylase and glucose-6-phosphatase in the liver of the andrographolide-supplemented group suggests improved glycogenolysis in liver. Serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase, serum glutamate oxalate transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, acid phosphatase, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase showed a significant decrease in andrographolide-supplemented animals as compared with BHC-treated animals, suggesting regenerative effects elicited by andrographolide.
The study indicates that the regenerative capability elicited by andrographolide is possibly due to its ability to reactivate liver function enzymes that catalyze the reaction of several biochemical and synthetic processes and that it may be useful for severe liver damage conditions.
Nine chlorinated aliphatics (CAs)--1,1-dichloroethane, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, 1,1,1,2-tetrachloroethane, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, and hexachloroethane--were examined in a rat liver foci assay for evidence of initiating and promoting potential. Young adult male Osborne-Mendel rats (ten/group) were given partial hepatectomies, followed 24 hr later by a single i.p. dose of either diethylnitrosamine (30 mg/kg body weight) or CA, 1 wk later either a diet containing 0.05% (w/w) phenobarbital or daily oral gavage (5 X/wk) of CA in corn oil for 7 weeks, and sacrificed 1 wk later. Putative preneoplastic markers monitored were foci with increased gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase activity [GGT(+)]. CAs were without significant effect in the initiation protocol at the maximum tolerated dose. In the promotion protocol, 1,1-dichloroethane, 1,1,2-trichloroethane, tetrachloroethylene, 1,1,2,2-tetrachloroethane, and hexachloroethane induced significant increases in GGT(+) foci above control levels. Two variants of GGT(+) foci were distinguishable, one associated predominantly with phenobarbital promotion, resembling preneoplastic foci in other models, and the other associated with CA promotion, which was less intensely stained and exhibited branching, resembling foci undergoing redifferentiation. The marked differences in response may relate to differences in cytotoxic potential or mechanism of action of the two types of agents.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of riluzole on dyskinesia and the duration of the ON state in patients with Parkinson disease (PD). The authors studied 16 PD patients with levodopa-induced dyskinesia. All patients initially received an apomorphine dose intended to induce the motor function benefit (ON state) generally accompanied by dyskinesia. They evaluated the patients during the OFF and ON states using the UPDRS-III, UPDRS-IV, and Larsen scales, and measured the duration of the ON state. Patients were randomly assigned to receive either riluzole (50 mg bid) or placebo for 7 consecutive days (8 patients in each group). The authors did not interrupt previously prescribed medication. Following the 7-day period, they carried out similar evaluation procedures before and after another apomorphine challenge. Mean UPDRS-IV scores were 6.1 points and 6.0 points before and after riluzole therapy respectively. For the placebo group, the scores were 6.9 points and 6.6 points for the initial and final evaluations respectively. Larsen scale had mean scores of 9.2 points and 9.9 points for the pre- and postriluzole periods, and 10.2 points and 9.6 points for pre- and post-placebo evaluations respectively. The ON state was 33.5% lengthier after 7 days of riluzole and 28.0% lengthier after placebo. They could not find any statistical differences between the 2 groups. Short-term riluzole administration in PD patients was not able to reduce apomorphine-induced dyskinesia but could extend the ON state duration, although this did not reach statistical significance.
We have investigated the effects of neuroleptic treatments which do, or do not, induce catalepsy on the level of expression of glutamate decarboxylase, the rate limiting enzyme in GABA synthesis, in efferent neurons of the pallidum in adult rats. Different regimens of haloperidol (1 mg/kg s.c., three, seven or 14 days; 2 mg/kg, s.c., 10 days) induced catalepsy in a majority of rats and increased glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus (external pallidum) in those rats exhibiting catalepsy. Levels of glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA were also increased in the entopeduncular nucleus (internal pallidum), but only after 14 days of treatment with haloperidol. The atypical antipsychotic clozapine (seven days, 20 mg/kg, s.c.), which did not induce catalepsy, slightly decreased glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus. When co-administered with haloperidol (seven days, 1 mg/kg s.c.), the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) completely blocked both haloperidol-induced catalepsy and increases in glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus. In contrast, scopolamine was not able to block increased glutamate decarboxylase and enkephalin messenger RNA expression induced by haloperidol in the striatum. These results reveal a good correlation between increases in glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the globus pallidus and catalepsy after these drug treatments and suggest that anticholinergic blockade of the behavioral and molecular effects of neuroleptics may involve non-striatal mechanisms.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are zinc-dependent endopeptidases that play a pivotal role in invasion and angiogenesis of malignant glioma cells. Therefore, the inhibition of MMPs has been suggested to be a promising therapeutic strategy for brain tumors. In the present study, we found that glycitein, a bacterial metabolite of the isoflavone glycitin, inhibits the expression of MMP-3 and MMP-9 at promoter, mRNA, and protein levels in PMA-stimulated U87MG human astroglioma cells. In addition, gelatin zymography showed that glycitein inhibited the PMA-induced MMP-9 secretion in U87MG cells. A subsequent Matrigel invasion assay revealed that glycitein suppresses the in vitro invasiveness of glioma cells, which may be at least partly due to the glycitein-mediated inhibition of MMP-3 and MMP-9. In support of this, treatment of MMP-3- or MMP-9-specific inhibitor significantly suppressed PMA-induced invasion of glioma cells. Further mechanistic studies revealed that glycitein inhibits the DNA binding and transcriptional activities of NF-kappaB and AP-1, which are important transcription factors for MMP-3 or MMP-9 gene expression. Furthermore, glycitein suppresses PMA-induced phosphorylation of three types of MAP kinases, which are upstream signaling molecules in MMP gene expressions and NF-kappaB and AP-1 activities in glioma cells. Therefore, the inhibition of MMP-3 and MMP-9 expression by glycitein may have therapeutic potential for controlling invasiveness of malignant gliomas.
Ergot derivatives are frequently administrated during cesarean delivery, induced abortion, or post-partum hemorrhage to promote uterine contractions. Ergot derivatives may also induce coronary spasm and intravenous ergonovine is used in cardiac catheterization laboratories as a diagnostic agent. Serious ischemic cardiac events related to ergonovine are rare and have most often been described after intravenous use. We report the case of a 38-year-old woman with a ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) few days after artificially induced abortion by oral prescription of methylergometrine. Coronary angiography performed 2 days after onset of chest pain did not reveal any abnormalities of the coronary arteries but a provocative test using intravenous methylergometrine was positive with reproduction of chest pain, ECG changes and with a significant narrowing localized on the second segment of the left anterior descending artery at the angiogram. Thus, since methylergometrin may clearly induce coronary spasm when prescribed orally, chest pain occurring under oral treatment should require immediate attention even if atypical or in the absence of cardiovascular risk factors.
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) is a genetic syndrome caused by mutations in the 3beta-hydroxysterol Delta(7)-reductase gene (DHCR7). SLOS patients have decreased cholesterol and increased 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) levels. Dietary cholesterol supplementation improves systemic biochemical abnormalities; however, because of the blood-brain barrier, the central nervous system (CNS) is not treated. Simvastatin therapy has been proposed as a means to treat the CNS. Mice homozygous for a null disruption of Dhcr7, Dhcr7(Delta3-5/Delta3-5), die soon after birth, thus they cannot be used to study postnatal development or therapy. To circumvent this problem, we produced a hypomorphic SLOS mouse model by introducing a mutation corresponding to DHCR7(T93M). Both Dhcr7(T93M/T93M) and Dhcr7(Delta3-5/T93M) mice are viable. Phenotypic findings in Dhcr7(T93M/Delta3-5) mice include CNS ventricular dilatation and two to three syndactyly. Biochemically, both Dhcr7(T93M/T93M) and Dhcr7(T93M/Delta3-5) mice have elevated tissue 7-DHC levels; however, the biochemical defect improved with age. This has not been observed in human patients, and is due to elevated Dhcr7 expression in mouse tissues. Dietary cholesterol therapy improved sterol profiles in peripheral, but not CNS tissues. However, treatment of Dhcr7(T93M/Delta3-5) mice with simvastatin decreased 7-DHC levels in both peripheral and brain tissues. Expression of Dhcr7 increased in Dhcr7(T93M/Delta3-5) tissues after simvastatin therapy, consistent with the hypothesis that simvastatin therapy improves the biochemical phenotype by increasing the expression of a Dhcr7 allele with residual enzymatic activity. We conclude that simvastatin treatment is efficacious in improving the SLOS-associated sterol abnormality found in the brain, and thus has the potential to be an effective therapeutic intervention for behavioral and learning problems associated with SLOS.
Quinoxaline 1,4-dioxides (QdNOs) derivatives, the potent synthetic antibacterial group used in food-producing animals, are assumed to have pro-oxidant properties. However, how oxidative stress mediated their adrenal toxicity is far from clear. The aim of this study was to assess the ability of three QdNOs, i.e. olaquindox (OLA), mequindox (MEQ), and cyadox (CYA), to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative cell damage in porcine adrenocortical cells. Multiple approaches such as cell activity assay, biochemical detectation, flow cytometry and fluorescent were used to study the integrated role of ROS homeostasis, mitochondrial redox metabolism and cell apoptosis as well as chemical stability of these drugs. The results showed that OLA and MEQ treatment evoked a significant dose and time-dependent cell damage in adrenocortical cells, well CYA displayed much less toxicity. As for the intracellular ROS production, OLA irritated a persistent and utmost release of ROS while MEQ made a similar but weaker reaction. CYA, however, had a short and unstable release of intracellular ROS. On the other hand, quinoxalinine-2-carboxylie acid (QCA), one of the metabolites of OLA and MEQ, did not cause any significant production of ROS and showed relatively lower toxicity than its parents. Moreover, an imbalance in the redox metabolism and mitochondrial membrane damage has been implicated in adrenal toxicity of QdNOs. ROS scavengers partially reversed QdNOs-induced mitochondrial damage, indicating that mitochondria may be a major target and critical for ROS-mediated cell death. In a word, these results suggested that ROS is a key mediator of QdNOs-induced cell death via mitochondria-dependent pathway in adrenocortical cells. The results provide a mechanism approach in understanding the characterize of adrenal damage caused by QdNOs in vitro, which would in turn, help in designing the appropriate therapeutic strategies of these kind of feed additives.
The relationship between free radical and scavenger enzymes has been found in the epileptic phenomena and reactive oxygen species have been implicated in seizure-induced neurodegeneration. Using the epilepsy model obtained by systemic administration of pilocarpine in rats, we investigated the lipid peroxidation, nitrite content, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase activities in the hippocampus of rats during chronic period. The enzyme activities as well as the lipid peroxidation and nitrite concentrations were measured using spectrophotometric methods and the results compared to values obtained from saline-treated animals. The superoxide dismutase and catalase activities increased during the chronic phase. In addition, lipid peroxidation and nitrite levels increased in same period in the hippocampus of animals observed during spontaneous recurrent seizures. Previous studies showed that animals presenting seizures and submitted to 24h of status epilepticus showed normal levels of superoxide dismutase and increased in catalase activities as well as an increase in hippocampal lipid peroxidation and nitrite concentrations. These results show a direct evidence of lipid peroxidation and nitrite during seizure activity that could be responsible for neuronal damage in the hippocampus of rats, during the establishment of pilocarpine model of epilepsy.
Exposure of cells to gamma-rays induces the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that play a main role in ionizing radiation damage. We have investigated the radioprotective effect of phloroglucinol (1,3,5-trihydroxybenzene), phlorotannin compound isolated from Ecklonia cava, against gamma-ray radiation-induced oxidative damage in vitro and in vivo. Phloroglucinol significantly decreased the level of radiation-induced intracellular ROS and damage to cellular components such as the lipid, DNA and protein. Phloroglucinol enhanced cell viability that decreased after exposure to gamma-rays and reduced radiation-induced apoptosis via inhibition of mitochondria mediated caspases pathway. Phloroglucinol reduced radiation-induced loss of the mitochondrial membrane action potential, reduced the levels of the active forms of caspase 9 and 3 and elevated the expression of bcl-2. Furthermore, the anti-apoptotic effect of phloroglucinol was exerted via inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase-4 (MKK4/SEK1), c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) cascades induced by radiation exposure. Phloroglucinol restored the level of reduced glutathione (GSH) and protein expression of a catalytically active subunit of glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL), which is a rate-limiting enzyme in GSH biosynthesis. In in vivo study, phloroglucinol administration in mice provided substantial protection against death and oxidative damage following whole-body irradiation. We examined survival with exposure to various radiation doses using the intestinal crypt assay and determined a dose reduction factor (DRF) of 1.24. Based on our findings, phloroglucinol may be possibly useful as a radioprotective compound.
5-Azacytidine and several of its analogues are known to inhibit DNA methylation, alter gene expression, and inhibit cell growth. We report a Phase II study in which we investigated the antineoplastic activity of 5,6-dihydro-5-azacytidine and its induction of fetal hemoglobin synthesis when given by a 5-day continuous i.v. infusion of 1650 mg/m2/day that was repeated every 21 days. Fetal hemoglobin was measured in all patients; increased synthesis was found in 13 of the 17, in the absence of clinically significant anemia. Of the four patients who did not develop increased fetal hemoglobin, three had only one cycle of therapy. Fourteen patients with bronchogenic carcinoma were treated, and ten were evaluable for disease response. Five patients had disease stability of 2 or more mo, and five progressed on treatment. Three additional patients with mesothelioma were treated, and the two who were evaluable for disease response had stabilization of their disease. Fifteen of the 17 patients who received 5,6-dihydro-5-azacytidine developed a pleuritic-type chest pain, 12 had abnormal electrocardiograms, and four developed positive anti-nuclear antibodies. No significant hemopoietic, hepatic, or renal toxicities were observed. This study demonstrates that 5,6-dihydro-5-azacytidine in the dose and schedule used has no significant therapeutic activity in the treatment of lung cancer but does possess an unusual spectrum of clinical toxicities as well as the property of inducing fetal hemoglobin synthesis.
Mental disorders developed during the chemotherapy of malignant testes tumors are described as related to the patients' personality traits and their psychogenic response to the disease. In 19 patients treated with Platinum-containing drugs, various mental disorders were noted: asthenic, neurotic, psychopath-like ones which were most marked in cycloid-, epileptoid- and schizoid-accentuated personalities, and in the cases with pronounced psychogenic response to the disease and surgery. The latter response could appear as astheno-depressive, anxious-depressive, astheno-neurotic states.
It now appears likely that soluble oligomers of amyloid-beta1-42 peptide, rather than insoluble fibrils, act as the primary neurotoxin in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Consequently, compounds capable of altering the assembly state of these oligomers (referred to as ADDLs) may have potential for AD therapeutics. Phenolic compounds are of particular interest for their ability to disrupt Abeta oligomerization and reduce pathogenicity. This study has focused on oleocanthal (OC), a naturally-occurring phenolic compound found in extra-virgin olive oil. OC increased the immunoreactivity of soluble Abeta species, when assayed with both sequence- and conformation-specific Abeta antibodies, indicating changes in oligomer structure. Analysis of oligomers in the presence of OC showed an upward shift in MW and a ladder-like distribution of SDS-stable ADDL subspecies. In comparison with control ADDLs, oligomers formed in the presence of OC (Abeta-OC) showed equivalent colocalization at synapses but exhibited greater immunofluorescence as a result of increased antibody recognition. The enhanced signal at synapses was not due to increased synaptic binding, as direct detection of fluorescently-labeled ADDLs showed an overall reduction in ADDL signal in the presence of OC. Decreased binding to synapses was accompanied by significantly less synaptic deterioration assayed by drebrin loss. Additionally, treatment with OC improved antibody clearance of ADDLs. These results indicate oleocanthal is capable of altering the oligomerization state of ADDLs while protecting neurons from the synaptopathological effects of ADDLs and suggest OC as a lead compound for development in AD therapeutics.
Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) plays an important role in cell survival by regulating iron, antioxidant defense, and mitochondrial function. Pharmacological inhibitors of the iron-dependent enzyme class prolyl hydroxylases (PHD), which target alpha subunits of HIF proteins for degradation, have recently been demonstrated to alleviate neurodegeneration associated with stroke and hypoxic-ischemic injuries. Here we report that inhibition of PHD by 3,4-dihydroxybenzoate (DHB) protects against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced nigral dopaminergic cell loss and up-regulates HIF-1alpha within these neurons. Elevations in mRNA and protein levels of HIF-dependent genes heme oxygenase-1 (Ho-1) and manganese superoxide dismutase (Mnsod) following DHB pretreatment alone are also maintained in the presence of MPTP. MPTP-induced reductions in ferroportin and elevations in nigral and striatal iron levels were reverted to levels comparable with that of untreated controls with DHB pretreatment. Reductions in pyruvate dehydrogenase mRNA and activity resulting from MPTP were also found to be attenuated by DHB. In vitro, the HIF pathway was activated in N27 cells grown at 3% oxygen treated with either PHD inhibitors or an iron chelator. Concordant with our in vivo data, the MPP(+)-elicited increase in total iron as well as decreases in cell viability were attenuated in the presence of DHB. Taken together, these data suggest that protection against MPTP neurotoxicity may be mediated by alterations in iron homeostasis and defense against oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction brought about by cellular HIF-1alpha induction. This study provides novel data extending the possible therapeutic utility of HIF induction to a Parkinson disease model of neurodegeneration, which may prove beneficial not only in this disorder itself but also in other diseases associated with metal-induced oxidative stress.
In a prospective study, 44 children receiving Adriamycin (ADR) for various neoplastic diseases underwent serial estimations of the systolic time intervals (STI) for the noninvasive assessment of left ventricular myocardial performance. Five of the 44 children developed clinical signs of ADR-related congestive heart failure at a cumulative dose of less than 550 mg/m2 body surface area. Clinical symptoms, changes in the electrocardiogram and in the chest X-ray were preceded in every case by changes of the STI, mainly a prolongation of the left ventricular pre-ejection period (PEP), or a decrease of the ejection time (ET)/pre-ejection period (PEP) ratio (ET/PEP). A continous increase of the PEP and a decrease of the ET/PEP-ratio also gave an indication of myocardial dysfunction during ADR treatment in the other children without clinical signs of congestive heart failure. This subclinical cardiotoxic effect of ADR below the critical cumulative dose of 550 mg/m2 was observed in children with pre-existent myocardial damage, with preceding thoracic irradiation, or during concurrent chemotherapy, of which cyclophosphamide seemed to be most important. Thus, the estimation of the STI proved helpful and reliable in the early detection of incipient heart failure and in the selection of high risk patients in children receiving ADR treatment.
Rizatriptan (MAXALT, a registered trademark of Merck & Co. Inc.) is a selective 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist with rapid oral absorption and early onset of action in the acute treatment of migraine. This randomized, open-label, crossover outpatient study assessed the preference of 481 patients for rizatriptan 10-mg rapidly disintegrating tablets versus sumatriptan (IMIGRAN, a registered trademark of GlaxoWellcome PLC) 50-mg tablets in the treatment of a single migraine attack with each therapy. Almost twice as many patients preferred rizatriptan 10-mg rapidly disintegrating tablet to sumatriptan 50-mg tablet (64.3 vs. 35.7%, p < or = 0.001). Faster relief of headache pain was the most important reason for the preference, cited by 46.9% of patients preferring rizatriptan and 43.4% of patients who preferred sumatriptan. Headache relief at 2 h was 75.9% with rizatriptan and 66.6% with sumatriptan (p < or = 0.001), with rizatriptan being superior to sumatriptan within 30 min of dosing. Fifty-five percent of patients were pain free 2 h after rizatriptan, compared with 42.1% treated with sumatriptan (p < or = 0.001), rizatriptan being superior within 1 h of treatment. Forty-one percent of patients taking rizatriptan were pain free at 2 h and had no recurrence or need for additional medication, compared to 32.3% of patients on sumatriptan. Rizatriptan was also superior to sumatriptan in terms of the proportions of patients with no nausea, phonophobia or photophobia, and patients with normal function 2 h after treatment intake (p < 0.05). More patients were (completely, very or somewhat) satisfied 2 h after treatment with rizatriptan (73.3%) than 2 h after treatment with sumatriptan (59.0%) (p < or = 0.001). Additionally, 2 h after the dose, more patients found rizatriptan to be very convenient, convenient or somewhat convenient (87.2%) than they did sumatriptan (76.3%) (p < or = 0.001). Both active treatments were well tolerated. The most common side effects with rizatriptan and sumatriptan were nausea (6.6 and 6.9% of patients, respectively), dizziness (6.1 and 5.8%) and somnolence (7.4 and 6.7%).
The aim of this study was to determine for the first time neurosteroid levels, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and DHEA-sulfate (DHEA-S) in particular, in a group of adult patients with autistic disorder and compare these levels with normal healthy individuals. Levels of DHEA, DHEA-S and cortisol were compared between 15 adult drug-free patients with autistic disorder and 13 healthy controls. The Ritvo-Freeman Real-Life Rating Scale (RLRS) and the Overt Aggression Scale (OAS) were assessed as a measure of symptom severity. Significant lower DHEA-S levels were observed in the group with autistic disorder as compared to controls (p < 0.05). DHEA-S levels appear to be low in patients with autistic disorder and, while speculative, may play a role in the etiopathophysiology of the disorder.
A 16-year-old girl complained about a headache of one-month's duration, accompanied by vertical diplopia that had appeared ten days earlier. The girl reported receiving vitamin A and minocycline to treat acne vulgaris for the previous six weeks. An examination revealed bilateral optic disc edema. Normal computed tomographic and magnetic resonance imaging examinations enabled a diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri to be made. Soon after discontinuation of those medications, the headaches and diplopia diminished. We suggest a periodic ophthalmologic examination during systemic therapy with vitamin A combined with minocycline to detect the early occurrence of pseudotumor cerebri.
Hypoxia is an important characteristic of the solid tumor microenvironment and constitutes a barrier for effective radiotherapy. Here, we studied the effects of darinaparsin (an arsenic cytotoxin) on survival and radiosensitivity of tumor cells in vitro under normoxia and hypoxia and in vivo using xenograft models, compared to effects on normal tissues.
The cytotoxicity and radiosensitization of darinaparsin were first tested in vitro in a variety of solid tumor cell lines under both normoxia and hypoxia and compared with arsenic trioxide (ATO, an arsenical with reported cytotoxic and radiosensitizing activities on tumor cells). The effects were then tested in mouse models of xenograft tumors derived from tumor cell lines and clinical tumor specimens. The potential mechanisms of darinaparsin effects, including reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, cellular damage, and changes in global gene expression, were also investigated.
In comparison with ATO, darinaparsin had significantly higher in vitro cytotoxic and radiosensitizing activities against solid tumor cells under both normoxia and hypoxia. In vivo experiments confirmed these activities at doses that had no systemic toxicities. Importantly, darinaparsin did not radiosensitize normal bone marrow and actually radioprotected normal intestinal crypts. The darinaparsin-mediated antitumor effects under hypoxia were not dependent on ROS generation and oxidative damage, but were associated with inhibition of oncogene (RAS and MYC)-dependent gene expression.
Darinaparsin has significant and preferential cytotoxic and radiosensitizing effects on solid tumors as compared with normal cells. Darinaparsin may therefore increase the therapeutic index of radiation therapy and has near term translational potential.
We have previously observed that amitriptyline and other antidepressants produce impairing effects on inhibitory avoidance (also called passive avoidance) in mice of both sexes. In the present study we investigated the involvement of the cholinergic system in the inhibitory avoidance impairment produced by acute amitriptyline in male and female CD1 mice. For this purpose, the effects on said task of acute i.p. administration of several doses of amitriptyline, either alone or in combination with the cholinergic agonists oxotremorine and physostigmine, were evaluated. Pre-training administration of 5, 7.5, 10 or 15 mg/kg of amitriptyline produced a significant impairment of inhibitory avoidance in both males and females. When oxotremorine (0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg) was co-administered with amitriptyline, the antidepressant's impairing effect was partially counteracted, although inhibitory avoidance learning was not significant. Physostigmine (0.15, 0.3 or 0.6 mg/kg) counteracted the impairment produced by amitriptyline, as mice treated with both drugs exhibited inhibitory avoidance learning. These results show that the inhibitory avoidance impairment produced by amitriptyline in male and female mice is mediated, at least partially, by the cholinergic system.
In 60 patients, 99Tcm pertechnetate or 99Tcm methylene diphosphonate was injected through an arm vein within 36 h after renal transplantation and repeated 24 or 48 h later. Thirty-one were treated with azathioprine and prednisone, 27 of the grafts had a well-defined peak on the histograms similar to that from the iliac artery histograms at both examinations. In contrast, of the 29 patients treated with cyclosporin A, only 5 of the grafts had a well-defined peak at both examinations. The difference is highly significant. Treatment with cyclosporin A causes a decrease in renal blood flow in the days immediately after transplantation.
Laminin 5 is known to induce the adhesion, spreading and migration of human keratinocytes. In skin wound healing, laminin 5 deposition beneath migrating keratinocytes occurs early and is followed by the formation of hemidesmosomes and then basement membrane.
To identify factors that regulate the synthesis and secretion of laminin 5 by human keratinocytes during acute wound healing.
Laminin 5 synthesis by human keratinocytes was determined by a specific sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. To determine the total amount of laminin 5 synthesized, laminin 5 deposited on culture dishes and inside cells was solubilized by detergent solution and determined separately from conditioned medium, and the total laminin 5 synthesis was calculated. A quantitative polymerase chain reaction method was used to measure the expression levels of laminin 5 genes, LAMA3, LAMB3 and LAMC2, which correspond to the alpha3, beta3 and gamma2 chains of laminin 5. We also examined the effects of lysophospholipids, proinflammatory cytokines and growth factors, which are components in acute wound fluids, on laminin 5 synthesis in keratinocytes.
Human acute wound fluid at days 1, 2 and 3 stimulated laminin 5 synthesis in cultured human keratinocytes in a concentration-dependent manner, although findings are restricted to one case. Human serum also increased laminin 5 production by human keratinocytes as strongly as the wound fluid did, suggesting that the major active components in acute wound fluid may be derived from those in human serum. Lysophospholipids such as lysophosphatidic acid (LPA), lysophosphatidylcholines (LPCs) and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) increased laminin 5 synthesis in a concentration-dependent manner. Among growth factors, epidermal growth factor, insulin-like growth factor-1, interferon-gamma and keratinocyte growth factor increased laminin 5 production in keratinocytes, while platelet-derived growth factor, hepatocyte growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor were ineffective. Although interleukin-1alpha had no effect, transforming growth factor (TGF)-alpha, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and TGF-beta1 also stimulated laminin 5 synthesis, and TGF-alpha and TGF-beta1 showed a synergistic effect. Neutralizing antibodies to TGF-alpha and TGF-beta1 markedly inhibited the enhanced laminin 5 synthesis by human serum, suggesting that TGF-alpha and TGF-beta1 are important components to increase laminin 5 in human serum. In line with the increase of laminin 5 synthesis, the expression levels of all three laminin 5 genes were also augmented by TGF-alpha and TGF-beta1.
Laminin 5 synthesis in human keratinocytes was augmented by inflammatory cytokines and growth factors such as TGF-alpha, TGF-beta1 and TNF-alpha, and lysophospholipids such as S1P, LPA and LPCs, which are supposed to be present in acute wound fluid. The increased laminin 5 protein in the wound area presumably enhances wound repair by stimulating adhesion and migration of keratinocytes on the wound bed and by facilitating basement membrane formation at the dermal-epidermal junction.
Losartan, a recently developed nonpeptide angiotensin II (AII) receptor antagonist, was orally administered for 14 days to mice with viral myocarditis, beginning 7 days after encephalomyocarditis virus inoculation. The angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) captopril and enalapril were also administered in the same manner to compare the therapeutic effects of these three drugs on the degree of myocarditis, acute heart failure, and left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy. Heart weight and the heart weight/body weight ratio were reduced by losartan (60 mg/kg/day) and captopril (7.5 mg/kg/day), but not by enalapril (1 mg/kg/day). LV wall thickness and cavity dimension were decreased in the losartan and captopril groups. Captopril reduced both myocardial necrosis and inflammation, whereas enalapril reduced myocardial necrosis but not inflammation. However, none of the studied losartan doses (1.2, 12, 60 mg/kg/day) influenced myocardial necrosis and inflammation resulting from viral infection. Thus, specific blockade of AII is beneficial in congestive heart failure (CHF) and LV hypertrophy but is not effective in viral-evoked inflammation and injury.
