Oral sildenafil and intravenous epoprostenol have independently been shown to be effective in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
To investigate the effect of adding oral sildenafil to long-term intravenous epoprostenol in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension.
A 16-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study.
Multinational study at 41 centers in 11 countries from 3 July 2003 to 27 January 2006.
267 patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (idiopathic, associated anorexigen use or connective tissue disease, or corrected congenital heart disease) who were receiving long-term intravenous epoprostenol therapy.
Patients were randomly assigned to receive placebo or sildenafil, 20 mg three times daily, titrated to 40 mg and 80 mg three times daily, as tolerated, at 4-week intervals. Of 265 patients who received treatment, 256 (97%) patients (123 in the placebo group and 133 in the sildenafil group) completed the study.
Change from baseline in exercise capacity measured by 6-minute walk distance (primary end point) and hemodynamic measurements, time to clinical worsening, and Borg dyspnea score (secondary end points).
A placebo-adjusted increase of 28.8 meters (95% CI, 13.9 to 43.8 meters) in the 6-minute walk distance occurred in patients in the sildenafil group; these improvements were most prominent among patients with baseline distances of 325 meters or more. Relative to epoprostenol monotherapy, addition of sildenafil resulted in a greater change in mean pulmonary arterial pressure by -3.8 mm Hg (CI, -5.6 to -2.1 mm Hg); cardiac output by 0.9 L/min (CI, 0.5 to 1.2 L/min); and longer time to clinical worsening, with a smaller proportion of patients experiencing a worsening event in the sildenafil group (0.062) than in the placebo group (0.195) by week 16 (P = 0.002). Health-related quality of life also improved in patients who received combined therapy compared with those who received epoprostenol monotherapy. There was no effect on the Borg dyspnea score. Of the side effects generally associated with sildenafil treatment, the most commonly reported in the placebo and sildenafil groups, respectively, were headache (34% and 57%; difference, 23 percentage points [CI, 12 to 35 percentage points]), dyspepsia (2% and 16%; difference, 13 percentage points [CI, 7 to 20 percentage points]), pain in extremity (18% and 25%; difference, 8 percentage points [CI, -2 to 18 percentage points]), and nausea (18% and 25%; difference, 8 percentage points [CI, -2 to 18 percentage points]).
The study excluded patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with other causes. There was an imbalance in missing data between groups, with 8 placebo recipients having no postbaseline walk assessment compared with 1 sildenafil recipient. These patients were excluded from the analysis.
In some patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, the addition of sildenafil to long-term intravenous epoprostenol therapy improves exercise capacity, hemodynamic measurements, time to clinical worsening, and quality of life, but not Borg dyspnea score. Increased rates of headache and dyspepsia occurred with the addition of sildenafil.
Diet-induced obesity (DIO) in rodents is characterized by impaired activation of signal-transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) by leptin receptors (LepRb) within the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. This signaling defect likely plays an important role in development of DIO. However, the neuro-chemical identity of the leptin-STAT3 resistant arcuate neurons has not been determined and the underlying mechanisms responsible for development of cellular leptin resistance remain unclear. To investigate this, we first measured arcuate gene expression of known key signaling components of the LepRb signaling pathway and tested whether specifically the critical arcuate pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons are resistant to LepRb-STAT3 signaling in mice given a high-fat-diet (HFD) compared to mice provided a low-fat control diet (LFD). We found that leptin-dependent STAT3 phosphorylation was decreased within POMC neurons of HFD mice. In addition, Leprb mRNA and suppressor of cytokine signaling 3 (Socs3) mRNA were elevated in the arcuate of HFD mice. To investigate whether increased LepRb expression per se in POMC neurons can influence development of DIO and Socs3 expression, we created mice that over-express LepRb selectively in POMC neurons (POMC-LepRb). No differences in body weight, fat mass or food intake were found between LFD POMC-LepRb mice and LFD controls. Surprisingly, body weight, fat mass and caloric intake of HFD POMC-LepRb mice was markedly higher than HFD control mice. In addition, arcuate Socs3 mRNA was increased in HFD POMC-LepRb mice compared to HFD controls. These data show that specifically POMC neurons of DIO mice are resistant to STAT3 activation by leptin, indicating that those cells might play a role in development of DIO. Furthermore, over-expression of LepRb selectively in POMC neurons increases susceptibility to the development of DIO. We propose a model where over-reactivity of the leptin-LepRb signaling system in arcuate neurons may play causal a role in development of diet-induced obesity.
Goblet cell metaplasia that causes mucus hypersecretion and obstruction in the airway lumen could be life threatening in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients. Inflammatory cytokines such as IL-13 mediate the transformation of airway ciliary epithelial cells to mucin-secreting goblet cells in acute as well as chronic airway inflammatory diseases. However, no effective and specific pharmacologic treatment is currently available. Here, we investigated the mechanisms by which aldose reductase (AR) regulates the mucus cell metaplasia in vitro and in vivo.
Metaplasia in primary human small airway epithelial cells (SAEC) was induced by a Th2 cytokine, IL-13, without or with AR inhibitor, fidarestat. After 48 h of incubation with IL-13 a large number of SAEC were transformed into goblet cells as determined by periodic acid-schiff (PAS)-staining and immunohistochemistry using antibodies against Mucin5AC. Further, IL-13 significantly increased the expression of Mucin5AC at mRNA and protein levels. These changes were significantly prevented by treatment of the SAEC with AR inhibitor. AR inhibition also decreased IL-13-induced expression of Muc5AC, Muc5B, and SPDEF, and phosphorylation of JAK-1, ERK1/2 and STAT-6. In a mouse model of ragweed pollen extract (RWE)-induced allergic asthma treatment with fidarestat prevented the expression of IL-13, phosphorylation of STAT-6 and transformation of epithelial cells to goblet cells in the lung. Additionally, while the AR-null mice were resistant, wild-type mice showed goblet cell metaplasia after challenge with RWE.
The results show that exposure of SAEC to IL-13 caused goblet cell metaplasia, which was significantly prevented by AR inhibition. Administration of fidarestat to mice prevented RWE-induced goblet cell metaplasia and AR null mice were largely resistant to allergen induced changes in the lung. Thus our results indicate that AR inhibitors such as fidarestat could be developed as therapeutic agents to prevent goblet cell metaplasia in asthma and related pathologies.
Systemic ketamine can trigger apoptosis in the brain of rodents and primates during susceptible developmental periods. Clinically, spinally administered ketamine may improve the duration or quality of analgesia in children. Ketamine-induced spinal cord toxicity has been reported in adult animals but has not been systematically studied in early development.
In anesthetized rat pups, intrathecal ketamine was administered by lumbar percutaneous injection. Changes in mechanical withdrawal threshold evaluated dose-dependent antinociceptive and carrageenan-induced antihyperalgesic effects in rat pups at postnatal day (P) 3 and 21. After intrathecal injection of ketamine at P3, 7, or 21, spinal cords were examined for apoptosis (Fluoro-Jade C and activated caspase-3), histopathologic change, and glial responses (ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 and glial fibrillary acid protein). After maximal doses of ketamine or saline at P3 or P21, sensory thresholds and gait analysis were evaluated at P35.
Intrathecal injection of 3 mg/kg ketamine at P3 and 15 mg/kg at P21 reverses carrageenan-induced hyperalgesia. Baseline neuronal apoptosis in the spinal cord was greater at P3 than P7, predominantly in the dorsal horn. Intrathecal injection of 3-10 mg/kg ketamine in P3 pups (but not 15 mg/kg at P21) acutely increased apoptosis and microglial activation in the spinal cord and altered spinal function (reduced mechanical withdrawal threshold and altered static gait parameters) at P35.
Because acute pathology and long-term behavioral change occurred in the same dose range as antihyperalgesic effects, the therapeutic ratio of intrathecal ketamine is less than one in the neonatal rat. This measure facilitates comparison of the relative safety of spinally administered analgesic agents.
The present study illustrates the effects of a standard aqueous extract, used in Cuba under the brand name of VIMANG, from the stem bark of Mangifera indica L. on the production of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and nitric oxide (NO) in in vivo and in vitro experiments. In vivo was determined by the action of the extract and its purified glucosylxanthone (mangiferin) on TNFalpha in a murine model of endotoxic shock using Balb/c mice pre-treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 0.125 mg kg(-1), i.p. In vitro, M. indica extract and mangiferin were tested on TNFalpha and NO production in activated macrophages (RAW264.7 cell line) and microglia (N9 cell line) stimulated with LPS (10ng ml(-1)) and interferon gamma (IFNgamma, 2U ml(-1)). M. indica extract reduced dose-dependently TNFalpha production in the serum (ED50 = 64.5 mg kg(-1)) and the TNFalpha mRNA expression in the lungs and livers of mice. Mangiferin also inhibited systemic TNFalpha at 20 mg kg(-1). In RAW264.7, the extract inhibited TNFalpha (IC50 = 94.1 microg ml(-1)) and NO (IC50 = 64.4 microg ml(-1)). In microglia the inhibitions of the extract were IC50 = 76.0 microg ml(-1) (TNFalpha) and 84.0 microg ml(-1) (NO). These findings suggest that the anti-inflammatory response observed during treatment with M. indica extract must be related with inhibition of TNFalpha and NO production. Mangiferin, a main component in the extract, is involved in these effects. The TNFalpha and NO inhibitions by M. indica extract and mangiferin on endotoxic shock and microglia are reported here for the first time.
A standard aqueous extract of Mangifera indica L., used in Cuba as an antioxidant under the brand name of VIMANG, was tested in vivo for its anti-inflammatory activity using commonly accepted assays. M. indica extract, administered topically (0.5-2 mg per ear), reduced ear edema induced by arachidonic acid (AA) and phorbol myristate acetate (PMA, ED50 = 1.1 mg per ear) in mice. In the PMA model, M. indica extract also reduced myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. This extract p.o. administered also inhibited tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) serum levels in both models of inflammation (AA, ED50 = 106.1 mg kg(-1) and PMA, ED50 = 58.2 mg kg(-1)). In vitro studies were performed using the macrophage cell line RAW264.7 stimulated with pro-inflammatory stimuli (LPS-IFNgamma or the calcium ionophore A23187) to determine PGE2 or LTB4 release, respectively. The extract inhibited the induction of PGE2 with IC50 = 64.1 microg ml(-1) and LTB4 IC50 = 22.9 microg ml(-1). M. indica extract also inhibited human synovial secretory phospholipase (PL)A2 with IC 50 = 0.7 microg ml(-1). These results represent an important contribution to the elucidation of the mechanism involved in the anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive effects reported by the standard M. indica extract VIMANG.
Dithiocarbamate compound Disulfiram (DSF) that binds with copper and functions as an inhibitor of aldehyde dehydrogenase is a Food and Drug Administration approved agent for treatment of alcoholism. Copper complexed DSF (DSF-Cu) also possesses anti-tumor and chemosensitizing properties; however, its molecular mechanisms of action remain unclear. Here we investigated malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) suppressive effects of DSF-Cu and the molecular mechanisms involved. DSF-Cu inhibited growth of the murine as well as human MPM cells in part by increasing levels of ubiquitinated proteins. DSF-Cu exposure stimulated apoptosis in MPM cells that involved activation of stress-activated protein kinases (SAPKs) p38 and JNK1/2, caspase-3, and cleavage of poly-(ADP-ribose)-polymerase, as well as increased expression of sulfatase 1 and apoptosis transducing CARP-1/CCAR1 protein. Gene-array based analyses revealed that DSF-Cu suppressed cell growth and metastasis-promoting genes including matrix metallopeptidase 3 and 10. DSF inhibited MPM cell growth and survival by upregulating cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip1, IGFBP7, and inhibitors of NF-κB such as ABIN 1 and 2 and Inhibitory κB (IκB)α and β proteins. DSF-Cu promoted cleavage of vimentin, as well as serine-phosphorylation and lysine-63 linked ubiquitination of podoplanin. Administration of 50 mg/kg DSF-Cu by daily i.p injections inhibited growth of murine MPM cell-derived tumors in vivo. Although podoplanin expression often correlates with metastatic disease and poor prognosis, phosphorylation of serines in cytoplasmic domain of podoplanin has recently been shown to interfere with cellular motility and migration signaling. Post-translational modification of podoplanin and cleavage of vimentin by DSF-Cu underscore a metastasis inhibitory property of this agent and together with our in vivo studies underscore its potential as an anti-MPM agent.
The diagnostic approach to eyelid eczema is often a great problem in daily practice.
A 16-year old girl developed recurrent severe pruritic edema of the eyelids, followed by redness and scaling. Various cosmetics particularly an eyeliner were considered as possible causes. Patch testing was performed with the standard series, some supplemental series and all ingredients of the eyeliner.
The eyeliner produced a papular reaction after 2 days of open application, confirming a high degree of contact sensitization. The patient reacted with a 3+ reaction to the ingredients shellac (20% in ethanol) and 1,3-butylene glycol (2% in water). All remaining materials failed to produce a reaction.
Careful allergologic investigations are necessary in cases of edema and/or eczema of the eyelids; the cosmetics used by the patients are of utmost importance. The causative allergen may not be present in the usual patch test series and can only be identified by testing all ingredients. Shellac is now widely used in cosmetics and is increasingly identified as a contact allergen in eye make up.
The authors assessed the prevalence of headaches following extended-release dipyridamole/aspirin combination (DAC), and the efficacy of acetaminophen in the treatment of these headaches. Following DAC, 38.7% of the participants developed headaches. The headaches were self-limited (69.4% placebo efficacy in 2 hours) and the incidence markedly declined over time. Acetaminophen was no more effective than placebo in the acute and preemptive treatment of these headaches.
Two cases of massive iliopsoas muscle bleeding leading to fatal exsanguination are presented. Both patients (two women, 61 and 74 years old, respectively) received oral anticoagulation with phenprocoumon. The intramuscular bleeding occurred spontaneously in women of relatively good physical condition. Intriguingly, phenprocoumon concentrations were within the therapeutic range (1.55 microg/ml and 1.26 microg/ml, respectively) as detected by toxicologic analysis. These cases demonstrate that severe bleeding in the iliopsoas muscle has to be considered in all patients receiving anticoagulant medication, even in those who have coagulation parameters within the therapeutic range. Especially in older patients with a high degree of comorbidity or in patients receiving analgesic drugs, the potential of fatal outcome of iliopsoas muscle bleeding seems to be of clinicopathologic relevance.
To compare the anti-oxidative stress effects of 5 classical traditional Chinese herbal recipes in rats with dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced cirrhosis.
DMN was injected intraperitoneally three consecutive days a week to male Wistar rats for 4 weeks to develop cirrhosis model, and the model cirrhotic rats were randomly grouped and administered with 5 traditional Chinese classic recipes, i. e. Yiguanjian; Huangqi Decoction; Yinchenhao Decoction; Xiayuxue Decoction and Xiaochaihu Decoction, by gastrogavage, respectively, for 2 weeks. Changes in activity of total superoxide dismutase (T-SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and malondialdehyde (MDA) content in liver tissue, and serum parameters of liver function were determined.
GST activity and MDA content increased significantly in model rats, peaked at week 2 (liver fibrosis formation period) and week 4 (cirrhosis formation period), respectively, while activity of T-SOD and GSH-Px decreased markedly. As compared with the model control group at week 6, the degree of cirrhosis was evidently milder with lower level of MDA and GST and higher T-SOD activity in rats treated by Huangqi Decoction and Yinchenhao Decoction.
Anti-oxidative stress action should be one important mechanism for Yinchenhao Decoction and Huangqi Decoction in reversing liver cirrhosis of rats. The action of Yinchenhao Decoction focuses on eliminating hepatic lipid peroxide and that of Huangqi Decoction emphasizes for enhancing anti-oxidation ability of the organism.
To report a patient with a probable acute tubular necrosis (ATN) induced by chronic exposure to polyethylene glycol (PEG)-400 via long-term, massive dosage of intravenous lorazepam.
A 57-year-old man with a history of alcohol abuse was admitted to the intensive care unit for acute respiratory failure. Lorazepam therapy was initiated in anticipation of alcohol withdrawal. Dosages up to 18 mg/h were required to provide adequate sedation and optimize ventilation. On day 43, the patient developed oliguric ATN of unknown etiology. The cumulative intravenous lorazepam dose was 4089 mg, equivalent to approximately 220 mL of PEG-400. Blood urea nitrogen concentrations followed a pattern that paralleled lorazepam dosage increases and decreases. Protein and granular casts were evident in urinalyses performed on days 12 and 29. The patient eventually experienced complete recovery.
ATN associated with intravenous PEG was last reported in 1959 in 6 of 32 patients receiving a cumulative PEG-300 dose of 120-200 mL over 3-5 days via an intravenous nitrofurantoin preparation. Two of the 6 patients died. Chronic administration of intravenous PEG to rabbits over a 5-week period has caused cloudy swelling of the renal tubular epithelium, increased blood urea concentrations, and death in some animals.
ATN probably resulted from chronic PEG exposure via massive doses of lorazepam injection, possibly enhanced by concurrent administration of vancomycin.
We report here that lysocellin, a polyether antibiotic from a streptomycete, induces G1 phase arrest in human osteosarcoma MG63 cells. Lysocellin up-regulates p21WAF1/Cip1 and down-regulates cyclin D1 at the mRNA level. In addition, cyclin D1 is down-regulated by the proteasome-dependent signal pathway in MG63 cells. In drug combination studies, we found that lysocellin treatment weakened the cytotoxic activity of etoposide in MG63 cells using a colony-formation assay. To study the in vivo efficacy of lysocellin, we isolated a novel compound related to lysocellin from the same streptomycete, and found that the novel drug is converted to lysocellin in vivo and decreases etoposide-induced alopecia in a neonatal rat model. We raise the possibility that this novel drug, named 'alopestatin', may be a promising agent against alopecia.
Adult Long-Evans male rats were treated with various dosages of pure or technical grade 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP), epichlorohydrin (Epi), or allyl chloride (AC) for 1, 3, or 6 months on a daily basis. AC, which is the substrate for the production of DBCP, and Epi, which is a contaminant and/or metabolite of DBCP, had no effect on any of the parameters of the male reproductive system studied. The deleterious effects on male reproduction are therefore attributable specifically to DBCP. The effects of DBCP were dose and duration dependent. At the lowest dose (1 mg/kg) DBCP did not have any discernible effects on the male reproductive system. By 3 months of treatment at the intermediate dose of 5 mg/kg, the morphology of the testis ranged from normally appearing seminiferous tubules to ones which contained Sertoli cells only. At 6 months of treatment there was a reduction in the weights of the testes and sexual accessory glands. At the highest dose, the majority of the rats showed advanced testicular regression by 1 month of treatment. The most extreme testicular regression was observed in the 6-month treatment group. Almost all of the seminiferous tubules of all of the rats were composed of Sertoli cells only. In some of the animals, a few isolated seminiferous tubules contained an occasional spermatogonium or primary spermatocyte. Some of the Leydig cells of the rats in this group showed morphological evidence of atrophy as evidenced by the clumping of chromatin and paucity of stainable cytoplasm. This was confirmed by lower levels of intratesticular testosterone, a significant reduction in the number of luteinizing hormone (LH) receptors and increased serum levels of LH and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). From these results we conclude that DBCP is a specific male gonadotoxin and that the effects are not a result of contamination or metabolism. The effects appear to be a direct action at the testicular level because feedback inhibition to the pituitary gland was adversely affected.
Serotonergic drugs, such as pergolide, have been associated with the development of cardiac valvular myxoid thickening and regurgitation in humans and more recently in rats. These effects are potentially mediated by the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2B) receptor (5-HT(2B)R). Therefore, we sought to determine whether cyproheptadine, a 5-HT(2B)R antagonist, might prevent toxic valvulopathy in an animal model of pergolide-induced valvular heart disease. For this purpose, 50 male Wistar rats received daily intraperitoneal injections of pergolide (0.5 mg/kg, n = 14), pergolide (0.5 mg/kg) combined with cyproheptadine (10 mg/kg, n = 12), cyproheptadine (10 mg/kg, n = 12), or no injections (control, n = 12) for 20 wk. Echocardiography was performed blindly at baseline and at 10 and 20 wk followed by pathology. At baseline, no differences between groups were found with echocardiography. At 20 wk, aortic regurgitation was present in all pergolide-treated animals, whereas it was less frequently observed in the other groups (P < 0.0001). For the other valves, this difference was less pronounced. On histopathology, not only aortic but also mitral valves were thicker, myxoid, and exhibited more 5-HT(2B)R-positive cells in pergolide-treated animals compared with the other groups. Moreover, regurgitant aortic and mitral valves were thicker than nonregurgitant aortic and mitral valves. In conclusion, we found that cyproheptadine prevented pergolide-induced valvulopathy in rats, which was associated with a reduced number of 5-HT(2B)R-positive valvular cells. This may have important clinical implications for the prevention of serotonergic drug-induced valvular heart disease.
A 72-year-old lady who was prescribed Omeprazole for gastroesophageal reflux developed an allergic reaction within two days, which manifested initially as a generalised rash and marked eosinophilia. This was followed by a fall in haemoglobin without any obvious bleeding. Investigations pointed to drug related intravascular haemolysis as the cause. She made an uneventful recovery after omitting Omeprazole and treatment with steroids. Omeprazole should be considered amongst other recognised causes of drug-induced haemolysis
In our previous study [9], we reported the anti-tumour effect of TNF on mouse bladder tumour (MBT-2) both in vivo and in vitro. Inoculation of a single dose of TNF alone caused significant but transient tumour growth inhibition. Subsequent repeated doses of TNF did not sustain or augment the anti-tumour effect. The current experiments were undertaken to assess the anti-tumour activity of (i)-concomitant treatment of TNF-A and IFN-A against MBT-2 bladder tumour and (ii)-concomitant TNF + IFN-A treatment in conjunction with T-DTH (delayed-type hypersensitivity) immunotherapy. Systemic administration of multiple doses of TNF + IFN-A in vivo caused initial partial tumour regression followed by tumour growth inhibition up to 14 days following treatment. This combined treatment showed an enhanced anti-tumour effect compared to TNF-A treatment alone. Immunotherapy of MBT-2 tumour-bearing mice with T-DTH "immune" effector cells alone did not cause significant tumour growth inhibition. In contrast, concomitant administration of both T-DTH effector cells and TNF + IFN-A in MBT-2 tumour-bearing mice resulted in significant tumour growth inhibition for up to 16 days. The immune effector cells conferring immunotherapy were isolated from the spleens of tumour-immunized, "DTH-primed" animals and were characterized as Lyt 1+2- helper/DTH T cells (CD4+ phenotype). These cells mediate both DTH response to MBT-2 tumour antigens as well as anti-MBT-2 tumour protection. In vitro treatment of the "immune" cells with TNF-A resulted predominantly in the proliferation of Lyt 1+ T cells versus Lyt 2+ cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A genetic polymorphism in the angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AGTR2 +1675G/A) has been associated with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). We tested whether this polymorphism affects LVH and left ventricular geometry parameters in patients with essential hypertension and cardiovascular disease who are treated according to guidelines.
We analyzed a cohort of 208 women and 1030 men with essential hypertension, associated cardiovascular disease and left ventricular ejection fractions 40% or more. Previous cardiac diseases included coronary heart disease (81%) and myocardial infarction (MI; 52%). Ten parameters of left ventricular mass, geometry and function were determined by echocardiography. Genotyping was performed by PCR. Due to the X chromosomal location of AGTR2, genotype-phenotype analysis was separated for women and men. Statistical analysis was performed by univariate and multivariate analysis accounting for confounding factors.
The mean age was 58.4 +/- 10 years. In the overall cohort, mean left ventricular mass index was 54 +/- 23.6 g/h without significant differences between patients with and without MI. The frequency of LVH (49% overall) was also similar in patients with or without MI. In men, AGTR2 +1675G/A had no influence on echocardiographic parameters. Similar findings were obtained in women, with the exception that the thickness of the interventricular septum was significantly lower in A allele carriers (-11%) in both crude (P = 0.002) and multivariate analysis (P = 0.044).
In treated patients with arterial hypertension, cardiac disease and preserved left ventricular systolic function AGTR2 (+1675G/A) exhibits only a minor effect on left ventricular geometry in women and none in men.
Marked prolongation of cardiac action potentials and of QT intervals has been associated with early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity in vitro and with ventricular tachycardia in vivo. Because the antihypertensive potassium channel activators pinacidil and cromakalim are known to accelerate repolarization in cardiac tissues, we performed in vitro and in vivo experiments to test the hypothesis that these agents would block the arrhythmogenic effects of delayed repolarization. Early afterdepolarizations and triggered activity were elicited in canine cardiac Purkinje fibers driven at cycle lengths of 4 seconds or more (K0, 2.7 mM) during superfusion with quinidine, cesium, or sematilide, a methylsulfonylamino parasubstituted analogue of procainamide with class III antiarrhythmic activity. The potassium channel activators invariably (17 of 17) abolished this form of abnormal automaticity. This effect was observed at low concentrations that did not alter action potential characteristics at shorter cycle lengths. Intravenous Cs+ (total dose, 4.5 mM/kg) was used to produce ventricular arrhythmias in anesthetized rabbits randomly pretreated in a double-blind fashion with either low-dose pinacidil (0.2 mg/kg) or vehicle. Pinacidil pretreatment resulted in significantly fewer total ventricular ectopic beats (168 +/- 157 versus 582 +/- 448, p less than 0.005) and episodes of ventricular tachycardia (four of nine versus nine of nine, p = 0.057). At this dose, pinacidil did not alter mean blood pressure before Cs+ and maximal hypertensive response after Cs+. In summary, the potassium channel activators pinacidil and cromakalim suppressed triggered activity related to prolonged repolarization at concentrations that did not affect action potential characteristics at normal rates in vitro; pinacidil blunted arrhythmias produced by cesium administration in vivo without lowering blood pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) is a receptor tyrosine kinase aberrantly expressed in neuroblastoma, a devastating pediatric cancer of the sympathetic nervous system. Germline and somatically acquired ALK aberrations induce increased autophosphorylation, constitutive ALK activation and increased downstream signaling. Thus, ALK is a tractable therapeutic target in neuroblastoma, likely to be susceptible to both small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitors and therapeutic antibodies-as has been shown for other receptor tyrosine kinases in malignancies such as breast and lung cancer. Small-molecule inhibitors of ALK are currently being studied in the clinic, but common ALK mutations in neuroblastoma appear to show de novo insensitivity, arguing that complementary therapeutic approaches must be developed. We therefore hypothesized that antibody targeting of ALK may be a relevant strategy for the majority of neuroblastoma patients likely to have ALK-positive tumors. We show here that an antagonistic ALK antibody inhibits cell growth and induces in vitro antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity of human neuroblastoma-derived cell lines. Cytotoxicity was induced in cell lines harboring either wild type or mutated forms of ALK. Treatment of neuroblastoma cells with the dual Met/ALK inhibitor crizotinib sensitized cells to antibody-induced growth inhibition by promoting cell surface accumulation of ALK and thus increasing the accessibility of antigen for antibody binding. These data support the concept of ALK-targeted immunotherapy as a highly promising therapeutic strategy for neuroblastomas with mutated or wild-type ALK.
Liver X receptor-α (LXRα), a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand-activated transcription factors, regulates de novo fatty acid synthesis that leads to stimulate hepatic steatosis. Although, resveratrol has beneficial effects on metabolic disease, it is not known whether resveratrol affects LXRα-dependent lipogenic gene expression. This study investigated the effect of resveratrol in LXRα-mediated lipogenesis and the underlying molecular mechanism. Resveratrol inhibited the ability of LXRα to activate sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c (SREBP-1c) and thereby inhibited target gene expression in hepatocytes. Moreover, resveratrol decreased LXRα-RXRα DNA binding activity and LXRE-luciferase transactivation. Resveratrol is known to activate Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1) and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), although its precise mechanism of action remains controversial. We found that the ability of resveratrol to repress T0901317-induced SREBP-1c expression was not dependent on AMPK and Sirt1. It is well established that hepatic steatosis is associated with antioxidant and redox signaling. Our data showing that expression of Sestrin2 (Sesn2), which is a novel antioxidant gene, was significantly down-regulated in the livers of high-fat diet-fed mice. Moreover, resveratrol up-regulated Sesn2 expression, but not Sesn1 and Sesn3. Sesn2 overexpression repressed LXRα-activated SREBP-1c expression and LXRE-luciferase activity. Finally, Sesn2 knockdown using siRNA abolished the effect of resveratrol in LXRα-induced FAS luciferase gene transactivation. We conclude that resveratrol affects Sesn2 gene induction and contributes to the inhibition of LXRα-mediated hepatic lipogenesis.
A possible drug interaction between cyclosporine (CyA) and mannitol was tested for in female Wistar rats infused continuously with CyA 10 mg (40-50 mg/kg BW) in 24 ml mannitol 20% daily for 3 to 4 days (group CIM). For comparison, two other groups of rats were infused either with the same amount of CyA in 24 ml NaCl 0.9% (group CINa) or with the same amount of mannitol without CyA (group M). No animal of groups CINa or M, but 6 out of 10 group CIM rats developed severe oligo-anuric acute renal failure (ARF). Histologically massive vacuolisation of proximal tubular epithelia was found in the kidneys of CIM rats with ARF, while CIM rats without ARF showed minor to moderate degrees of vacuolisation. No vacuolisation was seen in groups CINa and M. Moderate amounts of tubular inclusion bodies and microcalcifications were detected in the kidneys of CIM rats without ARF and in those of CINa rats. To elucidate the mechanism of ARF, renal blood flow, creatinine clearance and proximal tubular pressures were measured in the kidneys of another series of CIM rats infused for 48-96 hours with CyA and mannitol. Renal blood flow and proximal tubular pressures in the kidneys of animals that had not or not yet developed ARF did not differ from those in rats infused with mannitol alone despite histological alterations with minor to moderate degrees of vacuolisation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Forty-nine patients with advanced breast cancer who had failed from first-line cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (CMF regimen) chemotherapy, were randomized to treatment with either epirubicin (Epi) or doxorubicin (Dox) at a dose of 20 mg/m2 given intravenously (i.v.) weekly to compare the efficacy and toxicity of these two anthracyclines given in such a schedule. Of 43 evaluable patients 36% (eight of 22) treated with Epi and 38% (eight of 21) treated with Dox achieved a complete plus partial response rate (95% confidence limits 16-56% +/- 20% and 18-58% +/- 20%, respectively). Patients who obtained a major therapeutic response to previous CMF exhibited a significantly higher response rate with both the drugs: seven of eight (87.5%) compared with one of 13 (8%); p less than 0.05 for Epi and six of seven (86%) compared with two of 15 (13%); p less than 0.05 for Dox. The median duration of response was 4.5 months with Epi compared with 7 months with Dox, and the median survival of the two groups of patients were superimposable (12 months with Epi versus 11 months with Dox). The median cumulative dose was 220 mg/m2 (range 160-620) and 240 mg/m2 (range 160-860) for Epi and Dox, respectively. Gastrointestinal and hematological toxicities were moderate for both the drugs, with fewer episodes of nausea and vomiting, stomatitis, and leukopenia following Epi administration. A very low incidence of alopecia was recorded for both the drugs. Regarding cardiac evaluation, no significant differences were evident; however, the only case that developed symptomatic congestive heart failure was in the Dox arm, after a cumulative dose of 820 mg/m2 at 11.5 months. Epi given weekly at low doses preserves efficacy in the treatment of patients with advanced breast cancer, and given at equimolar doses, has a slightly better therapeutic index than the parent compound.
Cure of cognitive disorders such as amnesia, attention deficit and Alzheimer's disease is still a nightmare in the field of medicine. Nootropic agents such as piracetam, aniracetam and choline esterase inhibitors like Donepezil are being used to improve memory, mood and behavior, but the resulting side effects associated with these agents have made their use limited. The present study was undertaken to assess the potential of Brahmi rasayana (BR) as a memory enhancer. BR (100 and 200 mg kg(-1) p.o.) was administered for eight successive days to both young and aged mice. Elevated plus maze and passive-avoidance paradigm were employed to evaluate learning and memory parameters. Scopolamine (0.4 mg kg(-1) i.p.) was used to induce amnesia in mice. The effect of BR on whole brain AChE activity was also assessed. Piracetam (200 mg kg(-1) i.p.) was used as a standard nootropic agent. BR significantly improved learning and memory in young mice and reversed the amnesia induced by both scopolamine (0.4 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and natural aging. BR significantly decreased whole brain acetyl cholinesterase activity. BR might prove to be a useful memory restorative agent in the treatment of dementia seen in elderly.
To report a case in which significant hypotension occurred after initiation of tizanidine in a patient using the antihypertensive agent lisinopril.
A 48-year-old woman was admitted due to cerebral hemorrhage at the midbrain and pons, with extension to the fourth ventricle. Consciousness disturbance (Glasgow coma scale 4) with a decerebrate posture improved 5 days after stroke onset. As the BP was fairly high, antihypertensive agents, including lisinopril, were initiated. Three weeks later, the decerebrate rigidity and high BP remained, and tizanidine was initiated to see whether the decrease in muscle tone could facilitate hypertension control and motor recovery. However, the BP dropped dramatically within 2 hours after the first dose of tizanidine. The tizanidine and all of the antihypertensive medications were withdrawn. Tizanidine was used again after her BP had stabilized, but did not produce similar problems.
A similar event was reported in 2000. The reaction in our patient appeared after tizanidine initiation and improved after both lisinopril and tizanidine were discontinued. According to the Naranjo probability scale, this was classified as a possible drug interaction. This kind of reaction is seldom mentioned as occurring during co-administration with tizanidine. With its characteristics, tizanidine has the potential to compromise hemodynamic stability during concomitant angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor use.
Based upon the literature review, the hypotension in this patient was possibly due to the interaction between tizanidine and lisinopril.
