We present the case of a 29-year-old woman with generalized myasthenia. Myasthenia with complete external ophthalmoplegia was unmasked by cocaine abuse. It was associated with changes of the pupillary motility, including light-near dissociation and positive 0.1% pilocarpine test. Treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors improved the patient's condition rapidly, and led to complete normalization of extraocular movements and pupillary function. To our knowledge, this is the fourth case of cocaine-related myasthenia, and the first case of myasthenia with pseudotonic pupil.
The cardiovascular effects of 3,4-dihydro-6-[4-(3,4- dimethoxybenzoyl )-1-piperazinyl]-2(1H)- qu inolinone ( OPC -8212) were investigated in isolated ventricular muscles of various mammalian species, anaesthetized dogs and conscious dogs. In the isolated ventricular muscles of the dog, cat, rabbit and guinea pig, OPC -8212 (3 X 10(-6)-3 X 10(-4) mol/l) increased the developed tension in a concentration-related manner and these positive inotropic effects of OPC -8212 were 1/140-1/120 those of dobutamine but 5-17 times and 8-25 times those of amrinone and theophylline, respectively. The positive inotropic effect of OPC -8212 was not modified by pindolol or phentolamine. In the isolated rat ventricular muscle, OPC -8212, amrinone and theophylline exerted no positive inotropic effect, although dobutamine did. In anaesthetized dogs, OPC -8212 (0.1-3 mg/kg i.v.) was nearly as active as amrinone in producing an increase in left ventricular contractile force. However, OPC -8212 was much less active than amrinone in increasing heart rate and decreasing blood pressure. In conscious dogs OPC -8212 at doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg i.v. increased peak LV dP/dt by 27% and 59%, respectively, without significant changes in heart rate and blood pressure. OPC -8212 did not affect the dog heart Na+,K+-ATPase activity. These results suggest the following: (1) OPC -8212 has a mechanism of action different from those of catecholamines and cardiac glycosides, (2) it has a useful profile in the treatment of heart failure because it caused a selective positive inotropic effect with no obvious positive chronotropic and vascular effects.
Cocaine abuse during pregnancy has been reported to be associated with a variety of fetal complications and with preterm labor. In this cohort study, pregnancy outcome and health status of infants born to 53 cocaine abusers were compared with those of another group of 100 unexposed women and their infants. Significantly more (P less than .05) pregnancies of abusers were associated with preterm labor. In addition, significantly more (P less than .05) infants had complications at birth (ie, meconium, tachycardia). Infants born to cocaine abusers also had significantly lower (P less than .05) birth weight than infants of controls, and an excess of congenital cardiac anomalies (P less than .01).
HBV in liver transplant (LT) patients is associated with good outcomes and the challenges are primarily focused around optimizing prophylactic regimens with hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) and minimizing related costs.
To identify recurrence rates in patients transplanted for HBV or HBV+HDV infection in whom a combined "on demand" low-dose HBIG was used, maintaining low anti-HBs titres (not below 50 IU/L).
Medical records of 42 patients transplanted for HBV or HBV+HDV induced cirrhosis between April 2000 and September 2007 at Fundeni Clinical Institute were analyzed. Patients received immunoprophylaxis with lamivudine and HBIG (10,000 IU within anhepatic phase and daily within the first postoperative week, followed by 2,500 IU on demand). HBV recurrence rates and survival during follow-up were evaluated using the Kaplan Meier method.
HBV recurrence rate was 4.8% after a median of 1.8 years. Three year patient survival rate was 70%. None of the patients died due to liver failure related to HBV recurrence. Using our "on demand" low-dose administration of HBIG, the total mean cost for HBIG and lamivudine for patient per month of survival was 598.3 Eur. The projected monthly cost for the "ideal" schedule/patient was 2,017 Eur.
Individualization of immunoprophylaxis after LT for HBV related disease according to the lowest protective anti-HBs titers in combination with lamivudine is probably the best approach for non-replicative pre-LT patients in terms of costs and efficacy.
Parkin gene mutations have been implicated in autosomal-recessive early-onset parkinsonism and lead to specific degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in midbrain. To investigate the role of Parkin in neuronal cell death, we overproduced this protein in PC12 cells in an inducible manner. In this cell line, neuronally differentiated by nerve growth factor, Parkin overproduction protected against cell death mediated by ceramide, but not by a variety of other cell death inducers (H(2)O(2), 4-hydroxynonenal, rotenone, 6-OHDA, tunicamycin, 2-mercaptoethanol and staurosporine). Protection was abrogated by the proteasome inhibitor epoxomicin and disease-causing variants, indicating that it was mediated by the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of Parkin. Interestingly, Parkin acted by delaying mitochondrial swelling and subsequent cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation observed in ceramide-mediated cell death. Subcellular fractionation demonstrated enrichment of Parkin in the mitochondrial fraction and its association with the outer mitochondrial membrane. Together, these results suggest that Parkin may promote the degradation of substrates localized in mitochondria and involved in the late mitochondrial phase of ceramide-mediated cell death. Loss of this function may underlie the degeneration of nigral dopaminergic neurons in patients with Parkin mutations.
The aim of the study was to search for mutations of SCNN1B and SCNN1G in an Italian family with apparently dominant autosomal transmission of a clinical phenotype consistent with Liddle's syndrome.
Genetic analysis was performed in the proband, his relatives, and 100 control subjects. To determine the functional role of the mutation identified in the proband, we expressed the mutant or wild-type epithelial sodium channel in Xenopus laevis oocytes.
A novel point mutation, causing an expected substitution of a leucine residue for the second proline residue of the conserved PY motif (PPP x Y) of the beta subunit was identified in the proband. The functional expression of the mutant epithelial sodium channel in X. laevis oocytes showed a three-fold increase in the amiloride-sensitive current as compared with that of the wild-type channel.
This newly identified mutation adds to other missense mutations of the PY motif of the beta subunit of the epithelial sodium channel, thus confirming its crucial role in the regulation of the epithelial sodium channel. To our knowledge, this is the first report of Liddle's syndrome in the Italian population, confirmed by genetic and functional analysis, with the identification of a gain-of-function mutation not previously reported.
The effects of prolonged use of orally-administered terbutaline on mothers and their infants were studied. The only side effect observed in all patients was transient maternal tachycardia. Fifty-six percent of the patients experienced palpitations, nervousness and tremors during the first few days of therapy, which thereafter resolved. This is contrary to the serious side effects reported during intravenous infusion of beta-mimetic agents. Maternal serum potassium and plasma glucose levels remained in the normal range during the entire therapy. Neonatal apgar, birthweight and metabolic parameters were all appropriate for gestational age. It appears that orally-administered terbutaline produces no significant maternal biochemical or biophysical changes, or any side effects on the fetus.
Tonsillectomy is usually done as day surgery, transferring to the parents most of the postoperative care. They often feel alone and incompetent in front of a child in pain. We developed a guide to help parents for both the evaluation and the management of postoperative pain.
To improve pediatric posttonsillectomy pain management with the implementation of a parental guide and treatment algorithm.
Eighty children (5-17 years) were recruited in this randomized clinical trial. Parents and children were assigned to one of the research groups: control or experimental. All received an identical prescription for acetaminophen (15 mg/kg) and morphine (0.3 mg/kg), information about the medication, a visual analogue scale (VAS), and index cards to be filled at home. The experimental group also received a treatment algorithm associating pain scores with analgesics.
Pain scores for the control group and the experimental group were 5.3 and 4.7 on the day of surgery, 4.0 and 3.6 the next day, 2.2 and 2.3 3 days later, and 1.6 and 1.4 1 week after the intervention, respectively. The side effects and the analgesics given were comparable for both groups.
No significant difference was demonstrated for the studied parameters, probably because the majority of the parents followed the prescriptions well. The guide was much appreciated. The children understood the VAS easily and liked using it. The combination of acetaminophen-morphine needs to be revisited since pain remains problematic.
Chronic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is seldom complicated by renal function disorder, but when this occurs the consequences are serious. In addition to the known effects of 5-aminosalicylates, there is also evidence that tubulo-interstitial nephritis (TIN) occurs as an extra-intestinal manifestation of IBD. A 27-year-old woman with colitis ulcerosa, developed end-stage renal insufficiency due to a mesalazine-induced TIN. She was treated by haemodialysis for two years before she underwent renal transplantation. Another patient, a 36-year-old man with Crohn's disease, developed extensive granulomatous nephritis with stable moderate renal function. After excluding other possible causes, we diagnosed an extra-intestinal manifestation of his Crohn's disease. There are no official guidelines on renal function monitoring in IBD patients, nor is there consensus in literature. We advise renal monitoring after three months of treatment with 5-aminosalicylates, followed by monitoring every year. Patients not receiving treatment should be monitored every year.
We investigated the acute and chronic combined effect of cigarette smoking and caffeine intake on aortic stiffness and wave reflections.
We have shown that smoking and caffeine separately increase arterial stiffness. Aortic stiffness and wave reflections are important determinants of the efficient performance of the cardiovascular system and prognosticators of cardiovascular risk.
The acute effects of smoking (one cigarette), caffeine (200 mg, equivalent to 2 cups of coffee), and smoking plus caffeine were studied in 24 healthy subjects according to a randomized, placebo- and sham procedure-controlled crossover design. The chronic effect of smoking and caffeine was studied in a population study that enrolled 160 healthy subjects.
Acute study: there was a significant interaction between caffeine and smoking with regard to pulse-wave velocity (p < 0.01) and augmentation index (p < 0.05). When smoking followed caffeine intake, pulse-wave velocity and augmentation index increased further by 0.52 m/s and 13.4%, respectively, reaching a total of 0.85 m/s and 17.4%, 0.17 m/s and 9.2% in excess of the mere sum of caffeine effect (0.33 m/s and 4%) alone and smoking effect alone (0.35 m/s and 4.2%). Population study: there was a significant interaction of chronic coffee consumption and smoking regarding pulse-wave velocity (p < 0.05) and augmentation index (p = 0.001).
The present study shows, for the first time, that when smoking and caffeine intake are combined, they interact and exert a synergistic, unfavorable effect on aortic stiffness and wave reflections on both an acute and chronic basis.
1. The effects of racemic thalidomide (D[+]/L[-] alpha-phthalimido-glutarimide) on acetaminophen (AAP)-induced hepatitis were tested in male NMRI mice (n = 133) and quantified as serum activities of glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase (GOT) and glutamate-pyruvate transaminase (GPT). 2. A 2.1-fold increase of GOT and a 1.9-fold increase of GPT activities (P < 0.001) were observed in mice treated perorally with 500 mg/kg of AAP plus 150 mg/kg of thalidomide (Thal). In the absence of AAP, Thal did not display any detectable hepatotoxic effects. 3. The Thal-induced exacerbation of AAP hepatotoxicity was completely inhibited by nicotinic acid amide, a selective inhibitor of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) (P < 0.0001), suggesting a possible influence of Thal on the hepatic metabolism of NAD-adenoribosylation. 4. We see the main application of nicotinic acid amide as for the combinational use in pharmaceutical preparations of AAP in order to avoid hepatic damage in patients treated with AAP and Thal.
While the alkenylbenzenes alpha- and beta-asarone are hepatocarcinogenic in rodents, myristicin and elimicin, two other alkenylbenzenes, are not. The present study investigated the mechanism of genotoxicity of the asarones to elucidate the role of cytochrome P-450 and obtain further information about the relationships between the structure, metabolism and genotoxicity of the alkenylbenzenes. The data on the ability of these compounds to induce unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) in hepatocytes derived from male Fischer 344 rats are presented in this paper. Cytotoxicity was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase leakage. Elimicin and alpha- and beta-asarone are genotoxic in the UDS assay but myristicin is not. The genotoxicity of the asarones is inhibited by the cytochrome P-450 inhibitor cimetidine but the sulfotransferase inhibitor pentachlorophenol (PCP) is without effect. The major metabolite of the asarones in hepatocytes was identified by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry as 2,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid but this was not genotoxic when tested separately. Simple allylbenzenes such as safrole, estragole and methyleugenol are activated by sequential 1-hydroxylation and sulfation, and this is the likely mechanism of the genotoxicity of elimicin. The propenyl analogues isosafrole, anethole and methylisoeugenol, which cannot undergo 1-hydroxylation, are not genotoxic. The positive results obtained with the asarones suggest the occurrence of a novel activation 'option' for alkenylbenzenes which features a 2-methoxy group in the aromatic ring.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) agonists such as fenofibrate are used to treat dyslipidemia. Although fenofibrate is considered safe in humans, it is known to cause hepatocarcinogenesis in rodents. To evaluate untargeted metabolic profiling as a tool for gaining insight into the underlying pharmacology and hepatotoxicology, Fischer 344 male rats were dosed with 300 mg/kg/day of fenofibrate for 14 days and the urine and plasma were analyzed on days 2 and 14. A combination of liquid and gas chromatography mass spectrometry returned the profiles of 486 plasma and 932 urinary metabolites. Aside from known pharmacological effects, such as accelerated fatty acid beta-oxidation and reduced plasma cholesterol, new observations on the drug's impact on cellular metabolism were generated. Reductions in TCA cycle intermediates and biochemical evidence of lactic acidosis demonstrated that energy metabolism homeostasis was altered. Perturbation of the glutathione biosynthesis and elevation of oxidative stress markers were observed. Furthermore, tryptophan metabolism was up-regulated, resulting in accumulation of tryptophan metabolites associated with reactive oxygen species generation, suggesting the possibility of oxidative stress as a mechanism of nongenotoxic carcinogenesis. Finally, several metabolites related to liver function, kidney function, cell damage, and cell proliferation were altered by fenofibrate-induced toxicity at this dose.
The histories of 269 patients whose death certificates did not mention a drug as the cause of aplastic anaemia or agranulocytosis were investigated. Eighty-three deaths were probably caused by drugs, the most common cause of aplastic anaemia being treatment with phenylbutazone (28 deaths) and oxyphenbutazone (11 deaths). Thirteen out of 17 deaths from agranulocytosis were attributed to co-trimoxazole treatment. A separate survey of general practitioners' prescriptions enabled the mortality to be estimated. With the addition of one death due to oxyphenbutazone and four deaths due to phenylbutazone that were reported independently to the committee, the mortality from oxyphenbutazone was 3-8 per 100 000 and from phenylbutazone 2-2 per 100 000. With phenylbutazone the rates varied from under 1 death per 100 000 for men aged under 65 years to 6 per 100 000 for women aged 65 and over. Small numbers precluded estimates for oxyphenbutazone in these subgroups, although a similar trend was suggested. No particular indication for treatment seems to carry a higher risk, the main concern being the use of these two drugs in elderly patients.
The amino-gamma-carbolines 3-amino-1-methyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole and 3-amino-1,4-dimethyl-5H-pyrido[4,3-b]indole were demonstrated to be potent convulsants. Administered i.p. in rats, these compounds penetrated the blood-brain barrier rapidly and appeared in the cerebrospinal fluid. When administered i.c.v., they induced convulsions with short onset latencies, suggesting that these compounds themselves have convulsant activities. In in vitro experiments using the whole cell clamp method, they suppressed gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-induced Cl- current isolated on the dissociated mouse sensory neurons in dose-dependent manners through their actions as antagonists at GABAA receptors. The relative potency of the suppressive effects on GABA-induced Cl- current was compatible with that of the convulsant activities in mice. Furthermore, Ro15-1788 did not affect their convulsant activities. These results suggested that the amino-gamma-carbolines induced convulsions through their actions as antagonists at GABAA receptors and not through their actions as inverse agonists or antagonists at benzodiazepine receptors. Structure-activity relationships indicated that the 3-amino-group is important for the activities of amino-gamma-carbolines as GABAA receptor antagonists.
During the last decade, several publications have appeared associating the maternal use of cocaine and subsequent development of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). In 1994, the effects of cocaine in pregnant rats had been reported by this group: a significant decrease in the number of live births, mean birth weight and mean placental weight. In addition, histopathologic examinations revealed severe inflammation and degenerative vascular changes in the uterus and placenta. Severe histopathologic changes resembling NEC such as focal necrosis, necrobiosis, and hemorrhagic inflammatory changes in the gastrointestinal tract of the embryos were also reported. The aim of the second part of this study was to assess the hemodynamic effects of cocaine HCI in pregnant rats and the results of perfusion studies in the uterus, placenta, and fetuses to determine a relation between the dose of drug, hemodynamic changes, and degree of histopathologic findings. Forty-seven Wistar albino rats and 91 rat fetuses were studied: group A (pregnant rats), 16 rats and 91 rat fetuses, group B (nonpregnant rats), 31 rats. Each group was divided into subgroups of cocaine-abused and non-cocaine-abused rats. In each group 2-3 mCi technetium Tc-99m methoxyisobutyl-isonitryl (Sesta MIBI) was injected into the tail vein. Radioactivity counts per g tissue (cps/g) in the uterus, placenta, and fetus were assessed by gamma counter. Cocaine 75 mg/kg per day severely decreased the perfusion of the uterus, placenta, and fetuses. These impairments were statistically significant. In lower doses (30-50 mg/kg per day) no statistically significant changes were observed in the perfusion of the uterus and placenta, but a significant decrease in fetal perfusion was seen. In group B, no significant changes in the perfusion of the uterus due to cocaine were seen. Thus, maternal cocaine abuse results in a reduction in perfusion of the uterus, placenta, and fetus. There was a dose-dependent correlation between the perfusion changes and the development of NEC-like histopathologic changes: the higher the cocaine dose received by the mother, the higher the level of placental and fetal injury. We suggest that perinatal cocaine exposure should be considered a high risk for development of NEC in rat fetuses and embryos. For this reason, infants with a history of possible maternal cocaine abuse or positive urinary cocaine metabolites have to be followed very carefully for NEC.
Metastasis and drug resistance are major problems in cancer chemotherapy. The purpose of this work was to analyze the molecular mechanisms underlying the invasive potential of drug-resistant colon carcinoma cells. Cellular models included the parental HT-29 cell line and its drug-resistant derivatives selected after chronic treatment with either 5-fluorouracil, methotrexate, doxorubicin, or oxaliplatin. Drug-resistant invasive cells were compared with noninvasive cells using cDNA microarray, quantitative reverse transcription-PCR, flow cytometry, immunoblots, and ELISA. Functional and cellular signaling analyses were undertaken using pharmacologic inhibitors, function-blocking antibodies, and silencing by retrovirus-mediated RNA interference. 5-Fluorouracil- and methotrexate-resistant HT-29 cells expressing an invasive phenotype in collagen type I and a metastatic behavior in immunodeficient mice exhibited high expression of the chemokine receptor CXCR4. Macrophage migration-inhibitory factor (MIF) was identified as the critical autocrine CXCR4 ligand promoting invasion in drug-resistant colon carcinoma HT-29 cells. Silencing of CXCR4 and impairing the MIF-CXCR4 signaling pathways by ISO-1, pAb FL-115, AMD-3100, monoclonal antibody 12G5, and BIM-46187 abolished this aggressive phenotype. Induction of CXCR4 was associated with the upregulation of two genes encoding transcription factors previously shown to control CXCR4 expression (HIF-2alpha and ASCL2) and maintenance of intestinal stem cells (ASCL2). Enhanced CXCR4 expression was detected in liver metastases resected from patients with colon cancer treated by the standard FOLFOX regimen. Combination therapies targeting the CXCR4-MIF axis could potentially counteract the emergence of the invasive metastatic behavior in clonal derivatives of drug-resistant colon cancer cells.
Previous studies reported positive results with the use of Mg-vitamin B6 in autism. Despite these reports, this intervention remains controversial. In order to study relationships between changes in clinical symtoms and biological parameters, 33 children (mean age: 4 [1-10] years old) with clinical symptoms of pervasive developmental disorder or autism (PDD, as defined in DSM-IV) were followed for at least 6 months; another group of 36 children (same age) devoided of any known pathology was used as control. All PDD children received a magnesium-vit B6 (Mg-B6) regimen (6 mg/kg/d Mg and 0.6 mg/kg/d vit B6). Intraerythrocyte Mg2+ (Erc-Mg), serum Mg2+ (s-Mg) and blood ionized Ca2+ (i-Ca) were measured before and after treatment. Clinical symptoms of PDD were scored (0 to 4). In contrast to s-Mg or i-Ca, PDD children exhibited significantly lower Erc-Mg values than controls (2.17 +/- 0.4 versus 2.73 +/- 0.23 mmol/L; 16/33). The Mg-B6 regimen led to an increase in Erc-Mg values (2.42 +/- 0.41 (after) versus 2.17 +/- 0.4 mmol/l (before), 11/17) and this supplementation improved PDD symptoms in 23/33 children (p < 0.0001) with no adverse effects: social interactions (23/33), communication (24/33), stereotyped restricted behavior (18/33), and abnormal/delayed functioning (17/33); 15/33 children were improved in the first three groups of symptoms. When the Mg-B6 treatment was stopped, PDD symtoms reappeared in few weeks. A statistically significant relationship was found in Erc-Mg values from children before treatment and their mothers. In conclusion, this study suggests that the behavioral improvement observed with the combination vitamin B6-magnesium in PDD/autism is associated with concomitant modifications of Erc-Mg values.
To report, from Cancer and Leukemia Group B Protocol 9082, the impact of high-dose cyclophosphamide, cisplatin, and BCNU (HD-CPB) vs. intermediate-dose CPB (ID-CPB) on the ability to start and complete the planned course of local-regional radiotherapy (RT) for women with breast cancer involving >or=10 axillary nodes.
From 1991 to 1998, 785 patients were randomized. The HD-CPB and ID-CPB arms were balanced regarding patient characteristics. The HD-CPB and ID-CPB arms were compared on the probability of RT initiation, interruption, modification, or incompleteness. The impact of clinical variables and interactions between variables were also assessed.
Radiotherapy was initiated in 82% (325 of 394) of HD-CPB vs. 92% (360 of 391) of ID-CPB patients (p = 0.001). On multivariate analyses, RT was less likely given to patients who were randomized to HD treatment (odds ratio [OR] = 0 .38, p < 0.001), older (p = 0.005), African American (p = 0.003), postmastectomy (p = 0.02), or estrogen receptor positive (p = 0.03). High-dose treatment had a higher rate of RT interruption (21% vs. 12%, p = 0.001, OR = 2.05), modification (29% vs. 14%, p = 0.001, OR = 2.46), and early termination of RT (9% vs. 2%, p = 0.0001, OR = 5.35), compared with ID.
Treatment arm significantly related to initiation, interruption, modification, and early termination of RT. Patients randomized to HD-CPB were less likely to initiate RT, and of those who did, they were more likely to have RT interrupted, modified, and terminated earlier than those randomized to ID-CPB. The observed lower incidence of RT usage in African Americans vs. non-African Americans warrants further study.
To assess the efficacy and safety of a once-daily antiretroviral regimen in HAART-experienced subjects with long-lasting viral suppression.
One-hundred-and-sixty-nine patients with chronically suppressed viral load (limit of detection <50 copies/ml) were recruited. Based on patient willingness to simplify treatment, 84 of them continued receiving their usual treatment (BID Group) and 85 switched to once-daily didanosine/tenofovir/nevirapine (QD Group) in a non-randomized fashion.
At week 48, the proportion of patients with viral suppression in the QD and in the BID Group, respectively, was 97 vs 100% in the per-protocol analysis (P = 0.497), and 76 vs 86% for the intention-to-treat analysis (P = 0.176). Nevertheless, CD4 count decreased in the QD Group, with a mean decline of 95 cells/mm3 (95% CI: 45-145). Twelve subjects in the QD Group (14%) discontinued treatment due to adverse events, mainly nevirapine-related hepatitis (6%). No significant differences regarding the rate of acute pancreatitis or peripheral neuropathy were observed between both groups. A significant improvement in the lipid profile was only seen in the QD Group. High levels of adherence were observed in both groups during follow-up, as well as a good quality of life. At week 48, a reduction in effort to take medication (P < or = 0.001) and an increment in the satisfaction with the treatment (P < 0.001) was only seen in the QD group. No differences were observed in median nevirapine trough levels between patients on twice-daily nevirapine at baseline (4820 ng/ml) and subjects in the QD Group (6090 ng/ml, P = 0.30).
Treatment simplification to a once-daily antiretroviral regimen based on didanosine, tenofovir and nevirapine may be a valid approach in HIV-infected subjects with long-lasting viral suppression. Combination of standard doses of didanosine and tenofovir may have contributed to the CD4 cell decline observed with this QD regimen.
This study was designed to evaluate the protective effect of silymarin (SMN) on varicocele-induced damage in testis and its effects on sperm parameters and on antioxidant status. Wistar rats were divided into three groups: control-sham, varicocele-induced, and SMN-treated varicocelized (50mg/kg, orally) rats. The sperm count, DNA integrity, and histone-protamine transition was evaluated after 42 days. The antioxidant status was analyzed by determining testicular malondialdehyde (MDA) and total thiol molecules (TTM). The endocrine status of the testicular tissue was estimated by counting the normal Leydig cell distribution/mm(2) and by determination of serum testosterone. The expression of E2f1 mRNA was analyzed using RT-PCR. Carbohydrate depletion and lipid foci replacement in germinal cells were examined by histochemical analyses. Silymarin rehabilitated the varicocele-induced Leydig cell degeneration and testosterone reduction. In addition, SMN recovered the varicocele-induced reduction of TTM and lowered significantly (P < 0.05) the varicocele-elevated content of MDA. The SMN treatment resulted in a significant (P < 0.05) down-regulation of the VCL-up-regulated E2f1 mRNA. Silymarin-treated animals were protected from varicocele-induced testicular atrophy and these animals showed a significant (P < 0.05) increase in the percentage of seminiferous tubules with positive tubular differentiation, repopulation, and spermiogenesis indices. Furthermore, SMN improved the varicocele-induced carbohydrate reduction in germinal cells. Our data suggest that in addition to oxidative stress, alteration in the testicular endocrine function plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of varicocele. Moreover, the protective effects of SMN on varicocele-induced damage may reflect its antioxidant property, which may be mediated via the E2f1 transcription factor.
A patient with left ventricular aneurysm had recurrent ventricular tachycardia. His arrhythmia could be induced and interrupted by programmed ventricular stimulation. Quinidine and procainamide facilitated the induction of the tachycardia by widening the tachycardia induction zone. Ajmaline slowed the rate of the induced tachycardia and verapamil abolished the arrhythmia. The possible mechanism underlying these phenomena is discussed.
This study was investigated the effects of piperonyl butoxide (PBO) on the female reproductive tract. Female Crj:Donryu rats were fed a basal diet containing 5,000, 10,000 or 20,000 ppm PBO for 28 days, and compared with food-restricted rats of comparable body weights to those in the PBO 10,000 or 20,000 ppm groups. Although treatment with 20,000 ppm PBO for 28 days depressed body weight gain, the abnormal estrous cyclicity, mainly prolonged diestrus, was also induced by the PBO treatment which was not correlated with body weight change. 20,000 ppm PBO treatment markedly decreased uterine weights and slightly decreased ovarian weights. 10,000 and 20,000 ppm PBO treatment increased liver weights. These cycle and organ weight changes were linked to atrophic uterus and increased atretic follicles in the ovary. In hormone assays, PBO at both doses reduced serum E2 levels, but did not affect corticosterone levels. An anti-uterotrophic assay showed a slight but significant decrease in absolute uterine weight and a reduction of endometrial epithelium height in the 20,000 ppm group. PBO was positive in an ER α antagonist reporter gene assay, although the activity was much weaker than that of 4-hydroxytamoxifen. These results indicate that high-dose PBO treatment directly induces atrophic changes in the female reproductive tract in rats, and these effects are likely the result of a hypoestrogenic state and the anti-estrogenic activity of PBO.
Emergence of lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major concern in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and HBV coinfected patients. Following selection of resistant mutants, hepatitis flare or rapid progression to cirrhosis may occur. Treatment of patients with new nucleotide analogues such as adefovir dipivoxil (ADV) or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) has shown good efficacy in controlling wild-type or lamivudine-resistant HBV replication. The purpose of this study was to assess the in vitro efficacy of new nucleotide analogues on HBV strains isolated from lamivudine-treated patients. After purification of HBV DNA from patient sera, the whole HBV genome was PCR-amplified and cloned. Drug sensitivity was measured after transfection of the isolated full genomes into HepG2 cells and measurement of HBeAg, HBsAg and viral replication in the culture media under increasing drug concentrations. A wild-type strain isolated from an untreated patient served as control. In a clinical study of ADV (Gilead 460i study), seven of the 35 patients carried HBV strains with the triple lamivudine resistance-associated amino-acid changes rtV173L/L180M/M204V at baseline. Although all patients responded to ADV in this clinical study, the serum HBV reduction was lower in the seven patients with the triple mutation (median -3.3 log copies/ml) compared to the patients who had only the rtL180M/M204V mutations (median -4.1 log copies/ml) at week 48 (P=0.04, Mann-Whitney test). In our in vitro system, lamivudine IC50 on lamivudine-resistant HBV carrying amino-acid substitutions rtL180M and rtM204V within the polymerase encoding region increased by more than 16,000-fold (from 6 nM to over 100 microM) when compared to wild-type HBV. For ADV and TDF, comparison of wild-type and lamivudine-resistant HBV IC50 (rtL180M-M204V) showed, respectively, 2.85-fold (from 0.07 to 0.2 microM) and 3.3-fold (from 0.06 to 0.2 microM) increases, indicating a mild decrease of both drug activities, in vitro. At the ADV concentration of 0.1 microM, presence of the V173L mutation reduced the inhibition of HBsAg production from 50 to 30% (P<0.01) and the viral replication from 45 to 32% (P<0.01, Mann-Whitney). Conversely, tenofovir had similar potency on both HBV mutation profiles with 60% inhibition of HBsAg production and 45% inhibition of viral replication at 0.1 microM. Our study supports the high efficacy of ADV and TDF seen in patients after lamivudine breakthrough. The excellent activity of TDF on lamivudine-resistant virus independently of the resistance mutation profile offers an interesting treatment alternative to HIV-HBV coinfected patients.
Thirty two infants born to mothers taking methadone and 32 matched controls were studied to determine the incidence, timing, and frequency of persistence of withdrawal signs in infants born to maternal methadone users. Twelve (37%) infants received treatment for symptoms of withdrawal. The median length of time from birth to initiation of treatment was 23 hours (range 15-64 hours), the median length of treatment was six days (range 1-22 days). In the first six weeks after birth there was no significant difference in minor withdrawal symptoms and signs, general practitioner or accident and emergency visits between the group who did not receive treatment for withdrawal and the control group. If immediate treatment for withdrawal is not required major symptoms do not subsequently occur with great frequency. Late withdrawal signs were not seen in this study.
