Sexual dysfunction is a common complaint among patients taking selective serotonin reuptake-inhibiting (SSRI) antidepressants. Many options in managing this side effect have been described but none clearly is a first choice among clinicians. This paper describes the first published case of a patient having successful reversal of SSRI-induced sexual dysfunction by switching from an SSRI to escitalopram, the newest antidepressant and SSRI approved for use in the United States. Clinical implication is discussed.
In a prospective study conducted during one year, postmortem examination of 500 unselected adults revealed in 13 cases (2.6%) a marked capillarosclerosis of the mucosa of the renal pelvis, considered to be a reliable histological sign of phenacetin and paracetamol abuse. These results were obtained in four men (1.5% of the total number of autopsied men) and nine women (3.9% of the autopsied women). Thus, capillarosclerosis is 2.6 time more frequent in women than in men.
A patient taking oral risperidone while using cocaine and alcohol presented with priapism shortly after long-acting, injectable risperidone was prescribed. Another case of priapism was diagnosed in a sickle cell disease patient who was on oral risperidone. A penectomy due to necrosis was required in the first case, while the other patient regained erectile function. Physicians should be aware of priapism-inducing/predisposing factors, such as sickle cell disease, certain medicines or drugs of abuse, and antipsychotic medications. Risperidone is an established cause of priapism. It occurs especially in males with sickle cell disease; use of antipsychotic drugs and/or cocaine further increases risk.
Accumulating evidence suggests that enhanced peroxidative damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS) may contribute to the pathogenesis of cisplatin-induced acute renal failure. Nevertheless, little is known about the involvement of oxygen radicals in cisplatin nephropathy. In this study, we investigated the effects of a novel free radical scavenger, 3-methyl-1-phenyl-pyrazolin-5-one (MCI-186; edarabone), on murine proximal tubular cell (PTC) damage induced by exposure to cisplatin in vitro and on renal function in an in vivo model of cisplatin-induced acute renal failure. Edarabone inhibited cisplatin-induced (40 microM, 24 h) cytotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner (10-5 to 10-3 M). Edarabone also attenuated cisplatin-induced mitochondrial transmembrane potential loss and ROS production of PTCs. In the in vivo study, male Wistar rats were cotreated with cisplatin (5 mg/kg, i.p.) and edarabone (1 or 5 mg/kg, i.v.). Effects of edarabone on the kidney were examined 5 days after treatment. Cisplatin resulted in renal dysfunction, renal tubular damage, mitochondrial damage (assayed by histochemical staining for respiratory chain complex IV), renal protein oxidation (examined by Western blot analysis using a specific antibody for carbonyl group-containing proteins), and tubular apoptosis (determined by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling staining). The above changes were attenuated by edarabone treatment. Thus, edarabone exhibited cytoprotective effects in PTCs and renoprotective effects against cisplatin. Our findings suggest that ROS, in particular hydroxyl radicals, are involved in cisplatin nephropathy and that edarabone may be potentially useful in protecting the kidneys and prevention of acute renal failure.
Sumatriptan is widely used in the treatment of acute attacks of cluster headache. It is a serotonin-1 (5HT-1) agonist. Several studies have reported an association between sumatriptan use and myocardial infarction, possibly due to the generalized vasoconstrictive nature of this agent. We report a 16-year-old male patient presenting with acute inferior myocardial infarction after sumatriptan use without any known risk factors of coronary artery disease.
The administration of L: -DOPA is the standard treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the symptomatic relief provided by long-term administration may be compromised by L: -DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) that presents as adverse fluctuations in motor responsiveness and progressive loss of motor control. In the later stages of PD, raphestriatal serotonin neurons compensate for the loss of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons by converting and releasing DA derived from exogenous L: -DOPA. Since the serotonin system does not have an autoregulatory mechanism for DA, raphe-mediated striatal DA release may fluctuate dramatically and precede the development of LID. The 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats were treated with L: -DOPA (6 mg/kg) and benserazide (15 mg/kg) daily for 3 weeks to allow for the development of abnormal involuntary movement score (AIMs). In rats with LID, chronic treatment with L: -DOPA increased striatal DA levels compared with control rats. We also observed a relative increase in the expression of striatal L: -amino-acid decarboxylase (AADC) in LID rats, even though tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression did not increase. The administration of L: -DOPA also increased striatal serotonin immunoreactivity in LID rats compared to control rats. Striatal DA and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) levels were negatively correlated in L: -DOPA-treated rats. These results of this study reveal that 5-HT contributes to LID. Striatal DA positively influences LID, while 5-HT is negatively associated with LID. Finally, we suggest that by strategic modification of the serotonin system it may be possible to attenuate the adverse effects of chronic L: -DOPA therapy in PD patients.
Spinal dorsal horn GABA(A) receptors are found both postsynaptically on central neurons and presynaptically on axons and/or terminals of primary sensory neurons, where they mediate primary afferent depolarization (PAD) and presynaptic inhibition. Both phenomena have been studied extensively on a cellular level, but their role in sensory processing in vivo has remained elusive, due to inherent difficulties to selectively interfere with presynaptic receptors. Here, we address the contribution of a major subpopulation of GABA(A) receptors (those containing the α2 subunit) to spinal pain control in mice lacking α2-GABA(A) receptors specifically in primary nociceptors (sns-α2(-/-) mice). sns-α2(-/-) mice exhibited GABA(A) receptor currents and dorsal root potentials of normal amplitude in vitro, and normal response thresholds to thermal and mechanical stimulation in vivo, and developed normal inflammatory and neuropathic pain sensitization. However, the positive allosteric GABA(A) receptor modulator diazepam (DZP) had almost completely lost its potentiating effect on PAD and presynaptic inhibition in vitro and a major part of its spinal antihyperalgesic action against inflammatory hyperalgesia in vivo. Our results thus show that part of the antihyperalgesic action of spinally applied DZP occurs through facilitated activation of GABA(A) receptors residing on primary nociceptors.
Curcuminoids (a mixture of curcumin, bisdemethoxycurcumin and demethoxycurcumin) share vital pharmacological properties possessed by turmeric, a well known curry spice, considered useful in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to evaluate if curcuminoids possess acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory and memory enhancing activities. The in-vitro and ex-vivo models of AChE inhibitory activity were used along with Morris water maze test to study the effect on memory in rats. Curcuminoids inhibited AChE in the in-vitro assay with IC(50) value of 19.67, bisdemethoxycurcumin 16.84, demethoxycurcumin 33.14 and curcumin 67.69 microM. In the ex-vivo AChE assay, curcuminoids and its individual components except curcumin showed dose-dependent (3-10 mg/kg) inhibition in frontal cortex and hippocampus. When studied for their effect on memory at a fixed dose (10 mg/kg), all compounds showed significant (p<0.001) and comparable effect in scopolamine-induced amnesia. These data indicate that curcuminoids and all individual components except curcumin possess pronounced AChE inhibitory activity. Curcumin was relatively weak in the in-vitro assay and without effect in the ex-vivo AChE model, while equally effective in memory enhancing effect, suggestive of additional mechanism(s) involved. Thus curcuminoids mixture might possess better therapeutic profile than curcumin for its medicinal use in AD.
An atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine and a selective sigma antagonist BMY 14802 were significantly less effective in the behavioural experiments (against apomorphine, d-amphetamine and MK-801), as well in the radioligand binding studies against 3H-spiperone (dopamine2-receptors) and 3H-haloperidol (sigma receptors) in the rat brain, as compared to a typical antipsychotic compound haloperidol. Contrary to haloperidol and BMY 14802, clozapine was a relatively selective antagonist of MK-801-induced motor excitation in the mouse. A nearly 3-fold lower dose of clozapine was needed to block the effect of MK-801 (6.4 mumol/kg) as compared to the action of amphetamine (17 mumol/kg). Haloperidol and clozapine, but not BMY 14802, antagonized apomorphine-induced aggressiveness in the rat. After long-term treatment (for 15 days) with BMY 14802 (10 mg/kg daily), haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg daily) and clozapine (10 mg/kg daily) the motor depressant effect of apomorphine (0.15 mg/kg) was reversed. Chronic haloperidol treatment, but not administration of BMY 14802 and clozapine, increased the number of dopamine2-receptors in the rat brain. BMY 14802 caused upregulation of sigma receptors in frontal cortex, whereas haloperidol induced the opposite change in cerebellum. Repeated treatment with clozapine significantly augmented the motor stimulating effect of MK-801 in rats. Simultaneously with a behavioural change the density of 3H-TCP binding sites in the rat forebrain was elevated after long-term treatment with clozapine, probably indicating the involvement of PCP binding sites at NMDA channel in the action of clozapine.
Monoamine releasers constitute one class of drugs currently under investigation as potential agonist medications for the treatment of cocaine dependence. The efficacy and safety of monoamine releasers as candidate medications may be influenced in part by their relative potency to release dopamine and serotonin, and we reported previously that releasers with approximately 30-fold selectivity for dopamine versus serotonin release may be especially promising. The present study examined the effects of the releasers benzylpiperazine, (+)phenmetrazine, and 4-benzylpiperidine, which have 20- to 48-fold selectivity in vitro for releasing dopamine versus serotonin. In an assay of cocaine discrimination, rhesus monkeys were trained to discriminate 0.4 mg/kg i.m. cocaine from saline in a two-key, food-reinforced procedure. Each of the releasers produced a dose- and time-dependent substitution for cocaine. 4-Benzylpiperidine had the most rapid onset and shortest duration of action. Phenmetrazine and benzylpiperazine had slower onsets and longer durations of action. In an assay of cocaine self-administration, rhesus monkeys were trained to respond for cocaine injections and food pellets under a second order schedule. Treatment for 7 days with each of the releasers produced a dose-dependent and selective reduction in self-administration of cocaine (0.01 mg/kg/injection). The most selective effects were produced by phenmetrazine. Phenmetrazine also produced a downward shift in the cocaine self-administration dose effect curve, virtually eliminating responding maintained by a 30-fold range of cocaine doses (0.0032-0.1 mg/kg/injection) while having only small and transient effects on food-maintained responding. These findings support the potential utility of dopamine-selective releasers as candidate treatments for cocaine dependence.
We tested 310,605 SNPs for association in 778 individuals with celiac disease and 1,422 controls. Outside the HLA region, the most significant finding (rs13119723; P = 2.0 x 10(-7)) was in the KIAA1109-TENR-IL2-IL21 linkage disequilibrium block. We independently confirmed association in two further collections (strongest association at rs6822844, 24 kb 5' of IL21; meta-analysis P = 1.3 x 10(-14), odds ratio = 0.63), suggesting that genetic variation in this region predisposes to celiac disease.
In humans, prolonged administration of the beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist terbutaline leads to a desensitization of beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated cardiovascular responses, which can be blunted by concomitant administration of the antianaphylactic drug ketotifen. This study investigated the effect of disodium cromoglycate, another antiallergic drug, on terbutaline-induced desensitization of beta-adrenoceptor-mediated cardiovascular and noncardiovascular responses. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized design, nine healthy male volunteers received disodium cromoglycate (4 x 200 mg/day, p.o.) or placebo for 3 weeks with terbutaline (3 x 5 mg/day, p.o.) administered concomitantly during the last 2 weeks. beta 2-Adrenoceptor cardiovascular function was assessed by the increase in heart rate and reduction of diastolic blood pressure induced by an incremental intravenous infusion of the unselective beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoprenaline; beta 1-adrenoceptor cardiovascular function was assessed by exercise-induced tachycardia. Tremulousness was monitored as a beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated noncardiovascular effect. After 2 weeks' administration of terbutaline, there was a marked and significant (p < 0.001) attenuation of isoprenaline-induced tachycardia (mean percentage attenuation, 53.3%) and of the isoprenaline-induced decrease in diastolic blood pressure (mean percentage attenuation, 55.6%). Exercise-induced tachycardia also was significantly (p < 0.001) blunted, but the magnitude of this attenuation was only very small (mean attenuation, 5.6%). Disodium cromoglycate affected neither the rightward shift of beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated responses nor the small rightward shift in beta 1-adrenoceptor-mediated exercise tachycardia after 2 weeks' administration of terbutaline. Tremulousness observed during the first few days of terbutaline administration disappeared after 4 to 8 days, indicating development of desensitization of beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated noncardiovascular responses. This was not prevented by disodium cromoglycate. These results confirm that long-term beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist therapy leads to a desensitization of beta 2-adrenoceptor-mediated cardiovascular and noncardiovascular effects in humans in vivo. However, unlike ketotifen, cromolyn sodium is not able to attenuate this desensitization.
Cerebello-oculo-renal syndrome (CORS), also called Joubert syndrome type B, and Meckel (MKS) syndrome belong to the group of developmental autosomal recessive disorders that are associated with primary cilium dysfunction. Using SNP mapping, we identified missense and truncating mutations in RPGRIP1L (KIAA1005) in both CORS and MKS, and we show that inactivation of the mouse ortholog Rpgrip1l (Ftm) recapitulates the cerebral, renal and hepatic defects of CORS and MKS. In addition, we show that RPGRIP1L colocalizes at the basal body and centrosomes with the protein products of both NPHP6 and NPHP4, known genes associated with MKS, CORS and nephronophthisis (a related renal disorder and ciliopathy). In addition, the RPGRIP1L missense mutations found in CORS individuals diminishes the interaction between RPGRIP1L and nephrocystin-4. Our findings show that mutations in RPGRIP1L can cause the multiorgan phenotypic abnormalities found in CORS or MKS, which therefore represent a continuum of the same underlying disorder.
In six patients with doxorubicin-related cardiotoxicity, the severity of decrease in left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF) was associated with faster myocardial I-123 MIBG washout rates. In four patients with severely decreased LVEF (range 19% to 28%), the 4-hour washout rate varied from 43% to 56%. In two patients with moderate cardiotoxicity (LVEF 42% and 43%), the washout rates were 37% and 35%, respectively. In contrast, in another patient thought to have initial left ventricular dysfunction (LVEF dropped from 66% to 54%), the myocardial I-123 MIBG retention rate was not reduced (6% washout). Subsequent continuation of chemotherapy in this patient was without complication. Reduced I-123 MIBG uptake in the left ventricle generally correlated with areas with abnormal Fourier amplitude values, but in one of the patients with moderate cardiotoxicity, the I-123 MIBG uptake was not reduced in a region with loss of amplitude, indicating dysfunction but probably no myocardial denervation. Analysis of the regional myocardial retention in patients with cardiotoxicity showed no significant difference in the I-123 MIBG washout rates of both segments with or without loss of amplitude. These data suggest that in spite of a localized loss of ventricular function demonstrated by radionuclide angiocardiography, doxorubicin-related cardiotoxicity appears to be based on a global process of myocardial adrenergic derangement.
Protein-protein interaction analyses have uncovered a ciliary and basal body protein network that, when disrupted, can result in nephronophthisis (NPHP), Leber congenital amaurosis, Senior-Løken syndrome (SLSN) or Joubert syndrome (JBTS). However, details of the molecular mechanisms underlying these disorders remain poorly understood. RPGRIP1-like protein (RPGRIP1L) is a homolog of RPGRIP1 (RPGR-interacting protein 1), a ciliary protein defective in Leber congenital amaurosis. We show that RPGRIP1L interacts with nephrocystin-4 and that mutations in the gene encoding nephrocystin-4 (NPHP4) that are known to cause SLSN disrupt this interaction. RPGRIP1L is ubiquitously expressed, and its protein product localizes to basal bodies. Therefore, we analyzed RPGRIP1L as a candidate gene for JBTS and identified loss-of-function mutations in three families with typical JBTS, including the characteristic mid-hindbrain malformation. This work identifies RPGRIP1L as a gene responsible for JBTS and establishes a central role for cilia and basal bodies in the pathophysiology of this disorder.
We report a previously undescribed complication of long-term epidural catheter placement for the administration of analgesia in terminal malignancy. Spinal cord compression resulted from a drug-related precipitate forming around the epidural catheter tip, which was successfully treated by surgical decompression.
The use of antipsychotic medication has consistently been associated with serious side effects including weight gain and metabolic abnormalities. Strategies for mitigating these side effects have been tested, yet effective interventions have not been identified. The current study tested whether two recently identified selective glucocorticoid receptor antagonists would prevent weight gain induced by the antipsychotic olanzapine. Female Sprague-Dawley rats fed a normal chow diet were randomized (n=10 per group) to receive one of the following for 18days: vehicle, olanzapine plus vehicle (2.4mg/kg), olanzapine plus CORT 112716 (20mg/kg), olanzapine plus CORT 112716 (60mg/kg), olanzapine plus CORT 113083 (20mg/kg), or olanzapine plus CORT 113083 (60mg/kg). Rats receiving olanzapine plus CORT 112716 (60mg/kg) or olanzapine plus CORT 113083 (60mg/kg) gained significantly less weight than rats receiving only olanzapine. Both glucocorticoid receptor antagonists significantly attenuated the weight gain induced by olanzapine in a dose dependent manner. Differences in weight gain were not attributable to decreased food intake.
A delicate balance exists between the central dopaminergic and cholinergic neurotransmitter systems with respect to motor function. An imbalance can result in motor dysfunction as observed in Parkinson's disease patients and in patients treated with antipsychotic compounds. Cholinergic receptor antagonists can alleviate extrapyramidal symptoms in Parkinson's disease and motor side effects induced by antipsychotics. The effects of anticholinergics are mediated by muscarinic receptors of which five subtypes (M(1)-M(5)) exist. Muscarinic M(4) receptors are found at high concentrations in motor parts of the striatum, suggesting a role for muscarinic M(4) receptors in the motor side effects of antipsychotics, and in the alleviation of these side effects by anticholinergics. Here we investigated the potential role of the muscarinic M(4) receptor in catalepsy induced by antipsychotics (haloperidol and risperidone) as well as the anti-cataleptic effects of the non-selective anticholinergic drug scopolamine in fully backcrossed muscarinic M(4) receptor knockout mice. The drug-induced catalepsy was strongly attenuated, but not abolished, in M(4) knockout mice as compared to wild-type controls. Scopolamine further attenuated the cataleptic response in M(4) knockout mice, suggesting that non-M(4) muscarinic receptors also participate in the anti-cataleptic effects. In conclusion, these data indicate an important role for M(4) receptors in antipsychotic-induced motor side effects and suggest that M(4) receptors could be a target for future pharmacological treatment of antipsychotic-induced as well as idiopathic parkinsonism.
To investigate the mechanism by which pilocarpine causes increased aqueous humor (AH) flare, hypotony, and miosis in dogs.
6 dogs with normal eyes.
Both eyes of each dog were treated topically with a 2% solution of pilocarpine, and 1 eye of each dog was additionally treated with commercially available ophthamic solutions. Breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier (BAB) was quantitated in each eye, using laser flaremetry to measure AH flare. Intraocular pressure and pupil size were also measured.
Pilocarpine caused increased flare from BAB breakdown that was inhibited by the drugs tested. Inhibition (most to least) of BAB breakdown was flurbiprofen more than diclofenac, proparacaine, or suprofen, which were more than 0.125 or 1.0% prednisolone. Inhibition appeared dose-dependent and caused consensual inhibition in the contralateral eye. Intraocular pressure was decreased only in proparacaine-treated eyes and increased in eyes treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID). Flurbiprofen and proparacaine were the most effective at blocking miosis.
Pilocarpine produced a predictable, reproducible BAB breakdown in dogs. Miosis and increased AH flare were inhibited equally by proparacaine or NSAID, suggesting that these signs were caused by neuropeptide release into the AH from antidromic stimulation, which subsequently triggers prostaglandin production. Hypotony was inhibited only by anti-inflammatory drugs.
Proparacaine in combination with pilocarpine would be the best choice for treating dogs with acute glaucoma. Topical administration of NSAID should not be used to treat dogs with acute glaucoma, because they increase intraocular pressure and negate the effects of pilocarpine.
Aliskiren gained FDA approval for the treatment of hypertension in 2007. It is the first approved pharmaceutical to manage hypertension by direct renin inhibition. With the introduction of novel drugs and mechanisms of action comes the challenge of monitoring for new unreported adverse events. The side effect profile for aliskiren has not yet been fully described. We describe the first apparent report of aliskiren-induced QT prolongation resulting in torsades de pointes.
Penicillin is the drug that most often leads to allergic reactions and anaphylaxis. The incidence of adverse events triggered by penicillins is believed to be between 1% and 10%. Up to one-tenth of these episodes are life-threatening, with the most serious reactions occurring in patients with no history of allergy. The case of a 5 year, 3 month-old female who had a severe allergic reaction to amoxicillin prior to a dental appointment is described. The literature on penicillin hypersensitivity is reviewed and recommendations for management of an allergic reaction in the pediatric dental office are discussed.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a neuropsychiatric disorder that occurs in both acute and chronic liver failure. Although the precise pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for HE are not completely understood, a deficit in neurotransmission rather than a primary deficit in cerebral energy metabolism appears to be involved. The neural cell most vulnerable to liver failure is the astrocyte. In acute liver failure, the astrocyte undergoes swelling resulting in increased intracranial pressure; in chronic liver failure, the astrocyte undergoes characteristic changes known as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis. In portal-systemic encephalopathy resulting from chronic liver failure, astrocytes manifest altered expression of several key proteins and enzymes including monoamine oxidase B, glutamine synthetase, and the so-called peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors. In addition, expression of some neuronal proteins such as monoamine oxidase A and neuronal nitric oxide synthase are modified. In acute liver failure, expression of the astrocytic glutamate transporter GLT-1 is reduced, leading to increased extracellular concentrations of glutamate. Many of these changes have been attributed to a toxic effect of ammonia and/or manganese, two substances that are normally removed by the hepatobiliary route and that in liver failure accumulate in the brain. Manganese deposition in the globus pallidus in chronic liver failure results in signal hyperintensity on T1-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging and may be responsible for the extrapyramidal symptoms characteristic of portal-systemic encephalopathy. Other neurotransmitter systems implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy include the serotonin system, where a synaptic deficit has been suggested, as well as the catecholaminergic and opioid systems. Further elucidation of the precise nature of these alterations could result in the design of novel pharmacotherapies for the prevention and treatment of hepatic encephalopathy.
The hyperglycaemia associated with diabetes causes excessive production of cytotoxic methylglyoxal, an alpha-oxo-aldehyde. The glyoxalase system, composed of glyoxalase I and glyoxalase II, with glutathione (GSH) as the cofactor, plays an important role in the detoxification of alpha-oxo-aldehydes. We tested the hypothesis that troglitazone, an insulin-sensitizing drug previously used in the treatment of Type II (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus, up-regulates the glyoxalase system either by increasing phase 2 enzyme activities and thereby increasing cellular GSH, or, by inducing glyoxalase enzyme activities.
Human astroglial cells, rat hepatocytes and cardiac myocytes were cultured and exposed to either troglitazone, or tertiary-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ, a phase 2 enzyme inducer). Glutathione content, advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and enzyme (glyoxalase I, glyoxalase II as well as the phase 2 enzymes, glutathione S-transferase and thioredoxin reductase) activities were determined. Glyoxalase I mRNA was also measured.
Troglitazone had no effect on cellular GSH nor phase 2 enzyme activities but significantly reduced the activities of glyoxalase I and II; this inhibitory effect was concentration-dependent and time-dependent and was associated with reduced mRNA contents and increased AGEs formation. Rosiglitazone had no effect on glyoxalase I gene expression. tBHQ, a classic phase 2 enzyme inducer, had no effect on the glyoxalase system but did increase glutathione contents and the activities of glutathione S-transferase and thioredoxin reductase.
Our study shows that troglitazone is a selective inhibitor of the glyoxalase system. This inhibition of the glyoxalase system could contribute to troglitazone's hepatotoxic action which has previously been reported in a small percentage of individuals.
Mechanical properties of the adult pulmonary vasculature are affected by perinatal experience of hypoxic pulmonary hypertension. In the present study, we followed the long-term effects of perinatal pulmonary hypertension induced by means other than hypoxia in rats. Daily injections of indomethacin (1 mg.kg-1 body weight (BW)) were given to the parturient rats. Their newborn pups had significantly increased number of muscularized peripheral pulmonary vessels. Pulmonary hypertension, however, did not persist to adulthood (mean pulmonary arterial pressure (Ppa) was 17.2 +/- 1.3 torr in the experimental group and 16.4 +/- 0.8 torr in controls). Pulmonary hypertension induced in adult rats by exposure to chronic hypoxia or by acute hypoxic challenges was similar in indomethacin-treated and control rats. Normoxic perfusion pressure/flow (P/Q) plots in isolated lungs were less steep in indomethacin-treated than in control rats. Acute hypoxia increased the slope of P/Q plots in indomethacin treated rats but not in controls. The described changes in the pulmonary vasculature induced by indomethacin are similar to those found previously in adult rats born in hypoxia. We conclude that perinatal pulmonary hypertension permanently modifies the pulmonary vasculature.
Dexamethasone (Dex)-hypertension in rats is associated with increased oxidative stress. We investigated effects of the NAD(P)H oxidase inhibitor apocynin and the nitric oxide (NO) precursor L-arginine on Dex-hypertension to determine the relative roles of NAD(P)H oxidase and uncoupling in the reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and hypertension.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 10/group) received Dex (20 microg/kg/day subcutaneously) or saline (vehicle) for 14 days. In a prevention study, rats received 4 days of apocynin treatement (1.5 mmol/L in drinking water) followed by Dex/saline for 12 days. In reversal studies, apocynin or L-arginine was given from day 8 to 14. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured by tail cuff, and thymus weight was used as a marker of glucocorticoid activity.
Administration of Dex increased SBP (104 +/- 3 to 122 +/- 3 mm Hg, P < .01, mean +/- SEM) and decreased thymus and body weight (P' < .05). Apocynin alone had no effect on SBP, BW, or thymus weight. Apocynin prevented (122 +/- 4 Dex, 111 +/- 3 mm Hg Apocynin+Dex, P' < .05) and reversed Dex-hypertension (130 +/- 4 to 116 +/- 4 mm Hg, P < .01). L-arginine did not reverse Dex-hypertension.
In male SD rats, apocynin but not l-arginine prevented and reversed Dex-hypertension, suggesting that NAD(P)H oxidase-mediated superoxide production but not endothelial nitric oxide synthase uncoupling is important in Dex-hypertension.
Dyskinetic, writhing-like movements, similar to those produced in mice after an intraperitoneal (IP) injection of acetic acid, were elicited by intrathecal (IT) injection of GABA, glycine, taurine or beta-alanine. Baclofen and muscimol failed to produce this behavior. While acetic acid-induced writhing is inhibited by narcotic and nonnarcotic compounds, GABA-induced writhing was found to be insensitive to pretreatment with either morphine or capsaicin. Moreover, acetic acid-induced writhing does not appear to involve GABAergic transmission as IT injections of nipecotic acid did not alter the intensity of response to IP acetic acid while it enhanced the response to IT GABA. Writhing induced by glycine was not inhibited by strychnine at subconvulsive doses, suggesting that it involves an action at strychnine-insensitive receptors. Together these data suggest that while the dyskinetic movements produced by inhibitory amino acids do not appear to reflect an alteration in nociception, they may mimic either the motor response to abdominal pain or spasticity.
