BL-1020, a novel gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) ester of perphenazine, is a new oral antipsychotic with a strong affinity for dopamine and serotonin receptors. Unlike first- and second-generation antipsychotics, it has agonist activity at GABA(A).
This is the first study to examine tolerability and safety of BL-1020 in schizophrenia.
This was a phase-II, open-label, multicenter, 6-week study treating patients (n = 36) with chronic schizophrenia. Dosing started at 20 mg/d and increased over 7 days to 40 mg/d. Weekly assessments were conducted.
All but 1 patient was titrated to 30 mg/d at day 4; on day 7, 30 were titrated to 40 mg/d. Four patients discontinued the study prematurely. There was no clinically relevant increase in vital signs, sedation, dizziness, or other central nervous system effects or electrocardiogram or laboratory abnormalities and a small increase in weight. Ten patients experienced extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) requiring treatment with an anticholinergic; 4 patients were unable to reach maximum dose because of EPS. Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale did not indicate clinically significant changes in EPS. The most common adverse event was insomnia (6 patients); other frequent adverse effects (all n = 3) were extrapyramidal disorder, headache, parkinsonism, tremor, and hyperprolactinemia. There was improvement on Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and Clinical Global Impression of Change with 22 patients showing at least 20% decrease by end point on Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and 31 patients showing at least minimal improvement on Clinical Global Impression of Change.
These data suggest that 20 to 40 mg/d of BL-1020 is associated with clinically relevant improvement of psychosis with no worsening of EPS and support further testing in randomized controlled trials.
The aim of our prospective study was to evaluate putative progression promoters, kidney function, and prognosis during long-term treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patients suffering from diabetic nephropathy. Eighteen consecutive hypertensive insulin-dependent diabetes patients with nephropathy (mean age, 33 years) who had not been treated previously were all treated with captopril in combination with frusemide or bendrofluazide. The four patients who were refractory to this regimen also received nifedipine. Treatment was continued for a median of 8.9 years (range, 6.3 to 9.8, years). Renal function was assessed every 6 months by measurement of glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (single-bolus 51Cr-EDTA technique) and albuminuria by radioimmunoassay. Baseline values (+/- SE) were mean arterial blood pressure 146/93 +/- 3/1 mm Hg, albuminuria (geometric mean +/- antilog SE) 982 +/- 1.2 micrograms/min, and GFR 98 +/- 5 mL/min/1.73 m2. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition induced a significant reduction during the whole treatment period of blood pressure (137/85 +/- 3/1 mm Hg; P < 0.01) and albuminuria (392 +/- 1.4 microns/min; P < 0.01), and the rate of decline in GFR was 4.4 +/- 0.7 mL/min/yr, in contrast to previous reports of 10 to 14 mL/min/yr (natural history). Univariate analysis revealed a significant correlation between the rate of decline in GFR and mean arterial blood pressure (r = 0.58, P = 0.01), albuminuria (r = 0.67, P < 0.01), hemoglobin A1c (r = 0.69, P < 0.01), and serum total cholesterol concentration (r = 0.51, P < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) is a ligand for the EGF receptor (EGFR). EGFR activation is associated with fibroproliferative processes in human lung disease and animal models of pulmonary fibrosis. We determined the effects of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib (Iressa) and erlotinib (Tarceva) on the development and progression of TGF-alpha-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Using a doxycycline-regulatable transgenic mouse model of lung-specific TGF-alpha expression, we determined effects of treatment with gefitinib and erlotinib on changes in lung histology, total lung collagen, pulmonary mechanics, pulmonary hypertension, and expression of genes associated with synthesis of ECM and vascular remodeling. Induction in the lung of TGF-alpha caused progressive pulmonary fibrosis over an 8-wk period. Daily administration of gefitinib or erlotinib prevented development of fibrosis, reduced accumulation of total lung collagen, prevented weight loss, and prevented changes in pulmonary mechanics. Treatment of mice with gefitinib 4 wk after the induction of TGF-alpha prevented further increases in and partially reversed total collagen levels and changes in pulmonary mechanics and pulmonary hypertension. Increases in expression of genes associated with synthesis of ECM as well as decreases of genes associated with vascular remodeling were also prevented or partially reversed. Administration of gefitinib or erlotinib did not cause interstitial fibrosis or increases in lavage cell counts. Administration of small molecule EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors prevented further increases in and partially reversed pulmonary fibrosis induced directly by EGFR activation without inducing inflammatory cell influx or additional lung injury.
This study examined analgesic efficacy and adverse effects of buprenorphine and fentanyl for the postoperative pain relief by continuous epidural infusion. Fifty patients after upper or lower abdominal surgeries were assigned to two groups and buprenorphine and fentanyl were epidurally administered postoperatively. Buprenorphine (B) group received bolus injection of B 0.1mg + saline 8 ml and continuous infusion of B 0.8 mg+saline 92 ml (2 ml.h-1). Fentanyl group received bolus injection of F 0.1 mg+saline 6 ml and continuous infusion of F 0.6 mg+saline 84 ml (2 ml.h-1). There was no significant difference between the two groups in the analgesic efficacy, which became lower from 2 to 12 hours postoperatively. However, compared with buprenorphine group, the incidence of nausea or vomiting and dizziness was significantly less in the fentanyl group (11 vs. 4 cases and 7 vs. 1 cases). These results imply that the major site of action of epidurally administered fentanyl is the spinal cord. In contrast, analgesic effect of epidural buprenorphine appears to be enhanced by the supraspinal action. We conclude that fentanyl is superior to buprenorphine for postoperative pain relief by continuous epidural infusion.
Environmental paraquat (PQ) exposure has been suggested to be a potential risk factor for neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). The hippocampus plays an important role in the learning and memory abilities of the brain. This study aims to demonstrate the effect and mechanism of paraquat toxicity on the hippocampus of mice. Kunming mice were randomly divided into four groups (one control and three treatment groups) and the dosage levels were defined as 0, 0.89, 2.67 and 8mg/kg body weight. Paraquat was given orally, once a day and for 28 consecutive days. After treatment with paraquat, the hippocampus cells were found to be irregular and the cytoplasm was found to be condensed. The nissl bodies were reduced and apoptotic or necrotic neuron was observed. Morris water maze tests showed that the response latency increased significantly in animals that were administered paraquat. The level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the hippocampus of mice increased significantly. The activities of total superoxide dismutase (SOD) in the hippocampus of mice decreased significantly after treatment with paraquat. An analysis of the energy metabolism of hippocampus showed that the concentration of adenosine-triphosphate (ATP) decreased significantly in the hippocampus after treatment with paraquat, which implied that the energy synthesis of mitochondria with hippocampal neurocytes declined. The level of 8-OHdG in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) increased significantly after treatment with paraquat, which indicated that the oxidative damage of mtDNA increased. This suggests that paraquat had a toxic influence on the hippocampus of mice, and that the mechanism of toxicity might be associated with the mitochondrial injury of hippocampal neurocytes induced by oxidative stress.
We investigated the effects of the common polymorphisms in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma2 (PPAR-gamma2; Pro12Ala) and in PPAR-gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC-1alpha; Gly482Ser) genes on the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance to type 2 diabetes in participants in the STOP-NIDDM trial. This trial aimed to study the effect of acarbose in the prevention of type 2 diabetes.
Genotyping was performed in 770 study subjects whose DNA was available. The Gly482Ser variant in the PGC-1alpha gene was determined with the polymerase chain reaction amplification, Hpa II enzyme digestion, and gel electrophoresis. The Pro12Ala polymorphism of the PPAR-gamma2 gene was determined by the polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
The Pro12Pro genotype of the PPAR-gamma2 gene predicted the conversion to diabetes in women in the acarbose group (odds ratio 2.89, 95% CI 1.20 to 6.96; p=0.018). The 482Ser allele of the PGC-1alpha gene had a significant interaction with the mode of treatment (p=0.012), and in the placebo group the 482Ser allele was associated with a 1.6-fold higher risk for type 2 diabetes compared to the Gly482Gly genotype (95% CI 1.06 to 2.33; p=0.023). Acarbose prevented the development of diabetes independently of the genotype of the PPAR-gamma2 gene, but only the carriers of the 482Ser allele of the PGC-1alpha gene were responsive to acarbose treatment.
We conclude that the Pro12Pro genotype of the PPAR-gamma2 gene and the 482Ser allele of the PGC-1alpha gene are associated with the conversion from impaired glucose tolerance to type 2 diabetes in the STOP-NIDDM trial.
A new series of 6-alkoxy-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazines (3a-3v) were synthesized and their anticonvulsant activity and neurotoxicity were evaluated by the maximal electroshock test and the rotarod test respectively. Significant anticonvulsant activity was displayed by a number of compounds. The most promising compounds 6-(4-chlorobenzyloxy)-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine (3f) and 6-heptyloxy-[1,2,4]triazolo[3,4-a]phthalazine (3s) showed a median effective dose of 7.1 and 11.0 mg/kg, and had protective index value of 5.2 and 8.0 respectively. The two compounds were further found to have potent activity against seizures induced by pentylenetetrazole, isoniazid, thiosemicarbazide, 3-mercaptopropionic acid but not seizures induced by strychnine, indicating that the two compounds might function by enhancing gamma-aminobutyric acid neurotransmission.
We compared oral temafloxacin, a new fluoroquinolone agent, with vancomycin, each with and without rifampin, in the therapy of rats with aortic valve endocarditis caused by a clinical isolate of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. The temafloxacin, vancomycin, and rifampin MICs and MBCs were 0.78 and 1.56, 1.56 and 3.13, and less than 0.024 and 0.78 microgram/ml, respectively. The animals were classified into the following six treatment groups: vancomycin (60 mg/kg) +/- rifampin (6 mg/kg) each intramuscularly every 12 h for 5 days; temafloxacin (100 mg/kg) orally +/- rifampin (6 mg/kg) intramuscularly every 12 h for 5 days; rifampin (6 mg/kg) intramuscularly every 12 h for 5 days; and untreated controls. All regimens with either vancomycin or temafloxacin resulted in improved survival over controls, but only temafloxacin regimens resulted in a significant reduction in bacterial counts in vegetations. These data support further investigation of the efficacy of temafloxacin in treating serious infections caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus.
Repeated cocaine administration induces behavioral sensitization and modifications in the phosphorylation pattern of dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32,000 (DARPP-32), characterized by a tonic increase in the Thr75 phosphorylated form, and a decrease in the Thr34 phosphorylated form. This study further investigated the correlations between cocaine sensitization and modifications in the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern, cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activity, and mGluR5 tone in the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. Behavioral sensitization and modifications in these neurochemical markers followed a similar temporal pattern. Moreover, in sensitized rats acute cocaine administration modified phosphorylation levels of Thr75- and Thr34-DARPP-32, GluR1, and NR1 subunits in the nucleus accumbens only at a dose double the efficacious dose in control rats. These results suggest that the high levels of phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 maintain PKA in a prevalent inhibited state. Furthermore, in sensitized rats the acute administration of 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine, a mGluR5 antagonist, reinstated the phosphorylation levels of Thr75- and Thr34-DARPP-32, GluR1, and NR1 to control values, and a subsequent cocaine challenge did not elicit a sensitized response. These data suggest that a tonic increase in mGluR5 transmission in cocaine-sensitized rats sustains both the increase in phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 levels and the expression of behavioral sensitization.
The effects of fenfluramine on 21 maladaptive behaviors in 20 autistic individuals were examined over a 9-month period utilizing a double-blind, cross-over, placebo-controlled design. Raters carried out time-sampled observations in the school and residence. In addition, videotaped data were collected in controlled settings and assessed by the raters at the conclusion of the study. Some individuals displayed negative side effects such as tension, agitation, insomnia, and sweating during the 16-week period they received fenfluramine. The results demonstrated that fenfluramine caused no significant reductions in maladaptive behaviors. The lack of any significant positive results from this medication and the side effects observed strongly indicate the need for caution in the use of fenfluramine with autistic persons.
Studies examining the brains of individuals with autism have identified anatomic and pathologic changes in regions such as the cerebellum and hippocampus. Little, if anything, is known, however, about the molecules that are involved in the pathogenesis of this disorder.
To identify genes with abnormal expression levels in the cerebella of subjects with autism.
Brain samples from a total of 10 individuals with autism and 23 matched controls were collected, mainly from the cerebellum. Two cDNA microarray technologies were used to identify genes that were significantly up- or downregulated in autism. The abnormal mRNA or protein levels of several genes identified by microarray analysis were investigated using PCR with reverse transcription and Western blotting. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA)- and NMDA-type glutamate receptor densities were examined with receptor autoradiography in the cerebellum, caudate-putamen, and prefrontal cortex.
The mRNA levels of several genes were significantly increased in autism, including excitatory amino acid transporter 1 and glutamate receptor AMPA 1, two members of the glutamate system. Abnormalities in the protein or mRNA levels of several additional molecules in the glutamate system were identified on further analysis, including glutamate receptor binding proteins. AMPA-type glutamate receptor density was decreased in the cerebellum of individuals with autism (p < 0.05).
Subjects with autism may have specific abnormalities in the AMPA-type glutamate receptors and glutamate transporters in the cerebellum. These abnormalities may be directly involved in the pathogenesis of the disorder.
Effects of crude alkaloids extracted from the stem bark of Hunteria zeylanica Gard. (H. zeylanica) on nociceptive responses, capillary permeability, yeast-induced hyperthermia, pentobarbital-induced sleep, and spontaneous motor activity were investigated. Oral administration of 50 mg/kg H. zeylanica alkaloid extract significantly decreased the number of writhings induced by intraperitoneal acetic acid. The extract at 100-200 mg/kg significantly increased nociceptive threshold of the inflamed but not the non-inflamed paw in the Randall-Selitto test. Moreover, in the formalin test, the extract (100 mg/kg) significantly decreased licking activity in the late phase without affecting the activity in the early phase. However, the extract did not produce antinociceptive effect in the hot plate test, while it inhibited increase of vascular permeability induced by acetic acid in the capillary permeability test. Moreover, the extract dose-dependently reduced yeast-induced hyperthermia in rats without affecting normothermia. It did not affect pentobarbital-induced sleep, but significantly increased locomotor activity at 100 mg/kg. These results suggest that H. zeylanica alkaloid extract possesses antinociceptive and antipyretic effects, and that the former effect may be mediated by its anti-inflammatory action.
Gastric ulcers form as a result of a multifaceted process which includes acid secretion, reactive oxygen species generation and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. The aim of this study was to investigate the possible mechanisms underlying the anti-ulcerogenic effects of the Zn(II)-curcumin complex, a curcumin derivative, on the healing of acetic acid-induced gastric ulcers in rats. The severely ulcerated gastric mucosa of control animals had a lower glutathione level (GSH) and superoxide dismutase activity (SOD), and increased malondialdehyde (MDA) content compared to sham operated rats (P<0.001). Zn(II)-curcumin solid dispersions (equivalent to 12, 24 and 48 mg/kg) dose-dependently reduced the gastric ulcer index, significantly increased SOD activity and GSH levels, and reduced the MDA content and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) mRNA expression in the gastric mucosa (P<0.05, compared to control animals). Zn(II)-curcumin exerted a greater anti-ulcerogenic effect than curcumin at the same dose (24 mg/kg), leading to a reduced severity of gastric ulcers, lower MDA content, and increased SOD activity and GSH levels (P<0.05). In conclusion, these results confirm that the Zn(II)-curcumin complex possesses an enhanced mucosal barrier defense activity compared to curcumin alone, due to its synergistic ability to decrease oxidative stress and attenuate MMP-9-mediated inflammation.
The effect of hemorrhagic reduction in systemic blood pressure (SBP) to 90 mm Hg for four hours on autoregulation of renal blood flow (RBF), renal function, and renal histology was examined in control rats, one week norepinephrine-induced acute renal failure (NE-ARF) rats with intact renal nerves, and one week NE-ARF rats with prior renal denervation. The results showed that in control rats, hemorrhagic SBP reduction to 90 mm Hg had no effect on autoregulation of RBF (autoregulatory index = 0.09 +/- 0.02), creatinine clearance, or renal histology. However, in one week NE-ARF rats with intact renal nerves, hemorrhagic reduction in SBP to 90 mm Hg was associated with marked impairment of autoregulation of RBF (autoregulatory index = 3.49 +/- 0.25), further reduction in creatinine clearance from 0.59 +/- 0.08 ml/min to 0.36 +/- 0.14 ml/min, and histologic evidence of recurrent ischemic injury. Renal denervation prior to SBP reduction improved autoregulation of RBF (autoregulatory index = 0.30 +/- 0.09), prevented the further reduction in creatinine clearance, and significantly ameliorated the deleterious effect on renal histology seen in innervated NE-ARF rats. These results suggest the potential importance of the loss of autoregulation of RBF on the course of NE-ARF, and further support the pathogenetic role of renal nerves in the loss of autoregulation.
We previously identified Neuregulin1 (NRG1) as a gene contributing to the risk of developing schizophrenia. Furthermore, we showed that NRG1+/- mutant mice display behavioral abnormalities that are reversed by clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug used for the treatment of schizophrenia. We now present evidence that ErbB4 (v-erb-a erythroblastic leukemia viral oncogene homolog 4), the tyrosine kinase receptor for NRG1 in hippocampal neurons, interacts with two nonreceptor tyrosine kinases, Fyn and Pyk2 (proline-rich tyrosine kinase 2). NRG1 stimulation of cells expressing ErbB4 and Fyn leads to the association of Fyn with ErbB4 and consequent activation. Furthermore, we show that NRG1 signaling, through activation of Fyn and Pyk2 kinases, stimulates phosphorylation of Y1472 on the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR), a key regulatory site that modulates channel properties. NR2B Y1472 is hypophosphorylated in NRG1+/- mutant mice, and this defect can be reversed by clozapine at a dose that reverses their behavioral abnormalities. We also demonstrate that short-term synaptic plasticity is altered and theta-burst long-term potentiation is impaired in NRG1+/- mutant mice, and incubation of hippocampal slices from these mice with NRG1 reversed those effects. Attenuated NRG1 signaling through ErbB4 may contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia through dysfunction of NMDAR modulation. Thus, our data support the glutamate hypothesis of schizophrenia.
Allium cepa Linn is commonly used as supplementary folk remedy for cancer therapy. Evidence suggests that Allium extracts have anti-cancer properties. However, the mechanisms of the anti-cancer activity of A. cepa Linn are not fully elucidated in human cancer cells. In this study, we investigated anti-cancer effects of polyphenols extracted from lyophilized A. cepa Linn (PEAL) in human leukemia cells and their mechanisms. PEAL inhibited cancer cell growth by inducing caspase-dependent apoptosis. The apoptosis was suppressed by caspase 8 and 9 inhibitors. PEAL also up-regulated TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) receptor DR5 and down-regulated survivin and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis 1 (cIAP-1). We confirmed these findings in other leukemic cells (THP-1, K562 cells). In addition, PEAL suppressed Akt activity and the PEAL-induced apoptosis was significantly attenuated in Akt-overexpressing U937 cells. In conclusion, our data suggested that PEAL induced caspase-dependent apoptosis in several human leukemic cells including U937 cells. The apoptosis was triggered through extrinsic pathway by up-regulating DR5 modulating as well as through intrinsic pathway by modulating IAP family members. In addition, PEAL induces caspase-dependent apoptosis at least in part through the inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway. This study provides evidence that PEAL might be useful for the treatment of leukemia.
A total of four cytomegalovirus (CMV) isolates were obtained from two CMV seronegative patients, each of whom received a lung transplant from the same seropositive donor. CMV was isolated from Patient 1 from two bronchial alveolar lavage (BAL) specimens, one obtained during treatment with ganciclovir (GCV) and a second during later treatment with foscarnet. Both of these isolates are sensitive to GCV and foscarnet. CMV was isolated from Patient 2 from a blood and a BAL specimen obtained during treatment with GCV. Both of these isolates are resistant to GCV and show reduced GCV phosphorylation. Patient 1 is still alive 33 months posttransplant. Patient 2 died 6 1/2 months posttransplant. Although the four strains differ with respect to GCV susceptibility and phosphorylation, their DNA restriction fragment hybridization patterns and UL97 kinase gene sequences indicate that they are closely related. The restriction fragment hybridization patterns are identical among the strains, while these patterns differ markedly from those of unrelated strains. The DNA sequences of the UL97 genes of the strains from Patient 2 differ by only one nucleotide from those of Patient 1. The same comparison with unrelated strains shows a minimum of 12 nucleotide differences. The nucleotide change in the strains from Patient 2 produces an amino acid substitution of serine for leucine at residue 595, a substitution that was previously shown to transfer GCV resistance. Both patients, therefore, were apparently infected with the same donor strain, but during the course of GCV prophylaxis and treatment, a GCV-resistant mutant strain was selected in Patient 2.
The dietary polyphenolic compound resveratrol, by activating the protein deacetylase enzyme silent information regulator 2/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), prolongs life span in evolutionarily distant organisms and may mimic the cytoprotective effects of dietary restriction. The present study was designed to elucidate the effects of resveratrol on cigarette smoke-induced vascular oxidative stress and inflammation, which is a clinically highly relevant model of accelerated vascular aging. Cigarette smoke exposure of rats impaired the acetylcholine-induced relaxation of carotid arteries, which could be prevented by resveratrol treatment. Smoking and in vitro treatment with cigarette smoke extract (CSE) increased reactive oxygen species production in rat arteries and cultured coronary arterial endothelial cells (CAECs), respectively, which was attenuated by resveratrol treatment. The smoking-induced upregulation of inflammatory markers (ICAM-1, inducible nitric oxide synthase, IL-6, and TNF-alpha) in rat arteries was also abrogated by resveratrol treatment. Resveratrol also inhibited CSE-induced NF-kappaB activation and inflammatory gene expression in CAECs. In CAECs, the aforementioned protective effects of resveratrol were abolished by knockdown of SIRT1, whereas the overexpression of SIRT1 mimicked the effects of resveratrol. Resveratrol treatment of rats protected aortic endothelial cells against cigarette smoking-induced apoptotic cell death. Resveratrol also exerted antiapoptotic effects in CSE-treated CAECs, which could be abrogated by knockdown of SIRT1. Resveratrol treatment also attenuated CSE-induced DNA damage in CAECs (comet assay). Thus resveratrol and SIRT1 exert antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiapoptotic effects, which protect the endothelial cells against the adverse effects of cigarette smoking-induced oxidative stress. The vasoprotective effects of resveratrol will likely contribute to its antiaging action in mammals and may be especially beneficial in pathophysiological conditions associated with accelerated vascular aging.
Sall1 is expressed in the metanephric mesenchyme in the developing kidney, and mice deficient in Sall1 show kidney agenesis or dysgenesis. Sall1 is also expressed elsewhere, including in the limb buds, anus, heart, and central nervous system. Dominant-negative mutations of Sall1 in mice and humans lead to developmental defects in these organs. Here, we generated a mouse line expressing tamoxifen-inducible Cre recombinase (CreER(T2)) under the control of the endogenous Sall1 promoter. Upon tamoxifen treatment, these mice showed genomic recombination in the tissues where endogenous Sall1 is expressed. When CreER(T2) mice were crossed with the floxed Sall1 allele, tamoxifen administration during gestation led to a significant decrease in Sall1 expression and small kidneys at birth, suggesting that Sall1 functions were disrupted. Furthermore, Sall1 expression in the kidney was significantly reduced by neonatal tamoxifen treatment. The Sall1CreER(T2) mouse is a valuable tool for in vivo time-dependent and region-specific knockout and overexpression studies.
Several findings suggest that glucocorticoid hormones are involved in determining the propensity of an individual to develop cocaine abuse. These hormones activate two related transcription factors, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the mineralocorticoid receptor. In this study, we show that the selective inactivation of the GR gene in the brains of mice profoundly flattened the dose-response function for cocaine intravenous self-administration and suppressed sensitization, two experimental procedures considered relevant models of addiction. Furthermore, administration of a GR antagonist dose-dependently reduced the motivation to self-administer cocaine. Importantly, the absence of GR did not modify the basal behavioral and molecular effects of cocaine but selectively modified the excessive response to the drug spontaneously present in certain vulnerable individuals or induced by repeated drug exposure in others. In conclusion, we provide the first genetic evidence that the GR gene can modulate cocaine abuse. This suggests that targeting GR function in the brain could provide new therapeutic strategies to treat cocaine addiction for which there is no available treatment.
Carvedilol is a nonselective beta-receptor antagonist with vasodilating properties primarily due to selective alpha-1 antagonism. This 4-treatment, 5-period, double-blind, crossover study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 3 doses of carvedilol (12.5, 25, and 50 mg given twice daily) versus placebo in 122 patients with chronic stable angina. Carvedilol in doses of 25 mg twice daily and 50 mg twice daily was statistically superior to placebo with respect to time to angina (placebo: 316 seconds; 25 mg carvedilol: 337 seconds, p = 0.0039; 50 mg: 345 seconds, p <0.0001) and time to 1-mm ST-segment depression (placebo: 301 seconds; 25 mg: 313 seconds; 50 mg: 323 seconds; p <0.0001). The percentage of patients reporting any adverse experience was slightly less in those receiving placebo (placebo: 28.4%; 12.5 mg: 33.1%; 25 mg: 34.5%; 50 mg: 31.9%). Carvedilol is effective and safe in treating patients with chronic stable angina.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is a widespread environmental contaminant for reproductive toxicity that was suggested to be linked to growth factors. Insulin-like growth factor 2 (Igf2) has great effects on the control of fetal growth. We hypothesize it might participate in the TCDD-induced toxic events. The expression of Igf2 in TCDD-induced fetal rat and rat hepatoma BRL-3A cells was monitored by real-time quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting. Electrophoresis mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation were performed to identify the CCAAT/enhancer binding protein β (C/EBPβ) responsive element in the Igf2 P3-promoter. The transcriptional activity of the Igf2 P3-promoter was detected by luciferase assay. Pregnant rats exposed to TCDD showed a modest incidence of fetal death, fetal growth restriction and fetal malformation. The levels of Igf2 mRNA and IGF2 protein were elevated in TCDD-exposed fetal liver. Temporal expression of Igf2 was also induced by TCDD in BRL-3A cells. A C/EBPβ responsive element was identified at position -743 to -732 of the Igf2 P3-promoter, and its binding was enhanced by TCDD exposure through upregulation of the C/EBPβ protein. The transcriptional activity of the Igf2 P3-promoter was also augmented by TCDD. Our results showed that TCDD may induce Igf2 gene expression through the transactivation of C/EBPβ, which may be linked to the developmental effects of TCDD in rats.
'Dang-Gui Decoction for Enriching the Blood' (BE), a traditional Chinese formulation comprising Angelica sinensis and Astragalus membranaceus, is used for stimulating red blood cell production as well as enhancing cardiovascular function. In the present study, we have demonstrated the myocardial protection afforded by BE pretreatment against ischaemia-reperfusion (IR) injury in isolated-perfused rat hearts. A more complete and potent myocardial protection against IR injury was also shown by a Polygonum multiflorum extract supplemented BE preparation (BEA). The results suggest that the more potent cardioprotective action of BEA may be related to its ability to sustain the myocardial glutathione antioxidant status under conditions of IR-induced oxidative stress, which may possibly in turn result from the synergistic interaction between the BE and Polygonum extract.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has recently received a great deal of attention because of its capacity to cause complete remission of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). To evaluate possible toxicity on the male reproductive system during arsenic therapy, male mice were used as a model. Outbred mice (ICR/CD1 and S-W, 6 weeks old) were subcutaneously administered As2O3 continuously for 5 days, with a 2-day interval, for a period of 3 weeks. As2O3 doses were 0, 0.15, 0.3, 1.5, and 3.0 mg/kg of body weight, respectively. No mice died in any dosage group. Our data showed no significant changes in food consumption or in the weight of the body, liver, testis, or epididymis after As2O3 treatment. Using histological observation to identify the stages of seminiferous tubules, we showed that As2O3 treatment resulted in the inhibition of spermatogenesis. The frequency of mature seminiferous tubules (stages VII and VIII) was markedly decreased after As2O3 treatment. A significant decrease in sperm motility and viability also was found with computer-assisted sperm analysis (CASA) and a SYBR14/PI staining assay. Using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), we found a significant decrease in levels of plasma luteinizing hormone (LH) at a dose of 3.0 mg/kg body weight. No significant difference was found in plasma follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in all dosages. A significant decrease was found in plasma testosterone in all dosages, but no difference in intratesticular testosterone, with the exception of As2O3 at a dose of 3.0 mg/kg body weight. Moreover, there was a significant decrease in the levels of mRNA involved in testicular testosterone synthesis, cytochrome P450 side chain cleavage (P450scc), 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD), and cytochrome P450 17-alpha hydroxylase/C17-20 lyase (Cyp17). The use of immunohistological observation showed no obvious difference in the testosterone level of Leydig cells of mice treated with As2O3 at doses of 0.3 and 1.5 mg/kg body weight. We concluded that As2O3 treatment caused damage to sperm mobility and viability. As2O3 treatment disturbed spermatogenesis via reducing gene expression of the key enzymes in testosterone synthesis.
