Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) includes anxiety, depression, hallucination, delusion, aggression, irritability, agitation and wandering. BPSD often causes a deterioration of activity of daily living (ADL) and worsens caregiver burden. Trazodone, an atypical antidepressant, is used for the treatment of BPSD, but the effectiveness is controversial. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed the medical records of the 13 AD patients who were rated as having the aggression and negativism in caregiving situation and were treated by trazodone. The BPSD of the per-treatment stage of the patients was assessed with Neoropsychiatric Inventory(NPI). Improvement of BPSD after trazodone was observed in 9 patients, and the aggression and negativism in caregiving situations were improved in 6 patient. Trazodone may be effect for the treatment of a certain type of BPSD such as aggression and negativism in caregiving situations. Prospective studies of this issue are recommended in AD patient.
We have demonstrated that astaxanthin reduces glomerular oxidative stress as well as inhibits the increase in urinary albumin in diabetic db/db mice. The aim of the present study was to determine the gene expression patterns in the glomerular cells of the diabetic mouse kidney, and to investigate the effects of astaxanthin on the expression of these genes using a high-density DNA microarray. The diet administered to the astaxanthin-supplementation group was prepared by mixing a control powder with astaxanthin at a concentration of 0.02%. Glomerular cells were obtained from the kidneys of mice by laser capture microdissection. Preparation of cRNA and target hybridization were performed according to the Affymetrix GeneChip eukaryotic small sample target labeling assay protocol. The gene expression profile was evaluated by the mouse expression set 430A GeneChip. Array data analysis was carried out using Affymetrix GeneChip operating and Ingenuity Pathway analysis software. Comparison between diabetic db/db and non-diabetic db/m mice revealed that 779 probes (3.1%) were significantly affected, i.e. 550 probes were up-regulated, and 229 probes were down-regulated, both at levels of >/=1.5-fold in the diabetic mice. Ingenuity signal analysis of 550 up-regulated probes revealed the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation pathway as the most significantly affected caronical pathway. The affected genes were associated with complexes I, III, and IV located on the mitochondrial inner membrane, and the expression levels of these genes were decreased in mice treated with astaxanthin as compared to the levels in the control mice. In addition, the expression of many genes associated with oxidative stress, collagen synthesis, and transforming growth factor-beta signaling was enhanced in the diabetic mice, and this enhancement was slightly inhibited in the astaxanthin-treated mice. In conclusion, this genome-wide nutrigenomics approach provided insight into genes and putative genetic pathways that are thought to be affected by stimulation by high-glucose concentrations. In addition, the present approach may help us gain a better understanding of the genes and pathways involved in the anti-diabetic mechanism of astaxanthin.
In a randomized single-blind cross-over trial, the efficacy of digoxin, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition by quinapril, and their combination on exercise tolerance, heart size (echocardiography), and neurohumoral systems was investigated in 19 outpatients with congestive heart failure (CHF) New York Heart Association functional class II and sinus rhythm. Baseline therapy consisted of 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide and remained unchanged. After treatment with quinapril, exercise tolerance significantly increased (606 vs. 644 s, 2 p less than 0.03) and left ventricular end-diastolic dimension (63 vs. 58 mm, 2 p less than 0.03), mean arterial blood pressure (MABP, 100 vs. 92 mm Hg, 2 p less than 0.03) and plasma norepinephrine (NE) levels (378 vs. 323 pg/ml, 2 p less than 0.03) were significantly reduced. Digoxin increased resting systolic blood pressure (SBP 133 vs. 142 mm Hg, 2 p less than 0.03). Combined administration of both drugs significantly increased fractional shortening (24 vs. 28%, 2 p less than 0.03), reflecting the positive inotropic action of digoxin in combination with afterload reduction. However, there was no further increase in exercise tolerance. Our data suggest that early administration of ACE inhibitors may be beneficial in patients with mild CHF and sinus rhythm, although the magnitude of improvement was less substantial than that reported for patients with more severe CHF.
To observe the safety and efficacy of hydroxyurea (HU), a drug that stimulates fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) production, in previously severely ill children with sickle cell disease.
HU was given in an uncontrolled study to 35 children with sickle cell disease, aged from 3 to 20 years, suffering from frequent painful crises. Mean duration of treatment was 32 months (range: 12-59 months).
HU induced an increase in Hb F levels in all children out one; this increase was maximal after 9 months of treatment, was largely sustained thereafter, and was related to HU dose and inversely to patients' age. We also noted an apparent reduction in crisis, which occurred principally after 3 months of therapy and did not seem strictly correlated with the rise in Hb F level. No serious hematopoietic complication was observed. Growth curves and sexual development were not modified.
Our data support the efficacy of HU in reducing painful events in children with sickle cell disease. Short- and middle-term tolerances are good. Thus, we think that HU can be given to children affected by frequent and severe painful crises. We recommend, however, very cautious use of this drug, because its long-term effects in children are still unknown.
The environmental chemical 1,2-naphthoquinone (1,2-NQ) is implicated in the exacerbation of airways diseases induced by exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP), which involves a neurogenic-mediated mechanism. Plasma extravasation in trachea, main bronchus and lung was measured as the local (125)I-bovine albumin accumulation. RT-PCR quantification of TRPV1 and tachykinin (NK(1) and NK(2)) receptor gene expression were investigated in main bronchus. Intratracheal injection of DEP (1 and 5 mg/kg) or 1,2-NQ (35 and 100 nmol/kg) caused oedema in trachea and bronchus. 1,2-NQ markedly increased the DEP-induced responses in the rat airways in an additive rather than synergistic manner. This effect that was significantly reduced by L-732,138, an NK(1) receptor antagonist, and in a lesser extent by SR48968, an NK(2) antagonist. Neonatal capsaicin treatment also markedly reduced DEP and 1,2-NQ-induced oedema. Exposure to pollutants increased the TRPV1, NK(1) and NK(2) receptors gene expression in bronchus, an effect was partially suppressed by capsaicin treatment. In conclusion, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that DEP-induced airways oedema is highly influenced by increased ambient levels of 1,2-NQ and takes place by neurogenic mechanisms involving up-regulation of TRPV1 and tachykinin receptors.
In a placebo-controlled, randomized, cross-over study, 16 patients (10 males, 6 females; 50.6 +/- 10.4 years; body weight of 74.5 +/- 8.9 kg; mean +/- SD) with arterial hypertension (WHO stages I and II) were administered single oral doses of placebo, 80 mg of propranolol, as well as 50 and 100 mg of brefanolol (a beta-adrenergic blocking agent with vasodilating properties) in order to determine the resulting hemodynamic effects. Blood pressure, heart rate, and various hemodynamic parameters were assessed noninvasively by mechano- and impedance cardiography as well as by venous occlusion plethysmography before and 2, 4, 6, 10, and 24 h after drug administration. Treatment with propranolol resulted in the typical hemodynamic changes induced by a beta-adrenergic blocking agent characterized by a significant reduction in blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, stroke volume, and an increase in total peripheral resistance. A dose of 100 mg of brefanolol also led to comparable hemodynamic effects. Similar significant decreases in blood pressure, heart rate, and cardiac output also occurred with 50 mg of brefanolol, but stroke volume and reactive hyperemia increased. Thus, in this phase of drug development, dose titration with 50 and 100 mg of brefanolol indicates that the lower dose gives rise to a more balanced relationship between its beta-adrenergic blocking and vasodilating properties.
Parasitic infection by Echinococcus granulosus in humans induces hydatidosis (echinococcosis), which is a zoonotic disease that seriously endangers public health. This study was to determine the status of cell apoptosis in the protoscoleces of E. granulosus, which were isolated from hydatid cysts in livers or lungs of sheep. Those protoscoleces were incubated with drugs (at the concentration of 1 mmol L(-1) H(2)O(2) and 5 mmol L(-1)dexamethasone) for 8 h, the apoptosis were examined by transmission electron microscopy and TUNEL assay, the expression of caspase-1 and caspase-3 were detected by immunohistochemistry and caspase-3 activity was detected by colorimetric assay. Our results have clearly demonstrated the presence of cell apoptosis in protoscoleces in the absence or presence of drug (H(2)O(2), dexamethasone) treatment, but drug-induced apoptosis rate, caspase-1 and caspase-3 expression levels were higher than no-drug induce and caspase-3 activity were significantly increasing. We found H(2)O(2) and dexamethasone can induce the cell apoptosis of protoscoleces. Our results implied the existence of a CED-3 like apoptosis gene in protoscolces and provide a rationale for further exploring the induction of apoptosis as non-surgical treatment method in treating this parasitic disease.
High-dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) have been associated with the same side-effects as oral corticosteroids. Beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) and budesonide (BUD) in doses greater than 2000 microg/day are used regularly in severe asthma, despite the fact that safety and efficacy data at such high doses are limited. Fluticasone propionate (FP) has been promoted as being twice as potent clinically as BDP or BUD at doses of 2000 microg/day or less with a similar safety profile. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and safety of FP with BDP and BUD in 133 symptomatic adult asthmatics requiring at least 1750 microg/day of BDP or BUD.
Patients fulfilling the entry criteria were randomized to receive either their regular ICS medication or FP at approximately half the microgram dose for 6 months in an open, parallel group study. The primary efficacy measure was based on morning peak expiratory flow measurements recorded by patients on daily record cards, while determination of safety was based on a number of endpoints including changes in bone turnover indices, the incidence of topical side-effects and assessments of quality of life.
It was shown that patients who were switched to FP, but not those continuing with BDP or BUD, had significant increases in levels of morning serum cortisol and the urine cortisol:creatinine ratio while maintaining asthma control. Serum osteocalcin and the pyridinoline:creatinine ratio, as well as the deoxypyridinoline:creatinine ratio, were also shown to increase only in the FP group. Subjective assessments such as quality of life score, the incidence and ease of bruising, and reports of hoarseness also favoured the FP group.
It is concluded that, at the doses studied and with the delivery devices used clinically, FP is at least as effective as BDP/BUD in the management of severe asthma and may offer clinical advantages with respect to steroid-related adverse effects.
This pilot study examines whether hormone therapy for breast cancer affects cognition. Patients participating in a randomised trial of anastrozole, tamoxifen alone or combined (ATAC) (n=94) and a group of women without breast cancer (n=35) completed a battery of neuropsychological measures. Compared with the control group, the patients were impaired on a processing speed task (p=0.032) and on a measure of immediate verbal memory (p=0.026) after controlling for the use of hormone replacement therapy in both groups. Patient group performance was not significantly related to length of treatment or measures of psychological morbidity. The results showed specific impairments in processing speed and verbal memory in women receiving hormonal therapy for the treatment of breast cancer. Verbal memory may be especially sensitive to changes in oestrogen levels, a finding commonly reported in studies of hormone replacement therapy in healthy women. In view of the increased use of hormone therapies in an adjuvant and preventative setting their impact on cognitive functioning should be investigated more thoroughly.
The effects of indomethacin on the urinary bladder and renal pelvis in rats treated with N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) were studied. Two hundred female Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups. Group 1 received control diet without added chemicals. Group 2 was treated with indomethacin (1 mg/kg per day) in the drinking water throughout the experiment. Groups 3 and 4 received 0.2% FANFT in the diet for seven weeks followed by control diet. In addition to FANFT, Group 4 received indomethacin, 1 mg/kg per day, for the entire experiment. The rats were sacrificed after 92 weeks. There were no urothelial tumors in the control group, one renal pelvic tumor in the indomethacin group, 4 tumors in the FANFT group and 10 urothelial tumors in the FANFT + indomethacin group. The difference between Groups 3 and 4 was statistically significant (P < 0.05). Moderate and severe hyperplasia of the renal pelvic and papillary epithelium was found in 15 of 48 rats in Group 2 (indomethacin only) as compared with 6 of 49 control rats (P < 0.05). Moderate and severe hyperplasia was equally frequent in Groups 3 and 4 (14 and 17 animals in each group, respectively). Twenty-four rats in Group 2 had mammary tumors as compared to 12 animals in Group 1 (P < 0.01). Five of the tumors in Group 2 were adenocarcinomas. There was no difference between the number of mammary tumors in Groups 3 and 4 (36 and 32 animals in each group, respectively). The results suggest that indomethacin enhances FANFT-induced urinary tract carcinogenesis. Indomethacin also seems to exert some tumorigenic activity in the mammary gland.
An electrophysiologic technique for studying sensory fibers in the rat sural nerve is described. The conduction velocity of the sural nerve in rats is much slower than in humans, probably because of lack of large myelinated nerve fibers in rats. An experimental neuropathy (induced by hexachlorophene) that predominantly causes a myelin disorder produced a slowing of sural nerve conduction velocity and a potential of normal amplitude and duration. An experimental neuropathy (induced by zinc pyrithione) that primarily causes axonal degeneration produced a sensory potential of lower amplitude and shorter duration that had a normal conduction velocity.
Expression of Bcl-2 protein is associated with chemotherapy resistance and decreased survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We evaluated whether oblimersen would improve response to chemotherapy in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL.
Patients had received at least one prior fludarabine-containing regimen and were stratified on the basis of prior fludarabine response, number of prior regimens, and duration of response to last prior therapy. Patients were randomly assigned to 28-day cycles of fludarabine 25 mg/m2/d plus cyclophosphamide 250 mg/m2/d administered intravenously for 3 days with or without oblimersen 3 mg/kg/d as a 7-day continuous intravenous infusion (beginning 4 days before chemotherapy) for up to six cycles. The primary end point was the proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR) or nodular partial response (nPR).
Of 241 patients randomly assigned, CR/nPR was achieved in 20 (17%) of 120 patients in the oblimersen group and eight (7%) of 121 patients in the chemotherapy-only group (P = .025). Achievement of CR/nPR was correlated with both an extended time to progression and survival (P < .0001). In patients who remained sensitive to fludarabine, oblimersen was associated with a four-fold increase in the CR/nPR rate and a significant survival benefit (P = .05). Oblimersen was frequently associated with thrombocytopenia and, rarely, tumor lysis syndrome and cytokine release reactions; the incidence of opportunistic infections and second malignancies was similar in both groups.
The addition of oblimersen to fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide significantly increases the CR/nPR rate in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL (particularly fludarabine-sensitive patients), as well as response duration among patients who achieve CR/nPR.
To evaluate the effect of the 5-HT3-receptor antagonist ondansetron in patients with postcardiotomy delirium.
Prospective study.
University hospital.
Thirty-five patients who had undergone coronary artery bypass graft surgery.
Thirty-five patients, 23 men and 12 women, who developed delirium in the intensive care unit after coronary artery bypass graft surgery were included. Mean patient age was 51.3 years (range, 36 to 79 years). A mental status scoring scale was developed, and patients were scored 0 to 4 according to their delirium status after confirming that there were no correctable metabolic abnormalities as an underlying cause for delirium. Normal behavior was scored as 0, and severe verbal and physical agitation was scored as 4. Patients received a single dose of ondansetron, 8 mg, intravenously and were reevaluated 10 minutes later.
Before the treatment, 7 patients had a score of 2 (20%); 10 patients (28.6%), 3; and 18 patients (51.4%), 4. After the treatment, 28 patients (80%) dropped their score to 0; 6 patients (17.1%) dropped to a score of 1, and 1 patient (2.9%) remained at a score of 4. The mean score dropped from 3.20 + 1.01 to 0.29 + 0.75 after treatment. Wilcoxon signed ranks test was used for statistical evaluation, and the fall in delirium score after ondansetron treatment was found to be statistically significant (p < 0.001).
The use of ondansetron was effective and safe and without important side effects. This positive effect of the 5-HT3-receptor antagonist ondansetron led to speculation that impaired serotonin metabolism may play a role in postcardiotomy delirium.
Apigenin (AP) and Hydroxygenkwanin (HGK) are two natural flavonoid compounds. Previous studies have already demonstrated the anti-tumor capability of AP. However, it is not clear whether HGK has such property. In the current study, the anti-glioma activities of HGK and its synergistic anti-glioma effects with AP on C6 glioma cells were investigated. In addition, the possible mechanisms were also studied. MTT assay and morphologic analysis including acridine orange/ethidium bromide (AO/EB) and 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining were used in the research, and the results indicated that the treatment with AP or HGK could inhibit C6 glioma cell proliferation respectively. Moreover, when AP was administrated simultaneously, the anti-glioma effect of HGK was dramatically enhanced in a dose-dependent manner, which is obviously better than that of carmustine (BCNU) at the concentration 25μM for treating of 24h. Compared with control, mitochondrial membrane potential (MPP) loss and mitochondrion damage were detected by JC-1 fluorescence probes (JC-1) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) after treatment. Obvious DNA damage and cell cycle S phase arrest were detected by alkaline comet assay and flow cytometric analysis (FCM). Additionally, up regulation of TNF-α level, activations of caspase-3, -8, over expressions of BID and BAK protein and BCL-XL protein down expression were also observed after treatment by the combination of AP and HGK. The results indicate that HGK may be an effective natural product to treat glioma, and the combination of AP and HGK may be a promising method for glioma chemotherapy.
Clinical response to methotrexate (MTX) treatment differs among rheumatoid arthritis patients. Genetic variation can partly account for this phenomenon. In this study, functional polymorphisms in genes related to the mechanism of action of MTX or immunopathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis were studied for association with treatment outcome in a Dutch cohort of patients with early rheumatoid arthritis. Furthermore, tests for replication of previous research on these genetic variants were performed according to reported end points.
Seven polymorphisms in seven genes were analyzed in 205 genotyped patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. All patients received standardized MTX treatment (< or =25 mg per week orally) combined with folic acid. MTX treatment outcome was evaluated by disease activity score criteria and adverse drug events. The following genetic variants were analyzed and correlated: ABCB1 3435C>T, ITPA IVS2 +21A>C, HLA-G (-14 bp >+14 bp), TGFB1 +869T>C and TLR4 +896A>G. In case of significant differences, regression analyses were applied. Since carriers of the minor alleles of the SNPs DHFR 829C>T and IMPDH2 +787C>T were not observed, no statistical analyses could be performed.
No significant associations or replications of these genetic variants with MTX efficacy were demonstrated. Regarding toxicity, patients carrying the ABCB1 3435T-allele and TLR4 +896G-allele were 2.5-times more likely to develop adverse drug events at 6 months (odds ratio: 2.6; 95% CI: 1.1-6.2, and odds ratio: 2.5; 95% CI: 1.1-6.1, respectively). Additionally, this chance increased almost fourfold in patients with the two unfavorable genotypes (odds ratio: 3.9; 95% CI: 1.5-10.3). However, none of these associations remained significant after correction for multiple testing (p < 0.004).
Our data indicate that MTX toxicity was potentially associated with ABCB1 3435C>T and TLR4 +896A>G. However, after correction, none of these associations remained significant. Furthermore, no significant associations or replications of these functional variants with efficacy were found.
Alamifovir is a purine nucleotide analogue prodrug that shows potent activity against wild type and lamivudine resistant hepatitis B virus in preclinical studies. The aim of this study was to assess the safety and potential antiviral effects of alamifovir in humans.
A randomised, placebo controlled, dose escalation study of oral alamifovir was conducted in 66 chronic hepatitis B infected patients who were selected based on stable HBV DNA (>10(5)copies/ml), with no significant liver pathology. They received either placebo or alamifovir at a total daily dose ranging from 2.5 to 20mg in single or divided doses for 28 days and were followed up for approximately 12 weeks after cessation of treatment.
All doses showed significant antiviral activity, with mean plasma viral load reductions ranging from 1.5 to 2.6 log(10) after 28 days of dosing. Once and twice daily regimen for the same daily dose (5mg BID vs 10mg QD, 10mg BID vs 20mg QD) showed no apparent difference in the rate and extent of viral decline, or viral reduction at day 28. Post-treatment viral suppression was dose dependent. There were no serious adverse events attributable to study drug, nor were significant dose related events identified.
Alamifovir has shown potent in vivo anti-HBV activity, with a favourable safety profile.
Some cases of paracetamol-induced acute hepatic failure may require liver transplantation but the present shortage of graft urges the search for an alternate therapeutic approach.
A 17 year-old girl was admitted for sleepingness and vomiting after about 15 hours of voluntary but denied absorption of paracetamol. Plasma paracetamol concentration was 120 mg/l; factors VII+X level were 55% and factor V 106%. The patient was given IV N-acetylcysteine, 150 mg/kg/30 min, then 50 mg/kg/4 hours. Further decrease in facteur VII level led to pursue administration of N-acetylcysteine (total dose: 350 mg/kg/2 hours). While indication of liver transplantation was considered, clinical and laboratory findings definitely improved.
N-acetylcysteine may be effective even if administered late. Repeated determination of factor VII could be a good means for managing such a severe condition.
The effect of intracerebellar microinfusion of antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC) and other naturally occurring cannabinoid receptor (CB(1)) mRNA on Delta(9)-THC-induced motor impairment was investigated in mice. Delta(9)-THC (15-30 microgram/microliter intracerebellar) resulted in a significant motor impairment in a dose-related manner. The intracerebellar pretreatment with antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (3.0 microgram/100 nl/12 h; six administrations/mouse) virtually abolished Delta(9)-THC (15 and 25 microgram/1 microliter intracerebellar)-induced motor impairment. However, intracerebellar pretreatment with the mismatched oligodeoxynucleotide in exactly the same manner as the antisense was completely ineffective in altering the Delta(9)-THC-induced motor impairment. These results strongly suggest the involvement of CB(1) receptor in the expression of Delta(9)-THC-induced motor impairment. The intracerebellar microinfusion of adenosine A(1)-selective agonist, N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) (4 ng/100 nl) significantly enhanced Delta(9)-THC-induced motor impairment, suggesting a cerebellar A(1) adenosinergic modulation of motor impairment. A pretreatment with the antisense and the mismatched oligodeoxynucleotide also markedly attenuated and did not alter, respectively, the cerebellar A(1) adenosinergic modulation (enhancement) of Delta(9)-THC-induced motor impairment. There was no change in the normal motor coordination due to intracerebellar pretreatment with antisense and its mismatch, in the presence as well as absence of intracerebellar CHA indicating the selectivity of interactions with Delta(9)-THC. The Delta(9)-THC-induced motor incoordination was also significantly enhanced dose-dependently by systemic (i.p.) ethanol administration suggesting behavioral synergism between the two psychoactive drugs. Pretreatment (intracerebellar) with pertussis toxin (PTX) markedly attenuated Delta(9)-THC- and Delta(9)-THC+CHA-induced motor incoordination suggesting coupling of CB(1) receptor to PTX-sensitive G-protein (G(i)/G(o)). These data suggested co-modulation by cerebellar cannabinoid and adenosine system of Delta(9)-THC-induced motor impairment. Conversely, the results in the present study also suggested co-modulation by cerebellar adenosine A(1) and CB(1) receptors of ethanol-induced motor impairment, thereby indicating a possible common signal transduction pathway in the expression of motor impairment produced by Delta(9)-THC as well as ethanol.
This study was designed to investigate the potential effects of omega-3, olmesartan and their combination on established hepatic fibrosis in the carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) rat model. Male Wistar rats received subcutaneous injections of CCl4 twice weekly for 12weeks, as well as daily oral treatments of olmesartan (1 and 3mg/kg), omega-3 (75 and 150mg/kg) and their combination during the last 4weeks of intoxication. Our results indicated that omega-3 and, to a lesser extent, olmesartan dose-dependently blunted CCl4-induced necroinflammation scoring and elevation of liver injury parameters in serum. Besides, omega-3 and, to a lesser extent, olmesartan treatments in a dose dependent manner attenuated CCl4-induced liver fibrosis, as demonstrated by hepatic histopathology scoring and 4-hydroxyproline content. The mechanisms behind these beneficial effects of both omega-3 and olmesartan were also elucidated. These include (1) counteracting hepatic oxidative stress and augmenting hepatic antioxidants; (2) preventing the activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), as denoted by reducing α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression in the liver; (3) inhibiting the proliferation and chemotaxis of HSCs, as evidenced by downregulating platelet-derived growth factor receptors-β (PDGFR-β) expression in the liver; and (4) inhibiting the fibrogenesis response of HSCs, as indicated by inhibiting the secretion of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1). Unexpectedly, when olmesartan was co-administered with omega-3, it interfered with the hepatoprotective and anti-fibrotic activities of omega-3. In conclusion, this study introduces the first evidence regarding the pronounced anti-fibrotic activity of omega-3 and suggests that it may be beneficial in the treatment of hepatic fibrosis in humans.
Oxidative damage due to free radicals generated during nitrosamine metabolism has been suggested as one of the major cause for the initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis. Lycopene, is a well known antioxidant and have promising preventive potentials, however the mechanism of action remain hypothetical and unclear. To investigate the involvement of lycopene extracted from tomatoes (LycT) against oxidative stress induced deleterious effect of N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) on cellular macromolecules, female Balb/c mice were divided in four groups: Control, NDEA (cumulative dose of 200mg NDEA/kg body weight injected intraperitoneally in 8 weeks), LycT (5mg/kg body weight given orally on alternate days, throughout the study) and LycT+NDEA (co-administration of LycT and NDEA). NDEA treatment commenced after 2 weeks of LycT administration. At the end of NDEA exposure i.e., at 10th week, enhanced activities of hepatic phase I enzymes, levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation (LPO) was observed in NDEA group which may have contributed in chromosomal aberrations, enhanced micronucleated cell score, membrane fluidity and serum liver marker enzymes. A significant decrease in enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant system could delineate the mechanism behind such NDEA insults. LycT pre-treatment to NDEA challenged group showed lower chromosomal abnormalities, micronucleated cells score, ROS, LPO levels and liver enzymes. Lycopene aids in normalizing the membrane fluidity and enhancing the activity of antioxidant enzymes and reduced glutathione which could account for the reduced oxidative damage in LycT+NDEA group. It seemed that lycopene supplementation target multiple dys-regulated pathways during initiation of carcinogenesis. Thus, dietary supplementation with lycopene can serve as an alternate measure to intervene the initiation of carcinogenesis.
Hexavalent chromium (Cr(VI)) compounds are known human carcinogens associated with the incidence of lung cancer. Although a direct correlation between Cr(VI) exposure and lung cancer has been established, several studies aimed at generating animal models for Cr(VI) have yielded inconsistent data that do not affirmatively support findings from epidemiologic studies. Because the lack of a good animal model has hindered the identification of molecular mechanisms involved in Cr(VI) exposure, we developed an in vitro model that facilitates mechanistic studies of Cr(VI)-induced carcinogenesis. We report here that long-term exposure to Cr(VI) leads to the malignant transformation of nontumorigenic human lung epithelial cells. Cr(VI)-transformed cells exhibited loss of contact inhibition, colony formation, and increased rates of cell invasion, migration, and proliferation, as compared with passage-matched control cells. Cr(VI)-transformed cells evaded apoptosis by a mechanism involving S-nitrosylation and stabilization of Bcl-2 protein in a nitric oxide-dependent manner. This study establishes an important in vitro model that facilitates mechanistic studies of Cr(VI)-induced carcinogenesis, and elucidates a novel mechanism that causes apoptosis-resistant malignant transformation of nontumorigenic lung cells in response to a human carcinogen.
To establish a primate animal model of schizophrenia with negative symptoms, the behavioral effects of chronic phencyclidine (PCP) and additional acute methamphetamine (MAP) administration were investigated in six monkeys. The results indicate that chronic PCP treatment induced a significant decrease in all categories of social behaviors, and that the chronic PCP monkeys also spent less time in proximity to other monkeys than the control monkeys. Acute MAP injection to the chronic PCP monkeys exacerbated the behavioral effects of PCP. The results suggest that these monkeys can be used as a primate model of schizophrenia with negative symptoms.
Elastin has been linked to maturity of liver fibrosis. To date, the regulation of elastin secretion and its degradation in liver fibrosis has not been characterized. The aim of this work was to define elastin accumulation and the role of the paradigm elastase macrophage metalloelastase (MMP-12) in its turnover during fibrosis. Liver fibrosis was induced by either intraperitoneal injections of carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4) ) for up to 12 weeks (rat and mouse) or oral administration of thioacetamide (TAA) for 1 year (mouse). Elastin synthesis, deposition, and degradation were investigated by immunohistochemistry, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), western blotting, and casein zymography. The regulation of MMP-12 elastin degradation was defined mechanistically using CD11b-DTR and MMP-12 knockout mice. In a CCl(4) model of fibrosis in rat, elastin deposition was significantly increased only in advanced fibrosis. Tropoelastin expression increased with duration of injury. MMP-12 protein levels were only modestly changed and in coimmunoprecipitation experiments MMP-12 was bound in greater quantities to its inhibitor TIMP-1 in advanced versus early fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry and macrophage depletion experiments indicated that macrophages were the sole source of MMP-12. Exposure of CCl(4) in MMP-12(-/-) mice led to a similar degree of overall fibrosis compared to wildtype (WT) but increased perisinusoidal elastin. Conversely, oral administration of TAA caused both higher elastin accumulation and higher fibrosis in MMP-12(-/-) mice compared with WT.
Elastin is regulated at the level of degradation during liver fibrosis. Macrophage-derived MMP-12 regulates elastin degradation even in progressive experimental liver fibrosis. These observations have important implications for the design of antifibrotic therapies.
Infectious complications related to i.v. drug use represent an important source of morbidity and mortality among this population. We report an informative case of endogenous endophthalmitis related to injection of cocaine mixed with lemon juice. Clinicians should remember that any visual change among patients using injection drugs warrants aggressive workup, including empiric antifungal therapy. Once the disease is identified, early vitrectomy should be considered.
