Early detection of resistance to platinum-based therapy is critical for improving the treatment of ovarian cancers. We have previously found that increased expression of annexin A3 is a mechanism for platinum resistance in ovarian cancer cells. Here we demonstrate that annexin A3 can be detected in the culture medium of ovarian cancer cells, particularly these cells that express high levels of annexin A3. Levels of annexin A3 were then determined in sera from ovarian cancer patients using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Compared with those from normal donors, sera from ovarian cancer patients contain significantly higher levels of annexin A3. Furthermore, serum levels of annexin A3 were significantly higher in platinum-resistant patients than in platinum-sensitive patients. To gain insight into the mechanism of secretion, the ovarian cancer cell lines were examined using both transmission electron microscopy and immunoelectron microscopy. Compared with parent cells, there are significantly more vesicles in the cytoplasm of ovarian cancer cells that express high levels of annexin A3, and at least some vesicles are annexin A3-positive. Moreover, some vesicles appear to be fused with the cell membrane, suggesting that annexin A3 secretion may be associated with exocytosis and the release of exosomes. This is supported by our observation that ovarian cancer cells expressing higher levels of annexin A3 released increased numbers of exosomes. Furthermore, annexin A3 can be detected in exosomes released from cisplatin-resistant cells (SKOV3/Cis) by immunoblotting and immunoelectron microscopy.
A sizeable proportion of patients who undergo successful coronary artery stent implantation experiences chest pain immediately after the procedure and/or in the following months in the absence of in-stent restenosis. We investigated this phenomenon in 57 consecutive patients with stable angina who underwent successful stent implantation. Chest pain characteristics were assessed before stent implantation and during 6-month follow-up. All patients underwent coronary angiography within 6 months of the procedure 48 hours after exercise thallium-201 perfusion scintigraphy. Patients who did not exhibit in-stent restenosis underwent an ergonovine test at the end of routine coronary angiography. During follow-up, 15 patients complained of chest pain. Six of these patients exhibited scintigraphic evidence of myocardial ischemia and in-stent restenosis at angiography. In the remaining 9 patients, chest pain occurred in the absence of in-stent restenosis at angiography. In 8 of these patients intracoronary ergonovine administration reproduced their habitual pain, whereas it did not cause any pain in the 42 patients who were completely asymptomatic at follow-up and without in-stent restenosis. Ergonovine caused more intense vasoconstriction and nitroglycerin caused more intense vasodilation of the reference coronary diameter in patients with than in patients without ergonovine-induced pain (-17 +/- 3 vs -9 +/- 3%, p <0.001; 9 +/- 6 vs 5 +/- 4%, p <0.02, respectively). In conclusion, chest pain with features similar to habitual angina occurs in the absence of in-stent restenosis in 1/5 of patients after stent implantation and appears to be associated with more intense coronary vasoreactivity.
The pharmacokinetic of tolbutamide was studied after the oral administration to normal rabbits or rabbits with mild to medium folate-induced renal failure. The plasma concentrations of tolbutamide were significantly elevated (p<0.05) during 9 to 24 h in rabbits with mild or medium folate-induced renal failure. Consequently, the area under the plasma concentration-time curves (AUC) was significantly higher in mild (p<0.05) and medium (p<0.01) folate-induced renal failure rabbits (i.e., 2906 microg/mL x h for mild renal failure and 4074 microg/mL x h for moderate renal failure) than that in normal rabbits (i.e., 2295 microg/mL x h). The cumulative urinary excretion of tolbutamide was significantly depressed (p<0.05) in medium folate-induced renal failure rabbits (i.e., 3.3 mg) compared with that in normal rabbits (i.e., 5.9 mg). The elimination rate constant (Kel) of tolbutamide was significantly decreased in medium renal failure rabbits (i.e., 0.027 h(-1)) than that in normal rabbits (i.e., 0.044 h(-1)); As a result, the terminal half-life of tolbutamide in medium folate-induced renal failure rabbits (i.e., 25.5 h) was significantly longer (p<0.01) than that in normal rabbits (i.e., 15.7 h). The change in pharmacokinetic parameters is consistent with the hypothesis that the alteration is mediated by the depressed metabolic elimination of the drug by the induction of renal failure. Therefore, these observations indicated that the dosage adjustment may be necessary for tolbutamide in patients with renal insufficiency.
Depression in older people is often unrecognised and untreated or under-treated. Antidepressant treatment may itself exacerbate a pre-existing illness, interact with concomitant medications or produce undesirable cognitive and sedative side effects. Newer antidepressants may offer advantages in terms of a lesser burden of adverse effects.
The comparative tolerability of the unique selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (selective NRI) reboxetine (4-6 mg/day; n = 176) and that of imipramine (50-100 mg/day; n = 171) was assessed in an elderly ( > 65 years) cohort of depressed or dysthymic patients in an 8-week, double-blind, multicentre trial. Comparative efficacy was also assessed.
Overall, 68% of patients in the reboxetine group experienced adverse events compared with 71% in the imipramine group. Reboxetine-treated patients were less likely to develop hypotension and related symptoms (7% vs. imipramine 16%) or cardiovascular disorders (12.5% vs. imipramine 21.1%), while those treated with imipramine were less likely to experience insomnia (6.3% vs. 2.9%). Adverse events were more often assessed as related to treatment (43%) and moderate to severe in intensity (73%) with imipramine than with reboxetine (33% and 65%, respectively). Furthermore, there were fewer serious adverse events in the reboxetine-treated group (P = 0.019). The reduction in the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) was comparable between the treatment groups in the total population. At the last assessment, the majority of patients in both treatment groups were assessed as normal to borderline or mildly ill using the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale. In a subanalysis of the dysthymic patients a modest but significant difference in favour of imipramine was observed for both HAM-D and CGI assessments. This may have been a reflection of a trend towards more severe depressive symptoms at baseline in the reboxetine group.
Reboxetine is as effective as imipramine in the treatment of depression in elderly patients but is at least as well tolerated with a lower risk of hypotension and related symptoms, fewer serious adverse events, adverse event-related withdrawals and treatment-related adverse events.
Melanoma is one of the most chemo-resistant cancers. The remission rate of current therapy remains low. Pyrrolo[2,1-c][1,4]benzodiazepines (PBDs) are a group of antitumor antibiotics that binds to N2 of guanine to form a DNA adduct. However, significant cardiotoxicity hampers their clinical use. We have previously synthesized a PBD indole conjugate (IN6CPBD) that induced apoptosis in several cancer cell lines. The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of the IN6CPBD for established murine melanoma cells in vivo. IN6CPBD induced more apoptosis than DC-81 as evidenced by sub-G1 distribution, annexin V positivity, and decrease mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi(mt)). The melanomas were established in C57BL/6 mice by injecting B16F10 cells via the tail vein. Three courses of therapy were instituted after day 5 and the mice were sacrificed at day 20. The tumor growth rate in the foot pad was significantly reduced in IN6CPBD-treated mice than that in DC-81- and PBS-treated mice. The tumor burden in the lungs was also reduced significantly in IN6CPBD-treated mice accompanied with the most prominent TUNEL staining. Renal function, and cardiac enzymes were not altered significantly by IN6CPBD or DC-81, however, robust deterioration of liver function was noticed in the DC-81-treated mice. In summary, potent apoptosis could be elicited by the PBD indole conjugate IN6CPBD, accompanied with a better efficacy and less liver function impairment than the mother compound DC-81 in treating established melanoma metastasis in vivo.
We report the case of a patient bearing a sigmoid colon carcinoma, stage IV, who after 11 months of antiblastic therapy, having completed a dose of 81,000 mg of 5-FU and CCNU, suffered a myocardial infarct. We attribute this complication to 5-FU. Due to the fact that the coronary angiogram did not confirm the arteriosclerotic nature of the lesion, we suggest that it could have been caused by an endoarteritis, resulting from an immuno-allergic or toxic cumulative process.
To gain insight into vitamin A deficiency as a cause of anemia.
Comprehensive review of the scientific literature.
Although vitamin A deficiency is recognized to cause anemia, 'vitamin A deficiency anemia' lacks complete characterization as a distinct clinical entity. Vitamin A appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of anemia through diverse biological mechanisms, such as the enhancement of growth and differentiation of erythrocyte progenitor cells, potentiation of immunity to infection and reduction of the anemia of infection, and mobilization of iron stores from tissues. Epidemiological surveys show that the prevalence of anemia is high in populations affected by vitamin A deficiency in developing countries. Improvement of vitamin A status has generally been shown to reduce anemia, but the actual public health impact on anemia is unclear.
Further work is needed to elucidate the biological mechanisms by which vitamin A causes anemia. The inclusion of anemia as an outcome measure in future micronutrient intervention studies should help provide further insight into the anemia of vitamin A deficiency.
Striatal serotonin projections have been implicated in levodopa-induced dyskinesia by providing an unregulated source of dopamine release. We set out to determine whether these projections are affected by levodopa treatment in a way that would favor the occurrence of dyskinesia.
As an index of terminal serotonin innervation density, we measured radioligand binding to the plasma membrane serotonin transporter (SERT) in levodopa-treated dyskinetic and nondyskinetic subjects, using brain tissue from both rat and monkey models of Parkinson disease as well as parkinsonian patients. In addition, striatal tissue from dyskinetic rats was used for morphological and ultrastructural analyses of serotonin axon terminals, and for studies of stimulated [³H]dopamine release.
Across all conditions examined, striatal levels of SERT radioligand binding were significantly elevated in dyskinetic subjects compared to nondyskinetic cases. In the rat striatum, dyskinesiogenic levodopa treatment had induced sprouting of serotonin axon varicosities having a relatively high synaptic incidence. This response was associated with increased depolarization-induced [³H]dopamine release and with a stronger release potentiation by brain-derived neurotrophic factor.
This study provides the first evidence that L-dopa treatment induces sprouting of serotonin axon terminals, with an increased incidence of synaptic contacts, and a larger activity-dependent potentiation of dopamine release in the dopamine-denervated striatum. Treatment-induced plasticity of the serotonin innervation may therefore represent a previously unappreciated cause of altered dopamine dynamics. These results are important for understanding the mechanisms by which L-dopa pharmacotherapy predisposes to dyskinesia, and for defining biomarkers of motor complications in Parkinsons disease.
The occurrence of abdominal pain (in three patients) and lower chest pain (in one patient) either during or immediately after the intravenous administration of high doses of benzyl penicillin is reported. All four patients were diagnosed as having bacterial endocarditis and had been receiving between 8 and 18 mega units of the drug per day for 2--3 weeks, when the symptoms were first noticed. A skin rash also appeared in each case, at this time. Both the rash and abdominal pain disappeared when an alternative antibiotic was substituted for the penicillin.
Increased levels of plasma homocysteine (hyperhomocysteinemia-HHcy) are associated to the development of coronary artery disease (CAD), peripheral vascular disease and thrombosis. In addition, recent studies have shown that inflammation, probably mediated by macrophages, mediates the pathogenesis associated to high levels of homocysteine (Hcy). In the present study, we evaluated the Hcy effects in the ATP hydrolysis and its breakdown products in murine macrophages. The results showed that micromolar concentrations of Hcy increased the ATP, ADP and AMP hydrolysis. Additionally, our results show decreased inosine levels in the extracellular milieu of Hcy-exposed macrophages. The increasing in ATP, ADP and AMP hydrolysis are not explained by increased transcription or protein expression of NTPDases and ecto-5'-nucleotidase (ecto-5'-NT/CD73) enzymes. Moreover, the formation of reactive oxygen species did not interfere in the Hcy effects, which suggest that Hcy or Hcy metabolites act directly on the modulation of NTPDases and ecto-5'-NT/CD73 activities. In conclusion, Hcy induces the rapid breakdown of ATP, ADP and AMP to adenosine (ADO), which is classically known as an anti-inflammatory response in immune cells. However, by the action of these enzymes, the extracellular adenosine generated during Hcy treatment probably is uptaken into the cells, as evidenced by the decreased in inosine formation, and thus collaborating to the inflammatory complications associates to HHcy.
Since cardiac and skeletal myotoxicity affect the development of drug candidates, it is important to detect their toxicity at an early stage of drug development. For that purpose, in this study, the usefulness of several cardiac and skeletal myotoxic biomarkers in blood were evaluated using two rat models treated intraperitoneally with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor carbofuran (CAF) or a synthetic catecholamine isoproterenol (ISO). The biomarkers assayed were fatty acid binding protein 3 (Fabp3), myosin light chain 1 (MLC1), cardiac troponin I (cTnI), cardiac troponin T (cTnT), aspartate transaminase (AST), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and creatine kinase (CK). CAF and ISO treatment of rats induced greater increases in the levels of Fabp3, MLC1, cTnI and cTnT than in the levels of AST, LDH and CK. A kinetic analysis indicated that the levels of all of the biomarkers had returned to the basal level by 24h after drug administration. Pathological examination revealed lesions in the heart, mainly at the left ventricle and septum, in both CAF- and ISO-treated rats. CAF-treated rats showed widespread lesions of skeletal muscle that were independent of muscle fiber type, while in ISO-treated rats locoregional lesions were observed only in slow twitch muscle. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis of the sensitivity of the tested biomarkers indicated that MLC1 and cTnT were the most effective biomarkers of cardiotoxicity. For skeletal myotoxicity, Fabp3 and MLC1 were the most effective biomarkers based on the specific tissue distribution of these proteins. Conversely, the rapid blood clearance of these markers should be taken into account when considering the use of these biomarkers.
The pacemaking activity of specialized tissues in the heart and gut results in lifelong rhythmic contractions. Here we describe a new syndrome characterized by Chronic Atrial and Intestinal Dysrhythmia, termed CAID syndrome, in 16 French Canadians and 1 Swede. We show that a single shared homozygous founder mutation in SGOL1, a component of the cohesin complex, causes CAID syndrome. Cultured dermal fibroblasts from affected individuals showed accelerated cell cycle progression, a higher rate of senescence and enhanced activation of TGF-β signaling. Karyotypes showed the typical railroad appearance of a centromeric cohesion defect. Tissues derived from affected individuals displayed pathological changes in both the enteric nervous system and smooth muscle. Morpholino-induced knockdown of sgol1 in zebrafish recapitulated the abnormalities seen in humans with CAID syndrome. Our findings identify CAID syndrome as a novel generalized dysrhythmia, suggesting a new role for SGOL1 and the cohesin complex in mediating the integrity of human cardiac and gut rhythm.
Chronic exposure of humans to benzene (BZ) causes acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Both BZ and therapy-related secondary AML are characterized by chromosomal translocations that may occur by inappropriate recombinational events. DNA topoisomerase II (topo II) is an essential sulfhydryl (SH)-dependent endonuclease required for replication, recombination, chromosome segregation, and chromosome structure. Topo II cleaves DNA at purine(R)/pyrimidine(Y) repeat sequences that have been shown to be highly recombinogenic in vivo. Certain antineoplastic drugs stabilize topo II-DNA cleavage complexes at RY repeat sequences, which leads to translocations of the type observed in leukemia. Hydroquinone (HQ) is metabolized to p-benzoquinone (BQ) in a peroxidase-mediated reaction in myeloid progenitor cells. BQ interacts wit SH groups of SH-dependent enzymes. Consequently, the aims of this research were to determine whether HQ and BQ are topo II inhibitors. The ability of the compounds to inhibit the activity of topo III was tested using an assay system that depends on the conversion, by homogeneous human topo II, of catenated kinetoplast DNA into open and/or nicked open circular DNA that can be separated from the catenated DNA by electrophoresis in a 1% agarose-ethidium bromide gel. We provide preliminary data that indicate that both HQ and BQ cause a time and concentration (microM)-dependent inhibition of topo II activity. These compounds, which potentially can form adducts with DNA, have no effect on the migration of the supercoiled and open circular forms in the electrophoretic gradient, and BQ-adducted KDNA can be decatenated by topo II. Using a pRYG plasmid DNA with a single RY repeat as a cleavage site, it was determined that BQ does not stimulate the production of linear DNA indicative of an inhibition of topo II religation of strand breaks by stabilization of the covalent topo III-DNA cleavage complex. Rather, BQ most probably inhibits the SH-dependent topo II by binding to an essential SH group. The inhibition of topo II by BQ has implications for the formation of deleterious translocations that may be involved in BZ-induced initiation of leukemogenesis.
It has been hypothesized that the morbidity and mortality associated with schizophrenia can be prevented by providing effective treatment during the first episode of psychosis. Hence, the authors examined patients with first-episode psychosis to determine the efficacy and safety of olanzapine and haloperidol treatment.
A subpopulation of first-episode patients (N=83) from a large prospective, multicenter, international, double-blind, 6-week acute treatment study was evaluated. These patients were selected from a pool of 1,996 patients who had a DSM-III-R diagnosis of schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or schizophreniform disorder and who also met the following criteria: 1) the length of their current psychotic episode had to be 5 or fewer years, and 2) patients had to be 45 years of age or younger at onset of first psychotic symptoms.
Compared to haloperidol, olanzapine showed a statistically significantly greater reduction in the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) total and negative scores and in the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total and positive scores. Clinical response (defined as 40% or greater improvement in BPRS total score from baseline) was also statistically significantly higher in olanzapine-treated patients (67.2%) than in haloperidol-treated patients (29.2%). Olanzapine-treated patients further showed statistically significant improvements in the Simpson-Angus scale and Barnes Akathisia Scale scores, while haloperidol-treated patients showed a worsening on both measures. Compared to olanzapine-treated multiple-episode patients in the parent study, olanzapine-treated first-episode patients achieved an even statistically significantly higher response. Haloperidol-treated first-episode patients experienced statistically significantly more extrapyramidal symptoms than haloperidol-treated multiple-episode patients.
In patients experiencing first-episode psychosis, olanzapine had a risk-benefit profile significantly superior to that of haloperidol. The study results suggest that novel antipsychotic agents such as olanzapine should be considered as a preferred option in first-episode psychosis, on the basis of both safety and efficacy advantages.
Amphotericin B causes a normochromic, normocytic anemia thought to be mediated by direct marrow toxicity or suppression of erythropoietin production. Serial hemoglobin, hematocrit, amphotericin B, and erythropoietin levels were determined before, during, and after completion of amphotericin B therapy for three patients without significant renal disease or active hematologic malignancy. Patients with systemic fungal diseases treated with itraconazole served as controls. Serum erythropoietin levels were determined by radioimmunoassay and amphotericin B by high-performance liquid chromatography. Despite anemia in all amphotericin B-treated patients, erythropoietin levels declined or remained relatively constant during therapy while erythropoietin levels in controls were appropriate for the degree of anemia. Within 2 weeks of completion of amphotericin B treatment, two patients had increasing erythropoietin levels in response to anemia. Amphotericin B appears to suppress but not abolish the erythropoietin response to anemia; this effect disappears quickly after discontinuation of the drug.
The effect of carbamazepine (CBZ) and phenobarbital (PB), alone and in association, on the function of specific brain structures was studied in chronically treated epileptic patients by means of saccadic eye movements (SEMs) analysis. The relationship between daily fluctuations of CBZ plasma levels and the occurrence of intermittent side effects was also evaluated. All treatments produced a significant impairment (p less than 0.001) of SEM function as compared with a group of controls. SEM abnormalities appeared to change in relation to daily fluctuation of CBZ plasma levels. When the SEM parameters were considered separately, PB showed a significantly (p less than 0.001) more relevant sedative effect, whereas both drugs appear to produce the same effect on cerebellar and pontine functions. Although impairment of SEM function was most likely far from reaching clinical significance, it represents important information for the clinician.
Theophylline dose-dependently decreased a supraspinally integrated nociceptive threshold in awake rats. This hyperalgesia was antagonized by pretreatment with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (+)-MK-801, suggesting involvement of NMDA receptors. Depletion of endogenous catecholamines with reserpine or alpha-methyl-DL-p-tyrosine and inhibition of noradrenaline synthesis with FLA 63 reduced the theophylline-induced hyperalgesia, whereas blockade of dopamine D2 receptors by pimozide, haloperidol (2 mg/kg) or (-)-sulpiride, of dopamine D1 receptors by SCH 23390, or of dopamine autoreceptors by a low dose of haloperidol (25 micrograms/kg), had no effect. By contrast, the alpha 1-adrenoceptor-blocking agent phenoxybenzamine abolished the hyperreactivity induced by theophylline, whereas the alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin and the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist (+/-)-propranolol were without effect. Furthermore, the alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine (50 micrograms/kg) considerably decreased the hyperalgesia caused by theophylline. The adenosine A1/A2 receptor agonist N-ethyl-carboxamide adenosine (NECA) produced dose-dependent antinociception on the threshold for vocalization. Moreover, NECA (25 micrograms/kg) antagonized the hyperalgesia induced by different doses of theophylline, indicating that the effect is susceptible to purinergic modulation. It is suggested that theophylline-induced hyperreactivity to nociception is attributed to increased activity in NMDA and noradrenaline neurotransmission, possibly secondary to adenosine antagonism. Elevated intracellular levels of cyclic AMP might, however, also be involved in theophylline-produced hyperexcitability.
Twenty female rats with nursing litters were fed a diet containing 500 p.p.m. of hexachlorophene (HCP). The blood concentrations of hexachlorophene in mother rats were 4.7-6.0 mug/ml and in infant rats 2.0-2.5 mug/ml. Fifty percent of mother rats and 75% of infant rats died. Most of the surviving animals were asymptomatic apart from imparied visual function. Ten adult and 20 infant rats were killed by perfusion. Light- and electron-microscopic studies showed vacuolation of myelin in the central and peripheral nervous system and axonal degeneration which was especially severe in the optic nerves. After withdrawal of HCP hydrocephalus ex vacuo was present in the chronically intoxicated infant rats and the optic nerves showed marked atrophy and gliosis. Studies with liver mitochondria prepared from lactating hexachlorophene-fed rats showed a 50-75% inhibition of respiration with succinate as substrate.
Sodium stibogluconate (Sbb), a leishmanicidal drug, was studied for its in vivo effect on the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), assessed by chemiluminescence (CL) in the whole blood of mice infected with Leishmania infantum. Stimulation of ROS formation induced ex vivo by zymosan particles or the protein kinase C activator phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) was reduced by approximately 25% (P < 0.05) after infection of mice. Treatment of infected mice with Sbb (50 to 400 mg/kg of body weight) enhanced the blood CL induced by zymosan and PMA (47 to 96%, P < 0.01). The drug potentiation effect also occurred in uninfected mice. In vitro treatment of normal human blood with Sbb (1, 10, or 100 microg/ml) for 1 h primed the CL response to PMA (29 to 54%). The priming effect of Sbb was also observed on the production of superoxide by isolated polymorphonuclear leukocytes stimulated either by PMA and zymosan or by the chemoattractants N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe and platelet-activating factor. These data provide the first evidence of priming of the phagocyte respiratory burst by Sbb. This novel property of Sbb may contribute to the drug's leishmanicidal effect.
Divalproex (DVP) is increasingly prescribed to children and adolescents in psychiatric practices. Among the hematologic adverse effects of DVP, decreased platelet count is well described in the medical literature. However, to date, few studies describe the occurrence of macrocytosis as an adverse effect of divalproex. We report two cases of pediatric patients who developed macrocytosis and decreasing platelet counts secondary to DVP treatment. Because macrocytosis remained an asymptomatic nonprogressive condition for our patients, we support the recommendation for closer surveillance of the patients' complete blood counts for development of anemia in addition to thrombocytopenia.
The possible causative agent and shrimp species involved in a bait shrimp poisoning case that occurred in northern Taiwan was determined. Because the patient's symptoms were similar to those caused by boric acid and slightly similar to those caused by sulfite, the concentrations of boric acid and sulfite (as sulfur dioxide) in the patient's vomitus and in shrimp collected from bait stores and markets were analyzed. The concentration of boric acid was 36.8 to 37.1 mg/g in the patient's vomitus, 1.4 to 3.8 mg/g in shrimp meats obtained from bait stores, and not detectable (less than 0.001 mg/g) in shrimp meat obtained from commercial markets. No significant differences in sulfur dioxide concentrations (0.067 to 0.088 mg/g) were found in patient's vomitus and the shrimp meat from both bait stores and commercial markets. A fragment of the cytochrome b gene (∼406 bp) was amplified by PCR using a pair of primers (UCYTB151F and UCYTB270R) from shrimp meat of two species and the vomitus. The vomited shrimp was identified as Parapenaeus fissuroides on the basis of gene sequencing and restriction fragment length polymorphism patterns after treatment with endonuclease Alu I. Based on the patient's symptoms and analytical data, we concluded that boric acid at toxic levels had been illegally added to the bait shrimp P. fissuroides.
Cutaneous necroses, acute renal failure and an adrenocortical insufficiency appeared during heparin therapy in a 47 year old patient with myocardial infarction. The thrombocytes fell to 73,000/microliter and displayed intensified spontaneous aggregation. In histological investigation of the cutaneous necroses, intensive thromboses of the cutaneous and subcutaneous blood vessels were found. The findings indicate a thromboembolic etiology of the acute renal failure and the adrenocortical insufficiency. This case involves a complex example of a heparin-induced thrombopenia with thromboembolic complications.
Two experiments were conducted to examine the effects of 2,4-diaminoanisole sulfate (2,4-DAAS) on thyroid function and carcinogenesis in male Wistar rats. In experiment 1, feeding with 2,4-DAAS resulted in significantly elevated levels of thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), reduced thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) in the serum, although the latter had almost recovered to normal levels by week 6. However, skin application did not affect serum levels. In experiment 2, administration of 0.5% 2,4-DAAS in the diet for 19 weeks, a week after a single 210 mg/100 g body weight i.p. injection of N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (DHPN), significantly increased the incidence and numbers of preneoplastic lesions (focal hyperplasia), adenomas and carcinomas developing in the thyroid gland. Histologically, brown pigment was usually observed within follicular epithelial cells in non-tumorous regions, but not in the tumors themselves.
The cytochrome P450 CYP2C9 enzyme (CYP2C9) metabolizes many clinically important drugs, for example, phenytoin, warfarin and the angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptor antagonists, losartan and irbesartan. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the CYP2C9 gene result in the expression of three important variants, CYP2C9*1(wild-type), CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3, the last two exhibiting reduced catalytic activity compared with the wild-type. The CYP2C9 genotype is known to determine sensitivity to and dose requirements for both warfarin and phenytoin, and also the rate of metabolism of losartan. However, its influence on clinical response to treatment with the AT(1) receptor antagonist, irbesartan, has not been investigated.
To determine whether the CYP2C9genotype influences the blood pressure-decreasing response to antihypertensive treatment with irbesartan.
One hundred and two patients with essential hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy were allocated randomly to groups to receive double-blind treatment with either irbesartan (n = 49) or the beta(1)-adrenergic receptor blocker, atenolol ( n= 53). Blood pressure was measured before and after 12 weeks of treatment. genotyping was performed using solid-phase minisequencing.
The diastolic blood pressure (DBP) response differed in relation to the CYP2C9 genotype in patients given irbesartan: the reduction in patients with genotype CYP2C9*1/CYP2C9*1 (n = 33) was 7.5% and that with CYP2C9*1/CYP2C9*2 (n = 12) was 14.4% ( P= 0.036). A similar trend was seen for systolic blood pressure. In contrast, no relation was seen between the CYP2C9 genotype and blood pressure response to atenolol, a drug not metabolized via CYP2C9.
The CYP2C9 genotype seems to predict the DBP response to irbesartan, but not to atenolol, in patients with essential hypertension.
Indapamide is an effective antihypertensive agent for which a dual mechanism of action has been put forward: a limited diuretic activity combined with antivasoconstrictive effects, resulting in decreased peripheral vascular resistance. Results from clinical trials show that 2.5 mg indapamide once daily effectively reduces arterial blood pressure in about two-thirds of patients with mild to moderate hypertension and that this reduction is related to the severity of the hypertension. As a rule, indapamide's blood pressure-reducing effect is rapid in onset (within 1 or 2 weeks) and by 1 month reaches 65% of its maximum, which occurs after 3 to 4 months of treatment. No tachyphylaxis has been observed during long-term treatment, nor has withdrawal syndrome at discontinuation of therapy. Indapamide has been successfully combined with beta blockers, methyldopa, and other antihypertensive agents, adding considerable effectiveness without noticeable increase in adverse reactions. In general, the drug is well tolerated and side effects are mild and rare. Possibly in relation to its limited diuretic activity at 2.5 mg daily, long-term treatment seldom elicits significant changes in electrolyte balance. In addition, indapamide does not induce deleterious effects on carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. Indapamide is an effective, well-tolerated, first-line antihypertensive agent. The fact that long-term administration does not induce biochemical abnormalities that constitute cardiovascular risk factors indicates another advantage of the drug.
A 31-year-old white woman developed bilateral papilloedema whilst on lithium carbonate therapy for five years because of manic depressive illness. Oedema of the optic disc disappeared after lithium administration had been discontinued. To our knowledge this is the second case of this kind which has been reported in literature.
