Castrol-oil induced diarrhea in rats was potently prevented by compounds SR 140333 and SR 48968, the first a tachykinin NK1- and the second a NK2-receptor antagonist. SR 48968 was more effective and also reduced fecal water content.
We report a patient with rapidly accelerating HIV dementia accompanied by seizures and an unusual movement disorder despite highly potent antiretroviral therapy. This clinical constellation was associated with the non-parenteral use of methamphetamine and cocaine. Fractional enhancement time on post contrast magnetic resonance imaging studies revealed a progressive breakdown of the blood brain barrier particularly in the basal ganglia. The movement disorder but not the dementia responded to a combination of dopamine replacement and anticholinergic therapy. While the movement disorder may have been unmasked by concomitant anticonvulsant therapy, we suggest in this instance, that prior drug abuse synergized with HIV to cause a domino effect on cerebral function. Careful attention and analysis to histories of remote non-injecting drug abuse may help substantiate our hypothesis.
The p53 tumor suppressor pathway is disrupted by human papillomavirus (HPV) in most cervical cancer cells. The E6 proteins, which could mediate p53 degradation, are related to cellular immortalization, transformation, and tumor formation. In order to study the E6 abrogated p53 function in stress, we transfected HPV-16 E6 gene to TK6 cells in this study. Here we showed that HPV-16 E6 mRNA levels decreased in a dose dependent manner after sodium arsenite (SA) treatment, but not after X-irradiation. P53, p21, and MDM2 were induced in E6-transfected TK6 cells, as well as in parental TK6 cells after arsenite treatment. But the above proteins were only induced in TK6 cells after X-irradiation. It indicated that arsenite, but not X-ray, could suppress the transcription of E6 gene and therefore activate the p53 tumor suppressor pathway in TK6-E6 cells. After arsenite treatment, TK6-E6 cells showed more sub-G1 apoptosis, activated caspase-3/CPP32 fragment, DNA ladder, and less viability than parental TK6 cells, indicating that arsenite enhanced apoptosis in E6-transfected TK6 cells. In contrast, after X-irradiation, TK6-E6 cells showed less sub-G1 apoptosis and higher viability than parental TK6 cells. Thus, it would be another possible strategy to promote arsenite as another potential candidate for the therapeutic purpose in HPV-positive cancer cells.
We have reported recently that resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene), a polyphenolic phytoalexin found in grapes, fruits, and root extracts of the weed Polygonum cuspidatum, is a potent inhibitor of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activation. Because NF-kappaB suppression has been linked with chemoprevention, this prompted us to investigate the chemopreventive potential of resveratrol by testing it against mammary carcinogenesis induced by 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA) in female Sprague Dawley rats. Dietary administration of resveratrol (10 ppm) had no effect on body weight gain and tumor volume but produced striking reductions in the incidence (45%; P < 0.05), multiplicity (55%; P < 0.001), and extended latency period of tumor development relative to DMBA-treated animals. Histopathological analysis of the tumors revealed that DMBA induced ductal carcinomas and focal microinvasion in situ (7 of 7), whereas treatment with resveratrol suppressed DMBA-induced ductal carcinoma. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis revealed that resveratrol suppressed the DMBA-induced cyclooxygenase-2 and matrix metalloprotease-9 expression in the breast tumor. Gel shift analysis showed suppression of DMBA-induced NF-kappaB activation by resveratrol. Treatment of human breast cancer MCF-7 cells with resveratrol also suppressed the NF-kappaB activation and inhibited proliferation at S-G(2)-M phase. Overall, our results suggest that resveratrol suppresses DMBA-induced mammary carcinogenesis, which correlates with down-regulation of NF-kappaB, cyclooxygenase-2, and matrix metalloprotease-9 expression.
A 21 year old boy with borderline lepromatous leprosy and normal glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase activity developed haemolytic anaemia, hepatitis and agranulocytosis following 19 weeks of multi-bacillary multi-drug therapy. With early administration of antibiotics and G-CSF our patient recovered without residual complications. All patients taking dapsone should be warned to discontinue the drug immediately in the event of fever, chills and sore throat occurring within the treatment period until further investigations are performed.
Timolol is used topically for the treatment of glaucoma and metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 in the liver. The aim of this study is to test the hypothesis that CYP 2D6 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) is associated with drug effects of ophthalmic timolol.
A total of 133 primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) subjects underwent the ophthalmic single timolol administration and the drug effects were observed, including lowering the effects of intraocular pressure (IOP) and side effects (i.e., appearing bradycardia). Eight SNPs of CYP2D6 were investigated in 73 subjects by a SNPstream genotyping system. The relationship between the effects of timolol and CYP2D6 Arg296Cys and Ser486Thr genotype distribution in these POAG subjects was analyzed.
Topical timolol administration had significant effect on IOP (P = 0.000) and heart rate (HR) (P = 0.000) in all 133 subjects, and individual ocular hypotensive effect of timolol varied between 0 and 23 mmHg. Individual effect of HR varied between -31 and 10 beats per minute, in the present study. According to SNP genotyping in 73 subjects, there was no significant difference of IOP between subjects with different CYP2D6 Arg296Cys (P = 0.308) or Ser486Thr genotypes (P = 0.741). The effect of timolol on HR was significantly different between subjects with different Arg296Cys genotypes (P = 0.046). Timolol-induced bradycardia tended to occur in subjects with Arg296Cys CT and TT genotype when compared with CC genotype (P = 0.009).
CYP2D6 SNP Arg296Cys appeared to be correlative with the intersubject variability seen with timolol in POAG subjects. Subjects with CC genotype trended to avoid timolol-induced bradycardia, and subjects with TT genotype trended to have poorer timolol-induced ocular hypotensive effects.
The mechanism underlying sodium arsenite (arsenite)-induced neurotoxicity was investigated in rat brain. Arsenite was locally infused in the substantia nigra (SN) of anesthetized rat. Seven days after infusion, lipid peroxidation in the infused SN was elevated and dopamine level in the ipsilateral striatum was reduced in a concentration-dependent manner (0.3-5 nmol). Furthermore, local infusion of arsenite (5 nmol) decreased GSH content and increased expression of heat shock protein 70 and heme oxygenase-1 in the infused SN. Aggregation of alpha-synuclein, a putative pathological protein involved in several CNS neurodegenerative diseases, was elevated in the arsenite-infused SN. From the breakdown pattern of alpha-spectrin, both necrosis and apoptosis were involved in the arsenite-induced neurotoxicity. Pyknotic nuclei, cellular shrinkage and cytoplasmic disintegration, indicating necrosis, and TUNEL-positive cells and DNA ladder, indicating apoptosis was observed in the arsenite-infused SN. Arsenite-induced apoptosis was mediated via two different organelle pathways, mitochondria and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). For mitochondrial activation, cytosolic cytochrome c and caspase-3 levels were elevated in the arsenite-infused SN. In ER pathway, arsenite increased activating transcription factor-4, X-box binding protein 1, C/EBP homologues protein (CHOP) and cytosolic immunoglobulin binding protein levels. Moreover, arsenite reduced procaspase 12 levels, an ER-specific enzyme in the infused SN. Taken together, our study suggests that arsenite is capable of inducing oxidative injury in CNS. In addition to mitochondria, ER stress was involved in the arsenite-induced apoptosis. Arsenite-induced neurotoxicity clinically implies a pathophysiological role of arsenite in CNS neurodegeneration.
The Seveso, Italy accident in 1976 caused the contamination of a large population by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). Possible long-term effects have been examined through mortality and cancer incidence studies. We have updated the cancer incidence study which now covers the period 1977-96.
The study population includes subjects resident at the time of the accident in three contaminated zones with decreasing TCDD soil levels (zone A, very high; zone B, high; zone R, low) and in a surrounding non-contaminated reference territory. Gender-, age-, and period-adjusted rate ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were calculated by using Poisson regression for subjects aged 0-74 years.
All cancer incidence did not differ from expectations in any of the contaminated zones. An excess of lymphatic and hematopoietic tissue neoplasms was observed in zones A (four cases; RR, 1.39; 95% CI, 0.52-3.71) and B (29 cases; RR, 1.56; 95% CI, 1.07-2.27) consistent with the findings of the concurrent mortality study. An increased risk of breast cancer was detected in zone A females after 15 years since the accident (five cases, RR, 2.57; 95% CI, 1.07-6.20). No cases of soft tissue sarcomas occurred in the most exposed zones (A and B, 1.17 expected). No cancer cases were observed among subjects diagnosed with chloracne early after the accident.
The extension of the Seveso cancer incidence study confirmed an excess risk of lymphatic and hematopoietic tissue neoplasms in the most exposed zones. No clear pattern by time since the accident and zones was evident partly because of the low number of cases. The elevated risk of breast cancer in zone A females after 15 years since the accident deserves further and thorough investigation. The follow-up is continuing in order to cover the long time period (even decades) usually elapsing from exposure to carcinogenic chemicals and disease occurrence.
Previous studies have reported a potential genetic predisposition to NSAID-related upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding.
This study evaluated whether there was an association between 2 polymorphisms--the platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIIa PlA1/A2 polymorphism and the 27-bp VNTR (variable number of tandem repeats) polymorphism in intron 4 of the endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene--and a risk for nonvariceal upper GI bleeding in Spanish patients taking low-dose aspirin for secondary prophylaxis of vascular occlusive diseases.
Genotyping for the 2 polymorphisms was performed in patients hospitalized for upper GI bleeding associated with the use of low-dose aspirin between September 1998 and October 2000, and race-, age-, and sex-matched controls who were taking low-dose aspirin but had no history of upper GI bleeding. To ascertain allele frequencies in a healthy population, genotyping was also performed in an unmatched group of blood donors.
The study included 88 white patients (65 men, 23 women; mean age, 67.5 years) with an episode of upper GI bleeding, 108 matched controls with no history of upper GI bleeding (79 men, 29 women; mean age, 65.9 years), and 158 blood-donor controls (109 men, 49 women; mean age, 53.4 years). No significant differences were found between cases and controls in terms of genotype, carriage, or allele frequency of the GPIIIa PlA1/A2 polymorphism. However, after adjustment for confounding variables, logistic regression analysis indicated an association between carriage of the eNOS "a" allele and a reduced risk of upper GI bleeding (odds ratio [OR] 0.39; 95 CI, 0.18-0.85; P 0.018). In this model, treatment with nitrovasodilators (OR 0.28; 95 CI, 0.12-0.66; P 0.004) and use of antisecretory drugs (OR 0.15; 95 CI, 0.05-0.47; P 0.001) were also identified as protective factors. Helicobacter pylori infection (OR 3.07; 95 CI, 1.23-7.70; P 0.017), alcohol consumption (OR 5.04; 95 CI, 1.86-13.70; P 0.001), and a history of peptic ulcer (OR 13.41; 95 CI, 3.78-47.64; P 0.001) were identified as risk factors for upper GI bleeding.
In this small, selected population of individuals taking low-dose aspirin for secondary prevention, carriage of the "a" allele of the eNOS gene was associated with a decreased risk for upper GI bleeding.
To observe the effects of subchronic exposure to benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P) on the mRNA and protein expression levels of apoptosis-related genes (bax, bcl-2, caspase-3, caspase-6, and caspase-9) and the activities of Caspase-3, Caspase-6, and Caspase-9 in the hippocampal neurons of rats and to investigate the neurotoxic mechanism by which B[a]P induces the apoptosis of neurons.
Fifty-two healthy SD rat were randomly divided into five groups according to preliminary neurobehavioral test results: blank control group, solvent control group, and 1.0, 2.5, and 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups; the rats in exposure groups were intraperitoneally injected with B[a]P every other day for 90 days. The Morris water maze was used to test the learning and memory ability of rats; flow cytometry was used to measure the apoptosis ratio of hippocampal neurons; real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot were used to measure the mRNA and protein expression levels of apoptosis-related genes; spectrophotometry was used to measure the activities of their en-coded proteins.
Compared with the blank control group, solvent control group, and 1.0 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group, the 2.5 and 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups hada significantly longer mean escape latency period (P < 0.05) and a significantly increased number of times of platform crossing (P < 0.05), and the 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group had significantly lower length and percentage of time spent in the platform quadrant (P < 0.05). The early apoptosis ratio rose as the dose of B[a]P increased (P trend < 0.05); the early apoptosis ratios of 1.0, 2.5, and 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups were significantly higher than those of blank control group and solvent control group (P < 0.05). Compared with the blank control group, solvent control group, and 1.0 and 2.5 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups, the 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group had significantly increased Bax expression (P < 0.05) and significantly decreased Bcl-2 expression and Bcl-2/Bax ratio (P < 0.05). The 2.5 and 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups had significantly higher expression levels of Caspase-3 and Caspase-6 than the blank control group, solvent control group, and 1.0 mg/kg B[a]P exposure group (P < 0.05). The activities of Caspase-3, Caspase-6, and Caspase-9 were significantly higher in the 2.5 and 6.25 mg/kg B[a]P exposure groups than in the blank control group and solvent control group (P < 0.05). There was a positive correlation between the activities of Caspase-3, Caspase-6, and Caspase-9 and early apoptosis ratio of hippocampal neurons in rats (r = 0.793, P = 0.019; r = 0.886, P = 0.006; r = 0.773, P = 0.025). There were no significant differences in the mRNA expression of Bax, Bcl-2, Caspase-3, Caspase-6, and Caspase-9 among these groups (P > 0.05).
Subchronic exposure to B[a]P can induce apoptosis of hippocampal neurons; its mechanism may be related to the fact that B[a]P can induce upregulated expression of Bax, inhibit expression of Bcl-2, lead to decrease in Bcl-2/Bax ratio, induce upregulated expression of Caspase-3 and Caspase-6, and cause increase in the activities of Caspase-3, Caspase-6, and Caspase-9.
2,4,6-Trinitrotoluene (TNT) is an important occupational and environmental pollutant. In TNT-exposed humans, notable toxic manifestations have included aplastic anaemia, toxic hepatitis, cataracts, hepatomegaly and liver cancer. Therefore, it is important to develop protection measures and to monitor workers involved in the clean-up of ammunition sites. Haemoglobin (Hb) adducts of TNT, 4-amino-2,6-dinitrotoluene (4ADNT) and 2-amino-4,6-dinitrotoluene (2ADNT), and the urine metabolites of TNT, 4ADNT and 2ADNT were found in 22-50% of the exposed workers, but not in the control group. The exposed workers were wearing protective equipment. The levels of erythrocytes, haemoglobin, creatinine, serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase and lymphocyte levels were significantly lower in the exposed workers than in the non-exposed workers. The levels of blood urea and reticulocytes were significantly higher in the exposed workers than in the non-exposed workers. Headache (26%), mucous membrane irritation (16%), sick leave (18%), lassitude (8%), anxiety (6%), shortness of breath (3%), nausea (5%) and allergic reactions (8%) were reported by the exposed workers. In a further analysis the U-4ADNT levels and the Hb-adduct levels were compared to the blood parameter and the health effects. The blood parameters were not significantly different between the U-4ADNT positive and U-4ADNT-negative group. Headache, mucous membrane irritation, sick leave, lassitude, anxiety, shortness of breath and allergic reactions were statistically not different between the two groups. Also in the workers with Hb-4ADNT adducts no significant negative changes were seen in regards to the changes of the blood parameters or the health effects. According to the results of the present study, it appears that the blood parameter changes and the health effects are more influenced by other factors than by the internal exposure to TNT.
Cross-talk between receptor tyrosine kinases and estrogen receptor is at least partly responsible for the development of acquired resistance to endocrine therapies. Hence, targeting receptor tyrosine kinases and their downstream partners with inhibitors/antagonists may reverse this resistance. Although ras mutations are rare in breast cancer (2%), aberrant function of Ras signal transduction pathways is common. We therefore investigated the efficacy of the farnesyltransferase inhibitor (FTI) R115777 (tipifarnib) in combination with tamoxifen in MCF-7 human breast cancer models both in vitro and in vivo. There was a synergistic antiproliferative interaction between R115777 and 4-hydroxy-tamoxifen in vitro as calculated by median effect analysis. The combination resulted in a significantly greater G(1) arrest than either drug alone and this was associated with marked inhibition of cyclin D1 and induction of the cell cycle inhibitor p27(kip1). Combining R115777 with either tamoxifen or estrogen withdrawal in vivo produced a significantly greater inhibition of tumor growth and lower xenograft cell proliferation than either therapy alone. These results suggest that the combination of this FTI with endocrine therapy may be of therapeutic benefit in the treatment of breast cancer. Enhanced G1 arrest due to modulation of cell cycle regulatory proteins may be the underlying mechanism for the positive interaction between FTIs and tamoxifen.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common malignancy worldwide, with no effective treatment for most individuals who succumb to this neoplasm. We report that treatment of primary HCC cells with the mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) kinase 1/2 inhibitor AZD6244 (ARRY-142886) plus doxorubicin led to synergistic growth inhibition and apoptosis. In vivo administration of AZD6244, doxorubicin, or the combination of AZD6244 and doxorubicin in mice bearing 5-1318 HCC xenografts resulted in approximately 52% +/- 15%, 12% +/- 9%, and 76% +/- 7% growth inhibition, respectively. AZD6244-inhibited tumor growth was associated with increased apoptosis, inactivation of ERK1/2, inhibition of cell proliferation, and down-regulation of cell cycle regulators, including cyclin D1, cdc-2, cyclin-dependent kinases 2 and 4, cyclin B1, and c-Myc. The AZD6244-doxorubicin combined protocol not only promoted apoptosis but also induced a synergistic effect not seen in single-agent-treated tumors, including increased expression of the p130 RB tumor suppressor gene. Our study provides a strong rationale for clinical investigation of combination therapy with the mitogen-activated protein/ERK kinase 1/2 inhibitor AZD6244 and doxorubicin in patients with HCC.
Primary and metastatic tumors of the liver can be treated successfully with transcatheter chemoembolization (TACE) during selective arterial catheterism. Arteritis is a possible referred side effect which can lead to tortuosity of the arteries, stenosis and occlusion of vessels. In our hospitals 117 consecutive patients were treated with TACE from January 1990 to December 1992; 61 patients were affected by hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and 56 were affected by metastases from colorectal carcinoma. Each patient received from 1 to 4 treatments at monthly intervals using epirubicin/Lipiodol ultrafluid (E/LUF) or a mixture of epirubicin and mitomicin C (MC)/LUF and followed by gelatine sponge injection in the hepatic artery. Selective angiography performed 30-62 days after the first chemoembolization showed artery stenosis in 7 patients and thrombosis in 2 cases related to toxic arteritis due to chemoembolization. Reports about arteritis during TACE treatments are discussed.
Sinus bradycardia was observed as a side-effect to the use of 0.4% oxybuprocaine eye-drops in a 48-year-old man with acute conjunctivitis. Blood pressure was not measurable during the episode.
Uroguanylin induces natriuresis and diuresis in vivo as well as in vitro and is found mainly in the intestine and the kidney. However, the roles of uroguanylin in nephrotic syndrome, which is associated with sodium and water retention, have not been determined. Therefore, changes in the urine and plasma concentration of immunoreactive uroguanylin (ir-uroguanylin) and its mRNA expression in the kidney and intestine were examined using rats with puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were separated into control and nephrotic groups, and then the urinary excretion of sodium, protein, and ir-uroguanylin was examined over time. The plasma levels and renal and intestinal mRNA expression of uroguanylin at the periods of sodium retention and remarkable natriuresis also were evaluated. The sequential changes of urinary ir-uroguanylin excretion in the nephrotic group were similar to those of urinary sodium excretion. When the urinary excretion of ir-uroguanylin and sodium peaked, the plasma level of ir-uroguanylin also increased compared with that of the control group. Uroguanylin mRNA expression in the kidney increased during the period of sodium retention and then decreased during the period of remarkable natriuresis. Uroguanylin mRNA expression in the small intestines of control and nephrotic rats were identical. However, in a unilateral PAN-induced proteinuria, uroguanylin expression significantly increased in the PAN-perfused kidney compared with that in the opposite kidney. Considering the natriuretic effect of uroguanylin, these results suggested that uroguanylin plays an important role as a natriuretic factor in nephrotic syndrome via both the circulation and the kidney itself.
Atracurium consists of a mixture of ten stereoisomers. One of these isomers, 51W89, is a potent intermediate-acting nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent. Its ED95 is 0.05 mg.kg-1 in patients receiving nitrous oxide/opioid anesthesia. In preclinical trials, 51W89 did not show evidence of histamine release in cats at doses up to 80 times the human ED95. This study was undertaken to determine the cardiovascular effects and histamine-releasing properties of 51W89 in patients undergoing elective surgical procedures.
Sixty patients, ASA physical status 1 or 2, anesthetized with nitrous oxide/fentanyl/thiopental were studied. Patients received either 2 times the ED95 of atracurium or 51W89 or 4 or 8 times the ED95 of 51W89 as a rapid intravenous bolus under stable anesthesia, before surgical stimulation. Blood pressure and heart rate were measured by oscillometry and the electrocardiogram in patients receiving 2 times the ED95 of 51W89 or atracurium and by an intraarterial catheter and a tachograph triggered by the arterial pulse waveform in patients receiving 4 or 8 times the ED95 of 51W89. Maximal blood pressure and heart rate changes during the 5 min after administration of the muscle relaxant were recorded. Venous blood samples were obtained before the administration of relaxant and at 2 and 5 min after the administration of relaxant for determination of plasma histamine concentrations by radioenzymatic assay.
Maximal blood pressure and heart rate changes in all groups of patients receiving 51W89 were small and similar to those observed in patients receiving 2 times the ED95 of atracurium. The mean maximum percent changes (+/- SE) in heart rate and mean arterial pressure were -0.6 +/- 1.5 and 0.4 +/- 2.5, respectively, in the group receiving 2 times the ED95 atracurium; -1.3 +/- 3.3 and 2.3 +/- 4.4, respectively, in the group receiving 2 times the ED95 51W89; -2.6 +/- 1.0 and 2.6 +/- 1.5, respectively, in the group receiving 4 times the ED95 51W89; and -2.4 +/- 1.5 and -1.0 +/- 1.3, respectively, in the group receiving 8 times the ED95 51W89. No patient developed a decrease in blood pressure > or = 20% or an increase in heart rate > or = 20% that was attributable to muscle relaxant administration. There was no dose-related change in plasma histamine concentration associated with the administration of 51W89. One patient in the study developed transient facial flushing after the administration of atracurium.
51W89 is a benzylisoquinolinium-type, nondepolarizing muscle relaxant that does not affect plasma histamine concentrations. No cutaneous flushing or clinically important cardiovascular effects were noted after rapid injection of doses up to and including 8 times its ED95 (0.4 mg.kg-1) in healthy patients undergoing elective surgical procedures.
We previously reported an Ser50Thr mutation in the NRL gene as a cause of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa.
To determine the characteristic features of the autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa phenotype associated with the NRL Ser50Thr mutation in affected individuals from 4 related families.
Clinical records were available for 21 affected individuals; 7 underwent more extensive electrophysiologic and psychophysical testing.
Night blindness was the first symptom to manifest, with onset between birth and age 16 years. Difficulty with peripheral vision was experienced between 20 and 37 years of age. Visual acuity was well preserved in younger individuals, but those older than 30 years frequently had substantial visual loss (6/36 or worse) associated with macular atrophy. Electrophysiologic testing revealed a nondetectable scotopic electroretinogram with relative preservation of the photopic electroretinogram and pattern electroretinography in the 3 youngest patients tested (aged 15-18 years). In older individuals, all components of the electroretinogram were nondetectable. Dark-adapted visual fields in younger individuals were greatly impaired, but their photopic fields remained relatively well preserved. Older patients had photopic fields limited to just a few degrees. Distinctive peripapillary chorioretinal atrophy seems to develop as the disorder progresses.
The NRL Ser50Thr mutation is associated with selective loss of scotopic function before age 20 years. With time, however, the photopic system becomes affected, leading to loss of the photopic visual field and of visual acuity.
Recent in vitro and in vivo studies have suggested that nitric oxide may be the neurotransmitter responsible for cavernous smooth muscle relaxation and penile erection. Sodium nitroprusside, after combining with different kinds of thiols in the cellular cytoplasm, can effect nitric oxide release. We undertook this study to determine the physiologic response to sodium nitroprusside injection when used to induce and maintain penile erection in three species. Sodium nitroprusside was injected in increasing concentrations into the cavernous tissue of rats, dogs and monkeys. Dosages injected were 10(-4) M, 10(-3) M and 10(-2) M in 10 rats; 10(-4) and 10(-3) M in five dogs and five monkeys. The volume of drug injected was 0.05 ml for the rats and 0.5 ml for dogs and monkeys. The results show a dose-dependent erectile response to sodium nitroprusside injection (mean intracavernous pressure increase of 102.4 cm H2O in dogs, and 98.4 cm H2O in monkeys after injection of 10(-3) M nitroprusside). However, only a slight increase in intracavernous pressure (mean increase 28.4 cm H2O after injection of 10(-2) M of sodium nitroprusside) was noted in rats. The drop in blood pressure was > 15 mmHg in dogs and monkeys, while in rats it varied according to the dose studied. Sodium nitroprusside induced excellent erections in dogs and monkeys with minimal alteration in blood pressure. However, administration in rats resulted in hypotension. Nitroprusside may not be an acceptable nitric oxide donor for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction.
We sought to determine the yield of in-hospital monitoring for detection of significant arrhythmia complications in patients starting sotalol therapy for atrial arrhythmias and to identify factors that might predict safe outpatient initiation.
The need for hospital admission during initiation of antiarrhythmic therapy has been questioned, particularly for sotalol, with which proarrhythmia may be dose related.
The records of 120 patients admitted to the hospital for initiation of sotalol therapy were retrospectively reviewed to determine the incidence of significant arrhythmia complications, defined as new or increased ventricular arrhythmias, significant bradycardia or excessive corrected QT (QTc) interval prolongation.
Twenty-five patients (20.8%) experienced 35 complications, triggering therapy changes during the hospital period in 21 (17.5%). New or increased ventricular arrhythmias developed in 7 patients (5.8%) (torsade de pointes in 2), significant bradycardia in 20 (16.7%) (rate <40 beats/min in 13, pause >3.0 s in 4, third-degree atrioventricular block in 1, permanent pacemaker implantation in 3) and excessively prolonged QTc intervals in 8 (6.7%) (dosage reduced or discontinued in 6). Time to the earliest detection of complications was 2.1 +/- 2.5 (mean +/- SD) days after initiation of sotalol, with 22 of 25 patients meeting criteria for complications within 3 days of monitoring. Baseline electrocardiographic intervals or absence of heart disease failed to distinguish a low risk group. Multivariate analysis identified absence of a pacemaker as the only significant predictor of arrhythmia complications (p = 0.022).
Because clinically significant complications can be detected with in-hospital monitoring in one of five patients starting sotalol therapy, hospital admission is warranted for initiation of sotalol. Patients without pacemakers are at higher risk for these complications.
To study the efficacy of mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) as renal rescue in paediatric liver transplant recipients with calcineurin-inhibitor- (CI) related nephrotoxicity.
Pediatric liver transplant recipients with stable graft function and a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) <80 ml/min/1.73 m2 were enrolled. MMF was introduced at 20 mg/kg/day and increased to 40 mg/kg/day after 1 week. CI dose was then reduced 6 weeks to achieve blood levels 25% of baseline. GFR was reassessed after 6 and 12 months.
Fourteen children with a median (range) interval from transplant of 57 (4-111) months were studied. Their median (range) GFR in ml/min/1.73 m2 increased from a baseline of 52 (31-71), to 69 (38-111) and 73 (35-98) at 6 and 12 months, respectively (P=0.00014). Side effects of MMF include leucopaenia in two and backache in one, two of whom discontinued MMF. Acute allograft rejection occurred in three children. All 14 are well with a median (range) follow-up of 24 (14-38) months from MMF introduction.
MMF allows the recovery of renal function from CI related nephrotoxicity in more than 70% of paediatric liver transplant recipients with renal impairment.
In this study, the effects of mepyramine (H1-receptor antagonist), famotidine (H2-receptor antagonist), physostigmine (a cholinesterase inhibitor) and atropine (muscarinic-receptor antagonist) have investigated on the formalin-induced nociception in rats. The effects of mepyramine and famotidine have also examined on nociceptive changes induced by physostigmine and atropine. Nociception was induced by intraplantar injection of formalin (50 microL, 1%) into the right hind paw and the time spent licking and biting of the injected paw, was taken as a measure of pain. Formalin induced a marked biphasic (first phase: 0-5 min and second phase: 15-45 min) pain response. The used drugs did not change the first phase of formalin-induced pain. Subcutaneous injection of physostigmine significantly (p<0.05) suppressed pain. Subcutaneous injection of atropine alone did not change the intensity of pain, but pretreatment with atropine significantly (p<0.05) prevented physostigmine-induced antinociception. Intraperitoneal injections of mepyramine and famotidine significantly (p<0.05) decreased pain response. Mepyramine did not significantly change, but famotidine significantly (p<0.05) prevented analgesic effect of physostigmine on pain. Atropine did not inhibit the antinociceptive effects of both mepyramine and famotidine on formalin-induced nociception. These results indicate that physostigmine through muscarinic cholinergic receptors suppresses the pain induced by formalin. Both H1 and H2 receptor antagonists produce antinociception. Histamine H2, but no H1 antagonists may be involved in physostigmine-induced antinociception.
The peroxisome-biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a genetically and phenotypically diverse group of diseases caused by defects in peroxisome assembly. One of the milder clinical variants within the PBDs is neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), a disease that is usually associated with partial defects in the import of peroxisomal matrix proteins that carry the type 1 or type 2 peroxisomal targeting signals. Here, we characterize the sole representative of complementation group 13 of the PBDs, a patient with NALD (patient PBD222). Skin fibroblasts from patient PBD222 display defects in the import of multiple peroxisomal matrix proteins. However, residual matrix-protein import can be detected in cells from patient PBD222, consistent with the relatively mild phenotypes of the patient. PEX13 encodes a peroxisomal membrane protein with a cytoplasmically exposed SH3 domain, and we find that expression of human PEX13 restores peroxisomal matrix-protein import in cells from patient PBD222. Furthermore, these cells are homozygous for a missense mutation at a conserved position in the PEX13 SH3 domain. This mutation attenuated the activity of human PEX13, and an analogous mutation in yeast PEX13 also reduced its activity. The mutation was absent in >100 control alleles, indicating that it is not a common polymorphism. Previous studies have demonstrated extragenic suppression in the PBDs, but the phenotypes of patient PBD222 cells could not be rescued by expression of any other human PEX genes. Taken together, these results provide strong evidence that mutations in PEX13 are responsible for disease in patient PBD222 and, by extension, in complementation group 13 of the PBDs.
Two hundred fifty-eight patients with suspected sepsis were treated with tobramycin or gentamicin in a prospective, randomized, double-blind trial. One hundred forty-six patients received nine or more doses, had serial determinations of serum creatinine, and were evaluated for nephrotoxicity; 91 were able to cooperate with audiometry and were evaluated for auditory toxicity. Auditory toxicity developed in five of 47 (10 per cent) given gentamicin and five of 44 (11 per cent) given tobramycin. Nephrotoxicity developed in 19 of 72 (26 per cent) given gentamicin and nine of 74 (12 per cent) given tobramycin (P less than 0.025). The severity of the nephrotoxicity was not different; the mean increase in creatinine was 1.3 mg per 100 ml (114.9 mumol per liter) in both groups. Both the tobramycin and gentamicin groups had a similar mean age, initial serum creatinine level, total dose, serum aminoglycoside level, and duration of therapy. We conclude that tobramycin causes nephrotoxicity less frequently than does gentamicin.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether functional abnormalities in coronary vasomotion are present in young healthy asymptomatic men fulfilling the World Health Organization (WHO) criteria for borderline hypertension.
Previous studies have reported reduced coronary flow reserve in middle-aged subjects with sustained hypertension and hypertension-induced microvascular heart disease or left ventricular hypertrophy.
Myocardial blood flow was measured at baseline and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia by means of positron emission tomography and oxygen-15-labeled water in asymptomatic young men with borderline hypertension (group 1: n = 16, mean +/- SD age 37 +/- 4 years, 24-h ambulatory blood pressure 135 +/- 10/81 +/- 9 mm Hg) and matched healthy control subjects (group 2: n = 19, age 35 +/- 3 years, 24-h ambulatory blood pressure 119 +/- 8/69 +/- 8 mm Hg, p < 0.001). Left ventricular (LV) mass, dimensions and function were measured by echocardiography.
LV mass, dimensions and diastolic function were similar in the study groups. Baseline myocardial blood flow was similar (0.83 +/- 0.21 vs. 0.80 +/- 0.22 ml/g per min, group 1 vs. group 2, respectively, p = NS), and a significant increase in flow was detected after dipyridamole infusion (0.56 mg/kg body weight in 4 min intravenously) in both groups. However, the flow response to dipyridamole was significantly lower in group 1, leading to lower hyperemic flow in group 1 than in group 2 (2.85 +/- 1.20 vs. 3.80 +/- 1.44 ml/g per min, respectively). Consequently, the coronary flow response was lower in hypertensive than in normotensive men (3.46 +/- 1.23 vs. 4.99 +/- 2.5 ml/g per min, group 1 vs. group 2, respectively, p < 0.05).
These results demonstrate reduced coronary reactivity present in young asymptomatic men with borderline hypertension and no signs of hypertension-induced angina or left ventricular hypertrophy. Because baseline basal myocardial blood flow was unchanged, the reduction in coronary flow reserve depends on an impaired maximal vasodilator capacity.
During proton pump inhibitor (PPI) use, in clinical trials, headache is one of the most frequently reported adverse events (frequency 1.3 to 8.8%), while results of one observational study indicate that headache is the fifth most frequently reported adverse event (incidence densities 2.5 to 4.6 per 1000 patient-months of exposure). However, there are no observational studies performed regarding the occurrence and features of headache during use of PPIs in daily practice. For this reason this study was set up with the aim to assess the incidence and characteristics of headache and to investigate possible associated co-factors in PPI users in daily practice.
Data were used from a prospective, observational study in which 10 008 lansoprazole users were followed over time. The study was designed according to the Safety Assessment of Marketed Medicines guidelines. A nested case-control design was used to compare PPI users reporting headache or not.
The frequency of headache was 2.5% in users of lansoprazole and the incidence density was 7.2 per 1000 patient-months of PPI lansoprazole use. Two-thirds of patients with headache had tension headache and one-third had migraine. The analysis of co-factors revealed that women, patients with previous use of analgesics and patients reporting several adverse events, were at risk to develop headache during PPI use. Patients with headache also, significantly more often, reported diarrhoea, nausea and dizziness. A discontinuation of PPI therapy resulted in a cessation or reduction of the headache in 80.0% (20 of 25).
As can be expected, headache was reported less frequently in this study compared with clinical trials with lansoprazole. The incidence density was comparable with other observational data of lansoprazole and omeprazole users. Besides several commonly accepted co-factors such as female gender and a history of analgesic use, we also found the reporting of other adverse events to be associated with the reporting of headache during lansoprazole use. The cessation of headache after a discontinuation of use of the PPI and the observed dose relationship suggested that headache was indeed an adverse effect of lansoprazole use.
