Increasing concentrations of contaminants, often resulting from anthropogenic activities, have been reported to occur in the marine environment and affect marine organisms. Among these, the metal ions cadmium and manganese have been shown to induce developmental delay and abnormalities, mainly reflecting skeleton elongation perturbation, in the sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus, an established model for toxicological studies. Here, we provide evidence that the physiological messenger nitric oxide (NO), formed by l-arginine oxidation by NO synthase (NOS), mediates the stress response induced by cadmium and manganese in sea urchins. When NO levels were lowered by inhibiting NOS, the proportion of abnormal plutei increased. Quantitative expression of a panel of 19 genes involved in stress response, skeletogenesis, detoxification and multidrug efflux processes was followed at different developmental stages and under different conditions: metals alone, metals in the presence of NOS inhibitor, NO donor and NOS inhibitor alone. These data allowed the identification of different classes of genes whose metal-induced transcriptional expression was directly or indirectly mediated by NO. These results open new perspectives on the role of NO as a sensor of different stress agents in sea urchin developing embryos.
The effect of high concentrations of glutamate and glycine on picrotoxin seizure thresholds was investigated by perfusion through microdialysis probes in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. Microperfusion of glutamate at concentrations up to 1 mM, produced no changes in behavior or basal EEG recordings, but microperfusion of 200 microM glutamate was sufficient to lower the picrotoxin seizure threshold down to 50% in 60% of the animals studied and produced an increase of 180+/-23% in seizure duration. Microperfusion of 1 mM glutamate reduced seizure threshold in all animals, and markedly prolonged seizure duration (230+/-30%). Microperfusion of 200 microM or 1 mM glycine lowered picrotoxin seizure thresholds down to 50% in 70% of the animals and lengthened seizure duration up to 176+/-43%. Continuous microperfusion of the antagonist for the glycine binding site in NMDA receptors 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (100 microM) reversed the effect of both glutamate (1 mM) and glycine (1 mM) and suppressed seizures completely in 90% of the animals. These results indicate that although neurotoxicity is not achieved by perfusing glutamate and glycine at concentrations as high as 1 mM, neuronal excitability is modified by altering extracellular glutamate and glycine concentrations, and they suggest that glutamate-induced neuronal hyperexcitability is induced through mechanisms different from excitotoxicity.
The aim of this study was to determine whether asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), an endogenous inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), is responsible for the detrimental effects of nicotine on ethanol-induced gastric mucosal injury and its underlying mechanisms. Gastric mucosal injury was induced by an injection of ethanol in the stomach in rats. Animals were pretreated with nicotine for 28 days before ethanol injection. The gastric mucosal ulcer index (UI) and the levels of ADMA and NO in gastric juice were determined. In vitro, the cultured mucosal epithelial cells were treated with nicotine in the presence or absence of ethanol. The concentration of ADMA in the culture medium and the ratio of cell apoptosis were measured, and the effect of nicotine or ADMA alone on cell apoptosis was also examined. In rats treated with ethanol, the UI and ADMA levels were increased and the NO level was decreased, and these effects of ethanol were augmented by pretreatment with nicotine. Administration of nicotine alone did not show significant impact on UI, ADMA level, or NO level. In vitro, incubation of human epithelial cells with ethanol induced cell injury accompanied by increased ADMA levels in the culture medium, an effect which was amplified in the presence of nicotine. Similarly, ethanol was able to induce epithelial cell apoptosis that was exacerbated by nicotine. Incubation of epithelial cells with nicotine alone did not induce cell apoptosis, but administration of ADMA alone did induce cell apoptosis. The results suggest that the gastric mucosal injury induced by ethanol is augmented by nicotine, which is related to the increased ADMA level.
Activators of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha, a nuclear hormone receptor that heterodimerizes with retinoid X receptor, stimulate epidermal differentiation and inhibit proliferation. Here we determined the anti-inflammatory effects of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonists in models of irritant and allergic contact dermatitis produced in mouse ears by topical treatment with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate and oxazalone, respectively. As expected, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate treatment resulted in a marked increase in the thickness and weight of the ears and provoked an inflammatory cell infiltrate in the dermis. Topical treatment with three different peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonists, clofibrate, WY 14643, or linoleic acid, 45 min and 4 h after 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate application, resulted in a marked decrease in ear thickness and weight and a reduction in the number of inflammatory cells in the dermis. The reduction in inflammation by these peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonists was of similar magnitude to that seen with a potent topical glucocorticoid, clobetasol. In contrast, stearic acid, a free fatty acid that does not activate peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha, had no effect on the 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-induced inflammation. Moreover, clofibrate did not significantly alter ear thickness following 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate treatment in peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha-/- mice, indicating that the anti-inflammatory effect is mediated by peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha. As tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1alpha are major mediators of cutaneous inflammation we next used immunohistochemistry to determine whether the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonists reduce the levels of these cytokines in 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-treated skin. 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate treatment resulted in an increase in tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1alpha staining in the epidermis that was reduced by clofibrate treatment. Finally, clofibrate treatment also reduced ear thickness and weight in oxazalone-induced allergic dermatitis, a change that was accompanied by a reduction in inflammatory cells in the dermis and a decrease in tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1alpha levels in the oxazalone-treated epidermis. These studies demonstrate that topically applied peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonists possess receptor mediated, anti-inflammatory activity in both irritant and allergic contact dermatitis animal models. The anti-inflammatory properties of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonists, coupled with their anti-proliferative and pro-differentiating effects, suggest that they could be beneficial for the treatment of a variety of cutaneous diseases.
A bolus of 1000 mg of 5-FU intravenously was given to a 54-year-old patient with adenocarcinoma of colon, a month after hemicolectomy. He had not received irradiation therapy. Five hours later he complained of severe chest pain; after 24 hours ecg. changes of pericarditis were seen and on heart auscultation a pericardial friction rub was heard. After 6 day the ecg. returned to the pattern of that on day of admission to the ICCU. Two further injections of 1000 mg of 5-FU were also followed by severe precordial pain and the same ecg. pattern. The pulmonary edema 14 hours after the second injection and the slight elevation of CPK value after the third injection strongly suggest myocardial cell damage. For the strictly temporal relationship between the clinical and electrocardiographic pattern with 5-FU administration intravenously, we are of the opinion that the perimyocarditis was due to the direct toxic action of 5-FU on pericardium and myocardium.
Familial visceral myopathy (FVM) is a rare inherited form of myopathic pseudo-obstruction; little is known about the genetic factors that cause this disorder. FVM is characterized by impaired functions of enteric smooth muscle cells, resulting in abnormal intestinal motility, severe abdominal pain, malnutrition, and even death. We searched for genetic factors that might cause this disorder.
We performed whole-exome sequence analysis of blood samples from 2 individuals in a family that had 7 members diagnosed with FVM. Sanger sequencing was used to analyze additional family members and 280 individuals without this disorder (controls). Intestinal tissue samples from 4 patients and 2 controls were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. Functional studies, including immunofluorescence, cell contractility, and actomyosin structure analyses, were performed using CRL-1976 and U2OS sarcoma cell lines.
Whole-exome sequence analysis of DNA from 2 siblings identified 83 gene variants that were shared between the siblings and considered as possible disease-causing changes. A heterozygous variant, R148S in enteric smooth muscle actin γ-2 (ACTG2), segregated with disease phenotype. Intestinal smooth muscle (muscularis propria) from individuals with FVM had reduced levels of cytoplasmic ACTG2 and abnormal accumulation of the protein into intracellular inclusions compared with controls. Sarcoma cells that expressed exogenous ACTG2(R148S) incorporated reduced amounts of this protein into actin filaments compared with cells expressing ACTG2(wt) (P < .001). ACTG2(R148S) also interfered with actin cytoskeleton organization and the contractile activities of the cells, indicating a dominant-negative effect. These findings, along with the site of the variation in the protein, indicate that ACTG2 R148S interferes with actin filament assembly.
We identified the R148S variant in ACTG2 as a cause of FVM in one family. The altered ACTG2 protein appears to aggregate, rather than form actin filaments, in intestinal smooth muscle tissue. This defect could impair contraction of the visceral smooth muscle cells and reduce bowel motility.
A 66-year-old man with hepatic metastases from gastric adenocarcinoma was treated on two occasions with 5-fluoro-2-deoxyuridine (FUdR) via hepatic artery infusion (HAI). The patient developed neurologic signs and symptoms including disorientation, oculomotor defects, ataxia and multifocal myoclonus during both attempts at HAI. Systemic drug toxicity is unusual when FUdR is given via HAI, and neurologic toxicity has not previously been reported. We postulate individual hypersensitivity to FUdR or selective concentration of FUdR in brainstem structures to explain the toxicity in this case.
Worldwide, 1-4 per 1,000 births are affected by clubfoot. Clubfoot etiology is unclear, but both genetic and environmental factors are thought to be involved. Low folate status in pregnant women has been implicated in several congenital malformations, and folate metabolism may be affected by polymorphisms in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene (MTHFR). Using a case-parent-triad design, the authors investigated whether the MTHFR C677T polymorphism, and maternal periconceptional folic acid supplement use, influenced risk of isolated clubfoot. Three hundred seventy-five United Kingdom case-parent triads were recruited in 1998-1999. Among the children, there was a significant trend of decreasing clubfoot risk with increasing number of T alleles: relative risk for CT vs. CC = 0.75, 95% confidence interval: 0.57, 0.97; relative risk for TT vs. CC = 0.57, 95% confidence interval: 0.35, 0.91; p trend = 0.006. This association was not modified by maternal folic acid use. Maternal MTHFR genotype did not influence clubfoot risk for the offspring overall, although a possible interaction with folic acid use was found. This is the first known report of a specific genetic polymorphism associated with clubfoot. The direction of the association is intriguing and suggests that DNA synthesis may be relevant in clubfoot development. However, clubfoot mechanisms are poorly understood, and the folate metabolism pathway is complex. Further research is needed to elucidate these relations.
Ten dogs were studied to determine the effects of xylazine, ketamine, and xylazine combined with ketamine on the dosage of epinephrine required to produce ventricular arrhythmia. Untreated dogs required an arrhythmogenic dose (AD) of 5.88 +/- 2.85 micrograms/kg/min. The AD was 4.28 +/- 3.25 micrograms/kg/min in xylazine-treated dogs, 3.05 +/- 2.3 micrograms/kg/min in ketamine-treated dogs, and 2.96 +/- 1.95 micrograms/kg/min in xylazine/ketamine-treated dogs. The latter two dosages were significantly less than that of the controls (p less than 0.025). The duration of increased arrhythmogenicity was also examined. Four hours after drug administration, the AD for xylazine-treated dogs was decreased further to 3.87 +/- 2.52 micrograms/kg/min (p less than 0.05). Ketamine-treated dogs had returned partially to normal with an AD of 4.09 +/- 3.09 micrograms/kg/min, as had xylazine/ketamine-treated dogs, at 4.22 +/- 2.71 micrograms/kg/min.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the ERCC1-C8092A, ERCC1-C19007T and GSTP1-A105G genetic polymorphisms and the curative effect of cisplatin-based chemotherapy in advanced esophageal carcinoma. A total of 256 pathologically confirmed advanced esophageal carcinoma patients were given regimens of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil. Clinical evaluations were obtained from 241 patients who completed the therapy. The remission rate of patients with ERCC1-C8092A, A/C or A/A was higher compared to that of patients with C/C (51.75 vs. 29.59%, P<0.01). Progression-free survival of patients with ERCC1-C8092A, A/C or A/A was longer compared to that of patients with C/C (7.5 months vs. 4.5 months, P<0.0001). The C19007T and GSTP1-A105G genetic polymorphisms were not positively correlated with remission rates and progression-free survival of patients. In conclusion, the ERCC1-C8092A genetic polymorphism may be correlated with the efficacy of cisplatin-based chemotherapy in cases of advanced esophageal carcinoma. Further studies with a larger sample size are needed for tailored chemotherapy treatment of advanced esophageal carcinoma.
The role of excitatory synaptic activity at various brain regions in the development and spread of seizure activity has been investigated by the focal microinjection of 2-amino-7-phosphono-heptanoate (2-APH), a selective antagonist at the N-methyl-D-aspartate preferring receptor, or gamma-D-glutamyl-aminomethyl sulphonate (GAMS), a partially selective antagonist at the kainate receptor. In genetically epilepsy prone rats the seizure response to a loud sound in most effectively suppressed by focal injections of 2-APH, 0.1-1.0 nmol, in the inferior colliculus. Protection is also seen after injections of 2-APH, 25 nmoles, in the substantia nigra (pars reticulata) or the midbrain reticular formation. Motor limbic seizures induced by pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg intraperitoneally, are prevented by prior injection into the substantia nigra, pars reticulata, or the entopeduncular nucleus, of 2-APH, 10 nmol or 10 pmol, respectively. Similar protection follows the injection of 2-APH, 1-5 pmol in the piriform cortex. The convulsant effects of pilocarpine are also blocked by the focal injection of GAMS, 10 nmol in the entopeduncular nucleus. This experimental approach can indicate critical sites at which seizure activity is initiated in particular models (e.g., inferior colliculus in sound-induced seizures, and piriform cortex in limbic seizures) and the pathways controlling seizure expression, such as the basal ganglia outputs. It also identifies specific receptors at which anticonvulsant drugs may operate.
Liver biopsies were performed in 17 patients with therapy-refractory rheumatoid arthritis who were treated successfully with 5-15 mg/week methotrexate (mtx). The average duration of exposure to mtx therapy for each patient was 2.8 years (range 1.5-5 years). Total cumulative mtx doses ranged between 633 and 1,655 mg (mean 1,060 mg). The biopsies revealed 16 cases of normal histology, of which 3 showed nuclear variability in the hepatocytes; 4 with mild fatty infiltration, 2 with mild fatty infiltration and portal round cell infiltration. Portal fibrosis was found in one patient who had psoriasis in addition to clinical RA.
Acrylamide, a proven rodent carcinogen, is present in carbohydrate-rich food heated at high temperatures. It can be metabolized into glycidamide mainly by cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1). The fact that acrylamide is a potential carcinogen to human-beings draws public attention recently. This study aimed to elucidate the effect of acrylamide at low doses on proliferation of HepG2 cells, and to test whether the two well-studied chemopreventive agents, curcumin and (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), would have antagonistic effects against acrylamide. The results showed that lower concentration of acrylamide (⩽100μM) significantly increased the proliferation of HepG2 cells, but not of the other cancer cells (MDA-231, HeLa, A549, and PC-3). Only in HepG2 cells, low concentration of acrylamide was able to induce CYP2E1 expression significantly. Knockdown of CYP2E1 restrained acrylamide to increase viability of HepG2 cells. In addition, acrylamide raised expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), cyclin D1 and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), which contributed to cell proliferation. Both curcumin and EGCG effectively reduced acrylamide-induced proliferation, as well as protein expression of CYP2E1, EGFR, cyclin D1 and NF-κB. All these results suggest that low concentration of acrylamide may contribute to progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Curcumin or EGCG could prevent acrylamide triggering this effect.
Sulfur dioxide (SO(2)) is a common air pollutant that is released in low concentrations into the atmosphere and in higher concentrations in some work places. In the present study, male Wistar rats were housed in exposure chambers and treated with 14.00 +/- 1.01, 28.00 +/- 1.77, and 56.00 +/- 3.44 mg/m(3) SO(2) for 7 days (6 hr/day), while control rats were exposed to filtered air under the same conditions. The mRNA and protein levels of caspase-3, caspase-8, and caspase-9 were analyzed using a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) assay and an immunohistochemistry method. Activities of caspases were detected using colorimetric and fluorescent assays. Chromatin degradation and cell morphological changes were investigated by TUNEL assay and H&E staining in livers and lungs, respectively. The results showed that mRNA levels, protein levels and activities of caspase-3, caspase-8, and caspase-9 were increased in a dose-dependent manner in livers and lungs of rats after SO(2) inhalation. In addition, livers were infiltrated with lymphocytes, congestion and inflammation occurred in lungs, and eosinophil cells and apoptotic cells increased in both livers and lungs after SO(2) inhalation. These results suggest that SO(2) exposure increases the expression and activity of both initiator and and effector caspases, and may induce apoptosis in liver and lung of rats through both death receptor and mitochondrial pathways.
A girl, second child of healthy parents, was referred to the Renal Unit at the age of 9 months with haematuria (230 RBC/microl) and proteinuria (2.4 g/l). Serum creatinine was normal (0.25 mg/dl), albumin low (34 g/l) and cholesterol elevated (223 mg/dl). Physical examination showed bilateral webbing of the elbows, equinovarus of both feet and absent patellae. The clinical diagnosis of nail-patella syndrome was confirmed by demonstrating a splice mutation in the intron 5 (750 + 1 G>A) of the LMX1B gene. Treatment with enalapril for 2 years (0.1-1 mg/kg per day) did not bring about any change in urinary protein excretion. However, enalapril (1 mg/kg per day) associated with losartan (1 mg/kg per day) resulted in complete remission (proteinuria 140 mg/24 h) at the age of 7 years.
The frequent side effects of Hydroxy-Urea and the non-exceptional risk of leukemia and cancer in Polycythemia Vera treated for a long time by Hydroxy-Urea allow to conclude that Hydroxy-Urea is not an innocent drug. In a prospective trial of 150 patients with a median follow up of nine years, Hydroxy-Urea given alone induced side effects in 29% of patients necessitating to stop treatment in half of cases. The percentage of leukemia or myelodysplasia is 6.7% with an actuarial risk of leukemic transformation of 10% at 13 years. In an other prospective trial in 181 aged patients Hydroxy-Urea was given as maintenance therapy after 32P treatment. The median follow-up in that study is also of nine years. Side effects are observed in 13% of cases. A two fold increase of the leukemic risk was observed in the maintenance arm of the trial: 11 versus 19% at ten years, 14 vs 30% at 12 years, 16 vs 35% at 15 years because of the leukemogenic effect of Hydroxy-Urea in maintenance therapy we stopped including new patients in this arm of the trial.
The role of inflammatory cytokines in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy has been studied in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Rat kidneys were examined by light and electron microscopy and kidney homogenates were also analyzed by Western blot and flow cytometry for the expression of markers of inflammation namely, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, macrophages, MHC classes I and II, the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma and nitric oxide (NO). Light and electron microscope examination revealed infiltration of mononuclear cells throughout the renal parenchyma, with the glomeruli being more severely affected especially at 8 months after disease induction. Western blot and flow cytometric analyses revealed the infiltrating cells to be CD4+ T cells, CD8+ T cells and macrophages. Western blot analyses also revealed increased expression of the proinflammatory and Th1 cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interferon-gamma as well as nitric oxide. Using flow cytometry, we have shown that the difference in expression of CD4+ T cells in control and diabetic kidneys is more significant at 1 month than at 8 months, while expression of CD8+ T cells is more significant at 8 months. We speculate therefore that diabetic nephropathy is probably initiated and driven by a Th1 process. CD8+ T cells, however, become more significant at later stages of the disease when tissue loss is evident. Since NO induction also occurs only after 8 months, we hypothesize that NO might be significant for the later stages of the disease. Our data implicate inflammation in the pathogenesis of diabetic nephropathy in view of the overexpression of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma and the cells that secrete them in the early and late phases of the disease.
This case report describes a 68-year-old woman presenting with flecainide induced syncope due to torsades de pointes (TP) ventricular tachycardia. Before TP onset, the QTc interval reached 680 ms without changes in QRS duration. None of the usual triggers were found. Prolongation of QT under flecaïnide is exceptional and the occurrence of TP without concurrent triggers has not been reported in the literature.
To evaluate cerebral cortical function with electroencephalography in infants of cocaine-addicted mothers.
Patient series.
The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia (Pa).
Thirty-five consecutive infants of cocaine-addicted mothers hospitalized for a comprehensive health assessment and 51 healthy, age-matched infants studied with electroencephalography and respiratory thermistor because they were siblings of sudden infant death victims (comparison group).
None.
Behavioral states during spontaneous daytime sleep were classified as active sleep or quiet sleep; quiet sleep was further characterized as immature, tracé alternant sleep or mature, continuous, slow wave sleep. No episodes of ictal apnea or nonictal apnea were recorded in infants of cocaine-addicted mothers; nonictal apnea was observed in one control patient. No electrographic seizures were recorded. There were no significant differences between the proportions of infants exposed to cocaine in utero and that of controls who displayed excessive sharp electroencephalographic transients, background abnormalities, immaturity, and hypermaturity. Electroclinical sleep discordance was present in 5.7% of infants of cocaine-addicted mothers vs 0% of controls. Cocaine-exposed infants displayed mature, continuous, slow wave sleep below 45 weeks of conceptional age in a significantly higher percentage than those in the comparison group.
Although frank electroencephalographic abnormalities were infrequent in infants whose mothers were addicted to cocaine, they differed significantly in their younger age of onset of continuous, slow wave sleep. Our findings provide continued reason for concern that infants of cocaine-addicted mothers may suffer subtle adverse neurologic, cognitive, or behavioral effects later in life. The longitudinal assessment of sleep disturbance and its relation to later development might permit tracking of the long-term effects of prenatal exposure to cocaine.
We report the neuroimaging findings of a case of reversible metronidazole-induced encephalopathy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated lesions in highly suggestive locations. Follow-up imaging performed 1 month after cessation of metronidazole therapy demonstrated resolution of imaging findings.
Renal papillary necrosis occurred after fenoprofen calcium administration in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and urinary tract infection. Possible mechanisms of renal damage may be hypersensitivity, decreased blood flow, and decreased production of a prostaglandin E-like substance.
We investigated in humans the effects of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), administered by intracoronary bolus (4-16 microg) or intravenous infusion (25-200 microg/kg/min), on coronary and systemic hemodynamics and electrocardiogram (ECG) variables. All patients had normal epicardial coronary arteries. The maximal coronary blood flow velocity (CBFV) was determined with intracoronary bolus of papaverine. A 12 microg bolus of ATP (n=12) caused maximal coronary hyperemia similar to that caused by papaverine. Intracoronary boluses caused a small brief decrease in arterial pressure but no significant changes in HR or ECG variables. Intravenous infusion of ATP at 150 microg/kg/min (n=15) caused a decrease in the coronary resistance index similar to that caused by papaverine, but the rate of increase in CBFV by ATP was smaller than that caused by papaverine. No patients had a significant change in ECG variables, but some patients (40%) had a serious decrease in arterial pressure. These studies suggest that maximal coronary vasodilation can be achieved safely with intracoronary ATP administration and that intravenous infusions at 150 microg/kg/min cause near-maximal coronary hyperemia in most patients.
Bemitradine (SC-33643), a diuretic antihypertensive agent, was studied for its carcinogenicity in a 2-year bioassay in Charles River CD rats via dietary admix at dosages of 50, 150 and 450 mg kg-1 for up to 97 weeks (after which they were followed for eight additional weeks without treatment). Body weights were decreased compared to controls: 5-15% in the female and 10-12% in the male dosage groups by week 105 of the study. Prolactin values were significantly increased in 150 and 450 mg kg-1 females. The compound caused significant increased incidences of liver, thyroid (both sexes) and mammary (females only) neoplasms. The metabolism of bemitradine was studied in both rats and man. Bemitradine and its primary metabolite (SC-36741; desethylbemitradine) were tested and found to be non-genotoxic in Ames, rat primary hepatocyte UDS, CHO/HGPRT, CHO cytogenetics, in vivo mouse micronucleus and mouse lymphoma TK+/- (bemitradine only) assays. Finally, in an altered hepatic foci (Y-glutamyl transpeptidase positive) promotion assay in female Charles River CD rats, bemitradine was found to be a promotor, though not as potent as phenobarbital. We concluded that bemitradine (which has been dropped from development) is a non-genotoxic carcinogen which appears to act by a hormonally modulated promotional activity in inducing tumors in the liver and mammary glands. Tumors seen in the thyroid were probably secondary to the effects of bemitradine on metabolism.
