omega-Conotoxin GVIA and omega-agatoxin IVA are specific peptide blockers of N- and P/Q-type calcium channel, respectively. Effects of their intracerebroventricular injection (1-3 pmol/mouse) on psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity were investigated in mice. omega-Conotoxin GVIA antagonized methylphenidate-, methamphetamine- and phencyclidine-induced hyperactivity in a dose-dependent manner. omega-Agatoxin IVA blocked methylphenidate-induced but not methamphetamine- or phencyclidine-induced hyperactivity. Neither peptides showed any effect on apomorphine-induced hyperactivity or spontaneous activity, suggesting that the inhibitory effects on psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity are not due to dopamine receptor blockage or nonspecific behavioral depression. Antagonism of calcium channels, particularly N-type, may ameliorate activation of the dopaminergic system induced by increased dopamine release.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia disorder of elderly affecting millions of people. The pathophysiology of the disease is complex and involves multiple pathways of neuronal damage. Sporadic dementia of Alzheimer's type (SDAT) has been shown to be associated with microtubular dysfunction and is characterized by the appearance of specific cytoskeletal cellular abnormalities, including neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v) administration of colchicine, a microtubule-disrupting agent, causes cognitive dysfunction as evidenced by poor retention of memory in both Morris water maze and elevated plus-maze task paradigms that is associated with excessive free radical generation. Biochemical analysis revealed that icv colchicine injection significantly induced lipid peroxidation, increased nitrite and depleted reduced glutathione (GSH) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) level in rat brains. Chronic treatment with rivastigmine (0.625 and 2.5 mg/kg, po) twice daily for a period of 25 days beginning 4 days prior to colchicine injection significantly improved the colchicine-induced cognitive impairment and reduced AChE level. The results of the present study clearly indicated that colchicines-induced cognitive impairment and oxidative stress in animals and can be used as an animal model for drug screening for Alzheimer's disease.
Phenobarbital (PB), a non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogen in rodents, has been studied extensively but its mechanism of carcinogenic action is unclear. PB appears to function as a tumor promoter by selectively inducing the growth of preneoplastic hepatocytes. In the present study, the comparative effects of PB at tumor-promoting and non-promoting doses were examined in male B6C3F1 mice and male F344 rats. In addition, the mechanism by which PB produced the selective induction of preneoplastic cell growth (increased DNA synthesis/cell proliferation and/or decreased apoptosis) was investigated. Preneoplastic focal lesions were produced using diethylnitrosamine (DEN). After the lesions were histologically apparent, mice and rats were fed PB (10, 100, or 500 mg/kg NIH-07 diet) or control diet and sampled after 7, 30 and 60 days of treatment In both mice and rats, 100 and 500 mg PB/kg increased the number and the relative volume of focal lesions. In rats and mice, 10 mg PB/kg did not enhance focal lesion growth. The preneoplastic lesions that clonally expanded due to phenobarbital treatment were predominantly eosinophilic in appearance. In addition, DNA synthesis in focal hepatocytes was significantly increased in the 100 and 500 mg PB/kg diet. In PB-treated mice and rats, there also was a significant decrease in the rates of apoptosis in focal hepatocytes. Therefore, our data showed that PB at doses of 100 and 500 mg/kg diet promoted focal hepatic lesion growth both by increasing DNA synthesis and cell proliferation and by decreasing the rate of apoptosis.
Albumin and beta 2-microglobulin excretions were studied in 85 unselected patients treated with lithium for more than 6 months. In 15 patients a lithium-induced impaired renal concentrating ability was found, 13 of these patients revealed a chronic interstitial nephropathy on renal biopsy. There was no significant increase in albumin excretion, and a markedly increased beta 2-microglobulin excretion was seen in only 1 patient. This study supports the hypothesis that the lithium-induced renal lesion in confirmed to the distal part of the nephron.
There is evidence that growth hormone may be related to the progression of weakness in Duchenne dystrophy. We conducted a 12-month controlled trial of mazindol, a putative growth hormone secretion inhibitor, in 83 boys with Duchenne dystrophy. Muscle strength, contractures, functional ability and pulmonary function were tested at baseline, and 6 and 12 months after treatment with mazindol (3 mg/d) or placebo. The study was designed to have a power of greater than 0.90 to detect a slowing to 25% of the expected rate of progression of weakness at P less than 0.05. Mazindol did not benefit strength at any point in the study. Side effects attributable to mazindol included decreased appetite (36%), dry mouth (10%), behavioral change (22%), and gastrointestinal symptoms (18%); mazindol dosage was reduced in 43% of patients. The effect of mazindol on GH secretion was estimated indirectly by comparing the postabsorptive IGF-I levels obtained following 3, 6, 9, and 12 months in the mazindol treated to those in the placebo groups. Although mazindol-treated patients gained less weight and height than placebo-treated patients, no significant effect on IGF-I levels was observed. Mazindol doses not slow the progression of weakness in Duchenne dystrophy.
A wide variety of diseases and injuries can cause granulomatous hepatitis, and drug-induced granulomatous hepatitis is a well-described entity. Sulfonylurea derivatives, which are commonly used oral hypoglycemic agents in the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, have been implicated in liver disease. However, glyburide, a second-generation sulfonylurea and a potent hypoglycemic drug, is considered to have less hepatic side effects than chlorpropamide. It has been reportedly associated with cholestatic jaundice and hepatitis and with hypersensitivity angitis. A case of necrotizing granuloma has been reported. We present a second case of granulomatous hepatitis occurring in a patient who had been taking glyburide for approximately three years, and we review the literature for glyburide-associated hepatitis.
Chronic nociceptive input induces sensitization and changes in regulatory reflexes in animal models. In humans, postoperative somatic and visceral sensitization and the secondary effects on reflex gut motility are unclear.
Somatic and visceral sensation and gastrointestinal motility were evaluated after abdominal hysterectomies in 50 patients who were randomized to receive double-blinded postoperative 48-h infusions of morphine or tramadol. Pain scores, rectal distension, skin electric sensation and pain tolerance thresholds, and gastrointestinal transit were assessed before and after operation, during and after analgesic infusions.
Pain intensity scores decreased similarly with morphine and tramadol infusions (total doses, 66.8+/-20 mg and 732.4+/-152 mg [mean +/- SD], respectively). Skin pain tolerance thresholds in the incisional dermatome remained similar with morphine and tramadol throughout the study. During morphine infusions, pain tolerance thresholds on the shoulder increased (P<0.05) and then decreased after discontinuation on day 4 (P<0.02) compared with before operation. Rectal distension pain tolerance pressure thresholds increased after operation during morphine infusions (P<0.05). Similar but nonsignificant trends occurred with tramadol. Orocecal and colonic transit times increased after operation with both morphine and tramadol (P<0.005), but gastric emptying was prolonged only with morphine (P = 0.03). AU motility and sensory parameters had returned to preoperative levels by 1 month after operation.
Pain control was equally effective with morphine and tramadol infusions. No somatic or visceral sensitization was evident during morphine and tramadol infusions, but pain tolerance thresholds as markers of antinociception were increased more during morphine infusions. The significant sensitization seen only after morphine discontinuation may be due to convergent visceral input. Gut motility was prolonged significantly by visceral surgery itself and also by morphine.
In 22 patients with stable myocardial ischemia, we prospectively studied the short- and long-term effects of isosorbide-5-mononitrate (5-ISMN) on dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia, the ability of dipyridamole-stress echocardiography to evaluate nitrate tolerance, and the role of activation of the neurohumoral system in nitrate tolerance development, assessed by modifications of catecholamines plasma levels and heart rate variability. After brief treatment with 5-ISMN, dipyridamole-stress echocardiography was negative in 19 of 22 patients (p < 0.001 vs. placebo). During the sustained phase, dipyridamole-stress echocardiography was positive after both placebo and active drug (p = NS vs. placebo). Heart rate variability showed significantly higher values in power of the low frequency (LF) band and low- to high-frequency ratio (L/H), as well as significantly lower values of the power of the high-frequency (HF) band (all p < 0.001) during brief but not during sustained administration of 5-ISMN. Norepinephrine plasma levels were significantly higher (p < 0.001) during short-term 5-ISMN administration but not during the sustained phase. Our results indicate that short-term administration of 5-ISMN antagonizes dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia and show the loss of antiischemic efficacy in 95% of patients during sustained treatment, demonstrating that dipyridamole-stress echocardiography is a useful tool to assess the presence of nitrate tolerance. Spectral analysis of heart rate variability and norepinephrine values confirm that brief nitrate administration increases sympathetic activity, a possible crucial trigger event in the development of nitrate tolerance, whereas prolonged nitrate treatment is not associated with prolonged neurohumoral activation.
The use of anthracycline anticancer drugs is limited by a cumulative, dose-dependent cardiac toxicity. Iron chelation has long been considered as a promising strategy to limit this unfavorable side effect, either by restoring the disturbed cellular iron homeostasis or by removing redox-active iron, which may promote anthracycline-induced oxidative stress. Aroylhydrazone lipophilic iron chelators have shown promising results in the rabbit model of daunorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy as well as in cellular models. The lack of interference with the antiproliferative effects of the anthracyclines also favors their use in clinical settings. The dose, however, should be carefully titrated to prevent iron depletion, which apparently also applies for other strong iron chelators. We have shown that a mere ability of a compound to chelate iron is not the sole determinant of a good cardioprotector and the protective potential does not directly correlate with the ability of the chelators to prevent hydroxyl radical formation. These findings, however, do not weaken the role of iron in doxorubicin cardiotoxicity as such, they rather appeal for further investigations into the molecular mechanisms how anthracyclines interact with iron and how iron chelation may interfere with these processes.
In pentobarbital anaesthetized rats the intravenous administration of the oligopeptide N-formyl-Met-Leu-Phe (FMLP) is shown to produce a short-lasting hypotension. When the animals have been pretreated with indomethacin, FMLP induces a marked and sustained blood pressure fall. This exaggerated hypotensive response to FMLP is absent in rats which have received a low dose of endotoxin at the day before, and is greatly reduced in animals treated with ascorbic acid or dimethylsulfoxide. In addition, the duration of hypotension is shortened in rats which have been partially depleted of leukocytes by daily methotrexate dosages, or which simultaneously receive drug treatments known to enhance vessel wall cyclic AMP levels like isoprenaline, glucagon or theophylline. The results suggest that after the FMLP administration toxic oxygen species generated by leukocytes contribute to the development of the cardiovascular dysfunction. Endothelial cAMP is suggested to control the sensitivity of the cardiovascular system to these reactive species.
Several lines of research led to our hypothesis that perinatal exposure to TCDD may alter the sensitivity of adult rodents to the promotional effect of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) on endometriosis. Pregnant rats and mice were treated on gestation day (GD) 8 with either 1 (rats) or 3 (mice) microg TCDD/kg or vehicle. Female offspring were reared to adulthood, and endometriosis was induced surgically. All animals received 0, 3, or 10 microg TCDD/kg 3 weeks prior to surgery, at the time of surgery, and 3, 6, and 9 weeks after surgery. Necropsies were performed 12 weeks after surgery. Measurements at necropsy included the diameter of endometriotic lesions and body, uterine, ovarian and liver weights. While no effect of treatment on lesion diameter was found in rats, analyses revealed that perinatal plus adult exposure to TCDD can increase the size of endometriotic lesions surgically induced in mice. These and additional data on body and organ weights are consistent with previous work. These data confirm the sensitivity of mice to the promotion of endometriotic lesion growth by TCDD and indicate a perinatal effect of TCDD on this parameter when perinatal exposure on GD8 is supplemented with adult exposure to TCDD of female mice.
Use of the HepG2 cell line to assess hepatotoxicity induced by bioactivable compounds is hampered by their low cytochrome P450 expression. To overcome this limitation, we have used adenoviral transfection to develop upgraded HepG2 cells (ADV-HepG2) expressing the major P450 enzymes involved in drug metabolism (CYP1A2, CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4) at levels comparable to those of human hepatocytes. The potential utility of this new cell model for the in vitro screening of bioactivable drugs was assessed using a high-content screening assay that we recently developed to simultaneously measure multiple parameters indicative of cell injury. To this end, ADV-HepG2 and HepG2 cells, cultured in 96-well plates, were exposed for 24 h to a wide range of concentrations of 12 bioactivable and 3 non-bioactivable compounds. The cell viability and parameters associated with nuclear morphology, mitochondrial function, intracellular calcium concentration, and oxidative stress indicative of prelethal cytotoxicity and representative of different mechanisms of toxicity were evaluated. Bioactivable compounds showed lower IC(50) values in ADV-HepG2 cells than in HepG2 cells. Moreover, significant differences in the other parameters analyzed were observed between both cell models, while similar effects were observed for non-bioactivable compounds (negative controls). The changes in cell parameters detected in our assay for a given compound are in good agreement with the previously reported toxicity mechanism. Overall, our results indicate that this assay may be a suitable new in vitro approach for early screening of compounds to identify bioactivable hepatotoxins and the mechanism(s) involved in their toxicity.
Iodothyronine deiodinase types I, II, and III (D1, D2, and D3, respectively), which constitute a family of selenoenzymes, activate and inactivate thyroid hormones through the removal of specific iodine moieties from thyroxine and its derivatives. These enzymes are important in the biological effects mediated by thyroid hormones. The expression of activating and inactivating deiodinases plays a critical role in a number of cell systems, including the neuronal system, during development as well as in adult vertebrates. To investigate deiodinase-disrupting chemicals based on transcriptomic responses, we examined differences in gene expression profiles between T3-treated and deiodinase-knockdown SH-SY5Y cells using microarray analysis and quantitative real-time RT-PCR. A total of 1,558 genes, consisting of 755 upregulated and 803 downregulated genes, were differentially expressed between the T3-treated and deiodinase-knockdown cells. The expression levels of 10 of these genes (ID2, ID3, CCL2, TBX3, TGOLN2, C1orf71, ZNF676, GULP1, KLF9, and ITGB5) were altered by deiodinase-disrupting chemicals (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, polychlorinated biphenyls, propylthiouracil, iodoacetic acid, methylmercury, β-estradiol, methimazole, 3-methylcholanthrene, aminotriazole, amiodarone, cadmium chloride, dimethoate, fenvalerate, octylmethoxycinnamate, iopanoic acid, methoxychlor, and 4-methylbenzylidene-camphor). These genes are potential biomarkers for detecting deiodinase deficiency and predicting their effects on thyroid hormone production.
The Sl(a) (Knops system) located on complement receptor 1 (CR1) has been associated with malarial rosetting, a process associated with severe malarial infections. Moreover, the long homologous repeats (LHRs) B and C of CR1 were implicated in rosette formation. As a step toward mapping the location of Knops system antigens, truncated CR1 proteins have been expressed and their ability to inhibit antibodies to the high-incidence Knops system antigens was assessed.
Individual LHRs (A, B, C, and D) of CR1 of the common CR1*1 (F) allotype were expressed as secreted forms in 293T cells. Their abilities to specifically neutralize Knops system antibodies were tested by both hemagglutination and flow cytometry.
Three examples of anti-Kn(a) (n = 6) were almost completely inhibited by LHR-C and three by LHR-D. Two examples of anti-McC(a) (n = 2) and seven examples of anti-Sl(a) (n = 8) were inhibited by LHR-D. Both examples of anti-Yk(a) (n = 2) were partially inhibited by LHR-D.
The high-incidence Knops system antigens reside within LHR-D and to a lesser extent within LHR-C. Because of the role of Sl(a) antigen in malaria rosetting, these results indicate that LHR-D may represent an additional malaria interaction region in CR1.
A 58-year-old man was in a period of 3 weeks twice admitted to a general hospital with symptoms of clozapine intoxication, i.e. loss of consciousness. We are of the opinion that the patient developed clozapine intoxication because he had been prescribed clozapine (300 mg/day) and at the same time had suddenly stopped smoking. The link is confirmed in the literature. We therefore recommend that clozapine-dosage be adjusted to a patient's smoking behaviour.
Forty-six patients undergoing major abdominal surgery were given postoperative epidural analgesia for four days with bupivacaine-sufentanil or bupivacaine-morphine. Both groups received a bolus of 8 ml bupivacaine 0.5% followed after 30 minutes by an infusion of 20 ml/h bupivacaine 0.1%. The sufentanil group (group A: 21 patients) received a loading dose of 50 micrograms sufentanil and a continuous infusion of 5 micrograms/h sufentanil. The morphine group (group B: 25 patients) received no loading dose of morphine but only a continuous infusion of 0.5 mg/h morphine. Both regimens provided excellent analgesia, but the frequency of respiratory depression was much greater in group A (33% versus 4% in group B). This respiratory depression occurred in the first hours postoperatively, when the patients were still in the post-anesthesia care unit. There was also a high incidence of hypotension after the loading dose of bupivacaine 0.5%. Although we noticed a large incidence of pruritus, no patient needed naloxone reversal. In view of these side effects we recommend a lower loading dose of both bupivacaine and sufentanil.
A case of ergotamine induced severe face ischaemia mimicking acute arteritis is presented. The unique clinical picture was due to bilateral involvement of both external carotid arteries. No case of ergotism with such a localization has been previously described in the literature.
After several months of treatment, Cebus apella, Cebus albifrons, and Saimiri sciurea monkeys maintained on haloperidol, in doses of 0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg orally 5 days per week, began to display severe movement disorders, typically 1-6 h post-drug. Cebus monkeys exhibited violent, uncontrolled movements that flung the animals about the cage. Such episodes usually lasted only a few minutes, recurring several times during the period following drug ingestion. Writhing and bizarre postures dominated the response in S. sciurea. Cessation of drug treatment produced no distinctive after-effects. When tested as long as 508 days after the last administration, however, Cebus monkeys responded to haloperidol with several episodes of hyperkinesis, even at challenge doses considerably lower than those in the original treatment.
When capsaicin is injected intradermally, hyperalgesia develops around the injection site. The authors observed that volunteers report painful sensations in the skin remote from the injection site during tourniquet constriction of the affected extremity.
Each volunteer received an intradermal injection of capsaicin on the volar forearm, followed by intermittent tourniquet constriction of the extremity. In some participants, the tourniquet position was rotated between different sites on the upper extremities. Laser Doppler measurements were made in the skin to measure capillary blood flow during pain magnification.
Hyperalgesia developed in the volunteers who were tested after the capsaicin injection. Blood flow increased three times in the dermal capillaries remote from the injection site after capsaicin injection. The tourniquet-induced pain reached peak intensity soon after tourniquet inflation. Tourniquet constriction of the arm on the affected side reliably induced painful exacerbation in each person tested. The quality of the sensation was described as burning and extended across the arm in most volunteers. Only when pinprick hyperalgesia was detectable did the volunteers experience the diffuse, immediate pain sensation. The pain initiated by the tourniquet constriction likely is related to changes in skin capillary blood flow.
Low cutaneous blood perfusion is related to the intensity of ongoing, spontaneous pain when secondary hyperalgesia is present. The specific trigger(s) have yet to be identified.
A phase I study was performed on a newly developed antitumor agent, Bestrabucil (KM 2210). The study was started at an initial dose of 1 n 25 mg/body, and gradually increased up to 32n 800 mg/body. With single (35 patients) and five-consecutive-day (36 patients) administration, the dose-limiting factor was found to be tarry stool, remarkable decrease in hemoglobin content, and strong nipple and breast pain. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was concluded to be around 700 to 800 mg/body. With long-term administration (the longest term, 20 weeks, 36 patients), the dose-limiting factor was concluded to be a decrease in the peripheral leukocyte count when the total amount administered reached about 10 g. Side effects on the alimentary system due to this agent, such as vomiting, nausea and anorexia, were observed. In addition, mastalgia and genital bleeding due to released estrogen were also seen, especially in the case of long-term administration.
Entecavir (ETV) is a potent antiviral nucleoside analogue that is used to treat hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Recent clinical studies have demonstrated that ETV is also active against the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Unlike all approved nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase RT) inhibitors (NRTIs), ETV contains a 3'-hydroxyl group that allows further nucleotide incorporation events to occur. Thus, the mechanism of inhibition probably differs from classic chain termination. Here, we show that the incorporated ETV-monophosphate (MP) can interfere with three distinct stages of DNA synthesis. First, incorporation of the next nucleotide at position n + 1 following ETV-MP is compromised, although DNA synthesis eventually continues. Second, strong pausing at position n + 3 suggests a long range effect, referred to as "delayed chain-termination." Third, the incorporated ETV-MP can also act as a "base pair confounder" during synthesis of the second DNA strand, when the RT enzyme needs to pass the inhibitor in the template. Enzyme kinetics revealed that delayed chain termination is the dominant mechanism of action. High resolution foot-printing experiments suggest that the incorporated ETV-MP "repels" the 3'-end of the primer from the active site of HIV-1 RT, which, in turn, diminishes incorporation of the natural nucleotide substrate at position n + 4. Most importantly, delayed chain termination protects ETV-MP from phosphorolytic excision, which represents a major resistance mechanism for approved NRTIs. Collectively, these findings provide a rationale and important tools for the development of novel, more potent delayed chain terminators as anti-HIV agents.
A 74-year-old patient, suffering for 20 years from polycythemia rubra vera, was treated with hydroxyurea for 2 years. Intensive xerosis (ichthyosis-like) and violaceous papules on the dorsal hand surfaces were observed. There was also reddish purple periorbital erythema resembling "heliotrope erythema". Such a disease pattern has been described as "hydroxyurea-induced dermatomyositis-like eruption" - a drug-adverse reaction associated with hydroxyurea therapy. The reaction has typical dermal features of dermatomyositis without any systemic symptoms (in the case of our patient, antinuclear antibodies absent and creatine phosphokinase within the normal range). The above reaction is associated with chronic hydroxyurea uptake and, after withdrawing the drug, alleviation of skin lesions usually takes place after 10 days to 18 months with no recurrences. In the case of our patient, we observed clinical improvement after 3 months; xerosis decreased, heliotrope erythema vanished, and there was also a decrease in both the number and intensity of violaceous papules on the dorsal hand surfaces.
The present study was undertaken to investigate the gene expression patterns of the striatum of control and maneb + paraquat-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) phenotype in mouse to identify the differentially expressed transcripts. The animals were treated with and without maneb (30 mg/kg, i.p.) + paraquat (10 mg/kg, i.p.), twice a week, for 3, 6, and 9 weeks. The RNA was isolated from control and treated mouse striatum and reverse transcribed, and equal quantities of labeled cDNA were mixed and hybridized with mouse 15 k arrays. Comparative transcription patterns showed the time of exposure dependent alteration in the expression of several transcripts associated with various pathways. RT-PCR reconfirmed the differential expression of some energy metabolizing transcripts. The study provides maneb + paraquat-induced differential expression of many transcripts using high-density microarray approach. Few transcripts, which were previously not reported to be associated with neuronal degeneration, were also identified. The results obtained thus suggest that maneb + paraquat induce neurotoxicity in the striatum in a time of exposure dependent manner via multiple pathways and defective energy metabolism could play a critical role.
To report a case of erythema multiforme and hypersensitivity myocarditis caused by ampicillin.
A 13-year-old boy was treated with ampicillin and gentamicin because of suspected septicemia. Medications were discontinued when erythema multiforme and congestive heart failure caused by myocarditis occurred. The patient was treated with methylprednisolone and gradually improved. Macrophage-migration inhibition (MIF) test with ampicillin was positive.
After most infections causing erythema multiforme and myocarditis were ruled out, a drug-induced allergic reaction was suspected. Positive MIF test for ampicillin showed sensitization of the patient's lymphocytes to ampicillin.
Hypersensitivity myocarditis is a rare and dangerous manifestation of allergy to penicillins.
Oxyresveratrol (OXY) is a polyhydroxylated stilbene existing in mulberry. Increasing lines of evidence have shown its neuroprotective effects against Alzheimer disease and stroke. However, little is known about its neuroprotective effect in Parkinson disease (PD). Owing to its antioxidant activity, blood-brain barrier permeativity, and water solubility, we hypothesized that OXY may exert neuroprotective effects against parkinsonian mimetic 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) neurotoxicity. Neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells have long been used as dopaminergic neurons in PD research. We found that both pretreatment and posttreatment with OXY on SH-SY5Y cells significantly reduced the release of lactate dehydrogenase, the activity of caspase-3, and the generation of intracellular reactive oxygen species triggered by 6-OHDA. Compared to resveratrol, OXY exhibited a wider effective dosage range. We proved that OXY could penetrate the cell membrane by HPLC analysis of cell extracts. These results suggest that OXY may act as an intracellular antioxidant to reduce oxidative stress induced by 6-OHDA. Western blot analysis demonstrated that OXY markedly attenuated 6-OHDA-induced phosphorylation of JNK and c-Jun. Furthermore, we proved that OXY increased the basal levels of SIRT1, which may disclose new pathways accounting for the neuroprotective effects of OXY. Taken together, our results suggest OXY, a dietary phenolic compound, as a potential nutritional candidate for protection against neurodegeneration in PD.
