Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) represents the most common mendelian degenerative retinopathy of man, involving death of rod photoreceptors, cone cell degeneration, retinal vessel attenuation and pigmentary deposits. The patient experiences night blindness, usually followed by progressive loss of visual field. Genetic linkage between an autosomal dominant RP locus and rhodopsin, the photoreactive pigment of the rod cells, led to the identification of mutations within the rhodopsin gene in both dominant and recessive forms of RP. To better understand the functional and structural role of rhodopsin in the normal retina and in the pathogenesis of retinal disease, we generated mice carrying a targeted disruption of the rhodopsin gene. Rho-/- mice do not elaborate rod outer segments, losing their photoreceptors over 3 months. There is no rod ERG response in 8-week-old animals. Rho+/- animals retain the majority of their photoreceptors although the inner and outer segments of these cells display some structural disorganization, the outer segments becoming shorter in older mice. These animals should provide a useful genetic background on which to express other mutant opsin transgenes, as well as a model to assess the therapeutic potential of re-introducing functional rhodopsin genes into degenerating retinal tissues.
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) affects up to 12% of adults older than 50 years of age. Conventional therapies have only modest effects in improving symptoms.
To examine the effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition on walking ability in patients with PAD.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial initiated in March 2003 and completed in January 2005.
The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
40 older adults with symptomatic PAD and no history of diabetes or hypertension.
10 mg of ramipril (n = 20) or placebo (n = 20) once daily for 24 weeks. All patients completed the trial.
Pain-free and maximum walking time were recorded during a standard treadmill test, and the standard Walking Impairment Questionnaire was administered.
After adjustment for the baseline pain-free walking time, mean pain-free walking time after ramipril treatment was 227 seconds (95% CI, 175 seconds to 278 seconds; P < 0.001) longer than that after placebo treatment. Similarly, maximum walking time improved by 451 seconds in the ramipril group (CI, 367 seconds to 536 seconds; P < 0.001) but did not change in the placebo group. Ramipril improved the Walking Impairment Questionnaire median distance score from 5% (range, 1% to 39%) to 21% (range, 12% to 58%; P < 0.001), speed score from 3% (range, 3% to 39%) to 18% (range, 8% to 50%; P < 0.001), and stair-climbing score from 17% (range, 4% to 80%) to 67% (range, 38% to 88%; P < 0.001). No adverse events were reported.
The sample size is modest, and the strict inclusion criteria limit the applicability of the results to patients with claudication and infrainguinal disease and those without diabetes.
Ramipril improved pain-free and maximum walking time in some adults with symptomatic PAD.
Methotrexate (MTX) is a folate antagonist inhibiting nucleic acid and methionine synthesis. Methionine is necessary for CNS myelination. In 42 patients with primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL) treated with a systemic and intraventricular high-dose MTX-based polychemotherapy, the presence of a risk haplotype defined by polymorphisms influencing methionine metabolism referred a relative risk for CNS white matter changes of 4.7 (p = 0.001). The authors conclude that methionine metabolism influences MTX neurotoxicity.
Cardioprotective effect of cardos was revealed on rat model of experimental cardiac insufficiency induced by injectionof isoproterenol. Cardos improved exercise tolerance, cardiac output, and stroke volume. Cardos administered for 28 days was no less effective than losartan.
A case of flunarizine hydrochloride (FZ)-induced severe urinary retention and meteorism which resulted from sphincter spasm of the urinary bladder and the anus is presented. An 81-year-old female had received 10 mg/day FZ orally for 12 months before hypokinesia and general fatigue developed. Physical examination revealed slight rigidity of the extremities, abdominal distention and spasm of the anal sphincter muscle. Laboratory examinations showed uremia (BUN 88 mg/dl, Creatinine 16.8 mg/dl) and abdominal X-ray demonstrated marked distention of the small and large bowels. Renal failure improved within 2 days after massive urination using a urethral catheter. Abdominal distention was improved by the ileus and anal tubes. The difficulties of urination and defecation and decreased mobility of the extremities were resolved one month after the cessation of FZ. No organic changes were detected in urinary, intestinal and neurological systems by cystoscopy, CT, MRI and gastrointestinal fiberscopy. Serum concentration of FZ was 42.5 ng/ml on admission but decreased slowly to 17.9 ng/ml 80 days later. Serum half life was calculated to be 55 days which was 3 times longer than that healthy younger volunteers.
Congenital heart disease is one of the most common human birth defects, yet many genes and pathways regulating heart development remain unknown. A recent study in humans revealed that mutations in a single Hox gene, HOXA1 (Athabascan Brainstem Dysgenesis Syndrome, Bosley-Salih-Alorainy Syndrome), can cause severe cardiovascular malformations, some of which are lethal without surgical intervention. Since the discovery of the human syndromes, there have been no reports of any Hox mouse mutants with cardiac defects, hampering studies to explore the developmental causes of the human disease. In this study, we identify severe cardiovascular malformations in a Hox mouse model, which mimic the congenital heart defects in HOXA1 syndrome patients. Hoxa1 null mice show defects such as interrupted aortic arch, aberrant subclavian artery and Tetralogy of Fallot, demonstrating that Hoxa1 is required for patterning of the great arteries and outflow tract of the heart. We show that during early embryogenesis, Hoxa1 is expressed in precursors of cardiac neural crest cells (NCCs), which populate the heart. We further demonstrate that Hoxa1 acts upstream of several genes, important for neural crest specification. Thus, our data allow us to suggest a model in which Hoxa1 regulates heart development through its influence on cardiac NCCs, providing insight into the mechanisms underlying the human disease.
Camptothecin (CAM) and cisplatin (cis-diamminedichloroplatinum(II), cis-Pt) were used as inducers of apoptosis in the mouse leukemic L1210 cells. Relatively high concentrations of 50 micromol cis-Pt and 50 micromol CAM, respectively, were used to induce the apoptotic DNA ladder. The simultaneous treatment of L1210 cells by the drug and pentoxifylline (PTX) resulted in a decrease of drug concentrations necessary for the induction of apoptosis. This study revealed that a cell cycle G2 checkpoint inhibitor PTX reduces time intervals necessary for the onset of drug-induced apoptosis in these cells. This fact might be important as the earlier onset of programmed cell death may decrease a risk of tumor cells to become resistant to drug therapy.
To clarify the basic mechanism involved in the pathophysiology of cystitis by characterizing the urodynamic parameters, pharmacologically relevant (muscarinic and purinergic) receptors, and the in vivo release of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in the bladder of hydrochloric acid (HCl)-treated rats.
The muscarinic and purinergic receptors in rat tissue were measured by radioreceptor assays using (N-methyl-³H) scopolamine methyl chloride ([³H]NMS) and αβ-methylene-ATP (2,8-³H) tetrasodium salt ([³H]αβ-MeATP), respectively. The urodynamic parameters and ATP levels were measured using a cystometric method and the luciferin-luciferase assay, respectively.
In the HCl-treated rats, the micturition interval and micturition volume were significantly (48% and 55%, respectively, P <.05) decreased and the number of micturitions was significantly (3.2-fold, P <.05) increased compared with those of the control rats. The maximal number of binding sites for [³H]NMS and [³H]αβ-MeATP was significantly (55% and 72%, respectively, P <.001) decreased in the bladder of HCl-treated rats, suggesting downregulation of both muscarinic and purinergic receptors. In the HCl-treated rats, the inhibition constant, K(i), values for oxybutynin, solifenacin, and darifenacin were significantly (1.3-1.4-fold, P <.05) increased, but those for tolterodine and AF-DX116 were unchanged. Similarly, the inhibition constant for A-317491, pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid tetrasodium, and MRS2273 was significantly (5.5, 11, and 7.6-fold, respectively, P <.001) increased. Furthermore, the in vivo release of ATP was significantly (P <.05) enhanced in the HCl-treated rat bladder.
Both muscarinic and purinergic mechanisms might be, at least in part, associated with the urinary dysfunction due to cystitis.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) is an antioxidant enzyme that reduces superoxide anion to hydrogen peroxide in cell mitochondria. MnSOD is overexpressed in normal aging brain and in various central nervous system disorders; however, the mechanisms mediating the upregulation of MnSOD under these conditions remain poorly understood. We previously reported that cysteamine (CSH) and other pro-oxidants rapidly induce the heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) gene in cultured rat astroglia followed by late upregulation of MnSOD in these cells. In the present study, we demonstrate that antecedent upregulation of HO-1 is necessary and sufficient for subsequent induction of the MnSOD gene in neonatal rat astroglia challenged with CSH or dopamine, and in astroglial cultures transiently transfected with full-length human HO-1 cDNA. Treatment with potent antioxidants attenuates MnSOD expression in HO-1-transfected astroglia, strongly suggesting that intracellular oxidative stress signals MnSOD gene induction in these cells. Activation of this HO-1-MnSOD axis may play an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease and other free radical-related neurodegenerative disorders. In these conditions, compensatory upregulation of MnSOD may protect mitochondria from oxidative damage accruing from heme-derived free iron and carbon monoxide liberated by the activity of HO-1.
Domperidone is a useful alternative to metoclopramide for treatment of gastroparesis due to better tolerability. Effectiveness and side-effects from domperidone may be influenced by patient-related factors including polymorphisms in genes encoding drug-metabolizing enzymes, drug transporters, and domperidone targets.
The aim of this study was to determine if demographic and pharmacogenetic parameters of patients receiving domperidone are associated with response to treatment or side-effects.
Patients treated with domperidone for gastroparesis provided saliva samples from which DNA was extracted. Fourteen single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in seven candidate genes (ABCB1, CYP2D6, DRD2, KCNE1, KCNE2, KCNH2, KCNQ1) were used for genotyping. SNP microarrays were used to assess single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the ADRA1A, ADRA1B, and ADRA1D loci.
Forty-eight patients treated with domperidone participated in the study. DNA was successfully obtained from each patient. Age was associated with effectiveness of domperidone (p=0.0088). Genetic polymorphism in KCNH2 was associated with effectiveness of domperidone (p=0.041). The efficacious dose was associated with polymorphism in ABCB1 gene (p=0.0277). The side-effects of domperidone were significantly associated with the SNPs in the promoter region of ADRA1D gene.
Genetic characteristics associated with response to domperidone therapy included polymorphisms in the drug transporter gene ABCB1, the potassium channel KCNH2 gene, and α1D--adrenoceptor ADRA1D gene. Age was associated with a beneficial response to domperidone. If verified in a larger population, this information might be used to help determine which patients with gastroparesis might respond to domperidone and avoid treatment in those who might develop side-effects.
Methotrexate, a mainstay treatment for children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, can cause neurotoxicity, with paralysis, seizures, somnolence, anorexia, and headaches. The pathophysiology of this reaction is unknown. It has been suggested that the anti-inflammatory effect of methotrexate in patients with arthritis is due to adenosine release brought on by inhibition of purine synthesis. Since adenosine is a central nervous system depressant, we wondered whether adenosine release in the central nervous system could account for some of the neurotoxicity due to methotrexate, and whether that toxicity could be lessened by displacement of adenosine from its receptor by aminophylline. 6 patients (age 3-16 years) who had methotrexate-induced neurotoxicity unresponsive to standard treatment received 2.5 mg/kg aminophylline. In addition, the concentration of adenosine in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from 11 children completing a 24-h systemic methotrexate protocol was compared with that in 8 newly diagnosed patients and 12 who had not received any treatment for at least a week. 4 of 6 patients with toxic signs and symptoms attributed to methotrexate and unrelieved by steroids, epidural blood patch, promethazine, 5-hydroytryptamine antagonists, paracetamol, and narcotics, had complete resolution of neurotoxicity after or during a 1-h infusion of aminophylline; 2 others had a pronounced improvement but persistent nausea. CSF adenosine concentrations of patients receiving methotrexate, even when there was very slight or no toxicity, were greatly increased compared with control subjects (mean values of 217 and 51 nmol/L, median 175 and 52 nmol/L). Subacute methotrexate neurotoxicity may be mediated by adenosine and relieved by aminophylline.
Porphyrins are used for photodynamic therapy for their light-absorbing properties, and some of them were approved for the treatment of certain types of cancers. Porphyrins prevent activation of hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) by inhibiting heat shock protein 90 (HSP90). This study investigated the structural requirements within protoporphyrin IX (PPIX) for the inhibition of HSP90 activity. In HCT116, HT29 and DLD-1 cells, PPIX treatment directly hindered the binding between HSP90 and HIF-1α; PPIX treatment inhibited the chaperone activity of HSP90, accelerating protein degradation of HIF-1α. In addition, PPIX treatment suppressed cancer cell migration, endothelial cell tube formation, and aortic ring sprouting, being consistent with its anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic activities. In silico analysis, molecular docking model indicated that a tetrapyrrole macrocycle and two propionate chains within PPIX are necessary for the binding to the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding pocket of HSP90. The predicted structural requirement was verified by the differential inhibitory effects of PPIX analogs, or the precursor of PPIX, on HIF-1α; compounds lacking either the tetrapyrrole macrocycle or the propionate chains were inactive. Our results show that a tetrapyrrole macrocycle and two attached propionate chains in PPIX coordinately interact with the ATP-binding pocket of HSP90, offering structural information on the inhibitory effect of porphyrins on angiogenesis.
There is a growing list of drugs implicated in acquired long QT syndrome and torsade de pointes. However, the torsadogenic potential of metoclopramide, a commonly used antiemetic and prokinetic drug, has not been reported in the literature, despite its chemical similarity to procainamide. We report on a 92-year-old woman with preexisting complete left bundle branch block who developed torsade de pointes after intravenous and oral administration of metoclopramide. This patient also developed torsade de pointes when cisapride and erythromycin were given simultaneously. These two episodes were suppressed successfully after discontinuing the offending drugs and administering class IB drugs. This is the first documentation that metoclopramide provokes torsade de pointes clinically. Metoclopramide should be used cautiously in patients with a risk of torsade de pointes.
The function of multidrug resistance-associated protein 2 (Mrp2) in the intestine and liver, as well as intestinal Mrp2 expression, was analyzed in CCl(4)-induced acute hepatic failure rats with hyperbilirubinemia. The plasma level of bilirubin glucuronides, endogenous Mrp2-substrates, was 26 microM at 24 h after CCl(4) treatment. Mrp2 protein levels in jejunum decreased to 41% of control level. Mrp2-mediated efflux of 2,4-dinitrophenyl-S-glutathione (DNP-GSH), an Mrp2-substrate, in jejunum decreased to 31% of control in vitro, and was almost completely suppressed in vivo to the same level as that in the presence of probenecid, an Mrp2-inhibitor. Biliary excretion of DNP-GSH was suppressed to the same level as that inhibited by intravenous probenecid. The suppression of Mrp2 and the increased plasma bilirubin glucuronides recovered within 24 h thereafter. These results suggest that hyperbilirubinemia in disease states may be related to the systemic suppression of Mrp2 function.
The incidence of nephrocalcinosis in very low birthweight (less than 1500 g) premature infants was assessed by ultrasound scan and analysis of urine. Three of 36 infants had nephrocalcinosis. All had been receiving long term frusemide for bronchopulmonary dysplasia with simultaneous fluid restriction. Urinary investigations showed no consistent findings in babies with nephrocalcinosis.
E74-like transcription factor-3 (Elf3), a member of the E26 transformation-specific transcription factor family, is strongly expressed in epithelial-rich tissues, such as small intestine, fetal lung, and various lung cancers. Although previous studies have shown a defect in terminal differentiation of the small intestinal epithelium of Elf3-deficient (Elf3-/-) mice during embryonic development, very little is known about the role Elf3 may play in repair of the airway epithelium after injury. In order to investigate whether Elf3 is involved in regeneration of the bronchiolar epithelium after Clara cell-specific injury, we administered naphthalene to both wild-type (Elf3+/+) and Elf3-/- mice. Histopathological analysis revealed no significant difference in the extent of naphthalene-induced Clara cell necrosis between Elf3+/+ mice and Elf3-/- mice. In the bronchiolar epithelium of Elf3-/- mice, there was a substantial delay in the kinetics of cell proliferation and mitosis along with Clara cell renewal, whereas in the peribronchiolar interstitium, there was a significantly greater level of cell proliferation and mitosis in Elf3-/- mice than in Elf3+/+ mice. Last, the intensity of immunopositive signal for transforming growth factor-β type II receptor, which is a well-known transcriptional target gene of Elf3 and involved in the induction of epithelial cell differentiation, was significantly lower in the bronchiolar epithelium of Elf3-/- mice when compared with Elf3+/+ mice. Taken together, our results suggest that Elf3 plays an important role in the regulation of lung cell proliferation and differentiation during repair of the injured bronchiolar airway epithelium.
Gastric lesions result from an imbalance between aggressive and defensive factors. Indirect lines of evidence suggest that heat shock proteins (HSPs) induced by various aggressive factors provide a major protective mechanism. In this study, we compared gastric ulcerogenic response in wild-type mice and in those lacking heat shock factor 1 (HSF1), a transcription factor for hsp genes. The severity of gastric lesions induced by ethanol or hydrochloric acid was worsened in HSF1-null mice. Immunoblotting, real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemical analysis, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling assay revealed that the ethanol administration up-regulated gastric mucosal HSPs, in particular HSP70, in an HSF1-dependent manner, and more apoptotic cells were observed in the gastric mucosa of HSF1-null mice than in wild-type mice. In contrast, other parameters governing the gastric ulcerogenic response, including gastric acid secretion, gastric mucosal blood flow, and prostaglandin E(2) levels, were not significantly affected by the absence of the hsf1 gene. Geranylgeranylacetone (GGA), a clinically used antiulcer drug with HSP-inducing activity, suppressed ethanol-induced gastric lesions in wild-type mice but not in heat shock factor 1 (HSF1)-null mice. The results suggest that the aggravation of irritant-induced gastric lesions in HSF1-null mice is due to their inability to up-regulate HSPs, leading to apoptosis. It is also suggested that the HSP-inducing activity of GGA contributes to the drug's antiulcer activity. This study provides direct genetic evidence that HSPs, after their HSF1-dependent up-regulation, confer gastric protection against the irritant-induced lesions.
We report a case of variant ventricular tachycardia induced by desipramine toxicity. Unusual features of the arrhythmia are repetitive group beating, progressive shortening of the R-R interval, progressive widening of the QRS complex with eventual failure of intraventricular conduction, and changes in direction of the QRS axis. Recognition of variant ventricular tachycardia is important because therapy differs from that of classic ventricular tachycardia.
From a survey of 24-hour caffeine intake of 798 grade-school children (mean age, 10.3 years), 19 "high consumers" (reported intake of 500 mg/day or more) and a matched group of 19 "low consumers" were recruited for a double-blind, placebo-controlled, caffeine challenge study. Children received 5 mg/kg of caffeine twice a day or placebo for two weeks each, using a crossover design. While not receiving caffeine, high consumers had higher scores on an anxiety questionnaire and tended to have lower autonomic arousal (less frequent spontaneous skin conductance response and lower skin conductance level). While receiving caffeine, low consumers were perceived by their parents as more emotional, inattentive, and restless, while high consumers were not rated as changed. These differences cannot be attributed to tolerance, withdrawal, or subject selection, and suggest a possible physiological basis in children for dietary caffeine preference.
To our knowledge, the majority of evidence supporting the relationship between the serotonin syndrome and medications that effect 5HT is based on case reports. The justification for taking up this subject has been a fatal outcome of a 21 year-old female following an administration of toxic doses of moclobemide (MAOI) and venlafaxine (SNRI). As a result of complex toxicological investigations including antemortem and postmortem material, antemortem clinical observations and postmortem examinations, the cause of death was identified as overdose with antidepressants--moclobemide and venlafaxine--in the mechanism of the clinically fully developed severe toxic serotonin syndrome. The analysis of a hair strand collected from the victim documented the use of the above-mentioned drugs simultaneously with cocaine in the period of at least 20 months preceding death. The fact is a matter of considerable interest in view of the employed pharmacotherapy, giving rise to suspicion that the woman had not developed the serotonin syndrome during the almost 2-year antemortem period until she took toxic doses of both medications.
