The hypothesis of this study was that oral paracetamol or ketoprofen can reduce opioid consumption and the adverse effects of opioids after major orthopedic surgery. Sixty patients who had elective total hip replacement surgery took part in this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study. The total doses were paracetamol 4 g and ketoprofen 300 mg. After the surgery, analgesia was provided with a patient-controlled analgesia device: 0.05-mg bolus doses of fentanyl i.v. for 5 min, followed by a lockout interval of 5 min, with a maximum of 0.3 mg in any 1-h period. Pain (measured by visual analog scale), respiratory rate, peripheral arteriolar oxygen saturation, heart rate, blood pressure and side effects were recorded every 4 h for a period of 20 h. The mean pain scores were similar among the groups. Patients in the ketoprofen group consumed a mean of 22% less fentanyl (P < 0.05) in a 20-h period than the placebo group, and 28% less than the patients in the paracetamol group (P < 0.05). Oral ketoprofen (300 mg) decreased fentanyl consumption by 22% in the 20-h period immediately following major orthopedic surgery; fentanyl consumption was unaffected by paracetamol (4 g). The frequency of adverse effects was not reduced by using adjunctive nonopioid analgesics.
We report the fourth case of cerebral demyelinating disease associated with 5-fluorouracil and levamisole hydrochloride therapy for adenocarcinoma of the colon. The initial manifestations included subacute progressive decline in mental status, ataxia, dysarthria, and diplopia. Magnetic resonance imaging of the head demonstrated multifocal enhanced lesions in the white matter. The patient experienced improvement, without corticosteroid treatment, from 2 weeks to 4 months after cessation of chemotherapy.
Activating Notch1 mutations have been reported in human T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) and lymphomas from genetically modified mice. We report that Notch1 is a prevalent and major mutational target in chemically induced mouse lymphoma. The regions of the gene that are frequently mutated are the heterodimerization domain and the N-terminal ligand-binding region, important for protein stability, and the polypeptide rich in proline, glutamate, serine and threonine (PEST) domains, which is critical for protein degradation. Another gene, CDC4, is also involved in Notch1 degradation and shows frequent mutations. Mutations in the heterodimerization and the ligand-binding regions may cause ligand-independent signaling, whereas mutations preventing protein degradation result in accumulation of intracellular Notch1. We analyzed 103 chemical-induced mouse lymphomas for mutations in the Notch1 gene using single strand conformation analysis (SSCA) and DNA sequencing. Genetic alterations resulting in premature truncation of Notch1 were identified in 28 tumors, whereas 8 revealed alterations in the heterodimerization and 16 harbored deletions in the ligand-binding region. Dideoxycytidine-induced lymphomas displayed the highest frequency of Notch1 mutations (49%), whereas in butadiene- and phenolphthalein-induced tumors showed lower frequencies (26 and 10%, respectively). In total, 26 novel and 3 previously reported mutations were detected. This report shows that Notch1 is a prevalent and major mutational target for 2',3'-dideoxycytidine and butadiene-induced lymphoma.
Stimulation of the local renin-angiotensin system and apoptosis characterize the diabetic heart. Because IGF-1 reduces angiotensin (Ang) II and apoptosis, we tested whether streptozotocin-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy was attenuated in IGF-1 transgenic mice (TGM). Diabetes progressively depressed ventricular performance in wild-type mice (WTM) but had no hemodynamic effect on TGM. Myocyte apoptosis measured at 7 and 30 days after the onset of diabetes was twofold higher in WTM than in TGM. Myocyte necrosis was apparent only at 30 days and was more severe in WTM. Diabetic nontransgenic mice lost 24% of their ventricular myocytes and showed a 28% myocyte hypertrophy; both phenomena were prevented by IGF-1. In diabetic WTM, p53 was increased in myocytes, and this activation of p53 was characterized by upregulation of Bax, angiotensinogen, Ang type 1 (AT(1)) receptors, and Ang II. IGF-1 overexpression decreased these biochemical responses. In vivo accumulation of the reactive O(2) product nitrotyrosine and the in vitro formation of H(2)O(2)-(.)OH in myocytes were higher in diabetic WTM than TGM. Apoptosis in vitro was detected in myocytes exhibiting high H(2)O(2)-(.)OH fluorescence, and apoptosis in vivo was linked to the presence of nitrotyrosine. H(2)O(2)-(.)OH generation and myocyte apoptosis in vitro were inhibited by the AT(1) blocker losartan and the O(2) scavenger TIRON: In conclusion, IGF-1 interferes with the development of diabetic myopathy by attenuating p53 function and Ang II production and thus AT(1) activation. This latter event might be responsible for the decrease in oxidative stress and myocyte death by IGF-1.
To investigate the therapeutic effects of curcumin (Cur) on trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis and the effects of Cur on the balance of Th1/Th2 cytokines.
Colitis was induced by TNBS and treated with Cur (30 mg/kg/d, ip), dexamethasone (Dex, 2 mg/kg/d), or Cur plus dexamethasone (Cur+Dex, 30 mg/kg/d Cur ip+2 mg/kg/d Dex,ip). mRNA in colon mucosa were detected by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Intracellular cytokines were detected by flow cytometry and concentrations of cytokines in sera were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent analysis.
Both Cur and Dex improved body weight loss, ameliorated histological images and decreased macroscopic score and myeloperoxidase activity. Cur decreased the expression of Th1 cytokines (IL-12, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, IL-1) and increased the expression of Th2 cytokines (IL-4 and IL-10) in colon mucosa. Cur also increased the proportion of IFN-gamma/IL-4 in splenocytes and circulation. Dex and Cur+Dex decreased the expression of Th1 cytokines but could not increase the expression of Th2 cytokines and the proportion of IFN-gamma/IL-4.
Cur exerted therapeutic effects on colitis by regulating the shift from Th1 to Th2.
In order to evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy and tolerability of a new nicardipine formulation, 26 mild-to-moderate essential hypertensive patients were given slow-release nicardipine, 40 mg, twice daily for 6 weeks. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressure were measured after a 1 week single-blind placebo run-in period and after 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks of active treatment, just before the morning administration. After 1 week, nicardipine induced a significant blood pressure reduction (p less than 0.01), with a decrease in mean SBP/DBP values of -15/-11 mmHg (from baseline values of 165/104 to 150/93 mmHg) in supine and of -16/-12 mmHg (from 158/110 to 142/98 mmHg) in standing position. After 6 weeks the decrease was of -15/-12 mmHg in supine and of -15/-14 mmHg in standing position. The responder rate (DBP decrease of at least 10 mmHg) was 62% (16/26). Normalization rate (DBP less than 95 mmHg with a concomitant decrease of at least 10 mmHg) was 54% (14/26). Eleven patients reported adverse events (headache, peripheral oedema, palpitations, nausea, constipation, flush, dizziness and asthenia). Due to an improved pharmacokinetic profile, the slow-release formulation prolongs to 12 hours the antihypertensive effect of nicardipine, thus facilitating patient's compliance.
Dermatomyositis is a rare inflammatory dermatosis for which an iatrogenic origin has been described in very few cases. We report a case of dermatomyositis occurring after fluvastatin intake.
A 76-year-old male patient sought medical attention for a photodistributed rash and considerable muscular weakness present for one month. Two months earlier, fluvastatin had been introduced following the discovery of dyslipidemia. Serum creatine phosphokinase levels were elevated. Histological examination of a muscle biopsy was consistent with a diagnosis of dermatomyositis. Investigation for neoplasia and associated autoimmune disease proved negative. All clinical and laboratory abnormalities diminished spontaneously without recourse to corticosteroids within one month of the final intake of fluvastatin. After a follow-up period of three years, no recurrence was observed and no signs of neoplasia or connectivitis were found.
Iatrogenic dermatomyositis has only been reported in rare cases. Certain drugs have been incriminated, notably D-penicillamine. Six cases of drug-induced dermatomyositis have been described with statins: simvastatin, atorvastatin, pravastatin and lovastatin. Of these cases, only one resolved spontaneously after withdrawal of the drug alone without use of corticosteroids. Our case concerns intake of fluvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor with rare though well-known muscular side effects: elevated serum CPK, myalgia and rhabdomyolysis. Six cases of polymyositis have also been reported. Ours is the first case of dermatomyositis described with this category of statins. It is also the second reported case showing improvement after withdrawal of the lipid-lowering agent and without corticosteroids. Thus in cases of dermatomyositis, this iatrogenic picture should be sought routinely.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is associated with the development and exacerbation of airway inflammation. Increases in innervation of sensory C-fibers and tachykinin receptors, which mainly involve overproduction of neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor (NGF), may enhance neurogenic inflammation. Expression of NGF and its receptors in rat lungs is known to decline with age. We examined whether inhaled LPS causes proliferation of sensory C-fibers, increased expression of tachykinin receptors and subsequent enhancement of neurogenic inflammation in the airways of preweaning rats. Wistar male rats aged 2 weeks inhaled aerosolized LPS derived from Escherichia coli (0.1mg/ml) for 30 min. Evans blue dye leakage into the trachea induced by gaseous formaldehyde or intravenous capsaicin was measured as an index of tachykinin NK1 receptor-mediated vascular permeability. Expression of substance P-immunoreactive nerves, tachykinin NK1 receptors, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and NGF in the trachea was also assessed immunohistochemically. Neurogenic plasma leakage in the trachea increased significantly between 7 and 21 days after LPS inhalation. Expression of TNF-α, NGF, substance P-immunoreactive nerves and tachykinin NK1 receptors was enhanced, peaking at 28 h, 7 days, 14 days and 14 days after LPS inhalation, respectively. Pretreatment with infliximab, a blocking antibody for TNF-α, almost completely abolished the airway changes seen after LPS inhalation. In conclusion, inhaled LPS increased innervation of sensory C-fibers and expression of tachykinin NK1 receptors in the airway, probably resulting in enhancement of neurogenic airway inflammation. These airway responses may be caused by overproduction of neurotrophins including NGF, mainly through a TNF-α-mediated pathway.
Curcuma longa is a perennial member of the Zingiberaceae family, and cultivated mainly in India, and Southeast Asia. The hypothesis for this study is that turmeric will have distinctive effects from curcumin due to the presence of other bioactive compounds. Thirty Eight-week old Sprague-Dawley rats were separated into three oral feeding groups. Group 1, standard rat chow, Control diet - AIN 93M, group 2 - Curcumin - 700ppm or 0.7g/kg diet, and group 3 - Turmeric - 14,000ppm or 14g/kg diet for a total of 3weeks. One group of rats were feed all three diets only and another group underwent esophagoduodenal anastomosis to evaluate the effects of bioavailability. Curcumin diet did not increase the transcription of mRNA of TNF-alpha, IL-6, iNOS, and COX-2. The average fold change in the mRNAs level was not significant. Whereas turmeric diet increases the levels of IL-6 (1.9-fold, p=0.05), iNOS (4.39-fold, p=0.02), IL-8 (3.11-fold, p=0.04), and COX-2 (2.02-fold, p=0.05), suggesting that turmeric either was more bioavailable or had more affect on pro-inflammatory genes compare to curcumin diet. We have demonstrated the molecular effects of curcumin and turmeric in the role as an anti-inflammatory therapy. However, significant bioavailable differences do occur and must be considered in further chemopreventative investigative trials the setting of reflux esophagitis, Barrett's esophagus, and other upper gastrointestinal cancers.
Autism is complex neuro-developmental disorder which has a symptomatic diagnosis in patients characterized by disorders in language/communication, behavior, and social interactions. The exact causes for autism are largely unknown, but is has been speculated that immune and inflammatory responses, particularly those of Th2 type, may be involved. Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) are agonists of the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), a nuclear hormone receptor which modulates insulin sensitivity, and have been shown to induce apoptosis in activated T-lymphocytes and exert anti-inflammatory effects in glial cells. The TZD pioglitazone (Actos) is an FDA-approved PPARgamma agonist used to treat type 2 diabetes, with a good safety profile, currently being tested in clinical trials of other neurological diseases including AD and MS. We therefore tested the safety and therapeutic potential of oral pioglitazone in a small cohort of children with diagnosed autism.
The rationale and risks of taking pioglitazone were explained to the parents, consent was obtained, and treatment was initiated at either 30 or 60 mg per day p.o. A total of 25 children (average age 7.9 +/- 0.7 year old) were enrolled. Safety was assessed by measurements of metabolic profiles and blood pressure; effects on behavioral symptoms were assessed by the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC), which measures hyperactivity, inappropriate speech, irritability, lethargy, and stereotypy, done at baseline and after 3-4 months of treatment.
In a small cohort of autistic children, daily treatment with 30 or 60 mg p.o. pioglitazone for 3-4 months induced apparent clinical improvement without adverse events. There were no adverse effects noted and behavioral measurements revealed a significant decrease in 4 out of 5 subcategories (irritability, lethargy, stereotypy, and hyperactivity). Improved behaviors were inversely correlated with patient age, indicating stronger effects on the younger patients.
Pioglitazone should be considered for further testing of therapeutic potential in autistic patients.
In some patients with Churg-Strauss syndrome (CSS), especially those with myocardial or neural involvement, conventional treatment with corticosteroids with or without cyclophosphamide is not effective.
To examine the effects of intravenous high-dose immunoglobulin (IVIG) in patients with CSS who showed poor responsiveness to conventional treatment.
We consecutively selected patients with CSS who showed any organ involvement despite corticosteroid treatment with or without cyclophosphamide. The diagnosis was based on the classification criteria of the American College of Rheumatology. IVIG therapy was performed with a dose of 400 mg/kg of immunoglobulin daily for 5 days. Neuropathy was evaluated with the manual muscle strength test and by the skin temperature of affected sites. Cardiac function was examined with ejection fraction by echocardiography and 2 imaging tests of myocardium (iodine 123 metaiodobenzylguanidine and thallium 201).
The manual muscle strength test results were improved, and the skin temperature of both hands and legs was increased by IVIG therapy. In 5 patients with heart failure, the mean +/- SD ejection fraction of the left ventricle increased from 35.2% +/- 13.9% to 61.0% +/- 10.1% (P < .02). The uptake of iodine 123 metaiodobenzylguanidine of the myocardium increased, indicating that the myocardial viability was improved. The thallium 201 images revealed the presence of perfusion defects, which were improved by IVIG therapy.
Patients with CSS who are resistant to corticosteroid treatment with or without cyclophosphamide may be treated effectively with IVIG therapy.
Recent pilot studies found natural chlorophyll (Chl) to inhibit carcinogen uptake and tumorigenesis in rodent and fish models, and to alter uptake and biodistribution of trace (14)C-aflatoxin B1 in human volunteers. The present study extends these promising findings, using a dose-dose matrix design to examine Chl-mediated effects on dibenzo(def,p)chrysene (DBC)-induced DNA adduct formation, tumor incidence, tumor multiplicity, and changes in gene regulation in the trout. The dose-dose matrix design employed an initial 12,360 rainbow trout, which were treated with 0-4000ppm dietary Chl along with 0-225ppm DBC for up to 4weeks. Dietary DBC was found to induce dose-responsive changes in gene expression that were abolished by Chl co-treatment, whereas Chl alone had no effect on the same genes. Chl co-treatment provided a dose-responsive reduction in total DBC-DNA adducts without altering relative adduct intensities along the chromatographic profile. In animals receiving DBC alone, liver tumor incidence (as logit) and tumor multiplicity were linear in DBC dose (as log) up to their maximum-effect dose, and declined thereafter. Chl co-treatment substantially inhibited incidence and multiplicity at DBC doses up to their maximum-effect dose. These results show that Chl concentrations encountered in Chl-rich green vegetables can provide substantial cancer chemoprotection, and suggest that they do so by reducing carcinogen bioavailability. However, at DBC doses above the optima, Chl co-treatments failed to inhibit tumor incidence and significantly enhanced multiplicity. This finding questions the human relevance of chemoprevention studies carried out at high carcinogen doses that are not proven to lie within a linear, or at least monotonic, endpoint dose-response range.
The aim of this study was to verify the efficacy and safety of intracavernous injection of etilefrine hydrochloride in the prevention of pharmacologically induced prolonged erection. Two hundred rigid erections due to diagnostic pharmacological stimulation were treated with immediate intracavernous injection of 5 to 10 mg etilefrine hydrochloride. Penile response and general side effects after the injection were recorded. Patients were interviewed after 1-2 weeks about possible side effects. Detumescence occurred within 10 minutes in 194 (97%) cases. In the remaining six (3%), detumescence occurred after cavernous aspiration and additional injection of 5 mg etilefrine. Thirteen patients (6.5%) had transitory palpitations. None of the patients had hypertensive crisis, cardiac arrythmia or ischaemic events. Intracavernous injection of etilefrine is effective and safe in preventing prolonged erection after diagnostic pharmacological stimulation.
It has been established that skeletal growth is stunted in lead-exposed children. Because chondrogenesis is a seminal step during skeletal development, elucidating the impact of Pb on this process is the first step toward understanding the mechanism of Pb toxicity in the skeleton.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that Pb alters chondrogenic commitment of mesenchymal cells and to assess the effects of Pb on various signaling pathways.
We assessed the influence of Pb on chondrogenesis in murine limb bud mesenchymal cells (MSCs) using nodule formation assays and gene analyses. The effects of Pb on transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling was studied using luciferase-based reporters and Western analyses, and luciferase-based assays were used to study cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element binding protein (CREB), beta-catenin, AP-1, and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) signaling. We also used an ectopic bone formation assay to determine how Pb affects chondrogenesis in vivo.
Pb-exposed MSCs showed enhanced basal and TGF-beta/BMP induction of chondrogenesis, evidenced by enhanced nodule formation and up-regulation of Sox-9, type 2 collagen, and aggrecan, all key markers of chondrogenesis. We observed enhanced chondrogenesis during ectopic bone formation in mice preexposed to Pb via drinking water. In MSCs, Pb enhanced TGF-beta but inhibited BMP-2 signaling, as measured by luciferase reporter assays and Western analyses of Smad phosphorylation. Although Pb had no effect on basal CREB or Wnt/beta-catenin pathway activity, it induced NFkappaB signaling and inhibited AP-1 signaling.
The in vitro and in vivo induction of chondrogenesis by Pb likely involves modulation and integration of multiple signaling pathways including TGF-beta, BMP, AP-1, and NFkappaB.
Clozapine is an atypical, neuroleptic medication that can cause myocarditis. While the "gold standard" for diagnosis of myocarditis is perceived to be via myocardial biopsy, cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) has also proven its utility in this respect, primarily through its ability to detect myocardial scar by late-gadolinium enhancement (LGE). Until recently, however, clozapine-induced myocarditis specifically has not been known to be associated with LGE on CMR. In that particular case, LGE was demonstrated in a patient with clozapine-induced myocarditis. However, quite important, that patient also had specific abnormalities on the electrocardiogram (ECG) and echocardiogram that corresponded to the area of LGE demonstrated by CMR. We highlight a case series of three patients with clozapine-induced myocarditis and provide a literature review to discuss and critically appraise the true incremental diagnostic value of CMR in such patients with normal ECG and echocardiography.
Renal oncocytomas, which have previously been shown to originate from the collecting duct system, were induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by oral administration of N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM) for 7 weeks. The expression of glucose transporter isoforms GLUT1 and GLUT2, and of several enzymes involved in glucose metabolism [hexokinase (HK), pyruvate kinase (PK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), malate dehydrogenase (MDH)] were studied by cytochemical approaches in serial cryostat sections of the kidney 12, 23 and 34 weeks after withdrawal of NNM. Oncocytic tubules connected with collecting ducts were first observed 23 weeks, and oncocytomas 34 weeks after withdrawal. The cytochemical pattern of oncocytic tubules and oncocytomas was similar, but differed markedly from that of normal collecting ducts in nearly all variables studied; expression of GLUT1 and hexokinase I proteins were strongly increased; activities of HK, PK and MDH were elevated, while LDH activity was reduced. These results suggest that oncocytic transformation is associated with fundamental changes in energy metabolism which differ from those in cell lineages leading to other types of renal cell tumours, such as clear/acidophilic and basophilic cell tumours. The characteristic over-expression of GLUT1 may be used as a diagnostic criterion for the discrimination between oncocytes and acidophilic (granular) cells in clear/acidophilic renal cell tumours which show a reduced expression of this glucose transporter protein.
MALAT1, a highly conserved long noncoding RNA, is deregulated in several types of cancers. However, its role in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and its posttranscriptional regulation remain poorly understood. In this study we provide first evidences that a posttranscriptional regulation mechanism of MALAT1 by miR-101 and miR-217 exists in ESCC cells. This posttranscriptional silencing of MALAT1 could significantly suppress the proliferation of ESCC cells through the arrest of G2/M cell cycle, which may be due to MALAT1-mediated up-regulation of p21 and p27 expression and the inhibition of B-MYB expression. Moreover, we also found the abilities of migration and invasion of ESCC cells were inhibited after overexpression of miR-101, miR-217, or MALAT1 siRNA. This might be attributed to the deregulation of downstream genes of MALAT1, such as MIA2, HNF4G, ROBO1, CCT4, and CTHRC1. A significant negative correlation exists between miR-101 or miR-217 and MALAT1 in 42 pairs of ESCC tissue samples and adjacent normal tissues. Mice xenograft data also support the tumor suppressor role of both miRNAs in ESCCs.
To estimate the frequency of cholestatic hepatitis of uncertain origin occurring among persons who had recently received flucloxacillin, a drug which has recently been reported as causing cholestatic hepatitis, and to compare this frequency with that related to oxytetracycline, a drug which has seldom been reported as causing this disorder.
A retrospective cohort study using data automatically recorded on general practitioners' office computers.
Some 600 general practices in the United Kingdom.
132,087 people who received flucloxacillin and 145,844 people who received oxytetracycline.
Clinically documented cholestatic hepatitis of uncertain origin diagnosed 1-45 days after a prescription for flucloxacillin, 46-90 days after a prescription for flucloxacillin and, for comparison, 1-45 days after a prescription for oxytetracycline.
There were 10 cases of cholestatic hepatitis of uncertain origin diagnosed within 45 days of receiving flucloxacillin that were either characteristic of or consistent with a syndrome recently described as being associated with this drug; there was one such case 46-90 days after a prescription for flucloxacillin; there were three such cases 1-45 days after a prescription for oxytetracycline.
Flucloxacillin is a likely cause of cholestatic hepatitis. The risk is estimated to be in the range of 7.6 per 100,000 users (95% confidence interval, 3.6-13.9).
The postnatal effects of in utero exposure to perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS, C8F17SO3-) were evaluated in the rat and mouse. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were given 1, 2, 3, 5, or 10 mg/kg PFOS daily by gavage from gestation day (GD) 2 to GD 21; pregnant CD-1 mice were treated with 1, 5, 10, 15, and 20 mg/kg PFOS from GD 1 to GD 18. Controls received 0.5% Tween-20 vehicle (1 ml/kg for rats and 10 ml/kg for mice). At parturition, newborns were observed for clinical signs and survival. All animals were born alive and initially appeared to be active. In the highest dosage groups (10 mg/kg for rat and 20 mg/kg for mouse), the neonates became pale, inactive, and moribund within 30-60 min, and all died soon afterward. In the 5 mg/kg (rat) and 15 mg/kg (mouse) dosage groups, the neonates also became moribund but survived for a longer period of time (8-12 h). Over 95% of these animals died within 24 h. Approximately 50% of offspring died at 3 mg/kg for rat and 10 mg/kg for mouse. Cross-fostering the PFOS-exposed rat neonates (5 mg/kg) to control nursing dams failed to improve survival. Serum concentrations of PFOS in newborn rats mirrored the maternal administered dosage and were similar to those in the maternal circulation at GD 21; PFOS levels in the surviving neonates declined in the ensuing days. Small but significant and persistent growth lags were detected in surviving rat and mouse pups exposed to PFOS prenatally, and slight delays in eye opening were noted. Significant increases in liver weight were observed in the PFOS-exposed mouse pups. Serum thyroxine levels were suppressed in the PFOS-treated rat pups, although triiodothyronine and thyroid-stimulating hormone [TSH] levels were not altered. Choline acetyltransferase activity (an enzyme that is sensitive to thyroid status) in the prefrontal cortex of rat pups exposed to PFOS prenatally was slightly reduced, but activity in the hippocampus was not affected. Development of learning, determined by T-maze delayed alternation in weanling rats, was not affected by PFOS exposure. These results indicate that in utero exposure to PFOS severely compromised postnatal survival of neonatal rats and mice, and caused delays in growth and development that were accompanied by hypothyroxinemia in the surviving rat pups.
Rosiglitazone (RGZ), an oral anti-hyperglycemic agent used for non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, is a high-affinity synthetic agonist for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma). Both in vitro and in vivo experiments have also revealed that RGZ possesses anti-inflammatory properties. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of RGZ in a rat model of periodontal disease induced by ligature placed around the mandible first molars of each animal. Male Wister rats were divided into four groups: 1) animals without ligature placement receiving administration of empty vehicle (control); 2) animals with ligature receiving administration of empty vehicle; 3) animals with ligature receiving administration with oral RGZ (10 mg/kg/day); and 4) animals with ligature receiving administration of subcutaneous RGZ (10 mg/kg/day). Thirty days after induction of periodontal disease, the animals were sacrificed, and mandibles and gingival tissues were removed for further analysis. An in vitro assay was also employed to test the inhibitory effects of RGZ on osteoclastogenesis. Histomorphological and immunohistochemical analyses of periodontal tissue demonstrated that RGZ-treated animals presented decreased bone resorption, along with reduced RANKL expression, compared to those animals with ligature, but treated with empty vehicle. Corresponding to such results obtained from in vivo experiments, RGZ also suppressed in vitro osteoclast differentiation in the presence of RANKL in MOCP-5 osteoclast precursor cells, along with the down-regulation of the expression of RANKL-induced TRAP mRNA. These data indicated that RGZ may suppress the bone resorption by inhibiting RANKL-mediated osteoclastogenesis elicited during the course of experimental periodontitis in rats.
We investigated the change of tryptophan-niacin metabolism in rats with puromycin aminonucleoside PAN-induced nephrosis, the mechanisms responsible for their change of urinary excretion of nicotinamide and its metabolites, and the role of the kidney in tryptophan-niacin conversion. PAN-treated rats were intraperitoneally injected once with a 1.0% (w/v) solution of PAN at a dose of 100 mg/kg body weight. The collection of 24-hour urine was conducted 8 days after PAN injection. Daily urinary excretion of nicotinamide and its metabolites, liver and blood NAD, and key enzyme activities of tryptophan-niacin metabolism were determined. In PAN-treated rats, the sum of urinary excretion of nicotinamide and its metabolites was significantly lower compared with controls. The kidney alpha-amino-beta-carboxymuconate-epsilon-semialdehyde decarboxylase (ACMSD) activity in the PAN-treated group was significantly decreased by 50%, compared with the control group. Although kidney ACMSD activity was reduced, the conversion of tryptophan to niacin tended to be lower in the PAN-treated rats. A decrease in urinary excretion of niacin and the conversion of tryptophan to niacin in nephrotic rats may contribute to a low level of blood tryptophan. The role of kidney ACMSD activity may be minimal concerning tryptophan-niacin conversion under this experimental condition.
We examined effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on methamphetamine (METH)-induced neurotoxicity. Marked reduction of dopamine transporter-positive signals and accumulation of microglial cells in the striatum after METH injections (4 mg/kg x4, i.p. with 2 h-interval) were significantly and dose-dependently attenuated by four injections of ketoprofen (2 or 5 mg/kg x4, s.c.) given 30 min prior to each METH injection, but not by either a low or high dose of aspirin. The present results suggest that the protective effects of ketoprofen against METH-induced neurotoxicity and microgliosis might be based on its inhibitory activity on inflammatory response or on microglia activation, but not on its cyclooxygenase-inhibiting property. This provides a possible new strategy against METH-induced neurotoxicity using commonly used NSAIDs.
Based on its capacity to inhibit in vitro HIV-1 replication in T cells and the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines in monocytes, the prenylated heterodimeric phloroglucinyl α-pyrone arzanol was identified as the major anti-inflammatory and anti-viral constituent from Helichrysum italicum. We have now investigated the activity of arzanol on the biosynthesis of pro-inflammatory eicosanoids, evaluating its anti-inflammatory efficacy in vitro and in vivo. Arzanol inhibited 5-lipoxygenase (EC 7.13.11.34) activity and related leukotriene formation in neutrophils, as well as the activity of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 (EC 1.14.99.1) and the formation of COX-2-derived prostaglandin (PG)E(2)in vitro (IC(50)=2.3-9μM). Detailed studies revealed that arzanol primarily inhibits microsomal PGE(2) synthase (mPGES)-1 (EC 5.3.99.3, IC(50)=0.4μM) rather than COX-2. In fact, arzanol could block COX-2/mPGES-1-mediated PGE(2) biosynthesis in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated human monocytes and human whole blood, but not the concomitant COX-2-derived biosynthesis of thromboxane B(2) or of 6-keto PGF(1α), and the expression of COX-2 or mPGES-1 protein was not affected. Arzanol potently suppressed the inflammatory response of the carrageenan-induced pleurisy in rats (3.6mg/kg, i.p.), with significantly reduced levels of PGE(2) in the pleural exudates. Taken together, our data show that arzanol potently inhibits the biosynthesis of pro-inflammatory lipid mediators like PGE(2)in vitro and in vivo, providing a mechanistic rationale for the anti-inflammatory activity of H. italicum, and a rationale for further pre-clinical evaluation of this novel anti-inflammatory lead.
Three bulimic patients with major depressive episodes developed delirium after trazodone administration. These cases raise a question about the susceptibility of bulimic patients to developing delirium when treated with trazodone.
It is well accepted that high dietary salt intake accelerates both hypertension and target organ damage. We have previously shown that eplerenone attenuates sustained elevated systolic blood pressure in Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) rats. In the present study, we investigated the role of eplerenone on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression because we suspected that eplerenone treatment may trigger a unique mechanism that relies on the downregulation of VEGF.
Dahl SS rats were fed a high salt (8% NaCl) diet for 3 weeks and then switched to normal salt (0.3% NaCl) diet with or without treatment with eplerenone (100 mg/kg/day), enalapril (30 mg/kg/day) and their combination for an additional 3 weeks.
In addition to reducing blood pressure, eplerenone inhibited glomeruli sclerosis and suppressed the expression of VEGF and endothelial nitric oxide synthase mRNA as well as protein levels.
Based on these findings, we suggest that in part, VEGF stimulation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase plays a significant role in the eplerenone-induced reversal of the renal and vascular damage caused by high dietary salt intake.
