Both valproate (VPA) and lorazepam (LZP) are primarily cleared from the body by glucuronidation. Concomitant administration of VPA has been reported to reduce the elimination of LZP. However, it remains unknown whether this drug interaction is clinically significant. We report a patient with epilepsy who showed that VPA-LZP interaction could result in severe encephalopathy such as coma.
Environmental contaminants possessing hormonal activity have long been suspected of playing a role in cancer causation. What is unclear is whether such agents elicit their effects through genotoxic and/or epigenetic mechanisms. gamma-Hexachlorocyclohexane (gamma-HCH, lindane) was tested in the 10(-12)-10(-4) M range. Chromosomal damage in MCF-7 breast cells and PC-3 prostate cells was assessed using the cytokinesis block micronucleus assay. Micronuclei (MNi) were scored in 1000 binucleate cells per treatment. Cell viability and cell cycle kinetics were also assessed, along with immunocytochemical and quantitative gene expression analyses of CDKN1A (P21WAF1/CIP1), BCL-2 and BAX. Following 24 h treatment, lindane (10(-12)-10(-10) M) induced increases (up to 5-fold) in MNi in both cell lines. Increases in MNi occurred in the absence of DNA single-strand breaks or cytotoxicity and, compared with benzo[a]pyrene and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine, at low concentrations. Lindane induced more MNi than the alpha or beta stereoisomers of HCH. Low dose lindane (10(-12)-10(-10) M) significantly elevated the percentage of MCF-7 cells staining positive for Bcl-2 and of PC-3 cells staining positive for Bax. Only high dose lindane (10(-4) M) disrupted cell cycle kinetics with increases in percentage of cells in G1 and decreases in percentage of cells in G2/M. Despite a comparable high dose lindane induction of cell cycle arrest, marked increases in expression of P21WAF1/CIP1 were observed only in MCF-7 cells, although in PC-3 cells a significant increase (P < 0.0005) in the percentage of cells staining positive for p21Waf1/Cip1 was seen. These results suggest that 'environmental' concentrations of lindane can induce a number of subtle alterations in breast and prostate cells in the absence of cytotoxicity.
The purpose of this study was to compare the efficacy of olanzapine with that of chlorpromazine plus benztropine in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia.
One hundred three previously treatment-resistant patients with schizophrenia diagnosed according to the DSM-III-R criteria were given a prospective 6-week trial of 10-40 mg/day of haloperidol. Eighty-four of them failed to respond to that trial and agreed to be randomly assigned to an 8-week fixed-dose trial of either 25 mg/day of olanzapine alone or 1200 mg/day of chlorpromazine plus 4 mg/day of benztropine mesylate.
Fifty-nine (70%) of the 84 subjects completed the trial. The primary outcome measures were Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale total score and positive symptom score, Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms global score, and Clinical Global Impression score. An analysis of variance for the subjects who completed the study showed no difference in efficacy between the two drugs. Seven percent of the olanzapine-treated patients responded according to a priori criteria; no chlorpromazine-treated patients responded. The olanzapine-treated patients had fewer motor and cardiovascular side effects than the chlorpromazine-treated patients. Extrapyramidal symptoms and akathisia were similar in the two groups, although no antiparkinsonian drugs were used in the olanzapine group.
Olanzapine and chlorpromazine showed similar efficacy, and the total amount of improvement with either drug was modest. Olanzapine-treated patients had fewer side effects than chlorpromazine-treated patients.
The purpose of this trial was to evaluate the antihypertensive efficacy of the concomitant administration of selected doses of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) on a background of losartan potassium (losartan) 50 mg, a selective angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Patients with essential hypertension ( > or = 95 mmHg inclusion criteria) with a mean sitting diastolic blood pressure (SiDBP) of 105 +/- 0.4 (S.E.) mmHg entered a 4-week, single-blind monotherapy period of losartan 50 mg once daily. At the end of the monotherapy period, patients whose blood pressure was adequately controlled were discontinued. Patients whose blood pressure was partially controlled based on a SiDBP > 92 mmHg entered a 12 week double-blind period and were randomly assigned to either receive placebo (n = 80), HCTZ 6.25 mg (n = 80), HCTZ 12.5 mg (n = 72) or HCTZ 25 mg (n = 80) in addition to losartan 50 mg. During the losartan monotherapy period, there was a 4 mmHg fall in SiDBP with a further fall of 5 mmHg after 12 weeks of double-blind therapy in the losartan/placebo control group. Based on the between group differences in BP change from the end of the losartan monotherapy period (baseline) to end of 12 weeks of double-blind, the concomitant administration of a very low dose of HCTZ (6.25 mg) with losartan did not significantly decrease SiDBP compared with the fall in blood pressure in the losartan/placebo control group (diff. between groups = -2 (95% C.I.[-4.1, +0.9] mmHg)). However, the concomitant administration of HCTZ 12.5 or 25 mg with losartan 50 mg resulted in significantly different (p < or = 0.05) reductions in diastolic blood pressure compared to the losartan/placebo group (diff. between groups = -4 (95% C.I. [-6.3, -1.1] mmHg) for 12.5mg combination group; -6 (95% C.I. [-8.3, -3.3]) mmHg for the HCTZ 25 mg combination group). The proportions of patients treated with losartan plus HCTZ 12.5 mg or 25 mg that achieved a trough SiDBP < 88 mmHg or a trough SiDBP > or = 88 mmHg but with a decrease of at least 5 mmHg were 71% and 83%, respectively. The percentage of clinical adverse experiences that were considered drug-related as assessed by the investigator were generally similar across all treatment groups. There were no reports of orthostatic hypotension in any of the treatment groups. Changes in serum glucose, potassium and uric acid were not appreciably different amongst the treatment groups. In summary, in patients with predominantly moderate to severe essential hypertension, the addition of HCTZ 12.5 mg or 25 mg to losartan 50 mg produced effective control of blood pressure in a substantial majority of patients who only partially responded to losartan monotherapy. There were no differences amongst the treatment groups with respect to drug-related adverse experiences in this trial.
Isoflurane may precipitate ischemia in patients with coronary artery disease, presumably via "coronary steal." We sought to examine whether myocardial ischemia is more common in patients with coronary artery disease receiving isoflurane (0.7%) than in a control group receiving enflurane (0.9%). Thirty-eight patients scheduled for coronary artery bypass surgery were randomly assigned one anesthetic and monitored for ischemia. All patients had ejection fractions of at least 45%. Extraneous causes of ischemia were controlled as much as possible: arterial blood pressure was maintained within 20% of baseline (primarily with phenylephrine), heart rate was maintained below 80 bpm, effects from endotracheal intubation were monitored, and measurements were made before incision. Electrocardiogram, transthoracic echocardiography, and coronary sinus lactate measurement were used to detect ischemia. Measurements were made after insertion of vascular catheters, after intubation, and after 20 min of breathing the inhaled anesthetic. During the awake period and after induction of anesthesia with fentanyl (25 micrograms/kg), there was no significant difference detected between the two groups in incidence of ischemia: 20% in the enflurane group and 22% in the isoflurane group (P = 0.38). After 20 min of receiving the inhaled anesthetic, the incidence of ischemia in the isoflurane group increased to 50%, whereas the incidence in the enflurane group was unchanged at 20% (P = 0.02). These results show that, even with strict control of hemodynamics, isoflurane is associated with more myocardial ischemia than is enflurane.
Mutations of p53 and ras genes were analyzed in 40 and 31 1,3-butadiene (BD)-induced lymphomas of B6C3F1 mice (BLFs), respectively, and in 63 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced lymphomas, which were collected from B6C3F1 (n = 16) or NIH Swiss mice (DLSs; n = 47). The frequencies of K- and N-ras mutations in BLFs (32 and 13%, respectively) were higher than those in DLSs (13 and 2%, respectively). Seven of 10 K-ras-mutated BLFs contained codon 13 CGC mutations, whereas no mutation in K-ras codon 13 was detected in DLSs, suggesting that the codon 13 CGC mutation is specific for BD exposure. Interestingly, 8 of 13 BLFs with ras mutations were from low-dose (< or = 200 ppm) or stop-exposure (26 weeks) groups. These results suggest that ras mutations play an important role in the development of BD-induced lymphoma and may represent an early event. Analysis of genetic alterations in exons 5-8 of the p53 gene revealed mutations in seven of the BLFs and three of the DLSs. All seven BLFs carrying p53 mutations were collected from the high-dose (625 ppm) continuous exposure group, which might indicate that p53 is involved in the progression of BD-induced lymphoma and in late stage of lymphomagenesis. Mutations in ras and p53 genes are relatively infrequent in 2',3'-dideoxycytidine-induced lymphomas, suggesting that other genes must be involved.
Renal hypertrophy and extracellular matrix accumulation are early features of diabetic nephropathy. Hyperglycemia-induced oxidative stress is implicated in the etiology of diabetic nephropathy. Resveratrol has potent antioxidative and protective effects on diabetic nephropathy. We aimed to examine whether high glucose (HG)-induced NADPH oxidase activation and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production contribute to glomerular mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin expression and the effect of resveratrol on HG action in mesangial cells. By using rat mesangial cell line and primary mesangial cells, we found that NADPH oxidase inhibitor (apocynin) and ROS inhibitor (N-acetyl cysteine) both inhibited HG-induced mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin expression. HG-induced elevation of NADPH oxidase activity and production of ROS in mesangial cells was inhibited by apocynin. These results suggest that HG induces mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin expression through NADPH oxidase-mediated ROS production. Mechanistic studies revealed that HG upregulated NADPH oxidase subunits p22(phox) and p47(phox) expression through JNK/NF-κB pathway, which resulted in elevation of NADPH oxidase activity and consequent ROS production. Resveratrol prevented HG-induced mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin expression through inhibiting HG-induced JNK and NF-κB activation, NADPH oxidase activity elevation and ROS production. These results demonstrate that HG enhances mesangial cell proliferation and fibronectin expression through JNK/NF-κB/NADPH oxidase/ROS pathway, which was inhibited by resveratrol. Our findings provide novel therapeutic targets for diabetic nephropathy.
By using transesophageal echocardiography, we examined the effect of phenylephrine (PHE) bolus administration on left ventricular function in 16 patients with no known cardiovascular disease during isoflurane-induced hypotension. PHE was compared with norepinephrine (NE). The patients received an intravenous bolus of PHE (2 micrograms/kg) or NE (0.1 microgram/kg) in random order. The second substance was administered after levels of arterial blood pressure and heart rate returned to baseline levels. We determined fractional area change, end-systolic wall stress, and rate-corrected mean velocity of circumferential fiber shortening. Both substances effectively restored arterial blood pressure. However, after PHE, fractional area change decreased from 0.45 to 0.31 (mean) and rate corrected mean velocity of circumferential fiber shortening from 0.88 to 0.57 circumference/s, whereas both variables remained unchanged in response to NE. End-systolic wall stress increased after PHE and NE from 47.4 to 91.2 and from 54.0 to 65.2 10(3) dyne/cm2, respectively. We conclude that phenylephrine, given as intravenous bolus to patients under isoflurane hypotension, causes a transient impairment of left ventricular systolic performance.
Inflammation plays a critical defensive role in the human body. However, uncontrolled or aberrant inflammatory responses contribute to various acute and chronic diseases. The Nrf2-ARE pathway plays a pivotal role in the regulation of inflammatory markers, such as inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). On the basis of this concept, we synthesized a novel anti-inflammatory 4,6-bis ((E)-4-hydroxy-3-methoxystyryl)-1-phenethylpyrimidine-2(1H)-thione (HPT), and in vitro experiments using HepG2-C8 ARE-luciferase-transfected cells demonstrated the induction of Nrf2-ARE activity. In lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells, HPT treatment reduced the production of nitric oxide (NO) as well as the protein and mRNA expression levels of COX-2 and iNOS, in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, HPT suppressed the mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6. In LPS-induced macrophages, HPT inhibited COX-2 and iNOS by blocking the activation of p38 and c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) but not extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2). Furthermore, an in vivo anti-inflammatory study was performed using a TPA-induced skin inflammation mouse model, and the results showed that HPT reduced TPA-induced inflammation and attenuated the expression of COX-2 and iNOS in TPA-induced mouse skin tissue. Thus, HPT demonstrated anti-inflammatory activity both in LPS-induced RAW 264.7 cells and TPA-stimulated mouse skin and may therefore serve as a potential anti-inflammatory agent.
To avoid ischemic necrosis, compartment syndrome is a surgical emergency treated with decompression once identified. A potentially lethal, oxidant-driven reperfusion injury occurs after decompression. N-acetylcysteine is an antioxidant with the potential to attenuate the reperfusion injury.
We asked whether N-acetylcysteine could preserve striated muscle contractility and modify neutrophil infiltration and activation after simulated compartment syndrome release.
Fifty-seven rats were randomized to control, simulated compartment syndrome, and simulated compartment syndrome plus N-acetylcysteine groups. We isolated the rodent cremaster muscle on its neurovascular pedicle and placed it in a pressure chamber. Chamber pressure was elevated above critical closing pressure for 3 hours to simulate compartment syndrome. Experiments were concluded at three times: 1 hour, 24 hours, and 7 days after decompression of compartment syndrome. We assessed twitch and tetanic contractile function and tissue myeloperoxidase activity. Ten additional rats were randomized to control and N-acetylcysteine administration after which neutrophil respiratory burst activity was assessed.
The simulated compartment syndrome decreased muscle contractility and increased muscle tissue myeloperoxidase activity compared with controls. Treatment with N-acetylcysteine preserved twitch and tetanic contractility. N-acetylcysteine did not alter neutrophil infiltration (myeloperoxidase activity) acutely but did reduce infiltration at 24 hours, even when given after decompression. N-acetylcysteine reduced neutrophil respiratory burst activity.
N-acetylcysteine administration before or after simulated compartment syndrome preserved striated muscle contractility, apparently by attenuating neutrophil activation and the resultant oxidant injury.
Our data suggest a potential role for N-acetylcysteine in the attenuation of muscle injury after release of compartment syndrome and possibly in the prophylaxis of compartment syndrome.
The efficacy of diltiazem, a calcium channel blocker, for reducing the dose requirement for nitroprusside-induced hypotension was studied in 20 healthy patients during spine fusion for scoliosis. Anesthesia included methohexital (3 mg/kg followed by 3 mg.kg-1.h-1 intravenously), nitrous oxide, and alfentanil (40 micrograms/kg, followed by 0.7 microgram.kg-1.min-1 intravenously). Patients were assigned randomly to two groups, receiving either nitroprusside alone or nitroprusside and diltiazem (bolus of 80 micrograms/kg with two consecutive infusions of 4.5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 during the first 30 min and then 1.3 micrograms.kg-1.min-1). Nitroprusside was used to maintain mean arterial pressure at 55-60 mm Hg in both groups. Hypotension was obtained in similar times, 4 min in the group receiving nitroprusside alone (range, 1-8 min) and 2 min in the group receiving nitroprusside and diltiazem (range, 1-8 min). Nitroprusside administration lasted 186 +/- 17 min (mean +/- SEM) in the group receiving nitroprusside alone and 214 +/- 26 min (mean +/- SEM) in the other group (NS). After hypotension, arterial blood pressure returned to its initial value in a time of 7 min in the group receiving nitroprusside alone (range, 5-9 min) and 9 min in the group receiving nitroprusside and diltiazem (range, 7-13 min) (NS). Cumulative doses of nitroprusside were larger in the group receiving nitroprusside alone (0.47 +/- 0.07 mg/kg; mean +/- SEM) than in the other group (0.24 +/- 0.05 mg/kg; mean +/- SEM) (P < 0.01). Significant increase in plasma thiocyanate concentration, cardiac index, and heart rate was observed only in the group receiving nitroprusside alone, but no intergroup differences were found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We gave increasing daily doses of clozapine to six patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Clozapine reduced the daily dyskinesia time five-fold, increased "on" time eight-fold, and doubled the serum [DOPA] producing half-maximal dyskinesia. Parkinsonism scores after overnight DOPA withdrawal improved with increasing daily clozapine intake, and there was no clozapine dose-related shift in levodopa dose response for relief of parkinsonism. Patients experienced sedation, sialorrhea, and orthostatic hypotension. Clozapine appears to be an effective agent for suppression of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in PD.
Male CD- 1 mice were fed diets containing 0 (control), 10, 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg/day piperonyl butoxide (PBO) and 0.05% sodium phenobarbital (NaPB) and male F344 rats were fed diets containing 0 (control), 100, 550, 1050, and 1850 mg/kg/day PBO and 0.5% NaPB for periods of 7 and 42 days. In both species PBO and NaPB increased relative liver weight and whereas PBO produced a midzonal (mouse) or periportal/midzonal (rat) hypertrophy, NaPB produced a centrilobular hypertrophy. In the rat, individual cell necrosis was also observed at 42 days after high doses of PBO. Replicative DNA synthesis, assessed as the hepatocyte labeling index following implantation of 7-day osmotic pumps containing 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine during Study Days 0-7 and 35-42, was increased in mice given 300 mg/kg/day PBO and NaPB for 7 days and in rats given 550 and 1050 mg/kg/day PBO and NaPB for 7 days and 1050 mg/kg/day PBO for 42 days. While PBO had no effect on body weights in mice, the body weights of rats given 550, 1050, and 1850 mg/kg/day PBO for 42 days were reduced to 92, 89, and 70% of control, respectively. PBO induced microsomal cytochrome P450 content and mixed function oxidase activities in the mouse and rat, although the effects were less marked than those produced by NaPB. In summary, this data demonstrates that PBO can produce liver enlargement in the mouse and the rat which is associated with induction of xenobiotic metabolism, hypertrophy, and hyperplasia. The hepatic effects of PBO in the mouse were similar to but less marked than those produced by NaPB. In the rat high doses of PBO were hepatotoxic and resulted in a marked reduction in body weight. Thus while the reported formation of eosinophilic nodules in mouse liver by PBO may occur by a mechanism(s) similar to that of NaPB and other nongenotoxic enzyme inducers, the reported tumor formation in rats at greater than the maximum tolerated dose is most likely associated with marked enzyme induction in conjunction with a regenerative hyperplasia resulting from PBO-induced hepatotoxicity.
Muscarinic agonist-induced parasympathomimetic effects, in vivo phosphoinositide hydrolysis and seizures were evaluated in wild-type and muscarinic M1-M5 receptor knockout mice. The muscarinic agonist oxotremorine induced marked hypothermia in all the knockout mice, but the hypothermia was reduced in M2 and to a lesser extent in M3 knockout mice. Oxotremorine-induced tremor was abolished only in the M2 knockout mice. Muscarinic agonist-induced salivation was reduced to the greatest extent in M3 knockout mice, to a lesser degree in M1 and M4 knockout mice, and was not altered in M2 and M5 knockout mice. Pupil diameter under basal conditions was increased only in the M3 knockout mice. Pilocarpine-induced increases in in vivo phosphoinositide hydrolysis were completely absent in hippocampus and cortex of M1 knockout mice, but in vivo phosphoinositide hydrolysis was unaltered in the M2-M5 knockout mice. A high dose of pilocarpine (300 mg/kg) caused seizures and lethality in wild-type and M2-M5 knockout mice, but produced neither effect in the M1 knockout mice. These data demonstrate a major role for M2 and M3 muscarinic receptor subtypes in mediating parasympathomimetic effects. Muscarinic M1 receptors activate phosphoinositide hydrolysis in cortex and hippocampus of mice, consistent with the role of M1 receptors in cognition. Muscarinic M1 receptors appear to be the only muscarinic receptor subtype mediating seizures.
Cephaloridine (CER) is a classical beta-lactam antibiotic that has long served as a model drug for the study of cephalosporin antibiotic-induced acute tubular necrosis. In the present study, we analyzed gene expression profiles in the kidney of rats given subtoxic and toxic doses of CER to identify gene expression alterations closely associated with CER-induced nephrotoxicity. Male Fischer 344 rats were intravenously injected with CER at three different dose levels (150, 300, and 600 mg/kg) and sacrificed after 24 h. Only the high dose (600 mg/kg) caused mild proximal tubular necrosis and slight renal dysfunction. Microarray analysis identified hundreds of genes differentially expressed in the renal cortex following CER exposure, which could be classified into two main groups that were deregulated in dose-dependent and high dose-specific manners. The genes upregulated dose dependently mainly included those involved in detoxification and antioxidant defense, which was considered to be associated with CER-induced oxidative stress. In contrast, the genes showing high dose-specific (lesion-specific) induction included a number of genes related to cell proliferation, which appeared to reflect a compensatory response to CER injury. Of the genes modulated in both manners, we found many genes reported to be associated with renal toxicity by other nephrotoxicants. We could also predict potential transcription regulators responsible for the observed gene expression alterations, such as Nrf2 and the E2F family. Among the candidate gene biomarkers, kidney injury molecule 1 was markedly upregulated at the mildly toxic dose, suggesting that this gene can be used as an early and sensitive indicator for cephalosporin nephrotoxicity. In conclusion, our transcriptomic data revealed several characteristic expression patterns of genes associated with specific cellular processes, including oxidative stress response and proliferative response, upon exposure to CER, which may enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms behind cephalosporin antibiotic-induced nephrotoxicity.
Inhalation exposure to high concentrations of 1,1, 2-trichloroethylene (TCE) has been shown to damage hearing in the mid-frequency range in the rat. The present study directly evaluated the adequacy of high-concentration, short-term exposures to TCE for predicting the neurotoxicity produced by longer duration exposures. Adult male Long-Evans rats (n = 10-12 per group) were exposed to TCE via inhalation (whole body) in 1-m3 stainless steel flow-through chambers for 6 hr/day, 5 days/week. The following exposures were used: 1 day (4000-8000 ppm), 1 week (1000-4000 ppm), 4 weeks (800-3200 ppm), and 13 weeks (800-3200 ppm). Air-only exposed animals served as controls. Auditory thresholds were determined for a 16-kHz tone 3-5 weeks after exposure using reflex modification audiometry. Results replicated previous findings of a hearing loss at 16 kHz for all exposure durations. The dB15 concentrations (concentration that increases thresholds by 15 dB) for 16-kHz thresholds were 6218, 2992, 2592, and 2160 ppm for the 1-day, 1-week, 4-week and 13-week exposures, respectively. These data demonstrate that the ototoxicity of TCE was less than that predicted by a strict concentration x time relationship. These data also demonstrate that simple models of extrapolation (i.e., C x t = k, Haber's Law) overestimate the potency of TCE when extrapolating from short-duration to longer-duration exposures. Furthermore, these data suggest that, relative to ambient or occupational exposures, the ototoxicity of TCE in the rat is a high-concentration effect.
A growing body of evidence from in vitro studies indicates that gap junction proteins connexins may have a tumor-suppressor function. Our previous double transfection experiments on HeLa cells have shown that a dominant-negative mutant V139 M of connexin32 (Cx32) can abolish gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC). To examine whether the same dominant-negative mutant of Cx32 inhibits GJIC between hepatocytes in vivo and thus modulates cell proliferation and susceptibility to hepatocarcinogenesis, we created transgenic mice with the mutant Cx32 gene driven by a liver-specific albumin promoter. These mice developed normally both before and after birth, and GJIC in their liver was diminished, as expected. No increase in incidence of spontaneous tumors of any site was observed in the transgenic mice. Rather unexpectedly, cell proliferation during liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy was retarded by 24 h in the transgenic mice compared with the wild-type mice. In contrast, the transgenic male mice were more susceptible to diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis, developing more liver tumors with shorter latency. These results show that GJIC can coordinate cell growth both positively and negatively in vivo, supporting the idea that GJIC is essential for maintenance of homeostasis.
Phosphorylation on Y705 is obligatory for STAT3 activation, but full transcriptional activity of this widely expressed protein also requires phosphorylation on S727. We described earlier the STAT3 SA/- mice (SA, S727A allele) on a Black 6 (Bl6) background that showed 75% perinatal lethality and early growth retardation presumably due to the decreased transcription supported by STAT3 S727A. We now report additional analyses of long-term surviving SA/- animals which show no important tissue abnormalities. However, we have found a much greater susceptibility to doxorubicin-induced heart failure in the SA/- mice. Also we introduced the SA allele into strain 129 and found the SA/- mice showed greater susceptibility to LPS-induced toxicity. These results suggest a continued need for normal STAT3 transcriptional activity to resist two different noxious challenges that mimic the conditions necessary to induce adult diseases.
Case reports are presented demonstrating a new, safe, and simple intravenous technique for outpatient anesthesia. Vinnik's technique requires hypnotic doses of diazepam (Valium) to prevent ketamine-induced hallucinations. The initial hypothesis tested in this clinical series was whether hypnotic doses of propofol would prevent hallucinations from ketamine as satisfactorily as diazepam. Once the initial hypothesis was confirmed, consideration was given to moderating the cost of propofol by determining the effect of two levels of midazolam premedication on propofol requirements. Hypnotic doses of propofol do prevent ketamine-induced hallucinations. It is possible to achieve significant propofol savings by premedication with midazolam without compromising patient readiness for discharge by the end of the first postoperative hour.
Acute leukemia characterized by chromosomal rearrangements requires additional molecular disruptions to develop into full-blown malignancy, yet the cooperative mechanisms remain elusive. Using whole-genome sequencing of a pair of monozygotic twins discordant for MLL (also called KMT2A) gene-rearranged leukemia, we identified a transforming MLL-NRIP3 fusion gene and biallelic mutations in SETD2 (encoding a histone H3K36 methyltransferase). Moreover, loss-of-function point mutations in SETD2 were recurrent (6.2%) in 241 patients with acute leukemia and were associated with multiple major chromosomal aberrations. We observed a global loss of H3K36 trimethylation (H3K36me3) in leukemic blasts with mutations in SETD2. In the presence of a genetic lesion, downregulation of SETD2 contributed to both initiation and progression during leukemia development by promoting the self-renewal potential of leukemia stem cells. Therefore, our study provides compelling evidence for SETD2 as a new tumor suppressor. Disruption of the SETD2-H3K36me3 pathway is a distinct epigenetic mechanism for leukemia development.
Monogenic disorders result from defects in a single gene. According to Mendel's laws, these disorders are inherited in either a recessive or dominant fashion. Autosomal-recessive disorders require a disease-causing variant on both alleles, and according to our current understanding, their pathogenicities are not influenced by each other. Here we present an autosomal-recessive disorder, nephrotic syndrome type 2 (MIM 600995), in which the pathogenicity of an NPHS2 allele encoding p.Arg229Gln depends on the trans-associated mutation. We show that, contrary to expectations, this allele leads to a disease phenotype only when it is associated specifically with certain 3' NPHS2 mutations because of an altered heterodimerization and mislocalization of the encoded p.Arg229Gln podocin. The disease-associated 3' mutations exert a dominant-negative effect on p.Arg229Gln podocin but behave as recessive alleles when associated with wild-type podocin. Therefore, the transmission rates for couples carrying the disease-associated mutations and p.Arg229Gln may be substantially different from those expected in autosomal-recessive disorders.
A prospective randomised study was undertaken in patients with limited disease small cell carcinoma of the lung (SCCL), which compared doxorubicin, 50 mg/m2, and vincristine, 2 mg i.v. (intravenously) on day 1, with either cyclophosphamide, 800 mg/m2 on day 1 (CAV) or etoposide, 60 mg/m2 i.v. on day 1 and 120 mg/m2 orally on days 2-5 (AVE). Responding patients were to receive six cycles of chemotherapy at 3 weekly intervals followed after 2 weeks by mediastinal irradiation. Response rates and toxicity were evaluated by the chi square or Fisher's exact test and survival by the logrank test. 81 patients were entered into the study, 38 of whom received CAV and 43 received AVE. In the patients treated with CAV and AVE, the overall response rate was 61% (confidence limit (CL), 45-71%) and 74% (CL, 61-87%) respectively, the complete response rate was 32% (CL, 17-47%) and 51% (CL, 36-66%), respectively (P = 0.07) and the median survival was 12 and 14.5 months, respectively (P = 0.15). In the patients treated with CAV and AVE, the incidence of grade 3 and 4 leucopenia was 29% (CL, 15-43%) and 9% (CL, 0-18%), respectively (P = 0.025). No patient developed doxorubicin cardiomyopathy. These findings support the role of etoposide in first line chemotherapy for SCCL. AVE is among the more efficacious regimens for SCCL and also has a relatively low toxicity.
Two homozygous mutations in the PINK1 gene, encoding a mitochondrial putative protein kinase, recently have been identified in families with PARK6-linked, autosomal recessive early-onset parkinsonism (AREP). Here, we describe a novel homozygous mutation (1573_1574 insTTAG) identified in an AREP patient, which causes a frameshift and truncation at the C-terminus of the PINK1 protein, outside the kinase catalytic domain. The clinical phenotype includes early-onset (28 years) parkinsonism, foot dystonia at onset, good levodopa response, slow progression, early levodopa-induced dyskinesias, and sleep benefit, thereby resembling closely parkin-related disease. These findings confirm that recessive mutations in PINK1 cause early-onset parkinsonism and expand the associated clinical phenotype.
Components of whole blood and plasma are highly altered during the presentation of nephrotic syndrome. The present study was aimed to explore the influence of nephrotic syndrome on the pharmacokinetics of cyclosporine (CsA) (10 mg/kg) administered i.v. to control or puromycin-induced nephrotic rats (P-NS). We found an increase in CsA bioavailability in the nephrotic group compared with controls. The area under the curve of blood CsA versus time (AUCiv) increased from 27.7 +/- 5.3 to 60.6 +/- 13.8 mug.h.mL-1 in control and P-NS rats, respectively. The AUCiv augmentation was positively correlated with cholesterol levels. On the other hand, the total body clearance was significantly lower (0.38 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.17 +/- 0.03 L.(kg body mass)-1.h-1) and the volume of distribution at steady state (3.70 +/- 0.52 vs. 2.85 +/- 0.32 L/kg) was significantly smaller in nephrotic rats as compared with control. These pharmacokinetic changes lead to a longer terminal half-life of CsA in P-NS rats (11.8 +/- 1.6 vs. 6.9 +/- 0.91 h). We conclude that the physiopathologic changes induced by the nephrotic syndrome in P-NS animals result in a significant increase in CsA blood exposure by both the decrease in drug distribution and the reduction in elimination rate of CsA.
