Novel nitrocatechol-substituted heterocycles were designed and evaluated for their ability to inhibit catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Replacement of the pyrazole core of the initial hit 4 with a 1,2,4-oxadiazole ring resulted in a series of compounds endowed with longer duration of COMT inhibition. Incorporation of a pyridine N-oxide residue at position 3 of the 1,2,4-oxadiazole ring led to analogue 37f, which was found to possess activity comparable to entacapone and lower toxicity in comparison to tolcapone. Lead structure 37f was systematically modified in order to improve selectivity and duration of COMT inhibition as well as to minimize toxicity. Oxadiazole 37d (2,5-dichloro-3-(5-(3,4-dihydroxy-5-nitrophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4,6-dimethylpyridine 1-oxide (BIA 9-1067)) was identified as a long-acting, purely peripheral inhibitor, which is currently under clinical evaluation as an adjunct to L-Dopa therapy of Parkinson's disease.
1-beta-D-Arabinofuranosylcytosine (Ara-C), a cytidine analogue cytotoxic to proliferating cells, has a teratogenic effect in the brain of experimental animals and causes neural cell apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. In the present study, pregnant rats were injected with Ara-C on Day 13 of gestation and the fetal brain was collected from 1 to 48 h after treatment. Histopathological examinations revealed marked induction of apoptotic cell death and decrease of mitosis in neuroepithelial cells in the brain of Ara-C-treated fetus, and these changes were most prominent from 9 to 12 h. Expression of p53 protein, which mediates apoptosis and cell cycle arrest after DNA damage, was elevated remarkably and peaked at 3 h. p21, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor responsible for p53-mediated cell cycle arrest, showed intense overexpression in protein and mRNA levels following the increase of p53 protein. The mRNA expressions of other p53 transcriptional target genes, bax, cyclinG1, and fas, also significantly increased and peaked at around 9 h. In conclusion, prenatal treatment of Ara-C is thought to induce apoptosis and inhibition of cell proliferation mediated by p53 and its target genes in the fetal brain.
A 22 year old patient had noted progressive flank pain without recognizable urinary abnormalities for five days.
A urologist had noted increased serum creatine (2.1 mg/dl), hypertension (180/100 mmHg) and microhematuria. A post-renal cause was excluded by excretory urography. An interview revealed that the patient had consumed cocaine on weekends since age 19; the acute episode was preceded by a rave party with consumption of a total of 3 g of street quality cocaine.
Because of microhematuria with a suggestive nephritic urinary sediment, the patient underwent renal biopsy. It showed acute tubular necrosis and interstitial edema, but no signs of glomerulonephritis and negative immunohistology. The patient received antihypertensive treatment. This led to rapid reversal of elevated serum creatinine and microhematuria was noted, but hypertension persisted. Currently the patient receives ACE inhibitors.
Similar to what is seen in the US, cocaine use has to be considered in the differential diagnosis of acute renal failure with hypertension.
The type I insulin-like growth factor receptor (IGF-IR) is overexpressed in many tumors including human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). It is a critical signaling molecule for tumor cell proliferation and survival. In the present study, IGF-IR expression was down-regulated by phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotides (AS[S]ODN) to evaluate their specific effects on growth of hepatoma cells in vitro and in vivo.
HepG2 cells were transfected with different doses of AS[S]ODN, sense [S]ODN, mismatch [S]ODN, or Lipofectin for 72 h, and cell proliferation was analyzed by MTS assay. In vivo, an orthotopic transplant model of HCC was established in nude mice, which were then injected with AS[S]ODN, sense [S]ODN, 5-fluorouracil or saline. At the endpoint of treatment, the tumors were excised and evaluated.
Compared to sense and mismatched oligonucleotides, AS[S]ODN targeting to IGF-IR mRNA significantly inhibited hepatoma cell lines HepG2 proliferation and IGF-IR expression at both mRNA and protein levels. The in vivo results showed that systemic treatment also resulted in significant inhibition in tumor growth. Tumor growth in mice treated with AS[S]ODN (50 and 75 mg/kg per day) was significantly inhibited (71.81% and 61.74%, respectively) compared to the saline-treated group (P < 0.01) in a dose-dependent manner. The antitumor effect of IGF-IR AS[S]ODN was associated with down-regulation of IGF-IR in tumor xenografts. Furthermore, IGF-IR AS[S]ODN prevented liver recurrence tumor growth and metastasis in the lung, showing a dose-dependent response. The level of serum alpha-fetoprotein in AS[S]ODN-treated groups was also decreased in a dose-dependent manner, and a good correlation was observed between tumor volume and serum alpha-fetoprotein concentration.
These data suggest that IGF-IR AS[S]ODN can effectively and specifically inhibit HCC growth in vitro and in vivo. Blockage of IGF-IR expression could be a promising therapeutic approach for the management of patients with HCC.
Chronic exposure to the chloracetanilide herbicide alachlor has been shown to cause olfactory mucosal neoplasms. Genomic analysis of olfactory mucosa from rats given alachlor (126 mg/kg/d) for from 1 day to 18 mo suggested that matrix metalloproteinases MMP-2 and MMP-9 were upregulated in the month following initiation of treatment. The present studies were designed to confirm this latter finding and to explore the potential role of MMPs in alachlor-induced olfactory carcinogenesis. Zymographic analysis of olfactory mucosal extracts confirmed that MMP-2 activity is higher in the olfactory mucosa of alachlor-treated rats. Therefore, rats were fed alachlor (126 mg/kg/d in the diet for 1 year) either with or without the MMP-2/MMP-9 inhibitor Ro 28-2653 (100 mg/kg daily by gavage for the first 2 months of alachlor treatment). The number of olfactory mucosal neoplasms was reduced by 25% after 1 year of alachlor treatment in rats that received both alachlor and Ro 28-2653. The morphology of alachlor-induced olfactory tumors was similar whether or not Ro 28-2653 had been given; the MMP inhibitor itself had no impact on olfactory mucosal histology. These data confirm that olfactory mucosal MMP-2 activity is increased following short-term alachlor exposure and show that administration of an MMP-2/9 inhibitor reduced the incidence of olfactory neoplasms in alachlor-treated rats, thereby implicating MMP-2 activity as a mediator of alachlor-induced carcinogenicity.
In response to different cellular stresses, a family of protein kinases phosphorylates eIF2alpha (alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor-2), contributing to regulation of both general and genespecific translation proposed to alleviate cellular injury or alternatively induce apoptosis. Recently, we reported eIF2alpha(P) (phosphorylated eIF2alpha) in the brain during SE (status epilepticus) induced by pilocarpine in mice, an animal model of TLE (temporal lobe epilepsy) [Carnevalli, Pereira, Longo, Jaqueta, Avedissian, Mello and Castilho (2004) Neurosci. Lett. 357, 191-194]. We show in the present study that one eIF2alpha kinase family member, PKR (double-stranded-RNA-dependent protein kinase), is activated in the cortex and hippocampus at 30 min of SE, reflecting the levels of eIF2alpha(P) in these areas. In PKR-deficient animals subjected to SE, eIF2alpha phosphorylation was clearly evident coincident with activation of a secondary eIF2alpha kinase, PEK/PERK (pancreatic eIF2alpha kinase/RNA-dependent-protein-kinase-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase), denoting a compensatory mechanism between the two kinases. The extent of eIF2alpha phosphorylation correlated with the inhibition of protein synthesis in the brain, as determined from polysome profiles. We also found that C57BL/6 mice, which enter SE upon pilocarpine administration but are more resistant to seizure-induced neuronal degeneration, showed very low levels of eIF2alpha(P) and no inhibition of protein synthesis during SE. These results taken together suggest that PKR-mediated phosphorylation of eIF2alpha contributes to inhibition of protein synthesis in the brain during SE and that sustained high levels of eIF2alpha phosphorylation may facilitate ensuing cell death in the most affected areas of the brain in TLE.
Cardiac toxicity following the administration of chemotherapeutic agents is well documented. Vinca alkaloids, as well as high-dose cyclophosphamide, have been associated with myocardial ischemia. The present report describes a case of acute myocardial infarction occurring in a patient with no antecedent cardiac history who received both vincristine and conventional chemotherapeutic doses of cyclophosphamide for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Physicians should possess a heightened awareness of this potentially serious complication.
One hundred patients admitted to the hospital with acute myocardial infarction who lived 10 days and agreed to enroll were studied. Data from the history, hospital course and a 24 hour Holter electrocardiographic recording were related to cardiac mortality in the 6 months after enrollment. Fifteen cardiac deaths occurred during this period; 12 of these were sudden. The univariates with the strongest association with mortality were (in descending order): blood urea nitrogen level, serum creatinine level, serum uric acid level, enlarged heart 2 weeks after infarction, ventricular tachycardia 2 weeks after infarction, peak creatine kinase level and left ventricular failure in the coronary care unit. The odds of dying if one of these factors was present rather than absent ranged from 3.6 to 11.5. Groups with two or these univariates had up to 20 times the odds of dying in 6 months. A period of greately enhanced risk for cardiac death persists for about 6 months after acute myocardial infarction. Relatively simple clinical variables can identify the groups at highest and lowest risk. This information is useful for designing management strategies.
Effects of s.c. administration of dexamethasone (1-25 micrograms/rat pup/d) during the first 5 d postpartum on survival rates, body weight, heart weight, heart-to-body weight ratios, and heart dimensions were determined. Dexamethasone decreased survival, body weight, and heart weight, but increased heart-to-body weight ratios and myocardial percentage of dry weight (0.44 to 0.52-1.06 and 20 to 23%, respectively; p less than 0.05) by 7 d postpartum. By 21 d postpartum, differences in absolute body weight and heart weight between control and experimental animals were reduced; however, myocardial percentage of dry weight and heart-to-body weight ratios were indistinguishable. Microscopic analysis of 7-d-old hearts disclosed that interventricular septum, left ventricular free wall thicknesses, and left ventricle chamber diameter were reduced (0.93 to 0.76-0.85 mm, 1.19-1.34 to 0.92-1.07 mm, and 1.35-1.40 to 0.89-1.23 mm, respectively; p less than 0.05), whereas right ventricular free wall thickness was unaffected and right ventricle chamber diameter was increased (0.29-0.31 to 0.42-0.46 mm) by dexamethasone. Thus, dexamethasone reduced survival and retarded growth of neonatal rats. Retardation of heart growth was less severe, producing a transient relative cardiomegaly characterized by 1) increased myocardial percentage of dry weight, 2) increased left ventricular free wall-to-chamber ratio, and 3) retention of absolute right ventricular free wall thickness. This relative cardiomegaly appeared to be resolved by 21 d postpartum, as reflected in myocardial percentage of dry weight and heart-to-body weight ratios.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We ascertained three different families affected with oto-dental syndrome, a rare but severe autosomal-dominant craniofacial anomaly. All affected patients had the unique phenotype of grossly enlarged molar teeth (globodontia) segregating with a high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss. In addition, ocular coloboma segregated with disease in one family (oculo-oto-dental syndrome). A genome-wide scan was performed using the Affymetrix GeneChip10K 2.0 Array. Parametric linkage analysis gave a single LOD score peak of 3.9 identifying linkage to chromosome 11q13. Haplotype analysis revealed three obligatory recombination events defining a 4.8 Mb linked interval between D11S1889 and SNP rs2077955. Higher resolution mapping and Southern blot analysis in each family identified overlapping hemizygous microdeletions. SNP expression analysis and real-time quantitative RT-PCR in patient lymphoblast cell lines excluded a positional effect on the flanking genes ORAOV1, PPFIA1 and CTTN. The smallest 43 kb deletion resulted in the loss of only one gene, FGF3, which was also deleted in all other otodental families. These data suggest that FGF3 haploinsufficiency is likely to be the cause of otodental syndrome. In addition, the Fas-associated death domain (FADD) gene was also deleted in the one family segregating ocular coloboma. Spatiotemporal in situ hybridization in zebrafish embryos established for the first time that fadd is expressed during eye development. We therefore propose that FADD haploinsufficiency is likely to be responsible for ocular coloboma in this family. This study therefore implicates FGF3 and FADD in human craniofacial disease.
We aimed to treat patients with chronic hepatitis B on long-term treatment with lamivudine who developed lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutants along with clinical relapses.
Of 217 patients with chronic hepatitis B who had been treated with lamivudine for 1-6 years, 23 (11%) developed lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) mutants. Seven of them, including 1 whose case was previously reported, received interferon (IFN) daily for 4 weeks and then two or three times a week thereafter to cope with exacerbation of hepatitis. We investigated the efficacy of this IFN therapy in 6 patients, excluding the 1 previously reported.
In 4 patients, HBV DNA decreased to below the detectable limit of the branched DNA assay (<0.7 MEq/ml) accompanied by normalization of transaminase levels. During IFN therapy, 2 patients seroconverted to antibody to hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and showed normalized transaminase levels. Interferon was required in 7 of the 111 (6%) patients with chronic hepatitis B who were positive for HBeAg, but in none of the 106 who were positive for antibody to HBeAg ( P = 0.014).
The efficacy of IFN in controlling virological breakthroughs and exacerbation of hepatitis by infection with lamivudine-resistant HBV mutants in patients with HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B could enhance the versatility of lamivudine, which may have to be given to them indefinitely.
The safety assessment of chemicals for humans relies on identifying no-observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) in animal toxicity studies using standard methods. With the advent of high information content technologies, especially microarrays, it is pertinent to determine the impact of molecular data on the NOAELs. Consequently, we conducted an integrative study to identify a no-transcriptomic effect dose using microarray analyses coupled with quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-qPCR) and determined how this correlated with the NOAEL. We assessed the testicular effects of the antiandrogen, flutamide (FM), in a rat 28-day toxicity study using doses of 0.2-30 mg/kg/day. Plasma testosterone levels and testicular histopathology indicated a NOAEL of 1 mg/kg/day. A no-effect dose of 0.2 mg/kg/day was established based on molecular data relevant to the phenotypic changes. We observed differential gene expression starting from 1 mg/kg/day and a deregulation of more than 1500 genes at 30 mg/kg/day. Dose-related changes were identified for the major pathways (e.g., fatty acid metabolism) associated with the testicular lesion (Leydig cell hyperplasia) that were confirmed by RT-qPCR. These data, along with protein accumulation profiles and FM metabolite concentrations in testis, supported the no-effect dose of 0.2 mg/kg/day. Furthermore, the microarray data indicated a dose-dependent change in the fatty acid catabolism pathway, a biological process described for the first time to be affected by FM in testicular tissue. In conclusion, the present data indicate the existence of a transcriptomic threshold, which must be exceeded to progress from a normal state to an adaptative state and subsequently to adverse toxicity.
Thiabendazole [2-(4'-thiazolyl)benzimidazole; TBZ] is widely used as an anthelmintic and a fungicide. TBZ (50-400 mg/kg body weight administered by oral intubation) produced nephrotoxicity in male ICR mice pretreated with an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis, DL-buthionine sulphoximine (BSO; 4 mmol/kg body weight, ip). The toxicity was characterized by increases in kidney: body weight ratio and serum urea nitrogen concentration and by tubular necrosis. The nephrotoxic effects were both dose and time dependent. TBZ in combination with BSO also produced decreases in p-aminohippurate accumulation and acetylation by renal cortical slices. TBZ (up to 1200 mg/kg/body weight) alone resulted in no nephrotoxicity. Administration (ip) of glutathione monomethyl ester, which is readily hydrolysed to glutathione after being transported into cells, completely protected against the toxicity caused by TBZ in combination with BSO; this result suggests that glutathione depletion is a major factor underlying the toxicological interaction between TBZ and BSO. Treatment with three inhibitors of renal microsomal cytochrome P-450-dependent monooxygenases, piperonyl butoxide, methoxsalen and carbon disulphide, all equally prevented the nephrotoxicity of TBZ given in combination with BSO. These results suggest that metabolism of TBZ is a necessary step in TBZ-induced nephrotoxicity in glutathione-depleted mice.
Acute exposure to acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors such as organophosphates and carbamates induces functional changes at the neuromuscular junctions, leading to fasciculations that ultimately cause muscle fiber necrosis. There is recent evidence that oxygen free radical formation may be a factor in the toxicity of these insecticides. One of the targets of free radical-induced injury is lipid peroxidation. The role of lipid peroxidation in diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP)-induced muscle necrosis was investigated by quantifying two products resulting from the oxidation of lipids in muscle tissue-the thiobarbituric acid-malondialdehyde complex (TBA-MDA) and F2-isoprostanes, the latter being a novel and extremely accurate marker of lipid peroxidation in vivo. When compared with control animals, significant increases in MDA of 96% and in F2-isoprostanes of 56% were found in the diaphragms of rats treated with 2.0 mg/kg DFP after 60 min (P < 0.01). In rats pretreated with the neuromuscular blocking agent d-tubocurarine or the lazaroid U-78517F, an antioxidant, no DFP-induced increases in either MDA or F2-isoprostanes were observed. It is suggested that the AChE inhibitor-induced cholinergic hyperactivity initiates that accumulation of free radicals leading to lipid peroxidation, which may be the initiator of the AChE inhibitor-induced cell injury.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial (power of 80% to detect a 30% reduction in morphine consumption, P < 0.05) we have determined that intraoperative intravenous administration of tenoxicam 40 mg during laparoscopic cholecystectomy, when compared with placebo, was associated with a significant reduction in consumption of morphine at 6 hours and 12 hours (P < 0.05) but not at 24 hours, when assessed by patient-controlled analgesia. Furthermore there was a significantly greater requirement for "rescue" analgesia with intramuscular morphine in the placebo group during the period of the study. There was no difference between the groups in pain scores, either at rest or on movement, nor in the incidence of nausea and vomiting. No patient in either group suffered a respiratory rate less than 8/min or oversedation at any time, and there were no other adverse effects.
Worldwide, colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common cancer, with the highest mortality rates occurring in Central Europe. The use of chemotherapy to treat CRC is limited by the inter-individual variability in drug response and the development of cancer cell resistance. ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters play a crucial role in the development of resistance by the efflux of anticancer agents outside of cancer cells. The aim of this study was to explore transcript levels of all human ABCs in tumours and non-neoplastic control tissues from CRC patients collected before the first line of treatment by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-containing regimen. The prognostic potential of ABCs was evaluated by the correlation of transcript levels with clinical factors. Relations between transcript levels of ABCs in tumours and chemotherapy efficacy were also addressed. The transcript profile of all known human ABCs was assessed using real-time polymerase chain reaction with a relative standard curve. The majority of the studied ABCs were down-regulated or unchanged between tumours and control tissues. ABCA12, ABCA13, ABCB6, ABCC1, ABCC2 and ABCE1 were up-regulated in tumours versus control tissues. Transcript levels of ABCA12, ABCC7 and ABCC8 increased in direction from colon to rectum. Additionally, transcript levels of ABCB9, ABCB11, ABCG5 and ABCG8 followed the reverse significant trend, i.e. a decrease in direction from colon to rectum. The transcript level of ABCC10 in tumours correlated with the grade (P = 0.01). Transcript levels of ABCC6, ABCC11, ABCF1 and ABCF2 were significantly lower in non-responders to palliative chemotherapy in comparison with responders. The disease-free interval of patients treated by adjuvant chemotherapy was significantly shorter in patients with low transcript levels of ABCA7, ABCA13, ABCB4, ABCC11 and ABCD4. In conclusion, ABCC11 may be a promising candidate marker for a validation study on 5-FU therapy outcome.
The effect of orally-administered aminophylline on cardiac arrhythmias was studied in 15 patients with stable chronic obstructive pulmonary disease by continuous 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiographic recordings. During the control period, the mean frequency of ventricular ectopic beats (VEBs) per hour was 43 +/- 26 (range 0.3 to 401), and heart rate was 80 +/- 3 beats per minute. All grades of ventricular arrhythmias were seen with occasional VEBs in five patients, frequent in three, multifocal in four, coupled beats in two, and short runs of ventricular tachycardia in one patient. Seven patients had occasional atrial premature contractions, six paroxysmal atrial tachycardia, and one patient had stable atrial fibrillation. Mean frequency of VEBs per hour and heart rate were statistically similar in patients undergoing two 24-hour control recordings. Mean grade of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias also remained similar on two control recordings. After oral aminophylline, the mean frequency of VEBs per hour increased to 72 +/- 41 (P = 0.006). Heart rate increased to 88 +/- 4 beats per minutes (P = less than 0.01). The mean grade of ventricular or atrial arrhythmias remained unchanged. We conclude that orally-administered aminophylline has both arrhythmogenic and chronotropic effects, but does not change the grade of arrhythmia.
Since the advent of long-term cyclophosphamide therapy, an association between this agent and the subsequent development of bladder neoplasms has been documented. Only six sarcomas have been reported, to our knowledge. This report describes the first case in which a leiomyosarcoma and an invasive transitional cell carcinoma (ie, carcinosarcoma) developed in a patient with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with 240 g of cyclophosphamide over a 6.5-year period.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune and progressive systemic disease of unknown etiology. Research shows that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) participate in the cartilage erosion, synovial hyperplasia, inflammatory cytokine secretion and suggests that fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) display a crucial role in RA pathogenesis. Recent studies have suggested the role of the Wnt signaling pathway in the pathogenesis of RA. In previous study, we identified that increased methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) reduced the secreted frizzled-related protein 4 (SFRP4) expression in FLS in Arthritic rat model and the DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-azadC) could induce the SFRP4 expression, indicating that DNMT has a key role in the differential expression of SFRP4. MicroRNAs (MiRNAs), which are small non-coding RNAs, are involved in diverse biological functions, regulation of gene expression, pathogenesis of autoimmune disease and carcinogenesis. In light of the directly down-regulation of miR-152 on DNMT1 expression by targeting the 3' untranslated regions of its transcript in nickel sulfide (NiS)-transformed human bronchial epithelial cells, we investigated whether miR-152 is aberrantly expressed and targets DNMT1 in FLS in Arthritic rat model. Our results demonstrated that the expression of miR-152 was specifically down-regulated in Arthritic rat model, whereas up-regulation of miR-152 in FLS resulted in a marked reduction of DNMT1 expression. Further experiments revealed that increased miR-152 indirectly up-regulated the SFRP4 expression, a negative regulator of WNT signaling pathway, by targeting the DNMT1. Moreover, activation of miR-152 expression in FLS could inhibit the canonical Wnt pathway activation and result in a significant decrease of FLS proliferation. MiR-152 and DNA methylation may provide molecular mechanisms for the activation of canonical Wnt pathway in RA. Combination of miR-152 and DNMT1 may be a promising treatment strategy for RA patients in which SFRP4 is inactivated.
c-Jun N-terminal kinase 2 (JNK2) isoforms are transcribed from the jnk2 gene and are highly homologous with jnk1 and jnk3 transcriptional products. JNK proteins mediate cell proliferation, stress response, and migration when activated by a variety of stimuli, including receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs), but their ability to influence tumor metastasis is ill defined. To evaluate JNK2 in this manner, we used the highly metastatic 4T1.2 mammary tumor cells. Short hairpin RNA expression directed toward JNK2 (shJNK2) decreases tumor cell invasion. In vivo, shJNK2 expression slows tumor growth and inhibits lung metastasis. Subsequent analysis of tumors showed that shJNK2 tumors express lower GRB2-associated binding protein 2 (GAB2). In vitro, knockdown of JNK2 or GAB2 inhibits Akt activation by hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), insulin, and heregulin-1, while phosphorylation of ERK is constitutive and Src dependent. Knockdown of GAB2 phenocopies knockdown of JNK2 in vivo by reducing tumor growth and metastasis, supporting that JNK2 mediates tumor progression by regulating GAB2. The influence of jnk2 in the host or microenvironment was also evaluated using syngeneic jnk2-/- and jnk2+/+ mice. Jnk2-/- mice experience longer survival and less bone and lung metastasis compared to jnk2+/+ mice after intracardiac injection of 4T1.2 cells. GAB2 has previously been shown to mediate osteoclast differentiation, and osteoclasts are critical mediators of tumor-related osteolysis. Thus, studies focusing on the role of JNK2 on osteoclast differentiation were undertaken. ShJNK2 expression impairs osteoclast differentiation, independently of GAB2. Further, shJNK2 4T1.2 cells express less RANKL, a stimulant of osteoclast differentiation. Together, our data support that JNK2 conveys Src/phosphotidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) signals important for tumor growth and metastasis by enhancing GAB2 expression. In osteoclast progenitor cells, JNK2 promotes differentiation, which may contribute to the progression of bone metastasis. These studies identify JNK2 as a tumor and host target to inhibit breast cancer growth and metastasis.
Haemorrhage into the iliopsoas muscle causing femoral neuropathy is an infrequent complication of haemophilia or anticoagulant therapy. The association of an iliopsoas haematoma with enoxaparin therapy is very rare. We describe a case of femoral neuropathy secondary to psoas haematoma in a patient who was on enoxaparin therapy for suspected non-Q wave myocardial infarction. There is no clear consensus for the treatment of these haematomas, with both surgical and conservative options advocated. In this case, our patient recovered fully following conservative management.
The present study was designed to determine the temporal changes in tobramycin nephrotoxicity during the dark and the light periods of the day and to look for the mechanisms of such changes. Female Sprague-Dawley rats (9 to 11 weeks old) were housed in a 14-h-light-10-h-dark cycle (lights on 0600 to 2000 h). A bolus of tobramycin (60 mg/kg of body weight) was intravenously injected into a first group of 15 rats, at either 1400 or 0200 h. Six blood samples were taken from each rat, 30 to 210 min after the bolus injection. The total clearance of the drug was reduced during the rest period (1400 h) of rats compared with the activity period (0200 h) (P = 0.0007). Another group of 99 rats was given intraperitoneally a single dose of tobramycin (40 mg/kg), and renal cortices were collected 2 to 222 h after injection. The cortical drug levels were always higher in animals injected at 1400 h than in those injected at 0200 h. A last group of 32 rats was used in the studies of tobramycin (30 mg/kg/day, once daily for 10 days, intraperitoneally) nephrotoxicity and subcellular distribution. Weight gain in the rats receiving tobramycin (both 1400 and 0200 h) was significantly (P = 0.028) less than that in the controls. Nephrotoxicity, indicated by the incorporation of [3H]thymidine into cortical DNA and urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase, was significantly higher in animals treated at 1400 h than in those treated at 0200 h. No difference in the subcellular distribution of tobramycin was observed. The data indicate that the reduction in the clearance of tobramycin during the rest period is in part responsible for the higher nephrotoxicity in rats.
Fischer 344 rats were given 10, 40, 600, 1200 or 2400 ppm sulphamethazine (SMZ) in the diet to determine the toxicity and potential carcinogenicity of SMZ. There were 225 rats of each sex in the control groups and 135 of each sex in each dose group. Animals were killed after 3, 12, 18 or 24 months of continuous dosing. Body weights, feed consumption, clinical observations, organ weights and histopathology data were collected. A slight decrease in body-weight gain was observed in the high-dose groups compared with the controls. No difference in feed consumption was found between the control and dosed rats. Mortality was inversely related to SMZ dose, especially in females, that is mortality was highest in the controls and decreased as the dose of SMZ increased. A statistically significant dose-related increase in the incidence of follicular cell adenocarcinomas of the thyroid gland was observed in the animals killed after 24 months. The incidences of non-neoplastic lesions of the thyroid gland in treated animals were significantly higher among treated animals than among controls; these lesions included follicular cell hyperplasia, follicular cell focal cellular change and multilocular cysts. The incidences of retinal atrophy, atrophy of the acinar pancreas (males), and dilatation of the uterine lumen also increased with increasing SMZ dose.
This study was conducted to evaluate the hemodynamic effects of amrinone early after open-heart surgery. Eighteen patients who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting were randomly divided into two groups: ten patients (group A) were administered 5 micrograms/kg/min of amrinone, and eight patients (group B) were administered 10 micrograms/kg/min. No bolus of amrinone was administered before continuous infusion. The mean and systolic arterial pressure and systemic vascular resistance index were significantly decreased (p < 0.05) after infusion of amrinone in both groups. Cardiac index was not increased in group A, but was significantly increased in group B without increase in the double product. There were no significant changes in heart rate, mean pulmonary arterial pressure or pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in either group. Pulmonary vascular resistance index tended to decrease in either group. Transient hypotension after infusion of amrinone was a serious clinical problem. Of the eight patients with systemic vascular resistance index less than 2000 dyne*sec*cm-5*m2 before infusion, blood pressure decreased below 100 mmHg in five patients. Administration of amrinone was discontinued in two patients in group B and one patient in group A because of transient hypotension. In this study, continuous infusion of amrinone (10 micrograms/kg/min) had both positive inotropic and vasodilating properties; however, transient hypotension must be monitored carefully.
