Male rats received the noradrenaline neurotoxin DSP4 (50 mg/kg) 7 days prior to injection of D-amphetamine (10 or 40 mumol/kg i.p.). The hyperactivity induced by D-amphetamine (10 mumol/kg) was significantly reduced by DSP4 pretreatment. However, the increased rearings and the amphetamine-induced stereotypies were not blocked by pretreatment with DSP4. The reduction of amphetamine hyperactivity induced by DSP4 was blocked by pretreatment with the noradrenaline-uptake blocking agent, desipramine, which prevents the neurotoxic action of DSP4. The present results suggest a selective involvement of central noradrenergic neurones in the locomotor stimulant effect of amphetamine in the rat.
In a double-blind randomized study, hydralazine (n = 59) or the new dihydropyridine calcium antagonist felodipine (n = 61) was added to previous treatment with beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents in a group of 120 patients with essential hypertension. Active treatment with either hydralazine or felodipine was given for 8 weeks after a 4-week placebo run-in period, at the end of which all patients had supine diastolic blood pressures greater than 95 mm Hg. Assessment of the results according to the intention to treat principle showed that felodipine was significantly more effective than hydralazine at the doses employed, reducing systolic blood pressure 10-19 mm Hg more than hydralazine and reducing diastolic blood pressure 5-11 mm Hg more than hydralazine (95% confidence intervals). The number of patients complaining of side effects, the number of complaints, and the number of patients that had to be withdrawn from treatment were numerically higher during treatment with hydralazine than with felodipine, but these differences were not statistically significant. Against this background it is concluded that felodipine is superior to hydralazine when added to an antihypertensive regimen consisting of beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents.
We hypothesize that the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) is associated with colorectal cancer given its association with insulin, diabetes, obesity, and inflammation. In this study, we evaluated the association between colorectal cancer and specific tumor mutations and the Pro12Ala (P12A) PPARgamma polymorphism. We also evaluated interactions between the PPARgamma gene and other insulin-related genes and use of aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use. Data were available from 1,577 cases of colon cancer that were matched to 1,971 population-based controls and 794 cases of rectal cancer that were matched to 1,001 population-based controls. Colon tumors from the case subjects were evaluated for p53 and Ki-ras mutations and microsatellite instability (MSI). Insulin-related genes evaluated were the Bsm1, polyA, and Fok1 polymorphisms of the VDR gene; the G972R IRS1 polymorphism; the G1057D IRS2 polymorphism; the 19CA repeat polymorphism of the IGF1 gene; and the -200A>C IGFBP3 polymorphism. The odds ratio (OR) between the PA/AA genotypes and proximal tumors was 0.83 (95% CI: 0.69-1.01); for distal tumors was 1.00 (95% CI: 0.83-1.21); and for rectal tumors was 1.04 (95% CI: 0.86-1.25). Evaluation of specific types of tumor mutations showed that colon cancer cases with the PA or AA genotypes were less likely to have p53 tumor mutations (OR 0.78; 95% CI: 0.62-0.99), specifically transition mutations (OR 0.74; 95% CI: 0.56-0.97). Colon cancer cases also were less likely to have a tumor with MSI if they had the PA or AA PPARgamma genotype (OR 0.68; 95% CI: 0.47-0.98); differences in Ki-ras mutations were not seen in colon tumors by PPARgamma genotype. Those who did not take ibuprofen-type drugs and had the PA or AA genotypes were at a significantly greater risk of rectal cancer (OR 2.11; 95% CI: 1.52-2.92; p interaction 0.03) than people with the PP genotype regardless of ibuprofen-type drug use. There was a significant interaction between the -200A>C IGFBP3 polymorphism and the Pro12Ala PPARgamma polymorphism and risk of colon cancer (p for interaction = 0.02) with individuals being at significantly lower risk if they had both the CC IGFBP3 genotype and the PA/AA PPARgamma genotype. For rectal cancer there was a significant interaction between the Bsm1/polyA polymorphisms (p = 0.001) of the VDR gene and the PA/AA Pro12Ala PPARgamma polymorphism with the highest risk group being those with both the PA/AA Pro12Ala PPARgamma and the BB/SS VDR genotypes. These data suggest that PPARgamma may be associated with many aspects of colorectal cancer including insulin- and inflammation-related mechanisms.
Mutations in the parkin gene are linked to development of juvenile onset of Parkinson's disease and recent studies have reported that parkin can protect against increased oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction caused by a variety of oxidative and toxic insults. Overexpression of parkin has also been reported to selectively protect dopaminergic neurons from Mn toxicity. Accordingly, in this paper we compare the effect that mutations in parkin have on Mn toxicity and associated apoptotic signals in normal and human B lymphocyte cell lines containing a homozygous mutation in the gene. Results of these studies reveal that Mn toxicity was similar in both control and mutant parkin lymphocyte cells indicating that cell death caused by Mn was not altered in cells devoid of parkin activity. In contrast, Mn did inhibit mitochondrial function to a greater extent in cells devoid of active parkin as indicated by a decrease in ATP production although mitochondrial membrane potential was essentially unaffected. Consistent with inactive parkin influencing the Mn response is the observation of increased activity in the down-stream apoptotic signal, caspase 3. In summary, results reported in this paper demonstrate that mutations in parkin can lead to functional changes in potential signaling processes known to provoke Mn toxicity. The selectivity and magnitude of this response, however, does not necessarily lead to cell death in lymphocytes which are devoid of dopamine.
Integral membrane proteins are visualized as intramembrane particles (IMP) at the cleaved surfaces of freeze-fractured plasma membranes. Topographical distributions of the IMP of the urinary bladder epithelial cells membranes in normal Fischer rat bladder and noninvasive and invasive N-(4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl)formamide (FANFT)-induced bladder tumors are shown to be significantly different. Using several statistical methods that test IMP topography vis-a-vis the Poisson (random) hypothesis, it is demonstrated that IMP are mathematically randomly distributed in the large majority of plasma membranes of cells in normal rat bladder epithelium and in invasive N-(4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl)formamide tumors. In noninvasive rat bladder carcinomas, IMP are in a lattice-like arrangement in half of the tumor cells and randomly distributed in the remainder. IMP numerical densities are also altered in the course of neoplastic transformation. IMP are equally increased above control values in both noninvasive and invasive N-(4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl)formamide tumors. Although transformation into noninvasive tumors is associated with increased numbers of IMP, there is no evidence that this parameter is specifically related to tumor biologic behavior in this model system.
A case history was presented of a 49-year-old female patient, who had developed paranoid-hallucinatory schizophrenia for the first time and suffered from an acute functional bladder obstruction while receiving haloperidol. Thorough urological examination showed no pathologic findings except for a medium-grade urinary tract infection. No beneficial effects were obtained after application of parasympathicomimetic substances (carbachol, distigminebromide). After discontinuation of haloperidol therapy normal bladder function returned. The question as to the basic causative pharmacologic mechanism remains unanswered but the hypothesis that bladder dysfunction is due solely to the anticholinergic side-effects of haloperidol merits further critical elucidation and research.
Acute renal failure secondary to interstitial nephritis caused by therapeutic ingestion of sodium diphenylhydantoins has been reported recently. The interference of sodium diphenylhydantoins on Vitamin D metabolism causing or aggravating ricketts has also been reported. This communication deals with an infant girl who was admitted to the hospital due to seizures. Four months before, she had convulsions and she was treated with diphenylhydantoins until admission. She was found to have renal failure and ricketts. Histological diagnosis of interstitial nephritis was established by means of percutaneous renal biopsy. Clinical and radiological improvement of ricketts was observed after dehydrotachysterol treatment. Clinical and biochemical alterations of renal failure slowly subsided. She had a clear-cut history of vitamin D defficiency ricketts. Seizures were due to hypocalcemia tetany but was erroneusly treated as "grand mal" epilepsy, with diphenylhydantoins. Interstitial nephritis complicated with acute renal failure was probably caused by diphenylhydantoins administration.
To evaluate the risk of myocardial infarction (MI) associated with the use of selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors (coxibs).
Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) using a fixed-effect model to estimate the odds ratios (ORs) for risk of MI associated with coxibs compared against placebo, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and other coxibs.
Fifty-five trials (99 087 patients) were included in the meta-analysis. The overall pooled OR for MI risk for any coxib compared against placebo was 1.46 (95%CI: 1.02, 2.09). We found celecoxib, rofecoxib, etoricoxib, valdecoxib and lumiracoxib were associated with higher MI risks compared against placebo. The pooled OR for any coxib compared against other NSAIDs was 1.45 (95%CI: 1.09, 1.93). Rofecoxib had a significantly higher risk of MI than naproxen (OR: 5.39; 95%: 2.08, 14.02) and valdecoxib had lower MI risk than diclofenac (OR: 0.14, 95%CI: 0.03, 0.73). There were no significant differences identified in the risk of MI from the available head-to-head comparisons of coxibs.
Coxibs were associated with increased risks of MI when compared against placebo or non-selective NSAIDs. Differences in MI risk were also apparent between comparisons of individual NSAIDs. Future work should consider using individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis to explore differences in MI risk between different subgroups of patients.
We evaluated the electrophysiologic effects of amiodarone and its ability to control ventricular arrhythmia in a selected group of 51 patients with refractory sustained ventricular arrhythmia. Amiodarone in doses of 400 to 800 mg/day prolonged refractoriness in the atria, atrioventricular (AV) node, and ventricle as well as conduction through the AV node and His-Purkinje system. Although it had no effect on measurements of sinus nodal function (sinus nodal recovery time and sinoatrial conduction time), it prolonged the sinus cycle length and 2 patients required a permanent pacemaker for symptomatic sinus bradycardia. Amiodarone did not alter the ease of inducibility in any consistent manner, and only 5 of 43 patients (12%) who had inducible ventricular tachycardia before amiodarone therapy had none induced during amiodarone treatment. The clinical effectiveness of amiodarone could be evaluated in 46 patients followed up for 8.6 +/- 6 months (range 0.5 to 22). It provided effective therapy in 23 patients (50%), partly effective therapy in 13 (28%), and was ineffective in 10 (22%). Adverse effects were noted in 28 of 51 patients (55%), and in 11 of these (22%) the drug had to be discontinued because of adverse effects. We conclude that amiodarone is a useful agent for the treatment of refractory sustained ventricular arrhythmia. Its use should be reserved for patients with life-threatening sustained arrhythmia because of the significant incidence of adverse effects. Furthermore, good clinical response can be observed in patients receiving amiodarone in spite of continued inducibility.
The SHEAF (Self-Measurement of Blood Pressure at Home in the Elderly: Assessment and Follow-up) study is an observational study (from February 1998 to early 2002) designed to determine whether home blood pressure (BP) measurement has a greater cardiovascular prognostic value than office BP measurement among elderly (> or =60 years) French patients with hypertension. The objective of this present work is to describe the baseline characteristics of the treated patients in the SHEAF study from February 1998 to March 1999, placing special emphasis on "isolated office" and "isolated home" hypertension.
Baseline office BP measurement was assessed using a mercury sphygmomanometer. Home BP measurement was performed over a 4-day period. A 140/90-mm Hg threshold was chosen to define office hypertension, and a 135/85-mm Hg threshold to define home hypertension.
Of the 5211 hypertensive patients in the SHEAF study with a valid home BP measurement, 4939 received treatment with at least 1 antihypertensive drug. Patients with isolated office hypertension represented 12.5% of this population, while patients with isolated home hypertension represented 10.8%. The characteristics of the patients with isolated office hypertension were similar to those of patients with controlled hypertension. However, patients with isolated office hypertension had fewer previous cardiovascular complications. In contrast, rates of cardiovascular risk factors and history of cardiovascular disease in patients with isolated home hypertension resembled those in patients with uncontrolled hypertension.
This retrospective analysis suggests that patients with isolated home hypertension belong to a high-risk subgroup. The 3-year follow-up of these patients will provide prospective data about the cardiovascular prognosis of these subgroups.
Enkephalin is reported to play an important role in the pathophysiology of levodopa (LD) -induced dyskinesias. The present study investigated the effect of chronic treatment with a selective NR1A/2B N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, CI-1041, on the expression of preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) in brains of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) -treated monkeys in relation to the development of LD-induced dyskinesias. Four MPTP-monkeys received LD/benserazide alone; they all developed dyskinesias. Four other MPTP-monkeys received LD/benserazide plus CI-1041; only one of them developed mild dyskinesias at the end of the fourth week of treatment. Four normal monkeys and four saline-treated MPTP monkeys were also included. MPTP-treated monkeys had extensive and similar striatal dopamine denervation. An increase of PPE-A mRNA levels assayed by in situ hybridization was observed in the lateral putamen (rostral and caudal) and caudate nucleus (rostral) of saline-treated MPTP monkeys compared to controls, whereas no change or a small increase was observed in their medial parts. Striatal PPE-A mRNA levels remained elevated in LD-treated MPTP monkeys, whereas cotreatment with CI-1041 brought them back to control values. These findings suggest that chronic blockade of striatal NR1A/2B NMDA receptors with CI-1041 normalizes PPE-A mRNA expression and prevents the development of LD-induced dyskinesias in an animal model of Parkinson disease.
To determine the anatomical site and extent of electrophysiological dysfunction in patients with ethambutol associated visual loss.
A comparative case series. Four patients with ethambutol associated visual loss underwent multifocal electroretinography (mERG). Two patients had advanced visual loss while two had early signs of toxicity. The N1-P1, N1, P1 amplitudes, N1, and P1 latencies were compared to 10 age and sex matched controls.
mERG abnormalities were detected in the ethambutol treated patients. The N1 amplitude was significantly lower in the ethambutol treated patients than in the control group.
Ethambutol is possibly toxic to the retina, and not only the optic nerve. The multifocal ERG may be of value to diagnose and monitor patients taking ethambutol.
An investigation has been made to elucidate the role of sympathetic nervous system (SNS) in the development of renal hypertension and hyperglycemia in rats and rhesus monkeys using 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Development of renal hypertension was blocked in weanling rats (80%), demedullated adult rats with 6-OHDA (75%) but not in adult rats sympathectomised with 6-OHDA. Weanling rats treated with 6-OHDA did not have any detectable catecholamine stores when measured 60 days after treatment with 6-OHDA. Unlike the weanling rats the hearts of the adult rats showed significant refilling of catecholamines 60 days after 6-OHDA treatment. 6-OHDA treatment and adrenalectomy did not modify the development of streptozotocin (STZ) induced hyperglycemia and the hypoglycemic effect of tolbutamide and phenformin. Chemical sympathectomy with 6-OHDA did not show any glucose intolerance in rhesus monkeys or any effect or insulin release. Phentolamine (PHE) and oxprenolol (OXP) pretreatment had no effect on development and maintenance of hyperglycemia. Although there was no effect on the endogenous catecholamines stored in the heart and brain in the diabetic rats, there was a marked increase in the urinary excretion of norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (E), 3-methoxy-4 hydroxy mandelic acid (VMA) and creatinine. The rate of disappearance of (3H)-NE from rat heart was higher when compared to age matched controls. Diabetic rats showed increase responsiveness to angiotensin II and developed hypertension faster when their renal arteries were clamped as compared to controls. It is concluded that the functional SNS is important in the development of renal hypertension in the rat. Further the SNS in the rats and rhesus monkeys does not play any significant role in the STZ induced hyperglycemia, glucose intolerance and insulin release.
Vincristine sulfate was inadvertently given intrathecally to a woman with lymphoma, producing ascending sensory and motor dysfunction followed by encephalopathy and death. Pathologically, neurons were swollen by aggregates of neurofilaments similar to the neurofilaments described in experimental models of vincristine neurotoxicity.
Performance on the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery touchscreen paired-associates learning (PAL) test is predictive of Alzheimer's disease and impaired in schizophrenia and chronic drug users. An automated computer touchscreen PAL task for rats has been previously established. A pharmacologically validated PAL task for mice would be a highly valuable tool, which could be useful for a number of experimental aims including drug discovery.
This study sought to investigate the effects of systemic administration of cholinergic agents on task performance in C57Bl/6 mice.
Scopolamine hydrobromide (0.02, 0.2, and 2.0 mg/kg), dicyclomine hydrochloride (M(1) receptor antagonist; 2.0, 4.0, and 8.0 mg/kg), and donepezil hydrochloride (cholinesterase inhibitor; 0.03, 0.1, and 0.3 mg/kg) were administered post-acquisition in C57Bl/6 mice performing the PAL task.
Scopolamine (0.2 and 2.0 mg/kg) and dicyclomine (at all administered doses) significantly impaired PAL performance. A significant facilitation in PAL was revealed in mice following donepezil administration (0.3 mg/kg).
The present study shows that mice can acquire the rodent PAL task and that the cholinergic system is important for PAL task performance. M(1) receptors in particular are likely implicated in normal performance of PAL. The finding that mouse PAL can detect both impairments and improvements indicates that this task could prove to be a highly valuable tool for a number of experimental aims including drug discovery.
Methylphenidate is a potent central nervous system stimulant that exerts its effects by increasing synaptic levels of dopamine and norepinephrine. It has become key to treating attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children and adolescents. As the use of stimulant medications has ballooned in the past decade, so too has awareness of the cardiovascular complications of these drugs. Effects on heart rate and blood pressure as well as tachyarrhythmias have been well described. However, acute cardiomyopathy and pericarditis secondary to methylphenidate use has been rarely reported. We report the case of a 17-year-old male who developed chest pain, elevated cardiac biomarkers, and acute left ventricular dysfunction following a single dose of methylphenidate. The risk of cardiomyopathy in the setting of methylphenidate treatment should prompt further study on the safety of this drug, and lead to ways of identifying those at risk of developing these complications.
An elderly woman developed an Alzheimer-like subacute dementia as a result of propranolol toxicity. Analysis of the manifestations showed that severe impairment of memory accounted for virtually all of the abnormalities. There is evidence that cerebral reactions to drug toxicity can exhibit patterns that suggest highly selective involvement of functional subdivisions of the brain.
Administration of neurotoxic doses of methamphetamine (8 mg/kg, intraperitoneally x 4 times, at 2 hr intervals) caused a significant decrease in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and an increase in 3-methoxytyramine levels in the striatum along with a decrease in serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels in the striatum and hippocampus. In addition, the methamphetamine treatment caused an increase in rat rectal temperature. Intraventricular injection of salicylate 105 min. after the last injection of methamphetamine produced an increase in 2,3- and 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid in the striatum and hippocampus. Moreover, the ratio of 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acid to salicylate was significantly increased in the striatum, but not in the hippocampus. These results indicate that the hydroxyl radical may play an important role in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in rat striatum and that its formation may be the result of methamphetamine-induced release of dopamine.
Blood pressure effects of i.v. levodopa were examined in parkinsonian patients with stable and fluctuating responses to levodopa. The magnitude of the hypotensive effect of levodopa was concentration dependent and was fit to an Emax model in fluctuating responders. Stable responders demonstrated a small hypotensive response. Baseline blood pressures were higher in fluctuating patients; a higher baseline blood pressure correlated with greater hypotensive effects. Antiparkinsonian effects of levodopa temporally correlated with blood pressure changes. Phenylalanine, a large neutral amino acid (LNAA) competing with levodopa for transport across the blood-brain barrier, reduced the hypotensive and antiparkinsonian effects of levodopa. We conclude that levodopa has a central hypotensive action that parallels the motor effects in fluctuating patients. The hypotensive effect appears to be related to the higher baseline blood pressure we observed in fluctuating patients relative to stable patients.
Data on the acute natural history of progressive stroke with or without heparin treatment are limited. To define the acute course of patients treated with heparin for progressive stroke, we examined the charts of 69 such patients identified through the Cornell Neurology Database from October 1979 to June 1985. Analysis included determining whether further clinical deterioration or hemorrhagic complications were associated with readily identifiable clinical or laboratory variables. Twenty-five patients (36%) continued to deteriorate while receiving heparin, another two (3%) worsened due to intracerebral hemorrhage, and a total of 10 patients (14%) had bleeding complications. No clinical features or heparin dosing regimens distinguished the patients likely to benefit from heparin. Clinical progression or hemorrhage did not correlate with the level of anticoagulation as measured by the average heparin dose per day or the mean partial thromboplastin time. Without unequivocal evidence demonstrating heparin's ineffectiveness for progressive stroke, many clinicians managing such patients will continue to use heparin. Our results suggest that this decision should not be governed by such clinical features as a patient's age or sex or by the vascular distribution of the stroke. Furthermore, frequent measurement of and overzealous efforts to adjust the partial thromboplastin time may be unnecessary since it does not correlate with outcome.
A randomized, double-blind study compared the efficacy and safety of amcinonide and betamethasone dipropionate ointments, applied twice daily for two weeks, in the treatment of patients with moderate to severe psoriasis. Thirty-four patients were enrolled; thirty patients had had psoriasis for more than one year, and in the majority of patients, it was stable or slowly exacerbating. Significant improvement from baseline was observed with both ointments at weeks 1 and 2. The two drugs showed comparable cosmetic acceptability. Adverse cutaneous symptoms experienced were burning (both groups), itching (amcinonide), and stinging (beta-methasone); no serious adverse effects were reported.
Vindesine is a new vinca alkaloid with broad-spectrum antineoplastic activity in experimental tumor models. Phase-I studies have shown that a weekly dosage regimen of 3--4 mg/m2 IV produces manageable toxicity, with leukopenia and peripheral neuropathy being dose-limiting. Two hundred seventy-five patients have been enlisted in Phase-II trials at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Major objective responses (complete and partial remissions) were seen in bronchogenic carcinomas, melanoma, testicular carcinoma, esophageal carcinoma, acute lymphocytic leukemia, malignant lymphoma (Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's) and Wilms' tumor. Patients with hematologic and germ cell neoplasms were treated on a daily administration schedule (1.0--1.3 mg/m2 IV for 5--7 days). Vindesine was well tolerated, with less than 5% of patients having a WBC nadir of less than 1000 cells/mm3 and with a platelet-sparing effect noted. Dose-related peripheral neuropathy occurred frequently and was generally mild to moderate in degree. Vindesine appears to be an active agent whose role will be further defined by completion of ongoing trials.
Human cardiomyopathies often lead to heart failure, a major cause of morbidity and mortality in industrialized nations. Described here is a phenotypic characterization of cardiac function and genome-wide expression from C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, and B6C3F1/J male mice. Histopathologic analysis identified a low-grade background cardiomyopathy (murine progressive cardiomyopathy) in eight of nine male C3H/HeJ mice (age nine to ten weeks), but not in male C57BL/6J and in only of ten male B6C3F1/J mice. The C3H/HeJ mouse had an increased heart rate and a shorter RR interval compared to the B6C3F1/J and C57BL/6J mice. Cardiac genomic studies indicated the B6C3F1/J mice exhibited an intermediate gene expression phenotype relative to the 2 parental strains. Disease-centric enrichment analysis indicated a number of cardiomyopathy-associated genes were induced in B6C3F1/J and C3H/HeJ mice, including Myh7, My14, and Lmna and also indicated differential expression of genes associated with metabolic (e.g., Pdk2) and hypoxic stress (e.g. Hif1a). A novel coexpression and integrated pathway network analysis indicated Prkaa2, Pdk2, Rhoj, and Sgcb are likely to play a central role in the pathophysiology of murine progressive cardiomyopathy in C3H/HeJ mice. Our studies indicate that genetically determined baseline differences in cardiac phenotype have the potential to influence the results of cardiotoxicity studies.
In experiments with anesthetized female-rats the influence of intravenous prostaglandins F2alpha (40 mg/kg) and Ei (10 mg/kg) on the cardiac output (by the method of dye dilution) and on the blood flow distribution among organs and tissues (by the method of Rb86 distribution) was studied. Prostaglandin F2alpha increased the arterial pressure, cardiac output along with the volume of the circulating plasma and reduced the total peripheral resistance. The hypertensive effect of prostaglandin F 2alpha is, under the circumstances, conditioned by the increased cardiac output and this substance is also instrumental in augmenting the proportion of the blood flow going to the digestive tract, skeletal muscles and, at the same time, in reducing its share flowing to the liver, spleen, skin and the uterus. Prostaglandin E1 reduced the blood pressure and total peripheral resistance and raised the cardiac output. The hypotensive effec of prostaglandin Ei is due to the fall of the total peripheral resistance. This compound tends to increase the part of the cardiac output that goes to supply the intesine, liver, lungs, myocardium and skeletal muscles and cuts down that part which caters for the stomach and kidneys.
A phase-II study of vindesine was carried out in 23 patients with histologically proven advanced breast carcinoma. Toxicity was assessed in a further 24 patients with different tumour types. Treatment was given in a starting dose of 3 mg/m2 weekly by IV bolus, increasing by 1 mg weekly as toxicity allowed. The response rate in 21 evaluable patients w-th breast carcinoma was 29%. In 47 patients evaluable for toxicity, leukopaenia occurred in 45% and was dose-related; thrombocytopaenia was rare (4%); neurotoxicity occurred in 40%; constipation in 17%, alopoecia in 46% and an influenza-like syndrome in 21%. It was concluded that vindesine was a clinically active agent in breast carcinoma, with a spectrum of toxicity lying between those of vincristine and vinblastine.
The antitumour effect of vindesine (desacetyl vinvlastine amide sulfate) in disseminated malignant melanoma has been investigated in our oncology service in a phase-II study. Of 25 patients exposed to the drug, 23 were evaluable, and seven of these (30%) were considered objective responders. The observed response of malignant effusions is of particular interest. Side effects related to vindesine are similar to those of the other vinca alkaloids, although alopecia may be more pronounced with the doses used in this study.
Since hypertensive and diabetes-mellitus frequently occur simultaneously there exists a requirement for animal models where both pathological entities are combined. The streptozotocin (STZ)-spontaneously hypertensive rat (STZ-SHR) and the obese Zucker rat are examples of animal models where hypertension and diabetes occur simultaneously. STZ-SHR develop a hyperglycaemic syndrome, associated with other biochemical and morphological changes that to some extent approach IDDM (type I diabetes) combined with hypertension. The obese Zucker rat is characterised by the simultaneous occurrence of obesity, hyperglycaemia, hyperinsulinaemia, hyperlipidaemia and moderate hypertension. As such it approaches the patient with NIDDM (type II diabetes) who is simultaneously hypertensive. Lean Zucker rats are suitable controls with respect to the obese animals. Both animal models (STZ-SHR and obese Zucker rats) were characterised with respect to their biochemical, morphometric and haemodynamic characteristics of their cardiovascular system. The resemblance of this model with human NIDDM with hypertension syndrome indicates that the obese Zucker rat deserves special attention in pharmacological research.
Asthma is associated with airway narrowing in response to bronchoconstricting stimuli and increased airway smooth muscle (ASM) mass. In addition, some studies have suggested impaired β-agonist induced ASM relaxation in asthmatics, but the mechanism is not known.
To characterize the potential defect in β-agonist induced cAMP in ASM derived from asthmatic in comparison to non-asthmatic subjects and to investigate its mechanism.
We examined β(2)-adrenergic (β(2)AR) receptor expression and basal β-agonist and forskolin (direct activator of adenylyl cyclase) stimulated cAMP production in asthmatic cultured ASM (n = 15) and non-asthmatic ASM (n = 22). Based on these results, PDE activity, PDE4D expression and cell proliferation were determined.
In the presence of IBMX, a pan PDE inhibitor, asthmatic ASM had ∼50% lower cAMP production in response to isoproterenol, albuterol, formoterol, and forskolin compared to non-asthmatic ASM. However when PDE4 was specifically inhibited, cAMP production by the agonists and forskolin was normalized in asthmatic ASM. We then measured the amount and activity of PDE4, and found ∼2-fold greater expression and activity in asthmatic ASM compared to non-asthmatic ASM. Furthermore, inhibition of PDE4 reduced asthmatic ASM proliferation but not that of non-asthmatic ASM.
Decreased β-agonist induced cAMP in ASM from asthmatics results from enhanced degradation due to increased PDE4D expression. Clinical manifestations of this dysregulation would be suboptimal β-agonist-mediated bronchodilation and possibly reduced control over increasing ASM mass. These phenotypes appear to be "hard-wired" into ASM from asthmatics, as they do not require an inflammatory environment in culture to be observed.
