The influence of methergoline, methysergide, mianserine, cyproheptadine, and pizotifen on catalepsy induced by morphine, codeine, and fentanyl, and antinociception induced by these three drugs and by pentazocine was studied in rats. Methergoline dose-dependently reduced catalepsy induced by these three drugs. Methysergide abolished only morphine catalepsy, while mianserine significantly reduced the effect of morphine and codeine. Cyprohepatide and pizotifen did not modify the cataleptic effect of the three analgesics used. Antinociceptive action of morphine, codeine, fentanyl, and pentazocine, measured by the hot plate method, was not influenced or changed differentially by any serotonin receptor blocking compounds. One may conclude that catalepsy induced by morphine is, in general, antagonized by serotonin receptor blockade, but this does not concern all narcotic analgesics. In the antinociceptive effects of drugs used, the serotonergic influence seems to play a less important role than in catalepsy.
The aim of this study was to determine whether variations of isomyosin expression occurred during doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy. A suitable experimental model in which pure delayed cardiotoxic effects could be easily studied was adopted. Young adult female Sprague Dawley rats received 9 mg/kg of doxorubicin (DXR) i.v. divided into three subdoses of 3 mg/kg every third day. Control animals received equal volumes of saline. The animals were examined 9 weeks after treatment. At this time the animals treated with DXR showed ECG alterations, reduction of body weight and a marked decrease of both atrial and ventricular mass, but were still fully hemodynamically compensated. Loss of myofibrillar material could be documented by the reduced recovery of myofibril and myosin. The contractile response of papillary muscles isolated from the right ventricle of treated animals was markedly impaired. Ca-Mg-activated and Mg-activated myofibrillar ATPase activity and Ca-activated myosin ATPase activity were determined on ventricular myocardium of control and treated animals. Both myofibrillar and myosin ATPase activities were found to be significantly reduced. Pyrophosphate gel electrophoresis of purified myosin was carried out. The isomyosin pattern of DXR-treated animals showed a pronounced shift towards V3, the percent of alpha heavy chains being 54.6% in treated rats (80.5% in control rats). This isomyosin shift can explain the reduced myofibrillar and myosin ATPase activity found in treated animals.
Oral antifungal terbinafine has been reported to cause liver injury with inflammatory responses in a small percentage of patients. However the underlying mechanism remains unknown. To examine the inflammatory reactions, we investigated whether terbinafine and other antifungal drugs increase the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines using human monocytic cells.
Dose- and time-dependent changes in the mRNA expression levels and the release of interleukin (IL)-8 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)α from human monocytic THP-1 and HL-60 cells with antifungal drugs were measured. Effects of terbinafine on the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2, p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)1/2 were investigated.
The release of IL-8 and TNFα from THP-1 and HL-60 cells was significantly increased by treatment with terbinafine but not by fluconazole, suggesting that terbinafine can stimulate monocytes and increase the pro-inflammatory cytokine release. Terbinafine also significantly increased the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and p38 MAP kinase in THP-1 cells. Pretreatment with a MAP kinase/ERK kinase (MEK)1/2 inhibitor U0126 significantly suppressed the increase of IL-8 and TNFα levels by terbinafine treatment in THP-1 cells, but p38 MAPK inhibitor SB203580 did not. These results suggested that an ERK1/2 pathway plays an important role in the release of IL-8 and TNFα in THP-1 cells treated with terbinafine.
The release of inflammatory mediators by terbinafine might be one of the mechanisms underlying immune-mediated liver injury. This in vitro method may be useful to predict adverse inflammatory reactions that lead to drug-induced liver injury.
To compare two methods of epidural labor analgesia regarding the incidence of post-partum urinary retention.
One thousand parturients who requested epidural analgesia for the relief of labor pain received, at random, either bupivacaine 0.25% with adrenaline 1:200 000 (n = 500) or bupivacaine 0.125% with 10 micrograms sufentanil (n = 500). During the same observation period all women with clinically significant urinary retention (> 500 ml, requiring indwelling catheter) were registered.
Altogether 30/3.364 parturients had clinically significant urinary retention. Twenty-seven of these had received epidural analgesia (EDA) (17 with bupivacaine/adrenaline and ten with bupivacaine/sufentanil, a non-significant differences). The number of parturients with urinary retention was highly increased following EDA (27/1000) as compared to those not receiving EDA (3/2364), P < 0.001 (Fisher's exact test). In patients with EDA and urinary retention there were no difference between the groups in the incidence of instrumental deliveries or vaginal/perirectal tears. All parturients regained normal bladder function.
EDA significantly increased the risk of post-partum urinary retention but no difference was found between the two epidural techniques.
Medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is known to be involved in relapse after cocaine withdrawal, but the underlying cellular mechanism remains largely unknown. Here, we report that after terminating repeated cocaine exposure in rats, a gradual increase in the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the mPFC facilitates activity-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory synapses on layer V pyramidal neurons. This enhanced synaptic plasticity could be attributed to BDNF-induced suppression of GABAergic inhibition in the mPFC by reducing the surface expression of GABA(A) receptors. The BDNF effect was mediated by BDNF-TrkB-phosphatase 2A signaling pathway. Downregulating TrkB expression bilaterally in the mPFC reduced the locomotor hypersensitivity to cocaine 8 days after cocaine withdrawal. Thus, elevated BDNF expression after cocaine withdrawal sensitizes the excitatory synapses in the mPFC to undergo activity-induced persistent potentiation that may contribute to cue-induced drug craving and drug-seeking behavior.
In this report, we describe the first known patient with a deficiency of sterol carrier protein X (SCPx), a peroxisomal enzyme with thiolase activity, which is required for the breakdown of branched-chain fatty acids. The patient presented with torticollis and dystonic head tremor as well as slight cerebellar signs with intention tremor, nystagmus, hyposmia, and azoospermia. Magnetic resonance imaging showed leukencephalopathy and involvement of the thalamus and pons. Metabolite analyses of plasma revealed an accumulation of the branched-chain fatty acid pristanic acid, and abnormal bile alcohol glucuronides were excreted in urine. In cultured skin fibroblasts, the thiolytic activity of SCPx was deficient, and no SCPx protein could be detected by western blotting. Mutation analysis revealed a homozygous 1-nucleotide insertion, 545_546insA, leading to a frameshift and premature stop codon (I184fsX7).
We have previously shown that cimetidine, given concurrently for 2 weeks to patients on chronic dapsone therapy, reduced methaemoglobinaemia by inhibiting the formation of the toxic hydroxylamine metabolite of dapsone. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of this combination on the benefit/toxic ratio of dapsone over a longer period. Eight patients (six dermatitis herpetiformis, one linear IgA disease, one folliculitis decalvans) on long-term dapsone 50-100 mg daily, took cimetidine 1.6 g daily concurrently for 3 months. At 3-weekly intervals, a clinical assessment was made, plasma dapsone and methaemoglobin were measured, and parameters of oxidative haemolysis were monitored. The dapsone level rose from 2298 +/- 849 ng/ml (mean +/- SD) at baseline to 3006 +/- 1131 ng/ml at week 3 of cimetidine (P < 0.01). This rise in plasma dapsone was sustained during cimetidine administration, falling to 2446 +/- 954 ng/ml when cimetidine was stopped (P < 0.02). The methaemoglobin fell from 5.5 +/- 2.2% (mean +/- SD) at baseline to 3.9 +/- 1.1% at week 3 (P < 0.01), and remained low until week 12, when there was a return to baseline values (P < 0.01). The haemoglobin did not change from the baseline of 12.7 +/- 0.3 g/dl (mean +/- SD), and other parameters of haemolysis were unaltered. There was a fall in the visual analogue score for headache (P < 0.05), but this was not associated with any deterioration in control of the skin disorders. Hence, long-term concurrent cimetidine results in increased plasma dapsone levels without increased haemolysis, and is accompanied by reduced methaemoglobinaemia for more than 2 months.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The role of aspirin as a risk factor in the occurrence of intracranial bleeding following head injury was investigated. Chronic subdural hematoma appears to be a suitable model for the evaluation of risk factors in the development of hemorrhage. The most common risk factors found in our study were, apart from age, chronic alcohol abuse (28%), consumption of cumarin-derivates (21%), aspirin (13%), and heparin (5%). A patient undergoing aspirin treatment must be considered at risk of development of chronic subdural hematoma. Aspirin should not be prescribed to patients with post-traumatic headaches.
Neurological complications of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy are uncommon events. The two patients presented demonstrate two manifestations of 5-FU neurotoxicity, namely a cerebellar syndrome in association with global motor weakness and bulbar palsy, and a bilateral third cranial (oculomotor) nerve palsy. Both highlight the rapid onset and severity of these unusual side effects but also emphasize that, unlike paraneoplastic syndromes or central nervous system involvement by tumour, complete spontaneous recovery is a potential outcome.
Blood pressure, heart rate, and left ventricular function were measured in conscious diabetic Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to 5 weeks of deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) treatment which was started 1 week following intravenous injection of streptozotocin (STZ) (60 mg/kg) to induce diabetes mellitus. It was found that chronic administration of DOCA in nondiabetic animals caused an increase in blood pressure and functional parameters of left ventricle, and a decrease in heart rate and plasma insulin levels. Normotensive diabetic rats exhibited hyperglycemia, hypoinsulinemia, and a lower body weight as compared with control animals but did not show significant abnormalities in cardiovascular function. DOCA-hypertensive STZ-diabetic rats had similar hyperglycemia, milder hypoinsulinemia, and a significantly lower rate of left ventricular relaxation and systolic blood pressure compared with the nondiabetic DOCA-hypertensive animals. It is concluded that the addition of DOCA hypertension to intact 6-week STZ-diabetic Sprague-Dawley rats results in the occurrence of cardiac dysfunction.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a potent psychostimulant with a high addictive capacity, which induces many deleterious effects on the brain. Chronic MA abuse leads to cognitive dysfunction and motor impairment. MA affects many cells in the brain, but the effects on astrocytes of repeated MA exposure is not well understood. In this report, we used Gene chip array to analyze the changes in the gene expression profile of primary human astrocytes treated with MA for 3 days. Range of genes were found to be differentially regulated, with a large number of genes significantly downregulated, including NEK2, TTK, TOP2A, and CCNE2. Gene ontology and pathway analysis showed a highly significant clustering of genes involved in cell cycle progression and DNA replication. Further pathway analysis showed that the genes downregulated by multiple MA treatment were critical for G2/M phase progression and G1/S transition. Cell cycle analysis of SVG astrocytes showed a significant reduction in the percentage of cell in the G2/M phase with a concomitant increase in G1 percentage. This was consistent with the gene array and validation data, which showed that repeated MA treatment downregulated the genes associated with cell cycle regulation. This is a novel finding, which explains the effect of MA treatment on astrocytes and has clear implication in neuroinflammation among the drug abusers.
Fatal hepatotoxicity is a known complication of sulfamethoxazole and sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim. We report a case of a man previously exposed to sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim who died of liver failure following subsequent ingestion of only two tablets of the drug (160 mg trimethoprim and 800 mg sulfamethoxazole). This case indicates the danger to a susceptible patient of even small (e.g., "rechallenge") doses of sulfamethoxazole.
Iron-chelating therapy results in a significant improvement in the life expectancy of patients with transfusional iron overload. However, alterations of renal function have been observed in some patients undergoing chelation therapy. In the present study we evaluated the effect of treatment with deferasirox iron chelator on the renal function in normal Wistar rats and in mouse and human cultured tubular cell lines. Results indicate that deferasirox given daily via intraperitoneal route for 7 days induced: (1) an increased urinary protein, albumin and glucose excretion, (2) tubular necrosis/apoptosis, (3) and increased tubular damage markers, in spite of normal glomerular function. Moreover, in vitro studies revealed that: (1) mouse MCT cultures resulted more susceptible to the antiproliferative/cytotoxic effect of deferasirox, mainly at 24h after treatment, than human HK-2 cultures, (2) MCT cell content of damage molecules increased after 24h of iron chelator treatment with slight changes in their excretion into the culture medium and (3) MCT cultures showed a significant evidence of apoptotic cell death through an increased expression and activation of caspase-3 and marked DNA fragmentation. In conclusion, this renal side effect of deferasirox-chelating therapy seems to be based on direct toxic effects of deferasirox on renal tubular cells.
L-Carnitine is a critical metabolite indispensable for the metabolism of lipids as it facilitates fatty acid transport into the mitochondrion where β-oxidation occurs. Human astrocytes (CCF-STTG1 cells) and hepatocytes (HepG2 cells) exposed to aluminum (Al) and hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂), were characterized with lower levels of L-carnitine, diminished β-oxidation, and increased lipid accumulation compared to the controls. γ-Butyrobetainealdehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) and butyrobetaine dioxygenase (BBDOX), two key enzymes mediating the biogenesis of L-carnitine, were sharply reduced during Al and H₂O₂ challenge. Exposure of the Al and H₂O₂-treated cells to α-ketoglutarate (KG), led to the recovery of L-carnitine production with the concomitant reduction in ROS levels. It appears that the channeling of KG to combat oxidative stress results in decreased L-carnitine synthesis, an event that contributes to the dyslipidemia observed during Al and H₂O₂ insults in these mammalian cells. Hence, KG may help alleviate pathological conditions induced by oxidative stress.
Antidepressants have previously been associated with paranoid reactions in psychiatric patients. Five cases of paranoid exacerbation with the serotonin reuptake inhibitors fluoxetine and amitriptyline are reported here. Elements common to these cases included a history of paranoid symptomatology and the concomitant occurrence of depressive and psychotic symptoms. Complicated depressive disorders (including atypicality of course and symptomatology, chronicity, psychosis, bipolarity, and secondary onset in the course of a primary psychosis) may present particular vulnerability to paranoid exacerbations associated with serotonin reuptake inhibitors. Although the pharmacology and neurobiology of paranoia remain cryptic, several mechanisms, including 5HT3 receptor-mediated dopamine release, beta-noradrenergic receptor downregulation, or GABAB receptor upregulation acting in the vicinity of the ventral basal ganglia (possibly in lateral orbitofrontal or anterior cingulate circuits), might apply to this phenomenon. These cases call attention to possible paranoid exacerbations with serotonin reuptake blockers in select patients and raise neurobiological considerations regarding paranoia.
Two fatal cases of widespread necrotizing vasculitis associated with diphenylhydantoin (Dilantin) are presented. Toxic and allergic reactions associated with diphenylhydantoin therapy have been discussed and reviewed in numerous reports since the late 1930s. This vascular complication, however, has previously been reported only twice. In this report, the authors discuss similarities in their two cases and the peculiarities of this entity in the broad spectrum of necrotizing angiitides.
A case of verapamil-responsive incessant ventricular tachycardia in a 4-year-old girl is reported. Oral verapamil alone failed in maintaining stable sinus rhythm. With association of oral verapamil and betablockers (nadolol) the patient remained asymptomatic without recurrence of ventricular tachycardia over a follow-up of 1 year. In case of failure of monotherapy with verapamil or betablockers alone, an association of both can be effective and safe also in pediatric age. Radiofrequency catheter ablation should be reserved, especially in pediatric age, only to patients with impaired ventricular function who are not responsive to medical therapy.
Hypertensive hypervolemic therapy for vasospasm is widely practiced. It is not clear, however, whether the use of hypertension and hypervolemia as a treatment for vasospasm risks hemorrhage from an unsecured, unruptured aneurysm.
From 1991 to 2000, the neurovascular unit at the Massachusetts General Hospital treated 1908 aneurysms, of which 966 were ruptured. Forty patients with ruptured aneurysms had unsecured, unruptured aneurysms and underwent hypertensive hypervolemic therapy for vasospasm. Hypertension was induced by intravenously administered phenylephrine, norepinephrine, and/or dopamine, and hypervolemia was achieved by intravenously administered crystalloid and colloid solutions. The 24-hour mean arterial systolic blood pressure (SBP) and the 24-hour mean central venous pressure were calculated on the basis of hourly measurements during hypertensive hypervolemic treatment.
The 40 study patients harbored 124 aneurysms, of which 51 aneurysms were treated (clipping, 37; coiling, 14) by the time hypertensive hypervolemic therapy began, leaving 73 unsecured aneurysms at risk. The mean size of the unsecured aneurysms was 4.45 mm. Nineteen patients were treated with mild hypertension (SBP, 140-180 mmHg), 12 patients were treated with moderate hypertension (SBP, 180-200 mmHg), and 9 patients were treated with severe hypertension (SBP, >200 mmHg). The 24-hour mean SBP readings were 166.81 +/- 8.19, 187.57 +/- 5.79, and 204.01 +/- 3.75 mmHg for the mild, moderate, and severe hypertension groups, respectively. The mean central venous pressure was 10.43 +/- 3.89 mmHg. The mean course of hypertensive hypervolemic therapy was 7.25 days, and therapy began on mean post-subarachnoid hemorrhage Day 6.73. Twenty-eight aneurysms were eventually treated in later procedures (clipping, 25; coiling, 3). The mean interval to treatment was 6.93 months. In a treatment and follow-up period of 121.75 aneurysm-years of risk, there was no instance of hemorrhage.
Hypertension and hypervolemia do not seem to increase the risk of hemorrhage from unsecured, unruptured aneurysms in the acute setting or in their short-term natural history.
We attempted to evaluate the role of radionuclide angiography in the routine treatment of patients receiving doxorubicin-based therapy in a university hospital setting. We identified 222 cancer patients treated with doxorubicin or who underwent radionuclide angiography with the intent to receive doxorubicin at the University of Iowa in 1989. We examined the cumulative doses of doxorubicin, results of radionuclide angiograms, cardiac risk factors, and clinical outcomes and survival of patients. Of 222 patients, 168 (76%) underwent at least one radionuclide angiogram and received doxorubicin. Only a baseline study was performed in 136 (81%) of these 168 patients. Only 32 underwent follow-up study during therapy; six patients discontinued therapy for an 11-21% decrease in left ventricular function. The mean dose of doxorubicin received was 211 mg/m2, and 193 patients (96%) received a cumulative dose <450 mg/m2. Only two patients (1%) had heart failure. A questionnaire sent to medical oncologists in Iowa showed that use of radionuclide angiography in our institution reflected practice throughout the state. The majority of patients in our population who underwent radionuclide angiography had a single baseline study, which provides little clinically useful information. The majority of patients receiving doxorubicin as currently employed can be safely treated without radionuclide angiography.
Thyrotoxic periodic paralysis resulting from exogenous thyroid hormone administration (thyrotoxicosis factitia) has been rarely reported. We describe a 23-year-old man who presented with limbs paralysis upon awakening in the morning. Pertinent history revealed that he took drugs containing triiodothyronine (64 mug) and propranolol (40 mg) twice daily for weight reduction in the past month and discontinued these drugs 3 days before admission. Physical examination showed systolic hypertension (160/76 mm Hg), relative tachycardia (98 bpm), and symmetrical flaccid paralysis of all extremities. The most striking laboratory finding was severe hypokalemia (1.6 mmol/L) with low urinary potassium excretion and normal blood acid-base status, suggesting acute potassium shifting into cells. Approximately, 174 mmol of potassium chloride was administrated to restore his muscle strength within 12 hours, but rebound hyperkalemia (6.1 mmol/L) developed upon recovery. Despite normal serum free triiodothyronine and thyroxine levels, the suppressed concentration of thyroid stimulating hormone indicated hyperthyroidism. The low radioiodine uptake (4%) and serum thyroglobulin level (2 ng/mL) were consistent with thyrotoxicosis factitia. This is the first reported case of exogenous triiodothyronine-induced thyrotoxic periodic paralysis, which may have been precipitated by the withdrawal of propranolol.
Two Fischer 344 rat hepatoma cell strains, JM1 and JM2, have been isolated from a primary hepatocellular carcinoma. Primary tumor formation was induced in a two-thirds partially hepatectomized rat by a single low dose (70 mg/kg of diethylnitrosamine followed by chronic phenobarbital administration (0.1 g/100 ml drinking water). The primary tumors were passed three times by subcutaneous implantation of tumor fragments into the inguinal region of syngeneic recipients. The fourth pass was by injection of tumor cells directly into the livers of recipient rats. Several weeks later, the tumor-containing rat livers were subjected to collagenase perfusion. Two cell lines emerged from tissue culture of the cells isolated by perfusion. Each cell line was cloned by serial dilution. Cells JM1 and JM2 were tumorigenic when injected into syngeneic rats. The tumors, which arose from injected cell strains, exhibited several characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma. Morphology was examined by light and electron microscopy. Histochemical studies of JM1 and JM2 cells grown in vitro and in vivo were done. The levels of tyrosine aminotransferase and three microsomal enzymes of importance to drug and carcinogen metabolism were investigated. To our knowledge, this is the first report of cell strains derived from an initiation promotion protocol in rats.
Photodynamic therapy of transplantable N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide-induced tumors engrafted onto Fischer CDF (F-344)/CrlBR rats that had been sensitized with the photosensitizer tin (ll) etiopurpurin dichloride was performed in combination with visible light (approximately equal to 660 nm) emitted by either a continuous wave argon-dye laser or a pulsed, frequency-doubled Nd:Yag laser. Tumor control was assessed either by tumor dry-weight 12 days after treatment or by the palpatory absence of tumor at 60 days after treatment. Both laser sources were effective in creating the desired photodynamic effect. This study demonstrates the potential for the use of a solid-state pulsed laser for photodynamic therapy when used in combination with the tumor sensitizer tin (ll) etiopurpurin dichloride.
Azathioprine therapy is discontinued in one-third of patients with inflammatory bowel disease because of toxicity or a lack of clinical response. Patients with thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) deficiency are intolerant to azathioprine, whilst carriers are at increased risk of side-effects.
To evaluate the importance of TPMT activity in the management of azathioprine therapy in inflammatory bowel disease.
Clinical response, adverse effects and haematological parameters were determined and correlated with TPMT enzyme activity and genotype in 106 patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
Ninety-six patients had high TPMT activity, and 10 had intermediate activity. Nineteen patients (18%) were intolerant to azathioprine. Fifteen (16%) of those with high TPMT activity were intolerant, compared with five (50%) with intermediate activity [odds ratio (OR), 5.4; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.5-19.8]. Complete remission was achieved in 63% of cases, and complete or partial remission in 79%. Interestingly, very high TPMT activity (> 14 units/mL red blood cells) was significantly associated with non-response, irrespective of the time on azathioprine (OR, 0.21; 95% CI, 0.07-0.68). TPMT gene mutations correlated with TPMT activity.
Inflammatory bowel disease patients with intermediate TPMT activity have an increased risk of azathioprine toxicity. Conversely, very high TPMT activity predicts treatment failure. TPMT genotype predicted TPMT phenotype in this study.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is characterized by asymmetric septal hypertrophy and is often caused by mutations in MYBPC3 gene encoding cardiac myosin-binding protein C. In contrast to humans, who are already affected at the heterozygous state, mouse models develop the phenotype mainly at the homozygous state. Evidence from cell culture work suggested that altered proteasome function contributes to the pathogenesis of HCM. Here we tested in two heterozygous Mybpc3-targeted mouse models whether adrenergic stress unmasks a specific cardiac phenotype and proteasome dysfunction. The first model carries a human Mybpc3 mutation (Het-KI), the second is a heterozygous Mybpc3 knock-out (Het-KO). Both models were compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Mice were treated with a combination of isoprenaline and phenylephrine (ISO/PE) or NaCl for 1 week. Whereas ISO/PE induced left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) with increased posterior wall thickness to a similar extent in all groups, it increased septum thickness only in Het-KI and Het-KO. ISO/PE did not affect the proteasomal chymotrypsin-like activity or β5-subunit protein level in Het-KO or wild-type mice (WT). In contrast, both parameters were markedly lower in Het-KI and negatively correlated with the degree of LVH in Het-KI only. In conclusion, adrenergic stress revealed septal hypertrophy in both heterozygous mouse models of HCM, but proteasome dysfunction only in Het-KI mice, which carry a mutant allele and closely mimic human HCM. This supports the hypothesis that proteasome impairment contributes to the pathophysiology of HCM.
Actin, one of the major filamentous cytoskeletal molecules, is involved in a variety of cellular functions. Whereas an association between muscle actin mutations and skeletal and cardiac myopathies has been well documented, reports of human disease arising from mutations of nonmuscle actin genes have been rare. We have identified a missense point mutation in the gene coding for beta -actin that results in an arginine-to-tryptophan substitution at position 183. The disease phenotype includes developmental midline malformations, sensory hearing loss, and a delayed-onset generalized dystonia syndrome in monozygotic twins. Cellular studies of a lymphoblastoid cell line obtained from an affected patient demonstrated morphological abnormalities of the actin cytoskeleton and altered actin depolymerization dynamics in response to latrunculin A, an actin monomer-sequestering drug. Resistance to latrunculin A was also observed in NIH 3T3 cells expressing the mutant actin. These findings suggest that mutations in nonmuscle actins may be associated with a broad spectrum of developmental malformations and/or neurological abnormalities such as dystonia.
Ewing sarcoma (ES), a highly malignant pediatric tumor, is consistently associated with translocations that fuse the EWS gene with a member of the ETS family gene, most commonly FLI-1. Despite significant advances with multiagent chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy, about 40% of ES patients still die from the disease. It is therefore necessary to explore novel agents for possible treatment of this tumor. Here the authors investigated the sensitivity of ES cells to clinically tolerable concentrations of arsenic trioxide (As2O3), a compound known to induce differentiation and apoptosis of other types of malignant cells. The authors report that As2O3 uniformly induced death of 6 ES-derived cell lines irrespective of their p53 status. As2O3 resulted in an apoptotic phenotype which was inhibited by the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor ZVAD-fmk. These effects correlated with prolonged c-jun N-terminal kinase activation, which is a signal for apoptosis in ES cells. As2O3 also decreased basal and cytokine-induced NF-kappa B activity. Since the authors previously demonstrated that NF-kappa B exerts an antiapoptotic action in ES cells, As2O3 treatment may also result in a sensitization of these cells to other drugs used in combination therapy. These effects, combined with its antiangiogenic action, define As2O3 as a good candidate for future protocols to improve treatments of Ewing sarcomas, irrespective of the p53 status of the tumor.
CP-809,101 is a potent, functionally selective 5-HT(2C) agonist that displays approximately 100% efficacy in vitro. The aim of the present studies was to assess the efficacy of a selective 5-HT(2C) agonist in animal models predictive of antipsychotic-like efficacy and side-effect liability. Similar to currently available antipsychotic drugs, CP-809,101 dose-dependently inhibited conditioned avoidance responding (CAR, ED(50)=4.8 mg/kg, sc). The efficacy of CP-809,101 in CAR was completely antagonized by the concurrent administration of the 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist, SB-224,282. CP-809,101 antagonized both PCP- and d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity with ED(50) values of 2.4 and 2.9 mg/kg (sc), respectively and also reversed an apomorphine induced-deficit in prepulse inhibition. At doses up to 56 mg/kg, CP-809,101 did not produce catalepsy. Thus, the present results demonstrate that the 5-HT(2C) agonist, CP-809,101, has a pharmacological profile similar to that of the atypical antipsychotics with low extrapyramidal symptom liability. CP-809,101 was inactive in two animal models of antidepressant-like activity, the forced swim test and learned helplessness. However, CP-809,101 was active in novel object recognition, an animal model of cognitive function. These data suggest that 5-HT(2C) agonists may be a novel approach in the treatment of psychosis as well as for the improvement of cognitive dysfunction associated with schizophrenia.
