Drugs and their metabolites are known factors in 1% to 2% of all kidney stones. Certain antiepileptic drugs are known to cause stone formation. Phenytoin is used as a first line antiepileptic therapy for many seizure disorders. We present what we believe to be the first report of a phenytoin metabolite urinary stone.
A 79-year-old woman with a fever and seizure disorder was found to have a right pelvic kidney with hydronephrosis and multiple large calcifications. She had been taking the antiepileptic medication phenytoin for the past 10 years. Average total serum phenytoin level from the year prior was in the normal range. Free phenytoin levels were not routinely monitored, but the one value available was elevated at 5.1 ng/dL. The patient underwent a percutaneous nephrolitomy, ultimately expiring from medical complications after the procedure. Final stone analysis revealed a composition of 35% phenytoin metabolite (5-(para-hydroxyphenyl)-5-phenylhydantoin) and 65% proteinaceous material. An extensive review of literature including PubMed, MedLine, and various internet search engines was performed, searching for any prior reports of urinary calculi formed from phenytoin or its metabolite.
No previous reports of phenytoin or phenytoin metabolite urinary stones were found in the medical literature. Phenytoin has many known ill effects on the genitourinary system including acute interstitial nephritis, nephrotic syndrome, acute renal failure, and priapism. Now we can add urinary lithiasis to the list of its potential adverse effects. This article represents the first report of a phenytoin metabolite urinary stone.
A metabolite of the commonly used antiepileptic medication phenytoin can cause clinically relevant urolithiasis leading to significant morbidity and even mortality. Clinicians should have an increased level of suspicion for metabolite stone formation in symptomatic patients taking antiepileptic medications. Further studies on phenytoin metabolism and its potential for inducing urinary lithiasis should be performed.
The emergence of resistance to EGF receptor (EGFR) inhibitor therapy is a major clinical problem for patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The mechanisms underlying tumor resistance to inhibitors of the kinase activity of EGFR are not fully understood. Here, we found that inhibition of EGFR by erlotinib induces STAT3 phosphorylation at Tyr705 in association with increased Bcl2/Bcl-XL at both mRNA and protein levels in various human lung cancer cells. PTPMeg2 is a physiologic STAT3 phosphatase that can directly dephosphorylate STAT3 at the Tyr705 site. Intriguingly, treatment of cells with erlotinib results in downregulation of PTPMeg2 without activation of STAT3 kinases [i.e., Janus-activated kinase (JAK2) or c-Src], suggesting that erlotinib-enhanced phosphorylation of STAT3 may occur, at least in part, from suppression of PTPMeg2 expression. Because elevated levels of phosphorylated STAT3 (pSTAT3), Bcl2, and Bcl-XL were observed in erlotinib-resistant lung cancer (HCC827/ER) cells as compared with erlotinib-sensitive parental HCC827 cells, we postulate that the erlotinib-activated STAT3/Bcl2/Bcl-XL survival pathway may contribute to acquired resistance to erlotinib. Both blockage of Tyr705 phosphorylation of STAT3 by niclosamide and depletion of STAT3 by RNA interference in HCC827/ER cells reverse erlotinib resistance. Niclosamide in combination with erlotinib potently represses erlotinib-resistant lung cancer xenografts in association with increased apoptosis in tumor tissues, suggesting that niclosamide can restore sensitivity to erlotinib. These findings uncover a novel mechanism of erlotinib resistance and provide a novel approach to overcome resistance by blocking the STAT3/Bcl2/Bcl-XL survival signaling pathway in human lung cancer.
Preclinical data have shown that all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) can exert significant suppressive effects on Philadelphia-chromosome (Ph)-positive cells. The aim of this study combining IFN-alpha, low-dose cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) and ATRA was to increase the proportion of patients achieving a major cytogenetic response, in comparison with a group of 140 patients previously treated with IFN-alpha plus low-dose ara-C. Forty three patients with Ph-positive CML in early chronic phase were treated with IFN-alpha 5 MU/m2 s.c. daily, low-dose ara-C 10 mg s.c. daily and ATRA 45 mg/m2 orally daily, for 7 consecutive days every other week. Overall, 76% of patients achieved a complete hematologic response (CHR). A cytogenetic response was in observed 59% (major in 38% and complete in 17%). Compared with patients treated with IFN-alpha and low-dose ara-C, those receiving additional ATRA had a lower CHR rate (p. 014), but other response rates were similar. Severe toxicities were common with the triple regimen (64%), mostly related to ATRA therapy. Two patients experienced pseudotumor cerebri; two patients had leukocytosis during the week on ATRA treatment, decreasing during the week off (one suffered a severe asthma-like reaction followed by pulmonary edema, resembling ATRA syndrome). Six patients had other unusual side-effects: aseptic necrosis of the hip (1 patient), ataxic syndrome (1 patient), paranoid syndrome (2 patients), syncopal episodes (1 patient), pure red cell aplasia (1 patient). In conclusion the results of IFN-alpha and low-dose ara-C combined with ATRA in patients with early CML-chronic phase were disappointing, due to excessive toxicity. Whether different ATRA dose schedules may result in fewer side-effects and improve hematologic and cytogenetic response remains to be determined.
We report two cases of penicillin G-resistant pneumococcal meningitis in adults, with clinical and bacteriological failure of amoxicillin and negative or incomplete response to third generation cephalosporins. Meningitis occurred in a man treated for myeloma and in an elderly woman under prolonged intermittent amoxicillin therapy for chronic otitis. Such situations are known as exposing to pneumococcal meningitis and to resistance of the strain involved to penicillin G. Both patients were cured by vancomycin in continuous infusion associated with rifampicin or fosfomycin. Contrary to third generation cephalosporins, which have higher minimal inhibitory concentrations, vancomycin and rifampicin are still fully active against penicillin G-resistant pneumococcal strains. Thus, vancomycin administered in continuous infusion and associated with rifampicin and fosfomycin deserves to be tried as first-line treatment of pneumococcal meningitis in patients at risk of resistance to penicillin G.
Eight adult patients with post-surgery meningitis caused by methicillin-resistant staphylococci were treated with continuous intravenous infusion of vancomycin in mean doses of 50 mg/kg/day. This treatment, which lasted 3 to 6 weeks, was well tolerated by the kidneys and resulted in cure in all cases; its effect on the ear was not evaluated. Stable concentrations of 4 to 7 mg/l in cerebrospinal fluid were obtained after the 48th hour of treatment.
Simvastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, is widely used to treat hyperlipidaemia. Although myalgias are recognized adverse effects, clinically significant elevations in serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels are uncommon. We describe a case of rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with concomitant use of simvastatin and warfarin. Rhabdomyolysis and renal failure occurred 7 days after warfarin (5 mg day-1) was added to a chronic stable dose of simvastatin (20 mg day-1) and resolved abruptly after discontinuation of simvastatin. We recommend careful monitoring when warfarin is given to patients receiving simvastatin.
This literature review summarizes recent potential evidence, most of which is at the molecular/mechanistic level, in support of Hollander's hypothesis that excess oxytocin (OT), possibly through OT administration at birth, could contribute to the development of autistic spectrum disorders and related syndromes by proposed down regulation of the OT receptor (OTR). In this review, recent molecular evidence for OTR internalization by excess OT is related to OT's reported effects on animal social behavior, favoring social bondage, notably in sheep, voles, rats and especially mice. Adding indications for OT's capability of crossing the maternal placenta and OT's possibility of crossing an underdeveloped or stressed infantile blood brain barrier at birth, a causal connection between OT excess and behavioral disorders such as autism can be supported from a molecular perspective. Possible strategies such as a thorough statistical analysis of numerous birth records as well as molecular studies such as radiotracing using labeled OT are proposed to test this hypothesis.
The dopaminergic role of D-1 and D-2 receptors in catalepsy was evaluated using drugs with preferential receptor affinities. The D-1 antagonist, SCH 23390, caused distinct catalepsy in mice at 1, 2, and 10 mg/kg, IP, but not at two lower doses. The selective D-1 blocker, molindone, also caused catalepsy at 5 and 10 mg/kg; and blockade of both receptor types produced additive cataleptogenic effects. Apomorphine (4 mg/kg), which is an agonist for both receptors, potentiated SCH 23390-induced catalepsy much more than it did the catalepsy induced by molindone; the potentiation was produced by higher, not lower, doses of apomorphine. To determine if the apomorphine potentiation was mediated by D-1 or D-2 receptors, we tested selective agonists in mice that were concurrently injected with selective blockers. SCH 23390-induced catalepsy was potentiated by a large dose of the D-2 agonist, bromocriptine. The catalepsy of D-2 blockade with molindone was not potentiated by the D-1 agonist, SKF 38393, which slightly disrupted the catalepsy of D-2 blockade. We conclude that catalepsy is not a simple D-2 blockade phenomenon and that preferential antagonism of either receptor type can cause catalepsy. Catalepsy is most profound when both receptor types are blocked. Dopamine agonists, in large concentrations, are known to promote movements, and thus it is not surprising that they tend to disrupt catalepsy.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term carcinogen exposure exerts continuous pressure on key mechanisms that repair or eliminate carcinogen-damaged cells giving rise to selective failures that contribute to lung cancer. FOXO3a is a transcription factor that elicits a protective response to diverse cellular stresses. Although implicated as a tumor suppressor, its role in sporadic cancer is uncertain. We recently observed that FOXO3a gene inactivation occurs frequently in carcinogen-induced lung adenocarcinoma (LAC). This suggests that FOXO3a may play a role in LAC suppression by eliciting a protective response to carcinogenic stress. Here we investigated this possibility by examining the role of FOXO3a in the cellular response to nicotine-derived nitrosaminoketone (NNK), a lung carcinogen implicated as a cause of human LAC. We show that restoration of FOXO3a in FOXO3a-deficient LAC cells increases sensitivity to apoptosis caused by a DNA-damaging intermediate of NNK. Prior to this cellular outcome, FOXO3a is functionally activated and mediates a large-scale transcription program in response to this damage involving a significant modulation of 440 genes. Genes most significantly represented in this program are those with roles in cell growth and proliferation>protein synthesis>gene expression>cell death>cell cycle. The results of this study show that FOXO3a directs an anti-carcinogenic transcription program that culminates in the elimination of carcinogen-damaged cells. This suggests that FOXO3a is a potential suppressor of carcinogenic damage in LAC.
Psychotic states are mimicked by the use of many drugs including amphetamines, cannabis, lysergic acid diethylamide, psilocybin, mescaline, isoniazid, and L-dopa. A paranoid psychotic picture in a clear sensorium is characteristic of amphetamine psychosis. In developing countries, malaria among other diseases is a frequent indicator of chloroquine administration. The present communication reports a series of chloroquine-induced psychosis in a clear sensorium simulating affective illness, such as mania, mixed affective states, or depression. The psychosis disappeared after cessation of the drug, combined with or without the use of low dosage phenothiazines in excited patients. From our cases, two types of presentation of chloroquine psychosis could be seen: (1) psychic with clear sensorium, mood changes, alteration in motor activity, delusions, and hallucinations; and (2) psycho-organic with clouded sensorium, disorientation, and fleeting hallucinations. The precise nature of the mechanism of the psychosis is not clear because of the limited number of reported cases.
Accumulating evidence supports the concept that proinflammatory cytokines play an essential role in the failing heart. We examined the concomitant tumour necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK)/Fn14 expression in myocytes in vitro as well as in vivo in cardiac remodelling.
We assessed TWEAK and its receptor Fn14 expression in response to angiotensin (Ang) II, myocardial infarction (MI) as well as to local adenovirus-mediated p38 gene transfer in vivo. The effect of various hypertrophic factors and mechanical stretch was studied in neonatal rat ventricular myocyte cell culture.
Ang II increased Fn14 levels from 6 h to 2 weeks, the greatest increase in mRNA levels being observed at 6 h (6.3-fold, P < 0.001) and protein levels at 12 h (4.9-fold, P < 0.01). TWEAK mRNA and protein levels remained almost unchanged during Ang II infusion. Likewise, a rapid and sustained elevation of Fn14 mRNA and protein levels in the left ventricle was observed after experimental MI. Moreover, local p38 gene transfer increased Fn14 mRNA and protein but not TWEAK levels. Fn14 immunoreactive cells were mainly proliferating non-myocytes in the inflammation area while TWEAK immunoreactivity localized to cardiomyocytes and endothelial cells of the coronary arteries. Hypertrophic agonists and lipopolysaccharide increased Fn14 but not TWEAK gene expression in neonatal rat myocytes, while mechanical stretch upregulated Fn14 and downregulated TWEAK gene expression.
In conclusion, the cardiac TWEAK/Fn14 pathway is modified in response to myocardial injury, inflammation and pressure overload. Furthermore, our findings underscore the importance of Fn14 as a mediator of TWEAK/Fn14 signalling in the heart and a potential target for therapeutic interventions.
Major adverse reactions interrupting drug therapy during treatment of 84 patients with desipramine hydrochloride were studied to determine their relationship to desipramine plasma concentrations and other clinical variables. The frequency of adverse reactions was higher in patients over 60 years old (39%), and in patients also receiving antipsychotic medications (32%), but low in patients under 60 years old (7%). Desipramine plasma concentrations in patients having side effects did not differ significantly from those in patients without side effects. Steady state desipramine plasma concentrations did not increase with age. Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension, the most common side effect encountered, occurred early in treatment at low desipramine plasma concentrations. Other side effects, usually described as anticholinergic, occurred exclusively in the 34 patients receiving both desipramine and antipsychotic drugs. The concentration of 2-hydroxy-desipramine, the total concentration of 2-hydroxy-desipramine and desipramine, and the ratio of 2-hydroxy-desipramine to desipramine were not higher in 11 patients having side effects than in a comparison group without side effects.
Using homozygosity mapping and locus resequencing, we found that alterations in the homeodomain of the IRX5 transcription factor cause a recessive congenital disorder affecting face, brain, blood, heart, bone and gonad development. We found through in vivo modeling in Xenopus laevis embryos that Irx5 modulates the migration of progenitor cell populations in branchial arches and gonads by repressing Sdf1. We further found that transcriptional control by Irx5 is modulated by direct protein-protein interaction with two GATA zinc-finger proteins, GATA3 and TRPS1; disruptions of these proteins also cause craniofacial dysmorphisms. Our findings suggest that IRX proteins integrate combinatorial transcriptional inputs to regulate key signaling molecules involved in the ontogeny of multiple organs during embryogenesis and homeostasis.
A close interaction between adrenergic nerves and angiotensin systems has been documented. The present study was designed to investigate the mechanisms of angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB) suppression of beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Chronic isoproterenol (ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy was inhibited in wild-type mice and AT1aR(-/-) mice treated with the ARB Candesartan (CV11974). Acute ISO-induced increase in phosphorylation levels of ERK MAPK was completely inhibited and increases in phosphorylation levels of p38 and JNK MAPKs were partially suppressed in both types of mice. Analysis of the activity of the small GTPase-regulating protein Raf indicated that the mechanisms by which ARB inhibits the Raf/MEK/ERK pathway under beta-adrenergic receptor stimulation basically depended on changes in the binding activities of Ras (stimulatory to Raf cascade) and Rap-1 (inhibitory to Raf cascade). Binding activities of Ras and Rap-1 in the heart were markedly augmented by ISO, whereas ARB suppressed only Ras, but not Rap-1, binding activity. Raf immunoprecipitation results confirmed that ISO-induced increases in its association with total and phosphorylated forms of MEK were completely normalized by ARB. These results might provide a molecular basis for the beneficial effects of AT1-receptor antagonists on cardiac remodeling and functions in patients with sympatho-excitatory heart failure.
The effect of lindane administration on the specific binding of ligands to different sites on the GABAA receptor-ionophore complex was studied in the rat brain by receptor mapping autoradiography. [3H]Muscimol (Mus), [3H]flunitrazepam (Flu), and t-[35S]butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) were used as specific ligands of GABA, benzodiazepine, and picrotoxinin binding sites, respectively. Rats received a single oral dose of 30 mg/kg lindane and they were classified into two groups according to the absence or presence of convulsions. Vehicle-treated groups acted as controls. The effect of the xenobiotic on ligand binding was measured in different brain areas and nuclei 12 min or 5 h after its administration. Lindane induced a generalized decrease in [35S]TBPS binding, which was present shortly after dosing. In addition, [3H]Flu binding was increased in lindane-treated animals, this modification also appearing shortly after administration but diminishing during the studied time. Finally, lindane induced a decrease in [3H]Mus binding, which became more evident over time. These modifications were observed both in the presence and in the absence of convulsions. However, an increase in [3H]-Mus binding was detected shortly after lindane-induced convulsions. The observed decrease in [35S]TBPS binding is in agreement with the postulated action of lindane at the picrotoxinin binding site of the GABAA receptor chloride channel. The effects observed on the binding of [3H]Flu and [3H]Mus may be secondary to the action of lindane as an allosteric antagonist of the GABAA receptor.
Herein we present the largest retrospective case-control series of deep sedation in patients with Rett syndrome, including discussion of the unique aspects of Rett syndrome that make these patients at high risk of sedation. Twenty-one patients with Rett syndrome and 21 control patients who received propofol for deep sedation to facilitate lumbar puncture were compared. Patients with Rett syndrome required significantly less propofol than control patients when standardized for weight and the duration of the procedure (P = .004). Seven of the 21 patients with Rett syndrome compared with none of the control patients experienced a serious adverse event, most of which were due to prolonged apnea (P = .004). All adverse events were transient, and all patients returned to their baseline after the procedure was completed. Sedation of patients with Rett syndrome is associated with a relatively high rate of complications and should not be done without appropriate personnel available who recognize the risks of sedating this unique population.
The ATP-binding cassette transporter ABCB4 is a phosphatidylcholine translocator specifically expressed at the bile canalicular membrane in hepatocytes, highly homologous to the multidrug transporter ABCB1. Variations in the ABCB4 gene sequence cause progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 3. We have shown previously that the I541F mutation, when reproduced either in ABCB1 or in ABCB4, led to retention in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)/Golgi. Here, Madin-Darby canine kidney cells expressing ABCB1-GFP were used as a model to investigate this mutant. We show that ABCB1-I541F is not properly folded and is more susceptible to in situ protease degradation. It colocalizes and coprecipitates with the ER chaperone calnexin and coprecipitates with the cytosolic chaperone Hsc/Hsp70. Silencing of calnexin or overexpression of Hsp70 have no effect on maturation of the mutant. We also tested potential rescue by chemical and pharmacological chaperones. Thapsigargin and sodium 4-phenyl butyrate were inefficient. Glycerol improved maturation and exit of the mutant from the ER. Cyclosporin A, a competitive substrate for ABCB1, restored maturation, plasma membrane expression, and activity of ABCB1-I541F. Cyclosporin A also improved maturation of ABCB4-I541F in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. In HepG(2) cells transfected with ABCB4-I541F cDNA, cyclosporin A allowed a significant amount of the mutant protein to reach the membrane of bile canaliculi. These results show that the best strategy to rescue conformation-defective ABCB4 mutants is provided by pharmacological chaperones that specifically target the protein. They identify cyclosporin A as a potential novel therapeutic tool for progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis type 3 patients.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the follow-up and treatment of the mutation-carrying relatives of a proband with an inherited arrhythmia syndrome.
The congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS), catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT), and Brugada syndrome (BrS) are primary inherited arrhythmia syndromes that may cause syncope and sudden cardiac death in young individuals. After establishing the disease-causing deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mutation in probands, we actively conducted cascade screening to identify, most often asymptomatic, relatives who are also at risk of life-threatening arrhythmias.
We retrospectively collected data from our cardiogenetics database and patient records and analyzed whether the identified carriers received prophylactic treatment.
From 1996 to 2008, 130 probands with a disease-causing mutation in one of the involved genes were identified, and 509 relatives tested positive for the disease-causing familial mutation. These subjects subsequently underwent cardiologic investigation (electrocardiography, exercise testing, Holter monitoring, ajmaline testing, echocardiography, where appropriate). After a mean follow-up of 69 +/- 31 months (LQTS), 60 +/- 19 months (CPVT), and 56 +/- 21 months (BrS), treatment was initiated and ongoing in 65% (199 of 308), 71% (85 of 120), and 6% (5 of 81) of the relatives in the LQTS, CPVT, and BrS families, respectively. Eight carriers were lost to follow-up. Treatment included drug treatment (n = 249) or implantation of pacemakers (n = 26) or cardioverter-defibrillators (n = 14). All mutation carriers received lifestyle instructions and a list of drugs to be avoided.
Cascade screening in families with LQTS, BrS, or CPVT, which was based on DNA mutation carrying and subsequent cardiologic investigation, resulted in immediate prophylactic treatment in a substantial proportion of carriers, although these proportions varied significantly between the different diseases.
There are reports of alprazolam-induced hypomania/mania. Here is a case report of a patient who developed hypomania during treatment with alprazolam, but not with diazepam, another benzodiazepine derivative.
The illness was of 2 months' duration and the patient received a diagnosis of anxious depression. Following treatment with alprazolam, the patient developed hypomania characterised by euphoria, overactivity, overtalkactivity, racing thoughts, oversocialisation, enhanced self-confidence and disturbed sleep.
Hypomania subsided when alprazolam was withdrawn. There was no recurrence with fluoxetine or diazepam that ameliorated the primary condition.
The patient was symptom-free on follow-up.
Alprazolam can induce hypomania/mania and, perhaps, it differs from other benzodiazepines in its mode of action. Clinicians have to be alert to the possibility of their patients developing hypomania/mania while on alprazolam.
At case of carbamazepine-induced intermittent total atrioventricular block with asystole and Stokes-Adams attacks is reported. The diagnosis was proved by repeated administration of carbamazepine after insertion of a demand pacemaker. If syncopes occur or change nature in a patient treated with carbamazepine, evaluation of cardiac conduction is recommended.
Presented is a case of acute renal failure induced by acetazolamide therapy for glaucoma. The 69-year-old patients recovered rapidly after oral administration of fluids and sodium bicarbonate. This sulfonamide like nephropathy should be differentiated from acetazolamide-related calcium phosphate nephrolithiasis.
Temozolomide (TMZ) and 1, 3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) are reported to be active agents in anaplastic glioma (AG). TMZ has also been shown to deplete alkyltransferase, a DNA repair enzyme that contributes to nitrosourea resistance. The objective of the current study was to determine the efficacy and toxicity profile of a combination of these agents before radiotherapy in newly diagnosed AG.
Eligibility criteria included histologically confirmed newly diagnosed AG with measurable enhancing disease, a Karnofsky performance score (KPS) > or = 60, normal pulmonary function, and normal laboratory parameters. In addition, informed consent was obtained from all patients. BCNU given at a dose of 150 mg/m(2) intravenously was followed after 2 hours by TMZ given at a dose of 550 mg/m(2) orally on Day 1 of a 42-day cycle to a maximum of 4 cycles, unless there was tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity.
Forty-one eligible patients were accrued. Their median age was 40 years. Seventy-six percent of patients had a KPS of 90-100. The histology was 81% anaplastic astrocytoma, 12% anaplastic oligodendroglioma, and 7% mixed tumors. Twenty-two percent of patients did not complete 4 cycles because of toxicity, mainly hematologic. Forty-six percent of patients experienced Grade 3 or 4 (according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria) thrombocytopenia. Twenty percent had Grade 4 granulocytopenia. Two patients died while receiving therapy, 1 of progressive disease and the other of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. The complete and partial response rates were 2% and 27% respectively. An additional 54% of patients had stable disease. Seventeen percent developed progressive disease (10% after the first cycle and 7% after the second cycle).
This neoadjuvant strategy was associated with significant myelosuppression and a modest response rate in patients with newly diagnosed AG.
Reduced serotonin transporter (5-HTT) expression is associated with abnormal affective and anxiety-like symptoms in humans and rodents, but the mechanism of this effect is unknown. Transient inhibition of 5-HTT during early development with fluoxetine, a commonly used serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, produced abnormal emotional behaviors in adult mice. This effect mimicked the behavioral phenotype of mice genetically deficient in 5-HTT expression. These findings indicate a critical role of serotonin in the maturation of brain systems that modulate emotional function in the adult and suggest a developmental mechanism to explain how low-expressing 5-HTT promoter alleles increase vulnerability to psychiatric disorders.
Sotalol is a unique beta-blocking drug, possessing significant class III antiarrhythmic activity. The efficacy and safety of 2 doses of sotalol (320 and 640 mg/day, divided in 2 doses) were compared to placebo in a 6-week randomized, double-blind, multicenter study of 114 patients with chronic ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) at frequencies of greater than or equal to 30/hour. Sotalol significantly reduced VPCs in patients receiving both low (n = 38) and high (n = 39) doses, compared with patients (n = 37) receiving placebo (by 75 and 88%, respectively, vs 10%; p less than 0.001, sotalol vs placebo; p less than 0.05, high vs low dose). The individual efficacy criterion (greater than or equal to 75% VPC reduction) was achieved in 34% of low-dose and 71% of high-dose sotalol versus 6% of placebo-treated patients (p less than 0.003, sotalol vs placebo; p = 0.007, high vs low dose). Repetitive beats were suppressed 25% by placebo (difference not significant), 80% by low-dose (p less than 0.003) and 78% by high-dose sotalol (p less than 0.005). Sotalol decreased heart rate (by 24 to 25%, p less than 0.001) and increased PR (by 4 to 6%, p less than 0.001) and corrected JT intervals (by 12 to 13%, p less than 0.001), but did not change ejection fraction. Proarrhythmia (nonfatal) occurred in 3 sotalol and in 2 placebo patients. Nine discontinued therapy because of adverse effects (1 low dose and 8 high dose, p less than 0.02). In summary, sotalol is an efficacious antiarrhythmic drug for VPC suppression; in lower doses, it is somewhat less effective but better tolerated.
The inflammation and fibrosis induced by silica dust are considered to be substantial responses in silicosis progression. Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) plays an important role in silica-induced lung inflammation, but the mechanisms that underlie the influence of IL-1β on the progression of silicosis remain unclear. In this study, the role of IL-1β in silica-induced inflammation and fibrosis was evaluated by administering a suspension of 2.5-mg silica dust, either with or without 40 μg anti-mouse IL-1β monoclonal antibody (mAb), to the lungs of male C57BL/6 mice. Silica + anti-IL-1β mAb-treated mice showed the depletion of IL-1β as well as the attenuation of inflammation, as evaluated in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) and histological sections from 1 to 84 days after silica exposure. Further study of the BALF indicated that inhibition of IL-1β could reduce the contents of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1. The real-time PCR and pathology results showed that the neutralization of IL-1β attenuated silica-induced fibrosis by inhibiting the gene expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1, collagen I and fibronectin. The examination of Th1-cytokine and Th2-cytokine suggested that depletion of IL-1β decelerated the Th1/Th2 balance toward a Th2-dominant response. In conclusion, the present study suggests that the neutralization of IL-1β attenuates silica-induced inflammation and fibrosis by inhibiting other inflammatory and fibrogenic mediators and modulating the Th1/Th2 balance.
To determine whether the baroreflex control of sympathetic nerve activity is altered in patients with essential hypertension, muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was recorded microneurographically from the tibial nerves of 23 normotensive subjects and 23 patients with essential hypertension. When phenylephrine (2 micrograms/kg) was injected intravenously, although the pressor response of mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) was significantly enhanced in the hypertensives as compared with the normotensives, the reflex decrease in MSNA was significantly smaller in the hypertensives. Furthermore, the baroreflex slope for MSNA, used as an index of baroreflex sensitivity and calculated by relating the change in MSNA to the change in MAP, was significantly less in the hypertensives. Following the injection of nitroglycerin (2 micrograms/kg), there were no significant differences between the normotensives and hypertensives in the depressor response, the reflex increase in MSNA or the baroreflex slope for MSNA. These observations suggest that the baroreflex change in sympathetic nerve activity is reduced during phenylephrine-induced blood pressure elevation but not during nitroglycerin-induced hypotension in the hypertensives, and that the blunted response of sympathetic nerve activity occurring during hypertension in these hypertensive patients may underlie the maintenance of high blood pressure in essential hypertension.
Several persistent organic pollutants are reported to be potentially associated with the risk of human diabetes that has become rapidly epidemic in China currently. 2,2',3,3',4,4',5,5',6,6'-decabromodiphenyl ether (BDE209) is commercially most important both in the production and in the use of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). It might bioaccumulate in wildlife and human and is the only PBDEs mixture still used today. In the present study, male adult rats treated with BDE209 (0, 0.05, 1, and 20 mg/kg) for 8 weeks were used to explore the effects of BDE209 on glucose homeostasis and possible mechanisms; 0.05 mg/kg of BDE209 induced dose-related hyperglycemia. Then, we performed the full-genome gene expression microarrays, gene ontology analysis, and pathway analysis in this group and control. BDE209 induced 1,257 liver gene transcript changes, and 18 canonical pathways were significantly enriched. Four of them were involved in immune diseases, including autoimmune thyroid disease, graft-versus-host disease, allograft rejection, and type I diabetes mellitus (T1MD), which was confirmed by the decrease in serum insulin. Subsequently, gene act network and gene co-expression network found that some MHC molecules and TNF-α were involved in T1DM pathway, which was then confirmed by the increase in serum TNF-α. Additionally, reduced glutathione and superoxide dismutase in plasma indicated that oxidative damage might partly contribute to BDE209-induced hyperglycemia. The results of this study provide some new experimental evidence that the exposure to high levels of BDE209 may contribute to the onset of diabetes in human populations. Further work needs to be done to confirm this link.
