A 9-month-old infant experienced severe chloramphenicol toxicity associated with high serum levels (313 micrograms/ml). Cardiovascular collapse with cardiomyopathic changes and impaired left ventricular function was documented by echocardiography. Serial echocardiographic evaluation showed resolution of the cardiomyopathic findings as the chloramphenicol levels were spontaneously cleared. Clinical course was complicated by the development of liver disease and coagulopathy compatible with disseminated intravascular consumption. Patient's recovery was complete and uneventful, nevertheless, chloramphenicol toxicity in childhood is associated with a significant mortality rate of 40%. The related impaired cardiac function, although reversible, appears to play a major role in the pathogenesis and eventual outcome in this syndrome.
Vasoplegia is a frequent complication after cardiopulmonary bypass that often requires the application of norepinephrine. In a number of cases, however, vasoplegia is refractory to norepinephrine. The guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue could be an attractive treatment alternative in such cases. This study examines the results of methylene blue therapy for norepinephrine-refractory vasoplegia after cardiopulmonary bypass.
A total of 54 patients with norepinephrine-refractory vasoplegia after cardiopulmonary bypass were treated with methylene blue (2 mg/kg) administered intravenously through a period of 20 minutes. The effects on hemodynamics, norepinephrine dosage, and clinical outcome were evaluated.
Three patients (5.6%) died during the hospital stay. A clinically relevant increase in systemic vascular resistance and a decrease in norepinephrine dosage were observed in 51 patients within 1 hour after methylene blue infusion. Four patients (7.4%) had no response to methylene blue. No adverse effects related to methylene blue were observed.
A single dose of methylene blue seems to be a potent approach to norepinephrine-refractory vasoplegia after cardiopulmonary bypass for most patients, with no obvious side effects. Guanylate cyclase inhibitors could be a novel class of agents for the treatment of norepinephrine-refractory vasoplegia after cardiopulmonary bypass. A controlled clinical trial is now needed to evaluate the role of methylene blue in this situation.
In a double-blind, randomized, placebo cross-controlled trial the effectiveness and the adverse effects of two types of buccal tablets containing 5 mg nitroglycerin: Polnitrin produced by Warsaw Pharmaceutical Works POLFA and its analogue of foreign origin, were assessed. The third compared preparation was sublingual nitroglycerin in 0.5 mg tablets. The longest dissolution in the buccal cavity showed Polnitrin (mean 6.6 hours). Polnitrin significantly increased the resting heart rate during 3 hours, and during 6 hours at maximal effort. The foreign analogue decreased significantly the systolic pressure during 3 hours after application. No significant differences were noted in the effects on the basic haemodynamic parameters between the compared buccal tablets. Exercise tolerance and coronary reserve were assessed with repeated exercise tests on moving track (Marquette Case-12). Immediately after being stuck to the gum Polnitrin, its analogue and sublingual nitroglycerin significantly prolonged the marching time: total, till pain, and till ischaemia. After 6 hours the marching time till pain appearance was significantly longer after Polnitrin than after placebo or its analogue. Local adverse effects connected with the presence of the tablet in the oral vestibule may hamper the treatment with Polnitrin in some cases. The most frequent side effect were headaches which are known to occur usually after all nitrates.
To determine the relevant dose of bendrofluazide for treating mild to moderate hypertension.
Double blind parallel group trial of patients who were given placebo for six weeks and then randomly allocated to various doses of bendrofluazide (1.25, 2.5, 5, or 10 mg daily) or placebo for 12 weeks.
General practices in Zealand, Denmark.
257 Patients with newly diagnosed or previously treated hypertension, aged 25-70, who had a mean diastolic blood pressure of 100-120 mm Hg after receiving placebo for six weeks.
Reduction in diastolic blood pressure and changes in biochemical variables (potassium, urate, glucose, fructosamine, total cholesterol, apolipoprotein A I, apolipoprotein B, and triglyceride concentrations).
All doses of bendrofluazide significantly reduced diastolic blood pressure to the same degree (10-11 mm Hg). Clear relations between dose and effect were shown for potassium, urate, glucose, total cholesterol, and apolipoprotein B concentrations. The 1.25 mg dose increased only urate concentrations, whereas the 10 mg dose affected all the above biochemical variables.
The relevant range of doses of bendrofluazide to treat mild to moderate hypertension is 1.25-2.5 mg a day. Higher doses caused more pronounced adverse biochemical effects including adverse lipid effects. Previous trials with bendrofluazide have used too high doses.
Metformin treatment increases circulating homocysteine levels. We studied whether administration of folate reduces serum total homocysteine levels in patients on long-term metformin treatment.
A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study lasting for 12 weeks and taking place in a university hospital setting.
Thirty patients treated with a metformin dose of at least 1000 mg day-1 for a minimum of 1 year were included. At baseline serum total homocysteine levels were within the reference range. One patient who withdrew and one who died were excluded from the statistical evaluation. Twenty-six of the remaining patients suffered from NIDDM, the other two from hyperlipidaemia.
Patients were randomized into two groups at week 0. The folate group received 0.25 mg day-1 of folate in addition to 60 mg day-1 of Fe2+, while the placebo group received only 60 mg day-1 of Fe2+.
Fasting homocysteine, cysteine, cysteinylglycine, vitamin B12 and folate were measured at week 0, 4 and 12. Changes from week 0 to week 4 and from week 0 to week 12 were calculated.
Folate administration reduced serum levels of total homocysteine in the folate group as compared with the placebo group by 13.9% (P < 0.01) and 21.7% (P < 0.001) at week 4 and 12, respectively. In the folate group versus the placebo group serum levels of vitamin B12 increased by 9.9% (P = 0.010) and 9.6% (P = 0.043) while folate levels increased by 96.9 and 89.9% at week 4 and 12, respectively.
The present study indicates that the homocysteine-increasing effect of metformin can be counteracted by folate administration.
Periodic limb movement disorder (PLMD) and restless legs syndrome (RLS) are related sleep disorders that occur with increased frequency in spinal cord disease. Effective treatment may be obtained with dopaminergic or opioid drugs, while anticonvulsants, benzodiazepines, and possibly baclofen may be helpful. This report describes a patient who developed RLS and PLMD after acute transverse myelitis associated with infectious mononucleosis, and failed to respond to intrathecal baclofen. All symptoms of RLS/PLMD resolved after treatment with pergolide.
Iodide organification defects are frequently but not always associated with mutations in the thyroid peroxidase (TPO) gene and characterized by a positive perchlorate discharge test. These mutations phenotypically produce a congenital goitrous hypothyroidism, with an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance.
In the present study we extended our initial molecular studies in six unrelated patients heterozygous for the TPO mutations, in order to identify the second mutation in this autosomal recessive disease.
The promoter and the complete coding regions of the human TPO and DUOXA2 genes, along with the flanking regions of each intron were analysed by direct DNA sequencing.
Four different inactivating TPO mutations were identified in two patients: two novel mutations (c.215delA [p.Q72fsX86] and c.1159G-->A [p.G387R]) and two previously reported (c.387delC [p.N129fsX208] and c.2422T-->C [p.C808R]), confirming the inheritance of two different compound heterozygous mutations, c.215delA/c.2422T-->C and c.387delC/c.1159G-->A. The remaining four patients did not show additional inactivating mutations in the TPO gene and all had only the wild type sequencing in the DUOXA2 gene.
We have reported two patients with iodide organification defect caused by two compound heterozygous mutations, c.215delA/c.2422T-->C [p.Q72fsX86/p.C808R] and c.387delC/c.1159G-->A [p.N129fsX208/p.G387R], in the TPO gene and four patients with monoallelic TPO defect. Identification of the molecular basis of this disorder might be helpful for understanding the pathophysiology of congenital hypothyroidism.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) mediates alterations in hepatic lipid composition elicited by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). In order to further investigate the effects of TCDD, liver, serum, and gonadal white adipose tissue (gWAT) fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) and lipids were examined in fasted 4-week-old female mice orally gavaged with 30 µg/kg TCDD at 24, 72, and 168 h postdose. Mean hepatic FAME levels increased (236.7 µmol/g in controls compared with 392.2 µmol/g in TCDD treated) with minimal changes in gWAT and serum. In the liver, TCDD decreased saturated fatty acids (SFAs 16:0, 18:0, 20:0, and 22:0) and increased monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs 16:1n7, 18:1n9, and 20:1n9). Hepatic polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) 20:2n6, 20:3n6, 18:3n3, and 22:5n3 also increased, whereas 20:4n6 and 22:6n3 levels decreased. gWAT PUFAs 20:2n6 and 20:3n6 exhibited modest increases, whereas serum 18:0 decreased and 18:1n9 increased. Serum analyses also identified a ~25% decrease in total cholesterol (CHOL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and high-density lipoprotein following TCDD treatment. The decrease in serum CHOL was consistent with the induction of hepatic reverse CHOL transport genes Lcat (2.0-fold), Apoa1 (1.7-fold), and Ldlr (3.6-fold), and the repression of CHOL biosynthesis genes Hmgcs1 (-2.1-fold) and Hmgcr (-2.3-fold). In addition, TCDD decreased serum Apob100 (4.4-fold) and Apob48 (2.2-fold) protein levels, suggesting serum lipid clearance and decreased hepatic efflux. Collectively, the TCDD-elicited decreases in serum lipid levels are consistent with AhR-mediated enhancement of dietary fat distribution to the liver.
Recently, a genome-wide association study (GWAS) conducted in Korean subjects identified four CTNNA3 (alpha-T catenin) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) (rs10762058, rs7088181, rs1786929, and rs4378283) associated with diisocyanate-induced occupational asthma (DA). The CTNNA3 gene codes for a cadherin involved in formation of stretch-resistant cell-cell adhesions. We conducted a candidate gene association study to replicate these findings in Caucasian workers. Genotyping was performed on DNA using a 5' nuclease PCR assay collected from 410 diisocyanate-exposed and predominantly Canadian workers including 132 workers with DA confirmed by a specific inhalation challenge (DA+); 131 symptomatic workers in whom DA was excluded by a negative challenge (DA-); and 147 hexamethylene diisocyanate-exposed asymptomatic workers (AWs). As in the Korean study, highly linked CTNNA3 rs7088181 and rs10762058 SNPs (but not rs4378283 and rs1786929) were significantly associated with DA+ when compared with AWs but not in comparison with DA- workers (p ≤ 0.05). After adjusting for potentially confounding variables of age, smoking status, and duration of exposure, minor allele homozygotes of rs7088181 and rs10762058 SNPs were at increased risk for DA compared with AWs (OR = 9.05 [95% CI: 1.69, 48.54] and OR = 6.82 [95% CI: 1.65, 28.24], respectively). In conclusion, we replicated results from the only reported GWAS study of DA demonstrating an association between two closely linked CTNNA3 gene SNPs and DA. These findings lend further support to the clinical relevance of these genotypes in predicting susceptibility to DA and the potential importance of catenins in the disease process.
To study the effects of preoperative phenoxybenzamine (o.p) on preventing epidural-morphine-induced urinary retention and effects of neostigmine on releasing it.
80 patients who received epidural morphine to release postoperative pain were divided into 4 groups randomly and received preoperative phenoxybenzamine (group P, n = 20), neostigmine (i. m) when urinary retention happened (group N, n = 20), both drugs (group U, n = 20), and without drugs (Control, n = 20), respectively. The incidences of urinary retention and release were observed.
No significant decrease (P > 0.05) happened after operation in the incidence of epidural-morphine-induced urinary retention both in the group P and in the group N. Neostigmine(i. m) could significantly release (P < 0.001) the epidural-morphine-induced urinary retention when phenoxybenzamine was administrated preoperatively.
Preoperative phenoxybenzamine can not prevent epidural-morphine-induced urinary retention. Neostigmine can release the urinary retention only when preoperative phenoxybenzamine is used.
Erythrocyte-encapsulated thymidine phosphorylase (EE-TP) is currently under development as an enzyme replacement therapy for mitochondrial neurogastrointestinal encephalomyopathy (MNGIE), an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency of thymidine phosphorylase. The rationale for the development of EE-TP is based on the pathologically elevated metabolites (thymidine and deoxyuridine) being able to freely diffuse across the erythrocyte membrane where the encapsulated enzyme catalyses their metabolism to the normal products. The systemic toxic potential of EE-TP was assessed when administered intermittently by iv bolus injection to BALB/c mice and Beagle dogs for 4 weeks. The studies consisted of one control group receiving sham-loaded erythrocytes twice weekly and two treated groups, one dosed once every 2 weeks and the other dosed twice per week. The administration of EE-TP to BALB/c mice resulted in thrombi/emboli in the lungs and spleen enlargement. These findings were also seen in the control group, and there was no relationship to the number of doses administered. In the dog, transient clinical signs were associated with EE-TP administration, suggestive of an immune-based reaction. Specific antithymidine phosphorylase antibodies were detected in two dogs and in a greater proportion of mice treated once every 2 weeks. Nonspecific antibodies were detected in all EE-TP-treated animals. In conclusion, these studies do not reveal serious toxicities that would preclude a clinical trial of EE-TP in patients with MNGIE, but caution should be taken for infusion-related reactions that may be related to the production of nonspecific antibodies or a cell-based immune response.
To determine whether bupropion overdose has been associated with cardiovascular toxicity.
MEDLINE (1966-January 2002), EMBASE (1980-January 2002), Current Contents (January 2002), and PubMed (January 2002) databases for English-language human reports. Search terms included bupropion, overdose (drug), intoxication, poisoning, and acute ingestion.
Articles describing toxicity following bupropion overdose were evaluated independently by both authors to identify cases of cardiotoxicity.
Thirteen articles describing bupropion overdose in 116 patients were identified. Only 3 patients exhibited cardiotoxicity following acute ingestion; 2 of these patients also ingested other medications. All 3 patients experienced tachycardia and conduction delays (widened QRS complex and/or prolonged QTc interval), but none of these delays progressed to a life-threatening arrhythmia. All patients recovered, with resolution of cardiotoxicity within 2-4 days following ingestion.
We recommend that all patients with an overdose of bupropion should have an electrocardiogram performed on admission and should be monitored for the development of conduction delays and/or life-threatening arrhythmias.
We describe a 41-year old man with obsessive-compulsive neurosis who developed acute renal failure (ARF) due to acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) during 6 weeks of treatment with clomipramine hydrochloride (CPH). He had a slight fever, mild arthralgia, appetite loss, and diarrhea after taking CPH. On admission, he showed serum creatinine (sCr) of 7.31 mg/dl, and creatinine clearance (Ccr) of 2.5 ml/min. He subsequently became anuric and required hemodialysis. Renal biopsy revealed AIN with diffuse mononuclear cell infiltration. After the withdrawal of CPH and treatment with prednisolone (PSL) 0.5 mg/kg per day, his urinary output improved, along with improvement of his renal function; therefore hemodialysis was finally discontinued. To our knowledge, this is the first case report of AIN induced by clomipramine.
The temporal bones of a patient who suffered sudden deafness and ataxia after administration of both furosemide and ethacrynic acid, were prepared for light and electron microscopy. There was no loss of hair or supporting cells. However, some hair cells, in both the vestibular neuroepithelium and the organ of Corti, particularly in the basal turn, were more densely staining and more granular than normal. Membrane whorls also were common within mitochondria of such cells. The endoplasmic reticulum of some spiral ganglion cells was dilated. The major cytologic changes were found in the stria vascularis of the cochlea and dark cell areas of the vestibular system. There was marked dilatation of the intercellular fluid spaces, consistent with the biochemical observation that loop diuretics interfere first with enzyme systems responsible for fluid transport within the inner ear.
Mevalonic aciduria is a rare, inborn error of isoprene biosynthesis characterized by severe, periodic attacks of fever and inflammation, developmental delay, ataxia, and dysmorphic features. This autosomal recessive disease is caused by a mutation in the mevalonate kinase gene that severely reduces mevalonate kinase activity. A 3-year-old boy with mevalonic aciduria whose condition had failed to improve with antiinflammatory treatment underwent allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from an HLA-identical sister who was a heterozygous carrier of the mutant gene. We observed sustained remission of febrile attacks and inflammation during a 15-month follow-up period.
Inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme may rarely cause an angioneurotic oedema of the upper aerodigestive tract. The pathomechanism of this side effect depends on an interaction of the drug with hormones regulating the vascular resistance such as the kallikrein kinin system and the prostaglandin system. Anglo-oedema is characterised by subcutaneous or submucosal swelling, which preferably affects the lips, the soft palate, the tongue and the larynx. Pathomechanisms, differential diagnosis and treatment of ACE-inhibitor induced oedema of the upper aerodigestive tract are described by means of 3 case reports.
Patients with pain after operation received morphine hydrochloride intrathecally in doses of 0.02 mg kg-1 (n = 30) and 0.2 mg kg-1 (n = 30). The high-dose group showed slightly longer-lasting and more potent analgesia than the low-dose group. Sedation, decreases in heart rate and systolic arterial pressure, oliguria, nausea and urinary retention were more frequent in the high-dose group. Two patients of the high-dose group showed evidence of respiratory depression which appeared after a late change in posture (7 and 11 h). We conclude that postoperative analgesia with intrathecal morphine 0.02 mg kg-1 must be followed by a prolonged head-up posture and be performed in hospital units where the treatment of respiratory depression is competent.
Erythema gyratum repens is a rare, clinically specific, and distinctive paraneoplastic syndrome.
A case of erythema gyratum repens in a 76-year-old woman with autoimmune hepatitis type I treated with glucocorticoids is reported. Within 3 weeks of supplementary azathioprine treatment, the patient reported gastrointestinal discomfort and developed an erythema gyratum repens confined to the abdomen, thighs and knees. Azathioprine medication was stopped and the dermatologic features resolved completely after a period of 1 week. Absence of any demonstrable underlying malignancy was confirmed by different tests. Molecular diagnosis detected heterozygous G460A and A719G transitions in the thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) gene. 18 month later, complete remission on maintenance therapy (prednisone 7.5 mg) was observed with further absence of malignancy.
This is the first report of an erythema gyratum repens in association with azathioprine treatment in an autoimmune hepatitis type I patient with proven common polymorphism in the TPMT gene.
The safety and tolerability of lisinopril (1.25-160 mg daily) were assessed in 3,270 patients (2,688 hypertensives and 582 patients with congestive heart failure (CHF] and 280 healthy subjects. The duration of therapy ranged from a single dose to 43 months; 438 patients received lisinopril for at least 12 months (mean 20 months). In the hypertensive population, the most frequent adverse events reported were headache, dizziness, cough, nausea, diarrhoea and fatigue, although not all of these events were thought to be related to lisinopril; 6.1% discontinued lisinopril due to adverse clinical events, most commonly cough and nausea. Twelve hypertensive patients died (0.45%), but most of these were not receiving lisinopril at the time of death and none was considered to be drug-related. In CHF patients, the most frequently reported adverse events were dizziness, dyspnoea, diarrhoea, hypotension and fatigue. Again, not all of these reports were considered to be drug-related. Therapy was withdrawn in 9.6% of patients--hypotension, dizziness, diarrhoea and rash being the most frequent reasons. Fifty-three CHF patients died (9.1%) and in three cases death was considered to be related to lisinopril therapy. Hypotension, orthostatic effects or dizziness following the initial dose of lisinopril occurred infrequently (in 1.3% of the hypertensive group, including those receiving hydrochlorothiazide, and in 4.8% of CHF patients). Changes in laboratory parameters were generally minor and seldom resulted in discontinuation of therapy. Long-term treatment of hypertension and CHF with lisinopril for at least 3 years confirms that the drug is well tolerated. Overall, the side-effect profile is very similar to that of other ACE inhibitors with regard to class-specific effects. However, taste disturbance was rarely observed.
Glycemic control decreases the incidence and progression of diabetic complications but increases the incidence of hypoglycemia. Hypoglycemia can impair hormonal and autonomic responses to subsequent hypoglycemia. Intensive glycemic control may increase mortality in individuals with type 2 diabetes at high risk for cardiovascular complications. We tested the hypothesis that prior exposure to hypoglycemia leads to impaired cardiovascular autonomic function.
Twenty healthy subjects (age 28 +/- 2 years; 10 men) participated in two 3-day inpatient visits, separated by 1-3 months. Autonomic testing was performed on days 1 and 3 to measure sympathetic, parasympathetic, and baroreflex function. A 2-h hyperinsulinemic [hypoglycemic (2.8 mmol/l) or euglycemic (5.0 mmol/l)] clamp was performed in the morning and in the afternoon of day 2.
Comparison of the day 3 autonomic measurements demonstrated that antecedent hypoglycemia leads to 1) reduced baroreflex sensitivity (16.7 +/- 1.8 vs. 13.8 +/- 1.4 ms/mmHg, P = 0.03); 2) decreased muscle sympathetic nerve activity response to transient nitroprusside-induced hypotension (53.3 +/- 3.7 vs. 40.1 +/- 2.7 bursts/min, P < 0.01); and 3) reduced (P < 0.001) plasma norepinephrine response to lower body negative pressure (3.0 +/- 0.3 vs. 2.0 +/- 0.2 nmol/l at -40 mmHg).
Baroreflex sensitivity and the sympathetic response to hypotensive stress are attenuated after antecedent hypoglycemia. Because impaired autonomic function, including decreased cardiac vagal baroreflex sensitivity, may contribute directly to mortality in diabetes and cardiovascular disease, our findings raise new concerns regarding the consequences of hypoglycemia.
Established essential hypertension is characterised haemodynamically by a normal cardiac output and elevated total peripheral resistance. As hypertensive cardiovascular disease progresses, and the patient grows older, cardiac output falls and total peripheral resistance is further elevated. The activity of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone (RAA) system declines throughout life and reaches its lowest levels in the elderly, unless there is congestive heart failure. In long-standing hypertension, target organ disease such as left ventricular hypertrophy, nephrosclerosis and cerebrovascular damage is commonly observed. Rational antihypertensive therapy should therefore aim to lower total peripheral resistance, spare cardiac output, and maintain or improve blood flow to target organs. ACE inhibitors lower arterial pressure by decreasing total peripheral resistance, they maintain or improve cardiac contractility, promote regression of left ventricular hypertrophy, and increase renal blood flow. Lisinopril is a novel ACE inhibitor that does not contain a sulphydryl group. It is not a prodrug and thus does not require bioactivation by the liver. Lisinopril has a long duration of action, allowing it to be used as a single daily dose in the treatment of hypertension. Preliminary studies from our laboratory indicate that lisinopril reduces cardiac output and preload to the left ventricle. Lisinopril also reduces left ventricular hypertrophy and lowers renal vascular resistance, thereby increasing renal blood flow. In patients with mild to moderate hypertension, lisinopril is more effective than hydrochlorothiazide in reducing both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and is at least as effective as atenolol or metoprolol in reducing diastolic blood pressure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We examined whether capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons might be involved in the increase in the gastric tissue level of prostaglandins, thereby contributing to the reduction of water immersion restraint stress (WIR)-induced gastric mucosal injury in rats. Gastric tissue levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), 6-keto-PGF1alpha, and PGE2 were transiently increased 30 min after WIR. These increases were significantly inhibited by subcutaneous injection of capsazepine (CPZ), a vanilloid receptor antagonist, and by functional denervation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons induced by the administration of high-dose capsaicin. The administration of capsaicin (orally) and CGRP (intravenously) significantly enhanced the WIR-induced increases in the gastric tissue level of prostaglandins 30 min after WIR, whereas CGRP-(8-37), a CGRP receptor antagonist, significantly inhibited them. Pretreatment with Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a nonselective inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS), and that with indomethacin inhibited the WIR-induced increases in gastric tissue levels of prostaglandins, whereas either pretreatment with aminoguanidine (AG), a selective inhibitor of the inducible form of NOS, or that with NS-398, a selective inhibitor of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, did not affect them. CPZ, the functional denervation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons, and CGRP-(8-37) significantly increased gastric MPO activity and exacerbated the WIR-induced gastric mucosal injury in rats subjected to 4-h WIR. The administration of capsaicin and CGRP significantly increased the gastric tissue levels of prostaglandins and inhibited both the WIR-induced increases in gastric MPO activity and gastric mucosal injury 8 h after WIR. These effects induced by capsaicin and CGRP were inhibited by pretreatment with L-NAME and indomethacin but not by pretreatment with AG and NS-398. These observations strongly suggest that capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons might release CGRP, thereby increasing the gastric tissue levels of PGI2 and PGE2 by activating COX-1 through activation of the constitutive form of NOS in rats subjected to WIR. Such activation of capsaicin-sensitive sensory neurons might contribute to the reduction of WIR-induced gastric mucosal injury mainly by inhibiting neutrophil activation.
Midodrine is a potent and selective alpha1-receptor agonist and its potential to increase urethral closure pressure could be useful in the treatment of female stress incontinence. The aim of this randomized double-blind placebo-controlled multicenter study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of midodrine for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. The primary criterion of efficacy was the maximum urethral closure pressure at rest. Voiding diaries, symptom and incontinence questionnaires and patient/investigator global assessment were also used to evaluate its efficacy. After 4 weeks of treatment no significant changes in MUCP were found. The global assessment by the patient and investigator did indicate that patients on active treatment had a more positive assessment than the placebo group. In conclusion, midodrine did not cause significant improvements in urodynamic parameters, but there were subjective improvements in some of the patients in the treated groups. Furthermore midodrine was well tolerated.
Adipose tissue (AT)-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) (AT-MSC) represent a novel tool for delivering therapeutic genes to tumor cells. Interferon (IFN)-β is a cytokine with pleiotropic cellular functions, including anti-proliferative, immunomodulatory and anti-angiogenic activities. The purpose of this study was to engineer canine AT-MSC (cAT-MSC) producing IFN-β and to evaluate the anti-tumor effect of cAT-MSC-IFN-β combined with cisplatin in mouse melanoma model.
cAT-MSC engineered to express mouse IFN-β were generated using a lentiviral vector (cAT-MSC-IFN-β) and the secreted IFN-β-induced inhibition of tumor cell growth and apoptosis on B16F10 cells was investigated in vitro prior to in vivo studies. Melanoma-bearing mouse was developed by injecting B16F10 cells subcutaneously into 6-week-old C57BL/6 mice. After 14 days, cisplatin (10 mg/kg) was injected intratumorally, and 3 days later the engineered cAT-MSC were injected subcutaneously every 3 days to death. Tumor volume and survival times were measured.
The combination treatment of cAT-MSC-IFN-β with cisplatin was more effective in inhibiting the growth of melanoma and resulted in significantly extended survival time than both an unengineered cAT-MSC-cisplatin combination group and a cisplatin-alone group. Interestingly, subcutaneously injected cAT-MSC-IFN-β were migrated to tumor sites.
Our data suggest that canine AT-MSC could serve as a powerful cell-based delivery vehicle for releasing therapeutic proteins to tumor lesions. Maximal anti-tumor effects were seen when this therapy was combined with a DNA-damaging chemotherapeutic agent. This study demonstrates the possible applicability of AT-MSC-mediated IFN-β in treating canine and human cancer patients.
Although cisplatin attacks various tumors with remarkable efficacy, its clinical usage has been limited by its side effects, particularly nephrotoxicity. Salubrinal, a selective eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 subunit α (eIF2α) dephosphorylation inhibitor, has been found to protect cells from endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress-induced cytotoxicity. In this study, we hypothesized that salubrinal would protect against cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in a mouse model. Cisplatin treatment significantly increased serum blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels, renal kidney injury marker (kim-1) mRNA expression, renal cell apoptosis, and renal histopathological changes in mice. Unexpectedly, administration of salubrinal significantly enhanced the cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in mice. Salubrinal by itself did not induce alterations in the function or histomorphology of mouse kidneys. Salubrinal significantly enhanced the phosphorylation of eIF2α, the protein expression of activating transcription factor 4 and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein homologous protein, and the cleavage of caspases 12, 9, and 3 in the kidneys of cisplatin-treated mice. Moreover, salubrinal enhanced the cisplatin-induced oxidative stress in the kidneys. The antioxidant N-acetylcysteine significantly reversed the increased renal lipid peroxidation, activated renal caspase cascade, and increased blood BUN and creatinine in cisplatin-alone- or cisplatin plus salubrinal-treated mice. These findings suggest that salubrinal aggravates cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity through the enhancement of oxidative stress and ER stress-related cell apoptosis.
Four patients developed apnoea after epidural administration of 50 micrograms of sufentanil. In three of these patients apnoea occurred within two minutes after administration. In all cases catheter position was verified to be in the epidural space. It is possible that accumulation plays a causative role in some of those cases in which the drug is given on demand. Because sufentanil-induced apnoea may occur fast and unexpected it is advised that patients should be kept under close supervision for at least two hours following administration.
