Human, animal and cell models support a role for pesticides in the etiology of Parkinson disease. Susceptibility to pesticides may be modified by genetic variants of xenobiotic enzymes, such as paraoxonase, that play a role in metabolizing some organophosphates.
We examined associations between Parkinson disease and the organophosphates diazinon, chlorpyrifos, and parathion, and the influence of a functional polymorphism at position 55 in the coding region of the PON1 gene (PON1-55). From 1 January 2001 through 1 January 2008, we recruited 351 incident cases and 363 controls from 3 rural California counties in a population-based case-control study. Participants provided a DNA sample, and residential exposure to organophosphates was determined from pesticide usage reports and a geographic information system (GIS) approach. We assessed the main effects of both genes and pesticides in unconditional logistic regression analyses, and evaluated the effect of carrying a PON1-55 MM variant on estimates of effects for diazinon, chlorpyrifos, and parathion exposures.
Carriers of the variant MM PON1-55 genotype exposed to organophosphates exhibited a greater than 2-fold increase in Parkinson disease risk compared with persons who had the wildtype or heterozygous genotype and no exposure (for diazinon, odds ratio = 2.2 [95% confidence interval = 1.1-4.5]; for chlorpyrifos, 2.6 [1.3-5.4]). The effect estimate for chlorpyrifos, was more pronounced in younger-onset cases and controls (<or=60 years) (5.3 [1.7-16]). No increase in risk was noted for parathion.
The increase in risk we observed among PON1-55 variant carriers for specific organophosphates metabolized by PON1 underscores the importance of considering susceptibility factors when studying environmental exposures in Parkinson disease.
Two patients developed prolonged and progressive jaundice associated with ketoconazole-induced hepatic injury although the drug was discontinued before or shortly after the onset of symptoms of hepatic toxicity. One patient, who had been jaundiced for eight weeks and was not improving, showed prompt clinical improvement and progressive resolution of jaundice following therapy with prednisolone. Liver biopsy before therapy showed marked cholestasis in all acinar zones and moderately severe fibrosis in the space of Disse. The other patient, who was less severely jaundiced, showed spontaneous resolution although he remained jaundiced for 11 weeks. Liver biopsy performed three weeks after onset of symptoms showed a moderate degree of cholestasis in acinar zone 3 and collagen deposition about the terminal hepatic venules and within the space of Disse. These cases are reported because of the unique clinical course, documentation of the morphologic features, and experience with corticosteroid therapy.
Two patients had many acute episodes of biliary pain with elevated liver function tests 12-48 h after the last ingestion of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (including paracetamol) alone or in combination with codeine. One had known intolerance to NSAIDs, but paracetamol had not been previously incriminated in the pathogenesis of the attacks. In this patient the combined use of paracetamol and codeine probably also increased the severity of the episodes. We conclude that in some patients in whom endoscopic cholangiography is normal, biliary pain and abnormal liver function tests could be the result of NSAIDs. A thorough drug history is required in such cases.
Diethylnitrosamine (DEN), at a concentration of 100 parts/10(6) in drinking water for 14 days, caused the development, by 48 weeks, of very few liver tumours in 5 of 18 (27%) male F=344 rats fed control diet. When the DEN treatment was followed one week later by continuous feeding of the hypolipidemic hepatic peroxisome proliferator, Wy-14,643, at 0.1% dietary level, all of 28 rats (100%) developed, between 38 and 48 weeks, a significantly higher number of liver tumours. Furthermore, laparotomy at 22 weeks revealed that several rats fed Wy-14,643 after DEN initiation had developed visible liver nodules, suggesting that Wy-14,643 also accelerates the appearance of these tumours. Administration of another peroxisome proliferator, clofibrate, at 0.5% level in the diet after DEN initiation, also caused a substantial enhancement of liver tumorigenesis. The enhancement of liver-tumour development by clofibrate, however, was less than that by Wy-14,643. The marked enhancing effect of Wy-14,643 may be due to its profound hepatomegalic and peroxisome proliferative properties.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is a critical determinant of beta-cell insulin secretion in response to glucose. BHE/cdb rats have a mutation in ATP synthase that limits ATP production, yet develop mild diabetes only with ageing. We investigated the cellular basis for reduced insulin secretion and compensatory mechanisms that mitigate the effects of the ATP synthase mutation.
In vitro beta-cell function in isolated islets and expression of key regulatory genes was compared with in vivo oral glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity in BHE/cdb and control rats.
BHE/cdb rat islets had reduced responsiveness to glucose stimulation and ATP content was 35% lower than in control islets. Oral glucose tolerance was impaired at both 21 and 43 weeks of age because of a reduction in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS). An increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase (INOS, 3-fold) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD, 1.6-fold), detection of nitrotyrosine, beta-cell apoptosis, and nucleocytoplasmic translocation of pancreas duodenum homeobox-1 (PDX-1) in beta-cells indicated increased oxygen radical formation. However, BHE/cdb rats partially compensated for low glucose responsiveness by increasing the number of small islets and beta-cell hypertrophy. There was also an increase in the proportion of mature insulin relative to proinsulin (PI) detected within beta-cell granules. Increased activation of AMP-dependent kinase (AMPK)-regulated pathways was consistent with increased oxidative stress and with induction of apoptosis and reduction of preproinsulin gene transcription.
The findings are consistent with impaired but partially compensated mechanisms of insulin secretion early in life, but progressive non-compensated impairments due to oxidative stress occurs by age 43 weeks.
Ichnocarpus frutescence (L.) R.Br. is an evergreen plant and many preparations have been used in traditional Indian medicine for centuries to treat several illnesses including diabetes. However, scientific evidence supporting these actions is lacking. In the present study we prepared various extracts of I. frutescence (IF) leaves which were tested against streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. IF leaf methanolic extract (IFLMExt) showed significant plasma glucose lowering effect. Therefore, we prepared IFLMExt, which was tested against different types of glycemia (normal, glucose-fed hyperglycemic and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats) for their potential to induce insulin secretion and cellular insulin responses. Fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels were determined at different doses and times following treatment with IFLMExt or with vehicle in normal, glucose fed-hyperglycemic and diabetic rats. Oral administration of IFLMExt led to a significant blood glucose-lowering effect in glucose-fed hyperglycemic and diabetic rats. The hypoglycemic effect was observed at doses of 100 and 200 mg/(kg bw) after 6 and 2 h administration, respectively, in glucose-fed hyperglycemic rats. The maximum effect of IFLMExt was detected at 2 h with 200 mg/(kg bw) in diabetic animals and this profile was maintained for the next 6 h (37.23%) but increased after that at 24 h. Oral administration of IFLMExt daily for 45 days to diabetic rats significantly reduced the FPG (54.5%) to near normal. After 7 days of streptozotocin administration plasma insulin decreased in diabetic controls compared to normal controls. Treatment with IFLMExt significantly prevented the decrease in plasma insulin levels from day 0 to 45 in comparison to diabetic controls. Oral administration of n-hexane fraction led to a significant glucose-lowering effect in diabetic rats (54.50%). Histopathological examination showed that IFLMExt extract protected the pancreatic tissue from streptozotocin-induced damage enormously. Oral administration of IFLMExt extract and n-hexane fraction to normal and streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats decreased plasma glucose levels without hypoglycemic effect. The results suggest that methanolic extract and n-hexane fraction of IF may provide new therapeutic avenues against diabetes.
The synthesis of (+/-)-2-(3'-tert-butylamino-2'-hydroxypropylthio)-4-(5'-carbamoyl-2'-thienyl)thiazole hydrochloride is described. The new compound antagonized the cardiovascular effects, such as positive chronotropic, positive inotropic, or depressor arterial blood pressure responses, elicited by intravenous isoproterenol; it was 9--14 times as potent as propranolol in anesthetized open chest dogs. The oral administration of the compound reduced isoproterenol tachycardia in conscious dogs. It was about five times as potent as propranolol in this test, with maximal action after 1 hr, and its duration was significantly longer than that of propranolol.
Aberrant DNA methylation participates in carcinogenesis and is a molecular hallmark of a tumor cell. Tumor cells generally exhibit a redistribution of DNA methylation resulting in global hypomethylation with regional hypermethylation; however, the speed in which these changes emerge has not been fully elucidated and may depend on the temporal location of the cell in the path from normal, finite lifespan to malignant transformation. We used a model of arsenical-induced malignant transformation of immortalized human urothelial cells and DNA methylation microarrays to examine the extent and temporal nature of changes in DNA methylation that occur during the transition from immortal to malignantly transformed. Our data presented herein suggest that during arsenical-induced malignant transformation, aberrant DNA methylation occurs non-randomly, progresses gradually at hundreds of gene promoters, and alters expression of the associated gene, and these changes are coincident with the acquisition of malignant properties, such as anchorage independent growth and tumor formation in immunocompromised mice. The DNA methylation changes appear stable, since malignantly transformed cells removed from the transforming arsenical exhibited no reversion in DNA methylation levels, associated gene expression, or malignant phenotype. These data suggest that arsenicals act as epimutagens and directly link their ability to induce malignant transformation to their actions on the epigenome.
2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) and related congeners affect the immune system, causing immunosuppression and thymic atrophy in a variety of animal species. TCDD is believed to exert its effects primarily through the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Although the AhR is found at high levels in both thymocytes and thymic stroma, it is uncertain in which cells TCDD is activating the AhR to cause alterations in the thymus. Some investigators have suggested that stromal elements, primarily epithelial cells, within the thymus are the primary targets for TCDD. Others have suggested that atrophy is due to a direct effect on thymocytes, either by apoptosis or by altering the development of progenitor cells. By producing chimeric mice with TCDD-responsive (AhR[+/+]) stromal components and TCDD-unresponsive (AhR[-/-]) hemopoietic components, or the reverse, we have clarified the role of stromal vs hemopoietic elements in TCDD-induced thymic alterations. Our results show that the targets for TCDD-induced thymic atrophy and phenotypic alterations are strictly in the hemopoietic compartment and that TCDD activation of epithelial cells in the stroma is not required for thymic alterations. Furthermore, changes observed in the putative stem cell populations of these chimeric mice are also dependent on TCDD activation of the AhR in hemopoietic elements.
Sex histories and serum samples were obtained from 27 hypertensive men before and after 3 months of therapy with either 100 mg of hydrochlorothiazide or 0.25 mg of reserpine daily. Sera were analyzed for testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, estradiol, luteinizing hormone and prolactin. Both drugs effectively lowered pressure. The incidence of impaired sexual performance was low and insignificantly different in the two treatment groups. There were no significant changes in serum hormone concentrations as a result of drug therapy.
Obesity is one of the risk factors for liver fibrosis, in which plasma adiponectin, an adipocytokine, levels are decreased. Hepatic stellate cells play central roles in liver fibrosis. When they are activated, they undergo transformation to myofibroblast-like cells. Adiponectin suppresses the proliferation and migration of vascular smooth muscle cells, whose characteristics are similar to those of hepatic stellate cells. Adiponectin could have biological significances in liver fibrosis.
The role of adiponectin on liver fibrosis induced by the administration of carbon tetrachloride twice a week for 12 weeks was tested by using adiponectin-knockout mice and an adenovirus-mediated adiponectin-expression system. We also investigated the effect of adiponectin in activated hepatic stellate cells.
When mice were administered carbon tetrachloride (300 microL/kg body weight) twice a week for 12 weeks, knockout mice showed extensive liver fibrosis with an enhanced expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 and connective tissue growth factor compared with wild-type mice (P < 0.05). Injection of adenovirus producing adiponectin (AdADN) before carbon tetrachloride (1000 microL/kg body weight) treatment prevented liver fibrosis in wild-type mice (P < 0.001). Injection of AdADN at 6 weeks attenuated liver fibrosis even though carbon tetrachloride was given for an additional 6 weeks (total of 12 weeks). In cultured hepatic stellate cells, adiponectin suppressed platelet-derived growth factor-induced proliferation and migration and attenuated the effect of transforming growth factor-beta 1 on the gene expression of transforming growth factor-beta 1 and connective tissue growth factor and on nuclear translocation of Smad2.
The findings indicate that adiponectin attenuates liver fibrosis and could be a novel approach in its prevention.
The effect of dietary vitamin E on renal tissue damage and lipid peroxidation was investigated following treatment with ferric nitrilotriacetate (Fe-NTA) in rats. Almost 100% renal proximal tubular necrosis was observed in the vitamin E-deficient rats following Fe-NTA treatment (5 mgFe/kg body wt, ip) as early as 12 hr. In the vitamin E-supplemented rats, no injury was observed in the proximal convoluted (cortical) tubules, although some injury was seen in the medullary outer stripe (mostly pars recta of the proximal tubules) 24 hr after Fe-NTA treatment. The tissue lipid peroxidation was dose-dependently increased 1 hr after a single ip injection of Fe-NTA (1 to 10 mg Fe/kg body wt). Vitamin E-deficient animals had an increased tissue content of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance following Fe-NTA treatment, whereas vitamin E-supplemented animals showed suppressed lipid peroxidation. This study indicates that vitamin E provides some protection against the nephrotoxicity and associated lipid peroxidation induced by Fe-NTA.
Mitoxantrone, an immunosuppressant agent with potent anti-inflammatory activity, has been used to treat patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have worsening relapsing-remitting (RRMS) or secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) despite prior therapy with interferons or glatiramer acetate. From previous experience of treating cancer with mitoxantrone, it was expected that cardiotoxic effects and occasional malignancy would develop in some patients treated with this agent. From the earliest trials, reduction of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was seen in 2-3% of cases, and in some this effect may persist and less commonly there can be congestive heart failure and even death. There are also occasional reports of leukaemia developing in MS patients treated with this agent. Mitoxantrone has been shown to reduce relapses, the number of new lesions visualised on magnetic resonance imaging and stop or reduce the progression of the disease in many patients treated. The drug has found a place in MS therapy because in this progressing group of MS patients who are failing on the disease-modifying therapies with interferons or glatiramer acetate, trials have shown that mitoxantrone may arrest or even improve many patients. Recognising the risks, mitoxantrone therapy is a reasonable option for MS patients with RRMS and SPMS who are progressing despite current disease-modifying therapy.
The specific role of different immunosuppressive agents as risk factors for BK virus nephropathy (BKN) has not been well studied.
In this case-control study, we examined the association of tacrolimus (TAC), mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and prednisone with BKN in renal allograft recipients transplanted between 1997 and 2004 at our center who underwent biopsies for allograft dysfunction. Drug levels or doses were recorded during the 3 months before the index biopsy. Random effects logistic modeling was used for data analysis.
There were 33 cases with BKN, biopsied at 16.4+/-2.8 months and 66 matched controls with biopsies at 21.5+/-2.1 months posttransplant (P=0.16). After adjusting for sex, race, retransplant status, diabetes, donor source, and induction agent, TAC blood level was associated with increased risk of BKN (odds ratio [OR] 1.3, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02-1.7, P=0.03), whereas MMF dose was not (OR 1.0, 95% CI 0.99-1.0, P=0.2). Moreover, prednisone dose was also found to be a significant risk factor for BKN (OR 1.22, 95% CI 1.04-1.4, P=0.02).
The results of this study show that BKN is associated with TAC level and prednisone dose and not with MMF dose. This suggests that reducing TAC and prednisone dose and maintaining MMF may be a more appropriate initial approach for the treatment of BKN. Further studies are needed to compare the efficacy and safety of this approach with the currently recommended one.
To compare the nutritional parameters of individuals with a previous diagnosis of coeliac disease (CD) with those of screen-detected patients in a large cohort of adults in primary care.
A cohort of 1900 adults (aged 18-64 years) was screened for tissue transglutaminase antibodies (TG2A) in primary care in the capital region of Finland. IgA-endomysium antibodies (EmA), HLADQ2/8 associated with CD were determined in positive individuals. Folate, iron, and transferrin receptor in sera were assessed in patients reporting a previous diagnosis of CD and patients positive for the above tests.
Twenty-two out of 1900 (1%) patients reported a previous diagnosis of CD (biopsy-based 16/22 cases; 6/22 cases diagnostic criteria unknown). Among the screen-detected cases with TG2A> or = the cut-off value, 14/32 cases were considered to have CD based on high levels of both TG2A and EmA, DQ2/8 genotype and/or biopsy results. The prevalence of CD was as high as 1:53 in the total study population (36/1900), and in women even 1:46 (2.2%). Nutritional deficiencies were rare among CD patients diagnosed earlier (low iron = 1; low folate n=1) but common among those who had an undiagnosed CD (low folate n=6; p<0.005; concomitant iron deficiency n=2). One-third of the screen-detected CD patients were obese. Screen-detected patients did not present more abdominal symptoms than those with no CD.
CD is common, the proportion among women possibly being as high as 2.2%. Although the great majority of screen-detected patients do not present any gastrointestinal symptoms at primary care, nutritional deficiencies such as low folate levels and iron deficiency are common.
Since increases in blood pressure may be effectively controlled by hydraulic feedback by reducing the venous return through the inferior vena cava in proportion to the blood pressure this principle was applied using a totally implantable extravascular system consisting of a periaortic blood pressure sensor and a pericaval cuff around the inferior vena cava. The two cuffs were supported externally by hard skeletons, filled with water, and connected directly to each other. The two devices were tested separately and together in 10 anaesthetised mongrel dogs with normal and high blood pressure induced by a metaraminol infusion. With the periaortic sensor an increase in blood pressure of 100 mmHg caused a mean(SD) isotonic volume displacement of 0.41(0.11) ml, and an increase in the pericaval balloon energy content of 100 ml.mmHg-1 caused a fall in blood pressure of 37.8(18.3)%. The whole system prevented an excessive rise in blood pressure when metaraminol was infused, with a feedback gain of about 2.8. It is concluded that blood pressure can be maintained at acceptable levels despite strong hypertensive stimuli, by this system, without additional treatment with drugs or an external energy source. The system is totally implantable and is applied extravascularly so that no anticoagulation is needed.
Erdosteine is a mucolytic agent having antioxidant properties through its active metabolites in acute injuries induced by pharmacological drugs. This study was designed to investigate the renoprotective potential of Erdosteine against gentamicin (GM)-induced renal dysfunction by using Technetium-99 m dimercaptosuccinic acid (Tc-99 m DMSA) uptake and scintigraphy in rats. For this purpose, male Wistar rats were randomly allotted into one of the four experimental groups: Control, Erdosteine, GM, and GM + Erdosteine groups. GM and GM + Erdosteine groups received 100 mg/kg GM intramuscularly for 6 days. In addition, Erdosteine and GM + Erdosteine groups received 50 mg/kg Erdosteine orally for 6 days. Renal function tests were assessed by serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN), creatinine levels, as well as scintigraphic and tissue radioactivity measurements with Tc-99 m DMSA. Renal oxidative damage was determined by renal malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, by antioxidant enzyme activities; superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) and activities of oxidant enzymes; xanthine oxidase (XO) and myeloperoxidase (MPO). GM administration resulted in marked renal lipid peroxidation, increased XO and MPO activities and decreased antioxidant enzyme activities. GM + Erdosteine group significantly had lower MDA levels, higher SOD and CAT activities and lower XO and MPO activities, when compared to GM. Also GM + Erdosteine had lower levels of serum BUN, creatinine and higher renal tissue Tc-99 m DMSA uptake and radioactivity with respect to GM. In conclusion, our results supported a protective role of Erdosteine in nephrotoxicity associated with GM treatment.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias remain a major challenge in the therapeutic management of Parkinson's disease (PD). Their etiology is unknown although dysfunction of striatal opioid transmission has been implicated in experimental models of PD. To determine whether the opioid system is involved in human dyskinetic PD, we measured in vivo opioid receptor binding in PD patients with and without levodopa-induced dyskinesias, using positron emission tomography (PET) and the opioid receptor ligand [11C]diprenorphine. Striatal and thalamic/occipital uptake ratios were calculated using a region of interest (ROI) approach. In addition, we used statistical parametric mapping (SPM) and images reflecting the volume of distribution of [11C]diprenorphine to assess changes in cerebral receptor binding on a voxel-by-voxel basis. By using the ROI approach, we found significantly reduced striatal and thalamic opioid binding in dyskinetic, but not in nondyskinetic, PD patients. The SPM approach confirmed reduced availability in these areas and, in addition, showed decreased cingulate and increased prefrontal opioid receptor binding in the dyskinetic patients. Our findings confirm that altered opioid transmission is part of the pathophysiology of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in PD and support further investigation into the role of opioid agents in the management of these involuntary movements.
The study investigated the mechanism of the up-regulation of aquaporin-4 (AQP4) and aquaporin-1 (AQP1) expression induced by spinal cord injury (SCI). Using adult rat spinal cord injury model, it was found that up-regulation of hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), AQP4, and AQP1 in response to spinal cord injury was greatly antagonized by 2-methoxyestradiol (2ME2), which can post-transcriptionally inhibit the expression of HIF-1α. VEGF alone significantly increased the extravasation of Evans blue and up-regulated the levels of AQP4 protein expression in the injured spinal cord issue, but the levels of AQP1 expression were not significantly changed. Taken together, our results suggest that expression of AQP4 and AQP1 is correlated with up-regulation of HIF-1α after SCI through the mechanisms that were dependent and independent of the VEGF signaling pathway, respectively. And the inhibitor of HIF-1α is a novel promising therapeutic agent for human SCI-induced edema in the future.
Many reports indicate that dietary selenium, potentially increasing the activity of glutathione peroxidase, could offer protection against free-radical-induced damage. The effects of diets moderately enriched in selenium, as sodium selenite or as a lyophilized selenium-rich food, were studied in rats. Adriamycin, an anticancer drug causing a free-radical-mediated cardiotoxicity, was administered intraperitoneally to some rats. The onset of an oxidative damage was indicated by the increase in the plasma level of reactive oxygen metabolites coupled to a decrease in the total antioxidant activity but without modification of glutathione peroxidase activity, which were observed in all rats, independent of the dietary treatment. On the contrary, in the heart, selenium supplementation caused an increase in the total antioxidant activity, glutathione concentration, and glutathione peroxidase and catalase activities leading to a decreased generation of reactive oxygen metabolites. These results clearly indicate that a moderate Se dietary supplementation counteracts adriamycin-induced cardiotoxicity by preservation of endogenous antioxidants.
Cyclosporin-A (CsA) was given to 22 patients who received allogeneic bone marrow transplants as therapy for aplastic anemia and hematologic malignancies. The drug was given daily for 180 days starting with the day of marrow infusion. Engraftment was not impaired and myelotoxicity was not observed. Cutaneous graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) developed in five patients and all either spontaneously resolved or promptly responded to therapy with steroids. Five patients developed systemic GVHD and all responded to therapy with steroids, but only two survived. Interstitial pneumonia was seen in six patients and was fatal in all of them. Liver function abnormalities were seen in 14 patients but could not positively be correlated with CsA administration. Renal function abnormalities were seen in 17 patients. Amphotericin-B therapy contributed significantly to the renal failure. Serum levels of CsA, measured by radioimmunoassay, could not be correlated with the presence of liver or renal function abnormalities. Overall survival so far has been 50.0%. Second malignancies were not observed, but one patient relapsed with leukemia at 343 days.
A common animal model of chemical hepatocarcinogenesis was used to examine the utility of transcriptomic and proteomic data to identify early biomarkers related to chemically induced carcinogenesis. N-nitrosomorpholine, a frequently used genotoxic model carcinogen, was applied via drinking water at 120 mg/L to male Wistar rats for 7 weeks followed by an exposure-free period of 43 weeks. Seven specimens of each treatment group (untreated control and 120 mg/L N-nitrosomorpholine in drinking water) were sacrificed at nine time points during and after N-nitrosomorpholine treatment. Individual samples from the liver were prepared for histological and toxicogenomic analyses. For histological detection of preneoplastic and neoplastic tissue areas, sections were stained using antibodies against the placental form of glutathione-S-transferase (GST-P). Gene and protein expression profiles of liver tissue homogenates were analyzed using RG-U34A Affymetrix rat gene chips and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis-based proteomics, respectively. In order to compare results obtained by histopathology, transcriptomics and proteomics, GST-P-stained liver sections were evaluated morphometrically, which revealed a parallel time course of the area fraction of preneoplastic lesions and gene plus protein expression patterns. On the transcriptional level, an increase of hepatic GST-P expression was detectable as early as 3 weeks after study onset. Comparing deregulated genes and proteins, eight species were identified which showed a corresponding expression profile on both expression levels. Functional analysis suggests that these genes and corresponding proteins may be useful as biomarkers of early hepatocarcinogenesis.
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X-linked genetic disease, caused by mutations in the gene encoding dystrophin. DMD is characterized in humans and in mdx mice by a severe and progressive destruction of muscle fibers, inflammation, oxidative/nitrosative stress, and cell death. In mdx muscle fibers, we have shown that basal ATP release is increased and that extracellular ATP stimulation is pro-apoptotic. In normal fibers, depolarization-induced ATP release is blocked by nifedipine, leading us to study the potential therapeutic effect of nifedipine in mdx muscles and its relation with extracellular ATP signaling. Acute exposure to nifedipine (10 µM) decreased [Ca(2+)]r, NF-κB activity and iNOS expression in mdx myotubes. In addition, 6-week-old mdx mice were treated with daily intraperitoneal injections of nifedipine, 1 mg/Kg for 1 week. This treatment lowered the [Ca(2+)]r measured in vivo in the mdx vastus lateralis. We demonstrated that extracellular ATP levels were higher in adult mdx flexor digitorum brevis (FDB) fibers and can be significantly reduced after 1 week of treatment with nifedipine. Interestingly, acute treatment of mdx FDB fibers with apyrase, an enzyme that completely degrades extracellular ATP to AMP, reduced [Ca(2+)]r to a similar extent as was seen in FDB fibers after 1-week of nifedipine treatment. Moreover, we demonstrated that nifedipine treatment reduced mRNA levels of pro-oxidative/nitrosative (iNOS and gp91(phox)/p47(phox) NOX2 subunits) and pro-apoptotic (Bax) genes in mdx diaphragm muscles and lowered serum creatine kinase (CK) levels. In addition, nifedipine treatment increased muscle strength assessed by the inverted grip-hanging test and exercise tolerance measured with forced swimming test in mdx mice. We hypothesize that nifedipine reduces basal ATP release, thereby decreasing purinergic receptor activation, which in turn reduces [Ca(2+)]r in mdx skeletal muscle cells. The results in this work open new perspectives towards possible targets for pharmacological approaches to treat DMD.
To characterize amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity and to determine the variables associated with it that can be used to identify, a priori, at-risk patients.
Retrospective analysis.
University hospital.
A homogeneous population of 69 recipients of a bone marrow (BMT) or peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) with multiple myeloma and who received at least two doses of amphotericin B deoxycholate from January 1, 1992-January 1, 1995.
Data on demographics, prior and concomitant nephrotoxic drug therapy, daily laboratory values, and amphotericin B dosing were collected serially from medical and pharmacy records.
Forward stepwise logistic regression analysis was performed on the data from the first day of therapy to characterize and determine variables related to amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity. Nephrotoxicity occurred in 30 patients (43%) and developed rapidly Patients who developed nephrotoxicity were similar to those who did not in many aspects associated with their treatment. However, baseline estimated creatinine clearance, cyclosporine therapy, nephrotoxic drug therapy within 30 days of starting amphotericin B, and the number of concomitant nephrotoxic drugs were significant predictors of amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity.
Recipients of a BMT or PBSCT who have multiple myeloma and are receiving cyclosporine or multiple nephrotoxic drugs at the start of amphotericin B therapy should be considered at high risk for developing amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity. Also, because amphotericin B-associated nephrotoxicity develops rapidly, clinicians should be aware of the rapid changes in serum creatinine and electrolyte levels that can occur.
In several pathologic conditions, like cardiac ischemia/reperfusion, the sustained elevation of plasma and interstitial catecholamine levels, namely adrenaline (ADR), and the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) are hallmarks. The present work aimed to investigate in cardiomyocytes which intracellular signalling pathways are altered by ADR redox ability. To mimic pathologic conditions, freshly isolated calcium tolerant cardiomyocytes from adult rat were incubated with ADR alone or in the presence of a system capable of generating ROS [(xanthine with xanthine oxidase) (X/XO)]. ADR elicited a pro-oxidant signal with generation of reactive species, which was largely magnified by the ROS generating system. However, no change in cardiomyocytes viability was observed. The pro-oxidant signal promoted the translocation to the nucleus of the transcription factors, Heat shock factor-1 (HSF-1) and Nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). In addition, proteasome activity was compromised in the experimental groups where the generation of reactive species occurred. The decrease in the proteasome activity of the ADR group resulted from its redox sensitivity, since the activity was recovered by adding the ROS scavenger, tiron. Proteasome inhibition seemed to elicit an increase in HSP70 levels. Furthermore, retention of mitochondrial cytochrome c and inhibition of caspase 3 activity were observed by X/XO incubation in presence or absence of ADR. In conclusion, in spite of all the insults inflicted to the cardiomyocytes, they were capable to activate intracellular responses that enabled their survival. These mechanisms, namely the pathways altered by catecholamine proteasome inhibition, should be further characterized, as they could be of relevance in the ischemia preconditioning and the reperfusion injury.
Two patients developed an extrapyramidal syndrome after therapy with lithium carbonate. Although the clinical features of this syndrome were indistinguishable from those of drug-induced parkinsonism, it was made worse by the anti-parkinsonian drug, orphenadrine. These findings were reproduced later under laboratory conditions when extrapyramidal symptoms and physiological tremor were recorded before and after challenge doses of orphenadrine. This unwanted effect of lithium carbonate may be explained by selective blockade of dopamine receptors.
