Relationships between changes in levels of catechols and directly recorded sympathetic nerve activity were examined using simultaneous measurements of renal sympathetic nerve activity and arterial and renal venous concentrations of norepinephrine (NE), dihydroxyphenylalanine (dopa), and dihyroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) during reflexive alterations in renal sympathetic nerve activity in anesthetized, adrenal-demedullated rats. Nitroprusside infusion increased renal sympathetic nerve activity by 90%, arterial levels of dopa by 96%, NE by 326%, and DHPG by 141%. Phenylephrine infusion increased arterial DHPG levels by 81% and decreased renal sympathetic nerve activity by 37% and NE levels by 26%; arterial dopa levels were unchanged. Ganglionic blockade by chlorisondamine (with concomitant phenylephrine infusion to maintain MAP) decreased renal sympathetic nerve activity by 65% and NE concentrations by 37%; arterial dopa concentrations were unchanged, and DHPG concentrations increased by 60%. Proportionate responses of arterial levels of NE were strongly related to proportionate changes in renal sympathetic nerve activity. Clearance of DHPG from arterial plasma was prolonged by phenylephrine-induced hypertension and by nitroprusside-induced hypotension. The results suggest that changes in arterial NE levels reflect changes in sympathetic activity; changes in dopa levels reflect changes in catecholamine biosynthesis; and changes in DHPG levels depend on reuptake of released NE and on hemodynamic factors affecting DHPG clearance.
Discovery of the activating mutation V617F in Janus Kinase 2 (JAK2(V617F)), a tyrosine kinase critically involved in receptor signaling, recently ignited interest in JAK2 inhibitor therapy as a treatment for myelofibrosis (MF). Herein, we describe the design and synthesis of a series of small molecule 4-aryl-2-aminopyrimidine macrocycles and their biological evaluation against the JAK family of kinase enzymes and FLT3. The most promising leads were assessed for their in vitro ADME properties culminating in the discovery of 21c, a potent JAK2 (IC(50) = 23 and 19 nM for JAK2(WT) and JAK2(V617F), respectively) and FLT3 (IC(50) = 22 nM) inhibitor with selectivity against JAK1 and JAK3 (IC(50) = 1280 and 520 nM, respectively). Further profiling of 21c in preclinical species and mouse xenograft and allograft models is described. Compound 21c (SB1518) was selected as a development candidate and progressed into clinical trials where it is currently in phase 2 for MF and lymphoma.
Ulcerative colitis is a common form of inflammatory bowel disease with a complex etiology. As part of the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2, we performed a genome-wide association scan for ulcerative colitis in 2,361 cases and 5,417 controls. Loci showing evidence of association at P < 1 x 10(-5) were followed up by genotyping in an independent set of 2,321 cases and 4,818 controls. We find genome-wide significant evidence of association at three new loci, each containing at least one biologically relevant candidate gene, on chromosomes 20q13 (HNF4A; P = 3.2 x 10(-17)), 16q22 (CDH1 and CDH3; P = 2.8 x 10(-8)) and 7q31 (LAMB1; P = 3.0 x 10(-8)). Of note, CDH1 has recently been associated with susceptibility to colorectal cancer, an established complication of longstanding ulcerative colitis. The new associations suggest that changes in the integrity of the intestinal epithelial barrier may contribute to the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis.
Chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) reacts with DNA bases, forming hydroxyethano derivatives of different stability, which are subsequently converted into etheno (epsilon) adducts: epsilon A, epsilon C, epsilon G. DNA polymerase fingerprint analysis was used to study the distribution of CAA-induced modifications in the p53 sequence. A plasmid bearing cDNA containing the human p53 gene was reacted in vitro with CAA, then dehydrated for conversion of hydroxyethano into etheno adducts, and primer extension by T7 DNA polymerase in the presence of four dNTPs was performed. The DNA repair enzymes methylpurine-DNA glycosylase and Escherichia coli exonuclease III were used to convert epsilon A residues in the template into DNA strand breaks, which enabled precise localization of the epsilon A residues within the p53 gene. Hydroxyethano derivatives of adenine and cytosine in a template blocked T7 DNA polymerase and caused premature chain termination opposite adenine or one base before cytosine. After dehydration, both epsilon A and epsilon C were much more easily by-passed by T7 DNA polymerase. Formation of epsilon G was identified as 'stop bands' one base before guanine residues. Modification of cytosine and guanine was additionally recognized by weakening or disappearance of non-specific stops on an undamaged template, probably due to steric hindrance by the tertiary DNA structure for polymerase. Etheno adduction of cytosine and guanine relaxed the compact DNA structure and enabled DNA polymerase to by-pass. In exons 5-8 of p53, 143 out of 500 sites appeared to be damaged by CAA, with four particularly densely modified regions between codons 135-147, 218-222, 234-255 and 284-292. The pattern of modification followed the pattern of p53 mutations found in vinyl chloride-associated liver angiosarcomas in humans and rats, but only in regions that showed 100% homology with the human sequence. The factors that influence DNA damage and induction of mutations in the p53 gene by CAA and vinyl chloride are discussed.
Crotonaldehyde and 2-hexenal are bifunctional compounds that form 1,N2-propanodeoxyguanosine adducts and are mutagenic and genotoxic; crotonaldehyde is carcinogenic. Analysis of the mutations resulting from crotonaldehyde-induced DNA damage revealed the importance of deoxyguanosine adducts. Humans are exposed ubiquitously to these compounds by various routes. The highest daily intake of crotonaldehyde is assumed to be derived from cigarette smoke (31-169 micrograms/kg body weight), and the highest intake of 2-hexenal is probably from fruit and vegetables (31-165 micrograms/kg body weight per day). Because these compounds are suspected to play on important role in carcinogenicity, we developed sensitive 32P-postlabelling techniques for DNA adducts of crotonaldehyde and hexenal, in order to improve estimates of cancer risk. The respective standards were also synthesized and characterized spectroscopically. We report here the results of the 32P-postlabelling, e.g. the stability of the adducts in respect of nuclease P1 treatment, their labelling efficiencies, thin-layer chromatography of adduct spots and the recoveries and detection limits. In untreated male Fischer 344 rats, neither crotonaldehyde nor 2-hexenal adducts were detected, but crotonaldehyde adducts were found in the tissues of rats given single doses of 200 or 300 mg/kg body weight and in the livers of rats after repeated doses of 1 or 10 mg/kg body weight. The adduct levels were higher 20 h after gavage than after 12 h. The adducts persist to a certain extent. 2-Hexenal adducts were detected in tissues of male Fischer 344 rats after gavage with single doses of 50, 200 or 500 mg/kg body weight. The highest adduct levels were measured 48 h after gavage, but no adducts were found 8 h after gavage. Two approaches for cancer risk estimation are discussed. One is based on the correlation between the covalent binding index, calculated from adduct levels, and the median toxic dose (TD50) (Lutz, 1986) and showed a cancer risk of 1 per 10(7) lives for hexenal, assuming dietary intakes of 31-165 micrograms/kg body weight per day. The other is based on a cancer incidence of 0.07 at a dose of crotonaldehyde of 4.2 mg/kg body weight per day assessed from the study of Chung et al. (1986), which can be interpreted as a risk of 5.8-18 new cases per 10(4) smokers, assuming a consumption of 30 cigarettes per day. The latter approach may, however, lead to an overestimate of the cancer risk associated with exposure to crotonaldehyde; the estimate based on our binding studies resulted in a 20-fold lower estimate of the carcinogenic risk of crotonaldehyde.
Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is known as a rare adverse event with chemotherapy. We report the case of a SIADH occurring after vinorelbine treatment.
In a 79-year-old woman breast cancer was first diagnosed in 2000. Three years after the first diagnosis the patient developed bone and liver metastases. Seven days after receiving the 1st course of palliative chemotherapy with vinorelbine the patient suffered from decreased mental awareness, fatigue, and physical weakness. After the diagnosis of SIADH based on laboratory findings in combination with clinical symptoms, we started therapy with balanced fluid intake and intravenous infusion of normotonic saline.
The development of SIADH as a rare adverse event with vinorelbine treatment has to be taken into consideration.
Cardiac damage is the major limiting factor for the clinical use of doxorubicin (DOX). Preclinical studies indicate that inflammatory effects may be involved in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Nepsilon-(carboxymethyl) lysine (CML) is suggested to be generated subsequent to oxidative stress, including inflammation. Therefore, the aim of this study was to investigate whether CML increased in the heart after DOX and whether anti-inflammatory agents reduced this effect in addition to their possible protection on DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. These effects were compared with those of the potential cardioprotector 7-monohydroxyethylrutoside (monoHER).BALB/c mice were treated with saline, DOX alone or DOX preceded by ketoprofen (KP), dexamethasone (DEX) or monoHER. Cardiac damage was evaluated according to Billingham. Nepsilon-(carboxymethyl) lysine was quantified immunohistochemically. Compared to saline, a 21.6-fold increase of damaged cardiomyocytes was observed in mice treated with DOX (P<0.001). Addition of KP, DEX or monoHER before DOX significantly reduced the mean ratio of abnormal cardiomyocytes in comparison to mice treated with DOX alone (P<or=0.02). In addition, DOX induced a significant increase in the number of CML-stained intramyocardial vessels per mm2 (P=0.001) and also in the intensity of CML staining (P=0.001) compared with the saline-treated group. Nepsilon-(carboxymethyl) lysine positivity was significantly reduced (P<or=0.01) by DOX-DEX, DOX-KP and DOX-monoHER. These results confirm that inflammation plays a role in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, which is strengthened by the observed DOX-induced accumulation of CML, which can be reduced by anti-inflammatory agents and monoHER.
We report a case of acute interstitial nephritis (AIN) due to nicergoline (Sermion). A 50-year-old patient admitted to our hospital for fever and acute renal failure. Before admission, he had been taking nicergoline and bendazac lysine due to retinal vein occlusion at ophthalmologic department. Thereafter, he experienced intermittent fever and skin rash. On admission, clinical symptoms (i.e. arthralgia and fever) and laboratory findings (i.e. eosinophilia and renal failure) suggested AIN, and which was confirmed by pathologic findings on renal biopsy. A lymphocyte transformation test demonstrated a positive result against nicergoline. Treatment was consisted of withdrawal of nicergoline and intravenous methylprednisolone, and his renal function was completely recovered. To our knowledge, this is the first report of nicergoline-associated AIN.
Paclitaxel (Taxol), a potent drug of natural origin isolated from the bark of the Pacific yew, is widely used in the treatment of ovarian, lung and breast cancer. At present, there is little information regarding the anti-cancer mechanism of paclitaxel against cervical carcinoma cells. We thus tried to show the anti-cancer effect of paclitaxel on cervical carcinoma cell line carrying HPV by using a proteomic analysis and to investigate the mechanism of actions.
We treated paclitaxel to cervical carcinoma cells and then carried out MTT assay to observe the anti-proliferate activity. Using proteomics analysis including two-dimensional (2-DE) gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF-MS, we tried to find the anti-proliferate activity-related proteins. Among them, paclitaxel treatment suppressed the expression of the mitotic checkpoint protein BUB3. Functional proteomic analysis by small interfering RNA (siRNA) targeting was tried to illuminate a role of mitotic checkpoint protein BUB3 in cell cycle progression.
The cytotoxicity effects of paclitaxel were determined in HPV-16 positive CaSki, HPV-18 positive HeLa and HPV-negative C33A cervical carcinoma cell lines. Using efficient proteomics methods including 2-DE/MALDI-TOF-MS, we identified several cellular proteins that are responsive to paclitaxel treatment in HeLa cells. Paclitaxel treatment elevated mainly apoptosis-related, immune response-related and cell cycle check point-related proteins. On the other hand, paclitaxel treatment diminished growth factor/oncogene-related proteins and transcription regulation-related proteins. Paclitaxel showed anti-proliferate activity through the membrane death receptor (DR)-mediated apoptotic pathway involving activation of caspase-8 with a TRAIL-dependent fashion as well as the mitochondrial-mediated pathway involving down-regulation of bcl-2 by cytochrome c release. Furthermore, we found siRNA-induced BUB3 knock down on cell cycle progression blocked by cell cycle arrest after paclitaxel treatment.
The proteome profiling technique provided a broad-base and effective approach for the identification of protein changes induced by paclitaxel and showed anti-proliferate activity through the membrane death receptor-mediated apoptotic pathway, the mitochondrial-mediated pathway. This study shows the power of proteomic profiling with functional analysis using RNAi technology for the discovery of novel molecular targets and a better understanding of the actions of paclitaxel at the molecular level in cervical carcinoma cells.
We investigated cardiac autonomic function in 16 patients with panic disorder before and after treatment with paroxetine using Holter ECG records. Our previous data suggest a relative increase in sympathetic activity in patients with panic disorder, especially during sleep. Data for 20 h and awake and sleep periods were analyzed using spectral analysis to quantify absolute and relative heart period variability in ultra low (ULF: <0.0033 Hz), very low (VLF: 0.0033-0.04 Hz), low (LF: 0.04-0.15 Hz) and high (HF: 0.15-0.5 Hz) frequency bands. We also obtained fractal dimensions (FD) for the 20-hour, awake and sleep time series of RR intervals. Paroxetine treatment (19.7 +/- 4.7 mg/day for 105 +/- 37 days) resulted in a significant improvement in the frequency and intensity of panic attacks and also on the state anxiety inventory. Paroxetine treatment produced a significant decrease of 20-hour absolute HF power, awake absolute LF power and sleep absolute HF power. There was also a significant decrease of FDs after treatment with paroxetine for the sleep period. The decrease in LF and HF powers, and sleep FD is likely due to the antimuscarinic effect of paroxetine. The decrease in day-time LF power may also be due to a decrease in relative cardiac sympathetic activity after paroxetine treatment.
Thirty two patients with cirrhosis of the liver of Child's B and C class and an episode of endoscopically proven variceal bleed were randomly assigned to receive endoscopic sclerotherapy (EST) or oral propranolol for the prevention of recurrent upper gastrointestinal bleeding. EST was performed at 3 week intervals using 1% polidocanol intravariceally, till eradication of varices. Propranolol dose was adjusted to reduce the resting heart rate by 25% of the basal value (mean +/- SD, 194.3 +/- 63.9 mg/day) Two patients in the propranolol group were excluded within 48 hours due to side effects of the drug. Thirty patients (EST-16, propranolol-14) completed the trial. Patients were followed up for a maximum of 480 days. Mean follow-up in the EST and propranolol groups was 217 and 243 days respectively. The median bleeding free intervals were 480 and 194 days and number of rebleeding episodes was eight and 16 respectively in the EST and propranolol groups (both p = ns). Our study suggests a trend in favor of EST in preventing variceal rebleeding in patients with hepatic cirrhosis who belong to Child's B and C classes.
Two months after commencing continuous treatment with rifampicin, isoniazid, streptomycin and pyrazinamide for pulmonary tuberculosis a patient developed a nephrotic syndrome, acute nonoliguric renal failure and evidence of intravascular hemolysis. Renal biopsy revealed a severe crescentic nephritis with mild interstitial changes. The use of rifampicin has been associated with various renal abnormalities and this report documents the occurrence of a rapidly progressive crescentic glomerulonephritis presenting as nephrotic syndrome in a patient receiving continuous treatment with rifampicin.
The effect on rat catalepsy induced by Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC) in association with haloperidol (HP) or clozapine (CLOZ) administration was investigated. Delta9-THC dose-dependently increased HP (0.05-1 mg kg-1, s.c.)-induced rat catalepsy, while no catalepsy was observed after CLOZ (1-20 mg kg-1, s.c.) or Delta9-THC+CLOZ administration. The CB1 antagonist SR141716A (0.5-5 mg kg-1, i.p.) reversed the increase mediated by Delta9-THC on HP-induced catalepsy. The D2 agonist quinpirole completely reversed the catalepsy induced by both HP and HP+Delta9-THC; however, higher doses of quinpirole were needed in the presence of Delta9-THC. The M1 antagonist scopolamine and alpha2 antagonist yohimbine were able to reduce the catalepsy induced by HP and HP+Delta9-THC in a similar manner. CLOZ and the 5-HT2A/2C antagonists ritanserin, RS102221 and SB242084 were more effective in antagonizing HP than HP+Delta9-THC-induced catalepsy.7 HP and CLOZ failed to inhibit in vitro [3H]CP-55,940 binding, while Delta9-THC and SR141716A did not show an appreciable affinity for the D2 receptor. It was suggested that the different effects on rat catalepsy induced by Delta9-THC following HP or CLOZ administration may depend on the receptor-binding profiles of the two antipsychotics. The preferential use of CLOZ rather than HP in the treatment of psychotic symptoms in cannabis abusers was discussed.
Paraquat (PQ), a widely used herbicide is a well-known free radical producing agent. The mechanistic pathways of PQ neurotoxicity were examined by assessing oxidative/nitrosative stress markers. Focus was on the role of glutathione (GSH) cycle and to examine whether the pre-treatment with enzyme glutathione reductase (GR) could protect the vulnerable brain regions (VBRs) against harmful oxidative effect of PQ. The study was conducted on Wistar rats, randomly divided in five groups: intact-control group, (n = 8) and four experimental groups (n = 24). All tested compounds were administered intrastriatally (i.s.) in one single dose. The following parameters of oxidative status were measured in the striatum, hippocampus and cortex, at 30 min, 24 h and 7 days post treatment: superoxide anion radical (O₂·⁻), nitrate (NO₃⁻), malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD), total GSH (tGSH) and its oxidized, disulfide form (GSSG) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx). Results obtained from the intact and the sham operated groups were not statistically different, confirming that invasive i.s. route of administration would not influence the reliability of results. Also, similar pattern of changes were observed between ipsi- and contra- lateral side of examined VBRs, indicating rapid spatial spreading of oxidative stress. Mortality of the animals (10%), within 24h, along with symptoms of Parkinsonism, after awakening from anesthesia for 2-3 h, were observed in the PQ group, only. Increased levels of O₂·⁻, NO₃⁻ and MDA, increased ratio of GSSG/GSH and considerably high activity of GPx were measured at 30 min after the treatment. Cytotoxic effect of PQ was documented by drastic drop of all measured parameters and extremely high peak of the ratio GSSG/GSH at 24th hrs after the PQ i.s. injection. In the GR+PQ group, markedly low activity of GPx and low content of NO₃⁻ (in striatum and cortex) were measured during whole experiment, while increase value was observed only for O₂·⁻, at 7th days. We concluded that oxidative/nitrosative stress and excitotoxicity are the most important events since the early stage of PQ induced neurotoxicity. Based on the ratio GSSG/GSH, the oxidation of GSH to GSSG is probably dominant way of GHS depletion and main reason for reduced antioxidative defense against PQ harmful oxidative effect. The GR pre-treatment resulted in the absence of Parkinson's disease-like symptoms and mortality of the rats. Additionally, oxidative/nitrosative stress did not developed, as well as almost diminished metabolism of the VBRs at 24th hours (as has been documented in the PQ group) did not occurred in the GR+PQ, suggesting a neuroprotective role for the GR in PQ induced neurotoxicity.
1. The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of ligand-dependent transcription factors related to retinoid, steroid and thyroid hormone receptors. The thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone and the endogenous cyclopentenone prostaglandin (PG)D2 metabolite, 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-PGJ2 (15d-PGJ2), are two PPAR-gamma ligands, which modulate the transcription of target genes. 2. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of rosiglitazone and 15d-PGJ2 on the tissue injury caused by ischaemia/reperfusion (I/R) of the gut. 3. I/R injury of the intestine was caused by clamping both the superior mesenteric artery and the coeliac trunk for 45 min, followed by release of the clamp allowing reperfusion for 2 or 4 h. This procedure results in splanchnic artery occlusion (SAO) shock. 4. Rats subjected to SAO developed a significant fall in mean arterial blood pressure, and only 10% of the animals survived for the entire 4 h reperfusion period. Surviving animals were killed for histological examination and biochemical studies. Rats subjected to SAO displayed a significant increase in tissue myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, significant increases in plasma tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta levels and marked injury to the distal ileum. 5. Increased immunoreactivity to nitrotyrosine was observed in the ileum of rats subjected to SAO. Staining of sections of the ileum obtained from SAO rats with anti-intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM-1) antibody resulted in diffuse staining. 6. Administration at 30 min prior to the onset of gut ischaemia of the two PPAR-gamma agonists (rosiglitazone (0.3 mg kg-1 i.v.) and 15d-PGJ2 (0.3 mg kg-1 i.v.)) significantly reduced the (i) fall in mean arterial blood pressure, (ii) mortality rate, (iii) infiltration of the reperfused intestine with polymorphonuclear neutrophils (MPO activity), (iv) lipid peroxidation (MDA levels), (v) production of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha and IL-1beta) and (vi) histological evidence of gut injury. Administration of rosiglitazone and 15d-PGJ2 also markedly reduced the nitrotyrosine formation and the upregulation of ICAM-1 during reperfusion. 7. In order to elucidate whether the protective effects of rosiglitazone and 15d-PGJ2 are related to the activation of the PPAR-gamma receptor, we also investigated the effect of a PPAR-gamma antagonist, bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE), on the protective effects of rosiglitazone and 15d-PGJ2. BADGE (1 mg kg-1 administered i.v. 30 min prior to the treatment of rosiglitazone or 15d-PGJ2) significantly antagonised the effect of the two PPAR-gamma agonists and thus abolished the protective effect against gut I/R. 8. These results demonstrate that the two PPAR-gamma agonists, rosiglitazone and 15d-PGJ2, significantly reduce I/R injury of the intestine.
Schizophrenia-like symptoms have been experimentally produced in humans by a single, large dose of amphetamine or by relatively low level, but continuous administration of the drug. In animal studies of the psychotomimetic properties of amphetamine, high doses and, in particular, repeated daily-injection drug schedules have often been used. However, amphetamine psychosis is not always a prominent effect of repeated intake drug schedules in humans and available clinical evidence suggests that psychosis develops more readily when the drug is taken in a continuous fashion over longer periods. The state produced by single large doses of amphetamine, although clearly abnormal, has been said to bear less resemblance to schizophrenia than the delayed paranoid symptoms developing after longer periods of continuous intake. In the present experiments we have studied the behavioral effects of 7 to 14 days of continuous administration of amphetamine to monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops) using subcutaneously implanted silicone capsules releasing approximately .7 to 1.5 mg/kg/day of d-amphetamine base. Around-the-clock TV monitoring of the animals revealed a general biphasic sequence of drug effects, although considerable individual variation occurred: a) an "acute" phase dominated by stereotyped movements and/or prolonged staring, lasting for 2 to 5 days; b) a "late" phase peaking during days 5 to 10 after capsule implantation and characterized by highly individual, but striking sequences of: (1) Attack or sudden threat reactions directed at invisible objects; (2) rapid orienting and flight behavior without apparent cause; (3) sudden startle reactions; (4) prolonged vocalization; (5) visual tracking of invisible objects, sometimes involving coordinated patterns of "eating behavior" and (6) prolonged and rapid grooming directed at various parts of the body. These behaviors might be termed "hallucinatory" since no eliciting stimuli could be determined for their occurrence. Motor disturbances, including whole-body shakes, were often present at the same time. The animals were generally sleepless throughout the drug treatment period. Reimplantation of amphetamine capsules 2 to 8 months after the first capsule treatment produced the same effects in an individual-specific manner, but the "late phase" behaviors generally appeared sooner. The delayed occurrence of apparent hallucinatory behaviors and other abnormal "late" phase behaviors in the present experiment may be a close parallel to the delayed development of psychosis in humans induced by a similar drug regimen. Furthermore, the hallucinogenic nature of the late amphetamine state is consonant with other reports in the literature that hallucinogen-characteristic behaviors are present at this time.
1. The nature of the cardiorespiratory effects mediated by cannabinoids in the hindbrain is poorly understood. In the present study we investigated whether cannabinoid receptor activation in the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata (RVLM) affects cardiovascular and/or respiratory function. 2. Initially, we looked for evidence of CB1 receptor gene expression in rostral and caudal sections of the rat ventrolateral medulla (VLM) using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Second, the potent cannabinoid receptor agonists WIN55,212-2 (0.05, 0.5 or 5 pmol per 50 nl) and HU-210 (0.5 pmol per 50 nl) or the CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist AM281 (1 pmol per 100 nl) were microinjected into the RVLM of urethane-anaesthetised, immobilised and mechanically ventilated male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=22). Changes in splanchnic nerve activity (sSNA), phrenic nerve activity (PNA), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) in response to cannabinoid administration were recorded. 3. The CB1 receptor gene was expressed throughout the VLM. Unilateral microinjection of WIN55,212-2 into the RVLM evoked short-latency, dose-dependent increases in sSNA (0.5 pmol; 175+/-8%, n=5) and MAP (0.5 pmol; 26+/-3%, n=8) and abolished PNA (0.5 pmol; duration of apnoea: 5.4+/-0.4 s, n=8), with little change in HR (P<0.005). HU-210, structurally related to Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), evoked similar effects when microinjected into the RVLM (n=4). Surprisingly, prior microinjection of AM281 produced agonist-like effects, as well as significantly attenuated the response to subsequent injection of WIN55,212-2 (0.5 pmol, n=4). 4. The present study reveals CB1 receptor gene expression in the rat VLM and demonstrates sympathoexcitation, hypertension and respiratory inhibition in response to RVLM-administered cannabinoids. These findings suggest a novel link between CB1 receptors in this region of the hindbrain and the central cardiorespiratory effects of cannabinoids. The extent to which these central effects contribute to the cardiovascular and respiratory outcomes of cannabis use remains to be investigated.
A case of fatal dilated cardiomyopathy induced by esorubicin (ESO) at a total dose of 740 mg/m2, given in 27 doses over 650 days, is reported. The sudden onset, rapid clinical deterioration, and fatal outcome are detailed. The outcome was not predicted by serial rest ejection fractions or clinical signs. The data from animal studies, phase 1 and phase 2 clinical testing, are reviewed, demonstrating the almost complete absence of reports of ESO-induced cardiotoxicity. Studies reviewing ejection fractions and myocardial biopsy scores show that ESO can be cardiotoxic and may produce fatal dilated cardiomyopathy.
Lithium is known to be responsible for many adverse events on the cardiovascular system. Among these events, it was experimentally noted that lithium could block the action of catecholamines on myocardium. The authors report the case of a patient under lithium therapy developing a myocardial infarction secondarily complicated of a severe cardiac failure. The inotropic support essential to balance hemodynamic could be raised only after lithium's stop. This example could be a clinical translation of the experimental effect previously observed.
Pirprofen (800 mg/day) or aspirin (3,600 mg/day) was administered in double-blind fashion for up to one year to 40 adult outpatients with rheumatoid arthritis, after a short, single-blind placebo period. There were no statistically significant differences in efficacy between pirprofen and aspirin, as evidenced by patient opinion, observer opinion, grip strength, walking time, number of tender joints, number of swollen joints, or erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Clinically significant pain of gastrointestinal origin occurred in an equal number of patients from each group. Audiologic evaluation revealed 3 pirprofen-treated patients and 5 aspirin-treated patients in whom sensorineural hearing loss progressed during therapy and required either discontinuation or reduction of drug dosage. Ophthalmologic evaluation disclosed a high prevalence of lesions, the most common being decreased visual acuity and cataracts not explained by previous antiarthritic therapy. The high prevalence of audiologic and ophthalmologic pathology reported in the literature in patients with rheumatoid arthritis makes it difficult to establish in our study whether pirprofen or aspirin affected these organ systems.
Malignant tumors are common diseases threatening to the health and life of human being. Clinically, the multidrug resistance of tumor cells and bone marrow depression caused by chemotherapeutic agents are the main obstacles to the treatment of tumors, and both are related to the mdr1 gene. The over expression of the mdr1 gene in tumor cells contributes to the multidrug resistance of malignant tumor cells. With little expression of the mdr1 gene, bone marrow cells particularly susceptible to multidrug resistance-sensitive agents, which cause serious toxicity in bone marrow. This study was undertaken to assess therapeutic efficacy of transplantation of bone marrow mononuclear cells transferred with the mdr1 gene and over-dose chemotherapy with doxorubicin for VX2 hepatocarcinoma of rabbits.
The mdr1 gene was transferred into the bone marrow mononuclear cells of rabbits, which was co-cultured with retroviral vector-containing supernatant, and the cells were autotransplanted into a rabbit model with VX2 hepatocarcinoma. After chemotherapy with doxorubicin, the protective effects of the mdr1 gene and therapeutic efficacy of over-dose chemotherapy were observed.
The mdr1 gene was transferred successfully into the bone marrow mononuclear cells, with a transduction efficiency of 35%. After autotransplantation, the mdr1 gene was expressed functionally in bone marrow with a positive rate of 8%, indicating that the gene played an important role in bone marrow protection. The rabbits with VX2 hepatocarcinoma, which had received the mdr1 gene-transduced cells, survived after chemotherapy with a 3-fold dose of adriamycin, and their white blood cell counts were (4.26 +/- 1.03) x 10(4)/L. Since hepatocarcinoma cells were eradicated, the survival time (97.00 +/- 46.75 d) of the rabbits was extended (P<0.05) and the healing rate of the tumor was increased (P<0.05).
The transferring of the mdr1 gene into bone marrow mononuclear cells could confer chemoprotection to bone marrow, and over-dose chemotherapy could be prescribed for the treatment of malignant tumors.
First line immunosuppressive treatment in steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome in children is still open to discussion. We conducted a controlled multicentre randomized open label trial to test the efficacy and safety of cyclosporin A (CSA) versus cyclophosphamide pulses (CPH) in the initial therapy of children with newly diagnosed primary steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome and histologically proven minimal change disease, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis or mesangial hypercellularity. Patients in the CSA group (n = 15) were initially treated with 150 mg/m(2) CSA orally to achieve trough levels of 120-180 ng/ml, while patients in the CPH group (n = 17) received CPH pulses (500 mg/m(2) per month intravenous). All patients were on alternate prednisone therapy. Patients with proteinuria >40 mg/m(2) per hour at 12 weeks of therapy were allocated to a non-responder protocol with high-dose CSA therapy or methylprednisolone pulses. At week 12, nine of the 15 (60%) CSA patients showed at least partial remission, evidences by a reduction of proteinuria <40 mg/h per m(2). In contrast, three of the 17 (17%) CPH patients responded (p < 0.05, intention-to-treat). Given these results, the study was stopped, in accordance with the protocol. After 24 weeks, complete remission was reached by two of the 15 (13%) CSA and one of the 17 (5%) CPH patients (p = n.s.). Partial remission was achieved by seven of the 15 (46%) CSA and two of the 15 (11%) CPH patients (p <0.05). Five patients in the CSA group and 14 patients in the CPH group were withdrawn from the study, most of them during the non-responder protocol. The number of adverse events was comparable between both groups. We conclude that CSA is more effective than CPH in inducing at least partial remission in steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome in children.
Etheno adducts are promutagenic lesions which generate point mutations, deletions, homologous recombination and gross structural DNA aberrations. High ratios of chromosome loss to forward mutations characterize vinyl bromide, vinyl chloride, ethyl carbamate, vinyl carbamate and its epoxide as effective clastogens in postmeiotic germ cells of Drosophila melanogaster. Of the mutants induced by vinyl carbamate at the vermilion gene, 68% were intra-locus or multi-locus deletions. In view of the far-reaching concordance between mutation spectra in mice and Drosophila observed in specific-locus tests with genotoxic agents, etheno bases are expected to generate mainly deletions in male mammals in the postmeiotic germ-cell stages. Twenty-two of 23 base substitutions induced in the vermilion gene after treatment of postmeiotic stages with vinyl carbamate or vinyl bromide fall into four categories of mutations expected from etheno bases: GC-->AT, AT-->GC, GC-->TA and AT-->TA base-pair changes. These types of point mutations occurred in mutated proto-oncogenes of tumours induced in rodents by vinyl chloride, ethyl carbamate or their metabolites. Of interest is the ability of vinyl carbamate to produce persistent lesions in otherwise highly repair-active premeiotic cells of Drosophila, leading to mutations of yet unknown nature. Etheno bases are also potent pro-clastogenic lesions in somatic cells in vivo. Strongly positive responses were reported for ethyl carbamate and vinyl carbamate in assays for micronucleus formation in mouse bone marrow and in the Drosophila white+/white eye mosaic test. Loss of heterozygosity in somatic cells of Drosophila was due primarily to ring-X chromosome loss, followed by homologous mitotic recombination. Particularly striking is the near failure of ethyl carbamate and vinyl carbamate to generate significant frequencies of intrachromosomal recombination. The overall genetic activity profiles of etheno adduct-forming chemicals in mice and in Drosophila support the hypothesis that vinyl carbamate is the proximate mutagen of ethyl carbamate, and vinyl carbamate epoxide is the ultimate electrophilic mutagen and carcinogen.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor nimesulide derivatives compounds A and B decreased aromatase activity in breast cancer cells via a novel mechanism different to aromatase inhibitors (AIs), and were defined as "aromatase suppressors". Breast carcinoma cells (MCF-7aro and T47Daro) transfected with aromatase full gene were used to explore the mechanisms of the two compounds. They dose and time-dependently suppressed aromatase activity in MCF-7aro and T47Daro cells in the nanomole range. However, they neither directly inhibited aromatase, nor improved aromatase degradation even at much higher concentrations. They could also suppress androgen stimulated cell growth, but did not affect estrogen enhanced cell proliferation. These results suggest that compounds A and B selectively interfere with aromatase in breast cancer cells, but not estrogen receptor (ER) downstream to disrupt androgen mediated cell growth. Interestingly, compound B effectively inhibited LTED (long-term estrogen deprived MCF-7aro cell) cell growth, which is a model for AIs resistance, with an IC(50) of 4.68 ± 0.54 μM. The results indicate that compound B could potentially overcome AI resistance in breast cancer cell and could be used as a lead to design more potent derivatives.
A patient treated with dexamethasone for cerebral edema secondary to a cerebral tumor developed acute obsessive-compulsive behavior. Discontinuation of dexamethasone was accompanied by a rapid subsidence of this behavior, suggesting a causal association. This appears to be the first such report.
The liver plays a central role in insulin-like growth factor (IGF) homeostasis providing the majority of circulating IGF-I and some of its binding proteins (IGFBPs). In liver cirrhosis the IGF axis is severely disturbed, and these alterations are associated with reduced IGF-I, IGFBP-3 but elevated IGFBP-1 serum levels.
By Northern blotting and in situ hybridization (ISH), hepatic expression of IGF-I and of IGFBP was studied in a rat model of liver cirrhosis induced by thioacetamide.
ISH revealed a homogeneous distribution of IGFBP-1, IGFBP-4 and IGF-I mRNA over hepatic parenchyma in normal and cirrhotic liver. Fibrous septa of cirrhotic liver were IGFBP-1 mRNA negative, whereas IGFBP-4 and IGF-I transcripts were detected in single cells. In normal liver, IGFBP-3 mRNA was distributed within nonparenchymal cells of the hepatic lobule and in the wall of the portal vein. In cirrhotic liver, IGFBP-3 transcripts were abundant in mesenchymal cells of fibrous tissue. IGFBP-3 mRNA expression was also prominent in cells at the septal-nodular interface most likely representing monocyte infiltration. IGFBP-3 mRNA expression was reduced in nonparenchymal liver cells located more distantly from the septal-nodular interface in the cirrhotic nodule that correlated with reduced IGFBP-3 mRNA expression observed in Kupffer cells (KC) and sinusoidal endothelial cells (SEC) isolated from macronodular cirrhotic livers.
Cirrhosis is accompanied by an altered spatial expression of IGFBP-3 in liver tissue, which is characterized by decreased levels of IGFBP-3 mRNA in KC and SEC, but elevated IGFBP-3 expression in myofibroblast-like cells and inflammatory infiltrate.
The final results of the African American Study of Kidney Disease and Hypertension (AASK) have shown that the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor ramipril was better than the beta blocker metoprolol or the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker amlodipine in slowing the rate of glomerular filtration rate decline in African American patients with mild to moderate renal insufficiency. Of note, there was no difference between the 92 mm Hg or less (lower group) and the 102-107 mm Hg (usual) mean arterial pressure groups as regards the secondary clinical composite end point. The secondary clinical composite end point in this study comprised a threshold drop of at least 50% or 25 mL/min in glomerular filtration rate, death, or reaching end-stage renal disease. The final results from this study would suggest that reduction in blood pressure to levels below those currently advocated for cardiovascular risk reduction, although a clearly attainable goal in this population, does not provide readily identifiable benefits to African Americans with hypertensive nephrosclerosis. Importantly, this study provides the basis for the primary use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in an African American population with the characteristics of those studied in AASK. It remains to be determined if this represents a class effect for all angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
Inflammation and adipogenesis are two parallel processes with increased activity in severe Graves' ophthalmopathy.
The aim of this work was to define target genes for therapeutic intervention in adipogenesis and inflammation in Graves' ophthalmopathy.
Orbital tissue was obtained from patients with ophthalmopathy in acute or chronic phase undergoing orbital surgery to study gene expression followed by the study of potential intervention mechanisms in preadipocytes.
Clinic of Endocrinology, University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
Patients in acute severe or in chronic phase of ophthalmopathy.
Lateral orbital decompression in acute phase and restorative surgery in chronic phase. In vitro treatment of preadipocytes with rosiglitazone and diclofenac.
Gene expression in intraorbital tissue or preadipocytes and differentiation of preadipocytes.
A marker of adipose tissue, stearoyl-coenzyme A desaturase (SCD), and the proinflammatory gene, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), were overexpressed in patients in active phase compared to the chronic phase of ophthalmopathy. In growth-arrested preadipocytes stimulated with rosiglitazone, COX-2 expression increased temporarily within 1 hour and decreased to undetectable levels after 48 hours. In contrast, SCD and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) expression increased continuously from day 2 to day 7 during adipogenesis. Diclofenac, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenases with antagonistic effects on PPAR-gamma, reduced the number of mature adipocytes by approximately 50%.
We conclude that inflammation and adipogenesis decrease with a decrease in activity of ophthalmopathy and that the nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug diclofenac inhibits adipogenesis. This may represent a putative future treatment of endocrine ophthalmopathy.
