Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is increasing worldwide and is the third cause of cancer-related death. HCC develops in a pre-neoplastic organ, the cirrhotic liver. Therefore, chemoprevention could play a role in the management of HCC. We have previously shown that lanreotide, a somatostatin analogue, inhibits the development of "foci of altered hepatocytes", which represent very early neoplastic changes in rat liver. Here we induced bona fide HCC by means of a different chemically induced model that is known to lead to significant fibrosis before HCC appearance. Lanreotide was given from the beginning of the experiment in one group and from the time when significant fibrosis was present in the second group. Lanreotide decreased the frequency of occurrence of HCC in both groups. In both groups, significant decreases in hepatocyte proliferation and inhibition of fibrosis were demonstrated. When given at the start of the experiment, lanreotide dramatically decreased levels of angiogenic factors and enhanced apoptosis. Further work on the anti-tumoral effect of lanreotide is called for to assess the mechanistic relationships of its anti-proliferative and anti-angiogenic actions on liver neoplastic cells.
Therapy-related Myelodysplastic Syndromes/Acute Myeloid Leukemias (t-MDS/AML) are one of the most compelling long term adverse events occurring in cancer survivors treated with chemo-radiotherapy regimes. Beside several well-described genetic lesions, a growing amount of data suggests that abnormalities in DNA methylation profile contribute to multistep secondary leukemogenesis. Two distinct alterations of normal DNA methylation patterns may occur in cancer: a global hypomethylation resulting in chromosomal instability and loss of genetic integrity, and promoter specific DNA hypermethylation which leads to silencing of tumor suppressor genes. Cytotoxic drugs and radiation have been shown to affect tissue DNA methylation profile. Radiation is able to induce a stable DNA hypomethylation in both target and bystander tissues. Gene promoter methylation is a common finding in t-MDS/AML and has been associated to a shorter latency period from the treatment of the primary tumor. Among the studied genes, p15 methylation correlated to monosomy/deletion of chromosome 7q, suggesting that it could be a relevant event in alkylating agent-induced leukemogenesis. We found frequent methylation of DAPK in the t-MDS/AML group, especially in patients with a previous lymphoproliferative disease. In patients studied for concurrent methylation of several promoters, t-MDS/AML were significantly more frequently hypermethylated in 2 or more promoter regions than de novo MDS or AML suggesting that promoter hypermethylation of genes involved in cell cycle control, apoptosis and DNA repair pathways is a frequent finding in t-MDS/AML and may contribute to secondary leukemogenesis. However, how the epigenetic machinery is disrupted after chemo/radiotherapy and during secondary carcinogenesis is still unknown, warranting further studies.
The DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) corresponds to a drug reaction generally including cutaneous eruption, fever, hematologic abnormalities such as eosinophilia and atypical lymphocytosis and one or more specific visceral lesions specially in the liver. We report a case of drug hypersensitivity syndrome or DRESS associated with intra and extra-hepatic biliary lesions. This syndrome was associated with sulfasalazine and naproxene therapy. A reactivation of HHV6 was documented in the continuations of the DRESS and could play a role in the symptomms.
To investigate the contribution of multidrug resistance 1 (MDR1) gene pharmacogenetics (G2677T/A and C3435T) to the efficacy of azathioprine in inducing remission in patients with Crohn's disease (CD).
A cohort of 327 unrelated Spanish patients with CD recruited from a single center was studied. All patients were rigorously followed up for at least 2 years (mean time, 11.5 years). A case-control analysis of MDR1 G2677T/A and C3435T SNPs and 2 loci haplotypes in 112 steroid-dependent CD patients treated with azathioprine was performed. Patients were classified on the basis of response to azathioprine.
A total 76 patients treated with azathioprine for longer than 3 months were included. Remission was achieved in 42 CD patients (55.3%). A higher frequency of the 2677TT genotype was found in nonresponders than in responders (17.65% versus 7.14%; OR = 2.8; 95% CI; 0.6-12.1; P = 0.11). Nonresponders to azathioprine were found to have a higher frequency of the 3435TT genotype than did CD patients who had achieved clinical remission (17.64% versus 4.76%; OR = 4.3; 95% CI, 0.8-22.8; P = 0.06). The 2677T/3435T haplotype was also more abundant in nonresponders (29.4% versus 20.2%), whereas the 2677G/3435C haplotype was more frequent in responders (58.3% versus 47.1%). Lack of response to azathioprine therapy in CD patients was 1.8-fold greater in carriers of the 2677T/3435T haplotype than in carriers of the 2677G/3435C haplotype (OR = 1.8; 95% CI, 0.82-3.9; P = 0.14).
The results of our study indicate higher frequencies of the 2677TT and 3435TT genotypes and the 2677T/3435T haplotype in CD patients who did not respond to azathioprine. Additional replications in independent populations would confirm the real impact of these polymorphisms in response to azathioprine therapy.
We report an unusual case of massive pre-placental and subchorionic haematoma occurring in a 26-year-old woman who presented with antepartum haemorrhage at 24 weeks gestation. Ultrasonography showed a subchorionic haematoma in the lower posterior uterine wall measuring 5.0 cm in largest diameter. There was also a separate irregular multiloculated structure measuring 4.3 cm in largest diameter on the surface of the placenta, due to a pre-placental haematoma. The subchorionic haematoma diminished in size over time, while the pre-placental haematoma continued to grow, measuring 9.0 cm at 28 weeks, and 9.3 cm at 32 weeks. At 32 weeks, the patient presented with premature rupture of membranes and four days later, an emergency caesarean section was performed when the patient had another episode of severe antepartum haemorrhage. Both mother and child recovered well. The current literature on such haematomas is reviewed.
The present study focused on the evaluation of a role of opioid system in nicotine-induced antinociception and physical dependence in mice. The results indicate that nicotine (3 mg/kg) produced a significant antinociception in the hot plate test. Additionally, the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (0.5 and 1 mg/kg), dose-dependently attenuated this effect. Our second experimental protocol consisted in intermittent administration of nicotine (2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) four times daily for 7 days. In order to precipitate nicotine abstinence, mice were given one injection of mecamylamine (3 mg/kg) or naloxone (1 mg/kg) one hour after the last nicotine injection on the test day (day 8) in the morning. Interestingly, our findings revealed that both drugs precipitated somatic withdrawal signs in mice, with a slight difference in their influences on the intensity of several signs. These data support the hypothesis that similar opioid-cholinergic interactions are involved in nicotine-induced antinociception and nicotine withdrawal syndrome.
The effect of ranitidine on gallamine-induced depression of twitch tension was evaluated in urethane-anaesthetized and mechanically ventilated male Sprague-Dawley rats. Gallamine was administered as an intravenous (IV) bolus and constant rate infusion in 15 rats to maintain 89 +/- 7% (SE) depression of twitch tension induced by electrical stimulation of a sciatic nerve. Ranitidine, IV at either 0.5, 1, 2.5, 5, or 10 mg/kg, was then administered into groups of three rats. Ranitidine produced an immediate dose- and serum concentration-dependent reversal (antagonism) of the twitch tension depression induced with gallamine. The reversal was observed within approximately 30 s and was maintained for 3-26 (12 +/- 2) min. The dose of ranitidine that produced 50% reversal was 2.9 +/- 0.1 mg/kg, and this reversal was associated with a ranitidine serum concentration of 5.2 +/- 0.3 micrograms/mL. Ranitidine administered alone (and without gallamine) did not alter twitch tension at either 2.5 or 20 mg/kg. In addition, ranitidine did not alter either the gallamine neuromuscular blocking concentration in serum or the serum clearance of gallamine. Ranitidine reverses the neuromuscular action of gallamine, and this effect of ranitidine is not due to a pharmacokinetic interaction between ranitidine and gallamine.
The effect of the simultaneous use of 0.025% levocabastine hydrochloride eye drops (levocabastine) and 0.1% pemirolast potassium ophthalmic solution (pemirolast) on experimental allergic conjunctivitis in rats was investigated. Levocabastine and pemirolast significantly inhibited allergic conjunctivitis compared with the control group when separately administered. In addition, the simultaneous use of both drugs inhibited allergic conjunctivitis more potently than the original activity of levocabastine or pemirolast. Furthermore, the simultaneous use of levocabastine and pemirolast also significantly inhibited increased vascular permeability induced by antigen compared with levocabastine or pemirolast alone, respectively. Levocabastine and pemirolast inhibited histamine release from the rat conjunctiva in correlation with a decrease in histamine content in tears. When levocabastine and pemirolast were simultaneously applied to the eyes, histamine release from the conjunctiva was greater than for the original activities of both drugs. Similar to histamine release from the conjunctiva, the histamine content in tears induced by the simultaneous use of both drugs was significantly decreased compared with levocabastine and pemirolast alone, respectively. A potentiating effect induced by the simultaneous use of levocabastine and pemirolast may be attributable to the antihistaminic activity of levocabastine and histamine release inhibition by levocabastine and pemirolast.
Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), one of the most crucial antioxidant enzymes in the central nervous system, is thought to be one of the major mechanisms by which cells counteract the injuries of reactive oxygen species after cerebral ischemia. In this study, we used a novel synthesized compound (MnTm4PyP) with highly effective superoxide dismutase activity to study the therapeutic potential of MnSOD and the possible underlying mechanisms in cerebral ischemia.
Primary cultured cortical neurons were used to examine the protective effect of the compounds. Mice with middle cerebral artery occlusion were used as ischemic stroke animal model. Animals were pretreated with MnTm4PyP intravenously 30 min before surgery. At 24 h after surgery, neurological behavior and histological function were observed. Infarcted cortex tissues and cultured neurons were collected for investigation of the oxidative stress signaling pathways.
In vitro studies revealed that MnSOD mimic MnTm4PyP pretreatment significantly increased viability of neurons after injury by H(2) O(2) . Intracellular superoxide radical levels were eliminated. In vivo experiments demonstrated MnTm4PyP pretreatment reduced infarct volume and improved neurological function. The MnSOD mimic alleviated oxidative stress and apoptosis.
MnSOD is an effective therapeutic target in ischemic stroke prevention because of its antioxidant effects and oxidative stress regulation.
Chronic L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) pharmacotherapy in Parkinson's disease is often accompanied by the development of abnormal and excessive movements known as dyskinesia. Clinical and experimental studies indicate that indirect serotonin agonists can suppress dyskinesia without affecting the efficacy of L-DOPA. While the mechanism by which these effects occur is not clear, recent research suggests that serotonin 5-HT1A receptors may play a pivotal role. To test this, male Sprague-Dawley rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine medial forebrain bundle lesions received 1 week of daily treatment with L-DOPA (12 mg/kg, i.p.) plus benserazide (15 mg/kg, i.p.). Beginning on the 8th day of treatment and every 3rd or 4th day thereafter, rats were pretreated with vehicle (0.9% NaCl), the serotonin and dopamine releaser 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 0.25 or 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or the serotonin releaser fenfluramine (FEN; 0.25 or 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min prior to L-DOPA, after which abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) and rotations were quantified every 20th minute for 2 h. Pretreatment with 2.5 mg/kg of either MDMA or FEN reduced AIMs. To determine the contribution of the 5-HT1A receptor to these effects, another group of L-DOPA-primed 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats were pretreated with the 5-HT1A antagonist WAY100635 (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.), MDMA + WAY100635 (2.5 + 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or FEN + WAY100635 (2.5 + 0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) 5 min prior to L-DOPA and subsequent AIMs and rotation tests. The antidyskinetic effects of MDMA and FEN were reversed by cotreatment with WAY100635. These results suggest that 5-HT-augmenting compounds such as MDMA and FEN probably convey antidyskinetic properties in part via stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors.
Thiabendazole (TBZ), an antihelminthic and antifungal agent, is associated with a host of adverse effects including nephrotoxicity, hepatotoxicity, and teratogenicity. Bioactivation of the primary metabolite of TBZ, 5-hydroxythiabendazole, has been proposed to yield a reactive intermediate. Here we show that this reactive intermediate can be catalyzed by myeloperoxidase (MPO), a neutrophil-bourne peroxidase. Using a cell viability endpoint, we examined the toxicity of TBZ, 5OH-TBZ, and MPO-generated metabolites in cell-based models including primary rat proximal tubule epithelial cells, NRK-52E rat proximal tubule cells, and H9C2 rat myocardial cells. Timecourse experiments with MPO showed complete turnover of 5OH-TBZ within 15 min and a dramatic leftward shift in dose-response curves after 12h. After a 24h exposure in vitro, the LC(50) of this reactive intermediate was 23.3 ± 0.2 μM reduced from greater than 200 μM from 5OH-TBZ alone, an approximately 10-fold decrease. LC(50) values were equal in all cell types used. Comparison of lactate dehydrogenase leakage and caspase 3/7 activity revealed that cell death caused by the reactive intermediate is primarily associated with necrosis rather than apoptosis. This toxicity can be completely rescued via incubation with rutin, an inhibitor of MPO. These results suggest that MPO-mediated biotransformation of 5OH-TBZ yields a reactive intermediate which may play a role in TBZ-induced toxicity.
Adriamycin (doxorubicin), a chemotherapeutic agent commonly used in the treatment of pediatric solid tumors, is known to have a dose-related cardiotoxicity, which is reported to be more common in children. The clinical manifestation of this is congestive cardiac failure (CHF), and this is fatal in 50% of the cases. Various strategies, including prospective multiple gated acquisition (MUGA) scan for early detection of the onset of cardiac damage has been recommended to decrease this fatality caused by cardiotoxicity.
All children receiving Adriamycin for solid tumors, registered at our pediatric solid tumor clinic from January 1998 through June 1999, were included in the study. Cardiotoxicity was evaluated by using electrocardiogram (ECG)-gated radionuclide cardiac angiography (MUGA scan).
MUGA scans were performed on 55 patients in the above-mentioned period of 18 months. Twenty-three patients had only 1 baseline MUGA scan done, 12 of these are awaiting further studies at appropriate time and 11 are either dead or lost to follow-up. Of the remaining 32 patients, 13 have shown evidence of cardiotoxicity on MUGA scan done at a cumulative dose of 180 to 200 mg/m(2), in the form of decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) or abnormality in myocardial movements. Three of these 13 patients had clinical evidence of CHF. In 10 patients, timely discontinuation of Adriamycin, based on the MUGA report, probably has helped avoid the development of CHF.
Routine monitoring of all children receiving Adriamycin is required to avoid the mortality and morbidity of Adriamycin-related cardiotoxicity, which may develop at relatively low cumulative doses also.
Methamphetamine (METH) use is one of the major public health concerns worldwide. Long-term use of METH induces not only dependence but also psychosis which is associated with METH-induced brain damage, including neuroinflammation produced by activated microglia. We report the case of a female patient whose psychotic symptoms in METH use disorder were successfully improved by anti-inflammatory drug minocycline therapy. Although the precise mechanism(s) underlying the efficacy of minocycline in METH use disorder are currently unclear, minocycline appears to be a good candidate for future investigation clinical trials for medication development in METH using populations.
A case of divergence paralysis associated with diazepam ingestion is reported. The cerebrospinal fluid findings and the computed tomographic scan of the brain were unremarkable. The time of ingestion of diazepam and the occurrence of diplopia were so closely related that it is likely that diazepam caused the divergence paralysis an association which is thought not to have been reported previously.
Maternal cocaine administration during pregnancy increased apoptosis in near-term fetal rat heart. The present study tested the hypothesis that prenatal cocaine exposure increases the heart susceptibility to ischemia/reperfusion injury in the offspring. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats received cocaine (30 mg kg(-1) day(-1)) or saline from days 15 to 21 of gestational age. Maternal body weights were not significantly different at the end of cocaine treatment, but body weights of offspring were decreased slightly at ages of 1, 3, and 7 days. Although heart-to-body weight ratio was not affected at all ages examined, prenatal cocaine significantly increased left ventricular myocyte size at an age of 30 days. Additionally, prenatal cocaine increased DNA fragmentation measured in the hearts isolated from offspring of 1, 3, 7, and 21 days, but not of 30 days, with the peak at 3-day neonates. Antiapoptotic (Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L)) and proapoptotic (Bax and Bad) proteins were expressed in neonatal rat hearts of both groups. Prenatal cocaine exposure decreased levels of Bcl-2 in 21-day and increased Bax in 21- and 30-day rat hearts. In addition, hearts of 30-day-old male progeny were studied using the Langendorff preparation, and were subjected to 25 min of ischemia and 60 min of reperfusion. Preischemic baseline values of left ventricular (LV) function were the same between the two groups. However, prenatal cocaine exposure significantly attenuated postischemic recovery of LV function, and significantly increased elevated LV end diastolic pressure during reperfusion. This was associated with a significant increase in ischemia/reperfusion-induced LV myocardial infarct size. The results suggest that prenatal cocaine exposure induces abnormal apoptosis and myocyte hypertrophy in postnatal heart, leading to an increased heart susceptibility to ischemic insults in postnatal life.
We have identified a new insertional mutation in the mouse (TgN737Rpw) that causes a phenotype that closely resembles human autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease. The renal pathology in these mutants first presents itself as a dilation of the proximal tubules, which is quickly followed by the development of cystic lesions in the collecting ducts. The livers in the mutant animals develop a variable lesion depending upon the genetic background. We have cloned the mutant locus and have isolated and characterized a gene, Tg737, whose expression is disrupted in the mutant animals. Expression of the Tg737 gene can normally be detected using the Northern blot analysis at low levels in a variety of tissues, including the kidney and liver. Using the in situ hybridization procedure, expression of the Tg737 mRNA can be detected in the collecting ducts of adult kidneys and in portions of the embryonic day 15.5 kidney. Most important, we have corrected the defective kidney trait by expressing the wild-type cDNA as a transgene in the mutant animals. The human homologue of the Tg737 gene has also been cloned and mapped to human chromosome 13.
Forty-nine children and adolescents whose seizures reportedly worsened while receiving carbamazepine (CBZ) were studied retrospectively. Twenty-six patients met criteria for excellent documentation of carbamazepine-exacerbated seizures. Four epileptic syndromes were particularly affected: childhood absence epilepsy; focal symptomatic, frontal lobe epilepsy; Lennox-Gastaut syndrome; and severe myoclonic epilepsy of infancy. Eight of the 26 patients developed new-onset absence seizures and three patients with established absence epilepsy experienced absence status. Other seizure types, including atonic, tonic-clonic, and myoclonic, developed in eight patients treated with CBZ, and new generalized spike-and-wave discharges were observed in electroencephalograms of nine patients. CBZ is a widely used, effective antiepileptic drug, particularly for partial or partial complex seizures; however, if uncontrolled, generalized seizures occur after CBZ is prescribed for children or adolescents with absence or mixed seizures, a trial of CBZ discontinuation is warranted. The data reported here do not permit calculation of the incidence of this phenomenon.
Glucocorticoids exert anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects that may be regulated in part by the activities of the glucocorticoid-activating and -inactivating enzymes, 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11HSD1) and type 2 (11HSD2), respectively. Previous studies have demonstrated that inflammatory bowel diseases in humans and experimental animals upregulate 11HSD1 and downregulate 11HSD2. We investigated whether proinflammatory cytokines modulate colonic 11HSDs as well as whether lymphoid organs exhibit any 11HSD response to inflammation. Colon tissue explants exposed to tumor necrosis factor α exhibited an upregulation of 11HSD1 mRNA whereas interleukin 1β downregulated 11HSD2 mRNA. Experimental colitis induced by the intracolonic administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid stimulated 11HSD1 activity not only in the colon but also in mesenteric lymph nodes and the spleen. Analysis of mRNA for 11HSD1 in colon-draining lymph nodes and the spleen showed that inflammation upregulates the expression of this enzyme in mobile lymphoid cells similar to the intraepithelial and lamina propria leukocytes isolated from the colon. It is inferred that inflammation stimulates the reactivation of glucocorticoids in lymphoid organs and in gut-associated lymphoid tissue.
Prenatal exposure to BPA disturbs mammary gland histoarchitecture and increases the carcinogenic susceptibility to chemical challenges administered long after BPA exposure. Our aim was to assess the effect of prenatal BPA exposure on mammary gland angiogenesis and steroid hormone pathways in virgin cycling rats. Pregnant Wistar rats were exposed to either 25 or 250 g/kg/day (25 and 250 BPA, respectively) or to vehicle. Female offspring were autopsied on postnatal day (PND) 50 or 110. Ovarian steroid serum levels, the expression of steroid receptors and their co-regulators SRC-3 and SMRT in the mammary gland, and angiogenesis were evaluated. At PND 50, all BPA-treated animals had lower serum levels of progesterone, while estradiol levels remained unchanged. The higher dose of BPA increased mammary ERα and decreased SRC-3 expression at PND 50 and PND 110. SMRT protein levels were similar among groups at PND 50, whereas at PND 110, animals exposed to 250 BPA showed a lower SMRT expression. Interestingly, in the control and 25 BPA groups, SMRT increased from PND 50 to PND 110. At PND 50, an increased vascular area associated with higher VEGF expression was observed in the 250 BPA-treated rats. At PND 110, the vascular area was still increased, but VEGF expression was similar to that of control rats. The present results demonstrate that prenatal exposure to BPA alters the endocrine environment of the mammary gland and its angiogenic process. Increased angiogenesis and altered steroid hormone signals could explain the higher frequency of pre-neoplastic lesions found later in life. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Endocrine disruptors'.
Rhizomelic chondrodysplasia punctata (RCDP) is a rare autosomal recessive phenotype that comprises complementation group 11 of the peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBD). PEX7, a candidate gene for RCDP identified in yeast, encodes the receptor for peroxisomal matrix proteins with the type-2 peroxisome targeting signal (PTS2). By homology probing we identified human and murine PEX7 genes and found that expression of either corrects the PTS2-import defect characteristic of RCDP cells. In a collection of 36 RCDP probands, we found two inactivating PEX7 mutations: one, L292ter, was present in 26 of the probands, all with a severe phenotype; the second, A218V, was present in three probands, including two with a milder phenotype. A third mutation, G217R, whose functional significance is yet to be determined, was present in five probands, all compound heterozygotes with L292ter. We conclude that PEX7 is responsible for RCDP (PBD CG11) and suggest a founder effect may explain the high frequency of L292ter.
Antiepileptic drugs may cause worsening of epilepsy by aggravating pre-existing seizures or by triggering new seizure types. There are several reports of adverse effects related to midazolam, but only a few authors reported epileptic manifestations. We report four newborns seen at the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit of our University Hospital, who developed seizures a few seconds after the administration of midazolam. It is difficult to identify the patients at risk, but it is important to be aware and recognize this situation.
A prospective study of two combined oral contraceptives was conducted in the Sudan. No pregnancies occurred. Overall incidence of side effects was low. Headache was most frequently reported. Elevations were observed for weight, systolic and diastolic blood pressures, and SGOT and SGPT values while a decrease was seen for hemoglobin levels. Menstrual irregularities were not a problem for the users. Total 6-month use discontinuation rates were low for both pill groups.
Accumulating evidence indicates that amitriptyline decreases pain sensation when administered orally, intraperitoneally, or for sciatic nerve block. Previous reports of intrathecal administration of amitriptyline have yielded inconsistent results. The failure of amitriptyline to provide antinociception may partly be related to its high logP (octanol-water partition coefficient) and consequent poor spread within the cerebrospinal fluid. We evaluated spinal block after various concentrations of amitriptyline administered intrathecally in a fixed high volume.
We administered 100 microL of 5, 10, 15.9 (0.5%), 25, 50, or 100 mmol/L amitriptyline hydrochloride solution or 100 microL of 15.4 mmol/L (0.5%) bupivacaine hydrochloride solution intrathecally to rats. The neurologic deficit was evaluated by antinociceptive, motor, and proprioceptive responses, and the spinal cord was examined for histopathologic changes.
Doses of 100 microL amitriptyline at 15.9 mmol/L (0.5%) and 25 mmol/L produced longer complete nerve block than did bupivacaine at 15.4 mmol/L (0.5%); 5 and 10 mmol/L amitriptyline produced only partial nerve block. However, with 100 microL intrathecal amitriptyline at 50 and 100 mmol/L, many rats did not fully recover from spinal block. Severe axonal degeneration, myelin breakdown, and replacement of neuronal structures by vacuoles were seen in the spinal root section of animals injected with concentrations higher than 25 mmol/L amitriptyline.
At lower doses, intrathecal injection of high volumes of amitriptyline results in long-acting spinal block. At higher doses, intrathecal amitriptyline results in irreversible neurologic deficit. Therefore, we do not recommend the use of intrathecal amitriptyline because of a very low therapeutic index.
Codeine and other opiates can induce immediate type wheal and flare skin reactions. Calcium channel blockers including nifedipine have been shown to inhibit mast cell degranulation in different systems. The oral administration of nifedipine (10 mg) did not affect the size of codeine-induced skin reactions in ten normal volunteers. Mean wheal over flare sizes were 11.7 mm/29.2 mm before nifedipine and 11.5 mm/31.0 mm at peak nifedipine blood levels. Similar observations were made when codeine was injected locally with or without 20 micrograms nifedipine (12.1/29.2 mm and 13.2/29.2 mm, respectively). These data suggest that codeine-induced mast cell degranulation may be mediated by a calcium-independent mechanism. Alternatively, mast cells in the human skin may differ in their reactions to secretagogues when compared with basophils and mast cells from other human tissues or other species.
