Portal hypertensive gastropathy (PHG) is a clinical entity that is observed frequently in patients with liver cirrhosis. In PHG, gastric mucosa is highly susceptible to mucosal injury caused by noxious agents. Many studies, including ours, have reported that a 72-kDa heat shock protein (HSP72) has a crucial cytoprotective function in gastric mucosa. In this study, we investigated the expression and cytoprotective effect of HSP72 on gastric mucosa in portal hypertensive rats.
PHG was produced by bile duct ligation (BDL) or carbon tetrachloride administration in male Sprague-Dawley rats. The expression of HSP72 in the gastric mucosa was evaluated by Western blotting. Induction of gastric mucosal HSP72 by 6-h water-immersion stress was compared between cirrhotic and control rats. Also, mucosal protective abilities against hydrochloric acid (HCl; 0.6 N) following pretreatment with water-immersion stress to induce HSP72 were studied in both groups.
Portal venous pressure was significantly higher in cirrhotic rats compared with control rats ( P < 0.05). Baseline expression (before water-immersion stress) of mucosal HSP72 was significantly lower in cirrhotic rats compared with control rats. HCl-induced gastric mucosal lesions were significantly suppressed in control rats compared with cirrhotic rats, especially when HSP72 was preinduced by water-immersion stress.
These findings suggest that HSP72 in the gastric mucosa plays a crucial role with respect to cytoprotection; the induction of HSP72 may provide therapeutic strategies for protection against mucosal injury in PHG.
Behçet's disease is a multisystem disorder characterized by a chronic inflammation including acute attacks and remission periods. Decreased enzyme activity of the antioxidant system and increased levels of free radicals may have important roles in the damage of tissues observed in the disease period. In addition, the atherogenic tendency of serum lipid, lipoproteins, lipid peroxidation levels and endothelial dysfunction accompany the above mentioned findings. As a consequence of these events, different degrees of low density lipoprotein (LDL) oxidation occur in vivo, and then autoantibodies against oxidized-LDL(AuAb-oxLDL) are produced.
Lipids, lipoproteins, lipid hydroperoxide, AuAb-oxLDL, total antioxidant status (TAS), serum-soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) levels in serum, the activities of antioxidant enzymes including glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), glutathione reductase (GR), superoxide dismutase (SOD), and catalase (CAT) in erythrocytes and plasma, were determined in 25 patients with Behçet's disease and in 25 healthy volunteers. Also, susceptibility to copper-induced in vitro oxidation of LDL by using lag time, a measure of resistance to oxidation, oxidation rate and extent of oxidation, a measure of diene production in both groups, was studied.
It was observed that lipid hydroperoxide and AuAb-oxLDL levels in patients with Behçet's disease were significantly higher, but erythrocyte SOD, CAT, plasma GSH-Px activities, and TAS were significantly lower than those in healthy subjects. Susceptibility of LDL to oxidation in the patients was found to be increased. Total cholesterol, LDL-C and apo B levels and acute phase reactants were significantly higher, but HDL-C and apo AI levels were significantly lower, in patients when compared to healthy subjects. The levels of AuAb-oxLDL in patients were found to correlate with TAS, total cholesterol, LDL-C, lipid hydroperoxide and erythrocyte SOD activities (r = -0.62, p < 0.01; r = 0.64, p < 0.01; r = 0.55, p < 0.01; r = 0.81, p < 0.01; r = -0.63, p < 0.01, respectively). In addition, lipid hydroperoxide levels were found to correlate with total cholesterol, LDL-C and erythrocyte SOD activities (r = 0.45, p < 0.05; r = 0.45, p < 0.05; r = -0.46, p < 0.05, respectively). PAI-1 and sICAM-1 were found to be increased in the patients and correlated with AuAb-oxLDL and lipid hydroperoxide levels (r = 0.56, p < 0.01; r = 0.67, p < 0.01 and r = 0.59, p < 0.01; r = 0.61, p < 0.01, respectively).
It was concluded that the observed increase of lipid, lipoproteins, lipid hydroperoxide, susceptibility of LDL to oxidation, autoantibodies against ox-LDL levels and decrease of antioxidant enzyme activities and total antioxidant status and increased secretion of endothelial derivated peptides including sICAM and PAI-1, and their interactions may indicate that there is a tendency to atherothrombotic events in patients with Behçet's disease.
This report describes 5 out of 8 siblings who were the first cases of myotonia congenita diagnosed in our department. The parents were first cousins. Neither the parents, nor the other family members have myotonia. The affected siblings 4 boys and 1 girl, all showed a very typical myotonia especially after prolonged rest, and it could be worked off with continuing activity. They had a muscular looking body or a herculean proportion. The diagnosis were based upon family history, clinical findings of percussion myotonia, had grip myotania, prominent muscular hypertrophy and confirmed by electromyographic examination revealing myotonic discharges. Since there were some functional impairments, these patients were treated with diphenylhydantoin and then with quinine sulphate, with good results. The patients related parents were much likely to be heterozygous for the same harmful recessive genes, because they had common ancestor. The role of marriage counseling is important in this kind of inherited disease, to prevent the occurrence of this inherited disorder in the next generations.
To investigate the expression of inflammatory factors in lung tissue of acute paraquat (PQ) poisoned rats.
Fifty male SD rats were randomized divided into two groups: the normal control group (NC group, n = 10) and the PQ group (n = 40). The 1 ml saline was administered once in normal control group. The PQ group was administered with 20 mg/kg 1% PQ by intraperitoneal injection to establish the model of PQ induced lung injury. At six hours, at the first, the third and the seventh day the PQ group were sacrificed, while at the first day the normal control group was sacrificed. The level of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) mRNA, interleukin 10 (IL-10) mRNA, high mobility group box 1 (HMGB-1) mRNA in lung of rats were detected. Meanwhile, pathological changes of the lung were examined under optical microscope.
Compared with that in normal control group, TNF-alpha mRNA expression in lung tissue of PQ group reached the peak at the six hour and decreased slowly at the first day [(0.740 +/- 0.100) and (0.584 +/- 0.049) respectively]. At the six hour and the first day in PQ group it was significantly higher than that in normal control group (P < 0.05 or P < 0.01). IL-10 mRNA expression in lung tissue of PQ group was elevated at the six hour, reached the peak at the first day, at the third day [(0.551 +/- 0.016) and (0.524 +/- 0.010) respectively] and the seventh day also higher than that in normal control group. At the first and the seventh day in the PQ group it was significantly higher than that in normal control group (P < 0.01). Meanwhile, HMGB-1 mRNA expression in lung tissue of PQ group was also elevated at the six hour, reached the peak at the first day, at the third [(0.695 +/- 0.060), (0.871 +/- 0.154) and (0.819 +/- 0.188) respectively] and the seventh day also higher than that in normal control group. At six hour, the first and the third day in the PQ group it was significantly higher than that in normal control group (P < 0.01). The histological changes such as alveolar edema, hemorrhage and inflammatory cell infiltration in the PQ group were more than those in the normal control group.
In rats after PQ intoxication the levels of the inflammatory factors TNF-alpha, IL-10 and HMGB-1 are higher than normal rats, and inflammatory could play an important role in lung injury of poisoned rats.
While there is agreement that verapamil attenuates the AF- induced refractory period shortening when given before AF induction, controversy exists regarding its effects when given after the onset of persistent AF. This study aimed to compare atrial fibrillatory frequency obtained from the surface ECG in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) with oral verapamil treatment to those without this treatment.
Surface ECG recordings were performed in 57 patients (34 male, 23 female, mean age 59 +/- 11 years) with persistent AF (> 7 days). The frequency content of the fibrillatory baseline was quantified using digital signal processing (filtering, QRST complex averaging and subtraction, Fourier transformation). In 27 patients with verapamil treatment (120 or 240 mg/day for at least 7 days) mean fibrillatory frequency measured 6.4 +/- 0.2 Hz, compared to 7.0 +/- 0.4 Hz (P = 0.012) in 30 patients without verapamil. In a subset of 20 randomly selected patients (10 with, 10 without verapamil treatment) a 24-hour Holter ECG recording was performed and fibrillatory frequency determined at 4 PM, 10 PM, 4 AM, and 10 AM. While there was a significant frequency reduction in the verapamil treated patients at night (P = 0.011), it remained constant over time in the other patients.
In patients with persistent AF, fibrillatory frequency assessed by spectral analysis of the surface ECG is lower in patients taking verapamil.
We report a case of reversible bone marrow aplasia related to the use of naproxen. A 71-year-old women developed severe pancytopenia after she had been treated with naproxen for more than 8 weeks. Bone marrow examination showed marked hypocellularity compatible with aplastic anemia. Full recovery of the pancytopenia and bone marrow was observed when naproxen was discontinued. Absence of exposure to other drugs and lack of underlying disorders known to cause bone marrow aplasia makes this case unique.
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a common respiratory pathogen and a major cause of morbidity and mortality in humans, particularly in the elderly and young children. The pulmonary immune response to S. pneumoniae is initiated very rapidly, and, ideally, innate immune responses are able to contain bacterial colonization. In the studies presented here, we sought to determine whether activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) would protect mice from an otherwise lethal infection with S. pneumoniae. The rationale for this hypothesis is that, although most AhR agonists are potent immunosuppressants, AhR activation enhances the inflammatory response to pathogenic and nonpathogenic stimuli. Specifically, neutrophil numbers and levels of inflammatory cytokines are often increased in mice treated with the potent AhR agonist 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD). To test the hypothesis, vehicle control- or TCDD-treated mice were intranasally infected with S. pneumoniae. Mortality, pulmonary bacterial burden, cytokine/chemokine levels, and influx of immune cells to the lung were analyzed at various times postinfection. As predicted, survival was substantially improved in the mice treated with TCDD, and the pulmonary bacterial burden was decreased. Surprisingly, however, there was no evidence suggesting that protection resulted from an enhanced inflammatory response. In fact, neutrophil numbers and inflammatory chemokines and cytokines were all decreased in the TCDD-treated mice relative to vehicle control-treated mice. This suggests that the protective effect of AhR activation is not the result of altered immune function but instead may reflect a direct effect on the response of lung cells to infection.
We report a case of acute visual loss after a test dose (1 mg) of intravenous amphotericin B administered to a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus and with cryptococcal meningitis. Her visual acuity was normal prior to the injection of amphotericin B. The meningitis subsequently responded to miconazole and flucytosine treatment. Our findings suggest that amphotericin B should be withheld in the treatment of cryptococcal meningitis if disease of the optic nerve is strongly suspected.
21 women with endometriosis were treated with Danazol, a derivative of 17-alpha-aethinyltestosteron in an open study over a period of 6 months. 20 women had previously undergone an operation because of the spread of endometriosis and its symptoms, in no case was it possible to remove the source of the endometriosis entirely. Histological confirmation of the endometriosis was ensured in each case. The initial dose was 600 mg Danazol daily. In 17 cases the dose was reduced in the course of 6 months and in 5 cases treatment had to be stopped between the 4th and 6th month. An improvement of the symptoms arising occurred under this treatment. Side-effects, observed during the treatment with Danazol, such as acne vulgaris, seborrhoea, flushes and headaches occurred in 6 respectively 5 cases (28,6 respectively 23,8%). Very occasionally pain in the joints was reported. Almost all women put on weight. The effect of this treatment on fat- and glycometabolism, on liver- and kidney function, on blood-coagulation as well as bloodpressure was examined, no divergence from the norm was observed.
Entecavir is a nucleoside analogue with potent in vitro activity against lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV). This randomized, dose-ranging, phase 2 study compared the efficacy and safety of entecavir with lamivudine in lamivudine-refractory patients.
Hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive and -negative patients (n = 182), viremic despite lamivudine treatment for > or =24 weeks or having documented lamivudine resistance substitutions, were switched directly to entecavir (1.0, 0.5, or 0.1 mg daily) or continued on lamivudine (100 mg daily) for up to 76 weeks.
At week 24, significantly more patients receiving entecavir 1.0 mg (79%) or 0.5 mg (51%) had undetectable HBV DNA levels by branched chain DNA assay compared with lamivudine (13%; P < .0001). Entecavir 1.0 mg was superior to entecavir 0.5 mg for this end point (P < .01). After 48 weeks, mean reductions in HBV DNA levels were 5.06, 4.46, and 2.85 log(10) copies/mL on entecavir 1.0, 0.5, and 0.1 mg, respectively, significantly higher than 1.37 log(10) copies/mL on lamivudine. Significantly higher proportions of patients achieved normalization of alanine aminotransferase levels on entecavir 1.0, 0.5, and 0.1 mg (68%, 59%, and 47%, respectively) than on lamivudine (6%). One virologic rebound due to resistance occurred (in the 0.5-mg group).
In HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative lamivudine-refractory patients, treatment with entecavir 1.0 and 0.5 mg daily was well tolerated and resulted in significant reductions in HBV DNA levels and normalization of alanine aminotransferase levels. One milligram of entecavir was more effective than 0.5 mg in this population.
Human peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous autosomal-recessive disease caused by mutations in PEX genes that encode peroxins, proteins required for peroxisome biogenesis. These lethal diseases include Zellweger syndrome (ZS), neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD) and infantile Refsum's disease (IRD), three phenotypes now thought to represent a continuum of clinical features that are most severe in ZS, milder in NALD and least severe in IRD2. At least eleven PBD complementation groups have been identified by somatic-cell hybridization analysis compared to the eighteen PEX complementation groups that have been found in yeast. We have cloned the human PEX1 gene encoding a 147-kD member of the AAA protein family (ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities), which is the putative orthologue of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Pex1p (ScPex1p). Human PEX1 has been identified by computer-based 'homology probing' using the ScPex1p sequence to screen databases of expressed sequence tags (dbEST) for human cDNA clones. Expression of PEX1 rescued the cells from the biogenesis defect in human fibroblasts of complementation group 1 (CG1), the largest PBD complementation group. We show that PEX1 is mutated in CG1 patients.
The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of lethal autosomal-recessive diseases caused by defects in peroxisomal matrix protein import, with the concomitant loss of multiple peroxisomal enzyme activities. Ten complementation groups (CGs) have been identified for the PBDs, with CG1 accounting for 51% of all PBD patients. We identified the human orthologue of yeast PEX1, a gene required for peroxisomal matrix protein import. Expression of human PEX1 restored peroxisomal protein import in fibroblasts from 30 CG1 patients, and PEX1 mutations were detected in multiple CG1 probands. A common PEX1 allele, G843D, is present in approximately half of CG1 patients and has a deleterious effect on PEX1 activity. Phenotypic analysis of PEX1-deficient cells revealed severe defects in peroxisomal matrix protein import and destabilization of PEX5, the receptor for the type-1 peroxisomal targetting signal, even though peroxisomes were present in these cells and capable of importing peroxisomal membrane proteins. These data demonstrate an important role for PEX1 in peroxisome biogenesis and suggest that mutations in this gene are the most common cause of the PBDs.
Eight cases of benign angiopathy of the postpartum period have been reported previously, none of which involved the administration of bromocriptine.
We describe a case of benign cerebral angiopathy in a 20-year-old woman in the postpartum period occurring after bromocriptine therapy prescribed to suppress lactation.
Other adverse effects due to vasoconstriction have been reported during bromocriptine therapy, such as myocardial infarction and arterial hypertension. This case suggests that a similar mechanism may be possible in cerebral arteries, although the cause of vasoconstriction remains uncertain.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the effects of iboga agents on cocaine-induced hyperactivity. Both inhibition and enhancement of cocaine-induced activity by ibogaine have been reported. In the present study, rats were treated with either ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), noribogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), 18-methoxycoronaridine (40 mg/kg, i.p.), or saline, 1 or 19 h prior to the administration of cocaine (20 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline. Motor activity was monitored thereafter for 3 h. All three iboga agents had acute inhibitory effects and delayed potentiating effects on cocaine-induced hyperactivity. These time-dependent effects, which could not be attributed to the motor activity induced by the iboga agents alone, account for divergent results reported in the literature.
Tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BHP), an organic lipid hydroperoxide analog, has been demonstrated to exert pro-oxidant effects to evaluate mechanisms involving oxidative stress in hepatocyte cells and rat liver. Herein, we present an investigation of the event of molecular mechanism of t-BHP related acute liver injury. A proteomic approach was used to identify proteins which are differentially expressed in liver cells following t-BHP treatment and the mechanism of its action in apoptotic and endoplasmic reticulum stress pathways. Our results demonstrate that the t-BHP treatment of liver cells increased cell cytoxicity and apoptosis. t-BHP dose-dependent induction of cell apoptosis and stained liver sections relieved the acute rat liver injury were accompanied by sustained phosphorylation of JNK1/2 and p65. In addition, there were 13 differentially displayed proteins between the t-BHP-induced and untreated were assayed and validated in vivo. Furthermore, we demonstrated that t-BHP induced human Chang liver cell viability and apoptosis properties by up-regulating the levels of ETFA (electron transfer flavoprotein subunit alpha). This study demonstrated that there was an increase in the cellular levels of ETFA in the t-BHP induction in viability and apoptosis via the activation of JNK1/2 and NFκB signaling modules. NAC administration and shRNA ETFA conferred resistance to t-BHP-increased ETFA and CHOP expression via IRE1-alpha/TRAF2 complex formation, activation of JNK1/2 and p50. We concluded that the mechanism of t-BHP-induced an apoptosis cascade and endoplasmic reticulum stress in hepatocyte cells by up-regulation of ETFA, providing a new mechanism for liver injury.
Intestinal inflammation is a painful syndrome with multiple symptoms, including chronic pain. This study examined the possible role of sensory neurons and substance P in symptoms of an animal model of acute intestinal inflammation. The model was induced by injecting ethanol and zymosan into the colon of anesthetized male rats. Three hours later, sections of the colon were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. To determine the role of substance P, 5 mg/kg of the neurokinin-1 receptor (NK-1r) antagonist, CP-96,345, or 300 microg/kg of an antisense oligonucleotide targeted at NK-1r mRNA was administered. Spinal cord sections were examined for internalization of NK-1r, as an indicator of substance P release. Sections of colon revealed infiltration of inflammatory cells following ethanol and zymosan treatment. Plasma extravasation in rats given ethanol and zymosan was significantly greater than in controls given saline only (P<0.0001) or saline and ethanol (P<0.001). In ethanol- and zymosan-treated rats given CP-96,345, plasma extravasation was significantly less than in rats given ethanol and zymosan without the antagonist (P<0.0001). Administration of the antisense oligonucleotide also resulted in lower levels of plasma extravasation compared with controls (P<0.01). Internalization of the NK-1r was observed in neurons of lamina I in the T13-L2 and L6-S2 regions of the spinal cord, as well as in sympathetic preganglionic neurons at the L1 level. This internalization was observed in the absence of any other stimulus besides the inflammation itself. This study implicates substance P and its receptor, the NK-1r, in acute inflammation of the colon.
Mesolimbocortical dopamine plays a role in learning and memory. The specific receptor subtypes mediating the effects of dopamine, however, are still unknown. Dopamine D2, D3 and D4 receptors are expressed in the hippocampus and dopamine D3 receptors are present in the septal area, suggesting that these receptor subtypes can contribute to the behavioral effects of dopamine D2-like receptor agonists. We now investigated the role of dopamine D2 and D3 receptors in learning and memory by using the transient amnesia induced by scopolamine in the passive avoidance test as experimental model. The data strongly suggest that both dopamine D2 and D3 receptors mediate the effects of dopamine on the integrative function of learning and memory. In particular, we show that the non-selective dopamine agonist apomorphine prevents the scopolamine-induced disruption of consolidation of the previously acquired passive avoidance behavior. This effect is mediated by receptors belonging to the dopamine D2 family since it was antagonized by (-)-sulpiride and mimicked by quinpirole. Nafadotride, a relatively selective antagonist for dopamine D3 receptors, antagonized scopolamine-induced memory disruption and potentiated the facilitatory effect of quinpirole. Taken together, these results suggest that the effects of dopamine on memory consolidation are the result of a balance between dopamine D2 receptor-mediated facilitation and dopamine D3 receptor-mediated inhibition, and that dopamine D2 and D3 receptors play opposite roles in the control of the mechanisms leading to memory consolidation.
A 60-year-old man with psychotic depression became comatose following the administration of intravenous droperidol given for post-ECT delirious agitation. The differential diagnosis, which included neuroleptic malignant syndrome and the possibility that droperidol may have uniquely detrimental effects in the context of post-ECT delirium, are discussed. In light of recent publications advocating droperidol as the pharmacologic treatment of choice for severe agitation, this case illustrates a need for greater caution in its use for the treatment of post-ECT delirium.
Phenytoin (PHT) is routinely used for seizure prophylaxis after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), but may adversely affect neurologic and cognitive recovery.
We studied 527 SAH patients and calculated a "PHT burden" for each by multiplying the average serum level of PHT by the time in days between the first and last measurements, up to a maximum of 14 days from ictus. Functional outcome at 14 days and 3 months was measured with the modified Rankin scale, with poor functional outcome defined as dependence or worse (modified Rankin Scale > or =4). We assessed cognitive outcomes at 14 days and 3 months with the telephone interview for cognitive status.
PHT burden was associated with poor functional outcome at 14 days (OR, 1.5 per quartile; 95% CI, 1.3 to 1.8; P<0.001), although not at 3 months (P=0.09); the effect remained (OR, 1.6 per quartile; 95% CI, 1.2 to 2.1; P<0.001) after correction for admission Glasgow Coma Scale, fever, stroke, age, National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale > or =10, hydrocephalus, clinical vasospasm, and aneurysm rebleeding. Seizure in hospital (OR, 4.1; 95% CI, 1.5 to 11.1; P=0.002) was associated with functional disability in a univariate model only. Higher quartiles of PHT burden were associated with worse telephone interview for cognitive status scores at hospital discharge (P<0.001) and at 3 months (P=0.003).
Among patients treated with PHT, burden of exposure to PHT predicts poor neurologic and cognitive outcome after SAH.
Patients with non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) bearing epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutations are good responders to gefitinib (Iressa), an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI), yet these patients may eventually develop acquired resistance to all available EGFR-TKIs. Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (N-BPs) are inhibitors of farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) synthase as well as chelators of divalent cations. This study was undertaken to examine if the N-BP zoledronic acid (zoledronate) possessing antitumor activity could enhance the antitumor effect of gefitinib on the HCC827 NSCLC cell line expressing mutated EGFR. Both gefitinib and zoledronate were cytotoxic to HCC827 cells when treated alone. Combined treatment with gefitinib (0.025 microM) that induced G0/G1 arrest and zoledronate (50 microM) that caused S/G2/M accumulation generated an additive induction in cell cytotoxicity, sub-G1 cell population, and apoptosis. Gefitinib suppressed EGF-activated phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and Akt, while zoledronate seemed to impose its pharmacological effect independent of ERK1/2 and Akt phosphorylation. The volumes of xenografted tumors in nude mice co-administered with gefitinib (1 mg/kg/day, five days a week, p.o.) and zoledronate (10 microg/kg, twice weekly, i.p.) were significantly smaller than those of tumors in mice treated with gefitinib alone at the last stage of a 6-week in vivo study. Severe peri-tumoral fat loss frequently observed in gefitinib-treated mice disappeared in mice receiving the combined treatment. Hence, combined treatment of gefitinib with zoledronate may form a basis to develop a more effective and less toxic therapy for NSCLC with EGFR gene mutations.
Background. Lipid metabolism processes have been implicated in prostate carcinogenesis. Since several pesticides are lipophilic or are metabolized via lipid-related mechanisms, they may interact with variants of genes in the lipid metabolism pathway. Methods. In a nested case-control study of 776 cases and 1444 controls from the Agricultural Health Study (AHS), a prospective cohort study of pesticide applicators, we examined the interactions between 39 pesticides (none, low, and high exposure) and 220 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 59 genes. The false discovery rate (FDR) was used to account for multiple comparisons. Results. We found 17 interactions that displayed a significant monotonic increase in prostate cancer risk with pesticide exposure in one genotype and no significant association in the other genotype. The most noteworthy association was for ALOXE3 rs3027208 and terbufos, such that men carrying the T allele who were low users had an OR of 1.86 (95% CI = 1.16-2.99) and high users an OR of 2.00 (95% CI = 1.28-3.15) compared to those with no use of terbufos, while men carrying the CC genotype did not exhibit a significant association. Conclusion. Genetic variation in lipid metabolism genes may modify pesticide associations with prostate cancer; however our results require replication.
We describe a 62-year-old woman who developed severe, cutaneous, leukocytoclastic vasculitis following administration of Naproxen. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are widely used by millions for their analgetic as well as anti-inflammatory effects. While side-effects involving the kidney and the gastrointestinal tract are well known, hypersensitivity vasculitis is rarely reported. We report an additional case.
A case of phenytoin toxicity associated with the use of trazodone is described. Interaction between these drugs has not been reported previously. More frequent monitoring of serum phenytoin levels may be needed in patients who are concomitantly receiving trazodone.
The authors report the detailed analysis of 4 calculi containing triamterene observed between 1979 and 1981. The composition of drug layers is almost the same in the 4 calculi and shows a mixture of triamterene (estimated at 35% of iatrogenic components) and 7 metabolites among them p-hydroxy-triamterene (5-10%) and mainly p-hydroxytriamterene estersulfate (40-55%). The authors hypothesize a metabolic or physicochemical relation between triamterene and uric acid which are frequently associated in these calculi that represent 0.4% of all lithiasis. An estimated 150 to 200 calculi with triamterene are probably eliminated though not detected every year in France. The interest of a fine analysis of calculi by appropriate physical methods, such as infrared spectrometry, is emphasized.
The effect of cyclophosphamide (CP) on the urinary bladder epithelium of rats treated with N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) was examined histologically to detect preneoplastic papillary or nodular hyperplasia. The urinary bladder epithelium of rats injected intraperitoneally with 40 or 80 mg/kg body weight of CP after treatment with 0.025% BBN for 2 weeks showed extensive epithelial erosion and then simple, or papillary or nodular hyperplasia, but this soon almost disappeared. In contrast, rats given BBN alone showed papillary or nodular hyperplasia later. These findings indicate that epithelial damage by CP inhibited the early neoplastic process of BBN.
We compared the value of bethanechol 80 micrograms/kg subcutaneously, acid infusion with a 0.1 normal hydrochloric acid, and edrophonium 80 micrograms/kg intravenously as provocative agents to reproduce chest pain and manometric alterations in 72 patients with noncardiac chest pain. No patient developed typical chest pain and manometric alteration with acid infusion, while five (6.9%) patients developed these changes with edrophonium and four (5.6%) with bethanechol. Only one patient developed diagnostic changes exclusively with bethanechol. All patients tested with bethanechol developed some degree of local pain or significant cholinergic symptoms, with two patients requiring atropine for relief. Side effects from edrophonium were infrequent (28% of patients tested) and did not require atropine administration. We conclude that, using the parameters of typical chest pain and the development of manometric alterations as proof of the esophageal origin of chest pain, bethanechol at 80 micrograms/kg adds little information beyond that obtainable with edrophonium. Further, the high incidence of bethanechol-related side effects at 80 micrograms/kg suggests that this dose should not be generally recommended.
