The concepts involved in the design of 'soft' drugs (drugs which, after achieving their therapeutic role, are metabolised in a predictable manner and at a controlled rate to non-toxic moieties) have been further applied in the case of atropine. Selected aliphatic and cycloaliphatic esters of a hypothetical, inactive acidic metabolite of atropine were designed and found to have atropine-like activity, and to revert to the inactive metabolite in rat liver homogenates. Peak anticholinergic activity, measured by the degree of antagonism of carbachol-induced spasms of guinea pig ileum strips, was observed when the esters contained a quaternary group. The in vitro stability of the esters was determined in human plasma, in pH 12 buffer solution, and in rat liver homogenate; the fastest rate of hydrolysis occurred in rat liver homogenate, and least sterically hindered esters degraded more rapidly than hindered esters. Synthesis of the esters was achieved in two stages. Phenylmalonic acid and the appropriate alcohol gave phenylmalonic acid monoesters, which, after reaction with tropine, afforded the required diesters. The tertiary amine group on the tropine moiety of the diesters then allowed the preparation of quaternary derivatives.
A 24-year-old woman with familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) had for one year been treated with colchicine, 1 mg daily, for repeated bouts of fever, abdominal pain and arthritis. She was also known to have renal amyloidosis. Lately she had developed gastrointestinal symptoms, muscle pain and obvious, predominantly proximal muscular weakness in both legs. The cause of the symptoms was rhabdomyolysis with an increased creatinine activity of 1000 U/l and marked myoglobinuria (1600 micrograms/l), as well as renal failure with normal uric acid and a creatinine clearance of 3 ml/min per 1.73 m2. Serum creatinine concentration was 970 mumol/l, urea 34 mmol/l. Muscle biopsy corresponded to a subacute necrotizing myopathy with vacuole formation, signs typical of toxic damage. Renal biopsy confirmed advanced amyloidosis. The colchicine dose was reduced to 0.5 mg/d. The renal failure responded to conservative treatment. The myopathy symptoms receded within 4 weeks, creatinine clearance rising to 25 ml/min per 1.73 m2. 12 months after reduction of the colchicine dose the patient was without any FMF-related symptoms.
The diagnostic significance of dipyridamole-provoked chest pain was studied in 17 children with severe coronary arterial stenotic lesions (CAL) complicated with Kawasaki disease. Although dipyridamole induced chest pain in seven patients (symptomatic group), 10 reported no pain (asymptomatic group). In the asymptomatic group, seven children had one vessel disease (1 VD) of right coronary artery (RCA) and the other three had two vessel disease (2 VD) involving the RCA and left anterior descending artery (LAD). Four multivessel disease patients, one three vessel disease (3VD) and three 2VD of LAD and RCA, and three 1VD of LAD, were symptomatic. In the thallium scans, all patients, except two of the asymptomatic group, showed perfusion abnormalities. In addition, the extent score of the symptomatic group was significantly worse than that of the asymptomatic group (P = 0.01). While only one in six of the asymptomatic group showed abnormal ST depression on treadmill exercise electrocardiography, all patients in the symptomatic group (P = 0.02) showed ischemic ST depression. These findings suggest that the occurrence of chest pain after medication with dipyridamole closely correlates with the severity of CAL in children.
A 13-year-old girl with Graves' disease, whose younger sister had systemic lupus erythematosus, developed polyarthralgia, fever, neutropenia, hypergammaglobulinemia, and microscopic hematuria after treatment with propylthiouracil (PTU) for 2 years. Myeloperoxidase-anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies were strongly positive. Anti-single- and anti-double-stranded DNA antibodies were positive, whereas LE cells and anti-Sm antibodies were negative. PTU was discontinued and all symptoms subsided gradually. Two years later, the microscopic hematuria had disappeared completely. Both patients had the identical HLA-DR alleles (HLA-DR9). These present two cases in siblings suggest that both sisters had lupus diathesis, and that the elder sister developed a PTU-induced lupus-like syndrome.
A population-based case-control study investigated the association between maternal exposure to air pollutants, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, sulfur dioxide, and particulate matter <10 microm in aerodynamic diameter during weeks 3-8 of pregnancy and the risk of selected cardiac birth defects and oral clefts in livebirths and fetal deaths between 1997 and 2000 in seven Texas counties. Controls were frequency matched to cases on year of birth, vital status, and maternal county of residence at delivery. Stationary monitoring data were used to estimate air pollution exposure. Logistic regression models adjusted for covariates available in the vital record. When the highest quartile of exposure was compared with the lowest, the authors observed positive associations between carbon monoxide and tetralogy of Fallot (odds ratio = 2.04, 95% confidence interval: 1.26, 3.29), particulate matter <10 microm in aerodynamic diameter and isolated atrial septal defects (odds ratio = 2.27, 95% confidence interval: 1.43, 3.60), and sulfur dioxide and isolated ventricular septal defects (odds ratio = 2.16, 95% confidence interval: 1.51, 3.09). There were inverse associations between carbon monoxide and isolated atrial septal defects and between ozone and isolated ventricular septal defects. Evidence that air pollution exposure influences the risk of oral clefts was limited. Suggestive results support a previously reported finding of an association between ozone exposure and pulmonary artery and valve defects.
It has been proposed that nephrotic syndrome is a consequence of an imbalance between oxidant and anti-oxidant activity. Nephrin plays an important role in maintaining glomerular filtration barrier. This study aimed to explore the relationship between the expression of glomerular nephrin and oxidative stress reaction in rats with adriamycin (ADR)-induced nephrosis, and the protection of prednisone and vitamin E against renal injuries.
Nephrosis was induced by single intravenous injection of ADR (5 mg/kg). The prednisone intervention group was administered with prednisone (10 mg/kg daily) between 1 and 4 weeks after ADR injection. The vitamin E intervention group received vitamin E of 20 mg/kg daily from 1 week before ADR injection till to 4 weeks after ADR injection. Control rats were intravenously injected with normal saline. After 7, 14, 21 and 28 days of ADR injection, the indexes of oxidative stress reaction of the renal cortex, malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and total antioxidative capacity (T-AOC), were measured using the chemical chromatometry. The protein expression of glomerular nephrin was measured by immunohistochemistry.
Prednisone or vitamin E treatment reduced urinary protein from 14 days to 28 days after ADR injection. MDA levels of renal cortex increased, while renal activities of SOD and T-AOC as well as nephrin protein contents decreased in untreated nephrosis group from 7 days after ADR injection compared with those in the control rats. Compared with the untreated nephrosis group, prednisone treatment resulted in an increase in nephrin protein contents 28 days after ADR injection; Vitamin E treatment decreased renal MDA levels and increased renal activities of SOD and T-AOC and nephrin protein contents 28 days after ADR injection. Nephrin staining showed a sable linear-like pattern along the capillary loops of glomerulus in the control rats. Nephrin staining presented a light tan discontinuous short linear-like or punctiform pattern along the capillary loops of glomerulus in the untreated ADR group. Prednisone or vitamin E treatment ameliorated abnormal expression of nephrin induced by nephrosis. Glomerular nephrin expression level was negatively correlated with renal MDA level and positively correlated with renal activities of SOD and T-AOC.
A reduction of glomerular nephrin expression is closely related to oxidative stress reaction. Prednisone and vitamin E have protective effects against renal injuries induced by ADR in rats.
In order to evaluate possible carcinogenesis, young adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed diets of hydralazine, phenelzine, and isoniazid at levels of 0.020-0.035% for 87 weeks. Hydralazine and isoniazid were also tested by the subcutaneous (sc) route at weekly dosages of 17 and 83 mg/kg, respectively, in both intact and partially hepatectomized rats, but many succumbed after 7 to 49 weeks of treatment. Gastrointestinal lesions were absent and, of the miscellaneous changes, sc lesions occurred sporadically among the control and drug-treated groups. As a further criterion, male weanlings were placed on the diets and, starting on day 15, 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) was injected sc at 9.0 mg/kg once weekly for the first 7 weeks and twice per week for a total of 23 treatments. The rats were killed 22 weeks after the last injection, at which time colon adenocarcinomas were observed in over 80% per group, the total number being significantly greater for the isoniazid group due to heightened tumor occurrence at the distal colon. The tumor number in the descending colon for phenelzine was also increased but the overall score, as with the hydralazine group, was in the range of the DMH injected controls. Small intestinal adenocarcinomas were lower in number and involved fewer rats on the hydralazine and phenelzine diets as compared to the isoniazid and control groups. Based on the current data, it is concluded that on long term exposure of DMH treated rats to the monoamine oxidase inhibitors, hydralazine and phenelzine are not cocarcinogenic, whereas isoniazid enhances colon carcinogenicity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Bisphenol A (BPA), released from plastics and dental sealants, is a suspected endocrine disruptor and reproductive toxicant. In occupationally exposed workers, BPA has been associated with erectile dysfunction (ED).
To determine whether long-term exposure to high doses of BPA in the rat affects serum levels of testosterone (T) and estradiol (E2), and induces corporal histopathology and resultant ED.
Young rats were injected intraperitoneal (IP) injection daily with BPA at 25 mg/kg/day or vehicle (n = 8/group). Erectile function was measured at 3 months by cavernosometry and electrical field stimulation (EFS). BPA was assayed in serum, urine, and penile tissue, and serum T and E2 were determined. Quantitative Masson trichrome, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling, Oil Red O, immunohistochemistry for calponin, α-smooth muscle actin, and Oct 4 were applied to penile tissue sections. Protein markers were assessed by Western blots and 2-D minigels, and RNA by DNA microarrays.
Erectile function, histological, and biochemical markers in corporal tissue.
In the BPA-treated rats, total and free BPA levels were increased in the serum, urine, and penile tissue while serum T and E2 levels were reduced. In addition, the corpora cavernosa demonstrated a reduction in smooth muscle (SM) content, SM/collagen ratio, together with an increase in myofibroblasts, fat deposits, and apoptosis, but no significant change in collagen content or stem cells (nuclear/perinuclear Oct 4). In the penile shaft, BPA induced a downregulation of Nanog (stem cells), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nitrergic terminals), and vascular endothelial growth factor (angiogenesis), with genes related to SM tone and cytoskeleton upregulated 5- to 50-fold, accompanied by changes in the multiple protein profile. However, both cavernosometry and EFS were unaltered by BPA.
While rats treated chronically with a high IP dose of BPA developed hypogonadism and a corporal histo- and molecular-pathology usually associated with ED, no changes were detected in erectile function as measured by EFS and cavernosometry. Further studies using alternate routes of BPA administration with various doses and length of exposure are needed to expand these findings.
Capxol is a Cremophor-free,protein stabilized, nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel. This phase I study was designed to evaluate the tolerability/safety, toxicity profile, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Capxol administered intravenously in Chinese patients with advanced solid tumor, and to provide the recommending dose for the phase II trial.
Capxol was administered intravenously over 30 minutes, no premedication was required. Doses of Capxol ranged from 135 to 350 mg/m(2). The treatment was repeated at 3 weeks interval.
22 patients were treated with Capxol and totally 94 treatments cycles were completed. No acute hypersensitivity reactions were observed during the infusion period. The treatment was tolerated well. Most of AEs (95%) were grade 1/2; >/= grade 3 AEs were only 5%. The most common toxicities were mild leucopenia and peripheral sensory neuropathy. The dose-limiting toxicities,which occurred at dose level of 350 mg/m(2),were grade 4 neutropenia (1 out of 3 patients) and grade 3 diplopia (1 out of 3 patients). The MTD was thus determined at 300 mg/m(2). Among 21 patients who were evaluable for efficacy, 1 CR, 7 PR, 9 SD, 4 PD were observed, overall response rate (CR+PR) was 38%.
This phase I trial has demonstrated that Capxol has several advantages on clinical application, which include non-premedication required, shorter infusion time,higher paclitaxel MTD and safer toxicity. The results support for that a phase II clinical trial to further evaluate the antitumor activity of this drug in Chinese patients is worthy. The recommended dose for phase II clinical trial is 260 mg/m(2), I.V. over 30 minutes,and treatment repeats at every 3 weeks.
We recently reported that, in a European-American (EA) sample, the interaction between two cannabinoid receptor 1 gene (CNR1) variants significantly increased risk for drug dependence (DD), including cocaine dependence (CD). This study aimed to investigate directly the association between CNR1 and CD in four independent samples. Eight markers across the 45 kb CNR1 region and four large samples, ie, family-based European-American (EA) sample (n=734), case-control EA sample (n=862), family-based African-American (AA) sample (n=834) and case-control AA sample (n=619) were examined in the present study. We investigated the association of these markers with CD and cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP) in the EA family sample first, and then replicated positive results in the other three samples. The interaction between two independent CNR1 variants, ie, the G allele-containing genotypes of rs6454674 (SNP3(G+)), and the T/T genotype of rs806368 (SNP8(T)/T), significantly increased risk for CD in the EA family (P(GEE)=0.015) and EA case-control (P(regression)=0.003) samples. EA subjects with SNP3(G+) and SNP8(T)/T had higher risk to develop CD than those EA subjects with the other genotypes for these two SNPs (LR+ =1.4). The SNP3(G)-SNP8(T)haplotype also showed significant association (P=0.018) with CD in the EA case-control sample. SNP8-containing haplotypes showed significant association with both CD (P(global)=0.007) and CIP (P(global)=0.003) in the EA family sample. In the AA family sample, SNP8(T)/T significantly conferred higher risk for CD (P=0.019). We conclude that two independent CNR1 variants have significant interaction effects on risk for CD in EAs; they may also have effects on risk for CD in AAs.
The angiotensin receptor blocker losartan inhibited urate transporter 1 (URAT1) according to in vitro experiments. However, it is still unknown whether the inhibitory effect of losartan on URAT1 contributes to its uricosuric action in humans.
Thirty-two patients with hypertension and nine patients with idiopathic renal hypouricemia (five with and four without hypertension) were enrolled for this study. Hypertensive patients were prescribed oral losartan (50 mg/day, n = 16) or candesartan (8 mg/day, n = 16). Before and after 1-month treatment, the serum concentration of urate (Sur) and creatinine (Scr), and the clearance value of urate (Cur) and creatinine (Ccr) were determined. Clearance studies using the URAT1 inhibitor benzbromarone (100 mg/day) or losartan (50 mg/day) loading test were also performed in these patients.
Blood pressure (BP) significantly decreased in the patients treated with either losartan or candesartan. Losartan significantly reduced Sur, which was associated with a concomitant increase in the Cur/Ccr ratio, whereas candesartan did not alter these parameters. In hypertensive patients with loss-of-function mutation of URAT1, losartan did not alter either Sur or Cur/Ccr, nor did benzbromarone. The lack of effect of URAT1 inhibitors on renal excretion of urate was independent of the renal function of hypouricemic patients. On the other hand, both losartan and benzbromarone increased Cur/Ccr ratio in hypertensive patients harboring the wild URAT1 gene, regardless of the presence of hypouricemia.
These findings suggested that losartan inhibited URAT1 and thereby it lowered Sur levels in hypertensive patients.
The outcome of concurrent abuse of cocaine and anabolic steroids is largely unknown and merits investigation. The present study was designed to determine whether an animal model could be developed for investigation of the toxic responses to simultaneous administration of cocaine and an anabolic steroid, nandrolone decanoate. Twenty-four male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), all 7 weeks of age, were assigned randomly to four groups: (1) control, (2) cocaine, (3) nandrolone, and (4) cocaine plus nandrolone. Metabolic measurements and indirect (tail-cuff) blood pressure and heart rate measurements were performed on all rats every 2 weeks. All drug treatment groups exhibited significantly (p < 0.05) higher levels of blood pressure after 6 weeks of treatment when compared to the control group. Cocaine plus nandrolone group exhibited the lowest heart rate compared to other groups. Rats were euthanized at 13 weeks of age, and different tissues were removed, blotted dry, and weighed. The kidney, levator ani muscle, and seminal vesicle (with prostate glands) weights in both nandrolone-receiving groups were higher than those of the control and cocaine groups. Testicular weights of the cocaine plus nandrolone group were less than those of the control and cocaine groups. Hearts were fixed in 10% buffered formaldehyde before myocardial dimension measurements were performed. The nandrolone group showed increased vertical ventricular diameters when compared to the control and cocaine groups. The nandrolone group also displayed higher vertical ventricular circumferences when compared to all the other groups. Finally, the cocaine plus nandrolone group had the greatest ventricular weights (per 100 g body weight) and left ventricular volumes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Fourteen of twenty-six migrant workers developed contact dermatitis at a single tomato-strawberry farm in Tennessee. Investigation identified one of eleven pesticides used by the farmer, 2,4-dichloro-6-(o-chloroanilino)-s-triazine anilazine; Dyrene), as the cause of the dermatitis in six of seven workers who were available for patch testing. As a result of this investigation, the label on Dyrene has been revised to warn users of possible sensitization.
To mimic the excretion route of the quinolone antibacterial agent levofloxacin (LVFX) in humans, we produced an excretion-limited (EL) model in male Sprague-Dawley rats by bile duct ligation and unilateral nephrectomy. We then examined the relationship between brain levels of LVFX and its convulsant effects in control and EL animals. Serum concentrations of LVFX in EL animals (EL + LVFX) were 2.38- and 1.59-fold and brain concentrations were 1.33- and 1.19-fold those of the controls (control + LVFX) at 30 min after a single intravenous injection of 10 and 100 mg/kg LVFX, respectively. Furthermore EL animals became more susceptible to the convulsant effect of LVFX with a 1.28-fold decrease in convulsion-inducing dose. In combination with oral pretreatment with 400 mg/kg 4-biphenylacetic acid (BPAA), convulsion-inducing doses in the control (control + LVFX + BPAA) and EL (EL + LVFX + BPAA) groups were markedly decreased by 2.25 and 9 times that of the control + LVFX group. EL operation and BPAA pretreatment slowed the elimination of LVFX in the serum and brain 4 hr later in the following order: EL + LVFX + BPAA, control + LVFX + BPAA, EL + LVFX, and control + LVFX groups. This order reflects that for the convulsion-inducing doses. These results suggest that EL rats may be a useful model for humans and that the convulsant effect of LVFX with or without BPAA arises not only from the attainment of maximum brain concentration but also from delayed disappearance from the brain.
Tobacco smoking, certain occupational exposures, and exposure to inorganic arsenic in drinking water have been associated with the occurrence of bladder cancer. However, in these tumors the exposure-associated pattern of somatic alterations in genes in the causal pathway for disease has been poorly characterized. In particular, the mechanism by which arsenic induces bladder cancer and the effects of lower environmental levels of exposure remain uncertain. Animal and in-vitro studies have suggested that arsenic and other exposures may act through epigenetic mechanisms. We, therefore, examined, in a population-based study of human bladder cancer, the relationship between epigenetic silencing of three tumor suppressor genes, p16(INK4A), RASSF1A and PRSS3, and exposure to both tobacco and arsenic in bladder cancer. Promoter methylation of each of these genes occurred in approximately 30% of bladder cancers, and both RASSF1A and PRSS3 promoter methylation were associated with advanced tumor stage (P<0.001 and P<0.04, respectively). Arsenic exposure, measured as toenail arsenic, was associated with RASSF1A (P<0.02) and PRSS3 (P<0.1) but not p16INK4A promoter methylation, in models adjusted for stage and other factors. Cigarette smoking was associated with a >2-fold increased risk of promoter methylation of the p16INK4A gene only, with greater risk seen in patients with exposures more recent to disease diagnosis. These results, from human bladder tumors, add to the body of animal and in vitro evidence that suggests a role in epigenetic alterations for bladder carcinogens.
To compare clinical effects of acupuncture combined with medication and simple medication on intractable angina pectoris (IAP).
Seventy cases of IAP were randomly divided into two groups, a control group and a treatment group, 35 cases in each group. The control group were treated with nitric acid ester, beta-receptor blocking agent, calcium antagonist, aspirin and hypo-molecular heparin, and the treatment group were treated with acupuncture at Danzhong (CV 17) and Neiguan (PC 6) and others, once daily for 10 consecutive days on the basis of the above treatment.
The total effective rates for symptoms and electrocardiogram were 88.6% and 62.9% in the treatment group and 60.0% and 31.4% in the control group, respectively, with a significant difference between the two groups; the incidence of acute heart attack and sudden death of 5.7% in the treatment group was lower than 20.0% in the control group, with no serious adverse effect.
Acupuncture combined with medication is safe and effective for intractable angina pectoris and it can improve short-term prognosis.
Chemotherapy generates numerous adverse effects, but digital ischemia is usually associated with a paraneoplastic mechanism. In addition to thrombotic microangiopathy or hepatic or pulmonary venoocclusive disease gemcitabine appears to induce this type of complication. This study presents two cases of digital ischemia, which are very likely attributable to gemcitabine. The first case involved a 56-year-old female patient with lymph node metastatic squamous cell carcinoma, for which no primitive tumor could be identified. This carcinoma had been treated at a second stage with gemcitabine at a cumulative dose of 14 390 mg. Search for etiology revealed toxic vascularitis. Response was favourable after interruption of gemcitabine and prescription of a suitable medical treatment. The second case was a 74-year-old male patient with an infiltrating bladder urothelium carcinoma with lymph node metastasis. He had been treated by surgery and chemotherapy (gemcitabine and carboplatine). Gemcitabine-induced arterial thrombosis was diagnosed. Nine other cases of digital ischemia were identified in the literature. This rare adverse effect is probably underestimated. The other reported vascular side-effects are thrombotic microangiopathy, with an estimated occurrence of 1 per 6,000 patients and two cases of veno-occlusive disease. The pathogenic mechanisms have still not been fully elucidated. Precautions before use are necessary, especially in case of associated micro or macroangiopathy.
IMMU-110 is a drug immunoconjugate composed of doxorubicin conjugated to the humanized anti-CD74 monoclonal antibody, hLL1, at a doxorubicin/monoclonal antibody ratio of approximately 8:1 (mol/mol). CD74 is a rapidly internalizing molecule associated with HLA-DR, which has high expression by several tumor types. Here, we describe safety evaluations of IMMU-110 in mice and monkeys as well as efficacy studies in a xenograft model of the human multiple myeloma cell line, MC/CAR.
In vitro binding of IMMU-110 was determined by a cell-based ELISA and cytotoxicity of IMMU-110 assayed with a tetrazolium assay. Pharmacokinetics and biodistribution of radiolabeled IMMU-110 were examined in tumor-free BALB/c mice, and the therapeutic effectiveness was evaluated in severe combined immunodeficient mice bearing MC/CAR cells. Acute toxicity of IMMU-110 was studied in CD74-positive cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis).
In vitro, IMMU-110 specifically binds to CD74 and is cytotoxic against MC/CAR cells. In vivo, IMMU-110 displayed a pharmacokinetic and biodistribution profile identical to that of unconjugated hLL1 monoclonal antibody, except for higher kidney uptake. Treatment with a single dose of IMMU-110 as low as 50 microg antibody/mouse (or 1.4 microg doxorubicin/mouse), 5 days postinjection of the multiple myeloma cells, resulted in cure of most mice. In mice, no host toxicity of IMMU-110 was observed at the highest protein dose tested (125 mg/kg). In cynomolgus monkeys, bone marrow toxicity was observed at 30 and 90 mg/kg doses.
The excellent safety and efficacy profile of IMMU-110 supports clinical testing of this immunoconjugate in the treatment of CD74-positive B-cell malignancies.
Resveratrol is a phytochemical that has been under consideration for use as a prostate cancer chemopreventive agent. However, the efficacy, as well as the mechanisms of action of resveratrol on prostate cancer prevention, remains largely unknown. This study seeks to address these questions and examine the cancer preventive effects of resveratrol using complementary human LNCaP prostate cancer cell culture and xenograft models. In cultured LNCaP cells, we found that resveratrol inhibited cell growth. The growth inhibitory effects of resveratrol appeared to be through modulation of both androgen- and estrogen-mediated events. Global gene expression analysis using microarrays identified androgen-responsive genes as a group of genes universally affected by resveratrol in LNCaP cells in vitro. The effect of resveratrol on expression of these genes appeared to be through inhibition of both androgen- and estrogen-mediated transcription. In a xenograft model, resveratrol delayed LNCaP tumor growth and inhibited expression of a marker for steroid hormone responses. However, exposure to resveratrol also led to increased angiogenesis and inhibition of apoptosis in the xenograft. In summary, resveratrol may act through modulation of steroid hormone-dependent pathways to inhibit prostate cancer cell growth in both culture and xenografts, but exposure in vivo may be of concern.
Velo-cardio-facial syndrome/DiGeorge syndrome (VCFS/DGS) is associated with de novo hemizygous 22q11.2 deletions and is characterized by malformations attributed to abnormal development of the pharyngeal arches and pouches. The main physical findings include aortic arch and outflow tract heart defects, thymus gland hypoplasia or aplasia and craniofacial anomalies. The disorder varies greatly in expressivity; while some patients are mildly affected with learning disabilities and subtle craniofacial malformations, others die soon after birth with major cardiovascular defects and thymus gland aplasia. In addition to the main clinical features, many other findings are associated with the disorder such as chronic otitis media and hypocalcemia. Tbx1, a gene encoding a T-box transcription factor, which is hemizygously deleted on chromosome 22q11.2, was found to be a strong candidate for the equivalent of human VCFS/DGS in mice. Mice hemizygous for a null allele of Tbx1 had mild malformations, while homozygotes had severe malformations in the affected structures; neither precisely modeling the syndrome. Interestingly, bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice overexpressing human TBX1 and three other transgenes, had similar malformations as VCFS/DGS patients. By employing genetic complementation studies, we demonstrate that altered TBX1 dosage and not overexpression of the other transgenes is responsible for most of the defects in the BAC transgenic mice. Furthermore, the full spectrum of VCFS/DGS malformations was elicited in a Tbx1 dose dependent manner, thus providing a molecular basis for the pathogenesis and varied expressivity of the syndrome.
We report a case of pulmonary hypertension presenting with sudden cardiac arrest, hyperthyroidism and fenfluramine usage. This fatal case of pulmonary hypertension and valvular heart disease is associated with the use of an anorectic drug that had been withdrawn from the market more than eight years ago. Clinicians should alert to the side effects of appetite suppressant and slimming agents. The association between pulmonary hypertension in relation to hyperthyroidism and fenfluramine usage is reviewed.
Inherited biallelic mutations in the human MUTYH gene are responsible for the recessive syndrome--adenomatous colorectal polyposis (MUTYH associated polyposis, MAP)--which significantly increases the risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). Defective MUTYH activity causes G:C to T:A transversions in tumour APC and other genes thereby altering genomic integrity. We report that of the four established cell lines, derived from patients with the MAP phenotype and containing biallelic MUTYH mutations, three contain altered expressions of MUTYH protein (MUTYH Y165C(-/-), MUTYH 1103delC/G382D and MUTYH Y165C/G382D but not MUTYH G382D(-/-)), but that all four cell lines have wild type levels of MUTYH mRNA. Mutant MUTYH proteins in these four cell lines possess significantly lowered binding and cleavage activities with heteroduplex oligonucleotides containing A.8-oxoG and 8-oxoA.G mispairs. Transfection of mitochondrial or nuclear MUTYH cDNAs partially correct altered MUTYH expression and activity in these defective cell lines. Finally, we surprisingly find that defective MUTYH may not alter cell survival after hydrogen peroxide and menadione treatments. The Y165C and 1103delC mutations significantly reduce MUTYH protein stability and thus repair activity, whereas the G382D mutation produces dysfunctional protein only suggesting different functional molecular mechanisms by which the MAP phenotype may contribute to the development of CRC.
The 21-gene recurrence score assay is prognostic for women with node-negative, oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer treated with tamoxifen. A low recurrence score predicts little benefit of chemotherapy. For node-positive breast cancer, we investigated whether the recurrence score was prognostic in women treated with tamoxifen alone and whether it identified those who might not benefit from anthracycline-based chemotherapy, despite higher risks of recurrence.
The phase 3 trial SWOG-8814 for postmenopausal women with node-positive, oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer showed that chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and fluorouracil (CAF) before tamoxifen (CAF-T) added survival benefit to treatment with tamoxifen alone. Optional tumour banking yielded specimens for determination of recurrence score by RT-PCR. In this retrospective analysis, we assessed the effect of recurrence score on disease-free survival by treatment group (tamoxifen vs CAF-T) using Cox regression, adjusting for number of positive nodes.
There were 367 specimens (40% of the 927 patients in the tamoxifen and CAF-T groups) with sufficient RNA for analysis (tamoxifen, n=148; CAF-T, n=219). The recurrence score was prognostic in the tamoxifen-alone group (p=0.006; hazard ratio [HR] 2.64, 95% CI 1.33-5.27, for a 50-point difference in recurrence score). There was no benefit of CAF in patients with a low recurrence score (score <18; log-rank p=0.97; HR 1.02, 0.54-1.93), but an improvement in disease-free survival for those with a high recurrence score (score > or =31; log-rank p=0.033; HR 0.59, 0.35-1.01), after adjustment for number of positive nodes. The recurrence score by treatment interaction was significant in the first 5 years (p=0.029), with no additional prediction beyond 5 years (p=0.58), although the cumulative benefit remained at 10 years. Results were similar for overall survival and breast-cancer-specific survival.
The recurrence score is prognostic for tamoxifen-treated patients with positive nodes and predicts significant benefit of CAF in tumours with a high recurrence score. A low recurrence score identifies women who might not benefit from anthracycline-based chemotherapy, despite positive nodes.
National Cancer Institute and Genomic Health.
High-dose cyclophosphamide (HD-CTX) is largely employed in high-dose chemotherapy (HD-CHT) protocols. HD-CTX dose-limiting toxicity expresses itself as cardiac toxicity which is fatal in a minority of patients. The pathophysiology of HD-CTX-associated cardiotoxicity is still poorly understood. Autopsy studies in patients who died from acute HD-CTX-induced cardiac toxicity revealed hemorrhagic myocardial cell death and interstitial edema. Recently troponins, in particular troponin I (cTnI), have been found to represent a uniquely sensitive and specific marker of myocyte membrane integrity and therefore to increase in response to minimal myocardial cell damage in different settings, including doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. We performed a multiparametric cardiologic monitoring in 16 consecutive breast cancer patients undergoing HD-CTX by means of serial ECG registrations and cardiac enzymes (CPK, CPK-MB and cTnI) determinations plus echocardiography in order to clarify acute cardiac events following HD-CTX administration. Neither overt cardiac toxicity nor cardiac enzymes elevation were recorded. Serial ECGs revealed in six cases little and reversible reduction of QRS voltage and/or ST abnormalities. Echo monitoring showed in four cases mild and transient increase of LV diastolic/systolic diameter/volume without decrease of FS% or EF% below normal values: in two of them abnormalities of diastolic function (E/A mitral doppler ratio) were also recorded. We conclude that our protocol of HD-CTX administration does not cause myocardial cell damage as analyzed by serum cTnI levels, thus suggesting that myocyte membrane injury may not be the first direct mechanism of HD-CTX cardiotoxicity. ECG (ie QRS voltages ) and Echo (ie E/A ratio) monitoring leads us to hypothesize that slight interstitial edema with reduction of LV diastolic compliance may be initial signs of cardiac dysfunction in this clinical setting.
