A 4 y old boy of Korean ancestry had xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) with sun sensitivity, multiple cutaneous neoplasms, and inability to speak. Neurologic examination revealed hyperactivity and autistic features without typical XP neurologic abnormalities. Cultured skin fibroblasts (XP22BE) showed decreased post-UV survival, reduced post-UV plasmid host cell reactivation and defective DNA repair (16% of normal unscheduled DNA synthesis in intact cells and undetectable excision repair in a cell free extract). In vitro and in vivo complementation assigned XP22BE to XP group C (XPC) and a markedly reduced level of XPC mRNA was found. Two XPC cDNA bands were identified. One band had a deletion of 161 bases comprising the entire exon 9, which resulted in premature termination of the mutant XPC mRNA. The larger band also had the same deletion of exon 9 but, in addition, had an insertion of 155 bases in its place (exon 9a), resulting in an in-frame XPC mRNA. Genomic DNA analysis revealed a T-->G mutation at the splice donor site of XPC exon 9, which markedly reduced its information content. The 155 base pair XPC exon 9a insertion was located in intron 9 and was flanked by strong splice donor and acceptor sequences. Analysis of the patient's blood showed persistently low levels of glycine (68 microM; NL, 125-318 microM). Normal glycine levels were maintained with oral glycine supplements and his hyperactivity diminished. These data provide evidence of an association of an XPC splice site mutation with autistic neurologic features and hypoglycinemia.
Although intravenous heparin is routinely used in the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndromes, this anticoagulant requires antithrombin III as a cofactor, has no affinity to clot-bound thrombin, and is bound or inactivated by several plasma proteins and platelet factor 4. Recombinant hirudin, the prototypic direct thrombin inhibitor, has been demonstrated in pilot studies to yield improved angiographic and clinical outcomes compared with heparin. We compared these two antithrombins in a large-scale randomized trial.
At 275 participating hospitals in 12 countries, patients within 12 hours from the onset of ischemic chest discomfort with an abnormal ECG were randomly assigned to receive a 72- to 120-hour infusion of heparin (5000-U bolus and 1000- to 1300-U/h infusion, adjusted to activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) of 60 to 90 seconds or hirudin (0.6-mg/kg bolus and 0.2-mg/kg per hour infusion without aPTT adjustment) on a double-blind basis. Although recruitment of 12,000 patients was planned, the trial was stopped earlier because of an excess of intracerebral hemorrhagic events after 2564 patients were enrolled. The overall incidence of hemorrhagic stroke tended to be higher for patients receiving hirudin (1.3%) compared with heparin (0.7%), P = .11, but the incidence was significantly higher in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy (1264 patients, 1.8%) compared with those who did not (1168 patients, 0.3%), P < .001. The hemorrhagic stroke rate varied by the thrombolytic and antithrombin combination: tissue-type plasminogen activator and heparin, 0.9%; with hirudin, 1.7%; streptokinase with heparin, 2.7%; with hirudin, 3.2%. All these rates are higher than the overall incidence of hemorrhagic stroke in the patients receiving thrombolytic therapy and intravenous heparin in the GUSTO I trial (30,892 patients with rate of 0.7%, 95% CI of 0.6 to 0.8%). Among the 26 patients who had intracerebral hemorrhages, the aPTT was significantly elevated compared with the event-free patients (110 +/- 46 versus 87 +/- 36 seconds at 12 hours of therapy, respectively), P = .03.
At the dose of hirudin tested, there was a trend of an excess of hemorrhagic stroke compared with heparin. Heparin, at a slightly higher dose than previously used in a large-scale trial (approximately 20% increase) was accompanied by a twofold risk of hemorrhagic stroke in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy. With both thrombin inhibitors, the aPTT appears to be a useful index for predicting risk of hemorrhagic stroke in patients receiving thrombolytic therapy.
The mismatch repair system is a DNA repair mechanism that corrects mispaired bases during DNA replication errors. Cancer cells deficient in MMR proteins have a 10(2) to 10(3)-fold increase in the mutation rate. Single nucleotide polymorphisms of mismatch repair genes have been shown to cause a decrease in DNA repair activity. We hypothesized that mismatch repair gene polymorphism could be a risk factor for prostate cancer and p53 Pro/Pro genotype carriers could influence MSH3 and MSH6 polymorphisms.
DNA samples from 110 patients with prostate cancer and 110 healthy controls were analyzed by single strand conformational polymorphism and polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism to determine the genotypic frequency of 5 polymorphic loci on 2 MMR genes (MSH3 and MSH6) and p53 codon72. The chi-square test was applied to compare genotype frequency between patients and controls.
A significant increase in the G/A+A/A genotype of MSH3 Pro222Pro was observed in patients compared to controls (OR 1.87, 95% CI 1.0-3.5). The frequency of A/G + G/G genotypes of MSH3 exon23 Thr1036Ala also tended to increase in patients (OR 1.57, 95% CI 0.92-2.72). In p53 codon72 Arg/Pro + Pro/Pro carriers the frequency of the AG + GG genotype of MSH3 exon23 was significantly increased in patients compared to controls (OR 2.1, 95% CI 1.05-4.34).
To our knowledge this is the first report of the association of MSH3 gene polymorphisms in prostate cancer. These results suggest that the MSH3 polymorphism may be a risk factor for prostate cancer.
Exposure to vanadium pentoxide (V2O5) is a cause of occupational bronchitis. We evaluated gene expression profiles in cultured human lung fibroblasts exposed to V2O5 in vitro in order to identify candidate genes that could play a role in inflammation, fibrosis, and repair during the pathogenesis of V2O5-induced bronchitis.
Normal human lung fibroblasts were exposed to V2O5 in a time course experiment. Gene expression was measured at various time points over a 24 hr period using the Affymetrix Human Genome U133A 2.0 Array. Selected genes that were significantly changed in the microarray experiment were validated by RT-PCR.
V2O5 altered more than 1,400 genes, of which ~300 were induced while >1,100 genes were suppressed. Gene ontology categories (GO) categories unique to induced genes included inflammatory response and immune response, while GO categories unique to suppressed genes included ubiquitin cycle and cell cycle. A dozen genes were validated by RT-PCR, including growth factors (HBEGF, VEGF, CTGF), chemokines (IL8, CXCL9, CXCL10), oxidative stress response genes (SOD2, PIPOX, OXR1), and DNA-binding proteins (GAS1, STAT1).
Our study identified a variety of genes that could play pivotal roles in inflammation, fibrosis and repair during V2O5-induced bronchitis. The induction of genes that mediate inflammation and immune responses, as well as suppression of genes involved in growth arrest appear to be important to the lung fibrotic reaction to V2O5.
We sought to study whether patients with familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCH) or carotid atherosclerosis have modified circulating solubilized Fas ligand (sFasL) levels, as well as the potential modifications by atorvastatin. We also examined the effect of atorvastatin on FasL expression and sFasL release in cytokine-stimulated cultured human endothelial cells (ECs).
In normal situations, FasL is expressed in most cells, including ECs. Proinflammatory stimuli can downregulate its expression in ECs and facilitate the vascular infiltration of inflammatory cells.
We have measured sFasL plasma levels (by ELISA) in 58 patients with FCH, 14 normocholesterolemic patients with carotid atherosclerosis, and 15 healthy volunteers. We analyzed FasL expression (by Western blot analysis) and sFasL release in cultured ECs stimulated with tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha.
Solubilized FasL levels were decreased in hyperlipidemic patients (49 pg/ml), as compared with healthy volunteers (123 pg/ml, p < 0.0001). Patients were randomized to atorvastatin (n = 28) or bezafibrate (n = 30) during 12 months. Atorvastatin treatment increased sFasL concentrations (111 pg/ml, p < 0.0001), reaching normal values. However, treatment with bezafibrate only marginally affected sFasL (85 pg/ml, p < 0.05). Solubilized FasL was also diminished in patients with carotid atherosclerosis (39 pg/ml), and intensive treatment with atorvastatin normalized sFasL levels (90 pg/ml, p = 0.02). Finally, atorvastatin prevented the diminution of FasL expression and sFasL release elicited by TNF-alpha in cultured ECs.
Patients with FCH or carotid atherosclerosis have decreased circulating sFasL levels, probably indicating endothelial dysfunction, but treatment with atorvastatin restored normal blood levels. These data provide a novel effect of atorvastatin and add support for the well-known anti-inflammatory properties of statins.
A 77-year-old woman was diagnosed as having advanced non-small cell lung cancer, and was started on treatment with gefitinib. Fifty days after the start of treatment, the patient was admitted to the hospital with complaints of dry cough, fever, and shortness of breath. A diagnosis of gefitinib-induced interstitial lung disease was made, and administration of high-dose prednisolone (1 g/day of intravenous methylprednisolone for three consecutive days, followed by oral prednisolone at 50 mg/day) was started. Although progression to respiratory failure could be stopped by the corticosteroid treatment, there was still no improvement in either the lung opacities seen on radiologic imaging, or in the symptoms; moreover, the patient developed corticosteroid-induced myopathy. Therefore, in order to allow reduction of the daily steroid dose, the patient was started on intravenous cyclophosphamide (500 mg/day). This additional treatment allowed the daily dose of oral prednisolone to be reduced to 15 mg/day. Thus, it is considered that intravenous cyclophosphamide may be a valid treatment option for gefitinib-induced lung injury.
In the present study we investigated the alterations on choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities in rat striatum and frontal cortex caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures. Wistar rats were treated with 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), with the association of 0.9% saline (i.p.) plus pilocarpine (400mg/kg, i.p.), 30 min before of administration of saline (pilocarpine group). After the treatments all groups were observed for 1h. The ChAT and AChE activities were measured using spectrophotometric methods and the results compared to values obtained from saline-treated animals. In pilocarpine group was observed a significantly decreases in ChAT and AChE activities in striatum and frontal cortex of adult rats, when compared to control group. Results showed that during acute phase of seizures striatal and frontal cortex ChAT and AChE activities are diminished. Our findings suggest that seizures caused cognitive dysfunction and decreases of ChAT and AChE activities that might be related, at least in part, to the neurological problems presented by epileptic patients.
The role of the micronutrient, selenium, in human cancers associated with chronic inflammations and persistent infections is poorly understood. Peritoneal plasmacytomas (PCTs) in strain BALB/c (C), the premier experimental model of inflammation-dependent plasma cell transformation in mice, may afford an opportunity to gain additional insights into the significance of selenium in neoplastic development. Here, we report that selenium-depleted C mice (n = 32) maintained on a torula-based low-selenium diet (5-8 micro g of selenium/kg) were totally refractory to pristane induction of PCT. In contrast, 11 of 26 (42.3%) control mice maintained on a selenium adequate torula diet (300 micro g of selenium/kg) and 15 of 40 (37.5%) control mice fed standard Purina chow (440 micro g of selenium/kg) developed PCT by 275 days postpristane. Abrogation of PCT was caused in part by the striking inhibition of the formation of the inflammatory tissue in which PCT develop (pristane granuloma). This was associated with the reduced responsiveness of selenium-deficient inflammatory cells (monocytes and neutrophils) to chemoattractants, such as thioredoxin and chemokines. Selenium-deficient C mice exhibited little evidence of disturbed redox homeostasis and increased mutant frequency of a transgenic lacZ reporter gene in vivo. These findings implicate selenium, via the selenoproteins, in the promotion of inflammation-induced PCT and suggest that small drug inhibitors of selenoproteins might be useful for preventing human cancers linked with chronic inflammations and persistent infections.
We studied the incidence of incontinence and respiratory events in children with cerebral palsy who received injections of botulinum toxin A (BoNT-A).
We used multivariable logistic regression to investigate relationships between (BoNT-A) dose, Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) level, and the incidence of bladder or bowel incontinence, unplanned hospital admission, emergency department consultation or prescription of antibiotics for respiratory symptoms, and diagnosis of upper respiratory tract infection.
Of 1980 injection episodes in 1147 children (mean age 4y 7mo, SD 1y 10mo, range 9mo-23y), 488 (25%) were in children with unilateral involvement and 1492 (75%) in children with bilateral involvement. At the time of injection 440 (22.2%) of children were at GMFCS level I, 611 (30.9%) were at level II, 330 (16.7%) were at level III, 349 (17.6%) were at level IV, and 250 (12.6%) were at level V. The incidence of serious adverse events was low, with 19 episodes of incontinence (1% of injection episodes) and 25 unplanned hospital admissions due to respiratory symptoms (1.3%). Incontinence typically resolved spontaneously 1 to 6 weeks after injection. The incidence of adverse events was associated with GMFCS level and dose of BoNT-A.
The incidence of serious adverse events was low but suggests systemic spread as well as a procedural effect. We recommend reviewing upper dose limits for children at all GMFCS levels, particularly those at levels IV and V with a history of aspiration and respiratory disease. In these children, alternatives to mask anaesthesia may be particularly important.
The constitutive active/androstane receptor (CAR) plays an important role as a coordinate transcription factor in the regulation of various hepatic metabolic pathways for chemicals such as drugs, glucose, fatty acids, bilirubin, and bile acids. Currently, it is known that in its inactive state, CAR is retained in the cytoplasm in a protein complex with HSP90 and the tetratricopeptide repeat protein cytosoplasmic CAR retention protein (CCRP). Upon activation by phenobarbital (PB) or the PB-like inducer 1,4-bis[2-(3,5-dichloropyridyloxy)]-benzene (TCPOBOP), CAR translocates into the nucleus. We have identified two new components to the cytoplasmic regulation of CAR: ubiquitin-dependent degradation of CCRP and protein-protein interaction with HSP70. Treatment with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 (5 µM) causes CAR to accumulate in the cytoplasm of transfected HepG2 cells. In the presence of MG132, TCPOBOP increases CCRP ubiquitination in HepG2 cells co-expressing CAR, while CAR ubiquitination was not detected. MG132 treatment of HepG2 also attenuated of TCPOBOP-induced CAR transcriptional activation on reporter constructs which contain CAR-binding DNA elements derived from the human CYP2B6 gene. The elevation of cytoplasmic CAR protein with MG132 correlated with an increase of HSP70, and to a lesser extent HSP60. Both CCRP and CAR were found to interact with endogenous HSP70 in HepG2 cells by immunoprecipitation analysis. Induction of HSP70 levels by heat shock also increased cytoplasmic CAR levels, similar to the effect of MG132. Lastly, heat shock attenuated TCPOBOP-induced CAR transcriptional activation, also similar to the effect of MG132. Collectively, these data suggest that ubiquitin-proteasomal regulation of CCRP and HSP70 are important contributors to the regulation of cytoplasmic CAR levels, and hence the ability of CAR to respond to PB or PB-like inducers.
The sigma(2)-receptor agonist, ifenprodil, was suggested as an inhibitor of G protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channels. Nevertheless, an analysis of the role of sigma(2) receptors in cardiac electrophysiology has never been done. This work aims i) to identify the roles of cardiac sigma(2) receptors in the regulation of cardiac K(+) channel conductances and ii) to check whether sigma(2)-receptor agonists exhibit class III antiarrhythmic properties. The sigma(2)-receptor agonists ifenprodil, threo-ifenprodil, LNP250A [threo-8-[1-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-hydroxy-propan-2-yl]-1-phenyl-1,3,8-triazaspiro[4,5]decane-4-one] (a derivative of ifenprodil devoid of alpha(1)-adrenergic and N-methyl-d-aspartate glutamate receptor-blocking properties), and 1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine were used to discriminate the effects linked to sigma(2) receptors from those of the sigma(1) subtype, induced by (+/-)-N-allylnormetazocine (SKF-10,047). The sigma(2)-receptor antagonist 3-alpha-tropanyl-2(pCl-phenoxy)butyrate (SM-21) was employed to characterize sigma(2)-mediated effects in patch-clamp experiments. In rabbits, all sigma(2)-receptor agonists reduced phenylephrine-induced cardiac arrhythmias. They prolonged action potential duration in rabbit Purkinje fibers and reduced human ether-a-go-go-related gene (HERG) K(+) currents. (+)-SKF-10,047 was completely inactive in the last two tests. The effects of threo-ifenprodil were not antagonized by SM-21. In HERG-transfected COS-7 cells, SM-21 potentiated the ifenprodil-induced blockade of the HERG current. These data suggest that sigma(2)-receptor ligands block I(Kr) and that this effect could explain part of the antiarrhythmic properties of this ligands family. Nevertheless, an interaction with HERG channels not involving sigma(2) receptors seems to share this pharmacological property. This work shows for the first time that particular caution has to be taken toward ligands with affinity for sigma(2) receptors. The repolarization prolongation and the early-afterdepolarization can be responsible for "torsades de pointe" and sudden cardiac death.
It is well established that the glomerular capillary wall consists of three layers: endothelial cell, glomerular basement membrane, and the slit diaphragm bridging foot processes of glomerular epithelial cell. Which structure in the glomerular capillary wall represents the primary filter for retaining plasma proteins is not clearly elucidated. An anti-slit diaphragm monoclonal antibody (mAb) 5-1-6 causes massive proteinuria in rats by single intravenous injection, which clearly indicates that the slit diaphragm plays a critical role for maintaining the barrier function of the glomerular capillary wall. Recently, we concluded that mAb 5-1-6 recognized a rat homolog of nephrin, a gene product of NPHS1. The expression of nephrin decreased in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy and adriamycin nephropathy as well as mAb 5-1-6-induced nephropathy, which suggested that nephrin was involved in the development of proteinuria in these proteinuric states. In mAb 5-1-6 nephropathy, the slit diaphragm was maintained morphologically normal, although nephrin expression dramatically decreased. The finding suggested that nephrin was not a sole component of the slit diaphragm. To better understand the structure of the slit diaphragm, it is particularly important to identify other components that build up the structure of the slit diaphragm together with nephrin.
Diltiazem (0.3 mg/kg body weight intravenous in 2 minutes) was administered to 40 patients (24 males, 16 females, mean age 51.55 years) with paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias: 7 patients with atrial fibrillation, 6 patients with atrial flutter, 25 patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia, 2 patients with uncommon atrioventricular reciprocating tachycardia. In patients with atrial fibrillation intravenous diltiazem produced a significant decrease of ventricular response (from 160 +/- 11 to 113.57 +/- 10.34--p less than 0.01). In patients with atrial flutter intravenous diltiazem produced variable effects: an increase in atrio-ventricular block (from 2:1 to 3:1 atrio-ventricular conduction (2 patients); conversion to sinus rhythm (1 patient); change to atrial fibrillation (1 patient); no appreciable change of the basic rhythm (2 patients). In paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia patients conversion to sinus rhythm occurred in 20/22 patients (91%) treated with intravenous diltiazem (mean conversion time 4.69 minutes). In the 2 patients with uncommon atrioventricular nodal reciprocating tachycardia diltiazem increased P'-R and R-P' intervals without appreciable change of the basic rhythm. No serious side effects from drug administration were noted. Intravenous diltiazem appears to be as a highly effective medication in conversion or control of paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) encompasses a spectrum of mechanobullous disorders caused by rare mutations that result in structural weakening of the skin and mucous membranes. While gene mutated and types of mutations present are broadly predictive of the range of disease to be expected, a remarkable amount of phenotypic variability remains unaccounted for in all but the most deleterious cases. This unexplained variance raises the possibility of genetic modifier effects. We tested this hypothesis using a mouse model that recapitulates a non-Herlitz form of junctional EB (JEB) owing to the hypomorphic jeb allele of laminin gamma 2 (Lamc2). By varying normally asymptomatic background genetics, we document the potent impact of genetic modifiers on the strength of dermal-epidermal adhesion and on the clinical severity of JEB in the context of the Lamc2(jeb) mutation. Through an unbiased genetic approach involving a combination of QTL mapping and positional cloning, we demonstrate that Col17a1 is a strong genetic modifier of the non-Herlitz JEB that develops in Lamc2(jeb) mice. This modifier is defined by variations in 1-3 neighboring amino acids in the non-collagenous 4 domain of the collagen XVII protein. These allelic variants alter the strength of dermal-epidermal adhesion in the context of the Lamc2(jeb) mutation and, consequentially, broadly impact the clinical severity of JEB. Overall the results provide an explanation for how normally innocuous allelic variants can act epistatically with a disease causing mutation to impact the severity of a rare, heritable mechanobullous disorder.
Disulfiram (Antabuse) is used for aversive treatment of alcohol dependence with good effects. Through inhibition of aldehyde dehydrogenase, disulfiram heightens serum aldehyde concentration after alcohol ingestion and causes aversive disulfiram-ethanol reaction. Typical symptoms of this reaction include flushing, nausea, dyspnea, tremor, and confusion, which are usually self-limiting. However, severe life-threatening arterial hypotension sometimes develops. We report here a patient with generalized flushing, tremor, and refractive hypotension after ingestion of alcohol 18 hours after disulfiram treatment. Initial volume resuscitation and dopamine infusion failed to restore the blood pressure. Noradrenaline was given and the blood pressure returned to normal range. This case illustrates the intensity of disulfiram-ethanol reaction and underscores the advantageous use of noradrenaline in patients in such a critical condition.
After decades of research around dopamine agonists, we have found a promising compound in S-PD148903 that represents a new type of prodrug, which in the rat is bioactivated to the catecholamine S-5,6-diOH-DPAT, known to display mixed dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor agonist properties just like apomorphine. This prodrug has an enone structure which by an oxidative bioactivation mechanism is converted to the corresponding catechol and is delivered enantioselectively into the CNS. This novel concept has the potential to revolutionize the treatment of Parkinson's disease by competing with L-DOPA, the current treatment of choice.
Cip1-interacting zinc finger protein 1 (CIZ1, also known as CDKN1A-interacting zinc finger protein 1) stimulates initiation of mammalian DNA replication and is normally tethered to the nuclear matrix within DNA replication foci. Here, we show that an alternatively spliced human CIZ1 variant, lacking exon 4 (Delta E4), is misexpressed as a consequence of intronic mutation in Ewing tumor (ET) cell lines. In all ET lines tested, exon 4 is skipped and an upstream mononucleotide repeat element is expanded to contain up to 28 thymidines, compared to 16 in controls. In exon-trap experiments, a 24T variant produced three-fold more exon skipping than a 16T variant, demonstrating a direct effect on splicing. In functional assays, Delta E4 protein retains replication activity, but fails to form subnuclear foci. Furthermore, coexpression of mouse Delta E4 with Ciz1 prevents Ciz1 from localizing appropriately, having a dominant negative effect on foci formation. The data show that conditional exclusion of exon 4 influences the spatial distribution of the Ciz1 protein within the nucleus, and raise the possibility that CIZ1 alternative splicing could influence organized patterns of DNA replication.
Menthofuran is a monoterpene present in mint plants that is oxidized by mammalian cytochrome P450 (CYP) to hepatotoxic metabolites. Evidence has been presented that p-cresol and other unusual oxidative products are metabolites of menthofuran in rats and that p-cresol may be responsible in part for the hepatotoxicity caused by menthofuran [ Madyastha, K. M. and Raj, C. P. (1992) Drug Metab. Dispos. 20, 295 - 301]. In the present study, several oxidative metabolites of menthofuran were characterized in rat and human liver microsomes and in rat liver slices exposed to cytotoxic concentrations of menthofuran. Metabolites that were identified were monohydroxylation products of the furanyl and cyclohexyl groups, mintlactones and hydroxymintlactones, a reactive γ-ketoenal, and a glutathione conjugate. A similar spectrum of metabolites was found in urine 24 h after the administration of hepatotoxic doses of menthofuran to rats. In no case was p-cresol (or any of the other reported unusual oxidative metabolites of menthofuran) detected above background concentrations that were well below concentrations of p-cresol that cause cytotoxicity in rat liver slices. Thus, the major metabolites responsible for the hepatotoxic effects of menthofuran appear to be a γ-ketoenal and/or epoxides formed by oxidation of the furan ring.
Apomorphine is a potent dopamine agonist useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease patients with disabling motor fluctuations and 'off' periods, not responding to oral medication. It can also be of benefit in reducing dyskinesia by providing more constant dopaminergic stimulation and permitting lower levodopa dosage. However, there is a paucity of information on long-term benefits of apomorphine, including no large-scale phase III trial. We have examined our experience of apomorphine over the last 10 years, to assess indications, pattern of use, efficacy, and side effect profile.
All patients requiring apomorphine were identified through the Parkinson's disease Nurse Specialist's records. An audit form was produced so that the same information was gathered from all case-notes.
There were 107 patients (61 males and 46 females). Mean age of disease onset was 50.9 years, SD+/-9.3 (range 29-78). The mean duration of disease at start of apomorphine treatment was 10 years (SD+/-4.8, range 2-29). The most common indications for apomorphine were severe unpredictable 'off' periods (75.7 %), motor fluctuations (18.7 %) and dyskinesia (5.6 %). Most patients (63.6 %) used both intermittent subcutaneous injections and infusion via pump; 25.2% were on intermittent injection, and 11.2 % infusion alone. Mean dose per injection was 3.7 mg. Mean infusion dose 69.8 mg, running over a mean of 13.5 hours. The mean duration of intermittent apomorphine use was 48.2 months. The mean duration of infusion was 25.1 months. Complications included skin problems in 16 patients, 2 had symptomatic hypotension, 2 worsening confusion, 1 new confusion and 5 new hallucinations (after sometime on apomorphine). Sixteen patients have stopped using apomorphine completely. Thirteen have stopped the pump, but continue on intermittent injections.
Subcutaneous apomorphine is easy for patients to use, is well tolerated and has a low incidence of side effects, especially confusion.
A specific phenotype of methimazole (MMI) induced malformations has recently been postulated. MMI embryopathy is characterized by minor dysmorphic features, choanal atresia and/or esophageal atresia, growth retardation, and developmental delay.
We prospectively studied the outcome of pregnancy in 241 women counseled by 10 Teratology Information Services (TIS) of the European Network of Teratology Information Services (ENTIS) because of MMI exposure, and compared them with those of 1,089 pregnant women referred to TIS because of exposure to nonteratogenic drugs (control group). Information was obtained by mail or telephone interview.
There was no increase in the general rate of major anomalies or of spontaneous or induced abortions in the MMI-exposed group in comparison with the control group. Two newborns were affected with one of the major malformations that are part of the postulated embryopathy.
The results of this study indicate that choanal as well as esophageal atresia may have a higher incidence than expected in fetuses exposed to MMI between 3 and 7 gestational weeks. Until further data are available, thyrotoxicosis should be treated with propylthiouracil, as it is apparently safer for use during the fertile period.
Several studies have suggested an association between maternal smoking during pregnancy and both attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and conduct disorder (CD) in the offspring of women who smoke during pregnancy. However, it is unclear whether one or both of the documented links are spurious, given the considerable comorbidity between these disorders. The main aim of this study was to disentangle the association between maternal smoking during pregnancy with psychopathological outcomes, adjusting for possible confounders.
Two large, identically designed, longitudinal, case-control family studies of male and female probands with and without ADHD were combined. We used data from the nonreferred siblings of the probands from both studies (n = 536). All subjects were blindly assessed with structured diagnostic interviews. Logistic regression analysis was used to determine the adjusted effect of exposure to maternal smoking during pregnancy.
Among all siblings, maternal smoking during pregnancy was significantly associated with ADHD, independent of CD and other covariates. In contrast, maternal smoking during pregnancy was a risk factor for CD only in siblings of control probands, after adjusting for covariates.
These results support the hypothesis that maternal smoking during pregnancy is a risk factor for both ADHD and CD, independently of each other. However, the risk for CD appears to be conditional on family risk status.
Weight gain is a serious problem with recently introduced atypical antipsychotic agents. Nizatidine, a histamine2 (H2)-receptor antagonist, may help reduce this weight gain. To our knowledge, no adverse effects have been reported when nizatidine is given at recommended doses with atypical antipyschotic agents. We describe, however, an adolescent who was receiving quetiapine and paroxetine for schizophrenia and depression, and developed extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS; parkinsonism and akathisia) after taking nizatidine for weight loss. Based on a report of another patient who developed EPS after taking higher-than-recommended doses of nizatidine, we reviewed the literature on treatment with H2-receptor antagonists for weight gain and on central nervous system adverse effects of nizatidine. Nizatidine may be effective for reducing weight gain associated with both medical and psychiatric conditions. Its safety profile is usually benign, although some patients may develop serious adverse effects, such as EPS and delirium. Therefore, the drug is recommended for short-term management of weight gain associated with atypical antipsychotic agents. Patients receiving nizatidine therapy should be monitored closely for development of EPS, particularly when high doses are prescribed.
Reports of thromboembolism following the use of oral contraceptives received by drug safety committees in the United Kingdom, Sweden, and Denmark have been analysed to investigate possible differences in the risks associated with the various preparations. For this purpose the numbers of reports of thromboembolism attributed to each product were compared with the distribution that would have been expected from market research estimates of sales, assuming that all products carried the same risk.A positive correlation was found between the dose of oestrogen and the risk of pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, cerebral thrombosis, and coronary thrombosis in the United Kingdom. A similar association was found for venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in Sweden and Denmark. No significant differences could be detected between sequential and combined preparations containing the same doses of oestrogen, nor between the two oestrogens, ethinyloestradiol and mestranol.Certain discrepancies in the data suggest that the dose of oestrogen may not be the only factor related to the risk of thromboembolism; thus there was a significant deficit of reports associated with the combination of mestranol 100 mug. with norethynodrel 2.5 mg. and a significant excess of reports associated with the combination of ethinyloestradiol 50 mug. with megestrol acetate 4 mg. An excess of reports also occurred with other combined preparations containing megestrol acetate.The data obtained in earlier epidemiological studies were re-examined and, though no trend was obvious in any one of them, the combined results showed an excess of cases of thromboembolism at the highest dose of oestrogen.The finding of a positive correlation between the dose of oestrogen and the risk of coronary thrombosis is of special interest since previous studies have failed to provide clear evidence of a relationship between oral contraceptives and this condition.
Parathyroid hormone increases due to hypocalcemia even in the early phases of renal insufficiency. At the same time, hyperphosphatemia develops due to decreasing renal excretion which, in turn, intensifies secondary hyperparathyroidism. The cornerstones for prevention and therapy of renal osteopathy are, therefore, efficient lowering of phosphate levels and the early substitution of vitamin-D3 metabolites. In a post marketing surveillance (PMS) of almost 2,000 dialysis patients with renal osteopathy, the course of therapy with Alfacalcidol (Bondiol) was observed over a 6-month period. In 55.9% of cases, Alfacalcidol was administered at a daily dose of 0.25 microg. In 26.6% of patients, Alfacalcidol was administered every second day at a dose of 0.25-1 microg/d. In 16.1% of patients, Alfacalcidol was administered as pulse-therapy, mostly at a dose of 1-2 microg once or twice per week. To lower phosphate levels, 54.8% of patients received calcium compounds, 9.2% aluminium compounds, and 21.7% aluminium compounds in combination with calcium compounds. 14.3% of patients did not receive phosphate binding agents. Two thirds of patients had received active vitamin-D3-metabolites prior to commencing therapy with alfacalcidol, most frequently calcitrol. In 58.1%, the dialysis solution used had a calcium concentration of 1.5 mmol/l (44.8%) or lower; whereas in 41.9%, a higher calcium concentration was used--mostly 1.75 mmol/l (3 8%). During the observation period, serum concentrations of calcium and phosphate remained constant, suggesting that the risk of hypercalcemia due to therapy with Alfacalcidol was not increased. It was found that elevated alkaline phosphatase and parathyroid hormone levels could be significantly lowered (statistically). These effects could be observed both in patients who had been previously treated with vitamin-D3-metabolites and in patients without prior therapy. Efficacy and tolerability of therapy with Alfacalcidol was assessed to be very high by the attending nephrologists.
The knowledge of somatic mutations that arise in penile cancer is limited. We examined the dysregulation of components in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and Ras pathways.
Using single stranded conformational analysis and direct sequencing we performed mutational analysis of the PIK3CA, PTEN, HRAS, KRAS, NRAS and BRAF genes in 28 penile tumors.
We identified somatic missense mutations in 11 of the 28 penile cancer samples (39%). In the PIK3CA gene 8 mutations (29%) were identified that were E542K or E545K. In the HRAS gene a G12S and a Q61L mutation were found (7%). The KRAS gene contained 1 mutation (3%), that is a G12S change. PIK3CA mutations were found in all grades and stages, whereas HRAS and KRAS mutations were found in larger and more advanced tumors. The mutations were mutually exclusive, suggesting that dysregulation of either pathway is sufficient for the development and progression of penile carcinoma.
The high frequency of mutations in the PIK3CA, HRAS and KRAS genes leads us to believe that dysregulation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase or Ras pathway is significant for the development and progression of penile carcinoma.
