It has been well documented that the pineal hormone, melatonin, which plays a major role in the control of reproduction in mammals, also plays a role in the incidence and growth of breast and mammary cancer. The curative effect of melatonin on the growth of dimethylbenz [a]anthracene-induced (DMBA-induced) mammary adenocarcinoma (ADK) has been previously well documented in the female Sprague-Dawley rat. However, the preventive effect of melatonin in limiting the frequency of cancer initiation has not been well documented.
The aim of this study was to compare the potency of melatonin to limit the frequency of mammary cancer initiation with its potency to inhibit tumor progression once initiation, at 55 days of age, was achieved. The present study compared the effect of preventive treatment with melatonin (10 mg/kg daily) administered for only 15 days before the administration of DMBA with the effect of long-term (6-month) curative treatment with the same dose of melatonin starting the day after DMBA administration. The rats were followed up for a year after the administration of the DMBA.
The results clearly showed almost identical preventive and curative effects of melatonin on the growth of DMBA-induced mammary ADK. Many hypotheses have been proposed to explain the inhibitory effects of melatonin. However, the mechanisms responsible for its strong preventive effect are still a matter of debate. At least, it can be envisaged that the artificial amplification of the intensity of the circadian rhythm of melatonin could markedly reduce the DNA damage provoked by DMBA and therefore the frequency of cancer initiation.
In view of the present results, obtained in the female Sprague-Dawley rat, it can be envisaged that the long-term inhibition of mammary ADK promotion by a brief, preventive treatment with melatonin could also reduce the risk of breast cancer induced in women by unidentified environmental factors.
AIM, MATERIAL AND METHODS: Endodontic treatment of a total of 303 teeth with pulpitis and periodontitis was performed with a new calcium-carbamide-formaldehyde paste. In three children with fractured teeth with complications, the applied treatment was combined (2 teeth with apical osteotomy and 1 with cystectomy). Control examinations were carried out at months 6, 12 and 24 and clinically healthy teeth and teeth with complications were registered.
In the pulpitis group the clinically healthy teeth were 97.55% +/- 1.08 at the 6th month; 96.85% +/- 1.26 at the 12th month and 92.92% +/- 2.41 at the 24th month. In teeth with periodontitis 91.56% +/- 3.05 were clinically healthy at the 6th month; 93.83% +/- 2.67 at the 12th month and 98.03% +/- 1.98 at the 24th month. No statistical significance of the differences between pulpites and periodontites was found (P > 0.05). Recovery of the bone structure was observed in the teeth with combined endodontic and surgical treatment at the 12th month.
The calcium-carbamide-formaldehyde paste stimulates bone regeneration and closing of the apex without coloring the hard dental tissues.
The environmental toxin TCDD (2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, dioxin) produces diverse toxic effects including a lethal wasting syndrome whose hallmark is suppressed hepatic gluconeogenesis. All TCDD toxicities require activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR), a ligand-activated transcription factor. Whereas the mechanism for AHR induction of target genes is well understood, it is not known how AHR activation produces any TCDD toxicity. This report identifies for the first time an AHR target gene, TiPARP (TCDD-inducible poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, PARP7) that can mediate a TCDD toxicity, i.e. suppression of hepatic gluconeogenesis. TCDD suppressed hepatic glucose production, expression of key gluconeogenic genes, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK), and glucose-6-phosphatase (G6Pase), and NAD(+) levels, and increased PARP activity and TiPARP expression. TCDD also increased acetylation and ubiquitin-dependent proteosomal degradation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator 1 α (PGC1α), a coactivator of PEPCK and G6Pase transcription. TiPARP overexpression reproduced TCDD effects on glucose output and NAD(+) levels whereas TiPARP silencing diminished them. TiPARP overexpression also increased PGC1α acetylation and decreased PGC1α levels. In contrast, silencing of cytochromes P450 (CYP) 1A, main AHR-induced genes, did not alter TCDD suppression of gluconeogenesis. The vitamin B3 constituent, nicotinamide (NAM), prevented TCDD suppression of glucose output, NAD(+), and gluconeogenic genes and stabilized PGC1α. The corrective effects of NAM could be attributed to increased NAD(+) levels and suppression of AHR target gene induction. The results reveal that TiPARP can mediate a TCDD effect, that the AHR is linked to PGC1α function and stability and that NAM has novel AHR antagonist activity.
CLINICAL TRIALS WITH VERAPAMIL AND TRANDOLAPRIL: In the Danish Verapamil Infarction Trial II, verapamil improved survival in patients without heart failure but had no effect in patients with heart failure who were receiving diuretic treatment. In the Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy study ramipril improved survival in patients receiving diuretic treatment but had no effect in patients not receiving diuretics. COMBINATION WITH THERAPY WITH VERAPAMIL AND TRANDOLAPRIL: By combining verapamil with trandolapril we hypothesized that we could obtain an improvement in left ventricular function and prevent cardiac events. In an open study of 14 patients with angina pectoris and left ventricular ejection fraction below 40%, treatment with trandolapril-verapamil significantly improved left ventricular function. In a double-blind randomized study of 100 postinfarct patients with congestive heart failure the cardiac event rate was significantly lower in verapamil-trandolapril-treated than in the trandolapril-treated patients. These results indicate that the combined treatment with verapamil and trandolapril might be beneficial in patients with ischaemic heart disease and congestive heart failure.
Ethambutol, a synthetic bacteriostatic agent, is a first line agent against Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Although optic neuritis is the most serious adverse effect of ethambutol, most cases in the literature are reversible. Renal failure prolongs the half-life of ethambutol and increases the risk of ethambutol-induced optic neuritis. We present two patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD), who were on maintenance dialysis and suffering ethambutol-induced optic neuritis. The first woman had been suffering ESRD on hemodialysis for 2 years. After tuberculosis was diagnosed, she was prescribed three-combined anti-tuberculosis medications, including ethambutol 800 mg/day. Bilateral blurred vision suddenly occurred 4 months after the start of treatment, and she became totally blind despite discontinuing ethambutol. The second woman had been on hemodialysis for 5 months. Tuberculosis was diagnosed by lung biopsy. After 3 weeks of three-combined anti-tuberculosis medications including ethambutol (1,200 mg/day), reduced visual acuity and color vision defects occurred. One year after the discontinuation of ethambutol, visual acuity remained little improved. Physicians should be aware of ethambutol-induced optic neuritis and ethambutol should be used cautiously in patients with renal failure.
We report a patient who developed multifocal cerebral demyelination with the use of 5-fluorouracil, levamisole, and leucovorin as adjuvant treatment for intestinal adenocarcinoma. The clinical features were acute confusion, restlessness, ataxia, and slurred speech. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed multifocal enhancing white matter lesions. Brain biopsy showed a well-demarcated area of demyelination in cerebral white matter. The patient improved clinically and radiologically after cessation of chemotherapy and a short course of steroids. There have been only 4 previously reported cases of multifocal leukoencephalopathy related to the use of combination 5-fluorouracil and levamisole. The extensive use of these agents as adjuvant treatment for colorectal carcinoma may result in more frequent recognition of this form of neurological toxicity.
We present the case of 81-years old woman with diabetes mellitus and moderate hypertension who reported multiple syncope's. Cerebral and metabolic causes of syncope's were excluded and the patient was diagnosed to have sick sinus syndrome. After implantation of the cardiac pacemaker the treatment with sotalol was started. After introducing the antiarrhythmic drug the frequency of syncopes increased dramatically and blood pressure rose unusually (up to 250/140 mm Hg). Subsequently phaeochromocytoma was suspected. Laboratory data as well as computed tomography confirmed the diagnosis of left adrenal tumour. After successful surgery the blood pressure normalized and the patient recovered uneventfully. The reported cases describes the difficulties in diagnosing phaeochromocytoma in elderly people with multiple different accompanying diseases.
The combination of fenfluramine and phentermine was a widely used obesity treatment before the withdrawal of fenfluramine for an association with heart valve regurgitation. The prevalence and clinical significance of regurgitation among patients treated with these medications has yet to be fully established.
To evaluate the potential association between the duration of treatment and the prevalence of heart valve abnormalities, we examined 1163 patients who had taken fenfluramine-phentermine and 672 control patients who had not taken the drug combination within 5 years. Mild or greater aortic regurgitation was present in 8.8% of treated patients and 3.6% of control patients (P<0.001). Moderate or greater mitral regurgitation was present in 2.6% of treated patients and 1.5% of control patients (P=0.18). The adjusted odds ratio compared with controls of aortic regurgitation of mild or greater severity increased according to duration of treatment: 90 to 180 days, 1.5 (P=0.23); 181 to 360 days, 2.4 (P=0.002); 361 to 720 days, 4.6 (P<0.001); >720 days, 6.2 (P<0.001).
This is the largest study to demonstrate a relation between the length of treatment with fenfluramine-phentermine and the prevalence of valvular abnormalities. These findings suggest that valvular abnormalities in patients who took fenfluramine-phentermine primarily involve those who had taken these medications for >6 months and predominantly results in mild aortic regurgitation. The valve regurgitation identified by this study was not accompanied by significant differences in cardiovascular symptoms nor physical findings other than a higher prevalence of heart murmurs.
Torsade de pointes (tdp) is a form of ventricular tachycardia whose occurrence in childhood is very rare. In adults treated with sotalol (Sotalex), tdp has been reported to have an incidence of 2-4%. There have been no reports of its occurrence in children treated with sotalol. We report about a 15-month-old girl with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome who developed recurrent syncopal attacks. She had been treated with sotalol at 1.5 mg/kg daily since being a newborn because of recurrent episodes of paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia. Electrocardiogram exhibited frequent tdp tachycardia. Serum electrolyte levels were normal. Echocardiography excluded a structural heart defect and showed no signs of myocardial infection. After sotalol was ceased, infusion with lidocain was started. Despite this therapy the tdp continued. Magnesium aspartate (Magnesiocard) was then administered, and this finally stopped the tdp. As no other cause was evident, tdp in this child must be judged as a proarrhythmia related to sotalol therapy.
The effects of cyclosporin-A and azathioprine on the postoperative development of systemic hypertension and renal dysfunction in patients undergoing cardiac transplantation were compared retrospectively in 18 patients receiving cyclosporin-A and in 12 patients receiving azathioprine. Twelve months postoperatively, the average mean blood pressure was 116 +/- 13 mm Hg and 98 +/- 7.5 mm Hg; the average preoperative serum creatinine was 1.2 +/- 0.3 mg% and 1.5 +/- 0.3 mg%; and the postoperative serum creatinine was 2.2 +/- 0.8 mg% and 1.1 +/- 0.2 mg% (P less than 0.0001) in the cyclosporin-A-and azathioprine-treated groups respectively. Hemodynamic studies were done to characterize the de novo postoperative hypertension developing in the cyclosporin-A group. The pre- and postoperative cardiac output was 3.7 and 4.91/min, respectively (P less than 0.01). The pre- and postoperative systemic vascular resistance was 1707 and 1941 dynes sec X cm-5, respectively (P greater than 0.2). Peripheral renin activity and 24-hour urinary catecholamine excretion were not elevated. The mechanism of the hypertension developing in cyclosporin-A-treated patients is unknown, but is associated with normalization of cardiac output, an abnormally elevated systemic vascular resistance, and modest impairment of renal function. These findings are in marked contrast to azathioprine-treated patients, in whom postoperative hypertension and renal dysfunction do not occur. These observations implicate cyclosporin-A as the major contributing factor in the development of hypertension and renal dysfunction.
Recently the occurrence of adenocarcinoma of the endometrium has been reported in young women exposed to sequential oral contraceptive agents for long periods of time. Twelve young women who had been using Oracon for periods of from 13 to 93 months were subjected to office endometrial aspirations. Tissue specimens showed endometrium which varied in diagnosis from proliferative endometrium to severe atypical adenomatous endometrial hyperplasia bordering on endometrial carcinoma in situ. Adenomatous endometrial hyperplasia is though by many investigators to be a precancerous condition. The progression of endometrial changes from benign proliferation to cystic hyperplasia and adenomatous hyperplasia accompanied by varying degrees of anaplasia in young women exposed to Oracon for long periods of time is significant. It is not surprising, therefore, that adenocarcinoma of the endometrium has been reported in these women at an age where this condition had been relatively uncommon prior to the use of sequential oral contraceptives.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF) is a generalised fibrotic disorder occurring in certain individuals with renal insufficiency exposed to gadolinium-based contrast agents (GdBCA) for MRI. Histopathological examination of affected tissues shows increased numbers of activated macrophages. To elucidate the mechanisms responsible for macrophage activation, the effects of the GdBCA Omniscan on normal human macrophage global gene expression, chemokine production and nuclear factor κB (NFκB) activation was examined.
Normal human monocyte-derived macrophages were incubated with Omniscan (50 mM) and their gene expression analysed by microarrays and real-time PCR. Macrophage chemokine production was assayed by multiplex ELISA. NFκB activation was assessed by NFκB nuclear localisation and quantitation of intracellular levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) protein. A specific cell-permeable NFκB peptide inhibitor was used to abrogate NFκB stimulation of chemokine and iNOS protein levels. CCL8/MCP-2 in affected skin of patients with NSF was examined by indirect immunofluorescence.
Omniscan caused a profound change in the transcriptome of differentiated human normal macrophages in vitro, including a large increase in the expression of genes encoding CC and CXC chemokines. It induced rapid nuclear localisation of NFκB and stimulation of iNOS protein levels and chemokine production which were blocked by an NFκB inhibitory peptide. CCL8/MCP-2, the most upregulated chemokine following in vitro macrophage exposure to Omniscan, was strongly increased in NSF-affected skin.
The GdBCA Omniscan induces potent stimulation of macrophage gene expression, NFκB activation and increased NFκB-mediated production of CC and CXC chemokines and iNOS. These alterations may play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of NSF.
BLX-1002 is a novel small thiazolidinedione with no apparent affinity to peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR) that has been shown to reduce glycemia in type 2 diabetes without adipogenic effects. Its precise mechanisms of action, however, remain elusive, and no studies have been done with respect to possible effects of BLX-1002 on pancreatic beta-cells. We have investigated the influence of the drug on beta-cell function in mouse islets in vitro. BLX-1002 enhanced insulin secretion stimulated by high, but not low or intermediate, glucose concentrations. BLX-1002 also augmented cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+](i)) at high glucose, an effect that was abolished by pretreatment with the Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor thapsigargin. In contrast, BLX-1002 did not interfere with voltage-gated Ca2+ channel or ATP-sensitive K+ channel activities. In addition, cellular NAD(P)H stimulated by glucose was not affected by the drug. The stimulatory effect of BLX-1002 on insulin secretion at high glucose was completely abolished by treatment with the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors wortmannin or LY-294002. Stimulation of the beta-cells with BLX-1002 also induced activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) at high glucose. Our study suggests that BLX-1002 potentiates insulin secretion only at high glucose in beta-cells in a PI3K-dependent manner. This effect of BLX-1002 is associated with an increased [Ca2+](i) mediated through Ca2+ mobilization, and an enhanced activation of AMPK. The glucose-sensitive stimulatory impact of BLX-1002 on beta-cell function may translate into substantial clinical benefits of the drug in the management of type 2 diabetes, by avoidance of hypoglycemia.
In the present study, we investigated the proteomic profiling of anti-benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol-9,10-epoxide (anti-BPDE)-transformed human bronchial epithelial cell line (16HBE-C) and its parental cell line (16HBE) G0/G1 cells. Differential analysis of proteomic profiling indicated that 67 polypeptides were down-regulated and 77 polypeptides were up-regulated in 16HBE-C G0/G1 cells compared to 16HBE G0/G1 cells. Then 16 differentially expressed protein spots were analyzed with Q-TOF MS/MS. Of these spots, 3 down-regulated polypeptides were identified as sorcin, small ubiquitin-related modifier 2 precursor and eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A-1, and 9 up-regulated polypeptides were identified as calmodulin, myosin light polypeptide 6, eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), tumor protein D52 (TPD52), superoxide dismutase [Cu-Zn], prohibitin, nuclear protein Hcc-1 and vimentin. These proteins are involved in cell proliferation, protein synthesis, signal transduction and carcinogenesis. Western blotting analysis verified the increased expression levels of PCNA and TPD52 in 16HBE-C G0/G1 cells. Based on the clues from proteomic analysis, the migration and invasion capabilities of 16HBE-C and 16HBE cells were tested. The results indicated that 16HBE-C cells showed much higher migration and invasion capabilities than 16HBE cells, and moreover, the suppression of TPD52 by RNAi resulted in significant decrease of migration and invasion capabilities of 16HBE-C cells. These results will be valuable for further investigating and understanding the mechanisms underlying BaP-induced carcinogenesis.
The continuing threat to biodiversity lends urgency to the need of identification of sustainable source of natural products. This is not so much trouble if there is a microbial source of the compound. Herein, violacein, a natural indolic pigment extracted from Chromobacterium violaceum, was evaluated for its antitumoral potential against the Ehrlich ascites tumor (EAT) in vivo and in vitro. Evaluation of violacein cytotoxicity using different endpoints indicated that EAT cells were twofold (IC(50)=5.0 microM) more sensitive to the compound than normal human peripheral blood lymphocytes. In vitro studies indicated that violacein cytotoxicity to EAT cells is mediated by a rapid (8-12h) production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and a decrease in intracellular GSH levels, probably due to oxidative stress. Additionally, apoptosis was primarily induced, as demonstrated by an increase in Annexin-V positive cells, concurrently with increased levels of DNA fragmentation and increased caspase-2, caspase-9 and caspase-3 activities up to 4.5-, 6.0- and 5.5-fold, respectively, after 72 h of treatment. Moreover, doses of 0.1 and 1.0 microg kg(-1) violacein, administered intraperitoneally (i.p.) to EAT-bearing mice throughout the lifespan of the animals significantly inhibited tumor growth and increased survival of mice. In view of these results, a 35-day toxicity study was conducted in vivo. Complete hematology, biochemistry (ALT, AST and creatinine levels) and histopathological analysis of liver and kidney indicated that daily doses of violacein up to 1000 microg kg(-1) for 35 days are well tolerated and did not cause hematotoxicity nor renal or hepatotoxicity when administered i.p. to mice. Altogether, these results indicate that violacein causes oxidative stress and an imbalance in the antioxidant defense machinery of cells culminating in apoptotic cell death. Furthermore, this is the first report of its antitumor activity in vivo, which occurs in the absence of toxicity to major organs.
Changes in residual ATP concentrations were investigated following subcellular fractionation of rat brain cortex after a prolonged period of status epilepticus induced by sequential administration of lithium and pilocarpine. After 2 h of continuous high-amplitude rapid spiking on EEG, we found significantly decreased levels of residual ATP in the homogenate and mitochondria fractions from status epilepticus rat brains compared to matched controls. No difference in residual ATP level was observed in the synaptosomal preparations of status epilepticus animals compared to controls. Inorganic phosphate concentration in the status animals was higher than controls in the cytosolic fraction only. F1-ATPase activity, an enzymatic indicator of mitochondrial ATP synthesis rate, was significantly higher in the status brains, whereas other mitochondrial enzymes were not different in the status and control rat groups. These findings, together with our earlier report of reduced synaptosomal ecto-ATPase activity, suggest that either the corresponding in vivo ATP concentrations were reduced as a result of status epilepticus or other biochemical changes had occurred that facilitated the hydrolysis of ATP following decapitation. Controls for and measurement of such other changes failed to provide an explanation for the observed changes in residual ATP.
The authors have had the opportunity to see two cases of CNS side effects of Ifosfamide-Mesna association in children. Data in the medical literature about this subject remains poor. Only a few observations are available. In the referred cases, CNS side effects (lethargy, apathy and mutism) appeared a few hours after the second day of treatment and were spontaneously reversible in a few days. After reviewing possible mechanisms of this toxicity the authors pointed out the necessity to keep this type of side effects of Ifosfamide-Mesna association in mind, and to avoid it in susceptible patients.
Pulmonary fibrosis is one of the most common chronic interstitial lung diseases with high mortality rate after diagnosis and limited successful treatment. The present study was designed to assess the potential antifibrotic effect of thymoquinone (TQ) and whether TQ can attenuate the severity of oxidative stress and inflammatory response during bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Male Wister rats were treated intraperitoneally with either bleomycin (15 mg/kg, 3 times a week for 4 weeks) and/or thymoquinone (5mg/kg/day, 1 week before and until the end of the experiment). Bleomycin significantly increased lung weight and the levels of Lactate dehydrogenase, total leucocytic count, total protein and mucin in bronchoalveolar lavage and these effects were significantly ameliorated by TQ treatment. As markers of oxidative stress, bleomycin caused a significant increase in the levels of lipid peroxides and nitric oxide accompanied with a significant decrease in the antioxidant enzyme activity of superoxide dismutase and glutathione transferase. TQ treatment restored these markers toward normal values. TQ also counteracted emphysema in air alveoli, inflammatory cell infiltration, lymphoid hyperplastic cells activation surrounding the bronchioles and the over expression of activated form of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-B) in lung tissue that was induced by bleomycin. Fibrosis was assessed by measuring hydroxyproline content, which increased markedly in the bleomycin group and significantly reduced by concurrent treatment with TQ. Furthermore, histopathological examination confirmed the antifibrotic effect of TQ. Collectively these findings indicate that TQ has potential antifibrotic effect beside its antioxidant activity that could be through NF-κB inhibition.
We describe a case history of a 24-year-old male with osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) who developed osteosarcoma of the left thigh. High-dose ifosfamide therapy caused marked tumor regression of multiple lung metastases. Immunohistochemically, the tumor cells were diffusely positive for the p53 protein. Mutation of the p53 gene was not detected by direct genomic sequencing of exons 4-8. The radiographic characteristics, including irregularly distributed osteolytic lesions and cortical discontinuity, should not be confused with hyperplastic callus formation, a benign process. A biopsy is critical to establish the differential diagnosis between osteosarcoma and common hyperplastic callus formation in OI; however, it must be applied with great care.
The goal of this study is to investigate the effects of sorafenib on tumor growth, recurrence and metastasis after curative resection of liver cancer.
SMMC-7721 and HCCLM3 liver tumors, each with different metastatic potential and basal phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (pERK) levels, were orthotopically implanted into 56 nude mice. Mice were divided into a treatment sub study and a prevention sub study.
In the treatment sub study, tumor volumes in the high pERK-expressing HCCLM3 model were 2.58 ? 0.83 and 0.38 ? 0.09 cm(3) without and with sorafenib, respectively (p < 0.001). The corresponding volumes in the low pERK-expressing SMMC-7721 model were 1.36 ? 0.24 and 0.24 ? 0.14 cm(3) (p < 0.001), respectively. Sorafenib inhibited HCCLM3 cell proliferation and decreased tumor angiogenesis, but did not inhibit proliferation in the SMMC-7721 model. In the prevention sub study, intrahepatic recurrent tumor volumes were 1.96 ? 0.45 and 0.18 ? 0.24 cm(3) (p < 0.001); lung metastasis frequencies were 100 and 0% (p = 0.005); and lifespans were 36 ? 3 and 46 ? 5 days (p = 0.002) in the control and sorafenib subgroups, respectively.
Sorafenib inhibits tumor growth and prevents metastatic recurrence after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma in nude mice. The effect of sorafenib does not exclusively depend on high levels of pERK in tumors.
We have previously reported that inbred Wistar-Imamichi (WI) rats are highly resistant to cadmium (Cd)-induced testicular toxicity compared with inbred Fischer 344 (F344) rats. The present study was to elucidate the genetic background of resistance to Cd-induced testicular toxicity in WI rats. The genetic analysis of susceptibility to Cd-induced testicular toxicity was conducted by using Cd-resistant WI and Cd-sensitive F344 strains as the parental rats and by using the testicular hemoglobin level as the indicator. In the frequency distribution of testicular hemoglobin levels in parental, first filial (F(1)) and second filial (F(2)) rats treated with Cd at a dose of 2.0 mg/kg, F(1) rats had testicular hemoglobin levels intermediate to WI and F344 rats, and F(2) rats segregated into three groups of low, intermediate, and high phenotypes at the expected ratio. Furthermore, the backcross progeny between WI and F(1) or between F344 and F(1) segregated into two groups with the expected ratio. Based on a simple Mendelian genetic analysis, these segregation patterns lead us to conclude that two codominant alleles at a gene locus are responsible for the susceptibility to Cd-induced testicular toxicity in rats. This is the first report for the genetic analysis of susceptibility to Cd-induced testicular toxicity in inbred rat strains.
Hypospadias is a common congenital malformation of the male external genitalia. We performed a genome-wide association study using pooled DNA from 436 individuals with hypospadias (cases) and 494 controls of European descent and selected the highest ranked SNPs for individual genotyping in the discovery sample, an additional Dutch sample of 133 cases and their parents, and a Swedish series of 266 cases and 402 controls. Individual genotyping of two SNPs (rs1934179 and rs7063116) in DGKK, encoding diacylglycerol kinase κ, produced compelling evidence for association with hypospadias in the discovery sample (allele-specific odds ratio (OR) = 2.5, P = 2.5 × 10⁻¹¹ and OR = 2.3, P = 2.9 × 10⁻⁹, respectively) and in the Dutch (OR = 3.9, P = 2.4 × 10⁻⁵ and OR = 3.8, P = 3.4 × 10⁻⁵) and Swedish (OR = 2.5, P = 2.6 × 10⁻⁸ and OR = 2.2, P = 2.7 × 10⁻⁶) replication samples. Expression studies showed expression of DGKK in preputial tissue of cases and controls, which was lower in carriers of the risk allele of rs1934179 (P = 0.047). We propose DGKK as a major risk gene for hypospadias.
Acute lung injury (ALI), a severe respiratory syndrome, develops in response to numerous insults and responds poorly to therapeutic intervention. Recently, cDNA microarray analyses were performed that indicated several pathogenic responses during nickel-induced ALI, including marked macrophage activation. Macrophage activation is mediated, in part, via the receptor tyrosine kinase Ron. To address the role of Ron in ALI, the response of mice deficient in the cytoplasmic domain of Ron (Ron tk-/-) were assessed in response to nickel exposure. Ron tk-/- mice succumb to nickel-induced ALI earlier, express larger, early increases in interleukin-6, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, and macrophage inflammatory protein-2, display greater serum nitrite levels, and exhibit earlier onset of pulmonary pathology and augmented pulmonary tyrosine nitrosylation. Increases in cytokine expression and cellular nitration can lead to tissue damage and are consistent with the differences between genotypes in the early onset of pathology and mortality in Ron tk-/- mice. These analyses indicate a role for the tyrosine kinase receptor Ron in ALI.
Nitrofen model of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) has been widely used to investigate the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia (PH). Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling pathway plays a fundamental role in fetal lung development. FGF7 and FGF10, which are critical for lung morphogenesis, have been reported to be downregulated in nitrofen-induced PH. FGF signaling is mediated by a family of four single transmembrane receptors, FGFR1-4. FGFR2 and FGFR3 have been shown to be expressed predominantly in the late stages of developing lungs. In addition, the upregulation of FGFR2 gene expression has been associated with severe defects in lung development and resulted in arrested alveologenesis similar to PH seen in the nitrofen model. Furthermore, FGFR3(-/-)FGFR4(-/-) double mutants showed thinner mesenchyme and larger air spaces. We designed this study to test the hypothesis that FGFR gene expression is upregulated in the late stages of lung development in the nitrofen CDH model.
Pregnant rats were exposed to either olive oil or nitrofen on day 9 of gestation (D9). Cesarean section was performed and fetuses were harvested on D18 and D21. Fetal lungs were divided into three groups: control, nitrofen without CDH [CDH(-)], and nitrofen with CDH [CDH(+)] (n = 24 at each time-point). Pulmonary gene expression levels of FGFR1-4 were analyzed by real-time RT-PCR. Immunohistochemistry was also performed to evaluate protein expression/distribution at each time-point.
The relative messenger RNA expression levels of pulmonary FGFR2 and FGFR3 on D21 were significantly increased in CDH(-) (6.38 ± 1.93 and 7.84 ± 2.86, respectively) and CDH(+) (7.09 ± 2.50 and 7.25 ± 3.43, respectively) compared to controls (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively), whereas no significant alteration was observed on D18. There were no differences in FGFR1 and FGFR4 expression at both time-points. Increased immunoreactivity of FGFR2 and FGFR3, mainly in the distal epithelium and mesenchyme, was observed in the nitrofen-induced hypoplastic lungs on D21 compared to controls.
Upregulation of FGFR2 and FGFR3 pulmonary gene expression in the late stages of fetal lung development may disrupt FGFR-mediated alveologenesis resulting in PH in the CDH model.
To investigate the effects of cadmium exposure on insulin expression in rats.
Eighteen adult SD rats were administered cadmium subcutaneously (0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 mg/kg x bw). The effects on endocrine of pancreas were assessed. The levels of cadmium and zinc in pancreas, blood and urine glucose, serum insulin and urine NAG (N-acyetyl-beta-glucosaminidase) were determined. The gene expressions of metallothionein (MT) and insulin were also measured, and the oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) were carried out.
The contents of cadmium in pancreas in cadmium-treated rats were higher than that in the control group, which was associated with slight increase of zinc in pancreas. Cadmium-exposed rats (1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg x bw) demonstrated a marked glucose intolerance. But the levels of serum insulin did not change significantly after cadmium administration, and the UNAG had no change in Cd-treated group. The gene expression of insulin decreased in 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg x bw cadmium-exposed groups, compared with the control group. The expression of MT-I was higher in the groups exposed to 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg x bw cadmium while the expression of MT-II was higher in the group exposed to 2.0 mg/kg x bw cadmium.
Cadmium may be accumulated in the pancreas, resulting in the change of the expression of insulin, MT-I and MT-II genes. Cadmium can influence the biosynthesis of insulin, but does not induce the release of insulin. The dysfunction of pancreas occurs earlier than that of kidney after administration of cadmium.
Our previous studies have shown that ethanol counteracts centrally mediated hypotensive responses to clonidine. In this study, we investigated the relative roles of central alpha2-adrenergic and I1 imidazoline receptors in the antagonistic ethanol-clonidine hemodynamic interaction. The effects of selective blockade of alpha2- or I1 receptor by 2-methoxyidazoxan and efaroxan, respectively, on the blood pressure and heart rate responses to clonidine and subsequent ethanol administration were evaluated in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats. Intracisternal administration of clonidine (1.5 microg/kg) produced significant (30 mm Hg; p < 0.05) and sustained (at least 60 min) decreases in blood pressure and heart rate. Systemic ethanol (1 g/kg), administered 10 min after clonidine, counteracted the hypotensive response and restored blood pressure to the preclonidine levels. Treatment with 2-methoxyidazoxan (0.16 microg/kg, intracisternal) or efaroxan (0.45 microg/kg, intracisternal) produced similar attenuation of the hypotensive and bradycardic responses to clonidine. The ability of ethanol to counteract the hypotensive action of clonidine was significantly (p < 0.05) attenuated in rats pretreated with efaroxan. The pressor response to ethanol lasted only 10 min compared with at least 60 min in the absence of efaroxan. In contrast, ethanol counteraction of clonidine-evoked hypotension was not altered when alpha2-adrenoceptors were blocked by 2-methoxyidazoxan. These findings suggest that centrally mediated hypotensive and bradycardic effects of clonidine in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats involve activation of both alpha2-adrenergic and I1 imidazoline receptors. Furthermore, the findings suggest the dependence of a fully expressed ethanol counteraction of the hypotensive action of clonidine on functional I1 receptor within the central nervous system.
