We have observed among patients of the Southern Community Hospice Programme that up to 25% experience acute delirium when treated with morphine and improve when the opioid is changed to oxycodone or fentanyl. This study aimed to confirm by a prospective trial that oxycodone produces less delirium than morphine in such patients. Oxycodone was administered by a continuous subcutaneous infusion, as this allowed more flexible and reliable dosing, and patients were monitored for any adverse reactions to the drug. Thirteen patients completed the study. Statistically significant improvements in mental state and nausea and vomiting occurred following a change from morphine to oxycodone. Pain scores improved but did not reach a level of statistical significance. The phenotype status of the patients was tested to establish their capacity to metabolize oxycodone. One patient who did not achieve adequate pain control proved to be a poor metabolizer. These results show that oxycodone administered by the subcutaneous route can provide effective analgesia without significant side effects in patients with morphine-induced delirium. This treatment allows patients to remain more comfortable and lucid in their final days. A small proportion of patients who do not metabolize oxycodone effectively may not receive this benefit.
Calcium sensitizers are a new group of inotropic drugs. Levosimendan is the only calcium sensitizer in clinical use in Europe. Its mechanism of action includes both calcium sensitization of contractile proteins and the opening of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent potassium channels as mechanism of vasodilation. The combination of K-channel opening with positive inotropy offers potential benefits in comparison to currently available intravenous inotropes, since K-channel opening protects myocardium during ischemia. Due to the calcium-dependent binding of levosimendan to troponin C, the drug increases contractility without negative lusitropic effects. In patients with heart failure levosimendan dose-dependently increases cardiac output and reduces pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. Since levosimendan has an active metabolite OR-1896 with a half-life of some 80 hours, the duration of the hemodynamic effects significantly exceeds the 1-hour half-life of the parent compound. The hemodynamic effects of the levosimendan support its use in acute and postoperative heart failure. Several moderate-size trials (LIDO, RUSSLAN, CASINO) have previously suggested that the drug might even improve the prognosis of patients with decompensated heart failure. These trials were carried out in patients with high filling pressures. Recently two larger trials (SURVIVE and REVIVE) in patients who were hospitalized because of worsening heart failure have been finalized. These trials did not require filling pressures to be measured. The two trials showed that levosimendan improves the symptoms of heart failure, but does not improve survival. The results raise the question whether a 24-hour levosimendan infusion can be used without invasive hemodynamic monitoring.
To assess the effects of the early and chronic administration of losartan--a specific angiotensin II receptor antagonist--in the prevention of hepatic fibrosis and portal hypertension.
(1) In CCl(4) rats, losartan at 5 and 10 mg/kg per day significantly decreased portal pressure (-11, -18%, respectively), splenorenal shunt blood flow (-60, -80%) and liver fibrosis (liver hydroxyproline and area of fibrosis) without significant changes in mortality and mean arterial pressure (MAP). (2) In bile duct ligated (BDL) rats, losartan at 5 mg/kg per day significantly decreased portal pressure (-14%), splenorenal shunt blood flow (-70%) and liver fibrosis. Losartan at 10 mg/kg per day significantly worsened liver and renal functions, mortality and liver fibrosis, without significant changes in portal pressure and splenorenal shunt blood flow. Losartan at 5 and 10 mg/kg per day significantly decreased MAP (-24, -30%). (3) In portal vein ligated (PVL) rats, losartan significantly decreased MAP (-12%) but did not change portal pressure or splenorenal shunt blood flow.
In BDL and CCl(4) rats, losartan has beneficial effects on splanchnic hemodynamics and liver fibrosis. Losartan might decrease hepatic resistances in fibrotic liver. Losartan decreased MAP except in CCl(4) rats. Higher dosage of losartan had deleterious effects in BDL rats.
The beta-adrenergic system is involved in the control of energy metabolism and expenditure. The beta2-adrenergic receptor (beta2-AR) gene shows polymorphisms that have been associated with obesity in several studies. In vitro and in vivo studies suggest differences in beta2-AR-mediated function between these polymorphisms. The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of genetic variation in codon 16 of the beta2-AR gene on energy metabolism in humans. Thirty-four subjects were recruited [Gly16Gly (n = 13), Gly16Arg (n = 16), or Arg16Arg (n = 5)]. The beta2-AR was stimulated with two doses of salbutamol (50 and 100 ng/kg fat-free mass per minute) after blockade of the beta1-adrenergic receptors with atenolol. Energy expenditure and plasma substrate and hormone concentrations were measured. The increase in energy expenditure (DeltaEE) was significantly different among groups in which the Arg16Arg group showed the lowest increase (P < 0.05 vs. Gly carriers). In a multiple regression model, variations in the increase in nonesterified fatty acid concentration during salbutamol infusion (partial r = 0.51) and the polymorphism contributed significantly to the variation in DeltaEE. Thirty-five percent of the variation in DeltaEE was explained by these two factors. We conclude that subjects with the Arg16Arg polymorphism of the beta2-AR gene have a reduced thermogenic response to beta2-adrenergic stimulation. Although this relatively small study needs confirmation, the findings support a role for this polymorphism in the development and maintenance of overweight and obesity.
Motion sickness can be experienced as the result of air or sea travel. Scopolamine can be used before travel to prevent this illness. This report describes two patients who used transdermal scopolamine preparations and experienced hallucinations and then confusion as side effects. The discussion concerns the recognition and treatment of these adverse effects.
Smoking cessation trials with three high-affinity partial agonists of alpha4beta2 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have demonstrated differences in their clinical efficacy. This work examines the origin of the differences by taking into account brain exposure and pharmacological effects at human alpha4beta2 nAChRs.
Rat plasma and brain pharmacokinetics were characterized and used to predict human steady-state plasma and brain concentrations following recommended doses of each of the three compounds. The pharmacological characterization included in vitro affinities at different nAChR subtypes, functional efficacies and potencies at the human alpha4beta2 nAChR, as well as in vivo effects on rat mesolimbic dopamine turn-over.
A comparison of predicted human brain concentrations following therapeutic doses demonstrated that varenicline and nicotine, but not dianicline and cytisine, can extensively desensitize and, to a lesser extent, activate alpha4beta2 nAChRs. The limited clinical efficacy of dianicline may be accounted for by a combination of weak functional potency at alpha4beta2 nAChRs and moderate brain penetration, while recommended doses of cytisine, despite its high in vitro potency, are predicted to result in brain concentrations that are insufficient to affect alpha4beta2 nAChRs.
The data provide a plausible explanation for the higher abstinence rate in smoking cessation trials following treatment with varenicline than with the two other alpha4beta2 nAChR partial agonists. In addition, this retrospective analysis demonstrates the usefulness of combining in vitro and in vivo parameters with estimated therapeutic human brain concentrations for translation to clinical efficacy.
The authors report a case of intraoperative sinus arrest in an otherwise healthy patient undergoing craniotomy for aneurysm clipping after mild subarachnoid hemorrhage. The sinus arrest was precipitated by a rapid infusion of 1500 mg phenytoin and was successfully treated with standard resuscitative measures. The differential diagnosis of intraoperative cardiac arrest and the mechanisms of action of phenytoin are discussed. The authors emphasize the role of phenytoin in cerebral protection.
Forty patients without eye disease, undergoing elective nonophthalmic surgery, were studied in a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study evaluating the efficacy of mivacurium pretreatment in attenuating the rise in intra-ocular pressure in response to suxamethonium administration, laryngoscopy and intubation. The patients were randomly allocated to receive either mivacurium 0.02 mg.kg-1 or normal saline as pretreatment 3 min before a rapid sequence induction technique using alfentanil, propofol and suxamethonium. Suxamethonium induced a significant increase in intra-ocular pressure in the control group but not in the mivacurium pretreatment group (mean (SEM) increase = 3.5 (1.2) mmHg vs. 0.4 (0.8) mmHg, p < 0.05). There was a decrease in intra-ocular pressure in both groups after laryngoscopy and intubation with no significant difference between the two groups. These results show that mivacurium pretreatment is effective in preventing the increase in intra-ocular pressure after suxamethonium administration.
Our group has been involved in searching for different strategies to ameliorate hepatic cirrhosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of Pirfenidone in the reversion or prevention of cirrhosis experimentally induced in rats by chronic administration of CCl(4) and bile-duct ligation (BDL).
Male cirrhotic Wistar rats (8 weeks of intoxication and then hepatotoxin was discontinued) received either oral saline or Pirfenidone at 500 mg/kg per day.
High levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and alkaline phosphatase decreased significantly (P<0.001) in animals treated with Pirfenidone (n=11) with regard to saline-administrated animals (n=9). Prothrombin activity and bilirubins were also reduced. Computerized fibrosis index demonstrated a 70% decrease (P<0.001) along with less hydroxyproline content, reduction in activated HSC and higher active cell regeneration. A rearrangement of the parenchyma was also noted and gene expression of collagens I, III and IV, transforming growth factor beta-1, Smad-7, TIMP-1 and PAI-1 decreased considerably in treated animals. Cirrhotic rats in which CCl(4) was not discontinued displayed 40% liver fibrosis reduction. In a different cirrhosis model, 4-week BDL rats treated with the drug showed a significant 50% reduction in hepatic fibrosis (P<0.01).
This new drug might be useful in healing human disease.
To determine the relation between the promoter methylation status of RUNX3 gene and clinicopathological parameters, prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
We collected 80 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded lung cancer tissue samples from NSCLC patients who received postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin. Genomic DNA was extracted through phenol/chloroform extraction. The methylation status of RUNX3 was determined by nested methylation-specific PCR (nMSP). We investigated the pathological and prognostic characteristics of NSCLC stratified by methylation status.
The RUNX3 promoter methylation was observed in 20 of the 80 NSCLC samples (25.0%). Methylation of RUNX3 was more frequent in adenocarcinomas (36%) than in squamous cell carcinomas (11%) (P=0.020). In multivariate Logistic regression, positive RUNX3 methylation status (P=0.011) was found to be independent disease-free survival factor as was N stage (P<0.001). Kaplan-Meier curves showed patients with RUNX3 methylation had a significantly poorer overall survival than those without methylation (P=0.003; log-rank test). In multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression analysis, RUNX3 methylation (RR:2.345, 95% CI:1.30-4.865, P=0.022) was a significant independent prognostic factor for the overall survival.
RUNX3 methylation is a significant independent prognostic factor for disease-free survival and overall survival.
Epidural opioids are frequently combined with local anaesthetics for an additive antinociceptive effect. We investigated the efficacy of epidural fentanyl to 1.25 or 1.5 mg/ml ropivacaine for post-operative epidural analgesia in children.
One hundred and eight children undergoing hypospadias repair were randomized to receive 1.25 mg/ml ropivacaine (R1.25 group), 1.25 mg/ml ropivacaine with 0.2 mcg/kg/h of fentanyl (R1.25F group), 1.5 mg/ml ropivacaine (R1.5 group) or 1.5 mg/ml ropivacaine with 0.2 mcg/kg/h of fentanyl (R1.5F group) for post-operative epidural analgesia. The epidural catheter was threaded caudally through the L4-5 interspace. The face, legs, activity, cry, consolability (FLACC) score was assessed at every hour and at FLACC score >4, an epidural bolus of 0.5 ml/kg of ropivacaine 1.5 mg/ml was given as the rescue analgesia. The incidence of side effects such as hypoxia, sedation, pruritus, nausea and/or vomiting was recorded.
The need for rescue analgesia was higher in the R1.25 group compared with that in the other three groups (all P<0.05). The incidence of side effects was higher in the R1.5F group compared with that in the R1.25 and R1.5 groups (both P=0.010).
The addition of 0.2 mcg/kg/h fentanyl to 1.5 mg/ml ropivacaine increased the incidence of side effects without improvement of analgesia in infants and children undergoing hypospadias repair. The use of plain 1.25 mg/ml ropivacaine increased the need for rescue analgesia and this could be compensated by addition of fentanyl.
Cardiovascular complications of cocaine use represent an important clinical problem, yet the mechanisms by which cocaine predisposes to myocardial ischemia are poorly understood.
The effects of cocaine on the coronary circulation have been studied extensively in experimental animal models, but have failed to recapitulate the clinical findings reported in humans who use cocaine.
We studied 12 conscious, chronically instrumented dogs and 5 conscious, chronically instrumented baboons to determine whether there were important species differences in the response to cocaine.
Comparable doses of intravenous cocaine caused similar increases in left ventricular systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure in the two species. However, the peak coronary blood flow response in baboons (+8 +/- 3 from 47 +/- 6 ml/min) was less compared with dogs (+15 +/- 4 from 41 +/- 4 ml/min), while the coronary vascular resistance response was greater in baboons (+0.60 +/- 0.09 from 1.94 +/- 0.09 mm Hg/ml/mm) compared with dogs (+0.35 +/- 0.09 from 2.24 +/- 0.10 mm Hg/ml/min). Although myocardial oxygen consumption responses were similar between species, there was a significant difference (p < 0.05) in oxygen delivery between baboons (+164 +/- 47 from 705 +/- 59 ml of oxygen per minute) and dogs (+397 +/-51 from 656 +/- 33 ml of oxygen per minute) that was attributable to a significant (p < 0.05) increase in hemoglobin concentration in dogs (+2.1 +/- 0.5 g/dl) that was not observed in baboons. Consequently, cocaine caused a significant increase in myocardial oxygen extraction and decreased coronary sinus pH in baboons, but not dogs.
Cocaine caused greater coronary vasoconstriction and greater requirements for oxygen extraction in baboons compared with dogs.
Acetaminophen is a metabolite of phenacetin, a drug that has been implicated as a causal agent in the development of renal and bladder cancer. We conducted matched case-control studies to estimate the risk of renal and bladder cancer among heavy users of acetaminophen, using data from Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound. For the renal cancer study, we identified 222 incident cases diagnosed in the years 1980-1991 and 885 controls. For bladder cancer, we identified 504 cases and 2,009 controls. Exposure was defined according to the number of prescriptions for acetaminophen and acetaminophen-containing drugs filled at the Group Health Cooperative pharmacy. The relative risk estimate for renal cancer for subjects who filled 40 or more prescriptions was 2.6 [95% confidence limits (CL) = 1.1, 6.0], compared with the risk for subjects who did not fill any prescriptions for acetaminophen. We found only a small increased risk of bladder cancer among subjects with heavy acetaminophen exposure (odds ratio = 1.3; 95% CL = 0.6, 2.8).
Eleven (50%) of 22 HIV-seropositive patients suffering from congenital coagulation defects and followed at the Hemophilia Center of Padua met the eligibility criteria for zidovudine (AZT) therapy. A 3-year clinical and laboratory follow up is described. Mean length of AZT treatment was 14.3 +/- 11 months. Three patients were enrolled at the latest stages (CDC stage IV) of HIV disease. They showed no clinical improvement after AZT administration and died with AIDS. One CDC stage III patient died from a high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) which suddenly developed 3 months after starting AZT. Seven patients began antiretroviral treatment when they were mild or asymptomatic for HIV infection (CDC stage II and III). None developed any sign of HIV disease progression on the basis of CDC criteria. Moreover, AZT administration induced an improvement of the humoral markers related to HIV disease, as CD4 T-lymphocyte count, serum beta 2-microglobulin (B2M) and, although only for few months, neopterin (Np) levels. A mild thrombocytopenia due to HIV infection was detected in 5 patients. In all cases AZT treatment was effective in increasing and/or normalizing the platelet count. Reduced daily dose AZT (600-500 mg/day) appeared to be well tolerated and of minimal toxicity as compared to the higher dose (1200 mg/day). In our study, the zidovudine-induced bone marrow suppression, namely severe anemia or pancytopenia, was the major side-effect limiting tolerance of the higher dose AZT.
Six patients with classic benign epilepsy of childhood with centrotemporal spikes, treated with carbamazepine (four patients) or sodium valproate (two patients) evolved atypically because the epileptic disorder, diffusion of the electroencephalographic (EEG) discharges during wakefulness, and continuous spike-and-wave during slow sleep associated with severe neuropsychologic abnormalities worsened. These features appeared after a seizure-free interval varying for 2 weeks to 1 year 6 months after initiating therapy and remitted when the previous anticonvulsant drug was discontinued and either substituted with another drug or the patient was left without any treatment. Once the initial antiepileptic drug was discontinued and after a period roughly proportional to the duration of the clinical-EEG complication, the evolution of the patients' seizures was not unusual for this type of epilepsy, with patients eventually becoming free of both seizures and medication and reaching normal school achievement. The clinical complications cannot be attributed solely to the drugs. It must also be related to the underlying substract (i.e., the specific epileptic syndrome involved) that in some patients becomes susceptible to atypical evolution when either product is administered.
Administration of tamoxifen (TAM) (20 mg/kg per day p.o.) for 6 weeks to female lambda/lacI transgenic rats caused a 4-fold increase in mutation frequency (MF) at the lacI gene locus in the livers of dosed animals compared with controls. After cessation of dosing, the MF showed a further increase with time at 2, 12 and 24 weeks, respectively. Phenobarbital promotion of similarly treated animals resulted in no increase in mutation frequency compared with TAM alone. Treatment with phenobarbital or TAM+phenobarbital resulted in time-dependent increases in liver weight compared with the corresponding controls. There was an increase in cell proliferation in the phenobarbital and TAM+phenobarbital groups, and at 24 weeks in the TAM dosed animals compared with controls. There was also a progressive increase in the number of GST-P expressing foci in the livers of TAM and TAM + phenobarbital rats compared with controls. The induction of cell proliferation and GSTP foci in the rat liver by phenobarbital is consistent with its ability to promote tamoxifen-initiated liver tumours in the rat. If the lacI gene is regarded as being representative of the rat genome in general (albeit that the gene is bacterial) the above observations suggest that promotion by tamoxifen confers selective advantage on mutated genes at loci that contribute to the tumour phenotype and that promotion of rat liver tumours by tamoxifen is not dependent simply upon the enhancement of cellular proliferation.
In order to develop drugs effective against Alzheimer's disease, we synthesized a series of aniline derivatives having a characteristic cyclic amine, 1-azabicyclo[3.3.0]octane ring, and evaluated their binding affinity for the central muscarinic cholinergic receptor. Among these compounds which showed high affinity to the M1 receptor, N-[2-(1-Azabicyclo[3.3.0]octan-5-yl)ethyl]-2-nitroaniline (9f fumarate, SK-946) showed the highest affinity. The ability of this compound to improve cognitive function was assessed using the passive avoidance test in scopolamine-induced dementia mice. Some anilines with a 1-azabicyclo[3.3.1]nonane ring were also synthesized by the ring expansion of the 1-azabicyclo[3.3.0]octane ring, and showed a high affinity for the central muscarinic cholinergic receptor.
Methyl-mercury (MeHg) is a potent neuroendocrine disruptor that impairs reproductive processes in fish. The objectives of this study were to (1) characterize transcriptomic changes induced by MeHg exposure in the female largemouth bass (LMB) hypothalamus under controlled laboratory conditions, (2) investigate the health and reproductive impacts of MeHg exposure on male and female largemouth bass (LMB) in the natural environment, and (3) identify MeHg-associated gene expression patterns in whole brain of female LMB from MeHg-contaminated habitats. The laboratory experiment was a single injection of 2.5 μg MeHg/g body weight for 96 h exposure. The field survey compared river systems in Florida, USA with comparably lower concentrations of MeHg (Wekiva, Santa Fe, and St. Johns Rivers) in fish and one river system with LMB that contained elevated concentrations of MeHg (St. Marys River). Microarray analysis was used to quantify transcriptomic responses to MeHg exposure. Although fish at the high-MeHg site did not show overt health or reproductive impairment, there were MeHg-responsive genes and pathways identified in the laboratory study that were also altered in fish from the high-MeHg site relative to fish at the low-MeHg sites. Gene network analysis suggested that MeHg regulated the expression targets of neuropeptide receptor and steroid signaling, as well as structural components of the cell. Disease-associated gene networks related to MeHg exposure, based upon expression data, included cerebellum ataxia, movement disorders, and hypercalcemia. Gene responses in the CNS are consistent with the documented neurotoxicological and neuroendocrine disrupting effects of MeHg in vertebrates.
Plasma immunoreactive vasopressin (iAVP) was studied by RIA in a patient suffering from polyuria during chronic treatment with lithium. The combined use of two antisera specific for different regions of the AVP molecule allowed us to detect circulating forms which are modified in the acyclic tripeptide portion. In this lithium-treated patient, iAVP was abnormally low with respect to plasma osmolality. However, iAVP increased during hypertonic saline infusion, probably through an osmosensitive mechanism. A remarkable finding was that contrary to the observations made in healthy subjects and in another patient with diabetes insipidus, iAVP measured with the antiserum specific for the acyclic portion of the AVP molecule was below the values measured with the antiserum specific for the hexapeptide ring. This unusual immunoreactivity profile suggests that the plasma of this polyuric lithium-treated patient contains vasopressin-like peptides which differ from arginine vasopressin in the structure of the C-terminal tripeptide tail.
To report the clinical responses and mediator-release profiles of an aspirin-sensitive man with systemic mast cell disease during aspirin desensitization.
We quantified the release of six mediators during aspirin desensitization.
Although aspirin was administered cautiously with an initial dose of 20 mg, successful aspirin desensitization necessitated complete monitoring and resuscitation capabilities of a medical intensive-care unit for 4.5 days because of frequent, severe anaphylactoid responses. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a pronounced increase in plasma levels of the vasodilator peptide calcitonin gene-related peptide during episodes of aspirin-induced hypotension. Increases in plasma levels of calcitonin and serum levels of tryptase paralleled those of calcitonin gene-related peptide, but plasma levels of calcitonin remained increased for up to 18 hours. Urinary excretion of histamine and 1-methyl-4-imidazoleacetic acid also showed precipitous, although delayed, increases. Excretion of the prostaglandin D2 metabolite 11 beta-prostaglandin F2 alpha followed a bimodal pattern during aspirin desensitization; after severe hypotensive responses, the maximal value was more than 490,000 pg/mL, but the level decreased to less than 100 pg/mL after therapeutic serum levels of salicylate were attained.
These data suggest that the hypotensive responses to aspirin in some patients with systemic mast cell disease may result from the combined effects of several mediators.
To study the effect of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) on lymphangiogenesis in breast cancer.
By the means of immunohistochemistry, COX-2, vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C) and D2-40 were examined in the tissue samples of primary tumors from 94 patients underwent surgical resections for breast cancer from November 1998 to March 2002. Eighty-three patients were followed-up. The expressions of VEGF-C mRNA and protein were detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blot in MDA-MB-231 cell lines by the treatment of selective COX-2 inhibitor Nimesulide at different doses. The expressions of VEGF-C protein were evaluated in MDA-MB-231 cells treated by PGE2 (1 microg/ml) and Trastuzumab (1 microg/ml), respectively.
COX-2 over-expression was observed in 46.8% of surgical specimens (44/94), while VEGF-C overexpression occurred in 51.1% of tumor samples (48/94). COX-2 was strongly correlated with VEGF-C expression (P < 0.01), micro-lymphatic vessels (P = 0.032) and metastatic lymph nodes (P = 0. 035). Patients with COX-2 positive tumors had a significant shorter survival time than those with negative tumors did, including disease-free survival (P = 0.010) and overall survival (P = 0.040). Nimesulide could down-regulate the expressions of VEGF-C mRNA and protein in a does-dependent manner, while PGE2 could up-regulate the expressions. The expression of VEGF-C protein up-regulated by PGE2 treatment was decreased by Trastuzumab.
COX-2 over-expression can up-regulate the expression of VEGF-C. VEGF-C might promote lymph node metastasis by a lymph-angiogenic pathway, then affect the prognosis of the patients with breast cancer.
Humans express sulfotransferases (SULTs) of the SULT1A subfamily in many tissues, whilst the single SULT1A gene present in rodents is mainly expressed in liver. The food processing contaminants, 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), are bioactivated by human SULT1A1 and SULT1A2. FVB multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min) mice, which spontaneously develop tumors and flat aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in intestine, were crossed with transgenic FVB mice expressing human SULT1A1 and 1A2 (hSULT) in several tissues, giving rise to wild-type and Min mice with and without hSULT. One-week-old Min mice with or without hSULT were given HMF (375 or 750 mg/kg bw) or saline by gavage three times a week for 11 wk. In another experiment, the F1 generation received subcutaneous injections of 50 mg/kg bw PhIP or saline 1 wk before birth, and 1, 2, and 3 wk after birth. HMF did not affect the formation of tumors, but may have induced some flat ACF (incidence 15-20%) in Min mice with and without hSULT. No control mouse developed any flat ACF. With the limitation that these putative effects were weak, they were unaffected by hSULT expression. The carcinogenic effect of PhIP increased in the presence of hSULT, with a significant increase in both incidence (31-80%) and number of colonic tumors (0.4-1.3 per animal). Thus, intestinal expression of human SULT1A1 and 1A2 might increase the susceptibility to compounds bioactivated via this pathway implying that humans might be more susceptible than conventional rodent models.
We have investigated the role of ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels in an experimental model of a delayed phase of vascular hyporeactivity induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in rats. After 24 h, from LPS treatment, in anaesthetized rats the bolus injection of phenylephrine (PE) produced an increase in mean arterial pressure (MAP) significantly (P<0.05) reduced in LPS-treated rats compared to the vehicle-treated rats. This reduction was prevented by pre-treatment of rats with glibenclamide (GLB), a selective inhibitor of K(ATP) channels. GLB administration did not affect the MAP in vehicle-treated rats but produced an increase of MAP in rats treated with LPS. Cromakalim (CRK), a selective K(ATP) channel opener, produced a reduction of MAP that was significantly (P<0.05) higher in LPS- than in vehicle-treated rats. In contrast, the hypotension induced by glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) in LPS-treated rats was not distinguishable from that produced in vehicle-treated rats. Experiments in vitro were conducted on aorta rings collected from rats treated with vehicle or LPS 24 h before sacrifice. The concentration-dependent curve to PE was statistically (P<0.005) reduced in aorta rings collected from LPS- compared to vehicle-treated rats. This difference was totally abolished by tetraethylammonium (TEA), a non-selective inhibitor of K+ channels. CRK produced a relaxation of PE precontracted aorta rings higher in rings from LPS- than in vehicle-treated rats. GLB inhibited CRK-induced relaxation in both tissues, abolishing the observed differences. In conclusion, our results indicate an involvement of K(ATP) channels to the hyporesponsiveness of vascular tissue after 24 h from a single injection of LPS in rats. We can presume an increase in the activity of K(ATP) channels on vascular smooth muscle cells but we cannot exclude an increase of K(ATP) channel number probably due to the gene expression activation.
Propafenone hydrochloride, a class IC antiarrhythmic drug, is used in the treatment of ventricular and supraventricular arrhythmias. Herein we describe a patient with episodic jabbing and crushing pain in his hands and feet, aching in his forearms, and hyperesthesias of his extremities. He had been taking propafenone for 1 year because of ventricular arrhythmias. Results of a nerve conduction velocity test were abnormal. Electron microscopic findings on a sural nerve biopsy specimen represented distal small fiber neuropathy. Findings on a thermoregulatory sweat test and on autonomic tests were abnormal, compatible with a distal small fiber neuropathy. To our knowledge, peripheral neuropathy has not previously been reported to occur with use of propafenone. In this patient, propafenone seemed to be responsible for the development of peripheral neuropathy, which resolved after use of the drug had been discontinued.
It is suggested that ATP and purinergic P2X receptors are involved in overactive bladder. In this study, we investigated the effect of the recently developed P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptor antagonist A-317491 on cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis to determine whether a P2X receptor antagonist could be beneficial for the treatment of bladder overactivity induced by CYP. Female Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were given 150 mg/kg CYP (i.p.). When the micturition activity was observed for 24 h in a conscious and unrestrained condition, CYP-treated rats exhibited increased urinary frequency. Two days after CYP injection, cystometry was performed in conscious rats, in which the bladder was continuously infused with saline (5 ml/h). In CYP-treated rats, non-voiding contractions were interposed between micturitions, suggestive of hyper-reflexia. Intravenous administration of A-317491 (20 or 50 mg/kg) or pyridoxal phosphate-6-azo (benzene-2,4-disulfonic acid) tetrasodium (PPADS; a nonselective purinergic receptor antagonist, 10 mg/kg) prolonged the interval of voiding contraction and reduced the non-voiding contractions. On the other hand, oxybutynin (1 mg/kg), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, did not affect the frequency of non-voiding or voiding contractions in CYP-treated rats. A-317491 at the higher dose decreased the amplitude of voiding contractions, but increased the micturition volume. The residual urine in the bladder increased after treatment with CYP; A-317491 and PPADS reduced this, whereas oxybutynin had no effect. These data suggest that A-317491 is effective at improving the signs of CYP-induced cystitis and that the P2X3 or P2X2/3 receptor pathway is involved in bladder overactivity observed during CYP-induced cystitis.
The end product of the heme oxygenase pathway, bilirubin, is the most abundant endogenous antioxidant in mammals. We report the heme oxygenase-1 mediated production of bilirubin and its cytoprotective roles in cyclophosphamide induced hemorrhagic cystitis in rats.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats received intraperitoneal administration of cyclophosphamide. In the first experiment hemin (an inducer of heme oxygenase-1) with or without zinc protoporphyrin IX (an inhibitor of heme oxygenase activity) was given before cyclophosphamide injection. Endogenous bilirubin production was analyzed in bladder tissues immunohistochemically. In another experiment bilirubin solution was administered before the cyclophosphamide injection. Changes in bladder weight, microscopic feature and expression levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase, proinflammatory cytokines and heme oxygenase were evaluated using polymerase chain reaction and immunostaining.
Bilirubin was generated in bladders with cyclophosphamide induced cystitis, especially in the urothelium and suburothelium. Hemin pretreatment provided increased production of endogenous bilirubin, which was decreased by zinc protoporphyrin IX. In an evaluation of the roles of bilirubin exogenous bilirubin administration ameliorated cyclophosphamide induced inflammatory changes and reduced the increase in bladder weight. The elevated expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and interleukin-1beta in cyclophosphamide induced cystitis was significantly down-regulated by exogenously applied bilirubin. The expression of heme oxygenase-1 and 2 was not modified by bilirubin administration.
Cyclophosphamide induced hemorrhagic cystitis is accompanied by endogenous bilirubin production through heme oxygenase-1 induction in the bladder. Bilirubin has cytoprotective roles in association with the down-regulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase expression. Our results suggest that bilirubin may have therapeutic potential against bladder inflammatory insults such as cyclophosphamide induced cystitis.
To study the urinary symptoms and quality of life changes in Thai women with overactive bladder (OAB) after tolterodine treatment.
Thirty women (aged 30-77 years) diagnosed as having OAB at the Gynecology Clinic, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital from January to April 2004 were included in the present study. Tolterodine 2 mg, twice daily was given. After 8 weeks treatment, changes in micturition diary variables and tolerability were determined. Short form 36 (SF36) questionaires (Thai version) were given before and after 8 weeks of treatment.
At 8 weeks, all micturition per day decreased from 16. 7 +/- 5. 3 to 6. 7 +/- 2.4 times per day. The number of nocturia episodes decreased from 5.4 +/- 4.2 to 1.1 +/- 1.0 times per night. The most common side effect was dry month in 5 cases (16.7%) with 2 cases reporting a moderate degree and 1 case with severe degree. Only one case (3.3%) withdrew from the present study due to a severe dry mouth. The SF-36 scores changed significantly in the domains of physical functioning, role function emotional, social function and mental heath.
Tolterodine was well tolerated and its effects improved the quality of life in Thai women with OAB.
