When administered acutely, 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5-HT1A) agonists attenuate the cataleptic side effects of antipsychotics. We investigated whether tolerance occurs to these effects after repeated administration of the 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). For comparison, we also assessed the ability of 8-OH-DPAT to produce elements of the 5-HT1A behavioural syndrome (i.e. forepaw treading, flat body posture and lower lip retraction), some of which readily demonstrate tolerance. Catalepsy was measured in rats using both the cross-legged position test and the bar test. Repeated treatment with 8-OH-DPAT (0.63-2.5 mg/kg subcutaneously), once daily for 4 days, did not significantly alter the ability of acute treatment with 8-OH-DPAT (0.01-2.5 mg/kg) to inhibit catalepsy induced by haloperidol (2.5 mg/kg) in either test. In contrast, the ability of 8-OH-DPAT to produce the 5-HT1A behavioural syndrome was significantly attenuated by the repeated treatment. The present data, showing an absence of tolerance to the anti-cataleptic effects of a 5-HT1A agonist, indicate that mixed dopamine antagonist/5-HT1A agonist compounds may continue to have a low propensity to induce extrapyramidal side effects during chronic treatment.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis is associated with a significant incidence of morbidity and mortality. Prompt recognition of this complication and immediate withdrawal of heparin therapy are imperative. This report describes a case of heparin-induced thrombosis and thrombocytopenia with major vascular insufficiency of the extremities. This is the first reported instance of the use of intravenous streptokinase for the treatment of heparin-induced venous thrombosis.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in allergic responses. SHP-1 is a target of oxidants and has been reported as a negative regulator in a mouse model of asthma. We investigated the effect of oxidative stress on the development of allergic airway inflammation in heterozygous viable motheaten (mev/+) mice deficient of SHP-1. Wild-type (WT) and mev/+ mice were compared in this study. Human alveolar epithelial cells (A549) transfected with mutant SHP-1 gene were used to evaluate the role of SHP-1 in lung epithelial cells. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) and Paraquat were used in vitro and in vivo, respectively. We also investigated whether mev/+ mice can break immune tolerance when exposed to aeroallergen intranasally. Compared with WT mice, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) cells and splenocytes from mev/+ mice showed a different response to oxidant stress. This includes a significant enhancement of intracellular reactive oxygen species and STAT6 phosphorylation in vitro and increased CCL20, decreased IL-10, and increased number of dendritic cells in BAL fluid in vivo. Mutant SHP-1-transfected epithelial cells secreted higher levels of CCL20 and RANTES after exposure to oxidative stress. Furthermore, break of immune tolerance, as development of allergic airway inflammation, was observed in mev/+ mice after allergen exposure, which was suppressed by antioxidant N-acetylcystein. These data suggest that SHP-1 plays an important role in regulating oxidative stress. Thus, increased intracellular oxidative stress and lack of SHP-1 in the presence of T helper cell type 2-prone cellular activation may lead to the development of allergic airway inflammation.
B-cell chronic lymphatic leukemia (B-CLL) has emerged as a prototype of malignancies characterized by a defective apoptosis that leads to a progressive accumulation of monoclonal B cells in the bone marrow, lymphoid tissues and peripheral blood. Chlorambucil, an aromatic derivative of nitrogen mustards, is the most common treatment for chronic lymphatic leukemia (CLL). The response rate with its use is 40 to 60%, with 3 to 10% only of patients achieving a complete response (CR). To improve response rates, chlorambucil has been combined with steroids or other agents. Theophylline, a methylxanthine commonly used as a treatment for asthma, has been shown to induce apoptosis in CLL cells both in vitro and in vivo. Chlorambucil induces apoptosis in CLL cells as well and synergy has been shown between the two drugs without affecting the normal B lymphocytes. The aim of this work was to evaluate the potential utility of this combination as a therapeutic modality for B-CLL. A total of 210 B-CLL patients were recruited and randomized to receive either chlorambucil in an oral dose of 0.1 mg/kg/day indefinitely (109 patients) or chlorambucil 0.1 mg/kg/day plus theophylline 200 mg bid, orally (101 patients). The main endpoints were overall survival from the time of randomization, disease status after 9 months and time to disease progression. After 9 months of treatment, clinical and hematological remission was achieved in 14 patients (12.8%) in the chlorambucil group, compared to 26 (25.7%) in the chlorambucil plus theophylline group (P value 0.01). Partial remission was observed for 38 patients (34.9%) in the chlorambucil group and 36 patients (35.7%) in the chlorambucil plus theophylline group. In patients treated with chlorambucil alone, the median progression-free survival (PFS) was 30 months and in patients treated with chlorambucil plus theophylline it was 44 months. Probabilities of PFS at 24 months for the chlorambucil-treated patients were 59% and 85% for the chlorambucil plus theophylline-treated patients. The difference was statistically significant (P = 0.006). The 3-year and 5-year overall survival rates were, respectively 75% and 38% in the chlorambucil group as opposed to 76% and 46% in the chlorambucil plus theophylline group. The median survival time was 55 months in the chlorambucil group and 56 months in the chlorambucil plus theophylline group. Forty-nine patients died in the chlorambucil group compared to 44 patients in the chlorambucil plus theophylline group (P = 0.371). The trial has demonstrated that adding theophylline to the standard treatment of B-CLL significantly increases effectiveness of treatment in terms of tumor response and time to disease progression. It could not improve the overall survival. Treatment with theophylline does not compromise quality of life or add significant toxicity. As newer drugs have recently become available for treating patients with CLL like fludarabine, further trials are needed to evaluate the effect of combining theophylline with these drugs.
Initial reports indicated the possibility of severe anemia associated with tacrolimus (TC) therapy. We investigated the degree of anemia under TC treatment in comparison to cyclosporine A (CsA) treatment in children after renal transplantation. A cross-sectional analysis of 95 children successfully transplanted for at least 3 months was performed. Eighty-five children received CsA and 10 TC. TC-treated patients were compared with CsA-treated patients who were matched according to age, gender, creatinine clearance, and time after transplantation. No patient received additional therapy with mycophenolate mofetil or azathioprine. The creatinine clearance of the whole group of transplanted children was 58 ml/min per 1.73 m2. The patients within the matched-pair analysis had a lower creatinine clearance (TC 46 and CsA 48 ml/min per 1.73 m2). The hemoglobin was 10.3 g/dl for the TC-treated children and 10.4 g/dl among the CsA-treated patients. Numerically, EPO was higher and iron lower in the TC group than in the CsA group. Among children with functioning renal grafts, a correlation exists between Hb and creatinine clearance. A significant difference in the degree of anemia between TC- and CsA-treated children could not be found.
The benefits of angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers may be smaller in black patients than in patients of other races, but it is unknown whether race influences the response to carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.
In the U.S. Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program, 217 black and 877 nonblack patients (in New York Heart Association class II, III, or IV and with a left ventricular ejection fraction of no more than 0.35) were randomly assigned to receive placebo or carvedilol (at doses of 6.25 to 50 mg twice daily) for up to 15 months. The effects of carvedilol on ejection fraction, clinical status, and major clinical events were retrospectively compared between black and nonblack patients.
As compared with placebo, carvedilol lowered the risk of death from any cause or hospitalization for any reason by 48 percent in black patients and by 30 percent in nonblack patients. Carvedilol reduced the risk of worsening heart failure (heart failure leading to death, hospitalization, or a sustained increase in medication) by 54 percent in black patients and by 51 percent in nonblack patients. The ratios of the relative risks associated with carvedilol for these two outcome variables in black as compared with nonblack patients were 0.74 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.42 to 1.34) and 0.94 (95 percent confidence interval, 0.43 to 2.05), respectively. Carvedilol also improved functional class, ejection fraction, and the patients' and physicians' global assessments in both the black patients and the nonblack patients. For all these measures of outcome and clinical status, carvedilol was superior to placebo within each racial cohort (P<0.05 in all analyses), and there was no significant interaction between race and treatment (P> 0.05 in all analyses).
The benefit of carvedilol was apparent and of similar magnitude in both black and nonblack patients with heart failure.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by a gradual loss of control over drug use, but the molecular mechanisms regulating vulnerability to this process remain unclear. Here we report that microRNA-212 (miR-212) is upregulated in the dorsal striatum of rats with a history of extended access to cocaine. Striatal miR-212 decreases responsiveness to the motivational properties of cocaine by markedly amplifying the stimulatory effects of the drug on cAMP response element binding protein (CREB) signalling. This action occurs through miR-212-enhanced Raf1 activity, resulting in adenylyl cyclase sensitization and increased expression of the essential CREB co-activator TORC (transducer of regulated CREB; also known as CRTC). Our findings indicate that striatal miR-212 signalling has a key role in determining vulnerability to cocaine addiction, reveal new molecular regulators that control the complex actions of cocaine in brain reward circuitries and provide an entirely new direction for the development of anti-addiction therapeutics based on the modulation of noncoding RNAs.
Nimodipine is widely used in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage for the prevention and treatment of delayed ischaemic neurological deficits. Intravenous nimodipine has significant vasodilatory properties and may compromise the achievement of haemodynamic targets in patients who receive hypertensive hypervolaemic haemodilution therapy. We have studied 22 patients who received postoperative therapy with intravenous nimodipine and show that in a substantial minority (29%) hypotension was not reversed by simple volume loading or low doses of inotropes. Formal haemodynamic assessment in these patients showed widely varying haemodynamic variables, with differences in the need for inotropic and vasopressor therapy. We conclude that optimal haemodynamic management in this subgroup of patients will require the use of pulmonary artery catheterisation.
MPTP induces parkinsonism in monkeys by destruction of the substantia nigra, pars compacta. It can also damage ventral tegmental dopamine neurones and the noradrenergic locus coeruleus, both of which may be affected in Parkinson's disease. Motor symptoms in MPTP-treated monkeys respond readily to levodopa or dopamine agonist therapy. Administration of levodopa over 4-8 weeks leads to the emergence of "peak-dose" dyskinesia. Such abnormal movements are not seen following challenge doses of levodopa in animals not on long-term therapy. Radioligand studies reveal a 40-180% increase in D2 receptor binding in the striatum of parkinsonian monkeys. 2-deoxyglucose studies of regional brain metabolism indicate that MPTP-induced parkinsonism is characterised by abnormally increased activity of medial pallidal neurones which project to the thalamus and pedunculopontine nucleus and reduced activity of subthalamic nucleus neurones.
A preliminary trial was conducted to determine if cimetidine would prevent acetaminophen-induced hepatic necrosis. When administered to mice after experimental acetaminophen overdose, cimetidine generally prevented the development of centrilobular necrosis, but did not prevent loss of glycogen or appearance of fat in the hepatocytes. The efficacy of cimetidine in preventing acetaminophen-induced hepatic necrosis should be further studied.
Chronic exposure to excessive manganese (Mn) is the cause of a neurodegenerative movement disorder, termed manganism, resulting from degeneration of neurons within the basal ganglia. Pathogenic mechanisms underlying this disorder are not fully understood but involve inflammatory activation of glial cells within the basal ganglia. It was postulated in the present studies that reactive astrocytes are involved in neuronal injury from exposure to Mn through increased release of nitric oxide. C57Bl/6 mice subchronically exposed to Mn by intragastric gavage had increased levels of Mn in the striatum and displayed diminutions in both locomotor activity and striatal DA content. Mn exposure resulted in neuronal injury in the striatum and globus pallidus, particularly in regions proximal to the microvasculature, indicated by histochemical staining with fluorojade and cresyl fast violet. Neuropathological assessment revealed marked perivascular edema, with hypertrophic endothelial cells and diffusion of serum albumin into the perivascular space. Immunofluorescence studies employing terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate (DUTP)-biotin nick-end labeling revealed the presence of apoptotic neurons expressing neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS), choline acetyltransferase, and enkephalin in both the striatum and globus pallidus. In contrast, soma and terminals of dopaminergic neurons were morphologically unaltered in either the substantia nigra or striatum, as indicated by immunohistochemical staining for tyrosine hydroxylase. Regions with evident neuronal injury also displayed increased numbers of reactive astrocytes that coexpressed inducible NOS2 and localized with areas of increased neuronal staining for 3-nitrotyrosine protein adducts, a marker of NO formation. These data suggest a role for astrocyte-derived NO in injury to striatal-pallidal interneurons from Mn intoxication.
In this study, we investigated the effect of dalteparin sodium, a low molecular weight (LMW)-heparin, on hepatic fibrogenesis caused by chronic carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) administration in the rat.
Female Wistar rats were given a single, or repeated intraperitoneal injections of CCl4 (1ml/kg, twice per week) and dalteparin (50IU/kg, daily) for 7 weeks.
Dalteparin did not prevent acute CCl4-induced hepatic necrosis and elevation in serum aminotransferases levels; however, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive hepatocytes were dramatically increased 24h after simultaneous administration of CCl4 and dalteparin. Interestingly, serum hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) levels 12h after injection of CCl4 were almost doubled when dalteparin was given simultaneously. Hepatic fibrosis following 7-week CCl4 treatment was markedly ameliorated by daily co-administration of dalteparin. Indeed, dalteparin largely inhibited CCl4-induction of smooth muscle alpha-actin expression, alpha1(I)procollagen and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 mRNA levels in the liver. Further, dalteparin blunted platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced increases in 5-bromo-2'deoxyuridine (BrdU) uptake in 3-day cultured hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in a dose-dependent manner.
Dalteparin enhances hepatic regeneration and minimizes hepatic fibrogenesis caused by chronic CCl4 treatment. The mechanism underlying these effects most likely involves both up-regulation of HGF and inhibition of HSC proliferation.
The antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA) induces subclinical changes in both the intrinsic and extrinsic coagulation system. However, fatal bleeding is very rare. This study reports a 39-year-old patient who underwent selective amygdalohippocampectomy because of drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. Preoperatively, the patient was on a combined therapy with VPA and topiramate, and routine coagulation laboratory parameters were entirely normal. Epilepsy surgery was immediately followed by severe intracranial bleeding events which promped repeated craniectomy. Extensive laboratory analyses revealed a factor XIII activity level of 17%, indicating factor XIII deficiency confirmed by a reduced XIIIA-antigen. After termination of treatment with VPA, factor XIII levels returned to normal. Control examinations after 9 and 24 months showed normal range values for all coagulation parameters, including factor XIII, platelet function, and von Willebrand factor. To our knowledge, this case is the first description of a well-documented, clinically relevant transient factor XIII-deficiency syndrome related to VPA treatment.
Minocycline is a semi-synthetic tetracycline antibiotic that effectively crosses the blood-brain barrier. Minocycline has been reported to have significant neuroprotective effects in models of cerebral ischemia, traumatic brain injury, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. In this study, we demonstrate that minocycline has neuroprotective effects in in vitro and in vivo Alzheimer's disease models. Minocycline was found to attenuate the increases in the phosphorylation of double-stranded RNA-dependent serine/threonine protein kinase, eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2 alpha and caspase 12 activation induced by amyloid beta peptide1-42 treatment in NGF-differentiated PC 12 cells. In addition, increases in the phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2 alpha were attenuated by administration of minocycline in Tg2576 mice, which harbor mutated human APP695 gene including the Swedish double mutation and amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. We found that minocycline administration attenuated deficits in learning and memory in amyloid beta peptide(1-42)-infused rats. Increased phosphorylated state of eukaryotic translation initiation factor-2 alpha is observed in Alzheimer's disease patients' brains and may result in impairment of cognitive functions in Alzheimer's disease patients by decreasing the efficacy of de novo protein synthesis required for synaptic plasticity. On the basis of these results, minocycline may prove to be a good candidate as an effective therapeutic agent for Alzheimer's disease.
We report on a case of perhexiline maleate-induced hepatitis secondary to a long-term administration of recommended daily dosages of 300 mg. The patient had a spectacular weight loss of 29 kg. He developed hepatitis, which subsided after drug withdrawal. Our electron-microscopic findings with the typical inclusion bodies and impaired hydroxylation capacity point to an underlying metabolic disorder as the pathogenetic mechanism.
To assess the efficacy of spinal clonidine combined with bupivacaine and sufentanil and its effects on maternal and foetal outcome.
Prospective double-blind randomized study.
One hundred and five patients requesting labour analgesia had combined spinal epidural analgesia with intrathecal bupivacaine 2.5 mg and were randomly assigned to receive in addition either sufentanil 5 microg (S5), sufentanil 5 microg and clonidine 30 microg (C30), or sufentanil 10 microg (S10). Onset time, duration of analgesia, visual analogue scores, blood pressure, ephedrine requirements, heart rate, nausea, pruritus, sedation, motor block, foetal heart rate abnormalities, mode of delivery and Apgar scores were recorded.
Mean duration of spinal analgesia was significantly longer in patients receiving spinal clonidine compared to patients in S5 group (144+/-61 min versus 95+/-37 min). The onset time of analgesia was significantly shorter in S10 group (3+/-1 min) versus C30 group (4+/-1 min) and S5 group (4+/-1 min) (P=0.002). Hypotension was significantly more frequent in C30 group (29 versus 3% and 3% in S5 and S10 groups) (p=0,001). Foetal heart rate abnormalities and sedation were also significantly more frequent in C30 group. Mode of delivery (spontaneous, instrumental or caesarean delivery) and Apgar scores were unaffected by clonidine treatment.
Intrathecal clonidine 30 mug prolongs analgesia. However, it increases the incidence of hypotension, and abnormal foetal heart rate patterns. Thus, this study confirms that the use of 30 mug intrathecal clonidine for labour analgesia is not recommended.
1. Oxidative metabolism of the bladder carcinogens FANFT/ANFT was examined in vitro in guinea pig (resistant species) relative to rat (susceptible species). 2. The total rate of ANFT hepatic metabolism by guinea pig (soluble metabolites plus protein bound, 354 pmol/min per mg protein) was approx. 4 times that in rat. 3. The total rate of FANFT metabolism was similar in both species and approx. one-quarter that for ANFT in guinea pig. In rat, the rate of total metabolism of FANFT and ANFT was similar. 4. Cytochrome P450 inhibitors, 2,4-dichloro-6-phenylphenoxyethylamine, 7,8-benzoflavone, and n-octylamine largely inhibited metabolism in guinea pig, but had little effect in rat. 5. H.p.l.c. analysis of ANFT metabolites indicated distinctly different products in guinea pig compared to rat. 7,8-Benzoflavone decreased metabolite formation by 80% in guinea pig, but only 30% in rat. 6. Flavin-dependent monooxygenases may participate in metabolism of these carcinogens in rat, but not guinea pig. 7. Because ANFT is thought to be a more proximate carcinogen than FANFT, the increased rate of ANFT metabolism and the formation of different products in guinea pig compared to rat may partially explain the resistance of guinea pig to FANFT-induced bladder cancer.
A case of arsenic intoxication presenting as a myelodysplastic syndrome is reported. A 41-year-old woman with a 6-month history of gastrointestinal and neurological symptoms was noted to be pancytopenic at presentation. A bone marrow aspirate revealed dysmyelopoietic changes involving all three marrow cell lines. Subsequent analysis of urine for heavy metals demonstrated very high levels of arsenic. Treatment with British anti-Lewisite (BAL) resulted in the resolution of gastrointestinal symptoms and hematological abnormalities although the neurological complications progressed. This case emphasizes that heavy metal intoxication should be considered in the differential diagnosis of any individual presenting with the hematological features of myelodysplasia especially when accompanied by clinical features considered atypical for primary or secondary myelodysplasia.
Fibrate derivatives and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors modify homeostasis of cholesterol. The aim of this study was to assess in an unselected population whether these hypolipidemic drugs are risk factors for cholelithiasis or, conversely, are protective agents. Both sexes, all socioeconomic categories, pregnant women, and cholecystectomized subjects were included. Clinical data collection and gallbladder ultrasonography were both carried out in a double-blind fashion. Fibrate derivatives were predominantly fenofibrate, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors were simvastatin and pravastatin. On univariate analysis, age (>50 years), sex, and use of fibrates were found to be significantly related to the presence of cholelithiasis. Age, sex, and fibrate treatment remained independently correlated with the presence of gallstones on multivariate analysis. With fibrates, the relative risk for lithiasis was 1.7 (P = 0.04). The HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors were not associated with a protective effect on univariate analysis. Of the lipid-lowering drugs, only fibrate derivatives were found to increase the risk of gallstone formation.
A patient with the syndrome of chronic hypernatremia (serum Na+: mean = 154, range 139-184 mEq/l, n = 30) and hypodipsia due to a hypothalamic injury was studied to evaluate osmolar and baroreceptor control of arginine vasopressin (AVP) secretion. Resting plasma AVP levels measured by radioimmunoassay were inappropriately low for the degree of plasma hyperosmolality: range = less than 0.5-2.1 pg/ml, n = 10, with corresponding levels of plasma osmolality (P osM) greater than 300 m osmol/kg, suggesting either direct damage to the AVP synthesis and storage area or impaired afferent osmoreceptor function. Direct pituitary damage seemed unlikely, since anterior pituitary function was normal by standard testing. The existence of adequate neurohypophyseal stores of AVP was demonstrated by baroreceptor stimulation with the hypotensive agent trimethaphan (Arfonad): plasma AVP rising to 50.0 pg/ml during transient hypotension (BP = 70/0). Osmoreceptor function was evaluated during acute water loading followed by hypertonic saline infusion. During hypertonic saline infusion plasma AVP levels correlated with P osM (R = .87, P less than .01, n = 8), suggesting some residual osmotic regulation of AVP release. The osmotic threshold for AVP release (the x-axis intercept of the plasma AVP-P osM regression line) was not higher than normal. However, the AVP levels throughout this study remained markedly subnormal for the degree of plasma hyperosmolality (maximum plasma AVP = 1.9 PG/ML when P os M = 327 M OSMOL/KG). Since a substantial amount of AVP was released with baroreceptor stimulation, the inadequate rise in plasma AVP level with hyperosmolality indicates that afferent input from the osmoreceptor/thirst area of the hypothalamus is selectively impaired in this patient. These findings directly demonstrate a dissociation of osmoreceptor function from the AVP secretory apparatus in man.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the changes in scavenging enzymes activities of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in experimental nephritis and nephrosis. Anti-GBM nephritis was induced in rat by injecting 0.75 ml of the anti-GBM serum. Intrarenal SOD-like activity in nephritic rats was significantly decreased from the 5th day after i.v. injection of antiserum to the 10th day. Although catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities in nephritic rat were increased on 3hr to 6hr after i.v. injection of antiserum, the both activities were gradually decreased on 24hr onward. The decrease in ROS scavenging enzymes activities paralleled with the urinary protein excretion and the elevation of plasma lipid peroxide. Moreover, catalase, administered (4,600 U/hr) by osmotic minipump prevented the urinary protein excretion by about 60%. In accelerated passive Heymann nephritis and puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis in rats, the activities of scavenging enzymes decreased in the course of experimental periods. It was concluded that the scavenging enzymes activities of ROS increased at beginning of heterologous phase and decreased at the end of this phase in anti-GBM nephritis, and the activities in the other models of experimental nephritis also decreased during experimental periods.
Thalidomide has been proved to play an important role in rescue treatment of patients with refractory/relapsed multiple myeloma (MM). However, thalidomide therapy is associated with numerous side effects, mainly somnolence, constipation, fatigue or peripheral neuropathy. We report three patients diagnosed with MM and treated with thalidomide as salvage therapy who developed severe renal failure when they received aminoglycoside antibiotics. This observation suggests that thalidomide can potentiate nephrotoxicity of aminoglycoside antibiotics in patients with MM.
Nimesulide, a non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drug, produces ulcerogenic effects in adrenalectomized rats but is gastro-protective in intact rats. The objective of this study was to determine whether adrenal gland hormones are involved in the anti-ulcer effects of nimesulide. The results revealed that 100 mg/kg nimesulide produces gastric ulceration in adrenalectomized rats, which is prevented by prednisolone and adrenaline. The anti-ulcer effects of adrenaline and prednisolone in adrenalectomized rats were in turn antagonized by yohimbine, a selective alpha(2)-receptor blocker, but not by doxazosine (alpha(1)-receptor blocker) or propranolol (beta-blocker). Adrenaline prevented the formation of indomethacin-induced ulcers in both adrenalectomized and intact rats, but prednisolone increased the indomethacin-induced ulcerous area in intact rats, whereas it decreased the size of the ulcers in adrenalectomized rats. In addition, prednisolone prevented ulcer formation in intact rats in which the adrenaline concentration had been decreased by metyrosine. These results suggest that glucocorticoids are anti-ulcerogenic in not only adrenalectomized rats but also in intact rats with diminished circulating levels of adrenaline. In the light of these data, the effect of nimesulide on plasma adrenaline concentrations was studied. In comparison to the adrenaline levels found in intact control rats, the administration of nimesulide at doses of 10, 20, 40 and 100 mg/kg decreased adrenaline concentrations by 12.8, 22.6, 30.4, and 58.2%, respectively, without affecting blood corticosterone concentrations. The anti-ulcer effect of nimesulide was observed to be dose-dependent, and the strength of this effect was directly correlated the decreasing concentration of adrenaline. The concentration of adrenaline was decreased by 60.9% in rats treated with 300 mg/kg metyrosine in which prednisolone produced anti-ulcer effects. In summary, we have shown that nimesulide produces its anti-ulcer effect by decreasing endogenous adrenaline concentrations and that glucocorticoids may induce anti-ulcer effects via alpha(2)-adrenoreceptors, but not via their own receptors.
Haloperidol-induced (0.25-1.0 mg/kg) catalepsy in rats is characterized by rhythmic time fluctuations. Marked catalepsy was accompanied by slow regular waves at 2-4 and 5-7 min period. Natural or L-dopa-induced inhibition of the process involves the phase of irregular and frequent fluctuations. The study of time fluctuations of the muscular tone are believed important for predicting the development of drug-induced Parkinson's disease.
The high prevalence of psychostimulant abuse observed in schizophrenic patients may be related to the development of mesolimbic dopaminergic supersensitivity (MDS) or nigrostriatal dopaminergic supersensitivity (NDS) in response to the chronic blockade of dopamine receptors produced by typical neuroleptic treatment. We compared the effects of withdrawal from long-term administration of the typical neuroleptic haloperidol (Hal) and/or the atypical agent risperidone (Ris) on MDS and NDS, behaviorally evaluated by amphetamine-induced locomotor stimulation (AILS) and apomorphine-induced stereotypy (AIS) in mice, respectively. We further evaluated the duration of MDS and investigated the specific role of dopamine D2 receptors in this phenomenon by administering the D2 agonist quinpirole (Quin) to mice withdrawn from long-term treatment with these neuroleptics. Withdrawal (48 hours) from long-term (20 days) Hal (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) (but not 0.5 mg/kg Ris i.p.) treatment potentiated both AILS and AIS. Ris co-administration abolished the potentiation of AILS and AIS observed in Hal-withdrawn mice. Ten days after withdrawal from long-term treatment with Hal (but not with Ris or Ris + Hal), a potentiation in AILS was still observed. Only Hal-withdrawn mice presented an attenuation of locomotor inhibition produced by Quin. Our data suggest that the atypical neuroleptic Ris has a pharmacological property that counteracts the compensatory MDS and NDS developed in response to the chronic blockade of dopamine receptors imposed by Ris itself or by typical neuroleptics such as Hal. They also indicate that MDS may be long lasting and suggest that an upregulation of dopamine D2 receptors in response to long-term treatment with the typical neuroleptic is involved in this phenomenon.
Intoxication with antidepressants, frequently encountered in pediatric emergency medicine, can often lead to life threatening situations. While hyperthermia, hypertonicity and rigidity are symptoms indicative of a serotonin syndrome triggered by an intoxication with serotonin reuptake inhibitors or monoamine oxidase inhibitors, cardiotoxicity, coma and ECG changes are typical of an intoxication with tricyclic antidepressants.
Hypothermia (instead of the expected hyperthermia) is described for the first time as a persistent symptom during the course of a combined moclobemide-doxepin intoxication in an attempted suicide of a 16-year-old adolescent.
The administration of serotonin reuptake inhibitors alone or in combination with other medication which increases the level of 5-hydroxytryptamine, i.e. serotonin, in the synaptic cleft mainly leads to hyperthermia. According to a recent study, however, the application of a selective 5-HT(1a) agonist to transgenic mice with a prominent overexpression of the 5-HT(1a) receptor lead to immobility and hypothermia. These findings might help to explain the hypothermia observed in the case of the intoxicated 16-year-old.
Intoxication with antidepressants should not be excluded a priori in a hypothermic patient who displays other clinical signs of the said intoxication.
