Patients receiving phenytoin (PHT) may develop pseudolymphoma or, rare ly, malignant lymphoma. Previously, distinguishing the two diseases based solely on histopathology has been difficult. The recent introduction of molecular biologic techniques has provided a powerful tool to reassess this problem. A 17-year-old girl developed systemic lymphadenopathy after receiving PHT for 1 year for generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS). Biopsy of a cervical lymph node showed diffuse proliferation of large lymphoid cells mimicking a large cell lymphoma. Immunophenotypic, immunoglobulin gene rearrangement, and cytogenic studies, however, showed polyclonal B-cell proliferation, consistent with PHT-induced pseudolymphoma. After PHT discontinuation, lymphadenopathy resolved in 1 month and no recurrence developed in the subsequent 10 months. Obtaining a history of drug use is crucial to recognizing this group of patients. Molecular biology and chromosome studies have become the definitive basis differentiating pseudolymphoma from malignant lymphoma in patients receiving chronic PHT therapy.
The aims of the present study were to determine the effects of endothelin ET(A) receptor antagonism on carbon monoxide (CO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy and endothelin-1 (ET-1) expression and to compare myocardial effects of chronic nicotine with CO exposure. Female Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 84) were randomized to three groups exposed 20 h/day to CO (200 ppm), nicotine (500 microg/m3), or air for 14 consecutive days. In each exposure group, animals were randomized to ET(A) receptor antagonist LU 135252 in drinking water (0.5 mg/ml) or placebo. Myocardial ET-1 and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) expression was measured by competitive RT-PCR and plasma ET-1 by immunoassay. Carboxyhemoglobin was 22.1 +/- 0.3% in CO-exposed animals and 2.8 +/- 0.3% in controls. Plasma nicotine was 57 +/- 7 ng/ml and plasma cotinine was 590 +/- 23 ng/ml in nicotine-exposed animals and below detection levels in controls. CO exposure induced a 21% increase in right ventricular hypertrophy (p < 0.01), a 7% increase in left ventricular hypertrophy (p < 0.01), a 25% increase in right ventricular ET-1 expression (p < 0.05), and an eightfold increase in ANP expression (p = 0.08). ET(A) receptor antagonism reduced right ventricular hypertrophy by 60% (p < 0.05) with no significant effect on left ventricular hypertrophy or myocardial ET-1 expression. Chronic nicotine exposure did not significantly affect cardiac weights or ANP and ET-1 expression. We conclude that ET(A) receptor antagonism reduces right ventricular hypertrophy induced by chronic CO exposure, whereas CO-induced myocardial ET-1 expression remains unchanged.
We examined the association of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) with polymorphisms in the DAO and DAOA genes. The sample comprised 57 children with ASD, 47 complete trios, and 83 healthy controls in Korea. Although the transmission disequilibrium test showed no association, a population-based case-control study showed significant associations between the rs3918346 and rs3825251 SNPs of the DAO gene and boys with ASD.
Tumor metastasis is the most important cause of cancer death and various treatment strategies have targeted at preventing the occurrence of metastasis. Phyllanthus urinaria L is a popular folk medicine and has several proven biological properties, including antioxidant, antihypertension, and anti-inflammatory. This study provides molecular evidence associated with the antimetastatic effects of P urinaria L extracts (PUE), which contained polyphenols including gallic acid, methyl gallate, epicatechin, epigallocatechin-3-gallate, gallocatechin-3-gallate, rutin, epicatechin-3-gallate, and naringin, by showing a marked inhibition on the invasion (P < .001) and migration (P < .001) of highly metastatic A549 and Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) cells. To further investigate the precise involvement of PUE in tumor metastasis, A549 and LLC cells were treated with PUE at various concentrations and results from zymography and Western blotting showed that a PUE treatment may decrease the expressions of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2; P < .001), MMP-9 (P < .001), urokinase plasminogen activator (P < .001), and their endogenous inhibitors, that is, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, in a concentration-dependent manner. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and MMP-2 promoter luciferase analysis (P < .001) revealed that PUE inhibits the transcription of MMP-2 mRNA. PUE also exerted an inhibitory effect on the DNA-binding activity and the nuclear translocation of NF-κB and AP-1. Furthermore, the inhibitory effects of PUE on the metastasis and growth of LLC cells in vivo were proven. These results indicate that PUE could be applied to be a potential antimetastatic agent.
Evidence suggests that metabolic phenomena during postprandial lipemia may be important in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis. Both lipid concentrations and lipoprotein subclass patterns may be important cardiovascular risk modifiers. The pancreatic lipase inhibitor orlistat reduces fat absorption by 30% and is used for the treatment of overweight and obesity. We evaluated the effect of orlistat on postprandial lipemia and lipoprotein particle distribution after moderate-and high-fat meals in healthy volunteers. In this double-blind, randomized, cross-over study, 10 healthy young men received orlistat 120 mg plus a high-fat meal (HFO), orlistat plus a moderate-fat meal (MFO) or placebo plus a high-fat meal (HFP). Plasma triacylglycerol, glucose, insulin, and free fatty acids were measured at baseline (fasting) and postprandially for 8h. Lipoprotein subclass profile was assessed by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The 8h postprandial mean triacylglycerol area under the curve (AUC) was significantly lower with MFO and HFO (0.79 versus 1.33 mmol/lh) versus HFP (4.33 mmol/lh; p=0.02). Mean change in large VLDL subclass concentration during the 4-8h and mean VLDL size after 8h was significantly lower with HFO and MFO versus HFP (p<0.001). Small HDL particle concentration decreased significantly with HFP versus MFO or HFO (p<0.001). There was no significant difference in postprandial concentrations of glucose, insulin or free fatty acids on the different regimens. The lowering of postprandial triacylglycerol AUC, shorter postprandial lipemia, lower concentration of large triacylglycerol-rich particles and decrease of VLDL particle size supports the hypothesis of a less atherogenic postprandial lipoprotein profile following orlistat ingestion.
Acute puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) nephrosis is associated with a surge in the glomerular macrophage number. Whole body X-irradiation (XI) was used to assess whether bone marrow depression, which depletes normal rat glomeruli of macrophages, is efficacious in ameliorating progressive glomerular disease. A solitary, sublethal dose of XI (600 rad) was administered 3 days after PA delivery to rats (PA/XI) that were followed for 18 wk. In contrast to a sham-irradiated nephrotic cohort (PA/Sham), the PA/XI rats had a complete prevention of the recurrent albuminuria and manifested a significant reduction in the percent of glomeruli exhibiting glomerulosclerosis (GS) lesions at 18 wk after PA. XI significantly reduced the glomerular and interstitial macrophage number as well as the circulating white blood and monocyte counts during peak albuminuria. This protection was independent of the magnitude of the acute albuminuria and elevations in the circulating lipid levels. These data show that whole body XI delivered during acute nephrosis is capable of preventing progressive glomerular disease in association with a reduction in the glomerular and interstitial macrophage number. Additionally, this study suggests that this immune effector cell is important in mediating the propagation of initial glomerular injury to GS.
Tricyclic antidepressants are known to cause central nervous system depression. However, a generalized depression of brainstem functions is rarely reported. We report a patient in deep coma with complete absence of brain-stem reflexes after she had taken a large quantity of amitriptyline. With continuous supportive treatment, she eventually regained all neurologic function and made a full recovery.
Nephrotic syndrome is characterized by increased triglycerides resulting from decreased clearance of VLDL and chylomicrons. These triglyceride-rich lipoproteins are structurally altered by interaction with HDL derived from animals with proteinuria and not as a consequence of hypoalbuminemia. HDL isolated from rats with massive proteinuria is depleted in apolipoprotein E (apoE). It is unknown at what threshold of urinary albumin loss HDL structure is altered, and it is unknown what effects proteinuria has on apolipoproteins other than apoE. Two models of albuminuria were used in Sprague-Dawley rats: Adriamycin and passive Heymann nephritis (HN). The adriamycin group was divided into minimal albumin excretion (MAE) and intermediate albumin excretion (MAE, 1 to 40; intermediate albumin excretion, 60 to 210 mg/d per 100 g body wt). Urinary albumin excretion exceeded 300 mg/d per 100 g body wt in the HN rats. HDL apolipoprotein composition was analyzed with SDS-PAGE densitometry and liquid chromatography-time of flight mass spectrometer mass spectrometry. HDL apoA-IV content relative to apoA-I was reduced at all levels of albuminuria (P < 0.0001). ApoE was not reduced in MAE but was significantly reduced in IAE (72%; P < 0.001). By contrast, apoA-II and apoC-III were each significantly increased with increasing UAE. ApoA-IV and apoE were decreased to approximately 10% of control in HDL isolated from rats with HN, whereas apoA-II, apoC-II, and apoC-III were each significantly increased relative to apoA-I. HDL is structurally altered by levels of albuminuria that are insufficient to change serum albumin levels and is progressively altered as albuminuria increases.
The field of high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation has been expanded recently as a treatment for solid tumors and hematological malignancies. Severe emesis remains one of the main extramedullary side-effects of high-dose regimens during the first week of treatment. Traditional antiemetics such as chlorpromazine, diazepam, and phenothiazines are extensively used but are unable to control emesis. The new antiemetic ondansetron, a serotonin receptor (5HT3) antagonist appears to be superior to these drugs for cisplatin-induced emesis. The study we present here is an attempt to control emesis following high-dose regimens, during bone marrow or peripheral stem cell transplantation, with ondansetron. To our knowledge no other paper has reported the efficacy of this antiemetic in such group of patients. A total of 29 patients who received highly emetogenic polychemotherapy as conditioning regimens for bone marrow transplantation were treated with ondansetron, which was given as an 8-mg i.v. short infusion prior the initiation of treatment and every 6 h thereafter for 3 days, and an 8-mg dose every 8 h for 5 additional days. All the patients had previously been treated with chemotherapy and were evaluable for response and toxicity. Complete and major protection of vomiting on day 1 was achieved by 76% of the patients, 58% on day 2 and 52% on day 3. Nausea was absent or mild in 79% of patients on day 1, 45% on day 2 and 41% on day 3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Diethylcarbamazine (DEC) is the main drug used against lymphatic filariasis but it is only microfilaricidal. Hence there is an urgent need for adulticidal drug. Aspirin is known nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs which can inhibit prostaglandin H synthase and also induces apoptosis. Studies presented in this paper demonstrated that exposure of worms to the combination of DEC plus aspirin (DEC + A) at 100 microM concentration irreversibly paralyzed adult worms as well as microfilariae within 2 h. Some of the apoptosis markers viz; DNA fragmentation with accompanying ladder formation, upregulation of Bax expression and decrease in Bcl-2 have suggested that the parasite may be killed due to mitochondrial mediated apoptosis. The levels of several apoptosis regulating proteins and enzymes have also shown to be altered. DEC + A treated worms showed significant decrease in prostaglandin H synthase activity (PGHS) and increase in the level of nitric oxide (NO) and cysteine proteases while glutathione (GSH) and peroxidase level was found to be decreased. NO is known inducer of mitochondrial mediated apoptosis and acts by increasing the permeability of mitochondrial membrane through Bax and allowing cytochrome c to release in cytosol, inducing caspases leading to apoptosis. The DEC + A concentration used in this study is much lower than recommended dose so its intake is safe. Here we report for the first time that combination of DEC and aspirin is more effective and could be used as an adulticidal for control of human filarial infections.
The pregnancy of a women with diabetes mellitus was complicated by Graves' disease and maternal allergies to propylthiouracil and methimazole. Preparations for surgical removal of the thyroid gland were being made until pregnancy intervened. Several well-documented mechanisms of hyperthyroidism, including increased intestinal absorption of glucose, decreased insulin responsiveness, and increased glucose production may exacerbate glucose intolerance; the daily insulin requirement of this patient rose 80% from her pregestational dosage. When large doses of propranolol failed to control her thyrotoxic symptoms and led to severe, recurrent hypoglycemic episodes, subtotal thyroidectomy was performed. A 42% decrease in insulin requirements was observed postoperatively, with return to the euthyroid state. A propensity for symptomatic postoperative hypoglycemia should be anticipated in diabetic patients undergoing thyroidectomy.
We have developed a series of cyclic amine-containing benzimidazole carboxamide PARP inhibitors with a methyl-substituted quaternary center at the point of attachment to the benzimidazole ring system. These compounds exhibit excellent PARP enzyme potency as well as single-digit nanomolar cellular potency. These efforts led to the identification of 3a (2-[(R)-2-methylpyrrolidin-2-yl]-1H-benzimidazole-4-carboxamide, ABT-888), currently in human phase I clinical trials. Compound 3a displayed excellent potency against both the PARP-1 and PARP-2 enzymes with a K(i) of 5 nM and in a C41 whole cell assay with an EC(50) of 2 nM. In addition, 3a is aqueous soluble, orally bioavailable across multiple species, and demonstrated good in vivo efficacy in a B16F10 subcutaneous murine melanoma model in combination with temozolomide (TMZ) and in an MX-1 breast cancer xenograft model in combination with either carboplatin or cyclophosphamide.
The adrenergic alpha-1 and -2 adrenoceptors in six human hypertrophied prostatic adenomas were measured in the saturation experiment using 3H-prazosin and 3H-yohimbine. Not only alpha-1 adrenoceptons, but also alpha-2 adrenoceptors were found to exist in large amounts in prostatic adenomas. In the inhibition experiment selective alpha-1 antagonists inhibited the 3H-prozosin or 3H-yohimbine bindings to adenomas. The potency of alpha-1 antagonists in the order prazosin greater than bunazosin greater than alfuzosin greater than urapidil greater than terazosin and that of alpha-2 antagonists is urapidil greater than alfuzosin greater than terazosin greater than bunazosin greater than prazosin. These data suggest that urapidil, alfuzosin and terazosin may affect the human hypertrophied prostatic adenoma like phenoxybenzamine, nonselective alpha-1 antagonist, which was used for benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the consequence of atherosclerosis, a vascular disorder that is the leading cause of death and disability throughout much of the developed world. Certain cellular changes in the vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque are characterized by a loss of normal calcium regulation. This observation has led to interest in a potential antiatherogenic role for calcium channel blockers (CCBs), independent of their effects on vasodilation. The Prospective Randomized Evaluation of the Vascular Effects of Norvasc Trial (PREVENT) demonstrated that treatment with amlodipine, a third-generation CCB, in patients with documented CAD produced marked reductions in cardiovascular events as compared with placebo, without a reduction in coronary luminal loss. Amlodipine therapy was also associated with significant slowing in carotid atherosclerosis, an important surrogate marker for CAD, independent of blood pressure changes. The findings from PREVENT were remarkably consistent with another study known as the Coronary Angioplasty Amlodipine Restenosis Study (CAPARES). A reduction in the progression of carotid atherosclerosis has also been recently reported for lacidipine, another third-generation dihydropyridine CCB. These clinical findings have led to a renewed interest in potential plaque stabilization properties of certain CCBs, as will be systematically reviewed in this article. It is also probable that vascular protective agents, such as amlodipine may work in a synergistic fashion with other established treatments, including HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, to effectively improve outcomes in patients who are at risk for or have established CAD.
We report what we think is the first case of localised angioedema of the glans penis as a result of contact allergy to prilocaine in EMLAP cream. We also propose a new term, contact angioedema for this condition.
The metabolic activation of a drug to an electrophilic reactive metabolite and its covalent binding to cellular macromolecules is considered to be involved in the occurrence of idiosyncratic drug toxicity (IDT). As a cellular defense system against oxidative and electrophilic stress, phase II enzymes are known to be induced through a Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1/nuclear factor E2-related factor 2/antioxidant response element system. We presumed that it is important for the risk assessment of drug-induced hepatotoxicity and IDTs to observe the biological responses evoked by exposure to reactive metabolites, and then investigated the mRNA induction profiles of phase II enzymes in human hepatocytes after exposure to problematic drugs associated with IDTs, such as ticlopidine, diclofenac, clozapine, and tienilic acid, as well as safe drugs such as levofloxacin and caffeine. According to the results, the problematic drugs exhibited inductive effects on heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1), which contrasted with the safe drugs; therefore, the induction of HO-1 mRNA seems to be correlated with the occurrence of drug toxicity, including IDT caused by electrophilic reactive metabolites. Moreover, glutathione-depletion and cytochrome P450 (P450)-inhibition experiments have shown that the observed HO-1 induction was triggered by the electrophilic reactive metabolites produced from the problematic drugs through P450-mediated metabolic bioactivation. Taken together with our present study, this suggests that HO-1 induction in human hepatocytes would be a good marker of the occurrence of metabolism-based drug-induced hepatotoxicity and IDT caused by the formation of electrophilic reactive metabolites.
Deoxynivalenol (DON) is a mycotoxin produced by Fusarium spp. Among monogastric farm animals, swine are the most susceptible to DON as it markedly reduces feed intake and decreases weight gain. DON has also been shown to increase susceptibility to viral infections; therefore the objective of this study was to investigate in vitro impact of DON on porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV). Permissive cells were infected or not with PRRSV and were treated with increasing concentrations of DON. Cell survival and mortality were evaluated by determining the number of viable cells with a tetrazolium compound and by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release, respectively. Virus titration and antiviral cytokines mRNA expression were evaluated by quantitative PCR. DON significantly affected the survival of noninfected cells in a dose dependent manner. However, DON concentrations between 140 and 280 significantly increased the survival of cells infected with PRRSV. These concentrations significantly decreased PRRSV replication by inducing a pro-inflammatory cytokines environment and an early activation of apoptosis, which in turn seem to interrupt viral replication. For the first time, this study showed that DON had significant effects on the survival of PRRSV infected cells and on virus replication, in a dose dependent manner.
We report a case of the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, stavudine and lamivudine inducing Fanconi syndrome in a patient. The presence of simultaneous lactic acidosis suggests mitochondrial toxicity within the proximal renal tubular cells as the likely pathogenesis. We recommend that both the above nucleosides be added to the list of antiretroviral drugs that can induce Fanconi syndrome and that patients on stavudine and lamivudine be monitored carefully for early signs of Fanconi syndrome.
The epileptogenicity of caffeine and aminophylline was studied in rats. Intraperitoneal administration of caffeine produced an immediate excitation and seizures followed by an encephalopathy. A progression from encephalopathy to seizures was observed following aminophylline administration. During the development of behavioral seizures, the EEGs showed a progression from fast activity isolated or bursts of spikes and/or sharp waves to full-blown epileptiform discharges. A wide spectrum of cardiac arrhythmias was observed during and following the seizures. Epileptiform activities ranging from isolated or bursts of spikes and/or sharp waves to continuous epileptiform discharges were observed following local application of the drugs to the cerebral cortex.
The present study examined differences in neuropsychological performance among chronic cocaine, alcohol, and polysubstance abusers. A comprehensive neuropsychological battery was completed by 355 incarcerated adult male felons who were classified by DSM-IV criteria into four subgroups: (1) alcohol dependence or abuse (ETOH) (n = 101), (2) cocaine dependence or abuse (COC) (n = 60), (3) polysubstance dependence or abuse (POLY (n = 56), and (4) a group of age and education matched adult male felons with no history of drug abuse (n = 138). Results showed no significant differences in neuropsychological performance between COC and control subjects. However, both the POLY and ETOH groups were found to perform significantly worse on nearly all measures compared to the COC and control groups. Further, analysis of neuropsychological domains showed the POLY group to perform significantly worse compared to the other groups in the areas of short-term memory, long-term memory and visual motor ability. Correlations between neuropsychological performance and length of abstinence from drug use showed the ETOH group to have made the greatest amount of improvement on individual measures and domains. The COC group showed the least amount of improvement, but their performance was not significantly different from controls. Results provide further support for the differential effects of drug use on neuropsychological functioning.
To report a case of myoclonus that developed after administration of dextromethorphan.
A 64-year-old man was diagnosed with chronic renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy. The patient started on peritoneal dialysis 6 months before he was hospitalized. Two days before hospitalization, he developed cough and sputum and he visited an outpatient clinic, where dextromethorphan was prescribed. After taking a total of 30 mg of dextromethorphan, the patient developed myoclonus, tremor, agitation, slurred speech, and diaphoresis, which continued after he stopped taking the prescribed medicine. He visited an emergency department and was hospitalized for examination and treatment of myoclonus.
As the patient's dialysis schedule was adequate, these symptoms were likely not due to uremia. The blood concentration of dextromethorphan (2.68 ng/mL) 60 hours after the 30-mg dose was higher than expected, and the blood concentration of dextrorphan, a metabolite, was lower than expected. We suspected that myoclonus was due to dextromethorphan-related symptoms induced by CYP2D6, which primarily metabolizes dextromethorphan. We analyzed the CYP2D6 gene for polymorphisms and identified CYP2D6 (*)1/(*)10. The patient had been taking metoprolol 40 mg/day for 2 years. The blood concentration of metoprolol 6 hours after administration was 13 ng/mL, which suggests that it was metabolized normally. Metoprolol has another metabolic pathway, via CYP2C19, and this may have led to its lack of accumulation. Moreover, metoprolol may have bound to active CYP2D6. Thus, affinity for CYP2D6, protein-binding rate, and lipid solubility may influence these drug interactions. Total scores for the Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) probability scale and the Drug Interaction Probability Scale (DIPS) were 9 (highly probable) and 3 (possible), respectively.
Myoclonus and other symptoms in this patient may have been caused by a prolonged high concentration of dextromethorphan due to CYP2D6 polymorphisms and drug interactions.
The endogenous cannabinoids 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and arachidonoyl ethanolamide (AEA or anandamide) play vital roles during nervous system development including regulating axonal guidance and synaptogenesis. The enzymatic degradation of 2-AG and AEA is highly susceptible to inhibition by organophosphate compounds in vitro. Furthermore, acute in vivo exposure of adult animals to the agricultural insecticide chlorpyrifos (CPS) caused moderate inhibition of both 2-AG and AEA hydrolysis. However, the effects of repeated exposure to lower levels of CPS, especially during development, on endocannabinoid metabolism in the brain is not known. To examine this, rat pups were orally exposed daily from postnatal days 10-16 to either 1.0, 2.5, or 5.0 mg/kg CPS. Body weight gain was reduced by 5.0 mg/kg on all days of treatment whereas 2.5 mg/kg reduced the weight gain only on the last two days of treatment. At 4-h postexposure on day 16, forebrain cholinesterase (ChE) activity and hydrolysis of 2-AG and AEA were inhibited in a dose-related manner, and the extent of inhibition from highest to lowest level was AEA hydrolysis > ChE activity > 2-AG hydrolysis. The extent of inhibition of AEA hydrolysis was approximately twice than that of ChE activity with AEA hydrolysis being virtually eliminated by 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg and 1.0 mg/kg causing 40% inhibition. The sensitivity of AEA hydrolysis, compared with canonical targets such as ChE activity, suggests a potential alternative developmental target for CPS. Inhibition of AEA hydrolysis could result in accumulation of endocannabinoids, which could alter normal endocannabinoid transmission during brain maturation.
The effect of daily oral administration of LD50 1/40, 1/20 and 1/10 of an organophosphate pesticide DDVP (Dichlorvos) was studied in rabbits for its effect on the humoral immune response after vaccination with Salmonella typhi, as well as on cell-mediated immunity. Serum antibody titers of treated animals showed a dose-dependent fall compared with the controls. The skin redness measured in the tuberculin test showed the same dose-dependent tendency.
Recent studies suggest a neuroprotective function for heme oxygenase 2 (HO2) in acute brain injury and ischemia. HO2, the main enzyme to degrade the pro-oxidant heme, was tested for its neuroprotective ability in postnatal neuronal cell cultures and in a model of collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage. Genetic deletion of HO2 rendered cultured neurons 32% (P < 0.01) more vulnerable to hemin-induced toxicity, increased brain injury volume in mice by 30% (P < 0.05) at day 1 and by 67% (P < 0.05) at day 3, and worsened neurologic functions by 26% (P < 0.05) at day 1 and by 38% (P < 0.05) at day 3 following exposure to free heme liberated from hemorrhage. Together, these findings suggest that HO2 is a crucial neuroprotective enzyme in detoxifying high levels of heme from the brain and that further work is warranted to investigate potential therapeutic strategies that target HO2 in intracerebral hemorrhage.
Infection with the larval form of the pork tapeworm, Taenia solium, can lead to the development of cysts in the brain. Surgical removal of cysts has been the accepted treatment for neurocysticercosis characterized by giant cysts when there is associated intracranial hypertension.
We describe 33 patients whom we treated medically for malignant forms of neurocysticercosis. All patients had evidence of intracranial hypertension and subarachnoid cysts at least 50 mm in diameter. All patients received 15 mg of albendazole per kilogram of body weight per day for four weeks. Ten patients were also treated with 100 mg of praziquantel per kilogram per day for four weeks. Seventeen patients received a second course of albendazole, three received a third course, and one received a fourth course. During the first cycle of treatment, all patients also received dexamethasone. Five patients had previously undergone neurosurgery for giant cysts.
After a median of 59 months of follow-up (range, 7 to 102), the condition of all 33 patients had improved, and the cysts had disappeared or become calcified. Of the 22 patients with a history of seizures, only 11 continued to receive antiseizure medications. The median quality-of-life score on the Karnofsky scale improved from 40 to 100. Fifteen patients received a ventriculoperitoneal shunt because of hydrocephalus. Four patients had persistent sequelae (bilateral partial optic atrophy, stroke, or diplopia) of the cysts.
Intensive medical treatment can be effective in patients with neurocysticercosis characterized by giant cysts. Neurosurgery may be required only when there is an imminent risk of death.
Third generation aromatase inhibitors (AIs) are more effective than tamoxifen in the treatment of estrogen receptor (ER) positive breast cancer. However, long-term use of AIs commonly results in resistance. We examined whether compound JCC76{Cyclohexanecarboxylic acid [3-(2,5-dimethyl-benzyloxy)-4-(methanesulfonyl-methyl-amino)-phenyl]-amide}, an analog of Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor nimesulide, can inhibit the growth of AI-insensitive breast cancer cells and the mechanisms by which the compound affects cell proliferation. LTEDaro (long term estrogen deprived MCF-7aro cell) cells, which are a model for AI resistance, were used in this study. JCC76 effectively inhibited LTEDaro cell proliferation with an IC(50) of 2.75 ± 0.31 μM. Further investigations reveal that the compound significantly induced apoptosis in LTEDaro cells by decreasing pAKT, BCL-2 and pBad protein levels, which were all up regulated in the cells after long term estrogen deprivation. LTEDaro tumor size and weight were decreased in ovariectomized nude mice treated with the compound, and cell apoptosis in the tumor tissue was increased compared to the control. The animal weight remained almost unchanged which indicated the low toxicity of the compound. These results suggest that JCC76 overcame AI resistance by inducing cell apoptosis as illustrated in the in vitro and in vivo models. Collectively, results from this study provide data to support that nimesulide analog JCC76 may be a new drug candidate to treat AI-resistant breast cancers. It could be also used as a lead to design and synthesize more potent derivatives.
