Arsenic is a known human carcinogen. However, the mechanism of how arsenic induces cell transformation remains unclear. In this study, we demonstrated that long-term exposure to sodium arsenite at low-dose (2 µM) increases cell proliferation and neoplastic transformation in a mouse epidermal cell model, JB6 promotion-susceptible cells. The phosphorylation of AKT and its downstream targets, 70-kDa ribosomal protein S6 kinase (p70S6K) and translation initiation factor 4B (eIF4B), are increased in the arsenite treated cells, indicating that long-term arsenite treatment activates AKT-p70S6K signaling pathway. In addition, long-term exposure to arsenite up-regulates eIF4B expression and increases the rate of translation. Knockdown of eIF4B expression resulted in inhibition of arsenic-induced cell proliferation, transformation, and translation. Moreover, the expression of c-Myc which is up-regulated by long-term arsenite treatment is inhibited by eIF4B knockdown. Taken together, these results indicate that activation and up-regulation of eIF4B contributes to arsenic-induced transformation in JB6 cells.
Glucagon has been reported to be one of the most effective treatments for severe beta-blocker poisoning. Recently, amrinone was suggested as an alternative therapeutic choice for beta-blocker poisoning. Milrinone, a derivative of amrinone, acts independently of beta-adrenoceptors and increases cyclic AMP. Therefore milrinone may also be effective in the treatment of beta-blocker poisoning. In the present study, we compared the effect of glucagon and milrinone in treating severe beta-blocker poisoning. Following the administration of 10 mg/kg propranolol i.v. over 10 min, heart rate, cardiac output, mean arterial pressure, stroke volume, and end tidal CO2 were depressed, while central venous pressure, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure increased significantly (p < 0.05). Following the administration of saline (Group S, N = 3), glucagon 20 micrograms/kg (Group G, N = 5), and milrinone 300 micrograms/kg (Group M, N = 5), hemodynamic parameters were observed for 30 min. In group M, mean arterial pressure, cardiac output and stroke volume recovered to their baseline values, while central venous pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure decreased. Although there were no significant differences between groups G and M, the heart rate, central venous pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, mean arterial pressure and stroke volume did not return to baseline values in group G. Milrinone administration produced a significant hemodynamic improvement without increasing the heart rate in the canine model of severe heart failure caused by propranolol. In the glucagon treatment group, central venous pressure and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure improved less than the milrinone group. Although more data are needed before a clinical recommendation, milrinone might be an effective drug to treat beta-blocker poisoning.
Amiodarone is one of the most efficient and safe antiarrhythmic drugs in the treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF). Yet, though rare, proarrhythmic effects remain a clinical problem. We present three cases of amiodarone-associated "Torsade de pointes" tachycardia (Tdp) in patients treated concomitantly with heart rate controlling medication for AF. Amiodarone loading therapy was started for the treatment of tachyarrhythmic AF in all the three patients. All presented with a history of coronary heart disease, resulting in a severely reduced left ventricular ejection fraction in two patients. One received oral amiodarone loading, in the others, amiodarone was administered intravenously because of hemodynamically relevant AF episodes. Amiodarone therapy was combined with a heart rate controlling medication including a beta-blocking agent and digitalis in all the cases. All the subjects suffered from clinically relevant Tdp in the early run after initiation of amiodarone loading (max. 48 hours). The mean QTc in all patients before induction of Tdp was prolonged. The present case reports imply that amiodarone in combination with beta-blocker/digitalis therapy may be associated with an elevated proarrhythmic risk in selected patients with structural heart disease and AF.
One of the most dangerous aspects of theophylline toxicity is seizures. A review of the literature suggests that current anticonvulsant therapy remains far from optimal. As it is known that some of the pharmacologic effects of theophylline occur via antagonism of the adenosine A1 receptor, we tested the hypothesis that agonists acting at the adenosine A1 receptor can inhibit seizures caused by toxic doses of theophylline in mice. Dose-response curves were constructed for the ability of theophylline to produce tonic seizures in animals pre-treated with vehicle or several adenosine A1 receptor agonists. The LD50 (95% CI) for each dose-response curve was calculated. The results of these experiments showed that pretreatment with the direct-acting adenosine A1 agonists carbamazepine and cyclohexyladenosine and the indirect-acting agonist dipyridamole each failed to inhibit the ability of theophylline to cause tonic seizures (p > 0.05). Failure of these drugs to protect against theophylline-induced seizures suggests these seizures are produced by other mechanisms. Based on our results, adenosine A1 agonists, such as carbamazepine, appear to offer no therapeutic benefit in the treatment of theophylline-induced seizures.
FABP7 has been implicated in tumour cell proliferation, cell migration, and poor prognosis in patients with high-grade astrocytoma and melanoma. In this study, we examine FABP7 expression in a cohort of 176 primary breast cancers by gene profiling and tissue microarray immunostaining. We show that FABP7 is significantly up-regulated in triple-negative breast cancer. Elevated FABP7 levels are associated with poor prognosis, absence of oestrogen and progesterone hormone receptors (ER, PR) and HER2, increased cell proliferation, and high tumour grade. Depletion of FABP7 in the ER/PR-negative cell line, MDA-MB-435S, significantly reduced cell growth rate and sensitized the cells to growth inhibition by omega-3 docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). A target of DHA-bound FABP7 in the nucleus is RXRβ, a retinoid-activated nuclear receptor that functions as a transcription factor by either homodimerizing or heterodimerizing with other nuclear receptors such as PPARs. Based on our microarray data, RXRβ, like FABP7, is an adverse prognostic factor for breast cancer. We propose that the DHA-FABP7-RXRβ pathway promotes cell survival/proliferation in triple-negative breast cancer. Targeting this pathway may thus provide an alternate route for the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer.
The effects of exposure to carbon disulphide have been studied mostly among workers in the viscous rayon industry, where the usual exposure profile has been relatively steady exposure over work shifts. We investigated 13 workers in a small chemical company who were exposed to low levels, peaking intermittently to relatively high levels in the range of 100-200 ppm at the end of the work shift, a pattern that may change the risk profile. Our investigation was part of a compliance order that was fought by the company and our access and follow-up was limited. Two workers had burns on their bodies associated with exposure to caustic. Four had elevations in total serum cholesterol, one had elevated serum triglycerides and three had elevations in fasting blood glucose--two of them were known to be diabetics before employment and one had a history of unexplained peripheral neuropathy. No consistent pattern suggestive of a defined lipoprotein abnormality was obvious but several atherogenic profiles were observed. Five had abnormalities on electrocardiogram, four of whom appeared to be among the most heavily exposed. The presence of these changes taken together in this context may suggest accelerated atherosclerotic changes. Tests of liver and kidney function were within the normal range for all workers, as was a complete blood count. Four of the workers had evidence of a bilateral reduction in hearing threshold at 4,000 Hz. A complete set of recommendations was forwarded to the employer, emphasizing further control of exposure to carbon disulphide, personal protection requirements and a cardiovascular risk reduction programme. Conditions improved in the plant following modifications introduced in response to a stop work order from the provincial government's occupational health and safety agency. However, a fire in 1998 put the company out of business and ended further follow-up or interventions. We conclude that these findings, while difficult to interpret because of the circumstances of the investigation, are compatible with an atherogenic effect of exposure to peaking levels of carbon disulphide. The observation should be tested in a larger population with fewer confounding factors and greater control over the investigation.
The optimal medical regimen for the treatment of cocaine associated myocardial ischemia has not been defined. While animal and human data demonstrate the risks of beta-adrenergic blockade, studies in the cardiac catheterization laboratory suggest a beneficial role of nitroglycerin. We performed a prospective multicenter observational study to evaluate the clinical safety and efficacy of nitroglycerin in the treatment of cocaine associated chest pain at six municipal hospital centers. Of 246 patients presenting with cocaine associated chest pain, 83 patients were treated with nitroglycerin at the discretion of the treating physician. Relief of chest pain and/or adverse hemodynamic outcome were the primary endpoints. Baseline comparisons of patients treated with nitroglycerin to those not treated with nitroglycerin found that the treated patients were at higher risk of ischemic heart disease. They were older (36 years vs 32 years, p = 0.0008), more likely to have an ischemic electrocardiogram (27% vs 4%, p < 0.0001), to be admitted (94% vs 40%, p < 0.0001), and to have a discharge diagnosis of ischemic heart disease (41% vs 9%, p < 0.0001). Nitroglycerin was beneficial in 41 patients (49%; 95% CI, 38-60%): 37 patients (45%) had relief or reduction in the severity of chest pain and 4 patients (5%) had other beneficial effects. Only one patient had an adverse outcome (transient hypotension in the setting of a right ventricular infarct). Nitroglycerin is safe and possibly effective in the treatment of cocaine associated chest pain.
Acute and chronic impairment of renal function have been reported as complications of therapy with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents. Renal prostaglandins play an increasingly important role in maintaining renal function when there is decreased renal blood perfusion. We describe a case of rapidly appearing acute renal failure following a single intramuscular dose of ketorolac.
This study assessed the incidence, clinical correlates, and prognostic significance of angina during dobutamine stress echocardiography (DSE) in patients who did not have inducible wall motion abnormalities. We studied 2,117 patients (61 +/- 13 years of age; 1,149 men) who underwent large-dose DSE and had no new or worsening wall motion abnormalities during DSE. Follow-up events were hard cardiac events (cardiac death or nonfatal myocardial infarction) and myocardial revascularization. Angina was induced in 217 patients (10%) during stress. DSE was normal in 1,198 patients (57%), whereas 919 patients (43%) had fixed wall motion abnormalities. During a mean follow-up of 5.5 +/- 3.7 years, 143 patients (7%) died of cardiac causes and 78 (4%) had nonfatal myocardial infarction. Patients who developed angina during DSE were more likely to have a history of exertional angina (64% vs 16%, p <0.001) and had a higher wall motion score index at rest (1.29 +/- 0.5 vs 1.17 +/- 0.4, p = 0.01) compared with patients who did not have angina. Annual hard cardiac event rates were 2.2% in patients who had dobutamine-induced angina (DIA) and 2.1% in patients who did not (p = NS). Myocardial revascularization was performed more frequently in patients who had DIA than in those who did not (39% vs 14%, p <0.0001). In Cox's regression model, independent predictors of hard events were age (RR 1.03, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.02 to 1.04), male gender (RR 1.6, 95% CI 1.1 to 2.2), smoking (RR 1.5, 95% CI 1.1 to 2.9), and wall motion score index at rest (RR 2.6, 95% CI 1.8 to 3.8). In conclusion, in patients who do not have ischemia by echocardiographic criteria during DSE, inducible angina pectoris is associated with a high incidence of revascularization during follow-up. However, the hard cardiac event rate does not differ in patients who develop DIA from those who do not.
Contact allergy to formaldehyde, Bioban, and other formaldehyde releasers and cross-reactivity between them have been reported in the literature; however, not many studies have data on this cross-reactivity.
To study (1) the rates of allergy to formaldehyde and to Bioban and other formaldehyde releasers and (2) the rates of cross-reactivity between them.
We present a retrospective chart analysis of patch-test results for all patients referred for allergic contact dermatitis testing at the Milton S. Hershey Medical Center from June 2004 to September 2005. Anyone allergic to formaldehyde, Bioban, or other formaldehyde releasers was included. Cross-reactivity between the agents was then analyzed.
The charts of 210 patients were analyzed. Of these patients, 24 (11%) were allergic to formaldehyde, Bioban, or other formaldehyde-releasing agents. Seventeen (8.1%) of the patients were allergic to formaldehyde, 15 (7.1%) were allergic to Bioban, and 20 (9.5%) were allergic to other formaldehyde-releasing agents. Eleven (65%) of the 17 formaldehyde-allergic patients were also allergic to Bioban. Of the 20 patients allergic to formaldehyde-releasing agents, 14 (70%) were also allergic to one of the three Bioban products tested. Of the 15 patients allergic to Bioban, 11 (73%) were allergic to formaldehyde, 14 (93%) were allergic to formaldehyde-releasing agents, and 11 (73%) were allergic to both formaldehyde and formaldehyde-releasing agents.
A high cross-reactivity rate between formaldehyde, Bioban, and other formaldehyde-releasing agents was found.
Aberrant DNA methylation is the most frequent molecular alteration in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). To identify methylation-silenced genes in AML, we performed microarray analyses in U937 cells exposed to the demethylating agent 5-aza-deoxy-cytidine. Overall, 274 transcripts were significantly induced. Interestingly, C/EBPdelta expression was significantly induced (more than 10-fold) by demethylation whereas expression of all other C/EBP family members remained unchanged. The C/EBPdelta promoter was strongly methylated in different leukemic cell lines and showed signs of a repressed chromatin state. Analyses of the promoter regions of the entire C/EBP family (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, zeta) in bone marrow samples from AML patients (n = 80) and controls (n = 15) by mass spectrometry revealed that C/EBPdelta is the most commonly hypermethylated C/EBP gene in AML. Hypermethylation occurred in more than 35% of AML patients at primary diagnosis. A significant correlation (P = .016) was observed between hypermethylation of the C/EBPdelta promoter and low expression of C/EBPdelta in AML patients. C/EBPdelta promoter activity was strongly repressed by methylation in vitro, and transcriptional repression partially depended on MeCP2 activity. C/EBPdelta exhibited growth-inhibitory properties in primary progenitor cells as well as in Flt3-ITD-transformed cells. Taken together, C/EBPdelta is a novel tumor suppressor gene in AML that is silenced by promoter methylation.
We determine whether the change in numeric descriptive scale for pain after sublingual nitroglycerin use can predict cardiac etiology of chest pain.
A prospective study of a convenience sample of patients who had chest pain, presented to the emergency department from May 24, 2001, to April 30, 2002, and received sublingual nitroglycerin during their evaluation was performed. The 11-point numeric descriptive scale for chest pain was recorded before and after the initial dose of sublingual nitroglycerin. Cardiac-related pain was defined as chest pain in a patient with a discharge diagnosis of myocardial infarction or the diagnosis of coronary artery disease based on a positive diagnostic study (cardiac catheterization or noninvasive stress imaging). Change in the numeric descriptive scale was divided into 4 categories: (1) significant/complete reduction; (2) moderate reduction; (3) minimal reduction; and (4) no change.
The study cohort was composed of 664 patients: 345 women (52%) and 319 men (48%), mean age 52 years (+/-12.4 years). Cardiac-related chest pain was identified in 122 patients (18%). In the overall patient population, 125 (19%) patients had no change in pain, 206 (31%) patients had minimal reduction, 145 (22%) patients had moderate reduction, and 188 (28%) patients had significant or complete reduction in pain. There was no significant difference in any subgroup of numeric descriptive scale response to sublingual nitroglycerin administration in patients with and without a diagnosis of cardiac chest pain.
In this convenience sample, the response of chest pain to sublingual nitroglycerin was not a reliable indicator of a cardiac etiology.
Hypotension or bradycardia after spinal anesthesia for cesarean section remain common and are serious complications. The current study evaluated factors associated to the incidences of hypotension or bradycardia in this context.
A prospective cross sectional study from November 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005 was conducted on 722 parturients undergoing cesarean section under spinal anesthesia. T-test and Chi-square test were used in univariate analysis to compare continuous data and categorical data respectively. Multivariate logistic regression was performed on the variables hypotension (systolic pressure decrease > 30% of baseline value) and bradycardia (heart rate < 60 bpm) p-value < 0.05 was considered significant.
Incidence of hypotension and bradycardia were 52.6% and 2.5%. The probability of hypotension increased with estimated blood loss 500-1000 mL (odds ratio [OR] = 1.86; 95% CI 1.30-2.67, p = 0.001), estimated blood loss > 1000 mL (OR = 5.31; 95% CI 1.47-19.19, p = 0.011), and analgesia level > T4 (OR = 1.94; 95% CI 1.18-3.19, p = 0.009). Hypotension occurred despite left uterine displacement (OR = 1.56; 95% CI 1.11-2.19, p = 0.01). Risk factors associated with bradycardia were adding intrathecal morphine 0.2 mg (0.2 mL) (OR = 4.61; 95% CI 1.31-16.19, p = 0.017) to local anesthetics.
The present results indicated that the incidence of hypotension after spinal anesthesia for cesarean section increased with amount of estimated blood loss > 500 mL and analgesic level > T4. Adding intrathecal morphine 0.2 mg (0.2 mL) to local anesthetics increased incidence of bradycardia.
Meperidine neurotoxicity, characterized by recurrent convulsions, myoclonus, and asterixis, was diagnosed in an organ transplant recipient. Aside from cyclosporine toxicity, the literature regarding neurologic complications of transplantation contains limited reference to the neurotoxicity of therapy. The case reported illustrates how pharmacokinetic factors might render transplant patients particularly vulnerable to the neurotoxic side effects of certain medications, such as meperidine.
Mathematical analysis of viral kinetics during lamivudine-adefovir combination therapy has not yet been performed in patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B.
In 8 patients with lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B, adefovir dipivoxil (10 mg/day) was added to ongoing lamivudine. Viral decay during the first 8 weeks of combination therapy was described by a biphasic model to determine the efficacy: epsilon, of blocking viral production, the clearance: c, of free virus, and the loss of infected cells: delta.
Median epsilon was 98%, median c was 0.7/day, and median delta was 0.07/day. No significant association was found between viral kinetic and baseline parameters and virologic and biochemical treatment response. When compared with viral kinetic constants reported for higher dose adefovir dipivoxil monotherapy, epsilon was lower (P=0.026) and delta was higher (P=0.008) in this study whereas c did not differ between both studies.
Although a recent study did not show any differences in the reduction of HBV DNA comparing monotherapy with adefovir dipivoxil to adefovir-lamivudine combination therapy in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B, mathematical analysis of early viral kinetics suggests an additional effect of lamivudine on the infected cell loss during adefovir-lamivudine combination therapy.
Although 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-ethylene (p,p'-DDE), the major and most persistent metabolite of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), was continually detected in wild fishes that showed abnormal gonad development such as intersex, little is known about the impact of p,p'-DDE exposure on gonad development in fishes. To survey the effects of p,p'-DDE on gonadal development and gene expressions, male juvenile (20-d post hatch) Japanese medaka (Oryzias latipes) was exposed to 1, 5, 20, and 100 microg/L p,p'-DDE for two months. Increased hepatosomatic index (HSI) and decreased gonadosomatic index (GSI) were found in the p,p'-DDE-treated groups. Intersex was found in 100 microg/L p,p'-DDE exposure group, as well as 100 ng/L 17alpha-ethynylestradiol (EE2) group. By quantitative real-time RT-PCR, it was found that gene expressions of vitellogenins (VTG-1, VTG-2), choriogenins (CHG-H, CHG-L), and estrogen receptor alpha (ER-alpha) in the liver of the fish were significantly up-regulated byp,p'-DDE exposure. VTG-1 and VTG-2 were recommended as the preferred biomarker for assessing anti-androgenic p,p'-DDE because they were the highest up-regulated among the genes and showed good dose-response relationship. The up-regulated ER-alpha suggested that a potential synergetic effect would occur when p,p'-DDE coexists with other ER-alpha-binding endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs).
Murine double minute 2 (MDM2) is a negative regulator of the tumor suppressor gene p53. Single nucleotide polymorphisms in MDM2 and p53 can affect patient's response to chemotherapy as well as overall survival of many cancers. This study aimed to assess the associations between polymorphisms in MDM2 and p53 and survival of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients in Chinese. We selected and genotyped both potentially functional SNPs and tagging SNPs in MDM2 and p53 using Illumina Golden Gate platform in a cohort of 568 NSCLC patients. Associations between genotypes and NSCLC median survival time (MST) were assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Cox proportional hazard models were performed with the adjustment for age, stage, smoking, histology, surgical operation, and chemo- or radiotherapy status. We found that the MDM2 SNP309 (rs2279744) GT/TT genotypes were associated with a significantly worse survival (MST: 23.0 mo for GT/TT vs. 33.0 mo for GG; log-rank P = 0.028). In the multivariate Cox regression analyses, the MDM2 SNP309GT/TT genotypes were associated with a 1.42-fold [HR = 1.42, 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.09-1.84] increased risk of death of NSCLC, compared with SNP309GG genotype. MDM2 SNP309 may be used as one of the candidate biomarkers to predict NSCLC survival.
To test the feasibility of conducting a definitive randomized controlled trial of dexamphetamine substitution for amphetamine dependent people and provide preliminary data.
An open, two-group pre-post randomized controlled trial.
Forty-one long-term, dependent amphetamine users seeking treatment.
Twenty subjects were offered weekly counselling. Twenty-one subjects were, in addition, prescribed up to 60 mg dexamphetamine daily.
Immunoassay and mass spectrometric urinalysis techniques were used to identify the presence of amphetamine and methylamphetamine in urine. The Opiate Treatment Index and Severity of Dependence Scale were used to collect pre- and post-self-report data. Subjects were screened using the Composite International Diagnostic Interview.
Reduced street amphetamine use and amphetamine dependence was observed both in subjects prescribed dexamphetamine and subjects receiving counselling only. Treatment subjects appeared more likely to attend counselling.
A definitive randomized controlled trial of dexamphetamine substitution using the techniques and instruments piloted in this study is feasible. Users appeared to be attracted and retained in substitution treatment. The intervention also appeared to be acceptable to clinicians.
Substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), released from capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerves induce local neurogenic inflammation, while somatostatin exerts systemic anti-inflammatory actions. The aim of the present study was to investigate the release of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide-38 (PACAP-38) and its effects on sensory neuropeptide release in vitro and acute neurogenic ear swelling in vivo. Capsaicin (10(-6) M) or electrical field stimulation (EFS; 40 V, 0.1 ms, 10 Hz, 120 s; 1200 impulses)-induced release of PACAP-38, SP, CGRP and somatostatin from isolated rat tracheae was measured with radioimmunoassay. Mustard oil-induced neurogenic inflammation in the mouse ear was determined with a micrometer and in the rat hind paw skin by the Evans Blue leakage technique. Capsaicin and EFS evoked 27% and more than twofold elevation of PACAP-38 release respectively, compared with the prestimulated basal values from isolated trachea preparation. Exogenously administered PACAP-38 (20-2000 nM) diminished both capsaicin- and EFS-evoked sensory neuropeptide release in a concentration-dependent manner. The maximal inhibitory effects of PACAP on capsaicin-induced substance P, CGRP and somatostatin release amounted to 75.4%, 73.3% and 90.0%, while EFS-evoked release of these peptides was 80.03%, 87.7% and 67.7%. In case of capsaicin stimulation the EC50 values for substance P, CGRP and somatostatin were 82.9 nM, 60.1 nM and 66.9 nM, respectively. When EFS was performed, these corresponding EC50 data were 92.1 nM, 67.8 nM and 20.9 nM. PACAP-38 (10, 100 and 1000 microg/kg i.p. in 200 microl volume) inhibited neurogenic ear swelling in the mouse. Furthermore, 100 microg/kg i.p. PACAP also significantly diminished mustard oil-evoked plasma protein extravasation in the rat skin. These results suggest that PACAP-38 is released from the stimulated peripheral terminals of capsaicin-sensitive afferents and it is able to inhibit the outflow of sensory neuropeptides. Based on this mechanism of action PACAP is also able to effectively diminish/abolish neurogenic inflammatory response in vivo after systemic administration.
Cognitive impairments are the main complication after electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). Modification of treatment parameters has been shown to affect the magnitude of these impairments, but the role of anesthetic type remains unclear. This study tested whether there is a difference in cognitive impairments immediately after ECT with propofol compared to thiopental anesthesia.
This randomized, double-blind, crossover study included 15 patients receiving right unilateral ECT for depression. Patients received propofol or thiopental on alternating ECTs up to 6 treatments. Immediate and delayed verbal memory, motor speed, reaction speed, visuospatial, and executive functions were assessed 45 minutes after each ECT. Differences were assessed with repeated measures analysis of variance.
Cognitive impairments were reduced after ECT with propofol compared to thiopental. Time to emergence was quicker and EEG seizure duration was shorter after propofol treatments. There was no significant correlation between seizure duration and neuropsychological test performance.
Our results indicate that cognitive impairments in the early recovery period after ECT are reduced with propofol compared to thiopental anesthesia. We suggest that, in addition to ECT parameters, the type of anesthetic agent should be considered to reduce cognitive impairments after ECT.
Outside-in signaling from fibronectin (FN) through integrin receptors has been shown to play an important role in promoting cardiac myocyte hypertrophy and synergizes with other hypertrophic stimuli such as the alpha-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine (PE) and mechanical strain. The integrin-linked kinase (ILK) is a critical molecule involved in cell adhesion, motility and survival in nonmyocytes such as fibroblasts and epithelial cells. Its role in cardiac myocytes is unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that (1) ILK forms a complex with PINCH1 and alpha-parvin proteins (IPAP1 complex) in neonatal rat ventricular myocytes; (2) localization of IPAP1 complex proteins to costameres in cardiac myocytes is stimulated by FN, PE and synergistically by the combination of FN and PE in an integrin beta1-dependent manner; (3) a dominant-negative mutant lacking the PINCH-binding N-terminus of ILK (ILK-C) prevents costamere association of ILK and alpha-parvin, but not PINCH1; (4) FN- and PE-induced hypertrophy, measured by increased protein/DNA ratio, beating frequency and atrial natriuretic peptide expression, is stimulated by low levels of ILK-C but repressed by high ILK-C expression; and (5) overexpression of ILK-C, as well as deletion of the ILK gene in mouse neonatal ventricular myocytes, induces marked apoptosis of cardiac myocytes. These results suggest that the IPAP1 complex plays an important role in mediating integrin-signaling pathways that regulate cardiac myocyte hypertrophy and resistance to apoptosis.
Bisphosphonates (BPs), such as clodronate and pamidronate, are inhibitors of bone resorption and are used on a widespread basis in the treatment of hyper-resorptive bone diseases. At the cellular level, BPs inhibit osteoclasts, but the precise molecular mechanisms are unclear. BPs have also been shown to affect the survival of macrophages, cells ontogenetically related to osteoclasts. We show that both clodronate and pamidronate induce apoptosis in isolated osteoclasts. Clodronate, when administered in liposomes, also induced apoptosis in rat peritoneal macrophages in vitro and in liver macrophages of mice in vivo but not in murine macrophage-like RAW-264 cells. The subcellular localization and staining intensity of Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic protein known to protect several cell types against drug-induced apoptosis, were similar in RAW-264 and peritoneal macrophage cells, as revealed by immunofluorescence. The clodronate-induced apoptotic pathway was further characterized in isolated osteoclasts cultured on glass coverslips through the use of clodronate-containing liposomes and several inhibitors of the apoptotic cascade. None of the agents tested could totally prevent clodronate-induced osteoclast death. Partial protection was, however, obtained by the addition of staurosporine or homocysteine. The results suggest that primarily cytoplasmic, protein kinase C-activated mechanisms are involved in the execution of clodronate-induced apoptosis of osteoclasts.
To investigate whether the occurrence of extrapyramidal side effects was related to D2 dopamine receptor occupancy, iodobenzamide single positron emission computed tomography was carried out in 27 schizophrenic patients and 10 controls. Eighteen patients were treated with haloperidol; 9 patients were treated with clozapine. Our data suggest a relationship between D2 receptor occupancy and extrapyramidal side effects as well as the existence of a neuroleptic threshold of a striatal:frontal cortex ratio of 1.2, below which drug-induced exptrapyramidal side effects can be expected.
