The study has shown the efficiency of heart peptide preparation (HP) in the management of rubomycin cardiomyopathy. HP does not prevent rat mortality if rubomycin doses are very large, but it can improve a state of survived animals. HP affects restoration processes in myocardium improving the myocardial contractibility.
To explore the hepatic injury induced by CCl4in SD rat.
40 SD rats were allocated to male and female group, consisting of 20 animals/sex/group. SD rats were given at 2 mL x kg(-1) of 10% CCl4 through celiac injection per 3 day for 12 days. All rats were killed by anaesthesia of ethyl ether and bleeding through abdominal aorta at 12th day. Liver tissue was fixed in 10% neutral formalin, embedded in paraffin, cut at a nominal thickness of 3 microm, stained with hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E) , evaluated at by microscopic examination.
19 cases with local necrosis, 8 cases with fatty degeneration, 9 cases with cystic degeneration and 2 cases with fibrosis were seen in group male. 20 cases with local necrosis, 9 cases with fatty cases degeneration, 1 case with cystic degeneration and 1 case with fibrosis were seen in group female. The incidence of cystic degeneration in male group was found significantly higher than that in female group (P < 0. 05) , but the incidence of other lesions was no significant difference between male and female group.
CCl4 induces local necrosis , fatty degeneration, fibrosis and cystic degeneration in SD rat. The incidences of local necrosis , fatty degeneration and fibrosis were no significantly difference between male and female rat, but the incidence of cystic degeneration in male rats was significant higher than that in female rats.
The eye is a sensitive indicator of the teratogenic effects of ethanol with ophthalmic defects such as microphthalmia frequently observed in FAS children. In this study, we have optimised the chick-embryo model system to investigate ethanol-induced ocular defects. Injection of 20% ethanol (125μl) directly into the yolk sac of HH-stage 7 embryos resulted in an overall 30% incidence of eye anomalies including microphthalmia. Ocular measurements showed that this treatment regime caused a significant reduction in overall globe size. Histological examination of microphthalmic specimens revealed three subgroups: (1) all ocular structures developed but were significantly retarded compared to age matched controls, (2) the bi-layered optic cup developed but with no evidence of lens induction, and (3) the optic vesicle failed to invaginate but remained as a vesicular structure comprising of a single layer of retinal pigment cells with no evidence of a neuro-retinal cell layer or lens structure. Further analysis identified clusters of apoptotic bodies in the ventral telencephalon, a region responsible for the expression of important genes in ocular specification. These results support a growing body of evidence, indicating that ethanol targets inductive signals in early eye development involving lens formation and retinal ganglion cell differentiation. The possible involvement of Shh, Fgf8, Bmp4 and Pax6 is discussed in relation to these outcomes.
Although aminoglycosides antibiotics are used in children and adult commonly, they have serious side effects such as nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity. In clinical practice, for renal function, the levels of serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen routinely are measured. Since these parameters have limitations such as unreliability, insensitivity, and nonspecificity, the rapid assessment of renal function based on these patients is very important. Increase in N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG), a hydrolytic lysosomal enzyme, suggests proximal tubular cell damage. In this study, 32 children aged 2 months through 2 years, treated with gentamicin and amikacin for suspected infections at the pediatric ward of Alborz hospital from September 2006 to February 2007, were enrolled. Serum and fresh urine before and after drug infusion were obtained on the 1st, 3rd, and 5th days of antibiotic treatment. Serum urea and creatinine with urinary creatinine, albumin, NAG, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and alkaline phosphatase (AP) activity were then determined. A statistically significant increase in urinary NAG, LDH, and AP on 5th day was found compared with before gentamicin administration (P < 0.001, P < 0.01, P < 0.05, respectively). The urinary NAG activity may be a useful indicator of renal injury in children treated with aminoglycosides drugs compared with other routine clinical indicators.
Bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, is an antineoplastic drug to treat multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. Its most clinically significant adverse event is peripheral sensory neuropathy. Our objective was to characterize the neuropathy induced by bortezomib in a mouse model. Two groups were used; one group received vehicle solution and another bortezomib (1mg/kg/twice/week) for 6weeks (total dose as human schedule). Tests were performed during treatment and for 4weeks post dosing to evaluate electrophysiological, autonomic, pain sensibility and sensory-motor function changes. At the end of treatment and after washout, sciatic and tibial nerves, dorsal ganglia and intraepidermal innervation were analyzed. Bortezomib induced progressive significant decrease of sensory action potential amplitude, mild reduction of sensory velocities without effect in motor conductions. Moreover, it significantly increased pain threshold and sensory-motor impairment at 6weeks. According to these data, histopathological findings shown a mild reduction of myelinated (-10%; p=0.001) and unmyelinated fibers (-27%; p=0.04), mostly involving large and C fibers, with abnormal vesicular inclusion body in unmyelinated axons. Neurons were also involved as shown by immunohistochemical phenotypic switch. After washout, partial recovery was observed in functional, electrophysiological and histological analyses. These results suggest that axon and myelin changes might be secondary to an initial dysfunctional neuronopathy.
High response rates are seen in patients undergoing dose-intensive chemotherapy and autologous marrow transplantation due to the ability of the therapy to overcome inherent or acquired drug resistance. However, relapse rates are also high because this drug resistance reversal is incomplete. Because both P-glycoprotein- and platinum-induced resistance appear to be clinically important and can be reversed in vitro with a short exposure of cyclosporin A (CSA) at 2000 and 5000 ng/ml, respectively, we undertook a trial of high-dose chemotherapy with carboplatin (1500mg/m2), mitoxantrone (75 mg/m2), and cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg) over a 5-day period combined with escalating doses of CSA. Thirty-seven patients with primarily breast cancer (61% doxorubicin resistant) and ovarian cancer (85% platinum resistant) were treated with CSA given as a bolus 18 h prior to chemotherapy, followed by a 5-day infusion at doses of 5.0-28.2 mg/kg/day and the chemotherapy. The maximum tolerated dose of CSA was a bolus of 5.5 mg/kg and an infusion of 15. 9 mg/kg/day, which gave a mean serum CSA level of 1544 ng/ml. The dose-limiting toxicity was severe mucositis and enteritis, leading to infectious complications. Nephrotoxicity was seen in 42% and, while usually mild and reversible, was fatal in two patients with pretreatment creatinine clearances h80 ml/min. Grade III-IV isolated hyperbilirubinemia was seen in 39%, but appeared to be of no clinical significance. The overall response rate for the 26 patients with measurable/evaluable disease was 73% and 63% for those with doxorubicin- or platinum-resistant disease. The median overall survival and progression-free survival for the group were 18.1 and 8. 0 months. The overall survival for the nine patients with doxorubicin-resistant breast cancer was 19.3 months. Although we did not achieve CSA levels needed to reverse platinum resistance in vivo, levels approaching those needed to reverse P-glycoprotein resistance were reached at the maximum tolerated dose. The strategy of combining dose intensity with drug resistance reversal deserves further study, especially with the advent of potentially less toxic agents available to reverse P-glycoprotein-mediated resistance.
We studied 201 critically ill patients during 267 courses of gentamicin (139 courses) or tobramycin (128 courses) therapy. Clinical and pharmacokinetic data were obtained on 240 of 267 courses (120 courses each of gentamicin and tobramycin). Two judgments of nephrotoxicity and its cause were made independently in this study, using a clinical and a pharmacokinetic definition of nephrotoxicity. The two sets of criteria were generally in good agreement, as all but 10 of 41 patients who were judged nephrotoxic by pharmacokinetic criteria were independently judged nephrotoxic by the clinical definition. Groups of patients judged nontoxic did not differ from groups judged nephrotoxic in age, sex, weight, initial creatinine clearance, total dose given, duration of treatment, initial aminoglycoside trough serum levels, number of dosage adjustments, concurrent use of furosemide, or concurrent cephalosporins. Prior aminoglycosides (usually gentamicin) had been used more frequently in the nontoxic group (P less than 0.05). Two major conclusions of this study are at variance with those of previous investigators; (i) we found no clinical parameters of value in predicting nephrotoxicity in critically ill patients; and (ii) aminoglycoside serum concentrations, once in the therapeutic range, were of limited value in prevention of aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity in our patients.
Ultra-low doses of morphine (UL-morphine) induce hyperalgesia, which is assumed to be mediated by stimulatory G proteins (G(alphas)) signaling pathway. G(alphas) pathway inhibition and chronic stress both attenuate development of tolerance to analgesic effect of morphine. This study evaluated the effect of chronic stress on UL-morphine-induced hyperalgesia to find out if chronic stress interacts with the G(alphas) signaling pathway. Repeated daily forced swim stress was applied to induce chronic stress. UL-morphine (1 microg/kg, intraperitoneal)-induced hyperalgesia was assessed using the tail-flick test on day 6, in male rats that during days 1-5 received different treatments of swim stress, dexamethasone, swim stress following adrenalectomy (ADX) or swim stress after sham operation. Chronic stress by itself induced hyperalgesia in control and sham-operated rats but inhibited UL-morphine-induced hyperalgesia. In ADX animals, chronic stress did not produce hyperalgesia and could not inhibit UL-morphine-induced hyperalgesia. Chronic dexamethasone produced hyperalgesia but did not change the UL-morphine-induced hyperalgesia. Inhibition of UL-morphine hyperalgesia by chronic stress suggests that chronic stress interacts with the G(alphas) signaling pathway, which is responsible for UL-morphine-induced hyperalgesia. The absence of this effect in the ADX-rats or after repetitive dexamethasone administration demonstrates that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation is necessary for controlling UL-morphine-induced hyperalgesia. Finally, the interaction of stress with the G(alphas) signaling pathway may provide an explanation for the inhibitory effect of stress on development of tolerance to the analgesic effect of morphine.
Sub-lethal effects of mercury exposure (110th of LC(50), i.e. 0.045 mg l(-1)) for 5, 10 and 15 d was investigated on oxidative stress parameters and antioxidant defences in digestive gland of Perna viridis. In addition to this an in vitro effect of mercury single and supplemented with reduced glutathione on lipid peroxidation was studied. Increased lipid peroxidation (during first 10 days and also during in vitro exposures), protein carbonyl and hydrogen peroxides (from 5th till last day of exposure) indicate the resultant oxidative stress in the mercury exposed specimen. DNA damage (F-value) response although less distinct on 5th and 15th d, its low values on 10th d and significant correlation with hydrogen peroxide suggests the toxic role of free radicals towards DNA integrity. Superoxide dismutase, which remains low initially (5th d) and increases later suggests its immediate response against superoxide radical. Higher activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase on 15th d and glutathione-S-tranferase from 10th d onwards suggests the adaptive behaviour of the tissue against oxyradicals. Increasing levels of non-enzymatic antioxidant molecules, such as reduced glutathione and ascorbic acid indicated its involvement in counteracting oxidative damage. Further role of reduced glutathione in reducing Hg toxicity is evident in in vitro experiments where lipid peroxidation remains low in mercury concentrations supplemented with reduced glutathione. The elevated levels of metallothionein from 5th to 10th d suggest involvement of this protein in detoxification of reactive oxygen species and toxic metal. The above results suggest that both enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants play an important role in protecting cell against Hg toxicity, which can be used as a biomarker of metal contamination in aquatic environment.
Obesity is a major risk factor for the development of type 2 diabetes, and both conditions are now recognized to possess significant inflammatory components underlying their pathophysiologies. We tested the hypothesis that the plant polyphenolic compound curcumin, which is known to exert potent antiinflammatory and antioxidant effects, would ameliorate diabetes and inflammation in murine models of insulin-resistant obesity. We found that dietary curcumin admixture ameliorated diabetes in high-fat diet-induced obese and leptin-deficient ob/ob male C57BL/6J mice as determined by glucose and insulin tolerance testing and hemoglobin A1c percentages. Curcumin treatment also significantly reduced macrophage infiltration of white adipose tissue, increased adipose tissue adiponectin production, and decreased hepatic nuclear factor-kappaB activity, hepatomegaly, and markers of hepatic inflammation. We therefore conclude that orally ingested curcumin reverses many of the inflammatory and metabolic derangements associated with obesity and improves glycemic control in mouse models of type 2 diabetes. This or related compounds warrant further investigation as novel adjunctive therapies for type 2 diabetes in man.
Our paper compares the effect of homopantothenic acid (HOPA) and haloperidol (HAL), i.e., representative neuroleptics, on intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) and locomotor activity. These experiments showed that HOPA inhibited abnormal hyperactivity induced by methamphetamine (MAP) but did not inhibit ICSS which is considered with respect to physiological motivations. On the other hand, haloperidol (HAL) markedly inhibited both ICSS and abnormal hyperactivity induced by MAP. We propose that combined ICSS and locomotor traces can be chosen as indicators for evaluation and developing the new neuroleptics.
A case pertaining to legal psychiatric practice is described: the development of dusk clouding of consciousness in a patient with chronic alcoholism after the intake of indomethacin in high doses, foregoing insomnia and episodic alcohol abuse. Possible casuistry of the case forms no basis for ignoring the fact that in legal psychiatry, analogous episodes because of the intake of the high doses of certain drugs including indomethacin may be repeated.
1. The interaction between prazosin and clonidine was studied in anaesthetized rats, pithed rats and in anaesthetized cats. 2. Prazosin diminished the clonidine-induced hypotensive effect in anaesthetized rats, probably via an antagonism at the level of central alpha-adrenoreceptors. 3. In pithed rats, stimulation of the Nervi accelerantes caused tachycardia, which was diminished considerably by clonidine. The antagonism by clonidine was partly reversed by prazosin, suggesting that prazosin possesses a certain degree of presynaptic activity apart from its predominant effect at the postsynaptic alpha-receptor. Piperoxan was more active than prazosin. 4. The central hypotensive effect of clonidine, injected into the left vertebral artery of cats was significantly reduced by prazosin, administered before clonidine via the same route. Intravenously injected prazosin did not diminish the central hypotensive effect of clonidine. The antagonism is, therefore, caused by a central mechanism. 5. The combined application of clonidine and prazosin in antihypertensive treatment is probably not only irrational but ought to be discouraged in view of the interaction between the drugs, which leads to a reduced antihypertensive potency of clonidine.
We report the effect of hypotensive anaesthesia on blood flow in the upper limbs of 17 patients before the start of surgery. Under light halothane-oxygen anaesthesia, patients (n = 17) were given hexamethonium 0.5-1.0 mg kg-1. Forearm blood flow (FBF), hand blood flow (HBF) and systemic arterial pressure (AP) were measured before, and 9 and 18 min after the administration of hexamethonium. During the control period of halothane anaesthesia, HBF was AP-dependent, but FBF was not. Hexamethonium produced a statistically significant (P less than 0.001) decrease in systolic AP by 9 and 18 min, but significant reductions in FBF and HBF were seen only at 9 min. During the hypotensive period neither HBF nor FBF correlated with the systolic AP, which had decreased from an average of 98 mm Hg to an average of 65 mm Hg (range 95-50 mm Hg), but the changes in HBF and FBF did correlate with the changes in systolic AP. As a secondary factor, the control FBF correlated inversely with the reduction in FBF after hexamethonium. We concluded that hypotension induced by hexamethonium during halothane anaesthesia produced a transient reduction in limb blood flow that was dependent on the change in AP. A range of systolic AP from 95 to 50 mm Hg did not correlate with either FBF or HBF during the hypotensive period.
Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is an intractable pediatric leukemia with poor prognosis whose molecular pathogenesis is poorly understood, except for somatic or germline mutations of RAS pathway genes, including PTPN11, NF1, NRAS, KRAS and CBL, in the majority of cases. To obtain a complete registry of gene mutations in JMML, whole-exome sequencing was performed for paired tumor-normal DNA from 13 individuals with JMML (cases), which was followed by deep sequencing of 8 target genes in 92 tumor samples. JMML was characterized by a paucity of gene mutations (0.85 non-silent mutations per sample) with somatic or germline RAS pathway involvement in 82 cases (89%). The SETBP1 and JAK3 genes were among common targets for secondary mutations. Mutations in the latter were often subclonal and may be involved in the progression rather than the initiation of leukemia, and these mutations associated with poor clinical outcome. Our findings provide new insights into the pathogenesis and progression of JMML.
Here we report whole-exome sequencing of individuals with various myeloid malignancies and identify recurrent somatic mutations in SETBP1, consistent with a recent report on atypical chronic myeloid leukemia (aCML). Closely positioned somatic SETBP1 mutations encoding changes in Asp868, Ser869, Gly870, Ile871 and Asp880, which match germline mutations in Schinzel-Giedion syndrome (SGS), were detected in 17% of secondary acute myeloid leukemias (sAML) and 15% of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) cases. These results from deep sequencing demonstrate a higher mutational detection rate than reported with conventional sequencing methodology. Mutant cases were associated with advanced age and monosomy 7/deletion 7q (-7/del(7q)) constituting poor prognostic factors. Analysis of serially collected samples indicated that SETBP1 mutations were acquired during leukemic evolution. Transduction with mutant Setbp1 led to the immortalization of mouse myeloid progenitors that showed enhanced proliferative capacity compared to cells transduced with wild-type Setbp1. Somatic mutations of SETBP1 seem to cause gain of function, are associated with myeloid leukemic transformation and convey poor prognosis in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and CMML.
To examine the effect of treatment on lactate-induced anxiety in a controlled study, we infused 44 panic disorder patients with lactate and placebo before and after eight weeks of double-blind treatment with imipramine, diazepam, or placebo. During treatment, both imipramine and diazepam groups improved more than the placebo group. After treatment, patients in both the imipramine and diazepam groups had significantly less anxiety than the placebo patients when reinfused with lactate. In addition, imipramine decreased posttreatment panic attack frequency and diazepam decreased the perceived severity of posttreatment lactate-induced panic attacks. This study demonstrates that diazepam, like imipramine, is an effective treatment for panic disorder, and that both imipramine and diazepam blunt lactate-induced anxiety in a placebo controlled study.
Metanil yellow (MY) and malachite green (MG) are textile dyes, which, despite a ban, are used as food-coloring agents. MY and MG have promoter effects on the development of hepatic preneoplastic lesions induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN). Tumor-promoting agents are not mutagenic but may alter the expression of genes whose products are associated with hyper-proliferation, tissue remodeling, and inflammation. Cell cycle controls normally function to ensure the integrity of the genome and arrest of cells at G1/S or G2/M checkpoints until all the prerequisite events are completed. In order to understand the mechanism(s) of tumor promotion by MY and MG, we have studied the levels of PCNA, a marker of cell proliferation and cell cycle regulatory proteins, cyclin D1, and its associated kinase, cdk4, cyclin B1, and associated kinase, cdc2. Immunohistochemical staining showed an elevated level of PCNA in animals administered MY and MG subsequent to DEN treatment. Western and Northern blot hybridization showed an increased expression of both cyclin D1 and its associated kinase cdk4, and cyclin B1 and its associated kinase cdc2, in livers of rats administered MY and MG after administration of DEN as compared to untreated or DEN controls. The increased level of mRNA was due to the increased rate of transcription of these genes as studied by run-on transcription assay. These data obtained by the in vivo model of liver tumor development provide strong evidence for a link between dysregulation of the two critical checkpoints of the cell cycle as one of the possible mechanism(s) during tumor promotion by malachite green and metanil yellow.
1. The optical isomers of propranolol have been compared for their beta-blocking and antiarrhythmic activities.2. In blocking the positive inotropic and chronotropic responses to isoprenaline, (+)-propranolol had less than one hundredth the potency of (-)-propranolol. At dose levels of (+)-propranolol which attenuated the responses to isoprenaline, there was a significant prolongation of the PR interval of the electrocardiogram.3. The metabolic responses to isoprenaline in dogs (an increase in circulating glucose, lactate and free fatty acids) were all blocked by (-)-propranolol. (+)-Propranolol had no effect on fatty acid mobilization but significantly reduced the increments in both lactate and glucose.4. Both isomers of propranolol possessed similar depressant potency on isolated atrial muscle taken from guinea-pigs.5. The isomers of propranolol exhibited similar local anaesthetic potencies on an isolated frog nerve preparation at a level approximately three times that of procaine. The racemic compound was significantly less potent than either isomer.6. Both isomers of propranolol were capable of preventing adrenaline-induced cardiac arrhythmias in cats anaesthetized with halothane, but the mean dose of (-)-propranolol was 0.09+/-0.02 mg/kg whereas that of (+)-propranolol was 4.2+/-1.2 mg/kg. At the effective dose level of (+)-propranolol there was a significant prolongation of the PR interval of the electrocardiogram. Blockade of arrhythmias with both isomers was surmountable by increasing the dose of adrenaline.7. Both isomers of propranolol were also capable of reversing ventricular tachycardia caused by ouabain in anaesthetized cats and dogs. The dose of (-)-propranolol was significantly smaller than that of (+)-propranolol in both species but much higher than that required to produce evidence of beta-blockade.8. The implications of these results are discussed.
1. Cardiovascular orthostatic reflexes have been studied at night in 12 healthy male subjects who were given two soft gelatin capsules each containing 0 or 10 mg temazepam at 21.30 h. 2. The changes in heart rate, blood pressure and forearm blood flow on consecutive 5 min exposures to lower body negative pressure (suction) at 30, 40 and 50 mm Hg were measured before and then 1.5 and 9.5 h after giving doses of 10 or 20 mg temazepam in a placebo-controlled double-blind cross-over study. 3. Pre-suction resting values were not affected by temazepam, but 1.5 h after giving the capsules there were significant differences in the responses to suction between the placebo and 20 mg temazepam experiments: the tachycardia after 20 mg temazepam was about one-third greater and the forearm vasoconstriction was about 50% less. The effect of the 10 mg dose was equivocal. No residual effects were detected the next morning. 4. These alterations in orthostatic reflexes soon after the administration of temazepam at night did not impair the maintenance of arterial blood pressure in these healthy subjects.
We conducted a phase I trial of escalating doses of weekly paclitaxel (Taxol) in combination with a fixed systemic administration of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with advanced or metastatic gastric cancer.
Patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer were treated with escalating doses of weekly paclitaxel as a 60 min intravenous (i.v.) infusion, along with a fixed dose of continuous 5-FU infused over 5 days. Plasma sampling was performed to characterize the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of paclitaxel.
Eighteen patients received combination therapy at four dose levels of weekly Taxol, ranging from 60 to 90 mg/m2/week. Dose-limiting toxicities > grade 3 were observed at the 90 mg/m2/week dose level. Toxicities included anemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, nausea and alopecia. Two episodes of grade 4 neutropenia occurred in two of the three patients receiving this dose. At each dose level, pharmacological studies documented the persistence of significant serum paclitaxel levels over 24 h after drug administration. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for this regimen was 90 mg/m2/week of paclitaxel for 3 weeks plus 600 mg/m2/day of continuous 5-FU for 5 days.
The combination of weekly paclitaxel and 5-FU demonstrated an acceptable toxicity profile and feasible pharmacokinetic results suggesting its practical applicability. Based on these findings, the recommended dose and schedule for phase II study of combination chemotherapy is paclitaxel 80 mg/m2/week x 3 over 4 weeks, and continuous 5-FU 600 mg/m2/day x 5 days every 4 weeks.
Although agmatine therapy in a mouse model of transient focal cerebral ischemia is highly protective against neurological injury, the mechanisms underlying the protective effects of agmatine are not fully elucidated. This study aimed to investigate the effects of agmatine on brain apoptosis, astrogliosis and edema in the rats with transient cerebral ischemia.
Following surgical induction of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) for 90 min, agmatine (100 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected 5 min after beginning of reperfusion and again once daily for the next 3 post-operative days. Four days after reperfusion, both motor and proprioception functions were assessed and then all rats were sacrificed for determination of brain infarct volume (2, 3, 5-triphenyltetrazolium chloride staining), apoptosis (TUNEL staining), edema (both cerebral water content and amounts of aquaporin-4 positive cells), gliosis (glial fibrillary acidic protein [GFAP]-positive cells), and neurotoxicity (inducible nitric oxide synthase [iNOS] expression).
The results showed that agmatine treatment was found to accelerate recovery of motor (from 55 degrees to 62 degrees) and proprioception (from 54% maximal possible effect to 10% maximal possible effect) deficits and to prevent brain infarction (from 370 mm3 to 50 mm3), gliosis (from 80 GFAP-positive cells to 30 GFAP-positive cells), edema (cerebral water contents decreased from 82.5% to 79.4%; AQP4 positive cells decreased from 140 to 84 per section), apoptosis (neuronal apoptotic cells decreased from 100 to 20 per section), and neurotoxicity (iNOS expression cells decreased from 64 to 7 per section) during MCAO ischemic injury in rats.
The data suggest that agmatine may improve outcomes of transient cerebral ischemia in rats by reducing brain apoptosis, astrogliosis and edema.
The effect of a single oral dose of propranolol (120 mg) on essential tremor was investigated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 26 patients. Hand tremor was recorded by means of accelerometers, and its frequency and amplitude calculated by using spectrum analysis. Recordings were made before and 1 1/2 hours after drug or placebo administration. Pretreatment tremor ranged from 4.2 to 9.6 Hz (median, 6.9 Hz) in frequency and from 0.002 to 1.33 cm (median, 0.014 cm) in amplitude. Neither propranolol nor placebo affected the frequency of the underlying tremor. The amplitude of tremor was reduced by 43 +/- 11% (SEM) after propranolol (p less than 0.01) and by 12 +/- 8% after placebo (NS). The reduction observed after propranolol was significantly greater than that observed after placebo. The tremor response after propranolol correlated negatively with baseline frequency and positively with pretreatment amplitude, duration of tremor, and age of the patient. No significant relationships could be found between tremor response, serum propranolol levels, and degree of cardiac beta blockade as assessed by the inhibition of standing tachycardia. There was a clear tendency for patients with small tremor amplitude (less than 0.006 cm hand displacement) to show the least satisfactory response to propranolol. These results indicate that a single oral dose of propranolol is effective in producing a rapid and marked reduction of essential tremor. Measurement of pretreatment amplitude and frequency might be useful in predicting the therapeutic outcome in these patients.
We present the case of a 38-year-old woman with no previous history of coronary heart diseases, who suffered from cluster headaches and had undergone a subcutaneous sumatriptan treatment for two years. With no previous history of underlying ischaemic heart diseases or Prinzmetal's angina or any other significant coronary diseases supported by an angiographic exam, the patient suffered from an episode of coronary vasospasm following a subcutaneous administration of sumatriptan. Therefore particular care should be placed when subcutaneous sumatriptan is administered to patients who experienced chest pain or other related symptoms after the use of the drug.
The effects of pancuronium on the blood pressure and pulse rate were investigated in patients anaesthetized with either fluroxene or ethrane prior to the surgical procedure. At surgical levels of fluroxene anaesthesia, pancuronium increased the blood pressure and pulse rate significantly. In the patients anaesthetized with ethrane, the blood pressure did not change and the pulse rate rose only temporarily and to a less significant level. Analysis of the changes in pulse rate shows that the greater increase produced by fluroxene was due in part to the initial bradycardic effect of this anaesthetic. However the consistent elevation of blood pressure in this group can only be explained by sympathetic stimulation produced by fluroxene and unmasked by pancuronium. Previous administration of atropine suppresses the effect of pancuronium regardless of the anaesthetic in use.
