Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) is characterized by a CD4+ T cell alveolitis and granulomatous inflammation in the lung. Genetic susceptibility to this disease has been linked with HLA-DP alleles, particularly those possessing a glutamic acid at position 69 (Glu69) of the beta-chain. However, 15% of CBD patients do not possess a Glu69-containing HLA-DP allele, suggesting that other MHC class II alleles may be involved in disease susceptibility. In CBD patients without a Glu69-containing HLA-DP allele, an increased frequency of HLA-DR13 alleles has been described, and these alleles possess a glutamic acid at position 71 of the beta-chain (which corresponds to position 69 of HLA-DP). Thus, we hypothesized that beryllium presentation to CD4+ T cells was dependent on a glutamic acid residue at the identical position of both HLA-DP and -DR. The results show that HLA-DP Glu69- and HLA-DR Glu71-expressing molecules are capable of inducing beryllium-specific proliferation and IFN-gamma expression by lung CD4+ T cells. Using fibroblasts expressing mutated HLA-DP2 and -DR13 molecules, beryllium recognition was dependent on the glutamic acid at position 69 of HLA-DP and 71 of HLA-DR, suggesting a critical role for this amino acid in beryllium presentation to Ag-specific CD4+ T cells. Thus, these results demonstrate that a single amino acid residue of the MHC class II beta-chain dictates beryllium presentation and potentially, disease susceptibility.
Rapid cycling of mood change induced by antidepressant drugs has recently emerged as a significant diagnostic and therapeutic problem. The author describes two additional cases. Cessation of treatment with the offending drug may leave the patient depressed, manic, or euthymic or in a state of continued rapid cycling. The author suggests an approach to management of this condition.
Sixteen patients were given high-dose intermittent rifampicin treatment (900 mg twice weekly) in order to record side-effects of the flu-type. Three patients who experienced a febrile reaction were re-challenged under strict hospital supervision with a single dose (900 mg) of rifampicin. Two patients showed a distinct febrile response together with rapidly subsiding symptoms typical of the rifampicin-induced flu-syndrome, whereas the third patient's reaction was clinically different. During the challenge, the changes in a number of laboratory tests were indicative of a mild haemolytic reaction in the two patients with flu-syndrome. Plasma haemoglobin steeply increased within a few hours following the ingestion of the dose. This was associated with an acute increase in the total bilirubin and with a gradual decrease in the blood haemoglobin and haematocrit values. In further support of a drug-induced haemolysis was the findings that both patients showed a distinct reticulocyte response several days after the challenge. No such changes were seen in the third patient, whose reaction was later demonstrated to be related to isoniazid. The flu-syndrome thus may represent a first warning sign of intravasal haemolysis, which, if massive enough, eventually could lead to haemolytic crises and renal failure.
Cellular prion protein (PrPc) is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane protein that has various physical functions, including protection against apoptotic and oxidative stress, cellular uptake of copper ions, transmembrane signaling, and adhesion to the extracellular matrix. In this study, we show that PrPc is highly expressed in colorectal adenocarcinomas. Transcriptome profiling of PrPc-depleted DLD-1 cells revealed downregulation of glucose transporter 1 (Glut1). PrPc is shown to be involved in regulating Glut1 expression through the Fyn-HIF-2α pathway. As Glut1 is the natural transporter of glucose and is required for the high glycolytic rate seen in colorectal tumors, silencing of PrPc reduced the proliferation and survival rate of colorectal cancer cells in vitro. In vivo, knockdown of PrPc by hydrodynamic injection with a cocktail of PrPc-shRNA-encoding plasmids also inhibited tumorigenicity in a xenograft model in nude mice. In summary, our data characterize a novel molecular mechanism that links PrPc expression to the regulation of glycolysis. Targeting PrPc will therefore be a promising strategy to overcome the growth and survival advantage in colorectal tumors.
Daptomycin-nonsusceptible (DNS) Staphylococcus aureus strains have been reported over the last several years. Telavancin is a lipoglycopeptide with a dual mechanism of action, as it inhibits peptidoglycan polymerization/cross-linking and disrupts the membrane potential. Three clinical DNS S. aureus strains, CB1814, R6212, and SA-684, were evaluated in an in vitro pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) model with simulated endocardial vegetations (starting inoculum, 10(8.5) CFU/g) for 120 h. Simulated regimens included telavancin at 10 mg/kg every 24 h (q24h; peak, 87.5 mg/liter; t(1/2), 7.5 h), daptomycin at 6 mg/kg q24h (peak, 95.7 mg/liter; t(1/2), 8 h), and vancomycin at 1 g q12h (peak, 30 mg/liter; t(1/2), 6 h). Differences in CFU/g between regimens at 24 through 120 h were evaluated by analysis of variance with a Tukey's post hoc test. Bactericidal activity was defined as a ≥3-log(10) CFU/g decrease in colony count from the initial inoculum. MIC values were 1, 0.25, and 0.5 mg/liter (telavancin), 4, 2, and 2 mg/liter (daptomycin), and 2, 2, and 2 mg/liter (vancomycin) for CB1814, R6212, and SA-684, respectively. Telavancin displayed bactericidal activities against R6212 (32 to 120 h; -4.31 log(10) CFU/g), SA-684 (56 to 120 h; -3.06 log(10) CFU/g), and CB1814 (48 to 120 h; -4.9 log(10) CFU/g). Daptomycin displayed initial bactericidal activity followed by regrowth with all three strains. Vancomycin did not exhibit sustained bactericidal activity against any strain. At 120 h, telavancin was significantly better at reducing colony counts than vancomycin against all three tested strains and better than daptomycin against CB1814 (P < 0.05). Telavancin displayed bactericidal activity in vitro against DNS S. aureus isolates.
Our previous studies indicate that prolonged caffeine consumption exacerbates renal failure in nephropathy associated with the metabolic syndrome. Reduced activity of the antioxidant defense system and beneficial effects of antioxidant therapy have been reported in diabetic rats and humans. The purpose of this study was to examine the early renal effects of caffeine consumption and the effects of concomitant antioxidant therapy in young obese, diabetic ZSF1 rats. Eleven-week-old male ZSF1 rats were randomized to drink tap water, caffeine (0.1%), tempol (1 mmol/L), or a solution containing caffeine and tempol for nine weeks. Caffeine significantly reduced body weight and glycosuria (weeks 2-9), improved glucose tolerance (week 9), had no effect on elevated plasma triglycerides, plasma cholesterol (week 9) and blood pressure (week 9), and significantly increased plasma cholesterol level (weeks 5 and 9). Yet, as early as after two weeks, caffeine greatly augmented proteinuria and increased renal vascular resistance (RVR) and heart rate (HR: week 9). Tempol had no effects on metabolic status and development of proteinuria, did not alter caffeine-induced metabolic changes and early proteinuria, and attenuated caffeine-induced increase in HR and RVR. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed significant glomerular and interstitial inflammation, proliferation, and fibrosis in control animals. Caffeine augmented the influx of glomerular and interstitial macrophages (ED1+ cells) influx, glomerular and tubular proliferative response, and glomerular collagen IV content. Tempol abolished the exacerbation of renal inflammation, proliferation, and fibrosis induced by caffeine. In conclusion, in nephropathy associated with the metabolic syndrome, caffeine--most likely through the interaction with adenosine receptors and interference with anti-inflammatory and/or glomerular hemodynamic effects of adenosine--augments proteinuria and stimulates some of the key proliferative mechanisms involved in glomerular remodeling and sclerosis. Tempol does not prevent early renal injury (i.e., proteinuria) induced by caffeine, yet abolishes late renal inflammatory, proliferative, and fibrotic change induced by chronic caffeine consumption in obese ZSF1 rats.
The Rbfox family of RNA binding proteins regulates alternative splicing of many important neuronal transcripts, but its role in neuronal physiology is not clear. We show here that central nervous system-specific deletion of the gene encoding Rbfox1 results in heightened susceptibility to spontaneous and kainic acid-induced seizures. Electrophysiological recording revealed a corresponding increase in neuronal excitability in the dentate gyrus of the knockout mice. Whole-transcriptome analyses identified multiple splicing changes in the Rbfox1(-/-) brain with few changes in overall transcript abundance. These splicing changes alter proteins that mediate synaptic transmission and membrane excitation. Thus, Rbfox1 directs a genetic program required in the prevention of neuronal hyperexcitation and seizures. The Rbfox1 knockout mice provide a new model to study the post-transcriptional regulation of synaptic function.
1. S-Adenosyl-L-methionine is reported to improve serum liver function tests in chronic liver disease. Because liver disease is complicated by cholesterol deposition in hepatic and extrahepatic membranes, we have assessed whether oral administration of S-adenosyl-L-methionine to patients with hepatic disease can reverse the cholesterol enrichment of their erythrocytes. 2. The mean erythrocyte cholesterol-to-phospholipid molar ratio in 13 jaundiced patients was reduced 2 weeks after oral administration of S-adenosyl-L-methionine (from 0.874 +/- 0.112 to 0.844 +/- 0.102, P < 0.05) with 10 of the patients (77%) showing a decrease. By contrast, only four of 11 untreated patients (36%) had a reduced erythrocyte cholesterol-to-phospholipid molar ratio after 2 weeks and the mean values did not differ. 3. The plasma and erythrocyte cholesterol-to-phospholipid molar ratios remained closely correlated (r = 0.77, P < 0.01) before and after treatment, suggesting that S-adenosyl-L-methionine had not acted directly on the cells but rather had improved their lipoprotein milieu. Further support for this concept was provided by following one patient, who initially failed to respond, during an additional 3 weeks of S-adenosyl-L-methionine administration. The plasma cholesterol-to-phospholipid molar ratio fell steadily from week 1 to week 5 and was accompanied by a progressive decrease in the erythrocyte cholesterol-to-phospholipid molar ratio. Moreover, the initially suppressed acetylcholinesterase activity of the erythrocyte membranes returned towards normal during this period. 4. This preliminary study is the first evidence in jaundiced patients that a drug can help to reverse the deposition of cholesterol in an extrahepatic membrane.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pain on injection is a well known adverse effect of propofol. The purpose of this study was to compare the analgesic effect of a lidocaine (lignocaine)/remifentanil combination compared with either lidocaine alone or remifentanil alone during propofol injection for induction of anaesthesia.
In a randomised, double-blind, prospective trial, 129 patients were allocated to one of three groups (each n = 43) receiving lidocaine 20mg, remifentanil 0.3 microg/kg or lidocaine 20 mg plus remifentanil 0.3 microg/kg as pretreatment, followed by injection of 5 mL of 1% propofol. Pain severity was evaluated on a four-point scale.
Two patients (4.7%) complained of pain in the lidocaine plus remifentanil group compared with 15 (35.7%) in the lidocaine alone group and 18 (42.9%) in the remifentanil alone group (p < 0.001). There was no significant difference in the incidence of injection pain between the lidocaine alone and remifentanil alone groups (p = 0.21).
Pretreatment with a combination of lidocaine and remifentanil is more effective than either pretreatment alone in reducing pain on injection of propofol.
After the signing of the Montreal Protocol in 1987, new propellants for use in pressurized metered-dose inhalers that are non-ozone-depleting have been developed.
This study was designed to compare the efficacy and tolerability of single doses of albuterol/HFA 134a with albuterol/CFC and to demonstrate a dose-response among the different doses of both formulations.
A single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. Sixty-three adolescent and adult asthmatic patients were randomized to receive at separate treatment visits single doses via a pressurized metered-dose inhaler of either placebo/hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) 134a; 100 microg, 200 microg, or 400 microg albuterol/HFA 134a; 100 microg or 200 microg albuterol/chlorofluorocarbon (CFC). Triplicate measurements of forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) were made immediately before dosing and 15 minutes, 30 minutes, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 hours postdose. The primary efficacy variables were area under the entire 6-hour FEV1 curve, relative to baseline subtracted from the area above baseline (AUC(0-6)) and peak effect (derived from serial FEV1 measurements).
Analysis of AUC(0-6) and peak effect showed that all doses of albuterol had a significantly greater effect than placebo (HFA 134a propellant). Comparisons of the two formulations at 100 microg and 200 microg showed no difference in AUC(0-6) (100 microg, -0.23 Lhr, P = 0.114 and 200 microg -0.08 Lhr, P = 0.590) or in peak effect, percentage of baseline (100 microg, -1.3%, P = 0.354 and 200 microg, 0.17%, P = 0.902). There were no differences seen among formulations in the incidence of adverse events or with any of the other safety parameters, including electrocardiograms, vital signs, clinical laboratory assessments, and asthma exacerbations.
The study demonstrated comparability in terms of efficacy and safety between albuterol/HFA 134a and albuterol/CFC.
There is debate whether patients with rapid-cycling bipolar disorder (BD) are predisposed to thyroid axis abnormalities and whether this may contribute to development of rapid mood shifts. Using lithium carbonate as a challenge to the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid (HPT) system, we determined whether patients with rapid-cycling BD are sensitive to the "antithyroid" properties of lithium.
We studied the response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) of HPT system hormones in 20 medication-free patients with rapid-cycling BD and compared these measurements with those of 20 healthy age- and gender-matched control subjects. The same measurements were repeated after both groups had received lithium carbonate for 4 weeks in sufficient doses to maintain blood levels between.7-1.2 mEq/L.
At baseline, the results of thyroid function tests, including the TRH challenge test, did not differ between patients and control subjects. After treatment with lithium, serum concentrations of thyroxine significantly decreased, whereas basal thyrotropin (TSH) and DeltaTSH(max) significantly increased in both patients and control subjects; however, patients had significantly higher DeltaTSH(max) after TRH stimulation. More patients than control subjects developed laboratory evidence consistent with grade III hypothyroidism after lithium treatment.
Rapid-cycling BD is associated with a latent hypofunction of the HPT system. This dysfunction becomes manifest with short-term lithium challenge.
To describe trends in fosfomycin resistance in urinary isolates of Escherichia coli producing extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) in relation to fosfomycin consumption and to characterize representative fosfomycin-resistant isolates.
In 2007-08, an unexpected increase in fosfomycin resistance in ESBL-producing urinary E. coli was observed. Laboratory records were reviewed and a prospective surveillance study was initiated on all urinary tract infections caused by ESBL-producing, fosfomycin-resistant E. coli. bla(ESBL) types, phylogroups, genetic environment and afa/dra operon were determined by PCR and sequencing. Molecular epidemiology was analysed by PFGE and multilocus sequence typing. To elucidate possible mechanisms of fosfomycin resistance, uhpT, glpT, uhpA, ptsI, cyaA and murA genes were analysed. Fosfomycin consumption was determined as recommended by WHO.
From 2004 to 2008, fosfomycin consumption increased by 50%, while fosfomycin resistance in ESBL producers increased from 2.2% to 21.7%. Of 26 isolates studied, 24 produced CTX-M-15 and belonged to the O25b-ST131-phylogroup B2 clonal strain. PFGE revealed two clusters. Cluster I included 18 isolates, 16 of them indistinguishable from strains producing CTX-M-15 previously described in Madrid. The five isolates of Cluster II had the IS26 linked to bla(CTX-M-15) and the afa/dra operon. In Cluster I isolates, no mutations in glpT, uhpT, uhpA, ptsI, cyaA and murA were detected. Cluster II isolates showed a 15 bp deletion (A(169)-C(183)) in uhpA.
Fosfomycin resistance in urinary E. coli has increased due to the acquisition of this resistance by a previously circulating CTX-M-15-producing E. coli O25b-ST131-phylogroup B2 strain. This happened during a period when the use of fosfomycin increased by 50%.
The effectiveness of four pretreatment regimens in decreasing succinylcholine-induced myalgias was studied in healthy outpatients undergoing general anaesthesia for ambulatory surgery. Four hundred and forty adult females were randomly assigned to one of four pretreatment groups. Three hundred and ninety-five patients completed the study. One of the following pretreatments was given prior to injection of 1.5 mg X kg-1 of succinylcholine: normal saline IV three minutes and again immediately prior to succinylcholine; 0.06 mg X kg-1 d-tubo-curarine (dTc) IV three minutes prior and normal saline IV immediately prior; normal saline IV three minutes prior and 1.5 mg X kg-1 lidocaine IV immediately prior; 0.06 mg X kg-1 dTc IV three minutes prior and 1.5 mg X kg-1 lidocaine IV immediately prior. Fasciculations after injection of succinylcholine were observed and recorded. Patients were contacted by telephone 40-48 hours postoperatively and questioned about the presence of muscle pains. These pains, if present, were graded either mild or moderate to severe. The patients in the two dTc-containing groups exhibited less fasciculations than patients in the other two experimental groups. The dTc-lidocaine group had a lower incidence of moderate to severe fasciculations than in any of the other three groups. Patients in the dTc, lidocaine, and dTc-lidocaine experimental groups reported a higher incidence of absence of muscle pain and a lower incidence of moderate-severe pain than did patients in the saline group. The dTc-lidocaine group had more patients without myalgia and less patients with moderate to severe myalgias than any of the other groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Colon tumors were induced in F344 rats by three heterocyclic amines (HCAs), 2-amino-6-methyl-dipyrido[1,2-a:3',2'-d]imidazole (Glu-P-1), 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ) or 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), and examined for p53 mutations. Seven carcinomas induced by Glu-P-1, and nine carcinomas and two adenomas induced by IQ were examined by cDNA-polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) analysis from codon 103 to 391 of p53, which encompasses the conserved regions II to IV. Nine carcinomas induced by PhIP were examined by genomic PCR-SSCP analysis of exons 5 to 7 (from codon 124 to 304), which encompasses the 3' half of the conserved region II and all the conserved regions III-V. No band shifts were found in any of these tumors under at least two conditions of SSCP analysis. Our previous study had shown a Ki-ras mutation in only one Glu-P-1-induced adenocarcinoma among the same 27 colon tumors, and no other mutation of ras family genes had been found. HCA-induced rat colon tumors appear to represent a group of human colon tumors in which neither Ki-ras nor p53 is involved.
The antihypertensive efficacy of combination therapy with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril and a diuretic or a calcium antagonist was compared in 16 patients with essential hypertension with a blood pressure of over 160/95 mm Hg having triple drug therapy. While monotherapy with a calcium antagonist--usually verapamil 500 mg/day or nitrendipine 70 mg/day--did not reduce diastolic blood pressure to greater than 95 mm Hg, this goal was achieved in 15 out of 16 patients with the combination of captopril (53 mg/day) and the calcium antagonists in the above dose (151 +/- 4/88 +/- 2 SEM mm Hg) and in 13 out of 16 patients with captopril (84 mg/day) and a diuretic (158 +/- 4/91 +/- 1 mm Hg). There was a direct relationship between intraindividual pressure responses to the two drug combinations (r = 0.88, p less than 0.001). Heart rate was similar and weight lower on the captopril-diuretic combination. Captopril's antihypertensive efficacy can be equally enhanced by calcium antagonists (without affecting renin long term) as by diuretics, which are thought to work by stimulating the renin-angiotensin system. The calcium antagonist-captopril combination may be of particular advantage in hypertensive patients who are otherwise difficult to treat.
Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is a rare, but highly malignant tumor of the skin. In case of systemic disease, possible therapeutic options include irradiation or chemotherapy. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the flavonoid resveratrol enhances the effect of radiotherapy or chemotherapy in MCC cell lines.
The two MCC cell lines MCC13 and MCC26 were treated with increasing doses of resveratrol. Combination experiments were conducted with cisplatin and etoposide. Colony forming assays were performed after sequential irradiation with 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 Gy and apoptosis was assessed with flow cytometry. Expression of cancer drug targets was analyzed by real-time PCR array.
Resveratrol is cytotoxic in MCC cell lines. Cell growth is inhibited by induction of apoptosis. The combination with cisplatin and etoposide resulted in a partially synergistic inhibition of cell proliferation. Resveratrol and irradiation led to a synergistic reduction in colony formation compared to irradiation alone. Evaluation of gene expression did not show significant difference between the cell lines.
Due to its radiosensitizing effect, resveratrol seems to be a promising agent in combination with radiation therapy. The amount of chemosensitizing depends on the cell lines tested.
In establishing a surgery free from thromboembolism low dosage-Heparin is a promising line. Its efficacy, regulation, control and side effects are surveyed. The results achieved justify its indication on a large scale.
In clinical renal transplantation, an increase in proteinuria after conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to rapamycin has been reported. In contrast, there are studies showing a nephro-protective effect of rapamycin in proteinuric diseases characterized by progressive interstitial inflammatory fibrosis.
Because of the contradictory reports concerning rapamycin on proteinuria, we examined proteinuria and podocyte damage markers on two renal disease models, with clearly different pathophysiological mechanisms: a glomerular toxico-immunological model induced by puromycin aminonucleoside, and a chronic hyperfiltration and inflammatory model by mass reduction, both treated with a fixed high rapamycin dose.
In puromycin groups, rapamycin provoked significant increases in proteinuria, together with a significant fall in podocin immunofluorescence, as well as clear additional damage to podocyte foot processes. Conversely, after mass reduction, rapamycin produced lower levels of proteinuria and amelioration of inflammatory and pro-fibrotic damage. In contrast to the puromycin model, higher glomerular podocin and nephrin expression and amelioration of glomerular ultrastructural damage were found.
We conclude that rapamycin has dual opposing effects on subjacent renal lesion, with proteinuria and podocyte damage aggravation in the glomerular model and a nephro-protective effect in the chronic inflammatory tubulointerstitial model. Rapamycin produces slight alterations in podocyte structure when acting on healthy podocytes, but it clearly worsens those podocytes damaged by other concomitant injury.
Low birthweight infants treated with chronic furosemide therapy are at risk for the development of intrarenal calcifications. A prospective longitudinal renal ultrasound investigation was conducted to study the correlation of diuretic therapy, clinical course and ultrasonographic findings. Of 117 premature infants studied ultrasonographically upon discharge from the hospital, 20 had intrarenal calcifications. Eight patients at age 16.3 +/- 2.6 months had sonographic resolution of renal calcifications, 6.6 +/- 1.1 months after furosemide therapy had been discontinued. Of the 12 patients with persistent calcifications, 4 died from severe pulmonary disease and autopsy in 3 of them confirmed the ultrasonographic diagnosis. All 12 children but 2 continued to receive furosemide for their chronic lung disease demonstrating significant association between chronic use of loop diuretics and persistence fo the renal calcifications (p less than 0.001). Two patients required nephrolithotomy and 4 suffered from recurrent urinary tract infections. In 4 patients, 5 kidneys were of small size and in 2 bilateral collecting system dilation was noted. We conclude that discontinuation of furosemide therapy is associated with resolution of the renal calcifications. On the other hand, continued treatment with furosemide is associated with high renal morbidity which indicates ongoing clinical and ultrasonographic follow-up.
Glutathione peroxidase 4 (Gpx4) is an essential antioxidant enzyme having multiple functions. A long form Gpx4 protein and a short form Gpx4 protein, which are distinguishable by the presence or lack of a mitochondrial signal peptide at the N terminus, are generated from the Gpx4 gene. In this study, we generated transgenic mice using mutated GPX4 genes encoding either the long form Gpx4 (lGPX4 gene) or the short form Gpx4 (sGPX4 gene). Our results showed that transgenic mice with the sGPX4 gene had increased Gpx4 protein in all tissues and were protected against diquat-induced apoptosis in liver. Moreover, the sGPX4 gene was able to rescue the lethal phenotype of the mouse Gpx4-null mutation. In contrast, transgenic mice with the lGPX4 gene had increased Gpx4 protein only in the testes, and the lGPX4 gene failed to rescue the lethal phenotype of the mouse Gpx4-null mutation. In Gpx4-null mice rescued by the sGPX4 gene, the Gpx4 protein was present in mitochondria isolated from somatic tissues, and the submitochondrial distribution pattern of the Gpx4 protein in these mice was identical to that in wild-type mice. Interestingly, the male Gpx4-null mice rescued by the sGPX4 gene were infertile and exhibited sperm malformation. Together, our results demonstrated for the first time that the short form Gpx4 protein is present in somatic tissue mitochondria and is essential for survival and protection against apoptosis in mice, whereas the long form Gpx4 protein is important for male fertility.
Ketamine reduces nociception by binding noncompetitively to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, activation of which increases spinal hypersensitivity. We studied 19 healthy, unmedicated male volunteers, aged 20-31 yr. Burn injuries were produced on the medial surface of the dominant calf with a 25 x 50 mm rectangular thermode. On 3 separate days, at least 1 week apart, subjects received a bolus of either ketamine 0.15 mg kg-1, ketamine 0.30 mg kg-1 or placebo, delivered by a mechanical infusion pump over 15 min. The bolus was followed by continuous infusion of ketamine 0.15 mg kg-1 h-1, ketamine 0.30 mg kg-1 h-1 or placebo, respectively, for 135 min. Ketamine reduced the magnitude of both primary and secondary hyperalgesia, and also pain evoked by prolonged noxious heat stimulation, in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, ketamine did not alter phasic heat pain perception (perception of transient, painful, thermal stimuli) in undamaged skin. The analgesic effects of ketamine in the burn injury model are in agreement with results from experimental studies, and can be distinguished from those of local anaesthetics and opioids. Side effects caused by continuous infusion of ketamine 0.15 and 0.30 mg kg-1 h-1 were frequent but clinically acceptable.
Fenofibrate, a fibric acid derivative, is used to treat diabetic dyslipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, and combined hyperlipidemia alone or in combination with statins. Rhabdomyolysis is defined as a pathological condition of skeletal muscle cell damage leading to the release of toxic intracellular material into the circulation. Its major causes include trauma, ischemia, toxins, metabolic disorders, infections, and drugs. Rhabdomyolysis associated with fenofibrate is extremely rare. In nearly all of the presented cases, there was a predisposing factor for rhabdomyolysis such as diabetes, older age, renal insufficiency, and hypothyroidism. Here, we report a nondiabetic, nonhypothyroidic young female patient without any known prior renal disease presenting with acute renal failure developing after fenofibrate treatment.
We studied the effect of posture on the sympathoadrenal response to intravenous theophylline in six normal subjects. On three separate occasions they received an intravenous infusion of either theophylline (6 mg/kg) while supine, theophylline (6 mg/kg) while standing or saline as placebo while standing. With the subjects standing theophylline caused tremor, a peak heart rate of 99 +/- 6 beats/min, and an elevation of plasma cyclic AMP from 9.3 +/- 0.7 to 15.1 +/- 1.7 nmol/1 (mean +/- s.e. mean). There was a small, but significant, elevation of plasma adrenaline, noradrenaline and glucose. The elevation in plasma catecholamines was insufficient to explain either the sympathomimetic effects of theophylline or the rise in plasma cyclic AMP. Theophylline had little or no effect with the subjects supine. The mean peak theophylline concentration following infusion was significantly higher with the subjects upright than when supine (18.3 c.f. 12.4 mg/l, P less than 0.025). However, adequate plasma levels of theophylline were obtained in all subjects when lying or supine. Analysis of individual data suggests that differences in plasma levels of theophylline are unlikely to account for the increased effects seen on standing. The mechanism of action of theophylline cannot be explained by increased secretion of catecholamines alone. Theophylline appears to amplify the increased sympathetic activity associated with standing and this is probably by phosphodiesterase inhibition.
Proteins which regulate normal development may promote tumorigenesis, tumor progression, or metastasis through dysregulation of these functions. We postulate that proteins, which regulate prostate growth also promote prostate cancer (PCa) progression.
Two Dimensional Gel Electrophoresis was utilized to compare patterns of protein expression in 12T-7f prostates (LPB-Tag mouse model for PCa) during tumor development and progression with those of normal developing and adult wild type CD-1 prostates. Stathmin expression and phosphorylation patterns were analyzed in mouse and human PCa cell lines as well as in human PCa tissue arrays.
Stathmin was identified by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. Stathmin levels increase early during normal mouse prostate development and again during prostate tumor development and progression. In human prostate adenocarcinoma, stathmin increases in Gleason pattern 5. Further, stathmin is differentially phosphorylated in androgen-dependent LNCaP cells compared to androgen-independent PC-3 and DU145 cells. This differential phosphorylation is modulated by androgen and anti-androgen treatment.
Stathmin expression is highest when the prostate is undergoing morphogenesis or tumorigenesis and these processes may be regulated through differential phosphorylation. Furthermore, modulation of stathmin phosphorylation may correlate with the development of androgen-independent PCa.
A 71-year-old woman on chronic therapy with mianserine and amantadine was scheduled to undergo abdominal hysterectomy under spinal anesthesia. Following spinal anesthesia she developed hypotension refractory to continuous intravenous fluid infusion as well as multiple boluses of ephedrine. Because the maximum level of analgesia was T 8, general anesthesia was added using laryngeal mask airway. Immediately after anesthetic induction, a marked hypotension occurred. Blood pressure again did not respond to ephedrine but went up excessively to a small dose of epinephrine without any changes in heart rate. Epinephrine infusion at a low dose rate was needed to sustain the blood pressure during surgery. Both depletion of presynaptic norepinephrine store and down-regulation of postsynaptic beta-receptor may have led to abnormal response to catecholamines in this case.
Imatinib mesylate, a Bcr-Abl kinase inhibitor, has been very successful in the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). However, the majority of patients achieving cytogenetic remissions with imatinib treatment have molecular evidence of persistent disease, and residual BCR/ABL(+) progenitors can be detected. There is a need to develop new approaches that enhance elimination of malignant progenitors in imatinib-treated patients. Here we show that CML CD34(+) progenitors are sensitive to several apoptosis-inducing stimuli including the chemotherapeutic agents Ara-C and VP-16, radiation, arsenic trioxide, ceramide, growth factor withdrawal, and the death receptor activators TNFalpha and TRAIL. Bcr-Abl kinase inhibition by imatinib did not enhance sensitivity of CML progenitors to Ara-C, VP-16, ceramide, radiation or TRAIL-induced apoptosis but did enhance arsenic and TNFalpha-induced apoptosis. We further demonstrate that apoptosis was restricted to dividing cells, whereas nonproliferating BCR/ABL(+) CD34(+) cells were resistant to apoptosis induced by imatinib, Ara-C or arsenic, either alone or in combination. Resistance of quiescent CML progenitors to imatinib-induced apoptosis could contribute to persistence of residual malignant progenitors in imatinib-treated patients. Combination treatment with Ara-C or arsenic may not enhance targeting of nonproliferating CML progenitors. The assay described here may be useful for identifying agents targeting quiescent CML progenitors.
