The steroid sulfatase (STS)-mediated desulfation is a critical metabolic mechanism that regulates the chemical and functional homeostasis of endogenous and exogenous molecules. In this report, we first showed that the liver expression of Sts was induced in both the high fat diet (HFD) and ob/ob models of obesity and type 2 diabetes and during the fed to fasting transition. In defining the functional relevance of STS induction in metabolic disease, we showed that overexpression of STS in the liver of transgenic mice alleviated HFD and ob/ob models of obesity and type 2 diabetes, including reduced body weight, improved insulin sensitivity, and decreased hepatic steatosis and inflammation. Interestingly, STS exerted its metabolic benefit through sex-specific mechanisms. In female mice, STS may have increased hepatic estrogen activity by converting biologically inactive estrogen sulfates to active estrogens and consequently improved the metabolic functions, whereas ovariectomy abolished this protective effect. In contrast, the metabolic benefit of STS in males may have been accounted for by the male-specific decrease of inflammation in white adipose tissue and skeletal muscle as well as a pattern of skeletal muscle gene expression that favors energy expenditure. The metabolic benefit in male STS transgenic mice was retained after castration. Treatment with the STS substrate estrone sulfate also improved metabolic functions in both the HFD and ob/ob models. Our results have uncovered a novel function of STS in energy metabolism and type 2 diabetes. Liver-specific STS induction or estrogen/estrogen sulfate delivery may represent a novel approach to manage metabolic syndrome.
Twice-daily azelaic acid (AzA) is the conventional regimen for papulopustular rosacea, but once-daily AzA may be equally effective, with greater convenience and dosing flexibility. In order to test this hypothesis, an exploratory study was conducted.
The evaluable efficacy population of this 12-week double-blind, parallel-group study included 72 patients and the population that was used to report safety results included 92 patients. Baseline characteristics were comparable between the once-daily and twice-daily study groups. Evaluations were performed at baseline and at weeks 4, 8, and 12.
No significant difference was found between the once-daily and twice-daily groups at the end of study therapy in mean investigator global assessment (IGA) scores, treatment success, or treatment response. The mean number of inflammatory lesions, the intensity of erythema intensity, and the intensity of telangiectasia at treatment end were likewise not significantly different (P>.205 for all). More than 90% of subjects in each group rated cosmetic acceptability of this AzA gel as satisfactory or better.
Based on these findings and those of prior studies, once-daily AzA 15% gel can therefore be utilized as a safe, effective, and economical dosing option for the treatment of mild-to-moderate papulopustular rosacea. Once-daily dosing of AzA 15% gel was well accepted by patients and can offer considerable dosing flexibility and convenience for the patient as well as for the dermatologist.
Chronic exposure to drugs of addiction induces cellular adaptations in orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and associated limbic-prefrontal pathways that might underlie abuse-related behavior. A propensity to make risky decisions in spite of substantial negative consequences might be mediated by medial OFC dysfunction in substance-dependent individuals (SDI). We tested the hypothesis that medial OFC gray matter (GM) volume would be lower in SDI compared with control subjects.
Nineteen SDI and 20 control subjects participated. The SDI were dependent on two or more substances, most often cocaine, amphetamine, and alcohol, with mean duration of abstinence 4.7, 2.4, and 3.2 years, respectively. High-resolution T1-weighted images were acquired on a 3-T magnetic resonance system. Image processing and analyses were conducted with voxel-based morphometry (VBM) implemented in Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) 5. Differences in regional GM volume were tested with an analysis of covariance model, co-varying for global GM and age. Statistical maps were set at p < .05, corrected for multiple comparisons. Medial OFC GM volume was correlated with behavioral performance on a modified gambling task.
There was lower GM volume specifically in bilateral medial OFC in SDI compared with control subjects. There was a small but significant correlation between medial OFC GM and persistence of playing high-risk decks on a modified gambling task.
This is the first study to use VBM with whole brain correction for multiple comparisons in SDI after prolonged abstinence. Reduced medial OFC GM might reflect long-term adaptations within the reward-learning circuit underlying pathological decision-making in substance dependence.
A 16-year-old girl developed headaches and bilateral papilledema while taking minocycline for acne. The initial neuro-ophthalmologic evaluation was normal except for enlarged blind spots OU. An MRI scan demonstrated subtle abnormalities. A lumbar puncture was entirely normal except for an increased opening pressure. A tentative diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri was made and the patient was treated with Diamox. A second MRI was unchanged, and a lumbar puncture performed while the patient was taking Diamox was entirely normal. The patient subsequently lost vision in both eyes, and a third MRI now revealed a supracellar enhancing mass. Biopsy and subtotal resection of the mass showed it to be a glioblastoma multiforme. This case emphasizes pitfalls in the diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri. Careful follow-up and a high index of suspicion in pseudotumor cerebri syndromes are essential.
Rickettsiae are responsible for some of the most devastating human infections. A high infectivity and severe illness after inhalation make some rickettsiae bioterrorism threats. We report that deletion of the exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac) gene, Epac1, in mice protects them from an ordinarily lethal dose of rickettsiae. Inhibition of Epac1 suppresses bacterial adhesion and invasion. Most importantly, pharmacological inhibition of Epac1 in vivo using an Epac-specific small-molecule inhibitor, ESI-09, completely recapitulates the Epac1 knockout phenotype. ESI-09 treatment dramatically decreases the morbidity and mortality associated with fatal spotted fever rickettsiosis. Our results demonstrate that Epac1-mediated signaling represents a mechanism for host-pathogen interactions and that Epac1 is a potential target for the prevention and treatment of fatal rickettsioses.
Cancer-related and non-cancer chronic pain embodies the most frequent challenge in clinical practice. Management of chronic pain and breakthrough pain (BTP) requires adjustments to the analgesic regimen to achieve adequate pain control.
To examine the time to achieve pain relief in patients who experienced intense episodic pain breakouts despite baseline therapy with analgesics.
This study was based on a 14-day observation period. Patients with either cancer-related or non-cancer pain who experienced >2 intensive episodic pain breakouts per day were prescribed immediate-release (IR) morphine sulphate (10 mg to 20 mg as needed) every 4 hours (around-the-clock) and allowed one rescue dose of IR morphine (equal to one additional administration of the dosage taken at fixed times) for any episodic pain breakouts. Patients recorded time of administration and time taken to achieve partial or total relief of episodic pain breakout in daily diaries; in one study centre the diary was managed with the help of specialized medical attendants. Pain intensity and general wellbeing were assessed by a Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) and Karnofsky Performance Scale, respectively. Adverse events and sleep patterns were also recorded.
Of 85 patients (mean age 62.67 +/- 14.3 years) enrolled, 14 experienced pain from non-cancer degenerative diseases, and 71 had cancer-related pain. Following stabilization of background pain, the intensity of daily pain improved; NRS decreased from baseline to day 14 for cancer (from 5.63 to 1.98) and non-cancer (from 8.00 to 1.00) groups (both p < 0.0001). Patients' general wellbeing increased concomitantly. Around-the-clock therapy resulted in an immediate decrease in the number of intense episodic pain breakouts per day, with 11.8% of patients achieving total pain relief within 24 hours. The mean number of intense episodic pain breakouts per day decreased steadily in the cancer group, reaching significance at day 14 (p < 0.001 vs baseline). Moreover, the time to achieve partial and total pain relief of intense episodic pain breakouts improved significantly. Adverse events and sleep patterns improved over the 14-day observation period.
Stabilization of background cancer-related or non-cancer pain with around-the-clock IR morphine therapy resulted in fewer intense episodic pain breakouts, which were more quickly managed with rescue-dose IR morphine, suggesting that 'end-dose' pain should not be classified as BTP.
Eighteen patients with atrial fibrillation were given digoxin 0.13 mg twice daily for 3 weeks and beta-methyldigoxin 0.10 mg twice daily for another 3 weeks. At the end of each 3 week period an exercise test was performed and the effects on the heart rate of the two drugs were compared. No difference in heart rate was obtained at rest, whereas the heart rate after 6 min of exercise was higher during treatment with digoxin (131 beats/min) than when the patients were taking beta-methyldigoxin (124 beats/min). There were no significant differences between digoxin and beta-methyldigoxin in their effects on the ECG (R-R intervals, T-wave, Q-T duration). The plasma concentrations of the two glycosides were determined by radioimmunoassay and by 86Rb-uptake inhibition assay. Comparable plasma concentration values (1.0 ng/ml for digoxin, 1.1 ng/ml for beta-methyldigoxin, mean values) were obtained by radioimmunoassay, but the 86Rb-technique gave significantly higher values (mean 1.5 ng/ml) for beta-methyldigoxin. It is concluded that beta-methyldigoxin is equal to digoxin for producing slowing of the heart rate in patients with atrial fibrillation.
An 8-year-old male with a complex developmental syndrome and severe obesity was heterozygous for a de novo missense mutation resulting in a Y722C substitution in the neurotrophin receptor TrkB. This mutation markedly impaired receptor autophosphorylation and signaling to MAP kinase. Mutation of NTRK2, which encodes TrkB, seems to result in a unique human syndrome of hyperphagic obesity. The associated impairment in memory, learning and nociception seen in the proband reflects the crucial role of TrkB in the human nervous system.
The aims of this study were to evaluate the effects of trazodone and mianserin on opioid-withdrawal symptoms in morphine-dependent mice. We used a comparative study of the effect of each drug on withdrawal symptoms in one model of acutely high-dose morphine-dependent mice, and two models (high-dose and lu-dose) of chronically morphine-dependent mice at the Tel Aviv University Sackler School of Medicine's laboratory.Trazodone, mianserin or both were given to the morphine-dependent mice together with a high dose of naloxone. Intensity of withdrawal symptoms was evaluated by tail-flick assay latencies and three behavioural measurements (rearing, jumping and grooming) in each group. Trazodone and mianserin, each separately,significantly attenuated withdrawal symptoms in all three models. However, the combined treatment of trazodone together with mianserin was not superior to each drug alone. The combination of trazodone and mianserin has no additive value to each drug alone in the control of withdrawal symptoms in opiate-dependent mice undergoing detoxification. When used in clinical settings, caution is needed in order to prevent the unknown influence of opioid-like drugs in medication-assisted detoxification programmes if complete opiate detoxification is the aim.
The behavioural response of infant rats to intraplantar injection of formalin consists of specific directed behaviours (limb flexion, shaking and licking the injected paw) and non-specific behaviours that are also induced by non-nociceptive stimulation (squirming, hind limb kicks and whole body jerks), with specific indicators becoming more frequent as pups mature. The present study examined the effects of systemic morphine, pentobarbital and D-amphetamine on formalin-induced behaviours and behavioural state in rat pups from 1 to 20 days of age. Morphine (1 mg/kg) almost completely suppressed both specific and non-specific indicators of pain, and produced mild sedation relative to handled control pups. Pentobarbital (10 mg/kg) produced a similar degree of sedation and suppression of non-specific measures as morphine, but only had weak effects on specific measures in pups less than 1 week old, and no effects thereafter. Suppression of both specific and non-specific pain measures after amphetamine (2 mg/kg) emerged during the 2nd week of life and was not associated with sedation. Thus, morphine produced behavioural analgesia in infant rats in a model of injury-induced inflammatory pain from the 1st postnatal day, when their neurological maturity is similar to a 25-week human fetus, and 1 week before antinociception is observed in thermal and pressure tests. The effects of morphine were qualitatively different from a sedative dose of pentobarbital. The data support the contention that opioids have specific analgesic effects in premature human neonates and underline the need for pain measures that discriminate between sedation and analgesia.
The protective action of aspirin in experimental myocardial infraction induced by isoproterenol was studied in rats. Aspirin treated rats showed lower mortality rate and smaller changes in the myocardium on histopathological examination when compared to corresponding animals given isoproterenol alone. Changes were also observed in the different lipid fractions studied. The ratio of cholesterol to phospholipids decreased in the heart in aspirin treated animals when compared to control rats given isoproterenol alone. The levels of lipid peroxide also showed a decrease while the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase registered an increase in the aspirin treated animals given isoproterenol when compared to corresponding animals given isoproterenol alone.
Manganese (Mn) is a trace element essential for normal human development and is required for the proper functioning of a variety of physiological processes. Chronic exposure to Mn can cause manganism, a neurodegenerative disorder resembling idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Mn(II) neurotoxicity is characterized by astrocytic impairment both in the expression and activity of glutamine (Gln) transporters. Because protein kinase C (PKC) activation leads to the downregulation of a number of neurotransmitter transporters and Mn(II) increases PKC activity, we hypothesized that the PKC signaling pathway contributes to the Mn(II)-mediated disruption of Gln turnover. Our results have shown that Mn exposure increases the phosphorylation of both the PKCα and PKCδ isoforms. PKC activity was also shown to be increased in response to Mn(II) treatment. Corroborating our earlier observations, Mn(II) also caused a decrease in Gln uptake. This effect was blocked by PKC inhibitors. Notably, PKC activation caused a decrease in Gln uptake mediated by systems ASC and N, but had no effect on the activities of systems A and L. Exposure to α-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate significantly decreased SNAT3 (system N) and ASCT2 (system ASC) protein levels. Additionally, a co-immunoprecipitation study demonstrated the association of SNAT3 and ASCT2 with the PKCδ isoform, and Western blotting revealed the Mn(II)-mediated activation of PKCδ by proteolytic cleavage. PKC activation was also found to increase SNAT3 and ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2 binding and to induce hyperubiquitination. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that the Mn(II)-induced dysregulation of Gln homeostasis in astrocytes involves PKCδ signaling accompanied by an increase in ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis.
Prevention of contrast media (CM) induced nephropathy (CIN) by prophylaxis (e.g. N-acetylcysteine; NAC) is controversially discussed. Up to now, assessment of kidney function has been based on measurements of serum creatinine, although this biomarker has several limitations. We investigated NAC and zinc (Zn) for the prevention of CIN by monitoring creatinine and cystatin C.
In a prospective, placebo-controlled, double blind trial, patients with moderately impaired kidney function receiving low-osmolar, non-ionic CM were randomly assigned to an oral treatment for 2 days with 1.2 g/day of NAC (n = 19), for 1 day with 60 mg/day of Zn (n = 18) or placebo (n = 17). All patients received peri-procedurally 1 ml/kg/h of 0.45% saline for 24 h. At baseline, prior to exposure of CM, 2 and 6 days after CM, creatinine and cystatin C were measured.
There was no difference in the incidence of CIN, but a significant drop in creatinine (P < 0.05) was observed in all patients during volume expansion. Creatinine showed no increase after CM and it was normalized to the baseline values in all groups at the study end. In contrast, 2 days after CM there was a significant rise in cystatin C in the Zn (P = 0.012) and the placebo (P = 0.041) group, whereas NAC prevented this deterioration of kidney function.
Cystatin C seems to reflect CM-induced changes in kidney function better than creatinine. NAC and Zn have no effect in preventing CIN by the standard definition, but based on cystatin C we can confirm a preventive effect of NAC. It appears mandatory to assess kidney function by cystatin C in CIN intervention trials, because relying on creatinine can be misleading.
Myalgias are common in patients treated with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). The mechanism of this side effect is unknown. Two commonly postulated etiologies are the motor activity during the convulsion and the fasciculations induced by succinylcholine. If the former phenomenon accounts for most of themyalgias, then the appropriate strategy will be to increase the succinylcholine dose at subsequent treatments. If, on the other hand, the latter phenomenon is more important in inducing myalgias, then the appropriate strategy may be to decrease succinylcholine dosages (on the theory that lower doses result in less fasciculating). On the other hand, if neither of these factors accounts for myalgias, then succinylcholine dose adjustments may be irrelevant to myalgias in the ECT situation. In this study, we assessed the degree of convulsive movements during the seizure as well as strength of fasciculations caused by succinylcholine to see which, if either, correlates with ultimate complaints of myalgias. The results indicated that neither of these factors, nor dose of succinylcholine, correlated with myalgias. We conclude that dose adjustments to succinylcholine are unlikely to affect complaints of myalgias in ECT patients.
We studied the prevalence, type and severity of vigabatrin (VGB)-attributed visual field defects (VFDs), and used these data to assess the associated risk factors in pediatric patients. Medical records were retrospectively reviewed for 67 pediatric patients who received VGB alone or in combination with other antiepileptic drugs, and who had undergone visual field examinations using a Humphrey visual field analyzer. Of the 67 patients, 15 had VGB-attributed VFDs: 13 had nasal arcuate type, 1 had nasal and temporal constricted type and 1 had nasal constricted type. In terms of severity, 7 patients had Grade I VGB-attributed VFDs, 5 had Grade II, 2 had Grade III, and 1 had Grade IV. Although there were no significant differences between the VFD and non-VFD groups with regards to all tested parameters, there were no cases of VGB-attributed VFDs in patients with total treatment durations <2 yr and cumulative doses <10 g/kg. In conclusion, the prevalence of VGB-attributed VFDs in VGB-treated pediatric epilepsy patients was 22%. The high frequency of VGB-attributed VFDs indicates that physicians should inform all patients of this risk prior to VGB treatment and perform periodic visual field examinations.
The effects of dose-escalation of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) on the clinical outcome and pharmacokinetics of 5-FU were investigated in Japanese patients with Stage III/IVa esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
Thirty-five patients with Stage III/IVa were enrolled, who were treated with a definitive 5-FU/cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy. A course consisted of continuous infusion of 5-FU at 400 mg/m(2)/day (the standard dose group, N=27) or 500-550 mg/m(2)/day (the high dose group, N=8) for days 1-5 and 8-12, infusion of cisplatin at 40 mg/m(2)/day on days 1 and 8, and radiation at 2 Gy/day on days 1 to 5, 8 to 12, and 15 to 19, with a second course repeated after a 2-week interval. Plasma concentrations of 5-FU were determined by high performance liquid chromatography at 5:00 PM on days 3, 10, 38 and 45, and at 5:00 AM on days 4, 11, 39 and 46.
No patient with Stage IVa achieved a complete response in the standard dose group, whereas a complete response was observed at a rate of 50% in the high dose group, and this can be explained by a higher plasma concentration of 5-FU. The circadian rhythm in the concentrations found at the standard dose was not observed for a higher dose.
The alteration of Ca(2+)-binding protein regucalcin mRNA expression in the kidney cortex of rats administered cisplatin and cephaloridine, which can induce kidney damage, was investigated. Cisplatin (0.25, 0.5 and 1.0 mg/100 g body weight) or cephaloridine (25, 50 and 100 mg/100 g) was intraperitoneally administered in rats, and 1, 2 and 3 days later they were sacrificed. The alteration in serum findings after the administration of cisplatin (1.0 mg/100 g) or cephaloridine (50 and 100 mg/100 g) demonstrated chemically induced kidney damage; blood urea nitrogen (BUN) concentration increased markedly and serum inorganic phosphorus or calcium concentration decreased significantly. Moreover, the administration of cisplatin (1.0 mg/100 g) or cephaloridine (100 mg/100 g) caused a remarkable increase of calcium content in the kidney cortex of rats, indicating kidney damage. The expression of regucalcin mRNA in the kidney cortex was markedly reduced by the administration of cisplatin or cephaloridine in rats, when the mRNA levels were analyzed by Northern blotting using rat liver regucalcin cDNA (0.9 kb). The mRNA decreases were seen with the used lowest dose of cisplatin or cephaloridine. The present study clearly demonstrates that the mRNA expression of Ca(2+)-binding protein regucalcin in the kidney cortex of rats is decreased by chemically induced kidney damage.
Dracorhodin perchlorate inhibited proliferation of several tumor cell lines. The drug induced oligonucleosomal fragmentation of DNA in HeLa cells and increased caspase-3, -8, -9 activities followed by the degradation of caspase-3 substrates, inhibitor of caspase-dependent DNase, and poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase. It also increased caspase-1 activity and a caspase-1 inhibitor, Ac-YVAD-cmk, and a caspase-10 inhibitor z-AEVD-fmk, also reduced dracorhodin-perchlorate-induced HeLa cell death. Dracorhodin perchlorate decreased the expression of anti-apoptotic mitochondrial protein, Bcl-X(L), but not Bcl-2; and it increased the expression of pro-apoptotic protein, Bax. Dracorhodin perchlorate induced a sustained generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in HeLa cells; caspase-1 inhibitor, Ac-YVAD-cmk, and caspase-3 inhibitor, z-DEVD-fmk, attenuated the generation of ROS. Taken together, our results indicate that dracorhodin perchlorate alters the intracellular redox status, changed the balance of Bcl-X(L) and Bax protein expression, and induces apoptosis through caspase pathways in HeLa cells.
Sustained release niacin effectively lowers serum cholesterol, LDL and triglycerides, while raising HDL. However, 75% of patients experience cutaneous warmth and itching known as flush, leading to discontinuation. Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) reduces this flush only by about 30%, presumably through decreasing prostaglandin D2 (PGD2). We investigated whether niacin-induced flush in a rat model involves PGD2 and 5-HT, and the effect of certain flavonoids.
Three skin temperature measurements from each ear were recorded with an infrared pyrometer for each time point immediately before i.p. injection with either niacin or a flavonoid. The temperature was then measured every 10 min for 60 min.
Niacin (7.5 mg per rat, equivalent to a human dose of 1750 mg per 80 kg) maximally increased ear temperature to 1.9+/-0.2 degrees C at 45 min. Quercetin and luteolin (4.3 mg per rat; 1000 mg per human), administered i.p. 45 min prior to niacin, inhibited the niacin effect by 96 and 88%, respectively. Aspirin (1.22 mg per rat; 325 mg per human) inhibited the niacin effect by only 30%. Niacin almost doubled plasma PGD2 and 5-HT, but aspirin reduced only PGD2 by 86%. In contrast, luteolin inhibited both plasma PGD2 and 5-HT levels by 100 and 67%, respectively. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS. Niacin-induced skin temperature increase is associated with PGD2 and 5-HT elevations in rats; luteolin may be a better inhibitor of niacin-induced flush because it blocks the rise in both mediators.
131 patients suffering from meningitis due to Haemophilus influenzae or parainfluenzae were re-examined after 1-15 years, using hospital records, questionnaires, and audiological examination, especially to compare chloramphenicol and ampicillin therapy. Mortality was 3.8%. Subdural effusions occurred in 14.5% of cases uni- or bilaterally. There was deafness in 2.3%, and moderate hearing loss in 8.4%. Convulsions appeared later in 6.9%. The final outcome was good in 60%. The most important factors in prognosis seemed to be the severity of the symptoms and the condition of the patient on admission to hospital. No clear difference was seen between the results of chloramphenicol and ampicillin therapy, but total loss of vestibular function was found in 3 cases in the ampicillin group, and in none in the chloramphenicol group. In mortality and deafness, the differences in outcome were similar, although not statistically significant. As these observations show, the therapy used in Haemophilus influenzae meningitis needs re-evaluation.
Acitretin is an aromatic retinoid analog of vitamin A. Drugs of this group are well-known teratogenic agents. Nevertheless, acitretin embryopathy has been described only in fetuses.
An infant was exposed to 10 mg/day of acitretin from the beginning of pregnancy until the 10th gestational week. At term, the newborn showed the following abnormalities: microcephaly, epicanthal folds, low nasal bridge, high palate, cup-shaped ears, anteverted nostrils, atrial septal defect, and bilateral sensorineural deafness. At 18 months of age, the patient showed microcephaly and neurodevelopmental delay.
Our patient shows a pattern of anomalies resembling that observed in isotretinoin- and etretinate-exposed children. After ingestion, acitretin is partially converted into etretinate, and etretinate is partially metabolized into acitretin. A similar phenotype would therefore be expected after prenatal exposure to either drug. Moreover, in the present case, teratogenic effects were observed even though the dose was lower than in the previously reported acitretin embryopathy cases. Therefore, we propose that different retinoids, acitretin included, produce only one malformation pattern with variable phenotypic expression.
Obesity has been associated with increased mortality from hormone dependant cancers such as breast cancer which is the most prevalent cancer in women. The link between obesity and breast cancer can be attributed to excess estrogen produced through aromatization in adipose tissue. The role of steroid hormone receptors in breast cancer development is well studied but how obesity can affect the expression pattern of steroid hormones in patients with different grades of breast cancer was the aim of this study.
In this case-control study, 70 women with breast cancer participated with different grades of obesity (36 none obese, BMI < 25 kg/m(2) and 34 obese, BMI ≥ 25 kg/m(2)). The mean age of participants was 44.53 ± 1.79 yr (21-70 yr). The serum level of estrogen, progesterone and androgen determined by ELISA. Following quantitative expression of steroid hormone receptors mRNA in tumor tissues evaluated by Real-time PCR. Patients with previous history of radiotherapy or chemotherapy were excluded. SPSS 16 was used for data analysis and P < 0.05 considered statistically significant.
The difference in ERα, ERβ and PR mRNA level between normal and obese patients was significant (P < 0.001). In addition, the expression of AR mRNA was found to be higher than other steroid receptors. There was no significant relation between ERβ gene expression in two groups (P = 0.68). We observed a significant relationship between ERα and AR mRNA with tumor stage and tumor grade, respectively (P = 0.023, P = 0.015).
According to the obtained results, it is speculated that obesity could paly a significant role in estrogen receptors gene expression and also could affect progression and proliferation of breast cancer cells.
Preeclampsia or pregnancy-induced hypertension is a major cause of both maternal and fetal-neonatal morbidity and mortality. The deficiency of vitamin E can cause accumulation of lipid peroxidation products, which, in turn, can induce vasoconstriction. This study has examined any evidence of increased cellular lipid peroxidation and accumulation of malonydialdehyde (MDA, an end product of lipid peroxidation) in pregnancy-induced hypertension and any relationship between the elevated MDA and lower vitamin E levels with hypertension in pregnant women. EDTA-Blood was collected from pregnant women at the time of delivery. Plasma vitamin E was determined by HPLC; MDA by the thiobarbituric acid-reactivity. Subjects with diastolic blood pressure (DBP) > or = 90 mm Hg were considered hypertensive (HT) and with < 90 mm Hg normotensive (NT). Data (Mean +/- SE) from 49 NT and 11 HT women show that HT has significantly lower vitamin E (22 +/- 1 vs 27 +/- 1 nmole/ml, p < 0.03) and elevated MDA levels (0.56 +/- 0.06 vs 0.43 +/- 0.02 nmole/ml, p < 0.03) compared to NT; the ages and gestational ages of women were similar. Among all women, there was a significant positive relationship between DBP and MDA levels (r = 0.27, p < 0.05), and a significant negative relationship between vitamin E levels and DBP (-0.36, p < 0.005), and a significant negative relationship between MDA and vitamin E levels (r = 0.27, p < 0.05). Thus, HT women's plasma has significantly lower E and higher MDA levels, and DBP significantly correlates with the extent of vitamin E deficiency and increased MDA levels. This study suggests a relationship between elevated lipid peroxidation and lower vitamin E levels and hypertension in pregnancy (preeclampsia).
Graded doses of norepinephrine and methoxamine were given to rabbits over a standard 90-minute infusion period to assess their potential for inducing myocardial injury. Lesions of myofiber necrosis and leukocytic infiltration were graded semiquantitatively in animals killed 2 days later. A close correlation was found between the dose of norepinephrine and the histological score (r = 0.912, P less than 0.001). Mean arterial pressure rose from 100 mm Hg to a maximum of 129 mm Hg, and averaged 115 mm Hg during infusion of 2 micrograms/min per kg. However, heart rate fell from 287 beats/min to average 208 beats/min. The pressure-rate product, an index of metabolic demand, showed no significant change and did not differ from saline-infused controls. Beta-adrenergic blockade with practolol (4 mg/kg) or propranolol (1 mg/kg) failed to significantly reduce cardiac injury with norepinephrine. However, alpha-adrenoceptor blockade with phentolamine (10 mg), alone or in combination with either of the beta-antagonists, markedly reduced lesion formation as reflected by the histological score (P less than 0.02). Administration of the alpha-agonist methoxamine produced dose-related increases in the intensity of myocardial injury (r = 0.938, P less than 0.01), morphologically identical with those resulting from norepinephrine. Hemodynamic changes also were comparable. Phentolamine markedly reduced methoxamine injury. It may be concluded from these studies that norepinephrine cardiomyopathy results in large part from activation of the alpha-adrenergic system in the rabbit model. Ischemia or a supply-demand mismatch are unlikely mechanisms. We speculate that alterations in myofiber Ca++ translocation, uptake, and binding induced by alpha 1-receptor activation may contribute to membrane damage.
Significant controversy over the environmental and public health impact of depleted uranium use in the Gulf War and the war in the Balkans has prompted the investigation and use of other materials including heavy metal tungsten alloys (HMTAs) as nontoxic alternatives. Interest in the health effects of HMTAs has peaked since the recent discovery that rats intramuscularly implanted with pellets containing 91.1% tungsten/6% nickel/2.9% cobalt rapidly developed aggressive metastatic tumors at the implantation site. Very little is known, however, regarding the cellular and molecular mechanisms associated with the effects of inhalation exposure to HMTAs despite the recognized risk of this route of exposure to military personnel. In the current study military-relevant metal powder mixtures consisting of 92% tungsten/5% nickel/3% cobalt (WNiCo) and 92% tungsten/5% nickel/3% iron (WNiFe), pure metals, or vehicle (saline) were instilled intratracheally in rats. Pulmonary toxicity was assessed by cytologic analysis, lactate dehydrogenase activity, albumin content, and inflammatory cytokine levels in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid 24h after instillation. The expression of 84 stress and toxicity-related genes was profiled in lung tissue and bronchoalveolar lavage cells using real-time quantitative PCR arrays, and in vitro assays were performed to measure the oxidative burst response and phagocytosis by lung macrophages. Results from this study determined that exposure to WNiCo and WNiFe induces pulmonary inflammation and altered expression of genes associated with oxidative and metabolic stress and toxicity. Inhalation exposure to both HMTAs likely causes lung injury by inducing macrophage activation, neutrophilia, and the generation of toxic oxygen radicals.
