Dipyridamole inhibits phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) and adenosine re-uptake. The most prominent side-effect is headache. We examined the migraine-generating effects of dipyridamole as well as the cerebral blood velocity response in a single-blind study, including 10 patients with migraine without aura and 10 healthy subjects. Dipyridamole 0.142 mg/kg per min was administered intravenously. Headache intensity was scored on a verbal rating scale along with pain characteristics and accompanying symptoms. Blood velocity in the middle cerebral artery (V(mca)), blood pressure and heart rate were recorded repeatedly. Headache was induced in all migraine patients and in eight of 10 healthy subjects (P = 0.47) with no significant difference in headache intensity (P = 0.53). However, five patients but only one healthy subject experienced the symptoms of migraine without aura, according to ICHD-2 criteria, within 12 h (P = 0.14). Four patients reported photophobia after dipyridamole compared with no healthy subjects (P = 0.087). V(mca) decreased (P < 0.001) during and after dipyridamole infusion with no difference between groups (P = 0.15) coinciding with initiation, but not cessation of immediate headache. Thus, dipyridamole induces symptoms of migraine and an initial decrease in V(mca) in migraine patients, but not significantly more than in healthy subjects. This relatively low frequency of migraine induction, compared with nitric oxide donors and sildenafil, is probably due to the less specific action of dipyridamole on the cGMP signalling pathway as well as a possible bidirectional effect of adenosine on migraine induction.
Possible preventive effect of dantrolene against the peroxidative damage in rat heart which was induced by the administration of an acute dose of adriamycin (ADR, 20 mg/kg, i.p.) has been examined. Forty-eight hours after ADR administration, biochemical changes including the activities of serum creatine kinase isoenzyme (CK-MB), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and the levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) in heart tissue were measured. Pretreatment of rats with dantrolene, given i.p. 30 min prior to ADR injection, substantially reduced the peroxidative damage in the myocardium, and markedly lowered the serum CK-MB, LDH and AST. The protective effects obtained by dantrolene administration, however, were not complete and did not reach those of the control group. Dantrolene, at 5 mg/kg, was useful to obtain significant protective effects, while the protector effect of higher dantrolene dosing level (10 mg/kg) was weak or absent. These results suggest that, at least in part, due to antioxidative properties, dantrolene may provide a significant protective effect against acute ADR-induced cardiotoxicity.
Folic acid is essential for many cellular reactions, including synthesis of nucleotides and regulation of cell cycle. Folic acid-binding protein one (Folbp1), a membrane-bounded protein, is the primary mediator of folic acid transport. Mice deficient in Folbp1 gene die in utero with multiple malformations, including severe exencephaly and craniofacial defects. Fusion of the neural tube and craniofacies require precisely regulated interactions of apoptosis, cell proliferation, and differentiation. To understand the role of Folbp1 in regulating the fusions of these primordia, levels of dead and proliferating precursor cells from Folbp1 embryos were quantified before the fusion processes. Massive apoptosis was detected in the Folbp1-/- defective tissues, with Bax and activated caspase-3 distributed evenly across the apico-basal axis of the lateral neural plate. 5-Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and PCNA labeling assays revealed a reduced cell proliferation as well. However, telomerase activity was unaltered, arguing against telomere shortening and consequently, chromosomal instability, as the cause of the apoptosis. Notably, Islet-1 and 2H3 immunohistochemistry demonstrated the presence of differentiating neuronal cells, albeit in decreased numbers. Interestingly, Folbp1-/- embryos also elaborated novel neural structures that sprouted orthogonally from the embryonic neuraxis. Assays on the defective craniofacies exhibited similar phenomena, suggesting the neural crest precursor population that gives rise to both these structures is selectively vulnerable to Folbp1 inactivation. The results demonstrate a prominent role of Folbp1 in the regional regulation of apoptosis and cell proliferation that underlies the aberrant neural tube and craniofacial defects.
A higher prevalence of individuals affected by Parkinsonism was found in Valcamonica, Italy. This may be related to ferro-alloy smelters in the area, releasing manganese (Mn) in the air, soil and water for about a century. There exists individual susceptibility for Mn neurotoxicity.
To analyse how polymorphism in genes regulating Mn metabolism and toxicity can modify neurophysiological effects of Mn exposure.
Elderly (N=255) and adolescents (N=311) from Northern Italy were examined for neuromotor and olfactory functions. Exposure to Mn was assessed in blood and urine by atomic absorption spectroscopy and in soil by a portable instrument based on X-Ray fluorescence technology. Polymorphisms in the Parkinson-related gene ATPase type 13A2 (ATP13A2, also called PARK9: rs3738815, rs2076602, rs4920608, rs2871776 and rs2076600), and in the secretory pathway Ca(2+)/Mn(2+) ATPase isoform 1 gene (SPCA1: rs218498, rs3773814 and rs2669858) were analysed by TaqMan probes.
For both adolescents and elderly, negative correlations between Mn in soil and motor coordination (R(s)=-0.20, p<0.001; R(s)=-0.13, p=0.05, respectively) were demonstrated. Also among adolescents, negative correlations were seen between Mn in soil with odor identification (R(s)=-0.17, p<0.01). No associations were seen for Mn in blood or urine. ATP13A2 polymorphisms rs4920608 and rs2871776 significantly modified the effects of Mn exposure on impaired motor coordination in elderly (p for interaction=0.029, p=0.041, respectively), also after adjustments for age and gender. The rs2871776 altered a binding site for transcription factor insulinoma-associated 1.
ATP13A2 variation may be a risk marker for neurotoxic effects of Mn in humans.
Methamphetamine (MA) is widely abused and implicated in residual cognitive deficits. In rats, increases in plasma corticosterone and egocentric learning deficits are observed after a 1-day binge regimen of MA (10 mg/kg x 4 at 2-h intervals). The purpose of this experiment was to determine if adrenal inactivation during and following MA exposure would attenuate the egocentric learning deficits in the Cincinnati water maze (CWM). In the first experiment, the effects of adrenalectomy (ADX) or sham surgery (SHAM) on MA-induced neurotoxicity at 72 h were determined. SHAM-MA animals showed typical patterns of hyperthermia, whereas ADX-MA animals were normothermic. Both SHAM-MA- and ADX-MA-treated animals showed increased neostriatal glial fibrillary acidic protein and decreased monoamines in the neostriatum, hippocampus, and entorhinal cortex. In the second experiment, SHAM-MA- and ADX-MA-treated groups showed equivalently impaired CWM performance 2 weeks post-treatment (increased latencies, errors, and start returns) compared to SHAM-saline (SAL) and ADX-SAL groups with no effects on novel object recognition, elevated zero maze, or acoustic startle/prepulse inhibition. Post-testing, monoamine levels remained decreased in both MA-treated groups in all three brain regions, but were not as large as those observed at 72-h post-treatment. The data demonstrate that MA-induced learning deficits can be dissociated from drug-induced increases in plasma corticosterone or hyperthermia, but co-occur with dopamine and serotonin reductions.
The role of endogenous CRF in the locomotor hyperactivity induced by cocaine was investigated by using the immunoneutralization of endogenous CRF and an antagonist of CRF-receptors (alpha-helical CRF9-41: alpha h-CRF) in rats. Different dilutions of anti-CRF antibody (1:5, 1:20, but not 1:100) injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) 24 hours before the cocaine treatment blocked the expression of locomotor hyperactivity. Pretreatment with different doses (0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0 micrograms i.c.v.) of alpha h-CRF inhibited the locomotor hyperactivity induced by cocaine dose-dependently. Neither the immunoneutralization nor the receptor blockade for CRF changed the hyperactivity induced by another locomotor stimulant caffeine. These results serve as indirect in vivo evidence of the selective role of endogenous CRF in the cocaine-induced behavioral alterations. The findings have implications as concerns the possible role of CRF in human psychopathological changes induced by cocaine.
Several epidemiological studies indicate that moderate consumption of wine is associated with a lower incidence of Alzheimer's disease. Wine is enriched in antioxidant compounds with potential neuroprotective activities. However, the exact molecular mechanisms involved in the beneficial effects of wine intake on the neurodegenerative process in Alzheimer's disease brain remain to be clearly defined. Here we show that resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene), a naturally occurring polyphenol mainly found in grapes and red wine, markedly lowers the levels of secreted and intracellular amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides produced from different cell lines. Resveratrol does not inhibit Abeta production, because it has no effect on the Abeta-producing enzymes beta- and gamma-secretases, but promotes instead intracellular degradation of Abeta via a mechanism that involves the proteasome. Indeed, the resveratrol-induced decrease of Abeta could be prevented by several selective proteasome inhibitors and by siRNA-directed silencing of the proteasome subunit beta5. These findings demonstrate a proteasome-dependent anti-amyloidogenic activity of resveratrol and suggest that this natural compound has a therapeutic potential in Alzheimer's disease.
Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is widely considered to be one of the key regulators of tumor angiogenesis. The upstream regulation is complex and involves several growth factors, cytokines, and hypoxia. Herein, we have identified miR-519c as a hypoxia-independent regulator of HIF-1alpha, acting through direct binding to the HIF-1alpha 3' untranslated region and leading to reduced tumor angiogenesis. Overexpression of miR-519c resulted in a significant decrease of HIF-1alpha protein levels and reduced the tube formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells; similarly, antagomir inhibition of miR-519c increased the level of HIF-1alpha protein and enhanced angiogenic activity, suggesting an important role of miR-519c in HIF-1alpha-mediated angiogenesis. Consistent with the overexpression of miR-519c in cancer patients with better prognosis, mice injected with miR-519c-overexpressing cells exhibited dramatically reduced HIF-1alpha levels, followed by suppressed tumor angiogenesis, growth, and metastasis. In addition, we found that hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), a known HIF-1alpha inducer, reduced the miR-519c levels through an Akt-dependent pathway. This regulation was posttranscriptional and may be mediated by suppression of miR-519c maturation. Taken together, our findings provide the first evidence that miR-519c is a pivotal regulator of tumor angiogenesis and that microenvironmental HGF contributes to regulating miR-519c biogenesis in cancer cells.
A mutagenic compound, 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline, which was first isolated from broiled sardines and was shown to be carcinogenic to mice, was also found to be carcinogenic to F344 rats. It induced tumors in various organs, such as the Zymbal gland, oral cavity, colon, skin and mammary gland of male and female rats when given at 0.03% in the diet. However, it was noteworthy that tumors were not observed in the liver. Most of the tumors in the Zymbal gland, oral cavity and skin were squamous cell carcinomas, and most of the mammary gland tumors were adenocarcinomas. The colon tumors were identified as adenomas or adenocarcinomas. In control rats no tumors developed in these organs during the 40-week experiment.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is characterized by the progressive development of innumerable cysts in both kidneys, which distort the normal kidney architecture, leading to a loss of renal function that may necessitate renal replacement therapy and/or kidney transplantation. In experimental animal models for dominant and recessive forms of polycystic kidney disease, mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-inhibitors such as rapamycin effectively reduced cyst growth and loss of renal function. Furthermore, an analysis of sirolimus-treated renal transplant ADPKD patients showed that cystic kidney volumes regressed. An interventional study has been initiated to investigate whether sirolimus retards cyst growth and slows renal functional deterioration in patients with ADPKD. This prospective study is an 18-month, controlled, open label clinical trial with 2 parallel groups of patients with ADPKD. The aim of the study is to investigate whether sirolimus used at a low dose (2 mg/d) retards cyst growth and slows renal functional deterioration in patients with ADPKD. It is anticipated that the inhibition of mTOR with sirolimus can slow disease progression and delay the need for chronic renal replacement therapy. Preliminary study results are expected in 2010.
We have examined the role of a novel cytokine, interleukin-27 (IL-27), in mediating interactions between prostate cancer and bone. IL-27 is the most recently characterized member of the family of heterodimeric IL-12-related cytokines and has shown promise in halting tumor growth and mediating tumor regression in several cancer models, including prostate cancer. Prostate cancer is frequently associated with metastases to the bone, where the tumor induces a vicious cycle of communication with osteoblasts and osteoclasts to induce bone lesions, which are a significant cause of pain and skeletal-related events for patients, including a high fracture risk. We describe our findings in the effects of IL-27 gene delivery on prostate cancer cells, osteoblasts, and osteoclasts at different stages of differentiation. We applied the IL-27 gene delivery protocol in vivo utilizing sonoporation (sonodelivery) with the goal of treating and reducing the growth of prostate cancer at a bone metastatic site in vivo. We used a new model of immune-competent prostate adenocarcinoma and characterized the tumor growth reduction, gene expression, and effector cellular profiles. Our results suggest that IL-27 can be effective in reducing tumor growth, can help normalize bone structure, and can promote enhanced accumulation of effector cells in prostate tumors. These results are promising, because they are relevant to developing a novel IL-27-based strategy that can treat both the tumor and the bone, by using this simple and effective sonodelivery method for treating prostate tumor bone metastases.
Indigenous people have been trained to provide a culturally appropriate kala-azar control programme for the tribal population of Sahibganj, Bihar, India. Cultural resistance to modern medicine has been overcome and the influence of village witch-doctors has been countered.
In the district of Sahibganj, Bihar, India, there were 23,670 new cases of kala-azar between 1985 and 1990. The Social Development Centre, Dumka, drafted an emergency plan as a solution. 30 village health workers attended a 3-day training course regarding how to administer sodium stibogluconate intramuscularly, spray DDT, conduct door-to-door surveys, and refer affected persons to health centers. Kala-azar awareness programs in the villages imparted information on the treatment and control of the disease explaining that the disease could not be controlled by witch-doctors. DDT was sprayed during January/February and May/June on the inner walls of houses and covered cowsheds in order to eradicate sandfly prevalence. Persons who had had fever for more than 3 weeks underwent examinations for total and differential counts of white blood cells, haemoglobin concentration, aldehyde test, and thick and thin blood smears for the detection of malaria parasites. Treatment consisted of sodium stibogluconate given intramuscularly at 20 mg per kg body weight daily for 20 days in new cases and for 40 days in relapsed patients, with a maximum of 850 mg. Clinical cure was achieved if patients became afebrile and their spleens returned to normal size. If no relapse occurred in 6 months, the patients were regarded as definitively cured. Of the 1640 treated patients, 1592 were cured, and of the 48 patients who relapsed and were treated again with a 40-day course of sodium stibogluconate, 8 relapsed a second time. 44 patients became unresponsive to sodium stibogluconate and were sent to hospitals for treatment. The spraying performed by the village health workers reduced the incidence of kala-azar and malaria in 3 villages, while increased numbers of cases were recorded in 1 village. Remote tribal areas need educative, preventive, and curative programs backed up by mobile hospitals carrying diagnostic and spraying equipment.
To search tools of high blood pressure in the model of nitric oxide (NO)-defective hypertension, and the study focused on the effect of rilmenidine, agonist of imidazoline receptors, which was suggested to modulate central sympathetic outflow.
Three experimental groups, each consisting of 7 rats, were used: (I) rats with inhibition of NO synthase (NOS) by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) 40 mg.kg(-1).d(-1) for 4 weeks in drinking water, (II) rats with inhibited NOS as in group I , plus agonist of imidazoline receptors rilmenidine 3 mg.kg(-1).d(-1) for 4 weeks by gavage, and (III) control rats. Systolic blood pressure was measured weekly noninvasively. At the end of experiment aortic ring isometric tension was followed, NOS expression (aorta, left ventricle), and NOS activity (left ventricle and brain) were determined.
In the group I systolic blood pressure increased significantly, aortic ring relaxation to acetylcholine was significantly attenuated. Rilmenidine administered simultaneously with L-NAME (group II) prevented the increase of blood pressure which did not differ significantly from control values; aortic ring relaxation to acetylcholine did not differ from control. No change in NOS expression (aorta and left ventricle) was found in groups I and II. Significant decline in NOS activity (left ventricle and brain) was found in groups I and II.
Rilmenidine has a remarkable role in NO-defective hypertension, possibly by inhibiting central sympathetic outflow and by affecting receptors in vascular smooth muscle also. The prime cause of hypertension in this experimental model--the compromised production of NO due to inhibition of NOS--was not affected by rilmenidine.
Toluene is a widely used organic solvent causing loss of auditory sensitivity in rats and presumably in humans. Also, the hearing loss in humans occupationally exposed to noise has been reported to be aggravated by simultaneous exposure to solvents. The aim of the present investigation was to study the effects of toluene, alone or in combination with other factors, on auditory sensitivity. The influence of acoustic trauma and of acetyl salicylic acid (ASA) on toluene induced auditory sensitivity loss in the rat, as well as the influence on age-related auditory sensitivity loss in two genotypes of mice were studied. An attempt was also made to identify cochlear structures damaged by toluene. Rats or mice were exposed to toluene by inhalation during 1 or 2 weeks. Rats were exposed to noise before or after the toluene exposure, or exposed to ASA by gavage simultaneously with toluene. The effect on auditory sensitivity was measured by frequency specific auditory brainstem response (ABR) between 1.6 and 20 kHz. In the investigations concerning the site of the toluene induced impairment, distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOEs) and morphological techniques were used. A permanent loss of auditory sensitivity, as measured by ABR, with the maximal threshold shifts between 6.3 and 12.5 kHz, was found in rats after exposure to toluene. In addition, lowered amplitudes of the DPOEs were recorded, implying that the outer hair cells (OHCs) were affected by toluene. A morphological study confirmed that toluene mainly affects the OHCs. A potentiated loss of auditory sensitivity was seen when toluene had preceded the noise exposure. When the exposure sequence was reversed, i.e. noise preceded toluene, an additive effect was observed. ASA, itself known to cause a reversible auditory impairment, was found to enhance the loss of auditory sensitivity caused by simultaneous toluene exposure. Finally, toluene exposure accelerated the age-related hearing loss in C57BL/6J mice. In conclusion, toluene causes a characteristic mid-frequency auditory damage. The OHCs are particularly susceptible to toluene exposure. The auditory sensitivity loss induced by toluene can be enhanced by ASA and by ensuing noise exposure. Also, toluene exposure can influence the rate of progress of age-related hereditary loss of auditory sensitivity.
Nicotine and caffeine are widely consumed licit psychoactive drugs worldwide. Epidemiological studies showed that they were generally used concurrently. Although some studies in experimental animals indicate clear pharmacological interactions between them, no studies have shown a specific interaction on anxiety responses.
The present study investigates the effects of nicotine on anxiety induced by caffeine and another anxiogenic drug, pentylenetetrazole, in mice. The elevated plus-maze (EPM) test was used to evaluate the effects of drugs on anxiety.
Adult male Swiss Webster mice (25-32 g) were given nicotine (0.05-0.25 mg/kg s.c.) or saline 10 min before caffeine (70 mg/kg i.p.) or pentylenetetrazole (15 and 30 mg/kg i.p.) injections. After 15 min, mice were evaluated for their open- and closed-arm time and entries on the EPM for a 10-min session. Locomotor activity was recorded for individual groups by using the same treatment protocol with the EPM test.
Nicotine (0.05-0.25 mg/kg) itself did not produce any significant effect in the EPM test, whereas caffeine (70 mg/kg) and pentylenetetrazole (30 mg/kg) produced an anxiogenic effect, apparent with decreases in open-arm time and entry. Nicotine (0.25 mg/kg) pretreatment blocked the caffeine- but not pentylenetetrazole-induced anxiety. Administration of each drug and their combinations did not produce any effect on locomotor activity.
Our results suggest that the antagonistic effect of nicotine on caffeine-induced anxiety is specific to caffeine, instead of a non-specific anxiolytic effect. Thus, it may extend the current findings on the interaction between nicotine and caffeine.
A case of triamterene nephrolithiasis is reported in a man after 4 years of hydrochlorothiazide-triamterene therapy for hypertension. The stone passed spontaneously and was found to contain a triamterene metabolite admixed with uric acid salts. Factors affecting triamterene nephrolithiasis are discussed and 2 previously reported cases are reviewed.
Doxorubicin (Adriamycin) was administered by continuous infusion to reduce peak plasma levels and thus lessen cardiac toxicity. Cardiotoxicity was monitored by noninvasive methods, and endomyocardial biopsy specimens were studied by electronmicroscopy. Cardiotoxicity was compared in 21 patients receiving doxorubicin intravenously over 48 or 96 hours and in 30 control patients treated by standard intravenous injection. Both groups were studied prospectively and were well matched by risk factors for doxorubicin cardiotoxicity. The median cumulative dose for those receiving continuous infusion was 600 mg/m2 body surface area (range, 360 to 1500 mg/m2) compared with 465 mg/m2 (range 290 to 680 mg/m2) in the control group (p = 0.002). Fourteen of the 30 patients in the control group showed severe morphologic changes in the biopsy specimens, precluding further doxorubicin administration, as compared with two of 21 patients receiving the drug by continuous infusion (p less than 0.02). The mean pathologic score for the infusion group, 0.9, was lower than the mean for the control group, 1.6 (p = 0.004). Antitumor activity was not compromised. Decreasing peak plasma levels of doxorubicin by continuous infusion reduces cardiotoxicity.
In 18 of 55 original patients who completed 5 years of treatment with finasteride, significant reductions in prostate size were noted at 1 year and sustained thereafter. Symptom scores in these same patients were significantly improved or stable over the 5 years while maximal urinary flow rates were unchanged. Data from 15 of 18 other patients who dropped out of the study before 5 years showed changes in prostate size, symptom score and flow rates that were similar to those noted in patients treated for 5 years. No side effects were noted in this study except for sexual dysfunction, which occurred in less than 5% of the patients. With few exceptions, finasteride appears to arrest the process of BPH over a 5 year period as indicated by sustained reductions in prostate size accompanied by either symptomatic improvement or stability in all other patients.
To observe effects of propofol on nociceptive response at superspinal and spinal level in rats.
Two hundreds and fifty-eight Sprague-Dawley male rats were randomized into thirty-two groups. Propofol and bicuculline were microinjected into lateral ventricle (icv), ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG), intrathecal (ith), and intraperitoneal (ip). The noxious responses were evaluated by hot plate and formalin test.
In hot-plate test, systemic and superspinal administration of propofol (40 mg.kg(-1) ip, 100 microg in 10 microL, icv, and 4 microg in 0.4 microL vlPAG microinjection) produced hyperalgesia (P<0.01). Hyperalgesia induced by vlPAG microinjection of propofol was significantly antagonized by 69.8 %, 71.2 %, 98.8 % at 10, 20, and 30 min by microinjection of bicuculline (10 ng in 0.4 microL, vlPAG) (P<0.01). Analgesia induced by ith propofol (100 microg.10 microL(-1)) was antagonized about 81.3 %, 54.8 %, 80.8 %, and 97.4 % at 10, 20, 30 and 40 min by ith bicuculline (P<0.05). In formalin test, systemic and superspinal administration of propofol (40 mg.kg(-1) ip, 4 microg in 0.4 microL, vlPAG) also produced hyperalgesia (P<0.01). The increased formalin pain scores were antagonized about 57.1 % by bicuculline (10 ng, vlPAG) (P<0.05) at 60 min after formalin injection. The decreased formalin pain scores induced by ith propofol (100 microg in 10 microL) were antagonized about 66.7 % at 30 min by ith bicuculline (P<0.05) after formalin injection. Hyperalgesia produced by ip propofol in both hot plate and formalin test could not be antagonized by vlPAG administration of bicuculline.
GABAA receptor partly mediated propofol-induced hyperalgesia at superspinal and analgesia at spinal cord in rats.
Preliminary evidence suggests that the sensitivity of endocrine-dependent neoplasms to chemotherapy may be enhanced by transient hormonal stimulation of tumor growth. To test this concept, we are conducting a prospective controlled trial in men with stage D2 prostate cancer who have relapsed following orchiectomy. All patients are continuously treated with aminoglutethimide and hydrocortisone to lower adrenal androgen secretion plus cyclic chemotherapy. Patients in the stimulation arm receive, in addition, the synthetic androgen fluoxymesterone for 3 days before and on the day of chemotherapy. Of 41 patients entered to date, 26 are evaluable. Twenty-one (81%) obtained either an objective remission or stabilization of disease with a mean duration of 9+ months and 10 patients still responding. Thus far, the response rate is similar in the control and stimulation groups. Androgen administration was associated with a rise in acid phosphatase and usually a modest flare of symptoms except for 2 patients who developed spinal cord compression. These preliminary data indicate that the combination of aminoglutethimide and chemotherapy has a potent antitumor effect on advanced prostate cancer refractory to orchiectomy. A large number of patients and a longer follow up are needed to assess whether transient androgen administration potentiates the effect of chemotherapy.
Accumulating evidence suggests that anti-inflammatory agents and antioxidants have neuroprotective properties and may be beneficial in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. In the present study, the possible neuroprotective properties of tolmetin and sulindac were investigated using quinolinic acid (QA)-induced neurotoxicity as well as behavioral studies. QA, a metabolite of the tryptophan-kynurenine pathway, significantly induces lipid peroxidation, superoxide anion generation and decreases cell viability in primary hippocampal neurons established from one day old rat pups. However, co-incubation of the neurons with tolmetin or sulindac markedly reduces oxidative stress and enhances cell viability. Animals were trained in a Morris water maze for four consecutive days and thereafter received 0.6 micromol of QA intrahippocampally. The animals were divided into groups and were treated with either tolmetin or sulindac (5 mg/kg twice a day for five days). During test trials, the time taken for each rat to find the submerged platform was recorded over a period of two weeks. Animals were thereafter sacrificed and the hippocampi analyzed for protein carbonyl and glutathione content. The results show that both sulindac and tolmetin reduce the QA-induced spatial memory deficit and sulindac treated animals respond better in the water maze compared to the tolmetin treated animals. Both agents also reduce protein oxidation in rat hippocampus and attenuate the decrease in hippocampal glutathione content induced by QA. This study indicates that the antioxidant properties of tolmetin and sulindac may be beneficial in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.
Cisplatin, a major chemotherapeutic agent, accumulates in proximal tubules of the kidneys and causes acute renal failure dose-dependently. We previously reported that cisplatin induced more severe renal dysfunction in interleukin-6 (IL-6) knockout (IL-6(-/-)) mice than in wild-type (WT) mice. Expression of a pro-apoptotic protein was significantly increased with cisplatin in IL-6(-/-) mice compared to that in WT mice. IL-6, locally expressed in renal tubular cells after cisplatin administration, prevents the development of renal dysfunction at an early stage. In the present study, we focused on downstream signals of IL-6 and oxidative stress induced by cisplatin in order to evaluate the protective role of IL-6 in the development of acute renal failure.
WT and IL-6(-/-) mice were given either cisplatin (30 mg/kg) or saline intraperitoneally. Blood and kidney samples were collected at 24h and 72 h after cisplatin administration. The changes in expression of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal protein (4-HNE, oxidative stress marker) and cyclooxygenase-2 (cox-2), activities of superoxide dismutases and caspase-3, and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) were examined.
Cisplatin increased the expression of 4-HNE and cox-2, and phosphorylation of ERK in IL-6(-/-) mice than in WT mice. On the other hand, activity of superoxide dismutase, an anti-oxidative enzyme, was significantly decreased in the kidney obtained from IL-6(-/-) mice after cisplatin administration.
Our findings suggest that IL-6 plays a protective role in the development of cisplatin-induced acute renal failure through upregulation of anti-oxidative stress factors.
The pathogenesis of congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is unknown. The sonic hedgehog (Shh) cascade is crucial for the patterning of the early respiratory system in mice. Optical Projection Tomography (OPT) is a new tool for 3D imaging small biological specimens that enables us to visualise both the anatomy of developing organs and gene expression localised in the context of normal or abnormal anatomy. We visualised Shh gene expression patterns in the nitrofen treated and control mouse lung buds at early stages of lung development.
Time-mated CD1 female mice (n = 5) received oral administration of 100 mg of the herbicide 2,4-dichlorophenyl-p-nitrophenylether (nitrofen) (WAKO Chemical, Osaka, Japan) in 1 ml of olive oil or olive oil alone at 7 days of gestation. Embryos were harvested on gestation days 9-12, and stained following whole mount in situ hybridisation with labelled RNA probes to detect Shh transcripts at each stage. Embryos were scanned by OPT to obtain 3D representations of gene expression domains in the context of the changing morphology of the embryo.
OPT analysis of Shh transcript distribution clearly revealed gene expression in both groups. In treated embryos, there were no significant changes in Shh transcript distribution in lung buds in comparison with control embryos.
Although altered Shh expression in the hypoplastic lung has been reported in late gestation, the present study did not reveal any significant alterations in pulmonary Shh spatial transcript distribution or gene expression level during the early gestation in nitrofen CDH model. It would be of great interest in future studies to use OPT approach to investigate pulmonary expression of Shh and other regulatory genes both during early and late stages of lung development in order to provide new insights into the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypoplasia.
Spontaneous pneumomediastinum is uncommon and is traditionally considered a benign, self-limited disorder that usually occurs in young adults without any apparent precipitating factor or disease. The purpose of this study is to present 47 new cases because of their different clinical behaviours.
A descriptive, retrospective case series was conducted to identify adult patients with spontaneous pneumomediastinum who were diagnosed and treated in a single institution between 2000 and 2008.
Forty-seven patients were identified, including 33 men and 14 women with a mean age of 27.3 years (range, 16-42 years). Acute-onset chest pain was the predominant symptom at presentation (59.5%); subcutaneous emphysema was the most common sign (42.9%). The most common predisposing factor was consumption of illegal drug (cocaine): it was not a regular and long-term abuse but an occasional trend, coinciding few hours before presenting symptoms (55%). Notably, in one case, a bad outcome with mediastinal shift and important tracheal compression necessitated a right thoracotomy to open the mediastinal pleura.
(1) It is known that occasional consumption of cocaine causes diffuse alveolar damage, haemorrhage, etc. The cause-effect relationship consumption-appearance in a few hours of spontaneous pneumomediastinum leads us to appreciate this form of consumption as a causal factor rather than a predisposing/precipitating factor as it appears in the literature on the topic. (2) Spontaneous pneumomediastinum is considered a benign disorder but, as shown by our series, a bad outcome may represent an immediate life-threatening condition, forcing an invasive manoeuvre. We always recommend performing a chest CT scan on admission to predict the evolution.
The atypical antipsychotic clozapine is effective in the treatment of patients with refractory schizophrenia. It carries a well-known risk of neutropenia and agranulocytosis, which necessitates the immediate discontinuation of clozapine.
We report a patient who developed neutropenia on clozapine, but behind the cell count decrease showed to be a diurnal variation of the white blood cells (WBC).
Due to the lack of efficacy of subsequent treatment of conventional and other atypical neuroleptics, treatment with clozapine was restarted after discontinuation. When the morning count of WBC began to fall, WBC count was repeated in the afternoons.
Careful blood cell monitoring showed a pronounced diurnal variation of WBC (2.9-4.2x10(9)/l in the morning and 3.6-7.1x10(9)/l in the afternoon) and granulocytes (0.8-1.4x10(9)/l and 2.9-5.5x10(9)/l, respectively).
Some patients may thus have a spuriously low cell count and may be unnecessarily denied effective treatment.
