Our goal was to evaluate the relationship between cause-specific postneonatal infant mortality and chronic early-life exposure to particulate matter and gaseous air pollutants across the United States.
We linked county-specific monitoring data for particles with aerodiameter of < or = 2.5 microm (PM2.5) and < or = 10 microm (PM10), ozone, sulfur dioxide, and carbon monoxide to birth and death records for infants born from 1999 to 2002 in U.S. counties with > 250,000 residents. For each infant, we calculated the average concentration of each pollutant over the first 2 months of life. We used logistic generalized estimating equations to estimate odds ratios of postneonatal mortality for all causes, respiratory causes, sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), and all other causes for each pollutant, controlling for individual maternal factors (race, marital status, education, age, and primiparity), percentage of county population below poverty, region, birth month, birth year, and other pollutants. This analysis includes about 3.5 million births, with 6,639 postneonatal infant deaths.
After adjustment for demographic and other factors and for other pollutants, we found adjusted odds ratios of 1.16 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.06-1.27] for a 10-mug/m3 increase in PM10 for respiratory causes and 1.20 (95% CI, 1.09-1.32) for a 10-ppb increase in ozone and deaths from SIDS. We did not find relationships with other pollutants and for other causes of death (control category).
This study supports particulate matter air pollution being a risk factor for respiratory-related postneonatal mortality and suggests that ozone may be associated with SIDS in the United States.
The common adverse effect of centrally-injected mu-opioid receptor (mu-OR) agonists is pruritus. This study was conducted using mice to examine whether different subtypes of mu-OR would be responsible for pruritus and analgesia. Intracisternal injections of morphine and morphine-6beta-glucronide (M6G), but not M3G, produced an antinociceptive effect. Morphine, but neither M6G nor M3G, induced facial scratching, a pruritus-related response. Facial scratching following morphine was not affected by the mu(1)-OR antagonist naloxonazine at doses that inhibited the antinociceptive effects. The results suggest that different subtype and/or splice variants of mu-OR are separately involved in pruritus and antinociception of opioids.
The modifying effects of the naturally occurring antioxidants gamma-oryzanol, phytic acid, tannic acid and n-tritriacontane-16, 18-dione (TTAD) were investigated in a rat wide-spectrum organ carcinogenesis model. Animals were initiated with two i.p. injections of 1000 mg/kg body wt 2,2'-dihydroxy-di-n-propylnitrosamine (DHPN) followed by two i.g. administrations of 1500 mg/kg body wt N-ethyl-N-hydroxy-ethylnitrosamine (EHEN), and then three s.c. injections of 75 mg/kg body wt 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) during the first 3 weeks. Starting 1 week after the last injection, groups of rats received diet containing 1% gamma-oryzanol, 2% phytic acid, 0.2% TTAD or 1% tannic acid or basal diet alone for 32 weeks. Animals were then killed and complete autopsy was performed at the end of week 36. Histological examination revealed enhancement of lung carcinogenesis by gamma-oryzanol, and the incidence of urinary bladder papillomas to be increased by phytic acid. On the other hand, TTAD inhibited hepatic and pancreatic carcinogenesis. Phytic acid and tannic acid were marginally effective in inhibiting hepatic and colon carcinogenesis respectively. The results thus indicated that naturally occurring antioxidants each exert specific modifying effects depending on the organ site and indicate that wide-spectrum carcinogenesis models are useful for defining complex influences.
Ana Irsa (Nisoris) Aquina, 39, a mother of seven, grandmother, wife, and voluntary community health facilitator, lives in the Dominican Republic. Nisoris counsels women and their partners about reproductive health, provides child survival information to new mothers, and dispenses common remedies for diarrhea and respiratory infections as well as contraceptives (mainly oral contraceptives and condoms). These supplies are financed by Fundacion para el Desarrollo Communitario (FUDECO), a nongovernmental agency which is a member of the Save the Children alliance. FUDECO's work includes the development of water systems, health services, schools, and soil conservation training. Widespread deforestation in the San Juan area has led to a reduction in self-sufficient farming and a lack of nutrition evidenced by an increase in infant blindness caused by Vitamin A deficiency. To combat this situation, FUDECO has taught the women's group led by Nisoris how to use solar power to dry fruits and vegetables to preserve them for consumption beyond their season. The pilot group has in turn taught six other women's groups and conducted informal product sampling and Vitamin A information sessions in the local market. FUDECO provides supplies and technical expertise. The program has been so successful that the women are exploring packaging options so that they can sell the dried produce.
Multiple myeloma treatment with lenalidomide-based regimens is associated with risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE), particularly during concomitant use with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs). The risk of VTE in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients treated with lenalidomide is not well characterized and the background risk in untreated patients is not known. This study set out to determine the reporting rate of VTE in MDS patients on lenalidomide in the two years of postmarketing experience in the US, and to investigate whether there is a disproportional signal of VTE in MDS patients on lenalidomide by screening the US FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) safety database.
The MDS population exposed to lenalidomide was obtained from RevAssist, the company's proprietary restrictive distribution programme. VTE reports were identified from the company's postmarketing surveillance safety database. The FDA AERS database was used for disproportionality analysis, and signal scores computed using three algorithms: multi-item gamma Poisson shrinker (MGPS), proportional reporting ratio (PRR), and reporting odds ratios (ROR).
A total of 7764 MDS patients were prescribed lenalidomide during the first two years of commercial use in the US. VTE representing deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism was reported in 41 patients, a reporting rate of 0.53%. The computed signal scores did not exceed the statistical threshold for identification of a significant disproportional signal for VTE in MDS reports involving use of lenalidomide without concomitant use of ESAs. However, a disproportional signal of VTE was detected in MDS reports where lenalidomide was concurrently used with ESAs.
The VTE reporting rate for MDS patients receiving lenalidomide during the first two years of postmarketing exposure was low (0.53%). Disproportionality analysis demonstrated a statistically meaningful association of VTE with lenalidomide concomitantly used with ESAs in MDS patients, but the association was not statistically significant when lenalidomide was used in the absence of ESAs.
Alterations in the expression of the chemokine, fractalkine (CX3CL1), were examined in the urinary bladder after cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis of varying duration: acute (4 h or 48 h), or chronic (10 day). CYP-induced cystitis significantly (p<or=0.01) increased fractalkine protein expression in the urinary bladder with acute (48 h) and chronic CYP treatment. Western blot analysis also demonstrated significantly (p<or=0.01) increased fractalkine expression in the whole urinary bladder with acute (1.5-2.2-fold) and chronic (3-fold) CYP-induced cystitis. Immunohistochemistry for fractalkine-immunoreactivity revealed little fractalkine-IR in control or acute (4 h) CYP-treated rat urinary bladders except in a vascular bed but showed no colocalization with nerve fibers in the suburothelial plexus in any experimental group. However, expression was significantly (p<or=0.001) upregulated in the urothelium with 48 h or chronic CYP treatment. Similarly, fractalkine receptor (CX3CR1)-IR was significantly (p<or=0.001) upregulated in the urothelium with 48 h or chronic CYP treatment. These studies demonstrated upregulation of the chemokine, fractalkine, in the urinary bladder and specifically in the urothelium with CYP-induced cystitis. Chemokines, and specifically, fractalkine, may be another class of neuromodulatory agents upregulated in the urinary bladder that can affect micturition function and sensory processing with cystitis and may represent novel, drug targets for cystitis.
Activation of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) leads to a powerful inhibition of glutamate release from many synaptic terminals throughout the CNS. mGluRs as autoreceptors are believed to provide a negative feedback system that prevents potentially toxic accumulation of glutamate in the extracellular space during synchronous synaptic activity such as epileptic seizures. In this study we analyzed the function of presynaptic mGluR8 on terminals of the lateral perforant pathway in the pilocarpine model of limbic epilepsy. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) recorded in hippocampal slices of rats that developed spontaneous recurrent seizures after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SRS group) showed a significantly reduced sensitivity to Group III mGluR agonists and severe mossy fiber sprouting. The Group III mGluR agonist L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4, 10 microM) depressed fEPSPs in the SRS group only by 26 +/- 21% compared to 50 +/- 18% in untreated rats. Similarly, the mGluR8 preferring agonist (R,S)-4-phosphonophenylglycine (PPG, 5 microM) was significantly less effective in slices from SRS rats (43 +/- 4% vs. 83 +/- 5%). Concentration-response curves for L-AP4 revealed that the EC(50) values were not different between the control and SRS group (13 +/- 7 microM vs. 9 +/- 9 microM), while the maximal depressing effect was significantly reduced. The remaining depressing effect of L-AP4 in the SRS group could be blocked by the Group III specific antagonists (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (MPPG) and alpha-methyl-L-AP4 (MAP4). Rats that did not develop SRS following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus were indistinguishable from control rats: fEPSPs were highly sensitive to L-AP4 and there was no mossy fiber sprouting. The results show that pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus can lead to a downregulation of mGluR8 and suggest that the condition of SRS is associated with a deteriorated autoregulation of glutamate release.
Therapy-related acute promyelocytic leukemia (t-APL) with t(15;17)(q22;q21) involving the PML and RARA genes is associated with exposure to agents targeting topoisomerase II (topoII), particularly mitoxantrone and epirubicin. We previously have shown that mitoxantrone preferentially induces topoII-mediated DNA damage in a "hotspot region" within PML intron 6. To investigate mechanisms underlying epirubicin-associated t-APL, t(15;17) genomic breakpoints were characterized in 6 cases with prior breast cancer. Significant breakpoint clustering was observed in PML and RARA loci (P = .009 and P = .017, respectively), with PML breakpoints lying outside the mitoxantrone-associated hotspot region. Recurrent breakpoints identified in the PML and RARA loci in epirubicin-related t-APL were shown to be preferential sites of topoII-induced DNA damage, enhanced by epirubicin. Although site preferences for DNA damage differed between mitoxantrone and epirubicin, the observation that particular regions of the PML and RARA loci are susceptible to these agents may underlie their respective propensities to induce t-APL.
1. The efficacy of three different single doses (600, 900 and 1200 mg of soluble aspirin and aspirin tablets) was determined in a randomized placebo-controlled parallel study in 140 patients (70 females) with postoperative pain after removal of impacted third molars. 2. Patients treated with soluble aspirin 600 mg, 900 mg, 1200 mg and aspirin tablet 1200 mg reported significantly less pain (P less than 0.01) throughout the investigation period than those treated with placebo. 3. Overall pain scores after treatment with aspirin tablets 600 and 900 mg did not differ significantly from those after treatment with placebo (P greater than 0.05). 4. On a comparative dose basis, soluble aspirin was significantly more potent (P less than 0.05) than aspirin tablets.
The present study was designed to determine the potential of CB1 cannabinoid receptor modulating compounds in the treatment of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa)-induced dyskinesia in Parkinson's disease. In the reserpine-treated rat model of parkinsonism, administration of a high dose of L-dopa (150 mg/kg) but not of Cl-APB (0.5 mg/kg) or quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) produced a hyperkinetic state characterised by an increase in horizontal and vertical activity, which likely represent correlates of antiparkinsonian and dyskinetic activity, respectively. Injection of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716 (0.1-3 mg/kg) reduced the increase in vertical activity elicited by L-dopa without affecting the increase in horizontal activity. Injection of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (0.1-3 mg/kg) reduced the L-dopa-induced increase in vertical activity and, at the highest dose only (3 mg/kg), also reduced horizontal activity elicited by L-dopa. WIN55,212-2 (1 mg/kg) reduced motor activity induced by both the D1 receptor agonist Cl-APB (0.5 mg/kg) and the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) in the reserpine-treated rat. SR141716 (1 mg/kg) had no effects on motor activity induced by Cl-APB (0.5 mg/kg) nor quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg) in the reserpine-treated rat. Injection of the inhibitor of endocannabinoid transport AM404 (0.1-1 mg/kg) did not affect the increase in horizontal or vertical activity elicited by L-dopa (150 mg/kg) in the reserpine-treated rat. The data suggest that both CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonists and agonists can modulate the behavioural effects of L-dopa and may be useful for the treatment of the dyskinesia associated with long-term L-dopa treatment of Parkinson's disease.
There have been reports showing a protective role of aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) against gastrointestinal cancers. E-cadherin (CDH1) is an adhesion molecule involved in tumour invasion/metastasis. Silencing of CDH1 by promoter CpG island methylation was shown in gastric cancer, precancerous lesion, and Helicobacter pylori-infected chronic gastritis. We investigated the methylation status of CDH1 in noncancerous gastric mucosa in chronic aspirin user, and assessed its effect on methylation-associated carcinogenesis. Gastric mucosa samples from antrum were obtained from 217 cancer-free subjects, including 37 chronic aspirin users and 180 subjects with no history of chronic or occasional intake of aspirin. Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR), i.e., MSP, was performed for CDH1 gene promoter. In all 217 subjects, CDH1 methylation was detected for 69 subjects (31.7%). CDH1 methylation more frequently occurred in H. pylori-infection-positive subjects (P < 0.0001), while chronic aspirin users had a significantly lower risk of CDH1 methylation [nonuser versus user 36.1% versus 10.8%; odds ratio (OR) = 0.21, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.07-0.63, P = 0.005]. Logistic regression analysis showed that chronic aspirin use was the independent factor for lower risk of CDH1 methylation (adjusted OR = 0.21, 95%CI = 0.07-0.66, P = 0.008). Chronic aspirin use was associated with lower risk of CDH1 methylation in H. pylori-positive subjects (nonuser versus user 49.5% versus 19.0%; OR = 0.24, 95%CI = 0.08-0.76, P = 0.01). Similar trend was also found in H. pylori-negative subjects (P = 0.07). No association was found between CDH1 methylation status, and duration and dose of aspirin. Our data suggest that chronic aspirin use is associated with reduced risk of CDH1 methylation in human gastric mucosa. Aspirin may have suppressive role against methylation-related gastric carcinogenesis.
Hepatic fibrosis represents a process of healing and scarring in response to chronic liver injury. Effective therapies are lacking. We have previously demonstrated that alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) gene therapy protects against thioacetamide-induced acute liver failure in mice. Recent reports showed that collagen metabolism is a novel target of alpha-MSH. Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate whether alpha-MSH gene therapy possesses anti-hepatic fibrogenic effect in mice.
Liver fibrosis was induced in mice by administering carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) continuously for 10 weeks. Alpha-MSH expression plasmid was delivered via electroporation after liver fibrosis had been established. Histopathology, reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunoblotting, and gelatin zymography were used to investigate its possible mechanisms of action.
Alpha-MSH gene therapy reversed established liver fibrosis in CCl4-treated mice. RT-PCR revealed that alpha-MSH gene therapy attenuated the liver TGF-beta1, collagen alpha1, and cell adhesion molecule mRNA upregulation. Following gene transfer, both the activation of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) was significantly attenuated. Further, alpha-MSH significantly increased matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity with tissue inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinase (TIMP) inactivation.
We have demonstrated that alpha-MSH gene therapy reversed established liver fibrosis in mice. It also prevented the upregulated fibrogenic and proinflammatory gene response after CCl4 administration. Its collagenolytic effect may be attributed to MMP and TIMP modulation. In summary, alpha-MSH gene therapy may be an effective therapeutic modality against liver fibrosis with potential clinical use.
Serial hemodynamic measurements were obtained before, during, and after nitroprusside therapy over a 24 hour period in 19 patients requiring intra-aortic balloon pumping (IABP) for successful weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass. Nitroprusside, administered in doses ranging from 0.5 to 5 micrograms/kg/min, effected significant reductions in mean aortic pressure and systemic vascular resistance within 20 to 30 minutes. Mean aortic pressure decreased from 108 +/- 22 mm Hg to 85 +/- 27 mm Hg (p less than 0.005). Systemic vascular resistance decreased from 2,705 +/- 1,072 to 1,942 +/- 823 dynes sec cm-5 (p less than 0.005). 2n response to nitroprusside-induced decreases in left venticular afterload, cardiac indes increased from 1.83 +/- 0.58 to 2.04 +/- 0.54 L/min/m2 (p less than 0.025). Pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCW), right atrial pressure, right and left ventricular minute work indices, and the rate-pressure products did not change, indicating that nitroprusside administration during IABP further increased cardiac output without increasing ventricular filling pressure, ventricular work, or indices of myocardial oxygen consumption. The data suggest that nitroprusside, in conjunction with volume loading to optimal preload levels (PCW = 15 to 18 mm Hg), augments ventricular performance in postcardiotomy low-output syndrome by lowering impedance to left ventricular ejection through a direct dilator effect on vascular smooth muscle, without a direct effect on cardiac muscle. Thus it is a valuable pharmacologic adjunct during mechanical (IABP) support of the failing circulation.
We describe the clinical course of a patient who developed anuria following prophylactic methicillin administration. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of prolonged anuria following administration of this drug. The patient's nephropathy developed as a result of routine perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis for cardiac surgery and resulted in a two-week period of complete anuria. Following discontinuation of methicillin the patient was supported throughout this period by intermittent hemodialysis and eventually had an excellent recovery of renal function without concurrent use of corticosteroids. Thus methicillin may occasionally cause severe and prolonged anuric renal failure, but maximal supportive measures, including dialysis when necessary, should nonetheless be used, since the renal failure is reversible once the antibiotic is discontinued.
Among other non-antibiotic properties, tetracyclines inhibit matrix metalloproteinases and are currently under study for the treatment of osteoarthritis. Quaternary ammonium conjugates of tetracyclines were synthesized by direct alkylation of the amine function at the 4-position with methyl iodide. When tested in vitro, they inhibited cytokine-induced MMP expression to a lesser extent than parent tetracyclines. This was compensated by an improved inhibition of MMP catalytic activity. Since inhibition of collagen degradation was maintained these derivatives could be potent drug candidates for cartilage-targeted chondroprotective treatment.
A 67 year old man with recurrent hypotensive ventricular tachycardia, amiodarone-induced bradyarrhythmias and severe cardiac dysfunction underwent simultaneous implantation of an automatic cardioverter/defibrillator and bipolar atrioventricular (AV) pacemaker. The pacing electrodes were placed epicardially near the right atrial appendage and on the lateral right ventricular wall. The rate detector of the automatic defibrillator was placed epicardially on the posterobasal left ventricular wall. Effective bipolar AV pacing produced no false counting of the heart rate by the automatic cardioverter/defibrillator, and ventricular tachycardia properly inhibited the pacemaker. Long-term follow-up study confirmed the safety of this treatment. With proper precautions, bipolar AV pacing can be safely combined with an automatic cardioverter/defibrillator.
Morphine maintenance doses of 10 mg kg(-1) day(-1), 20 mg kg(-1) day(-1) and 30 mg kg(-1) day(-1) were administered to three groups of rats via miniosmotic pumps for 7 days to induce physical dependence. They were then allowed to undergo spontaneous withdrawal. Radiotelemetric blood pressure measurements showed that morphine increased systolic and diastolic blood pressure on the first day of morphine treatment and produced a dose dependent decrease in heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure thereafter. After the peak depressive effect, development of tolerance to morphine was observed in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, but not in the heart rate. During spontaneous withdrawal, both systolic and diastolic blood pressure increased beyond pre-morphine levels for all doses and there was a rebound increase in heart rate at the 30 mg kg(-1) day(-1) dose. These results suggest that the improved sensitivity of telemetric measures combined with the use of minipumps for morphine treatment provide an animal model of spontaneous opioid withdrawal.
The DNA repair enzyme, apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease (or redox effector factor-1, APE/Ref-1), is involved in base excision repair of apurinic/apyrimidinic sites after oxidative DNA damage. We investigated the expression of APE/Ref-1 and its relationship to oxidative stress after severe traumatic brain injury produced by controlled cortical impact in normal mice, and in mice over- or underexpressing copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1TG and SOD1KO, respectively). Oxygen free radical-mediated cellular injury was visualized with 8-hydroxyguanine immunoreactivity as a marker for DNA oxidation, and in situ hydroethidine oxidation as a marker for superoxide production. After trauma there was a reduced expression of APE/Ref-1 in the ipsilateral cortex and hippocampus that correlated with the gene dosage levels of cytosolic superoxide dismutase. The decrease in APE/Ref-1 expression preceded DNA fragmentation. There was also a close correlation between APE/Ref-1 protein levels 4 h after trauma and the volume of the lesion 1 week after injury. Our data have demonstrated that reduction of APE/Ref-1 protein levels correlates closely with the level of oxidative stress after traumatic brain injury. We suggest that APE/Ref-1 immunoreactivity is a sensitive marker for oxidative cellular injury.
High homocysteine serum level has been regarded as one of the important factors that influence the development of schizophrenia. Genetic variations of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, which is a main enzyme reducing homocysteine level, are reported in schizophrenic patients. We measured the serum level of homocysteine/folate and methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase C677T/A1298C gene polymorphism in 235 patients with schizophrenia. Plasma homocysteine levels were higher and folate levels were lower in patients than in comparison subjects. Variations of C677T were more frequent in patients than in comparison subjects. Patients with the 677TT genotype showed higher homocysteine levels than patients with the CC and CT genotypes. These findings suggest that folate supplement may be beneficial to some schizophrenic patients with homocysteinemia due to the genetic defect of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase.
Clinical worsening often occurs 1 to 2 days after an intracerebral hemorrhage. Extracellular matrix proteolysis by metalloproteinases, which attack the basal lamina and open the blood-brain barrier, may be one contributing factor. Matrix metalloproteinases and plasminogen activators are increased 16 to 24 hours after a bacterial collagenase-induced intracerebral hemorrhage, suggesting that agents that block metalloproteinases may reduce the brain swelling after hemorrhage. Therefore, we injected 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, or 0.5 units bacterial collagenase intracerebrally in rats to produce an intracerebral hemorrhage. Twenty-four hours later, brain tissue was removed for measurement of brain water and electrolytes. Proteases were assayed by zymography. Treatment with a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor, BB-1101, was begun 6 hours after the collagenase lesion, when the hematomas were formed and the secondary edema was increasing. Bacterial collagenase caused a dose-dependent hematoma at the injection site with secondary brain edema in both posterior regions. The lower bacterial collagenase doses (0.2 and 0.3 units) mainly caused brain edema in the tissue around the injection site, whereas the higher doses (0.4 and 0.5 units) also affected the opposite hemisphere. Administration of BB-1101 significantly reduced the brain water and sodium contents in regions away from the injection site in rats with 0.4 unit lesions (p < 0.05). Zymography showed an increase in 92-kDa type IV collagenase and urokinase-type plasminogen activator at 24 hours. Inhibitors of proteolytic cascade enzymes may be useful in treatment of secondary brain edema in intracerebral hemorrhage.
Several cases have been reported recently in which symptoms suggestive of transient radicular irritation occurred following the use of hyperbaric 5% lignocaine for spinal anaesthesia. We report on three patients in whom we observed similar symptoms attributable to this kind of radicular irritation following uneventful spinal anaesthesia using isobaric 2% lignocaine. All three patients underwent minor gynaecological procedures and developed burning pains in the buttocks within 24 h of surgery. The long-term outcome was not clear for all the patients, but in at least one the pain disappeared.
Advanced cirrhosis is associated with generalized vasodilation of unknown origin, which contributes to mortality. Cirrhotic patients are endotoxemic, and activation of vascular cannabinoid CB1 receptors has been implicated in endotoxin-induced hypotension. Here we show that rats with biliary cirrhosis have low blood pressure, which is elevated by the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A. The low blood pressure of rats with CCl4-induced cirrhosis was similarly reversed by SR141716A, which also reduced the elevated mesenteric blood flow and portal pressure. Monocytes from cirrhotic but not control patients or rats elicited SR141716A-sensitive hypotension in normal recipient rats and showed significantly elevated levels of anandamide. Compared with non-cirrhotic controls, in cirrhotic human livers there was a three-fold increase in CB1 receptors on isolated vascular endothelial cells. These results implicate anandamide and vascular CB1 receptors in the vasodilated state in advanced cirrhosis and indicate a novel approach for its management.
This study examined the putative inhibitory effect of the atypical antipsychotic, olanzapine, on dizocilpine (MK-801)-induced stereotypy and hyperlocomotion. Dizocilpine (0.1, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) produced a dose-dependent increase in both stereotypy and hyperlocomotion. Pretreatment with olanzapine (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) inhibited the dizocilpine (0.5 mg/kg)-induced hyperlocomotion but not the stereotypy. At the higher doses (1, 2 and 4 mg/kg), olanzapine blocked both the stereotypy and hyperlocomotion induced by dizocilpine. Similarly, olanzapine, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg, did not inhibit apomorphine (3 mg/kg)-induced stereotypy, whereas the higher dose (1 mg/kg) blocked it. We also studied the effect of olanzapine on spontaneous locomotor activity and catalepsy. Olanzapine (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) did not induce a decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity but did so at the higher doses (1, 2 and 4 mg/kg). The lower doses (0.25, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) did not induce catalepsy but higher doses (2 and 4 mg/kg) induced a significant catalepsy which lasted for more than 4 h. The results thus showed that, at lower doses, olanzapine selectively inhibited behaviours mediated by the mesolimbic/mesocortical system while at higher doses it inhibited behaviours mediated by both mesolimbic/mesocortical and nigrostriatal systems. Therefore, the minimal extrapyramidal side-effects produced by olanzapine at effective doses might be due to its preferential action at the mesolimbic/mesocortical area.
We investigated postoperative residual curarization after administration of either vecuronium or rocuronium with reversal by pyridostigmine in 602 consecutive patients without perioperative neuromuscular monitoring. On arrival in the recovery room, neuromuscular function was assessed both by acceleromyography in a train-of-four (TOF) pattern and also clinically by the ability to sustain a head-lift for >5 s and the tongue-depressor test. Postoperative residual curarization was defined as a TOF ratio <0.7. One fifth of 602 patients (vecuronium, 24.7%; rocuronium, 14.7%) had a TOF <0.7 in the recovery room. There were no significant differences in the TOF ratios between 10 mg and 20 mg of pyridostigmine. The patients with residual block had several associated factors: the absence of perioperative neuromuscular monitoring, the use of pyridostigmine, which is less potent than neostigmine, a larger dose of vecuronium, shorter time from the last neuromuscular blocker to TOF monitoring, or peripheral cooling. We conclude that significant residual neuromuscular block after vecuronium or rocuronium was not eliminated even with reversal by a large dose of pyridostigmine.
Without monitoring, the significant residual neuromuscular block after vecuronium or rocuronium is not eliminated even by reversal with a large dose of pyridostigmine and can still be a problem in the recovery room.
Although recent Food and Drug Administration warnings have noted proarrhythmic effects of droperidol, other antiemetic drugs may have similar effects. We report a case of cardiac arrest after uncomplicated regional anesthesia in a patient with scleroderma who received labetalol and metoclopramide after surgery. Metoclopramide should be used with caution when risk factors for dysrhythmia are present.
This study has examined whether upregulation of endothelin receptor A, leptin and phosphorylated protein kinase Cvarepsilon contributes to stress-induced testicular damaged and its possible reversal by endothelial (ET) antagonism. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into control and isoproterenol (ISO 1mg/kg, subcutaneous (s.c.), 10 days) groups, and intervened with the ET receptor antagonist CPU0213 (20mg/kg, s.c.), on days 6-10. In ISO group, testicular succinate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase, acid phosphotase, and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, and serum testosterone decreased, whereas FSH increased, relative to control. The seminiferous tubules were damaged in association with testicular upregulation of protein abundance of leptin and pPKCvarepsilon, and mRNA and protein expression of leptin receptor (OBRb) and ET(A). CPU0213 was effective in ameliorating these abnormalities. Over-expression of ET(A) and leptin accounting for the testis dysfunction is likely to be mediated by pPKCvarepsilon in the ISO treated rats. The upregulated ET pathway appears to be critical in pathologies of the testis.
Female Fischer rats injected with cocaine in a "binge" pattern (15 mg/kg, IP, three times a day, at 1-h intervals) for 1 day had significantly higher levels of progesterone than saline-treated controls (p < 0.001). When analyzed by the stage of the estrous cycle, animals in proestrus showed significantly higher cocaine-induced progesterone plasma levels than those in other stages of the cycle (p < 0.01). Progesterone plasma levels were also increased after a single dose of cocaine (15 mg/kg). However, 3 h postinjection progesterone plasma levels had returned to normal. Thus, cocaine modulation of progesterone plasma levels appears to be an acute effect. In ovariectomized rats pretreated with estrogen, progesterone, or estrogen + progesterone, no significant differences were observed in progesterone plasma levels after acute "binge" pattern cocaine administration. Thus, acute cocaine induced increases in progesterone plasma levels in intact female rats are probably due to an increase in secretion rates of progesterone rather than an acceleration of its biotransformation. Due to the profound effects of progesterone in the modulation of CNS plasticity, the modulation of progesterone plasma level by cocaine may have implications for reproductive processes and neuronal functions of women. Moreover, cocaine may affect the progesterone levels in women utilizing progesterone-based contraception or steroid replacement treatment after menopause.
The plasticizer di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) affects reproductive development, glycogen and lipid metabolism. Whereas liver is a main DEHP target in adult rodents, the potential impact on metabolic programming is unknown. Effects of in utero DEHP exposure on liver development were investigated upon treatment of pregnant CD-1 mice on gestational days (GD)11-19. F1 mice were examined at post-natal days 21 (weaning) and 35 (start of puberty): parameters included liver histopathological, immunocytochemical and alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) gene expression analyses. In utero DEHP exposure altered post-natal liver development in weanling mice causing significant, dose-related (i) increased hepatosteatosis, (ii) decreased glycogen storage, (iii) increased beta-catenin intracytoplasmic localization (females only). At puberty, significantly decreased glycogen storage was still present in males. A treatment-induced phenotype was identified with lack of glycogen accumulation and intracytoplasmic localization of beta-catenin which was associated with increased AFP gene expression. Our findings suggested that DEHP alters post-natal liver development delaying the programming of glycogen metabolism.
To investigate (1) the efficacy and safety of zidovudine treatment in homo-/bisexual men with AIDS-related complex (ARC) and (2) factors associated with development of intolerance to zidovudine.
A multicentre open-label study.
Australian public hospital system.
A total of 235 homo-/bisexual men with ARC were enrolled.
All subjects received 1200 mg zidovudine daily.
Survival, incidence and time to development of AIDS and to development of haematological and clinical side-effects.
Median time to development of AIDS was 61 weeks, significantly longer (P < 0.03) than the median of 22 weeks in a small control group of 12 untreated ARC subjects. Median survival from development of AIDS was 48 weeks, marginally longer than the 44 weeks in untreated historical AIDS controls. Anaemia requiring transfusion occurred in 113 subjects (48%). Significant differences in time to development of AIDS were found in favour of subjects not requiring transfusions (P < 0.001) with no weight loss (P = 0.004), and who received the full zidovudine dose (1200 mg) during the first 52 weeks of treatment (P = 0.021). Significantly longer median survival times from commencement of zidovudine were found in subjects with a baseline Karnofsky score > or = 90, baseline Hb > or = 13 g/dl, baseline CD4+ cell count > or = 50 x 10(6)/l, no weight loss during first year of treatment, and no or not more than one blood transfusion during treatment. The ability to tolerate full-dose zidovudine was best predicted by a baseline Hb > or = 13 g/dl. Zidovudine-intolerant subjects (defined as the development of either anaemia requiring transfusions, WCC 1000 x 10(6)/l or zidovudine-related myopathy) had a significantly shorter time to development of AIDS than zidovudine-tolerant subjects (P = 0.002).
Zidovudine may benefit people with ARC by significantly postponing the development of AIDS. This benefit appears to be greater in those who do not develop clinical intolerance whilst receiving zidovudine. However, administration of zidovudine to subjects with ARC does not appear to contribute to improved survival after the development of AIDS. People with ARC who develop AIDS while receiving zidovudine, or who develop intolerance to zidovudine, should be considered immediately eligible for other antiretroviral therapies.
We present a case of acute myocardial infarction in a 22 year old cocaine user. The absence of coronary artery stenotic lesions, as was seen in the coronary arteriography, and the absence of personal past cardiovascular or family history, suggest a cocaine-induced coronary spasm as responsible for the acute myocardial event.
