Multiple visceral aneurysms are uncommon and usually result from connective tissue diseases, systemic arteritis, or mycotic lesions. An association between multiple visceral aneurysms and excessive oral amphetamine use has not been reported.
The clinical features of 2 patients at the University of Michigan Medical Center for treatment of multiple visceral aneurysms and amphetamine use were reviewed.
The patients had histories of excessive oral amphetamine use that ranged from 50 mg daily for 22 years to 200 mg daily for 2 years. No evidence was seen of systemic arteritis, connective tissue disorder, or an infectious process that may have caused the aneurysms. The arteriograms documented multiple splanchnic and renal artery aneurysms that involved both the large and the small arteries. The aneurysms of 1 patient were managed conservatively, and the patient has not had any clinical sequelae of the aneurysms during 14 years of follow-up. The second patient had hematobilia from a ruptured hepatic artery aneurysm that was treated with transcatheter embolic occlusion of the bleeding vessel. The patient had no recurrent gastrointestinal problems and continued to use amphetamines until his death from a cerebrovascular accident 6 years later.
A possible association between excessive oral amphetamine use and multiple visceral aneurysms is reported for 2 patients in whom other risk factors were absent. The potential for chronic oral amphetamine use to cause multiple visceral aneurysms is an ill-defined but not unexpected complication of this substance that is known to contribute to arterial hypertension and to produce a form of necrotizing arteritis.
This is a case report on a 45-year old African-American female with newly diagnosed hypertension, who was started on a combination pill of amlodipine/benazapril 10/5 mg. The very next day, she presented at the emergency room (ER) with abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. Physical exam, complete metabolic panel, and hemogram were in the normal range. She was discharged from the ER after a few hours of treatment with fluid and analgesics. However, she returned to the ER the next day with the same complaints. This time the physical exam was significant for a distended abdomen with dullness to percussion. CT scan of the abdomen revealed markedly thickened antrum of the stomach, duodenum and jejunum, along with fluid in the abdominal and pelvic cavity. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)-induced angioedema was suspected, and anti-hypertensive medications were discontinued. Her symptoms improved within the next 24 hours, and repeat CT after 72 hours revealed marked improvement in stomach and small bowel thickening and resolution of ascites. The recognition of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) and angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) intestinal angioedema constitutes a challenge to primary care physicians, internists, emergency room personal and surgeons.
To reveal immunogenetic factors involved in the pathogenesis of metal allergy, 30 unrelated Japanese patients with histories of metal allergy were typed for HLA. They were confirmed by an unequivocal positive patch-test reaction to mercury, nickel or palladium. The HLA-DR and -DQ DNA were typed by using the polymerase chain reaction-sequence specific oligonucleotide probe (PCR-SSO) method. The frequency of each allele in the patient groups was compared to that in normal Japanese subjects. In mercury sensitive patients, there was no significant HLA association. In nickel sensitive patients, there was a significant increase of DRB4 (p < 0.05) but no significant association of DRB1 nor DQ locus, although there was an increase of DRB1*0405 (R.R = 2.36). In palladium sensitive patients, there were significant increases of DRB4 (R.R. = 15.48, p < 0.05), DR4(R.R. = 13.27, p < 0.005), DRB1*0405(R.R. = 4.43, p < 0.05), and DQB1*0401 (R.R. = 4.59, p < 0.05), and significant decreases of DRB5 (R.R. = 0.09, p < 0.05), and DQA1*0103 (R.R. = 0, p < 0.05).
The sensitivity of outbred SENCAR mice and inbred SENCAR (SSIN) mice to multistage carcinogenesis was studied. Tumors were induced using either 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene or N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine as initiators and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate or benzoyl peroxide as promoting agents. Although the number of papillomas per mouse was higher in SSIN than in outbred SENCAR mice, the number of carcinomas observed in the SSIN strain was significantly lower regardless of the initiator or promoter used. It was also observed that the expression of markers of premalignant progression (i.e., dysplasia, expression of keratin K13, and loss of keratin K1 expression) was markedly suppressed in SSIN papillomas. After 50 wk of promotion with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate, the pattern of expression of K13 and K1 in SSIN mice was comparable to the pattern observed in outbred SENCAR mice after 10 to 20 wk of promotion with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate. It was also observed that 67% of the tumors induced in SSIN mice by initiation with 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene exhibited a mutation in codon 61 of the Ha-ras-1 gene. This latter finding suggests that the differences observed in tumor progression between the inbred strain and the outbred stock are not related to a genetic alteration in the Ha-ras-1 gene but rather to an independent event that we have postulated to involve a putative suppressor gene. The data reported here suggest that the putative gene(s) that confers susceptibility to tumor promotion was segregated from the gene(s) involved in tumor progression during selection and inbreeding of the SENCAR mouse stock.
Genetic mutations in the leptin pathway can be a cause of human obesity. It is still unknown whether leptin can be effective in the treatment of fully established morbid obesity and its endocrine and metabolic consequences in adults. To test the hypothesis that leptin has a key role in metabolic and endocrine regulation in adults, we examined the effects of human leptin replacement in the only three adults identified to date who have genetically based leptin deficiency. We treated these three morbidly obese homozygous leptin-deficient adult patients with recombinant human leptin at low, physiological replacement doses in the range of 0.01-0.04 mg/kg for 18 months. Patients were hypogonadal, and one of them also had type 2 diabetes mellitus. We chose the doses of recombinant methionyl human leptin that would achieve normal leptin concentrations and administered them daily in the evening to model the normal circadian variation in endogenous leptin. The mean body mass index dropped from 51.2 +/- 2.5 (mean +/- SEM) at baseline to 26.9 +/- 2.1 kg/m2 after 18 months of treatment, mainly because of loss of fat mass. We document here that leptin replacement therapy in leptin-deficient adults with established morbid obesity results in profound weight loss, increased physical activity, changes in endocrine function and metabolism, including resolution of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypogonadism, and beneficial effects on ingestive and noningestive behavior. These results highlight the role of the leptin pathway in adults with key effects on the regulation of body weight, gonadal function, and behavior.
Latanoprost has increasingly become the first choice in topical anti-glaucoma therapy. Local adverse events like hypertrichosis and increased iris pigmentation are common whereas systemic adverse events have been rare and mild in intensity. The authors would like to report a case of transient urge incontinence after initiation of latanoprost therapy confirmed by challenge-rechallenge tests and speculate on the causal relationship.
Male C3H/He mice were given 0 (control) or 85 mg/kg/day phenobarbitone (PB). Groups of five control and five treated animals were killed at 5, 10, 25, 40 and 55 weeks; additional animals were allowed to live out their natural life span or killed at the termination of the experiment at 100 weeks. Small nodules of basophilic cells were seen in control animals at 55 weeks. These increased both in size and number so that at term nodules were found in 17/35 animals examined. Animals given PB showed typical centrilobular hypertrophy. Basophilic nodules were also seen in the treated animals and these were similar in form and in number to those seen in control animals. The total number of liver nodules seen in animals given PB was, however, greater than the number seen in control animals. The increased nodule burden was a result of the development of a second nodule type that was first seen in animals killed at 40 weeks. These nodules were formed of large eosinophilic cells that had a similar appearance to the hypertrophied cells of the centrilobular region. In contrast the incidence of carcinoma in PB-treated animals was not increased over that of the control group.
Although amphetamine-derived stimulants are widely associated with neurotoxicity, it is poorly understood whether extended exposure to such drugs produces lasting effects on neurocognitive function. This study investigates whether chronically self-administered d-amphetamine, methamphetamine (MA), or methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) leads to residual deficits in a rodent test of sustained visual attention and impulsivity. Rats were trained on a five-choice serial reaction time task and subsequently trained to self-administer d-amphetamine, MA, or MDMA (all 50 microg/infusion), intravenously, for 3 weeks. Effects on performance were evaluated 24 h after drug discontinuation and for several weeks thereafter, including various challenge sessions to increase the attentional demands of the task. The results indicate divergent patterns of self-administration among the three drugs tested with increasing rates of intake evident in rats self-administering amphetamine, but not MA, and widely fluctuating rates in the MDMA group. Withdrawal of MA resulted in severe behavioral disturbances, with significant effects on accuracy, omissions, response latency, and impulsivity that lasted up to 2 weeks in some cases. Amphetamine and MDMA withdrawal were associated with similar, but shorter-lasting effects on performance. However, when challenged with a high event rate session 6 weeks after drug discontinuation, rats previously exposed to MDMA continued to show deficits in the accuracy and speed of responding. These findings show that amphetamine-derived stimulants have both short- and long-term consequences for psychomotor functioning. The demonstration of residual deficits in rats chronically exposed to MDMA raises some concern about the potential harm caused by this drug in human ecstasy users.
The effect on urothelial proliferation of a urinary bladder carcinogen, N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT), fed to male F344 rats at doses of 0.2, 0.1, 0.05, 0.01, 0.005 and 0.001% of diet for 4 or 10 weeks was evaluated by autoradiography, using [3H-methyl]thymidine, and by histopathology. At week 4, hyperplasia was induced in 10/11 and 6/11 rats given 0.2% and 0.1% FANFT, respectively. The dose-related increase of labeling index in the bladder epithelium was significant for the groups given 0.01% or higher doses of FANFT. At week 10, histopathologic lesions were observed in groups given 0.05% or higher doses of FANFT. This was accompanied by a significant increase in labeling index for these groups. The results are consistent with the long-term carcinogenicity studies conducted with the same dose levels of FANFT. The interrelationships between numbers of cells (hyperplasia), cell proliferation (labeling index) and cancer induction are discussed utilizing a computerized model of bladder carcinogenesis.
Although it is generally accepted that atypical antipsychotics differ in their risk for diabetic side effects, the underlying pharmacological mechanisms are unknown. Studies on the mechanisms of antipsychotic-induced hyperglycemia or insulin resistance are often confounded by the concomitant weight gain and dyslipidemia, known diabetic risk factors. To investigate whether antipsychotics can acutely cause metabolic effects before any change in body composition, we studied the effects of four atypical antipsychotics on whole-body insulin resistance. Using the hyperinsulinemic, euglycemic clamp technique in conscious rats, insulin and somatostatin were infused at a constant rate to provide constant hyperinsulinemia and to suppress pancreatic insulin secretion. Glucose was infused at a variable rate, adjusted to maintain euglycemia. At steady state, animals were administered vehicle (V) or antipsychotic and the glucose infusion rate was monitored as an index of insulin sensitivity. Clamp experiments using radiotracers and studies on glucose uptake into isolated skeletal muscle were conducted to differentiate between effects on hepatic glucose production (HGP) and on peripheral glucose uptake. Olanzapine (OLAN) and clozapine (CLOZ) acutely impaired whole-body insulin sensitivity in a dose-dependent manner (P<0.001 vs V), whereas ziprasidone and risperidone had no effect. CLOZ also induced profound insulin resistance after dosing 10 mg/kg/day for 5 days (P<0.05 vs V). Tracer studies indicated that acute changes mainly reflect increased HGP, consistent with the lack of effect on glucose uptake. OLAN and CLOZ can thus rapidly induce marked insulin resistance, which could contribute to the hyperglycemia and ketoacidosis reported for patients receiving those therapies.
A decline in podocyte number correlates with progression to glomerulosclerosis. A mechanism underlying reduced podocyte number is the podocyte's relative inability to proliferate in response to injury. Injury by the podocyte toxin puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) is mediated via reactive oxygen species (ROS). The precise role of ROS in the pathogenesis of PA-induced glomerulosclerosis remains to be determined. We sought to examine whether PA-induced ROS caused podocyte DNA damage, possibly accounting for the podocyte's inability to proliferate in response to PA. In vitro, podocytes were exposed to PA, with or without the radical scavenger 1,3-dimethyl-2-thiourea (DMTU). In vivo, male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into experimental groups (n = 6/group/time point): PA, PA with DMTU, and control, killed at days 1.5, 3, or 7. DNA damage was measured by DNA precipitation, apurinic/apyrimidinic site, Comet, and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine assays. Cell cycle checkpoint protein upregulation (by immunostaining and Western blotting), histopathology, and biochemical parameters were examined. DNA damage was increased in cultured podocytes that received PA, but not PA with DMTU. PA exposure activated specific cell cycle checkpoint proteins, with attenuation by DMTU. DNA repair enzymes were activated, providing evidence for attempted DNA repair. The PA-treated animals developed worse proteinuria and histopathologic disease and exhibited more DNA damage than the DMTU pretreated group. No significant apoptosis was detected by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling staining. A mechanism underlying the lack of podocyte proliferation following PA-induced injury in vitro and in vivo may be ROS-mediated DNA damage, with upregulation of specific cell cycle checkpoints leading to cell cycle arrest.
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 1A1 is the sole enzyme that can metabolize bilirubin. Human infants physiologically develop hyperbilirubinemia as the result of inadequate expression of UGT1A1 in the liver. Although phototherapy using blue light is effective in preventing jaundice, sunlight has also been suggested, but without conclusive evidence, to reduce serum bilirubin levels. We investigated the mRNA expression pattern of human UGT1A1 in human skin, human skin keratinocyte (HaCaT) cells, and skin of humanized UGT1 mice. The effects of UVB irradiation on the expression of UGT1A1 in the HaCaT cells were also examined. Multiple UGT1A isoforms, including UGT1A1, were expressed in human skin and HaCaT cells. When HaCaT cells were treated with UVB-exposed tryptophan, UGT1A1 mRNA and activity were significantly induced. Treatment of the HaCaT cells with 6-formylindolo[3,2-b]carbazole, which is one of the tryptophan derivatives formed by UVB, resulted in an induction of UGT1A1 mRNA and activity. In neonates, the expression of UGT1A1 was greater in the skin; in adults, UGT1A1 was expressed mainly in the liver. Treatment of humanized UGT1 mice with UVB resulted in a reduction of serum bilirubin levels, along with increased UGT1A1 expression and activity in the skin. Our data revealed a protective role of UGT1A1 expressed in the skin against neonatal hyperbilirubinemia. Sunlight, a natural and free source of light, makes it possible to treat neonatal jaundice while allowing mothers to breast-feed neonates.
The effects of exercise on the severity of isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction were studied in female albino rats of 20,40,60 and 80 weeks of age. The rats were trained to swim for a specific duration and for a particular period. The occurrence of infarcts were confirmed by histological methods. Elevations in the serum GOT and GPT were maximum in the sedentary-isoproterenols and minimum in the exercise-controls. These changes in the serum transaminases were associated with corresponding depletions in the cardiac GOT and GPT. However, age was seen to interfere with the responses exhibited by the young and old rats. Studies dealing with myocardial infarction are more informative when dealt with age.
In this report we describe the development of idiopathic nephrotic syndrome with an IgM nephropathy in a 53-year-old patient undergoing treatment for active rheumatoid arthritis with D-penicillamine. The use of D-penicillamine in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis is known to be complicated by the development of various glomerulonephritides. However, in this report we describe for the first time the development of IgM glomerular alterations consistent with a nephropathy in a patient undergoing D-penicillamine therapy.
The purpose of this study was to clarify the relation between differential leukocyte counts and inhibition of the development of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with coronary artery disease. A 6-month prospective study was conducted in 84 patients treated with pravastatin. Plaque volume, as assessed by volumetric analysis using intravascular ultrasound, decreased significantly by 12.6% (p <0.0001 vs baseline) after treatment; furthermore, a corresponding decrease of total leukocyte count (8.9%, p <0.01 vs baseline) was seen. Change in plaque volume was correlated with changes in monocyte (r = 0.35, p = 0.002) and lymphocyte (r = 0.25, p = 0.03) counts but not with changes in neutrophil, eosinophil, or basophil counts. In a multivariate regression analysis with changes in serum lipids, traditional risk factors, and medications as covariates, the decrease in monocyte count was identified as an independent predictor of coronary plaque regression (beta coefficient 0.313, 95% confidence interval 0.089 to 0.353, p = 0.0014). No correlation was found between change in monocyte count and changes in any other lipid levels. This study demonstrated that monocyte count was the only leukocyte type significantly and independently associated with coronary atherosclerotic regression, even after adjustment for changes in any lipid levels. In conclusion, the decrease in monocyte count as a nonlipid-lowering effect of statins may be used as a novel marker of coronary atherosclerotic regression.
To determine the natural history of visual field defects in a group of patients known to have Vigabatrin-associated changes who elected to continue the medication because of good seizure control.
All patients taking Vigabatrin alone or in combination with other antiepileptic drugs for at least 5 years (range 5-12 years) were entered into a visual surveillance programme. Patients were followed up at 6-monthly intervals for not less than 18 months (range 18-43 months). In all, 16 patients with unequivocal defects continued the medication. Following already published methodology (Eye 2002; 16;567-571) monocular mean radial degrees (MRDs) to the I/4e isopter on Goldmann perimetry was calculated for the right eye at the time of discovery of a visual field defect and again after not less than 18 months follow-up.
Mean right eye MRD at presentation was 36.98 degrees (range 22.25-51.0), compared to 38.40 degrees (range 22.5-49.75) after follow-up; P=0.338 unpaired t-test. Only one patient demonstrated a deterioration in visual field during the study period and discontinued treatment.
Established visual field defects presumed to be due to Vigabatrin therapy did not usually progress in spite of continuing use of the medication. These data give support to the hypothesis that the pathogenesis of Vigabatrin-associated visual field defects may be an idiosyncratic adverse drug reaction rather than dose-dependent toxicity.
Two strains of rats were obtained by selective breeding: the IR strain, resistant to isoprenaline-induced myocardial lesions and the IS strain, sensitive to this damage. The IR rats grew more slowly, the weight of their adipose tissue was higher and the weight of m. soleus was less than that of the IS rats. The IR rats had a higher content of triglycerides in the serum and a lower isoprenaline-stimulated lipolytic activity of adipose tissue in vitro. The basal NEFA level in the serum and its rise after the administration of isoprenaline in vivo did not differ between the strains. The IR rats had a higher content of glycogen in the heart and in the muscle. After the administration of isoprenaline the glycogen content decreased more slowly in IR rats. The findings indicate a considerable importance of the glycogen stores in the heart for the resistance of myocardium to damage.
The exposure in humans to ethanol or barbiturates during prenatal or neonatal development is common. There are indications that the magnitude of the resulting symptoms may be genetically determined. In the present article, an animal model was established for the study of the genetic determination of the neurosensitivity to ethanol and barbiturates administered during prenatal and/or neonatal development. Inbred C57BL/10 (C57) and DBA/1 (DBA) mice were employed in the ethanol studies and these strains and the outbred HS/Ibg (HS) were used in the barbiturate studies. Early ethanol administration induced a long lasting increase in the susceptibility to audiogenic seizures in both strains but to a greater degree in C57. Neuropharmacological studies implicated the serotonergic but not the noradrenergic system as mediating the early ethanol induced changes in audiogenic seizures. Open field activity was decreased but only in C57. Male agonistic behavior and predatory behavior were greatly reduced by early ethanol administration but mainly in DBA. Long term induction of the activity of the hepatic enzymes, alcohol dehydrogenase and microsomal ethanol oxidizing system, occurred in both strains after early exposure to ethanol. After early exposure to phenobarbital HS mice had long lasting increases in the susceptibility to audiogenic seizures and in the hippocampus related behaviors, spontaneous alternations and eight arm maze performance. The hepatic microsomal drug oxidizing system was induced in adult HS mice with early phenobarbital (PhB) exposure. Early PhB exposure also caused long term decreased sensitivity to ethanol narcosis and an accelerated acquisition to barbiturate tolerance, possibly mediated via a change in the sensitivity of the post synaptic dopamine receptors. Changes in the PhB treated offspring also included a reduction in the levels thyroid hormone. Early exposure to PhB resulted in a long term deficit in the area of brain layers, number of neurons, dendritic spines and the ultrastructure. Strain comparison suggested that DBA was less neurosensitive to early PhB administration than both HS and C57. It was concluded that genotype-environment interaction exists in the effect of drugs on the developing CNS.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease characterized by a progressive impairment of cognitive functions including spatial learning and memory. Excess copper exposure accelerates the development of AD; however, the potential mechanisms by which copper exacerbates the symptoms of AD remain unknown. In this study, we explored the effects of chronic copper exposure on cognitive function by treating 6 month-old triple AD transgenic (3xTg-AD) mice with 250 ppm copper sulfate in drinking water for 6 months, and identified several potential key molecules involved in the effects of chronic copper exposure on memory by proteomic analysis. The behavioral test showed that chronic copper exposure aggravated memory impairment of 3xTg-AD mice. Two-dimensional fluorescence difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) coupled with mass spectrometry revealed a total of 44 differentially expressed proteins (18 upregulated and 26 down-regulated) in hippocampus between the wild-type (WT) mice and non-exposed 3xTg-AD mice. A total of 40 differentially expressed proteins were revealed (20 upregulated and 20 down-regulated) in hippocampus between copper exposed and non-exposed 3xTg-AD mice. Among these differentially expressed proteins, complexin-1 and complexin-2, two memory associated proteins, were significantly decreased in hippocampus of 3xTg-AD mice compared with the WT mice. Furthermore, the expression of these two proteins was further down-regulated in 3xTg-AD mice when exposed to copper. The abnormal expression of complexin-1 and complexin-2 identified by proteomic analysis was verified by western blot analysis. Taken together, our data showed that chronic copper exposure accelerated memory impairment and altered the expression of proteins in hippocampus in 3xTg-AD mice. The functional analysis on the differentially expressed proteins suggested that complexin-1 and complexin-2 may be the key molecules involved in chronic copper exposure-aggravated memory impairment in AD.
Arsenic has played a key medicinal role against a variety of ailments for several millennia, but during the past century its prominence has been displaced by modern therapeutics. Recently, attention has been drawn to arsenic by its dramatic clinical efficacy against acute promyelocytic leukemia. Although toxic reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced in cancer cells exposed to arsenic could mediate cancer cell death, how arsenic induces ROS remains undefined. Through the use of gene expression profiling, interference RNA, and genetically engineered cells, we report here that NADPH oxidase, an enzyme complex required for the normal antibacterial function of white blood cells, is the main target of arsenic-induced ROS production. Because NADPH oxidase enzyme activity can also be stimulated by phorbol myristate acetate, a synergism between arsenic and the clinically used phorbol myristate acetate analog, bryostatin 1, through enhanced ROS production can be expected. We show that this synergism exists, and that the use of very low doses of both arsenic and bryostatin 1 can effectively kill leukemic cells. Our findings pinpoint the arsenic target of ROS production and provide a conceptual basis for an anticancer regimen.
A 19-year-old woman with severe aplastic anemia who had previously failed antithymocyte globulin/cyclosporine A received high-dose cyclophosphamide without bone marrow rescue. On day +14, she complained of right upper quadrant abdominal pain and fever. A CT scan of the abdomen showed multiple liver abscesses with rupture and Klebsiella pneumoniae was isolated from blood. In spite of aggressive antibiotic therapy, she rapidly deteriorated and died of overwhelming sepsis. To our knowledge, our patient is the first case of fatal ruptured liver abscess after high-dose cyclophosphamide in a patient with severe aplastic anemia.
