During the search for antiarrhythmic agents among amide derivatives of phenytoin, compound 7 {3-ethyl-1-[2-hydroxy-3-(4-phenyl-piperazin-1-yl)-propyl]-2,4-dioxo-5,5-diphenyl-imidazolidine} was selected as it showed antiarrhythmic as well as antihypertensive activity. Treating this compound as a lead, new derivatives 8-19 were synthesised, differing in piperazine phenyl ring substitution (2-, 3-, 4-Cl, 2-CH3O) as well as in hydantoin N3 alkyl chain (ethyl, ethyl acetate or ethyl 2-propionate). The obtained compounds in form of hydrochlorides 7a-19a were examined for prophylactic antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive properties. Compounds containing ethyl 2-propionate moiety (17a, 18a) exhibited the highest antihypertensive properties. Water-soluble compounds, containing 2-methoxyphenylpiperazine group (11a, 19a), showed strong antiarrhythmic properties in adrenaline-induced arrhythmia; compound 9a {1-[3-(4-(3-chloro-phenyl)-piperazin-1-yl)- 2-hydroxy-propyl]- 3-ethyl-2,4-dioxo-5,5-diphenyl-imidazolidine hydrochloride} exhibited the highest antiarrhythmic activity in barium chloride arrhythmia model.
Thalidomide plus dexamethasone (Thal/Dex) has emerged as an effective alternative to vincristine, doxorubicin and dexamethasone as a pre-transplant induction therapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. However, many patients treated initially with Thal/Dex do not proceed to autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and the time to progression and other outcome measures with Thal/Dex as primary therapy for multiple myeloma are not known. We present the first data on the outcome of patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma treated with Thal/Dex who did not undergo upfront ASCT.
We identified 21 patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma treated with Thal/Dex on a phase II clinical trial who did not undergo ASCT due to age, comorbidity or the patient's refusal. Patients received thalidomide at a dose of 200 mg/day orally and dexamethasone 40 mg daily on days 1-4, 9-12, 17-20 (odd months) and days 1-4 (even months). Cycles were repeated every 28 days.
The median age was 66 years (range 36-78). The median duration of follow-up was 21 months (range 1-52). One (5%) patient achieved a complete response, and 9 (43%) had a partial response, so the overall response rate was 48%. Of the remaining patients, 7 (33.3%) had stable disease, one patient did not respond, and three died while on therapy prior to response assessment. The median overall survival and time to progression were 21 months and 18 months, respectively.
The median time to disease progression in patients with multiple myeloma who receive initial therapy with Thal/Dex and who do not undergo ASCT is 18 months.
Active surveillance of population-based health networks may improve the timeliness of detection of adverse drug events (ADEs). Active monitoring requires sequential analysis methods. Our objectives were to (1) evaluate the utility of automated healthcare claims data for near real-time drug adverse event surveillance and (2) identify key methodological issues related to the use of healthcare claims data for real-time drug safety surveillance.
We assessed the ability to detect ADEs using historical data from nine health plans involved in the HMO Research Network's Center for Education and Research on Therapeutics (CERT). Analyses were performed using a maximized sequential probability ratio test (maxSPRT). Five drug-event pairs representing known associations with an ADE and two pairs representing 'negative controls' were analyzed.
Statistically significant (p < 0.05) signals of excess risk were found in four of the five drug-event pairs representing known associations; no signals were found for the negative controls. Signals were detected between 13 and 39 months after the start of surveillance. There was substantial variation in the number of exposed and expected events at signal detection.
Prospective, periodic evaluation of routinely collected data can provide population-based estimates of medication-related adverse event rates to support routine, timely post-marketing surveillance for selected ADEs.
Crack cocaine has been associated with acute gastric perforation. The appropriate surgical treatment and long-term outcomes remain unclear. A retrospective chart review of all gastroduodenal perforations associated with crack cocaine use was performed. Data abstracted included details of short- and long-term outcomes. Kaplan-Meier methods were used to evaluate surgical outcomes. Over the 14-year period ending December 2005, 16 cases of crack-induced gastric perforations were identified. Most (75%) were treated with an omental patch. The other patients underwent a formal antiulcer operation, including one vagotomy and pyloroplasty (V&P), one vagotomy and antrectomy, one subtotal gastrectomy, and one ulcer excision and V&P. All patients after antiulcer procedures were followed for a median of 63 months (range 27-120) with no recurrences. Follow-up data were available in 75% of the omental patch patients. Recurrence of disease was observed in 56% of these omental patch patients at a median of 20 months (range 11-39). Those without recurrence were followed for a median of 67 months (range 12-96). The recurrence rate was borderline lower in the antiulcer group (P = 0.072). Omental patch closure results in a recurrence rate over 50% compared with no recurrence for formal antiulcer procedures.
Proglumide (0.02 mg/kg), a cholecystokinin antagonist, was administered to rats either together with or without morphine (0, 5, 15, or 45 mg/kg). Whereas proglumide in the absence of morphine showed a trend towards enhanced behavioral activation, it potentiated the hypokinesia induced by morphine. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that endogenous cholecystokinin tonically antagonizes opiate modulation of motility, irrespective of whether such modulation is produced by opiates and endogenous or exogenous origin.
We recently reported that hypoxia-mimetic agents cobalt chloride (CoCl2 CoCl2 ) and desferrioxamine (DFO) could induce differentiation of acute myeloid leukemic (AML) cells. Here, we investigate whether these two agents influence the in vitro differentiation-inducing effect of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) on AML cells, an effective drug for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) that is a unique subtype of AML with a specific fusion protein, PML-RARalpha.
The APL cell line NB4 and non-APL promonocytic leukemic cell line U937 were treated with As2O3 (0.5 microM) combined with CoCl2 (50 microM) or DFO (10 microM). The U937/PR9 subclone, whose expression of PML-RARalpha protein can be induced by Zn2+, was also investigated. Cellular differentiation was evaluated by morphological criteria and myeloid differentiation-related antigens and marker gene expression. The hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) mRNA and protein were detected, respectively, by semi-quantitative/real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and immunoblots. PML-RARalpha protein was also analyzed.
CoCl2 and DFO potentiated the growth-inhibiting and differentiation-inducing effects of low-dose As2O3, the latter enhancing CoCl2 and DFO-induced accumulation of HIF-1alpha protein in NB4 cells but not in U937 cells. These two hypoxia-mimetic agents also accelerated As2O3-induced modulation and degradation of PML-RARalpha protein in NB4 cells. Furthermore, inducible expression of the fusion gene restored the co-operative effects of As2O3 and CoCl2/DFO on U937/PR9 cells in terms of growth arrest, differentiation induction and HIF-1alpha protein accumulation.
Mimicked hypoxia enhanced As2O3-induced differentiation, in which HIF-1alpha and PML/RARalpha proteins played an important role. These data provide new insights into the understanding of the mechanisms of the action of As2O3 in the treatment of patients with APL.
It has been thoroughly established that the fungicide vinclozolin and the persistent DDT metabolite p,p'-DDE, can function as antiandrogens in mammals in a manner similar to the therapeutic antiandrogen flutamide. In mammals, these chemicals bind the androgen receptor and prevent the transcription of the associated genes causing abnormal sexual development and demasculinization. There are few similar studies in fish and so far it has not been demonstrated that these chemicals have any antiandrogenic effects in this group. In the present study, juvenile guppies (Poecilia reticulata) were fed sublethal doses of vinclozolin, p,p'-DDE or flutamide from birth to adulthood. At sexual maturity, we measured a suite of male sexual characteristics that are known to be under androgen control. All three chemicals caused a reduction in the orange display coloration, inhibited gonopodium development, reduced the sperm count and suppressed courtship behaviour, in a manner consistent with antiandrogen action. Only the gonodosomatic index was unaffected by the treatments. In addition, the three chemicals skewed the sex ratio at adulthood and caused delayed maturation. The altered characters are all considered to be important for male mating success and their impairment indicates that antiandrogens may seriously compromise male reproductive fitness.
We describe a 39 years old patient with a history of chronic symptomatic hypokalemia. She denied taking any drugs. She satisfied the clinical criteria for Bartter's syndrome and more precisely for Gitelman's syndrome: hypokalemia in the presence of inappropriately high potassium excretion, metabolic alkalosis, hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronism, hypomagnesemia with inappropriately high magnesium excretion, normocalcemia, hypocalciuria and normal blood pressure. A HPLC analysis detected the presence of furosemide in urine and chlorthalidone in urine and plasma samples. After the self administration of diuretics was stopped, the above alterations came back to normality. Prior to the verification of a self administration of diuretics, the patient showed clinical and biochemical parameters that oriented to surreptitious diuretic ingestion (Pseudo-Bartter's syndrome) not to Bartter's syndrome or Gitelman's syndrome, particularly the plasma potassium readily restored to normal by the administration of potassium chloride supplements, the increased plasma uric acid with low uric acid fractional clearance, the widely different urine and plasma electrolyte levels and the presence psychiatric disorders. The literature is reviewed and differential diagnosis, among this three syndromes, is made.
Following a traumatic brain injury (TBI), the excessive release of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is a major cause of cerebral edema, which, in turn, can cause permanent neuronal loss and cognitive deficits in laboratory rats. This study examined the changes in expression of the proinflammatory cytokines IL-1beta and TNF-alpha after progesterone (8 mg/kg) or allopregnanolone (4 mg/kg) treatment in brain-injured rats at 3, 8, and 12 h and 6 days post-injury. Adult male rats received either bilateral prefrontal cortical contusion or sham surgery. The hormones were given intraperitoneally at 1 and 6 h, and continued once per day for up to 5 days. The gene expression of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha was measured by mRNA using real-time quantitative reverse transcripted polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The protein concentrations of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to confirm the translation from mRNA to protein. The results indicated that progesterone and allopregnanolone reduce both IL-1beta and TNF-alpha at 3 h post-injury, when the expression of these cytokines peaks. At 8 and 12 h post-injury, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha gene expression in injured rats was still elevated compared to shams. By the sixth day post-injury, cytokine expression was back to the level of intact rats. We conclude that progesterone and allopregnanolone may attenuate the production of proinflammatory cytokines early after TBI, and this may be one mechanism by which progesterone and allopregnanolone reduce cerebral edema and promote functional recovery from TBI.
A 68-year-old man was treated with FAM (5-fluorouracil, doxorubicin [Adriamycin], mitomycin-C) for metastic gastric adenocarcinoma. Twelve months later while in complete clinical remission, pulmonary hypertension and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia were recognized, progressed, and ended in his demise 6 months later. At necropsy, minimal residual cancer and severe pulmonary veno-occlusive disease was found. Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease may occur in association with microangiopathic hemolytic anemia and cancer chemotherapy.
In a double-blind study with each patient as his own control, a buffered and an unbuffered cephalothin solution was administered to 13 patients in opposite arms for a period of 48 h each. Neither the incidence of phlebitis nor the degree of phlebitis was different with the two diluents, and there was no difference in the time of onset of phlebitis.
Individual response to oxidative stress, due to exposure to asbestos fibres plays a significant role in the malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) etiology. The differential impact on MPM risk of polymorphic alleles of glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD/SOD2) genes involved in the defence against oxidative damage has been investigated. Ninety cases of MPM and 395 controls were genotyped using the arrayed-primer extension technique. Logistic regression analysis was applied to assess the predictive role of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) potentially involved in MPM carcinogenesis after adjustment for potential confounders. An increased risk of MPM was found in subjects bearing a GSTM1 null allele (OR = 1.69, 95% CI = 1.04-2.74; p = 0.034), and in those with the Ala/Ala genotypes at codon 16 within MnSOD (OR = 3.07, 95% CI = 1.55-6.05; p = 0.001). A stronger effect of MnSOD was observed among patients without a clear exposure to asbestos fibres. No effect was found for GSTA2, GSTA4, GSTM3, GSTP1 and GSTT1 genes. These findings, if replicated, contribute substantial evidence to the hypothesis that oxidative stress and cellular antireactive oxygen species systems are involved in the pathogenesis and in the natural history of MPM.
The effects of administration of thyrotrophic-releasing hormone (TRH) into the lateral cerebral ventricle on cardiovascular functions were assessed in both urethane-anesthetized and unanesthetized rats. Intracerebroventricular administration of TRH (10-60 micrograms in 5.0 microliters volume) caused a dose-dependent increase in both the heart rate and the mean arterial pressure. For example, both the heart rate and the arterial pressure rose almost immediately and reached their maximal levels about 4 min after an injection of 40 micrograms TRH. The cardiovascular responses recovered about 10 min after the TRH injection. In addition, reflex bradycardia was produced by intravenous infusion of epinephrine (1.0-5.0 micrograms/kg) in rats. Over the dose range of epinephrine used, a dose-dependent bradycardia was obtained. It was found that intracerebroventricular pretreatment of animals with TRH, although causing no change in the epinephrine-induced pressor effect, did reduce the epinephrine-induced reflex bradycardia in rats. However, intravenous pretreatment of animals with the same dose of TRH had no effect on the epinephrine-induced bradycardia. Thus, the data indicate that TRH acts through a central mechanism to inhibit reflex bradycardia mediated through baroreceptor reflexes in response to acute increase in blood pressure.
Thyroid peroxidase (TPO) deficiency is frequently involved in total iodide organification defects (TIOD). According to the recessive mode of inheritance, mutations are found in homozygous or in compound heterozygous states. However, a single heterozygous TPO mutation is reported in a high percentage (approximately 20%) of patients with typical TIOD phenotype. In the present study, the genetic and clinical evaluation of a TIOD family is reported. The propositus is an Italian girl with congenital hypothyroidism and positive perchlorate discharge test. Two TPO frameshift mutations were documented: a C deletion at 477 in exon 5, and a GGCC duplication at 1277 in exon 8. Unaffected family members, heterozygous for one of the two TPO mutations, were also studied in order to evaluate in vivo the functional activity of a single TPO allele. They have been found to have normal thyroid morphology and function with normal perchlorate test. In conclusion, the present study reports the clinical and molecular investigations in an Italian TIOD family. The results show that the TIOD phenotype in the propositus is associated to a compound heterozygous pattern, while a single TPO mutation does not significantly affect in vivo the efficiency of iodide organification. Therefore, extensive analyses of TPO gene and 2p25 locus are needed in the frequent TIOD cases in whom conventional investigations disclosed only one mutant allele.
Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a persistent pollutant and is detectable in human serum (5 ng/ml in the general population of the Unites States). PFOA is used in the production of fluoropolymers which have applications in the manufacture of a variety of industrial and commercial products (e.g., textiles, house wares, electronics). PFOA is developmentally toxic and in mice affects growth, development, and viability of offspring. This study segregates the contributions of gestational and lactational exposures and considers the impact of restricting exposure to specific gestational periods. Pregnant CD-1 mice were dosed on gestation days (GD) 1-17 with 0, 3, or 5 mg PFOA/kg body weight, and pups were fostered at birth to give seven treatment groups: unexposed controls, pups exposed in utero (3U and 5U), lactationally (3L and 5L), or in utero + lactationally (3U + L and 5U + L). In the restricted exposure (RE) study, pregnant mice received 5 mg PFOA/kg from GD7-17, 10-17, 13-17, or 15-17 or 20 mg on GD15-17. In all PFOA-treated groups, dam weight gain, number of implantations, and live litter size were not adversely affected and relative liver weight increased. Treatment with 5 mg/kg on GD1-17 increased the incidence of whole litter loss and pups in surviving litters had reduced birth weights, but effects on pup survival from birth to weaning were only affected in 5U + L litters. In utero exposure (5U), in the absence of lactational exposure, was sufficient to produce postnatal body weight deficits and developmental delay in the pups. In the RE study, birth weight and survival were reduced by 20 mg/kg on GD15-17. Birth weight was also reduced by 5 mg/kg on GD7-17 and 10-17. Although all PFOA-exposed pups had deficits in postnatal weight gain, only those exposed on GD7-17 and 10-17 also showed developmental delay in eye opening and hair growth. In conclusion, the postnatal developmental effects of PFOA are due to gestational exposure. Exposure earlier in gestation produced stronger responses, but further study is needed to determine if this is a function of higher total dose or if there is a developmentally sensitive period.
A condition of oxidative stress is known to occur in ischemic stroke, the current therapeutic intervention of which is largely limited to thrombolysis. To assess the effect of vitamin C - in conjunction to aspirin - in ischemic stroke-related lipid peroxidation, we measured plasma levels of ascorbate, of 8,12-isoprostanes F2alpha-VI (8,12-iPF2alpha-VI) and activities and levels of a broad spectrum of antioxidant enzymes and micronutrients in stroke patients randomized to receive, from stroke onset and up to three months, either vitamin C (200 mg/day) plus aspirin (300 mg/day) or only aspirin (300 mg/day). By the end of the first week, patients treated with vitamin C plus aspirin had higher vitamin C levels (p = 0.02) and lower 8,12-iPF2alpha-VI levels (p = 0.01) than patients treated with aspirin alone. The significance was maintained for the increase of vitamin C after three months of therapy (p < 0.01). The clinical functional outcome for both groups of patients similarly ameliorated after three months of treatment. We conclude that vitamin C, at the dose of 200 mg/day and in conjunction with aspirin, significantly decreases ischemic stroke-related lipid peroxidation in humans. Further studies are warranted to clarify whether the use of vitamin C may add clinical long-term beneficial effects in patients with stroke.
Type 1 diabetes in humans arises from the autoimmune destruction of pancreatic beta-cells and typically presents in childhood. Genetic susceptibility is an underlying cause, but environmental agents, that is, toxins and viruses, are postulated to be initiating factors. The underlying role of beta-cell death in response to environmental or physiologic events has been investigated as a critical event in diabetes onset. A well-studied rodent model for type 1 diabetes utilizes streptozotocin (STZ) to induce beta-cell death. STZ is a selective beta-cell genotoxicant, and when administered in a single high dose it induces rapid onset of diabetes by generating DNA adducts, including N3-methyladenine and O(6)-methylguanine adducts, and subsequently beta-cell death by necrosis. In the present work, we have extended previous studies in which mice deficient in the repair of N3-methyladenine adducts, 3-methyladenine DNA glycosylase (alkyladenine DNA glycosylase [Aag]) null mice, were reported to be resistant to the direct cytotoxic effect of STZ, but later developed autoimmune diabetes (J. W. Cardinal et al., 2001, Mol. Cell. Biol. 231, 5605-5613). We found that Aag(-/-) mice treated with a single high dose of STZ were protected from widespread beta-cell necrosis and diabetes. However, moderate levels of beta-cell apoptosis were observed in the Aag(-/-) STZ-treated mice. While mice became glucose impaired for the duration of study (14 months after STZ injection), overt diabetes did not develop. We conclude that an autoimmune response is not initiated in Aag(-/-) mice in response to beta-cell apoptosis. Furthermore, tumor development is not observed in Aag(-/-) treated mice, suggesting that N3-methyladenine adducts that accumulate in the genome may not be promutagenic in beta-cells.
Recent evidence has suggested that the induction of DNA synthesis by nongenotoxic chemical carcinogens plays an important role in the formation of cancer. The present study examined the effect of a nongenotoxic carcinogen, phenobarbital, (PB) on the induction of DNA synthesis in preneoplastic foci and adenomas in B6C3F1 mice. Male mice were treated with diethylnitrosamine at 30 days of age. After 6 months, mice had both hepatic foci and adenomas. Mice were divided into three groups at random and treated with PB in the drinking water and examined for DNA labeling by autoradiography. Before sacrifice, each mouse received an osmotic minipump containing [3H] thymidine. Results showed a PB dose-dependent increase in DNA synthesis in hepatic foci. Adenomas were unresponsive to the DNA synthesis-enhancing effect of PB, maintaining a level of 20-25%. The normal surrounding liver showed an increase in DNA synthesis (10-15% labeling index) at the 7-day sampling, which returned to normal control levels by 28 and 45 days. The foci showed a heterogeneity in response, with some foci showing an increase (20-30% labeling index), and others maintaining control DNA synthesis levels (4-6% labeling index). These results show that preneoplastic foci in the mouse respond preferentially to the induction of DNA synthesis by PB, that this response is dose dependent, and that it is maintained as long as the treatment continues.
To establish a method for predicting the response to chemotherapy for osteosarcoma (OS), we performed expression profile analysis using cDNA microarray consisting of 23,040 genes. Hierarchical clustering based on the expression profiles of 19 biopsy samples of OS demonstrated two major clusters, one of which consisted exclusively of typical OS, i.e. conventional central OS in long bone of patients in the second decade. A set of genes was identified to characterize this subgroup, some of which have previously indicated some relation to carcinogenesis. Thirteen of the 19 patients were treated with an identical protocol of chemotherapy containing doxorubicin, cis-platinum and ifosfamide, and histological examination of resected specimens after operation classified 6 cases as responder and 7 as non-responder. A comparison of expression profiles of these two groups identified 60 genes whose expression levels were likely to be correlated with the response to chemotherapy (P<0.008). A drug response scoring (DRS) system was developed based on the expression levels of these genes, which proved to be applicable to predict the response to chemotherapy irrespective for the subclassification of OS. The reliability of the DRS system was further confirmed by testing additional 5 OS cases. These results indicated that scoring system based on gene-expression profiles might be useful to predict the response to chemotherapy for OS.
We report the case of a 9-year-old boy with delayed postanoxic encephalopathy. The patient improved after a period of coma and adult respiratory distress syndrome caused by benzodiazepine intoxication. Initial improvement appeared to be complete, but 9 days after discharge from the pediatric intensive care unit, extrapyramidal rigidity of the left arm became manifest. This event was followed by progressive neurologic impairment with involuntary, non-repetitive, but occasionally stereotyped movements, affecting distal, proximal and axial musculature in various combinations. On physical examination, passive movement of the left arm showed a plastic, lead-pipe rigidity with a ratchet-like cogwheel quality. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed. Axial T 2 -weighted images of the brain showed characteristic signs of an ischemic area in the basal ganglia which were more evident in the right region, a finding consistent with anoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. Delayed postanoxic encephalopathy is a relatively uncommon and unexplained phenomenon which becomes manifest after an initial hypoxic-ischemic event that causes stupor or coma. The pathogenesis is unknown. Exceptionally, this syndrome can affect the basal ganglia more than the cerebral cortex and white matter. Initial improvement is followed after a variable period of time by relapse, progressing for weeks to months until the patient is left with permanent sequelae.
Acute hemolytic anemia characterized by vomiting, diarrhea, vertigo, lumbar pain pallor and high fever due to an irregular and high dose of rifampicin is described in a 13-year-old girl during her treatment for tuberculosis. The presence of rifampicin-dependent antibodies was identified by special tests.
