Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is known as a cytoprotective polypeptide. PACAP and its receptors are expressed in the heart, but it is unclear whether PACAP exerts its protective effect on the myocardium in vivo. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether endogenous PACAP has a cardioprotective effect on Doxorubicin (Dox)-induced cardiomyopathy.
Dox was intraperitoneally injected to induce cardiomyopathy in wild type (WT) and PACAP knockout (ie, PACAP+/- and PACAP-/-) mice. The survival rates up to 15 days of PACAP+/- mice and PACAP-/- mice were significantly less than that of WT mice. Cardiac function, measured by echocardiography, was significantly lower in PACAP+/- mice than in WT mice at day 10. Morphological examination of sections of myocardium showed degenerative change and fibrosis in PACAP+/- mice at day 10. Serum reactive oxygen metabolites (a marker of oxidative stress), the number of 8-hydroxy-deoxyguanosine-positive nuclei and TdT-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) positive nuclei in the myocardium were higher in PACAP+/- mice than WT mice. However, continuous subcutaneous administration of PACAP38 was able to prevent the myocardial damage typically caused by Dox injection in PACAP+/-.
These results suggest that endogenous PACAP might attenuate Dox-induced myocardial damage and that its mechanism of action is likely to be associated with the reduction of oxidative stress and mediated via anti-apoptotic effects.
In three newborn infants who had received furosemide for a variety of indications, strongly increased echogenicity in the pyramids of the renal medulla was seen on ultrasonography. In one infant the changes were unilateral, the contralateral kidney being nonfunctional because of probable renal artery thrombosis. One infant died and medullary nephrocalcinosis was confirmed post mortem radiologically as well as by computed tomography and anatomic-histologic examination of the kidneys.
With one billion people overweight worldwide, the need to identify risk factors and treatments for obesity is urgent. The present study determined whether rats genetically prone to diet-induced obesity (DIO) show preexisting differences in meal microstructure and are sensitive to central anorectic effects of corticotropin-releasing factor type 2 (CRF(2)) receptor stimulation. Male, selectively bred DIO rats and their diet resistant (DR) counterparts (n = 9/genotype) were weaned onto low-fat chow and compared as young adults for spontaneous or intracerebroventricular urocortin 2 administration-induced (0, 0.3, 1, 3 microg) differences in ingestion. DIO rats were hyperphagic selectively at the dark cycle onset, showing shorter latencies to initiate feeding, faster returns to eating following meal completion, and a lower satiety ratio than DR rats. At other times, DIO rats had briefer postmeal intervals, but ate smaller and briefer meals, resulting in normal intake. DIO rats also ate faster than DR rats. Urocortin 2 was less potent in DIO rats, ineffective at the 0.3 microg dose, but produced CRF(2) antagonist-reversible anorexia at higher doses. Though heavier, chow-maintained DIO rats were proportionately as or more lean than DR rats. Thus, DIO rats showed signs of a preexisting, heritable deficit in the maintenance of postmeal satiety and a reduced sensitivity to anorectic CRF(2) agonist stimulation. The meal patterns of DIO rats temporally resemble human 'snacking' behaviour, which predicts adult obesity. Because central CRF(2) stimulation retains full anorectic efficacy at higher doses in the DIO model, manipulating this neuropeptidergic system might yield new therapeutic approaches for diet-induced obesity.
An-gong-niu-huang wan (AGNH) is a famous traditional Chinese medicine used for brain trauma, hemorrhage, and coma. AGNH contains 10% realgar (As₄S₄) and 10% cinnabar (HgS). Both As and Hg are well-known for their toxic effects, and the safety of AGNH is of concern. To address this question, the acute toxicity of AGNH, realgar and cinnabar were compared to sodium arsenite (NaAsO₂) and mercuric chloride (HgCl₂). Mice were administrated orally AGNH at 1, 3 and 6g/kg. AGNH at 3g/kg contains 2.8mmol As/kg as realgar and 1.18mmol Hg/kg as cinnabar. Realgar, cinnabar, arsenite (0.28 mmol/kg, 10% of realgar) and HgCl₂ (0.256 mmol/kg, 20% of cinnabar) were orally given to mice for comparison. Blood and tissues were collected 8h later for toxicity evaluation. Serum alanine aminotransferase was increased by arsenite and blood urea nitrogen was increased by HgCl₂. Total As accumulation after arsenite in liver (100-fold) and kidney (13-fold) was much higher than that after realgar. The accumulation of Hg after HgCl₂ in liver was 400-fold higher and kidney 30-fold higher than after cinnabar. Histopathology showed moderate liver and kidney injuries after arsenite and HgCl₂, but injuries were mild or absent after AGNH, realgar, and cinnabar. The expression of metallothionein-1, a biomarker of metal exposure, was increased 4-10-fold by arsenite and HgCl₂, but was unchanged by AGNH, realgar and cinnabar. Thus, AGNH, realgar and cinnabar are much less toxic acutely than arsenite and HgCl₂. The chemical forms of As and Hg are extremely important factors in determining their disposition and toxicity.
Diagnostic measures for Alzheimer's disease (AD) commonly rely on evaluating the levels of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides within the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of affected individuals. These levels are often combined with levels of an additional non-Aβ marker to increase predictive accuracy. Recent efforts to overcome the invasive nature of CSF collection led to the observation of Aβ species within the blood cellular fraction, however, little is known of what additional biomarkers may be found in this membranous fraction. The current study aimed to undertake a discovery-based proteomic investigation of the blood cellular fraction from AD patients (n = 18) and healthy controls (HC; n = 15) using copper immobilized metal affinity capture and Surface Enhanced Laser Desorption/Ionisation Time-Of-Flight Mass Spectrometry. Three candidate biomarkers were observed which could differentiate AD patients from HC (ROC AUC > 0.8). Bivariate pairwise comparisons revealed significant correlations between these markers and measures of AD severity including; MMSE, composite memory, brain amyloid burden, and hippocampal volume. A partial least squares regression model was generated using the three candidate markers along with blood levels of Aβ. This model was able to distinguish AD from HC with high specificity (90%) and sensitivity (77%) and was able to separate individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who converted to AD from MCI non-converters. While requiring further characterization, these candidate biomarkers reaffirm the potential efficacy of blood-based investigations into neurodegenerative conditions. Furthermore, the findings indicate that the incorporation of non-amyloid markers into predictive models, function to increase the accuracy of the diagnostic potential of Aβ.
The effects of the water-soluble and delayed-release formulations of a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug, diclofenac, on the healing of gastroduodenal mucosal lesions were compared in a double-blind, double cross-over, placebo-controlled endoscopic study conducted in 14 healthy volunteers. Severe endoscopic lesions (petechiae, erosions, ulcers, and esophageal candidiasis) were found only in the group taking the soluble formulation of diclofenac (P less than 0.05 vs placebo). The endoscopic healing of biopsies at one week was delayed by both preparations in comparison to placebo (P less than 0.05 vs placebo). Neither formulation produced significantly more histological inflammation or minor endoscopic lesions (erythema, red striae) than placebo. Both formulations were equally well tolerated and produced no more symptoms than placebo. This study suggests that soluble diclofenac acts topically to delay gastroduodenal healing and produce gastroduodenal injury; it thus provides a model for future studies of the production, perpetuation, and healing of peptic lesions.
The current standard of care for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection - combination therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin - elicits sustained responses in only ∼50% of the patients treated. No alternatives exist for patients who do not respond to combination therapy. Addition of ribavirin substantially improves response rates to interferon and lowers relapse rates following the cessation of therapy, suggesting that increasing ribavirin exposure may further improve treatment response. A key limitation, however, is the toxic side-effect of ribavirin, hemolytic anemia, which often necessitates a reduction of ribavirin dosage and compromises treatment response. Maximizing treatment response thus requires striking a balance between the antiviral and hemolytic activities of ribavirin. Current models of viral kinetics describe the enhancement of treatment response due to ribavirin. Ribavirin-induced anemia, however, remains poorly understood and precludes rational optimization of combination therapy. Here, we develop a new mathematical model of the population dynamics of erythrocytes that quantitatively describes ribavirin-induced anemia in HCV patients. Based on the assumption that ribavirin accumulation decreases erythrocyte lifespan in a dose-dependent manner, model predictions capture several independent experimental observations of the accumulation of ribavirin in erythrocytes and the resulting decline of hemoglobin in HCV patients undergoing combination therapy, estimate the reduced erythrocyte lifespan during therapy, and describe inter-patient variations in the severity of ribavirin-induced anemia. Further, model predictions estimate the threshold ribavirin exposure beyond which anemia becomes intolerable and suggest guidelines for the usage of growth hormones, such as erythropoietin, that stimulate erythrocyte production and avert the reduction of ribavirin dosage, thereby improving treatment response. Our model thus facilitates, in conjunction with models of viral kinetics, the rational identification of treatment protocols that maximize treatment response while curtailing side effects.
To report a case of autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA) secondary to levofloxacin.
An 82-year-old white man was treated with levofloxacin 500 mg/d for cellulitis. Three days following completion of levofloxacin therapy, the patient presented to the emergency department with severe jaundice, dizziness, and loss of vision. He received packed red blood cells (PRBCs) and was discharged home. Two days later at the follow-up visit, he was diagnosed with AIHA secondary to levofloxacin. The patient was hospitalized and treated with a tapering dose of prednisone and additional PRBC infusion. He was discharged from the hospital in stable condition after 3 days. Repeated hematologic laboratory studies following discharge demonstrated that the hemolytic anemia had resolved.
Hemolytic anemia due to levofloxacin is an extremely rare, but potentially fatal, adverse drug event. An objective causality assessment revealed that the adverse reaction was probable. To our knowledge, this is the first published case of levofloxacin-induced AIHA. However, there are published case reports of hemolytic anemia with other fluoroquinolones including ciprofloxacin (n = 12) and temafloxacin (n = 95). Temafloxacin was withdrawn from the market in 1992 due to this adverse effect. The mechanism by which levofloxacin triggers hemolytic anemia is unknown. We believe that an immune-mediated reaction is most likely.
Levofloxacin-induced AIHA is a rare but serious complication of therapy. Immediate discontinuation of the offending medication and treatment of the hemolytic anemia are essential. Until more information is available, levofloxacin should not be prescribed for patients with previous reactions to any fluoroquinolone.
Hereditary ovalocytic red cells are characterized by a marked increase in membrane rigidity and resistance to invasion by malarial parasites. The underlying molecular defect in ovalocytes remained a mystery until Liu and colleagues (N. Engl. J. Med. 1990. 323:1530-38) made the surprising observation that the ovalocytic phenotype was linked to a structural polymorphism in band 3, the anion transporter. We have now defined the mutation in band 3 gene and established the biophysical sequelae of this mutation. This mutation involves the deletion of amino-acids 400-408 in the boundary between the cytoplasmic and the first transmembrane domains of band 3. The biophysical consequences of this mutation are a marked decrease in lateral mobility of band 3 and an increase in membrane rigidity. Based on these findings, we propose the following model for increased membrane rigidity. The mutation induces a conformational change in the cytoplasmic domain of band 3, leading to its entanglement in the skeletal protein network. This entanglement inhibits the normal unwinding and stretching of the spectrin tetramers necessary for membrane extension, leading to increased rigidity. These findings imply that the cytoplasmic domain of an integral membrane protein can have profound effects on membrane material behavior.
To study the antiproliferative effects of ER119884 and E5700, two quinuclidine-based inhibitors of squalene synthase (SQS), against Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoites in epithelial cells.
The antiproliferative effects of the quinuclidine derivatives, alone or in combination with epiminolanosterol or antifolates, were analysed, resulting in the construction of isobolograms. The ultrastructure of treated tachyzoites was analysed by transmission electron microscopy.
The quinuclidine derivatives demonstrated selective anti-T. gondii activity, arresting parasite growth with IC50 values of 0.66 and 0.23 microM for ER119884 and E5700, respectively, after 24 h of interaction and 0.44 and 0.19 microM after 48 h of interaction. Both compounds induced remarkable alterations in the parasite ultrastructure, such as mitochondrial swelling and the presence of autophagosome-like structures, after 24 h of treatment. Combination of these quinuclidine derivatives with the antifolates sulfadiazine and pyrimethamine produced a synergic effect. When epiminolanosterol was combined with E5700, the effect observed was synergic, whereas the combination with ER119884 produced no interaction.
E5700 and ER119884 demonstrated selective activity against T. gondii tachyzoites and are a possible alternative to be used in association with the current therapy. The ultrastructural alterations observed suggest a possible interference with lipid metabolism.
Two young children (3 1/2 years and 19 months) developed seizures within 24 hours of receiving intrathecal cytosine arabinoside. Both had previously received intrathecal cytosine and methotrexate as well as cranial irradiation without untoward effect. Possible mechanisms of causation are discussed and caution is stressed for use of intrathecal cytosine arabinoside in young children.
Anemia has been frequently reported in renal transplant recipients receiving azathioprine for immunosuppression and enalapril for treatment of hypertension. During the course of a prospective trial in such patients we determined azathioprine metabolites in erythrocytes, plasma, and urine as well as erythropoietin and hemoglobin levels in order to evaluate a potential interaction between these 2 drugs, possibly leading to anemia. Two specific high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) methods for determination of azathioprine metabolites, both employing a mercurial cellulose resin for extraction, are presented. One method using a strong anion exchange column allows detection of 6-thioguanosine di- and triphosphate (thioguanine nucleotides) in red blood cells (RBC) with a sensitivity of 30 pmol/100 microliters RBC. 6-mercaptopurine (MP) and 6-thiouric acid (TUA) in plasma and urine were analyzed simultaneously by reversed-phase HPLC with a sensitivity of 5 ng/ml. The average (median values are given) steady state concentrations of thioguanine nucleotides in erythrocytes came to 267 pmol/100 microliters RBC (range 53-613) with and to 246 pmol/100 microliters RBC (range 39-629) without concomitant enalapril medication. Mean plasma concentrations of MP and TUA 3 hours after drug intake came to 14.8 +/- 9.9 ng/ml and 398 +/- 262 ng/ml, respectively, during enalapril comedication. Withdrawal of enalapril did not influence these metabolite levels coming to 15.3 +/- 9.1 and 451 +/- 253 after stopping enalapril treatment. Thioguanine nucleotides in RBCs were neither related to the dose of azathioprine given (r = -0.113, p > 0.05) nor to hemoglobin levels (r = 0.278, p > 0.05). However, azathioprine dose/kg body weight seemed to be related to hemoglobin concentration, with and without enalapril comedication. We conclude that enalapril therapy does not influence the measured azathioprine metabolites, the reported cases of anemia may rather be due to a pharmacodynamic interaction as shown by the significant increase in erythropoietin after withdrawal of enalapril. The assays described here are suitable to study the metabolism of azathioprine in patients with various diseases.
alpha-latrotoxin (LTX), a 120 kDa protein in black widow spider venom, triggers massive neurotransmitter exocytosis. Previous studies have highlighted a role for both intrinsic pore-forming activity and receptor binding in the action of this toxin. Intriguingly, activation of a presynaptic G protein-coupled receptor, latrophilin, may trigger release independent of pore-formation. Here we have utilized a previously identified ligand of nematode latrophilin, emodepside, to define a latrophilin-dependent pathway for neurotransmitter release in C. elegans. In the pharyngeal nervous system of this animal, emodepside (100 nM) stimulates exocytosis and elicits pharyngeal paralysis. The pharynxes of animals with latrophilin (lat-1) gene knockouts are resistant to emodepside, indicating that emodepside exerts its high-affinity paralytic effect through LAT-1. The expression pattern of lat-1 supports the hypothesis that emodepside exerts its effect on the pharynx primarily via neuronal latrophilin. We build on these observations to show that pharynxes from animals with either reduction or loss of function mutations in Gq, phospholipaseC-beta, and UNC-13 are resistant to emodepside. The latter is a key priming molecule essential for synaptic vesicle-mediated release of neurotransmitter. We conclude that the small molecule ligand emodepside triggers latrophilin-mediated exocytosis via a pathway that engages UNC-13-dependent vesicle priming.
Renal failure is a common accompaniment of multiple myeloma and is usually due to cast nephropathy, or "myeloma kidney." To understand this lesion, four human Bence Jones proteins (BJP) were purified from the urine of volunteers who had either no evidence of renal dysfunction (BJP1) or renal failure from cast nephropathy (BJP2, BJP3, BJP4). When infused directly into the rat nephron in vivo, BJP2, BJP3, and BJP4 produced intraluminal obstruction by precipitating in the distal nephron; protein casts were never identified before the tip of the loop of Henle. Obstruction was related to the concentration of BJP in the perfusate. Addition of furosemide to the perfusate augmented obstruction in a concentration-dependent fashion. Pretreatment of rats with colchicine completely prevented obstruction and cast formation of perfused nephrons; beta-lumicolchicine did not prevent obstruction. Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein purified from beta-lumicolchicine-treated and untreated rats coaggregated with BJP3 in vitro. Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein from colchicine-treated rats did not contain sialic acid and did not aggregate with BJP3 in vitro. Thus, cast-forming human BJP coaggregated with Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein and obstructed the rat distal nephron. Intranephronal obstruction was aggravated by decreasing extracellular fluid volume or adding furosemide. Finally, by decreasing secretion and altering the carbohydrate moiety of Tamm-Horsfall glycoprotein, colchicine prevented intraluminal cast formation and obstruction of the rat nephron.
Malignant hemangioendotheliomas of the thyroid are rare tumors predominantly seen in areas with endemic goiter such as the Alpine regions. The estimated incidence of the disease is between 0.15 and 0.25 per 100.000 inhabitants annually for Western Austria. The tumor is regarded as radio-resistant, and its prognosis is reported to be dismal.
Between 1982 and 1999, 12 cases with immunohistochemically confirmed malignant hemangioendotheliomas of the thyroid were referred for postoperative or palliative treatment. There were 8 men and 4 women with a median age of 67 years (range, 55-81 years). With surgery, clear margins were achieved in 5, microscopic residues were left in 3, and gross residual disease in 3 patients. One patient had an inoperable primary tumor. Postoperative radiotherapy was given to 8 cases, 6 of them received the radiosensitizer razoxane on radiation days. Total tumor doses ranged between 54 and 65 Gy. Two patients with clear margins at surgery received no adjuvant radiotherapy and were observed only.
Local tumor control was achieved in 11 of 12 patients; 5 lived longer than 5 years. The median survival time of all cases is presently 14 months (range, 0.5-196 months). If 3 cases with metastasis at diagnosis were left out of the analysis, the median survival is 70 months. Noteworthy is a complete regression of 2 lung metastases in a 72-year-old man treated with the combination of vindesine, razoxane, and radiotherapy; the patient is still in complete remission more than 94 months after 3-year maintenance therapy with vindesine and razoxane. Fibrinogen, factor VIII, and factor VIII-related antigen in the serum could serve as surrogate markers during the follow-up. The tolerance to the combined modality treatment was good to fair, local chemoradiation reactions of normal tissues have to be considered as the principal toxicity. It may also be of interest that 5 of 12 patients were exposed to vinyl chloride and other polymeric materials during their working life.
This small series indicates that the course of the disease is not uniformly bleak and that the resistance to radiotherapy reported in the literature has to be questioned. It appears that adequate surgery together with rapid radiation therapy in combination with razoxane, a radiosensitizer and agent that can normalize tumor blood vessels, is able to improve the local control rate and thus perhaps to alter the natural history of this disease. In addition, the data offer new evidence of the occurrence of vinyl-chloride-induced angiosarcomas outside the liver, and support similar observations that have already been published in case reports.
Agranulocytosis and liver injury is described in a patient with Reiter's syndrome of 3 years duration who received pyrazinobutazone for 6 weeks before the development of the clinical picture reported. Other causes of agranulocytosis and hepatic damage were excluded and a lymphocyte transformation test to the drug revealed significant lymphocyte proliferation in response to the drug. This suggests a hypersensitivity reaction as the mechanism for this previously unrecognized association of adverse effects to pyrazinobutazone.
Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) is an effective therapy for acute ischemic stroke, but it is associated with risk of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Our aim was to identify, in a large cohort of patients, readily available baseline factors that are associated with thrombolysis-related ICH.
In a multicenter retrospective and prospective investigation of individual data from 1205 patients treated in routine clinical practice with intravenous rtPA within 3 hours of stroke symptom onset, 72 patients (6%) developed symptomatic ICH and 86 additional patients (7%) had asymptomatic ICH identified on a routine follow-up CT. In analyses based on clinical variables alone, the main attributes associated with ICH were a history of diabetes mellitus and cardiac disease, increasing stroke severity, advancing age, use of antiplatelet agents other than aspirin before stroke onset, and elevated pretreatment mean blood pressure. In additional analyses that incorporated baseline CT and laboratory findings (in a subset of patients), the main associations were early ischemic CT changes, in particular if exceeding one third of middle cerebral artery territory; increasing stroke severity; diabetes mellitus or elevated serum glucose; and lower platelet counts. Final independent attributes associated with parenchymatous hematoma, defined by purely radiologically based criteria, were similar to those of symptomatic ICH.
Readily available factors can identify acute ischemic stroke patients at high and low risk for rtPA-related ICH. These factors require confirmation in a prospective cohort before clinical implementation.
Clozapine is a widely used atypical neuroleptic in the treatment of schizophrenia; its effects on sleep have been poorly studied, sedation being one of its side effects. We present the case of hypersomnia and marked reduction of REM sleep secondary to treatment with clozapine and review existing scientific literature on the action of neuroleptics on sleep.
In our study, we examined whether human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) expresses peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) and the effects of PPAR gamma activation by its selective ligands on cell growth and cell invasion in HCC cells. RT-PCR and Western blot analysis revealed that HCC-derived cell lines, HepG2 and HLF, express PPARgamma mRNA and protein. Luciferase assay in HLF cells showed that troglitazone, a selective ligand for PPAR gamma, transactivated the transcription of a peroxisome proliferator response element-driven promoter in a dose-dependent manner, suggesting that the expressed PPARgamma functions as a transcriptional factor. Not only troglitazone but pioglitazone dose-dependently inhibited cell growth in HepG2 and HLF cells. Invasion assay using a transwell chamber demonstrated that troglitazone also inhibited cell invasion in HCC cells. To examine the mechanism of the troglitazone-induced growth inhibition, we determined p27(Kip1), a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor, expression by Western blot analysis in troglitazone-treated HLF cells. Troglitazone increased p27(Kip1) in time- and dose-dependent manners, suggesting that p27(Kip1) may be involved in the growth inhibition by troglitazone in HLF cells. To further examine the mechanism of the troglitazone-induced p27(Kip1) protein accumulation, 2 major systems for regulation of p27(Kip1) protein, proteasome activity and Skp2, an F-box protein that targets p27(Kip1) for degradation, were evaluated. Troglitazone potently inhibited proteasome activity and decreased Skp2 protein levels. All these results suggest that human HCC cells express functional PPAR gamma and PPARgamma activation resulted in growth inhibition. The growth inhibition was mediated by p27(Kip1) accumulation, which is induced by both inhibition of ubiquitylation of p27(Kip1) and reduction of degradation activity of p27Kip1 by proteasome.
A link between aluminum (Al) exposure and age-related neurological disorders has long been proposed. Although the exact mechanism by which the metal may influence disease processes is unknown, there is evidence that exposure to Al causes an increase in both oxidative stress and inflammatory events. These processes have also been suggested to play a role in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and exposure to the metal may contribute to the disorder by potentiating these events. Al lactate (0.01, 0.1, and 1 mM) in drinking water for 10 weeks increased inflammatory processes in the brains of mice. The lowest of these levels is in the range found to increase the prevalence of AD in regions where the concentrations of the metal are elevated in residential drinking water (Flaten [2001] Brain Res. Bull. 55:187-196). Nuclear factor-kappaB as well as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 1alpha (IL-1alpha) levels were increased in the brains of treated animals. The mRNA for TNF-alpha was also up-regulated following treatment. Enhancement of glial fibrillary acidic protein levels and reactive microglia was seen in the striatum of Al-treated animals. The level of amyloid beta (Abeta40) was not significantly altered in the brains of exposed animals. Insofar as no parallel changes were observed in the serum or liver of treated animals, the proinflammatory effects of the metal may be selective to the brain. Al exposure may not be sufficient to cause abnormal production of the principal component of senile plaques directly but does exacerbate underlying events associated with brain aging and thus could contribute to progression of neurodegeneration.
To report a case of dose-dependent angioedema secondary to the use of the angiotensin-receptor blocker (ARB) valsartan.
A 64-year-old Hispanic woman presented with swelling of the lips shortly after an increase in her valsartan dose for uncontrolled hypertension. Other potential causes were not identified. The angioedema subsequently resided after a dosage reduction and observation. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable relationship between the angioedema and valsartan therapy in this patient.
Drug-induced angioedema is often associated with the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and is probably secondary to their effects on bradykinin levels. ARBs are thought to produce few, if any, cases of angioedema if excess bradykinin levels are the root cause of angioedema secondary to ACE inhibitor use. Several potential ARB-induced cases of angioedema have been reported. The exact mechanism of angioedema induced by drugs in both of these classes is unknown. Animal data suggest that there may be a relationship between ARB use and increased tissue bradykinin levels secondary to stimulation of angiotensin II AT2 receptors.
This is the third reported case of valsartan-induced angioedema and the first thought to be dose dependent. Practitioners should be aware of this potential adverse effect of valsartan, although the underlying cause is still not known.
Variations in dietary constituents such as carbohydrate are known to alter psychostimulant function in brain. Relatively few studies have examined the reinforcing effects of psychostimulants in subjects maintained on high-fat diets. The present experiment compared the rate of acquisition of an operant response for intravenous (i.v.) cocaine infusions (0.2 mg/kg) in rats fed either a chow-pellet diet or a 35.9% (by weight) high-fat diet for 45 days prior to cocaine self-administration testing. Rats maintained on a high-fat diet for 45 days exhibited diminished acquisition of cocaine self-administration, and this effect was not a function of dietary-induced obesity. The results suggest that prolonged exposure to a high-fat diet diminishes the efficacy of cocaine reinforcement.
Glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy results from muscle protein catabolism and reduced protein synthesis, associated with increased expression of two muscle-specific ubiquitin ligases (MAFbx and MuRF1), and of two inhibitors of protein synthesis, REDD1 and 4EBP1. MAFbx, MuRF1, REDD1 and 4EBP1 are up-regulated by the transcription factors FOXO1 and FOXO3A. The transcriptional co-activator PGC-1α has been shown to attenuate many forms of muscle atrophy and to repress FOXO3A-mediated transcription of atrophy-specific genes. Dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy can be prevented by testosterone, which blocks up-regulation by dexamethasone of FOXO1. Here, an animal model of dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy was used to further characterize effects of testosterone to abrogate adverse actions of dexamethasone on FOXO1 levels and nuclear localization, and to determine how these agents affect PGC-1α, and its upstream activators, p38 MAPK and AMPK. In rat gastrocnemius muscle, testosterone blunted the dexamethasone-mediated increase in levels of FOXO1 mRNA, and FOXO1 total and nuclear protein. Dexamethasone reduced total and nuclear PGC-1α protein levels in the gastrocnemius; co-administration of testosterone with dexamethasone increased total and nuclear PGC-1α levels above those present in untreated controls. Testosterone blocked dexamethasone-induced decreases in activity of p38 MAPK in the gastrocnemius muscle. Regulation of FOXO1, PGC-1α and p38 MAPK by testosterone may represent a novel mechanism by which this agent protects against dexamethasone-induced muscle atrophy.
Fifty-six chronic schizophrenic patients were randomized into haloperidol decanoate (HD) or placebo groups for 48 weeks of double-blind treatment. The double-blind trial was preceded by a 15-week single-blind run-in period, during which all patients were treated with 60 mg of HD (approximately corresponding to 3.6 mg orally/day) every fourth week (except for the second injection, which was given after 3 weeks). Eight relapses occurred during the run-in period, and seven other patients refused further participation. The remaining 41 patients were then treated double blind, either with HD, 60 mg/4 weeks (18 patients), or with placebo (23 patients). Two patients (11%) in the HD group and 16 (69%) in the placebo group relapsed during the 48-week double-blind period. The plasma concentrations of haloperidol were measured every fourth week in both groups. Steady state was reached after 11 weeks. The mean steady-state level was 6.3 nmol/L. In the placebo group, a 50% decrease in the mean haloperidol plasma concentration was seen 8 weeks after withdrawal of haloperidol. The haloperidol plasma concentration was a predictor of relapse. There was no statistical difference between the treatment groups regarding extrapyramidal symptoms. More biperiden, however, was used in the HD group, while the placebo patients took more sedatives. The results of this study show that the relatively low and fixed dose of 60 mg of HD every fourth week was superior to placebo in preventing relapse in schizophrenia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Lindane administered to untreated rats or rats pretreated with phenobarbital (PB) or 3-methylcholanthrene (MC) increased liver lipid peroxidation, of the same magnitude in all groups. 2. PB pretreatment produced a 50% increase in lipid peroxidation (TBAR) by liver homogenates and microsomes, an effect accompanied by increases in cytochrome P-450, NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase, NADPH oxidase and microsomal superoxide anion production, MC pretreatment resulted in increases in liver cytochrome P-450 and NADPH oxidase only. 3. Pretreatment of rats with PB, but not MC or lindane, gave increases in glutathione peroxidase and reductase. 4. Pretreatment with PB, but not MC, increased liver GSH. Lindane decreased liver GSH to the same extent as PB plus lindane. 5. Biliary GSH, GSSG and bile flow were decreased by lindane to similar extents in all groups. 6. Lindane induced periportal necrosis with haemorrhagic foci in all groups. 7. Data presented indicate that the early lipid peroxidative response of liver to lindane was unchanged by PB- or MC-stimulated hepatic microsomal enzyme induction.
An occurrence of depression or depressive symptomatology has been reported in 30% of patients with epilepsy. Depression has been reported peri- and interictally. To make a differentiation may be difficult in patients with frequent seizures. However, complex partial seizures, particularly if are located on temporal lobe, appear to be etiologic factors, especially in men with left-sided epileptic foci. Depression is also more frequent in patients treated with polytherapy, particularly with phenobarbital and vigabatrin. The depression appears to be endogenous and has also been described in patients with temporal lobectomy. Underlying risk factors (genetic, metabolic, etc) and some psychosocial condition also play a part and may explain the increased rates of depression in patients with epilepsy. Treatment approaches include psychotherapy, rationalization of antiepileptic drug medication and antidepressant treatment. The use of antidepressant treatment, in these patients, still raises uncertainties because of the widespread persuasion that this drugs exacerbated seizures. This adverse event is relatively uncommon at therapeutic dosages, and its incidence with some of most frequently used antidepressant drugs is close to that of spontaneous seizures calculated for the general population, but the incidence may rise up to 30-40% after overdosage. On the basis of the data reported in literature, it appears fair to say that maprotiline and amoxapine show the greatest seizure risk, whereas trazodone, fluoxetine and fluvoxamine show the least. The data also showed that antidepressant drugs may display both convulsant and anticonvulsant effect and it is likely that the most important factor to assess the effect of a given antidepressant drug in terms of inhibition-excitation is drug dosage. Nevertheless, further studies are needed in this field, both to clarify the complex modulating effects of antidepressants on seizure threshold and to identify clearer and safer guidelines to manage the treatment of patients with epilepsy and concomitant depression.
