Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress occur in Parkinson's disease (PD), but the molecular mechanisms controlling these events are not completely understood. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) is a transcriptional coactivator known as master regulator of mitochondrial functions and oxidative metabolism. Recent studies, including one from our group, have highlighted altered PGC-1α activity and transcriptional deregulation of its target genes in PD pathogenesis suggesting it as a new potential therapeutic target. Resveratrol, a natural polyphenolic compound proved to improve mitochondrial activity through the activation of several metabolic sensors resulting in PGC-1α activation. Here we have tested in vitro the effect of resveratrol treatment on primary fibroblast cultures from two patients with early-onset PD linked to different Park2 mutations. We show that resveratrol regulates energy homeostasis through activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) and raise of mRNA expression of a number of PGC-1α's target genes resulting in enhanced mitochondrial oxidative function, likely related to a decrease of oxidative stress and to an increase of mitochondrial biogenesis. The functional impact of resveratrol treatment encompassed an increase of complex I and citrate synthase activities, basal oxygen consumption, and mitochondrial ATP production and a decrease in lactate content, thus supporting a switch from glycolytic to oxidative metabolism. Moreover, resveratrol treatment caused an enhanced macro-autophagic flux through activation of an LC3-independent pathway. Our results, obtained in early-onset PD fibroblasts, suggest that resveratrol may have potential clinical application in selected cases of PD-affected patients.
The phytochemical resveratrol contained in red grapes has been shown to inhibit prostate cancer cell growth, in part, through its antioxidant activity. Muscadine grapes contain unique phytochemical constituents compared with other grapes and are potentially a source for novel compounds with antitumor activities. We compared the antitumor activities of muscadine grape skin extract (MSKE), which we show contains no resveratrol, with that of resveratrol using primary cultures of normal prostate epithelial cells (PrEC) and the prostate cancer cell lines RWPE-1, WPE1-NA22, WPE1-NB14, and WPE1-NB26, representing different stages of prostate cancer progression. MSKE significantly inhibited tumor cell growth in all transformed prostate cancer cell lines but not PrEC cells. Prostate tumor cell lines, but not PrEC cells, exhibited high rates of apoptosis in response to MSKE through targeting of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt and mitogen-activated protein kinase survival pathways. The reduction in Akt activity by MSKE is mediated through a reduction in Akt transcription, enhanced proteosome degradation of Akt, and altered levels of DJ-1, a known regulator of PTEN. In contrast to MSKE, resveratrol did not induce apoptosis in this model but arrested cells at the G(1)-S phase transition of the cell cycle associated with increased expression of p21 and decreased expression of cyclin D1 and cyclin-dependent kinase 4 proteins. These results show that MSKE and resveratrol target distinct pathways to inhibit prostate cancer cell growth in this system and that the unique properties of MSKE suggest that it may be an important source for further development of chemopreventive or therapeutic agents against prostate cancer.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) can induce clinical remission in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) through induction of apoptosis. To investigate the potential therapeutic usage of As2O3 in cervical cancer and its possible mechanisms, human cervical cancer cell line HeLa was employed. The cells underwent apoptosis in response to As2O3, accompanied by a decrease of mitochondrial membrane potential and caspase-3 activation. Overexpression of Bcl-2, however, prevented the dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, subsequently protecting the cells from As2O3-induced apoptosis. As2O3 increased cellular content of reactive oxygen species (ROS), especially hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), and the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine completely suppressed As2O3-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, incubation of the cells with catalase resulted in significant suppression of As2O3-induced apoptosis. The above results indicate that the induction of HeLa cell apoptosis by As2O3 involved an early decrease in cellular mitochondrial membrane potential and increase in ROS content, predominantly H2O2, followed by caspase-3 activation and DNA fragmentation.
Tumour necrosis factor-alpha is thought to be important in the pathogenesis of portal hypertension. Oxpentifylline (pentoxifylline) and thalidomide inhibit endotoxin-induced tumour necrosis factor-alpha production in vitro.
To assess the toxicity of oxpentifylline (pentoxifylline) and thalidomide in cirrhosis and their effect on the hepatic venous pressure gradient and tumour necrosis factor-alpha production.
In an open-label pilot study, 20 abstinent patients with stable alcoholic cirrhosis and oesophageal varices were recruited; 12 patients completed haemodynamic measurements before and after treatment with oxpentifylline (pentoxifylline) 1800 mg (n=6) or thalidomide 200 mg (n=6) daily for 2 weeks. Tumour necrosis factor-alpha production was assessed in ex vivo monocyte cultures stimulated with endotoxin.
Thalidomide reduced the hepatic venous pressure gradient from 19.7 mmHg (9.3-23.5 mmHg) to 12.2 mmHg (4.7-19.5 mmHg) (P=0.03) without reducing the hepatic blood flow or altering systemic haemodynamic parameters. Thalidomide reduced ex vivo tumour necrosis factor-alpha production by approximately 50%. Oxpentifylline (pentoxifylline) had no significant effect on any of the parameters measured. Side-effects led to dose reduction or treatment withdrawal in 40% of patients.
Thalidomide, but not oxpentifylline (pentoxifylline), reduces the hepatic venous pressure gradient in stable alcoholic cirrhotics, an effect that may be mediated by the inhibition of tumour necrosis factor-alpha production. The role of tumour necrosis factor-alpha inhibitory drugs in the therapy of portal hypertension should be investigated in a randomized controlled trial.
In recent years, accumulating evidence supports the importance of microRNAs in liver physiology and disease; however, few studies have examined the involvement of these noncoding genes in chemical hepatocarcinogenesis. Here, we examined the liver microRNA profile of male Fischer rats exposed through their diet to genotoxic (2-acetylaminofluorene) and epigenetic (phenobarbital, diethylhexylphthalate, methapyrilene HCL, monuron, and chlorendic acid) chemical hepatocarcinogens, as well as to non-hepatocarcinogenic treatments (benzophenone, and diethylthiourea) for 3 months. The effects of these treatments on liver pathology, plasma clinical parameters, and liver mRNAs were also determined. All hepatocarcinogens affected the expression of liver mRNAs, while the hepatic microRNA profiles were associated with the mode of action of the chemical treatments and corresponded to chemical carcinogenicity. The three nuclear receptor-activating chemicals (phenobarbital, benzophenone, and diethylhexylphthalate) were characterized by the highly correlated induction of the miR-200a/200b/429, which is involved in protecting the epithelial status of cells and of the miR-96/182 clusters. The four non-nuclear receptor-activating hepatocarcinogens were characterized by the early, persistent induction of miR-34, which was associated with DNA damage and oxidative stress in vivo and in vitro. Repression of this microRNA in a hepatoma cell line led to increased cell growth; thus, miR-34a could act to block abnormal cell proliferation in cells exposed to DNA damage or oxidative stress. This study supports the proposal that hepatic microRNA profiles could assist in the earlier evaluation and identification of hepatocarcinogens, especially those acting by epigenetic mechanisms.
To evaluate the efficacy of cisatracurium, rocuronium, and d-tubocurarine in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations and postoperative myalgia in patients undergoing ambulatory surgery.
Randomized, prospective, placebo-controlled trial
Teaching hospital.
80 ASA physical status I and II patients scheduled for elective ambulatory surgery with general anesthesia.
A standardized balanced anesthetic technique was used for all patients.
Patients were randomized to receive cisatracurium 0.01 mg/kg, rocuronium 0.06 mg/kg, d-tubocurarine 0.05 mg/kg, or saline, 3 minutes prior to intravenous (i.v.) succinylcholine 1.5 mg/kg. The intensity of fasciculations and intubating conditions were assessed using a four-point rating scale. In addition, the severity of myalgia was assessed using a four-point rating scale in the postanesthesia care unit and at 24 hours postoperatively. No patient complained of any side effects after the administration of the study drug. Fasciculations were observed less frequently (p < 0.05) in the d-tubocurarine and rocuronium groups compared with the placebo and cisatracurium groups. However, there was no difference between the d-tubocurarine group and the rocuronium group (21% vs. 10%, respectively). Although fasciculations occurred less frequently in the cisatracurium group than in the placebo group (59% vs. 85%, respectively), this difference did not reach statistical significance. There was no difference among the four groups in the intubating conditions or the incidence of postoperative myalgia.
Pretreatment with rocuronium and d-tubocurarine was superior to cisatracurium in preventing succinylcholine-induced fasciculations. However, pretreatment did not have any effect on the incidence of myalgia after ambulatory surgery.
The recently compiled clinical experiences support the previous theory, that the cysteinil-leukotriens have an important role in the pathomechanism of bronchial asthma. Zafirlukast is a selective antagonist of the receptor 1 of cysteinil-leukotriens, and its use reduces the severity of asthma symptoms. The effect of 20 mg zafirlukast b.i.d was studied in 31 patients with mild-moderate asthma bronchiale. During the 6 week treatment period, even several hours after the first zafirlukast dose the pulmonary function improved significantly. This effect sustained during the whole treatment period, the patients' symptoms lessened and there was a significant reduction in the frequency of beta-2 agonist's use. No adverse events causally related to zafirlukast's use were detected. Zafirlukast is an efficient therapy of mild to moderate asthma bronchiale.
To determine whether ginsenoside-Rd ameliorates the renal injury induced by cephaloridine, the effect of cephaloridine was investigated in rats given ginsenoside-Rd preceding cephaloridine administration and in control rats given no ginsenoside-Rd. In control rats, blood, renal and urinary parameters and the activities of antioxidative enzymes in renal tissue deviated from the normal range, indicating dysfunction of the kidneys. In contrast, when ginsenoside-Rd was given orally for 30 consecutive days prior to cephaloridine injection, the activities of the antioxidation enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase were higher, while malondialdehyde levels in serum and renal tissue were lower in the treated rats than in the controls. The urea nitrogen and creatinine levels in serum were decreased in rats given ginsenoside-Rd. Decreased urine volume, increased urinary osmotic pressure, and decreased urinary levels of glucose, protein, sodium and potassium demonstrated a protective action against the renal dysfunction caused by cephaloridine. In addition, it was demonstrated that ginsenoside-Rd affected cultured proximal tubule cells exposed to cephaloridine.
The clinical treatment of patients with HIV and adverse drug events may be enhanced by an understanding of the underlying mechanisms. About 4% of patients with HIV receiving the potent antiretroviral drug abacavir develop a hypersensitivity reaction. This idiosyncratic reaction appears to have an immunologic component that has yet to be defined. Given that the T-cell type 2 cytokine IL-4 may be overproduced by patients with allergy or other immunologic dysregulation, an index cytokine profile could help elucidate the character of a drug-specific hypersensitivity reaction.
Quantitation of the production of the type 2 IL-4 and the counterregulatory type 1 cytokine IFN-gamma in patients with abacavir-related hypersensitivity.
Intracellular cytokines were enumerated in blood T cells by flow cytometry. Subjects were grouped for evaluation as patients with a hypersensitive response after abacavir treatment, patients initiating abacavir who also were evaluated again after 1 month on abacavir, patients on abacavir for 6 months without hypersensitivity, and HIV-naive control individuals.
There was a significant association between increased IL-4 production by CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes and hypersensitivity reactions to abacavir. Lymphocytes from hypersensitive subjects expressed CD28 and the anti-HIV chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein 1beta with a frequency comparable with HIV-naive control cells, suggesting the possibility that the activated T cells from patients with hypersensitivity are functional.
The expansion of type 0 and type 2 T cells phenotyped by IL-4 production may correlate with abacavir-associated hypersensitivity. The data suggest a cytokine bias that may facilitate B-cell differentiation and downregulate T-cell cytotoxic responses.
Experiments from different laboratories have shown that benzoyl peroxide (BzPo) and other organic peroxides are effective tumor promoters in the mouse skin two-stage carcinogenesis system. In the present paper we have studied the short-term effect of six other organic peroxides, which have not been previously assayed as skin tumor promoters. These compounds were chosen for their molecular diversity, the type of radical predicted to be formed, solubility and availability. The parameters evaluated in this study include a series of short-term markers of tumor promotion, hyperplasia, induction of dark basal keratinocytes and induction of ornithine decarboxylase activity. After single applications the biological activity of the compounds was: m-chloroperoxybenzoic acid greater than di-m-methylbenzoyl peroxide greater than dicumyl peroxide greater than O,O-t-butyl-O-(2-ethylhexyl)mono-peroxycarbonate greater than benzoyl peroxide greater than di-m-chlorobenzoyl peroxide greater than di-t-butyl peroxide greater than t-butyl hydroperoxide. After multiple applications, the order of activity of the compounds was: dicumyl peroxide greater than di-m-methyl-benzoyl peroxide greater than O,O-t-butyl-O-(2-ethylhexyl)monoperoxy carbonate greater than m-chloroperoxybenzoic acid greater than di-m-chlorobenzoyl peroxide greater than t-butyl hydroperoxide greater than benzoyl peroxide greater than di-t-butyl peroxide. The difference of activity among the different compounds did not seem to correlate directly with the chemical stability of the compound; it is more likely that the activity depends on different factors such as percutaneous absorption, metabolism, and the rate of free radical formation in vivo. The data presented here further support the association between free radicals and tumor promotion since all of the compounds, with the exception of one, were active in inducing the short-term markers of tumor promotion. It will also establish conditions for future tumor experiments.
A 9-year-old boy with acute lymphocytic leukemia underwent intrathecal methotrexate (MTX) treatment over a period of one year because of CNS symptoms. After a sudden rapid deterioration, radionuclide imaging demonstrated marked ventricular wall concentration, presumed related to MTX toxicity. After cessation of MTX treatment, the patient improved, and subsequent radionuclide images reverted to normal appearance.
Intraocular methotrexate has been safely used in eyes with primary CNS lymphoma (PCNSL), and in eyes with uveitis and proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Dosing in silicone-filled eyes was reduced from a standard 400 microg intravitreal injection due to concerns of toxicity. The present study reports the visual results of non-PCNSL, silicone-filled eyes treated with intravitreal methotrexate using cumulative dosages ranging from 200 microg to 1,200 microg.
In this retrospective case series, all patients with silicone-filled eyes who received intraocular methotrexate were included. Patients were observed with serial ophthalmic examinations. Best-corrected visual acuity was measured by Snellen acuity. Pretreatment acuities were compared to those obtained at last follow-up.
The cohort included 12 patients (13 eyes) with disease other than PCNSL. The cumulative dose of intraocular methotrexate in any one patient ranged from 200 microg to 1,200 microg. Mean follow-up was 9 months (median, 10 months; range, 2 weeks to 16 months). Best-corrected vision at last follow-up was either stable or improved from pretreatment acuity in 12 of 13 eyes.
Preservation of acuity in 12 of 13 study eyes suggests that intravitreal methotrexate in a cumulative dose of up to 1,200 microg is safe in silicone-filled eyes.
Genetic susceptibility to toxic chemicals is of major importance but most studies concentrate on candidate genes and searches for unknown susceptibility genes are uncommon. Human sporadic porphyria cutanea tarda is usually precipitated by alcohol, oestrogens, hepatitis viruses, HIV or haemodialysis. The mechanism is not known but there is a role for iron metabolism and an underlying genetic predisposition is suspected. A similar porphyria in humans has also been caused by hexachlorobenzene. These human porphyrias can be modelled in iron-loaded mice exposed to hexachlorobenzene, in which C57BL/10ScSn is a prototype susceptible strain whereas DBA/2 mice are extremely resistant. A search for susceptibility genes was undertaken using complex trait analysis with DNA microsatellite markers of 'high' and 'low' responders from an F2 intercross. Correlation of markers with susceptibility, defined as accumulation of uroporphyrin in the liver, was assessed by chi-squared test for the proportion of C57BL/10ScSn and DBA/2 alleles present. Susceptibility loci on chromosomes 12, 14 and 17 were identified. Further analysis of markers on chromosomes 14 and 17 by MAPMAKER/EXP and MAPMAKER/QTL gave LOD scores of 7.3 and 3.6, respectively. Typing of chromosome 12 for the Ahr gene, using a restriction fragment length polymorphism distinguishing between the b-1 and d alleles, gave significant but not perfect linkage. However, no strong association between alleles or expression of Cyp1a1/2 genes, regulated by Ahr, and susceptibility for porphyria was detected. The results demonstrate that the porphyria induced by hexachlorobenzene in C57BL/10ScSn mice is a complex trait determined by at least three genes, which may be of relevance to susceptibility in the development of sporadic porphyria cutanea tarda and unknown aspects of liver damage.
Carmustine (BCNU), 1, 3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitosourea, is an alkylating agent which is commonly used as a part of conditioning regimen for autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. Despite the widespread use of BCNU therapy in adults, cardiopulmonary toxicity presenting with cardiac tamponade has not been reported.
We present a patient who received BCNU as part of her conditioning regimen followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. This patient subsequently developed bilateral upper lobe pulmonary infiltrates with bilateral pleural effusions and a large pericardial effusion which was a result of BCNU toxicity.
Early institution of glucocorticoids for patients receiving high dose BCNU containing chemotherapeutic regimens has shown to significantly reduce BCNU induced cardio-pulmonary toxicity.
Although 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-related cardiotoxicity is well known, atrial arrhythmia, as a potentially serious complication has not been studied in detail. The aim of this study was to determine the P max and Pd in the electrocardiograms (ECG) of patients receiving 5-FU treatment.
Twenty-five patients (mean age: 62 years) receiving a 5-FU bolus plus continuous infusion with calcium leucovorin over 48 h and with normal pre-treatment cardiac physical examinations, ECG and echocardiography were enrolled. P maximum (P max), P minimum (P min) and P dispersion (Pd) (maximum minus minimum P wave duration) were measured from the 12-lead ECG at the 0th and 48th hour of the first chemotherapy cycle. Echocardiography was also obtained in all patients at the same times.
Clinical cardiotoxicity was observed in two patients. P max and Pd were both significantly longer after 5-FU treatment at the 48th hour (P < 0.001). P min did not change (P > 0.05).
Treatment with 5-FU based regimens may increase Pd and prolong the P max in cancer patients. These alterations may be predictive of patients at risk of atrial arrhythmias during 5-FU treatment.
Long-acting injectable testosterone undecanoate (TU, Nebido(®)), a new parenteral testosterone preparation, has recently been introduced to avoid frequent injections of the conventional injectable esters.
To assess the efficacy and safety of long-acting injectable testosterone undecanoate (TU, Nebido(®)) in Korean patients with testosterone deficiency syndrome (TDS).
One hundred thirty-three patients who complain of erectile dysfunction with serum testosterone level less than 3.5 ng/mL were injected with 1,000 mg of TU (4 mL/ample) on day 1, followed by another injection after 6 weeks and 18 weeks. For the safety profiles, serum hemoglobin (Hb), hematocrit (Hct), glucose, lipid profile, and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) were measured.
Body mass index (BMI) was measured at the time of the first visit and after 12, 24 weeks. Primary efficacy was evaluated according to changes in the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) from the initial visit to the final visit (24 weeks) and from the initial visit to each visit. Secondary efficacy was assessed with changes of the Aging Males' Symptoms (AMS) Scale and the Global Efficacy Question (GEQ) for improvement of erectile function.
Mean age of patients was 54 ± 9.6 years. Compared with pretreatment, no significant improvement in BMI was observed. Serum total testosterone and free testosterone were significantly increased at 12 weeks and were maintained until 24 weeks (P < 0.001). TU significantly decreased cholesterol (P < 0.0001). TU significantly improved total IIEF, all five domain scores of IIEF (P < 0.0001) and total AMS, all three domain scores of AMS (P < 0.0001). On GEQ, TU improved erectile function in 76.9% of subjects. On safety profile, TU significantly elevated Hb, Hct, and PSA at 24 weeks but within normal range. No serious adverse reactions were observed. Drop-out rate was 15.0%.
In this prospective multicenter study, TU was effective, safe, and tolerable until 24 weeks in Korean TDS patients. Further well-controlled, long-term study should follow.
This phase II study was designed to assess the activity and tolerability of the carboplatin-paclitaxel combination, given without routine growth factor support to previously untreated patients with stage IIIB and IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Sixty patients (15 stage IIIb and 45 stage IV) received paclitaxel 225 mg/ml on day 1, followed by carboplatin AUC 6 mg/ml per minute (Calvert formula) every 3 weeks. Paclitaxel was administered as a 3-h intravenous infusion followed by carboplatin over 30 min, on completion of paclitaxel administration.
The combination showed a good safety profile with Grade 4 neutropenia occurring in 31% of patients without any serious infectious episodes requiring hospitalization. Moderate to severe anemia and thrombocytopenia seldom occurred. Sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy (Grade 2-3) and myalgia (Grade 3-4) were documented in 34 and 20% of the patients, respectively. Among 59 evaluable patients, there was one complete response and 26 partial responses for an overall response rate of 46% (95% C.I.: 34-59%). With a minimum follow-up duration of 16.5 months, the median overall survival time is 52 weeks and the 1-year survival rate is 50%. Median duration of response is 20 weeks (range: 4-52) and progression-free survival is 22 weeks (range: 5-77).
In advanced NSCLC, the combination carboplatin-paclitaxel at doses of AUC 6 mg/ml per minute and 225 mg/ml every 3 weeks, is both active and relatively well-tolerated.
Vinorelbine, cisplatin and docetaxel are known to be efficacious in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This limited institution pilot study evaluated the novel strategy of sequencing active first line agents prior to progression. The primary objective of this study was to assess the toxicity profile in anticipation of a larger cooperative group standard phase II study. Patients with selected stage IIIB and IV NSCLC, Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) performance status (PS) of 1 or less and measurable or evaluable disease were eligible. Treatment was cisplatin 100 mg/m(2) day 1 and 29, vinorelbine 25 mg/m(2) weekly for 8 weeks, followed by docetaxel 100 mg/m(2) every 21 days for four cycles if no progression. If grade IV neutropenia developed, G-CSF 5 mcg/kg/day was used in subsequent cycles. Of 18 eligible patients, 17 patients had stage IV disease with a median age of 66 years (range 48-80). Eight patients had a SWOG PS of 1, 10 had a PS of zero. Six of eighteen patients received all 8 weeks of vinorelbine/cisplatin and six of eight patients who went on to receive docetaxel received all four planned cycles; only two patients overall received all planned therapy. One grade III/IV event each of cardiotoxicity (myocardial infarction), renal toxicity (acute renal failure), anemia and thrombocytopenia occurred with vinorelbine and cisplatin, and 2 Grade IV hypersensitivity reactions, manifested by severe back pain with docetaxel occurred. Three deaths occurred during the study, all during treatment with vinorelbine and cisplatin: one due to neutropenic sepsis; one from a pulmonary embolism; and one secondary to severe hypoglycemia in a diabetic patient. Of the 16 patients evaluable for response after vinorelbine/cisplatin, there were two complete responses (12.5%) and three partial responses (19%) for an overall response rate of 31% (95% CI 8-58). One additional patient who received docetaxel experienced a partial response. Two patients remain alive (21+ and 18+ months, respectively). The 1-year survival was 44%.
This sequence, as defined, was tolerated marginally well in patients with advanced NSCLC. Granulocytopenia was the major toxicity requiring dose adjustments throughout the sequence. Based on response rates and tolerability that were somewhat comparable to other regimens in this disease setting, a modified version of this program, adjusted to decrease the incidence of grade III and IV toxicity, was selected as one arm of a recent randomized phase II trial in the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG), S9806, evaluating sequential therapy in advanced NSCLC.
It is generally assumed that inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-related carcinogenesis occurs as a result of chronic inflammation. We previously developed a novel colitis-related mouse colon carcinogenesis model initiated with azoxymethane (AOM) and followed by dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). In the present study we investigated whether a cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor nimesulide and ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), troglitazone (a PPARgamma ligand) and bezafibrate (a PPARalpha ligand) inhibit colitis-related colon carcinogenesis using our model to evaluate the efficacy of these drugs in prevention of IBD-related colon carcinogenesis.
Female CD-1 (ICR) mice were given a single intraperitoneal administration of AOM (10 mg/kg body weight) and followed by one-week oral exposure of 2% (w/v) DSS in drinking water, and then maintained on the basal diets mixed with or without nimesulide (0.04%, w/w), troglitazone (0.05%, w/w), and bezafibrate (0.05%, w/w) for 14 weeks. The inhibitory effects of dietary administration of these compounds were determined by histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses.
Feeding with nimesulide and troglitazone significantly inhibited both the incidence and multiplicity of colonic adenocarcinoma induced by AOM/DSS in mice. Bezafibrate feeding significantly reduced the incidence of colonic adenocarcinoma, but did not significantly lower the multiplicity. Feeding with nimesulide and troglitazone decreased the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-labeling index and expression of beta-catenin, COX-2, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and nitrotyrosine. The treatments increased the apoptosis index in the colonic adenocarcinoma. Feeding with bezafibrate also affected these parameters except for beta-catenin expression in the colonic malignancy.
Dietary administration of nimesulide, troglitazone and bezafibrate effectively suppressed the development of colonic epithelial malignancy induced by AOM/DSS in female ICR mice. The results suggest that COX-2 inhibitor and PPAR ligands could serve as an effective agent against colitis-related colon cancer development.
Metabolic syndrome is a cluster of common cardiovascular risk factors that includes hypertension and insulin resistance. Hypertension and diabetes mellitus are frequent comorbidities and, like metabolic syndrome, increase the risk of cardiovascular events. Telmisartan, an antihypertensive agent with evidence of partial peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor activity-gamma (PPARgamma) activity, may improve insulin sensitivity and lipid profile in patients with metabolic syndrome.
In a double-blind, parallel-group, randomized study, patients with World Health Organization criteria for metabolic syndrome received once-daily doses of telmisartan (80 mg, n = 20) or losartan (50 mg, n = 20) for 3 months. At baseline and end of treatment, fasting and postprandial plasma glucose, insulin sensitivity, glycosylated haemoglobin (HBA1c) and 24-hour mean systolic and diastolic blood pressures were determined.
Telmisartan, but not losartan, significantly (p < 0.05) reduced free plasma glucose, free plasma insulin, homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance and HbAic. Following treatment, plasma glucose and insulin were reduced during the oral glucose tolerance test by telmisartan, but not by losartan. Telmisartan also significantly reduced 24-hour mean systolic blood pressure (p < 0.05) and diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.05) compared with losartan.
As well as providing superior 24-hour blood pressure control, telmisartan, unlike losartan, displayed insulin-sensitizing activity, which may be explained by its partial PPARgamma activity.
Ketamine, a N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, may reduce postoperative opioid demand and improve postoperative analgesia.
Sixty-nine patients scheduled for lumbar disk surgery under general anaesthesia were enrolled in a randomised, double-blind study comparing three analgesic combinations that were started before surgical incision: morphine 0.1 mg kg(-1) alone (group M; n=23); ketamine 0.15 mg kg(-1) alone (group K; n=22); and a combination of morphine 0.1 mg kg(-1) with ketamine 0.15 mg kg(-1) (group KM; n=23). Postoperatively patient-controlled analgesia was provided with intravenous morphine. Morphine consumption was assessed during 24 H, and pain scores were measured using a visual analogue scale (VAS) at rest and on mobilisation, during the first two postoperative days.
In group KM, less i.v. morphine was administered in the post anaesthesia care unit than in group M (median [range]: 0mg [0-2] vs. 7 mg [6-9], P=0.009). Cumulative 24 H morphine consumption was reduced by 57% in group KM vs. group M, and by 48% in group KM vs. group K. Postoperative VAS scores were lower in group KM vs. groups K and M. Maximal VAS score on mobilization was reduced in group KM compared to groups K and M (38 mm [35-45] vs. 52 mm [48-59] and vs. 59 mm [55-64], in groups KM, K and M, respectively, P=0.05 and P=0.002). The incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting was decreased in group KM compared to group M (21.7% vs. 43.5%, P=0.001).
Ketamine small-dose, combined with morphine improves postoperative analgesia and reduces opioid-related side effects in lumbar disk surgery.
Doxorubicin is the most widely studied agent for the treatment of malignant mesothelioma. In conventional doses, the response rate is approximately 17%. Higher dose doxorubicin has been successfully employed in other tumor types. Dexrazoxane has been demonstrated to reduce the cardiac toxicity associated with long term, chronic use of doxorubicin. Based upon phase I data generated by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) indicating that doxorubicin at a dose of 120 mg/m(2) when combined with dexrazoxane and GM-CSF could be safely administered, the CALGB undertook a phase II study of high-dose doxorubicin in patients with malignant mesothelioma. Toxicity was excessive, necessitating protocol modification and ultimately protocol termination. There were no objective responses observed. We conclude that high-dose doxorubicin administered with dexrazoxane is unacceptably toxic in this patient population.
Rapid weight loss increases risk for gallstone formation. Prophylactic cholecystectomy is difficult. Several small trials have shown that ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) may prevent gallstone formation after bariatric surgery. The aim of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of UDCA in the prevention of gallstone formation after bariatric surgery.
Electronic databases, including the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Australasian Medical Index, LILACS, and HERDIN, were searched. Reference lists of trials selected by the above electronic searching were also searched. Authors of the retrieved trials and pharmaceutical companies were also contacted for other trials, published and unpublished. A meta-analysis of all randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled prospective trials comparing UDCA and placebo was performed.
Five RCTs including 521 patients were assessed. Random effects meta-analysis showed a significant reduction of gallstone formation (RR 0.43, 95% confidence interval 0.22-0.83), with 8.8% of those taking UDCA developing gallstones compared to 27.7% for placebo. Although this meta-analysis is heterogeneous with I(2) of 61.9%, the directions of the effect are all consistently in favor of UDCA (p=0.01). A meta-analysis on the adverse effects could not be performed because the studies did not report them in a way to make the analysis possible.
UDCA can prevent gallstone formation after bariatric surgery.
Fatal cardiomyopathy developed in two patients receiving cyclophosphamide in preparation for bone marrow transplantation. Both patients had normal EKGs prior to receiving cyclophosphamide in total doses of 168 mg/kg (case 1) and 144 mg/kg (case 2) and subsequently developed loss of voltage and ST-T wave changes. One patient (case 1) died of CHF and hypotension while the other patient (case 2) developed tamponade. Prior to this report, the lowest total dose of cyclophosphamide reported to cause fatal cardiomyopathy was 180 mg/kg. In contrast to anthracycline congestive cardiomyopathy, the effects of cyclophosphamide appear to have an acute onset and do not appear to be the cumulative result of drug dosing. Postmortem examination in both patients revealed thickened left ventricles with intramyocardial hemorrhage.
