It is known that beta-adrenoceptor antagonists are effective in the treatment of akathisia, one of the extrapyramidal side effects that occur during neuroleptic treatment. Neuroleptic-induced catalepsy, a model of neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal side effects, was considered suitable as a model for predicting neuroleptic-induced akathisia in humans, although neuroleptic-induced catalepsy was not considered a specific test for neuroleptic-induced akathisia. Therefore, the effects of carteolol, a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist, on haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats were behaviorally studied and compared with those of propranolol and biperiden, a muscarinic receptor antagonist. Carteolol, as well as propranolol and biperiden, inhibited the haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The inhibitory effect of carteolol was almost comparable to that of propranolol, but was weaker than that of biperiden. Carteolol did not evoke postsynaptic dopamine receptor-stimulating behavioral signs such as stereotypy and hyperlocomotion in rats. Carteolol did not antagonize the inhibitory effects of haloperidol on apomorphine-induced stereotypy and locomotor activity in rats. In addition, carteolol did not evoke 5-HT1A receptor-stimulating behavioral signs such as flat body posture and forepaw treading and did not inhibit 5-hydroxytryptophan-induced head twitch in rats. Finally, carteolol did not inhibit physostigmine-induced lethality in rats. These results strongly suggest that carteolol improves haloperidol-induced catalepsy via its beta-adrenoceptor antagonistic activity and is expected to be effective in the treatment of akathisia without attenuating neuroleptic-induced antipsychotic effects due to its postsynaptic dopamine receptor antagonistic activity.
Increased hippocampal excitability constitutes a pathogenetic hallmark of pharmacoresistant human temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) can be subdivided into three classes based on sequence homologies, mechanisms of signal transduction as well as pharmacological characteristics. Generally, class I mGluRs mediate neuronal excitation whereas activation of class II and III mGluRs decreases synaptic transmission. Changes in expression of class I and III mGluR subunits have been described in human TLE. It remains to be determined whether altered mGluR expression relates to differences in seizure susceptibility or hippocampal damage. Here, we examine the transcription levels of mGluRs class I (mGluR1 and 5) and III (mGluR4 and 7) in experimental TLE and correlate differential mGluR subunit expression with mouse-strain-dependent susceptibility to TLE induced by pilocarpine. Expression of mGluRs 1, 4, 5 and 7 was determined in epileptic dentate gyrus granule cells (DG) in CD1, C57BL/6 and FVB/N mice by real time RT-PCR. FVB/N mice appear significantly more vulnerable to pilocarpine-induced seizures than C57BL/6 and CD1 strains. RT-PCR analysis demonstrates an increased expression of inhibitory mGluR 4 and downregulation of excitatory mGluR 1 in epileptic CD1 mice and a decrease of the excitatory mGluRs 1 and 5 in C57BL/6 (p<0.05, n=6 each) but not in the FVB/N strain. These results correlate differential expression of excitatory class mGluR I and inhibitory class mGluR III to seizure susceptibility and hippocampal damage. Our data suggest mGluRs class I and III as interesting potential therapeutic targets to interfere with hippocampal epileptogenesis and hyperexcitability.
Information on the kinetics of the pretreatment steady-state of HBV can be obtained from serial measurements of serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA concentrations following lamivudine ((-)enantiomer of 3'-thiacytidine)-induced perturbation of the balance between virus production and clearance.
In a placebo-controlled, dose-ranging trial, lamivudine (5 to 600 mg per day) was administered for 4 weeks to 17 patients with chronic replicative hepatitis B. Serum HBV DNA levels were quantified by standard liquid hybridization techniques. The time-dependent concentrations of serum HBV DNA following lamivudine administration were subjected to iterative least-squares regression in order to obtain kinetic data on HBV life-time and viremia.
In patients with stable HBe-antigen positive chronic hepatitis B responding to lamivudine, HBV DNA declined exponentially with a half-life of approximately 2-3 days. The minimum virus production and clearance per day in patients with chronic hepatitis B was calculated to be 6.09 x 10(11) virions/day (range 0.26 to 21.06 x 10(11) virions/day). Compared to the HBeAg levels before treatment, relative amounts of HBeAg were 1.00 +/- 0.16 and 0.96 +/- 0.20 at days 22 and 28 of treatment, respectively. Four weeks after termination of lamivudine treatment, the relative amount of HBeAg was 1.04 +/- 0.19.
The half-life of HBV in chronically infected patients is longer and in vivo turnover rates are higher compared to recently published data on the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and the hepatitis C virus. The constant expression of HBeAg observed in the present study during a 28-day lamivudine treatment period does not allow calculation of a definite decay rate for virus-producing cells. Our data, however, imply that the minimum half-life of infected cells may exceed 100 days.
Succinyladenosine and succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide riboside were found in body fluids from 3 children, including a brother and sister, with severe psychomotor delay and autism. Both succinylpurines were identified by acid hydrolysis, anion-exchange chromatography, and ultraviolet spectrophotometry. Concentrations of both compounds were around 100 mumol/l in cerebrospinal fluid, between 5 and 10 mumol/l in plasma, and in the mmol/l range in urine. Succinylpurines were undetectable in cerebrospinal fluid and plasma from controls but there might be trace amounts in normal urine. The compounds are dephosphorylated derivatives of the intracellular metabolites adenylosuccinate and succinylaminoimidazole carboxamide ribotide, the two substrates of adenylosuccinase (adenylosuccinate lyase, EC 4.3.2.2). Their presence indicates a deficiency of this enzyme, which is involved in both de novo synthesis of purines and the formation of adenosine monophosphate from inosine monophosphate. Assays in one patient revealed markedly decreased adenylosuccinase activity in the liver and absence of activity in the kidney. The accumulation of both succinylpurines in the cerebrospinal fluid suggests that there is also a deficiency of this enzyme in the brain and that it may be the basic defect in a subgroup of children with genetically determined autism.
The efficacy and safety of carvedilol, a beta-blocker with vasodilatory properties, were compared with that of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) both at a once-daily dose of 25-50 mg in a double-blind, randomized, parallel-group, multicenter study. Following a single-blind placebo phase of 3-6 weeks, 201 eligible patients (aged 27-88 years) were randomized to receive 8 weeks of treatment with either carvedilol or HCTZ, 25 mg doubling to 50 mg at week 4 if the respone was inadequate. Sitting and standing blood pressure and heart rate were recorded 2 h after the first dose and 24 h postdose at weeks 4 and 8. The analysis included 179 patients (11 having withdrawn, including 5 for adverse events, and 11 excluded for protocol violations). There were no statistically or clinically significant differences between treatment groups. Eighty-six percent of patients in the carvedilol group and 88% in the HCTZ group had an 8-week sitting diastolic blood pressure less than or equal to 90 mm Hg or decreased by greater than or equal to 10 mm Hg. Safety profiles were similar for both agents, with a tendency to lower uric acid and total cholesterol levels with carvedilol. Carvedilol and HCTZ at doses compared in this study have similar efficacy and tolerability, with laboratory evidence to suggest a more favorable metabolic profile for carvedilol.
Strategies effective for accelerating methotrexate removal in delayed methotrexate excretion have not been universally accepted. The authors report a case of a 12-year-old girl with osteosarcoma who developed acute renal failure immediately after the first administration of high-dose methotrexate. Plasma methotrexate was effectively removed with repeated charcoal hemoperfusion in addition to plasma exchange and leucovorin rescue. Charcoal hemoperfusion was most effective for reducing plasma methotrexate with approximately 50% of methotrexate being reduced during each of the procedures. No rebound increase in MTX levels was observed. The patient received further therapy with other cancer drugs and has been well for 3.5 years.
Furan is toxic and carcinogenic in rodents. Because of the large potential for human exposure, furan is classified as a possible human carcinogen. The detailed mechanism by which furan causes toxicity and cancer is not yet known. Since furan toxicity requires cytochrome P450-catalyzed oxidation of furan, we have characterized the urinary and hepatocyte metabolites of furan to gain insight into the chemical nature of the reactive intermediate. Previous studies in hepatocytes indicated that furan is oxidized to the reactive α,β-unsaturated dialdehyde, cis-2-butene-1,4-dial (BDA), which reacts with glutathione (GSH) to form 2-(S-glutathionyl)succinaldehyde (GSH-BDA). This intermediate forms pyrrole cross-links with cellular amines such as lysine and glutamine. In this article, we demonstrate that GSH-BDA also forms cross-links with ornithine, putrescine, and spermidine when furan is incubated with rat hepatocytes. The relative levels of these metabolites are not completely explained by hepatocellular levels of the amines or by their reactivity with GSH-BDA. Mercapturic acid derivatives of the spermidine cross-links were detected in the urine of furan-treated rats, which indicates that this metabolic pathway occurs in vivo. Their detection in furan-treated hepatocytes and in urine from furan-treated rats indicates that polyamines may play an important role in the toxicity of furan.
TP53 has been described as a prognostic factor in many malignancies, including breast cancer. Whether it also might be a predictive factor with reference to chemo- and endocrine therapy is more controversial.
We investigated relapse-free (RFS), breast cancer-corrected (BCCS) and overall survival (OS) related to TP53 status in node-positive breast cancer patients that had received polychemotherapy [cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil (CMF)] and/or endocrine therapy (tamoxifen). Sequence analyses of the whole TP53 coding region was performed in 376 patients operated on for primary breast cancer with axillary lymph node metastases between 1984 and 1989 (median follow-up time 84 months).
TP53 mutations were found in 105 patients (28%). We found 90 (82%) of the 110 mutations in the more frequently analysed exons 5-8, while the other 20 (18%) were located in exons 3-4 and 9-10, respectively. Univariate analyses showed TP53 to be a significant prognostic factor with regard to RFS, BCCS and OS in patients who received adjuvant CMF.
TP53 mutations might induce resistance to certain modalities of breast cancer therapy. Sequence-determined TP53 mutation was of negative prognostic value in the total patient population and in the CMF treated patients.
The aim of this study is to determine whether the inhibition of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 enzyme activity with telithromycin affects the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of orally administered oxycodone in a randomized 2-phase crossover study. Eleven healthy subjects were pretreated with 800 mg of oral telithromycin or placebo for 4 days. On day 3, they ingested 10 mg of immediate-release oxycodone. Plasma concentrations of oxycodone and its oxidative metabolites were measured for 48 hours, and pharmacodynamic effects were evaluated. Telithromycin increased the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC(0-infinity)) of oxycodone by 80% (P < .001) and reduced the AUC(0-infinity) of noroxycodone by 46% (P < .001). Most of the pharmacokinetic changes were seen in the elimination phase, with little effect by telithromycin on the peak concentration of oxycodone. Pharmacodynamic effects of oxycodone were modestly enhanced by telithromycin. In conclusion, telithromycin clearly reduces the N-demethylation of oxycodone to noroxycodone by inhibiting the CYP450 3A4 enzyme. The use of telithromycin in patients receiving multiple doses of oxycodone for pain relief may increase the risk of opioid adverse effects. Reduction of oxycodone dose by 25% to 50% followed by readjustment according to the clinical response might be appropriate.
Adverse effects of thiopurine drugs occur in 15-28% of patients and the majority is not explained by thiopurine-S-methyltransferase deficiency. Furthermore, approximately 9% of patients with inflammatory bowel disease are resistant to azathioprine therapy. Recently, the small guanosine triphosphatase, Rac1, was identified as an important molecular target of 6-thioguanine triphosphate, one of the active metabolite of thiopurines such as azathioprine. To date, no functional genetic polymorphism of the human Rac1 gene had been reported.
Evidence for functional genetic polymorphisms of the human Rac1 gene and to investigate their relative contribution to the development of toxicity induced by azathioprine treatment in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
We first screened for polymorphisms in the Rac1 gene in genomic DNA samples from 92 unrelated Caucasian individuals. The functional consequences of identified polymorphisms were assessed in vitro using transient transfection assays in Jurkat and A549 cell lines. The relationship between polymorphisms of Rac1 and thiopurine response or hematotoxicity was studied in 128 patients under thiopurine treatment.
Three single nucleotide polymorphism and one variable number tandem repeat were identified in the promoter region of Rac1 gene. Interestingly, in Jurkat T cells, the c.-289G>C substitution and c.-283_-297[3] variable number tandem repeat displayed a significantly increased promoter activity (P<0.01) of 150 and 300%, respectively, compared with that of the wild-type sequence. Patients with thiopurine-S-methyltransferase mutations presented a significantly increased probability of developing hematotoxicity (odds ratio=5.68, 95% confidence interval=1.45-22.23, P=0.00625). Moreover, among the 75 patients who did not develop hematotoxicity, there was a marginally overrepresentation of functional genetic polymorphisms of Rac1 (odds ratio=0.18, 95% confidence interval=0.02-1.49, P=0.079).
This study constitutes the first report of a functional genetic polymorphism that could affect Rac1 expression and thus modulate the risk of adverse drug reaction in patients under thiopurine treatment. A larger scale (case-control) study should enable us to confirm or cancel these preliminary results.
The organochlorine pesticide methoxychlor (MXC) is a known endocrine disruptor that affects adult rodent females by causing reduced fertility, persistent estrus, and ovarian atrophy. Since MXC is also known to target antral follicles, the major producer of sex steroids in the ovary, the present study was designed to test the hypothesis that MXC decreases estradiol (E₂) levels by altering steroidogenic and metabolic enzymes in the antral follicles. To test this hypothesis, antral follicles were isolated from CD-1 mouse ovaries and cultured with either dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) or MXC. Follicle growth was measured every 24 h for 96 h. In addition, sex steroid hormone levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) and mRNA expression levels of steroidogenic enzymes as well as the E₂ metabolic enzyme Cyp1b1 were measured using qPCR. The results indicate that MXC decreased E₂, testosterone, androstenedione, and progesterone (P₄) levels compared to DMSO. In addition, MXC decreased expression of aromatase (Cyp19a1), 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (Hsd17b1), 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-lyase (Cyp17a1), 3β hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 1 (Hsd3b1), cholesterol side-chain cleavage (Cyp11a1), steroid acute regulatory protein (Star), and increased expression of Cyp1b1 enzyme levels. Thus, these data suggest that MXC decreases steroidogenic enzyme levels, increases metabolic enzyme expression and this in turn leads to decreased sex steroid hormone levels.
Of 13 patients with complex partial seizures who experienced stuporous states during treatment with sodium valproate (VPA), 4 received VPA only, 4 VPA and phenobarbital (PB) and 5 VPA, PB, and a third anticonvulsant. Seven cases were described in detail. Side effects-stupor or confusion-appeared a few days after efficacious drug plasma levels were attained, persisted until therapy was readjusted, and disappeared 24 to 72 h after VPA withdrawal. Therapeutic trials established the role of VPA in the onset of stuporous states. The adverse effects of VPA were potentiated by the concomitant administration of other anticonvulsants. Stupor was not due to VPA overdoses, and plasma concentration of the drugs were not correlated with the electroclinical signs. The EEG showed spike and wave discharges or continuous sharp theta and delta waves persisting during VPA treatment. The fact that all 13 stuporous, VPA-treated patients were subjected to partial seizures with complex symptomatology, and none were cases of generalized epilepsy, together with the observations that the disturbances of consciousness started with focal symptoms and EEG signs resembling those of spontaneously occurring partial seizures, suggest that VPA given alone or in association with other antiepileptics has a paradoxical epileptogenic effect in certain forms of epilepsy.
The use of hormonal therapies for the treatment of breast cancer is common, yet few studies have examined the possible cognitive effects. Several regions of the brain, important in memory and cognition, are rich in oestrogen receptors. As a result, the long-term use of anti-oestrogens may have potential consequences for cognition. This project aims to establish whether significant cognitive deficit exists in women receiving hormone therapy for breast cancer and to develop a cognitive package that is sensitive to the potential effects of oestrogen deficiency on cognition. Cognitive assessments measured a range of memory and attention functions in patient and control groups to identify whether cognitive impairment, if apparent, occurs at a widespread or function specific level. Ninety-four patients from the anastrozole, tamoxifen and combined (ATAC) trial and 35 non-cancer controls were assessed. Groups did not differ significantly in age or estimated full-scale intelligence. The patient group did not differ from controls on measures of working memory, attention and visual memory but was significantly impaired compared to the control group on measures of verbal memory (P=0.026) and processing speed (P=0.032). Cognitive performance in the patient group was not significantly related to length of time on trial or measures of psychological morbidity. As more and more hormonal agents are used in clinical trials of both adjuvant and preventive settings it is of vital importance that any potentially deleterious effects on cognitive function are measured adequately. Preliminary results from this study suggest that anti-oestrogen therapy may cause a specific deficit in verbal memory that corroborates the links between oestrogen levels and verbal memory often reported in studies of the cognitive benefits of hormone replacement therapy.
Retinoic acid (RA) is a potent teratogen in all vertebrates when tight homeostatic controls on its endogenous dose, location, or timing are perturbed during early embryogenesis. STRA6 encodes an integral cell-membrane protein that favors RA uptake from soluble retinol-binding protein; its transcription is directly regulated by RA levels. Molecular analysis of STRA6 was undertaken in two human fetuses from consanguineous families we previously described with Matthew-Wood syndrome in a context of severe microphthalmia, pulmonary agenesis, bilateral diaphragmatic eventration, duodenal stenosis, pancreatic malformations, and intrauterine growth retardation. The fetuses had either a homozygous insertion/deletion in exon 2 or a homozygous insertion in exon 7 predicting a premature stop codon in STRA6 transcripts. Five other fetuses presenting at least one of the two major signs of clinical anophthalmia or pulmonary hypoplasia with at least one of the two associated signs of diaphragmatic closure defect or cardiopathy had no STRA6 mutations. These findings suggest a molecular basis for the prenatal manifestations of Matthew-Wood syndrome and suggest that phenotypic overlap with other associations may be due to genetic heterogeneity of elements common to the RA- and fibroblast growth factor-signaling cascades.
This study investigated preserved memory in 26 pediatric cancer patients (65% boys, 77% Caucasian, mean age = 12.5 years) undergoing midazolam-induced conscious sedation during painful medical procedures to treat hematological or oncological diseases. The sedative midazolam had a significant anterograde amnesic effect on participants' performance on a visual recognition (explicit) memory task but not on a visual perceptual facilitation (implicit) memory task. That implicit memory scores were relatively unaffected while explicit memory scores deteriorated significantly indicates that leaning occurred while participants were sedated, even when participants did not recollect the learning event. These findings, which replicate those of M. R. Polster, R. A. McCarthy, G. O'Sullivan, P. A. Gray, and G. R. Park (1993) in a study of adults, have implications for the development and treatment of conditioned anxiety reactions associated with aversive medical procedures.
To investigate pathogenesis of post-bile duct (BD) injury fibrosis, interlobular BD epithelial injury was induced in male F344 rats by a single IP injection of α-naphthylisothiocyanate (75 mg/kg body weight) and rats were observed for 12 days. On days 1 to 2, cholangiocytes were injured and desquamated. On days 3 to 5, the affected BD began to regenerate, showing positive staining for CK19 and vimentin. On days 5 to 9, fibrotic areas gradually developed around regenerating BD in Glisson's sheath. These consisted of cells positive for vimentin, desmin, and α-SMA; vimentin- and desmin-positive cells were increased in early stage (days 1-3), whereas α-SMA-positive cells appeared in mid (days 4-7) and late stages (days 8-12), although there were cells coexpressing these cytoskeletons. On day 12, BD regeneration almost completed, with reduced fibrosis. Macrophages positive for ED2 (CD163) increased transiently in early stage, whereas those reacting to ED1 (CD68), OX6 (MHC II), and SRA-E5 (CD204) showed a consistent increase throughout the experiment. Interestingly, OX6-positive cells were limited to Glisson's sheath, whereas SRA-E5-positive cells were seen exclusively along sinusoids of hepatic lobules. MCP-1 mRNA increased significantly in early stage. This study shows that macrophages exhibiting different immunophenotypes and distributions participate in post-BD injury fibrosis associated with myofibroblasts expressing various mesenchymal cytoskeletons.
We have examined the effects of nitric oxide donors and acrylamide on mesenchymal progenitor cell (hMPC) viability, programmed cell death (PCD) and differentiation. Acrylamide was examined at 0.5mM and 1.5mM concentrations, NOC-18 at 10μM and SNP at 100μM. Cell viability was assayed with MTS, PCD was determined by phosphatidylserine, caspase-9 and -3/7 and mitochondrial membrane potential assays, and osteogenic cell differentiation was evaluated by alkaline phosphatase activity (ALP) and mRNA levels for collagen type I, bone sialoprotein, ostepontin and osteocalcin. Serum-free hMPC cultures treated with 1.5mM acrylamide and SNP for 72h demonstrated reduced viability. PCD analyses revealed that SNP stimulated cells to necrosis in reactive species-dependent manner. Acrylamide (1.5mM) led to apoptosis independent of reactive species. Acrylamide and SNP reduced ALP activity and collagen type I mRNA levels but mRNA levels for bone sialoprotein and osteopontin increased in SNP treated cells and remained unchanged in acrylamide. Acrylamide had no effect on guanylate cyclase and cGMP osteogenic signaling pathway. The study suggests that acrylamide might impair bone development and remodeling upon acute or prolonged intoxication with this compound of mesenchymal cells.
Intracranial hemorrhage may be a particularly devastating complication of anticoagulant therapy. Very few accounts have reported data on the duration of anticoagulant discontinuation following intracranial hemorrhage or the intensity of anticoagulation during treatment for it, although we must adequately manage such a complication.
We analyzed the management of warfarin-related intracranial hemorrhages in 27 patients with cardiac diseases. We evaluated the degree of anticoagulation using the thrombotest. Anticoagulants were stopped as soon as the diagnosis of intracranial hemorrhage was established by computed tomographic scan.
Mechanical valve prosthesis patients, who required intensive long-term anticoagulant therapy, constituted the majority of our series (74.1%). Intraoperative hemostasis was brought under control despite low thrombotest values (13%-68%) at the time of surgery except for the acute subdural hematoma (SDH) patients with cerebral contusion. Early resumption of anticoagulant therapy (within 3 days) did not cause intracranial rebleeding in any operative patient. All the chronic SDH patients and some of the subcortical hematoma patients had a good outcome. All three patients with acute SDH and contusion, however, had a fatal outcome because of intracranial rebleeding within a short period of time or ineffective intraoperative hemostasis.
The patients with anticoagulant-related intracranial hemorrhage may undergo surgery with thrombotest values approximately between 20% and 60%, and anticoagulants can be resumed after an interval of 3 days. Aggressive surgery should particularly be performed in patients with anticoagulation-related chronic SDH or subcortical hemorrhage, as in the cases of anticoagulant-unrelated intracranial hemorrhage.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), a hydrophilic bile acid, has been shown to inhibit mitogenic signaling and suppressing cell proliferation in colonic tumorigenesis. The transcription of DLC1 (deleted in liver cancer), a tumor suppressor gene, is frequently silenced in various types of human cancer. In this study, we postulated that UDCA may inhibit DLC1 protein degradation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, and increased DLC1 expression may suppress HCC cell growth. Human HCC cell lines were used in this study. The methylation status was measured by methylation-specific PCR following sodium bisulfite treatment. Cell proliferation was assessed using an MTS assay. Kinase signaling cascades were evaluated by immunoblot analysis. For assessing ubiquitination, immunoprecipitation analysis was used. To inhibit cellular protein, specific small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) were transfected into cells. DLC1 protein levels increased over time following UDCA treatment. Specifically, UDCA increased the half-life of the DLC1 protein by inhibiting proteasomal degradation of DLC1 without affecting ubiquitination of the DLC1 protein. In addition, HCC cell growth was suppressed following UDCA treatment and this growth suppression was significantly reversed following transfection with DLC1-siRNA. Inhibition of DLC1 increased cellular proliferation; this was reduced after Rho-inhibitor treatment. Finally, RhoA activity was reduced following UDCA treatment; this result was reversed and thus increased following DLC1-siRNA transfection. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that UDCA induces DLC1 protein expression by inhibiting proteasomal DLC1 degradation in a ubiquitin-independent manner, and that DLC1 induction participates in UDCA-induced suppression of HCC cell growth. These observations implicate UDCA as an anti-proliferative agent in HCC.
Androgen receptors (ARs) are overexpressed in normal tissues and in most primary and metastatic prostate cancers. In our efforts to develop a nonsteroidal AR-specific imaging agent, we synthesized (+/-)-3-[(76)Br]bromo-hydroxyflutamide ((76)Br-), an analog of hydroxyflutamide, the active metabolite of the AR antagonist ligand flutamide.
(76)Br- was synthesized in three steps, starting with commercially available compounds. Labeling of (76)Br- was achieved through the nucleophilic opening of an epoxide intermediate, and a labeled compound was obtained in high specific activity and good radiochemical yield.
(+/-)-3-Bromo-hydroxyflutamide has a significantly higher affinity for ARs compared to hydroxyflutamide, its parent compound. The androgen target-tissue uptake of (76)Br- in diethylstilbestrol-treated male rats was examined; however, AR-mediated uptake was minimal due most likely to the rapid metabolic debromination of the radiolabeled ligand.
This study is part of our first look at a novel class of nonsteroidal AR antagonists as positron emission tomography (PET) imaging agents, which are alternatives to steroidal AR agonist-based imaging agents. Although (76)Br- has a significant affinity for ARs, it showed limited promise as a PET imaging agent because of its poor target-tissue distribution properties.
It has been hypothesised that polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) play an important role in the aetiology of schizophrenia and depression. Evidence supporting this hypothesis for schizophrenia includes abnormal brain phospholipid turnover shown by 31P Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy, increased levels of phospholipase A2, reduced niacin skin flush response, abnormal electroretinogram, and reduced cell membrane levels of n-3 and n-6 PUFA. In depression, there is strong epidemiological evidence that fish consumption reduces risk of becoming depressed and evidence that cell membrane levels of n-3 PUFA are reduced. Four out of five placebo-controlled double- blind trials of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) in the treatment of schizophrenia have given positive findings. In depression, two placebo-controlled trials have shown a strong therapeutic effect of ethyl-EPA added to existing medication. The mode of action of EPA is currently not known, but recent evidence suggests that arachidonic acid (AA) if of particular importance in schizophrenia and that clinical improvement in schizophrenic patients using EPA treatment correlates with changes in AA.
Myocarditis has in several case reports been associated with use of clozapine. Eight cases of myocarditis during treatment with clozapine that were submitted to the Swedish Adverse Drug Reaction Advisory Committee and 18 cases that were reported in the literature are summarized. As part of the routine signal detection process on the World Health Organization (WHO) Program on International Drug Monitoring database, which contains more than two million case reports of spontaneously reported suspected adverse drug reactions, a Bayesian confidence propagation neural network (BCPNN) is used. This article also shows the retrospective output of the BCPNN over time for clozapine and myocarditis and discusses its implications. In 19 (79%; duration of treatment not stated for 2 patients) of 24 patients with myocarditis, the symptoms occurred within the first 6 weeks of clozapine treatment. Many patients shared a similar clinical course, with symptoms such as an influenza-like illness, fever, sinus tachycardia, hypotension, chest discomfort, and heart failure. The reaction was fatal in 12 (46%) of these patients. The other patients generally had a prompt recovery. By using the BCPNN technique, a quantitative association between clozapine and myocarditis was demonstrated, and the association might have been high-lighted for clinical review in 1994 had this BCPNN method been in use at the WHO center at the time. Myocarditis seems to be a rare and potentially lethal adverse effect of clozapine. Admittance for observation, interruption of the clozapine treatment, and treatment with corticosteroids should be considered for patients in whom this reaction is suspected.
Antipsychotic drug treatment increases neurotensin (NT) neurotransmission, and the exogenous administration of NT produces antipsychotic-like effects in rodents. In order to investigate whether "endogenous" NT may act as a natural occurring antipsychotic or may mediate antipsychotic drug activity, the effects of the selective NT receptor antagonists SR 48692 and SR 142948A were analyzed in different behavioural tests of locomotor activity using vehicle, amphetamine, or haloperidol in mice. SR 48692 (0.1-1 mg/kg, i.p.) and SR 142948A (0.03-0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) failed to affect mouse spontaneous locomotor activity and amphetamine-induced (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) hyper-locomotion. However, SR 48692 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) and SR 142948A (0.03 and 0.05 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly alleviated the reduction of locomotor activity elicited by haloperidol (0.01 and 0.04 mg/kg, s.c.) in vehicle- or amphetamine-treated mice. Finally, SR 48692 (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.) and SR 142948A (0.05 and 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) increased mouse catalepsy produced by haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.). The present results indicate that while endogenous NT is not involved in the modulation of either mouse spontaneous locomotor activity or amphetamine-induced hyper-locomotion, it might act by enhancing the therapeutic effects of haloperidol and by attenuating the extrapyramidal side effects elicited by this antipsychotic.
