Recombinant Factor VIIa decreases hematoma growth after spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and rapidly decreases international normalized ratios in patients on warfarin but is also associated with an increased risk for thromboembolic complications. In this study, we assessed the risk of thromboembolic events in patients receiving recombinant Factor VIIa after ICH associated with warfarin treatment.
We reviewed the medical charts, laboratory data, and radiological findings of consecutive patients with anticoagulation-related hemorrhages of the central nervous system who received recombinant Factor VIIa at Mayo Clinic Rochester and Mayo Clinic Florida between 2002 and 2009. The primary end point was the frequency of new thromboembolic events, including myocardial infarction, deep vein thrombosis, ischemic stroke, and pulmonary embolism.
We identified 101 patients; 54% had ICH and 30% subdural hematomas. The most common indications for anticoagulation were atrial fibrillation, deep vein thrombosis, and prosthetic valve. Thirteen patients (12.8%) had new thromboembolic events (10 deep vein thromboses and 3 ischemic strokes) within 90 days after recombinant Factor VIIa administration. Eight of these adverse events occurred within 2 weeks of treatment. In patients with ICH, the rate of thromboembolic complications was 5% and all events were venous.
The risk of thromboembolic events in patients who received recombinant Factor VIIa for anticoagulation-associated ICH was not higher than that seen in patients treated for spontaneous ICH in the Factor Seven for Acute Hemorrhagic Stroke (FAST) trial. Spontaneous deep vein thrombosis was the most common complication in our series.
Antiarrhythmic agents may induce ventricular arrhythmias. Whereas amiodarone is a reported cause of ventricular fibrillation in children, there are no reported cases in infants. We observed two patients with atrial flutter and congestive heart failure who were treated with amiodarone. Both had anatomic heart defects and had failed conventional therapy. Ventricular fibrillation occurred 3 and 12 days after the initial dose. Q-T interval, electrolytes, digoxin level, and amiodarone level (one patient) were normal. Amiodarone may provoke life-threatening ventricular tachyarrhythmias during the convalescent period. Consideration should be given to monitoring in a hospital setting for at least 2 weeks following initiation of amiodarone therapy.
In this randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover trial of 42 human subjects, we examined the speed of onset of cutaneous anesthesia by eutectic mixture of local anesthetics (EMLA) cream after brief (approximately 10-s) pretreatment of the underlying skin with low-frequency (55 kHz) ultrasound. Four treatments were compared: ultrasound pretreatment followed by application of 1 g EMLA or placebo cream for 5 min, 10 min, 15 min, and 60 min without ultrasound pretreatment as positive control. Pain was tested by pricks with a 20 g needle. Pain scores and patient preference for EMLA or placebo cream were measured at each time point. Based on both pain scores and patient preference, cutaneous anesthesia was achieved in the EMLA groups as compared with placebo at all time points. After ultrasound pretreatment and then 5, 10, or 15 min after EMLA cream application, pain scores and overall preference were statistically indistinguishable from EMLA cream application for 60 min (without ultrasound pretreatment). There were no significant adverse effects. Low-frequency ultrasound pretreatment appears to be safe and effective in producing rapid onset of EMLA cream in this model, with results as early as 5 min.
A prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial demonstrated rapid onset of cutaneous anesthesia by pretreatment of the skin with ultrasound before application of EMLA cream.
Treatment with warfarin sodium is effective for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation but many physicians hesitate to prescribe it to elderly patients presumably because of the associated risk for bleeding and the inconvenience of frequent blood tests for the patients.
In the Second Copenhagen Atrial Fibrillation, Aspirin, and Anticoagulation (AFASAK 2) Study, we studied the rate of bleeding events associated with the incidence of thromboembolic events in patients receiving warfarin sodium, 1.25 mg/d; warfarin sodium, 1.25 mg/d, plus aspirin, 300 mg/d; aspirin, 300 mg/d; or adjusted-dose warfarin therapy aiming at an international normalized ratio of the prothrombin time ratio (INR) of 2.0 to 3.0. The study was scheduled for 6 years from May 1, 1993, but owing to evidence of inefficiency of low-intensity therapy plus aspirin from another study it was prematurely terminated on October 2, 1996. Minor and major bleeding events were recorded prospectively. The rate of bleeding was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method and risk factors were identified by the Cox proportional hazards model.
Of 677 included patients, 130 (median age, 77 years; range, 67-89 years) experienced bleeding. One woman and 12 men experienced major bleeding. Four had intracranial bleeding: 2 cases were fatal and 2 were nonfatal. During treatment with mini-dose warfarin, warfarin plus aspirin, aspirin, and adjusted-dose warfarin, the annual rate of major bleeding was 0.8%, 0.3%, 1.4%, and 1.1%, respectively (P = .20). After 3 years of treatment the cumulative rate of any bleeding was 24.7%, 24.4%, 30.0%, and 41.1% (P = .003), respectively. Increasing INRvalue (P<.001) and prior myocardial infarction (P = .001) were independent risk factors for bleeding, whereas increasing age was not.
Fixed mini-dose warfarin and aspirin alone or in combination were associated with both minor and major bleeding. The small number of major bleeding events in patients receiving adjusted-dose warfarin therapy as compared with those receiving less intensive antithrombotic treatments and the finding of no significant influence of age on the risk for bleeding indicate that even elderly patients with atrial fibrillation tolerate adjusted-dose warfarin therapy (INR, 2.0-3.0).
We have studied the incidence of new intraoperative myocardial ischaemia (IMI), myocardial infarction (MI) and cardiac death (CD) in 500 consecutive patients undergoing elective major non-cardiac vascular surgery. Patients were allocated randomly to receive either halothane (n = 226) or isoflurane (n = 274) as principal anaesthetic agent. Using real-time ST segment trend analysis (leads V5 and II) IMI (halothane 39%, isoflurane 38%), MI (halothane 1.3%, isoflurane 1.5%) and CD (halothane 0.4%, isoflurane 0.7%) did not differ significantly between the two groups. Twenty-three per cent of IMI episodes were related to haemodynamic disturbances, but unrelated to the type of surgery: 148 supra-aortic (IMI = 39%), 244 abdominal aortic (IMI = 41%) and 108 lower extremity revascularizations (IMI = 33%). We conclude that the choice of volatile anaesthetic agent does not influence cardiac morbidity or mortality in this type of patient.
A patient with acute hemolytic anemia and a positive direct antiglobulin test was found to be Jk(a + b +) with anti-Jka in her serum. For 2 weeks prior to admission, the patient had taken chlorpropamide, a hypoglycemic agent. The drug was discontinued upon the diagnosis of hemolytic anemia, and the hemoglobin concentration gradually increased. When chlorpropamide was added to the patient's serum in vitro, it enhanced the reactivity of the anti-Jka, and 40 days posttransfusion, the serum would only react with Jk(a+) red cells when chlorpropamide was present. These findings suggest that a chlorpropamide-dependent antibody with Jka specificity had formed. We do not know why the antibody induced by chlorpropamide reacted preferentially with Jk(a+) red cells.
Strychnine-insensitive glycine site is one of a few binding sites of NMDA receptor complex. The aim of these study was to find out whether compounds regarded as glycine antagonists-kynurenic acid (KA), 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CKA), 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (5,7-DCKA) evoke the effects analogous to those of the NMDA receptor antagonist, CGP 37849 (or MK-801) and/or can modulate the effects of the last compounds in rats. KA (but not 7-CKA, given ip) inhibited electroshock-induced seizures and increased the anticonvulsant effect of CGP 37849. CGP 37849-induced locomotor hyperactivity was enhanced by KA, 7-CKA (icv but not ip) and 5,7-DCKA. D-Amphetamine-induced hyperactivity was inhibited by KA as well as 7-CKA. In monoamine-depleted rats 7-CKA (but not KA) increased the antiakinetic effect of clonidine; the antiakinetic effect of L-DOPA was enhanced by 7-CKA and 5,7-DCKA, but not by KA. KA and 7-CKA did not change the spiperone-induced catalepsy but they attenuated the anticataleptic effect of CGP 37849; the studied drugs did not change the anticataleptic effect of MK-801. 7-CKA given icv did not influence the spiperone-induced catalepsy as well as the anticataleptic effect of CGP 37849. In the forced swimming test KA, given once, prolonged (50 mg/kg) or did not change (200 and 300 mg/kg) the immobility time. 7-CKA did not affect the immobility time in this model. When given three times KA (200 mg/kg) and 7-CKA (20 mg/kg) reduced the immobility time; the lower doses of KA and 7-CKA prolonged or did not change the immobility time, respectively. Joint injection with imipramine and KA (or 7-CKA) induced the decrease of immobility time (vs imipramine alone or glycine antagonist alone); in the case of joint injection with citalopram + KA (or 7-CKA), the time of immobility was prolonged or not changed. In conclusion, the obtained results point to similarities between glycine antagonists (kynurenine derivatives) and CGP 37849 and to the possibility of positive cooperation between the NMDA- and glycine-sites antagonists.
This 36-year-old white man developed signs and symptoms of mild reversible papillophlebitis associated with calf thrombophlebitis and subsequent mammary and antecubital vein phlebitis after fluorescein angiography.This in flammatory process in conjunction with phlebitis elsewhere in the body strongly suggests that localized phlebitis of the central retinal vein, perhaps near its exit from the optic nerve, is etiologic in papillophlebitis. Response to corticosteroids tends to support this theory.
Since there have been side effects reported with the administration of corticosteroids epidurally, their application has been limited. Because some nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs have central and spinal antinociceptive actions, we have compared the effects of indomethacin (INM) given by the epidural route to methylprednisolone (MTP). This was a prospective, comparative study in an ambulatory pain care center. Two hundred six patients with recurrent low back pain (Visual Analog Scale >7) and radiculopathy after they had had 2 or more lumbar laminectomies with the diagnosis of "postlaminectomy syndrome" were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups. Group I (64 patients) was given 2 epidural injections of lyophilized INM 1 mg. Group II (60 patients) received 2 injections of 2 mg of INM at the same intervals. Group III (82 patients) was treated by 2 epidural injections of MTP 80 mg. In every case, the medication was diluted in 3 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine. Reductions of pain were assessed by changes in the Visual Analog Scale; physical activities, attitude, and medication intake were graded by the Pain Progress Score recorded before each treatment and 2 wk after the last. After each injection, all patients had pain relief to Visual Analog Scale <3. Increased analgesia (P < 0.05) was noted when a double dose of INM was used (Group II) or when 80 mg of MTP was given. The total average scores of the Pain Progress Score showed significant differences at the second injection in Groups II and III only. Physical activity, emotional attitudes, and medication intake were also improved but the changes were not statistically significant. In conclusion, in this group of patients, INM produced adequate analgesia in Groups I and II, with evidence suggesting that 2 mg of INM may produce a similar degree of pain relief as 80 mg of MTP after the second injection. Other nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs may be explored in the future for the same purpose.
Studies suggest that protease activated receptors (PARs) are mediators of inflammation and repair. Studies suggest a neurogenic mechanism for PAR2 in inflammation and the fact that interaction between PAR2 and transient receptor vanilloid receptor (TRPV1 or VR1) are important for the induction and maintenance of inflammatory pain.
We examined the expression of PAR2 to 4 in bladder urothelium and detrusor muscle whole mounts in controls, female rats and those treated with cyclophosphamide (CYP) acutely (4 and 48 hours) or chronically (every third day for 10 days) using Western blot and immunohistochemical techniques. Colocalization of PARs in nerve fibers and VR1 immunoreactive nerve fibers was determined by double labeling techniques for protein gene product and capsaicin receptor (VR1).
Western blot revealed up-regulation (1.5 to 9.4-fold) of PAR2 to 4 in bladder after cystitis. Immunohistochemistry revealed PAR2 to 4 expression in urothelial and detrusor muscle cells, and in nerve fibers in the subepithelial bladder layer. Confocal microscopy revealed colocalization of PAR2 to 4 with protein gene product 9.5 and VR1, suggesting that PARs are distributed in C-fiber bladder nerves.
These studies demonstrate that 1) CYP induced cystitis up-regulates PAR2 to 4 expression in the bladder, 2) PAR2 to 4 is expressed in urothelium, detrusor muscle and bladder nerve fibers in control and CYP treated rats, and 3) bladder C-fibers and bladder afferent cells in dorsal root ganglia express PAR2 to 4. These results suggest the involvement of PARs in bladder inflammation that contributes to altered sensory processing and reflex function.
Increased synthesis and gene expression of fibronectin or transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) have been reported to be involved in the progressive process of doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin)-induced nephropathy. In the present study, the effects of dietary protein restriction on the synthesis and gene expression of fibronectin or TGF-beta were investigated by immunoprecipitation, Northern blotting, and TGF-beta bioassay in this model after subjects were given either short- or long-term low-protein diets. In the long-term diet experiment, either a normal protein diet (NPD, 20%) or low-protein diet (LPD, 5%) was fed to the Adriamycin rats for 8 weeks after the injection of Adriamycin. An 8-week LPD significantly ameliorated kidney destruction and remarkably reduced the fibronectin synthesis. Furthermore, the significant decreases of the latent TGF-beta secretion and the expression of TGF-beta 1 mRNA were observed in the Adriamycin rats fed an 8-week LPD. In the short-term diet experiment, an NPD or LPD was fed to the Adriamycin rats for 2 weeks at weeks 4, 8, or 16 after the injection of Adriamycin. A 2-week LPD did not ameliorate kidney damage. Although fibronectin synthesis by the renal cortex in the Adriamycin rats was remarkably reduced by a 2-week LPD, there was no significant decrease in the latent TGF-beta secretion in the Adriamycin rats. The mRNA expressions of fibronectin or TGF-beta 1 were not affected by a 2-week LPD in the Adriamycin rats at any stage. In conclusion, decreased fibronectin and TGF-beta synthesis may be one of the mechanisms by which the long-term dietary protein restriction ameliorates kidney damage. On the other hand, a 2-week LPD affected the only fibronectin synthesis, which thus suggested that an LPD might exert a quicker influence on the protein synthesis of fibronectin than on the transcriptional events of fibronectin.
Desensitization of nociceptive sensory nerve endings is the basis for the therapeutic use of capsaicin in neuropathic pain syndromes. This study evaluated the pharmacodynamic effects of a single 60-minute application of NGX-4010, a high-concentration (8% w/w) capsaicin patch, on both thighs of healthy volunteers. Epidermal nerve fiber (ENF) density and quantitative sensory testing (QST) using thermal, tactile, and sharp mechanical-pain (pinprick) stimuli were evaluated 1, 12 and 24 weeks after capsaicin exposure. After 1 week, there was about an 80% reduction of ENF density compared to unexposed sites. In addition, there was about an 8% increase in tactile thresholds compared to baseline and the proportion of stimuli reported as sharp mechanical pain decreased by about 15 percentage points. Twelve weeks after exposure to capsaicin, ENF regeneration was evident, but not complete, and sharp mechanical-pain sensation and tactile thresholds did not differ from unexposed sites. Nearly full (93%) ENF recovery was observed at 24 weeks. No statistically significant changes in heat- or cold-detection thresholds were observed at any time point. NGX-4010 was generally well tolerated. Transient, mild warming or burning sensations at the site of application were common adverse effects.
This article evaluates the effect of a single 60-minute NGX-4010 application on ENF density and QST in healthy volunteers followed for 24 weeks. The results help predict the long-term safety of NGX-4010 applications in patients.
5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide riboside or acadesine (AICAR) induces apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. A clinical study of AICAR is currently being performed in patients with this disease. Here, we have analyzed the mechanisms involved in AICAR-induced apoptosis in CLL cells in which it activates its only well-known molecular target, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK). However, AMPK activation with phenformin or A-769662 failed to induce apoptosis in CLL cells and AICAR also potently induced apoptosis in B lymphocytes from Ampkα1(-/-) mice, demonstrating an AMPK-independent mechanism of cell death. Importantly, AICAR induced apoptosis irrespective of the tumor suppressor TP53 or ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) status via induction of the mitochondrial pathway. Apoptosis was preceded by an increase in mRNA and protein levels of proapoptotic BCL-2 family proteins of the BH3-only subgroup, including BIM, NOXA, and PUMA in CLL cells. Strikingly, B lymphocytes from Noxa(-/-) or Bim(-/-) mice were partially protected from the cytotoxic effects of AICAR. Consistently, B cells from Noxa(-/-)/Bim(-/-) mice resisted induction of apoptosis by AICAR as potently as B lymphocytes overexpressing transgenic BCL-2. These findings support the notion that AICAR is an interesting alternative therapeutic option for CLL patients with impaired p53 function and resistance to conventional chemotherapy.
Twenty-three infants with simple transposition of the great arteries and intact ventricular septum were operated on from October 1983 to October 1986. The age at operation in 22 infants ranged from 2 to 21 days and in one was 35 days (mean 9.82 +/- 6.86 days). The infants were evaluated with cardiac catheterization at 1 to 27 days of age. Twenty-two infants had balloon atrial septostomy, and 22 received prostaglandin E1 infusion. The left ventricular diastolic wall thickness, assessed by M-mode echocardiograms, varied between 2.8 and 4 mm. There were two hospital deaths in this group of 23 infants (mortality 8.6%), and there were no late deaths. All surviving patients are doing well clinically. One patient had asymptomatic nonsustained ventricular tachycardia necessitating phenytoin. Postoperative echocardiographic assessment performed on 15 patients at 0.93 +/- 0.61 years of age and cardiac catheterization and angiographic studies on seven patients at 1.07 +/- 0.13 years after operation revealed excellent ventricular performance, good semilunar valve function, and mild gradient at the right ventricular outflow with a mean right ventricular pressure of 37.4 +/- 4.1 torr.
The effects of various chemicals on the development of neoplastic lesions in the urinary bladder were investigated in male F344 rats given 0.05% N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine (BBN) as an initiator in their drinking water for 4 weeks. The compounds tested, indomethacin, acemetacin, epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA), diphenyl, allopurinol and acetaminophen (AAP), were added to the diet or drinking water for 32 weeks, and all animals were killed at the end of week 36. Of the chemicals tested, only diphenyl significantly increased the incidences and average numbers (per 10 cm basement membrane) of papillary or nodular hyperplasias (PN hyperplasia), papillomas and carcinomas of the urinary bladder over those in animals treated with BBN alone. These findings show that diphenyl is a promoter of urinary bladder carcinogenesis in male F344 rats.
Mutations in the bone morphogenetic protein type II receptor (BMPR-II) are responsible for the majority of cases of heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Mutations lead to reduced Smad1/5-driven expression of inhibitor of DNA binding protein 1 (Id1) and loss of the growth suppressive effects of BMPs. The impact of existing PAH therapies on BMP signaling is lacking.
Because prostacyclin analogues are effective treatments for clinical PAH, we hypothesized that these agents enhance Smad1/Id1 signaling.
Iloprost alone induced Id1 expression in human pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs), an effect that was independent of Smad1/5 activation but dependent on a cAMP-responsive element in the Id1 promoter. In addition, iloprost and treprostinil enhanced BMP-induced phosphorylation of Smad1/5 and Id1 expression in a cAMP-dependent manner. The mechanism involved suppression of inhibitory Smad, Smad6. Furthermore, iloprost rescued the deficit in Smad1/5 phosphorylation and Id gene expression in PASMCs harboring mutations in BMPR-II and restored growth suppression to BMP4 in mutant PASMCs. We confirmed a critical role for Id1 in PASMC proliferation. Reduced expression of Id1 was observed in concentric intimal lesions of heritable PAH cases. In the monocrotaline rat model of PAH, associated with reduced BMPR-II expression, we confirmed that treprostinil inhibited smooth muscle cell proliferation and prevented progression of PAH while enhancing Smad1/5 phosphorylation and Id1 gene expression.
Prostacyclin analogues enhance Id1 expression in vitro and in vivo and restore deficient BMP signaling in BMPR-II mutant PASMCs.
The indirect-acting dopamine agonist amphetamine induces in rats, motor stereotypies that have served as the primary behavioral end points in studies related to schizophrenia, drug abuse, and L-dopa-induced dyskinesias. Despite the experimental importance of this rodent response to this drug, little is known about the rhythmic character of the behavior and how such rhythms change (or sensitize) in response to repeated treatment with amphetamine.
To address this lack of quantitative information, the rhythms of focused stereotypies (characterized by a lack of locomotion and rapid head movements) were measured in a force-plate actometer that permitted the quantification of behavioral rhythmicity.
Focused stereotypies were induced by d-amphetamine sulfate (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg) after acute and repeated treatment with fixed doses of the drug in separate groups of rats, and the drug-induced behaviors were recorded in 1-h sessions in the actometer.
The two doses of amphetamine produced focused stereotypies characterized by a 10-Hz rhythm of head movements. Detailed analyses of the data for 5.0 mg/kg amphetamine showed that the rhythm in the 10-Hz region of the power spectrum increased significantly within a 1-h period, while five intermittent, repeated drug treatments significantly reduced the rhythm, possibly reflecting either tolerance or sensitization.
Aside from providing a new quantitative approach to studying focused stereotypies, these observation direct attention to the possibility that practice-mediated processes involved in motor skill enhancement may be a part of the neural adaptations that parallel the development of sensitization to indirect-acting dopamine agonists.
Cocaine's addictive liability has been linked to its pharmacologic actions on mesotelencephalic dopamine (DA) reinforcement/reward pathways in the central nervous system (CNS). Dopaminergic transmission within these pathways is modulated by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). With this knowledge, we examined the utility of gamma vinylGABA (GVG), a selective and irreversible inhibitor of GABA-transaminase (GABA-T) known to potentiate GABAergic inhibition, to alter cocaine's biochemical effects as well as its effects on behaviors associated with these biochemical changes. GVG significantly attenuated cocaine-induced increases in neostriatal synaptic DA in the non-human primate (baboon) brain as assessed by positron emission tomography (PET) and abolished both the expression and acquisition of cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). It had no effect on CPP for a food reward, the delivery of cocaine to the brain or locomotor activity. These findings suggest the possible therapeutic utility in cocaine addiction of a pharmacologic strategy targeted at the GABAergic neurotransmitter system, a system distinct from but functionally linked to the DA mesotelencephalic reward/reinforcement system. However, rather than targeting the GABA receptor complex with a direct GABA agonist, this novel approach with GVG takes advantage of the prolonged effects of an irreversible enzyme inhibitor that raises endogenous GABA levels without the addictive liability associated with GABA agonists acting directly at the receptor itself. Human trials with GVG are currently being developed to directly examine the utility of this novel strategy for the treatment of cocaine addiction.
Twenty-four patients, including two with aplastic anemia and 22 with malignancy, underwent marrow transplantation after preparation with mechlorethamine, 0.3 to 2.0 mg/kg body weight. Fourteen of the 21 neurologically evaluable recipients developed immediate neurotoxicity a median of 4 days after treatment (range, 0 to 34 days). Confusion and disorientation were observed in six patients, headache in six, hallucinations n four, lethargy in four, tremors in three, paraplegia in one, seizure in one, and vertigo in one. Whereas acute symptoms cleared in 11 patients, three remained symptomatic until death. Twelve evaluable patients survived more than 60 days; all six with previous acute toxicity subsequently developed delayed onset of new neurologic findings (personality change, confusion, seizure, diplopia, or dementia) a median of 169 days (range, 70 to 248 days) after treatment. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was usually normal but cerebral computed tomographic scans showed ventricular enlargement and electroencephalograms showed diffuse slowing. Postmortem histologic examination of brain showed neuronal degenerative changes with increased vascularity, gliosis, and perivascular fibrosis. Neurotoxicity appeared to increase with age and mechlorethamine dose and was commoner in patients given additional procarbazine or cyclophosphamide.
Gender differences both in response to ketamine in animals and general cognitive functioning in humans have been observed and suggested to be related to modulatory effects of sex hormones on N-methyl-D: -aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) functioning.
The current study aimed to determine whether there were gender differences in response to ketamine in humans.
Behavioral data including positive and negative symptoms (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale), perceptual alterations (Clinician-Administered Dissociative States Scale, CADSS), and "high" and "anxiety" states (Visual Analog Scale) from 295 subjects who participated in a total of 11 placebo-controlled ketamine studies were analyzed. In a subset of subjects, memory (Hopkins Verbal Learning Task: HVLT, n=108) and attention (continuous performance task, n=177) data were also analyzed.
Male participants showed a greater performance decrement on the HVLT after ketamine administration compared to women. Men also reported a greater subjective sense of memory impairment on a CADSS subscale. No other gender differences in behavioral or cognitive measures were observed.
Men showed a greater vulnerability to the amnestic effects of ketamine than women. Possible explanations of these findings are neuroanatomical and cognitive differences in processing of words in men and women and interactions between sex hormones and NMDA-R function.
The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) is an area of the brainstem involved in the descending modulation of nociception at the level of the spinal cord. Although the RVM is involved in the inhibition or facilitation of nociception, the underlying mechanisms are not understood. Here we examined the role of the neuropeptide substance P and neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptors located in the RVM on withdrawal responses evoked by mechanical and heat stimuli applied to the rat hindpaw under normal conditions and during hyperalgesia produced by capsaicin. The mechanical withdrawal threshold was obtained using von Frey monofilaments applied to the plantar surface of the hindpaw. Sensitivity to heat was determined by measuring the latency to withdrawal from radiant heat applied to the plantar surface. Mechanical and heat hyperalgesia were defined as a decrease in withdrawal response threshold or latency, respectively. Rats were prepared with a chronic cannula and either vehicle or the NK-1 receptor antagonists, L-733,060 or RP-67580, was injected into the RVM. Paw withdrawal responses were obtained before and after RVM injection, and then at 5, 30, and 60 min after an intraplantar injection of capsaicin (10 microg). Injection of the NK-1 antagonists at doses of 0.5 pmol or higher did not alter withdrawal responses to mechanical or heat stimuli under normal conditions but reduced the duration of nocifensive behavior and the mechanical and heat hyperalgesia produced by capsaicin. These findings suggest that the activation of NK-1 receptors in the RVM contributes to the hyperalgesia produced by capsaicin.
While N-phosphonacetyl-L-aspartic acid (PALA), an inhibitor of de novo pyrimidine biosynthesis, demonstrated a unique spectrum of activity during preclinical drug evaluation, multiple clinical trials have shown it to possess minimal clinical activity. One explanation for the disappointing results is the possibility that tumor cells are able to utilize circulating uridine in the synthesis of pyrimidines (salvage pathway). Dipyridamole, an inhibitor of nucleoside transport, has been demonstrated experimentally to potentiate the cytotoxicity of PALA significantly. In addition, this agent has a long safety record when used clinically in man. A phase I trial of this two-drug combination was therefore conducted, with a fixed oral dose of dipyridamole (50 mg/m2 every 6 h) and an escalating i.v. dose of PALA administered every 3 weeks. The dose-limiting toxicity with this schedule was diarrhea and abdominal cramping pain at a PALA dose of 3900-4200 mg/m2. Among the 65 patients participating in this trial 4 objective responses (2 partial, 2 minimal) were observed. Because of the potential for unique clinical synergy between PALA and dipyridamole further investigation should be considered.
Epidemiological data have associated environmental organophosphate insecticide (OP) exposure during pregnancy with fetal growth deficits. To better understand OP injury that may adversely affect pregnancy, we used the JEG-3 choriocarcinoma cell line, which provide a recognized in vitro model to study placental function. The effects of the OP phosmet (Pm) and chlorpyrifos (Cp) on JEG-3 cells viability, proliferation, cell cycle and inflammatory molecule production were evaluated. Both insecticides affected cellular viability in a concentration- and time-dependent manner, inducing apoptosis and decreasing [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation. However, only Pm reduced DNA synthesis independently of cellular death and decreased the cell percentage at the S-phase. Unlike apoptosis, TNFα production varied with the concentration tested, suggesting that other TNFα independent mechanisms might trigger cell death. No induction of the inflammatory molecule nitric oxide was detected. The mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory IL-6, IL-17 and the anti-inflammatory IL-13 cytokines were differentially modulated. These findings show that Pm and Cp generate a specific toxicity signature, altering cell viability and inducing an inflammatory cytokine profile, suggesting that trophoblasts may represent a possible target for OP adverse effects.
The effect of 2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase inhibitor, aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA) on hypotension induced by clonidine in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was examined. AOAA given 15 min before clonidine significantly intensified clonidine--induced reduction of blood pressure. This effect reached its maximum within 120 min after AOAA administration, when AOAA itself had no influence on blood pressure. Our data suggest that the activation of functional state of GABAergic system by GABA accumulation potentiates clonidine hypotension.
Aldosterone synthase deficiency due to mutations in the CYP11B2 gene usually presents in infancy with electrolyte abnormalities and failure to thrive, whereas affected adults are usually asymptomatic. We describe a patient who first came to medical attention in middle age when he developed hyperkalemia after preparation for a barium enema. Past medical history was notable for failure to thrive in infancy. He had elevated PRA with low serum and urinary levels of aldosterone and its metabolites and normal or slightly elevated levels of 18-hydroxycorticosterone. These findings suggested a diagnosis of type 1 aldosterone synthase deficiency. The patient had a homozygous duplication of six nucleotides at codon 143 in exon 3 of CYP11B2, leading to the insertion of two amino acid residues (Arg-Leu). When the corresponding mutant complementary DNA was expressed in cultured cells, the resulting enzyme was completely inactive, confirming the diagnosis. We conclude that aldosterone synthase deficiency represents an unusual cause of hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism presenting in adult life, but it should be suspected if the past medical history is positive for failure to thrive in childhood or if the patient manifests no other recognized causes of hyperreninemic hypoaldosteronism.
We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blinded trial comparing preoperative application of EMLA cream and sodium chloride solution dorsal penile block (n = 31) with placebo cream and bupivacaine dorsal penile nerve block (n = 32) for postcircumcision analgesia. Pain was assessed using modified Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale and the duration of block by the time to requirement of first dose of postoperative analgesic. There was no difference in Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale between the two groups, but bupivacaine dorsal penile nerve block resulted in longer analgesia (P = 0.003). There were no local or systemic complications related to either technique, and there was a very small incidence of vomiting. We conclude that preoperative application of EMLA cream is an effective and simple method to produce postcircumcision analgesia with a very small incidence of adverse effects.
Recombinant human gamma interferon (Biogen) and vinblastine were administered in a phase I study. Side effects included fever and chills, nausea and vomiting, acute symptomatic hyponatremia, reversible myelosuppression, hepatitis, transient hypotension, congestive heart failure, renal insufficiency, and nonselective proteinuria. In most patients, additional host factors contributed to these toxic effects. Side effects occurred despite dose reduction; therefore, protocol accrual was prematurely closed. No correlation between serum concentrations and toxicity was noted. Median serum vinblastine concentration was 1.04 ng/ml; median serum interferon concentration was 17.3 IU/ml.
