Gender differences in the association of blood and urine cadmium concentrations with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) were evaluated by using data from 6,456 US adults aged ≥40 years who participated in the 1999-2004 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. PAD was defined as an ankle-brachial blood pressure index of <0.9 in at least one leg. For men, the adjusted odds ratios for PAD comparing the highest with the lowest quintiles of blood and urine cadmium concentrations were 1.82 (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.82, 4.05) and 4.90 (95% CI: 1.55, 15.54), respectively, with a progressive dose-response relation and no difference by smoking status. For women, the corresponding odds ratios were 1.19 (95% CI: 0.66, 2.16) and 0.56 (95% CI: 0.18, 1.71), but there was evidence of effect modification by smoking: among women ever smokers, there was a positive, progressive dose-response relation; among women never smokers, there was a U-shaped dose-response relation. Higher blood and urine cadmium levels were associated with increased prevalence of PAD, but women never smokers showed a U-shaped relation with increased prevalence of PAD at very low cadmium levels. These findings add to the concern of increased cadmium exposure as a cardiovascular risk factor in the general population.
The influence of ciprofibrate, a potent oxyisobutyrate derivative, on several hepatic enzyme parameters was studied in five rat strains following a 14-day treatment period. Ciprofibrate-dependent hepatomegaly was observed at two dose levels (2 and 20 mg/kg) in all rat strains examined. A 10- to 15-fold induction in the 12-hydroxylation of lauric acid with a less marked 1.5- to 5-fold induction of 11-hydroxylation was observed in treated animals. This dose-dependent increase in fatty acid hydroxylase activity was associated with a maximal 10-fold increase in the specific content of cytochrome P-450 IVA1 isoenzyme apoprotein, as assessed immunochemically using an ELISA technique. The activities of the cytochrome P-450 I (IA1 and IA2) and II (IIB1 and IIB2) families, as measured by ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase and benzphetamine-N-demethylase activities respectively, were decreased on treatment. In the mitochondria, monoamine oxidase activity was significantly decreased at the higher dose level whereas alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase activity was elevated. Total carnitine acetyltransferase activity (mitochondrial and peroxisomal) and peroxisomal beta-oxidation were markedly increased at both dose levels in all strains examined. Cytosolic glutathione peroxidase activity, measured using both t-butylhydroperoxide and hydrogen peroxide as substrates, was decreased on treatment to approximately 50% of the control value. In treated animals, a marked increase in mRNA levels coding for cytochrome P-450 IVA1 and the peroxisomal bifunctional protein of the fatty acid beta-oxidation spiral was observed. However, mRNA levels coding for glutathione peroxidase appeared unchanged following ciprofibrate administration, in contrast to the above-noted decrease of glutathione peroxidase enzyme activity. Taken collectively, our results have further substantiated a close association between the induction of microsomal cytochrome P-450 IVA1, peroxisomal beta-oxidation and total carnitine acetyltransferase activity in rat liver, and have performed a conceptual basis for the rationalization of the chronic toxicity of peroxisome proliferators in this species.
This study was designed to investigate the effects of various chemically distinct activators of PPAR-gamma and PPAR-alpha in a rat model of acute myocardial infarction. Using Northern blot analysis and RT-PCR in samples of rat heart, we document the expression of the mRNA for PPAR-gamma (isoform 1 but not isoform 2) as well as PPAR-beta and PPAR-alpha in freshly isolated cardiac myocytes and cardiac fibroblasts and in the left and right ventricles of the heart. Using a rat model of regional myocardial ischemia and reperfusion (in vivo), we have discovered that various chemically distinct ligands of PPAR-gamma (including the TZDs rosiglitazone, ciglitazone, and pioglitazone, as well as the cyclopentanone prostaglandins 15D-PGJ2 and PGA1) cause a substantial reduction of myocardial infarct size in the rat. We demonstrate that two distinct ligands of PPAR-alpha (including clofibrate and WY 14643) also cause a substantial reduction of myocardial infarct size in the rat. The most pronounced reduction in infarct size was observed with the endogenous PPAR-gamma ligand, 15-deoxyDelta12,14-prostagalndin J2 (15D-PGJ2). The mechanisms of the cardioprotective effects of 15D-PGJ2 may include 1) activation of PPAR-alpha, 2) activation of PPAR-gamma, 3) expression of HO-1, and 4) inhibition of the activation of NF-kappaB in the ischemic-reperfused heart. Inhibition by 15D-PGJ2 of the activation of NF-kappaB in turn results in a reduction of the 1) expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and the nitration of proteins by peroxynitrite, 2) formation of the chemokine MCP-1, and 3) expression of the adhesion molecule ICAM-1. We speculate that ligands of PPAR-gamma and PPAR-alpha may be useful in the therapy of conditions associated with ischemia-reperfusion of the heart and other organs. Our findings also imply that TZDs and fibrates may help protect the heart against ischemia-reperfusion injury. This beneficial effect of 15D-PGJ2 was associated with a reduction in the expression of the 1) adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and P-selectin, 2) chemokine macrophage chemotactic protein 1, and 3) inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase. 15D-PGJ2 reduced the nitration of proteins (immunohistological analysis of nitrotyrosine formation) caused by ischemia-reperfusion, likely due to the generation of peroxynitrite. Not all of the effects of 15D-PGJ2, however, are due to the activation of PPAR-gamma. For instance, exposure of rat cardiac myocytes to 15D-PGJ2, but not to rosiglitazone, results in an up-regulation of the expression of the mRNA for heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Taken together, these results provide convincing evidence that several, chemically distinct ligands of PPAR-gamma reduce the tissue necrosis associated with acute myocardial infarction.
A patient with no prior history of liver disease developed mild cholestasis, with a moderate elevation of the serum alkaline phosphatase level, several days after instituting indomethacin therapy. The cholestasis resolved soon after the medication was discontinued. An extensive workup, including liver biopsy, revealed no alternative cause. Despite extensive use, indomethacin therapy has been associated with hepatic injury in only nine previously reported cases, as near as we can tell.
A 40-year-old man with pemphigus foliaceus developed a jaundice and pruritus three weeks after starting azathioprine 100 mg daily. Laboratory investigations revealed a severe cholestatic hepatitis. Azathioprine-induced hepatitis was suspected. The dosage of thiopurine methyltransferase activity showed a low activity of the enzyme and the genotype of this enzyme found a TPMT*3C heterozygous mutant allele. Azathioprine was withdrawn. The icterus regressed progressively and the hepatic tests normalised slowly. The patient had no further episodes of hepatitis over a follow-up period of 6 months.
Although, hematotoxicity seems to be associated with homozygous TPMT variants, a possible association between azathioprine hepatotoxicity and a TPMT*3C genotype should be investigated further.
We previously have shown that chronic sodium chloride (NaCl) loading protects against HgCl2-induced acute renal failure (ARF) in dogs. To determine whether NaCl loading protects against an ischemic model of ARF, unilateral oliguric renal failure was produced by the infusion of norepinephrine (NE) into the renal artery of both saline-expanded (SE) and water-drinking (WD) dogs (n = 7). The renal renin content (30 U/g kidney) of SE dogs was suppressed (P less than 0.001) compared to that of WD dogs (132 +/- 18). Forty-eight hours after infusion of NE (1.5 microgram/kg per min X 100 min), inulin clearances from the infused kidney of SE (6 ml/min +/- 2) and WD dogs (7 +/- 2) did not differ; in both groups, respective clearances from the noninfused kidney (43 ml/min +/- 3) and (36 +/- 5) also did not differ from each other. The present fall in renal blood flow to the infused kidney 48 hours after NE in SE (44%) and WD dogs (38%) did not differ. Because of failure to demonstrate protection, a lower dose of NE (0.75 microgram/kg per min X 40 min) was infused into SE and WD animals (n = 6). Forty-eight hours after low dose NE, inulin clearances of the infused kidney of SE (17 ml/min +/- 5) and WD dogs (17 +/- 4) did not differ. Respective clearances in the noninfused kidney of SE (46 ml/min +/- 6) and WD dogs (35 +/- 4) did not differ. Therefore, despite suppression of renal renin content, NaCl loading failed to protect against this ischemic model of ARF. In conclusion, unlike HgCl2-induced ARF, it is unlikely that the renin angiotensin system contributes to the pathogenesis of this ischemic model of ARF.
Long-term lithium administration in humans may lead to chronic tubulointerstitial nephritis, which develops very slowly. Its progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) has been rarely reported. The aim of this study is to document the rate of progression of lithium-induced nephropathy and its prognostic factors, and to provide an estimation of the percentage of lithium-induced ESRD in France.
Two groups have been studied: 54 patients with lithium-induced renal failure, nine of whom underwent renal biopsy; and 20 patients who were referred for systematic renal biopsy, 14 of whom were subsequently followed up. In addition, a survey of lithium-induced ESRD was conducted in French dialysis centers.
The mean annual loss of creatinine clearance in patients with lithium-induced nephropathy was 2.29 mL/min. Among 74 patients, 12 reached ESRD at a mean age of 65 years. Creatinine clearance at referral and at last follow-up was inversely related to the duration of lithium therapy in both univariate and multivariate analyses adjusting for age, gender, hypertension, and proteinuria. The degree of interstitial fibrosis on renal biopsy was also related to the lithium duration and cumulative dose. It was predictive of the final creatinine clearance. About 35% of the patients tested had moderate hypercalcemia, due to hyperparathyroidism. The prevalence of lithium-related ESRD in France was estimated as two per 1000 dialysis patients. The average latency between onset of lithium therapy and ESRD was 20 years.
Lithium-induced chronic renal disease is slowly progressive. Its rate of progression is related to the duration of lithium administration. Lithium-related ESRD represents 0.22% of all causes of ESRD in France. Regular monitoring of estimated creatinine clearance is mandatory in long-term lithium-treated patients.
The DRESS (drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) syndrome is a serious condition that has been reported in association with various drugs, such as allopurinol, sulfonamides and aromatic anticonvulsants. Recently the condition has been described in HIV-infected patients taking antiretroviral agents. We report the first case, to our knowledge, of DRESS syndrome complicated by meningoencephalitis associated with nevirapine therapy.
To determine the safety and efficacy of transdermal fentanyl for pain relief in cancer patients and to compare the effects on patients according to whether they had previously received strong opioids, weak opioids or non-opioid analgesia.
Cancer patients requiring strong analgesia were recruited into an open-label, multicentre study, conducted in eight countries. Patients received transdermal fentanyl treatment for 28 days. Pain severity, overall satisfaction with pain control, convenience of use of patches and treatment preferences were recorded daily.
Of the 292 participants, 135 had previously received a strong opioid, 84 had previously received a weak opioid and 73 had received no regular opioids. Thirty-eight patients did not complete the study, mainly due to adverse events. For all groups the proportion of patients with 'good to excellent' pain control increased after transdermal fentanyl treatment. Transdermal fentanyl was well tolerated, with the most common treatment-related adverse events being nausea, vomiting and constipation. The percentage of strong-opioid-tolerant patients with constipation decreased following transdermal fentanyl treatment and increased slightly in the strong-opioid-naïve groups. Most patients rated the convenience of the patches as 'good to excellent', and most preferred transdermal fentanyl to their previous therapy.
Transdermal fentanyl is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for cancer-related pain for patients regardless of whether they have previously received opioids. Previous guidelines have often advocated initial dose finding with short-acting opioids but this study demonstrates that such a complex titration and conversion schedule may not be necessary,and that treatment may be initiated directly with long-acting formulations such as transdermal fentanyl when previous analgesic therapy fails to provide adequate relief.
A 54-year-old patient with primary cerebral lymphoma was treated with two 4-weekly cycles of high-dose intravenous cytarabine (12 g/m2) and methotrexate (3 g/m2). The administration of the first course proceeded without notable complications. Before the administration of methotrexate in the second cycle blood cell counts and chemistry showed no abnormalities except for slightly increased alkaline phosphatase and gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase levels which was attributed to diphantoin comedication. The patient developed symptoms of acute renal failure 7 h after methotrexate infusion which resulted in a very high serum methotrexate level (39.84 micromol/l) at 20 h after infusion. Rescue therapy was intensified: the leucovorin dosage was increased (1,200 mg continuous i.v. infusion every 24 h) and combined with thymidine rescue therapy (8 g/m2 per day continuous i.v. infusion every 24 h). Urine alkalinization was increased and diphantoin therapy was stopped. Leucovorin eye drops and mouth washes were started 5 days after methotrexate administration to prevent conjunctivitis and mucositis as a result of high methotrexate levels (>2.4 micromol/l). In spite of the fact that serum methotrexate levels remained persistently higher than 0.1 micromol/l for 12 days, the patient experienced no further short-term systemic toxicity except for anaemia (grade 3 according to NCI Common Toxicity Criteria). After day 12 intensified rescue therapy and the frequency of alkalinization were decreased to standard procedures and stopped on day 19. It is concluded that i.v. administration with high-dose methotrexate can result in unpredictable acute toxicity. In our patient, acute methotrexate toxicity was treated successfully by intensification of classical leucovorin rescue therapy in combination with thymidine infusion. In addition, leucovorin mouth washes and eye drops may have prevented mucositis and conjunctivitis, respectively.
There is considerable debate about the fundamental mechanisms that underlie and restrict acquisition of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection. In light of recent studies demonstrating the ability of C type lectins to facilitate infection with HIV-1, we explored the potential relationship between polymorphisms in the DC-SIGN promoter and risk for acquisition of HIV-1 according to route of infection. Using samples obtained from 1,611 European-American participants at risk for parenteral (n = 713) or mucosal (n = 898) infection, we identified single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the DC-SIGN promoter using single-strand conformation polymorphism. Individuals at risk for parenterally acquired infection who had -336C were more susceptible to infection than were persons with -336T (odds ratio = 1.87, P = 0.001). This association was not observed in those at risk for mucosally acquired infection. A potential role for DC-SIGN specific to systemic acquisition and dissemination of infection is suggested.
1. The effects of dihydroergotoxine on open-field behavior, apomorphine-induced stereotype and haloperidol-induced catalepsy were studied quantitatively in rats. 2. Dihydroergotoxine decreased the open-field behavior of rats, in a dose-dependent manner; this effect remained at least for 8 hr. 3. Dihydroergotoxine (10.0 mg/kg) caused a 1.40 leftward displacement of the dose-response curve constructed for apomorphine-induced stereotypy; the ED50 for apomorphine was reduced from 0.40 (+/- 0.05) to 0.29 (+/- 0.03). 4. Dihydroergotoxine (10.0 mg/kg) was unable to change haloperidol-induced catalepsy. 5. Results were discussed in the light of a possible interference of central noradrenergic systems with the expression of dopaminergic behaviors.
Benign prostate hyperplasia is the most common disease in the aging male, often comorbid with erectile dysfunction. Phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) inhibitors (sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil) decrease lower urinary tract symptoms in patients with erectile dysfunction and BPH. We studied PDE5 expression and activity in the human bladder and PDE5i effects both in vitro (human and rat) and in vivo (rat). PDE5 is highly expressed in rat and human bladder and immunolocalized in vascular endothelium and muscle fibers. Sildenafil, tadalafil, and vardenafil blocked 70% of the total cGMP-catabolizing activity; vardenafil was the most potent (IC(50) = 0.3 nm). In human bladder cells and in rat strips, a PDE-resistant cGMP analog, SP-8-Br-PET-cGMPS, induced, respectively, a consistent antiproliferative and relaxant effect. In contrast, the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was almost ineffective. However, blocking PDE5 with vardenafil increased SNP antiproliferative and relaxant activity up to the level observed with SP-8-Br-PET-cGMPS. We also found that castration decreased, and T supplementation restored, PDE5 gene expression in rat bladder. Accordingly, bladder strips from castrated rats were more sensitive to SNP-induced relaxation than strips from control or T-replaced rats, whereas in the presence of vardenafil, all groups showed the same SNP sensitivity. To discover whether vardenafil affects bladder activity in vivo, the rat bladder outlet obstruction model was used. Chronic treatment with 10 mg/kg.d vardenafil significantly reduced nonvoiding contractions (47%, P < 0.05 vs. placebo) up to tamsulosin level (51%). Overall, these results demonstrate that PDE5 regulates bladder smooth muscle tone, strongly limiting the nitric oxide/cGMP signaling, and that vardenafil, by blocking PDE5, may be a possible therapeutic option for bladder dysfunction by ameliorating irritative lower urinary tract symptoms.
Several organoselenium compounds including benzyl selenocyanate (BSC), 1,2-phenylenebis(methylene)selenocyanate (o-XSC), 1,3-phenylenebis(methylene)selenocyanate (m-XSC), and 1,4-phenylenebis(methylene)selenocyanate (p-XSC) have been shown to prevent cancers caused by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) in experimental animals; these chemical carcinogens are activated by human P450 1 and 2A family enzymes, respectively, to carcinogenic metabolites. In this study, we examined whether these selenium compounds interact with and inhibit human P450 1 and 2A enzymes in vitro. Four organoselenium compounds induced reverse Type I binding spectra with P450 1A1, 1A2, and 1B1 and Type I binding spectra with P450 2A6 and 2A13. The spectral dissociation constants (K(s)) for the interaction of P450 1B1 with these chemicals were 3.6-5.7 μM; the values were lower than those with seen with P450 1A1 (19-30 μM) or 1A2 (6.3-13 μM). The K(s) values for Type I binding of P450 2A13 with m-XSC and BSC were both 0.20 μM; the values were very low compared to those for the interaction of P450 2A6 with m-XSC (5.7 μM) and BSC (2.0 μM). Four selenium compounds directly inhibited 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation activities catalyzed by P450 1A1, 1A2, and 1B1 with IC(50) values <1.0 μM, except for the inhibition of P450 1A2 by BSC (1.3 μM). Coumarin 7-hydroxylation activities of P450 2A13 were more inhibited by four selenium compounds than those of P450 2A6, with IC(50) values of 0.22-1.4 μM for P450 2A13 and 2.4-6.2 μM for P450 2A6. Molecular docking studies of the interaction of four organoselenium compounds with human P450 enzymes suggest that these chemicals can be docked into the active sites of these human P450 enzymes and that the sites of the selenocyanate functional groups of these chemicals differ between the P450 1 and 2A family enzymes.
Proliferation and extracellular matrix (ECM) overproduction by glomerular mesangial cells characterizes many types of glomerulonephritis and often precedes the development of glomerulosclerosis. Heparin is a potent inhibitor of mesangial cell growth in vitro. We examined whether standard heparin can inhibit mesangial cell proliferation in vivo in the mesangioproliferative anti-Thy 1.1 nephritis. Untreated control rats were compared to rats infused with heparin either early (day -2 to 1) or late (day 2 to 5) after induction of anti-Thy 1.1 nephritis. The results show that heparin treatment significantly reduced mesangial cell proliferation regardless of when it was initiated. Heparin (either early or late treatment) also reduced mesangial basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) expression and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor up-regulation as reflected by immunostaining, whereas PDGF B-chain expression was reduced only by late heparin treatment. Furthermore, heparin treatment markedly inhibited the mesangial matrix expansion for a variety of ECM proteins, including laminin, type I and IV collagen, fibronectin and entactin. Heparin did not affect the initial mesangiolysis, glomerular macrophage influx, deposition of anti-Thy 1.1 IgG or fibrinogen, or the glomerular platelet influx. These results suggest that heparin, via its antiproliferative rather than anticoagulant effect, can inhibit mesangial cell proliferation, overexpression of polypeptide growth factors, and ECM protein overproduction in vivo. The beneficial effect of heparin can be demonstrated even if treatment is initiated after the development of nephritis. By virtue of these properties, heparin may be an effective agent in the treatment of human mesangioproliferative disease and in the prevention of glomerulosclerosis.
The aim of this study was to determine whether the effects of inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate and budesonide dry powder on pulmonary function correlate with those on measurement of serum eosinophil cationic protein (sECP). Thirty-two asthmatic adults in a stable phase, treated daily with 1,000 micrograms beclomethasone dipropionate metered-dose inhaler, completed a 2-week wash-out period and were then randomized to receive a 200 micrograms/dose q.i.d. of either drug, over an 8-week period. Pulmonary function tests (FEV1, FVC, PEFR, FEF25-75% and MEF50) were measured at study entry, before and after every 2 weeks of treatment, while PEFR (morning and evening), symptom scores and salbutamol use PRN were recorded daily on a dairy card. sECP was measured at baseline and after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment. Safety variables included adverse reactions, morning serum cortisol and vital signs (heart rate and blood pressure). FEV1, FVC, PEFR, FEF25-75%, MEF50 and morning PEFR significantly increased (p < 0.05) over baseline in the beclomethasone group, while only FEV1 at week 6 and evening PEFR significantly increased (p < 0.05) in the budesonide group; no significant differences between groups were reported. sECP significantly decreased (p < 0.01) in the beclomethasone group at week 4 and 8 (p < 0.05 between groups). Evidence of statistically significant negative correlation between the FEV1 percent predicted and sECP was assessed at baseline (correlation coefficient r = -0.60, p < 0.05) in the total patient sample, and in the results, expressed as percent change over baseline, obtained at both week 4 and 8 (p < 0.01). A significant decrease in salbutamol use PRN, symptom score and number of daily bronchospasm attacks was also reported in the beclomethasone group (p < 0.05). No adverse reactions or relevant changes in morning cortisol and vital signs were reported in either group. It was concluded that sECP proved to be a reliable marker for monitoring inflammatory events in asthma; inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate dry powder was at least as effective as budesonide in improving lung function and the underlying asthma inflammation.
We assessed the renal and cardiac benefits of cicletanine (CIC), a furopyridine derivative drug with diuretic and antihypertensive properties, in diabetic spontaneously hypertensive rats with renal impairment. Uninephrectomized streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic spontaneously hypertensive Izmo rats (SHRIzm) (10 weeks old) were randomly assigned to receive vehicle or CIC (100 mg/kg/day, orally), and age-matched, uninephrectomized STZ diabetic Wistar-Kyoto Izmo rats (WKYIzm) were assigned to receive vehicle for up to 12 weeks. Blood pressure increased progressively in diabetic SHRIzm but not in diabetic WKYIzm. Urinary albumin excretion increased significantly in both diabetic SHRIzm and diabetic WKYIzm throughout the experiment. The antihypertensive effect of CIC was not significantly observed in diabetic SHRIzm. However, the subdepressor doses of CIC significantly decreased urinary albumin excretion, serum creatinine, and blood urea nitrogen in diabetic SHRIzm. These results were confirmed by morphological analysis of kidneys in each group of rats. The index of focal glomerular sclerosis (FGS) in diabetic SHRIzm was significantly higher than that in diabetic WKYIzm. The CIC treatment significantly and effectively protected against an increase in the index of FGS in diabetic SHRIzm. Moreover, CIC treatment significantly attenuated the increase in the heart weight to body weight ratio in diabetic SHRIzm. Treatment with CIC did not affect urinary and blood glucose concentrations at this dose. These results suggest that CIC has a renal-protective action, which is not related to improvement of diabetes or improvement of high blood pressure in diabetic rats with hypertension. The action might be due to the reduction of intraglomerular capillary pressure or protection of the renal glomerular vascular endothelial cell injury and mesangial cell injury through stimulation of PGI2 generation or elimination of free radicals, although the mechanism remains to be further investigated.
Clonidine is a centrally acting antihypertensive agent used in the management of essential hypertension. Oral clonidine loading is now used frequently in the management of hypertensive urgencies (ie, increases in arterial pressure not associated with acute, life-threatening end-organ injury). We report the case of a patient with an acute inferior myocardial infarction associated with blunt chest trauma who developed an abrupt and unexplained increase in arterial pressure 24 hours after admission and who was treated with oral clonidine (0.5 mg in divided doses over two hours). Drug therapy was followed by prolonged (four hours) systemic arterial hypotension (mean arterial pressure less than 70 mm Hg). Four milligrams of naloxone in two divided doses was given. Each naloxone bolus was followed by a 15-mm-Hg increase in mean arterial pressure and a return to values that were normal for this patient. Naloxone may be of value in reversing clonidine toxicity when clonidine is given to treat an acute rise in arterial pressure.
Hippocampal integrity is essential for cognitive functions. On the other hand, induction of metallothionein (MT) by ZnSO(4) and its role in neuroprotection has been documented. The present study aimed to explore the effect of MT induction on carmustine (BCNU)-induced hippocampal cognitive dysfunction in rats. A total of 60 male Wistar albino rats were randomly divided into four groups (15/group): The control group injected with single doses of normal saline (i.c.v) followed 24 h later by BCNU solvent (i.v). The second group administered ZnSO(4) (0.1 micromol/10 microl normal saline, i.c.v, once) then BCNU solvent (i.v) after 24 h. Third group received BCNU (20 mg/kg, i.v, once) 24 h after injection with normal saline (i.c.v). Fourth group received a single dose of ZnSO(4) (0.1 micromol/10 microl normal saline, i.c.v) then BCNU (20 mg/kg, i.v, once) after 24 h. The obtained data revealed that BCNU administration resulted in deterioration of learning and short-term memory (STM), as measured by using radial arm water maze, accompanied with decreased hippocampal glutathione reductase (GR) activity and reduced glutathione (GSH) content. Also, BCNU administration increased serum tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), hippocampal MT and malondialdehyde (MDA) contents as well as caspase-3 activity in addition to histological alterations. ZnSO(4) pretreatment counteracted BCNU-induced inhibition of GR and depletion of GSH and resulted in significant reduction in the levels of MDA and TNFalpha as well as the activity of caspase-3. The histological features were improved in hippocampus of rats treated with ZnSO(4) + BCNU compared to only BCNU-treated animals. In conclusion, MT induction halts BCNU-induced hippocampal toxicity as it prevented GR inhibition and GSH depletion and counteracted the increased levels of TNFalpha, MDA and caspase-3 activity with subsequent preservation of cognition.
Quinine is commonly prescribed to the elderly for the treatment of benign nocturnal cramps, yet its use is not without complications.
This article presents a case of quinine toxicity producing bilateral blindness, followed by a review of the adverse reactions associated with quinine use and its efficacy in treating benign nocturnal muscular cramps.
Visual loss has been associated with quinine serum concentrations above 10 microg/mL (therapeutic range 2-5 microg/mL). Other adverse reactions include neurological symptoms, haemolysis, acute renal failure and arrhythmia. There is conflicting evidence for the efficacy of quinine for leg cramps in randomised controlled studies, however, meta-analysis of these studies suggests some benefit. Although severe side effects are rare at therapeutic doses, the possibility of overdose needs to be considered when prescribing and an individual risk benefit analysis needs to be made. Benefits and adverse reactions should be closely monitored and medication ceased if appropriate.
Neurons and glia within the hippocampus of aged, spatial learning-impaired Long-Evans rats exhibit uniquely altered gene expression profiles, and we have postulated oxidative stress as the basis for this. To test this hypothesis we quantitated the extent of protein and nucleic acid oxidative damage, evaluated the status of mitochondrial DNA integrity, and examined several signaling entities and molecular indicators frequently associated with oxidative stress and gliosis. Immunoblotting demonstrated elevated heme oxygenase-1 in the aged-impaired hippocampus and immunocytochemistry suggested that heme oxygenase-1 is largely cytosolic and at least partly neuronal in nature. In the aged-impaired group, immunoreactivity to 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, an oxidative nucleic acid adduct, was found to be elevated in the dentate gyrus and in area CA1 of the hippocampal formation. Isolated mitochondrial DNA was found to be significantly damaged in the aged-impaired group. In the aged learning-impaired rats only, proteins in a 65-kDa band were found to contain excessive levels of carbonyl residues. Glial activation was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry to tumor necrosis factor alpha and by immunocytochemistry with OX-6, which detects activated microglia. White matter in aged brains exhibited a modest up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor alpha mRNA and OX-6 immunoreactivity, but the hippocampal formation expressed tumor necrosis factor alpha mRNA equivalent to young animals and few OX-6-positive microglia. The mRNA for manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase, which is elevated in the aged hippocampus, was found preferentially expressed in neurons. We conclude that aged hippocampal neurons appear to be under oxidative stress and this is more severe in the learning-impaired subjects, suggesting a possible basis for age-induced cognitive decline.
Patients with primary systemic amyloidosis (AL) have a poor prognosis. Median survival time from standard treatments is only 17 months. High-dose intravenous melphalan followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) appears to be the most promising therapy, but treatment mortality can be high. The authors have noted the development of acute renal insufficiency immediately after melphalan conditioning. This study was undertaken to further examine its risk factors and impact on posttransplant mortality.
Consecutive AL patients who underwent PBSCT were studied retrospectively. Acute renal insufficiency (ARI) after high-dose melphalan was defined by a minimum increase of 0.5 mg/dL (44 micromol/L) in the serum creatinine level that is greater than 50% of baseline immediately after conditioning. Urine sediment score was the sum of the individual types of sediment identified on urine microscopy.
Of the 80 patients studied, ARI developed in 18.8% of the patients after high-dose melphalan. Univariate analysis identified age, hypoalbuminemia, heavy proteinuria, diuretic use, and urine sediment score (>3) as risk factors. Age and urine sediment score remained independently significant risk factors in the multivariate analysis. Patients who had ARI after high-dose melphalan underwent dialysis more often (P = 0.007), and had a worse 1-year survival (P = 0.03).
The timing of renal injury strongly suggests melphalan as the causative agent. Ongoing tubular injury may be a prerequisite for renal injury by melphalan as evidenced by the active urinary sediment. Development of ARI adversely affected the outcome after PBSCT. Effective preventive measures may help decrease the treatment mortality of PBSCT in AL patients.
Thrombospondin 1 (TSP-1), an antiangiogenic factor and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β activity regulator, has been recently recognized as an adipokine that correlates with obesity, inflammation and insulin resistance processes. In the present study, epididymal adipocytes of rats that were fed a chow or a high-fat diet (HFD) for 50 days were isolated and incubated (24-72 h) in low (5.6 mM) or high (HG; 25 mM) glucose, in the presence or absence of 1.6 nM insulin. Rats fed the HF diet showed an established obesity state. Serum TSP-1 levels and TSP-1 mRNA basal expression of adipocytes from HFD rats were higher than those from controls. Adipocytes from HFD animals presented an insulin resistance state, as suggested by the lower insulin-stimulated glucose uptake as compared to controls. TSP-1 expression in culture was higher in adipocytes from obese animals at 24 h, but when the adipocytes were treated with HG, these expression levels dropped dramatically. Later at 72 h, TSP-1 expression was lower in adipocytes from HFD rats, and no effects of the other treatments were observed. Surprisingly, the secretion levels of this protein at 72 h were increased significantly by the HG treatment in both types of adipocytes, although they were even higher in adipocytes from obese animals. Finally, cell viability was significantly reduced by HG treatment in both types of adipocytes. In summary, TSP-1 expression/secretion was modulated in an in vitro model of insulin-resistant adipocytes. The difference between expression and secretion patterns suggests a posttranscriptional regulation. The present study confirms that TPS-1 is closely associated with obesity-related mechanisms.
Craving is often assumed to cause ongoing drug use and relapse and is a major focus of addiction research. However, its relationship to drug use has not been adequately documented.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between craving and drug use in real time and in the daily living environments of drug users.
In a prospective, longitudinal, cohort design (ecological momentary assessment), 112 cocaine-abusing individuals in methadone maintenance treatment rated their craving and mood at random times (two to five times daily, prompted by electronic diaries) as they went about their everyday activities. They also initiated an electronic diary entry each time they used cocaine. Drug use was monitored by thrice-weekly urine testing.
During periods of urine-verified cocaine use, ratings of cocaine craving increased across the day and were higher than during periods of urine-verified abstinence. During the 5 h prior to cocaine use, ratings of craving significantly increased. These patterns were not seen in ratings of heroin craving or mood (e.g., feeling happy or bored).
Cocaine craving is tightly coupled to cocaine use in users' normal environments. Our findings provide previously unavailable support for a relationship that has been seriously questioned in some theoretical accounts. We discuss what steps will be needed to determine whether craving causes use.
A case of intrahepatic cholestatic jaundice following warfarin therapy is described. The patient made a complete recovery on withdrawal on the drug.
According to recent epidemiological data in Japan, stroke affects roughly 5.3 males and 3.9 females per 1000 person-years and is the third leading cause of mortality. At present, management strategies for secondary prevention of stroke include aggressive treatment of cardiovascular risk factors (i.e., hypertension, smoking cessation, etc.). Antiplatelet drugs in Japan, namely aspirin and cilostazol, are utilized regularly for the prevention of secondary stroke. While aspirin is beneficial for a wide range of cardiovascular endpoints, including total and ischemic strokes, it is also associated with significantly increased risks for hemorrhagic infarction. Cilostazol, by contrast, has been shown to significantly reduce the risk of recurrent strokes without affecting the occurrence of intracranial hemorrhage. In the Cilostazol Stroke Prevention Study, a randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial involving more than 1000 Japanese patients, cilostazol was found to reduce the risk of secondary stroke by 41.7% compared with placebo, a statistically significant reduction (P = 0.015). The greatest risk reduction (43.4% in cilostazol versus placebo, P = 0.0373) was found in patients who initially had a lacunar infarction, suggesting that cilostazol has a specific effect against small-vessel disease. In addition, cilostazol achieved significant risk reductions on a number of combined endpoints (e.g., cerebral infarction, intracranial hemorrhage, myocardial infarction, or vascular death), and was associated with benefits in intent-to-treat analyses. These findings indicate that cilostazol may have a role as a vascular neuroprotectant, but the clinical implications are limited by the fact that patients were randomized to placebo instead of aspirin, which is the standard of care.
Doxorubicin is a potent anticancer drug which is widely used in the treatments of a variety of solid and hematopoietic tumors, but its use is limited by its cardiotoxicity and dose-dependent congestive heart failure. After finding a close connection between Interleukin-1 family and doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity, we assumed that recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (rhIL-1Ra), the natural antagonist of interleukin-1, might have a protective role in doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. In this report, Balb/c mice were intraperitoneally injected with doxorubicin (18 mg/kg) followed by injections of 1mg/kg rhIL-1Ra 4h later, and consecutive daily injections of rhIL-1Ra on the following 4 days (1mg/kg/day). We found that rhIL-1Ra significantly decreased malondialdehyde in cardiac tissue and prevented doxorubicin-associated cardiac troponin I elevations in serum, especially at day 14 after doxorubicin treatment. Importantly, rhIL-1Ra diminished doxorubicin-induced microstructural damages of cardiac tissue and rescued doxorubicin-caused reduction of cardiac functions exemplified by ejection fraction and fraction shortening. Our results reveal a potential role of rhIL-1Ra in protecting mice against doxorubicin-induced cardiac injuries and lead to a conclusion that this protein may be a potential candidate agent that inhibits cardiomyocyte-toxicity in doxorubicin-exposed patients.
