To describe the clinical course of quinine-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and review all previous cases reported in the medical literature.
Case report/literature review.
University teaching hospital medical ICU.
One patient in whom thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy, intravascular hemolysis, DIC, and acute renal failure temporally followed the ingestion of quinine.
We conducted a computerized free-text MEDLINE database search from 1969 to 2000 using the keywords quinine and thrombocytopenia, quinine and hemolytic-uremic syndrome, and quinine and disseminated intravascular coagulation.
All reported cases and reviews of quinine-induced thrombocytopenia, hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS), and DIC were reviewed. DIC was distinguished from quinine-induced thrombocytopenia or quinine-induced HUS based on the presence of abnormal clotting times, elevated fibrin degradation products, and/or elevated D-dimer levels.
Fifteen previous patients were found to meet the criteria for DIC temporally related to the recent ingestion of quinine. The clinical course and laboratory abnormalities documented for each case are reviewed.
Quinine-induced DIC is a distinct clinical entity, which may present as unexplained thrombocytopenia, coagulopathy, or renal failure. In susceptible patients, the immune response to quinine may result in the production of not only anti-platelet antibodies but also antibodies against leukocytes, erythrocytes, and endothelial cells. Furthermore, the varying patterns and specificities of antibody production in an individual patient may result in a spectrum of clinical disease from mild, transient thrombocytopenia to overt intravascular hemolysis, renal failure, coagulopathy, and DIC. Early recognition of quinine-induced DIC is paramount, as this diagnosis affords a better prognosis than other adult forms of HUS or DIC.
Neonatal anuria is not an uncommon problem in neonates. Here, we report an unusual case of neonatal anuria due to renal tubular dysgenesis, secondary to the use of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) during pregnancy. ACEI remains one of the most commonly used antihypertensive drug at present. A greater awareness needs to be created in the medical fraternity especially among pediatricians, gynecologists and internists that ACE inhibitors should not be prescribed during any trimester of pregnancy.
Three of 38 children given high-dose cytosine arabinoside therapy developed a previously undescribed complication. Neurological problems are a frequent occurrence in patients given this therapy, particularly cerebellar ataxia, but the development of bulbar and pseudobulbar palsy has not been reported. In two of these cases, it was sufficiently marked for the course of treatment to be curtailed and occurred at a relatively low cumulative dose of the drug. Neurotoxicity can occur at any time using high-dose cytosine therapy.
This study tested whether the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) benazepril can improve the insulin resistance and glucose tolerance in uremia. Fifteen uremic hypertensive patients were treated with benazepril in a dose of 10-20 mg per day for ten weeks, and ten healthy subjects, matched in age, sex ratio and body mass index (BMI), served as the control group. Before and after the treatment, an oral 75 g glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and insulin release test (IRT) were performed in two groups above, and the blood glucose and serum insulin concentrations at 0, 60, 120 and 180 minutes after glucose load were examined, and the insulin glycoregulatory activity, including insulin sensitivity index (ISI), glucose uptake rate (M), total areas under the glucose and insulin curves during OGTTs (AUCG AUCINS), was calculated. The changes of serum potassium and renal function before and after treatment were observed. It showed that (1) benazepril could reduce blood pressure significantly (SBP decreased from 174.8 +/- 12.0 mmHg to 151.5 +/- 9.0 mmHg, p <0.001; DBP decreased from 108.0 +/- 8.2 mmHg to 95.3 +/- 9.0 mmHg, p <0.001). The total response rate was 86.7%. (2) After treatment with benazepril for ten weeks, the blood glucose and serum insulin concentrations after glucose load and AUCG, AUCINS values in the uremic patients were significantly lower than before treatment, but were still significantly higher than in the controls. The values of ISI and M in the uremic patients after treatment were much higher than before treatment, but were still significantly lower than in the control subjects. (3) The differences of serum potassium and creatinine levels before and after treatment were not significant. These findings indicate that benazepril can not only reduce blood pressure effectively and safely, but also partly improve insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia and glucose intolerance in uremia.
Two prominent behavioral syndromes associated with chronic cocaine use that have been described in the literature are cocaine-induced paranoia (CIP) and cocaine-induced compulsive foraging (CICF) for cocaine. To help to clarify the relationship between the two cocaine-induced syndromes, the concordance and sequence of onset of the two cocaine-induced behaviors over the course of the patients' lifetime use of cocaine and during the course of a binge was examined in 62 crack cocaine-dependent men. Thirty-four (54.8%) reported experiencing both CIP and CICF. In 18 (29%) of the patients, only one of these cocaine-induced behavioral syndromes was reported. Ten (16.1%) of the subjects reported neither CIP nor CICF. Patterns of cocaine or other substance use and degrees of tolerance to cocaine were not significantly different between the groups endorsing different patterns of cocaine-induced behaviors. CIP typically preceded the onset of CICF both over the course of the patients' lifetime use of cocaine and over the course of a binge. The study results suggest varying thresholds for the expression of these behaviors in chronic cocaine-abusing individuals.
To investigate the inhibitory role of pterostilbene in pancreatic cancer, we conducted a genomic analysis of pterostilbene-treated pancreatic cancer cells. We also investigated the effect of pterostilbene upon the carcinogenic markers, manganese superoxide dismutase, cytochrome C, Smac/DIABLO, and STAT3 phosphorylation in vitro. The antiproliferative effects of pterostilbene were further evaluated in an in vivo model.
Pancreatic cancer cells were treated with pterostilbene and evaluated with DNA microarray analysis. Pterostilbene-treated cells were analyzed for cytochrome C, Smac/DIABLO, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD)/antioxidant activity, and STAT3 phosphorylation using ELISA. Data were statistically analyzed using ANOVA. Pterostilbene was then administered to nude mice for 8 weeks, and tumor growth rates were recorded and statistically analyzed.
Microarray analysis of pterostilbene-treated cells revealed upregulation of pro-apoptosis genes. In vitro, pterostilbene treatment altered levels of phosphorylated STAT3, MnSOD/antioxidant activity, cytochrome C, and Smac/DIABLO. In nude mice, oral pterostilbene inhibited tumor growth rates.
Pterostilbene alters gene expression in pancreatic cancer and increases the antiproliferative markers cytochrome C, Smac/DIABLO, and MnSOD/antioxidant activity. It was also shown to inhibit phosphorylated STAT3, a marker of accelerated tumorigenesis, and decrease pancreatic tumor growth in vivo. Further studies are warranted to elucidate the effects of pterostilbene in humans.
Although doxorubicin (DXR) is an effective antineoplastic agent; the serious cardiotoxicity mediated by the production of reactive oxygen species has remained a considerable clinical problem. Our hypothesis is that tanshinone IIA sodium sulfonate (TSNIIA-SS), which holds significant affects on cardioprotection in clinic, protects against DXR-induced cardiotoxicity. In vitro investigation on H9c2 cell line, as well as in vivo study in animal model of DXR-induced chronic cardiomyopathy were performed. TSNIIA-SS significantly increased cell viability and ameliorated apoptosis of DXR-injured H9c2 cells using CCK-8 assay and Hoechst 33342 stain respectively. Furthermore, the cardio-protective effects of TSNIIA-SS were confirmed with decreasing ST-interval and QRS interval by electrocardiography (ECG); improving appearance of myocardium with haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stain; increasing myocardial tensile strength using tension to rupture (TTR) assay and decreasing fibrosis through picric-sirius red staining comparing with those receiving DXR alone. These data have provided the considerable evidences that TSNIIA-SS is a protective agent against DXR-induced cardiac injury.
In human disorders, the genotype-phenotype relationships are often complex and influenced by genetic and/or environmental factors. Wilson disease (WD) is a monogenic disorder caused by mutations in the copper-transporting P-type ATPase ATP7B. WD shows significant phenotypic diversity even in patients carrying identical mutations; the basis for such diverse manifestations is unknown. We demonstrate that the 2623A/G polymorphism (producing the Gly(875) → Arg substitution in the A-domain of ATP7B) drastically alters the intracellular properties of ATP7B, whereas copper reverses the effects. Under basal conditions, the common Gly(875) variant of ATP7B is targeted to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and transports copper into the TGN lumen. In contrast, the Arg(875) variant is located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and does not deliver copper to the TGN. Elevated copper corrects the ATP7B-Arg(875) phenotype. Addition of only 0.5-5 μM copper triggers the exit of ATP7B-Arg(875) from the ER and restores copper delivery to the TGN. Analysis of the recombinant A-domains by NMR suggests that the ER retention of ATP7B-Arg(875) is attributable to increased unfolding of the Arg(875)-containing A-domain. Copper is not required for the folding of ATP7B-Arg(875) during biosynthesis, but it stabilizes protein and stimulates its activity. A chemotherapeutical drug, cisplatin, that mimics a copper-bound state of ATP7B also corrects the "disease-like" phenotype of ATP7B-Arg(875) and promotes its TGN targeting and transport function. We conclude that in populations harboring the Arg(875) polymorphism, the levels of bioavailable copper may play a vital role in the manifestations of WD.
Cocaine is associated with many health complications including gastrointestinal ischemia/infarction, and hemorrhage. The clinical medical literature describes such entities, but no case exists within the forensic literature describing life-threatening intraluminal gastrointestinal hemorrhage and sudden death associated with cocaine. A 48-year-old black man died suddenly in his home, with drug paraphernalia near the body. Further investigation revealed blood stains on upholstery, and a toilet filled with fresh blood. External examination of the body revealed fresh blood draining from the anus. Internal examination revealed a dusky portion of distal ileum filled with an abundance of fresh blood. Toxicology confirmed the suspicion of acute cocaine intoxication.Review of the clinical literature revealed several case reports describing an association between cocaine use and intestinal infarction, one with hemoperitoneum. Review of the forensic literature returned one case describing an association between cocaine toxicity and intestinal infarction, but without hemorrhage. To our knowledge, our case represents the first report in the forensic literature describing massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage associated with acute cocaine intoxication. It is important that the forensic pathologist recognize cocaine toxicity as a potential cause of gastrointestinal bleeding, especially in younger male decedents without significant comorbidities. Scene investigation may reveal useful clues pointing to this unusual etiology.
Irreversible and progressive renal parenchymal damage and functional impairment occurred in the majority of patients receiving at least six courses (200 mg/m2 of BCNU and/or methyl CCNU at eight-week intervals) of nitrosoureas for therapy of malignant brain tumors. Seventeen of 18 patients who received at least six courses and all nine patients who received more than ten courses developed impaired renal function as judged by elevation of blood urea nitrogen and/or serum creatinine or decrease in filtration rate as determined by inulin clearance. Four patients have developed uremia. Renal tissue obtained from seven patients demonstrated tubular atrophy, interstitial fibrosis and glomerular sclerosis. This remarkably high incidence of renal damage occurred without a phase of acute renal failure and in the absence of significant urinary abnormalities, while producing an insidiously progressive interstitial renal lesion.
The objective of our study was to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of a high-dose melphalan-based therapy with or without total body irradiation (TBI) followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma. Between June 1992 and June 1996, 104 patients (71 male, 33 female) with a median age of 51 years (range 30-65 years) underwent transplantation at our center. PBPC were mobilized using high-dose chemotherapy followed by treatment with G-CSF. Fifty patients were treated with TBI+melphalan 140 mg/m2 while 54 patients received melphalan 200 mg/m2. Following PBPC autografting, the median time to attainment of platelets > or = 20 x 10(9)/l and neutrophils > or = 0.5 x 10(9)/l was 11 and 14 days, with no difference between the treatment groups. In the TBI group significantly longer periods of total parenteral nutrition were required due to the occurrence of severe mucositis. Two patients from the TBI group died of transplantation-related complications. Following high-dose treatment, remission state improved in 43 out of 102 patients. No statistically significant advantage in reaching complete or partial remission was observed with TBI+high-dose melphalan compared to the treatment with high-dose melphalan alone. The optimal high-dose treatment, with particular reference to the inclusion or omission of TBI, should be prospectively investigated.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are among the most common classes of chemical contaminants found at hazardous waste sites. Deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) exhibit a wide geographic distribution throughout North America and have been suggested as a terrestrial biomonitoring species to facilitate comparisons between superfund sites. Chemicals tested were benzo[a]pyrene (BaP; CAS number 50-32-8), pyrene (Pyr; CAS number 129-00-0), and chrysene (Chr; CAS number 218-01-9). Adult male deer mice were exposed via intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection every other day for 11 d to the PAHs (0.3, 1, 3, 10, or 30 mg/kg) or a corn oil carrier control. Both BaP and Chr suppressed the plaque-forming cell (PFC) response at all treatment levels. Pyr exposure (1-30 mg/kg) also resulted in suppression of this response. Macrophage pinocytosis was suppressed only by Chr (3, 10, and 30 mg/kg). Concanavalin A-induced proliferation was stimulated by BaP at all dose levels, by Pyr at 1-30 mg/kg, and by Chr at 30 mg/kg. Chr did not affect pokeweed mitogen (PWM)-induced proliferation; however, BaP (1-30 mg/kg) and Pyr (0.3-30 mg/kg) produced stimulation of this response as compared to respective controls. BaP and Chr stimulated cytochrome P-450 1A1 (CYP1A1) activity (3, 10, or 30 mg/kg) as measured by ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) activity, but Pyr did not. These results indicate that immune function endpoints appear to be more sensitive to these PAHs than measured hepatic CYP450 activity.
beta-Adrenergic receptor agonist tocolysis has been reported to cause noncardiogenic pulmonary edema. We report an association between chronic terbutaline therapy and cardiomyopathy in peripartum women. Among 15 gravidas who had peripartum heart failure, 4 had received prolonged terbutaline tocolysis. Although those four patients had completely normalized ventricular function, only 7 of the 11 others recovered. We suggest that gravidas receiving long-term beta-sympathomimetic tocolysis undergo close evaluation of cardiac function.
Thirteen patients with severe hypertension were treated with combined minoxidil, propranolol, and furosemide (mean daily doses 33 mg, 475 mg, and 578 mg, respectively) for nine to twenty-five months (mean 13.8). Average mean blood pressure while on aggressive therapy with conventional medication was 144 +/- 14 mm Hg; on minoxidil and propranolol it was 108 "/- 10 mm Hg (P less thator to optimum blood pressure control and required large doses of furosemide to control. Propranolol blunted the reflex tachycardia associated with arteriolar dilator therapy but all patients continued with a clinically hyperdynamic circulation. Seven of seven had elevated ejection fractions on echocardiogram, and two of three had elevated cardiac indices. Three of three who had heart catheterization had pulmonary hypertension which was aggravated by exercise. An additional three patients on hydralazine, propranolol, and furosemide also had pulmonary hypertension suggesting this is not unique to minoxidil. Two of thirteen developed pericardial effusions. Renal function improved in three and worsened in three.
This case report describes a terminally ill patient with cancer with severe hypophosphataemia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia who developed neuroleptic malignant syndrome after administration of a combination of haloperidol and fentanyl. The chief etiology of neuroleptic malignant syndrome in this patient was administration of haloperidol, but fentanyl and coexisting mineral imbalance could have contributed to development of the syndrome. Palliative care clinicians should be aware that neuroleptic malignant syndrome can occur in their patients receiving haloperidol.
The case of a patient with severe anaerobic infection, a brain abscess, is presented. The causative organism was a penicillinase-producing, clindamycin-resistant strain of Bacteroides melaninogenicus. Treatment with adequate doses of penicillin G failed. Findings in this case suggest caution when basing therapy on the untested assumption that B. melaninogenicus is routinely susceptible to penicillin and clindamycin therapy.
Using gene targeting in mice, we have undertaken a systematic mutational analysis of the homeobox-containing 5' HoxD genes. In particular, we have characterized the limb defects observed in mice with independent targeted disruptions of hoxd-12 and hoxd-13. Animals defective for hoxd-12 are viable, fertile, and appear outwardly normal yet have minor autopodal defects in the forelimb which include a reduction in the bone length of metacarpals and phalanges, and a malformation of the distal carpal bone d4. The limb phenotypes observed in hoxd-13 mutant mice are more extensive, including strong reductions in length, complete absences, or improper segmentations of many metacarpal and phalangeal bones. Additionally, the d4 carpal bone is not properly formed and often produces an extra rudimentary digit. To examine the genetic interactions between the 5' HoxD genes, we bred these mutant strains with each other and with our previously characterized hoxd-11 mouse to produce a series of trans-heterozygotes. Skeletal analyses of these mice reveal that these genes interact in the formation of the vertebrate limb, since the trans-heterozygotes display phenotypes not present in the individual heterozygotes, including more severe carpal, metacarpal and phalangeal defects. Some of these phenotypes appear to be accounted for by a delay in the ossification events in the autopod, which lead to either the failure of fusion or the elimination of cartilaginous elements. Characteristically, these mutations lead to the overall truncation of digits II and V on the forelimb. Additionally, some trans-animals show the growth of an extra postaxial digit VI, which is composed of a bony element resembling a phalange. The results demonstrate that these genes interact in the formation of the limb. In addition to the previously characterized paralogous interactions, a multitude of interactions between Hox genes is used to finely sculpt the forelimb. The 5' Hox genes could therefore act as a major permissive genetic milieu that has been exploited by evolutionary adaptation to form the tetrapod limbs.
Glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT) is a key regulatory protein in folate metabolism, methionine availability, and transmethylation reactions. Perturbations in GNMT may lead to aberrations in homocysteine metabolism, a marker of numerous pathologies. The primary objective of this study was to examine the influence of the GNMT 1289 C-->T alone, and in combination with the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 677 C-->T variant, on plasma total homocysteine concentrations in healthy young women (n = 114). Plasma total homocysteine was measured at baseline (wk 0) and after 2 wk of controlled folate restriction (135 microg/d as dietary folate equivalents). Plasma homocysteine concentrations did not differ among the GNMT C1289T genotypes at baseline. However, after folate restriction, women with the GNMT 1289 TT genotype (n = 16) had higher (P = 0.019) homocysteine concentrations than women with the CT (n = 51) or CC (n = 47) genotype. The influence of the GNMT 1289 C-->T variant on homocysteine was dependent on the MTHFR C677T genotype. In subjects with the MTHFR 677 CC genotype, homocysteine was greater (P < or = 0.05) for GNMT 1289 TT subjects relative to 1289 CT or CC subjects. However, in subjects with the MTHFR 677 TT genotype, plasma homocysteine concentrations did not differ among the GNMT C1289T genotypes. Overall, these data suggest that the GNMT 1289 C-->T polymorphism influences plasma homocysteine and is responsive to folate intake.
A polyuric syndrome with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) is a frequent consequence of prolonged administration of lithium (Li) salts. Studies in the past, mainly the acute and in vitro experiments, indicated that Li ions can inhibit hydroosmotic effect of [8-arginine]vasopressin (AVP) at the step of cAMP generation in vitro. However, the pathogenesis of the NDI due to chronic oral administration of low therapeutic doses of Li salts is not yet clarified. We conducted a comprehensive study to clarify the mechanism by which Li administered orally for several weeks induces polyuria and NDI in rats. Albino rats consuming a diet which contained Li (60 mmol/kg) for 4 wk developed marked polyuria and polydipsia; at the end of 4 wk the plasma Li was 0.7 +/- 0.09 mM (mean +/- SEM; n = 36). Li-treated rats had a significantly decreased (-33%) tissue osmolality in papilla and greatly reduced cortico-papillary gradient of urea (cortex--43%; medulla--64%; papilla--74%). Plasma urea was significantly (P less than 0.001) lower in Li-treated rats (5.4 +/- 0.2 mM) compared with controls (6.8 +/- 0.3 mM). Medullary collecting tubules (MCT) and papillary collecting ducts (PCD) microdissected from Li-treated animals had higher content of protein than MCT and PCD from the control rats. The cAMP accumulation in response to AVP added in vitro was significantly (delta = -60%) reduced. Also, the cAMP accumulation in MCT and PCD after incubation with forskolin was markedly lower in Li-treated rats. Addition of 0.5 mM 1-methyl,3-isobutyl-xanthine did not restore the cAMP accumulation in response to AVP and forskolin in MCT from Li-treated animals. In collecting tubule segments from polyuric rats with hypothalamic diabetes insipidus (Brattleboro homozygotes) the AVP-dependent cAMP accumulation was not diminished. The activity of adenylate cyclase (AdC) in MCT of Li-treated rats, both the basal and the activity stimulated by AVP, forskolin, or fluoride, was significantly (delta approximately equal to -30%) reduced, while the activity of cAMP phosphodiesterase (cAMP-PDIE) in the same segment showed no significant difference from the controls. Also, the content of ATP in MCT microdissected from Li-treated rats and incubated in vitro did not differ from controls. The rate of [14C]succinate oxidation to 14CO2 in MAL was inhibited (-77%) by 1 mM furosemide, which indicates that this metabolic process is coupled with NaCl cotransport in MAL. The rate of (14)CO(2) production from [14C]succinate in MAL was not significantly different between control and Li-treated rats. In MCT of control rats, the rate of [14C]succinate oxidation was approximately 3 times lower than in MAL. The rate of (14)CO(2) production from [(14)C]succinate in MCT of Li-treated rats was significantly (delta +33%) higher than in MCT dissected from control rats. Based on these results, we conclude that at least two factors play an important role in the pathogenesis of NDI consequent to chronic oral administration of Li: (a) decreased ability of MCT and PCD to generate and accumulate cAMP in response to stimulation by AVP; this defect is primarily due to diminished activity of AdC in these tubular segments caused by prolonged exposure to Li; and (b) lower osmolality of renal papillary tissue, due to primarily to depletion of urea, which decreases osmotic driving force for water reabsorption in collecting tubules. On the other hand, NaCI reabsorption in MAL is apparently not affected by chronic Li treatment.
The optimal duration, safety, and benefit of preoperative chemotherapy in patients with colorectal liver metastases (CLM) are unclear. We evaluated the association between the duration of preoperative chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) ± bevacizumab, pathologic response, and hepatotoxicity after hepatic resection for CLM.
A total of 219 patients underwent hepatic resection following FOLFOX with or without bevacizumab and were divided into 2 groups according to the chemotherapy duration: 1-8 cycles (short duration [SD]; N = 157) and ≥9 cycles (long duration [LD]; N = 62). The frequency of complete or major pathologic response, sinusoidal injury, and major postoperative morbidity were compared.
Treatment consisting of ≥9 cycles was not associated with an increase in complete or major pathologic response (SD vs. LD, 57% vs. 55%; P = .74). The incidence of sinusoidal injury was higher in the LD group (26% vs. 42%; P = .017). The incidence of liver insufficiency was higher in the LD group (4% vs. 11%; P = .035). Sinusoidal injury did not predict postoperative liver insufficiency; multivariate analysis revealed ≥9 cycles was the only independent predictor of postoperative liver insufficiency (P = .031; odds ratio = 3.90). Chemotherapy including bevacizumab was associated with a significantly higher frequency of complete or major response in both SD and LD groups.
Extended preoperative chemotherapy increases the risk of hepatotoxicity in CLM without improving the pathologic response. The type of chemotherapy (FOLFOX with bevacizumab) has more impact on pathologic response than the duration of chemotherapy.
Between April and August 1989 we treated 50 patients with an erectile dysfunction. 23 patients (46%) had an organic, 17 (34%) a psychogenic and 7 patients (14%) a mixed origin of their impotence. In 3 patients the diagnosis has yet to be made. To induce pharmacological erections we used 20 micrograms of prostaglandin-E1 in a ready to use syringe. 64% (32 patients) achieved a full erection. Of the 18 patients insufficiently responding, 12 (67%) had an organic (in 11 patients vascular), 4 a psychogenic and 1 patient a mixed erectile dysfunction. In one patient the diagnosis has not been established at present. 14% (7) of the patients complained to have painful erections disturbing intercourse. The mean erection time was 2.5 hours (range 0.5-5.5). In one patient the intracavernous injection of prostaglandin-E1 resulted in a prolonged erection of more than seven hours, which was successfully treated by aspiration of blood from the corpora cavernosa and intracavernous injection of phenylephrine-hydrochloride. Nevertheless prostaglandin-E1 appears to be more physiological and to have less side-effects than papaverin-chloride.
The effect of acute and repeated (once daily, 14 days) administration of a potential antidepressant, the glycineB partial agonist 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC, 100-400 mg/kg, ip), on the hyperactivity induced by amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, sc) in rats was studied. Neither acute nor repeated treatment with the drug affected the hyperlocomotion induced by amphetamine. The obtained results indicate that ACPC does not resemble antidepressant drugs in this behavioral model.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is a systemic and coronary vasodilator that may have positive inotropic properties. Myocardial levels of VIP were assayed before and after the development of heart failure in two canine models. In the first, cobalt cardiomyopathy was induced in eight dogs; VIP (by radioimmunoassay) decreased from 35 +/- 11 pg/mg protein (mean +/- SD) to 5 +/- 4 pg/mg protein (P less than 0.05). In six dogs with doxorubicin-induced heart failure, VIP decreased from 31 +/- 7 to 11 +/- 4 pg/mg protein (P less than 0.05). In addition, VIP content of left ventricular muscle of resected failing hearts in 10 patients receiving a heart transplant was compared with the papillary muscles in 14 patients (five with rheumatic disease, nine with myxomatous degeneration) receiving mitral valve prostheses. The lowest myocardial VIP concentration was found in the hearts of patients with coronary disease (one patient receiving a transplant and three receiving mitral prostheses) (6.3 +/- 1.9 pg/mg protein). The other patients undergoing transplantation had an average ejection fraction of 17% +/- 6% and a VIP level of 8.8 +/- 3.9 pg/mg protein. The hearts without coronary artery disease (average ejection fraction of this group 62% +/- 10%) had a VIP concentration of 14.1 +/- 7.9 pg/mg protein, and this was greater than in hearts of the patients with coronary disease and the hearts of patients receiving a transplant (P less than 0.05). Myocardial catecholamines were also determined in 14 subjects; a weak correlation (r = 0.57, P less than 0.05) between the tissue concentrations of VIP and norepinephrine was noted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Diethylstilboestrol is still used as an adjunct palliative treatment in certain patients with breast and prostate cancer. Its pharmacological, toxicological and carcinogenic properties are reviewed. In addition to the usual untoward effects following subacute or chronic administration of oestrogens, treatment with diethylstilboestrol has been associated with serious cardiovascular sequelae. Most characteristic are, however, the carcinogenic properties of this drug. Many epidemiological data provide evidence that prenatal exposure to diethylstilboestrol is causally associated with vaginal and cervical clear-cell adenocarcinomas, a very rare type of cancer in the unexposed female population. The intrauterine exposure of males leads to an increased risk of testicular cancer, although the data are less conclusive in this respect. There is some evidence that administration of diethylstilboestrol in large doses to adult women during pregnancy increases the risk of subsequent breast cancer and it probably increases the incidence of endometrial carcinoma, as has been shown with other similar oestrogens given chronically for menopausal symptoms.
Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by movement disorder, cognitive deterioration, and selective striatal degeneration. No effective treatment exists, and thus stable primate models could aid in the development of novel therapies.
Two primate models of Huntington's disease were analyzed: bilateral stereotactic intrastriatal injections of quinolinic acid (QA), and daily systemic intramuscular administration of 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) for up to 8 weeks in male Cebus apella monkeys. The animals' behavior was evaluated before, during, and 3 months after administration of the neurotoxin. Magnetic resonance imaging scans of the brain were obtained before and after treatment.
Frontal cognitive function as evaluated by object retrieval-detour task test demonstrated a marked deterioration in successful responses, with an increase in barrier reaches in both groups. No significant change in performance of fine motor tasks was observed. QA-treated animals displayed hyperactivity at night. Animals in both groups demonstrated abnormal posture, and the 3-NP-treated group showed spontaneous and apomorphine-induced dystonia and dyskinesia. The QA-treated group displayed large areas of increased signal on T2-weighted images in the caudate and putamen bilaterally. Treatment with 3-NP resulted in smaller lesions. Immunohistochemistry and morphometric analyses revealed that both groups had lesions in the striatum. A large area of neuronal loss with glial sparing was observed in the QA-treated group, including the caudate and putamen bilaterally. The 3-NP-treated group displayed smaller lesions restricted to the dorsolateral putamen.
These results suggest that both QA and 3-NP induce behavioral and morphological features that resemble the juvenile and akinetic-rigid variants of Huntington's disease, with the group with 3-NP-induced lesions displaying smaller lesions and spontaneous dyskinesia.
