Seven infants developed mepivacaine intoxication secondary to accidental injection during paracervical or pudental blocks or both. All presented with unexplained neonatal depression at birth, tonic seizures (often with apnea) within six hours, and characteristic neurologic findings. Twenty-four-hour urinary excretion produced 12.7 to 37.4 mg, exchange transfusions less than 1.02 to 3.5 mg, and gastric drainage or lavage or both 0.63 to 1.26 mg of mepivacaine. Thus promotion of urinary excretion is the treatment of choice. All six survivors are seizure free and neurologically and developmentally normal at one to 4 1/2 years. With early diagnosis and prevention of severe perinatal hypoxia, the prognosis from intoxication alone is very good.
It takes 24 months to induce preinvasive carcinomas in the urinary bladder of dogs as reported in the literature. The transplantation of chemically induced carcinomas has never been successful. Therefore, it was looked for methods which enable a shortening of the latency period and to transplant such tumors. 12 of 22 female beagle whelps were injected transurethrally with fast polymerizing plastics and then they have been treated subcutaneously with ortho-aminodiphenyl, formylaminonitrofurylthiazole or with the two carcinogens together. The dogs have been controlled by endoscopy, cytology and histology every 4 weeks. The first invasive urothelial carcinomas were observed 13 months after starting the treatment. Totally 7 carcinomas of the bladder and 3 in the pelvis of the kidney were found. It was possible to cultivate tumor material in tissue culture, gained by biopsy transurethrally. The transplantation of tissue culture material into nude mice was successful in 19 of 23 animals. In 2 of 10 beagles tumors started to grow transiently after transplantation of tissue culture cells. In the bacterial mutagenicity test (Ames) and in animals ortho-aminodiphenyl was neither mutagenic nor carcinogenic. However, it was cocarcinogenic if used together with formylaminonitrofurylthiazole.
Uncontrolled clinical studies have suggested that primidone may be effective in reducing essential tremor thus providing a valuable alternative to beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists which are currently the drugs of first choice. A double blind, placebo controlled trial of primidone in essential tremor of the hands and head was carried out using both clinical and objective methods of assessment. Primidone was significantly superior to placebo in reducing the magnitude of hand tremor, its efficacy being comparable to that of propranolol. In two patients tremor was reduced to non-symptomatic levels, an effect rarely seen with propranolol. No consistent attenuation of head tremor was found. There was no correlation between serum primidone or derived phenobarbitone concentrations and the reduction of hand tremor. An acute toxic reaction to an initial small dose (62.5 mg) of primidone was seen in six of 22 patients.
Chronic beryllium disease (CBD) appears to arise from a combination of both exposure and genetic risk factors. A distinguishing feature of CBD is beryllium hypersensitivity, which can be measured in vitro by a lymphocyte proliferation test. The objective of this study was to determine whether certain allelic variations of the HLA-DPB1 gene, which had been observed previously in CBD, could be found in a group of individuals having beryllium hypersensitivity, but no symptoms of CBD. A flow cytometry-based Lymphocyte Proliferation Test combined with immunophenotyping (Immuno-LPT) was used to detect CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation in response to in vitro stimulation with beryllium. The HLA-DPB1 haplotypes of the same individuals were determined by automated DNA sequencing. Twenty-two out of 25 beryllium-sensitive, non-CBD individuals were found to be carriers of the HLA-DPB1 gene having a substitution of a glutamic acid at position 69 in Exon 2 (Glu69), and a significantly high percentage (24%) were Glu69 homozygotes. Most of the CD4+ responders on the Immuno-LPT (10/14) carried rare, non-*0201 Glu69 DPB1 alleles; while most of the non-CD4+ responders (9/11) were common Glu69 carriers (*0201 or *0202) or non-Glu69 individuals (non-Glu69/non-Glu69). This is the first direct evidence that HLA-DP genotype is linked to a phenotypic response that occurs in beryllium sensitization in the absence of clinical CBD.
Numerous studies demonstrate oestrogen's neuroprotective effect in stroke models, although the mechanisms are unclear. Since oestrogen is an antioxidant, we tested the hypothesis that oestrogen reduces stroke-induced damage by reducing free radical damage, particularly lipid peroxidation.
Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomised and a 17beta-oestradiol (0.25 mg, 21 day release) or placebo pellet implanted subcutaneously. Two weeks later, permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) was induced by intraluminal filament. At 2 and 24 h post-MCAO, neurological deficits were assessed. At the 24 h end point, plasma oestradiol was measured and brain sections stained with haematoxylin and eosin or lipid peroxidation marker, 4-hydroxynonenol (4-HNE) immunohistochemistry carried out to measure infarct volume and volume of tissue displaying oxidative damage, respectively.
Plasma 17beta-oestradiol in oestradiol and placebo groups was 72.6+/-38.0 and 9.3+/-7.4 pg/ml (mean+/-SD), respectively. Infarct volume was significantly increased (118%) with oestradiol treatment (oestradiol=124+/-84.5, placebo=57+/-46.4 mm3, mean+/-SD, P<0.05). The relationship between 4-HNE and infarct volume was significantly influenced by 17beta-oestradiol. Neurological deficits were similar between groups (oestradiol median=13, placebo=14, max score=33).
Two week pre-treatment with a high physiological dose of 17beta-oestradiol increased infarct volume after permanent MCAO. Although contrary to our original hypothesis, this result demonstrates that oestrogen does have the capacity to promote detrimental actions in the stroke-injured brain. Given the wide use of oestrogen (contraception, osteoporosis and menopause), more research to clarify the influence of oestrogen on brain injury is urgently required.
We report the first case of acute cholestatic hepatitis induced by bupropion. This antidepressant was taken by a 49-year-old female as adjuvant treatment to stop smoking. After 20 days of bupropion, the patient presented a symptomatology characterized by asthenia, nausea and scleral icterus and biochemical analyses showed a dramatic increase in direct bilirubin (up to 28 mg/dl) and transaminases (up to 68-fold normal limits). Antinuclear antibodies were positive (title = 1:80; speckled pattern). Biochemical analyses and antinuclear antibodies were normal two years earlier. The histology showed a pattern of acute hepatitis with involvement of bile ducts and with features of centrolobular cholestasis. Treatment with methylprednisolone was commenced and continued for 20 days. Liver enzymes and bilirubin returned to normal within two months of withdrawal of bupropion and remained normal during the 4-month follow-up. Antinuclear antibodies also became negative. Other causes of liver damage were excluded. Considering the clinical diagnostic scale for hepatotoxic adverse drug reaction, our patient showed a score compatible with the final diagnosis of bupropion-related cholestatic hepatitis.
Overactivity of glutamate neurotransmission is suspected to be implicated in Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesia. The fast glutamatergic transmission in the striatum from the cortex is mediated mainly by non-n-methyl-d-aspartate (non-NMDA) receptors. Animal models of Parkinson's disease reveal conflicting data concerning striatal glutamate AMPA receptors. The present study thus sought to shed light on the relationship of striatal AMPA receptors to the development of levodopa-induced dyskinesia. [(3)H]Ro 48-8587, a highly potent and selective-specific antagonist ligand for AMPA receptors, was used to investigate, by autoradiography, striatal AMPA receptors in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys treated for 1 month with levodopa alone, levodopa+CI-1041 (NMDA receptor antagonist) or levodopa+cabergoline (D2 receptor agonist). Levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys developed dyskinesias while those that received levodopa+CI-1041 or levodopa+cabergoline did not. In the anterior caudate nucleus and putamen, specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 was reduced in all MPTP-treated monkeys compared to control monkeys, but no significant effect of MPTP was measured in the posterior striatum. In dyskinetic monkeys, specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 was elevated in subregions of the posterior caudate nucleus and putamen as compared to saline-treated MPTP monkeys. Levodopa+CI-1041 treatment left unchanged specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 whereas levodopa+cabergoline treatment reduced it in subregions of the posterior caudate nucleus and putamen compared to control and levodopa-treated MPTP monkeys. Specific binding of [(3)H]Ro 48-8587 was low in the globus pallidus and remained unchanged following both lesion and treatments. In conclusion, the elevated values of AMPA receptors in dyskinetic monkeys (and their prevention through treatments) were only observed in subregions of the striatum.
A 19 year old patient presented with the typical constellation of sarcoidosis. In the presence of indefinable pulmonary infiltrates, hypercalcemia, raised angiotensin converting enzyme and even evidence of giant and epitheloid cell granulomas, cocaine abuse should be considered. Chronic inhalative cocaine abuse can cause foreign body associated granulomatosis of the lung and other organs. It is important to establish this differential diagnosis by confidential interview and systematic polarisation microscopy to detect foreign material in tissues: unnecessary therapies with potential side effects should be avoided and drug weaning with rehabilitation of the patient should be initiated. However the potential for rapid progressive respiratory failure should not be underestimated.
Central, peripheral and cardiac side-effects of both anticholinergic drugs atropine and glycopyrrolate were compared during the antagonism of muscle relaxation with pyridostigmine. In a randomized, double-blind fashion 50 patients were given 10 micrograms/kg of atropine and 50 were given 5 micrograms/kg of glycopyrrolate with 125 micrograms/kg pyridostigmine intravenously. Continuous Holter ECG-monitoring over 3 hours was performed. The procedure was divided into the following phases: control (5 minutes before application of antagonists), phase I (application of antagonists and the following 5 minutes), phase II (subsequent 30 minutes), phase III (until 3 hours had passed). The first 32 minutes were subdivided into periods of 4 minutes. Analysed were: 1st: The number of patients with supraventricular, junctional and ventricular beats, 2nd: The mean heart rate per period, 3rd: The incidence of central-anticholinergic syndromes and the peripheral antimuscarinic side-effects. Supraventricular beats were found after atropine in 42 patients and after glycopyrrolate in 18 patients (p < 0.001). The differences mainly occurred during phase I (atropine 15 vs. glycopyrrolate 4 p < 0.05) and III (atropine 38 vs. glycopyrrolate 18, p < 0.01). Junctional beats were found after both drugs (atropine 7 vs. glycopyrrolate 10), above all during phase III. Ventricular beats were observed after atropine (21) and glycopyrrolate (18). Atropine as well as glycopyrrolate caused an increased heart rate within the first 4 minutes (atropine 47% vs. glycopyrrolate 27%, p < 0.01). During phase III after atropine, the heart rate decreased below the control value (p < 0.05). None of the patients showed central anticholinergic syndromes after either drug.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Organophosphorus ester-induced delayed neurotoxicity (OPIDN) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia progressing to paralysis with a concomitant central and peripheral distal axonapathy. Diisopropylphosphorofluoridate (DFP) produces OPIDN in the chicken, which results in mild ataxia in 7-14 days and severe paralysis as the disease progresses with a single dose. White leghorn layer hens were treated with DFP (1.7 mg/kg, sc) after prophylactic treatment with atropine (1 mg/kg, sc) in normal saline and eserine (1 mg/kg, sc) in dimethyl sulfoxide. Control groups were treated with vehicle propylene glycol (0.1 mL/kg, sc), atropine in normal saline and eserine in dimethyl sulfoxide. The hens were sacrificed at different time points such as 2, 4, and 8 h, as well as 1, 2, 5, 10 and 20 days, and the tissues from cerebrum, midbrain, cerebellum brainstem and spinal cord were quickly dissected and frozen for protein (western) and mRNA (northern) studies. Subcellular fractionation, SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting of the nuclear and supernatant fractions using standard protocols from spinal cord and cerebrum showed differential expression of protein levels of PKA, CREB and phosphorylated CREB (p-CREB). There was an increase in PKA level in spinal cord nuclear fraction after 4 h (130+/-5%) and 8 h (133+/-6 %), while cerebrum nuclear fraction showed decrease (77+/-5%) at 4 h and remained at the same level at 8 h. No change was seen in either spinal cord or cerebrum soluble fraction at any time points. There was an increase in CREB level in the spinal cord supernatant (133+/-3%) after 5 days, while nuclear and supernatant fraction of the cerebrum did not show any alterations at any time point. p-CREB was induced in the spinal cord nuclear fraction at 1 day (150+/-3%) and 5 days (173+/-7%) of treatment, in contrast to the decreased levels p-CREB (72+/-4%) at 10 days in cerebrum nuclear fraction. Supernatant fraction of spinal cord and cerebrum did not show any changes in pCREB at time points studied. Similarly another set of animals were treated with DFP and perfused using standard protocols and immunohistochemistry for p-CREB in the brain and spinal cord confirmed the overall protein expression pattern identified by western analysis. Expression of beta-tubulin subtypes (1, 2, 3, and 4), studied by Northern blotting showed complex and differential pattern, while immunohistochemistry of the anti-beta-tubulin for the entire period of OPIDN developmental stages showed early induction and persistence even in the disintegrating axonal and non-neuronal structures of the CNS. These data thus strongly suggest that early cytoskeletal damage at molecular level mediated by PKA/p-CREB pathways leads to the culmination of gross (microscopically observable) level cytoskeletal changes in various components of central nervous system (CNS), consistent with our earlier findings. Thus, the differential protein expression of PKA, CREB, p-CREB and beta-tubulin subtypes appear to contribute to the initiation, progression and development of OPIDN, probably by recruiting other molecular pathways specific to various components of nervous system.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the stereoselective anticonvulsant activity, neurotoxicity, pharmacokinetics, and teratogenic potential of two stereoisomers of valnoctylurea (VCU), a central nervous system (CNS)-active urea derivative of valnoctic acid, which is a constitutional isomer of valproic acid (VPA).
VCU stereoisomers (2S,3S)-VCU and (2R,3S)-VCU were synthesized. Their anticonvulsant activity was determined and compared to VPA and racemic-VCU in rats utilizing the maximal electroshock seizure (MES) and the subcutaneous pentylenetetrazole (scMet) tests. Neurotoxicity was determined in rats using the positional sense test, muscle tone test, and gait and stance test. The induction of neural tube defects (NTDs) by VCU stereoisomers was evaluated in a mouse strain highly susceptible to VPA-induced teratogenicity. The pharmacokinetics of VCU was studied in a stereoselective manner following intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration to rats.
(2S,3S)-VCU and (2R,3S)-VCU median effective dose ED(50) values were 29 mg/kg [95% confidence interval (CI) = 8-60 mg/kg] and 42 mg/kg (95% CI = 36-51 mg/kg) (MES) and 22 mg/kg (95% CI = 13-51 mg/kg) and 12 mg/kg (95%CI = 7-21 mg/kg) (scMet), respectively. (2S,3S)-VCU was more potent and had a wider safety margin (p < 0.05), defined as the protective index (PI = TD(50)/ED(50)), at both the MES (PI > 17) and scMet (PI > 23) tests than racemic-VCU or (R,S)-VCU (PI = 2.8 and 9.9, respectively). VCU stereoisomers caused NTDs at doses >4 times that of their anticonvulsant ED(50) values. At a dose of 112 mg/kg, (2R,3S)-VCU was nonteratogenic and less embryotoxic than its stereoisomer (2S,3S)-VCU. No stereoselective pharmacokinetics was observed following intraperitoneal dosing of racemic-VCU to rats. VCU was mainly eliminated by metabolism with a half-life of 2 h.
VCU anticonvulsant activity and wide PI values make it a potential candidate for development as a new, potent antiepileptic drug (AED).
There are several personal and social problems involved in the administration of rectal diazepam that make it unsuitable for use in public places and by non medical workers, in children and especially in teenagers and adults. Intranasal and oral midazolam could be an alternative to rectal diazepam. We review the efficacy and safety of these ways of administering midazolam, which is already used in some countries as a sedative and as an anticonvulsive drug, despite the fact that it has not yet received authorisation.
Intranasal midazolam (INM) was first used as a sedative in dental extractions, echocardiography, endoscopies or surgery, especially in children. After proving its efficacy electroencephalographically in patients with seizures, it started to be used to interrupt acute seizures. In three randomised trials, the efficacy of intranasal and oral midazolam in hospitalised patients was similar to, and even higher than, that of intravenous or rectal diazepam, with a similar speed of action and safety; no studies have been conducted, however, in the extra hospital milieu and its risk of respiratory depression may be like that of other benzodiazepines. One of the problems of using the parenteral solution for intranasal administration is the irritation that is produced by its acidic pH and the relatively large volume that has to be administered. These problems could be reduced by using aerosols containing a solution of midazolam in cyclodextrin, which accomplishes a greater concentration with a pH that is less acidic. Oral administration can be used in patients with nasal secretions or intense movements of the head.
Intranasal or oral midazolam can improve the treatment of acute seizures in the hospital milieu and, more especially, in the extra hospital milieu when patients are attended by non medical staff. There is a need, however, for trials that prove its efficacy and safety in this situation.
Variants in the Gs protein alpha subunit gene (GNAS1) are known to be involved in the pathogenesis of several endocrine and metabolic disorders. To understand genetic determinants of androgen excess, insulin resistance, and obesity in polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), we investigated the effect of the common GNAS1 T393C polymorphism on the phenotype of German PCOS women.
Two hundred and seventy-eight PCOS women and 820 Caucasian controls were genotyped for the common T393C polymorphism in GNAS1. To this end, genomic DNA was amplified by PCR with specific oligonucleotides and genotypes were determined using the restriction enzyme FokI. In addition, we evaluated whether the T393C polymorphism had an influence on the response to 6 months metformin treatment in a subgroup of 105 PCOS women.
Anthropometric variables, metabolic parameters including indices of insulin resistance measured by oral glucose tolerance testing, and endocrine biochemical as well as clinical parameters were measured in all PCOS subjects.
GNAS1 genotype distributions were not significantly different between PCOS women and controls. In PCOS women, no significant differences in endocrine clinical and biochemical variables were found between the genotypes. However, the C-allele carrier group had significantly higher mean body weight, body mass index, leptin levels, and higher indices of insulin resistance compared with women with GNAS1 TT-genotype. Metformin treatment significantly improved hyperandrogenism, menstrual cyclicity, body weight, and insulin resistance independent of GNAS1 genotype. The major determinant of weight loss was body weight before treatment.
The T393C polymorphism is not associated with PCOS in Caucasian women, but may represent a genetic marker for increased susceptibility for obesity in this cohort.
Polymorphisms of the genes 5'-10'-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR, 677CT and 1298AC), methionine synthase (MTR, 2756AC) and methionine synthase reductase (MTRR, 66AC) provoke variations in enzyme activity, which can lead to alterations in the metabolism of folates and in the synthesis of S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM), the most active methyl donor in the body. This could play an important role in carcinogenesis through the degree of DNA methylation and of nucleotide synthesis. In the present study, four polymorphisms were studied, two of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase gene, and the other two of methionine synthase and methionine synthase reductase. Our aim was to study the association between prostate carcinoma susceptibility and these polymorphisms. A hospital-based case-control study was conducted in 182 patients (mean age: 70.7+/-7.29 years) with histologically confirmed prostate carcinoma and in 205 control subjects (mean age: 70.3+/-7.82 years) diagnosed with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral leukocytes. Comparison of the MTHFR CT and TT genotypes in patients and the controls revealed significant differences (0.57 vs 0.38) (OR: 2.19, 95% CI: 1.46-3.30) and (0.06 vs 0.15) (OR: 0.36, 95% CI: 0.17-0.73), respectively. No statistically significant differences were found between patients and controls with respect to the MTHFR 1298AC, the MTR 2756AC and the MTRR 66AC polymorphisms. However, among the patients, the MTR 2756 allele C was related to a high Gleason score. We conclude that the polymorphism MTHFR C677T is clearly related to prostatic carcinogenesis, on the contrary to the other polymorphisms studied, although the MTR 2756 allele C acts as a factor of tumor aggressiveness, this being found in tumors with high carcinogenic potential.
Increased lung IL-4 expression in pulmonary fibrosis suggests a potential pathogenetic role for this cytokine. To dissect this role, bleomycin-induced pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis were analyzed and compared in wild type (IL-4(+/+)) vs IL-4-deficient (IL-4(-/-)) mice. Lethal pulmonary injury after bleomycin treatment was higher in IL-4(-/-) vs IL-4(+/+) mice. By administration of anti-CD3 Abs, we demonstrated that this early response was linked to the marked T lymphocyte lung infiltration and to the overproduction of the proinflammatory mediators such as TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, and NO in IL-4(-/-) mice. In contrast to this early anti-inflammatory/immunosuppressive role, during later stages of fibrosis, IL-4 played a profibrotic role since IL-4(-/-) mice developed significantly less pulmonary fibrosis relative to IL-4(+/+) mice. However, IL-4 failed to directly stimulate proliferation, alpha-smooth muscle actin, and type I collagen expression in lung fibroblasts isolated from the wild-type mice. Upon appropriate stimulation with other known fibrogenic cytokines, fibroblasts from IL-4(-/-) mice were relatively deficient in the studied parameters in comparison to fibroblasts isolated from IL-4(+/+) mice. Taken together, these data suggest dual effects of IL-4 in this model of lung fibrosis: 1) limiting early recruitment of T lymphocytes, and 2) stimulation of fibrosis chronically.
The weight-loss efficacy of a novel, water-soluble, calcium-potassium salt of (-)-hydroxycitric acid (HCA-SX) was re-examined in 90 obese subjects (BMI: 30-50.8 kg/m2). We combined data from two previously reported randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies in order to achieve a better statistical evaluation based on a larger population. This re-examination of data also allowed us to reflect more intensely on various aspects of weight loss studies. Subjects were randomly divided into three groups: group A received a daily dose of HCA-SX 4, 667 mg (providing 2,800 mg HCA per day); group B was given a daily dose of a combination of HCA-SX 4,667 mg, niacin-bound chromium (NBC) 4 mg (providing 400 microg elemental chromium), and Gymnema sylvestre extract (GSE) 400 mg (providing 100 mg gymnemic acid); and group C received a placebo in three equally divided doses 30-60 min before each meal. All subjects were provided a 2,000 kcal diet/day and participated in a supervised walking program for 30 min/day, 5 days/week. Eighty-two subjects completed the study. At the end of 8 weeks, in group A, both body weight and BMI decreased by 5.4%, low-density lipoprotein and triglycerides levels were reduced by 12.9% and 6.9%, respectively, while high-density lipoprotein levels increased by 8.9%, serum leptin levels decreased by 38%, serotonin levels increased by 44.5% and urinary excretion of fat metabolites increased by 32-109%. Group B demonstrated similar beneficial changes, but generally to a greater extent. No significant adverse effects were observed. The combined results confirm that HCA-SX and, to a greater degree, the combination of HCA-SX plus NBC and GSE reduce body weight and BMI, suppress appetite, improve blood lipid profiles, increase serum leptin and serotonin levels and increase fat oxidation more than placebo. We conclude that dosage levels, timing of administration, subject compliance and bioavailability of HCA-SX significantly affect results and that when taken as directed, HCA-SX is a highly effective adjunct to healthy weight control.
To determine the effect of zidovudine on platelet counts in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated thrombocytopenia.
The study was prospective, controlled, and blinded. Each patient received active drug and placebo. Platelet counts were compared before and after receiving zidovudine.
Outpatient clinics in Geneva, Lausanne, and Zürich, Switzerland.
Sequential sample of ten patients (five intravenous drug addicts, four homosexual men, one Zairian) who were seropositive for HIV, and had platelet counts between 20 and 100 X 10(9)/L (20,000 to 100,000/mm3). Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) were not enrolled. None had been previously treated for thrombocytopenia, and no medication except zidovudine or placebo was administered during the trial period.
Five patients received 8 weeks of zidovudine (2 g/d for 2 weeks, and 1 g/d for 6 weeks), followed by 8 weeks of placebo. The other five patients received placebo for 8 weeks followed by zidovudine.
Platelet counts increased in each patient while on zidovudine, but not while on placebo; the mean increase was 54.6 X 10(9)/L +/- 11.25 (SE) from 53.2 to 107.8 X 10(9)/L (P less than 0.004). After the end of zidovudine treatment, platelet counts remained elevated for more than 4 weeks in three of five patients. One patient developed granulocytopenia and anemia during treatment with zidovudine.
Zidovudine is a potential new treatment for HIV-associated thrombocytopenia.
The dysmorphogenic and teratogenic effects of valproic acid, when administered to pregnant women, have been noted in several reports. We report the case of a 3-month-old infant with multiple congenital anomalies, including severe skeletal malformations, congenital heart defect and facial dysmorphism, whose mother was treated with valproic acid (1000 mg/day) throughout the pregnancy. This is the second published case reporting major skeletal malformations and supports the possible teratogenic effects of valproic acid.
We studied the effect of antioxidants such as N-acetylcysteine (NAC, 10 mM) and alpha-lipoic acid (ALA, 1.25 mM) and of the hormone melatonin (1 microM) on the ability of murine hepatoma cells MH22a to develop tumors in syngenic mice (C3HA) after subsutaneous injection. Tumor formation and development slowed down and mouse mortality decreased when the injected cells were pretreated by NAC, ALA or melatonin during 20 h. Melatonin had the most marked effect. Tumors appeared in 100 % cases after 10 days in control mice when untreated cells had been injected; injection of cells pretreated by NAC or ALA resulted in tumor formation only in 40 and 53 % of mice, respectively. When cells were pretreated with melatonin the tumors appeared only in 18-20 days after injection. Until the end of the observation (36 days) 67 % of control mice died, but when the cells were pretreated by NAC or ALA mouse death-rate was 20 and 53 %, respectively. In the case of melatonin we did not observed any dead mice at all. We showed that treatment by antioxidants delayed (NAC) or completely inhibited (ALA) cell cycle of hepatoma cells. Cell cycle was restored after removal of the antioxidants. Melatonin did not change cell cycle phase distribution. We conclude that there is no direct correlation between loss of tumorigenic properties and changing of proliferative activity of hepatoma cells. Different mechanisms of antioxidants and melatonin action resulting in transient tumor phenotype normalization are discussed.
Mercury represents an ubiquitous environmental toxic metal. Heat shock proteins (HSP) and metallothioneins (MTs) help to protect cells against metal toxicity. Schisandrin B (Sch B), a lignoid from Schisandra chinensis, has been successfully used to treat hepatitis, but its effect against mercury hepatotoxicity remains unknown. We analyzed whether Sch B could protect rat liver against mercuric chloride (HgCl2) intake by analyzing stress proteins and histopathological changes. Wistar rats were administered Sch B (10mg/kg/day by gavage) or vehicle (olive oil) for 10 days. A subset of each group also received low-dose HgCl2 (0.1mg/kg/day) for 3 days on days 8-10. Another group received Sch B for 10 days with a single high dose of HgCl2 (1mg/kg intraperitoneally) on day 10. In rats treated with Sch B and HgCl2, HSP72, HSP25 and MTs were overexpressed in liver zones 1 and 3 irrespective of HgCl2 dosing schedules. Furthermore Sch B alone induced perinuclear rough endoplasmic reticulum alignment and if associated to HgCl2, increased mitochondrial density and dense bodies, all signs of intense detoxification machinery. Taking together these data suggest that dietary Sch B counteracts HgCl2 hepatotoxicity in the rat by stimulating chaperones responsible for anabolic activity.
Relationships between serum cholesterol and suicidal behavior have been reported. As suicidal behavior is common in cocaine dependence, we looked for a relationship with serum cholesterol. To do this, we compared 57 cocaine-dependent patients who had attempted suicide with 111 cocaine-dependent patients who had never attempted suicide for their admission total serum cholesterol levels. We found that there were no significant differences between cocaine-dependent patients who had or had not attempted suicide in their total serum cholesterol levels. Also, there were no significant correlations between total serum cholesterol levels and scores on the Barratt Impulsivity Scale. Thus, admission total serum cholesterol does not appear to be clinically useful in the assessment of suicidal behavior in cocaine-dependent patients.
Isolated perfused hearts from type 2 diabetic (db/db) mice show impaired ventricular function, as well as altered cardiac metabolism. Assessment of the relationship between myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO(2)) and ventricular pressure-volume area (PVA) has also demonstrated reduced cardiac efficiency in db/db hearts. We hypothesized that lowering the plasma fatty acid supply and subsequent normalization of altered cardiac metabolism by chronic treatment with a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonist will improve cardiac efficiency in db/db hearts. Rosiglitazone (23 mg/kg body weight/day) was administered as a food admixture to db/db mice for five weeks. Ventricular function and PVA were assessed using a miniaturized (1.4 Fr) pressure-volume catheter; MVO(2) was measured using a fibre-optic oxygen sensor. Chronic rosiglitazone treatment of db/db mice normalized plasma glucose and lipid concentrations, restored rates of cardiac glucose and fatty acid oxidation, and improved cardiac efficiency. The improved cardiac efficiency was due to a significant decrease in unloaded MVO(2), while contractile efficiency was unchanged. Rosiglitazone treatment also improved functional recovery after low-flow ischemia. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that in vivo PPARgamma-treatment restores cardiac efficiency and improves ventricular function in perfused hearts from type 2 diabetic mice.
The anticonvulsant potency of 2-propyl-2-pentenoic acid (2-en-VPA; trans isomer), a major metabolite of the antiepileptic valproic acid (VPA), was evaluated in different animal models of epilepsy and compared with the respective data for VPA. Four models were used: the maximal electroshock seizure (MES) test in mice, the pentylenetetrazol seizure test in mice, gerbils with 'major' (generalized tonic-clonic) seizures in response to specific sensory stimulation, and rats with chronically recurring, spontaneous 'petit mal' seizures. The overall anticonvulsant profile of 2-en-VPA in these models compared favourably with that of VPA. Both drugs were considerably more potent to block seizures in epileptic rats and gerbils than in the traditional MES and pentylenetetrazol mouse models. As regards toxicity, no side-effects were observed with effective doses of 2-en-VPA in rats and gerbils, whereas in the doses necessary to block MES and pentylenetetrazol seizures in mice (200-300 mg/kg i.p.) 2-en-VPA was more sedative than VPA. LD50 values determined for both drugs were comparable. A major difference between 2-en-VPA and VPA was found with respect to embryotoxicity. Single doses of VPA administered to pregnant mice gave rise to significant teratogenic effects (exencephaly, embryolethality , growth retardation), whereas 2-en-VPA was not embryotoxic, even at extremely high doses (600 mg/kg). The data suggest that 2-en-VPA may be a valuable alternative antiepileptic drug.
Mesial temporal sclerosis is a common form of symptomatic, localization-related epilepsy in children and adolescents, but its occurrence with acute lymphoblastic leukemia is rare. We present clinical records and neuroimaging results of a 13-year-old patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who developed recurrent partial seizures after an episode of leukoencephalopathy thought to be caused by methotrexate. Neuroradiologic images revealed hippocampal abnormalities consistent with the findings of mesial temporal sclerosis. Mesial temporal sclerosis was not previously reported in acute lymphoblastic leukemia patients with methotrexate-induced leukoencephalopathy. However, our case suggests that the pathogenesis of mesial temporal sclerosis may be associated with methotrexate-induced neurotoxicity.
Thirty-nine cases of maternal deaths directly caused by incorrect use of oxytocin in Fujian Province from 1986 to 1992 were analysed. The results showed that 90.00% of these deaths occurred in the rural and mountainous areas. The main reason was the ignorance of the birth attendents on the pros and cons of oxytocin administration and therefore the incorrect use. The causes of maternal deaths were ranged in the following order: uterine rupture, soft tissue injury of the birth canal and amniotic fluid embolism. All were emergent deaths with 79.49% dying in intrapartum period or within four hours after delivery and 28.20% at patients' home or on their way to hospital.
Mice with complete deletion of insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) develop hyperglycemia, impaired hepatic insulin signaling, and elevated gluconeogenesis, whereas mice deficient for protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)1B display an opposing hepatic phenotype characterized by increased sensitivity to insulin. To define the relationship between these two signaling pathways in the regulation of liver metabolism, we used genetic and pharmacological approaches to study the effects of inhibiting PTP1B on hepatic insulin signaling and expression of gluconeogenic enzymes in IRS2(-/-) mice.
We analyzed glucose homeostasis and insulin signaling in liver and isolated hepatocytes from IRS2(-/-) and IRS2(-/-)/PTP1B(-/-) mice. Additionally, hepatic insulin signaling was assessed in control and IRS2(-/-) mice treated with resveratrol, an antioxidant present in red wine.
In livers of hyperglycemic IRS2(-/-) mice, the expression levels of PTP1B and its association with the insulin receptor (IR) were increased. The absence of PTP1B in the double-mutant mice restored hepatic IRS1-mediated phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase/Akt/Foxo1 signaling. Moreover, resveratrol treatment of hyperglycemic IRS2(-/-) mice decreased hepatic PTP1B mRNA and inhibited PTP1B activity, thereby restoring IRS1-mediated PI 3-kinase/Akt/Foxo1 signaling and peripheral insulin sensitivity.
By regulating the phosphorylation state of IR, PTB1B determines sensitivity to insulin in liver and exerts a unique role in the interplay between IRS1 and IRS2 in the modulation of hepatic insulin action.
