Production of interleukin (IL)-2 is decreased in zinc-deficient human beings, and zinc is essential to IL-2-mediated T-cell activation. We used a human Th(0) malignant lymphoblastoid cell line, HUT-78, to study the effect of zinc on IL-2 production in PHA/PMA activated T-cells. In zinc-deficient cells, the gene expression of IL-2 was decreased by 50% compared with that in zinc-sufficient cells. The effect of zinc was specific and at the transcriptional level. We also showed a significant effect of zinc on the gene expression of IL-2 receptors alpha and beta. Binding of NF-kappaB (a zinc-dependent transcription factor) to DNA was decreased in zinc-deficient cells. Using transfection of expression vectors of anti-sense NF-kappaB p105 (precursor of NF-kappaB p50) in cells, we showed that a decrease in gene expression of IL-2 and IL-2 Ralpha may be partly due to decreased activation of NF-kappaB in zinc-deficient cells. Our studies demonstrate, for the first time, the role of zinc in gene expression of IL-2 and its receptors in HUT-78 cells. We also document that the binding of NF-kappaB to DNA was adversely affected, thereby decreasing the gene expression of IL-2 and IL-2 Ralpha in zinc-deficient HUT-78 cells.
The syndrome of congenital hypoparathyroidism, mental retardation, facial dysmorphism and extreme growth failure (HRD or Sanjad-Sakati syndrome; OMIM 241410) is an autosomal recessive disorder reported almost exclusively in Middle Eastern populations. A similar syndrome with the additional features of osteosclerosis and recurrent bacterial infections has been classified as autosomal recessive Kenny-Caffey syndrome (AR-KCS; OMIM 244460). Both traits have previously been mapped to chromosome 1q43-44 (refs 5,6) and, despite the observed clinical variability, share an ancestral haplotype, suggesting a common founder mutation. We describe refinement of the critical region to an interval of roughly 230 kb and identification of deletion and truncation mutations of TBCE in affected individuals. The gene TBCE encodes one of several chaperone proteins required for the proper folding of alpha-tubulin subunits and the formation of alpha-beta-tubulin heterodimers. Analysis of diseased fibroblasts and lymphoblastoid cells showed lower microtubule density at the microtubule-organizing center (MTOC) and perturbed microtubule polarity in diseased cells. Immunofluorescence and ultrastructural studies showed disturbances in subcellular organelles that require microtubules for membrane trafficking, such as the Golgi and late endosomal compartments. These findings demonstrate that HRD and AR-KCS are chaperone diseases caused by a genetic defect in the tubulin assembly pathway, and establish a potential connection between tubulin physiology and the development of the parathyroid.
The FHIT gene, at 3p14.2, has been suggested to form a molecular target to damage induced by human lung carcinogens. We examined aberrant expression of the Fhit protein and allele loss at the FHIT gene in a series of lung cancer cases, mainly of non-small cell carcinoma (NSCLC) histology. We had detailed data on tobacco smoke exposure and occupational asbestos exposure available for the cases. The principal aim of the present study was to investigate whether absent or reduced Fhit expression or FHIT allele loss was associated with exposure to these pulmonary carcinogens. We detected reduced Fhit expression in 62% (33/53) of the cases analysed. Prevalence of allele loss at the FHIT locus was 22% (20/89). Reduced protein expression was common both in the asbestos-exposed (67%) and non-exposed cases (59%); [odds ratio (OR) 1.4, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.4-4.9]. LOH frequencies differed somewhat between the two groups and were 25% vs. 16%, respectively (OR 1.8; 95% CI 0.5-5.9). Absent or reduced expression was common in smokers, with no significant difference found between current smokers and non-smokers (mainly former smokers) (OR 1.4, 95% CI 0.5-4.5). NSCLCs with squamous cell histology exhibited both aberrant expression (OR 3.1, 95% CI 0.9-10.3) and allele loss (OR 3.3, 95% CI 0.9-12.7) more frequently than adenocarcinoma. Finally, we found that FHIT allele loss was increased in stage II or more advanced disease (OR 2.5, 95% CI 0.9-7.4), and in poorly differentiated tumours (grade 3, OR 2.6, 95% CI 0.8-8.1). In conclusion, our present data support significance of FHIT inactivation in development of lung cancer.
Approaches inducing fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) apoptosis in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients have been considered as a promising strategy for treating RA. Here, adjuvant arthritis (AA) in rat was induced by complete Freund's adjuvant and FLS were separated and cultured using a tissue explant cultivation method. The apoptotic effect of 7,3'-dimethoxy hesperetin (DMHP, a highly antirheumatic active derivative of hesperidin) on AA FLS was evaluated with MTT assay, Hoechst staining and flow cytometry analysis. Bcl-2, Bax, caspase 3 gene expressions and caspase 3 activity were assayed to identify whether caspase 3 was involved in the apoptosis induced by DMHP. It was found that DMHP significantly decreased AA FLS proliferation in vitro by MTT assay. The AA FLS treated with DMHP displayed typical apoptotic characteristics including irregularity in shape, nuclear shrinkage and chromatin condensation. Flow cytometry analysis indicated that DMHP could obviously increase the AA FLS apoptosis rate. Compared with the AA-FLS control group, DMHP markedly decreased the mRNA expression of Bcl-2, whereas those of Bax and caspase 3 were increased. Moreover, DMHP significantly increased caspase 3 activity in a dose-dependent manner. In aggregate, the results demonstrate that DMHP effectively induces AA FLS apoptosis through caspase 3 activation and can be considered as a possible antirheumatic agent.
In 26 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension, 80.8% of whom had a history of concomitant diseases, the effect of moxonidine (0.2 mg b.i.d.) on the 24-h ambulatory blood pressure profile (ABPM) was compared with captopril (25 mg b.i.d.) in a double-blind, parallel-group study. After 4 weeks of treatment with placebo, ABPM was performed and the patients were treated with moxonidine (n = 14) or captopril (n = 12) for a further 4 weeks. ABPM was then repeated. Both moxonidine and captopril reduced systolic and diastolic blood pressure sufficiently and to the same extent. Mean 24-h pulse rate and standard laboratory parameters were not changed by active treatment. After drug withdrawal for 5 days, sitting blood pressure did not differ from baseline values in both groups. Serious adverse events did not occur, the most frequent complaints were nausea (2 of 14 patients receiving moxonidine) and dizziness (3 of 12 patients receiving captopril). We concluded that the blood pressure-lowering effects of moxonidine (0.2 mg b.i.d.) and captopril (25 mg b.i.d.) are comparable in patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension.
The MNK (Menkes disease protein; ATP7A) is a major copper- transporting P-type ATPase involved in the delivery of copper to cuproenzymes in the secretory pathway and the efflux of excess copper from extrahepatic tissues. Mutations in the MNK (ATP7A) gene result in Menkes disease, a fatal neurodegenerative copper deficiency disorder. Currently, detailed biochemical and biophysical analyses of MNK to better understand its mechanisms of copper transport are not possible due to the lack of purified MNK in an active form. To address this issue, we expressed human MNK with an N-terminal Glu-Glu tag in Sf9 [Spodoptera frugiperda (fall armyworm) 9] insect cells and purified it by antibody affinity chromatography followed by size-exclusion chromatography in the presence of the non-ionic detergent DDM (n-dodecyl beta-D-maltopyranoside). Formation of the classical vanadate-sensitive phosphoenzyme by purified MNK was activated by Cu(I) [EC50=0.7 microM; h (Hill coefficient) was 4.6]. Furthermore, we report the first measurement of Cu(I)-dependent ATPase activity of MNK (K0.5=0.6 microM; h=5.0). The purified MNK demonstrated active ATP-dependent vectorial 64Cu transport when reconstituted into soya-bean asolectin liposomes. Together, these data demonstrated that Cu(I) interacts with MNK in a co-operative manner and with high affinity in the sub-micromolar range. The present study provides the first biochemical characterization of a purified full-length mammalian copper-transporting P-type ATPase associated with a human disease.
A case of acute hepato-renal failure which developed after the oral intake of rifampicin is reported. Allergic reaction on the drug was accompanied by chill, weakness, paraesthesia, skin itch and facial swelling. The case described in the article appears to be all the more interesting due to the fact that severe lethal complication has developed in patient who had a history of allergic reactions on rifampicin.
X-linked cone-rod dystrophy (COD1) is a retinal disease that primarily affects the cone photoreceptors; the disease was originally mapped to a limited region of Xp11.4. We evaluated the three families from our original study with new markers and clinically reassessed all key recombinants; we determined that the critical intervals in families 2 and 3 overlapped the RP3 locus and that a status change (from affected to probably unaffected) of a key recombinant individual in family 1 also reassigned the disease locus to include RP3 as well. Mutation analysis of the entire RPGR coding region identified two different 2-nucleotide (nt) deletions in ORF15, in family 2 (delAG) and in families 1 and 3 (delGG), both of which result in a frameshift leading to altered amino acid structure and early termination. In addition, an independent individual with X-linked cone-rod dystrophy demonstrated a 1-nt insertion (insA) in ORF15. The presence of three distinct mutations associated with the same disease phenotype provides strong evidence that mutations in RPGR exon ORF15 are responsible for COD1. Genetic heterogeneity was observed in three other families, including the identification of an in-frame 12-nt deletion polymorphism in ORF15 that did not segregate with the disease in one of these families.
A reliable way to visualise the state of microglial activation is to monitor the microglial gene expression profile. Microglia are the only CNS resident cells that synthesise C1q, the recognition sub-component of the classical complement pathway, in vivo. C1q biosynthesis in resting ramified microglia is often low, but it increases dramatically in activated microglia. In this study, the expression of C1q was used to monitor microglial activation at all stages of 3-chloropropanediol-induced neurotoxicity, a new model of blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown. In rats, 3-chloropropanediol produces very focused lesions in the brain, characterised by early astrocyte swelling and loss, followed by neuronal death and barrier dysfunction. Using in situ hybridisation, immunohistochemistry, and real-time RT-PCR, we found that increased C1q biosynthesis and microglial activation precede BBB dysfunction by at least 18 and peak 48 h after injection of 3-chloropropanediol, which coincides with the onset of active haemorrhage. Microglial activation is biphasic; an early phase of global activation is followed by a later phase in which microglial activation becomes increasingly focused in the lesions. During the early phase, expression of the pro-inflammatory mediators interleukin-1beta (IL1beta), tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and early growth response-1 (Egr-1) increased in parallel with C1q, but was restricted to the lesions. Expression of C1q (but not IL1beta, TNFalpha or Egr-1) remains high after BBB function is restored, and is accompanied by late up-regulation of the C1q-associated serine proteases, C1r and C1s, suggesting that microglial biosynthesis of the activation complex of the classical pathway may support the removal of cell debris by activation of complement.
Aristolochic acid (AA) nephropathy exhibits early proximal tubular injury and fatty acid metabolic disorder. In order to study the unrecognized abnormalities of organic ion transporters and fatty acid metabolism indicators in AA nephropathy, Wistar rats were orally administrated with vehicle, 10 and 20mg/kg AA once daily for 7 days, respectively. At day 8, significant reduction of body weight and right kidney weight, as well as elevation of plasma blood urea nitrogen (BUN) levels, renal long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs), non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) and triglycerides (TG) contents were observed in AA-treated rats, accompanying with down-regulation of renal rOAT1/3, rOCT1/2 and rOCTN1/2 expressions. OCTN2 particularly transports l-carnitine through cell membrane. AA treatment also induced a significant decrease of L-carnitine levels in renal cortex of rats. Down-regulation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (rPPARα) and carnitine acyltransferase 1 (rCPT1), and up-regulation of acetyl coenzyme A carboxylase 1/2 (rACC1/2) in renal cortex were detected in AA-treated rats. These results indicate that alterations of organic ion transportation and fatty acid metabolism are part of AA-induced nephropathy (AAN), contribute to the altered urinary metabolic profile and may lead to further proximal tubule injury in rats.
The study objective was to determine whether switching patients from morphine to transdermal fentanyl resulted in a reduction of morphine-associated side effects, and an improvement in cognitive function and patients' well being while maintaining adequate pain and symptom control. Nineteen patients aged 42-86 with terminal cancer, maintained on morphine for pain and distressed as a result of morphine toxicity, were given the dose of fentanyl corresponding to their current morphine dose. Pain control was then maintained (mostly fentanyl 50-100 microg/h) over the 14-day study period. Throughout the study, patients' global assessment of well being (primary efficacy variable) was statistically significantly improved. Sleepiness and drowsiness were significantly less of a problem. There was a trend towards improvement in attention span/concentration, and in the power and quality of concentration. Cognitive function tests also revealed a significant improvement in working (short term) and speed of memory although not in secondary (long term) memory. Patients did not experience hallucinations or delusions and there was no change in levels of anxiety or depression (Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale). The incidence of dizziness was significantly reduced, and there was a nonsignificant decrease in number of patients who suffered myoclonus and in the severity of this condition over the 14 days. The investigator's overall impression of treatment with transdermal fentanyl was 'fair', which was not in agreement with the positive impression expressed by patients (score 74, range: 0 worst, 100 best). Further work is required to determine if the improvement in patients' well being and cognitive function is achieved in larger study populations.
Heavy metals have long been suspected to be involved in the pathogenesis of sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (SALS), but evidence for their toxic effects on motor neurons is limited. Characteristic mislocalisation of TDP-43 is seen in the motor neurons of patients with SALS, resulting in a lack of nuclear staining and cytoplasmic inclusions. To find out if a heavy metal can cause these TDP-43 changes, mice were exposed to varying doses of mercuric chloride or mercury vapor. Sections of spinal cord were then immunostained with phosphorylation-dependent and independent TDP-43 antibodies. All mercury-exposed mice had mercury granules in their motor neurons, even up to 2 years after exposure. However, the pathognomic changes in TDP-43 that are seen in SALS were not present in the motor neurons of these mice. The results do not therefore support a hypothesis of inorganic mercury-induced damage to motor neurons leading to SALS. This experimental model could be further used to test which of the environmental toxicants implicated in SALS may in fact cause the disease.
Several cases of hypotension have been reported in patients who received angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) before a surgical procedure, suggesting that interactions between ACEIs and anesthesia may be neither beneficial nor predictable. To determine if continuation of ACEI therapy until the morning of surgery leads to an unacceptable decrease in blood pressure on induction, we investigated 51 vascular surgical patients that were chronically treated for hypertension with either captopril or enalapril.
After randomization, ACEI therapy was either continued until the morning of surgery or stopped at the time of the preanesthetic visit, at least 12 h (captopril) or 24 h (enalapril) before surgery. Each patient received a standardized anesthetic induction. If systolic blood pressure (monitored using a radial artery cannula) decreased to less than 90 mmHg in response to induction, ephedrine was administered.
A marked decrease in plasma converting-enzyme activity was found in patients who received enalapril until the morning of the surgical procedure, and 100% of them required ephedrine after induction. In patients who received their usual dose of captopril on the morning of surgery, plasma converting-enzyme activity was reduced to a lesser extent (when compared with patients who received enalapril). Finally, in the patients in whom ACEI therapy, either enalapril or captopril, was stopped of the evening before surgery, the incidence of induction-induced hypotension was significantly less when enalapril or captopril therapy has been discontinued.
These data indicate that in hypertensive patients chronically treated with ACEIs, maintenance of therapy until the day of surgery may increase the probability of hypotension at induction.
The antiarrhythmic effects of gallopamil on adrenaline-, digitalis- and two-stage coronary ligation-induced arrhythmias and on adrenaline-induced triggered arrhythmia were investigated. Gallopamil suppressed adrenaline-induced and adrenaline-induced triggered arrhythmias, and these antiarrhythmic effects of gallopamil were similar to those of verapamil. Gallopamil also showed some antiarrhythmic effect on the 48-h coronary ligation-induced arrhythmia. The plasma concentration of gallopamil which decreased the arrhythmic ratio for adrenaline-induced arrhythmia by 50% (IC50) was 32 ng/ml. These results indicate that gallopamil may be a clinically useful antiarrhythmic drug.
There are limited number of studies regarding the influence of diabetes on the regulation of cytochrome P450s and associated drug metabolizing enzyme activities especially in extrahepatic tissues such as kidney. However, there is almost no such study in lung. Alloxan-induced diabetes did not change CYP2B4 expression as measured with immunoblot analysis and associated enzyme, benzphetamine N-demethylase, activity in rabbit kidney and lung. Induction of cytochrome P4502E1 by diabetes was identified by immunochemical detection on Western blots in the lung and kidney microsomes of rabbits. In parallel to CYP2E1 induction, aniline 4-hydroxylase and p-nitrophenol hydroxylase activities were markedly increased in diabetic rabbit lung and kidney. CYP2B4 and CYP2E1 dependent drug metabolism did not show any tissue variation in diabetic rabbit. These findings are in contrast to those of rats, mice and hamster. The results of the present work, in combination with those of the previous work [Arinç, E., Arslan, S., Adali, O., 2005. Differential effects of diabetes on CYP2E1 and CYP2B4 proteins and associated drug metabolizing enzyme activities in rabbit liver. Arch. Toxicol. 79, 427-433], indicate the existence of species-dependent response of CYP-dependent drug metabolizing enzymes to diabetes. A procarcinogen and food contaminant, N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), is converted to its carcinogenic form after it is activated with NDMA N-demethylase. In the current study, a statistically significant increase of liver, kidney and lung NDMA N-demethylase activity associated with CYP2E1 was shown in diabetic rabbit. Thus, it is expected that, the risk of nitrosamine induced carcinogenesis will be greater in liver, kidney and lung of the diabetic subjects.
Cultured human cells are invaluable biological models for mechanistic studies of genotoxic chemicals and drugs. Continuing replacement of animals in toxicity testing will further increase the importance of in vitro cell systems, which should accurately reproduce key in vivo characteristics of toxicants such as their profiles of metabolites and DNA lesions. In this work, we examined how a common severe deficiency of cultured cells in ascorbate (Asc) impacts the formation of oxidative DNA damage by hexavalent chromium (chromate). Cr(VI) is reductively activated inside the cells by both Asc and small thiols but with different rates and spectra of intermediates and DNA adducts. We found that Cr(VI) exposure of H460 human lung epithelial cells in standard culture (<0.01 mM cellular Asc) induced biologically significant amounts of oxidative DNA damage. Inhibition of oxidative damage repair in these cells by stable XRCC1 knockdown strongly enhanced cytotoxic effects of Cr(VI) and led to depletion of cells from G(1) and accumulation in S and G(2) phases. However, restoration of physiological levels of Asc (≈ 1 mM) completely eliminated Cr(VI) hypersensitivity of XRCC1 knockdown. The induction of chromosomal breaks assayed by the micronucleus test in Asc-restored H460, primary human lung fibroblasts, and CHO cells was also unaffected by the XRCC1 status. Centromere-negative (clastogenic) micronuclei accounted for 80-90% of all Cr(VI)-induced micronuclei. Consistent with the micronuclei results, Asc-restored cells also showed no increase in the levels of poly(ADP-ribose), which is a biochemical marker of single-stranded breaks. Asc had no effect on cytotoxicity of O(6)-methylguanine, a lesion produced by direct DNA alkylation. Overall, our results indicate that the presence of physiological levels of Asc strongly suppresses pro-oxidant pathways in Cr(VI) metabolism and that the use of standard cell cultures creates a distorted profile of its genotoxic properties.
We prospectively studied surgical cancer patients who received epidural bupivacaine-morphine to determine perioperative morphine use, side effects, and complications.
All study patients received general-epidural anesthesia followed by epidural analgesia with 0.05% or 0.1% bupivacaine and 0.01% morphine at a rate of 5-10 ml.h-1 to keep the dynamic pain score at less than 5 (of 10). Patients were evaluated daily for pain relief, side effects, catheter migration, accidental removal, hypotension, respiratory rate, mental status changes, nausea and vomiting, and pruritus.
Over 4 yr, 4,227 patients (61% women, aged 68 +/- 24 yr) were studied. Lumbar epidural catheters (n = 2,248 or 53.18%) were used more frequently than thoracic catheters (n = 1,979 or 46.82%) (P < 0.00001). Most of the patients were discharged to the surgical wards after the procedures (n = 3,001, 71%). Those patients (n = 1,226, 29%) admitted to the surgical intensive care unit, spent 1.2 +/- 0.8 days. Epidural catheter failure occurred in 283 (6.3%) patients. Length of epidural analgesia therapy was 6.3 +/- 2.6 days. There were three cases (0.07%) of respiratory depression which were treated with oxygen, intravenous naloxone, and by stopping the epidural infusion for 6 h. Hypotension occurred in 126 patients (3%). There were no apparent cases of catheter migration to either the subdural or subarachnoid space. Nausea or vomiting occurred in 929 patients (22%). Pruritus occurred in 930 patients (22%).
Continuous epidural analgesia with 0.05-0.1% bupivacaine and 0.01% morphine is an effective method of postoperative analgesia with a low incidence of side effects, that can be safely administered on the surgical wards with no special monitoring equipment.
The strong bacterial mutagen 3-chloro-4-(dichloromethyl)-5-hydroxy-2(5H)-furanone (MX) was tested for the induction of mutation at the Na/K ATPase locus to ouabain resistance (OuaR), sister-chromatid exchanges (SCEs), and chromosome aberrations (CAs) in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells without metabolic activation. MX increased the frequency of OuaR mutants in CHO cells when the cells were treated with it in PBS (effective dose range 2-3 micrograms/ml) or in medium (McCoy's 5A) without serum (effective dose range 20-30 micrograms/ml). MX also induced SCEs in CHO cells, at 0.19-1.5 microgram/ml, exposure in PBS; at 6-24 micrograms/ml, exposure in medium; and at 3-24 micrograms/ml, exposure in medium plus 2.5% fetal calf serum. The maximum induction of SCEs was about 1.5-2.5-fold compared with control level, irrespective of exposure conditions (PBS, medium or medium plus serum). The most pronounced genotoxic effect of MX was observed in CAs (100% aberrant cells at the dose level of 4 micrograms/ml, exposure in PBS) which were mainly of the chromatid type. In general, MX was more toxic to CHO cells treated in PBS compared with exposure in medium or medium plus 2.5% serum.
This study compared the effects of estrogen (E) on the hyperactivity induced by (+)-3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) with E effects on cocaine-evoked hyperactivity in female rats. Sprague-Dawley rats were ovariectomized (OVX); half of them received a 17beta-estradiol (E2) implant (OVX + E). Three weeks later, rats received saline, (+)-MDMA (1, 2, or 4 mg/kg) or cocaine (5, 10, or 20 mg/kg), and locomotor activity was monitored. OVX + E rats exhibited greater locomotor hyperactivity in response to both psychostimulants than did OVX rats. The enhanced response to cocaine appeared within 5 min following drug injection whereas the enhanced response to (+)-MDMA was delayed for approximately 30 min. The differential effects of E on hyperactivity may be due to the unique profiles of DA and 5-HT in response to (+)-MDMA and cocaine.
It was estimated, in a rat model of moderate and relatively high chronic human exposure to cadmium (Cd), whether enhanced zinc (Zn) consumption may prevent Cd-induced liver injury and if the possible protective effect of this bioelement depends on its intake. For this purpose, the structure and function of the liver of the rats that received Zn (30 and 60mg/l) or/and Cd (5 and 50mg/l) for 6months were evaluated. The treatment with Cd led to, dependent on the exposure level, pathological changes in the liver, including enhanced apoptosis and induction of inflammatory and necrotic processes. Moreover, the serum activities of hepatic marker enzymes (alanine transaminase and aspartate transaminase) and the concentration of proinflammatory cytokine - tumor necrosis factor α were increased. The supplementation with 30 and 60mg Zn/l (enhancing daily Zn intake by 79% and 151%, respectively) partially or totally prevented from some of the Cd-induced changes in the liver structure and function; however, it provided no protection from necrosis, and the administration of 60mg Zn/l during the higher Cd exposure even intensified this process. At both levels of Cd treatment, the use of 30mg Zn/l was more effective in preventing liver injury than that of 60mg Zn/l. The hepatoprotective impact of Zn may be explained, at least partly, by its antioxidative, antiapoptotic and anti-inflammatory action, ability to stimulate regenerative processes in the liver tissue, and indirect action resulting in a decrease in the liver pool of the non-metallothionein-bound Cd(2+) ions able to exert toxic action. The results provide strong evidence that enhanced Zn consumption may be beneficial in protection from Cd hepatotoxicity; however, its excessive intake at relatively high exposure to Cd may intensify liver injury.
To determine the hypothesis that genetic variations of the lipopolysaccharide-binding protein (LBP) gene influence risk for the development of sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction (MOD) in patients with major trauma.
Lipopolysaccharide-binding protein plays a central role in innate immune response as the first line of defense and directing the microbial-induced activation of the inflammatory host response. Although a total of 112 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have been identified so far within the entire LBP gene, only a few SNPs have been studied.
Nine haplotype tagging SNPs (htSNPs) were selected from 51 SNPs with a minor allele frequency of ≥5% using the HapMap database for the Chinese Han population. Two independent cohorts of major trauma patients were recruited. The 9 htSNPs were genotyped using pyrosequencing method and analyzed in relation to the risk of development of sepsis and MOD, LBP production, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced activation of peripheral blood leukocytes. Moreover, the functionality of the rs2232618 polymorphism was assessed by the observation of its effects on the binding and activation of LPS and the LBP-CD14 interaction.
Among the 9 htSNPs, only the rs2232618 was significantly associated with higher susceptibility to sepsis and MOD in the 2 independent cohorts of major trauma patients recruited from southwest and eastern China. This SNP was also significantly associated with LPS-induced activation of peripheral blood leukocytes. In addition, the rs2232618 polymorphism could enhance LBP protein activities, showing significant increases in LPS binding to macrophages, LPS-induced cellular activation, and LBP-CD14 interaction at the presence of the variant LBP protein.
The rs2232618 polymorphism is a functional SNP and confers host susceptibility to sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction in patients with major trauma.
The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophin fundamental for brain development and function, has previously been implicated in autism. In this study, the levels of BDNF in platelet-rich plasma were compared between autistic and control children, and the role of two genetic factors that might regulate this neurotrophin and contribute to autism etiology, BDNF and NTRK2, was examined. We found that BDNF levels in autistic children (n = 146) were significantly higher (t = 6.82; P < 0.0001) than in control children (n = 50) and were positively correlated with platelet serotonin distribution (r = 0.22; P = 0.004). Heritability of BDNF was estimated at 30% and therefore candidate genes BDNF and NTRK2 were tested for association with BDNF level distribution in this sample, and with autism in 469 trio families. Genetic association analysis provided no evidence for BDNF or NTRK2 as major determinants of the abnormally increased BDNF levels in autistic children. A significant association with autism was uncovered for six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) [0.004 (Z((1df)) = 2.85) < P < 0.039 (Z((1df)) = 2.06)] and multiple haplotypes [5 × 10(-4) (χ((3df)) = 17.77) < P < 0.042 (χ((9df)) = 17.450)] in the NTRK2 gene. These results do not withstand correction for multiple comparisons, however, reflect a trend toward association that supports a role of NTRK2 as a susceptibility factor for the disorder. Genetic variation in the BDNF gene had no impact on autism risk. By substantiating the previously observed increase in BDNF levels in autistic children in a larger patient set, and suggesting a genetic association between NTRK2 and autism, this study integrates evidence from multiple levels supporting the hypothesis that alterations in BDNF/tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) signaling contribute to an increased vulnerability to autism.
To determine the safety and efficacy, in a dose-escalation study, of exisulind (an oral sulphone metabolite of sulindac thought to induce apoptosis in malignant cells by inhibiting cGMP-phosphodiesterase) combined with docetaxel in men with hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC), as pre-clinical studies suggested activity against prostate cancer and synergy with cytotoxic agents.
Thirty-four patients with HRPC were treated with oral exisulind twice daily for 21-day cycles and intravenous docetaxel given for 1 h on the first day of each cycle. Three dose levels were assessed, combining exisulind 150 and 250 mg twice daily with docetaxel at 60 or 75 mg/m2. Toxicity was then evaluated using standard criteria.
The recommended phase II dose was determined to be exisulind 250 mg and docetaxel 60 mg/m2, with escalation to 75 mg/m2 after cycle 1, as tolerated. The most common grade 3-4 toxicities among all patients were neutropenia (56%), infection (24%) and hyperglycaemia (18%). Twelve of 32 evaluable patients (38%, 95% confidence interval, CI, 23-55%) had a decline in PSA by at least half. Only four of 17 evaluable patients (95% CI, 1-47%) treated at the phase II dose level had such a decline in PSA. The median (95% CI) overall survival of all patients was 16 (12.9-19.7) months and median progression-free survival 4.7 (2.7-5.2) months.
The combination of exisulind and docetaxel was tolerable in patients with HRPC. The PSA response rates do not suggest an improvement over historical data with single-agent docetaxel in this population.
To report a patient with sulfadiazine-induced urolithiasis and acute renal failure.
A patient with AIDS who was being treated with pyrimethamine and sulfadiazine for Toxoplasma encephalitis developed lumbar pain, dysuria, urinary frequency, and hematuria. Acute renal failure was found and numerous crystals of sulfadiazine were seen in the urine. Multiple calculi of up to 2 cm in diameter in both kidneys were noted on ultrasound. The patient was treated with intravenous fluids and alkalinization of the urine with rapid improvement. An intravenous urographic study performed 2 days later showed no evidence of calculi and renal function was normal.
Patients with AIDS and Toxoplasma encephalitis may have several predisposing conditions that can lead to the development of sulfadiazine-induced crystalluria, including poor fluid intake, fever, diarrhea, and hypoalbuminemia, in addition to the high doses of the drug required and the prolonged period of treatment.
This potentially serious complication can be managed easily with conservative treatment. Clinicians should be aware of this complication as it is expected to occur more frequently as more patients are treated with sulfonamides and patients with AIDS experience longer survival rates.
Acute myocardial infarction due to acetaldehyde syndrome has been rarely reported. A 22-year-old, chronic alcoholic man was admitted to our hospital with typical angina pectoris that developed after oral intake of disulfiram and alcohol together. The electrocardiogram showed hyperacute inferior myocardial infarction and he was successfully treated by thrombolytic therapy. Coronary angiogram revealed normal coronary arteries; thus, the event was probably secondary to coronary artery thrombosis and/or coronary vasospasm. Disulfiram is not a safe drug in patients unable to adhere to the strict restriction of alcohol intake, requiring a close supervision of individuals on disulfiram therapy.
An analysis of the presently available results concerning transurethral application of Alprostadil with MUSE (Medicated Urethral System for Erection) up to 1000 micrograms indicates a 20-30% lower efficacy if compared to 20 micrograms i.c. injected Alprostadil. Whereas in prospective home-treatment trials only each second MUSE-application was successful in responders 87%-94% of the administrations in self-injection therapy resulted in successful coitus. In an own comparative trial in 73 pts the success rates after MUSE up to 1000 micrograms were 48% compared to 71% after i.c. Alprostadil. Reported side-effects of MUSE in the literature were: Hypotension 3-8%, syncopes 0.4%, penile/urethral pain 29%, urethral bleeding 5%, vaginal irritations 3%, priapisms < 0.1%. After MUSE-applikation the average Alprostadil contents of the ejaculate increased 40%. Whereas in prospective long-term studies of self-injection therapy with Alprostadil the risk of persistent fibrotic alterations of the penis varied between 5-7%, the risk of penile fibrosis after MUSE can not be finally estimated. Also the potential risk for urethral strictures after MUSE is presently not foreseable. The advantage of the technically easy use in confronted with a considerably lower efficacy. Therefore self-injection therapy must be further on considered the "golden standard" in Alprostadil administration.
