The conjugate of doxorubicin with lactosaminated human albumin has the potential of increasing the doxorubicin efficacy in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinomas expressing the asialoglycoprotein receptor. However, coupled doxorubicin also accumulates in the liver, which might damage hepatocytes.
To verify whether coupled doxorubicin impairs liver function in rats with liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.
Coupled doxorubicin was administered using the same schedule which exerted an antineoplastic effect on rat hepatocellular carcinomas (4-weekly injections of doxorubicin at 1 microg/g). Liver fibrosis/cirrhosis was produced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) poisoning. Liver samples were studied histologically. Serum parameters of liver function and viability were determined.
In normal rats, administration of coupled doxorubicin neither caused microscopic changes of hepatocytes nor modified serum liver parameters. In rats with fibrosis/cirrhosis, although a selective doxorubicin accumulation within the liver followed coupled doxorubicin administration, the drug did not have a detrimental effect on the histology of the liver and, among serum liver tests, only alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase levels were moderately modified.
Coupled doxorubicin can be administered to rats with liver fibrosis/cirrhosis without inducing a severe liver damage. If further studies will confirm the efficacy and safety of this compound, coupled doxorubicin therapy may open a new perspective in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.
The mutagenic heterocyclic amines, 2-amino-3-methylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (IQ), 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ), and 2-amino-3,8-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoxaline (MeIQx) are present in broiled fish, fried beef, and beef extract. Their carcinogenicities in CDF1 mice and F344 rats were tested by their oral administration in the diet. In mice given diet containing 0.03% IQ, tumors developed in the liver (hepatocellular carcinomas or hepatocellular adenomas), forestomach (squamous cell carcinomas or papillomas), and lung (adenocarcinomas or adenomas) at high incidences. In mice given diet containing 0.04% or 0.01% MeIQ, squamous cell carcinomas and papillomas of the forestomach developed at high incidences. About 40% of the squamous cell carcinomas induced in the forestomach by 0.04% MeIQ metastasized to the liver. Clear dose-response relations were seen in the incidences of tumors in the groups given 0.04% and 0.01% MeIQ. The squamous cell carcinoma-papilloma ratios were higher in 0.04% groups than in 0.01% groups. Female mice treated with 0.04% and 0.01% MeIQ showed significantly higher incidences of liver tumors than controls. The experiment on the carcinogenicity of MeIQx at a dose of 0.06% in mice is still in progress but by experimental week 74, 4 of 16 males and 7 of 18 females autopsied were found to have liver tumors. Rats given diet containing 0.03% IQ showed high incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas, adenocarcinomas of the small and large intestines, and squamous cell carcinomas of the Zymbal gand, clitoral gland, and skin. Except for the liver, the target organs of IQ in CDF1 mice and F344 rats were different.
Three hypertensive patients receiving ticrynafen, a new uricosuric diuretic, experienced adverse reactions. One patient experienced acute renal failure, the second experienced a renal stone, and the third had a fatal hemorrhage while receiving anticoagulation therapy with warfarin sodium. All complications can be explained by known actions of the drug and are preventable. However, these reactions illustrate the potential hazards from widespread substitution of ticrynafen for thiazide diuretics in the treatment of hypertension.
A prospective study of 108 infants born at 34 weeks' gestation or earlier or weighing 1500 g or less was carried out to determine the incidence of intracranial hemorrhage and the multiple risk factors that may cause or aggravate this hemorrhage in premature infants. On day 2 post partum, mothers were questioned regarding maternal risk factors, including the use of either aspirin or acetaminophen during the last week of pregnancy. Between days 3 and 7 post partum, computed tomographic scanning was performed on the 108 infants. Of the total, 53 (49%) developed intracranial hemorrhage. The incidence of hemorrhage in the infants whose mothers had ingested aspirin was significantly greater (P less than .05) than that seen in infants whose mothers did not take either aspirin or acetaminophen (control group). The incidence of intracranial hemorrhage among infants whose mothers ingested acetaminophen was not significantly different from that of the control group. This study indicates that aspirin is associated with an increased incidence of intracranial hemorrhage in the authors' population. The use of aspirin in the last 3 months of pregnancy is highly questionable and probably inappropriate.
Tissue kallikrein is the main kinin-forming enzyme in mammals, and differences in kinin levels are thought to be a contributing factor to diabetic nephropathy. Here, we determined the role of the kallikrein-kinin system in the pathogenesis of streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy in wild-type and tissue kallikrein-knockout mice. All diabetic mice developed similar hyperglycemia, but the knockout mice had a significant two-fold increase in albuminuria compared to the wild-type mice before and after blood pressure elevation. Ezrin mRNA, a podocyte protein potentially implicated in albuminuria, was downregulated in the kidney of knockout mice. One month after induction of diabetes, the mRNAs of kininogen, tissue kallikrein, kinin B1, and B2 receptors were all increased up to two-fold in the kidney in both genotypes. Diabetes caused a 50% decrease in renal angiotensin-converting enzyme expression and a 20-fold increase in kidney injury molecule-1 reflecting tubular dysfunction, but there was no genotype difference. Our study found an early activation of the kallikrein-kinin system in the kidney and that this has a protective role against the development of diabetic nephropathy. The effect of tissue kallikrein deficiency on microalbuminuria in diabetic mice is similar to the effect of genetically high angiotensin-converting enzyme levels, suggesting that both observations, in part, result from a deficiency in kinins.
In 11 European centers, first cadaveric renal allograft recipients were randomized to CsA (n = 42) or sirolimus (n = 41). Dosing of these agents was concentration-controlled and open-labeled. All patients received corticosteroids and azathioprine. At 12 months, graft survival (98% sirolimus vs 93% CsA), patient survival (100% vs 98%), and incidence of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection (41% vs 38%) were similar. Serum creatinine was lower with sirolimus, significantly (P </=.05) so at 3 and 4 months, and serum uric acid and magnesium were normal. Laboratory abnormalities were reported significantly more often with sirolimus, which included hypertriglyceridemia (51% vs 12%), hypercholesterolemia (44% vs 14%), thrombocytopenia (37% vs 0%), leukopenia (39% vs 14%), and, of lesser importance, increased liver enzymes and hypokalemia. These abnormalities improved 2 months after transplantation when the sirolimus target trough level was lowered from 30 to 15 ng/mL. Occurrence of cytomegalovirus was comparable (14% vs 12%), but incidence of herpes simplex (24% vs 10%, P =.08) and pneumonia (17% vs 2%, P =.03) were higher with sirolimus. No gingival hyperplasia was seen with sirolimus, tremor was rare, and hypertension was less frequent (17% vs 33%). Two malignancies were observed with CsA, none with sirolimus. Results at 12 months suggest that sirolimus can be used as base therapy in the prophylaxis of acute renal transplant rejection, and has a safety profile that differs from that of CsA.
Studies have shown that increased sympathetic activity or increased blood and brain glucose concentration worsen postischemic brain damage. The authors evaluated the interaction of plasma glucose with epinephrine and norepinephrine during incomplete cerebral ischemia in the rat using ganglionic blockade.
Rats were anesthetized with 25 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 fentanyl and 70% nitrous oxide in oxygen. Ganglionic blockade was produced in 30 rats using 8 mg/kg hexamethonium intravenously. Three plasma glucose ranges, low < 150 mg/dl, moderate = 150-300 mg/dl, and high > 300 mg/dl, were produced in each group. Ischemia was induced by unilateral carotid ligation and hemorrhagic hypotension to 30 mmHg for 30 min. Plasma norepinephrine and epinephrine were measured by radioimmunoassay. Neurologic outcome was evaluated daily for 3 days after ischemia.
Ganglionic blockade decreased blood pressure before the start of ischemia and plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine during ischemia (P < 0.05). Neurologic outcome was significantly worse in rats with high glucose compared with low glucose concentrations with and without ganglionic blockade (P < 0.05). Neurologic outcome and stroke-related mortality were worse in rats with increased plasma epinephrine and norepinephrine compared with rats with ganglionic blockade when plasma glucose was less than 300 mg/dl (P < 0.05).
These results indicate that increased concentration of catecholamines enhance glucose-related injury during incomplete ischemia in rats.
Nitric oxide-donating aspirin (NO-ASA) is a promising chemoprevention agent against colon cancer and other cancers. It consists of traditional ASA to which a NO-releasing moiety is bound through a spacer. NO-ASA inhibits colon cancer cell growth several hundred times more potently than does ASA. In Min mice, NO-ASA inhibited intestinal carcinogenesis without affecting cell proliferation. Thus, we examined whether NO-ASA's most important cell kinetic effect is the induction of apoptosis. After confirming induction of apoptosis in Min mice, we studied the underlying mechanism in human colon adenocarcinoma cells. NO-ASA's spacer formed a conjugate with glutathione, depleting glutathione stores. This induced oxidative stress (increased intracellular levels of peroxides and O(2)(.-)) leads to apoptosis by activating the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. NO-ASA disrupted adherens junctions by inducing cleavage of beta- and gamma-catenin, resulting in cell detachment. NO-ASA inhibited Wnt signaling by a dual mechanism: at low concentrations it blocked the formation of beta-catenin/Tcf complexes (dominant mechanism), and at higher concentrations it also cleaved beta-catenin. These findings provide a mechanism of action by a potent chemopreventive agent, underscore the significance of these pathways in regulating cell death in the context of cancer chemoprevention, and present a paradigm for developing agents with enhanced cancer cell growth inhibitory properties.
Hematoma size and brain edema after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) are important prognostic factors. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is induced after cerebral ischemia and is known to be involved in secondary neuronal injury, but its significance in ICH is unknown. The authors tested whether iNOS would influence hematoma size and brain edema after ICH.
The authors used C57BL/6 and iNOS knockout mice for all the experiments. Experimental ICH was induced by the intrastriatal stereotactic administration of bacterial collagenase. Brain tissue was obtained at 72 hours after ICH. The volume of hematoma was quantified by spectrophotometric assay, and the brain water content was measured. The investigators also measured blood-brain barrier permeability using Evans blue dye.
There was no significant difference in hematoma size between the 2 groups. The brain water content of the lesional hemisphere was higher in C57BL/6 mice than in iNOS knockout mice. More Evans blue leakage in the brain was observed in C57BL/6 control mice than in iNOS knockout mice. Immunohistochemistry showed iNOS immunoreactivity in the perihematoma areas of C57BL/6 mice but not in the iNOS knockout mice.
When hematoma size was similar, iNOS knockout mice had significantly less brain edema than their littermates. These results suggest that iNOS modulation might become an antiedematous therapy for ICH.
Twenty-one consecutive patients with testicular cancer treated with bleomycin, vinblastine, and cisplatin (PVB) were evaluated for acute vascular ischaemic events during chemotherapy. Angina pectoris occurred in 8/21 (38%) patients, a median 5.6 weeks after initiation of chemotherapy and persisted for 2-7 days. Raynaud's phenomenon was detected in seven (33%) subjects, transient ischaemia of the toes was found in six (29%) patients, one patient complained of migraine, but none had major cerebrovascular accidents. Patients with and without angina pectoris and/or Raynaud's phenomenon did not differ in respect of age, histology of tumor or medication. Ischaemia occurred at any time during the course of chemotherapy. No correlation was found between dosage of drugs and time of onset of ischaemic reactions. However, arterial occlusive event is a frequent and common toxicity and a result of treatment with PVB.
The postmortem and magnetic resonance imaging studies for schizophrenic patients showed neuropathological abnormalities including neuron loss and volume reduction in ventral hippocampus (VH), some longitudinal studies suggest these changes may be a neurodegenerative process.
The present study examined the effects of adult bilateral VH lesions on a dopaminergic stimulant, methamphetamine (METH)-induced and an N-methyl-(D)-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, dizocilpine (MK-801)-induced behavioral and neurochemical changes in rats, in order to evaluate a potential of adult VH lesion animals for a model of schizophrenia.
To study the behavioral effects after bilateral VH lesions in adult rats, locomotor activity was measured individually by an infra-red sensor. Extracellular concentrations of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) were measured using in vivo brain microdialysis.
The bilateral adult VH lesion rats showed a significant enhanced hyperlocomotion in response to METH but no changes to MK-801 and phencyclidine; while bilateral adult VH lesion enhanced METH-induced increasing dopamine levels in the NAc.
The bilateral adult VH lesions enhanced locomotor activity, which related to increased dopamine releases in the NAc, induced by a dopaminergic stimulant; these findings may suggest a potential of adult VH lesion animal for a model reflecting dopamine D2 receptor antagonist-responsive pathophysiology of schizophrenia by way of neurodegenerative processes.
The objective of the study was to compare pregnancy outcomes of women receiving 17-alpha-hydroxyprogesterone caproate (17P) prophylaxis for the prevention of recurrent spontaneous preterm delivery (SPTD) hospitalized for preterm labor (PTL) less than 34 weeks' gestation prescribed daily vs weekly perinatal nursing surveillance.
Singleton gestations with prior SPTD enrolled for outpatient 17P administration at less than 27 weeks' gestation were eligible. Women hospitalized for PTL at less than 34 weeks (n = 379) were identified. Women receiving daily perinatal nursing surveillance (dPNS) (n = 99) following PTL were matched by Medicaid status and gestational age at onset of PTL to women receiving weekly surveillance (n = 280), yielding 83 matched pairs.
Among patients receiving 17P who were hospitalized for PTL, the addition of dPNS following hospitalization resulted in lower rates of SPTD less than 32 weeks (odds ratio [OR], 0.29, 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.21-0.38) and less than 35 weeks (OR, 0.25, 95% CI, 0.17-0.33), whereas the rates of SPTD less than 37 weeks were similar.
Women receiving prophylactic 17P hospitalized for PTL before 34 weeks benefit from the addition of daily perinatal nursing surveillance.
The development of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) has been associated with both genetic and environmental factors-with mutations in the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene for clear-cell RCC specifically and with long-term exposure to high doses of trichloroethylene (TRI), an industrially important solvent, for RCC generally. We investigated whether TRI exposure produces RCC through a specific mutational effect on the VHL gene by analyzing VHL sequences in the RCCs of patients exposed to high, cumulative doses of TRI.
The level of exposure for each of 44 patients with RCC who had known industrial exposure to TRI was classified according to the duration, frequency, and mode of exposure. Samples of normal and cancerous tissues were microdissected from paraffin-embedded tissue. DNA was isolated from these samples, and somatic VHL mutations were identified by polymerase chain reaction analysis, single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis, DNA sequencing, and restriction enzyme digestion. Control samples included RCC DNA from 107 patients without known TRI exposure and lymphocyte DNA from 97 healthy subjects.
RCCs of TRI-exposed patients showed somatic VHL mutations in 33 (75%) of 44 cases. The mutations were frequently multiple and accompanied by loss of heterozygosity, and there was an association between the number of mutations and the severity of TRI exposure. We observed a specific mutational hot spot at VHL nucleotide 454 in the RCCs of 13 (39%) of the patients, and this mutation was present in adjacent non-neoplastic kidney parenchyma in four of these patients. The nucleotide 454 mutation was neither detected in any of the RCCs from patients without TRI exposure nor in any of the healthy subjects.
Our results suggest that RCC in patients with high, cumulative TRI exposure is associated with a unique mutation pattern in the VHL gene.
Neurotoxicity is a common adverse effect of cyclosporine (CsA) in transplant recipients. Although most patients develop mild toxic manifestations, leukoencephalopathy with seizures, visual complications, psychiatric symptoms and motor and speech disorders may occur. Whether everolimus exacerbates the neurotoxicity of CsA is not known. We describe a patient who developed severe neurologic complications, consistent with CsA-induced neurotoxicity, developing 7.5 years after cardiac transplantation, 3 months after everolimus was added to the immunosuppressive regimen.
The apoptotic death of putaminal neurons and glia in a patient with hereditary ferritinopathy is studied immunohistochemically with antibodies to p53, activated caspase-3, PUMA, BAX, cytochrome c, and inducible nitric oxide synthase. In addition to the overexpression of ferritin and the iron accumulations assumed to result from the genetically incompetent ferritin molecule, additional contributions to the iron, heme, and hyaline deposits in this disease are sought with antibodies to 2 recently discovered globins in humans, neuroglobin and cytoglobin. The "pathognomonic" swollen to vacuolated nuclei are immunoreactive for both p53 and activated caspase-3, indicating the intervention of the p53-mediated apoptotic pathway. The immunohistochemical demonstration of neuroglobin in the swollen nuclei and both globins in the hyaline deposits highlights the potential pathogenic importance of 2 other iron-containing proteins in this disease that is largely restricted to brain. Hereditary ferritinopathy is the first human disease in which abnormalities in these heme-containing proteins are demonstrated.
Intra-operative bradycardia is one of the most common cardiac arrhythmias observed in clinical anaesthetic practice and can lead to a potentially dangerous outcome. In a randomised double-blind trial, 50 female patients undergoing elective abdominal hysterectomy were divided into two groups. Group I received atracurium and group II received vecuronium as a neuromuscular blocking agent in a balanced anaesthetic technique. The incidence of bradycardia was compared among the two groups. Bradycardia was defined as a heart rate of less than 60 beat.min-1. A heart rate of less than 45 beat.min-1 was labelled as severe bradycardia and symptomatic bradycardia was defined as bradycardia associated with hypotension. The two groups were similar in their demographic characteristics. The results showed that there was no statistically significant difference among the two groups regarding the incidence of simple bradycardia. However, the incidence of severe bradycardia or symptomatic bradycardia requiring treatment was significantly higher in the vecuronium group.
Cigarette smoking is a major preventable risk factor for coronary artery disease and sudden cardiac death. However, the effect of acute and long-term cigarette smoking on coronary vasodilatory capacity and myocardial flow reserve has not been quantified in humans.
To examine the effect of short-term and long-term smoking, myocardial blood flow was quantified at rest and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia (0.56 mg/kg) in 12 smokers (10 males and 2 females; mean age, 27 +/- 4 years) under baseline conditions (reflecting the effect of long-term smoking) and during short-term cigarette smoking with 13N ammonia, positron emission tomography, and a two-compartment model. Twelve sex- and age-matched nonsmokers served as control subjects. Smoking significantly increased the rate-pressure product at rest from 7525 +/- 1290 to 9160 +/- 1125 (P < .001 versus baseline), which was paralleled by a proportional increase in myocardial blood flow at rest (0.70 +/- 0.17 versus 0.88 +/- 0.17 mL.g-1.min-1; P < .05 versus baseline). In contrast, hyperemic blood flow declined from 2.23 +/- 0.35 at baseline (P = NS versus control) to 1.98 +/- 0.32 mL.g-1.min-1 during smoking (P < .01 versus baseline). Accordingly, the myocardial flow reserve declined from 3.36 +/- 0.83 in smokers at baseline to only 2.28 +/- 0.28 during smoking (P < .0001 versus baseline). Thus, myocardial blood flow and flow reserve were similar in young, long-term smokers and young, healthy nonsmokers.
Short-term smoking increases the coronary vasomotor tone during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia and markedly reduces the myocardial flow reserve. In contrast, long-term smoking does not attenuate the coronary vasodilatory capacity in young individuals with a relatively short smoking history. It might be speculated that the short-term reduction in the coronary vasodilatory capacity during smoking could lower the ischemic threshold in smokers with coronary artery disease and contribute to the increased risk for sudden cardiac death.
Many cytokines, in particular tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha have been known to play an important role in the pathogenesis of gastric mucosal lesions caused by various factors such as drugs and Helicobacter pylori infection. Our previous studies have shown that the polysaccharide fractions isolated from the fruiting bodies of Ganoderma lucidum (GLPS) prevented indomethacin- and acetic acid-induced gastric mucosal lesions in the rat. However, the mechanisms remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate whether GLPS had a direct mucosal healing effect in the indomethacin-treated rat, and to explore the possible mechanisms by determining the gastric mucosal mRNA and protein levels of TNF-alpha and ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity. In addition, the effects of GLPS on the cellular proliferation, ODC and c-Myc protein expression and mucus synthesis in the rat gastric cell culture (RGM-1) were examined. The present study demonstrated that GLPS at 250 and 500 mg/kg by intragastric input caused ulcer-healing effect in the rat; this was accompanied with a significant suppression of TNF-alpha gene expression, but with an increased ODC activity. In RGM-1 cells, GLPS at 0.05, 0.25 and 1.0 mg/ml significantly enhanced [3H]thymidine incorporation and ODC activity in a concentration-dependent manner. However, these effects were abrogated by the addition of the ODC inhibitor, DL-alpha-difluoromethyl-ornithine (DFMO). GLPS at 0.25-1.0 mg/ml also increased mucus synthesis, as indicated by the increased D-[6-3H]glucosamine incorporation in RGM-1 cells. Furthermore, GLPS at 0.05-1.0 mg/ml increased the c-Myc protein expression. These findings indicated that GLPS produced a mucosal healing effect in the rat model, perhaps due partly to the suppression of TNF-alpha and induction of c-myc and ODC gene.
Patients with follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) respond well to chemotherapy but frequently relapse and progress with conversion to more aggressive histology lymphomas. In a prior Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) trial, oral cyclophosphamide, given as a single agent, was found to be equivalent to a five-drug regimen in remission induction in patients with follicular NHL who had not received prior chemotherapy. Recently, interferon alfa-2b (Intron A; Schering Plough) has been demonstrated to elicit complete or partial responses in up to 50% of patients with nodular NHL who had received prior chemotherapy. In the current CALGB pilot trial, oral cyclophosphamide (100 mg/m2 daily) combined with interferon alfa-2b (2 X 10(6) IU/m2 s.c. on alternate days) is being evaluated, both in previously treated and untreated patients with stage III or IV follicular NHL, for toxicity, safety and efficacy in remission induction. A total of 68 patients have been entered into this study. Four patients are ineligible on pathology review, and 60 have on-study data currently available. Forty-one (60%) had not received prior chemotherapy and 19 (32%) had previously received some form of chemotherapy. Leukopenia was found to be the single, most common toxicity experienced by all patients. Previously untreated patients experienced leukopenia of less than 2,000 WBC/microliter at a significantly higher rate (53% versus 14%) than a similar patient population receiving oral cyclophosphamide as a single agent in the prior CALGB trial. Leukopenia was found to be promptly reversible, however, by dose suspension or adjustment, and other toxicities were demonstrated to be mild and tolerable.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) is characterized by abnormal development of the pharyngeal apparatus. Mouse genetic studies have identified Tbx1 as a key gene in the etiology of the syndrome, in part, via interaction with the fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) genes. Three murine Fgfs, Fgf3, Fgf8 and Fgf10 are coexpressed in different combinations with Tbx1. They are all strongly downregulated in Tbx1-/- embryos, implicating epistatic interactions. Supporting this, Tbx1 and Fgf8 have been shown to genetically interact in the development of the fourth pharyngeal arch artery (PAA) and Fgf10 was identified to be a direct downstream target of Tbx1. To dissect the epistatic relationships of these genes during embryonic development and the molecular pathogenesis of the Tbx1 mutant phenotype, we generated Fgf10+/-;Tbx1+/- and Fgf3-/-;Tbx1+/- mice. Despite strong hypotheses that Fgf10 is the key gene downstream of Tbx1 in the development of the anterior heart field, we do not find evidence for genetic interaction between Tbx1 and Fgf10. Also, the Fgf3-/-;Tbx1+/- mutant mice do not show an additive phenotype. Furthermore, more severe defects do not occur in Fgf8+/-;Tbx1+/- mutants by crossing in the Fgf3 null allele. There is a possible additive effect only in PAA remodeling in the Fgf10+/-;Tbx1+/-;Fgf8+/- embryos. Our findings underscore the importance of potential functional redundancy with additional Fgfs in the development of the pharyngeal apparatus and cardiovascular system via Tbx1. This redundancy should be considered when looking at individual FGF genes as modifiers of 22q11DS.
In animals, methamphetamine is known to have a neurotoxic effect on serotonin neurons, which have been implicated in the regulation of mood, anxiety, and aggression. It remains unknown whether methamphetamine damages serotonin neurons in humans.
To investigate the status of brain serotonin neurons and their possible relationship with clinical characteristics in currently abstinent methamphetamine abusers.
Case-control analysis.
A hospital research center.
Twelve currently abstinent former methamphetamine abusers (5 women and 7 men) and 12 age-, sex-, and education-matched control subjects recruited from the community.
The brain regional density of the serotonin transporter, a structural component of serotonin neurons, was estimated using positron emission tomography and trans-1,2,3,5,6,10-beta-hexahydro-6-[4-(methylthio)phenyl]pyrrolo-[2,1-a]isoquinoline ([(11)C](+)McN-5652). Estimates were derived from region-of-interest and statistical parametric mapping methods, followed by within-case analysis using the measures of clinical variables.
The duration of methamphetamine use, the magnitude of aggression and depressive symptoms, and changes in serotonin transporter density represented by the [(11)C](+)McN-5652 distribution volume.
Methamphetamine abusers showed increased levels of aggression compared with controls. Region-of-interest and statistical parametric mapping analyses revealed that the serotonin transporter density in global brain regions (eg, the midbrain, thalamus, caudate, putamen, cerebral cortex, and cerebellum) was significantly lower in methamphetamine abusers than in control subjects, and this reduction was significantly inversely correlated with the duration of methamphetamine use. Furthermore, statistical parametric mapping analyses indicated that the density in the orbitofrontal, temporal, and anterior cingulate areas was closely associated with the magnitude of aggression in methamphetamine abusers.
Protracted abuse of methamphetamine may reduce the density of the serotonin transporter in the brain, leading to elevated aggression, even in currently abstinent abusers.
Effective alternatives to long waiting lists for entry into methadone hydrochloride maintenance treatment are needed to reduce the complications of continuing heroin dependence and to increase methadone treatment entry.
To compare the effectiveness of interim methadone maintenance with that of the usual waiting list condition in facilitating methadone treatment entry and reducing heroin and cocaine use and criminal behavior.
Randomized, controlled, clinical trial using 2 conditions, with treatment assignment on a 3:2 basis to interim maintenance-waiting list control.
A methadone treatment program in Baltimore.
A total of 319 individuals meeting the criteria for current heroin dependence and methadone maintenance treatment.
Participants were randomly assigned to either interim methadone maintenance, consisting of an individually determined methadone dose and emergency counseling only for up to 120 days, or referral to community-based methadone treatment programs.
Entry into comprehensive methadone maintenance therapy at 4 months from baseline; self-reported days of heroin use, cocaine use, and criminal behavior; and number of urine drug test results positive for heroin and cocaine at the follow-up interview conducted at time of entry into comprehensive methadone treatment (or at 4 months from baseline for participants who did not enter regular treatment).
Significantly more participants assigned to the interim methadone maintenance condition entered comprehensive methadone maintenance treatment by the 120th day from baseline (75.9%) than those assigned to the waiting list control condition (20.8%) (P<.001). Overall, in the past 30 days at follow-up, interim participants reported significantly fewer days of heroin use (P<.001), had a significant reduction in heroin-positive drug test results (P<.001), reported spending less money on drugs (P<.001), and received less illegal income (P<.02) than the waiting list participants.
Interim methadone maintenance results in a substantial increase in the likelihood of entry into comprehensive treatment, and is an effective means of reducing heroin use and criminal behavior among opioid-dependent individuals awaiting entry into a comprehensive methadone treatment program.
Opioid receptors occur in locations of strategic importance within the central nervous system for modulation of pain. Is pain reduced by ongoing inhibition mediated by activation of these receptors? Experiments to date in which the opioid-receptor antagonist, naloxone, is administered during a painful event have yielded unclear results. Topically applied capsaicin can be used to induce tonic pain of moderate to severe intensity without tissue injury and is an ideal stimulus for studying acute pain modulation. We therefore conducted a placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study to investigate the effects of naloxone on capsaicin-induced pain (five men, four women, aged 29 +/- 5 years). Capsaicin (10%) was applied topically and subjects rated pain every 2 min. The subjects were told that any drug given to them could increase, decrease, or not change their pain sensation. Pain plateaued after 20 min. At 26 min subjects received either naloxone or placebo in double-blind fashion. At 56 min subjects received the alternative (placebo or naloxone). In a second session the order of presentation was reversed. The naloxone induced a significant increase in pain compared both to baseline (P < 0.01) and placebo (P < 0.01). The peak effect, reached at 12-20 min after naloxone delivery, was 59% greater than placebo. This experiment suggests that acute pain is actively suppressed by endogenous opioid-receptor activation.
