To study the hypotensive effect of the first dose in administration of perindopril and enalapril in patients with chronic cardiac failure (CCF).
The trial enrolled 213 patients with CCF of functional class II-III (mean age 57 +/- 1.4 years, 155 males and 58 females). The patients were randomized into 2 groups. Group 1 received perindopril in a dose 2 mg, group 2 received enalapril. Arterial pressure was measured for 10 hours with a 30-min interval, in the last 3 hours--once an hour. First dose hypotension was stated if systolic pressure was < 90 mmHg, diastolic under 60 mmHg, mean pressure < 75 mmHg after the first intake of the drug.
Significant differences in the baseline pressure between the groups were absent. None of the patients demanded therapy of arterial hypotension. Side effects of hypotension were absent. In group 1 systolic pressure fell under 90 mmHg in 8(7.7%) patients, in group 2--in 24(22.0%) patients (p = 0.004), diastolic pressure fell under 60 mmHg in 47(45.2%) and 60(55.1%) patients, respectively (p = 0.151). Mean arterial pressure was < 75 mmHg in 42(40.4%) and 62(56.9%) patients, respectively, (p = 0.016). Multivariate correlation analysis has revealed a direct correlation between the first dose hypotension and age (r = 0.159, p < 0.01) and age > 70 years (r = 0.258, p < 0.01), acute myocardial infarction (r = 0.244, p < 0.01) and inverse correlation with the initial arterial pressure (r = -0.208, p < 0.01).
Over 100,000 Iranian war veterans suffer from chronic effects of mustard gas exposure. Sulfur mustard was used by Iraq during the Iraqi-imposed war on Iran (between 1980 and 1988). The major complaints of these patients are mild interstitial fibrosis and bronchiolitis. We aimed to determine the state of fibrosis progression and assessed transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 levels in pulmonary samples and in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) aspirates. A total of 126 war veterans confirmed for lung disease were assessed and compared with three control groups: 1) 64 veterans not exposed to chemical agents, 2) 12 idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis civilian patients, and 3) 33 normal persons. BAL was performed via a flexible fiber-optic bronchoscope and the standard manual method. Total protein was measured by Bradford assay, and samples were corrected with regard to coefficients. Samples were concentrated 15-fold by lyophilization and resolubilization. Samples were double-checked using an ELISA test kit. The Mann-Whitney test was used for the data analysis using commercial software. We detected that significant differences between TGF-beta1 levels between the case group and control group 1 (P = 0.001) and control group 3 (P = 0.003). No significant differences were found between the case group and control group 2 (P = 0.57). Inflammation and fibrotic processes in lung tissue of patients exposed to sulfur mustard may be progressive so IFN-gamma may be a useful drug to these patients' treatment.
The traditional Chinese medicine Xiao-Chai-Hu-Tang (HD-7) has been widely used to treat liver diseases in China and Japan. HD-7 consists of seven different ingredients, but which one provides the therapeutic benefits is still unknown. Here, we identified the "Minister herb" Scutellariae radix (HD-1S), but not the "King herb" Bupleuri radix (HD-1B) in HD-7, as the active component that suppresses HBV gene expression and virus production in human hepatoma cells. We have found that an aqueous extract of HD-1S not only suppressed wild-type virus but also lamivudine-resistant HBV mutant in human hepatoma cells. We show that HD-1S selectively suppresses HBV core promoter activity. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis has revealed that HD-1S treatment decreases the DNA-binding activity of nuclear extract of HepA2 cells to a specific cis-element of the HBV core promoter, which includes the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor binding site and HNF4. Furthermore, ectopic expression of PGC-1 abolished the suppression of HD-1S on HBV core promoter activity suggesting that HD-1S may act through modulating hepatic transcriptional machinery to suppress HBV viral gene expression and virus production.
An age greater than 60 and diuretic use have been implicated as risk factors for nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced decreases in renal function. Misoprostol, a prostaglandin E1 analog, was studied in nine elderly osteoarthritic patients at risk for NSAID-induced renal dysfunction to determine whether it could prevent NSAID-induced renal dysfunction. Subjects received ibuprofen 2400 mg/day and either misoprostol 800 mcg/day or placebo for 14 days in a randomized, double-blinded, crossover trial. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and effective renal plasma flow (ERPF) studies using inulin and PAH plasma clearance, urinary prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and protein excretion, and serum electrolytes were obtained at baseline, after the first dose, and on day 7 and 14 of each treatment period. Prostaglandin E2 excretion was significantly reduced after the first dose of ibuprofen and throughout the 14 days in both the misoprostol and placebo treatment groups. No statistically significant differences in GFR, ERPF, protein excretion, serum potassium, or serum sodium were detected between misoprostol and placebo treatment during the 14 days of ibuprofen treatment. However, a subset of two patients who exhibited a decrease of greater than 20% in GFR during placebo treatment, appeared to demonstrate an attenuation of this decline when treated with misoprostol. Effect of time, independent of treatment group, indicated that ERPF was significantly decreased from baseline after the first dose of ibuprofen (P < or = 0.05), whereas GFR was notably diminished from baseline on day 14 only (P < or = 0.05). Misoprostol does not influence GFR and ERPF in unselected subjects purportedly at risk for NSAID-induced renal dysfunction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We examined the acute in vitro effects of cocaine on cell membrane potentials and contractility of 12-16 week old human foetal heart, to better assess the potential for the induction of serious arrhythmia, in utero, by this abused substance. Ventricular preparations were maintained in a tissue bath, and continuously provided with oxygen and glucose during the measurement of membrane potentials with microelectrodes, and developed force of contractions with microforce transducers. Cocaine (600 ng/ml) had a significant effect on the ability of the heart to produce action potentials of normal rising velocity, amplitude, and duration. Within 90 min., all electromechanical activity had ceased. Under the conditions of our study, the effects of cocaine were reversible, however, reversibility in vitro may have no counterpart in utero, and irreversible loss of cardiac function may result.
More recent investigations on the duration of effect and plasma half-life of propranolol suggest a simplification of dosage for the beta-blocker in the treatment of hypertension. A field trial with Dociton 80 twice daily as initial therapy was carried out in over 2000 patients with essential hypertension with relatively few side effects and confirmed the distinctly longer-persisting effect of the beta-blocker on longterm application. Including the marginal values, the response rate in this collective was relatively high at 73%.
Acute lung injury (ALI) or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are common syndromes characterized by diffuse, acute injury to the alveolar epithelium and pulmonary vascular endothelial cells, with high mortality rate for there are no effective pharmacological therapies. Peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor γ (PPARγ), a member of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily of ligand-activated transcription factors, is ubiquitously expressed within the lung. Recent studies have indicated PPARγ can protect lung tissue and alleviate pulmonary inflammatory injury. But no studies examined whether PPARγ agonists can protect the alveolar epithelial cells cultured in vitro. We observed the protective effect of PPARγ in LPS-induced alveolar type II epithelial cells injury. The results showed troglitazone-activated PPARγ could inhibit the production of TNF-α, one of the most important inflammatory factors, and then increased the expression of surfactant-associated protein A (SP-A) and attenuate the apoptosis of alveolar type II epithelial cells. Our results suggest that PPARγ may have a potential therapeutic effect on ALI.
Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ) by ligands is associated with beneficial health effects, including anti-inflammatory and insulin-sensitizing effects. The aim of the current study was to develop luciferase reporter gene assays to enable fast and low-cost measurement of PPARγ agonist and antagonist activity. Two reporter gene assays, PPARγ1 CALUX and PPARγ2 CALUX, were developed by stable transfection of U2OS cells with an expression vector for PPARγ1 or PPARγ2 and a pGL3-3xPPRE-tata-luc or pGL4-3xPPRE-tata-luc reporter construct, respectively. PPARγ1 CALUX and PPARγ2 CALUX cells showed similar concentration-dependent luciferase induction upon exposure to the PPARγ agonists rosiglitazone, troglitazone, pioglitazone, ciglitazone, netoglitazone, and 15-deoxy-Δ(12,14)-prostaglandin J(2). The potency to induce luciferase decreased in the following order: rosiglitazone>troglitazone=pioglitazone>netoglitazone>ciglitazone. A concentration-dependent decrease in the response to 50nM rosiglitazone was observed on the addition of PPARγ antagonist GW9662 or T0070907 in both PPARγ1 CALUX and PPARγ2 CALUX cells. The PPARα agonists WY14643 and fenofibrate failed to induce luciferase activity, confirming the specificity of these cell lines for PPARγ agonists. In conclusion, PPARγ1 CALUX and PPARγ2 CALUX cells provide a reliable and useful tool to screen (bio)chemicals for PPARγ agonist or antagonist activity.
We describe three patients who presented with 4 to 5 Hz tremors of the suprahyoid region of the neck. Two developed their tremors in association with levosulpiride treatment. When they opened their mouths, the neck tremors disappeared; no tongue tremors were observed. However, a videofluoroscopic examination showed the presence of tongue tremors at rest. The remaining patient had a psychogenic tremor.
GH induces acute insulin resistance in skeletal muscle in vivo, which in rodent models has been attributed to crosstalk between GH and insulin signaling pathways. Our objective was to characterize time course changes in signaling pathways for GH and insulin in human skeletal muscle in vivo following GH exposure in the presence and absence of an oral glucose load.
Eight young men were studied in a single-blinded randomized crossover design on 3 occasions: 1) after an intravenous GH bolus 2) after an intravenous GH bolus plus an oral glucose load (OGTT), and 3) after intravenous saline plus OGTT. Muscle biopsies were taken at t = 0, 30, 60, and 120. Blood was sampled at frequent intervals for assessment of GH, insulin, glucose, and free fatty acids (FFA).
GH increased AUC(glucose) after an OGTT (p<0.05) without significant changes in serum insulin levels. GH induced phosphorylation of STAT5 independently of the OGTT. Conversely, the OGTT induced acute phosphorylation of the insulin signaling proteins Akt (ser(473) and thr(308)), and AS160.The combination of OGTT and GH suppressed Akt activation, whereas the downstream expression of AS160 was amplified by GH. WE CONCLUDED THE FOLLOWING: 1) A physiological GH bolus activates STAT5 signaling pathways in skeletal muscle irrespective of ambient glucose and insulin levels 2) Insulin resistance induced by GH occurs without a distinct suppression of insulin signaling proteins 3) The accentuation of the glucose-stimulated activation of AS 160 by GH does however indicate a potential crosstalk between insulin and GH.
ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00477997.
Isoflavones inhibit the growth of some types of tumor cells, including prostate adenocarcinoma. This study used LNCaP cells and xenografts to investigate the mechanisms of the antiproliferative effects of biochanin A, a major isoflavone present in red clover but not soy-derived products.
LNCaP cells were exposed to varying doses of biochanin A to evaluate viability, DNA synthesis, and DNA fragmentation (TUNEL) analysis. Regulation of gene expression was determined by using Western immunoblotting and cDNA microarrays. Anti-tumorigenic effects were evaluated by using athymic mice with LNCaP flank tumors.
Biochanin A induced a dose-dependent inhibition of proliferation and [(3)H]thymidine incorporation that correlated with increased DNA fragmentation, indicative of apoptosis. Western blot analyses of cell cycle regulatory proteins revealed that biochanin A significantly decreased expression of cyclin B and p21, whereas flow cytometry showed that cells were accumulating in the G(0)/G(1) phase. cDNA microarray analyses identified 29 down-regulated genes with six reduced below assay detection limits. Eleven genes were up-regulated, including 9 that were undetectable in controls. In mice with LNCaP xenografts, biochanin A significantly reduced tumor size and incidence.
These results indicate that biochanin A inhibits prostate cancer cell growth through induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Biochanin A-regulated genes suggest multiple pathways of action. Biochanin A inhibits the incidence and growth of LNCaP xenograft tumors in athymic mice.
The effect of genistein (GEN) and diethylstilbestrol (DES) on body weight, weight of different organs, sperm acrosomal status and in vivo fertility of CD1 mice was tested in a multigenerational study. The adult parental generation of mice and F1 and F2 generations were exposed to selected drugs for all their life. GEN had effect on different body parameters of 30-day-old mice, but not of adult mice in the first generation. Contrary to that, treatment by DES had a strong effect on body weight, other body parameters and on the levels of serum hormones. In the first generation only sterile pairs of mice were observed. Monoclonal antibody against mouse intra-acrosomal sperm protein was used for analysis of the acrosome state and as biomarkers of sperm damage. In the control groups, about 93% of acrosome-reacted sperm was found, acrosome staining decreased to 78-84% (P<0.01). However, the GEN had no effect on fertility of CD1 mice. On the other hand, the fertility of mice exposed to DES was disrupted, especially in the first generation.
The plasma levels of thyrotrophin (TSH) and the response of this hormone to 200 microgram of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH) were studied in 27 unipolar and 24 bipolar depressive patients before and after amitriptyline treatment as well as in 42 normal controls. There was no significant difference in basal TSH levels between any of the groups studied according to diagnosis, menopausal status and antidepressant treatment. Before treatment, the TSH response to TRH was significantly lower in the unipolar and bipolar depressive patients than in normal controls. The TSH response to TRH did not differ significantly between the unipolar and bipolar depressives. When menopausal status was taken into account, the TSH response to TRH was significantly blunted in the unipolar postmenopausal patients when compared to postmenopausal controls. In the bipolar group, the premenopausal depressive patients had a significantly lower TSH response to TRH than premenopausal controls. After amitriptyline treatment, the TSH response to TRH, which was impaired before treatment in the bipolar premenopausal patients, improved significantly. However, no significant difference in the TSH response to TRH could be demonstrated after treatment in the unipolar postmenopausal patients in whom the TSH response was blunted before treatment. Our findings suggest that the differential TSH response to TRH in unipolar and bipolar patients may constitute biological markers of endocrine dysfunction in clinical subgroups of affective disorders.
Rosiglitazone, an agonist of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPARγ), improves insulin sensitivity by increasing insulin-stimulated glucose uptake into muscle tissue. This study was undertaken to assess changes in expression of PPAR-regulated genes in muscle tissue following treatment of HIV-associated insulin resistance with rosiglitazone. Muscle gene expression was assessed in twenty-two seronegative HIV subjects (control), 21 HIV-infected individuals with normal insulin sensitivity (HIV-IS) and 19 HIV-infected individuals with insulin resistance (HIV-IR). A subset of the HIV-IR group (N = 10) were re-evaluated 12 weeks after treatment with 8 mg/d of rosiglitazone. The HIV-IR group's rosiglitazone-mediated improvement in insulin sensitivity was highly correlated with increased expression of PPARγ and carnitine palmitoyl transferase-1 (CPT-1), (r = 0.87, P < .001) and (r = 0.95, P < .001), respectively. The changes in PPARγ expression were also correlated with the changes in CPT1 expression (r = 0.75, P = .009). The results suggest that rosiglitazone; may have a direct effect on muscle tissue to improve insulin sensitivity.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the effect of rosiglitazone treatment on islet ghrelin and insulin gene expressions in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. Animals were divided into four groups. 1. Intact controls. 2. Rosiglitazone-treated controls. 3. STZ-induced diabetes. 4. Rosiglitazone-treated diabetes. Rosiglitazone was given for 7 days at a dose of 20 mg/kg body weight. Ghrelin and insulin gene expressions were investigated by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. There was no statistically significant difference in body weight between STZ-induced diabetic rats and rosiglitazone-treated diabetic rats during the experimental period. Furthermore, there were no significant differences in blood glucose levels and insulin immunoreactive cell numbers between STZ-induced diabetic rats and rosiglitazone-treated diabetic rats. There was a tendency towards a reduction of ghrelin gene expression in diabetic animals compared with intact controls. We found, in addition, that ghrelin immunoreactive and ghrelin mRNA expressing cells were frequent in the epithelial lining of the ducts suggesting ductal epithelium might be the source of the regenerating islet ghrelin cells, as is known for other islet cells. The results show that short-term rosiglitazone pretreatment had no significant effect on ghrelin and insulin gene expressions.
Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), an adrenal steroid, causes lipid peroxidation in rat liver microsomes and mitochondria and induces hepatocarcinogenesis. It was investigated whether alpha-tocopherol, a naturally occurring free radical chain terminator, could decrease lipid peroxidation. When DHEA-free diet supplemented with increasing concentrations of alpha-tocopherol (25, 50, 100, 200, 400 and 1000 mg/kg diet) was fed to rats for 7 days, a marked lipid peroxidation (measured as thiobarbituric acid reactive substances formation) was observed at concentrations 25 and 50 mg/kg in liver microsomes and mitochondria isolated from these animals. Lipid peroxidation was significantly reduced at concentrations > or = 100 mg/kg. When DHEA (500 mg/kg diet) was fed to rats simultaneously with increasing concentrations of alpha-tocopherol, strong lipid peroxidation was observed at alpha-tocopherol concentrations < or = 200 mg/kg diet. However, microsomes and mitochondria isolated from livers of rats fed alpha-tocopherol at doses of 400 and 1000 mg/kg diet produced only negligible amounts of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances. The data show that high concentrations of alpha-tocopherol in the diet decrease DHEA-induced microsomal and mitochondrial lipid peroxidation. Our results support the concept that alpha-tocopherol can protect against DHEA-induced lipid peroxidation and consequently against steroid-induced liver cell damage and, perhaps, also tumour development.
Cytoplasmic lipid-droplets are common inclusions of eukaryotic cells. Lipid-droplet binding thalidomide analogs (2,6-dialkylphenyl-4/5-amino-substituted-5,6,7-trifluorophthalimides) with potent anticancer activities were synthesized.
Cytotoxicity was detected in different cell lines including melanoma, leukemia, hepatocellular carcinoma, glioblastoma at micromolar concentrations. The synthesized analogs are non-toxic to adult animals up to 1 g/kg but are teratogenic to zebrafish embryos at micromolar concentrations with defects in the developing muscle. Treatment of tumor cells resulted in calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), ER stress and cell death. Antioxidants could partially, while an intracellular calcium chelator almost completely diminish ROS production. Exogenous docosahexaenoic acid or eicosapentaenoic acid induced calcium release and ROS generation, and synergized with the analogs in vitro, while oleic acid had no such an effect. Gene expression analysis confirmed the induction of ER stress-mediated apoptosis pathway components, such as GADD153, ATF3, Luman/CREB3 and the ER-associated degradation-related HERPUD1 genes. Tumor suppressors, P53, LATS2 and ING3 were also up-regulated in various cell lines after drug treatment. Amino-phthalimides down-regulated the expression of CCL2, which is implicated in tumor metastasis and angiogenesis.
Because of the anticancer, anti-angiogenic action and the wide range of applicability of the immunomodulatory drugs, including thalidomide analogs, lipid droplet-binding members of this family could represent a new class of agents by affecting ER-membrane integrity and perturbations of ER homeostasis.
This randomized, double-blind study was designed to determine whether the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole could prevent relapse among patients with healed erosive reflux esophagitis that had been resistant to healing with at least 3 months of H2-receptor antagonist therapy.
By the end of the year, 13% of placebo patients remained healed compared with 67% of lansoprazole 15 mg and 55% of lansoprazole 30 mg patients (p < 0.001 for time to first relapse). All placebo patients were symptomatic by the end of the study whereas only one-third of the lansoprazole patients was symptomatic at the end of the 12-month study period. The two lansoprazole doses were comparably effective in maintaining healing and in symptom control and were well tolerated. Fasting serum gastrin values increased significantly to about 1.5-2 times the baseline values over the first 2 months of lansoprazole treatment; no further increase was noted.
Erosive relapse can be prevented in most patients for up to 1 yr with lansoprazole 15 mg or 30 mg once daily.
Cocaine intoxication and acute abstinence alter brain dopaminergic functioning, resulting in behavioral changes closely mimicking the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In emergency room settings, recent cocaine abuse can be mistaken for schizophrenia and may cause inappropriate diagnosis and in some instances medical mismanagement. Schizophrenia patients presenting with recent cocaine abuse may also present with significant diagnostic and treatment dilemmas. This study attempts to distinguish between cocaine and schizophrenic psychosis by examining patients who present with both recent cocaine abuse and acute schizophrenia (CA+SZ), cocaine intoxication without schizophrenic illness (CA), and acute schizophrenia with no comorbid substance abuse (SZ) within the first 24 hours after arrival at the Bellevue psychiatric emergency service. Clinical assessment included the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, the Schedule for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms, and the Schedule for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms. Both cocaine abusing groups were required to have positive urine toxicology screens for inclusion in the study. Multivariate analysis of variance showed the CA+SZ patients present with a clinical profile that overlaps with CA patients on mood and negative symptom dimensions and overlaps with SZ patients on most positive symptoms. CA+SZ patients differed from both groups, however, by presenting with significantly more hallucinatory experiences than cocaine abusing or schizophrenia patient counterparts. Despite considerable overlap, each group of patients presented with a discernible cross-sectional symptom pattern.
Although the new second-generation nonsedative antihistamines terfenadine and astemizole were launched as highly selective and specific H(1)-receptor antagonists, they were later found to cause prolongation of the QT-interval and severe cardiac arrhythmias. The prolongation of the QT-interval is caused by the blockade of one or more of the cardiac potassium channels, among which the delayed rectifier I(Kr), encoded by the HERG-gene, appears to be the most significant. The potency of the prokinetic drug cisapride to block I(Kr) appears to be similar to that of terfenadine (IC(50) about 50 nmol/l). These drugs cause problems when overdosed, used in combination with inhibitors of their CYP3A4-mediated metabolism, or when given to individuals with altered drug kinetics (the aged) or patients with existing cardiac disease (congenitally long QT). Moreover, interactions with other QT-interval prolonging drugs require special attention. Active hydrophilic metabolites of the second-generation antihistaminic compounds (ebastine-carebastine, loratadine-desloratadine, terfenadine-fexofenadine, astemizole-norastemizole) are new compounds with probably reduced risk for drug interactions and cardiac toxicity.
Reactions of the gastrointestinal tract and the central nervous system are the most often observed adverse effects during therapy with fluoroquinolones. Pathogenesis of the neurotoxic effects of fluoroquinolones could be related to the activation of the NMDA receptor. Animal experiments as well as clinical experience show that the cardiotoxic potentials of sparfloxacin and grepafloxacin are higher than those of the other fluoroquinolones: they cause QT prolongation at rather low doses thus increasing the risk for severe arrhythmia (torsades de pointes). Phototoxicity has been described for all quinolones, but derivatives with a halogen atom at position 8 show the highest potential for such reactions (e.g. clinafloxacin). Chondrotoxicity of quinolones can affect the articular cartilage and the epiphyseal growth plate in immature animals; the use of these drugs in pediatrics should be restricted to carefully selected indications (such as the use of ciprofloxacin in cystic fibrosis). Tendinitis and tendon ruptures can also be induced by quinolones. Overall, quinolones are as well tolerated as most other anti-microbial agents. However, their specific toxic potentials have to be considered when they are chosen for treatment of bacterial infections.
Doxorubicin (Dx) is used to treat a number of types of cancer. The drug produces many toxic reactions and cardiomyopathy. Many drugs have been used to prevent this myocardial damage caused by peroxidative alterations. EGb 761 is being used to prevent arrhythmias in ischemic myocardium. We decided to establish the tissue protective effect of EGb 761 against myocardial toxic effects of Dx in three groups of rats. Cardiotoxicity signs of Dx were found to be dose-related, beginning at 30 mg/kg dose and being apparent at 45 mg/kg dose. 48 hr after a single i.v. injection, myocardial tissues showed a marked edema, vacuolization and fragmentation. We compared the changes in heart tissue biochemically and histopathologically among the control, Dx treated and EGb 761 (100 mg/kg/d.x 4, i.p.) + Dx treated groups. Biochemical results of CK-MB and MDA values showed a significant decrease in Dx + EGb 761 group when compared with Dx treated group. Histopathologically, myocardial tissues of Dx + EGb 761 treated group were found to have diminished vacuolization and fragmentation. These results suggest that EGb 761 might have the same therapeutic potential in Dx related cardiomyopathy.
Resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) has been shown to exert potent anticancer effects on various types of cancer through its anti-proliferative, anti-angiogenic, antioxidant and pro-apoptotic functions. There is still a lack of experimental evidence regarding whether resveratrol has potential anticancer activity in human nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) cells. The purpose of this study was to explore the anticancer activity of resveratrol in human NPC cells both in vitro and in vivo. Our results indicated that treatment with resveratrol led to a time- and dose-dependent decrease in cell proliferation in NPC cells. A dose-dependent increase in apoptosis in response to resveratrol treatment was also observed in NPC cells. Flow cytometric analysis showed that treatment of NPC cells with resveratrol led to cell cycle arrest at the S and G2/M phases. Mechanistically, resveratrol treatment downregulated the expression of Bcl-2 and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α) proteins and upregulated the expression of caspase-3 protein. In addition, resveratrol treatment also significantly decreased the phosphorylation levels of Akt1, p70S6K and p-4E-BP-1 and the protein expression of several cyclins involved in cell cycle regulation. In vivo studies further showed that resveratrol was able to significantly inhibit the growth of NPC tumor xenografts in nude mice. Collectively, our findings suggest that resveratrol exerts potent anti-prolife-rative and pro-apoptotic effects on human NPC cells possibly through interfering with the pAkt1/p70S6K signaling pathways, thus it may potentially be developed as an effective agent for chemoprevention and chemotherapy of human NPC.
A 64-year-old woman with diabetes mellitus as well as hypertensive retinopathy developed an acute myocardial infarction and hypertensive crisis following the injection of 5 ml. of 10 per cent sodium fluorescein for fundus angiography. This is the first time this complication has been documented. Possible mechanisms for such an occurrence are discussed. Recommendations for recognizing and dealing with patients at high risk for cardiovascular complications of fluorescein angiography are emphasized.
Hyperprolactinaemia induced by D(2) dopamine receptor antagonist antipsychotic medication can result in significant health problems.
To examine the role of DRD2 polymorphism on prolactin levels in patients treated with antipsychotic medication.
Antipsychotic drugs with different degrees of D(2) receptor binding were given to 144 patients with schizophrenia. Serum prolactin levels were obtained and Taq1A DRD2 alleles were determined.
Prolactin levels increased across medication groups reflecting increasingly tight D(2) receptor binding (clozapine, olanzapine, typical antipsychotics and risperidone). In the combined medication group, patients with the DRD2(*)A1allele had 40% higher prolactin levels than patients without this allele. In patients treated with clozapine (the loosest D(2) receptor binding agent), patients with the DRD2(*)A1allele had prolactin levels twice those of patients without this allele.
Patients with the DRD2A1 allele receiving antipsychotic medications had higher prolactin levels and were overrepresented among those with hyperprolactinaemia, suggesting greater functional D(2) receptor binding in this group.
