To estimate the incidence of idarubicin (IDA)-related cardiomyopathy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplasia (MDS).
We analyzed a group of 127 AML/MDS patients who received IDA-based induction and postremission or salvage therapy and achieved a complete remission (CR) that lasted > or = 12 weeks for the development of IDA-related congestive heart failure (CHF). CHF was defined as definite if a resting left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of < or = 45% measured by radionuclide ventriculogram (RV) accompanied the clinical diagnosis of CHF, which had to be made during or within 6 months of receiving IDA and for which no other cause was apparent; without RV confirmation, the diagnosis was considered probable. Patients who had RVs performed were evaluated for decreasing LVEF. Older age (> or = 70 years), prior/sequential anthracycline/mitoxantrone (anthraquinone) therapy, and cardiac disease/hypertension were evaluated as risk factors for the development of CHF.
One hundred fifteen patients were assessable (median age, 40 years; median dose, 96 mg/m2). Sixty-five had RVs performed during therapy; 43 had risk factors. The probability of IDA-related cardiomyopathy was 5% at a cumulative IDA dose of 150 to 290 mg/m2, with 18 patients receiving doses greater than 150 mg/m2. At a cumulative IDA dose of 150 mg/m2, the probability of a mild or greater asymptomatic decrease probability of a mild or greater asymptomatic decrease in LVEF (> or = 10% to a level < or = 50%) was 18%, whereas the probability of a moderate or greater asymptomatic decrease in LVEF (> or = 15% to a level < or = 45%) was 7%. No patient with asymptomatic LVEF decreases developed CHF. CHF was more frequent in patients with prior/sequential exposure to anthracyclines/mitoxantrone (P = .01).
In this patient group, IDA-related cardiomyopathy was uncommon with cumulative IDA doses of up to 290 mg/m2. Asymptomatic LVEF decreases were more frequent, but their predictive value for the development of CHF is unclear.
Peters Plus syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by anterior eye-chamber abnormalities, disproportionate short stature, and developmental delay. After detection of a microdeletion by array-based comparative genomic hybridization, we identified biallelic truncating mutations in the beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase-like gene (B3GALTL) in all 20 tested patients, showing that Peters Plus is a monogenic, primarily single-mutation syndrome. This finding is expected to put Peters Plus syndrome on the growing list of congenital malformation syndromes caused by glycosylation defects.
To investigate spontaneous reports of TdP present in the public version of the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System (AERS) in the light of what is already known on their TdP-liability.
Reports of TdP from January 2004 through December 2007 were retrieved from the public version of the AERS database. All reports were selected from REACTION files and the relevant suspected and/or interacting drugs were identified from DRUG files. Qualitative analysis was performed by the case/non-case method. Cases were represented by TdP reports, whereas non-cases were all reports of adverse drug reactions other than TdP. Quantitative analysis was assessed by calculating the crude and adjusted reporting odds ratio (ROR), as a measure of disproportionality, with the 95% confidence interval.
Reports of TdP were 1665 over a 4-year period, involving 376 active substances. Thirty-five drugs with at least 10 reports were identified: amiodarone and methadone were associated with the highest number of cases (113 and 83 respectively) and most of the other reports were ascribable to antibacterials, antidepressants and antipsychotics; remarkable differences in number of cases and ROR were present among agents within each therapeutic class. A disproportionate reporting was also observed for other compounds such as donepezil, famotidine and mitoxantrone.
Large spontaneous reporting databases represent an important source for signal detection of rare adverse drug reactions (ADR), such as TdP. The number of reports associated to donepezil, famotidine and mitoxantrone could be considered unexpected on the basis of current evidence and needs further investigations on their true TdP-liability.
To define the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and better tolerated sequence of paclitaxel by 3-hour infusion plus bolus doxorubicin (DOX) and to evaluate antitumor efficacy.
Thirty-five women with metastatic breast cancer (dominant visceral metastases in 56%, and involvement of > or = three sites in 67%) who never received chemotherapy of any type were studied. Paclitaxel every 3 weeks (125 mg/m2 starting dose) was increased by 25-mg/m2 steps in subsequent cohorts of patients. DOX (60 mg/m2 fixed dose) was administered 15 minutes before the start of or after the end of paclitaxel for a maximum of eight cycles. Subsequently, patients in continuous response could receive single-agent paclitaxel (175 to 200 mg/m2 every 3 weeks). The drug sequence was alternated in consecutive patients and in the first two cycles.
Severe neutropenia that lasted greater than 7 days (n = 4), febrile neutropenia (n = 7) and grade III oral mucositis (n = 6) defined the MTD of paclitaxel at 200 mg/m2 in 34 assessable patients. Grade II peripheral neuropathy occurred in 33% of patients. Six women (18%) developed clinically reversible congestive heart failure (CHF) after a median of 480 mg/m2 total DOX. Drug sequence had no effect on toxicities. High efficacy on all metastatic sites in 32 assessable patients accounted for a 41% complete response (CR) rate (95% confidence interval [CI], 24% to 59%) and 94% overall-response rate (95% CI, 79% to 99%). After a median follow-up of 12 months (range 3 to 18), the median response duration is 8 months (range, 2+ to 18+) for complete responders and 11 months (range 1+ to 15+) for partial responders.
The rate of CR and incidence of CHF may be an expression of therapeutic and toxic enhancement due to the schedule used in this trial. Until clarification of this possibility, this promising combination should be used in investigational trials.
Normal pregnancy is characterized by insulin resistance, which contributes to the development of gestational diabetes mellitus and preeclampsia by incompletely understood mechanisms. The constitutive androstane receptor (CAR) may participate in insulin resistance in pregnancy, and sex steroids, estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone, may also be involved. We applied glucose and insulin tolerance tests and measured the expression of gluconeogenic and lipogenic genes in the livers of oophorectomized mice treated with E(2) and progesterone with or without CAR ligands. We also investigated how E(2) and progesterone affected CAR-mediated signaling and the activity of transcription factors in gluconeogenesis in vitro. Mice with the concentrations of E(2) and progesterone within normal physiological range during pregnancy exhibited increased insulin resistance along with increased expression of gluconeogenic and lipogenic genes, and CAR activation rescued the abnormal glucose metabolism. In HepG2 cells, CAR ligands suppressed the gluconeogenic and lipogenic gene expression in the presence of E(2) and/or progesterone. DNA affinity immunoblotting and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay revealed that CAR ligand enhanced the recruitment of the gluconeogenic transcription factors, forkhead box O1 (FOXO1) and hepatocyte nuclear factor 4α (HNF4α), but sex steroids suppressed these recruitments on the CAR responsive element. Moreover, CAR ligand suppressed the recruitment of FOXO1 and HNF4α on their responsive element in gluconeogenic gene promoters and E(2) and progesterone augmented these recruitments on their responsive element. Taken together, these findings suggest that the activation of CAR-mediated signaling may ameliorate insulin resistance under relatively high concentrations of E(2) and progesterone, which were compatible with pregnancy via decreased activities of transcription factors in gluconeogenesis in combination with CAR.
Carbimazole-dependent antibodies to erythrocytes were detected in the sera of three anaemic patients who had been treated with carbimazole for hyperthyroidism. By the use of Rhnull-typed erythrocytes, we could show that some of these were directed against the proteins of the Rh complex. Carbimazole-dependent antibodies eluted from erythrocytes showed no binding to other blood cells. One patient also presented with neutropenia and mild thrombocytopenia. Additional carbimazole-dependent antibodies against the neutrophil-specific Fcgamma receptor IIIb (FcgammaRIIIb, CD16b) and the broadly expressed platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 (PECAM-1; CD31) were detected in this patient's serum. Surprisingly, the PECAM-1-reactive drug-dependent antibodies were also detectable in the sera of the other two patients with normal leucocyte and platelet counts. We assume that carbimazole can induce cell lineage-specific drug-dependent antibodies that cause cytopenia and also drug-dependent antibodies against the broadly expressed PECAM-1 molecule that may cause mild but not severe cytopenia.
The xenoestrogen bisphenol A (BPA) has been shown to mimic estrogen both in vivo and in vitro. BPA stimulates PRL secretion and the expression of a PRL regulating factor from the posterior pituitary in the estrogen-sensitive Fischer 344 rat (F344), but not in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. The goal of the present studies was to examine the in vivo actions of BPA on the reproductive tract. The specific objectives were 1) to characterize the short term effects of BPA on cell proliferation and c-fos expression in the uterus and vagina, and 2) to compare the effects of prolonged exposure to low doses of BPA on the reproductive tract of F344 and SD rats. Treatment with single high doses of BPA induced cell proliferation in the uterus and vagina of ovariectomized F344 rats, as determined by bromodeoxyuridine immunostaining. This proliferation was dose dependent (from 37.5-150 mg/kg) and followed a time course similar to that of estradiol (E2). Quantitative RT-PCR revealed that both BPA and E2 increased c-fos messenger RNA levels in the uterus 14- to 16-fold within 2 h, which returned to basal levels after 6 h. In the vagina, BPA-induced c-fos expression remained elevated for up to 6 h, compared with the transient increase caused by E2. Treatment of F344 rats for 3 days with continuous release capsules that supplied a much lower dose of BPA (approximately 0.3 mg/kg x day) resulted in hypertrophy, hyperplasia, and mucus secretion in the uterus and hyperplasia and cornification of the vaginal epithelium. The reproductive tract of SD rats did not respond to this treatment paradigm with BPA. These studies demonstrate that 1) the molecular and morphological alterations induced by BPA in the uterus and vagina are nearly identical to those induced by estradiol; 2) the vagina appears to be especially sensitive to the estrogenic actions of BPA; 3) the reproductive tract of the inbred F344 rat appears more sensitive to BPA than that of the outbred SD rat; and 4) continuous exposure to microgram levels of BPA is sufficient for exerting estrogenic actions.
Acute lung injury (ALI) is one of the fatal outcomes after exposure to high levels of hydrogen sulfide (H2S), and the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) especially MMP-2 and MMP-9 are believed to be involved in the development of ALI by degrading the extracellular matrix (ECM) of blood-air barrier. However, the roles of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in H2S-induced ALI and the mechanisms of dexamethasone (DXM) in treating ALI in clinical practice are still largely unknown. The present work was aimed to investigate the roles of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in H2S-induced ALI and the protective effects of DXM. In our study, SD rats were exposed to H2S to establish the ALI model and in parallel, A549 cells were incubated with NaHS (a H2S donor) to establish cell model. The lung HE staining, immunohistochemisty, electron microscope assay and wet/dry ratio were used to identify the ALI induced by H2S, then the MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression in both rats and A549 cells were detected. Our results revealed that MMP-2 and MMP-9 were obviously increased in both mRNA and protein level after H2S exposure, and they could be inhibited by MMP inhibitor doxycycline (DOX) in rat model. Moreover, DXM significantly ameliorated the symptoms of H2S-induced ALI including alveolar edema, infiltration of inflammatory cells and the protein leakage in BAFL via up-regulating glucocorticoid receptor(GR) to mediate the suppression of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Furthermore, the protective effects of DXM in vivo and vitro study could be partially blocked by co-treated with GR antagonist mifepristone (MIF). Our results, taken together, demonstrated that MMP-2 and MMP-9 were involved in the development of H2S-induced ALI and DXM exerted protective effects by alleviating the expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9. Therefore, MMP-2 and MMP-9 might represent novel pharmacological targets for the treatment of H2S and other hazard gases induced ALI.
In 3 years seventeen patients presented to one unit with renal failure associated with the use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID). Seven patients presented with acute renal failure, in four due to acute tubular necrosis and in three to acute interstitial nephritis; all recovered when NSAID treatment was stopped. Four patients presented with symptomless renal impairment discovered during routine follow-up in a rheumatology clinic; again all improved on withdrawal of NSAID. The remaining six patients presented with chronic renal failure, a disorder not previously associated with NSAID treatment. The pattern of renal disease associated with NSAID may be more extensive than has previously been recognised. A history of NSAID use should be sought in all patients presenting with unexplained renal failure.
This case report describes signs of central nervous system excitation occurring after administration of alfathesin and enflurane in doses lower than those previously associated with this type of phenomena (alfathesin 36 microlitres/kilogram, enflurane two volumes per cent). This suggests that these drugs may interact to increase the probability of seizure-like activity.
Manganese neurotoxicity presents with Parkinson-like symptoms that are associated with the generation of reactive oxygen species. Thus, its occurrence and severity can be reduced by cellular antioxidants. The components of the transcription factor NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway are the central regulators of cellular antioxidant responses. In this study, we investigated the role of activation of Nrf2 in response to oxidative damage induced by manganese chloride (MnCl(2)) in rat adrenal pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. Exposure of PC12 cells to MnCl(2) for 24 h promoted an increased cytosolic and nuclear accumulation of Nrf2 and enhanced the binding of Nrf2 to the HO-1 gene ARE, thereby inducing the expression of an Nrf2-regulated gene, HO-1. Pre-treatment with tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ), a known agent that activates the Nrf2/ARE-HO-1 pathway, for 16 h prior to the 24 h MnCl(2) exposure attenuated both the cytotoxicity and the apoptosis induced by MnCl(2). These protective effects of tBHQ indicated a protective role for Nrf2 against MnCl(2)-induced cell damage. Taken together, these findings suggest that Nrf2 may play an important role in the protection of PC12 cells against MnCl(2) neurotoxicity.
Iron-deficiency (ID) anemia in man is associated with neurological disorders and abnormal behavior. Rats made nutritionally iron-deficient have markedly diminished behavioral responses to centrally-acting drugs (amphetamine and apomorphine) which affect monoaminergic systems. ID has no effect on either the levels of monoamines or on the activities of monoamine-metabolizing enzymes in the brain. We have investigated the possibility that ID may affect postsynaptic events at the level of receptor by measuring the specific binding sites of several neurotransmitters in different brain areas. The results clearly show that ID causes a significant (40-60%) reduction of the DA D2 binding sites in the caudate. DA-sensitive adenylate cyclase, alpha- and beta-adrenergic, muscarinic cholinergic and the benzodiazepine binding sites were not affected by ID. The effects of ID on DA D2 binding sites and the behavioral responses to apomorphine can be reversed when iron-deficient rats are placed for 8 days on an iron-deficient diet supplemented with iron. Chronic hemolytic anemia produced by repeated phenylhydrazine injections caused no change in serum iron and had no effect on either apomorphine-induced hyperactivity or 3H-spiroperidol binding in the caudate. Since the highest concentration of iron is found in DA-rich brain areas, it is possible that iron may be crucial to either the synthesis or coupling of the DA D2 binding site. The possibility that the DA supersensitivity induced by neuroleptics may be related to iron metabolism in the brain has been investigated.
To determine the gene expression profile data for the whole liver during development of dimethylni-trosamine (DMN)-induced hepatic fibrosis.
Marker genes were identified for different types of hepatic cells, including hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), Kupffer cells (including other inflammatory cells), and hepatocytes, using independent temporal DNA microarray data obtained from isolated hepatic cells.
The cell-type analysis of gene expression gave several key results and led to formation of three hypotheses: (1) changes in the expression of HSC-specific marker genes during fibrosis were similar to gene expression data in in vitro cultured HSCs, suggesting a major role of the self-activating characteristics of HSCs in formation of fibrosis; (2) expression of mast cell-specific marker genes reached a peak during liver fibrosis, suggesting a possible role of mast cells in formation of fibrosis; and (3) abnormal expression of hepatocyte-specific marker genes was found across several metabolic pathways during fibrosis, including sulfur-containing amino acid metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, and drug metabolism, suggesting a mechanistic relationship between these abnormalities and symptoms of liver fibrosis.
Analysis of marker genes for specific hepatic cell types can identify the key aspects of fibrogenesis. Sequential activation of inflammatory cells and the self-supporting properties of HSCs play an important role in development of fibrosis.
Alterations of the phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt signaling pathway occur broadly in cancer via multiple mechanisms including mutation of the PIK3CA gene, loss or mutation of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), and deregulation of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) complexes. The dysregulation of this pathway has been implicated in tumor initiation, cell growth and survival, invasion and angiogenesis, thus, PI3K and mTOR are promising therapeutic targets for cancer. We discovered GDC-0980, a selective, potent, orally bioavailable inhibitor of Class I PI3 kinase and mTOR kinase (TORC1/2) with excellent pharmacokinetic and pharmaceutical properties. GDC-0980 potently inhibits signal transduction downstream of both PI3K and mTOR, as measured by pharmacodynamic (PD) biomarkers, thereby acting upon two key pathway nodes to produce the strongest attainable inhibition of signaling in the pathway. Correspondingly, GDC-0980 was potent across a broad panel of cancer cell lines, with the greatest potency in breast, prostate, and lung cancers and less activity in melanoma and pancreatic cancers, consistent with KRAS and BRAF acting as resistance markers. Treatment of cancer cell lines with GDC-0980 resulted in G1 cell-cycle arrest, and in contrast to mTOR inhibitors, GDC-0980 induced apoptosis in certain cancer cell lines, including those with direct pathway activation via PI3K and PTEN. Low doses of GDC-0980 potently inhibited tumor growth in xenograft models including those with activated PI3K, loss of LKB1 or PTEN, and elicited an exposure-related decrease in PD biomarkers. These preclinical data show that GDC-0980 is a potent and effective dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor with promise for the clinic.
Stickler syndrome is characterized by ophthalmic, articular, orofacial, and auditory manifestations. It has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern and is caused by mutations in COL2A1, COL11A1, and COL11A2. We describe a family of Moroccan origin that consists of four children with Stickler syndrome, six unaffected children, and two unaffected parents who are distant relatives (fifth degree). All family members were clinically investigated for ear, nose, and throat; ophthalmologic; and radiological abnormalities. Four children showed symptoms characteristic of Stickler syndrome, including moderate-to-severe sensorineural hearing loss, moderate-to-high myopia with vitreoretinopathy, and epiphyseal dysplasia. We considered the COL9A1 gene, located on chromosome 6q13, to be a candidate gene on the basis of the structural association with collagen types II and XI and because of the high expression in the human inner ear indicated by cDNA microarray. Mutation analysis of the coding region of the COL9A1 gene showed a homozygous R295X mutation in the four affected children. The parents and four unaffected children were heterozygous carriers of the R295X mutation. Two unaffected children were homozygous for the wild-type allele. None of the family members except the homozygous R295X carriers had any signs of Stickler syndrome. Therefore, COL9A1 is the fourth identified gene that can cause Stickler syndrome. In contrast to the three previously reported Stickler syndrome-causing genes, this gene causes a form of Stickler syndrome with an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. This finding will have a major impact on the genetic counseling of patients with Stickler syndrome and on the understanding of the pathophysiology of collagens. Mutation analysis of this gene is recommended in patients with Stickler syndrome with possible autosomal recessive inheritance.
Cardiotoxicity associated with ecstasy has been reported in recent years but is very rare. We described 2 lethal cases associated with Ecstasy use. One whole tablet of ecstasy in one case and a half-tablet ecstasy in another case led to lethal effect, but death was not simply attributed to a lethal intoxication. Severe myocardial contraction band necrosis was observed in these 2 cases as revealed by the histopathologic examination. Focal interstitial infiltration of lymphocyte and monocyte around myocardial lesions in case one was also found. The results suggest that contraction band necrosis could be induced by ecstasy and is a potential lethal lesion in some cases.
We identified 40 patients (25 men and 15 women) who developed calculi composed totally or partially of sulfonamides (acetylsulfamethoxazole, sulfadiazine, and acetylsulfisoxazole) between 1980 and 1987. The incidence of sulfonamide stones is less than 1% of stones. Patient characteristics were determined from questionnaires sent to the patients and attending physicians. The majority of patients developed symptoms 1 to 4 weeks after beginning sulfonamide therapy. The bladder was the most common stone location. Obstruction of the urinary system by the acetyl derivatives of the drug is the most serious consequence of sulfonamide therapy. Early recognition of drug-related stones is essential to protect patients from recurrences, reduce the risk of renal complications, and avoid continuing ineffective therapeutic regimens.
Autism is a severe behavioral disorder characterized by pervasive impairments in social interactions, deficits in verbal and nonverbal communication, and stereotyped, repetitive patterns of behaviors and interests. Recently, a new rodent model of autism was created by exposure of rat fetuses to valproic acid (VPA) on the 12.5th day of gestation (VPA rats). The model has striking anatomical, pathological, and etiological similarities to human data; however, it has not been characterized behaviorally. In order to determine if VPA rats present behavioral aberrations observed in autism, their behavior was extensively evaluated in a battery of tests. The results of the present experiments demonstrate that VPA rats exhibit: (1) lower sensitivity to pain and higher sensitivity to nonpainful stimuli, (2) diminished acoustic prepulse inhibition, (3) locomotor and repetitive/stereotypic-like hyperactivity combined with lower exploratory activity, and (4) decreased number of social behaviors and increased latency to social behaviors. In addition, VPA rats showed delayed maturation, lower body weight, delayed motor development, and attenuated integration of a coordinated series of reflexes, delayed nest-seeking response mediated by olfactory system, and normal negative geotaxis. Interestingly, all behavioral aberrations described in this paper appear before puberty, which could distinguish the VPA rat model of autism from other animal models of neurodevelopmental disorders, especially rodent models of schizophrenia. Our results bring further support to validity of the proposed VPA animal model of autism, suggesting similarities between the observed pattern of behavioral alterations in VPA rats and features of disturbed behavior in autistic patients.
Propofol formulated in medium- and long-chain triglycerides (MCT/LCT) is thought to cause less pain on injection. In this study we sought to determine if adding lidocaine to propofol-MCT/LCT is more effective in decreasing pain compared with propofol-MCT/LCT alone or conventional propofol-lidocaine mixtures. Seventy-five patients were randomized into three groups. Group A received conventional propofol-lidocaine mixtures with 20 mg lidocaine, group B received propofol-MCT/LCT with saline, and group C received propofol-MCT/LCT with 20 mg lidocaine. The incidence of pain was 24% in groups A and B and 4% in group C. The number needed to treat to prevent pain was 5. We conclude that propofol-MCT/LCT-lidocaine mixtures significantly reduce pain.
Mivacurium chloride (Mivacron) is a new benzylisoquinolinium choline-like diester neuromuscular blocking drug with an onset of action at equipotent doses that is comparable to atracurium and vecuronium but slower than succinylcholine. Its clinical duration (injection-25% recovery and injection-95% recovery) is twice that of succinylcholine but one-half to one-third that of atracurium and vecuronium. Mivacurium is easy to use as a continuous infusion and when used this way its recovery characteristics are unchanged. It is readily antagonized by anticholinesterase drugs. The ED95 in adults under narcotic-based anesthesia is 0.07-0.08 mg/kg. At twice the ED95 (0.15 mg/kg) onset time is about 2 to 3 minutes, duration to 25% recovery is 15 to 20 minutes, and 5-95% recovery time about 14 minutes. The mean infusion rate in adults is 6 micrograms/kg/min (range 2-15) with a 5-95% recovery time of 14 minutes. Enflurane and isoflurane require a 20-30% decrease in dosage; halothane, enflurane, and isoflurane prolong the duration of mivacurium 25-30%. The ED95 in children 2 to 12 years of age is slightly higher (0.09-0.11 mg/kg) with a faster onset and shorter duration. In these young patients, a dose of 0.2 mg/kg has an onset comparable to succinylcholine. Being chemically related to atracurium, mivacurium may cause histamine release. When administered rapidly at doses of 0.2 mg/kg or greater in adults, histamine release and transient hypotension have been observed. Doses of 0.2 mg/kg or higher are not recommended by the manufacturer. Mivacurium is metabolized by plasma cholinesterase. In vitro, the rate is about 70% that of succinylcholine. In patients with normal or slightly less than normal plasma cholinesterase activity, no prolonged durations of action have been observed. In patients heterozygous for the atypical gene and at a dose of 0.2 mg/kg, 50% prolongation has been shown. Those individuals homozygous for the atypical gene are exquisitely sensitive to mivacurium and have a markedly prolonged blockade that is readily reversible. In these patients and those with acquired deficiencies, mivacurium should not be used. The duration of action in elderly patients is comparable to that in the young, while in prerenal transplant patients, its duration is prolonged by about 50%, and in prehepatic transplant patients, duration of block is increased threefold. Mivacurium possesses the advantages of short duration, unchanged recovery characteristics following infusions (without phase II block or tachyphylaxis), and precise control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Selenium is linked to male fertility. Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPx4), first described as an antioxidant enzyme, is the predominant selenoenzyme in testis and has been suspected of being vital for spermatogenesis. Cytosolic, mitochondrial, and nuclear isoforms are all encoded by the same gene. While disruption of entire GPx4 causes early embryonic lethality in mice, inactivation of nuclear GPx4 does not impair embryonic development or fertility. Here, we show that deletion of mitochondrial GPx4 (mGPx4) allows both normal embryogenesis and postnatal development, but causes male infertility. Infertility was associated with impaired sperm quality and severe structural abnormalities in the midpiece of spermatozoa. Knockout sperm display higher protein thiol content and recapitulate features typical of severe selenodeficiency. Interestingly, male infertility induced by mGPx4 depletion could be bypassed by intracytoplasmic sperm injection. We also show for the first time that mGPx4 is the prevailing GPx4 product in male germ cells and that mGPx4 disruption has no effect on proliferation or apoptosis of germinal or somatic tissue. Our study finally establishes that mitochondrial GPx4 confers the vital role of selenium in mammalian male fertility and identifies cytosolic GPx4 as the only GPx4 isoform being essential for embryonic development and apoptosis regulation.
In the current work, we investigated the in vitro biochemical mechanism of Caffeic Acid Phenylethyl Ester (CAPE) toxicity and eight hydroxycinnamic/caffeic acid derivatives in vitro, using tyrosinase enzyme as a molecular target in human SK-MEL-28 melanoma cells. Enzymatic reaction models using tyrosinase/O(2) and HRP/H(2)O(2) were used to delineate the role of one- and two-electron oxidation. Ascorbic acid (AA), NADH and GSH depletion were used as markers of quinone formation and oxidative stress in CAPE induced toxicity in melanoma cells. Ethylenediamine, an o-quinone trap, prevented the formation of o-quinone and oxidations of AA and NADH mediated by tyrosinase bioactivation of CAPE. The IC(50) of CAPE towards SK-MEL-28 melanoma cells was 15muM. Dicoumarol, a diaphorase inhibitor, and 1-bromoheptane, a GSH depleting agent, increased CAPE's toxicity towards SK-MEL-28 cells indicating quinone formation played an important role in CAPE induced cell toxicity. Cyclosporin-A and trifluoperazine, inhibitors of the mitochondrial membrane permeability transition pore (PTP), prevented CAPE toxicity towards melanoma cells. We further investigated the role of tyrosinase in CAPE toxicity in the presence of a shRNA plasmid, targeting tyrosinase mRNA. Results from tyrosinase shRNA experiments showed that CAPE led to negligible anti-proliferative effect, apoptotic cell death and ROS formation in shRNA plasmid treated cells. Furthermore, it was also found that CAPE selectively caused escalation in the ROS formation and intracellular GSH (ICG) depletion in melanocytic human SK-MEL-28 cells which express functional tyrosinase. In contrast, CAPE did not lead to ROS formation and ICG depletion in amelanotic C32 melanoma cells, which do not express functional tyrosinase. These findings suggest that tyrosinase plays a major role in CAPE's selective toxicity towards melanocytic melanoma cell lines. Our findings suggest that the mechanisms of CAPE toxicity in SK-MEL-28 melanoma cells mediated by tyrosinase bioactivation of CAPE included quinone formation, ROS formation, intracellular GSH depletion and induced mitochondrial toxicity.
Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is known as a suppressor of cholestatic liver diseases and colorectal cancer development. Here, we demonstrate that UDCA induces apoptosis without necrotic features in SNU601, SNU638, SNU1 and SNU216 human gastric cancer cells, implying its possible use as an effective chemotherapeutic agent in treatment of gastric cancer. UDCA-induced apoptosis was dominantly mediated by an extrinsic pathway dependent on caspase-8, -6 and -3. UDCA increased expression of death receptor 5 [(DR5), also known as tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) receptor 2], and this DR appeared to be responsible for UDCA-induced apoptosis, as evidenced by DR5 knockdown. UDCA triggered formation of lipid rafts that played crucial roles in UDCA-induced apoptotic actions. Lipid rafts were required not only for provision of a proper site for DR5 action but also for mediation of DR5 expression. In addition, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protein kinase C (PKC) δ appeared to be implicated in UDCA-induced raft-dependent DR5 expression. Our results indicate that UDCA-induced apoptosis is mediated by DR5 expression, which is regulated by the raft formation/ROS production/PKCδ activation pathway and DR5 localization into lipid rafts in gastric cancer cells. Tumor-suppressive activity of UDCA was confirmed in an in vivo system: UDCA (120 mg/kg/day) significantly decreased tumor growth in gastric cancer xenograft mice. Taken together, our results demonstrate that UDCA can be used as a potent chemotherapeutic agent for treatment of gastric cancer.
In the present study we investigated whether glomerular hyperfiltration and albuminuria in streptozotocin-induced diabetic nephropathy in male Wistar-Münich rats are associated with changes in the heparan sulphate content of the glomerular basement membrane. Rats with a diabetes mellitus duration of 8 months, treated with low doses of insulin, showed a significant increase in glomerular filtration rate (p < 0.01) and effective renal plasma flow (p < 0.05), without alterations in filtration fraction or mean arterial blood pressure. Diabetic rats developed progressive albuminuria (at 7 months, diabetic rats (D): 42 +/- 13 vs control rats (C): 0.5 +/- 0.2 mg/24 h, p < 0.002) and a decrease of the selectivity index (clearance IgG/clearance albumin) of the proteinuria (at 7 months, D: 0.20 +/- 0.04 vs C: 0.39 +/- 0.17, p < 0.05), suggesting loss of glomerular basement membrane charge. Light- and electron microscopy demonstrated a moderate increase of mesangial matrix and thickening of the glomerular basement membrane in the diabetic rats. Immunohistochemically an increase of laminin, collagen III and IV staining was observed in the mesangium and in the glomerular basement membrane, without alterations in glomerular basement membrane staining of heparan sulphate proteoglycan core protein or heparan sulphate. Glomerular basement membrane heparan sulphate content, quantitated in individual glomerular extracts by a new inhibition ELISA using a specific anti-glomerular basement membrane heparan sulphate monoclonal antibody (JM403), was not altered (median (range) D: 314 (152-941) vs C: 262 (244-467) ng heparan sulphate/mg glomerulus). However, the amount of glomerular 4-hydroxyproline, as a measure for collagen content, was significantly increased (D: 1665 (712-2014) vs C: 672 (515-1208) ng/mg glomerulus, p < 0.01). Consequently, a significant decrease of the heparan sulphate/4-hydroxyproline ratio (D: 0.21 (0.14-1.16) vs C: 0.39 (0.30-0.47), p < 0.05) was found. In summary, we demonstrate that in streptozotocin-diabetic rats glomerular hyperfiltration and a progressive, selective proteinuria are associated with a relative decrease of glomerular basement membrane heparan sulphate. Functionally, a diminished heparan sulphate-associated charge density within the glomerular basement membrane might explain the selective proteinuria in the diabetic rats.
