The aim of the current trial was to assess the efficacy and toxicity of weekly intravenous vinorelbine tartrate with daily oral tamoxifen in the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic malignant melanoma.
Thirty-one patients were treated with vinorelbine tartrate, 30 mg/m(2) intravenously, weekly every 13 weeks and then every 2 weeks thereafter until progression of disease or severity of toxicity warranted discontinuation. Tamoxifen, 10 mg orally, twice a day was administered daily starting on Day 1 of chemotherapy with vinorelbine tartrate. Thirty patients had cutaneous melanoma with metastases and 1 patient had ocular melanoma with metastases. Eight patients had received prior chemotherapy.
Of the 30 evaluable patients with cutaneous melanoma, 6 achieved a partial response, for an overall response rate of 20% (95% confidence interval, 7-38%). There was no response in the patient with ocular melanoma. Major sites of response include the adrenal gland, lung, tonsil, and cutaneous/subcutaneous tissues. Three patients had a prolonged duration of response lasting > or = 12 months. Side effects generally were mild and tolerable. Grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity occurred in 26% and 13% of patients, respectively. Nonhematologic toxicity included mild fatigue, paresthesia, and local arm discomfort from infusion.
Weekly intravenous vinorelbine tartrate plus daily oral tamoxifen appears to be active in the treatment of patients with malignant melanoma. Further clinical trials in malignant melanoma patients treated with vinorelbine tartrate and tamoxifen appear warranted.
Although erythrocyte filterability plays a key role in microcirculation, it is unknown whether the filterability of erythrocytes from patients with chronic hepatitis C (CH-C) is impaired. This study aimed to investigate erythrocyte filterability in CH-C patients in relation to medical treatment. The mean erythrocyte filterability (%) for all 24 patients with CH-C (69.2 +/- 10.8%) was significantly lower than that for 5 normal controls (80.5 +/- 1.7%, P < 0.03). In 8 patients, the combination therapy of ribavirin (RBV) and interferon improved liver function but caused anemia. The filterability after treatment (57.8 +/- 12.8%) was lower than that before treatment (70.8 +/- 9.7%, P < 0.05). Decreased filterability showed no correlation with the mean corpuscular volume or mean corpuscular Hb concentration during treatment, suggesting that the decrease in filterability mainly arises from changes in erythrocyte membrane properties. We investigated the protective effects of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) on the RBV-induced anemia. Filterability in 7 responders was markedly improved from 68.4 +/- 4.6% to 77.4 +/- 2.4% (P < 0.001), but not in 3 nonresponders. In the responders, the progression of anemia was restrained. In conclusion, we found an obvious impairment of the filterability of erythrocytes from CH-C patients, further impairment of the filterability induced by oxidative membrane damage caused by RBV leading to hemolytic anemia, and amelioration of the filterability caused by the antioxidative effects of EPA.
The use of methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT) as a gasoline additive has raised health concerns and increased interest in understanding the neurotoxic effects of manganese. Chronic exposure to inorganic manganese causes Manganism, a neurological disorder somewhat similar to Parkinson's disease. However, the cellular mechanism by which MMT, an organic manganese compound, induces neurotoxicity in dopaminergic neuronal cells remains unclear. Therefore, we systematically investigated apoptotic cell-signaling events following exposure to 3-200 microM MMT in mesencephalic dopaminergic neuronal (N27) cells. MMT treatment resulted in a time- and dose-dependent increase in reactive oxygen species generation and cell death in N27 cells. The cell death was preceded by sequential activation of mitochondrial-dependent proapoptotic events including cytochrome c release, caspase-3 activation, and DNA fragmentation, indicating that the mitochondrial-dependent apoptotic cascade primarily triggers MMT-induced apoptotic cell death. Importantly, MMT induced proteolytic cleavage of protein kinase Cdelta (PKCdelta), resulting in persistently increased kinase activity. The proteolytic activation of PKCdelta was suppressed by treatment with 100 microM Z-VAD-FMK and 100 microM Z-DEVD-FMK, suggesting that caspase-3 mediates the proteolytic activation of PKCdelta. Pretreatment with 100 microM Z-DEVD-FMK and 5 microM rottlerin (a PKCdelta inhibitor) also significantly attenuated MMT-induced DNA fragmentation. Furthermore, overexpression of either the kinase inactive dominant negative PKCdelta(K376R) mutant or the caspase cleavage resistant PKCdelta(D327A) mutant rescued N27 cells from MMT-induced DNA fragmentation. Collectively, these results demonstrate that the mitochondrial-dependent apoptotic cascade mediates apoptosis via proteolytic activation of PKCdelta in MMT-induced dopaminergic degeneration and suggest that PKCdelta may serve as an attractive therapeutic target in Parkinson-related neurological diseases.
Five patients with therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia received combination induction chemotherapy with idarubicin, high-dose cytarabine, and etoposide. Complete remission was achieved in all patients with a single course of therapy. Treatment-related toxicity included nausea, vomiting, mucositis, diarrhea, and liver and kidney function abnormalities, and was low in all patients. There were no deaths during induction therapy. We conclude that this combination is well-tolerated in induction of remission in secondary acute myeloid leukemia, and warrants further assessment because of a very good complete remission rate.
Although cases of visceral leishmaniasis in Libya have been reported for over 80 years, all these reports were from the northern coastal areas near Tripoli and the Green Mountain area. Since 1985, there have been new cases of the disease from the southern part of Libya in the Saharan and sub-Saharan areas, an area 250 km to the south-west of Sabha. This southern area has recently undergone much agricultural organization with increasing water supply and other environmental changes, which may be partially responsible for the establishment of these new foci. Twenty patients with hepatosplenomegaly and fever were referred from that area to the El-Fateh Children's Hospital in Benghazi for investigation. All had the clinical features and laboratory data indicative of the Mediterranean type of the disease. All were treated with sodium stibogluconate (10 mg kg-1 day-1), and responded well to this regime.
Dopamine D(3) receptor partial agonism has been suggested as a potential therapeutic intervention in cocaine addiction. RGH-237 [N-{4-[4-(3-aminocarbonyl-phenyl)-piperazin-1-yl]-butyl}-4-bromo-benzamide] was identified as a novel selective dopamine D(3) receptor partial agonist and used for testing this hypothesis in animal models. The compound showed nanomolar affinity to human (K(i) = 6.7 nM) and rat (K(i) = 1.6 nM) D(3) receptors with an intrinsic activity of approximately 50%. It possessed several hundredfold selectivity over the D(2) receptor. The molecule bound with moderate (100-250 nM) affinity to 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT(1A)) and nonselectively labeled opiate receptors. RGH-237 proved to be practically inactive on more than 40 other targets, including monoaminergic, cholinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic receptors. In rats orally administered RGH-237 was well and rapidly absorbed yielding 41% oral bioavailability. At its pharmacologically active dose (10 mg/kg p.o.), the brain concentration of RGH-237 reached 110 ng/g. Its blood and brain levels were sustained for 3 h. RGH-237 at the oral dose of 10 mg/kg moderately but significantly inhibited the acquisition of cocaine-induced place preference, although by itself, it had no place-conditioning effect. The compound did not affect fixed ratio 1 cocaine self-administration. In a reinstatement paradigm of cocaine self-administration, the compound potently and dose-dependently blocked the cue-induced cocaine-seeking behavior of rats at 10 and 30 mg/kg oral doses. RGH-237 did not affect seeking activity for natural rewards, such as sucrose and water. It did not exert notable effect on spontaneous motor activity of rats. Our results demonstrate that selective D(3) partial agonists may be an effective therapeutic means in the treatment of cocaine abuse.
Carvacrol is the major constituent of essential oils from aromatic plants. It showed antimicrobial, anticancer and antioxidant properties. Although it was approved for food use and included in the chemical flavorings list, no indication on its safety has been estimated. Since the use of plant extracts is relatively high among women, aim of this study was to evaluate carvacrol effects on female physiology and endocrine profiles by using female rats in proestrus and diestrus phases. Serotonin and metabolite tissue content in prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens, after carvacrol administration (0.15 and 0.45g/kg p.o.), was measured. Drug effects in behavioral tests for alterations in motor activity, depression, anxiety-related behaviors and endocrine alterations were also investigated. While in proestrus carvacrol reduced serotonin and metabolite levels in both brain areas, no effects were observed in diestrus phase. Only in proestrus phase, carvacrol induced a depressive-like behavior in forced swimming test, without accompanying changes in ambulation. The improvement of performance in FST after subchronic treatment with fluoxetine (20mg/kg) suggested a specific involvement of serotonergic system. No differences were found across the groups with regard to self-grooming behavior. Moreover, in proestrus phase, carvacrol reduced only estradiol levels without binding hypothalamic estradiol receptors. Our study showed an estrous-stage specific effect of carvacrol on depressive behaviors and endocrine parameters, involving serotonergic system. Given the wide carvacrol use not only as feed additive, but also as cosmetic essence and herbal remedy, our results suggest that an accurate investigation on the effects of its chronic exposure is warranted.
Intra-striatal infusion of a high dose (100 microg/3 microl) of methamphetamine produced long-lasting depletions of striatal dopamine and serotonin in both male and female mice. Male mice exhibited a greater depletion of striatal dopamine and serotonin than female mice. A similar trend of sexual differences was observed when 4 cumulative doses of methamphetamine were administered systemically. Thus, the sexual differences in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity in the striatum are probably not due to their differences in peripheral metabolism of methamphetamine. Moreover, ovariectomized (OVX) mice supplemented with 3 daily doses of estradiol benzoate (EB) at high or physiological levels, 3 daily doses of progesterone (P), and 2 doses of EB followed by 1 dose of P all demonstrated higher striatal dopamine levels following methamphetamine treatment as compared to vehicle-supplemented controls. The OVX mice pretreated with 3 daily doses of P exhibited the highest striatal serotonin levels after methamphetamine administration of all groups. In conclusion, sexual differences observed in methamphetamine-induced striatal neurotoxicity may be modulated by ovarian hormones.
To report a case of a severe interaction between simvastatin, amiodarone, and atazanavir resulting in rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure.
A 72-year-old white man with underlying human immunodeficiency virus, atrial fibrillation, coronary artery disease, and hyperlipidemia presented with generalized pain, fatigue, and dark orange urine for 3 days. The patient was taking 80 mg simvastatin at bedtime (initiated 27 days earlier); amiodarone at a dose of 400 mg daily for 7 days, then 200 mg daily (initiated 19 days earlier); and 400 mg atazanavir daily (initiated at least 2 years previously). Laboratory evaluation revealed 66,680 U/L creatine kinase, 93 mg/dL blood urea nitrogen, 4.6 mg/dL creatinine, 1579 U/L aspartate aminotransferase, and 738 U/L alanine aminotransferase. Simvastatin, amiodarone, and the patient's human immunodeficiency virus medications were all temporarily discontinued and the patient was given forced alkaline diuresis and started on dialysis. Nine days later the patient's creatine kinase had dropped to 1695 U/L and creatinine was 3.3 mg/dL. The patient was discharged and continued outpatient dialysis for 1 month until his renal function recovered.
The risk of rhabdomyolysis is increased in the presence of concomitant drugs that inhibit simvastatin metabolism. Simvastatin is metabolized by CYP3A4. Amiodarone and atazanavir are recognized CYP3A4 inhibitors.
Pharmacokinetic differences in statins are an important consideration for assessing the risk of potential drug interactions. In patients requiring the concurrent use of statins and CYP3A4 inhibitors, pravastatin, fluvastatin, and rosuvastatin carry the lowest risk of drug interactions; atorvastatin carries moderate risk, whereas simvastatin and lovastatin have the highest risk and should be avoided in patients taking concomitant CYP3A4 inhibitors.
The introduction of calcium antagonists has had a significant influence on the management of angina pectoris. Whereas, a beta blocker functions by reducing oxygen demand, the calcium antagonists increase oxygen supply and also decrease oxygen demand. The calcium ion is a vital link in excitation-contraction coupling; the regulation of intracellular calcium levels directly modulates cardiac and smooth muscle function. The three agents currently in use are verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem; ony the first two are available by prescription at this time. Although all three are calcium channel blocking agents, they differ in their electrophysiologic effects. Verapamil and, to a lesser extent, diltiazem slow AV nodal transmission and are thus helpful in controlling the ventricular rate in atrial fibrillation. All have a negative inotropic property which may limit their use in patients with advanced left ventricular dysfunction.
The hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are a genetically and clinically heterogeneous group of upper-motor-neuron degenerative diseases characterized by selective axonal loss in the corticospinal tracts and dorsal columns. Although numerous mechanisms involving defective subcellular transportation, mitochondrial malfunction, and increased oxidative stress have been proposed, the pathogenic basis underlying the neuronal loss is unknown. We have performed linkage analysis to refine the extent of the SPG5 disease locus and conducted sequence analysis of the genes located within this region. This identified sequence alterations in the cytochrome P450-7B1 (CYP7B1) associated with this pure form of HSP. In the liver, CYP7B1 offers an alternative pathway for cholesterol degradation and also provides the primary metabolic route for the modification of dehydroepiandrosterone neurosteroids in the brain. These findings provide the first direct evidence of a pivotal role of altered cholesterol metabolism in the pathogenesis of motor-neuron degenerative disease and identify a potential for therapeutic intervention in this form of HSP.
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has played an important role in the growth and apoptosis of colon cancer. The RNA interference (RNAi) technique can suppress gene expression, but the effects of double combining sites RNAi targeting EGFR have not been well understood.
pU6-EGFR-shRNA-1 and pU6-EGFR-shRNA-2 expressive vectors were transfected to the LoVo cells. Five groups were selected for the study: Group 1, the control cells; group 2, the negative control plasmid vector HK; group 3, pU6-EGFR-shRNA-1; group 4, pU6-EGFR-shRNA-2; group 5, pU6-EGFR-shRNA-1 and pU6-EGFR-shRNA-2, half for each. The mRNA and protein expression were assessed by Real Time quantitative PCR and Western blot. Apoptosis was determined via flow cytometry. IC(50) and the inhibition ratio of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) were carried out by CCK-8.
In groups 3, 4, and 5, the mRNA expression was decreased by (80.22 +/- 3.42)%, (81.30 +/- 2.83)%, and (90.58 +/- 2.76)%, respectively, and the protein expression was decreased by (74.11 +/- 4.02)%, (73.39 +/- 2.30)%, and (90.39 +/- 3.34)%, respectively. Meanwhile, the cell apoptosis increased by (10.43 +/- 0.49)%, (10.13 +/- 0.39)%, and (14.17 +/- 0.53)%, respectively. The IC(50) of 5-FU and cell inhibition ratio analysis demonstrated that there were significant differences between the following three: group 5, groups 3 and 4, and groups 1 and 2.
Both pU6-EGFR-shRNA-1 and pU6-EGFR-shRNA-2 are capable of suppressing EGFR expression of the LoVo cell and can promote apoptosis and increase the cell toxicity of 5-FU. The double combining sites RNAi technique is significantly better than a single site.
The National Institutes of Health recently recommended research initiatives to investigate oral complications of cancer chemotherapy. This prospective cohort study investigated orofacial complications of combination chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil, vincristine, and prednisone) in women with breast cancer. Thirty-four patients were given baseline interviews and examinations. Each patient was given weekly orofacial examinations and biweekly interviews for the first seven cycles of cytotoxic treatment. The orofacial complications included neurotoxicity caused by vincristine, mucositis, and candidiasis. Neurotoxicity affected 22 of 34 (65%) patients, was significantly associated with age less than 50 years (p less than 0.05), and manifested as pain in 19 of 34 (56%) patients. Mucositis affected 7 of 34 (21%) patients and was significantly associated with the occurrence of lesions of the oral mucosa at baseline examination; and smaller body surface area--indicating a dose-related toxicity (p less than 0.05). In four of the patients with mucositis (57%) granulocytopenia developed during the 7 days after the onset of mucositis. Intraoral candidiasis affected 4 of 34 (12%) patients.
The potential therapeutic value of a low dose (200-250 micrograms) of intrathecal (i.t.) morphine on bladder capacity was tested in six subjects with chronic suprasacral spinal cord lesions. Micturition reflexes were examined by saline fill cystometry accompanied by EMG recordings from the external anal and urethral sphincters and selected lower limb muscles. Hyperactive detrusor reflexes were associated with a low capacity bladder in five of the six subjects. All subjects revealed vesicoexternal sphincter dyssynergia, and vesical-induced and spontaneous contractions of the abdominal and lower limb musculature. The results was incontinence and frequent catheterizations. Within 5-15 min of the bolus morphine injection into the L1-2 i.t. space, bladder capacity increased to near-maximal values in all subjects. Soon thereafter, uninhibited detrusor contractions, spontaneous motor discharges, and vesicosomatic (limb) reactions were abolished. A peak effect was observed within 2-4 h. Alterations of bladder capacity persisted for 18-22 h. Side effects included pruritus and nausea. Intrathecal morphine acts at sacral spinal cord sites, e.g., primary afferents and/or dorsal horn neurons, mediating vesicovesical and vesicosomatic (sphincter, limb) reflexes, and spontaneous motor discharges. Clinically, i.t. morphine may be an effective therapy for individuals with suprasacral spinal cord lesions when a low capacity bladder interferes with their quality of life.
Oral amantadine 100 mg and bromocriptine 2.5 + 2.5 mg, alone and in combination with ethanol (1 g/kg), were investigated in two placebo-controlled, double-blind and cross-over trials. In the first trial the psychomotor effects of amantadine and bromocriptine were compared to those of placebo, and in the second trial ethanol was added to the treatment. Bromocriptine lowered serum prolactin levels, thus confirming its absorption. Amantadine and bromocriptine alone had no psychomotor effects but unpleasant sensations, nausea and dizziness were reported after bromocriptine. Ethanol impaired performance in terms of impaired coordinative and reactive skills, lowered tapping speed, prolonged critical flicker interval and reduced gaze nystagmus angle (P less than 0.05 to 0.001; two-way ANOVA). Subjectively, ethanol induced mental slowness, clumsiness and impairment of performance (P less than 0.05 to 0.001). Amantadine and bromocriptine failed to counteract any of these ethanol-induced changes. It is concluded that in man, an acute dopaminergic activation by amantadine or bromocriptine does not significantly modify the psychomotor effects of ethanol.
Patients with dyskeratosis congenita (DC), a heterogeneous inherited bone marrow failure syndrome, have abnormalities in telomere biology, including very short telomeres and germline mutations in DKC1, TERC, TERT, or NOP10, but approximately 60% of DC patients lack an identifiable mutation. With the very short telomere phenotype and a highly penetrant, rare disease model, a linkage scan was performed on a family with autosomal-dominant DC and no mutations in DKCI, TERC, or TERT. Evidence favoring linkage was found at 2p24 and 14q11.2, and this led to the identification of TINF2 (14q11.2) mutations, K280E, in the proband and her five affected relatives and TINF2 R282H in three additional unrelated DC probands, including one with Revesz syndrome; a fifth DC proband had a R282S mutation. TINF2 mutations were not present in unaffected relatives, DC probands with mutations in DKC1, TERC, or TERT or 298 control subjects. We demonstrate that a fifth gene, TINF2, is mutated in classical DC and, for the first time, in Revesz syndrome. This represents the first shelterin complex mutation linked to human disease and confirms the role of very short telomeres as a diagnostic test for DC.
The present study investigated the effect of As(2)O(3)on malignant lymphoma cells. Cell apoptosis was detected by cell staining and TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-end Labelling (TUNEL). Cellular DNA and protein expression content were determined by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. It was found that 0.5-2.0 microm /l As(2)O(3)could inhibit cell growth, including Raji cells and lymphoma cells from patients, and induce apoptosis, such as condensed chromatin and nuclear fragmentation with intact cell membrane, i.e. apoptotic body. It was also found that the cells of the sub-G(1)phase increased significantly and bcl-2 gene expression was greatly downregulated. However, this effect was not observed for Jurkat cells under the same conditions. We concluded that As(2)O(3)at a range of 0.5-2.0 microm /l can inhibit the growth and induce apoptosis in malignant lymphoma cells, which may have therapeutic potential.
The subjective and reinforcing effects of cocaine in humans are associated with the enhancement of endogenous dopamine function in the mesolimbic system. This study examined the role of dopamine D1-like receptors in the behavioral and mood effects of cocaine by evaluating the effects of the selective D1/D5 antagonist ecopipam (SCH 39166) on subjective responses to intravenous cocaine in 11 subjects with cocaine dependence as defined by DSM-IV.
Subjects were pretreated in a randomized double-blind fashion with either placebo or 10 mg, 25 mg, or 100 mg of ecopipam orally on 4 separate occasions. Two hours later a single intravenous injection of 30 mg of cocaine was administered. Subjective and cardiovascular responses were measured and blood samples for pharmacokinetic evaluation were obtained prior to cocaine dosing and at various times after dosing.
The euphoric (P = .004) and stimulating (P = .03) effects of cocaine were attenuated in a dose-dependent manner by ecopipam, while ratings of desire to take cocaine were diminished (P = .02). Ecopipam in combination with cocaine was safe and well tolerated.
These data indicate a potentially important role for D1-like receptors in the acute mood-altering and rewarding effects of cocaine in humans.
To evaluate the efficacy of short-term overlap lamivudine therapy with adefovir in patients with lamivudine-resistant and naive chronic hepatitis B, we compared patients receiving overlap therapy with those receiving adefovir alone.
Eighty patients who had received lamivudine treatment for various periods and had a lamivudine-resistant liver function abnormality were enrolled. Forty of these patients received adefovir treatment combined with lamivudine treatment for > or = 2 mo, while the other 40 received adefovir alone. We assessed the levels of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA at 0, 12 and 48 wk and serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels after 0, 12, 24 and 48 wk of adefovir treatment in each group.
We found serum ALT became normalized in 72 (87.5%) of the 80 patients, and HBV DNA decreased by > or = 2 log10 copies/mL in 60 (75%) of the 80 patients at the end of a 48-wk treatment. HBV DNA levels were not significantly different between the groups. The improvements in serum ALT were also not significantly different between the two groups.
These findings suggest short-term overlap lamivudine treatment results in no better virological and biological outcomes than non-overlap adefovir monotherapy.
Aberrant histone acetylation has been observed in carcinogenesis and cellular transformation associated with arsenic exposure; however, the molecular mechanisms and cellular outcomes of such changes are poorly understood.
We investigated the impact of tolerated and toxic arsenic trioxide (As2O3) exposure in human embryonic kidney (HEK293T) and urothelial (UROtsa) cells to characterize the alterations in histone acetylation and gene expression as well as the implications for cellular transformation.
Tolerated and toxic exposures of As2O3 were identified by measurement of cell death, mitochondrial function, cellular proliferation, and anchorage-independent growth. Histone extraction, the MNase sensitivity assay, and immunoblotting were used to assess global histone acetylation levels, and gene promoter-specific interactions were measured by chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction.
Tolerated and toxic dosages, respectively, were defined as 0.5 μM and 2.5 μM As2O3 in HEK293T cells and 1 μM and 5 μM As2O3 in UROtsa cells. Global hypoacetylation of H3K9 at 72 hr was observed in UROtsa cells following tolerated and toxic exposure. In both cell lines, tolerated exposure alone led to H3K9 hyperacetylation and E2F1 binding at the FOS promoter, which remained elevated after 72 hr, contrary to global H3K9 hypoacetylation. Thus, promoter-specific H3K9 acetylation is a better predictor of cellular transformation than are global histone acetylation patterns. Tolerated exposure resulted in an increased expression of the proto-oncogenes FOS and JUN in both cell lines at 72 hr.
Global H3K9 hypoacetylation and promoter-specific hyperacetylation facilitate E2F1-mediated FOS induction in As2O3-induced cellular transformation.
Rahman S, Housein Z, Dabrowska A, Mayán MD, Boobis AR, Hajji N. 2015. E2F1-mediated FOS induction in arsenic trioxide-induced cellular transformation: effects of global H3K9 hypoacetylation and promoter-specific hyperacetylation in vitro. Environ Health Perspect 123:484-492; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1408302.
Buspirone is a novel anxiolytic agent that is commonly used in the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder. Many studies have found it to be equal in efficacy to the benzodiazepines in the treatment of this illness. Its use has gained favor over the past few years because of its relatively mild and tolerable side-effect profile. The authors report a case of buspirone overdose that resulted in a generalized tonic clonic seizure approximately 36 hours after ingestion. Although there have been no previous cases of seizure induction by buspirone in humans, there are animal models of this phenomenon. The authors describe the case, review the literature regarding buspirone overdose and toxicity, and discuss treatment recommendations.
Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole may cause life-threatening reactions and even death, but such reactions are rare and do not detract from its usefulness. As with any therapy, however, caution should be observed in its use in children, and especially in the elderly.
Rats were injected intraperitoneally with isoproterenol in dosage of 40 mg/kg body weight and heart microsomal and mitochondrial fractions were isolated 3, 9 and 24 h later. The heart/body weight ratio increased at 9 and 24 h after injection without any changes in the yield of subcellular organelles. Microsomal calcium uptake was significantly elevated at 3 h but returned to normal at 9 h and then became depressed 24 h post-injection. Mitochondrial calcium uptake was significantly increased 9 and 24 h after isoproterenol administration. Kinetic parameters of the calcium transport function indicated that the apparent affinity for Ca2+ remained unchanged, whereas Vmax values were altered in the experimental groups. Although there was no significant change in the phospholipid composition, the total phospholipid contents were increased (at 3, 9 and 24 h for microsomes; 3 and 9 h for mitochondria) in both types of organelles. The protein composition, as determined by gel electrophoresis, was altered in microsomes, but not in mitochondria. These results demonstrate rapid structural and functional changes in subcellular organelles. Such alterations may play an adaptive role in maintaining the intracellular calcium homeostasis during the development of catecholamine-induced cardiomyopathy.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is the most common form of epilepsy in humans. Oxidative stress is a mechanism of cell death induced by seizures. Antioxidant compounds have neuroprotective effects due to their ability to inhibit free radical production. The objectives of this work were to comparatively study the inhibitory action of antioxidants (ascorbic acid or alpha-tocopherol) on behavioral changes and brain damage induced by high doses of pilocarpine, aiming to further clarify the mechanism of action of these antioxidant compounds. In order to determinate neuroprotective effects, we studied the effects of ascorbic acid (250 or 500 mg/kg, i.p.) and alpha-tocopherol (200 or 400 mg/kg, i.p.) on the behavior and brain lesions observed after seizures induced by pilocarpine (400 mg/kg, i.p., P400 model) in rats. Ascorbic acid or alpha-tocopherol injections prior to pilocarpine suppressed behavioral seizure episodes. These findings suggested that free radicals can be produced during brain damage induced by seizures. In the P400 model, ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol significantly decreased cerebral damage percentage. Antioxidant compounds can exert neuroprotective effects associated with inhibition of free radical production. These results highlighted the promising therapeutic potential of ascorbic acid and alpha-tocopherol in treatments for neurodegenerative diseases.
Nickel compounds are carcinogenic and induce malignant transformation of cultured cells. Since nickel has low mutagenic potential, it may act predominantly through epigenetic mechanisms, including down-regulation of tumor suppressor genes. FHIT is a tumor suppressor gene whose expression is frequently reduced or lost in tumors and pre-malignant lesions. Previously, we have shown that the phosphohydrolase activity of Fhit protein, associated with its tumor suppressor action, is inhibited by nickel. In cells, such effect would assist in carcinogenesis. The latter could be further enhanced if nickel also lowered cellular levels of Fhit protein itself, e.g. by down-regulation of FHIT gene. To test this possibility, we determined Fhit protein and Fhit-mRNA levels in a nickel-transformed mouse cell line and in nickel-induced murine sarcomas. In B200 cells, derived by nickel treatment of BALB/c-3T3 cells and exhibiting a malignant phenotype, Fhit protein levels were 50% of those in the parental cells, while Fhit-mRNA expression remained unchanged. A decrease of up to > 90% in Fhit protein levels was also observed in 22 local sarcomas (mostly fibrosarcomas) induced by i.m. injection of nickel subsulfide in C57BL/6 and MT+ (C57BL/6 overexpressing metallothionein) mice, as compared with normal muscles. Moreover, Fhit was absent in 3 out of 10 sarcomas from MT+ mice and in 1 of 12 sarcomas from C57BL/6 mice. The lack of Fhit protein coincided with the absence of the Fhit-mRNA transcript in these tumors. However, in the other tumors, the decreased Fhit levels were not always accompanied by reduced expression of Fhit-mRNA. Thus, the observed lowering of Fhit protein levels is mostly associated with changes in mRNA expression and protein translation or turnover rates, and rarely with a full silencing of the gene itself. Overall, the decline of Fhit in cells or tissues malignantly transformed by nickel may indicate possible involvement of this effect in the mechanisms of nickel carcinogenesis.
5-Nitrofurans have been used in the study of chemical carcinogenesis. There is substantial evidence that N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide (FANFT) is deformylated to 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT) in the process of FANFT-induced bladder cancer. Paradoxically, ANFT is less potent as a uroepithelial carcinogen than FANFT when fed to rats. Feeding aspirin with FANFT to rats decreases the incidence of bladder cancer. Isolated kidneys were perfused with 5-nitrofurans to determine renal clearances and whether aspirin acts to decrease urinary excretion of the carcinogen. In FANFT-perfused kidneys, FANFT was deformylated to ANFT and excreted (1.06 +/- 0.22 nmol/min) at a rate eightfold higher than excretion of FANFT. In kidneys perfused with equimolar ANFT, excretion of ANFT was 0.25 +/- 0.05 nmol/min, which suggests a coupling of renal deformylation of FANFT to excretion of ANFT in FANFT-perfused kidneys. Neither aspirin nor probenecid altered the urinary excretion or half-life of FANFT or ANFT. In rats fed 0.2% FANFT as part of their diet, coadministration of aspirin (0.5%) increased urinary excretion of ANFT during a 12-wk feeding study, which suggests decreased tissue binding or metabolism of ANFT. Kidney perfusion with acetylated ANFT (NFTA), a much less potent uroepithelial carcinogen, resulted in no ANFT excretion or accumulation, which indicates the specificity of renal deformylase. Renal deformylase activity was found in broken cell preparations of rat and human kidney. These data describe a unique renal metabolic/excretory coupling for these compounds that appears to explain the differential carcinogenic potential of the 5-nitrofurans tested. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that aspirin decreases activation of ANFT by inhibiting prostaglandin H synthase.
Genetic variants at chromosomes 1q31-32 and 10q26 are strongly associated with susceptibility to age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a common blinding disease of the elderly. We demonstrate, by evaluating 45 tag SNPs spanning HTRA1, PLEKHA1, and predicted gene LOC387715/ARMS2, that rs10490924 SNP alone, or a variant in strong linkage disequilibrium, can explain the bulk of association between the 10q26 chromosomal region and AMD. A previously suggested causal SNP, rs11200638, and other examined SNPs in the region are only indirectly associated with the disease. Contrary to previous reports, we show that rs11200638 SNP has no significant impact on HTRA1 promoter activity in three different cell lines, and HTRA1 mRNA expression exhibits no significant change between control and AMD retinas. However, SNP rs10490924 shows the strongest association with AMD (P = 5.3 x 10(-30)), revealing an estimated relative risk of 2.66 for GT heterozygotes and 7.05 for TT homozygotes. The rs10490924 SNP results in nonsynonymous A69S alteration in the predicted protein LOC387715/ARMS2, which has a highly conserved ortholog in chimpanzee, but not in other vertebrate sequences. We demonstrate that LOC387715/ARMS2 mRNA is detected in the human retina and various cell lines and encodes a 12-kDa protein, which localizes to the mitochondrial outer membrane when expressed in mammalian cells. We propose that rs10490924 represents a major susceptibility variant for AMD at 10q26. A likely biological mechanism is that the A69S change in the LOC387715/ARMS2 protein affects its presumptive function in mitochondria.
This work was undertaken to investigate comparative effect of AT1 receptor blocker (ARB), 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG) coenzymeA (CoA) reductase inhibitor (statin), and their combination on vascular injury of salt-sensitive hypertension.
Salt-loaded Dahl salt-sensitive hypertensive rats (DS rats) were treated with (1) vehicle, (2) hydralazine (5 mg/kg/d), (3) olmesartan (0.5 mg/kg/d), (4) pravastatin (100 mg/kg/d), and (5) combined olmesartan and pravastatin for 4 weeks. Olmesartan or pravastatin significantly and comparably improved vascular endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine, coronary arterial remodeling, and eNOS activity of DS rats. Olmesartan prevented vascular eNOS dimer disruption or the downregulation of dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) more than pravastatin, whereas Akt phosphorylation was enhanced by pravastatin but not olmesartan, indicating differential pleiotropic effects between olmesartan and pravastatin. Add-on pravastatin significantly enhanced the improvement of vascular endothelial dysfunction and remodeling by olmesartan in DS rats. Moreover, pravastatin enhanced the increase in eNOS activity by olmesartan, being associated with additive effects of pravastatin on phosphorylation of Akt and eNOS.
Olmesartan and pravastatin exerted beneficial vascular effects in salt-sensitive hypertension, via differential pleiotropic effects. Pravastatin enhanced vascular protective effects of olmesartan. Thus, the combination of ARB with statin may be the potential therapeutic strategy for vascular diseases of salt-sensitive hypertension.
