We studied the effects of pretreatment with hypertonic solutions on the conduction disturbances and cardiac arrhythmias caused by iv injection of bupivacaine in anesthetized mongrel dogs. Bupivacaine was injected in doses of 3 mg/kg and 6.5 mg/kg. The hypertonic solutions used were: 7.5% NaCl, 5.4% LiCl, 50% Glucose (5 ml/kg) and 20% mannitol (10 ml/kg). Bupivacaine induced severe conduction disturbances, as reflected by significant increases in QRS complex duration, HV interval and IV interval, and severe hypotension. The arrhythmias observed were: sinus node dysfunction, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia, sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. These effects were dose dependent, and were more evident with the higher dose of bupivacaine. Among all the hypertonic solutions tested, only 7.5% NaCl effectively protected against conduction disturbances and cardiac arrhythmias. These findings suggest an important role for sodium overload in these situations and provide a potentially harmless tool for the treatment of anesthetic accidents with bupivacaine during regional anesthesia.
Diallyl trisulfide (DATS), an organosulfur compound in garlic, possesses pronounced anti-cancer potential. However, the anti-invasive mechanism of this compound in human bladder carcinoma is not fully understood. In this study, we evaluated the anti-invasive effects of DATS on a human bladder carcinoma (5637) cell line and investigated the underlying mechanism. The results indicated that DATS suppressed migration and invasion of 5637 cells by reducing the activities and expression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9 at both the protein and mRNA levels. DATS treatment up-regulated expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1 and TIMP-2 in 5637 cells. The inhibitory effects of DATS on invasiveness were associated with an increase in transepithelial electrical resistance and repression of the levels of claudin family members. Although further studies are needed, our data demonstrate that DATS exhibits anti-invasive effects in 5637 cells by down-regulating the activity of tight junctions and MMPs. DATS may have future utility in clinical applications for treating bladder cancer.
Eight patients developed a syndrome marked by features of catatonia (including posturing, waxy flexibility, withdrawal and regression) and parkinsonism (including bradykinesia and rigidity) while receiving high-potency neuroleptic drugs. The syndrome had a gradual onset, responded slowly to withdrawal of the neuroleptic or use of an anticholinergic agent, but seemed to respond more rapidly to amantadine. The syndrome may easily be confused with a worsening of schizophrenic symptoms.
The frequency of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) attributed to chlorpromazine among 86 patients who received benztropine for the prevention of EPS (9.3%) was similar to that of the 568 patients who received chlorpromazine alone (10.6%). The data in this small sample indicated that the prophylactic use of benztropine had no effect in reducing the rate of EPS.
The aim of the study was to evaluate safety and feasibility of dobutamine cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) in patients with proven or suspected coronary artery disease. Dobutamine CMR was evaluated retrospectively in 400 consecutive patients with suspicion of myocardial ischemia. Dobutamine was infused using an incremental protocol up to 40 microg/kg body weight per minute. All anti-anginal medication was stopped 4 days before the CMR study and infusion time of dobutamine was 6 min per stage. Hemodynamic data, CMR findings and side effects were reported. Patients with contraindications to CMR (metallic implants and claustrophobia) were excluded from analysis. Dobutamine CMR was successfully performed in 355 (89%) patients. Forty-five (11%) patients could not be investigated adequately because of non-cardiac side effects in 29 (7%) and cardiac side effects in 16 (4%) patients. Hypotension (1.5%) and arrhythmias (1%) were the most frequent cardiac side effects. One patient developed a severe complication (ventricular fibrillation) at the end of the study. There were no myocardial infarctions or fatal complications of the stress test. The most frequent non-cardiac side effects were nausea, vomiting and claustrophobia. Age >70 years, prior myocardial infarction and rest wall motion abnormalities showed no significant differences with side effects (P>0.05). Dobutamine CMR is safe and feasible in patients with suspicion of myocardial ischemia.
Susceptibility to a clinically significant drug hypersensitivity syndrome associated with abacavir use seems to have a strong genetic component. We have previously shown that the presence of HLA-B*5701 strongly predicts abacavir hypersensitivity and have identified a potential susceptibility locus within a 300-kb region between the MEGT1 and C4A6 loci in the central MHC. We now report the results of fine recombinant genetic mapping in an expanded patient population of 248 consecutive, fully ascertained, abacavir-exposed individuals in the Western Australian HIV Cohort Study, in which 18 cases of definite abacavir hypersensitivity (7.3%) and 230 tolerant controls were identified. Haplotype mapping within patients with allelic markers of the 57.1 ancestral haplotype suggests a susceptibility locus within the 14-kb Hsp70 gene cluster. HLA-B*5701 was present in 94.4% of hypersensitive cases compared with 1.7% of controls (odds ratio, 960; P < 0.00001). A haplotypic nonsynonymous polymorphism of Hsp70-Hom (HspA1L, resulting from the substitution of residue M493T in the peptide-binding subunit) was found in combination with HLA-B*5701 in 94.4% of hypersensitive cases and 0.4% of controls (odds ratio, 3,893; P < 0.00001). Individuals with abacavir hypersensitivity demonstrated increased monocyte tumor necrosis factor expression in response to ex vivo abacavir stimulation, which was abrogated with CD8(+) T cell depletion. These data indicate that the concurrence of HLA-B*5701 and Hsp70-Hom M493T alleles is necessary for the development of abacavir hypersensitivity, which is likely to be mediated by an HLA-B*5701-restricted immune response to abacavir.
Pharmacological mechanisms involved in nicotine-induced seizures were investigated in mice by testing the ability of several nicotinic agonists in producing seizures after peripheral administration. In addition, nicotinic antagonists such as hexamethonium, mecamylamine, dihydro-beta-erythroidine, and methyllycaconitine citrate (MLA) were used in combination with nicotine. We also examined the involvement of calcium channels, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, and nitric oxide formation in nicotine-induced seizures. Our results showed that the peripheral administration of nicotine produced seizures in a stereospecific and mecamylamine-sensitive manner. Nicotine-induced seizures are centrally mediated and involve the activation of alpha7 along with other nicotinic receptor subunits. Indeed, MLA, an alpha7-antagonist, blocked the effects of nicotine after peripheral and central administration. The extent of alpha4beta2-receptor subtype involvement in nicotine-induced seizures was difficult to assess. On one hand, we observed that dihydro-beta-erythroidine (a competitive antagonist) failed to block the effects of nicotine. In addition, a poor correlation was found between binding affinity for (3)H-nicotine-labeled sites (predominantly alpha4beta2) and seizures potency for several nicotinic agonists. On the other hand, mecamylamine, a noncompetitive antagonist, blocked nicotine-induced seizures more potently than MLA. Furthermore, its potency in blocking seizures was in the same general dose range of other nicotinic effects that are not alpha7 mediated. These results suggest that this receptor subtype does not play a major role in nicotine-induced seizures. Our findings also suggest that nicotine enhances the release of glutamate either directly or indirectly (membrane depolarization that opens L-type calcium channels). Glutamate release in turn stimulates N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, thus triggering the cascade of events leading to nitric oxide formation and possibly seizure production.
Asthma is one of the leading causes of childhood hospitalization, and its incidence is on the rise throughout the world. Currently, the standard treatment for asthma is the use of corticosteroids to try to suppress the inflammatory reaction taking place in the bronchial tree. Using a murine model of atopic allergic asthma employing a methacholine-hyperresponsive (A/J) as well as a hyporesponsive (C57BL/6) strain of mice sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin, we show that treatment with a synthetic Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) ligand (S-28463, a member of the imidazoquinoline family) prevents development of the asthmatic phenotype. Treatment with S-28463 resulted in a reduction of airway resistance and elastance following ovalbumin sensitization and challenge. This was accompanied by a dramatic reduction in infiltration of leukocytes, especially eosinophils, into the lungs of both C57BL/6 and A/J mice following OVA challenge. Treatment with S-28463 also abolished both the elevation in serum IgE level as well as the induction of IL-4, IL-5, and IL-13 by OVA challenge. The protective effects of S-28463 were also observed in MK2 knockout, but not MYD88 knockout, mice. We did not observe a switch in cytokine profile from T(H)2 to T(H)1, as both IL-12p70 and IFN-gamma levels were reduced following S-28463 treatment. These results clearly demonstrate the anti-inflammatory effect of imidazoquinolines in an allergic asthma model as well as the clinical potential of TLR7 ligands in the treatment of allergic diseases.
Suprofen, a new nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug, was marketed in early 1986 as an analgesic agent. Until physicians began reporting an unusual acute flank pain syndrome to the spontaneous reporting system, 700,000 persons used the drug in the United States. Through August 1986, a total of 163 cases of this syndrome were reported. To elucidate the epidemiology of the syndrome, a case-control study was performed, comparing 62 of the case patients who had been reported to the spontaneous reporting system to 185 suprofen-exposed control subjects who did not have the syndrome. Case patients were more likely to be men (odds ratio, 3.8; 95% confidence interval, 1.2-12.1), suffer from hay fever and asthma (odds ratio, 3.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.0-11.9); to participate in regular exercise (odds ratio, 5.9; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-30.7), especially in the use of Nautilus equipment (p = 0.02); and to use alcohol (odds ratio, 4.4; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-17.5). Possible risk factors included young age, concurrent use of other analgesic agents (especially ibuprofen), preexisting renal disease, a history of kidney stones, a history of gout, a recent increase in activity, a recent increase in sun exposure, and residence in the Sunbelt. These were findings that were suggestive but did not reach conventional statistical significance. These findings are consistent with the postulated mechanism for this unusual syndrome: acute diffuse crystallization of uric acid in renal tubules.
We have examined the interaction between the administration of bendrofluazide, frusemide, spironolactone, and placebo and increased plasma adrenaline concentrations in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross over study. We studied healthy subjects on the fourteenth day of each treatment period and after a two hour infusion of adrenaline (0.06 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 [0.33 nmol.kg-1.min-1]) we measured their heart rates, blood pressures, and plasma potassium and magnesium concentrations. There were no differences in heart rates or blood pressures for all four treatments. Baseline potassium concentrations were not significantly different compared to placebo, and plasma potassium fell during the period of the infusion on all study days. this fall was significantly greater on frusemide (0.5 mmol.l-1) and bendrofluazide (0.4 mmol.l-1) compared with both placebo and spironolactone. Baseline plasma magnesium concentration were not different and similar falls in plasma magnesium were seen on all four treatments during and after the adrenaline infusion. We conclude that chronic diuretic therapy with a thiazide diuretic or frusemide may increase the severity of hypokalaemia during short-term rises in plasma adrenaline. Pretreatment with spironolactone had no effect on adrenaline-induced hypokalaemia. None of the diuretics studied altered adrenaline-induced hypomagnesaemia.
A 23-year-old man with no history of convulsion underwent removal of the nails in his upper arm. He received propofol infusion after axillary brachial plexus block. Ten minutes after propofol infusion (15 minutes after axillary block), generalized tonic-clonic seizure occurred. The rate of propofol infusion was increased, and midazolam was given intravenously ; however, the seizure continued. Propofol infusion was withheld, and anesthesia was maintained with sevoflurane. The seizure gradually decreased in 15 minutes after termination of propofol infusion, and it finally stopped 30 minutes after termination of propofol infusion.
For patients with erectile dysfunction oral medication seems to be the most comfortable form of application. This can also be seen in the expectations looking forward to Sildenafil and other drugs in development. We present a prospective examination with the oral medication of 100 mg acecarbamol, 30 mg extract of cortex quebracho and 33 mg tocopherol acetate (Afrodor) in 100 patients complaining secondary erectile dysfunction. The patients were treated unselected with 3 x 1 tablet/day during the diagnostic schedule. 14% of the patients were able to perform satisfying sexual intercourse after 4 weeks of medication and another 15% showed an increased libido. Therefore we suggest, that the application of an oral medication, might be useful, especially during the time of diagnostics. Especially for those patients who gain without invasive diagnostic tools as intracavernous injection.
There is increased interest in the study of manipulation of the flora with pro- and prebiotics regarding inflammatory bowel disease. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effect of oligosaccharides from goat milk in a rat model of dextran sodium sulfate- (DSS-) induced colitis.
Twenty rats were fed the same diet but with different sources of fiber (5% of the diet): cellulose or a mixture of goat's milk oligosaccharides (GMO) and cellulose. DSS treatment was used to induce a colonic inflammation. Several clinical and inflammatory parameters, as well as intestinal micorbiota and gene expression by DNA microarray technology, were evaluated.
DSS induced a decrease in body weight which was not observed in rats fed the GMO (decrease of 21+/-11% in control rats vs increase of 5.2+/-8.6 in GMO rats, P<0.05). DSS also caused an acute colonic inflammatory process which was weaker in rats fed the GMO, as shown by colon myeloperoxidase activity (0.53+/-0.16 vs 0.14+/-0.07U/mg of protein, P<0.05), as well as clinical symptoms measured by a scoring system (1.25+/-1.14 vs 0.4+/-0.07, P<0.05). GMO rats also showed less severe colonic lesions and a more favorable intestinal microbiota. The expression of genes involved in intestinal function, such as mucine-3, was down-regulated in DSS-control rats but returned to normal values in GMO rats.
GMO reduce intestinal inflammation and contribute to the recovery of damaged colonic mucosa.
Our goal was to examine whether dicamba, a widely-used broad leaf herbicide, has promoting activity in two-stage hepatocarcinogenesis. Female Sprague Dawley rats were given a single dose of diethylnitrosamine and then diets containing dicamba, or phenobarbital, or both for six months. The number and volume of placental glutathione-S-transferase-positive, glucose-6-phosphatase-negative or ATPase-negative foci were quantified in the liver. Dicamba alone did not increase the number or volume of these altered hepatic foci. Dicamba did, however, show a significant effect on the number or volume of certain markers in animals also treated with phenobarbital. These data show that dicamba in combination with other promoters may have weak promoting activity in two-stage hepatocarcinogenesis in the rat.
Thalidomide has broad anticytokine properties, which might protect normal tissues in patients undergoing chemoradiotherapy. The purpose of this study was to determine the maximal tolerated dose of thalidomide when used in combination with vinorelbine plus thoracic radiotherapy.
Eligible patients had inoperable Stage III non-small-cell lung cancer, a Karnofsky Performance Status>or=70, and life expectancy>or=6 months. Patients underwent pretreatment evaluation of lung function. Radiotherapy consisted of 66 Gy in 6.5 weeks. Vinorelbine was administered i.v. (5 mg/m2) 3 times per week just before radiotherapy. Thalidomide was begun at 50 mg, p.o., on day 1 of chemoradiotherapy and continued once daily for 6 months. Side effects were scored using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria.
Ten patients were enrolled. Of the first 6 patients, 2 developed major thrombotic events that were believed to be possibly related to thalidomide. The study was suspended and modified to require prophylactic anticoagulation. Of the last 4 patients, 2 developed dose-limiting toxicity attributable to thalidomide; both patients required a dose reduction of thalidomide to <50 mg/day. Because the drug is not available in an oral product providing <50 mg/day, the study was closed.
The combination of thalidomide concurrently with thoracic radiotherapy and vinorelbine resulted in excessive toxicity.
In cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis in the rat, detrusor function is impaired and the expression and effects of muscarinic receptors altered. Whether or not the neuronal transmission may be affected by cystitis was presently investigated. Responses of urinary strip preparations from control and cyclophosphamide-pretreated rats to electrical field stimulation and to agonists were assessed in the absence and presence of muscarinic, adrenergic and purinergic receptor antagonists. Generally, atropine reduced contractions, but in contrast to controls, it also reduced responses to low electrical field stimulation intensity (1-5 Hz) in inflamed preparations. In both types, purinoceptor desensitization with alpha,beta-methylene adenosine-5'-triphosphate (alpha,beta-meATP) caused further reductions at low frequencies (<10 Hz). The muscarinic receptor antagonists atropine, 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine (4-DAMP) ('M(1)/M(3)/M(5)-selective'), methoctramine ('M(2)-selective') and pirenzepine ('M(1)-selective') antagonized the tonic component of the electrical field stimulation-evoked contractile response more potently than the phasic component. 4-DAMP inhibited the tonic contractions in controls more potently than methoctramine and pirenzepine. In inflamed preparations, the muscarinic receptor antagonism on the phasic component of the electrical field stimulation-evoked contraction was decreased and the pirenzepine and 4-DAMP antagonism on the tonic component was much less efficient than in controls. In contrast to controls, methoctramine increased -- instead of decreased -- the tonic responses at high frequencies. While contractions to carbachol and ATP were the same in inflamed and in control strips when related to a reference potassium response, isoprenaline-induced relaxations were smaller in inflamed strips. Thus, in cystitis substantial changes of the efferent functional responses occur. While postjunctional beta-adrenoceptor-mediated relaxations are reduced, effects by prejunctional inhibitory muscarinic receptors may be increased.
The two anthracycline antitumor antibiotics, Adriamycin and daunomycin (DM), induced a high incidence of mammary tumors, both fibroadenomas and adenocarcinomas, in female rats that received a single i.v. dose, thus confirming previous results. The incidence of DM-induced adenocarcinomas increased with the dose of the drug, whereas the incidence of Adriamycin-induced adenocarcinomas showed a plateau at 5 mg/kg and above. Adriamycin- and DM-induced fibroadenomas showed a peak at lower doses (about 5 to 6 mg/kg). With the highest DM dose (12.5 mg/kg) used, there was a slight prevalence of adenocarcinomas over fibroadenomas.
The interaction of (-)-(S)-9-fluoro-2,3-dihydro-3-methyl-10-(4-methyl-1- piperazinyl)-7-oxo-7H-pyrido[1,2,3-de] [1,4]benzoxazine-6-carboxylic acid hemihydrate (levofloxacin, DR-3355, CAS 100986-85-4) with fenbufen, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent, in mice was assessed by convulsive seizure and subsequent death in comparison with that of other new quinolones such as DR-3354 (the R-(+)-isomer of ofloxacin), ofloxacin, norfloxacin, enoxacin and ciprofloxacin. Although treatment with each quinolone or fenbufen alone at a dosage level tested in mice showed no changes, coadministration of a large dose of all quinolones and fenbufen caused convulsant death. When compared with the severity of this interaction, it was in the order of enoxacin greater than norfloxacin greater than ciprofloxacin greater than DR-3354 greater than ofloxacin greater than or equal to DR-3355 under these experimental conditions.
The epigenetic mechanisms underlying the tumorigenesis caused by polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and nitrosamine compounds such as 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) and diethylnitrosamine (DEN) are currently unknown. We reported previously that dynamic changes in DNA methylation occurred during MCA/DEN-induced rat lung carcinogenesis. Here, we used the same animal model to further study the evolution of methylation alterations in tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) DAPK1, FHIT, RASSF1A, and SOCS-3. We found that none of these genes were methylated in either normal or hyperplasia tissue. However, as the severity of the cancer progressed through squamous metaplasia and dysplasia to carcinoma in situ (CIS) and infiltrating carcinoma, so methylation became more prevalent. Particularly dramatic increases in the level of methylation, the average number of methylated genes, and the incidence of concurrent methylation in three genes were observed in CIS and infiltrating carcinoma. Similar but less profound changes were seen in squamous metaplasia and dysplasia. Furthermore, methylation status was closely correlated to loss of protein expression for these genes, with protein levels markedly declining along the continuum of carcinogenesis. These results suggest that progressive CpG island hypermethylation leading to inactivation of TSGs might be a vital molecular mechanism in the pathogenesis of MCA/DEN-induced multistep rat lung carcinogenesis.
An ophthalomo- and ototoxicity study of a new quinolone antibacterial agent, (-)-(S)-9-fluoro-2,3-dihydro-3-methyl-10-(4-methyl-1- piperazinyl)-7-oxo-7H-pyrido[1,2,3-de] [1,4]benzoxazine-6-carboxylic acid hemihydrate (levofloxacin, DR-3355, CAS 100986-85-4) was investigated in Long Evans rats. The rats were orally administered 100 mg/kg of DR-3355, ciprofloxacin (CPFX), norfloxacin (NFLX) or nalidixic acid (NA) for 2 weeks, and the effects on visual and auditory functions were examined. Examination of electroretinograms (ERGs) revealed a decrease in the amplitudes of the a- and b-waves, a prolongation of the latency and diminution or disappearance of oscillatory potential waves in NA treated rats. Similar but milder changes were also noted in the NFLX treated rats. ERGs from DR-3355 or CPFX treated rats were normal. Histopathological examination revealed no changes suggestive of ophthalmotoxicity or ototoxicity in the rats treated with DR-3355, CPFX or NFLX. On the other hand, NA treated rats showed partial loss of the outer hair cells of the organ of Corti in the cochlea, suggesting that NA had slight ototoxicity. DR-3355 did not show any deleterious visual or auditory effects at the dose used in this study.
The use of corticosteroids, particularly high-potency steroids, for the treatment of various inflammatory conditions has been frequently associated with mood disturbance and psychosis. We report on a 12-year-old white boy treated with high doses of prednisone chronically for 7 years who presented with severe depression, irritability, violence, and psychosis. Sertraline was used to treat depressive as well as psychotic symptoms without the use of antipsychotics. This successful treatment of steroid-induced mood disorder and psychosis with a serotonin reuptake inhibitor is consistent with the literature describing a decrease in central and peripheral serotonin secretion due to steroids, as well as a possible relationship between mood and psychotic symptoms and low cerebrospinal fluid serotonin levels.
Experimental studies have demonstrated that the antileukemic trivalent inorganic arsenic prevents the development of severe pro-inflammatory diseases mediated by excessive Th1 and Th17 cell responses. Differentiation of Th1 and Th17 subsets is mainly regulated by interleukins (ILs) secreted from dendritic cells (DCs) and the ability of inorganic arsenic to impair interferon-γ and IL-17 secretion by interfering with the physiology of DCs is unknown. In the present study, we demonstrate that high concentrations of sodium arsenite (As(III), 1-2 μM) clinically achievable in plasma of arsenic-treated patients, block differentiation of human peripheral blood monocytes into immature DCs (iDCs) by inducing their necrosis. Differentiation of monocytes in the presence of non-cytotoxic concentrations of As(III) (0.1 to 0.5 μM) only slightly impacts endocytotic activity of iDCs or expression of co-stimulatory molecules in cells activated with lipopolysaccharide. However, this differentiation in the presence of As(III) strongly represses secretion of IL-12p70 and IL-23, two major regulators of Th1 and Th17 activities, from iDCs stimulated with different toll-like receptor (TLR) agonists in metalloid-free medium. Such As(III)-exposed DCs also exhibit reduced mRNA levels of IL12A and/or IL12B genes when activated with TLR agonists. Finally, differentiation of monocytes with non-cytotoxic concentrations of As(III) subsequently reduces the ability of activated DCs to stimulate the release of interferon-γ and IL-17 from Th cells. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that clinically relevant concentrations of inorganic arsenic markedly impair in vitro differentiation and functions of DCs, which may contribute to the putative beneficial effects of the metalloid towards inflammatory autoimmune diseases.
To explore the apoptosis inducing effects of arsenic trioxide (As2O3) on human bladder cancer cells and elucidate possible mechanisms.
After treatment with As2O3, the growth inhibition rates of human bladder cancer cell line BIU-87 were studied by MTT and cell counts methods. DNA synthesis rates were detected by 3H-TdR assay. The morphological changes of cancer cells were observed by light and electronic microscopy and cell apoptosis rates were detected by TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL). bcl-2 gene expression of BIU-87 cells was observed by strept avidin-biotin complex (SABC) immunohistochemical method.
As2O3 could effectively inhibit the growth of BIU-87 (P < 0.05), which were time and concentration dependent. The inhibition rate of 4.0 mumol/L As2O3 for DNA synthesis of cancer cells was 55.64% (P < 0.01). Partial cancer cells presented the characteristic morphological changes of apoptosis which depended on the time of exposure to drug (P < 0.05). bcl-2 expression of BIU-87 cells was decreased significantly (P < 0.05).
As2O3 can significantly induce apoptosis in bladder cancer cells by down-regulating the expression of the bcl-2 gene and inhibiting DNA synthesis. This provides a potentially effective method for prevention and cure of human bladder cancer.
The efficacy of beclomethasone dipropionate aerosol (BDA) 100 micrograms q.i.d. was compared with that of budesonide aerosol 10 micrograms q.i.d. in 17 patients. The efficacy of inhaled BDA 100 micrograms q.i.d. was also compared with that of budesonide 50 micrograms q.i.d. with and without an extension tube (Inhalet) attached to the actuator in 23 patients. Both studies included placebo periods. The trials were performed with the cross-over technique in patients with stable asthma. Each treatment was randomized and given in periods of two weeks starting with a run-in period. The patients recorded peak expiratory flow rates (PEF) twice daily and filled in diary cards for cough, wheeze, breathing difficulties and use of beta 2-receptor stimulant aerosol. In the first study the patients came to the hospital twice weekly throughout the trial for spirometry and interview. In the second study they came every second week. Budesonide and BDA were superior to placebo. Budesonide in doses of 100 micrograms and 50 micrograms were as efficacious as BDA 100 micrograms q.i.d., while budesonide 50 micrograms q.i.d. with Inhalet was slightly more effective. Treatment for two weeks was found to be sufficient. For each parameter the average of the last four days of each period was found to be relevant in the comparison. The placebo period should preferably not be placed at random in the trial, but as the last treatment period.
Environmental estrogens (xenoestrogens) are synthetic compounds that are abundant in the environment and mimic natural estrogens. The estrogenicity of two such compounds, bisphenol A (BPA) and octylphenol (OP), during development of the neuroendocrine system was investigated. The objective was to compare the effects of neonatal exposure to BPA, OP, and diethylstilbestrol (DES), a potent synthetic estrogen, on prepubertal serum PRL levels and estrogen receptor (ER) expression in the anterior pituitary and medial basal hypothalamus. Receptor expression in the uterus and prostate, two peripheral estrogen-responsive tissues, was also examined. Newborn male and female Fischer 344 rats were s.c. injected on days 1-5 after birth with corn oil (control), BPA and OP (100 or 500 microg/day), or DES (5 microg/day). Rats were bled on days 15, 20, and 25 and on the day of death (day 30), and serum PRL was analyzed by RIA. Relative expressions of ERalpha and ERbeta were determined by RT-PCR. BPA and OP induced delayed, but progressive, increases in serum PRL levels, up to 3-fold above control levels, in both males and females. The low dose of either compound was equally or more effective as the high dose in eliciting and sustaining elevated serum PRL levels, namely hyperprolactinemia. In contrast, the DES treatment resulted in a transient rise in serum PRL levels. BPA, OP, and, to a lesser extent, DES increased the expression of both ERalpha and ERbeta in the anterior pituitary of males, but not females, whereas the hypothalamic ERs were less responsive to these compounds. DES treatment caused down-regulation of ERalpha expression in the uterus and up-regulation of ERbeta in the prostate, whereas BPA or OP was without effect. In conclusion, exposure of newborn rats of either sex to environmental estrogens results in delayed and sustained hyperprolactinemia and differential alterations in ER expression in the hypothalamus and pituitary. DES appears to target the lower reproductive tract more effectively than the neuroendocrine system.
