Mouse models that mimic the human skin cancer-prone disease xeroderma pigmentosum (XP) provide an useful experimental system with which to study the relationship between the DNA repair process of nucleotide excision repair (NER) and ultraviolet- (UV) induced skin carcinogenesis. We have generated Xpc mutant mice and documented their deficiency in the process of NER of UV-induced DNA damage. Xpc mutant mice are highly predisposed to UV-B radiation-induced skin cancer, both in the homozygous and the heterozygous state. The combination of Xpc and Trp53 mutations enhances this predisposition and alters the tumor spectrum observed in single mutant mice. These results suggest a synergism between NER and the function of Trp53 in suppression of cancer. We have examined the mutational spectrum in the Trp53 gene from skin cancers in Trp53+/+ and Trp53+/- mice of all three Xpc genotypes and have found evidence for signature mutations associated with defective NER. In addition, we have demonstrated that Xpc mutant mice are highly predisposed to the induction of lung and liver cancers by treatment with 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) and N-OH-2-AAF. By combining the Xpc mutation with other mutations in genes involved in repair of DNA damage we have identified additional genetic interactions important in carcinogenesis. The mouse Apex gene is a critical component of the base excision repair (BER) pathway as well as the redox regulation of transcription factors important in growth control and the cellular response to DNA damage. By combining mutations in Xpc, Trp53 and Apex we have obtained genetic evidence for a functional interaction between Apex and Trp53 which probably involves the activation of the Trp53 protein by Apex. Mutations in the mismatch repair (MMR) gene Msh2 also influence the carcinogenesis observed in Xpc Trp53 mutant mice. Our results demonstrate that multiple repair pathways operate in prevention of tumor formation.
The present study investigates dopaminergic sensitivity in Parkinson's disease (PD) through the measurement of neuroendocrine (growth hormone: GH, prolactin: PRL) and cardiovascular (blood pressure: BP, heart rate: HR) responses to low doses of apomorphine (5 micrograms/kg s.c.) in three groups of subjects: 13 normal volunteers (controls), 19 "de novo" never-treated PD patients, and 14 levodopa-treated PD patients. Apomorphine did not change BP and HR but significantly decreased PRL plasma levels in controls as well as in the two groups of PD patients. GH plasma levels significantly increased after apomorphine. There was no significant difference in the changes in neuroendocrine (GH, PRL) parameters in the two groups of PD patients in comparison with controls. However, "de novo" patients exhibited a significantly higher number of apomorphine-induced orthostatic symptoms (7 of 19) than did controls (0 of 13) or treated PD patients (2 of 14). These results show that hypothalamic dopaminergic sensitivity (studied through GH and PRL responses to apomorphine) is normal in PD. In contrast, because apomorphine-induced orthostatic hypotension is mainly due to the stimulation of peripheral dopaminergic receptors, our study suggests a peripheral dopaminergic hypersensitivity in some "de novo" never treated (but not in treated) PD patients.
Very-long-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (VLCAD) deficiency is an inborn mitochondrial fatty-acid beta-oxidation (FAO) defect associated with a broad mutational spectrum, with phenotypes ranging from fatal cardiopathy in infancy to adolescent-onset myopathy, and for which there is no established treatment. Recent data suggest that bezafibrate could improve the FAO capacities in beta-oxidation-deficient cells, by enhancing the residual level of mutant enzyme activity via gene-expression stimulation. Since VLCAD-deficient patients frequently harbor missense mutations with unpredictable effects on enzyme activity, we investigated the response to bezafibrate as a function of genotype in 33 VLCAD-deficient fibroblasts representing 45 different mutations. Treatment with bezafibrate (400 microM for 48 h) resulted in a marked increase in FAO capacities, often leading to restoration of normal values, for 21 genotypes that mainly corresponded to patients with the myopathic phenotype. In contrast, bezafibrate induced no changes in FAO for 11 genotypes corresponding to severe neonatal or infantile phenotypes. This pattern of response was not due to differential inductions of VLCAD messenger RNA, as shown by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, but reflected variable increases in measured VLCAD residual enzyme activity in response to bezafibrate. Genotype cross-analysis allowed the identification of alleles carrying missense mutations, which could account for these different pharmacological profiles and, on this basis, led to the characterization of 9 mild and 11 severe missense mutations. Altogether, the responses to bezafibrate reflected the severity of the metabolic blockage in various genotypes, which appeared to be correlated with the phenotype, thus providing a new approach for analysis of genetic heterogeneity. Finally, this study emphasizes the potential of bezafibrate, a widely prescribed hypolipidemic drug, for the correction of VLCAD deficiency and exemplifies the integration of molecular information in a therapeutic strategy.
Given the importance of dendritic cells in the immune response, we investigated the effect of corticosteroids (CS) on the integrity, survival, and function of murine Langerhans cells (LC) in comparison with pimecrolimus, a novel anti-inflammatory drug for the topical treatment of atopic dermatitis. BALB/c mice were treated twice on one day with ethanolic solutions of the compounds. At 24-72 h after the last application, we observed fragmented DNA, caspase-3 activity, and an upregulation of CD95 expression in LC from mice treated with CS but not in LC of pimecrolimus- or vehicle-treated animals. CS-epidermal cell (EC) supernatants but not pimecrolimus-EC supernatants contained significantly lower amounts of soluble factors (GM-CSF, TNF-alpha, IL-1alpha) required for LC survival and maturation than EC supernatants from vehicle-treated mice. With regard to LC maturation, CS but not pimecrolimus inhibited the expression of CD25, CD205, and costimulatory molecules. In line with this, LC from pimecrolimus-treated mice were similar to LC from vehicle-treated mice in their capacity to stimulate antigen-presenting function and migration, whereas LC from CS-treated mice were greatly impaired in these abilities. In summary, our data show for the first time that CS but not pimecrolimus induce apoptosis in LC in situ, implying that the prolonged use of CS could have adverse effects on the skin immune system.
Although cocaine use is a significant public health problem, there is relative paucity of scientific data on long-term neurocognitive consequences of the exposure to the substance.
This study examined the association between crack cocaine dependence and neuropsychological performance. An extended battery of neuropsychological tests was administered to 15 abstinent cocaine abusers, inpatients in abstinence for two weeks, and 15 non-drug-using control subjects matched for age, gender, education, socio-economic status, handedness and IQ.
The preliminary findings showed statistical significance (p<0.05) on differences of performance in attention, verbal fluency, verbal memory, visual memory, learning ability and executive functions.
These results represent evidences that cocaine abuse is associated with decrements in cognitive functioning, similar to cognitive disorders associated to prefrontal and temporal brain impairments. Knowledge of specific cognitive deficits in cocaine abusers may be useful for designing more effective substance abuse prevention and treatment programs.
Most chemical carcinogens require metabolic activation to electrophilic metabolites that are capable of binding to DNA and causing gene mutations. Carcinogen metabolism is carried out by large groups of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes that include the phase I cytochromes P450 (P450) and microsomal epoxide hydrolase, and various phase II transferase enzymes. It is extremely important to determine the role P450s play in the carcinogenesis and to establish if they are the rate limiting and critical interface between the chemical and its biological activities. The latter is essential in order to validate the use of rodent models to test safety of chemicals in humans. Since there are marked species differences in expressions and catalytic activities of the multiple P450 forms that activate carcinogens, this validation process becomes especially difficult. To address the role of P450s in whole animal carcinogenesis, mice were produced that lack the P450s known to catalyze carcinogen activation. Mouse lines having disrupted genes encoding the P450s CYP1A2, CYP2E1, and CYP1B1 were developed. Mice lacking expression of microsomal epoxide hydrolase (mEH) and NADPH-quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) were also made. All of these mice exhibit no gross abnormal phenotypes, suggesting that the xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes have no critical roles in mammalian development and physiological homeostasis. This explains the occurrence of polymorphisms in xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes among humans and other mammalian species. However, these null mice do show differences in sensitivities to acute chemical toxicities, thus establishing the importance of xenobiotic metabolism in activation pathways that lead to cell death. Rodent bioassays using null mice and known genotoxic carcinogens should establish whether these enzymes are required for carcinogenesis in an intact animal model. These studies will also provide a framework for the production of transgenic mice and carcinogen bioassay protocols that may be more predictive for identifying the human carcinogens and validate the molecular epidemiological studies ongoing in humans that seek to establish a role for polymorphisms in cancer risk.
To observe the effect of Qi-Benefiting, Blood-Activating Recipe on the different pathologic stage of myocardial hypertrophy induced by ISO in rats.
Myocardial hypertrophy rats were induced by isoproterenol, and treated with Qi-Benefiting, Blood-Activating Recipe for 5,10 and 15 weeks, hemodynamic parameters, LVMI, HMI were determined, ANP and BNP were analysed.
Qi-Benefiting, Blood-Activating Recipe could increase cardiac output and improve hemodynamic parameters all after 5, 10 and 15 weeks' treatment (P<0.05). It could decrease the contents of ANP and BNP after 5, 10 and 15 weeks' treatment (P<0.05). Qi-Benefiting, Blood-Activating Recipe could significantly decrease the levels of HWI and LVMI after 5, 10 and 15 weeks' treatment (P<0.05).
Qi-Benefiting, Blood-Activating Recipe can significant improve hemodynamic status, increase cardiac output and decrease the level of neurohormonal factors.
High-density-lipoproteins-cholesterol (HDL-C) is invertedly related to the incidence of cardiovascular events. Recent studies suggest that HDL-C directly improves endothelial function. Nicotinic acid (niacin) effectively raises serum HDL-C. We therefore hypothesized that treatment with niacin improves endothelial dysfunction in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). One hundred seven patients with CAD were randomly assigned to double-blinded treatment for 12 weeks with extended-release (ER)-niacin 1000 mg/day (N) or placebo (C), respectively. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery, nitroglycerin-mediated endothelium-independent dilation (NMD) and serum lipid concentrations were measured before and after treatment. Triglycerides (P=0.013), low-density-lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) (P=0.013) and HDL-C (P<0.0001) were altered by N compared to C. Niacin treatment was without effect on FMD or NMD, respectively, compared to placebo. However, post-hoc subgroup analysis revealed an improvement in FMD in patients with low HDL-C at baseline (absolute change in FMD (mean+/-S.D.) N: +3.25+/-3.88%, C: +1.03+/-2.71% in low tertile HDL-C <or=45 mg/dl. P=0.047). The present findings indicate that ER-niacin treatment improves endothelial dysfunction in patients with CAD and low HDL-C, but not with normal HDL-C.
Acute liver failure (ALF) carries a high mortality in children. N-acetylcysteine (NAC), an antioxidant agent that replenishes mitochondrial and cytosolic glutathione stores, has been used in the treatment of late acetaminophen-induced ALF and non-acetaminophen-induced ALF. In our unit, NAC was introduced as additional treatment for non-acetaminophen-induced ALF in 1995. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NAC in children with ALF not caused by acetaminophen poisoning. A retrospective review of medical records of 170 children presenting with nonacetaminophen-induced ALF between 1989 and 2004 was undertaken. ALF was defined as either international normalized ratio of prothrombin time (INR) > 2 and abnormal liver function or INR >1.5 with encephalopathy and abnormal liver function. Children were divided into the following groups: Group 1 (1989-1994), standard care (n = 59; 34 [58%] male; median age 2.03 yr, range 0.003-15.8 yr); and Group 2 (1995-2004), standard care and NAC administration (n = 111; 57 [51%] male; median age 3.51 yr, range 0.005-17.4 yr). NAC was administered as a continuous infusion (100 mg/kg/24 hours) until INR < 1.4, death, or liver transplantation (LT). The median duration of NAC administration in Group 2 was 5 (range, 1-77) days. Complications were noted in 8 (10.8%) children: rash in 3, arrhythmia in 3, and dizziness and peripheral edema in 1. One child had an allergic reaction (bronchospasm) and NAC was stopped. A total of 41 (71%) children in Group 1 vs. 85 (77%) in Group 2 required admission to intensive care, P = not significant (ns). The length of intensive care stay was 6 (range, 1-58) days in Group 1 vs. 5 (range, 1-68) days in Group 2, P = ns and length of hospital stay was 25 (range, 1-264) days vs. 19 (range, 1-201) days, P = 0.05. The 10-yr actuarial survival was 50% in Group 1 compared to 75% in Group 2, P = 0.009. Survival with native liver occurred in 13 (22%) in Group 1 vs. 48 (43%) in Group 2, P = 0.005; 15 (25%) in Group 1 died without transplant vs. 21 (19%) in Group 2, P = ns; and LT was performed in 32 (54%) vs. 42 (38%), P = ns. Death after transplantation occurred in 15 (39%) in Group 1 vs. 8 (16%) in Group 2, P = 0.02. In conclusion, NAC is safe in non-acetaminophen-induced ALF. In this retrospective study NAC was associated with a shorter length of hospital stay, higher incidence of native liver recovery without transplantation, and better survival after transplantation.
The control of canine leishmaniasis largely depends on the success of treatment. Drugs currently available to treat this disease are toxic and partially effective. The curative effect of marbofloxacin, a third-generation fluoroquinolone developed for veterinarian individual treatment, was evaluated in vitro in the presence of Leishmania infantum promastigotes and dog-monocyte-derived macrophages; meglumine antimoniate and sodium stibogluconate were used as comparative treatments. We observed that the killing of Leishmania promastigotes and intracellular amastigotes by marbofloxacin was dose-dependent. We demonstrated that successful treatment of canine infected macrophages for 48 h was possible with 500 microg/ml of marbofloxacin. Leishmanicidal activity acted through a TNF-alpha and nitric oxide pathway and correlated with the generation of nitric oxide (NO(2)) production by monocytes derived macrophages from infected (23+/-5 microM) or healthy (21+/-6 microM) dogs, in comparison with NO(2) concentration in infected/non-treated macrophages (< 3 microM, P<0.01). This significant induced parasiticidal effect correlated with extensive elimination of amastigotes by macrophages derived from infected (11+/-5) and healthy dogs (6+/-2), when compared to infected/non-treated macrophages (530+/-105 and 472+/-86 amastigotes, respectively, P< 0.01). Marbofloxacin was shown to be non-toxic at 500 microg/ml in vitro and no cell apoptosis was observed. The molecule was able to induce a parasitic process after significant elimination of amastigotes in leishmania-infected dog macrophages. We propose that marbofloxacin, compared to standard chemotherapeutic agents (meglumine antimoniate and sodium stibogluconate), could be an effective and pragmatic oral route alternative to treat canine leishmaniasis.
Exposure to arsenic through domestic burning arsenic-containing coal causes various tumors in a population of Guizhou, China. The glycophorin A (GPA) assay is a human mutation assay detecting somatic variation in erythrocytes expressing the MN blood type, and was used to assess genotoxicity of arsenic-exposed patients. Peripheral blood was collected from 18 adult healthy subjects and 40 arsenic-exposed patients in heparin-treated tubes. Erythrocytes were isolated, fixed in formalin and immuno-labeled with fluorescent antibodies against GPA, followed by flow cytometry analysis. Arsenic exposure increased the variant frequency (expressed as the number of variant red cells per 10(6) erythrocytes): NN, 3.7 in healthy subjects versus 21.2 in arsenic-exposed patients; N phi, 12.6 versus 33.1; MM, 13.1 versus 110; and M phi, 5.2 versus 20.3. The total GPA variant frequency was increased about five-fold (34.7 in healthy subjects versus 185 in arsenosis patients). Furthermore, the variant frequency was significantly higher in skin tumor-bearing patients: NN, 19.4 in arsenic-exposed non-tumor patients versus 31.5 in tumor-bearing patients; N phi, 29.5 versus 54.5; MM, 102 versus 159; M phi, 15.9 versus 45.1. Total GPA variant frequency in arsenic-exposed patients bearing skin tumors was significantly increased compared to patients without skin tumors (167 versus 290). The relationship between arsenic exposure history and GPA variant frequency was less evident. These data demonstrate that arsenic exposure is associated with mutations at the GPA locus, an effect exaggerated in patients bearing arsenic-induced skin tumors. The variant frequency of GPA could be a useful biomarker for arsenic exposure and arsenic carcinogenesis.
Epidemic freebase/crack cocaine use began in the Bahamas in 1982, closely followed by epidemics of genital ulcer disease (GUD) and HIV infection. Numbers of new clients receiving ambulatory treatment for cocaine use in Nassau peaked in 1984.
To assess interrelations among epidemics of crack use, GUD, and HIV infection.
The study was designed for review and comparison of temporal trends in ambulatory and inpatient treatment of cocaine users and in numbers of cases of sexually transmitted disease (STD) and HIV infection in the Bahamas. A retrospective case-control study of cocaine use and STDs was performed at the Comprehensive Dermatovenereology Clinic in Nassau.
Ambulatory visits and inpatient admissions for cocaine use peaked in 1984 and 1987, respectively. GUD cases increased 12-fold in the Bahamas from 1983 to the period of 1985-1987 and then declined. At the Comprehensive Dermatovenereology Clinic, gonorrhea cases outnumbered bacterial GUD cases approximately 10:1 in 1982 and 1983, but the latter increased to outnumber gonorrhea cases in 1985 and 1987-1988. Annual HIV seroprevalences at new-problem visits rose from less than 0.3% in 1986 to 12.9% by 1994 and then leveled off. Cocaine use among patients seen with STD from 1985 through 1990 was significantly associated with GUD (odds ratio [OR], 3.3; 95% CI, 2.1-5.1), secondary syphilis (OR 5.5; 95% CI, 2.4-12.6), and HIV infection (OR, 8.1; 95% CI, 4.3-15.2).
In temporally linked successive epidemics of cocaine use, GUD, and HIV infection, case-control analyses confirmed the association of cocaine use with GUD and with HIV infection. Declining GUD and HIV seroprevalence stabilization followed declines in cocaine use and implementation of syndromic management of GUD, as well as intensified partner-notification efforts.
There is no established second-line treatment for advanced pancreatic cancer after gemcitabine failure. In view of the urgent need for such therapy, and since preclinical and phase I clinical data suggest an encouraging, potentially synergistic activity between raltitrexed and irinotecan, the present randomised phase II study was initiated. A total of 38 patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma, who progressed while receiving or within 6 months after discontinuation of palliative first-line chemotherapy with gemcitabine, were enrolled in this study. They were randomised to 3-weekly courses of raltitrexed 3 mg x m(-2) on day 1 (arm A) or irinotecan 200 mg x m(-2) on day 1 plus raltitrexed 3 mg x m(-2) on day 2 (arm B). The primary study end point was objective response, secondary end points included progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), as well as clinical benefit response in symptomatic patients (n=28). In the combination arm, the IRC-confirmed objective response rate was 16% (three out of 19 patients had a partial remission; 95% CI, 3-40%), which was clearly superior to that in the comparator/control arm with raltitrexed alone, in which no response was obtained. Therefore, the trial was already stopped at the first stage of accrual. Also, the secondary study end points, median PFS (2.5 vs 4.0 months), OS (4.3 vs 6.5 months), and clinical benefit response (8 vs 29%) were superior in the combination arm. The objective and subjective benefits of raltitrexed+irinotecan were not negated by severe, clinically relevant treatment-related toxicities: gastrointestinal symptoms (42 vs 68%), partial alopecia (0 vs 42%), and cholinergic syndrome (0 vs 21%) were more commonly noted in arm B; however, grade 3 adverse events occurred in only three patients in both treatment groups. Our data indicate that combined raltitrexed+irinotecan seems to be an effective salvage regimen in patients with gemcitabine-pretreated pancreatic cancer. The superior response activity, PFS and OS (when compared to raltitrexed), as well as its tolerability and ease of administration suggest that future trials with this combination are warranted.
Ibutilide is a class III antiarrhythmic drug that is used for the cardioversion of atrial arrhythmias, but it can cause torsades de pointes. Amiodarone is also used for the cardioversion of atrial fibrillation and prolongs the QT interval but rarely causes torsades de pointes.
The study included 51 consecutive patients with recent onset atrial fibrillation in whom the administration of ibutilide failed to restore sinus rhythm. In those patients we decided to proceed to intravenous administration of amiodarone. The QT intervals were measured on 12-lead ECG. After 11 +/- 5 h of the administration of the amiodarone, 42 patients (82%) were on sinus rhythm. There was no episode of non-sustained torsades de pointes or hypotension that followed the administration of the two antiarrhythmic agents.
The administration of amiodarone in the case of ibutilide failure may be a useful adjunct to current cardioversion protocols for recent onset atrial fibrillation.
A 28-year-old, previously healthy mother of one child, with cigarette smoking and oral contraceptive medication as only risk factors suffered an acute anterior myocardial infarction without prior anginal complaints. Angiographically there were thrombotic occlusions of the LAD after the first septal branch and also of the distal left circumflex coronary artery. Six days after catheter recanalisation of the LAD and i.e. infusion of urokinase, there were small residual thrombi in the otherwise perfectly normal LAD and in a diagonal branch whereas the circumflex coronary artery was completely normal. The left ventricle showed anteroseptal (but not inferior) akinesis. The case report supports the hypothesis that myocardial infarctions under oral contraceptive medication are a separate disease entity unrelated to coronary atherosclerosis and may be the consequence of a "coagulation accident".
Prazosin (Minipress; Pfizer), a new antihypertensive agent, was investigated in 24 outpatients with uncontrolled hypertension. In 12 patients a single-blind placebo-controlled trial was conducted and in 12 patients an open trial with treatment for a minimum of 16 weeks. Three patients developed postural hypotension and were withdrawn from the trial. Fifteen patients responded to treatment with prazosin and normotensive levels were reached in 9. Ten patients had renal impairment at the start of the study; renal function remained static in 9 and serum urea and creatinine values increased in 1. Prazosin maintains renal function well in severely hypertensive patients and has a relatively low incidence of side-effects, related mainly to postural hypotension which develops unpredictably in some patients. In addition to its extensively documented beneficial effect in mild and moderate forms of hypertension, prazosin is of use in the therapy of patients with severe and uncontrolled hypertension.
Pain on injection of propofol is a common clinical problem. Flurbiprofen axetil, an injectable prodrug of flurbiprofen, with or without venous occlusion has been reported to reduce this pain. A search of the existing literature did not identify comparative studies of 3 different techniques, including pretreatment with flurbiprofen axetil, flurbiprofen axetil preceded by venous occlusion, and mixture of propofol and flurbiprofen axetil, for reducing pain on injection of propofol.
The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of these 3 different techniques of flurbiprofen axetil administration in reducing pain on injection of propofol.
This prospective, randomized, doubleblind, placebo-controlled study was conducted at the Department of Anesthesiology, Ushiku Aiwa General Hospital, Ibaraki, Japan. Japanese elective surgical patients, aged 20 to 65 years, were enrolled and were randomly divided into 6 groups: the control group received placebo (saline) before administration of IV propofol 0.5 mg/kg; the flurbiprofen group was pretreated with IV flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg before injection of propofol 0.5 mg/kg; the tourniquet control group received placebo (saline) with a tourniquet for 2 minutes followed by administering propofol 0.5 mg/kg; the tourniquet flurbiprofen group was pretreated with flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg with a tourniquet for 2 minutes followed by administering propofol 0.5 mg/kg; the mixed control group was induced with a mixture of placebo (saline) and propofol 0.5 mg/kg; and the mixed flurbiprofen group was induced with a mixture of flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg and propofol 0.5 mg/kg. Immediately after administering propofol into the largest vein of the hand through a 20-gauge intravenous cannula, an investigator blinded to group assignment asked the patient to assess pain intensity at the injection site using a 4-point verbal rating scale: 0 = none, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, and 3 = severe. Adverse effects (AEs) at the injection site (pain, edema, wheal, or inflammation) were assessed by the investigator for 24 hours after surgery using spontaneous reporting and patient interview.
One hundred fifty-five patients were assessed for inclusion. A total of 150 patients (71 males, 79 females; mean [SD] age, 41 [10] years; mean [SD] height, 161 [9] cm; mean [SD] body weight, 58 [9] kg) were enrolled and completed the study. Each treatment group comprised 25 patients. No significant differences in the demographic characteristics were observed among the 6 groups. The overall incidence of pain on injection of propofol was 92% (23 of 25 patients) in the control group versus 60% (15/ 25) in the flurbiprofen group (P = 0.009); 84% (21/25) in the tourniquet control group versus 32% (8/25) in the tourniquet flurbiprofen group (P = 0.001); and 92% (23/25) in the mixed control group versus 80% (20/25) in the mixed flurbiprofen group (P = NS). The median pain score was significantly lower in the flurbiprofen group (1) compared with the control group (2) (P = 0.002); this score was significantly lower in the tourniquet flurbiprofen group (0) compared with the tourniquet control group (2) (P = 0.001); the score was comparable between the mixed control and mixed flurbiprofen groups (2 vs 2, respectively; P = NS). The incidence and severity of pain on injection of propofol were significantly less in the tourniquet flurbiprofen group compared with the flurbiprofen group (both, P < 0.05). No AEs at the injection site were observed or reported.
In this study of adult Japanese surgical patients, pretreatment with flurbiprofen axetil 50 mg preceded by venous occlusion was found to be more effective in reducing pain on injection of propofol than the other flurbiprofen axetil administration strategies tested.
To evaluate tolerance of fludrocortisone in older patients with hypotensive disorders.
Prospective case series.
Syncope clinic.
64 Consecutive patients over 65 years (mean age 80 years) with one or more hypotensive disorders (orthostatic hypotension, vasodepressor carotid sinus syncope, and/or vasodepressor neurocardiogenic syncope.
Fludrocortisone in daily doses of 100 micrograms [corrected] (72%), 50 micrograms [corrected] (27%), and 200 micrograms [corrected] (one patient).
Adverse events, treatment withdrawal.
During follow up 13 patients died of unrelated causes. Of the remainder 33% discontinued fludrocortisone at a mean of five months. Reasons for discontinuing treatment were hypertension, five; cardiac failure, four; depression, three; oedema, three; and unspecified, two. In those who continued treatment supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure did not differ significantly from baseline (follow up two to 21 months). Hypokalaemia developed in 24% at a mean of eight months; in no case was treatment withdrawn because of hypokalaemia.
Fludrocortisone, even in low doses, is poorly tolerated in the long term in older patients with hypotensive disorders.
Lumbar epidural injections of 2 mg preservative-free morphine were given to 10 subjects in established labour. Assessment of pain using a visual analogue scoring system revealed no appreciable relief of pain 30 min after morphine infection. Analgesia was subsequently provided by epidural injection of 8 ml bupivacaine 0.375%. Failure of epidural 2 mg in the treatment of severe pain other than labour. Possible explanations for this discrepancy are discussed.
Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS), a regional pain condition caused by trigger points in muscle or muscle fascia, produces muscle pain, tenderness, and disability. The gold standard of treatment for MPS-infiltration of trigger points with anesthetic-may provoke discomfort to the patients and require medical intervention.
This study was designed to compare the effects of a topical lidocaine patch, a placebo patch, and injection of anesthetic (infiltration) for the symptoms of MPS in terms of pain, disability, and local tissue hypersensitivity, and to determine the acceptability of the lidocaine patch to the patients.
Patients were randomly allocated to receive 1 of 3 treatments: a lidocaine patch applied to the trigger point for 4 days (replacement every 12 hours; total daily dose, 350 mg), a placebo patch applied to the trigger point for 4 days (replacement every 12 hours), or infiltration of the trigger point with two 1-mL injections of 0.5% bupivacaine hydrochloride given 2 days apart. Treatment with the patches was double-blinded, whereas treatment with infiltration was single-blinded. The number of pain attacks, pain intensity at rest and on movement, and pain-related interference with daily activity, work activity, mood, and quality of life were recorded before, during, and after treatment using a visual analog scale (VAS). Pressure and electrical pain thresholds of the skin, subcutis, and muscle in the trigger point, target area, and a pain-free area were evaluated before starting therapy (day 1) and on days 5 and 9. A VAS was used to measure discomfort from therapy, and a diary was given to each patient to record requests for additional treatment (if needed) and adverse effects.
Sixty white patients (46 women and 14 men) 19 to 76 years of age were studied. Mean (SD) age was 46.88 (15.37) years, and mean (SD) weight was 69.58 (13.94) kg. Twenty patients were assigned to each treatment group. Subjective symptoms did not change with placebo, but decreased significantly with the lidocaine patch and infiltration (both, P < 0.001) relative to baseline. Pain thresholds did not vary with the placebo patch, but increased significantly with the lidocaine patch and infiltration (all, P < 0.001); effects at muscle trigger points and target areas were greater with infiltration. Discomfort from therapy was greater with infiltration than with the lidocaine patch. Only patients in the placebo group requested additional treatment (P < 0.001). No adverse events occurred in any group.
Lidocaine patches were effective in, and highly acceptable to, these patients with MPS and high tissue hypersensitivity.
We investigated the effect of diacerein, an antiosteoarthritic agent, and its metabolite, rhein, on the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) from neutrophils as well as the protective effect of diacerein on indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration and its protection mechanism. Rhein inhibited the ROS production from N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine or phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate-activated human peripheral neutrophils. Indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration was significantly inhibited by oxygen radical scavengers and 16,16-dimethyl-prostaglandin E(2) (dmPGE(2)) but not by allopurinol. Diacerein inhibited indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration in a dose-dependent manner. Diacerein did not affect the gastric mucosal PGE(2) content. In addition, diacerein inhibited HCl + ethanol-induced gastric ulceration. These data indicate that the inhibitory effect of diacerein on indomethacin-induced gastric ulceration could be mediated not by the augmentation of gastric mucosal PGE(2) production but by the suppression of ROS production based on its inhibition of neutrophil activation.
A rat line carrying three copies of the human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogenes, including its own promoter region, was established and designated as Hras128. Expression of the transgene was detected in all organs by Northern blot analysis. To examine its influence on susceptibility to mammary carcinogenesis, female rats were treated with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU) or 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene (DMBA) at 50 days of age. With MNU, all the transgenic rats rapidly developed multiple mammary carcinomas within as short as 8 weeks (14.1 tumors/rat), in contrast to 0.46 tumors/rat in non-transgenic rats. PCR-RFLP analysis and direct sequencing for the transgene indicated that the large majority of carcinomas (38/44, 86.4%) contained cells with mutations at codon 12 in exon 1. However, comparison of the signal densities of the mutated band to dilution scale bands revealed that the cells with the mutated transgene were not in the majority. By PCR-SSCP analysis for codons 12 and 61 of the rat endogenous c-Ha-ras gene, no mutations were detected. Similarly, with DMBA, almost all (13/14, 92.9%) the transgenic rats developed multiple mammary carcinomas (9.39 tumors/rat) within 16 weeks, and 4 out of 12 (33.3%) non-transgenic rats had only small tumors (0.83 tumors/rat). A lower incidence of mutation of the transgene was found in codon 12 (5/25, 25%) than in MNU-induced tumors, but mutations were detected in codon 61 (7/20, 35%). No mutations were detected in the rat endogenous gene. No mutation was found in the rat endogenous c-Ha-ras gene in non-transgenic rats. As observed in both the MNU- and DMBA-induced tumor cases, the population of cells with the mutated transgene were in the minority. The results thus indicate that rats carrying the transduced human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogene are highly susceptible to MNU- and DMBA-induced mammary carcinogenesis and that this is not primarily due to mutations of the transgene or endogenous c-Ha-ras gene. Furthermore, irrespective of the mechanism of enhanced susceptibility, the Hras128 transgenic rats can be utilized for the screening of mammary carcinogens.
Recent studies have demonstrated that frequent, low-dose metronomic (MET) dosing of cytotoxic agents may not only be as efficient as conventional maximum tolerated dose (MTD) chemotherapy but also less toxic. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic effect and safety of MET chemotherapy using cyclophosphamide (CTX) in rats with chemically induced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Rats received weekly intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of diethylnitrosamine during 16 weeks for induction of HCC. The rats were divided into three groups: MTD group received 40 mg/kg CTX i.p. injection on days 1, 3, and 5 of a 21-day cycle; Control and MET groups received saline and 20 mg/kg CTX i.p. injection twice a week, respectively. The growth-modulating effects and overall survival were compared between the groups. Anti-angiogenic effects were evaluated by a measurement of endothelial cell and VEGFR-2 expression.
At 6 weeks of therapy, MTD and MET chemotherapy resulted in a significant reduction in tumor number and size compared with Control group. MET chemotherapy showed more prolonged survival than MTD chemotherapy and Control groups (P < 0.05). MET chemotherapy resulted in a significant decrease in both the micro-vessel density and endothelial proliferation index (P < 0.01). Furthermore, MET chemotherapy led to a greater decrease in VEGFR-2 expression at the mRNA and protein levels (P < 0.01).
MET scheduling not only exhibits anti-tumor and anti-angiogenic effects, but also prolongs survival without major toxicities in a rat model of HCC. Our results suggest that MET chemotherapy has a high therapeutic value and should be considered for future clinical trials.
3-Monochloropropane-1,2-diol (3-MCPD) is a food-born contaminant known to display toxic effects on male reproduction, producing infertility in rats and humans. Using the rat as a model, we investigated whether or not testicular organogenesis, which, in the rat species, occurs during the second half of gestation, was at particular risk regarding 3-MCPD toxicity. Pregnant rats were given daily doses of 5, 10 or 25 mg/kg BW of 3-MCPD from days 11.5-18.5 postcoitum (dpc). On 19.5 dpc, testes were removed from fetuses for histological examination and testosterone analysis. Eight genes were selected among the differentiation markers of testicular cell lineages, and their expression was studied by RT-PCR. The levels of 3-MCPD and its main metabolite, beta-chlorolactic acid, were assayed in fetal tissues and dam plasma. Our results show a statistically significant decrease in the mean body weight gain of pregnant rats treated with 10 and 25 mg/kg BW of 3-MCPD. Fetal testes exposed to 3-MCPD exhibited normal histology and produced testosterone at levels that were similar to controls. In addition, 3-MCPD did not alter gene expression in the fetal testes. This lack of effect occurred under conditions where 3-MCPD and beta-chlorolactic acid were found to readily cross the placental barrier and diffuse throughout the fetal tissues. Our findings indicate that 3-MCPD has minimal effect on rat testicular organogenesis.
Inhalation of 9,10-phenanthrenequinone (9,10-PQ), a major quinone in diesel exhaust, exerts fatal damage against a variety of cells involved in respiratory function. Here, we show that treatment with high concentrations of 9,10-PQ evokes apoptosis of lung cancer A549 cells through production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In contrast, 9,10-PQ at its concentrations of 2 and 5 μM elevated the potentials for proliferation, invasion, metastasis and tumorigenesis, all of which were almost completely inhibited by addition of an antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine, inferring a crucial role of ROS in the overgrowth and malignant progression of lung cancer cells. Comparison of mRNA expression levels of six aldo-keto reductases (AKRs) in the 9,10-PQ-treated cells advocated up-regulation of AKR1B10 as a major cause contributing to the lung cancer malignancy. In support of this, the elevation of invasive, metastatic and tumorigenic activities in the 9,10-PQ-treated cells was significantly abolished by the addition of a selective AKR1B10 inhibitor oleanolic acid. Intriguingly, zymographic and real-time PCR analyses revealed remarkable increases in secretion and expression, respectively, of matrix metalloproteinase 2 during the 9,10-PQ treatment, and suggested that the AKR1B10 up-regulation and resultant activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade are predominant mechanisms underlying the metalloproteinase induction. In addition, HPLC analysis and cytochrome c reduction assay in in vitro 9,10-PQ reduction by AKR1B10 demonstrated that the enzyme catalyzes redox-cycling of this quinone, by which ROS are produced. Collectively, these results suggest that AKR1B10 is a key regulator involved in overgrowth and malignant progression of the lung cancer cells through ROS production due to 9,10-PQ redox-cycling.
Aspirin intolerance manifested as bronchospasm or urticaria/angioedema has been observed since the beginning of this century.
To report a novel case of intolerance to aspirin ingestion.
Case report; routine skin testing; pulmonary function testing; aspirin challenge.
A 30-year-old man with a history of left ocular trauma at the age of 10 noted a 3-year history of left periorbital angioedema after aspirin but not other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Incremental oral aspirin challenge resulted in this unilateral symptomatology at a dose of 673 mg.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported case of unilateral periorbital edema following aspirin ingestion.
