Copper deficiency was induced in Sprague Dawley rats by dietary restriction to confirm and extend studies on copper, zinc-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD). Male rats restricted from copper in two models, a traditional postweanling model examining 50-day-old rats fed a low copper diet for 32 days (postnatal) and a gestational-lactational model examining 23-day-old male offspring of dams started on copper deficiency at day 7 of gestation (perinatal), showed signs of severe copper deficiency including anemia, and cardiac hypertrophy. Compared to control rats, copper-deficient rats exhibited lower copper concentrations in the liver, heart, brain, and kidney and lower Cu,Zn-SOD activity in the same organs with the exception of the brain in the postnatal model. In addition, there was a significant reduction in Cu,Zn-SOD protein detected by Western immunoblot proportional (r = 0.96) to the reduction in Cu,Zn-SOD activity. In the liver the reduction in Cu,Zn-SOD protein was approximately 50%. The reduction in Cu,Zn-SOD protein is likely due to a post-transcriptional mechanism as steady-state Cu,Zn-SOD mRNA levels measured by Northern hybridization were not altered by copper deficiency in any organ studied (liver, heart, and brain). Perhaps apo-Cu,Zn-SOD is degraded faster than fully metal-loaded enzyme. The loss of Cu,Zn-SOD activity and protein reduces the antioxidant defense capacity of copper-deficient organs.
In vitro studies showed that mutations in the basal core promoter (BCP) or precore (PC) region restore the replication inefficiency of the lamivudine-resistant mutant. The aim of this study was to clarify the effect of molecular characteristics on the antiviral response to adefovir in patients with lamivudine-resistant chronic hepatitis B (CHB).
Sixty-six lamivudine-resistant patients who were treated with adefovir monotherapy were studied. Sequences of BCP, PC region and reverse transcriptase were determined before adefovir therapy. In patients with virologic breakthrough, reverse transcriptase sequencing was performed.
The cumulative probabilities of virologic response were 23.3, 46, 52.7 and 59.5% at years 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. PC mutation, the absence of compensatory mutations (rtL80I/V or rtV173L), and a decrease in serum hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA by 3 log or greater at 6 months were independent predictors of virologic response. The cumulative probabilities of virologic breakthrough were 0, 12.9, 30.7 and 44.5% at years 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. BCP mutation and a less than 3 log decrease in serum HBV DNA at 6 months were 2 independent risk factors for virologic breakthrough.
Response to adefovir depends on mutation patterns in the BCP, PC region and reverse transcriptase, and on-treatment decreases in serum HBV DNA in lamivudine-resistant CHB patients.
An uncontrolled open prospective dose escalation study of daily constant-rate 24-h i.v. pentoxifylline (PTX) infusions was performed in 24 consecutive adult patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing allogeneic BMT. The objective of this study was to determine the maximum tolerable dose and to evaluate steady-state plasma concentrations of PTX and its major active 5-hydroxylated metabolite (MI) with this application route. On each of three dose levels of PTX (10, 15 and 20 mg/kg/day), eight patients were enrolled in this study. The prominent dose-dependent and dose-limiting adverse effect attributable to PTX infusions was moderate to severe nausea and vomiting which occurred on the 15 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg dose levels. In addition, one patient on each of the higher doses developed central nervous system toxicity which manifested as acute obtundation and myoclonias. Monitoring of steady-state plasma concentrations revealed that metabolite MI contributed 70-80% to both active compounds with a dose-dependent increase of parent drug and metabolite MI concentrations. In patients pretreated by high-dose busulfan and cyclophosphamide (CY), steady-state plasma concentrations of metabolite MI were significantly increased on all dose levels over those of patients who received total body irradiation and CY as a preparative regimen. Furthermore, impairment of excretory liver function led to significant accumulation of parent drug and metabolite MI. In conclusion, constant i.v. PTX infusions in allogeneic marrow transplant recipients are limited by dose-dependent nausea and vomiting with an estimated maximum tolerable dose in the range of 10 mg/kg/day.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Acute allergic interstitial nephritis is manifested clinically by rash, fever, eosinophilia, hematuria, oliguria and azotemia. Histologically a monocytic inflammatory process in the renal interstitium is seen. The clinical course of a patient after excessive sodium cephalothin administration suggested allergic interstitial nephritis and implicates this drug as an etiologic agent.
We evaluated the relationship between diagnosed depression and pesticide exposure using information from private pesticide applicators enrolled in the Agricultural Health Study between 1993 and 1997 in Iowa and North Carolina.
There were 534 cases who self-reported a physician-diagnosed depression and 17,051 controls who reported never having been diagnosed with depression and did not feel depressed more than once a week in the past year. Lifetime pesticide exposure was categorized in three mutually exclusive groups: low (< 226 days, the reference group), intermediate (226-752 days), and high (> 752 days). Two additional measures represented acute high-intensity pesticide exposures: an unusually high pesticide exposure event (HPEE) and physician-diagnosed pesticide poisoning. Logistic regression analyses were performed relating pesticide exposure to depression.
After adjusting for state, age, education, marital status, doctor visits, alcohol use, smoking, solvent exposure, not currently having crops or animals, and ever working a job off the farm, pesticide poisoning was more strongly associated with depression [odds ratio (OR) = 2.57; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.74-3.79] than intermediate (OR = 1.07; 95% CI, 0.87-1.31) or high (OR = 1.11; 95% CI, 0.87-1.42) cumulative exposure or an HPEE (OR = 1.65; 95% CI, 1.33-2.05). In analysis of a subgroup without a history of acute poisoning, high cumulative exposure was significantly associated with depression (OR = 1.54; 95% CI, 1.16-2.04).
These findings suggest that both acute high-intensity and cumulative pesticide exposure may contribute to depression in pesticide applicators. Our study is unique in reporting that depression is also associated with chronic pesticide exposure in the absence of a physician-diagnosed poisoning.
Injury and repair of the glomerular epithelial cells (GECs) play an important role in the pathogenesis of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). To obtain a better understanding of proliferation and apoptosis of GECs, we examined immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization findings in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) of rats. The minimal-change nephrotic syndrome model (PAN-MCNS) was induced by administering 5 subcutaneous injections of puromycin aminonucleoside (PA; each 1.5 mg/100 g B/W to one group of rats), whereas the FSGS model (PAN-FSGS) was induced by administering an additional 5 injections of PA to another group of rats. The cell kinetics of the GECs were assessed with labeling 5-bromo 2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). To investigate regulation of apoptosis in rats with PAN, we evaluated the expression of p53, Fas antigen, Fas ligand and Bc1-2. Rats with PAN-MCNS exhibited a significantly greater number of BrdU- and PCNA-labeled GECs as compared with control rats. In rats with PAN-FSGS, the number of PCNA-labeled GECs was greater than in rats with PAN-MCNS, but the number of BrdU-labeled GECs was lower. Apoptotic cells were occasionally observed in the sclerotic lesions, with the number being significantly higher in rats with PAN-FSGS than in rats with PAN-MCNS and control. Apoptotic cells were observed in the GECs of PAN-FSGS rats. However, they were negative for p53, Fas antigen, and Fas ligand. Immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies revealed a greater intraglomerular overexpression of Bc1-2 protein and bc1-2 mRNA in the PAN-FSGS rats as compared with control rats. These results suggest that insufficient proliferation and apoptosis in GECs may be involved in the progression of FSGS.
Genetic variability in the alpha-synuclein gene and long-term exposure to the pesticide paraquat constitute possible risk factors for sporadic Parkinson's disease. The goal of the present study was to further characterize the effects of paraquat in mice as a model of Parkinson's disease and to determine whether it acted synergistically with alpha-synuclein over-expression to cause nigrostriatal cell death or dysfunction. Paraquat (10 mg/kg i.p.) was administered once a week for 3 weeks to mice over-expressing human alpha-synuclein under the Thy1 promoter and their wild-type littermates. The effect of paraquat on catecholaminergic neurons was reminiscent of that of Parkinson's disease, with preferential loss of dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tier of the substantia nigra pars compacta and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase staining in the locus coeruleus. alpha-Synuclein over-expression did not increase paraquat-induced cell loss, and paraquat did not worsen the behavioral deficits observed in the transgenic mice. However, paraquat markedly increased proteinase-K-resistant alpha-synuclein aggregates in substantia nigra of the transgenic mice. The data further validate the use of paraquat to model Parkinson's disease in mice and show that although paraquat and alpha-synuclein over-expression act synergistically to increase protein aggregation in vivo, this interaction does not result in short-term neuroprotection or increased vulnerability of nigrostriatal neurons.
We have previously shown that exposure to tributyltin (TBT) modulates critical steps of adipogenesis through RXR/PPARγ and that prenatal TBT exposure predisposes multipotent mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to become adipocytes by epigenetic imprinting into the memory of the MSC compartment.
We tested whether the effects of prenatal TBT exposure were heritable in F2 and F3 generations.
We exposed C57BL/6J female mice (F0) to DMSO vehicle, the pharmaceutical obesogen rosiglitazone (ROSI), or TBT (5.42, 54.2, or 542 nM) throughout pregnancy via the drinking water. F1 offspring were bred to yield F2, and F2 mice were bred to produce F3. F1 animals were exposed in utero and F2 mice were potentially exposed as germ cells in the F1, but F3 animals were never exposed to the chemicals. We analyzed the effects of these exposures on fat depot weights, adipocyte number, adipocyte size, MSC programming, hepatic lipid accumulation, and hepatic gene expression in all three generations.
Prenatal TBT exposure increased most white adipose tissue (WAT) depot weights, adipocyte size, and adipocyte number, and reprogrammed MSCs toward the adipocyte lineage at the expense of bone in all three generations. Prenatal TBT exposure led to hepatic lipid accumulation and up-regulated hepatic expression of genes involved in lipid storage/transport, lipogenesis, and lipolysis in all three subsequent generations.
Prenatal TBT exposure produced transgenerational effects on fat depots and induced a phenotype resembling nonalcoholic fatty liver disease through at least the F3 generation. These results show that early-life obesogen exposure can have lasting effects.
The effect of methyl mercury chloride (MeHgCl) on the chick sympathetic and sensory dorsal root ganglia was studied in a biological in vitro assay. These cultures were not affected by the addition of MeHg up to a concentration of 2 microM. However, after an addition of 4-5 microM MeHg the capability of the neurons to respond to added nerve growth factor (NGF) was completely inhibited. The effect of MeHg was also examined in a fibroblast cell line, mouse 3T3 cells. After the addition of mercury to the culture medium at concentrations as low as 0.1 microM, an elevated production of the NGF protein was observed. However, NGF mRNA measured in the individual fibroblast cells by in situ hybridization was found to be reduced to about 80% of the control in the low level at day 2 of exposure. These results suggest that the release of NGF is actively enhanced from the 3T3 cells by addition of low levels of mercury. The results thus show that MeHg at low to moderate concentrations has adverse effects on NGF responses in cultured neurons and moreover alter levels of NGF production in cells, suggestive of mechanisms for mercury toxicity in the developing nervous system.
The aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of the transient receptor potential ankyrin 1 (TRPA1) in haemorrhagic cystitis, the main side effect of cyclophosphamide-based chemotherapy. Hannover female rats received intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of cyclophosphamide (three doses of 100 mg/kg, every other day, in a total of five days). This treatment was followed by the treatment with TRPA1 antagonist HC 030031 (50 mg/kg, p.o.). The threshold for hindpaw withdrawal or abdominal retraction to von Frey Hair and the locomotor activity were measured. The treatment with the TRPA1 antagonist HC 030031 significantly decreased mechanical hyperalgesia induced by cyclophosphamide without interfere with locomotor activity. Urodynamic parameters were performed by cystometry 24 h after a single treatment with cyclophosphamide (200 mg/kg, i.p.) in control and HC 030031 treated rats. Analyses of the urodynamic parameters showed that a single dose of cyclophosphamide was enough to significantly increase the number and amplitude of non-voiding contractions and to decrease the voided volume and voiding efficiency, without significantly altering basal, threshold or maximum pressure. The treatment with HC 030031 either before (100 mg/kg, p.o.) or after (30 mg/kg, i.v.) cyclophosphamide inhibited the non-voiding contractions but failed to counteract the loss in voiding efficiency. Our data demonstrates that nociceptive symptoms and urinary bladder overactivity caused by cyclophosphamide, in part, are dependent upon the activation of TRPA1. In this context, the antagonism of the receptor may be an alternative to minimise the urotoxic symptoms caused by this chemotherapeutic agent.
Recent data from animal models indicate that the eNOS null mice present a phenotype that resemble the human metabolic syndrome (hypertension, insulin resistance and hypertriglyceridemia). In this work, we have studied whether NOS3 gene, previously related to endothelial dysfunction, might have a role in metabolic syndrome susceptibility in hypertensive patients. To carry out the study, we genotyped 105 hypertensive patients < or = 60 years old with two polymorphisms of NOS3 gene: 1132 T>C and 7164 G>T (GeneBank:AF519768.1). To check the allelic frequency of these polymorphisms in our geographical area, we also genotyped 94 unselected healthy controls (control group). To perform sample genotyping, we designed a novel FRET system coupled to real time PCR. There were no differences in genotypic distribution or allelic frequency between hypertensive patients and the control group. However, we observed that 786CC genotype was significantly more frequent in hypertensive patients with metabolic syndrome than in those without the syndrome (p=0.0022). When both polymorphisms were analyzed, we identified the 786C894G as the risk haplotype for metabolic syndrome susceptibility (p=0.011). These data suggest a role of the NOS3 gene in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome in hypertensive patients.
A 38-year-old male received internal hemorrhoidectomy under spinal anaesthesia. Subarachnoid puncture was performed between the L4-5 lumbar interspace by a 25 gauge disposable spinal needle under sitting position. Forty five mg of 5% pethidine was injected into the subarachnoid space. The level of analgesia was L3. After 15 minutes, sinus brady-dysrhythmia was observed on ECG monitor. Heart rate dropped to 37 beats.min-1 and blood pressure was 85/39 mm Hg. Following administration of atropine 0.5mg intravenously, atrioventricular block (Wenckebach type) was observed. In a short period, ECG changed to normal sinus rhythm but PQ interval remained at 0.2 msec (1st degree AV block), but blood pressure returned to normal. Thereafter no ECG change was observed during intra and postoperative periods.
The widespread use of aluminum (Al) provides easy exposure of humans to the metal and its accumulation remains a potential problem. In vivo and in vitro assays have associated Al overload with anemia. To better understand the mechanisms by which Al affects human erythrocytes, morphological and biochemical changes were analyzed after long-term treatment using an in vitro model. The appearance of erythrocytes with abnormal shapes suggested metal interaction with cell surface, supported by the fact that high amounts of Al attached to cell membrane. Long-term incubation of human erythrocytes with Al induced signs of premature erythrocyte death (eryptosis), such as phosphatidylserine externalization, increased intracellular calcium, and band 3 degradation. Signs of oxidative stress, such as significant increase in reactive oxygen species in parallel with decrease in the amount of reduced glutathione, were also observed. These oxidative effects were completely prevented by the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine. Interestingly, erythrocytes were also protected from the prooxidative action of Al by the presence of erythropoietin (EPO). In conclusion, results provide evidence that chronic Al exposure may lead to biochemical and morphological alterations similar to those shown in eryptosis induced by oxidant compounds in human erythrocytes. The antieryptotic effect of EPO may contribute to enhance the knowledge of its physiological role on erythroid cells. Irrespective of the antioxidant mechanism, this property of EPO, shown in this model of Al exposure, let us suggest potential benefits by EPO treatment of patients with anemia associated to altered redox environment.
Investigations of new analgesic treatments ideally are coupled with the use of compassionate methods for pain testing in animals. Recently, we described a novel operant thermal testing device that can be used to quantify orofacial pain. The objective of the current study was to differentiate thermal allodynia from hyperalgesia using this operant thermal assay. Rats were trained to complete a task whereby they had a conflict between a positive reward and tolerance for thermal nociceptive stimulation. They were subjected to cool to hot temperatures (24-45 degrees C) and evaluated under naïve (untreated), capsaicin cream (0.075%), capsaicin/morphine, or morphine test conditions. The following outcome measures were evaluated: reward intake; licking contacts; facial contacts; time to complete 25, 50, and 75% of the events (licks and face contacts); facial contact duration; ratio of reward/stimulus contacts; and ratio of facial contact duration/event. Capsaicin produced an increase in mechanical sensitivity and a significant thermal allodynic effect at 42 degrees C and hyperalgesic effect at 45 degrees C. These effects were blocked with morphine pre-treatment. The temporal profile for completing the task was also significantly altered following capsaicin treatment. These data demonstrate that using the operant orofacial assay in conjunction with capsaicin cream can provide a reproducible, sensitive, minimally invasive, and powerful approach for quantifying and studying enhanced thermal pain within the trigeminal system. This technique provides an alternative to reflex tests of orofacial sensitivity, and it presents a pivotal link for translating basic pain research into clinic trial strategies.
The study aimed to identify the differentially expressed nigrostriatal proteins in cypermethrin-induced neurodegeneration and to investigate the role of microglial activation therein. Proteomic approaches were used to identify the differentially expressed proteins. Microglial activation, tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (TH-IR), dopamine content, and neurobehavioral changes were measured according to the standard procedures. The expressions of α-internexin intermediate filament (α-IIF), ATP synthase D chain (ATP-SD), heat shock protein (Hsp)-70, truncated connexin-47, Hsp-60, mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated kinase-5, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dehydrogenase 24k chain precursor, platelet-activating factor acetyl hydrolase 1b-α2 (PAF-AH 1b-α2), and synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (SNAP-25) were altered in the substantia nigra and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide- specific isocitrate dehydrogenase, phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein-1, prohibitin, protein disulfide isomerase-endoplasmic reticulum 60 protease, stathmin, and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme in the striatum along with motor impairment, decreased dopamine and TH-IR, and increased microglial activation after cypermethrin exposure. Minocycline restored α-IIF, ATP-SD chain, truncated connexin-47, Hsp-60, PAF-AH 1b-α2, stathmin and SNAP-25 expressions, motor impairment, dopamine, TH-IR, and microglial activation. The results suggest that cypermethrin produces microglial activation-dependent and -independent changes in the expression patterns of the nigrostriatal proteins leading to dopaminergic neurodegeneration.
This study examined the effects of baicalin, a bioactive flavonoid isolated from Scutellariae Radix, on carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver injury. Mice were treated intraperitoneally with 0.5 ml/kg CCl(4) and different groups of animals received 25, 50, 100, and 200 mg/kg baicalin. At 24 h after the CCl(4) treatment, the level of serum aminotransferases and lipid peroxidation was significantly elevated, whereas the hepatic glutathione content was decreased. These changes were attenuated by baicalin. The histological studies showed that baicalin inhibited the portal inflammation, centrizonal necrosis, and Kupffer cell hyperplasia, which are the three most common characteristics of CCl(4)-induced liver damage. The serum level and mRNA expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha were markedly increased by the CCl(4) treatment but suppressed by baicalin. The mRNA and protein expression levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase and heme oxygenase-1 increased significantly at 24 h after the CCl(4) treatment. Baicalin attenuated the increase in the protein and gene expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase but augmented the increase in those of heme oxygenase-1. These findings suggest that baicalin protects hepatocytes from the oxidative damage caused by CCl(4), and this protection is likely due to the induction of HO-1 expression and the inhibition of the proinflammatory mediators.
Manidipine, a calcium channel blocker, is a piperazine derivative similar to flunarizine or cinnarizine, which are known to induce parkinsonism. Since it has been reported that manidipine can worsen parkinsonian symptoms in a patient with Parkinson's disease, we have evaluated catalepsy in manidipine-treated mice and compared this with flunarizine-and haloperidol-induced catalepsy. The minimum dose at which manidipine induced catalepsy was 200 times higher than that of haloperidol whereas for flunarizine, the minimum dose was 50 times higher than that for haloperidol. Manidipine, flunarizine and haloperidol occupied both dopamine D1 and D2 receptors and D2-receptor occupancy was higher than D1-receptor occupancy. These results suggest that the blockade of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors by drugs and the drug-induced catalepsy are related to the structure (piperazinyl substituent) of the drugs.
A prospective, placebo-controlled, comparative evaluation was conducted on two widely prescribed, sympatholytic antihypertensive agents with known CNS effects. In order to separately assess these effects in younger and older male hypertensives, patients were assigned to either of two treatment studies based on age. For study I, 24 males aged 31-59 (mean = 49.8; SD = 7.4) with mild hypertension (mean DBP = 100.2 mm Hg; SD = 8.0) received 3 months of treatment with propranolol (20-80 mg bid), clonidine (0.1-0.3 mg bid), or double-blind placebo in a counterbalanced, crossover design. For study II, 23 elderly hypertensive males (mean DBP = 102.6 mm Hg; SD = 8.2) aged 60-78 years (mean = 65.1; SD = 4.6) were randomized to propranolol (20-40 mg bid) or double-blind placebo therapy. Patients received cognitive testing, mood assessments, and all-night polysomnographic evaluations before and after each treatment period. Multivariate analysis of EEG sleep data was statistically significant for study I, with significant univariate effects on four of the six primary sleep variables: total sleep time was reduced, sleep maintenance decreased, REM latency increased, and percent total REM time was reduced. A similar MANOVA analysis for the effects of treatment on the sleep of older patients (study II) was not significant. However, propranolol administration was found to be associated with a significant decline in cognitive performance in these patients. Significant mood effects were observed with each of the study drugs, and nocturnal penile tumescence (NPT) was significantly decreased in both younger and older patients. Overall, this research suggests that distinct patterns of CNS effects are associated with each of the antihypertensive agents studied.
A 52-year-old male developed cutaneous necrotizing vasculitis, renal failure, massive proteinuria, and elevated serum IgE levels following oral naproxen therapy. Renal biopsy specimen revealed cellular crescents in more than 40% of the glomeruli and a rare arteriole displayed thickening and eosinophilia of intima. Electron microscopic examination showed fusion of epithelial foot processes. Discontinuation of naproxen therapy was associated with disappearance of cutaneous lesions and improvement of renal function.
Cough is the most frequent reason for consultation with a family doctor, or with a general or respiratory physician. Treatment options are limited and a recent meta-analysis concluded that over-the-counter remedies are ineffective and there is increasing concern about their use in children. Endogenous inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and bradykinin (BK), which are often elevated in respiratory disease states, are also known to cause cough by stimulating airway sensory nerves. However, how this occurs is not understood.
We hypothesised that the transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, TRPA1 and TRPV1, may have a role as 'common effectors' of tussive responses to these agents. We have employed a range of in vitro imaging and isolated tissue assays in human, murine and guinea pig tissue and an in vivo cough model to support this hypothesis.
Using calcium imaging we demonstrated that PGE2 and BK activated isolated guinea pig sensory ganglia and evoked depolarisation (activation) of vagal sensory nerves, which was inhibited by TRPA1 and TRPV1 blockers (JNJ17203212 and HC-030031). These data were confirmed in vagal sensory nerves from TRPA1 and TRPV1 gene deleted mice. TRPV1 and TRPA1 blockers partially inhibited the tussive response to PGE2 and BK with a complete inhibition obtained in the presence of both antagonists together in a guinea pig conscious cough model.
This study identifies TRPA1 and TRPV1 channels as key regulators of tussive responses elicited by endogenous and exogenous agents, making them the most promising targets currently identified in the development of anti-tussive drugs.
To evaluate the role of hexamethylmelamine (HMM) in the treatment of endometrial cancer, 20 women with metastatic or recurrent endometrial carcinoma received HMM orally at a dose of 8 mg/kg/day. Six patients (30%) showed a partial response, with a median duration of response of 3.5 months and a range of 1 to 7 months. Two patients responded to HMM as a second-line agent following previous treatment with nonhormonal chemotherapy. There were no complete responses. The major toxicities noted with HMM therapy were nausea, vomiting, and neurotoxicity. In 6 patients (30%), therapy with HMM was discontinued because of toxicity. Although HMM is active against endometrial cancer when given at a dose of 8 mg/kg/day, it appears to have limited usefulness because toxicity precludes its prolonged administration.
We describe a case of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) after long term tamoxifen therapy in a 71-year-old woman. The patient was prescribed tamoxifen for 12 years following right mastectomy and axillary node clearance for breast carcinoma in 1985. In 1997, she complained of abdominal pain and fullness. An abdominal ultrasound scan showed lesions in the right lobe of liver which were thought to be metastases. However, a biopsy showed primary HCC. Studies in rats suggest that tamoxifen is involved in hepatic carcinogenesis but studies in humans have failed to show any increased risk. However, these studies followed up patients for less than five years. An increased risk of HCC may not become apparent until after a decade or more of tamoxifen therapy. In addition, HCC in tamoxifen treated patients may be under-reported since there may be reluctance to biopsy liver tumours which are assumed to be secondary carcinoma of the breast.
To evaluate the relationship between high initial blood pressure and functional outcome in patients with acute stroke.
An observational study based on the data from the Intravenous Nimodipine West European Stroke Trial (INWEST). INWEST was a placebo-controlled randomized study terminated prematurely; subsequent analysis found a correlation between diastolic BP (DBP) reduction caused by high-dose nimodipine and unfavourable outcome. Subjects. Of the 295 patients with acute ischaemic stroke (within 24 h) recruited in the INWEST, 265 were included in this analysis [n = 92 for placebo, n = 93 for low-dose nimodipine (1-mg h(-1)) and n=80 for high-dose nimodipine (2-mg h(-1))]. Definition. Initial BP was defined as BP at the time of randomization. Normal initial BP (NIBP)=systolic BP (SBP) 120-160 and DBP 60-90 mmHg (n=126). Four alternatives were defined as high initial BP (HIBP): (1) >160/90 (n=126), (2) >170/95 (n=106), (3) >180/100 (n=63), (4) >190/105 (n=45). Main outcome measures. Combined death or dependency (DD) (Barthel index < 60) at 21 days.
In multiple logistic regression analyses, the odds ratio [OR] for DD at day 21 was significantly higher in patients with any definition of HIBP than with NIBP. For all patients, OR and 95% confidence intervals [CI] for 160/90 versus NIBP=3.1, 1.3-7.3, respectively; for 170/95=3.3, 1.4-8.1; for 180/100=7.0, 2.1-22.8; for 190/105=3.7, 1.1-12.4. For only placebo patients, OR and 95% CI for 160/90=4.8, 1.2-19.3; for 170/95=4.4, 1.1-17.8; for 180/100=12.7, 2.2-74.7; for 190/105=5.6, 1.1-30.0. The outcome was similar at 24 weeks but did not reach statistical significance for the placebo patients.
Patients with HIBP had a poor functional outcome after acute stroke.
Ineffective tumour antigen processing is recognised as an important cause of failure of immunotherapy in melanoma. GM-CSF may augment the cytotoxic lymphocyte response by activating antigen-presenting cells. This study evaluates a schedule combining GM-CSF with biochemotherapy.
Nineteen patients with advanced malignant melanoma received cisplatin (25 mg/m2 days 1-3). dacarbazine (220 mg/m2 days 1-3), interleukin-2 (9 MIU/m2/24 h) and interferon-alpha2b (5 MIU/m2) both days 6-10 and days 17-21, and tamoxifen 40 mg/day continuously. Subcutaneous GM-CSF was given in escalating doses to three cohorts: 1) 450 microg/m2 days 4-5 and 15-16; 2) as 1) plus 225 microg/m2 days 6-10 and 17-21; 3) 450 microg/m2 days 4-10 and 15-21. Each cycle was 28 days.
Constitutional side effects were the major non-haematological toxicity and lymphopaenia the main haematological toxicity. Six patients responded (32%, 95% confidence interval: 13%-57%), two patients had complete remission. There was an apparent trend for increasing responses with increasing GM-CSF dose; zero of six responses in cohort 1, two of seven in cohort 2 and three of six in cohort 3 (P = 0.016). Median overall survival was 6.2 months. Increasing GM-CSF doses significantly increased serum concentrations of neopterin and TNF-alpha.
The combination of GM-CSF with biochemotherapy is feasible and there appears to be a dose-response relationship with GM-CSF in terms of host immunological response, and possibly clinical efficacy.
Nuevo León is a state in northeastern Mexico, near the border of Texas. Mean mortality rate from 1996-98 due to anencephaly cases was 0.6/1,000. In 1999 a surveillance program for the registry and prevention of neural tube defects (NTD) cases was initiated.
Cases were obtained from hospitals and OB-GYN clinics by immediate notification, death certificates, or fetal death registries. Only isolated cases of NTD were included. In August 1999 a folic acid campaign was initiated with the free distribution of the vitamin to low-income women with a recommendation to take a 5.0-mg pill once a week. Number of cases and rates from 1999 to 2001 were compared (chi(2) test).
After 2 years there has been a significant reduction in the number of cases and rates. In 1999 there were 95 NTD cases and in the years 2000 and 2001 there were only 59 and 55 respectively (P < 0.001). NTD rate decreased from 1.04/1,000 in 1999 to 0.58/1,000 in 2001. Anencephaly and spina bifida rates decreased from 0.55/1,000 to 0.29/1,000 and from 0.47/1,000 to 0.22/1,000 respectively, from 1999-2001. Decrease of female cases was higher than male cases for both phenotypes.
After 2 years there was a 50% decrease in the incidence of anencephaly and spina bifida cases with a significant reduction of infant mortality and disability. These results encourage us to propose the use of a single tablet of 5.0-mg of folic acid per week as an alternative to supplementation on a daily basis.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphatee (IP3), an intracellular messenger, releases Ca2+ from microsomes. Ca2+ plays a major role in regulating various cellular events like neural transmission and regulation of hormones and growth factors. Aluminum (Al), lead (Pb) and mercury (Hg) were reported to alter Ca(2+)-regulated events thereby causing neurotoxicity. Hence, an attempt was made characterize IP3 mediated Ca2+ release from rat brain microsomes under the influence of Al, Pb and Hg. Different concentrations of metals were tested over a designated time scale and their effects on IP3 mediated Ca2+ release from microsomes were monitored using Fura-2 technique. All the three metals inhibited IP3 mediated Ca2+ release, Pb being more potent. The order of potency of these three metals was Pb>Hg>Al. Except for Al, both Hg and Pb independently released Ca2+ from microsomes. Re-uptake of Ca2+ into microsomes was inhibited by all the three metals, Pb being more potent. Microsomal Ca(2+)-ATPase activity was also inhibited by all the three metals. These results suggest that neurotoxicity exerted by Al, Pb and Hg may be due to the interference of these metals with IP3 mediated calcium release and also interfering with the microsomal Ca2+ sequestration mechanism. Differential effects of heavy metal induced changes in Ca2+ flux can be used as an index of relative toxicity.
This study was designed to evaluate the protective effect of amifostine on indomethacin-induced gastric damage, and the role of increased gastric non-protein sulfhydryl groups (NP-SH) and decreased leukocyte adherence in this event. Wistar rats were pretreated with amifostine (10, 30, or 90 mg/kg intraperitoneal (i.p.) or subcutaneous (s.c.)) or saline. After 30 min, the rats received indomethacin (20 mg/kg, by gavage) and were then killed 3 hr later. Macroscopic and microscopic gastric damage, concentration of gastric NP-SH, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and mesenteric leukocyte adherence (intravital microscopy) were assessed. Amifostine prevented significantly (P < 0.05), macroscopic or microscopic, indomethacin-induced gastric damage, and increased gastric NP-SH, in a dose-dependent manner, with a maximal effect at a dose of 90 mg/kg. Subcutaneous, but not i.p., amifostine administration decreased (P < 0.05) the indomethacin-induced increase in leukocyte adherence. Indomethacin-induced PGE2 depletion was not reversed by amifostine. Amifostine has a protective effect against indomethacin-induced gastropathy by increasing gastric NP-SH and decreasing leukocyte adherence.
