A report is made of five tetanus patients who were treated with large repetitive doses of Diazepam and became comatose. The period of impaired consciousness varied from thirteen to twenty-one days. None had significant respiratory depression, and full recovery occurred in all. It is proposed that Diazepam-induced prolonged coma should be regarded as a side-effect rather than a toxic effect and should caution rather than contra-indicate further use of large doses of the drug in the management of tetanus.
Experimental studies have suggested that apoptosis via the Fas/Fas Ligand signaling system may play an important role in the development of acute liver failure. The aim of the study was to investigate the soluble form of Fas in patients with acute liver failure.
Serum levels of sFas (soluble Fas) were measured by ELISA in 24 patients with acute liver failure and 10 normal control subjects. Serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma were also determined by ELISA.
Serum sFas was significantly increased in patients with acute liver failure (median, 26.8 U/mL; range, 6.9-52.7 U/mL) compared to the normal controls (median, 8.6 U/mL; range, 6.5-12.0 U/mL, P < 0.0001). Levels were significantly greater in patients with acute liver failure due to paracetamol overdose (median, 28.7 U/mL; range, 12.8-52.7 U/mL, n = 17) than those due to non-A to E hepatitis (median, 12.5 U/mL; range, 6.9-46.0 U/mL, n = 7, P < 0.01). There was no relationship of sFas to eventual outcome in the patients. A significant correlation was observed between serum sFas levels and aspartate aminotransferase (r = 0.613, P < 0.01).
The increased concentration of sFas in serum of patients with acute liver failure may reflect activation of Fas-mediated apoptosis in the liver and this together with increased tumor necrosis factor-alpha may be an important factor in liver cell loss.
The aim was to identify risk factors for postoperative bleeding following skin cancer surgery.
This was a prospective study of 5950 skin lesions excised in 2394 patients. No patient stopped taking aspirin or warfarin unless the international normalized ratio (INR) exceeded 3.0.
The rate of postoperative bleeding was 0.7 per cent overall and 2.5 per cent in the 320 patients taking warfarin. The rate of bleeding was 1.0 per cent for skin flap repairs, 0.4 per cent for simple excision and closure, and 5.0 per cent for skin grafts. Diabetic patients and smokers were not at increased risk of bleeding. There were four independent factors for bleeding: age 67 years or older (odds ratio (OR) 4.7 (95 per cent confidence interval 1.8 to 12.2); P = 0.002), warfarin therapy (OR 2.9 (1.4 to 6.3); P = 0.006), surgery on or around the ear (OR 2.6 (1.2 to 5.7); P = 0.012) and closure with a skin flap or graft (OR 2.7 (1.4 to 5.3); P = 0.004). Aspirin therapy was not an independent risk factor for bleeding.
Most postoperative bleeds were inconvenient but not life threatening, unlike the potential risk of thromboembolism after stopping warfarin or aspirin. There was no case for discontinuing aspirin before skin surgery, but the INR should be monitored in patients taking warfarin.
The effects of isosorbide dinitrate on acute myocardial ischaemia were studied in 19 patients during coronary angioplasty. The duration of balloon inflation to the onset of ST segment depression was increased by the administration of intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate from (mean +/- SEM) 13 +/- 2 to 20 +/- 2 s (48%) (P less than 0.01) and the duration to 1 mm ST segment depression increased form 23 +/- 2 to 29 +/- 3 s (28%) (P less than 0.01). Systolic blood pressure fell from 118 +/- 3 to 111 +/- 4 mmHg but there was no change in intracoronary distal occlusion pressure. Thus during coronary occlusion isosorbide dinitrate prolongs the time to the onset of myocardial ischaemia.
The therapeutic potential of 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (CdA) in patients with advanced chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) remains controversial with response rates in clinical trials ranging from 44 to 67%. This report describes our experience with CdA in 22 CLL patients having already undergone previous treatment. CdA was given by continuous intravenous infusion at a dose of 4 mg/m2/day for 7 days (4 patients) or as 2-h intravenous infusions at a dose of 5.6 mg/m2/day for 5 days (18 patients). Partial (n = 5) or complete (n = 2) response was obtained in 7 cases. As compared to unresponsive patients, responding subjects received CdA earlier in the course of their disease (mean interval between diagnosis and CdA therapy 58 vs 102 months), were less thrombocytopenic at initiation of CdA (mean platelet count 165 x 10(9)/L vs 81 x 10(9)/L) and experienced less severe neutropenia during the first course of therapy (mean minimal neutrophil count 1.55 x 10(9)/L vs 0.43 x 10(9)/L). None of 6 patients with CLL refractory to fludarabine responded to CdA. An evaluation of haematological toxicity during the first course of treatment showed grade 4 neutropenia (< 0.5 x 10(9)/L) in 7 cases and grade 4 thrombocytopenia (< 25 x 10(9)/L) in one of 19 cases where the platelet count was greater than 25 x 10(9)/L at initiation of CdA. In comparison with earlier reports, the present series of patients had received relatively heavy prior therapy, experienced more severe haematological toxicity and demonstrated a lower total response rate.
Deoxynivalenol (DON) is one of the most common mycotoxins. The aim of this study consists in using diverse cellular and molecular assays to evaluate cytotoxicity, genotoxicity as well as oxidative damage and to investigate their mechanisms in human peripheral blood lymphocytes. The human lymphocytes were cultured in eight different doses of DON (0, 6.25, 12.5, 25, 50, 100, 250 and 500 ng/mL) during 6, 12 and 24 h. DON was able to decrease cell viability and cause damage to the membrane, the chromosomes or the DNA at all times of culture. It was also able to induce lipid peroxidation and raise the levels of 8-OHdG and ROS in 6, 12 and 24 h. The results of the RT-PCR and the Western Blot indicated that DON is able to enhance mRNA or protein expressions of DNA repair genes and HO-1 in 6 h and to inhibit these expressions in 24 h. DON potentially triggers genotoxicity in human lymphocytes. This mechanism is probably related to depletion of antioxidase and oxidative damage to the DNA that reduced expression of HO-1, thereby inhibiting the ability of DNA repair.
Bovine serum albumin (BSA) glomerulonephritis is a type of immune complex glomerulonephritis that is characterized by a large number of leukocytes infiltrating the kidney. Interleukin (IL)-18, which has potent interferon (IFN)-gamma-inducing activities, may play an important role in lymphocyte-mediated inflammatory responses. To investigate the role of IL-18 in BSA glomerulonephritis, we used IL-18R-deficient C57BL/6 mice. Compared with control mice, IL-18R-deficient mice showed a significant reduction of proteinuria, renal pathological findings including glomerular IgG and C3 deposits, and leukocyte infiltrates. Transcripts encoding IFN-gamma and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in the kidney were significantly reduced in IL-18R-deficient mice compared with those in control mice. On the other hand, serum anti-BSA Ab was not reduced in IL-18R-deficient mice. We conclude that the blockading of IL-18 signaling in BSA nephritis mice significantly alleviates immune complex renal disorder; this may thus represent a novel approach to the treatment of patients with immune complex nephritis.
The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) reduces ischemia-induced damage to cells in the retinal microvasculature.
As a model of ischemia, pericyte-containing microvessels freshly isolated from the adult rat retina were exposed to the inhibitors of ATP synthesis, iodoacetate and antimycin A. Cell viability was assayed by trypan blue exclusion.
PDGF-BB significantly reduced cell death induced by chemical ischemia. The half-maximally effective concentration was approximately 15 pM. In contrast to PDGF-BB, which is the specific ligand for PDGF-beta receptors, ischemic death was not reduced by PDGF-AA, which does not activate the beta-receptors. The protective effect of PDGF-BB was blocked by tolbutamide, which is an inhibitor of ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels and mimicked by the K(ATP) channel opener, pinacidil. Nifedipine, which blocks voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC's), also mimicked the protective effect of PDGF-BB. Consistent with PDGF-BB and nifedipine preventing cell death via a common mechanism, i.e., reducing VGCC activity, the maximal effects of this growth factor and the calcium channel blocker were not additive.
Our results indicate that PDGF-BB significantly reduces the vulnerability of retinal microvessels to damage caused by profound ischemia. During episodes of metabolic compromise, it appears likely that the opening of K(ATP) channels via activation of PDGF-beta receptors initiates an adaptive mechanism to enhance the survival of the retinal microvasculature.
We present 10 cases (6 males and 4 females) of children aged 4 to 12 years, who were diagnosed with allergy to clavulanic acid (CL) and treated in the Paediatric Allergy Section of the University Hospital Dr. Peset in Valencia from 2000 to 2005. The children reported symptoms of urticaria and angio-oedema after receiving orally-administered amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (A-CL) for an infection. Diagnosis was based on the confirmation of an IgE-mediated aetiology by an oral challenge test with amoxicillin-clavulanic acid. Following negative skin test results and CAP for penicilloyl G and V, amoxicillin, ampicillin and cefaclor < 0.35 KU/l, those patients who were allergic to clavulanic acid (positive oral challenge test) were shown to be tolerant to orally-administered Cefuroxime axetil.
25 patients were treated with netilmicin because of suspected or verified septicaemia or other severe infections. Netilmicin was administered intramuscularly in a dose of 2 mg/kg body weight every 8 hours. For patients with elevated plasma creatinine the dosage was reduced according to the degree of elevation. Average length of treatment was 7 days (3-12 days). In 22 patients all symptoms and signs of infection disappeared. In one patient antibiotic treatment had to be changed and in two patients abscesses had to be surgically drained. Kidney function was monitored during and after treatment by plasma creatinine measurements and 51Cr-EDTA clearance. Netilmicin was discontinued in 4 patients because of an increase in plasma creatinine but little or no drug related nephrotoxicity was observed. Audio-vestibular function was monitored during and after treatment. Netilmicin was discontinued in one patient because of slight subjective loss of hearing. Subsequent audio-vestibular examination was normal.
To investigate the safety/tolerability of the EGFR-antibody cetuximab when added to irinotecan/5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/folinic acid (FA) for first-line treatment in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).
Twenty-one patients with untreated, metastatic, EGFR-expressing CRC received cetuximab 400 mg/m(2) as an initial dose, and thereafter 250 mg/m(2) weekly. In addition, patients received infusional 5-FU (24 h) in two dose levels (1500 mg/m(2), low 5-FU group, n = 6 or 2000 mg/m(2), high 5-FU group, n = 15), plus FA at 500 mg/m(2) and irinotecan at 80 mg/m(2), weekly x6 q50d.
Twenty patients were assessable for tolerability after the first cycle. There were no dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in the low 5-FU group and three DLTs (20%) in the high 5-FU group (two patients with diarrhea grade 3 and one patient with diarrhea grade 4). In the low 5-FU group all six patients received >80% of the planned dose. In the high 5-FU group, seven of 14 patients (50%) received < or =80% of the planned chemotherapy dose during the first cycle due to dosage reductions whilst treatment delays occurred in 10/14 patients. During the whole study period, the common grade 3/4 adverse events were acne-like rash (38%) and diarrhea (29%). Chemotherapy did not affect the pharmacokinetics of cetuximab determined at weeks 1 and 4. Fourteen patients (67%, 95% CI 47% to 87%) had a confirmed response, and six (29%) had stable disease. Median time to progression was 9.9 months [lower 95% confidence limit (CL) 7.9, upper 95% CL not reached]. Median survival time was 33 months (lower CL 20, upper CL not reached). Four patients received secondary surgery with curative intent, and a fifth was potentially eligible for surgery but declined.
Addition of cetuximab to weekly infusional 5-FU/FA plus irinotecan is safe and first data suggest a promising activity. The 5-FU dose of 1500 mg/m(2) is recommended for further studies.
The authors report a case of pituitary apoplexy that developed in a patient shortly after bromocriptine therapy was started for a growth hormone-secreting pituitary adenoma. The tumor was associated with visual impairment and ocular palsies, and was treated by transsphenoidal decompression. Although spontaneous tumor necrosis cannot be excluded, a causal role of bromocriptine treatment is suggested.
The mechanisms through which ethanol exposure results in developmental defects remain unclear. We used the zebrafish model to elucidate eye-specific mechanisms that underlie ethanol-mediated microphthalmia (reduced eye size), through time-series microarray analysis of gene expression within eyes of embryos exposed to 1.5% ethanol. 62 genes were differentially expressed (DE) in ethanol-treated as compared to control eyes sampled during retinal neurogenesis (24-48 h post-fertilization). The EDGE (extraction of differential gene expression) algorithm identified >3000 genes DE over developmental time in ethanol-exposed eyes as compared to controls. The DE lists included several genes indicating a mis-regulated cellular stress response due to ethanol exposure. Combined treatment with sub-threshold levels of ethanol and a morpholino targeting heat shock factor 1 mRNA resulted in microphthalmia, suggesting convergent molecular pathways. Thermal preconditioning partially prevented ethanol-mediated microphthalmia while maintaining Hsf-1 expression. These data suggest roles for reduced Hsf-1 in mediating microphthalmic effects of embryonic ethanol exposure.
A 23-year-old male patient with bacteriologically proven pulmonary tuberculosis was treated with the various regimens of antituberculosis drugs for nearly 15 months. Rifampicin was administered thrice as one of the 3-4 drug regimen and each time he developed untoward side effects like nausea, vomiting and fever with chills and rigors. The last such episode was of acute renal failure at which stage the patient was seen by the authors of this report. The patient, however, made a full recovery.
Antileukotriene medications that have been implemented into clinical practice of bronchial asthma and allergic rhinitis include specific leukotriene receptor antagonists (montelukast, zafirlukast, pranlukast) and leukotriene biosynthesis inhibitors (zileuton). The current GINA (Global Initiative for Asthma) guidelines, the PRACTALL (Practicing Allergology) report on asthma treatment in children, and ARIA (Allergic Rhinitis and its Impact on Asthma) recommendations classify antileukotriene therapeutic agents as a group of drugs controlling the course of the disease. However, inhaled glucocorticosteroids still remain the first-line treatment in chronic asthma. According to current guidelines, antileukotriene drugs are recommended as alternative treatment to low-dose inhaled glucocorticosteroids in the second level of asthma severity and as complementary treatment to inhaled and/or oral glucocorticosteroids, starting from the third level of asthma severity. Recently, clinical efficacy of antileukotriene drugs has been suggested in the treatment of isolated allergic rhinitis, chronic cough in the course of asthma, as a sole symptom of the disease, and as the therapy for episodes of wheezing caused by viral infections.
Prostacyclin (PGI2) has been shown to reduce the occurrence of experimental ventricular arrhythmias. To assess potential beneficial effects in man, the electrophysiological action of PGI2 was studied in 16 non medicated patients. The protocol used in incremental pacing and programmed stimulation in the right atrium and ventricle. This protocol and measurement of effective refractory periods (ERP) were performed before and during the injection of 2.5, 5 and 10 ng kg-1 min-1 of PGI2. The atrial functional refractory period decreased significantly (P less than 0.05); PGI2 had no influence on the occurrence of inducible non-sustained (NS) atrial tachycardias and was responsible for the occurrence of 2 non-sustained atrial tachycardias in 8 patients with inducible atrial echo beats under basal conditions. Thirteen patients did not have inducible ventricular tachycardia (VT) under basal conditions. Non-sustained VT was induced after PGI2 in 4 of them but in only 1 of them after the administration of propranolol. Three patients had inducible VT under basal conditions (1 non-sustained, 2 sustained VT). PGI2 did not prevent the occurrence of VT (1 non-sustained, 1 sustained VT), except in 1 patient with ischaemic-related VT, who had non-sustained VT after PGI2. In conclusion, PGI2 does not seem to have a cardiac antiarrhythmic effect and may increase the atrial and ventricular repetitive response. This effect could be related to an increase of adrenergic tone.
Amiodarone has been shown to improve survival in patients with impaired left ventricular function and ventricular trachyarrhythmias. The clinical applicability, however, is limited by numerous often serious adverse effects. 70 patients receiving the treatment with amiodarone for ventricular tacharrhythmias were investigated regarding the development of symptomatic bradycardia. Group 1 consisted of 25 patients with preexisting conduction disorders, 5 had first degree heart block, 10 had right bundle branch block, and 7 had left bundle branch block on electrocardiographic examination. The 3 remaining patients showed asymptomatic sinus node dysfunction defined as sinus arrest or sinuatrial block. Amiodarone caused symptomatic bradycardia in 6 of the group 1 patients (II degrees-III degrees AV block in 3 patients with preexisting I degree AV block or right bundle branch block; intermittent sinus arrest or SA block in the 3 cases with previous sinus node dysfunction). 45 patients had no conduction disorders before the administration of amiodarone (group II). None of these patients developed symptomatic bradycardia. The difference to group I was significant (p < 0.0005). Thus, patients with preexisting conduction disorders have a substantial risk of developing symptomatic bradycardia under amiodarone therapy, with an incidence of 24% in group I patients of our collective.
Pulmonary hypertension is a progressive and often fatal complication of the scleroderma spectrum of disease for which no treatment has been proven effective in a randomized trial.
To determine the effect of epoprostenol on pulmonary hypertension secondary to the scleroderma spectrum of disease.
Randomized, open-label, controlled trial.
17 pulmonary hypertension referral centers.
111 patients with moderate to severe pulmonary hypertension.
Epoprostenol plus conventional therapy or conventional therapy alone.
The primary outcome measure was exercise capacity. Other measures were cardiopulmonary hemodynamics, signs and symptoms of pulmonary hypertension and scleroderma, and survival.
Exercise capacity improved with epoprostenol (median distance walked in 6 minutes, 316 m at 12 weeks compared with 270 m at baseline) but decreased with conventional therapy (192 m at 12 weeks compared with 240 m at baseline). The difference between treatment groups in the median distance walked at week 12 was 108 m (95% CI, 55.2 m to 180.0 m) (P < 0.001). Hemodynamics improved at 12 weeks with epoprostenol. The changes in mean pulmonary artery pressure for the epoprostenol and conventional therapy groups were -5.0 and 0.9 mm Hg, respectively (difference, -6.0 mm Hg [CI, -9.0 to -3.0 mm Hg), and the mean changes in pulmonary vascular resistance were -4.6 and 0.9 mm Hg/L per minute, respectively (difference, -5.5 mm Hg/L per minute [CI, -7.3 to -3.7 mm Hg/L per minute). Twenty-one patients treated with epoprostenol and no patients receiving conventional therapy showed improved New York Heart Association functional class. Borg Dyspnea Scores and Dyspnea-Fatigue Ratings improved in the epoprostenol group. Trends toward greater improvement in severity of the Raynaud phenomenon and fewer new digital ulcers were seen in the epoprostenol group. Four patients in the epoprostenol group and five in the conventional therapy group died (P value not significant). Side effects of epoprostenol therapy included jaw pain, nausea, and anorexia. Adverse events related to the epoprostenol delivery system included sepsis, cellulitis, hemorrhage, and pneumothorax (4% incidence for each condition).
Continuous epoprostenol therapy improves exercise capacity and cardiopulmonary hemodynamics in patients with pulmonary hypertension due to the scleroderma spectrum of disease.
Agonist therapies have proven effective for the treatment of substance dependence disorders; limited data is available on their feasibility for treating cocaine dependence.
This laboratory study was designed to test the safety and utility of employing an agonist substitution therapy for the treatment of cocaine dependence in humans.
Oral cocaine served as the agonist treatment and was administered chronically over a range of doses to volunteers with cocaine abuse histories (n=8). Oral capsules were administered daily under blind conditions (q.i.d.) during this 5-week inpatient study using a dose-rising sequence (0 mg 10 days: 25 mg 3 days, 50 mg 4 days, 100 mg 10 days, 0 mg 7 days). During each of these oral dosing periods, an i.v. cocaine challenge (0, 25, and 50 mg, 1 h apart) was administered at least once. Physiological, subjective and pharmacokinetic measures were collected before and after i.v. drug administration; additional measures were collected daily.
Oral cocaine produced no subjective effects or signs of toxicity but produced dose-related physiological effects. Significant interactions between oral and i.v. cocaine were observed; cocaine (100 mg, p.o.) significantly decreased responses to the 25-mg but not the 50-mg dose of i.v. cocaine for heart rate, mydriasis, and some subjective measures. There was no evidence of significant additive effects, although heart rate responses to i.v. cocaine were exaggerated during the final wash-out period.
These data indicate that treatment with a cocaine "agonist" - in this case oral cocaine - can modestly attenuate the subjective and physiological responses to cocaine in humans under conditions that are safely tolerated.
The third generation beta-blocker (carvedilol) is effective in reduction of hypertension, and of mortality and morbidity as a supplement to conventional drugs of heart failure therapies (diuretics, ACE inhibitors), based on randomized controlled trials and retrospective analysis.
To analyse the efficacy of carvedilol in the treatment of heart failure with special focused on morbidity, mortality endpoints.
We assessed the multicenter, randomised, double-blind studies involving more than 150 patients (1995-2005) from MEDLINE database, in which carvedilol was used in the case of moderate to severe heart failure. We also present the results of health-economic publications (2000-2005).
In U.S. Carvedilol Heart Failure Study (n 1096) the mortality declined by 65% (3.2% vs. 7.8%; p <0.001) with carvedilol vs. placebo, while the cardiovascular hospitalization decline was 27% (14.1% vs. 19.6%; p = 0.036) in heart failure (LVEF < or = 5%) applied together with the basic therapy (diuretic and ACE-inhibitor). In the COPERNICUS trial the efficacy of carvedilol was compared to placebo in the case of severe HF patients (LVEF < 25%, n = 2889). The annual mortality risk declined by 35% (19.7% vs. 12.8%, 95% CI 19-48%, p = 0.00013) while the risk of mortality or any risk of hospitalisation by 24% (p = 0.00004) in the active group. The CAPRICORN study (LVEF < or = 0%, n=1959) showed that carvedilol is efficacious in reduction of total (HR: 0.77; 95% CI 0.60-0.98; p = 0.031) and cardiovascular mortality (HR: 0.75; 95% CI 0.58-0.96; p = 0.024) as far as high-risk patients are concerned.
The effectiveness of carvedilol is certified in reduction of mortality and hospitalization in the treatment of moderate-severe heart-failure as part of the combination therapy. The benefits of use of the drug are well measurable not only on the level of patients but on the suppliers and the financer as well, thanks to the decline of resource utilization.
An 18-month-old girl with supraventricular tachycardia was given a dose of intravenous verapamil and suffered a short myoclonic seizure which occurred again when she was given second and third doses. In the absence of any predisposing factors, direct drug reaction was implicated as the cause of the seizure.
AZT is commonly administered to seropositive women and their neonates to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Recently, animal studies performed in monkeys and rodents have revealed that pre- and/or perinatal exposure to AZT induces age- and sex-dependent behavioural alterations in the offspring, possibly resulting from an action of this drug on CNS targets. Long-term effects of prenatal AZT treatment on social/aggressive behaviour of adult male mice have been previously described. Specifically, AZT has been shown to induce selective changes in the offensive components of agonistic interactions.
The aim of the present study was to extend previous findings, analysing the long-term effects of a more prolonged AZT exposure on intraspecific male mice agonistic behaviour.
AZT was given orally twice daily to pregnant CD- mice. The dosage selected for AZT was 160 mg/kg. Saline solution (0.9% NaCl) was used as vehicle. Starting on postnatal day (PND) 60 isolated males underwent five 15-min repeated encounters with an opponent of the same age and strain isolated for the same amount of time. Furthermore, a locomotor activity test (PND 67) and a hot-plate test (52 +/- 0.1 degrees C) (PND 74) were performed to assess AZT effects on, respectively, general activity and pain sensitivity.
AZT perinatal exposure reduced attack behaviour of adult mice, while increasing the likelihood of them behaving as subordinates. Furthermore, long-term effects of AZT treatment on pain sensitivity were found in the hot-plate test, with AZT mice showing higher pain thresholds than controls.
Overall, these data indicate that perinatal exposure to drugs such as AZT exerts selective effects on the developing CNS, resulting in long-term behavioural disturbances. Future studies will need to address the issue of the specific mechanisms underlying these effects.
Cardiomyopathy is the main cause of death in Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Here, we show that oral administration of resveratrol, which leads to activation of an NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylase SIRT1, suppresses cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis and restores cardiac diastolic function in dystrophin-deficient mdx mice. The pro-hypertrophic co-activator p300 protein but not p300 mRNA was up-regulated in the mdx heart, and resveratrol administration down-regulated the p300 protein level. In cultured cardiomyocytes, cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by the α(1)-agonist phenylephrine was inhibited by the overexpression of SIRT1 as well as resveratrol, both of which down-regulated p300 protein levels but not p300 mRNA levels. In addition, activation of atrial natriuretic peptide promoter by p300 was inhibited by SIRT1. We found that SIRT1 induced p300 down-regulation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway by deacetylation of lysine residues for ubiquitination. These findings indicate the pathological significance of p300 up-regulation in the dystrophic heart and indicate that SIRT1 activation has therapeutic potential for dystrophic cardiomyopathy.
Eleven consecutive leukemia patients with thrombosis induced by asparaginase-prednisone-vincristine therapy were studied to gain insight into the pathogenesis of this complication. Measurement of anti-thrombin III, plasminogen, factor V, and fibrin degradation products as well as platelet aggregation sensitivity to adenosine diphosphate disclosed no consistent abnormalities that would explain pathologic thrombus formation. A decrease in platelet counts observed in nine of 11 patients, prompted us to investigate the possible involvement of factor VIII in this disorder. Levels of factor VIII procoagulant activity, von Willebrand factor (vWF) and ristocetin cofactor were similar to findings for an identically treated comparison group who remained free of thrombotic complications. However, qualitative examination of vWF by crossed immunoelectrophoresis (CIE) revealed a distinct right shift of the immunoprecipitin lines in each of three thrombotic patients tested, whereas a normal profile was found in three similarly treated patients without the complication. This altered pattern had reverted to normal when CIE was repeated 2 to 7 months later. We postulate that the abnormal vWF is related to the development of thrombosis.
Frozen serial serum specimens obtained from past studies on the natural history and prevention of Type B hepatitis in children were retested by radioimmunoassay for the following markers of hepatitis B infection: hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and antibody (anti-HBs), hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) and antibody (anti-HBe), and antibody to hepatitis B core antigen (anti-HBc). The interval between exposure and evidence of viremia (HBsAg) was as short as six days. HBsAg and HBeAg persisted for two to five months and occasionally for more than one year after recovery. After the disappearance of their respective antigens, anti-HBc and anti-HBs persisted for more than seven years and anti-HBe for one to two years. Treatment with hepatitis B immune globulin after exposure induced complete or partial protection or prolongation of the incubation period. Administration of heat-inactivated hepatitis B virus, MS-2 strain, to 29 children induced an inapparent infection in three, characterized by a transient appearance of HBsAg and HBeAg, and the persistence of anti-HBc, anti-HBe and anti-HBs for more than two years.
Atrial septal defect is one of the most common forms of congenital heart malformation. We identified a new locus linked with atrial septal defect on chromosome 14q12 in a large family with dominantly inherited atrial septal defect. The underlying mutation is a missense substitution, I820N, in alpha-myosin heavy chain (MYH6), a structural protein expressed at high levels in the developing atria, which affects the binding of the heavy chain to its regulatory light chain. The cardiac transcription factor TBX5 strongly regulates expression of MYH6, but mutant forms of TBX5, which cause Holt-Oram syndrome, do not. Morpholino knock-down of expression of the chick MYH6 homolog eliminates the formation of the atrial septum without overtly affecting atrial chamber formation. These data provide evidence for a link between a transcription factor, a structural protein and congenital heart disease.
