Benoxaprofen (BXP) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug which causes cutaneous phototoxicity. Because the in vivo phototoxicity may involve photosensitized damage to mast cell membranes, the mechanism for photosensitized damage was studied in a single model system, the red blood cell. Oxygen-dependent and oxygen-independent mechanisms for membrane disruption were detected. Oxygen-dependent lysis was not quenched by superoxide dismutase and was quenched only at high sodium azide concentrations. A two-step mechanism is proposed involving initial photodecarboxylation of BXP to form a lipophilic photoproduct which subsequently photosensitizes membrane damage. Human serum albumin at 0.03% totally inhibited BXP-photosensitized lysis.
2, 3-Dimercaptopropane-1-sulfonic acid (DMPS) and meso-2, 3-Dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) are dithiols used to treat humans exposed to methylmercury (CH(3)Hg(+)). After treatment, significant amounts of mercury are eliminated rapidly from the kidneys and are excreted in urine. In the present study, we extended our previous studies by testing the hypothesis that MRP2 mediates the secretion of DMPS or DMSA S-conjugates of CH(3)Hg(+). To test this hypothesis, the disposition of mercury was assessed in control and Mrp2-deficient (TR(-)) rats exposed intravenously to a 5.0-mg/kg dose of CH(3)HgCl. Twenty-four and 28 h after exposure, groups of four control and four TR(-) rats were injected with saline, DMPS, or DMSA. Tissues were harvested 48 h later. Renal and hepatic contents of mercury were greater in saline-injected TR(-) rats than in controls. In contrast, the amounts of mercury excreted in urine and feces by TR(-) rats were less than those by controls. DMPS and DMSA significantly reduced the renal and hepatic content of mercury in both groups of rats, with the greatest reduction in controls. A significant increase in urinary and fecal excretion of mercury (which was greater in the controls) was also observed. Our findings in inside-out membrane vesicles prepared from hMRP2-transfected Sf9 cells show that uptake of DMPS and DMSA S-conjugates of CH(3)Hg(+) was greater in the vesicles containing hMRP2 than in control vesicles. Overall, these dispositional findings indicate that MRP2 does play a role in DMPS- and DMSA-mediated elimination of mercury from the kidney.
In the course of routine screening of beta-adrenoceptor blocking compounds, it was found that a number of compounds did not block the vascular and cardiac effects of isoprenaline in proportion. Moreover, it was also found that the anti-arrhythmic action was not wholly related to the beta-adrenoceptor blocking potency. In particular, the anti-ouabain arrhythmia properties were not dependent upon beta-blocking potency. It was, therefore, possible to select a compound which had both cardioselective beta-adrenoceptor blocking and anti-ouabain arrhythmic activities. The chosen compound was acebutolol. Acebutolol is a cardioselective beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent which has marked anti-arrhythmic against arrhythmia induced by methylchloroform and adrenalin in the cat, and also arrhythmia induced by ouabain in dogs and rabbits. It has less pronounced membrane stabilising properties than propranolol and has no demonstrable sympathomimetic action in normal anaesthetised cats or dogs. Bronchial beta-adrenoceptor blockade has been investigated in anaesthetised cats in which bronchoconstriction is evoked by PGF2 alpha. Isoprenaline prevents the effect of PGF2 alpha and this is restored by pre-treatment with propranolol. Acebutolol is 100 times less active than propranolol in these experiments.
Ethambutol, an efficacious antituberculosis agent, can cause irreversible visual loss in a small but significant fraction of patients. However, the mechanism of ocular toxicity remains to be established. We previously reported that ethambutol caused severe vacuole formation in cultured retinal cells, and that the addition of zinc along with ethambutol aggravated vacuole formation whereas addition of the cell-permeable zinc chelator, N,N,N',N'-tetrakis (2-pyridylmethyl) ethylenediamine (TPEN), reduced vacuole formation. To investigate the origin of vacuoles and to obtain an understanding of drug toxicity, we used cultured primary retinal cells from newborn Sprague-Dawley rats and imaged ethambutol-treated cells stained with FluoZin-3, zinc-specific fluorescent dye, under a confocal microscope. Almost all ethambutol-induced vacuoles contained high levels of labile zinc. Double staining with LysoTracker or MitoTracker revealed that almost all zinc-containing vacuoles were lysosomes and not mitochondria. Intracellular zinc chelation with TPEN markedly blocked both vacuole formation and zinc accumulation in the vacuole. Immunocytochemistry with antibodies to lysosomal-associated membrane protein-2 (LAMP-2) and cathepsin D, an acid lysosomal hydrolase, disclosed lysosomal activation after exposure to ethambutol. Immunoblotting after 12 h exposure to ethambutol showed that cathepsin D was released into the cytosol. In addition, cathepsin inhibitors attenuated retinal cell toxicity induced by ethambutol. This is consistent with characteristics of lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP). TPEN also inhibited both lysosomal activation and LMP. Thus, accumulation of zinc in lysosomes, and eventual LMP, may be a key mechanism of ethambutol-induced retinal cell death.
An integrated approach based on environmental and biological monitoring, including the analysis of biomarkers of exposure [excretion of S-phenylmercapturic acid (S-PMA)], early biological effects [micronucleus (MN) frequency] and susceptibility (genetic polymorphisms), was applied to characterize benzene exposure in a group of 70 traffic policemen and 40 employees of the city of Bologna, Italy. Median personal benzene exposure was 6.55-fold higher for traffic policemen than for controls (P<0.0001). This higher exposure was confirmed by a significant, 2.53-fold higher S-PMA excretion in traffic policemen compared with that observed for indoor workers (P<0.0001). Median MN frequency was also significantly higher in policemen compared with indoor workers (P=0.001), emphasizing the genotoxic effect potentially associated with benzene exposure. With regard to biomarkers of susceptibility, the analysis revealed that high epoxide hydrolase (mEH) (predicted) enzyme activity was significantly correlated with a lower median MN frequency (P=0.003). A gene-gender interaction was observed for the glutathione-S-transferase M1 (GSTM1) genotype. The GSTM1-null genotype was associated with a significantly higher median MN frequency in men, not in women. Statistical analysis did not reveal any association between the presence of the protective allele, pushing the pathway towards benzene detoxification, and MN frequency or S-PMA excretion. Even though there are some limitations in the study, our results indicate that policemen are exposed to higher levels of benzene than individuals spending most of the time indoors. This higher exposure may contribute to DNA damage, suggesting an increase health risk from traffic benzene emission. Finally, a more comprehensive study is warranted in order to better elucidate the involvement of EPHX1 genotypes combination in benzene genotoxicity.
MHC-TGFcys33ser transgenic mice have elevated levels of active transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 in the myocardium. Previous studies have shown that these animals develop atrial, but not ventricular, fibrosis. Here we show that atrial fibrosis was accompanied with cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Although similar levels of cardiomyocyte apoptosis were present in the right and left atria of MHC-TGFcys33ser hearts, the extent of fibrosis was more pronounced in the right atrium. Thus, additional factors influence the degree of atrial fibrosis in this model. Tritiated thymidine incorporation studies revealed cardiomyocyte cell cycle activity in left atrial cardiomyocytes, but not in right atrial cardiomyocytes. These observations suggested that cardiomyocyte cell cycle activation ameliorated the severity of atrial fibrosis. To directly test this hypothesis, MHC-TGFcys33ser mice were crossed with MHC-cycD2 mice (which have constitutive cardiomyocyte cell cycle activity in the right atrium). Mice inheriting both transgenes exhibited right atrial cardiomyocyte cell cycle activity and a concomitant reduction in the severity of right atrial fibrosis, despite the presence of a similar level of cardiomyocyte apoptosis as was observed in mice inheriting the MHC-TGFcys33ser transgene alone. These data support the notion that cardiomyocyte cell cycle induction can antagonize fibrosis in the myocardium.
It has been reported that HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin induce vascular smooth muscle cell (SMC) apoptosis in vitro. However, this effect remains to be demonstrated in vivo. The present studies were designed to test the ability of atorvastatin to induce SMC apoptosis in vivo, using the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) as a well-known reference model of SMC apoptosis induction in vivo by cardiovascular drugs including the calcium channel blocker amlodipine. Atorvastatin was administered to SHR for 3 or 6 weeks either alone or together with amlodipine, a drug combination clinically available to patients. Primary endpoints included aortic medial hypertrophy and aortic SMC hyperplasia, internucleosomal DNA fragmentation and expression of the apoptosis regulatory proteins Bax and Bcl-2. The SHR aorta showed no evidence of SMC apoptosis induction by atorvastatin, even at the high dose of 50 mg kg(-1) day(-1), although the statin significantly reduced oxidative stress after 3 weeks and blood pressure after 6 weeks of administration. Amlodipine-induced regression of aortic hypertophy and aortic SMC hyperplasia were dose- and time-dependent, but there was no interaction between atorvastatin and amlodipine in modulating the primary endpoints. These results do not support the notion that atorvastatin induces SMC apoptosis in the aortic media in vivo.
Polyuria is common in patients with bipolar disorder treated with lithium. However, the risk factors for polyuria in these patients have not been established.
To estimate the prevalence of polyuria associated with the use of lithium and to identify additional risk factors.
A 4-month prospective follow-up study in an out-patient lithium clinic. The 75 participants were asked to provide 24-h urine samples; polyuria was defined as a urine volume greater than 3 litres per 24 h. Risk factors examined included demographic variables, medications and medical comorbidities.
The prevalence of polyuria among lithium users was 37%. Concomitant use of serotonergic antidepressants was strongly associated with polyuria (odds ratio 4.25, 95% CI 1.15-15.68) compared with patients not using these agents.
Our data confirm the high prevalence of lithium-induced polyuria. Physicians should be aware that concurrent use of serotonergic antidepressants and lithium significantly enhances the risk of its occurrence. Although limited polyuria is not harmful, it may be troublesome for the patient. In many cases cessation of lithium therapy is not an option because of difficulty in controlling the manic or depressive symptoms.
Depression of myocardial contractility by muscarinic agonists is dependent on underlying beta-adrenergic tone. The negative inotropic effect of muscarinic agonists is enhanced by previous beta-adrenergic stimulation, an action that has been termed accentuated antagonism. We wished to determine whether accentuated antagonism occurs with isoflurane-induced myocardial depression. We used an isolated, electrically stimulated rat left atrium model to compare the dose-response curves to the muscarinic agonist carbachol and isoflurane under conditions of high (10(-6)M isoproterenol added to the bath) or low (10(-6)M propranolol) beta-adrenergic tone. As expected, myocardial depression by carbachol was accentuated in preparations stimulated with isoproterenol as compared with atria treated with propranolol. The decrease in contractility induced by isoflurane was attenuated in isoproterenol-stimulated preparations as compared with beta-blocked atria. The increased sensitivity to isoflurane observed in propranolol-treated muscles was reversed by increasing the concentration of calcium in the bath from 2.5 to 5.0 mM. In contrast to muscarinic agonists, isoflurane-induced myocardial depression is attenuated by previous beta-adrenergic stimulation. Isoproterenol most likely attenuates isoflurane's negative inotropic action by increasing the availability of external calcium. The results of this study demonstrate that the underlying beta-adrenergic tone greatly influences the negative inotropic response of cardiac tissue of isoflurane.
We investigated antiarrhythmic effects of intravenously (i.v.) administered amiodarone using four canine ventricular arrhythmia models. Bolus injections of amiodarone 3 mg/kg suppressed epinephrine (EPI)-induced arrhythmia and 5-mg/kg bolus injections of amiodarone suppressed digitalis- and two-stage coronary ligation-induced arrhythmia models, but the antiarrhythmic effects did not correlate with the amiodarone plasma concentrations. The infusion of amiodarone 6.67 mg/kg/h did not prolong the QTc interval or produce antiarrhythmic effects in coronary ligation and reperfusion experiments. Amiodarone significantly decreased the mean blood pressure (MAP), and this effect lasted throughout the observation period. The results indicate that the antiarrhythmic effects of intravenously administered amiodarone may not be due to its class III action, but to other actions, such as class I, II and IV actions.
To examine relationships between incidence rate of thromboses in antiphospholipid syndrome and exogenic risk factors (RF) of thrombosis.
The trial enrolled 131 patients (105 females and 26 males). They were divided into three groups: 23 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, group 1), 63 patients with SLE and antiphospholipid syndrome (APS, group 2), 45 patients with primary APS (PAPS, group 3). Thrombosis RF questionnaire survey was made. Effects of corticosteroids and cyclophosphamide on occurrence of thrombosis were assessed.
Such exogenic RF as intake of coffee, fat food, alcohol were not related to thromboses. Hypodynamia was more typical for APS patients (21.3%) than for SLE patients free of APS (8.7%). Overweight for was characteristic for APS patients (49 and 34.7%, respectively). The proportion of smokers was higher in APS patients, though smoking did not provoke thrombotic complications. A direct correlation was found between occlusion and corticosteroids administration, while occlusion and cyclophosphamide treatment correlated inversely.
Venous thrombosis RF in patients with APS and PAPS are obesity and treatment with glucocorticosteroids.
1-Amino-2,4-dibromoanthraquinone (ADBAQ), an intermediate in the production of commercial dyes for wool, silk, and synthetic fibers, was selected for toxicology and carcinogenesis studies in two rodent species. In advance of the 2-year studies, 13-week studies were conducted in male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice which were fed a diet containing ADBAQ at concentrations of 0, 0.25, 0.50, 1.00, 2.50, and 5.00%. ADBAQ stained the skin and fur red at all doses in rats and at 1.00% and higher concentrations in mice. Lethargy and emaciation were noted at the 2.50% and higher doses in rats of both sexes. In general, the absolute weight of the liver and the liver/organ weight ratios increased in both sexes and species at all doses. Treated rats developed a chronic toxic hepatitis characterized by hepatocytomegaly, centrilobular vacuolar degeneration and necrosis, regenerative nodules, acute necrotizing cholangitis, bile duct hyperplasia, chronic active inflammation in periportal areas, and focal pigmentation. The hepatopathy occurred at all doses in males and at 0.50% and higher in females and correlated with elevations of serum glutamic-pyruvic and glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminases, leukocytosis, and neutrophilia. Hyaline droplet degeneration in the proximal convoluted tubules of the kidneys occurred in male rats, and uterine atrophy was observed in female rats at 1.00% and higher. Anemia occurred in both sexes of rats at all doses and thymic atrophy was observed in both sexes of high-dose rats. In male mice minimal dose-related lesions in the liver included centrilobular glycogen depletion at 1.00% and higher and pigmentation at all doses. At comparable doses, ADBAQ was considered to be markedly toxic in rats and of minimal nonlife-threatening toxicity in mice.
Thirty-two women with advanced local regional breast carcinoma, including nine patients with histologically diagnosed inflammatory cancer, were entered on a prospective pilot study. They were treated aggressively with initial surgery, two courses of induction chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil, +/- prednisone, +/- tamoxifen (CMF [P] [T]), local-regional radiotherapy, and then maintenance chemotherapy with CMF(P) (T) alternating with doxorubicin, vincristine, +/- tamoxifen (AV[T]). The patients have been followed for 19-70 months from the time of mastectomy and their actuarial three-year survival is 65% with a median survival that has not yet been reached. Median disease-free survival (time to progression) is currently 29.5 months. Women whose gross disease could not be totally resected surgically had shorter disease-free survivals than those rendered surgically free of disease (p = 0.01). Clinically evident cardiotoxicity was seen in 25% of the patients and was felt to be primarily due to the combination of doxorubicin and radiation therapy. It was significantly more common (Plt less than 0.05) in patients with left chest irradiation (seven of 18 women) as opposed to those with right-sided irradiation (one of 14).
A 35-year-old woman undergoing laparoscopic sterilisation developed prolonged apnoea after suxamethonium. Fresh frozen plasma was given to replenish plasma cholinesterase, but recovery of neuromuscular transmission was not accelerated. Routine use of quantitative neuromuscular monitoring simplified her postoperative management.
Pregnant rhesus macaques were treated with 0.5 or 2.5 mg/kg triamcinolone acetonide (TAC) or 1.0 or 10.0 mg/kg dexamethasone sodium phosphate (DEX) between 20 and 50 gestational days (GD). Treatment with TAC at 2.5 mg/kg resulted in a fetal loss of 71%; 3/5 recovered fetuses displayed an encephalocele or meningocele. All other treatment groups displayed minor cranial skeletal abnormalities consistent with glucocorticoid-mediated teratogenesis. DEX was shown to have a lower teratogenic potential than TAC in this species.
Clinical studies of heart failure utilizing losartan, an angiotensin-II receptor antagonist, found that this drug is well tolerated and demonstrates hemodynamic, neurohormonal, and symptomatic improvement. To assess all-cause mortality in heart failure patients treated with losartan, a meta-analysis including 1,896 patients was performed on 6 controlled, double-blind, multiple-dose studies, regardless of sample size or duration of follow-up. A combination of logarithmic (log) odds ratios with a continuity correction was utilized for the meta-analysis. Treatment groups were comparable with regard to demographic characteristics, heart failure characteristics, and concomitant cardiovascular therapies. Concomitant use of open-label angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors was not allowed in any study. The mean left ventricular ejection fraction obtained in individual studies ranged from 23% to 31%. Seven hundred forty patients were randomized to control therapy and 1,154 patients were randomized to losartan therapy. There were 36 deaths (3.12%) in the losartan groups compared with 47 in the control groups (6.35%) during the double-blind periods. The odds of dying in the losartan groups were 0.51 times (0.31 to 0.81) that of dying in the control groups (p = 0.004). In this analysis, treatment with losartan provided a beneficial effect upon survival. However, because the number of deaths in these studies is relatively small and the follow-up relatively short, a large confirmatory study is needed to assess the mortality benefit of losartan compared with an ACE inhibitor.
Simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering agent, has demonstrated neuroprotective effects against brain injury, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of simvastatin on the Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) related signaling pathway and secondary brain injury in rats after traumatic brain injury (TBI). Adult male Wistar rats were divided into four groups: (1) Sham group (n=25); (2) Sham+vehicle group (n=25); (3) TBI+vehicle group (n=30); and (4) TBI+simvastatin group (n=30). Right parietal cortical contusion was made by using a weight-dropping method. In TBI+simvastatin group, simvastatin was administered orally at a dose of 37.5 mg/kg at 1 and 6 h after TBI. Brain samples were extracted at 24 h after trauma. As a result, we found that treatment with simvastatin markedly inhibited the mRNA and protein expressions of TLR4, NF-kappaB and the downstream inflammatory agents, such as interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). Administration of simvastatin following TBI significantly ameliorated the secondary brain damage, such as cortical apoptosis, brain edema, blood-brain barrier (BBB) impairment, and motor deficits. In conclusion, post-TBI simvastatin administration may attenuate TLR4/NF-kappaB-mediated inflammatory response in the injured rat brain, and this may be one mechanism by which simvastatin improves outcome following TBI.
To examine the effects of melatonin treatment on lipid peroxidation (LPO) and the activities of antioxidant enzymes in the testicular tissue of streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats.
Twenty-six male rats were randomly divided into three groups as follows: group I, control, non-diabetic rats (n = 9); group II, STZ-induced, untreated diabetic rats (n = 8); group III, STZ-induced, melatonin-treated (dose of 10 mg/kg . day) diabetic rats (n = 9). Following 8-week melatonin treatment, all rats were anaesthetized and then were killed to remove testes from the scrotum.
As compared to group I, in rat testicular tissues of group II , increased levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) (P < 0.01) and superoxide dismutase (SOD) (P < 0.01) as well as decreased levels of catalase (CAT) (P < 0.01) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) (P > 0.05) were found. In contrast, as compared to group II, in rat testicular tissues of group III, levels of MDA decreased (but this decrease was not significant, P > 0.05) and SOD (P < 0.01) as well as CAT (P < 0.05) increased. GSH-Px was not influenced by any of the treatment. Melatonin did not significantly affect the elevated glucose concentration of diabetic group. At the end of the study, there was no significant difference between the melatonin-treated group and the untreated group by means of body and testicular weight.
Diabetes mellitus increases oxidative stress and melatonin inhibits lipid peroxidation and might regulate the activities of antioxidant enzymes of diabetic rat testes.
Vitamin C, a micronutrient known for its anti-scurvy activity in humans, promotes the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) through the activity of histone demethylating dioxygenases. TET hydroxylases are also dioxygenases implicated in active DNA demethylation. Here we report that TET1 either positively or negatively regulates somatic cell reprogramming depending on the absence or presence of vitamin C. TET1 deficiency enhances reprogramming, and its overexpression impairs reprogramming in the context of vitamin C by modulating the obligatory mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition (MET). In the absence of vitamin C, TET1 promotes somatic cell reprogramming independent of MET. Consistently, TET1 regulates 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC) formation at loci critical for MET in a vitamin C-dependent fashion. Our findings suggest that vitamin C has a vital role in determining the biological outcome of TET1 function at the cellular level. Given its benefit to human health, vitamin C should be investigated further for its role in epigenetic regulation.
With oral furosemide administration and salt loading, urinary calcium was significantly increased in 8 normal subjects, accompanied by parallel natriuresis. In spite of the excessive calcium loss in the urine, total and ionized serum calcium remained unchanged. All subjects had significant increases in nephrogenous cyclic AMP, suggesting that parathyroid activity is elevated in subjects with furosemide-induced hypercalciuria. With furosemide, fecal calcium was significantly decreased, and resultantly, there was no significant change in the cumulative calcium balance. It is suggested that urinary calcium loss with furosemide is compensated for by secondary hyperparathyroidism via increased intestinal calcium absorption in order to maintain serum calcium at a normal level. The experimental model thus mimics the condition of the renal type of idiopathic hypercalciuria.
Intramuscular injections of botulinum toxin A (Btx-A) and exercise are used in the treatment of muscle spasticity in children with cerebral palsy. However, little is known about the biological changes within muscle subsequent to Btx-A-induced paralysis and how the combination of Btx-A and exercise might affect the growing muscle. The wet mass, myosin heavy chain (MHC) composition, and titin content of the juvenile rat gastrocnemius muscle were determined 3 weeks after Btx-A injections and subsequent voluntary wheel-running exercise. Btx-A increased the proportion of type IIa (+121%) and IIx (+65%) MHC while decreasing the proportion of type IIb MHC (-51%) and reducing the titin content (-18%). Exercise did not amplify or reduce the changes induced by Btx-A. Thus, we conclude that although the sarcomeric stability of paralyzed muscle might be impaired, moderate mechanical loading does not seem to affect paralyzed muscle protein composition.
Inflammatory responses in the brain are involved in the etiopathogenesis and sequelae of seizures. Ligation of microglial CD40 plays a role in the development of inflammatory responses in the central nervous system (CNS). Our study showed that there was an increased CD40 expression on activated microglia in the brain injury after lithium pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) in rats. Since peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) acts as a regulator of CNS inflammation and a powerful pharmacological target for counteracting CNS diseases, we investigated the role of the PPARgamma agonist, rosiglitazone, in the modulation of CD40 expression and in the pathological processes of inflammation after SE. We found that rosiglitazone inhibited the expression of CD40, tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha), and microglial activation in different regions of hippocampus. The results were indicated by immunohistochemistry, Western blot, and ELISA, respectively. Rosiglitazone also prevented neuronal loss in the CA1 area after SE observed by Nissl-staining. These protective effects were significantly reversed by the co-treatment with T0070907, a selective antagonist of the PPARgamma, which clearly demonstrated a PPARgamma-dependent mechanism. Our data provide evidence that rosiglitazone considerably attenuates inflammatory responses after SE by suppressing CD40 expression and microglial activation. Our data also support the idea that rosiglitazone might be a potential neuroprotective agent in epilepsy.
Although 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is classified as a human carcinogen, TCDD only induced oxidative DNA damages. In our present study, we combined TCDD with 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) to investigate their tumorigenic effects on lung tumor formation in A/J mice. Application of NNK at a tumorigenic dose (2 mg/mouse) induced lung adenoma in both male and female A/J mice. Neither application of NNK at a non-tumorigenic dose (1 mg/mouse) nor repeated application of TCDD alone increased tumor incidence. Following the single injection of NNK at a non-tumorigenic dose (1 mg/mouse), repeated application of TCDD significantly increased the lung tumor incidence in female, but not in male, A/J mice 24 weeks later. Utilizing the real-time RT-PCR array, we found that P16 mRNA was significantly reduced in female lung, but not male lung, of NNK/TCDD co-treated A/J mice. With immunohistochemical staining, we confirmed that nuclear P16 protein was reduced in the lungs of NNK/TCDD co-treated female mice. These data suggest that P16 reduction at least partially contributed to synergistic effects of TCDD in lung tumorigenesis.
The hormone, 1,25-(OH)2D3, is metabolized into 1,25-(OH)2-24-OXO-D3, in kidney prior to conversion to its final inactive product, calcitroic acid. Similarly, 1,25-(OH)2-24OXO-16eneD3, is produced in the kidney from the Vitamin D analog, 1,25-(OH)2-16eneD3, but resists further hydroxylation. The analog's metabolite was synthesized and its biologic activity compared to the parent compound. Naive SJL/J mice, 4 weeks old, were immunized with neuroantigen in adjuvant to induce experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis [EAE]. Treatment with 1,25-(OH)2-24OXO-16eneD3 was given at 0.05, 0.15 and 0.3 microgram I.P., on alternate days, starting 3 days prior and for up to 5 days post immunization and compared to a similar treatment with 0.1 microgram 1,25-(OH)2D3 or 1,25-(OH)2-16eneD3. Suppression of EAE was observed with 0.15 microgram 1,25-(OH)2-24OXO-16eneD3, comparable to the suppression induced with the parent compound and more potent than 1,25-(OH)2D3. However, no hypercalcemia was seen in mice treated with 0.15 microgram of OXO-metabolite (9.7 +/- 0.6 vs 9.3 +/- 1.1 mg/dl, treated vs controls), in contrast to 1,25-(OH)2D3 and 1,25-(OH)2-16eneD3 (11.2 +/- 1.0 and 11.0 +/- 0.9 mg/dl respectively; p < 0.001). In summary, our results suggest that 1,25-(OH)2-24OXO-16eneD3, a stable intermediary metabolite of the vitamin D analog, 1,25-(OH)2-16eneD3 exerts immunosuppressive activity equal to its parent without causing hypercalcemia in vivo.
The effects of intravenous metoprolol and propranolol on left-ventricular performance were studied by radionuclide cardiography in eight healthy young men at rest and during exercise. At rest, a fall of 7 to 10 mmHg was recorded in systolic blood pressure after both drugs (p less than 0.05). The decrease in cardiac output entirely ascribed to relative bradycardia was 18% after propranolol (p less than 0.01) compared with 6% after metoprolol (p less than 0.05). Left-ventricular volumes did not change at rest. Systemic vascular resistance increased by 14% after metoprolol and by 28% after propranolol (both p less than 0.05). During submaximal bicycle exercise the systolic blood pressure fell by 15 mmHg after both drugs (p less than 0.05). The reduction in exercise heart rate was 17 beats min-1 and 18 beats min-1 (both p less than 0.01), but propranolol reduced cardiac output by 18% (p less than 0.01) compared with 5% (p less than 0.05) after metoprolol, reflecting a reduction in stroke volume induced only by non-selective blockade. A more pronounced left-ventricular end-diastolic dilatation during exercise was allowed by metoprolol and the fall in the exercise ejection fraction was, therefore, smaller after this drug. Concomitantly, the calculated systemic vascular resistance was increased only 6% by metoprolol (p less than 0.05) compared with a 29% increase by propranolol (p less than 0.01). These findings suggest that, at least in healthy subjects, metoprolol is superior to propranolol in the ability to limit adverse cardiovascular changes.
