To investigate the impacts of leuprolide acetate on the quality of life (QoL) of patients with prostate cancer.
A total of 104 patients was enrolled in this prospective multicenter study. All patients received subcutaneous injections of 3.75 mg leuprolide acetate at 4 week intervals for a total of 12 weeks. QoL was assessed before treatment and at 12 weeks using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and an accompanying prostate cancer-specific module (QLQ-PR25).
Eighty-nine of 104 patients (85.6%) completed the 12 week study. Eighty-six of 89 patients (96.6%) achieved and maintained medical castration. The results of the EORTC QLQ-C30 indicated that patients experienced an improvement in global health status/QoL (p < 0.001), despite a deterioration in physical and role functioning (p = 0.012 and p = 0.007, respectively). The symptom scales indicated a statistically significant improvement in appetite (p = 0.003). The results of the QLQ-PR25 revealed that patients experienced an increase in hot flushes (p < 0.001) and erection problems and uncomfortable sexual intimacy among the sexual functioning items (p = 0.030 and p = 0.023, respectively), but day-time urinary frequency was improved (p = 0.004).
The results of this prospective study indicate that leuprolide acetate treatment was accompanied by improvements in global health status/QoL, despite a deterioration in physical, role and sexual function.
Free radicals and antioxidant enzymes (AOEs) may play a critical role in cell proliferation and in the resistance of malignant cells against cytotoxic drugs and radiation. Malignant mesothelioma is a resistant tumor with high levels of manganese superoxide dismutase, a central superoxide scavenging AOE. In the current study, the authors assessed the expression and prognostic role of catalase, an important hydrogen peroxide scavenging AOE, in malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Catalase expression was investigated by immunohistochemistry in 5 cases of nonmalignant healthy pleura and in tumor tissue of 32 mesothelioma patients, and by Western blot in 7 continuous human mesothelioma cell lines. The distribution of catalase in mesothelioma cells was assessed by immunoelectron microscopy. Furthermore, to investigate the effect of catalase inhibition in the drug resistance of these cells in vitro, the authors exposed mesothelioma cells with the highest catalase level to epirubicin with and without aminotriazole pretreatment.
Nonmalignant mesothelial cells showed no catalase immunoreactivity whereas most mesothelioma cases (24 of 32, 75%) were catalase positive, 17 cases (53%) showing moderate or high expression. Higher catalase expression in mesothelioma was associated with a better prognosis, mean survival rate from diagnosis being 6 and 24 months for negative/low expression and moderate/high expression, respectively. Furthermore, a coordinately high expression of both manganese-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) and catalase predicted even more favorable outcome of the mesothelioma patients. Catalase also could be detected in all mesothelioma cell lines, the most resistant cell line showing the highest protein expression and compartmentalization of catalase mainly to peroxisomes. Aminotriazole inhibition of catalase had a marginal effect on the toxicity caused by epirubicin.
Catalase may have multifactorial effects in malignant cells; high catalase and/or coordinated high expression of Mn-SOD and catalase may decrease tumor progression by modulating the cellular redox state, but enhanced antioxidant capacity of mesothelioma cells also may protect tumor cells against exogenous oxidants, at least in vitro.
Anticholinesterase poisoning is an important health problem in developing countries, and understanding of its underlying mechanisms is essential for the effective treatment. This study is designed to examine the effects of Y-27632, a selective Rho-kinase inhibitor, on organophosphate-induced cardiac toxicity and mortality in rats. Rats were randomly divided into 4 groups: control (corn oil), dichlorvos (30 mg/kg intraperitoneally), and 1- and 10-mg/kg Y-27632 + dichlorvos groups. After 6 hours of intraperitoneal injection, venous blood and cardiac samples were obtained, biochemical or immunohistochemical analyses were performed, and the intensity of muscle fasciculation was recorded. Serum cholinesterase activities were suppressed with dichlorvos, and these reductions were inhibited with Y-27632 pretreatment. Serum creatine kinase, creatine kinase-MB activities, and myoglobin and N-terminal probrain natriuretic peptide concentrations were not markedly affected with poisoning or Y-27632. Although serum nitric oxide concentrations did not change with dichlorvos, cardiac nitric oxide levels were markedly increased with Y-27632 pretreatment. Cardiac glutathione levels also increased with 1 mg/kg Y-27632. There was no staining for apoptosis, and immunohistochemical analyses of inducible nitric oxide synthase showed no change in cardiac tissue for all of the groups. Both doses of Y-27632 abolished mortality in rats with acute dichlorvos exposure (100% survival). These results show that administration of Rho-kinase inhibitor can produce protective effects against dichlorvos intoxication in rats. These findings may provide new possibilities for the treatment of organophosphate poisoning.
In order to assess the efficacy and safety of alfuzosin, a selective alpha-1 receptor antagonist, 205 patients with Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia (BPH) were randomly assigned in a double-blind, placebo-controlled manner, to receive either alfuzosin 2.5 mg TID or placebo TID during 12 weeks. After 12 weeks symptom scores-assessed according to the Madsen-Iversen scale were significantly reduced in the alfuzosin group and peak flow rate significantly increased compared to the placebo group. There were no significant differences concerning adverse events or withdrawals. Alfuzosin proved to have a beneficial effect in patients with symptomatic BPH with few and minor adverse events.
To describe a patient with ototoxicity associated with vinblastine chemotherapy.
A 29-year-old white man with recurrent Hodgkin's disease received doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) chemotherapy once every two weeks for 12 cycles. He reported tinnitus after each treatment, with an onset of about six hours and a duration of seven to 10 days. This interfered with reading, watching television, and general concentration. Symptoms returned to baseline prior to the beginning of each subsequent cycle. Audiograms performed before and after several cycles showed mild sensorineural hearing loss in the high-decibel range, but no loss of speech recognition.
No reported cases of ototoxicity or tinnitus from ABVD were found. All concomitant medications were eliminated as possible causes either due to lack of temporal association with the symptoms or no reports of ototoxicity in the literature. Vincristine, a more commonly used vinca alkaloid very similar to vinblastine, was noted to have caused several cases of sensorineural hearing loss.
This case suggests that vinblastine may cause ototoxicity.
A case of femoral neuropathy secondary to psoas muscle hematoma in a patient on warfarin sodium anticoagulation therapy is presented. Computed tomography was used to establish the diagnosis. The literature is reviewed with regard to the pathophysiology, clinical presentation, and therapy of this case. Surgical decompression is suggested to shorten the recovery period and minimize residual neurological deficit.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) receptor blocker (ARB) suppresses the progression of kidney disease. However, there is limited information regarding the nephroprotective effect of ARB in daunorubicin (DNR)-induced nephrotoxicity in rats. We examined the alteration of the renal Ang II and endothelin-1 (ET-1) receptor expression and the action of telmisartan, an ARB, on DNR-induced nephrotoxicity. Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with a cumulative dose of 9 mg/kg DNR (i.v.). Telmisartan was administered orally every day for 6 weeks. DNR rats showed nephrotoxicity as evidenced by worsening renal function, which was evaluated by measuring protein in urine, levels of urea and creatinine in serum, lipid profiles, malondialdehyde level, and the glutathione peroxidase activity in kidney tissue. These changes were reversed by treatment with telmisartan, which resulted in significant improvement in renal function. Furthermore, telmisartan increased nephrin protein expression, and down-regulated renal expression of Ang II and its receptor Ang II type I. Renal protein expressions of ET-1 and its receptor ET-receptor type A were increased in DNR rats, and treatment with telmisartan attenuated these increased expressions. Telmisartan mediated a further increase in the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ). In addition, the expressions of cyclooxygenase-2 and cellular adhesion molecules were increased in DNR rats, which were attenuated by telmisartan. In conclusion, telmisartan has a protective effect on DNR-induced nephrotoxicity through Ang II and ET-1, with the alteration of their receptor expressions, which is associated with its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects at least in part through PPAR-γ agonistic actions.
We optimized an adoptive transfer protocol in our mouse model of TDI-induced asthma in order to investigate the mechanisms of this type of occupational asthma.
On days 1 and 8, BALB/c mice were dermally sensitized with 0.3% TDI or vehicle (acetone/olive oil), and on day 15, they were sacrificed and a cell suspension was made from auricular lymph nodes. First, 0.1 x 10⁶, 0.5 x 10⁶, 1 x 10⁶ or 5 x 10⁶ cells were injected intravenously into naïve mice and three days later these mice received an oropharyngeal challenge with 0.01% TDI or vehicle. Second, mice were challenged with 0.01% TDI 1, 3, 5 or 7 days after transferring 0.5 x 10⁶ cells. The following endpoints were measured one day after challenge: methacholine reactivity; differential cell counts in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and total serum IgE.
Naïve mice receiving 0.5 x 10⁶, 1 x 10⁶ or 5 x 10⁶ cells showed significant increases in airway reactivity one day after TDI challenge; BAL neutrophils were increased after transferring 0.5 x 10⁶ and 1 x 10⁶ cells. A TDI challenge 3 days after transferring 0.5 x 10⁶ cells gave a 3-fold increase in airway resistance and a pronounced airway inflammation, whereas challenging at other time points gave no differences.
We were able to passively sensitize naïve mice using lymph node cells from TDI-sensitized mice, resulting in an asthma-like response after an airway challenge. In comparison to other adoptive transfer protocols we used substantially lower number of cells to obtain the desired response.
What predisposes some cocaine users to its complications is not known. Because cocaine is metabolized by plasma cholinesterase enzyme, we evaluated this enzyme in 14 patients with cocaine-induced complications, 11 long-term cocaine users from Bolivia, 14 persons in the United States without any documented cocaine-induced complications, and 14 subjects who have not used cocaine. The enzyme was found to be significantly lower in patients with cocaine-induced complications as compared to other groups (p < 0.05). A low level of plasma cholinesterase enzyme may predict complications from cocaine use.
We report a case of a 59-year-old man with a severe generalized form of Hailey-Hailey disease that was complicated by fatal liver injury. Erosive lesions were first noted in the axillary and perianal regions at 15 year of age, and Hailey-Hailey disease was diagnosed based on the clinical features and histologic findings in skin biopsy specimens. The patient was treated with at first topical steroids and later a low dose of a corticosteroid, but the skin lesions gradually became generalized. At 45 years of age liver dysfunction was detected after azathioprine and vinblastine treatment for the generalized skin lesions. The liver injury gradually progressed and finally the patient died. The gene responsible for Hailey-Hailey disease was recently identified as ATP2C1, and it encodes a Ca(2+)-transport ATPase with broad expression, including in skin and liver. This finding suggests that mutation of the ATP2C1 gene may give rise to an extracutaneous phenotype, such as the liver dysfunction observed in severe cases, including our own. Further accumulation of cases is necessary to determine whether this is true.
To investigate the features, followup data, and outcomes of patients with propylthiouracil (PTU)-associated antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis.
Nineteen patients with PTU-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis diagnosed in our hospital from 2000 to 2006 were analyzed retrospectively.
Our data showed a female predominance among the patients. Eleven patients had involvement of more than one organ. Renal involvement was the most common manifestation. Fourteen patients underwent renal biopsy. Four patients had focal proliferative glomerulonephritis with crescent formation. Two had necrotizing glomerulonephritis with crescent formation. Two patients had minor glomerular abnormalities, 2 had IgA nephropathy, one had membranous nephropathy, one had focal proliferative glomerulonephritis, one had granulomatous interstitial nephritis, and the remaining one had focal segmental glomerular sclerosis. Immune complex glomerulonephritis was found in 3 patients. On indirect immunofluorescence, 17 patients were perinuclear-pattern ANCA-positive, one was positive for atypical ANCA, and one was positive for cytoplasmic-pattern-ANCA. By ELISA, 4 patients were positive for both myeloperoxidase (MPO)-ANCA and proteinase-3 (PR3)-ANCA, one was positive for PR3-ANCA only, and the others were positive for MPO-ANCA only. For the treatment of vasculitis, 5 patients received prednisone alone, 10 received prednisone and cyclophosphamide, and the remaining 4 did not receive prednisone or cyclophosphamide. During followup, 15 patients achieved remission, 3 patients died, and one patient depended on dialysis. In general, MPO-ANCA concentration did not correlate with disease progression, and a delayed decrease of MPO-ANCA concentration was found in most patients who achieved remission.
Most patients with PTU-associated ANCA-positive vasculitis had good outcomes; however, severe cases existed. We suggest early recognition and adequate treatment are necessary to improve outcome.
Trichloroethylene is a widely-used industrial solvent that is absorbed through the digestive or respiratory tracts or cutaneously. It has a selective tropism for the cardiovascular and central nervous systems and may cause death due to cardiac arrest or neurological sequelae. We present the case of a 25-yr-old women who was exposed to trichloroethylene in the workplace for 18 months and who developed a disabling myoclonic encephalopathy. Non-toxicological causes were excluded. Although the exposure ceased, the disease progressed with thalamic and cerebellar involvement. The patient, who had only a partial response to symptomatic treatment, suffered severe limitations in the activities of daily living and was registered as permanently disabled due to a work-related disability.
A variety of neurological disturbances may occur in patients receiving ocular administration of timolol. Possible mechanisms include direct effects on neurons of the central nervous system, effects on peripheral vasculature, and cardiac arrhythmias. Interestingly, transient ischemic attacks have not been documented to occur synchronously with timolol-related arrhythmias. We report a case of recurrent dizziness and staggering gait occurring synchronously with timolol related arrhythmias. An attack of amaurosis fugax also occurred. Discontinuing timolol abolished all the symptoms. Pre-existing autonomic dysfunction in our patient may have been an important contributing factor in his symptomatology.
The value of ultrafast MRI for detection of myocardial perfusion abnormalities in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) was assessed in 10 patients with stable angina pectoris and angiographically proven one-vessel CAD using double-level short-axis ultrafast MRI with bolus injection of gadolinium-DTPA and tomographic technetium-99m SestaMIBI imaging (SPECT) during dipyridamole-induced coronary hyperemia. Abnormally perfused regions were assessed with SPECT and MRI in all (100%) patients. Agreement in localization between arteriography and SPECT was 80%; between arteriography and MR, 70%; and between SPECT and MR, 90%. The signal intensity increase after the bolus injection of gadolinium-DTPA using a linear fit, and the slope of gadolinium-DTPA wash-in using double exponential model fitting were significantly different between abnormally and normally perfused regions. These preliminary results demonstrate the potential of dipyridamole ultrafast MR to monitor stress-induced flow maldistribution in patients with single vessel CAD.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of Chinese herbs on Doxorubicin-induced focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) in rats. Twenty age-matched male Wistar rats were divided into two groups: group A (n = 10) given only water ad libitum served as the control group and group B (n = 10) was given Chinese herbs (40 ml/kg with drug concentration 1.75 g/ml) beginning at day zero. All rats were administered doxorubicin (7 mg/kg) intravenously. All the rats were placed in metabolic cages at day 0, 7, 14, 21, and 28, and daily proteinuria was measured. At day 28, the animals were killed by cervical dislocation, followed by immediate organ collection for histologic analysis of kidneys; blood was collected by tail vein and cardiac puncture (at day 28) for the measurement of serum albumin. Body weight (BW) and food intake were recorded. The rats in groups A and B demonstrated severe susceptibility to doxorubicin injection with the onset of proteinuria (80-100 mg/24h) at day 7. The rats in group B were partly resistant to doxorubicin nephropathy with decreasing proteinuria and increasing serum albumin compared with group A (p < 0.05). All 10 rats in group A developed at least 5% glomerulosclerosis with tubular casts at day 28. In contrast, the rats in group B developed less severe histologic renal disease. The difference in histologic scores between the two groups were significant at day 28 (12 in group B vs. 20 in group A, p = 0.002). Food intake of Group B animals progressively increased to reach 67-73% of those observed before the doxorubicin administration with 28-43% in Group A. After the 4-wk experimental period, BW in Group A decreased more significantly than that in Group B (-20 +/- 3 and -16 +/- 1%, respectively, p = 0.035, paired T test). Chinese herbs seem to reduce proteinuria and attenuate renal histologic severity in rats with doxorubicin-induced FSGS and may offer an alternative to the treatment of FSGS.
The influence of nootropic drugs of different chemical structure and mechanism of action (piracetam 200-800 mg/kg, meclofenoxate 50-100 mg/kg, nicergoline 1-4 mg/kg) on amnestic disturbances induced with electroconvulsive shock (ECS), scopolamine (2.5 mg/kg) and phenazepam (2.0 mg/kg) was studied in mice using passive avoidance test. All the investigated drugs possess distinct protective properties concerning different models of amnesia. In ECS-induced amnesia meclofenoxate was most effective, in scopolamine-induced amnesia--meclofenoxate and nicergoline, in phenazepam-induced amnesia all drugs were equally potent in profundity. It is supposed that neurophysiological mechanism of action of nootropic drugs is connected with directed activation of weakened memory trace of different etiology and its transmission into form receivable for transcription.
Prostaglandin E (PGE) is the preferred agent for second-trimester pregnancy termination. Hypotension, bradycardia, ventricular arrhythmias, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest and death associated with PGE have been reported. A case of acute myocardial infarction due to coronary vasospasm induced by PGE is described in the present report. The diagnosis was confirmed by electrocardiography and coronary angiography.
The toxicity and carcinogenicity of ozone was evaluated in Fischer 344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice exposed to 0, 0.12 (2 years only), 0.5 or 1.0 ppm ozone by inhalation for 2-year and lifetime exposures. A 2-year cocarcinogenicity study (male rats only) included the subcutaneous administration of 0, 0.1 or 1.0 mg/kg/body wt. of 4-(N-methyl-N-nitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) for the first 20 weeks along with inhalation exposure to 0 or 0.5 ppm ozone followed by additional 84 weeks of ozone exposure alone. Ozone exposure in rats did not cause an increased incidence of lung neoplasms. In the cocarcinogenicity study, ozone exposure did not have an additive carcinogenic effect. Lifetime and 2-year ozone exposure was associated with a marginal increase in lung tumors in male B6C3F1 mice and a more pronounced increase in females. Unique mutations in the K-ras gene were found in the mouse lung neoplasms from the ozone-exposed mice.
Heparin has been shown to be renoprotective in a number of experimental nephropathies. The inflammatory component in the early phase of Adriamycin (ADR) induced nephropathy has been established. A microdose of low molecular weight heparin (Fragmin; F) has been noted to exert immunomodulatory effects independent of its anticoagulant activity. We assessed the effects of microdoses of F on daily proteinuria and glomerular production of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and prostaglandins 8 and 15 days after induction of ADR nephropathy.
Following intravenous injection of ADR (7 mg/kg) to Wistar rats weighing 200 +/- 20 g, F 20 microg/day/rat s.c. was administered for 8 and 15 days (groups F8 and F15). The respective control groups (C8 and C15) received normal saline subcutaneously. Proteinuria, serum albumin, and creatinine clearance were evaluated on days 8 and 15. The production of TNF-alpha and prostaglandins from glomerular supernatants was measured by radioimmunoassay on days 8 and 15.
F significantly reduced proteinuria (mg/day) on day 8: 13.6 +/- 1.2 in F8 versus 40.3 +/- 2.7 in C8 (p = 0.008). The glomerular production of TNF-alpha (pi/ml) was significantly lower on day 8 in rats treated with F: 356 +/- 33 in F8 versus 764 +/- 81 in C8 (p = 0.006). A decrease in the prostaglandin E2/thromboxane B2 ratio was noted in the F group between 8 and 15 days (1.1 in F8 vs. 0.9 in F15, p = 0.005) which principally reflects an increase of thromboxane B2. The antiproteinuric effect of F shown after 8 days was no longer present after 15 days (354 +/- 91 mg/day in F15 vs. 499 +/- 69 mg/day in C15, p = 0.33). The same trend was seen for the glomerular production of TNF-alpha. Light microscopy and immunohistochemistry for interstitial and glomerular macrophages were negative.
The lowering effect of microdoses of F on the proteinuria seen during the early phase of ADR nephropathy may be mediated by a decreased production of glomerular TNF-alpha, supporting the anti-inflammatory action of low molecular weight heparin.
The effectiveness and safety of quinidine in the conversion of chronic atrial fibrillation after administration of amiodarone was assessed in 15 patients. A total quinidine dosage of 1097 +/- 408 mg was administered up the point of conversion or for a total of 48 hours. Nine of 15 patients (60%) converted to sinus rhythm. No clinical variable such as the duration of atrial fibrillation, left atrial size, left ventricular fractional shortening, amiodarone duration, or maintenance dose of amiodarone was able to discriminate between converters and nonconverters when patients were treated with the combination of amiodarone and quinidine. The mean QT interval with amiodarone was 414 +/- 44 msec and slightly increased to 434 +/- 40 msec (p = 0.01) when quinidine was added. The amiodarone-quinidine combination was well tolerated, and no side effects or proarrhythmias were recorded.
Melatonin reduces pyramidal neuronal death in the hippocampus and prevents the impairment of place learning and memory in the Morris water maze, otherwise occurring following global cerebral ischemia. The cytoarchitectonic characteristics of the hippocampal CA1 remaining pyramidal neurons in brains of rats submitted 120 days earlier to acute global cerebral ischemia (15-min four vessel occlusion, and melatonin 10mg/(kg h 6h), i.v. or vehicle administration) were compared to those of intact control rats in order to gain information concerning the neural substrate underlying preservation of hippocampal functioning. Hippocampi were processed according to a modification of the Golgi method. Dendritic bifurcations from pyramidal neurons in both the oriens-alveus and the striatum radiatum; as well as spine density and proportions of thin, stubby, mushroom-shaped, wide, ramified, and double spines in a 50 microm length segment of an oblique dendrite branching from the apical dendrite of the hippocampal CA1 remaining pyramidal neurons were evaluated. No impregnated CA1 pyramidal neurons were found in the ischemic-vehicle-treated rats. CA1 pyramidal neurons from ischemic-melatonin-treated rats showed stick-like and less ramified dendrites than those seen in intact control neurons. In addition, lesser density of spines, lower proportional density of thin spines, and higher proportional density of mushroom spines were counted in ischemic-melatonin-treated animals than those in the sinuously branched dendrites of the intact control group. These cytoarchitectural arrangements seem to be compatible with place learning and memory functions long after ischemia and melatonin neuroprotection.
Paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ), a novel antitubulin agent derived from the bark of the Pacific yew tree, may be one of the most active single agents in our chemotherapy armamentarium. Concern over acute hypersensitivity reactions has resulted in an administration schedule consisting of a 24-hour infusion. We conducted a phase I trial of a 3-hour infusion of paclitaxel to determine whether a 3-hour infusion could be administered with relative safety, and to identify the maximal tolerated dose with and without granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) support. Thirty-five patients with advanced, untreatable malignancies received a 3-hour infusion of paclitaxel once every 3 weeks. Groups of three patients were entered at escalating dose levels in a traditional phase I design consisting of two parallel arms: arm A (without G-CSF) and arm B (with G-CSF). Dose levels of paclitaxel ranged from 210 mg/m2 to 300 mg/m2. Patients assigned to the G-CSF arm received 5 micrograms/kg/d subcutaneously starting on day 2. All patients were pretreated with dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, and ranitidine, and were monitored continuously for cardiac arrhythmias during the first treatment. The dose-limiting toxicity for paclitaxel without G-CSF was myelosuppression at the 250 mg/m2 dose level and with G-CSF was peripheral neuropathy at the 300 mg/m2 dose level. The mean absolute neutrophil count at the 250 mg/m2 dose level when administered with and without G-CSF support was 4,500/microL and 840/microL, respectively. Neuropathy appeared to be dose related and somewhat cumulative. One patient who previously received cisplatin developed a severe grade III peripheral neuropathy at the 300 mg/m2 dose level, which left her unable to use her hands and wheelchair bound; the peripheral neuropathy slowly resolved to a grade I level. Twenty-seven of III courses (24%) were associated with grade III arthralgias or myalgias, requiring narcotics for pain control. Prednisone was empirically started in 10 patients and found to be helpful in the control of these symptoms. One of 35 (2.9%) patients had a grade III anaphylactic reaction. No clinically significant cardiac arrhythmias were observed. Two previously treated patients (one with breast cancer and one with ovarian cancer) had a partial response. The maximum tolerated dose of paclitaxel administered as a 3-hour infusion was 210 mg/m2 without G-CSF and 250 mg/m2 with G-CSF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of pancreatic intraductal infusions of the surface active pancreatic ductogram enhancing agent, polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil, were studied in the dog. Moderately high pressure retrograde infusions of 5 per cent polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil into the main pancreatic duct resulted in pancreatitis-like changes significantly greater than those seen in the saline solution control group. These changes persisted despite buffering of the agent to physiologic pH and the elimination of nonphysiologically high pressure by direct ductal perfusion. Similar inflammatory changes were associated with ductal perfusion using oleic and, to a lesser degree, ricinoleic-fatty acids at concentrations of 10(-4) molar sufficient to account for the titratable acidity of 5 per cent polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil. It is postulated that residual-free fatty acids may play some role in polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil related toxicity. The surface active properties of the agent may also be involved. Caution and further research are recommended prior to widespread use of the agent in endoscopic retrograde pancreatography.
Tumorigenicity of isoniazid (INH) and hydrazine sulfate (HS) was studied in male and virgin Swiss mice. The INH and HS induced 50% und 84% lung tumors in males and 67% and 72% in females, respectively. Both chemicals induced lung tumors in animals of the F1 generation that were exposed to INH or HS during intrauterine life, lactation, and in the postweaning period. Surprisingly, the F2 generation from these F1 animals, which were exposed to INH only during gestation and lactation, showed earlier and much higher tumor incidence than the parent generation.
Chemotherapy-induced Fanconi syndrome is a dangerous condition that could lead to severe electrolyte disturbances and rarely to osteomalacia.
A patient treated with ifosfamide for a metastatic cervix squamous-cell carcinoma was admitted for diffuse, symmetric bilateral pain in bones and articulations. The diagnosis work-up revealed that she suffered from osteomalacia due to a chemotherapy-induced Fanconi syndrome. The patient recovered completely with oral calcitriol supplements.
This very rare chemotherapy-complication suggests that detection of potential tubular dysfunction, by regular serum electrolyte monitoring of patients receiving ifosfamide, may be a reasonable approach to diagnose early chemotherapy-induced Fanconi syndrome, even in adults.
