Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a psychiatric disorder that affects ~5% of school-aged children; however, the mechanisms underlying ADHD remain largely unclear. Here we report a previously unidentified association between G protein-coupled receptor kinase-interacting protein-1 (GIT1) and ADHD in humans. An intronic single-nucleotide polymorphism in GIT1, the minor allele of which causes reduced GIT1 expression, shows a strong association with ADHD susceptibility in humans. Git1-deficient mice show ADHD-like phenotypes, with traits including hyperactivity, enhanced electroencephalogram theta rhythms and impaired learning and memory. Hyperactivity in Git1(-/-) mice is reversed by amphetamine and methylphenidate, psychostimulants commonly used to treat ADHD. In addition, amphetamine normalizes enhanced theta rhythms and impaired memory. GIT1 deficiency in mice leads to decreases in ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate-1 (RAC1) signaling and inhibitory presynaptic input; furthermore, it shifts the neuronal excitation-inhibition balance in postsynaptic neurons toward excitation. Our study identifies a previously unknown involvement of GIT1 in human ADHD and shows that GIT1 deficiency in mice causes psychostimulant-responsive ADHD-like phenotypes.
Nanomaterials of carbon origin tend to form various shapes of particles in micrometer dimensions. Among them, multi-wall carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) form fibrous or rod-shaped particles of length around 10 to 20 micrometers with an aspect ratio of more than three. Fibrous particles of this dimension including asbestos and some man-made fibers are reported to be carcinogenic, typically inducing mesothelioma. Here we report that MWCNT induces mesothelioma along with a positive control, crocidolite (blue asbestos), when administered intraperitoneally to p53 heterozygous mice that have been reported to be sensitive to asbestos. Our results point out the possibility that carbon-made fibrous or rod-shaped micrometer particles may share the carcinogenic mechanisms postulated for asbestos. To maintain sound activity of industrialization of nanomaterials, it would be prudent to implement strategies to keep good control of exposure to fibrous or rod-shaped carbon materials both in the workplace and in the future market until the biological/ carcinogenic properties, especially of their long-term biodurability, are fully assessed.
Delirium in older adults is a common and serious acute neuropsychiatric syndrome, with core features of inattention and global cognitive impairment. Although antipsychotic drugs are the medications most frequently used to treat this syndrome, these drugs are associated with a variety of adverse events, including sedation, extrapyramidal side effects, and cardiac arrhythmias.
We report on two cases in which monotherapy of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor and sigma-1 receptor agonist fluvoxamine was effective in ameliorating the delirium of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Delirium Rating Scale (DRS) scores in the two patients with Alzheimer's disease decreased after fluvoxamine monotherapy.
Doctors should consider that fluvoxamine could be an alternative approach in treating delirium in patients with Alzheimer's disease because of the risk of extrapyramidal side effects by antipsychotic drugs.
DOTA-D-Phe1-Tyr3-octreotide (DOTATOC), a newly developed somatostatin analogue which can be stably labelled with the beta-emitter yttrium-90, can be used for receptor-mediated internal radiotherapy. A 78-year-old woman suffering from a carcinoid of the small intestine with multiple metastases in the liver as well as mesenteric and supraclavicular lymph node metastases was treated with this therapy after the disease had progressed under other chemotherapy options employed years previously. The patient received four single doses of 90Y-DOTATOC at 6-week intervals, yielding a cumulative dose of 9,620 MBq (5,659 MBq/m2). Restaging revealed stable metastatic disease. Serum creatinine and urea nitrogen levels were within the normal range prior to starting and during DOTATOC therapy. However, 15 months after cessation of DOTATOC therapy, a progressive deterioration of renal function occurred, leading to end-stage renal disease. Urinalysis revealed a slight proteinuria of 700 mg/day without haematuria, leucocyturia or casts. There was no obvious risk factor for chronic renal insufficiency except DOTATOC therapy. However, it was not feasible to use kidney biopsy to prove the presence of radiation-induced nephritis. Intermittent haemodialysis was started as the creatinine clearance declined to below 10 ml/min. Diuresis was not affected. The presented case shows delayed renal insufficiency after a relatively low cumulative dose of 90Y-DOTATOC (5,659 MBq/m2). This serious adverse event indicates that further studies are needed to evaluate which dose of 90Y-DOTATOC, under which renal protection regimen, will provide optimal management, balancing risks and benefits.
Survival for patients with advanced head and neck carcinoma and esophageal carcinoma is poor with radiotherapy and/or surgery. Obviously, there is a need for effective chemotherapy. In the present study, cis-platin (80-120 mg/m2BSA) and 5-FU (1000 mg/m2BSA daily as a continuous infusion during 5 days) were given to 76 patients before radiotherapy and surgery. The aim of the study was to clarify the incidence and severity of adverse cardiac effects to this treatment. Before treatment all patients had a cardiac evaluation and during treatment serial ECG recordings were performed. In the pre-treatment evaluation, signs of cardiovascular disease were found in 33 patients (43%). During treatment, adverse cardiac effects were observed in 14 patients (18%). The mean age of these patients was the same as for the entire group, 64 years. The incidence of cardiotoxicity was not higher in patients with signs of cardiovascular disease than in those without in the pre-treatment evaluation. The most common signs of cardiotoxicity were chest pain, ST-T wave changes and atrial fibrillation. This was followed by ventricular fibrillation in one patient and sudden death in another. It is concluded that patients on 5-FU treatment should be under close supervision and that the treatment should be discontinued if chest pain or tachyarrhythmia is observed.
Atorvastatin exerts beneficial vascular effects in diabetes, but the underlying mechanisms are yet to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to determine whether Rac-1 is involved in the effect of atorvastatin on oxidative stress and vascular dysfunction.
Using human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs) we evaluated the effect of high glucose levels on peroxide production by dihydrodichlorofluorescein and on Rac-1 activity using immunocytochemistry to detect Rac-1 translocation to the membrane. We evaluated vascular function, peroxide production by dihydroethidium and NADPH oxidase activity in vessels from atorvastatin-treated mice. Rac-1 activity was also assessed, both by immunoprecipitation of the Rac-p21-activated kinase complex and by analysis of Rac-1 translocation to the membrane. These experiments were also conducted in vessels infected with an adenoviral vector carrying a constitutively active mutant of Rac-1.
In HAECs exposed to high glucose levels, atorvastatin prevented oxidative stress, and this protection was associated with impaired Rac-1 activation. This effect was also observed in a murine model of diabetes mellitus. More importantly, the addition of geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) blocked the effects of atorvastatin in both glucose-exposed HAECs and diabetic vessels. Atorvastatin failed to afford protection against vascular abnormalities in the presence of a constitutively active mutant of Rac-1.
The results of this study demonstrate that the vascular antioxidant effect of atorvastatin in diabetes is mediated through inhibition of Rac-1 via a reduction in GGPP. Thus, selective Rac-1 inhibition should be considered in the design of novel pharmacological strategies to reduce the impact of diabetes mellitus on vascular function.
Irinotecan hydrochloride (CPT-11) can display severe toxicities in individual cancer patients. CPT-11 is bio-activated through CES, detoxified through UGT1A1 and inhibits TOP1. CPT-11 toxicity and UGT1A1, CES2 and TOP1 mRNAs and UGT1A1 protein were determined in male and female C57BL/6, B6D2F1 and B6CBAF1, as potential models for tailoring CPT-11 delivery. CPT-11 was administered intravenously (40-90 mg/kg/day for 4 days at 7h after light onset). The relations between dose and lethal toxicity or body weight loss were steep and similar in C57BL/6 (lethality, p=0.001; weight loss, p=0.002) and B6D2F1 (p=0.01; p=0.03, respectively), but weak in B6CBAF1. Females displayed less toxicity than males (p<0.001). Mean mRNA expression of UGT1A1 was highest in B6CBAF1 (p=0.039) and in females (p<0.001). Both CES2 and TOP1 varied according to strain and gender (p<0.001). The three gene expression data explained the most severe toxicity of CPT-11 in male B6D2F1, but displayed inconsistent relations with toxicity in the other groups. Mean UGT1A1 protein expression was highest in males as compared to females, and so by approximately 8-fold in C57BL/6 as compared to B6D2F1 (p<0.0001). Genetic background and gender significantly altered the molecular prediction of irinotecan toxicity by UGT1A1, CES2 and TOP1 mRNA expressions.
We studied the effects of epinephrine and phenylephrine on the cardiorespiratory toxicity of intravenously injected bupivacaine in Sprague-Dawley rats. Our data show that both epinephrine and phenylephrine significantly increased cardiorespiratory toxicity of intravenously injected bupivacaine (P less than 0.007, X2 analyses with Yates' correction). Our data suggest that epinephrine or phenylephrine added to bupivacaine may be more toxic to cardiorespiratory systems than plain bupivacaine or epinephrine alone or phenylephrine alone when injected intravenously in rats.
Pungent transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV1) channel activators have been shown to have broad inhibitory anti-emetic activity against centrally- and peripherally acting challenges but only at doses that have adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and on temperature homeostasis. In the present studies, we investigated the anti-emetic potential of the non-pungent TRPV1 activator, olvanil (0.05-5 mg/kg, s.c., 3 times per day, for 3 days) to antagonise the acute and delayed emesis induced by cisplatin (5 mg/kg, i.p.) in ferrets that had been implanted with radiotelemetry devices to enable an analysis of heart rate and temperature. Cisplatin induced an acute (day 1: 48.0+/-18.3 retches+vomits) and delayed (day 2: 111.7+/-35.5; day 3: 147.5+/-20.2 retches+vomits) emetic response that was associated with reduced food (-98.7% at day 3, P<0.001) and water consumption (-70.2% at day 3, P<0.001) and progressive weight loss (-12.0% at day 3, P<0.001). Olvanil did not prevent either emesis or the weight loss and negative effects on food and water consumption (P>0.05); the effect on food consumption appeared potentiated by a further 21.2% at 0.05 mg/kg (P<0.05) and 19.9% at 0.5 mg/kg (P<0.05). Cisplatin did not alter body temperature (basal: 37.7+/-0.1 degrees C) or heart rate (basal: 233.7+/-5.5 beats per min (BPM); P>0.05), but hypothermia (-1.6 degrees C) and increases in locomotor activity (50-90%) were recorded in animals concomitantly treated with olvanil (P<0.05). These data indicate that non-pungent activators as exemplified by olvanil are unlikely to be useful clinically for the control of the gastrointestinal side effects induced by cisplatin.
Sevoflurane is a recently introduced volatile inhalation anaesthetic and is already used commonly in Japan. We investigated the potential of sevoflurane to cause lipid peroxidation in vivo and in vitro. For the in vitro study, pentane formation in a mixture of guinea pig liver microsomes and sevoflurane in the presence of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) was analyzed by gas chromatography. Under anaerobic conditions, pentane formed without sevoflurane, but sevoflurane potentiated this anaerobic pentane formation. Two antioxidant agents, vitamine E and glutathione, reduced the pentane formation induced by sevoflurane. In the in vivo study, 18 guinea pigs were exposed to air (control), 0.5% halothane, or 1.2% sevoflurane. The extent of lipid peroxidation and liver damage was investigated by measuring the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive products and serum transaminase (alanine-aminotransferase: ALAT and aspartate-aminotransferase: ASAT) activity 12 hr after exposure. Both halothane and sevoflurane significantly increased thiobarbituric acid-reactive products. The increase in thiobarbituric acid-reactive products seen with sevoflurane administration was half that seen with halothane. Sevoflurane increased the ALAT activity to the same extent as did halothane but did not increase the ASAT activity. We conclude that sevoflurane potentiates lipid peroxidation in guinea pig liver microsomes in vivo and in vitro. However, because the degree of liver damage as measured by transaminase activity was minimal and the mechanism of sevoflurane-induced lipid peroxidation is still unknown, we must be cautious in applying these results to humans.
Synthetic glucocorticoids are commonly prescribed during pregnancy, despite a lack of systematic investigations of their potential impact on the developing brain and neurological and behavioral performance.
Neuroendocrine parameters and behavior in the adult offspring of pregnant Wistar rats treated antenatally with either dexamethasone (DEX) or corticosterone (CORT) were monitored; DEX (.1 mg/kg and 1 mg/kg) and CORT (25 mg/kg) were given to pregnant rat dams on gestation days 18 and 19.
Despite normal basal levels of corticosterone, the adult offspring of mothers given DEX or CORT displayed abnormal responses in the dexamethasone-suppression test. Neither treatment influenced spatial memory performance, but both DEX and CORT facilitated development of depression-like behavior following chronic stress. The latter finding demonstrates that high-dose antenatal corticotherapy can impair the organism's resilience to stress in adulthood. Interestingly, comparison of the progeny of CORT-treated and DEX-treated mothers revealed that the latter were more anxious.
Since DEX and CORT differ in their affinity for glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptors and corticosteroid-binding globulin, our findings emphasize the need to consider the pharmacologic properties of antenatal corticotherapies and demonstrate the potential long-term benefits of ligands that can bind to both receptors.
The present work was designed to study the influence of testosterone and oestrogens on the benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome in mice. Several withdrawal signs were induced by 15 mg/kg intraperitoneally of flumazenil in diazepam-treated mice. The most noticeable were jerks, usually accompanied by tail lifts, and seizures. The intensity of the diazepam withdrawal syndrome was significantly lower in male than in female mice, especially in relation to the incidence of seizures. Castrated male mice showed a significant increase in the intensity of withdrawal syndrome. In addition, diazepam produced a significant increase of body weight in males but not in females. The principal finding of the present work is that the incidence of seizures produced by the administration of flumazenil was significantly lower in male than in female diazepam-treated mice. This fact suggests that the mechanism of action of benzodiazepines is modulated by the action of sexual hormones, and that testosterone plays a relevant role.
Serious cardiac adverse reactions, including myocardial infarction, have been attributed to the antimigraine drug sumatriptan succinate. Chest pain is considered to be a relatively common adverse reaction to sumatriptan.
Postmarketing study.
The study was a part of a national cohort study on adverse reactions to sumatriptan, which was performed with the assistance of drug-dispensing general practitioners in the Netherlands. After data were collected on observed adverse reactions, the patients received a second questionnaire, with specific questions regarding the adverse event, and questions regarding medical history, other health complaints, and smoking habits. Furthermore, they had a physical examination and a blood cholesterol measurement.
A total of 137 patients with chest pain associated with intake of sumatriptan were identified and compared with 229 consumers of sumatriptan without this adverse reaction. After multivariate analysis, young age, hypertension, general complaints of abdominal pain, and a family history of myocardial infarction were associated with an increased risk of chest pain attributed to sumatriptan. Hypertension in particular was a risk factor for sumatriptan-induced chest pain in men (relative risk, 8.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.8-40) compared with hypertension as a risk factor in women (relative risk, 1.63; 95% confidence interval, 0.9-3.1).
Young age, hypertension, general complaints of abdominal pain, and a family history of myocardial infarction are associated with an increased risk of chest pain attributed to sumatriptan. Sex is an effective modifier of risk factors of sumatriptan-induced chest pain. In particular, hypertension is a strong risk factor in men.
A bioassay for the evaluation of certain adverse effects of various corticosteroids was performed. Twenty-eight daily topical applications of corticosteroids to young rats produced reduction in body-weight gain, atrophy of the skin as determined by double skin-fold thickness micrometer measurement, and mild to severe telangiectasia. This animal model demonstrates corticosteroid-induced skin atrophy and telangiectasia and the correlation of the degree of atrophy and telangiectasia to body-weight change. Nine corticosteroids were evaluated by this method and are listed in terms of increasing severity of side-effects as follows: 1.0% hydrocortisone cream, 0.1% betamethasone valerate cream, 0.025% betamethasone benzoate cream, 0.05% flurandrenolide cream, 0.05% fluocinonide cream, 0.1% dexamethasone cream, and 0.03% flumethasone pivalate cream. Triamcinolone acetonide cream, 0.5%, and 0.2% fluocinolone acetonide cream resulted in death of the animals prior to completion of 28 days of topical application.
A patient who allegedly consumed 100 tablets of an over-the-counter analgesic containing sodium acetylsalicylate, caffeine, and acetaminophen displayed no significant CNS stimulation despite the presence of 175 micrograms of caffeine per mL of serum. Because salicylates have been reported to augment the stimulatory effects of caffeine on the CNS, attention was focused on the possibility that the presence of acetaminophen (52 micrograms/mL) reduced the CNS toxicity of caffeine. Studies in DBA/2J mice showed that: 1) pretreatment with acetaminophen (100 mg/kg) increased the interval between the administration of caffeine (300 to 450 mg/kg IP) and the onset of fatal convulsions by a factor of about two; and 2) pretreatment with acetaminophen (75 mg/kg) reduced the incidence of audiogenic seizures produced in the presence of caffeine (12.5 to 75 mg/kg IP). The frequency of sound-induced seizures after 12.5 or 25 mg/kg caffeine was reduced from 50 to 5% by acetaminophen. In the absence of caffeine, acetaminophen (up to 300 mg/kg) did not modify the seizures induced by maximal electroshock and did not alter the convulsant dose of pentylenetetrezol in mice (tests performed by the Anticonvulsant Screening Project of NINCDS). Acetaminophen (up to 150 micrograms/mL) did not retard the incorporation of radioactive adenosine into ATP in slices of rat cerebral cortex. Thus the mechanism by which acetaminophen antagonizes the actions of caffeine in the CNS remains unknown.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is co-localized with noradrenaline (NA) in perivascular sympathetic nerve and is a vasoconstrictor. Pre-treatment with exogenous NPY markedly reduced nasal airway obstruction and rhinorrhea induced by the irritant capsaicin in control subjects. The aim of the present experiments was to study the time course variations of plasma concentrations of NA and NPY during and after intense exercise in 17 healthy volunteers. In parallel, changes in nasal airway resistance (NAR) were recorded. Nasal obstruction and rhinorrhea induced by capsaicin were compared after 30 min of rest and after 30 min of exercise. Both subjective and objective NAR were significantly reduced (p < 0.05) for over 15 min after the end of exercise. Plasma levels of NPY remained increased for more than 15 min after exercise whereas NA returned to basal values within less than 10 min. The increases of NAR and mucus production evoked by capsaicin were markedly attenuated for 30 min after exercise (p < 0.05). Variations of plasma NPY concentrations over time correlated better with post-exercise nasal vasoconstriction and hyporeactivity to capsaicin than NA. These observations suggest that endogenous NPY could be involved in the prolonged post-exercise nasal vasoconstriction and acts as a modulator of nasal airways reactivity.
Insulin resistance and systemic oxidative stress are prominent features of pregnancies complicated by maternal obesity or gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). The role of skeletal muscle oxidative stress or mitochondrial capacity in obese pregnant women or obese women with GDM is unknown.
We investigated whether obese pregnant women, compared with normal weight (NW) pregnant women, demonstrate decreased skeletal muscle mitochondrial enzyme activity and elevated markers of oxidative stress, and if these differences are more severe in obese women diagnosed with GDM.
We measured mitochondrial enzyme activity and markers of oxidative stress in skeletal muscle tissue from NW pregnant women (n = 10), obese pregnant women with normal glucose tolerance (NGT; n = 10), and obese pregnant women with GDM (n = 8), undergoing cesarean delivery (∼37 wk gestation).
Electron transport complex-II and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) enzyme activities were decreased in obese-NGT and obese-GDM, compared with NW women. The glutathione redox ratio (GSH:GSSG) was decreased in obese-NGT and obese-GDM, indicative of increased oxidative stress. Mitochondrial sirtuin (SIRT)3 mRNA content and enzyme activity were lower in skeletal muscle of obese-NGT and obese-GDM women. Importantly, acetylation of MnSOD, a SIRT3 target, was increased in obese-NGT and obese-GDM vs NW women and was inversely correlated with SIRT3 activity (r = -0.603), suggesting a mechanism for reduced MnSOD activity.
These data show that obese pregnant women demonstrate decreased skeletal muscle mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme activity and decreased mitochondrial antioxidant defense. Furthermore, reduced skeletal muscle SIRT3 activity may play a role in the increased oxidative stress associated with pregnancies complicated by obesity.
Administration of the indirect agonist L-dopa, the nonselective direct agonist apomorphine, or the selective D2 agonist (+)-PHNO, reversed parkinsonism and induced locomotor activation in MPTP-treated squirrel monkeys. In contrast, administration of the selective partial D1 agonist SKF38393 did not induce locomotor activity, but rather decreased activity. Choreiform movements were observed only following treatment with L-dopa. Coadministration of the D1 antagonist SCH23390 prevented L-dopa-induced chorea at the time of peak effect. However, a rebound exaggeration of chorea was observed following SCH 23390 at the time when chorea induced by L-dopa alone would normally be subsiding. Unlike chorea, dystonia could be induced by treatment with either L-dopa or (+)-PHNO. Administration of apomorphine failed to significantly induce dystonia, although a small increase was observed with the highest dose. Treatment with SKF38393 actually decreased dystonia. Our findings clearly indicate that D2 receptor stimulation appears essential for antiparkinsonian activity, and also implicate D2 receptors in the genesis of dystonia, but not chorea. D1 receptor stimulation appears to be involved in the genesis of chorea and possibly also dystonia.
To document an interaction between amantadine hydrochloride and Dyazide that had apparently produced amantadine toxicity, a patient was given amantadine alone for 1 week, followed by amantadine plus Dyazide for another week, under controlled conditions. A diuretic effect was observed after Dyazide was added to the regimen, but the urine amantadine excretion fell, and the drug's plasma concentration increased. It was concluded that one or both of the components of Dyazide (hydrochlorothiazide and triamterene) reduce the clearance of amantadine and can produce higher plasma concentrations and toxic effects.
Systemic inflammation gives rise to metabolic and behavioural changes, largely mediated by pro-inflammatory cytokines and prostaglandin production (PGE(2)) at the blood-brain barrier. Despite numerous studies, the exact biological pathways that give rise to these changes remains elusive. This study investigated the mechanisms underlying immune-to-brain communication following systemic inflammation using various anti-inflammatory agents. Mice were pre-treated with selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitors, thromboxane synthase inhibitors or dexamethasone, followed by intra-peritoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Changes in body temperature, open-field activity, and burrowing were assessed and mRNA and/or protein levels of inflammatory mediators measured in serum and brain. LPS-induced systemic inflammation resulted in behavioural changes and increased production of IL-6, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha, as well as PGE(2) in serum and brain. Indomethacin and ibuprofen reversed the effect of LPS on behaviour without changing peripheral or central IL-6, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha mRNA levels. In contrast, dexamethasone did not alter LPS-induced behavioural changes, despite complete inhibition of cytokine production. A selective COX-1 inhibitor, piroxicam, but not the selective COX-2 inhibitor, nimesulide, reversed the LPS-induced behavioural changes without affecting IL-6, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha protein expression levels in the periphery or mRNA levels in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that the acute LPS-induced changes in burrowing and open-field activity depend on COX-1. We further show that COX-1 is not responsible for the induction of brain IL-6, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha synthesis or LPS-induced hypothermia. Our results may have implications for novel therapeutic strategies to treat or prevent neurological diseases with an inflammatory component.
Doxorubicin (DXR) is an effective antitumor agent in a wide spectrum of neoplasms. Chronic treatment is associated with cardiomyopathy and characteristic myocardial ultrastructural changes, which include swelling of the t tubules. Accordingly, we investigated excitation-contraction coupling in cardiomyopathic rat heart resulting from chronic DXR treatment. Using the whole-cell patch clamp technique, we studied the L-type calcium channel in single cells enzymatically isolated from normal (CTRL) and DXR rat hearts. Despite similar cell dimensions, the total membrane capacitance was significantly smaller in the DXR cells (138 +/- 9 pF) than in the CTRL cells (169 +/- 11 pF) (mean +/- SEM, n = 9, P less than 0.05). The mean current and the current density-voltage relationships of the CTRL and the DXR cells were significantly different (n = 9, P less than 0.001) with the maximal peak L-type calcium current (ICa) density increased from 6.4 +/- 0.9 in CTRL cells to 10.5 +/- 2.4 microA/cm2 in the DXR cells (P less than 0.05). There was no shift either in the current-voltage relationship or the steady-state inactivation curve in the two cell groups. However, the fast time constant of inactivation was increased at a membrane voltage of -10 to 10 mV. Calcium channel antagonist equilibrium binding assays using [3H]-PN200-110 revealed no difference in the maximal receptor binding capacity (CTRL, 194 +/- 27 and DXR 211 +/- 24 fmol/mg protein; P greater than 0.05, n = 6) and in receptor affinity (CTRL, 0.15 +/- 0.05 and DXR 0.13 +/- 0.03 nM; P less than 0.05). These data suggest that a decrease in effective capacitance might be associated with t-tubular damage. Despite this decrease, ICa was increased in the DXR cells. Such an increase may result from an alteration in the properties of the calcium channels and/or recruitment of "hibernating" channels in the remaining surface and t-tubular membranes.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an essential mediator of angiogenesis and endochondral ossification. To explore the role of VEGF in avian diseases such as tibial dyschondroplasia (TD), a typical disorder of endochondral ossification, we expressed and identified recombinant chicken VEGF (chVEGF) protein in Pichia pastoris and evaluated its effects on thiram-induced TD in broiler chickens. The SDS-PAGE showed that 2 recombinant proteins, with molecular weights of ~46 and ~70 kDa, were obtained. Western blot analysis indicated that the 2 proteins were recognized by rabbit anti-chicken and goat anti-human VEGF polyclonal antibodies. Moreover, the mixture of the proteins significantly stimulated angiogenesis in the chick chorioallantoic membrane. In 21-d-old broilers that had been fed a thiram-enriched diet (100 mg/kg of thiram for 2 d at 8 d old) to induce TD, intramuscular injection of the chVEGF proteins (at a dosage of 10 or 30 μg/kg) significantly reduced the severity of TD but had no effect on TD incidence or BW; decreased serum Ca and P concentrations and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activity and elevated serum alkaline phosphatase activity; enhanced the total antioxidant capacity, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione peroxidase activities in the liver and kidney; upregulated the expression of type X collagen, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-13, and Runx2; and downregulated the Bcl-2 expression in the growth plates. In thiram-treated broilers at 15 d old, the chVEGF proteins upregulated the expression of MMP-13 and Runx2, and had different effects on type X collagen and Bcl-2 expression at different dosages. Our results indicate that exogenous chVEGF proteins promoted the recovery of TD-affected growth plates by improving the antioxidant capacity in the liver and kidney and by regulating differential expression of genes relating to endochondral ossification at different stages of TD development; VEGF deficiency in the growth plates was involved in the pathogenesis of TD.
GA2-50 is a novel N-substituted benztropine analog with improved potency and selectivity for the dopamine transporter. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties of GA2-50 were characterized as a part of its preclinical evaluation as a substitute medication for cocaine abuse. In vitro transport and metabolism studies as well as pharmacokinetic studies in rats were conducted. Effect of GA2-50 on the extracelluar nucleus accumbens (NAc) dopamine levels and on cocaine's induced dopamine elevation was evaluated using intracerebral microdialysis. GA2-50 showed high transcellular permeability despite being a P-glycoprotein substrate. GA2-50 was a substrate of human CYP2D6, CYP2C19, CYP2E1, rat CYP2C11, CYP2D1, CYP3A1, and CYP1A2; with low intrinsic clearance values. In vivo, GA2-50 showed high brain uptake (R(i) approximately 10), large volume of distribution (V(ss) = 37 L/kg), and long elimination half-life (t((1/2)) = 19 h). GA2-50 resulted in 1.6- and 2.7-fold dopamine elevation at the 5 and 10 mg/kg i.v. doses. Dopamine elevation induced by GA2-50 was significantly reduced, slower and longer lasting than previously observed for cocaine. GA2-50 had no significant effect on cocaine's induced dopamine elevation upon simultaneous administration. Results from the present study indicate that GA2-50 possesses several attributes sought after for a substitute medication for cocaine abuse.
The present study investigated the protective effect of morin, a natural flavonoid, on the imipenem-induced nephrotoxicity in rabbits. Nephrotoxicity of imipenem was examined after the intravenous administrations of imipenem (200 mg/kg) to rabbits in the presence and the absence of morin (12, 25, 50 mg/kg, p.o.). Cytotoxicity of imipenem was also examined in the presence and the absence of morin (100 microM) by using MDCK cells overexpressing human organic anion transporter 1 and 3 (MDCK/hOAT1 or MDCK/hOAT3). Intravenous dosing of imipenem alone induced severe proximal tubular necrosis in rabbits, however, the concurrent use of morin (25 or 50 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly suppressed the histopathological damage in the kidney induced by imipenem. While imipenem was not cytotoxic in MDCK/hOAT1 cells over the tested concentrations up to 10 mM, it showed significant cellular toxicity with CC(50) of 0.77 mM in MDCK/hOAT3 cells, implying that OAT3 may involve more actively in the imipenem-induced nephrotoxicity. In addition, the cellular toxicity of imipenem decreased by approximately 20 folds in the presence of morin in MDCK/hOAT3 cells. In conclusion, the present study suggests that morin might be beneficial to reduce the nephrotoxicity of imipenem, at least in part, via the inhibition of OAT3-mediated renal excretion of imipenem.
The purpose of this study was to develop an acute animal model of reflux esophagitis, which would be suitable to induce the esophageal damage caused by gastric acid reflux, thus mimicking the esophageal injury of human gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Global research indicates that GERD is rapidly increasing among the world's population. NSAIDs are known to induce gastrointestinal damage and low doses of aspirin (ASA) have been shown to increase the incidences of GERD in humans. Gastric acid and pepsin secretion and enhanced COX-2 expression were implicated in the pathogenesis of reflux esophagitis, but the effect of selective COX-2 inhibitors against lesions induced by the reflux of gastric acid content into esophagus has not been thoroughly studied. Here, we compared the effect of aspirin (ASA) and so called "safe" nitric oxide (NO) derivative of ASA with those of non-selective and selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and COX-2 in rat model of reflux esophagitis. Reflux esophagitis was induced in anesthetized rats by ligating the pylorus and limiting ridge transitional region between the forestomach and the corpus of stomach. Subsequently, the total gastric reservoir to store gastric juice was greatly diminished, resulting in the reflux of this juice into the esophagus. Rats with esophagitis received intragastric (i.g.) pretreatment either with: 1) vehicle (saline), 2) ASA or NO-ASA (100 mg/kg); 3) the non-selective COX inhibitor, indomethacin (5 mg/kg); 4) the selective COX-1 inhibitor, SC-560 (10 mg/kg), and 5) the selective COX-2 inhibitor, celecoxib (5 mg/kg). In a separate series of rats with reflux oesophagitis, the efficacy of ASA combined with a donor of NO, glyceryl trinitrate (GTN; 10 mg/kg i.g.) to prevent esophageal mucosal injury was investigated. Four hours after induction of esophagitis the gross mucosal damage was graded with a macroscopic lesion index (LI) from 0-6. The esophageal blood flow (EBF) was determined by H₂-gas clearance technique, the oesophageal mucosal and blood samples were collected for histology and analysis of the RT-PCR expression and release of proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6 using specific ELISA. The exposure of the esophagus to reflux of gastric acid time-dependently increased the esophageal LI and morphologic damage, and decreased EBF with the most significant changes observed at 4 hrs after the ligation procedure. The pretreatment with native ASA in the dose that suppressed the generation of mucosal PGE₂, enhanced gross and histologic esophageal damage and produced a significant fall in EBF. NO-ASA or ASA coupled with GTN counteracted the aggravation of the damage and accompanying fall in EBF when compared with native ASA applied alone to rats with esophagitis. The proinflammatory cytokines IL-1β and TNF-α were overexpressed in rats with esophagitis and those pretreated with ASA but this effect was significantly attenuated by NO-ASA. Plasma IL-1β, TNF-α and IL-6 were negligible in the intact rats but significantly increased in those with esophagitis, with this effect being further enhanced by non-selective (indomethacin) and selective (SC-560, celecoxib) COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors. We conclude that conventional NSAID such as aspirin augments esophagitis, while NO-ASA exerts the beneficial protective effect against reflux esophagitis via the enhancement of esophageal microcirculation due to NO release and an inhibitory effect on expression and release of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
Exposure to cadmium (Cd) disrupts bone metabolism, causing osteoporosis. Impaired vitamin D metabolism was initially proposed as the underlying mechanism, yet recent studies argue for the direct effect of Cd on bone cells. This study aimed at characterizing (109)Cd uptake and cytotoxicity in MC3T3-E1 osteoblasts. Time-dependent accumulation of (109)Cd was observed with a 50% lethal concentration (LC(50)) of 9.6 ± 1.2 μM at 24-h. Reducing extracellular calcium (Ca) or magnesium (Mg) increased Cd cytotoxicity. The presence of Ca, Mg, zinc or gadolinium decreased (109)Cd uptake suggesting the involvement of non-selective cationic channels. The Mg-sensitive part of (109)Cd uptake increased at acidic pH, a condition known to stimulate TRPM7 channel activity. Stimulating TRPM7 channel activity by cellular Mg starvation enhanced (109)Cd uptake. Silencing TRPM7 channel expression abolished the Mg-sensitive and the Mg starvation-induced uptake indicating that TRPM7 is involved in Cd transport in osteoblasts.
To investigate the role of excess ligand present in gadolinium (Gd) -based contrast agents in the development of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF). Using a dosing regimen to simulate the exposure seen in patients with severe renal impairment, we investigated the effect of excess ligand on Gd-deposition and the depletion of endogenous ions.
Gadodiamide and gadoversetamide were formulated with 0%, 5%, and 10% excess ligand. Forty-two, healthy, male Hannover Wistar rats received daily intravenous injections of each formulation over a period of 20 days. At the end of the study, histopathological analysis of the skin was performed and the concentrations of Gd, Zn, and Cu were measured in several tissues. The levels of Zn in the urine were also measured.
The most severe skin lesions were observed after injection of formulations containing 0% free ligand and in those animals with the highest Gd concentrations in the skin. There were no significant reductions in the levels of Zn or Cu observed in the skin; however, the levels of Zn in the urine were elevated following administration of formulations with the highest amount of excess ligand.
Our findings suggest that there is an inverse correlation between the amount of excess ligand present in Gd-containing contrast agents and the amount of Gd in the tissue, and further underline the importance of the inherent stability of these agents in the development of NSF.
