Telcagepant (MK-0974) is a novel oral calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist and is currently under clinical development. Results from phases II and III clinical trials have suggested that telcagepant is effective for migraine treatment. A reliable and high throughput protein precipitation (PPT) method for determination of telcagepant in human plasma using liquid chromatography coupled with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) tandem mass spectrometry has been developed. Clinical samples, internal standard (IS) and acetonitrile are transferred into 96-well plates using a robotic liquid handling system. An aliquot of 10 microL supernatant is directly injected into the LC-MS/MS system where separation is performed on a FluoPhase RP (150 x 2.1mm, 5 microm) column with an isocratic mobile phase (60% acetonitrile with 0.1% formic acid and 40% water with 0.1% formic acid) at 0.2 mL/min. The interfering 3S-diastereomer of telcagepant, which is observed in clinical samples, is chromatographically resolved from telcagepant. The PPT procedure significantly reduces the time required for sample processing and the assay is sufficiently sensitive for detection using both API 4000 and API 3000 mass spectrometers. The linear calibration range is 5-5000 nM using 200 microL of plasma. Assay intraday validation was conducted using six calibration curves derived from six lots of human control plasma. Calibration standard accuracy did not deviate by more than 3% and 6% of nominal values, and precision did not exceed 4% coefficient of variation (CV) and 10% CV, respectively on the API 4000 and API 3000. Several clinical phases IIb and III studies have been successfully supported with this assay.
Bis-(2-ethylhexyl) tetrabromophthalate (TBPH) is widely used as a replacement for polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in commercial flame retardant mixtures such as Firemaster 550. It is also used in a commercial mixture called DP 45. Mono-(2-ethyhexyl) tetrabromophthalate (TBMEHP) is a potentially toxic metabolite.
We used in vitro and rodent in vivo models to evaluate human exposure and the potential metabolism and toxicity of TBPH.
Dust collected from homes, offices, and cars was measured for TBPH by gas chromatography followed by mass spectrometry. Pregnant rats were gavaged with TBMEHP (200 or 500 mg/kg) or corn oil on gestational days 18 and 19, and dams and fetuses were evaluated histologically for toxicity. We also assessed TBMEHP for deiodinase inhibition using rat liver microsomes and for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) α and γ activation using murine FAO cells and NIH 3T3 L1 cells.
TBPH concentrations in dust from office buildings (median, 410 ng/g) were higher than in main living areas in homes (median, 150 ng/g). TBPH was metabolized by purified porcine esterases to TBMEHP. Two days of TBMEHP exposure in the rat produced maternal hypothyroidism with markedly decreased serum T3 (3,3´,5-triiodo-l-thyronine), maternal hepatotoxicity, and increased multinucleated germ cells (MNGs) in fetal testes without antiandrogenic effects. In vitro, TBMEHP inhibited deiodinase activity, induced adipocyte differentiation in NIH 3T3 L1 cells, and activated PPARα- and PPARγ-mediated gene transcription in NIH 3T3 L1 cells and FAO cells, respectively.
TBPH a) is present in dust from indoor environments (implying human exposure) and b) can be metabolized by porcine esterases to TBMEHP, which c) elicited maternal thyrotoxic and hepatotoxic effects and d) induced MNGs in the fetal testes in a rat model. In mouse NIH 3T3 L1 preadipocyte cells, TBMEHP inhibited rat hepatic microsome deiodinase activity and was an agonist for PPARs in murine FAO and NIH 3T3 L1 cells.
Topical capsaicin has been reported to be beneficial for the treatment of neurogenic pain. However, due to the burning pain associated with topical capsaicin, many patients discontinue treatment before therapeutic benefits are obtained. This study assessed the efficacy of EMLA (eutectic mixture of 2.5% prilocaine and 2.5% lidocaine) to block pain induced by the topical application of 1% capsaicin. Nine healthy subjects (five males and four females) participated in the study. High dose topical capsaicin (1%) was applied to a 2.5 x 2.5 cm region of both volar forearms for 6 h. One arm was pretreated (for 2 h) and cotreated with EMLA, and the other arm served as vehicle control. Average and peak pain ratings were recorded at 15-min intervals using a 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain) scale. Average and peak pain ratings were significantly lower at the EMLA site during the first 15-30 min of capsaicin treatment. However, for the remaining 5.5 h of capsaicin treatment, the pain ratings at the EMLA and vehicle sites were not significantly different. The 6 h treatment with high dose topical capsaicin (1%) produced significant desensitization to heat stimuli that was not affected by EMLA treatment. EMLA fails to produce a long lasting attenuation of the pain induced by topical application of 1% capsaicin. These results argue against the use of EMLA to block pain to topical capsaicin during the treatment of neurogenic pain.
A 60-year-old male patient complaining of palpitations, fatigue, weakness and weight loss of 1 month's duration was hospitalized in our cardiology department for atrial fibrillation. Thyroid function test results were compatible with thyrotoxicosis. The patient had been taking amiodarone for 2.5 years for hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and non-sustained ventricular tachycardia episodes. However, amiodarone had been discontinued after follow-up examinations revealed that the patient's ventricular arrhythmias were no longer present, and he had been taking metoprolol only for the preceding 6 months. In this patient, amiodarone-induced thyroiditis had developed 6 months after cessation of treatment, demonstrating that adverse effects may occur after discontinuation of amiodarone. Detection of the condition requires assessment of thyroid function before treatment initiation, during treatment and at regular intervals after treatment cessation. The type of hyperthyroidism induced by amiodarone cannot be determined in most cases. Patients with this condition should be referred to an experienced endocrinologist. Our case of delayed amiodarone-induced thryoiditis occcurred approximately 6 months after termination of amiodarone treatment.
The feasibility and safety of induced arterial hypertension (10 to 20% of the initial value) in the acute phase of ischemic stroke were retrospectively evaluated in 34 patients treated with norepinephrine (NE) for a median of 26 hours. Maximal variability of systolic blood pressure during NE application was within 15% of the target values. Cardiac arrhythmia occurred in one patient, and intracerebral hemorrhage occurred in two patients (fatal in one and asymptomatic in the other). The authors conclude that induced arterial hypertension is feasible and safe in patients with acute stroke.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) is one of the most potent vasoconstrictors, and the first specific and orally available Ang II-receptor antagonist, losartan (MK-954, DuP-753), has now come into clinical use. The primary site of insulin resistance, as measured by the glucose clamp technique, is skeletal muscle. Losartan specifically blocks Ang II-induced vasoconstriction, namely causes vasodilation, and may thus increase glucose delivery to skeletal muscle. We used the euglycaemic hyper-insulinaemic glucose clamp technique to assess insulin sensitivity (glucose disposal rate, GDR) or insulin (I) sensitivity index (GDR/I). In 21-year-old men we found negative correlations between GDR/I and blood viscosity (r = -0.69), haematocrit (r = -0.65), fibrinogen (r = -0.50), cholesterol/HDL ratio (r = -0.45), triglycerides (r = -0.46), body mass index (r = -0.64), waist/hip ratio (r = -0.57), resting heart rate (r = -0.46) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (r = -0.43), and with DBP (r = -0.62) and plasma adrenaline (r = -0.36) during mental arithmetic stress. In the Losartan Severe Hypertension Study five patients with a record of DBP > or = 115 mm Hg were examined before and on losartan monotherapy for an average of 6 weeks. GDR increased 27% and plasma noradrenaline decreased 40% (P < 0.05 for both) during treatment with losartan. Calculated whole blood viscosity decreased on losartan (P = 0.04) and the changes in GDR correlated with the changes in viscosity (r = 0.89). These results suggest that losartan, possibly by a sympathicolytic effect, lowers blood viscosity, causes vasodilation, and improves insulin sensitivity in essential hypertension.
Our previous studies suggest a central nervous system regulatory center that adjusts the brain's convulsive response to the insulin hypoglycemia based on decreased sensitivity to insulin hypoglycemic convulsions 24 hr after a single i.p. injection of gold thioglucose (GTG). This decrease is a change in the convulsive response to equal hypoglycemia and is not a change in the generalized convulsive threshold. GTG simultaneously causes a cytotoxic lesion focused in the ventromedial-arcuate hypothalamus (VMH), and the proposed regulatory center may be thought of as a "GTG-lesioned glucostat." However, 5-thioglucose (5TG) substitutes for GTG in decreasing the sensitivity to insulin hypoglycemic convulsions but does not lesion the VMH. In the present study, two possible explanations were explored for this previously reported dissociation of the 5TG functional effect and the VMH lesion. First, an interaction of 5TG with the GTG-lesioned glucostat in the VMH, without itself causing a lesion, was not supported by competition experiments, i.e., GTG lesion formation was not inhibited by appropriate 5-TG pretreatment. beta-D-Thioglucose, for which the sulfur substitution is more like GTG, is also compared. Two indices of GTG lesion formation were used, histology and the increased body weight that eventually results from a VMH lesion. Second, no 5-TG-induced lesion was found anywhere in the brain. Thus, no support was found for the possibility that 5-TG and GTG share a common lesion at some site other than the main VMH lesion of GTG. Other explanations must be sought.
Topical 0.025% capsaicin was used to treat 33 patients with post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). Thirty-nine percent of those entering the trial achieved at least a good result and 55% were improved or better. Fifty-six percent of the 23 patients completing the study had good or excellent pain relief after 4 weeks. Seventy-eight percent of the 23 noted at least some improvement in pain. Post-capsaicin burning was a common, untoward effect in most patients and in about one-third was so unbearable that the trial was terminated prematurely. This treatment appears to be a useful modality in PHN, particularly in the elderly in whom oral medications are often poorly tolerated; however, it does require supervision. A double-blind, controlled trial is now necessary.
Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) controls intracellular CH2FH4 concentrations (required for optimal fluoropyrimidine efficacy) by irreversibly converting CH2FH4 into 5-methyltetrahydrofolate. MTHFR 677C>T and 1298A>C polymorphisms are linked to altered enzyme activity. Thus, mutated MTHFR tumours should, in theory, be more sensitive to 5-fluorouracil (5FU) than wild-type tumours. MTHFR polymorphisms in position 677 and 1298 were analysed in 98 colorectal cancer patients with unresectable liver metastases (57 men, 41 women, mean age 64 years) receiving 5FU-folinic acid. 677C>T and 1298A>C genotypes were determined simultaneously by melting curve analyses on liver metastases. 677C>T genotype distribution was 46.9% wt/wt, 34.7% wt/mut and 18.4% mut/mut; that of 1298A>C was 52.0% wt/wt, 35.7% wt/mut and 12.3% mut/mut. The response rate was not related to 1298A>C genotype but was significantly linked to 677C>T genotype (response rate: 40%, 21% and 56% in wt/wt, wt/mut and mut/mut, respectively; P = 0.040), with an increased response rate in mut/mut tumours relative to wt/wt (odds ratio = 1.88). Thymidylate synthase activity measured in metastases was a significant predictor of 5FU responsiveness and the addition of the 677C>T genotype improved model prediction. MTHFR 1298A>C polymorphism was significantly linked to specific survival, with homozygous mutated patients having the worst prognosis (P = 0.009, relative risk = 2.48 in mut/mut versus wt/wt). MTHFR 1298A>C genotype remained a significant predictor in a multivariate analysis including metastasis characteristics. The results suggest that MTHFR genotypes are relevant and independent factors of patient outcome in 5FU-based treatment of advanced colorectal cancer.
Many studies have reported the therapeutic effects of lamivudine on cirrhotic patients with hepatitis B; however, no study has investigated the morphological changes of esophageal varices after lamivudine treatment.
The morphological changes of esophageal varices in patients with cirrhosis were retrospectively compared between 12 patients treated with lamivudine and six historical untreated patients.
In the treated group, the HBV DNA and hyaluronic acid (HA) levels in the serum were significantly lower than those in the untreated group (P = 0.013 and P = 0.009, respectively) at the end of follow-up, with a significant improvement in the Child-Pugh-Turcotte score (P = 0.022). In the treated group, the disappearance or reduction of esophageal varices was observed in six (50%) of the 12 patients. In three (25%) of the 12 patients, esophageal varices worsened. In the remaining three patients (25%), there were no changes in esophageal varices. In the untreated group, all patients showed the worsening of esophageal varices during the follow-up period, with a significant difference between this group and the treated group (P = 0.009). The serum HA level decreased in the nine treated patients without worsening of esophageal varices. However, in the three patients with worsening, the HA level significantly increased.
Lamivudine treatment for patients with cirrhosis improves not only liver function but also esophageal varices.
Type 2 diabetes is an ever-growing problem worldwide. Approximately 40% of the patients with type 2 diabetes will develop diabetic kidney disease. In the United States, diabetes has become the most common single cause of endstage renal disease defined by the need for dialysis or transplantation. Patients with type 2 diabetes and diabetic nephropathy have a dramatically increased cardiovascular risk. The Irbesartan Diabetic Nephropathy Trial was designed to determine whether the use of irbesartan or a calcium channel blocker would provide protection against the progression of nephropathy due to type 2 diabetes beyond that attributable to the lowering of blood pressure. In that study, 1715 hypertensive patients with nephropathy due to type 2 diabetes were randomly assigned to irbesartan 300 mg/day or amlodipine 10 mg/day, or placebo. All patients randomized in this trial had more than 900 mg of protein in their urine and serum creatinines between 1.0 mg/dl and 3.0 mg/dl. The target blood pressure was 135/85 mmHg or less in all groups. The primary outcome was time to a combined endpoint of doubling of their baseline serum creatinine concentration, the development of endstage renal disease, or death from any cause. The mean duration of follow-up was 2.6 years. Treatment with irbesartan was associated with a risk of the primary composite endpoint that was 20% lower than that in the placebo group ( P = 0.02) and 23% lower than that in the amlodipine group ( P = 0.006). The risk of doubling of the serum creatinine concentration was 33% lower in the irbesartan group than in the placebo group ( P = 0.003) and 37% lower in the irbesartan group than in the amlodipine group ( P < 0.001). Treatment with irbesartan was associated with a relative risk of endstage renal disease that was 23% lower than that in both other groups. These differences were not accounted for by differences in the blood pressures that were achieved. Proteinuria was reduced on average by 33% in the irbesartan group as compared with 6% in the amlodipine group and 10% in the placebo group. The angiotensin II receptor blocker irbesartan was shown to be effective in protecting against the progression of nephropathy due to type 2 diabetes. In a study done in patients with type 2 diabetes and early nephropathy as manifested by microalbuminuria, 590 hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria were randomized to receive either irbesartan 150 mg/day or irbesartan 300 mg/day and followed for 2 years. The primary outcome in that trial was the time to the onset of diabetic nephropathy, defined by persistent albuminuria in overnight specimens, with a urinary albumin excretion rate that was more than 200 mg/min or at least 30% higher than the baseline level. The irbesartan 150 mg/day group demonstrated a 39% relative risk reduction versus the control group in the development of overt proteinuria. The irbesartan 300 mg/day group demonstrated a highly significant 70% risk reduction versus the control group ( P < 0.001). The albumin excretion rate was reduced in the two irbesartan groups throughout the study (-11% and -38% at 24 months compared with baseline in the irbesartan 150-mg and 300-mg groups, respectively). The albumin excretion rate remained unchanged in the control group. Irbesartan was demonstrated in the above study to be renoprotective, independent of its blood pressure-lowering effect, in patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria. Thus, irbesartan, an angiotensin receptor blocker, was demonstrated to be significantly renoprotective in patients with type 2 diabetes with either early nephropathy (microalbuminuria) or late nephropathy (proteinuria). The renoprotective effects of irbesartan were above and beyond the effects irbesartan had on systemic blood pressure. Patients with type 2 diabetes and either early or late diabetic nephropathy should be treated with the angiotensin II receptor blocker irbesartan.
Polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis are myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) characterized by multilineage clonal hematopoiesis. Given that the identical somatic activating mutation in the JAK2 tyrosine kinase gene (JAK2(V617F)) is observed in most individuals with polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis, there likely are additional genetic events that contribute to the pathogenesis of these phenotypically distinct disorders. Moreover, family members of individuals with MPN are at higher risk for the development of MPN, consistent with the existence of MPN predisposition loci. We hypothesized that germline variation contributes to MPN predisposition and phenotypic pleiotropy. Genome-wide analysis identified an allele in the JAK2 locus (rs10974944) that predisposes to the development of JAK2(V617F)-positive MPN, as well as three previously unknown MPN modifier loci. We found that JAK2(V617F) is preferentially acquired in cis with the predisposition allele. These data suggest that germline variation is an important contributor to MPN phenotype and predisposition.
Genome-wide association studies have identified a number of new disease susceptibility loci that represent haplotypes defined by numerous SNPs. SNPs within a disease-associated haplotype are thought to influence either the expression of genes or the sequence of the proteins they encode. In a series of investigations of the JAK2 gene in myeloproliferative neoplasms, we uncovered a new property of haplotypes that can explain their disease association. We observed a nonrandom distribution of the somatic JAK2(V617F) oncogenic mutation between two parental alleles of the JAK2 gene. We identified a haplotype that preferentially acquires JAK2(V617F) and confers susceptibility to myeloproliferative neoplasms. One interpretation of our results is that a certain combination of SNPs may render haplotypes differentially susceptible to somatic mutagenesis. Thus, disease susceptibility loci may harbor somatic mutations that have a role in disease pathogenesis.
Chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are a group of related conditions characterized by the overproduction of cells from one or more myeloid lineages. More than 95% of cases of polycythemia vera, and roughly half of essential thrombocythemia and primary myelofibrosis acquire a unique somatic 1849G>T JAK2 mutation (encoding V617F) that is believed to be a critical driver of excess proliferation. We report here that JAK2(V617F)-associated disease is strongly associated with a specific constitutional JAK2 haplotype, designated 46/1, in all three disease entities compared to healthy controls (polycythemia vera, n = 192, P = 2.9 x 10(-16); essential thrombocythemia, n = 78, P = 8.2 x 10(-9) and myelofibrosis, n = 41, P = 8.0 x 10(-5)). Furthermore, JAK2(V617F) specifically arises on the 46/1 allele in most cases. The 46/1 JAK2 haplotype thus predisposes to the development of JAK2(V617F)-associated MPNs (OR = 3.7; 95% CI = 3.1-4.3) and provides a model whereby a constitutional genetic factor is associated with an increased risk of acquiring a specific somatic mutation.
The synthetic triterpenoid 2-cyano-3, 12-dioxooleana-1, 9-dien-28-oic acid (CDDO) induces apoptosis in leukemic cells. Here we show that CDDO and its new derivative CDDO-imidazolide (CDDO-Im) trigger apoptosis in multiple myeloma (MM) cells resistant to conventional therapies including melphalan (LR-5), doxorubicin (Dox-40), and dexamethasone (MM.1R, U266, RPMI 8226) without affecting the viability of normal cells. CDDO-IM also triggers apoptosis in bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) and decreases interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion induced by MM cell adhesion to BMSCs. Moreover, CDDO-Im-induced apoptosis in MM cells is not blocked by IL-6 or insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Importantly, CDDO-Im and bortezomib/proteasome inhibitor PS-341 trigger synergistic apoptosis in MM cells associated with loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, superoxide generation, release of mitochondrial proteins cytochrome c/second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases (cytochrome c/Smac), and activation of caspase-8, -9, and -3. Conversely, the pancaspase inhibitor Z-VAD-fmk abrogates the CDDO-Im + bortezomib-induced apoptosis. Low doses of CDDO-Im and bortezomib overcome the cytoprotective effects of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl2 and heat shock protein-27 (Hsp27) as well as nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB)-mediated growth/survival and drug resistance. Finally, combining CDDO-Im and bortezomib induces apoptosis even in bortezomib-resistant MM patient cells. Together, these findings provide the framework for clinical evaluation of CDDO-Im, either alone or in combination with bortezomib, to overcome drug resistance and improve patient outcome in MM.
With the increase in the number of reports and trials on the use of thalidomide as a part of the treatment of different medical conditions, particularly multiple myeloma (MM), it was observed that this drug might be associated with an increase in the risk of venous thromboembolic (VTE) events. It was the objective of this study to assess this risk, to check whether it might be affected by the concomitant administration of other medications, specifically dexamethasone, and to study the effect of anticoagulation and anti-platelet medications. A literature search for articles describing the use of thalidomide and the resultant VTE events was performed, and 50 articles were reviewed. A sample consisting of 3,322 patients resembling the above-mentioned studies was designed, and multivariate logistic regression was conducted. While thalidomide, dexamethasone and their combination were found to significantly increase the risk of VTE events among MM patients by 2.6, 2.8 and eight times, respectively, "adequate" anticoagulation significantly reduced the risk. In conclusion, patients receiving thalidomide should be carefully monitored for thromboembolic events, and those receiving concomitantly dexamethasone or other chemotherapy should be followed even more closely. Administering prophylactic doses of low-molecular-weight heparin or warfarin with therapeutic International Normalized Ratio reduces the risk of thromboembolic events among MM patients.
Nutrition-ethanol (EtOH) interactions during gestation remain unclear primarily due to the lack of appropriate rodent models. In the present report we utilize total enteral nutrition (TEN) to specifically understand the roles of nutrition and caloric intake in EtOH-induced fetal toxicity. Time-impregnated rats were intragastrically fed either control or diets containing EtOH (8-14 g/kg/day) at a recommended caloric intake for pregnant rats or rats 30% undernourished, from gestation day (GD) 6-20. Decreased fetal weight and litter size (P < 0.05) and increased full litter resorptions (33% vs. 0%), were observed in undernourished dams compared to adequately fed rats given the same dose of EtOH, while undernutrition alone did not produce any fetal toxicity. Undernutrition led to impairment of EtOH metabolism, increased blood EtOH concentrations (160%), and decreased maternal hepatic ADH1 mRNA, protein, and activity. Microarray analyses of maternal hepatic gene expression on GD15 revealed that 369 genes were altered by EtOH in the presence of undernutrition, as compared to only 37 genes by EtOH per se (+/-2-fold, P < 0.05). Hierarchical clustering and gene ontology analysis revealed that stress and external stimulus responses, transcriptional regulation, cellular homeostasis, and protein metabolism were affected uniquely in the EtOH-under-nutrition group, but not by EtOH alone. Microarray data were confirmed using real-time RT-PCR. Undernourished EtOH-fed animals had 2-fold lower IGF-1 mRNA and 10-fold lower serum IGF-1 protein levels compared to undernourished controls (P < 0.0005). Examination of maternal GH signaling via STAT5a and -5b revealed significant reduction in both gene and protein expression produced by both EtOH and undernutrition. However, despite significantly elevated fetal BECs, fetal IGF-1 mRNA and protein were not affected by EtOH or EtOH-undernutrition combinations. Our data suggest that undernutrition potentiates the fetal toxicity of EtOH in part by disrupting maternal GH-IGF-1, signaling thereby decreasing maternal uterine capacity and placental growth.
The 'discovery' of losartan represents three separate discoveries: (1) losartan as the unique biphenyltetrazole molecule and the first of a new chemical class; (2) losartan as a tool to identify AT1-subtype receptors; and (3) losartan as a specific probe for exploring the multiple roles of angiotensin II (Ang II) in normal physiology and pathologic states. Losartan is the first nonpeptide orally active Ang II receptor antagonist to reach clinical trials. Losartan was selected for its affinity for Ang II receptors, functional antagonism of Ang II, lack of agonist properties, and oral anti-hypertensive effects. Losartan has been widely used to define the distribution and function of AT receptor subtypes. Although possible roles of the AT2 subtype have been reported, virtually all of the known effects of Ang II are blocked by losartan. Specific AT1 receptor blockade has been broadly compared with ACE inhibition. Possible differences on the basis of AT1 selectivity, bradykinin potentiating effects and Ang II formed by non-ACE pathways are discussed. Losartan blocks the vascular constrictor effect of Ang II, the Ang II-induced aldosterone synthesis and/or release, and the Ang II-induced cardiovascular 'growth' in vitro and in vivo. In various models of experimental hypertension, losartan prevents or reverses the elevated blood pressure and the associated cardiovascular hypertrophy similar to ACE inhibitors. Likewise, in models of renal failure (for example reduced renal mass, puromycin, ochratoxin), losartan, like ACE inhibition, markedly reduced the elevation in blood pressure, proteinuria or sclerosis. In aortocaval shunt, coronary ligation and ventricular pacing models of heart failure, losartan demonstrated a pathological role for Ang II by reversing the associated haemodynamic findings. In SHR-stroke prone, losartan dramatically increased survival while having a limited effect on blood pressure, suggesting a non-pressure dependent effect of Ang II. These collective data show that Ang II exerts complex pathological effects in experimental models of vascular, cardiac, renal and cerebral disease. The effectiveness of losartan in experimental models of heart failure supports its evaluation in clinical trials with patients with heart failure.
A 41-year-old female attempted suicide by taking 7.8g acetaminophen and was transferred to our hospital four hours after ingestion. The patient was diagnosed as non-hepatic toxicity (below the line set by the Rumack Matthew nomogram). Laboratory data showed an elevation in serum liver enzymes and coagulation defects at 3 days after ingestion, therefore, the patient was treated with plasma exchange and an oral administration of N-acetylcysteine (NAC). The elevation of liver enzymes was maximal at 4 days after ingestion, and the laboratory data became normalized at approximately 9 days after ingestion. In this case, habitual alcohol intake may have exacerbated the severe liver injury. We should consider an exacerbation of hepatotoxicity and administer NAC in any case having a history of habitual alcohol intake, even if the case was diagnosed as non-hepatic toxicity by the nomogram.
The benzo[c]phenanthridine alkaloid sanguinarine has been studied for its antiproliferative activity in many cell types. Almost nothing however, is known about the cytotoxic effects of dihydrosanguinarine, a metabolite of sanguinarine. We compared the cytotoxicity of sanguinarine and dihydrosanguinarine in human leukemia HL-60 cells. Sanguinarine produced a dose-dependent decline in cell viability with IC(50) (inhibitor concentration required for 50% inhibition of cell viability) of 0.9 microM as determined by MTT assay after 4h exposure. Dihydrosanguinarine showed much less cytotoxicity than sanguinarine: at the highest concentration tested (20 microM) and 24h exposure, dihydrosanguinarine decreased viability only to 52%. Cytotoxic effects of both alkaloids were accompanied by activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway since we observed the dissipation of mitochondrial membrane potential, induction of caspase-9 and -3 activities, the appearance of sub-G(1) DNA and loss of plasma membrane asymmetry. This aside, sanguinarine also increased the activity of caspase-8. As shown by flow cytometry using annexin V/propidium iodide staining, 0.5 microM sanguinarine induced apoptosis while 1-4 microM sanguinarine caused necrotic cell death. In contrast, dihydrosanguinarine at concentrations from 5 microM induced primarily necrosis, whereas apoptosis occurred at 10 microM and above. We conclude that both alkaloids may cause, depending on the alkaloid concentration, both necrosis and apoptosis of HL-60 cells.
The efficacy, safety and tolerability of the 5-HT1B/D receptor agonist eletriptan (40 mg and 80 mg) in acute treatment of migraine was evaluated in a multinational, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, three-attack study treating 1153 patients. In the initial attack, significantly more eletriptan patients reported headache relief and complete pain relief at 2 h vs. placebo (40 mg 62% and 32%, 80 mg 65% and 34%, placebo 19% and 3%; P < 0.0001). Headache relief occurred faster after eletriptan, with more patients at both doses reporting relief 30 min (P < 0.01) and 1 h (P < 0.0001) after treatment than after placebo. There was a significantly lower recurrence rate with eletriptan 80 mg compared with placebo (P < 0.01). Adverse events for all treatments were generally mild or moderate and self-limiting. Eletriptan 40 mg and eletriptan 80 mg both appear to be effective and well-tolerated acute migraine treatments.
In a carefully controlled multicenter investigation of the effects of oral potassium chloride (KCl) supplements on the gastrointestinal mucosa, 120 healthy men with no endoscopically apparent gastrointestinal lesions were confined to a research ward for 18 days. By random assignment, they were given 60 mEq/day (20 mEq TID) of KCl as either a microencapsulated gelatin capsule, a wax/polymer matrix tablet, or a powder-in-liquid formulation or a placebo capsule for two weeks. All subjects were given glycopyrrolate concomitantly to delay gastric emptying. After treatment was completed, endoscopic examinations of the esophagus, stomach, and duodenum were performed and evaluated by specialists blinded to the particular treatment given. Mild to moderate gastrointestinal irritation, characterized by erythema and edema, was found with similar frequency in all four treatment groups. Two of 30 subjects given the microencapsulated KCl had a single erosion each. Single or multiple erosions were also observed in 14/30 men given the wax/polymer matrix tablet, in 7/30 given the powder, and in 1/30 given placebo. One subject given the wax/polymer matrix tablet had a gastric ulcer. The incidence of gastrointestinal injury with the microencapsulated form was significantly less (P less than 0.01) than that with the wax/polymer matrix tablet and was not significantly different from that seen with either the powder or placebo.
