A case is described in which recovery from the administration of a single dose of etomidate was complicated by periodic episodes of unconsciousness, tremor and apnoea. Subsequent investigations did not reveal any evidence of neurological disease.
A comparative study of the cytostatic drugs prospidin and cyclophosphamide used in equal doses for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is reported. Clinical and immunologic effects were determined, and the nature and incidence of side effects and complications were compared. Prospidin showed a more pronounced antirheumatic effect, making for a smaller daily requirement of nonsteroid anti-inflammatory agents or hormones in hormone-dependent cases. Unlike cyclophosphamide, prospidin was not associated with severe side effects and complications precluding further use of the drug. Both drugs demonstrated a regulatory effect on RA-associated immunologic disorders.
The effects of high toxic doses of the anticancer drugs, etoposide and its phosphate derivative, BMY-40481, on the nervous system of female CD-1 mice were examined by light microscopy (LM) and transmission electron microscopy. Mice were euthanatized 4 wk following a single iv injection of either 0, 50, 100, or 150 mg/kg of BMY-40481 or 44 or 88 mg/kg of etoposide. Mice treated with 100 or 150 mg/kg of BMY-40481 or 88 mg/kg of etoposide had clinical symptomology of progressive ataxia, impaired righting reflex, and splaying and paresis of fore- and hindlimbs at day 8. Similar, dose-related LM changes were observed with both drugs at all doses and consisted of degeneration of dorsal root ganglion cells and axonal degeneration of their distal and proximal processes in peripheral nerves, dorsal spinal roots, and dorsal funiculi of spinal cord. Axonal degeneration was characterized by LM as shrinkage, swelling, and fragmentation of axon cylinders accompanied by secondary demyelination. Degenerative changes in ganglion cell bodies included eccentric nuclei, cytoplasmic vacuolation, central chromatolysis, and peripheral clumping of Nissl's bodies. Ultrastructurally, ganglion cell bodies had focally extensive dilation of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrial swelling, increased numbers of phagolysosomes and prominent aggregations of microfilaments (globular filamentous bodies). Ultrastructural axonal changes occurred primarily in large, myelinated fibers and consisted of axonal swelling or loss, thinning of myelin sheaths, and a decrease in the number of organelles. This is the first report of etoposide-related sensory neuropathy in laboratory rats, a model that my be useful for the study of etoposide-related peripheral neuropathy in humans.
Adverse effects of zidovudine, which mainly result in myopathies and hematological disorders, could be due to multitissular mitochondrial toxicity of the drug. During zidovudine treatment, most cases of lactic acidosis have been attributed to mitochondrial myopathy. We report a case of hepatocellular failure with lactic acidosis in a 33 year-old patient with the human immunodeficiency virus infection and treated with zidovudine for 8 months. Liver biopsy showed massive macrovacuolar steatosis and ultrastructural mitochondrial abnormalities similar to those previously described in the skeletal muscle. This is the second reported case of lactic acidosis and hepatocellular failure which is probably related to hepatic mitochondrial dysfunction caused by zidovudine.
Antiretroviral regimens containing HIV protease inhibitors suppress viremia in HIV-infected patients, but the durability of this effect is not known.
To describe the 3-year follow-up of patients randomly assigned to receive indinavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine in an ongoing clinical trial.
Open-label extension of a randomized, double-blind study.
Four clinical research units.
33 HIV-infected, zidovudine-experienced patients with serum HIV RNA levels of at least 20,000 copies/mL and CD4 counts ranging from 50 to 400 cells/mm3.
Indinavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine.
Safety assessments, HIV RNA levels, CD4 cell counts, and genotypic analyses.
After 3 years of follow-up, 21 of 31 contributing patients (68% [95% CI, 49% to 83%]) had serum viral load levels less than 500 copies/mL. Twenty of 31 (65% [CI, 45% to 80%]) had levels less than 50 copies/mL. The median increase in CD4 count from baseline was 230 cells/mm3 (interquartile range, 150 to 316 cells/mm3). Nephrolithiasis occurred in 12 of 33 patients (36%).
A three-drug regimen of indinavir, zidovudine, and lamivudine suppressed viremia in two thirds of patients for at least 3 years.
To determine the efficacy of stepwise incremental doses, to compare twice- with thrice-daily administration of the same total daily dosage of the long-acting somatostatin analog SMS 201-995 (octreotide, Sandoz Australia, Sydney, Australia), and to evaluate the risk for cholelithiasis after long-term therapy for acromegaly.
Nonrandomized, controlled trial.
Tertiary care center at a medical research institute.
Sequential sample of 19 patients with active acromegaly. Twenty-five age-matched normal subjects were also studied to establish the normal range for growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1).
Eight patients (group 1) were treated with 100, 250, and 500 micrograms twice daily of octreotide, then switched to 333 micrograms three times daily, whereas 11 patients (group 2) were treated with 100, 200, 300, and 500 micrograms three times daily. Each treatment stage lasted 6 to 12 weeks.
Octreotide, 100 micrograms administered twice or thrice daily, significantly reduced mean 12-hour and nadir GH (P less than 0.01), IGF-1 (P less than 0.05), and hand volume (P less than 0.05). Dose increment to 500 micrograms in both groups did not further reduce mean 12-hour GH, nadir GH, or hand volume. Switching from 500 micrograms twice daily to 333 micrograms thrice daily resulted in significant (P less than 0.05) reduction of mean 12-hour GH, IGF-1, and hand volume. Normalization of mean 12-hour GH and IGF-1 occurred in 8 of 19 patients; 7 of the 8 patients had pretherapy mean 12-hour GH below 20 mIU/L. The pretherapy mean blood glucose was a significant negative predictor (r = -0.89) of the change in mean blood glucose during therapy. Gallstones were present in 9 of 18 patients after therapy.
Thrice-daily was more effective than twice-daily administration of octreotide, and dose increments above 100 micrograms thrice daily did not confer additional benefit. Biochemical remission was achieved in 40% of patients and was dependent on the GH concentration at initiation of treatment. Cholelithiasis is a risk of octreotide therapy. Octreotide is effective and can be considered as a first-line therapy in patients with acromegaly with mean pretherapy GH concentrations below 20 mIU/L. In patients with mean GH over 20 mIU/L, octreotide may be used as an adjuvant to surgery or radiotherapy.
The development of delayed doxorubicin cardiomyopathy in the rat is accompanied by profound anorexia, dramatically reducing the caloric intake. To assess the contribution of a restriction in food to the alterations in cardiac function, animals treated with doxorubicin were compared with a group of pair-fed control animals and with a second group of controls with unrestricted access to food. Prolongation of the Q alpha T interval of the electrocardiogram developed in rats treated with doxorubicin, but not in pair-fed controls. Myofibrillar ATPase activity and the contractile strength of isolated papillary muscles were depressed in rats treated with doxorubicin, but not in pair-fed rats. The reduction in ventricular weight was proportional to the reduction in the body weight in pair-fed rats, whereas a higher ratio of ventricular to body weight was observed in rats treated with doxorubicin. These results indicate that the alterations in cardiac function observed in delayed doxorubicin cardiomyopathy are not due to a reduction in the intake of food.
Orotic acid (OA) is an intermediate of pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthesis. Hereditary deficiencies in some enzymes associated with pyrimidine synthesis or the urea cycle induce OA accumulation, resulting in orotic aciduria. A link between patients with orotic aciduria and hypertension has been reported; however, the molecular mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, to elucidate the role of OA in vascular insulin resistance, we investigated whether OA induced endothelial dysfunction and hypertension. OA inhibited insulin- or metformin-stimulated nitric oxide (NO) production and endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) phosphorylation in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. A decreased insulin response by OA was mediated by impairment of the insulin-stimulated phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-protein kinase B (PKB/Akt) signaling pathway in cells overexpressing the p110-PI3K catalytic subunit. Impaired effects of metformin on eNOS phosphorylation and NO production were reversed in cells transfected with constitutively active AMP-activated protein kinase. Moreover, experimental induction of orotic aciduria in rats caused insulin resistance, measured as a 125% increase in the homeostasis model assessment, and hypertension, measured as a 25% increase in systolic blood pressure. OA increased the plasma concentration of endothelin-1 by 201% and significantly inhibited insulin- or metformin-induced vasodilation. A compromised insulin or metformin response on the Akt/eNOS and AMP-activated protein kinase/eNOS pathway was observed in aortic rings of OA-fed rats. Taken together, we showed that OA induces endothelial dysfunction by contributing to vascular and systemic insulin resistance that affects insulin- or metformin-induced NO production, leading to the development of hypertension.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) is one of the main limitations of long term L-DOPA use in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. We show that chronic L-DOPA treatment induces novel dyskinetic behaviors in aphakia mouse with selective nigrostriatal deficit mimicking PD. The stereotypical abnormal involuntary movements were induced by dopamine receptor agonists and attenuated by antidyskinetic agents. The development of LID was accompanied by preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin expression changes in the denervated dorsal striatum. Increased FosB-expression was also noted in the dorsal striatum. In addition, FosB expression was noted in the pedunculopontine nucleus and the zona incerta, structures previously not examined in the setting of LID. The aphakia mouse is a novel genetic model with behavioral and biochemical characteristics consistent with those of PD dyskinesia and provides a more consistent, convenient, and physiologic model than toxic lesion models to study the mechanism of LID and to test therapeutic approaches for LID.
We report on a four-generation inbred family including 10 individuals affected with a form of craniotubular dysplasia (CTD). All affected patients were born to consanguineous healthy parents; this finding, together with the equal sex ratio among affected individuals and the occurrence of only normal individuals among their offspring, indicates that the disease in this family is an autosomal recessive (AR) trait. Taking into account the segregation pattern of the disease in the family and the radiological characteristics of two young CTD patients, the most likely diagnosis for the defect is AR craniometaphyseal dysplasia (CMD). CMD is a CTD, with both autosomal dominant (AD) and recessive forms. The description of the present genealogy confirms the AR pattern of inheritance of some cases of CMD and contributes to a better delineation of the clinical spectrum of AR CMD, suggesting a more pronounced diaphyseal involvement in the AR compared with the AD CMD. Through genomewide scanning, we mapped the AR CMD to a 7 cM interval, between D6S302 and D6S1639, at 6q21-22 region. We have also excluded the positional candidate COL10A1 gene as being the responsible for this disorder. Curiously, a form of AR spondylocostal dysplasia (SD) also segregates in the family, including one affected individual with both conditions. The gene DLL3, mapped to 19q13 region, was recently found to be responsible for one form of AR SD; however, we did not find evidence of linkage between this 19q region and the SD segregating in our family, thus implying in genetic heterogeneity for AR SD.
Endothelial regulation of peripheral vascular resistance is impaired in hypertension. We studied the effects of different antihypertensive therapies on endothelial function in perfused mesenteric resistance arteries. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) aged 7 weeks were treated with either the nonpeptidic angiotensin II (AII) receptor antagonist CGP 48369, the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor benazepril HCl, or the calcium antagonist nifedipine (each 10 mg/kg/day orally, p.o.) for 8 weeks. All forms of therapy inhibited the increase in systolic blood pressure (SBP) to a comparable degree (18-23 mm Hg) and reduced but did not normalize medial hypertrophy in SHR. Changes in intraluminal vascular diameter to acetylcholine (ACh), norepinephrine (NE), and endothelin-1 (ET-1) were measured. Impaired endothelium-dependent relaxations to intraluminal ACh improved or normalized with all therapies, whereas the response to extraluminal ACh (which was unimpaired in SHR) remained unaffected. The endothelium-dependent inhibition of contractions to NE was lost in untreated SHR and improved or restored by antihypertensive therapy. In SHR, the sensitivity but not the maximal response of vascular smooth muscle (VSM) to ET-1 was paradoxically decreased. Antihypertensive therapy with CGP 48369, nifedipine, or benazepril HCl restored or increased the sensitivity to ET-1. Thus, chronic blockade of the renin-angiotensin system or voltage-operated calcium channels reduces BP and improves endothelial dysfunction in the resistance circulation of SHR. This may contribute to normalization of peripheral vascular resistance during antihypertensive treatment and improve local blood flow to vital organs.
This report describes an unusual presentation of focal motor activity resembling Jacksonian march, which developed during fentanyl induction of general anesthesia. Simultaneous spectral-edge activity recording of electroencephalography (EEG) failed to show evidence of an epileptic focus. A negative history of previous seizures, as well as failure to show postoperative postictal symptoms or seizure activity by 16-lead EEG, suggested a myoclonic rather than epileptic nature of the observed muscle activity. Pertinent literature and current theories regarding opioid-induced seizures are discussed.
Developmental manganese (Mn) exposure is associated with motor dysfunction in children and animal models, but little is known about the underlying neurochemical mechanisms or the potential for amelioration by pharmacotherapy. We investigated whether methylphenidate (MPH) alleviates fine motor dysfunction due to chronic postnatal Mn exposure, and whether Mn exposure impairs brain extracellular dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum in adult animals. Rats were orally exposed to 0 or 50 mg Mn/kg/day from postnatal day 1 until the end of the study (PND 145). The staircase test was used to assess skilled forelimb function. Oral MPH (2.5 mg/kg/day) was administered daily 1 h before staircase testing for 16 days. DA and NE levels were measured by dual probe microdialysis. Results show that Mn exposure impaired reaching and grasping skills and the evoked release of DA and NE in the PFC and striatum of adult rats. Importantly, oral MPH treatment fully alleviated the fine motor deficits in the Mn-exposed animals, but did not affect forelimb skills of control rats not exposed to Mn. These results suggest that catecholaminergic hypofunctioning in the PFC and striatum may underlie the Mn-induced fine motor dysfunction, and that oral MPH pharmacotherapy is an effective treatment approach for alleviating this dysfunction in adult animals. The therapeutic potential of MPH for the treatment of motor dysfunction in Mn-exposed children and adults appears promising pending further characterization of MPH efficacy in other functional areas (eg, attention) believed to be affected by developmental Mn exposure.
1. Effects of A-322312 (alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor (AR) antagonist), A-119637 (alpha(1D)-AR antagonist), prazosin (non-selective alpha(1)-AR antagonist), and yohimbine (alpha(2)-AR antagonist) were studied in rat corpus cavernosum (CC) and cavernous artery (Acc) preparations. Effects of intracavernous (i.c.) or intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of alpha(1)-AR antagonists on apomorphine-induced erections were investigated. 2. A-119637 attenuated electrically induced contractions in isolated CC (-logIC(50); 8.12+/-0.15), and relaxed noradrenaline (NA)-contracted preparations by more than 90% at 10(-7) M. At the same concentration, the -logEC(50) value for NA in Acc was altered from 6.79+/-0.07 to 4.86+/-0.13. In the CC and Acc, prazosin similarly inhibited contractile responses. 3. Inhibitory effects of A-322312 (10(-7) M) in electrically activated CC were 32.3+/-5.1%, whereas no effect on concentration-response curves for NA was observed in the Acc. Yohimbine (10(-8) M and 10(-7) M), enhanced electrically-induced contractions in isolated CC by 20 to 50%. At 10(-6) M, inhibitory effects of yohimbine were obtained. 4. A-119637 (0.3 micromol kg(-1), i.p.) tripled the number of erections, and produced a 6 fold increase in the duration of apomorphine-induced erectile responses. A-322312, prazosin, or yohimbine did not enhance erections induced by apomorphine. None of the alpha(1)-AR antagonists significantly increased ICP upon i.c. administration. Decreases in blood pressure were seen with A-119637 and prazosin. 5. The present findings show that there is a functional predominance of the alpha(1D)-AR subtype in the rat erectile tissue, and that blockade of this receptor facilitates rat penile erection induced by a suboptimal dose of apomorphine.
The tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel alpha subunit Nav1.8 is expressed exclusively in primary sensory neurons and is proposed to play an important role in sensitization of nociceptors. Here we compared visceral pain and referred hyperalgesia in Nav1.8-null mice and their wild-type littermates in five tests that differ in the degree to which behavior depends on spontaneous, ongoing firing in sensitized nociceptors. Nav1.8-null mice showed normal nociceptive behavior provoked by acute noxious stimulation of abdominal viscera (intracolonic saline or intraperitoneal acetylcholine). However, Nav1.8-null mutants showed weak pain and no referred hyperalgesia to intracolonic capsaicin, a model in which behavior is sustained by ongoing activity in nociceptors sensitized by the initial application. Nav1.8-null mice also showed blunted pain and hyperalgesia to intracolonic mustard oil, which sensitizes nociceptors but also provokes tissue damage. To distinguish between a possible role for Nav1.8 in ongoing activity per se and ongoing activity after sensitization in the absence of additional stimuli, we tried a visceral model of tonic noxious chemical stimulation, cyclophosphamide cystitis. Cyclophosphamide produces cystitis by gradual accumulation of toxic metabolites in the bladder. In this model, Nav1.8-null mice showed normal responses. There were no differences between null mutants and their normal littermates in tissue damage and inflammation evoked by any of the stimuli tested, suggesting that the behavioral differences are not secondary to impairment of inflammatory responses. We conclude that there is an essential role for Nav1.8 in mediating spontaneous activity in sensitized nociceptors.
A randomised controlled crossover trial was performed to assess the anti-anginal effects of nifedipine and propranolol separately and together. The effects of these treatments on blood pressure and heart rate were assessed at rest and after the cold pressor and mental arithmetic tests. Nifedipine and propranolol together produced the greatest reduction in supine and erect systolic and diastolic blood pressures. Propranolol (480 mg daily) lowered resting systolic/diastolic blood pressures by 7/6 mm Hg and nifedipine (60 mg daily) lowered it by 10/8 mm Hg, while in the erect position the hypotensive effect of these agents averaged 9/8 mm Hg. During the cold pressor test propranolol lowered the maximum pressure by an average of 11/6 mm Hg and nifedipine by 19/10 mm Hg. For the mental arithmetic test, the results were 7/2 mm Hg and 16/7 mm Hg respectively. Propranolol (480 mg daily)reduced supine and erect heart rate by 19 and 25 beats/minute respectively, while nifedipine did not alter heart rate significantly. The favourable haemodynamic responses to nifedipine suggest that it may be of value in the management of hypertension.
Up to 60% of patients with inferior wall acute myocardial infarction (AMI) develop hypotension. In many cases, profound hypotension is precipitated by the administration of nitroglycerin. To test the hypothesis that this hypotensive response to nitroglycerin may be related to right ventricular (RV) involvement, we compared 20 patients with electrocardiographic and enzyme-documented inferior wall AMI and marked hypotension (greater than 30 mm Hg decrease in systolic blood pressure, with symptoms) after nitrate administration, to 20 patients with documented inferior AMI, but without hypotension after administration of nitroglycerin. The presence of RV involvement was determined by electrocardiographic criteria of 1 mm of ST-segment elevation in at least 2 right precordial chest leads. Fifteen of the 20 patients who demonstrated a marked hypotensive response to nitroglycerin had evidence of RV involvement, while in 18 of the 20 patients without hypotension after nitrates there was no evidence of RV involvement. In a separate analysis of 28 patients with documented RV involvement in an inferior AMI, 20 developed hypotension in response to nitrates. Thus, in the setting of an inferior AMI, a marked hypotensive response to nitrates suggests the presence of RV involvement. Moreover, hypotension after nitrate administration may be anticipated in patients with known RV infarction, and in such patients, nitrates should be administered carefully.
To examine T-cell repertoire modifications, the evolution of T-helper (TH)1/TH2 cytokine imbalance and modifications in chemokine receptor expression when the viral load is decreased by 2-3 log10 copies/ml under highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
Sixteen patients previously treated with zidovudine and lamivudine, with CD4 cells below 300 x 10(6)/l and viraemia above 30000 copies/ml were treated by saquinavir and ritonavir together with both reverse transcriptase (RT) inhibitors (ANRS 069 trial). T-cell repertoire, chemokine receptor and lymphokine expression were studied from peripheral blood mononuclear cells sampled at weeks 0, 24 and 48.
T-cell repertoire study was carried out using the Immunoscope method. Interleukin (IL)-12 receptor beta2, CC-chemokine receptor (CCR)-3, CXC-chemokine receptor-4 and CCR-5 expression in CD4+ cells was measured by kinetic quantitative PCR and IL-2, IL-4, IL-10, IL-13, interferon (IFN)-gamma were measured using a quantitative RT-PCR assay with homologous internal standards.
Repertoire alterations were more frequent in CD4- than in CD4+ cells and persisted despite undetectable viraemia. Increased CCR-3 expression and spontaneous IFN-gamma as well as mitogenic induced IL-13 were observed at baseline and decreased slightly under HAART.
The CD8+ cell repertoire alterations were profound, whereas the CD4+ cell alterations were moderate and both persisted unchanged under HAART. The TH1/TH2 imbalance was more related to TH2 over-expression than to TH1 deficiency and persisted for at least 1 year under HAART.
We have examined the role of the NKCC1 sodium-potassium-chloride-cotransporter in the generation of touch-evoked pain. The pain behavior of NKCC1 knockout mice (KO) was studied and compared to that of heterozygous (HE) and wild-type (WT) littermates. NKCC1 KO mice showed an increase in tail flick latencies and a reduction of the duration of pain behavior induced by intradermal capsaicin compared to HE and WT mice. All three groups of animals expressed a normal level of plasma extravasation following capsaicin applications. NKCC1 KO mice showed a reduction in stroking hyperalgesia (touch-evoked pain) compared to WT and HE mice but no differences were detected between the three groups in the expression of punctate hyperalgesia. As the NKCC1 co-transporter is responsible for the generation of presynaptic inhibition between afferent terminals in the spinal cord, these results support the notion that presynaptic interactions between low and high threshold afferents can underlie touch-evoked pain.
Immunosuppressive environmental chemicals may increase the potency of allergens and thereby play a role in the development of allergic diseases. This study's primary objective was to examine the mechanisms behind the relationship between allergic diseases and the immunosuppression induced by some environmental chemicals. We focused on the modulation of allergic potential in vitro and in mice by the organophosphorus pesticide O,O-diethyl-O-4-nitrophenyl-thiophosphate (parathion) and the organochlorine pesticide 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(4-methoxy-phenyl)ethane (methoxychlor), with respect to the T(H)1-type allergen 2,4-dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB) and the T(H)2-type allergen trimellitic anhydride (TMA). Mice (4-week-old) were orally administered parathion or methoxychlor. Four weeks after the final dosing, the mice were sensitized to DNCB or TMA, and T-lymphocyte proliferation measured in their (using a local lymph node assay [LLNA]). In addition, we analyzed T-lymphocytes via surface antigen expression and local cytokine production in auricular lymph nodes after treatment with 0.1% DNCB or 0.3% TMA. The estimated concentration of DNCB and TMA to yield a stimulation index (SI) of cell proliferation of three decreased markedly in parathion- and methoxychlor-pre-treated mice. Pesticide pre-treatment induced marked increases in the number of helper and cytotoxic T-cells, levels of T(H)1 and T(H)2 cytokines, and gene expression in lymph node cells. According to our results, T(H)1- and T(H)2-type allergies are aggravated by prior exposure to immunosuppressive environmental chemicals.
Low-level lead exposure is a known cause of hypertension that has been associated with increased reactive oxygen species activity and endothelial-dependent vasorelaxation impairment. The effect of lead exposure on the vascular nitric oxide (NO)/cyclic guanocine monophosphate (cGMP) system was analyzed. Wistar rats were exposed to 5 ppm lead acetate in the drinking water during 30 d. Mean arterial BP increased significantly in the lead-treated rats. Relaxation to both acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was reduced in lead-treated rats; however, the vascular wall of lead-administered rats showed an increased expression of endothelial NO synthase. The expression of both subunits (alpha(1) and beta(1)) of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) and the cGMP accumulated in the vascular wall were decreased in lead-treated rats. Cotreatment of lead with vitamin C (3 mmol/L) prevented the increase on mean arterial BP, improved the relaxation to both acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside, and restored the normal expression of endothelial NO synthase and sGC proteins in the vascular wall. In conclusion, lead exposure altered both the endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxing response and induced a reduced expression of sGC in the vascular wall. These effects were abrogated with the antioxidant vitamin C, which suggests the involvement of reactive oxygen species in the regulation of the NO/cGMP relaxing system in the vascular wall of lead-treated rats.
The effects of formaldehyde (FA) exposure on allergic disorders are not clearly understood. This cross-sectional study examined the relationship between FA exposure and the prevalence of allergic disorders in Japan.
Subjects were 998 pregnant women. Participants were considered to have asthma, atopic eczema, or allergic rhinitis (including cedar pollinosis) if they had received any medical treatment for any of these allergic disorders during the previous 12 months. Passive air sampling tubes were worn for 24 hours and analyzed for FA.
When FA levels were categorized into four groups, there was a tendency for a positive exposure-response relationship between FA levels and the prevalence of atopic eczema, although the adjusted odds ratio for highest vs. lowest FA categories did not reach statistical significance. When FA levels were categorized into two groups to assess the effects of exposure to high levels of FA on allergic disorders, FA levels of 47 ppb or more were independently associated with an increased prevalence of atopic eczema (adjusted odds ratio = 2.25; 95% confidence interval, 1.01-5.01). The positive association was more pronounced in women with a negative familial allergic history than in those with a positive familial allergic history. No clear association was found between FA levels and the prevalence of asthma or allergic rhinitis.
FA exposure may be associated with an increased prevalence of atopic eczema in Japanese pregnant women.
4-Aminobiphenyl (ABP) is a trace component of cigarette smoke and hair dyes, a suspected human carcinogen and a potent rodent liver carcinogen. Postnatal exposure of mice to ABP results in a higher incidence of liver tumors in males than in females, paralleling the sex difference in human liver cancer incidence. A traditional model of ABP tumorigenesis involves initial CYP1A2-mediated N-hydroxylation, which eventually leads to production of mutagenic ABP-DNA adducts that initiate tumor growth. However, several studies have found no correlation between sex or CYP1A2 function and the DNA-damaging, mutagenic, or tumorigenic effects of ABP. Oxidative stress may be an important etiological factor for liver cancer, and it has also been linked to ABP exposure. The goals of this study were to identify novel enzyme(s) that contribute to ABP N-oxidation, and to investigate a potential role for oxidative stress in ABP liver tumorigenicity. Isozyme-selective inhibition experiments using liver microsomes from wild-type and genetically modified mice identified CYP2E1 as a major ABP N-hydroxylating enzyme. The N-hydroxylation of ABP by transiently expressed CYP2E1 produced oxidative stress in cultured mouse hepatoma cells. In vivo postnatal exposure of mice to a tumorigenic dose of ABP also produced oxidative stress in male wild-type mice, but not in male Cyp2e1(-/-) mice or in female mice. However, a stronger NRF2-associated antioxidant response was observed in females. Our results identify CYP2E1 as a novel ABP-N-oxidizing enzyme, and suggest that sex differences in CYP2E1-dependent oxidative stress and antioxidant responses to ABP may contribute to the observed sex difference in tumor incidence.
Neuropathic complaints were frequently observed in a Phase I study of dideoxyinosine (ddI) in 44 patients with AIDS and AIDS-related complex. Ten patients (23%) were thought to have a ddI-related peripheral neuropathy. The symptoms were primarily sensory, and there was limited motor involvement. The sensory symptoms improved in all patients with discontinuation of ddI. Some patients tolerated reintroduction of ddI at lower doses without significant recurrence of the neuropathic symptoms. Although the neuropathy was usually seen in patients taking higher doses of ddI than used in current treatment protocols, clinicians must be aware of this potential toxicity as more human immunodeficiency virus-infected patients are being treated with ddI.
