SL 84.0418 is a novel pyrrolo-indole derivative with potent and selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist activity in vitro and anti-hyperglycemic properties in vivo. In the present study we demonstrated that SL 84.0418 and its active (+) enantiomer, SL 86.0715, show a high degree of selectivity for alpha 2-adrenoceptors in vivo, preferentially blocking alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the periphery. While having no effects on basal blood pressure and heart rate, p.o. (3 and 10 mg/kg) or i.v. (0.3 mg/kg) administered SL 84.0418 or SL 86.0715 antagonized the hypertensive responses mediated by postsynaptic vascular alpha 2-adrenoceptors after the administration of UK 14304 or norepinephrine to pithed rats. The (-) enantiomer of SL 84.0418, SL 86.0714, was devoid of alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist properties in vivo, while the (+) enantiomer of SL 84.0418, SL 86.0715, showed alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist activity similar to that of the racemate. SL 84.0418 (3 mg/kg p.o.) did not modify the centrally mediated hypotensive and bradycardic effects of i.c.v. administered clonidine. Furthermore, in the mouse, SL 84.0418 potently antagonized the hyperglycemic responses to epinephrine or UK 14304, which are mediated by peripheral alpha 2-adrenoceptors, but failed (in doses up to 30 mg/kg i.p.) to antagonize the clonidine-induced hypolocomotion, which is mediated by central alpha 2-adrenoceptors. These results suggest that SL 84.0418 preferentially antagonizes peripheral alpha 2-adrenoceptors. SL 84.0418 administered to pithed rats (3 mg/kg p.o. or 0.3 mg/kg i.v.) did not modify the vasoconstriction induced by cirazoline (effect mediated by alpha 1-adrenoceptors) nor the tachycardia induced by norepinephrine (effect mediated by beta-adrenoceptors).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To evaluate the incidence and severity of injection pain caused by microemulsion propofol and lipid emulsion propofol in relation to plasma bradykinin generation and aqueous free propofol concentrations.
Injection pain was evaluated in 147 patients. Aqueous free propofol concentrations in each formulation, and in formulation mixtures containing agents that reduce propofol-induced pain, were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Plasma bradykinin concentrations in both formulations and in their components mixed with blood sampled from six volunteers were measured by radioimmunoassays. Injection pain caused by 8% polyethylene glycol 660 hydroxystearate (PEG660 HS) was evaluated in another 10 volunteers.
The incidence of injection pain [visual analogue scale (VAS) >30 mm] caused by microemulsion and lipid emulsion propofol was 69.7 and 42.3% (P < 0.001), respectively. The median VAS scores for microemulsion and lipid emulsion propofol were 59 and 24 mm, respectively (95% confidence interval for the difference 12.5, 40.0). The aqueous free propofol concentration of microemulsion propofol was seven times higher than that of lipid emulsion propofol. Agents that reduce injection pain did not affect aqueous free propofol concentrations. Microemulsion propofol and 8% PEG660 HS enhanced plasma bradykinin generation, whereas lipid emulsion propofol and lipid solvent did not. PEG660 HS did not cause injection pain.
Higher aqueous free propofol concentrations of microemulsion propofol produce more frequent and severe pain. The plasma kallikrein-kinin system may not be involved, and the agents that reduce injection pain may not act by decreasing aqueous free propofol concentrations.
To assess the sleepiness induced by pramipexole, a D2/D3-dopamine receptor agonist commonly used in Parkinson's disease and restless legs syndrome, without the problem of the confounding factors related to the disease.
Placebo, bromocriptine (2.5 mg), L-dopa (100 mg) and pramipexole (0.5 mg) were administered in a single oral dose on four separate days, with at least a 2-week wash-out period in a randomized cross-over design. Induced somnolence was assessed using Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) and subjective scaling of vigilance. Twelve male subjects (26.3 +/- 5.5 years old) without anxiety, mood, sleep or sedation disorders were enrolled.
Pramipexole significantly reduced mean sleep latency compared with placebo 3 h 30 min [-6.1 min (-9.8, -2.4), P = 0.002] and 5 h 30 min [-5.6 min (-7.7, -3.5), P = 0.003] after administration. In addition, the total duration of sleep during the tests was higher with pramipexole than with placebo [+6.0 min (2.3, 9.7), P < 0.001]. These differences were not observed with L-dopa and bromocriptine in comparison with placebo. The induced sleepiness was not associated with an increase in subjective somnolence scaling, indicating that this adverse event may occur without prior warning.
These results show that a single oral dose of pramipexole induces sleepiness as assessed by MSLT in healthy young subjects, independent of disease-related sleep dysfunction.
Despite the high risk of venous thromboembolic events (VTE) in neuro-surgical patients, heparin prophylaxis has not been routinely established due to concern about bleeding complications. After initiating early low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) prophylaxis, we reviewed our patients in order to examine the viability of this practice.
Over a 3 year period, the records of patients admitted for elective neuro-surgery (ES), head injury (HI) or spontaneous intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) were analysed. Prophylaxis was performed with certoparin (3000 U anti-factor Xa s.c.) on the evening before ES and within 24 hours after surgery or admission whenever a CT did not show a progressive haematoma. Contraindications for LMWH were prothrombin time <70%, partial thrombo-plastin time >40 s, platelet count <100.000/ml, and platelet aggregation test sum <60%. The incidence of bleeding complications, VTE, and resulting morbidity/mortality was assessed.
294 patients were admitted for ES, 344 for HI, and 302 for ICH. 155 of these were excluded because of contraindications. Intracranial bleeding was recorded in 1.5% (ES 1.1%, HI 3.5%, ICH 0%) and operative revision was performed in 1.1% (ES 0.7%, HI 2.8%) of patients. One case of moderate disability and no mortality occurred. The incidence of VTE and pulmonary embolism was documented in 0.2% and 0.1% of patients, with no associated mortality. No heparin induced thrombocytopenia was observed.
In neurosurgical patients, antithrombotic prophylaxis with certoparin was determined to be safe and efficacious when contraindications are carefully considered and a 12-hour time interval before and after surgery was guaranteed. This retrospective analysis should encourage a prospective trial of early LMWH prophylaxis.
Extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) impose a heavy burden on patients receiving antipsychotic therapy. Anticholinergics are the drugs of choice for preventing EPS, but they also produce many adverse reactions. Using the EPS model of haloperidol-induced catalepsy we evaluated the potential therapeutic value of a mixture of low doses of the non-selective adenosine antagonist theophylline (0.93 and 1.86 mg/kg), and the muscarinic antagonists benztropine (0.134 and 0.268 mg/kg) and ethopropazine (0.116 and 0.232 mg/kg). In rats pretreated with vehicle (distilled water), the cumulative catalepsy time over 5 h was 4199±228 s, and the mean latency was 67.5±7.8 min. Applied separately, neither of the drugs at the doses used caused significant changes of catalepsy intensity vs. control rats. However, the combination of the larger doses of theophylline and benztropine caused a significant reduction of catalepsy intensity (-41±10%) compared with the effects of the vehicle, vs. the lower dose of benztropine, and vs. both doses of theophylline alone. The mixture of the larger doses of theophylline and benztropine also delayed catalepsy onset (156±21 min) as compared with the lower doses of these same drugs applied alone. In the case of theophylline plus ethopropazine, only the association of the larger doses showed a non-significant tendency to inhibit catalepsy (-21±8%) and to prolong its latency (108±13 min). Further, neither catalepsy intensity nor its latency was affected by a combination of the selective A(1)R antagonist DPCPX (1 mg/kg), with the larger doses of both anticholinergics. In contrast, the anticholinergics showed synergism with a subthreshold dose of the selective A(2A)R antagonist ZM 241395 (0.5 mg/kg), causing a significant reduction of catalepsy intensity (ethopropazine, -27±5%; benztropine, -35±9%) and prolonging its latency (ethopropazine, 65±9 min; benztropine, 78±11 min), compared with the effect of their respective vehicle (DMSO plus mineral oil: catalepsy time, 5100±196 s; latency, 17.5±2.5 min). These findings suggest that neuroleptic-induced EPS could be effectively controlled by a combination of lower doses of theophylline and anticholinergics, with the advantage of maximizing their efficacy and minimizing their adverse reactions.
In virgin, male Sprague-Dawley rats, subcutaneous injections of 2.5 mg/kg or 250 mg/kg isoproterenol increased heart rate and aortic dF/dt and decreased total peripheral resistance. The net systemic response was an arterial hypotension. The larger dose of isoproterenol initially produced a greater hypotension; reflex compensatory responses followed. Cardiac failure occurred by 24 hours post-isoproterenol. The extent of cardiac failure was isoproterenol dose dependent. By gross inspection of the epicardial surface of the hearts of the isoproterenol-treated rats, anatomical injury also appeared to be isoproterenol dose dependent. The data presented in this study support the existing theory that isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage is due to a relative myocardial hypoxia produced by artereial hypotension and myocardial hyperactivity. The data also indicate that reflex responses to arterial hypotension occur and may be detrimental. Cardiac failure is produced by massive quantities of isoproterenol, and the degree of cardiac failure is dose dependent.
The antipsychotic drug zotepine [ZTP; 2-[(8-chlorodibenzo[b,f]thiepin-10-yl)oxy]-N,N-dimethylethan-1-amine] is known to have not only atypical antipsychotic effects but also antidepressive effects in schizophrenia patients. Norzotepine [norZTP; N-desmethylzotepine, 2-[(8-chlorodibenzo[b,f]thiepin-10-yl)oxy]-N-methylethan-1-amine] has been postulated to be a major metabolite of ZTP in humans. Here, we characterized norZTP through several in vitro studies and in animal models of psychosis, depression, and extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) and compared the pharmacological profiles with those of ZTP. Although both compounds showed similar overall neurotransmitter receptor binding profiles, norZTP showed 7- to 16-fold more potent norepinephrine reuptake inhibition than ZTP. In a pharmacokinetic study, both ZTP and norZTP showed good brain permeability when administered individually in mice, although norZTP was not detected in either plasma or brain after intraperitoneal injection of ZTP. In the methamphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion test in mice, norZTP and ZTP showed similar antipsychotic-like effects at doses above 1 mg/kg i.p. In contrast, unlike ZTP, norZTP did not induce catalepsy up to 10 mg/kg i.p. norZTP significantly antagonized the hypothermia induced by reserpine [(3beta,16beta,17alpha,18beta,20alpha)-11,17-dimethoxy-18-[(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoyl)oxy]yohimban-16-carboxylic acid methyl ester], suggesting in vivo inhibition of the norepinephrine transporter. In the forced-swim test, norZTP exerted an antidepressant-like effect at the effective doses for its antipsychotic action, whereas ZTP neither antagonized reserpine-induced hypothermia nor showed antidepressant-like effect. These results collectively demonstrate that norZTP exerts more potent inhibitory action than ZTP on norepinephrine transporters both in vitro and in vivo, presumably accounting for its antidepressant-like effect and low EPS propensity. Given that norZTP is the major metabolite observed in humans, norZTP may contribute to the unique clinical profiles of its mother compound, ZTP.
We report on an accidental intoxication with cyclopentolate eye drops. A 90-year-old patient became confused and was admitted to the emergency department. His symptoms consisted of disorientation, ataxia, and psychomotor agitation. Similar cases have been described in the literature. With this case report we would like to draw attention to this little known differential diagnosis when confronted with confused patients.
Aldosterone and phospholipase C (PLC) stimulate nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and activating-protein (AP-1), causing fibrosis and hypertrophy. Besides harboring binding sites for NF-kappaB and AP-1, heme oxygenase (HO-1) generates cytoprotective products, including bilirubin and ferritin. The multifaceted interaction between HO-1 and aldosterone-PLC profibrotic axis in cardiac hypertrophy of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) was studied.
HO-1 was induced with hemin or blocked with chromium mesoporphyrin (CrMP). The study groups included: (A) controls (SHR, WKY, and SD), (B) SHR+hemin, (C) SHR+hemin+CrMP, (D) SHR+CrMP, and (E) SHR+vehicle. Histological and morphological/morphometrical, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, enzyme immunoassay, and spectrophotometric assays were used to assess the effect of the HO system on cardiac hypertrophy. Hemin therapy evoked a 3-month enduring cardioprotection in adult SHR by lowering blood pressure, and reducing left-to-right ventricular ratio, left ventricular wall-thickness, and left ventricle-to-body-weight ratio, whereas CrMP exacerbated cardiac fibrosis/hypertrophy. The cardioprotection was accompanied by reduced aldosterone, PLC, inositol-triphosphate, NF-kappaB, AP-1, heme, and 8-isoprostane, a marker of oxidative stress, whereas HO-1, HO activity, cGMP, bilirubin, ferritin, superoxide dismutase, and the total antioxidant capacity were increased. Correspondingly, extracellular matrix/remodeling proteins such as fibronectin, collagen-1, collagen-IV, alongside cardiac histopathological lesions including fibrosis, scarring, muscular-hypertrophy, coronary-arteriolar thickening, and interstitial/perivascular collagen deposition were attenuated.
Our study unveils sustained cardioprotection by hemin that may have clinical relevance.
Adult hepatocytes and liver-cell progenitors play a role in restoring liver tissue after injury. For the study of progenitor cells in liver repair, experimental models included (a) surgical removal of liver tissue by partial hepatectomy; (b) acute injury by carbontetrachloride; (c) acute injury by d-galactosamine (GalN) and N-nitrosomorpholine (NNM); and (d) chemical hepatocarcinogenesis by feeding NNM in low and high doses. Serological and immunohistological detection of alpha-fetoprotein gene expression served to follow pathways of cellular differentiation. Stem cells were not required in models of surgical removal of parenchyma and in carbon tetrachloride intoxication of adult hepatocytes. In contrast, regeneration of liver occurred through biliary epithelial cells in injuries induced by GalN and NNM. These biliary epithelial cells, collectively called oval cells, are most probably derived from the canals of Hering. Proliferating bile duct cells reached a level of differentiation with reactivation of foetal genes and significant alpha-1-fetoprotein (AFP) synthesis signalling a certain degree of retrodifferentiation with potential stemness. Due to the same embryonic origin of bile ducts and hepatocytes, biliary epithelium and its proliferating progeny (oval cells) have a defined role in liver regeneration as a transit and amplification compartment. In their early proliferation stage, oval cells were heavily engaged in DNA synthesis ([3H]thymidine labelling). Pulse-chase experiments during experimental hepatocarcinogenesis exhibited their development into hepatocytes with high risk for transformation and leading to foci of altered hepatocytes. Hepatocellular carcinomas may arise either from proliferating/differentiating oval cells or from adult hepatocytes; both cell types have stem-like properties. AFP-positive and AFP-negative carcinomas occurred in the same liver. They may represent random clonal origin. The heterogeneity of phenotypic marker (AFP) correlated with a process of retrodifferentiation.
There have been concerns that the risk of cardiovascular thrombotic events may be higher with cyclooxygenase (COX)-2-specific inhibitors than nonselective nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). We evaluated cardiovascular event data for valdecoxib, a new COX-2-specific inhibitor in approximately 8000 patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis treated with this agent in randomized clinical trials. The incidence of cardiovascular thrombotic events (cardiac, cerebrovascular and peripheral vascular, or arterial thrombotic) was determined by analyzing pooled valdecoxib (10-80 mg daily), nonselective NSAID (diclofenac 75 mg bid, ibuprofen 800 mg tid, or naproxen 500 mg bid) and placebo data from 10 randomized osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis trials that were 6-52 weeks in duration. The incidence rates of events were determined in all patients (n = 7934) and in users of low-dose (< or =325 mg daily) aspirin (n = 1051) and nonusers of aspirin (n = 6883). Crude and exposure-adjusted incidences of thrombotic events were similar for valdecoxib, NSAIDs, and placebo. The risk of serious thrombotic events was also similar for each valdecoxib dose. Thrombotic risk was consistently higher for users of aspirin users than nonusers of aspirin (placebo, 1.4% vs. 0%; valdecoxib, 1.7% vs. 0.2%; NSAIDs, 1.9% vs. 0.5%). The rates of events in users of aspirin were similar for all 3 treatment groups and across valdecoxib doses. Short- and intermediate-term treatment with therapeutic (10 or 20 mg daily) and supratherapeutic (40 or 80 mg daily) valdecoxib doses was not associated with an increased incidence of thrombotic events relative to nonselective NSAIDs or placebo in osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis patients in controlled clinical trials.
A young man without heart disease with a metastatic carcinoma of the pancreas received a 5-Fluorouracil therapy (25 mg per kilogram body weight/24 h by continuous infusion over a period of 5 days). Approximately 56 h after beginning of the first cycle of therapy (after 36 h of the second cycle) he complained of severe chest pain, which did not respond to nitrates, improved after application of opioids, and subsided definitely after termination of the 5-FU infusion. During the periods of pain, the ECG and the creatine kinase were normal. At a later time, finally, a scar in the posterior wall of the myocardium was detectable in the ECG. When repeating the 5-FU infusion, similar problems arose with less intensity. The patient died as a consequence of the progress of the tumor disease. At autopsy, two myocardial infarctions were detectable. There was no demonstrable stenosis of the coronary arteries. Spasms of the coronary arteries are discussed as a cause of this side effect of 5-FU-therapy.
The effects of combined treatment with low doses (1-5 mg/kg i.p.) of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, CGP 37849 (DL-[E]-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid), and the antiepileptic drug, valproate, were studied in amygdala-kindled and non-kindled rats. CGP 37849, 5 mg/kg, did not exert anticonvulsant effects in fully kindled rats but increased the anticonvulsant potency of valproate, 80 mg/kg i.p. However, the increase in anticonvulsant activity was parallelled by a marked increase in motor impairment, resulting in a considerable reduction of the therapeutic index of the combined treatment compared to valproate alone. Furthermore, at doses of 2.5-5 mg/kg, CGP 37849 potentiated the adverse effects but not the anticonvulsant activity of 50 mg/kg valproate. In non-kindled rats, combined treatment with CGP 37849 and valproate induced significantly less marked adverse effects than in kindled rats. The data on combined treatment with CGP 37849 and valproate substantiate that kindling alters the susceptibility to manipulations of NMDA receptor-mediated events. Since kindling is thought to be a predictive model of complex partial seizures, these results suggest that competitive NMDA receptor antagonists such as CGP 37849 may be of limited usefulness against this seizure type in humans.
The water-soluble derivative of propolis (WSDP) was prepared from fresh Chinese propolis. Its major constituents were identified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. It has been reported that propolis possessed a broad spectrum of biological activities but including few studies on learning and memory by now. Thus, this study was aimed to investigate the effect of WSDP on scopolamine-induced learning and memory impairment in mice. WSDP (50 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg) was given by intragastric administration (i.g.) 40 min prior to the intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of scopolamine (1 mg/kg). The effect on amnesia was investigated with both hidden-platform acquisition training and probe trial testing in Morris water maze test. The results from 100 mg/kg WSDP group showed significant mitigation scopolamine-induced amnesia in mice. Furthermore, WSDP's effect on the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus was also assayed. As a result, WSDP (100 mg/kg) significantly inhibited AChE activity in the hippocampus of scopolamine-treated mice. These results indicated that WSDP may mitigate amnesia in vivo through inhibition of AChE activity in the hippocampus, which suggested propolis may have potential as a pharmaceutical of brain protection with elderly population for preventing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative diseases.
As circulating plasma ATP concentrations are increased in pre-eclampsia, we tested whether increased plasma ATP is able to induce albuminuria during pregnancy.
Pregnant (day 14) and non-pregnant rats were infused with ATP (3000 microg/kg bw) via a permanent jugular vein cannula. Albuminuria was determined, and blood samples were taken for leukocyte counts, plasma ATP and plasma haemopexin activity. At Day 20 of pregnancy, rats were sacrificed, fetuses and placentas weighed and kidney and placental tissue were snap frozen for immunohistology.
ATP infusion induced albuminuria exclusively in pregnant rats, together with increased neutrophil counts, decreased staining for glomerular sialoglycoproteins and CD39 expression, significant intraglomerular monocyte infiltration and increased glomerular intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) expression. Plasma haemopexin activity was increased in saline-infused pregnant rats as compared to non-pregnant rats but was inhibited in pregnant ATP-infused rats (to non-pregnant levels). At the end of pregnancy (Day 20), increased plasma ATP level was exclusively seen in ATP-infused pregnant rats. In pregnant rats as compared with non-pregnant rats, we found decreased expression of glomerular AT-1 receptors, which was increased after ATP infusion exclusively in pregnant animals.
The present study shows that ATP infusion induced a pro-inflammatory response leading to glomerular albuminuria exclusively in the pregnant rat. Why extracellular ATP showed this pro-inflammatory response exclusively in the pregnant condition is unclear but is probably related with relatively enhanced non-specific immunity and inflammatory reactions characteristic for the pregnant condition.
The use of carbamazepine has been reported to be an effective treatment for severe depression. We have already shown that the antidepressant-like effects of tricyclic antidepressants in the rat forced swim test (FST) are blocked by chronic treatment with adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). In the present study, we examined the effect of the chronic administration of carbamazepine on the FST and the wet-dog shakes induced by (+/-) -1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist, in ACTH-treated rats. Chronic administration of carbamazepine did not affect the duration of immobility in saline-treated and ACTH-treated rats. The reduction of immobility, induced by chronic administration of imipramine, was blocked by treatment with ACTH. When carbamazepine was administered concurrently with imipramine, we observed a significant decrease in immobility in rats treated with ACTH. Chronic ACTH treatment increased the number of the wet-dog shakes induced by DOI. This effect of ACTH was significantly increased by the coadministration of carbamazepine and imipramine. These results suggest that the use of carbamazepine together with tricyclic antidepressants had the effect of reducing immobility time in the FST in a tricyclic antidepressant-treatment-resistant depressive model induced by chronic ACTH treatment.
Clinical and epidemiological studies indicate that maternal use of valproic acid (VPA) during pregnancy causes an increased risk for spina bifida in the fetus. A proportion of infants exposed to VPA in utero exhibit a characteristic pattern of facial malformations. Despite the developmental interdependence of the neural plate and paraxial mesoderm during normal morphogenesis, the possible involvement of the axial skeleton in VPA-induced NTD has not been clearly documented. So the objective of this investigation was to determine the nature and extent of involvement of the axial skeleton in VPA-induced exencephaly in the mouse. A single dose of 600 mg/kg of sodium valproate was administered (IP) to MF1 mouse on day 8 of gestation. This treatment resulted in significant increase in resorption, reduction in mean fetal weight, and exencephaly (25%) of live fetuses. Several craniofacial malformations and subcutaneous haematomas were associated with exencephaly. Alizarin red-stained skeletal preparations revealed maxillary-, mandibular hypoplasia, absence of skull vault, hypoplasia and/or agenesis of basicranial bones, and obtuse angulation of the craniovertebral junction. Hemivertebrae, longitudinal fusion of the vertebral arches and bodies, accessory ribs (cervical and lumbar), fusion of thoracic ribs, and several patterns of sternal variations were observed. Nonexencephalic VPA-treated embryos exhibited mandibular, maxillary hypoplasia, arched and cleft palates, cleft lip, kinky tail, and vertebral and sternal anomalies. Treated embryos at early stages of development revealed delay in elevation and fusion of neural folds, distended IVth ventricle, kinky spinal cord, incomplete separation of somites and growth retardation. When viewed in light of the published work on VPA action on embryonic systems, these observations suggest that abnormalities associated with VPA-induced exencephaly may be due to either a direct action of VPA on the precursors of these organs or secondary to its action on neural tube. A significantly high incidence of NTD and their consistent association with defective development of the axial skeleton suggest that this is an excellent experimental model for investigating the pathogenetic mechanism(s) of VPA induced NTD.
Histologic investigations have demonstrated that root canal sealers can induce mild to severe bone resorption. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is a membrane-bound glycoprotein, which is one of the osteogenic differentiation markers considered to indicate the formation of new bone. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of an epoxy resin-based sealer AH26, a zinc oxide-eugenol-based sealer Canals, and a paste sealer N2 on the expression of ALP in human osteoblastic cell line U2OS cells.
Freshly mixed materials were filled in glass rings and eluted in 10 mL of culture medium for 1 day. Subsequently, various dilutions (final dilution: 1/2, 1/4, and 1/8) of these extraction media were prepared for this study. Cytotoxicity was measured by the almar blue dye assay. Gene expression of ALP was examined by using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. ALP activity was further evaluated by using substrate assay.
The results showed that AH26, Canals, and N2 were cytotoxic to U2OS cells in a concentration-dependent manner (P < .05). The exposure of U2OS cells to AH26 and N2 resulted in the down-regulation of ALP mRNA gene expression (P < .05). ALP activity was significantly suppressed by 3 root canal sealers (P < .05).
The inhibition of ALP expression might play an important role in the pathogenesis of root canal sealer-induced periapical bone destruction.
Angioedema that occurs in the head and neck may be a serious and possibly life-threatening condition. We present two cases of oropharyngeal angioedema associated with the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in patients with no underlying renal failure. Angiotensin-converting enzyme-inhibiting agents are now commonly used to control hypertension. Treatment of acquired angioedema is directed first at protecting the airway by careful observation, intubation, or if necessary, tracheostomy. The causative agent is withdrawn, and the patient is treated with antihistamines and steroids until the acute episode resolves. Although not used in our patients, the treatment of angioedema with subcutaneous epinephrine has been described. As more patients are treated with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, it becomes essential for the otolaryngologist to become aware of this potentially life-threatening complication.
Dopamine (DA) is a neurotransmitter that has been implicated in a wide variety of psychiatric disorders that include attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), schizophrenia, and drug abuse. Recently, we have been working with a mouse in which the gene for the DA transporter (DAT) has been disrupted. This mouse is hyperactive in the open field, displays an inability to inhibit ongoing behaviors, and is deficient on learning and memory tasks. Psychostimulants such as amphetamine and methylphenidate attenuate the hyperlocomotion of the mutants, but stimulate activity of the wild type (WT) controls. The objective of the present study is to examine the neural basis for the differential responses to psychostimulants in these mice. WT and DAT knockout (KO) animals were given vehicle or methylphenidate, amphetamine, or cocaine and brain sections were immunostained for Fos. In WT mice, methylphenidate induced Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) in the mesostriatal and mesolimbocortical DA pathways that included the anterior olfactory nucleus, frontal association cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, caudate-putamen, globus pallidus, claustrum, lateral septum, nucleus accumbens, basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, subthalamic nucleus, substantia nigra, ventral tegmental area, and dorsal raphe. Additional areas of activation included the granular dentate gyrus, Edinger-Westphal nucleus, and periaqueductal gray. While the mutants showed little response in most of these same areas, the anterior olfactory nucleus, caudal caudate-putamen, lateral septum, basolateral and central nuclei of the amygdala, and bed nucleus of stria terminalis were activated. Amphetamine and cocaine produced similar changes to that for methylphenidate, except these psychostimulants also induced Fos-LI in the nucleus accumbens of the KO animals. Since the DAT gene is disrupted in the KO mouse, these findings suggest that dopaminergic mechanisms may mediate the WT responses, whereas non-dopaminergic systems predominate in the mutant. In the mutants, it appears that limbic areas and non-dopaminergic transmitter systems within these brain regions may mediate responses to psychostimulants. Inasmuch as the KO mouse may represent a useful animal model for ADHD and because psychostimulants such as cocaine are reinforcing to these animals, our results may provide some useful insights into the neural mechanisms-other than DA-that may contribute to the symptoms of ADHD and/or drug abuse in human patients.
Migraine therapy using low doses of clonidine has been based on the proposal that clonidine directly inhibits vascular smooth muscle reactivity. In anaesthetized monkeys in which internal and external carotid vascular resistances were measured, the only significant effects of clonidine administered acutely (0.5 and 2 microgram x kg-1 i.v.) or chronically (2 microgram x kg-1 i.m. daily for 7 days) on cranial vascular responses to the constrictors noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine, and the dilators histamine, prostaglandin E1 and bradykinin, were small potentiations of some of the responses. Acute clonidine initially increased blood pressure and constricted the cranial vasculature, then induced hypotension without involvement of the cranial circulation. It also decreased the external carotid vasoconstrictor response to low frequency cervical sympathetic nerve stimulation. The low chronic dose of clonidine had no hypotensive effect. The pressor response to common carotid occlusion was inhibited by both acute and chronic clonidine. These experiments thus provide no evidence that clonidine inhibits cranial vascular reactivity at doses equivalent to those used in migraine.
GABA(B) receptor agonists produce hypothermia and motor incoordination. Two GABA(B(1)) receptor subunit isoforms exist, but because of lack of specific molecular or pharmacological tools, the relevance of these isoforms in controlling basal body temperature, locomotor activity, or in vivo responses to GABA(B) receptor agonists has been unknown. Here, we used mice deficient in the GABA(B(1a)) and GABA(B(1b)) subunit isoforms to examine the influence of these isoforms on both baseline motor behavior and body temperature and on the motor-incoordinating and hypothermic responses to the GABA(B) receptor agonists l-baclofen and gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB). GABA(B(1b))(-/-) mice were hyperactive in a novel environment and showed slower habituation than either GABA(B(1a))(-/-) or wild-type mice. GABA(B(1b))(-/-) mice were hyperactive throughout the circadian dark phase. Hypothermia in response to l-baclofen (6 and 12 mg/kg) or GHB (1 g/kg), baclofen-induced ataxia as determined on the fixed-speed Rotarod, and GHB-induced hypolocomotion were significantly, but for the most part similarly, attenuated in both GABA(B(1a))(-/-) and GABA(B(1b))(-/-) mice. We conclude that l-baclofen and GHB are nonselective for either GABA(B(1)) receptor isoform in terms of in vivo responses. However, GABA(B(1)) receptor isoforms have distinct and different roles in mediating locomotor behavioral responses to a novel environment. Therefore, GABA(B(1a)) and GABA(B(1b)) isoforms are functionally relevant molecular variants of the GABA(B(1)) receptor subunit, which are differentially involved in specific neurophysiological processes and behaviors.
Arsenic is a known carcinogen, but data are especially lacking on the health effects of low-level exposure, and on the health significance of methylation ability. We conducted a case-control study (76 cases and 224 controls from 1996 to 1999) in southwestern Taiwan to explore the association among primary and secondary arsenic methylation index (PMI and SMI, respectively), cumulative arsenic exposure (CAE), and the risk of skin cancer. As compared with the controls, the skin cancer group reported more sun exposure (P = 0.02) and had a lower BMI (P = 0.03), as well as lower education level (P = 0.01). Skin cancer patients and controls were similar with regard to age, gender, smoking and alcohol consumption. Given a low SMI (< or = 5), CAE > 15 mg/L-year was associated with an increased risk of skin cancer (OR, 7.48; 95% CI, 1.65-33.99) compared to a CAE < or = 2 mg/L-year. Given the same level of PMI, SMI, and CAE, men had a higher risk of skin cancer (OR, 4.04; 95% CI, 1.46-11.22) when compared to women. Subjects with low SMI and high CAE have a substantially increased risk of skin cancer. Males in all strata of arsenic exposure and methylation ability had a higher risk of skin cancer than women.
A 35-year-old woman was treated with intraventricular methotrexate (MTX) with a total dose of 70 mg followed by cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C) with a total dose of 80 mg for meningeal metastasis of breast carcinoma. Radiation therapy was not given. Despite a response of the meningeal tumor the patient developed in the third week of MTX treatment a progressive visual loss and loss of consciousness which worsened during subsequent Ara-C treatment and led to death within 3 weeks. Postmortem examination revealed only minimal neoplastic infiltration of the meninges. Multiple foci of axonal degeneration and demyelination were found in the optic nerves and chiasm, the superficial layers of the brainstem, and spinal cord and to some extent in other cranial nerves and spinal nerve roots. The possible causes of this previously unreported early complication are discussed.
