Steroid myopathy is a well-known adverse effect of glucocorticoids that causes muscle weakness and atrophy; however, its pathogenic mechanism is still unclear. Recently, oxidative stress was reported to contribute to steroid myopathy, but there is no report that actually attempts to measure hydroxyl radical. I developed an animal model of steroid myopathy in rat with dexamethasone (9-Fluoro-11beta,17, 21-trihydroxy-16alpha-methylpregna-1,4-diene-3,20-dione), and measured hydroxyl radical using the salicylate trapping method. There was significant dose-dependent relation between both 2,5- and 2,3-dihydroxybenzoic acids and dexamethasone in the treated group, compared to the control group. These results suggest that hydroxyl radical plays a role in the pathogenesis of steroid myopathy.
Renal cell carcinoma has been linked to hypertension and antihypertensive medications. We investigated the association between renal cell carcinoma and the use of thiazide in a case-control study of 167 men and 90 women. Subjects were members of the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program in northern California (United States) who had taken a multiphasic health check-up from 1964 through 1988 and who were evaluated for cancer until the end of 1989. Control subjects received the same check-up, were matched by gender, year of check-up, and age at check-up, and had to be in the health plan until the date on which renal cell carcinoma was diagnosed. Data on known and potential risk factors, including hypertension, body mass index (BMI), and smoking status, were collected from the record of the check-up. Thiazide use was abstracted from the medical chart, which was reviewed from the date of the first entry until the date on which the cancer was diagnosed or the equivalent date for control subjects. The mean follow-back to check-up was 11.3 years. Among women, we found a significantly elevated risk of 4.0 (95 percent confidence interval [CI] 1.5-10.8) associated with ever having used thiazide after we adjusted for smoking, BMI, hypertension, and history of kidney infection at check-up. We did not find a statistically significantly elevated risk in men. Smoking was related to renal cell carcinoma in men (odds ratio [OR] 2.5, CI = 1.1-5.4) for those who smoked at least one pack per day compared with those who had never smoked, but was not related in women.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Porphyrin metabolism disorders are grouped into three classes. 1) Hereditary porphyrias including those caused by an inherited deficiency in one of the enzymes responsible for porphyrin synthesis. 2) Secondary porphyrias: well defined clinical situations due to disturbed porphyrin metabolism caused by a variety of toxic substances or drugs or secondary to other pathological conditions. 3) porphyrin metabolism disorders as concomitant featured of certain types of poisoning or particular pathologies. This is followed by a brief description of porphyrin synthesis and the enzymes involved in it, and the distribution of porphyrins and their precursors in certain tissues and biological materials. Hereditary porphyrins are treated individually and not classified since all the classification systems proposed are open to criticism. However the value of grouping acute intermittent porphyria, hereditary coproporphyria, variegated porphyria and the porphyria caused by PBG-synthetase deficiency under "acute porphyrias" is recognised since all involve acute attacks with similar symptoms and prognoses, all are triggered by the same factors and all are treated in the same way. The various forms of hereditary porphyrias are grouped into 3 main categories: a) acute attacks featuring abdominal colics and signs of distress on the cerebral and peripheral nervous systems; b) skin alteration due to photosensitisation; c) haemolytic anaemia. Treatment is divided into preventive, symptomatic and aetiopathogenic. The individual hereditary porphyrias are then examined. The secondary porphyrias examined include lead poisoning, porphyria of the skin caused by hexachlorobenzene, subacute or chronic tyrosinaemia and acute intermittent porphyria caused by carbamazepine. Finally the porphyrin metabolism disorders concomitant with other diseases are examined including those encountered in anaemia, liver disease, dermatological conditions and infections and conditions caused by drugs and toxic substances.
The blockade of spinal glycine receptors with intrathecal strychnine produces a reversible allodynia-like state in the rat. Thus, hair deflection, in the presence of intrathecal strychnine, induces cardiovascular and motor withdrawal responses comparable with those evoked by noxious thermal, mechanical, or chemical stimulation in the absence of strychnine. In the present study, we mapped the cutaneous sites of abnormal sensitivity to hair deflection throughout the strychnine time course to investigate the segmental distribution of strychnine-induced allodynia. The ability of intrathecal glycine and the glycine derivative betaine to reverse strychnine-induced allodynia was also determined using dose-response analysis. Following intrathecal strychnine (40 micrograms), stroking the legs, flanks, lower back, and tail with a cotton-tipped applicator evoked a pronounced increase in mean arterial pressure, tachycardia, and an abrupt motor withdrawal response in urethane-anesthetized rats. These abnormal responses were only evoked by hair deflection at discrete sites, corresponding to the cutaneous dermatomes innervated by spinal segments near the site of strychnine injection. In rats with intrathecal catheters lying laterally in the subarachnoid space, allodynic sites were observed unilaterally on the ipsilateral side of intrathecal strychnine injection. Recovery from strychnine was complete by 30 min in all affected dermatomes. The cardiovascular and motor withdrawal responses to hair deflection were dose dependently inhibited by intrathecal glycine and intrathecal betaine. The ED50 (95% confidence interval) for intrathecal glycine was 609 (429-865) micrograms for the heart rate response, 694 (548-878) micrograms for the pressor response, and 549 (458-658) micrograms for the motor withdrawal response. The corresponding values for intrathecal betaine were 981 (509-1889), 1045 (740-1476), and 1083 (843-1391) micrograms, respectively. There was no difference in the effect of betaine on sensory-evoked cardiovascular and motor responses. Cortical electroencephalographic activity was not affected by intrathecal glycine or betaine, consistent with a spinal locus of action in reversing strychnine-induced allodynia. These results support the hypothesis that removal of spinal glycinergic modulation from low threshold afferent input with intrathecal strychnine results in segmentally localized, tactile-evoked allodynia.
We describe the case of a 69-year-old man with a history of muscular symptoms dating back to his childhood; McArdle's disease (glycogen-storage disease V) was diagnosed following an episode of myositis in which a statin and physical exertion appear to have been precipitating factors. This case demonstrates that the ischaemic lactate-ammonia test still has a place in screening patients with symptoms suggestive of McArdle's disease and emphasizes the importance of carrying out glycogen phosphorylase histochemistry on the skeletal muscle biopsy to confirm the diagnosis. In patients who develop a raised plasma creatine kinase level or muscular symptoms during lipid-lowering therapy, the clinician should be alert to the possibility of an underlying myopathy.
A rare side effect is reported following treatment of preterm labor with ritodrine hydrochloride. The patient developed persistent supraventricular tachycardia, which had to be changed to normal sinus rhythm by cardioconversion.
Patients with a history of class Ia drug-induced torsade de pointes have been treated with chronic amiodarone without recurrence of torsade de pointes despite comparable prolongation of the QT interval. We hypothesized that in such patients, class Ia drugs cause nonhomogeneous prolongation of cardiac repolarization times, whereas amiodarone causes homogeneous prolongation of cardiac repolarization times.
Thirty-eight consecutive patients who received both class Ia drug therapy and chronic amiodarone therapy were evaluated. Standard 12-lead ECGs at baseline and during each therapy were used to calculate precordial QT interval dispersion (maximum QT in leads V1 through V6 minus minimum QT leads V1 through V6) as a measure of regional variabilities in ventricular repolarization times. Nine of these patients had torsade de pointes during class Ia drug therapy. In these nine patients, class Ia drug therapy and amiodarone significantly prolonged the maximum QT interval to comparable extents. However, class Ia drug therapy but not amiodarone therapy significantly increased precordial QT interval dispersion (101 +/- 37 versus 49 +/- 26 msec; baseline, 44 +/- 12 msec; p = 0.002). In the 29 patients without class Ia drug-induced torsade de pointes, neither class Ia drug therapy nor amiodarone therapy significantly increased QT interval dispersion (50 +/- 6 versus 69 +/- 7 msec; baseline, 54 +/- 5 msec). None of the patients with class Ia drug-induced torsade de pointes had recurrent torsade de pointes during chronic amiodarone therapy.
An increase in regional QT interval dispersion during class Ia antiarrhythmic drug therapy is associated with torsade de pointes. Chronic amiodarone therapy in patients with a history of class Ia drug-induced torsade de pointes produces comparable maximum QT interval prolongation but does not increase QT interval dispersion. This characteristic may explain its apparent safe use in patients with a history of class Ia drug-induced torsade de pointes.
Minocycline is an oral antibiotic widely used for the long-term treatment of acne vulgaris. Unusual side effects of this medication include two overlapping autoimmune syndromes: drug-induced lupus and autoimmune hepatitis. In addition, in a few patients livedo reticularis or subcutaneous nodules have developed in association with arthritis and serum perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (P-ANCA) during long-term minocycline therapy. We report the cases of two young women receiving long-term minocycline therapy (>3 years) in whom P-ANCA-positive cutaneous polyarteritis nodosa developed. Both patients presented with a violaceous reticulated pattern on the lower extremities. Histologic examination of biopsy specimens from a reticulated area and a subcutaneous nodule showed necrotizing vasculitis of medium-sized arteries in the deep dermis, consistent with the diagnosis of polyarteritis nodosa. The cutaneous lesions rapidly resolved on discontinuation of minocycline and initiation of prednisone therapy. A high index of suspicion and testing for antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody in addition to the standard antinuclear antibody panel can facilitate diagnosis of minocycline-related autoimmune disorders.
We investigated the effect of carbamazepine (CBZ) cotreatment with haloperidol (HP) on cardiac change in Japanese psychiatric patients without heart disease. Of 21 patients cotreated with CBZ, 11 showed lengthening of QT interval corrected for heart rate (QTc) (> 440, mean percentage change, 29), of whom two patients developed congestive heart failure because of left ventricular dysfunction. Especially in these two patients, plasma HP levels were significantly higher than speculated from the correlations. It is possible to speculate that, especially on CBZ cotreatment, significantly higher HP plasma level with QTc prolongation may herald heart failure.
The central distal axonopathy induced in dogs by the administration of high doses of clioquinol is contrasted with the central-peripheral distal axonopathy precipitated by intoxication with 2,5-hexanedione. Mature, pure-bred Beagle dogs received a daily oral dose of 400 mg/kg of clioquinol for up to 7 months, or 1 ml per animal (approximately corresponding to 110 mg/kg) of 2,5-hexanedione for up to 5 months. Intoxicated and control animal were killed and perfused at monthly intervals, so that the spatial-temporal development of the lesion could be followed and correlated with clinical symptoms. During the treatment, dogs intoxicated with 2,5-hexanedione developed symptoms of peripheral neuropathy consisting of flaccid weakness, muscle atrophy, hind-limb foot-drop and areflexia. By contrast, the dogs surviving clioquinol intoxication exhibited a stiff-legged gait, hyperreflexia but no muscle atrophy. Light and electron microscope examination of central and peripheral nervous tissue from dogs intoxicated with 2,5-hexanedione revealed giant axonal swelling and distal axonal degeneration. By contrast, dogs receiving clioquinol showed a distal axonal degeneration confined to the optic tract and the long spinal cord tracts, without any visible involvement of peripheral nerves.
Oxytocin (OT) is implicated in regulating prostate growth. OT concentrations are increased in benign, and decreased in malignant prostate disease. This study investigated whether the altered concentrations of OT present in prostate disease affect the proliferation of malignant and non-malignant human prostate cells.
The effects of varying concentrations of OT and gonadal steroids on cell proliferation of non-malignant prostatic epithelial (PrEC) and stromal (PrSC) cells and androgen dependent (LNCaP) and independent (PC-3) malignant cell lines were assessed.
OT (>0.5 nmol . L(-1)) had no effect on PrEC proliferation when cells were cultured alone. When co-cultured with PrSC and gonadal steroids, OT inhibited epithelial cell proliferation. OT inhibited PrSC proliferation, when cells were cultured alone. When PrSC were co-cultured in the presence of estrogen physiological concentrations of OT were inhibitory. No effect on cell proliferation was observed with higher concentrations of OT. OT did not affect the proliferation of malignant cell lines in the absence of androgens but, in the presence of testosterone, low concentrations of OT (<1 nmol . L(-1)) stimulated proliferation of PC-3 cells. Disruption of caveolae in the plasma membrane removed the inhibitory effect of OT on PrSC proliferation but did not affect the stimulatory effect of OT on PC-3 cells cultured in the presence of androgens.
Changes in prostatic concentrations of OT that occur with aging and malignant disease may act to facilitate cell proliferation. The localization of the OT receptor within the plasma membrane modulates OT's proliferative response in the prostate.
Adriamycin (ADR) is a widely used drug for the treatments of cancers. This study evaluates the effects of moxonidine and metoprolol on cardiac hemodynamics and survival in ADR-induced left ventricular dysfunction (total dose of 20 mg/kg in a 4-week regimen). Rats were treated with the centrally acting I(1)R agonist sympatho-inhibitor, moxonidine, or with the non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist, metoprolol, during 1 month or until death. Treatments began 1 week after the onset of the ADR administration. Low doses (0.5 and 1 mg/kg/day) of moxonidine and metoprolol (10 mg/kg/day) improved cardiovascular function. High doses of moxonidine (3 mg/kg/day) and metoprolol (150 mg/kg/day) were cardiodepressive. Moxonidine and metoprolol both failed to improve survival. These data indicate that a treatment with these sympatho-inhibitors can reduce the left ventricular dysfunction induced by ADR. Moreover, these cardioprotective effects where obtained even when ADR was used at a dose regimen usually employed for its antineoplastic effects in rodents. Nevertheless, in this particular cardiomyopathy, we did not find any association between improvements of functional parameters and survival whatever the drug and the dose used. This problem points out the difficulty to prevent, at least with sympatho-inhibitory drugs alone, the mortality linked to the chronic cardiotoxicity of ADR.
Antioxidants has been utilized to prevent oxidative damage in diabetes and hypertensive diseases. The current study evaluated the effect of alpha-tocopherol supplementation on blood pressure and the lipid profile in streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR).
The systolic blood pressure and total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and triglycerides were measured in SHR-diabetes induced.
Treatment with alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E) led to a decrease on systolic blood pressure and showed an increase of HDL-cholesterol and a decrease of LDL-cholesterol, but the concentrations of triglycerides and total cholesterol were not changed.
The vitamin E was able to modulate the blood pressure and the lipidic profile as well, and therefore can be considered as an alternative treatment of lipid disorder found on diabetes and hypertension diseases.
Prospective studies that address both efficacy and safety of continuous infusion of intrathecal baclofen (CITB) in children with spastic cerebral palsy (CP), and that use outcome measures beyond muscle tone are lacking.
To study the efficacy at 12 months and safety up to 24 months after start of CITB in children with intractable spastic CP.
Nine girls and eight boys, aged 13.7 years (SD 2.9), received a SynchroMed pump for CITB. We prospectively recorded effects and adverse events at regular follow-up visits up to 24 months. Outcome measures included the 0-10 visual analogue scale (VAS) for individual problems, Gross Motor Function Measure (GMFM) and health related quality of life as measured with the Child Health Questionnaire-PF50.
CITB for 12 months significantly improved the VAS for individual problems with 4.7 (SD 2.0; p=0.000), VAS for ease of care with 5.2 (SD 2.1; p=0.000), VAS for pain with 5.4 (SD 2.7; p=0.002); GMFM sitting dimension with 3.3 (range -4.0 to 22.0; p=0.022), GMFM goal dimension with 4.0 (range 0.0-26.0; p=0.007); and Child Health Questionnaire-PF50 domains of bodily pain/discomfort with 25.6 (SD 35.9; p=0.016) and mental health with 9.8 (SD 11.3; p=0.007). During a mean follow-up of 18.4 months (range 12-24), we recorded 80 adverse events. Eight adverse events were serious, but not life-threatening.
CITB was effective at 12 months and safe up to 24 months for carefully selected children with intractable spastic CP. CITB relieved pain, facilitated ease of care and improved mental health. The majority of children could extend their activities and participation.
Dieldrin is a widespread environmental contaminant hazardous to many wildlife species. Some evidence obtained with Bufo arenarum oocytes indicates that Dieldrin decreases the fertilization rate in amphibian oocytes, but little is known about mechanisms by which the pesticide affects fertilization. Therefore, we investigated the effect of Dieldrin on oocyte phospholipid metabolism. Freshly obtained oocytes, prelabeled with 2 3H-glycerol or 9-10 3H palmitate, were exposed to 4 mg/L Dieldrin for 2 hours. Dieldrin reduced the amount of 2 3H-glycerol incorporation in all phosphoglycerides classes: PI, PA, PS, and SPH were affected in 80% of the cases and PC and PE were only reduced in 39% of the cases. The incorporation in neutral lipids was not affected. On the contrary, 9,10 3H-palmitate incorporation increased in PC, PI, and PA, but TAG and FFA decreased. The more efficient incorporation of 3H-palmitate compared with 3H-glycerol in Dieldrin-treated oocytes suggests the operation of an alternative route other than de novo synthesis for phospholipids. The retailoring of phosphoglycerides via a deacylation-acylation pathway was demonstrated. These changes in phospholipid metabolism could be associated with the activation of certain enzymes produced by the pesticide.
The serotonin hypothesis of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) arose after an outbreak of PAH in patients taking the anorexigenic drugs aminorex and dexfenfluramine. Both of these drugs are serotonin transporter (SERT) substrates and indirect serotinergic agonists. There is now a wealth of evidence to support a role for serotonin in the pathobiology of PAH. Synthesis of serotonin can occur in pulmonary artery endothelial cells by the enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (TPH1). Serotonin then acts at the 5-HT(1B) receptor and the SERT to mediate constriction and proliferation of pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells. Downstream signalling molecules which play a role in serotonin-induced constriction and proliferation include reactive oxygen species (ROS), Rho-kinase (ROCK) p38 and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). There is also evidence to suggest that serotonin may interact with the bone morphogenetic receptor type II (BMPRII) to provide a 'second hit' risk factor for PAH.
Hemorrhagic complications commonly occur early after liver transplantation (LT), sometimes requiring emergent relaparotomy. However, active bleeding from the liver graft itself is a rare but life-threatening complication after living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). We report an unusual case of liver laceration with massive bleeding, associated with severe epileptic seizures as a result of tacrolimus-induced leukoencephalopathy, after LDLT. The patient was successfully rescued by conventional surgical management without a second transplantation. In conclusion, to our knowledge this is the first reported case of graft rupture due to immunosuppression-associated leukoencephalopathy after LT.
Topotecan, a semi-synthetic derivative of the alkaloid camptothecin is an antitumor drug that like other camptothecin derivatives, targets DNA topoisomerase I, an enzyme that is present in cells in concentration relatively independent of the stage in the cell cycle. Topotecan stabilizes the complex formed between topoisomerase I and DNA, leading to DNA strand breakage and cell death. In accordance with preclinical studies, clinical efficacy of topotecan was documented in ovarian carcinoma, in small cell lung cancer and in childhood solid tumors. Myelosuppression is the dose-limiting toxicity and nonhematologic side effects are generally mild. The activity of topotecan against a number of hematological malignancies is now increasingly exploited as well as its role in high-dose chemotherapy programs with stem cell support. In both lymphoblastic and myeloid acute leukemias, topotecan has been widely utilised both as single agent or associated to other cytostatic drugs with proven efficacy in these diseases. Most of the published phase II studies demonstrated that heavily pre-treated, relapsing patients achieve a high percentage of overall responses with manageable toxicity. In myelodisplastic syndromes and acute myelomonocitic leukemias a recently published study shows positive results for the combination of topotecan and cytarabin. Topotecan seems to preferentially affect the abnormal cytogenetic clones and in patients achieving a complete response, a conversion from an aneuploid to a diploid karyotipe was documented. In non-Hodgkin lymphomas, several schedules have been tested in the phase I setting. When utilized alone and at very low dosage, the drug yielded 15% of objective responses and a lack of extrahematologic toxicity. Of particular interest seems to be the association of topotecan with taxanes that needs to be supported by growth factors. In multiple myeloma Topotecan has been utilized as single agent in heavily pre-treated patients. The obtained results show good activity and again myelosuppression as preminent toxicity. The use of topotecan in high-dose chemotherapy regimens for multiple myeloma has been proposed. The utilization of topotecan in high-dose chemotherapy is one of the newer and more interesting applications. Solid tumors (i.e. ovarian cancer and small cell lung cancer) are actually investigated by many authors, who have indicated that this drug can be used preferentially as a part of diversified programs containing overlimit dosages of different cytostatics. Furthermore, topotecan demonstrated to be an effective drug to mobilize CD34+ cells for autografting. A general conclusion is that topotecan is an interesting addition to the actual chemotherapy scenario, both because of its mechanism of action and its toxicity profile. The present review of the new possibility of utilization, give us the idea that topotecan has activity in several hematologic neoplasias; further investigations in these diseases (i.e., induction treatment, combination chemotherapy) are then warranted. The broad spectrum of antitumor activity and the characteristics of toxicity make it also interesting for use in both the circulating progenitor cell mobilization and in the consolidation phase of high-dose chemotherapy programs.
Catheter-related deep venous thrombosis is a complication that can occur in patients receiving chemotherapy. Three such cases are described and a review of the literature is made, focusing on recent results regarding possible thrombogenic mechanisms and the high prevalence of non-symptomatic thrombosis as well as the high morbidity and mortality associated with upper extremity deep venous thrombosis. Special emphasis is given to the cytotoxic effects of 5-fluorouracil on vascular endothelium and the likely link to thrombotic complications. The possible differences between two different methods of administering chemotherapy, continuous infusion and bolus dose administration, in this regard are briefly discussed. It is concluded that the first steps towards an understanding of the mechanisms behind the vascular effects of 5-fluorouracil have been taken. Much remains to be done before active interaction with the pathogenic processes leading to vascular and cardiac complications can be realized, yet various forms of anticoagulant therapy could well be an efficient form of prophylaxis.
Lamivudine combined with Hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) prevents post liver transplant (LT) HBV recurrence. The study was designed to assess the impact of lamivudine on hepatitis B antibody (anti-HBs) and dosage requirements of intravenous 5% HBIg (Nabi-HB) in the first 36 weeks post LT. Adults undergoing LT for chronic HBV received lamivudine prior to or at LT, and IV HBIg 20,000 IU on day of LT, 10,000 on days 1-7, weeks 4 and 8, and 5,000 every 4 weeks thereafter. Replicative status based on serum HBV DNA (> 5 pg/mL = replicator (R) or < or = 5 pg/mL = nonreplicator (N) was determined at initiation of lamivudine (R or N) and within 2 weeks of LT (r or n), resulting in 3 groups: Nn, Rn, and Rr. Between December 1999 and May 2001, 30 patients (10 Nn, 13 Rn, 6 Rr, and 1 unknown), mean age of 52 years underwent LT. HBsAg neutralization was achieved with anti-HBs > 300 IU/L during week 1 and > 200 IU/L during weeks 2-12. All but one patient were HBsAg-negative on last follow-up. Pre-LT suppression of HBV replication resulted in similar dose requirements and pK in the Rn and Nn groups within 1 week after LT. Comparatively, the Rr group had greater HBIg requirements during weeks 1-12 due to greater anti-HBs clearance and shortened t(1/2) during the entire 36-week follow-up. In conclusion, this study provides a rationale for the use of lower HBIg doses in HBV patients with suppressed replication undergoing LT.
Several urinary calculi were submitted to our institution for compositional analysis. The typical techniques of analysis, polarized light microscopy, electron microprobe analysis, and infrared spectroscopy proved inadequate for a definitive identification. As a result, a more detailed organic analysis was conducted to determine the exact chemical structure of the material.
Infrared spectroscopy and mass spectrometric analysis were carried out on the solid material, providing information concerning the functional groups and the molecular mass of the organic constituent and its components. The stone was solubilized in deuterated solvents and analyzed by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, which resulted in a definitive chemical structure.
The spectroscopic analysis indicated that the stones were composed of a calcium salt of beta-(2-methoxyphenoxy)-lactic acid, a metabolite of the pharmaceutical guaifenesin, which is used as an expectorant.
Guaifenesin, an expectorant common in over-the-counter cold and allergy remedies, can cause urolithiasis if taken in excess. Discussions with physicians and their patients confirmed that most patients admitted to taking large doses of guaifenesin-containing medications.
Ulcerative colitis is predominantly a disease of non-smokers, and transdermal nicotine is therapeutic but often results in side-effects. Administration of nicotine as a liquid rectal enema results in less systemic nicotine absorption.
To determine the safety and clinical response of nicotine tartrate liquid enemas for active left-side ulcerative colitis in a pilot study.
Ten non-smoking patients with mildly to moderately active left-sided ulcerative colitis unresponsive to first-line therapy were treated in an open protocol with nightly nicotine tartrate liquid enemas at a dose of 3 mg nicotine base for 1 week then 6 mg for 3 weeks. Clinical assessments were determined at baseline and 4 weeks by endoscopy, physician assessment and a patient diary of daily symptoms. Peak and trough serum nicotine and trough plasma cotinine were determined by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and high performance liquid chromatography, respectively.
After 4 weeks of treatment, 5/7 patients (71%) showed clinical and sigmoidoscopic improvement (per protocol analysis). The other three patients discontinued therapy within 7 days because of inability to retain the liquid enemas. No patients showed histologic improvement. Six of the patients who completed the 4-week study had peak and trough serum nicotine concentration determined, only 1 of 6 patients had a detectable peak nicotine concentration (value 2.3 ng/mL), and all six patients had undetectable trough nicotine concentrations. The mean trough plasma cotinine concentration was 13 +/- 10 ng/mL. Transient and mild adverse events occurred in 4/10 patients (nausea, lightheadedness, tremor, sleep disturbance). Given the low or undetectable serum nicotine concentrations, these adverse events are not likely to be related to the nicotine enemas.
Nicotine tartrate liquid enemas administrated at a dose of 3 mg nicotine base/day for 1 week and then 6 mg/day for 3 weeks are safe and appear to result in clinical improvement in some patients with mildly to moderately active, left-sided ulcerative colitis unresponsive to first-line therapy. Placebo-controlled trials are warranted to confirm these preliminary findings.
Ketoralac is an injectable nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) widely used in both out-patient and in-patient settings. Side effects such as acute renal failure, hyperkalemia, gastritis, gastrointestinal bleeding, and asthmatic exacerbation, although rare, have been previously reported. We report the case of a 20-year-old female with polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) who developed bilateral sensorineural hearing loss 25 minutes after receiving 30 mg of intravenous ketoralac. The patient denied any previous medication sensitivities, and was taking oral methotrexate and prednisone at the time of emergency department admission. Both PAN and methotrexate have been independently demonstrated to cause sensorineural hearing loss. We postulate that the patient's hearing loss was the result of ketoralac's direct and indirect ototoxic effects that were potentiated as a result of her underlying illness and medications. We recommend the cautious use of ketorolac in patients with underlying illnesses where NSAID-induced ototoxicity could result in adverse otologic consequences.
Four patients who developed unusual neurological sequelae after outpatient anaesthesia are described. Propofol is strongly implicated as the cause. All four patients were female with no previous history of psychiatric disorder or neurological disease, unpremedicated, and had procedures of duration less than 20 minutes. Hyperreflexia and hypertonicity were present postoperatively and the reactions appeared to be triggered by an external stimulus. Three patients were examined by a neurologist and had a normal electroencephalograph. Two patients were on the same operating list; quality control was carried out on the anaesthetic agents used, and blood samples sent for toxicology showed no abnormalities. Mechanisms underlying these reactions are discussed.
Hyopkalemia is a listed toxicity in the capecitabine (Xeloda(R); Roche, Nutley, NJ) package insert. However, the incidence and severity of this toxicity is not known.
We performed a retrospective evaluation of hypokalemia in 77 patients, who received capecitabine for gastrointestinal malignancies between April 2002 and November 2004. Hypokalemia was defined as K(+) level <3.2 mEq/L. Patients with documented >/=grade 2 vomiting or diarrhea, diuretics, hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia, renal insufficiency, endocrine dysfunction (thyroid, adrenal, diabetic) were excluded. Hypokalemic patients were graded as: mild (grade 1: 3.0-3.2 mEq/L), moderate (grade 3: 2.5-2.9 mEq/L) and severe (grade 4: <2.5 mEq/L). We also reviewed the literature.
Fifty-four patients met the above criteria. The most common cause of exclusion was >/= grade 2 diarrhea (23 patients; 30%). Overall, hypokalemia was encountered in 11 patients (20.4%). Among hypokalemic patients, 8 patients (73%) presented with mild/grade 1 hypokalemia (3.0-3.2 mEq/L), 2 patients (18.18%) with moderate/grade 3 hypokalemia (2.5-2.9 mEq/L) and 1 patient (9.09%) with severe/grade 4 hypokalemia (<2.5 mEq/L) 8 (73%). Dose of capecitabine ranged between 1000-2000 mg/m(2). Hypokalemia occurred after an average of 83.7 days of capecitabine administration. No cardiac or neuromuscular complications were noticed. Replacement of K(+) was required in 6 patients (2 intravenous and 4 oral), while 2 patients (3.7%) required oral supplements >4 weeks. No patient had to stop capecitabine due to hypokalemia. One patient had persistent hypokalemia even after stopping capecitabine. Normalization of K(+) levels was achieved in 91% of patients. Four patients were on K(+) sparing diuretics for ascites and never presented with hypokalemia. Mean urine K(+) was 28 mEq/L. Only 5.5% patients had >/=grade 3 hypokalemia in our study compared with 2% and 14% in two other studies.
Although diarrhea being the most common cause of hypokalemia in patients on capecitabine, we postulate that hypokalemia may also be related to the effect of capecitabine on renal tubules suggested by the urine K(+) in some patients. Due to potential complications, hypokalemia in patients on capecitabine deserves special diagnostic and therapeutic attention.
Oxaliplatin, a platinum derivative cancer drug, has been used for treating human colorectal cancers. Survivin has been proposed as a cancer target, which highly expressed in most cancer cells but not normal adult cells. In this study, we investigated the regulation of survivin expression by exposure to oxaliplatin in human colon cancer cells. Oxaliplatin (3-9μM for 24h) markedly induced cytotoxicity, proliferation inhibition and apoptosis in the human RKO colon cancer cells. The survivin protein expression of RKO cells is dramatically reduced by oxaliplatin; however, the survivin gene expression is slightly altered. The survivin blockage of oxaliplatin elevated caspase-3 activation and apoptosis in RKO cells. Over-expression of survivin proteins by transfection with a survivin-expressed vector resisted the oxaliplatin-induced cancer cell death. Meantime, oxaliplatin elicited the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase. SB202190, a specific p38 MAP kinase inhibitor, restored the survivin protein level and attenuated oxaliplatin-induced cancer cell death. In addition, oxaliplatin increased the levels of phospho-p53 (Ser-15) and total p53 proteins. Inhibition of p53 expression by a specific p53 inhibitor pifithrin-α reduced the phosphorylated p38 MAP kinase and active caspase-3 proteins in the oxaliplatin-exposed RKO cells. In contrast, SB202190 did not alter the oxaliplatin-induced p53 protein level. Furthermore, treatment with a specific proteasome inhibitor MG132 restored survivin protein level in the oxaliplatin-treated colon cancer cells. Taken together, our results demonstrate for the first time that survivin is down-regulated by p38 MAP kinase and proteasome degradation pathway after treatment with oxaliplatin in the human colon cancer cells.
A 62-year-old Japanese man who was positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and anti-HBe antibody, underwent chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Mutations were detected in the precore region (nt1896) of HBV. Because steroid-containing regimen may cause reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis may progress to be fulminant after its withdrawal, we administered CHO (CPA, DOX and VCR) therapy and the patient obtained complete response. However, he developed acute exacerbation of hepatitis due to HBV reactivation. Recovery was achieved with lamivudine (100 mg/d) and plasma exchange. The present case suggests that acute exacerbation of hepatitis can occur with steroid-free regimen. Because the efficacy of the prophylactic use of lamivudine has been reported and the steroid enhances curability of malignant lymphoma, the steroid containing regimen with prophylaxis of lamivudine should be evaluated further.
