To compare the injection-associated pain and heat sensation after administration of the iso-osmolar contrast medium (IOCM) iodixanol (Visipaque trade mark 270 mg I/ml) and the low osmolar contrast medium (LOCM) iomeprol (Iomeron trade mark 300 mg I/ml) in femoral arteriography.
352 patients received iodixanol or iomeprol in a prospective, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group clinical trial. The first injection during femoral arteriography (DSA with automated stepping) was standardized. Injection-associated pain and heat sensation, efficacy and safety up to 72 h were evaluated.
The iodixanol group reported significant less injection-associated pain than the iomeprol group after the first injection (7.4% vs. 17.6%; p = 0.007), and after all injections (11% vs. 19.4%; p = 0.045). Iodixanol caused less heat sensation after the first injection (p = 0.007) and after all injections (p = 0.029). Heat sensations in the iodixanol group were less intense after all injections (p < 0.0001). No difference was found between the groups regarding the frequency of patients having adverse reactions (5.1% vs. 4%).
The IOCM iodixanol caused significantly less frequent injection-associated pain and heat sensation than the LOCM iomeprol during femoral arteriography.
Our previous finding that dexamethasone-induced hypertension in rats is associated with enhanced reactivity of mesenteric arteries to arginine vasopressin but not to angiotensin II (Ang II) or norepinephrine has led us to postulate that vasopressin contributes to the development or maintenance of glucocorticoid-induced hypertension. To test this view, we investigated the effects of vasopressin, Ang II, norepinephrine, and the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP on mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate with and without ganglionic blockade with hexamethonium and angiotensin I (Ang I) converting enzyme inhibition with MK 421 in pentobarbital-anesthetized rats made hypertensive by treatment with dexamethasone (1.8 mg/kg/wk for 14 days). Administration of vasopressin, Ang II, or norepinephrine (0.003-3 microgram i.v.) produced a dose-related increase in arterial blood pressure. The pressor response to vasopressin, but not to Ang II or norepinephrine, was greater in dexamethasone-treated than in vehicle-treated animals, and this difference became more pronounced in rats that received hexamethonium and MK 421. Administration of the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP significantly reduced arterial pressure in dexamethasone-treated but not in vehicle-treated animals. Hexamethonium and MK 421 reduced arterial blood pressure in dexamethasone-treated as well as in vehicle-treated rats; however, arterial blood pressure remained higher in the former. Administration of the vasopressin V1 receptor antagonist produced a greater reduction in arterial blood pressure in dexamethasone-treated than in vehicle-treated rats. These data suggest that vasopressin contributes to glucocorticoid-induced hypertension, which is probably due to enhanced vascular reactivity to the peptide.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a potent anti-neoplastic antibiotic used to treat a variety of malignancies; however, its use is limited by dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Moreover, there is a strong correlation between cytochrome P450 (CYP)-mediated arachidonic acid metabolites and the pathogenesis of many cardiovascular diseases. Therefore, in the current study, we have investigated the effect of acute DOX toxicity on the expression of several CYP enzymes and their associated arachidonic acid metabolites in the heart of male Sprague-Dawley rats. Acute DOX toxicity was induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of 15 mg/kg of the drug. Our results showed that DOX treatment for 24 h caused a significant induction of CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP2C11, CYP2J3, CYP4A1, CYP4A3, CYP4F1, CYP4F4, and EPHX2 gene expression in the heart of DOX-treated rats as compared to the control. Similarly, there was a significant induction of CYP1A1, CYP1B1, CYP2C11, CYP2J3, CYP4A, and sEH proteins after 24 h of DOX administration. In the heart microsomes, acute DOX toxicity significantly increased the formation of 20-HETE which is consistent with the induction of the major CYP omega-hydroxylases: CYP4A1, CYP4A3, CYP4F1, and CYP4F4. On the other hand, the formation of 5,6-, 8,9-, 11,12-, and 14,15-epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs) was significantly reduced, whereas the formation of their corresponding dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acids was significantly increased. The decrease in the cardioprotective EETs can be attributed to the increase of sEH activity parallel to the induction of the EPHX2 gene expression in the heart of DOX-treated rats. In conclusion, acute DOX toxicity alters the expression of several CYP and sEH enzymes with a consequent alteration in arachidonic acid metabolism. These results may represent a novel mechanism by which this drug causes progressive cardiotoxicity.
We report on a hemodialysis (HD) patient in whom fatal aplastic anemia developed after the administration of nizatidine, a histamine 2 (H2)-receptor antagonist. The patient was a 55-year old Japanese woman and had been on HD for 2 years due to endstage diabetic nephropathy. The patient had a hemorrhagic duodenal ulcer and had been treated with lansoprazole, a proton pump inhibitor, for 2 months. After improvement, lansoprozole was discontinued and she was subsequently treated with nizatidine. Twelve days after initiation of nizatidine treatment, the patient developed a high-grade fever with symptoms suggestive of upper respiratory infection. Hematological tests showed severe pancytopenia, and drug-induced aplastic anemia was diagnosed. Nizatidine was suggested as the causal drug. Despite intensive therapies, the patient died on the 23rd hospital day from generalized fungal infections. Although hematological adverse events have been reported in HD patients receiving H2-receptor antagonists, few studies of fatal aplastic anemia associated with these drugs have been reported. This case emphasized that careful observation is required after the initiation of H2-receptor antagonist treatment in HD patients.
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer among women in northern America and northern Europe; dietary prevention is a cost-efficient strategy to reduce the risk of this disease. To identify dietary components for the prevention of human breast cancer associated with long-term exposure to environmental carcinogens, we studied the activity of grape seed proanthocyanidin extract (GSPE) in suppression of cellular carcinogenesis induced by repeated exposures to low doses of environmental carcinogens. We used combined carcinogens 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) and benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P), at picomolar concentrations, to repeatedly treat noncancerous, human breast epithelial MCF10A cells to induce cellular acquisition of cancer-related properties of reduced dependence on growth factors, anchorage-independent growth, and acinar-conformational disruption. Using these properties as biological target endpoints, we verified the ability of GSPE to suppress combined NNK- and B[a]P-induced precancerous cellular carcinogenesis and identified the minimal, noncytotoxic concentration of GSPE required for suppressing precancerous cellular carcinogenesis. We also identified that hydroxysteroid-11-beta-dehydrogenase 2 (HSD11B2) may play a role in NNK- and B[a]P-induced precancerous cellular carcinogenesis, and its expression may act as a molecular target endpoint in GSPE's suppression of precancerous cellular carcinogenesis. And, the ability of GSPE to reduce gene expression of cytochrome-P450 enzymes CYP1A1 and CYP1B1, which can bioactivate NNK and B[a]P, possibly contributes to the preventive mechanism for GSPE in suppression of precancerous cellular carcinogenesis. Our model system with biological and molecular target endpoints verified the value of GSPE for the prevention of human breast cell carcinogenesis induced by repeated exposures to low doses of multiple environmental carcinogens.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are implicated in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) caused by alcohol (ethanol, EtOH). Although catalase detoxifies hydrogen peroxide, embryonic catalase activity is only about 5% of maternal levels. To determine the roles of ROS and embryonic catalase in FASD, pregnant mice with enhanced (expressing human catalase, hCat) or deficient (acatalasemic, aCat) catalase activity, or their respective wild-type (WT) controls, were treated ip on gestational day 9 with 4 or 6g/kg EtOH or its saline vehicle, and embryos and fetuses were, respectively, evaluated for oxidatively damaged DNA and structural anomalies. Untreated hCat and aCat dams had, respectively, more and less offspring than their WT controls. hCat progenies were protected from all EtOH fetal anomalies at the low dose (p < .01) and from reduced head diameter and resorptions at the high dose (p < .001). Conversely, aCat progenies were more sensitive to dose-dependent EtOH fetal anomalies (p < .001) and exhibited a 50% increase in maternal lethality (p < .05) at the high dose. Maternal pretreatment of aCat mice with polyethylene glycol-conjugated catalase (PEG-Cat) reduced EtOH fetal anomalies (p < .001). EtOH-initiated embryonic DNA oxidation was reduced in hCat and WT mice pretreated with PEG-Cat and enhanced in aCat mice. Plasma concentrations of EtOH in catalase-altered mice were similar to controls, precluding a pharmacokinetic basis for altered EtOH teratogenesis. Endogenous embryonic catalase, despite its low level, is an important embryoprotective enzyme for EtOH teratogenesis and a likely determinant of individual risk.
A case is presented of a 16-year-old girl with ectodermal dysplasia for whom dental surgery under general anaesthesia was planned. Following a priming dose of vecuronium, and immediately after injection of sodium thiopentone (5 mg.kg-1) pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents occurred. It is hypothesized that, because of the rapid speed of onset of neuromuscular blocking agents on the laryngeal muscles, that partial laryngeal paralysis was present at the time of induction of anaesthesia and that this was responsible in part for the episode of pulmonary aspiration.
Drug-induced immune hemolytic anemia (DIIHA) is a well-known complication of drug treatment. Sensitization can occur, due to interaction of the drug and/or its metabolites with cells of the immune system, after the first drug administration, while the hemolytic crisis generally occurs after repeated administration of a drug. This event occurred in the case described here of acute hemolysis due to the administration of corticosteroids.
To define the etiopathogenesis of the hemolytic crisis, immunohematologic screening and specific tests were performed to identify antibodies against a possible drug-red cell (RBC) complex and circulating drug-anti-drug antibody immune complexes. Six drugs administered to the patient were tested and results were confirmed by test repetition using other types of corticosteroids.
Indirect antiglobulin test performed with the patient's serum sample on 22 RBC samples from commercial panels was strongly positive, while it was negative on RBCs from ABO-compatible donors. The same test repeated on commercial RBCs after washing was negative. Specific tests were negative for five of the six tested drugs, while RBCs incubated with hydrocortisone strongly reacted with the patient's serum. The same tests performed using other types of corticosteroids confirmed a reaction with the same positivity score on all tested molecules.
The positive reaction observed each time the patient's serum sample was incubated with RBCs in the presence of corticosteroids suggested that the triggering cause of hemolysis was an immune-mediated mechanism and the drug responsible for DIIHA was hydrocortisone.
Raf-1 kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP) plays a critical role in tumor development by regulating cell functions such as invasion, apoptosis and differentiation. Down-regulation of RKIP expression has been implicated in the development and progression of renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Herein, we hypothesized that genetic polymorphisms in RKIP might be associated with susceptibility and progression of RCC.
A total of 5 tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (tSNPs) in RKIP were selected and genotyped by SNapShot method in a case-control study of 859 RCC patients and 1004 controls. The logistic regression was used to evaluate the genetic association with occurrence and progression of RCC. The functionality of the important SNP was preliminary examined by qRT-PCR.
We found that the rs17512051 in the promoter region of RKIP was significantly associated with decreased clear cell RCC (ccRCC) risk (TA/AA vs. TT: P = 0.039, OR = 0.78, 95%CI = 0.62-0.99). Another SNP (rs1051470) in the 3'UTR region of RKIP was marginally associated with increased ccRCC risk (TT vs. CC+CT: OR = 1.45, 95%CI = 1.01-2.09). In the stratified analysis, the protective effect of rs17512051 was more predominant in the subgroups of male, non-smokers, non-drinkers as well as subjects without history of diabetes. Furthermore, we observed higher RKIP mRNA levels in the presence of the rs17512051A allele in normal renal tissues.
Our results suggest that the potentially functional RKIP rs17512051 polymorphism may affect ccRCC susceptibility through altering the endogenous RKIP expression level. Risk effects and the functional impact of this polymorphism need further validation.
Risk factors predisposing to auditory toxicity of aminoglycosides were analyzed from records of 187 patients enrolled in three prospective randomized trials comparing the toxicity of netilmicin, tobramycin, and amikacin. Patients were eligible if they received three or more days of therapy and at least two serial audiograms were available. The overall auditory toxicity rate was 9.6% (18 of 187). Auditory toxicity was detected in 4.4, 10.8, and 23.5% of patients given netilmicin, tobramycin, and amikacin, respectively (P = 0.05). In the univariate analysis, patients who developed auditory toxicity were significantly older (P = 0.01) and had a significantly higher (P = 0.04) percentage of trough levels of netilmicin or tobramycin above 2 mg/liter or amikacin above 5 mg/liter. In the final logistic regression model, only age was retained as independently influencing the development of auditory toxicity (P less than 0.00001). Conversely, factors that did not add significantly to the prediction of auditory toxicity were aminoglycoside serum levels, total aminoglycoside dose, duration of therapy, sex, peak temperature, presence of bacteremia, shock, liver cirrhosis, dehydration, previous otic pathology or renal failure, and development of renal toxicity. At least in certain populations, age is the most important predisposing factor for the development of auditory toxicity in patients receiving aminoglycosides.
It is widely believed that dopamine (DA) mediates methamphetamine (METH)-induced toxicity to brain dopaminergic neurons, because drugs that interfere with DA neurotransmission decrease toxicity, whereas drugs that increase DA neurotransmission enhance toxicity. However, temperature effects of drugs that have been used to manipulate brain DA neurotransmission confound interpretation of the data. Here we show that the recently reported ability of L-dihydroxyphenylalanine to reverse the protective effect of alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine on METH-induced DA neurotoxicity is also confounded by drug effects on body temperature. Further, we show that mice genetically engineered to be deficient in brain DA develop METH neurotoxicity, as long as the thermic effects of METH are preserved. In addition, we demonstrate that mice genetically engineered to have unilateral brain DA deficits develop METH-induced dopaminergic deficits that are of comparable magnitude on both sides of the brain. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that DA is not essential for the development of METH-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity and suggest that mechanisms independent of DA warrant more intense investigation.
During anemia erythropoiesis is bolstered by several factors including KIT ligand, oncostatin-M, glucocorticoids, and erythropoietin. Less is understood concerning factors that limit this process. Experiments performed using dual-specificity tyrosine-regulated kinase-3 (DYRK3) knock-out and transgenic mice reveal that erythropoiesis is attenuated selectively during anemia. DYRK3 is restricted to erythroid progenitor cells and testes. DYRK3-/- mice exhibited essentially normal hematological profiles at steady state and reproduced normally. In response to hemolytic anemia, however, reticulocyte production increased severalfold due to DYRK3 deficiency. During 5-fluorouracil-induced anemia, both reticulocyte and red cell formation in DYRK3-/- mice were elevated. In short term transplant experiments, DYRK3-/- progenitors also supported enhanced erythroblast formation, and erythropoietic advantages due to DYRK3-deficiency also were observed in 5-fluorouracil-treated mice expressing a compromised erythropoietin receptor EPOR-HM allele. As analyzed ex vivo, DYRK3-/- erythroblasts exhibited enhanced CD71posTer119pos cell formation and 3HdT incorporation. Transgenic pA2gata1-DYRK3 mice, in contrast, produced fewer reticulocytes during hemolytic anemia, and pA2gata1-DYRK3 progenitors were compromised in late pro-erythroblast formation ex vivo. Finally, as studied in erythroid K562 cells, DYRK3 proved to effectively inhibit NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T cells) transcriptional response pathways and to co-immunoprecipitate with NFATc3. Findings indicate that DYRK3 attenuates (and possibly apportions) red cell production selectively during anemia.
To compare the antiarrhythmic activities of tocainide and lidocaine in dogs, a protocol was designed where the drug plasma levels were increased stepwise. This was achieved by computerizing bolus doses and infusion rates, using pharmacokinetic equations with constants, derived from previous experiments in similar animals. In conscious coronary-ligated dogs with ischaemic arrhythmias both compounds were active, causing a 50% reduction in VPB's at plasma concentrations of 5.0 micrograms/ml (tocainide) and 3.5 micrograms/ml (lidocaine). "Clearing" of catecholamine-induced arrhythmias was not obtained in any of six dogs given tocainide and only in two out of six dogs given lidocaine.
A Tanzanian man with a known seizure disorder was admitted to hospital for treatment of schistosomiasis mansoni. He suffered a grand mal seizure soon after the second dose of oxamniquine. This is the first recorded seizured associated with use of this drug. Two other cases are reported in which transient electroencephalograph changes occurred during oxamniquine therapy. The central nervous system effects of oxamniquine are reviewed with respect to its possible epileptogenic effects.
A group fo 237 patients in a long-term lithium treatment were questioned specifically about five side effects commonly associated with lithium treatment and unspecifically about "other" complaints. About one tenth of the patients did not complain of side effects, two thirds had one or two complaints, and one fourth had three or more. About one half of the patients complained of hand tremor, two thirds of increase thirst, one fifth of weight gain exceeding 10kg, one fifth of diarrhea, and one tenth of edema of legs or face. A few patients had other complaints. For each side effect we analysed whether its presence was significantly associated with such patient and treatment variables as sex, age, duration of the lithium treatment, 12-h serum lithium concentration, type of lithium preparation, and additional medication. Men complained of tremor significantly more often than women. Diarrhea was significantly less frequent in patients given additional treatment with antidepressants. Weight gain was associated with increased thirst and fluid output and with significantly increased blood pressure. None of the other variables distinguished between patients with and without the various complaints. We nevertheless hypothesize that a moderate reduction of the serum lithium level may lead to a lowering of the frequency of some side effects.
Activation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)-alpha increases lipid catabolism and lowers the concentration of circulating lipid, but its role in the control of glucose metabolism is not as clearly established. Here we compared PPARalpha knockout mice with wild type and confirmed that the former developed hypoglycemia during fasting. This was associated with only a slight increase in insulin sensitivity but a dramatic increase in whole-body and adipose tissue glucose use rates in the fasting state. The white sc and visceral fat depots were larger due to an increase in the size and number of adipocytes, and their level of GLUT4 expression was higher and no longer regulated by the fed-to-fast transition. To evaluate whether these adipocyte deregulations were secondary to the absence of PPARalpha from liver, we reexpresssed this transcription factor in the liver of knockout mice using recombinant adenoviruses. Whereas more than 90% of the hepatocytes were infected and PPARalpha expression was restored to normal levels, the whole-body glucose use rate remained elevated. Next, to evaluate whether brain PPARalpha could affect glucose homeostasis, we activated brain PPARalpha in wild-type mice by infusing WY14643 into the lateral ventricle and showed that whole-body glucose use was reduced. Hence, our data show that PPARalpha is involved in the regulation of glucose homeostasis, insulin sensitivity, fat accumulation, and adipose tissue glucose use by a mechanism that does not require PPARalpha expression in the liver. By contrast, activation of PPARalpha in the brain stimulates peripheral glucose use. This suggests that the alteration in adipocyte glucose metabolism in the knockout mice may result from the absence of PPARalpha in the brain.
We report the first case of primary fallopian tube adenocarcinoma in situ in a patient who had received antiestrogen tamoxifen as adjuvant therapy for breast carcinoma. Clinical and in vivo animal model studies, referable to the possible estrogen agonist effect of tamoxifen on the female genital tract, are also reviewed.
Two cases of human prolactinomas after short-term treatment with bromocriptine were studied by means of immunohistochemistry for prolactin, electron microscopy, and morphometry at the ultrastructural level. The results obtained showed an abundance of immunoreactive secretory granules in the tumor cells, a paucity in the electron microscopic images suggesting exocytosis of secretory granules, and no significant changes in the volume density of rough endoplasmic reticulum when compared with untreated (control) tumor cells. These findings strongly suggest that the effects of short-term bromocriptine treatment for lowering serum prolactin levels did not inhibit protein and secretory granule synthesis but rather caused a disturbance in the secretion of prolactin granules. The present morphometrical data suggest the possibility that a reduction in the number of cytoplasmic microtubules might be related to the disturbance of prolactin secretion.
It is believed that oxidative stress plays a central role in the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases like diabetes mellitus (DM) and its complications (like peripheral neuropathy) as well as in neurodegenerative disorders like sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD). Representative experimental models of these diseases are streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats and STZ-intracerebroventricularly (STZ-icv) treated rats, in which antioxidant capacity against peroxyl (ORAC(-ROO)*) and hydroxyl (ORAC(-OH)*) free radical was measured in three different brain regions (hippocampus, cerebellum, and brain stem) by means of oxygen radical absorbance capacity (ORAC) assay. In the brain of both STZ-induced diabetic and STZ-icv treated rats decreased antioxidant capacity has been found demonstrating regionally specific distribution. In the diabetic rats these abnormalities were not associated with the development of peripheral diabetic neuropathy. Also, these abnormalities were not prevented by the icv pretreatment of glucose transport inhibitor 5-thio-D-glucose in the STZ-icv treated rats, suggesting different mechanism for STZ-induced central effects from those at the periphery. Similarities in the oxidative stress alterations in the brain of STZ-icv rats and humans with sAD could be useful in the search for new drugs in the treatment of sAD that have antioxidant activity.
Recent genetic research has shown that certain forms of epilepsy may arise from mutations in the genes encoding for the alpha7 and alpha4 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) ion channels. These receptors are also involved with the induction of nicotine-induced seizures. (+/-)-Mecamylamine (Inversine), a classic nAChR antagonist, potently inhibits nicotine-induced seizures. The purpose of the present study was to assess the inhibitory effects of (+/-)-mecamylamine and its stereoisomers on nicotine-induced seizures in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Rats received saline, (+/-)-mecamylamine, R-(-)-mecamylamine, or S-(+)-mecamylamine (s.c.) at doses of 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0 mg/kg 15 minutes prior to nicotine injection, 3.6 mg/kg (s.c.), an optimal dose for seizure induction. Rats were observed for 30 minutes with seizure latency, duration, and severity as primary measures and locomotor activity recorded as a secondary measure at 5-minute intervals. The results indicate that mecamylamine and each of its stereoisomers block nicotine-induced seizures in a dose-related manner and suggest that the S-(+/-)- mecamylamine isomer has inhibitory properties more similar to the racemic than to the R-(-)-mecamylamine isomer. The results of this study may be clinically important for the future design of novel anti-seizure medications.
Lidocaine, a local anesthetic, produces seizures by unknown central mechanisms. The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of cellular metabolism alteration, by changing thyroid hormones levels, on susceptibility to lidocaine-kindling. Lidocaine was administered daily (60 mg/Kg x day, i.p.) to rats treated with thyroxine (300 microg/Kg x day) or methimazole (60 mg/Kg day), dissolved in drinking water. After the 18th lidocaine administration, the cumulative percent of animals convulsed was higher (100%) for the methimazole-treated group and lower (20%) for the thyroxine-treated group, compared to the control group (40%). The results suggest that susceptibility to lidocaine-kindling depends on neuronal metabolism, which probably affects monoamines uptake mechanisms.
In normal rats, the media of small arteries (0.4--0.2 mm in diameter) previously was shown to contain intracellular vacuoles, identified ultrastructurally as herniations of one smooth muscle cell into another. The hypothesis that intense vasoconstriction would increase the number of such vacuoles has been tested. In the media of the saphenous artery and its distal branch, vasoconstriction induced by L-norepinephrine produced many cell-to-cell hernias within 15 minutes. At 1 day their number was reduced to about 1/10 of the original number. By 7 days the vessel was almost restored to normal. Triple stimulation over 1 day induced more severe changes in the media. These findings suggest that smooth muscle cells are susceptible to damage in the course of their specific function. The experimental data are discussed in relation to medial changes observed in other instances of arterial spasm. Endothelial changes that developed in the same experimental model were described in a previous paper.
In this study, aloe-emodin (AE) was less cytotoxic to human noncancerous skin cells (premalignant keratinocytic HaCaT and fibroblast Hs68) than to nonmelanoma cancer cells (epidermoid carcinoma A431 and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma SCC25). Notably, AE induced apoptosis by up-regulating tumor necrosis factor-alpha and Fas ligand and their cognate receptors, downstream adaptor TNF-R1-associated death domain and Fas-associated death domain, and activated caspase-8 in A431 and SCC25 cells. Moreover, AE up-regulated p53, increased intracellular reactive oxygen species levels, depleted intracellular-reduced GSH, up-regulated cytochrome c and Bax, down-regulated Bcl-2, and activated caspase-9 and -3. The combinatory use of AE and 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) achieved significantly more cell death in A431 and SCC25 cells than only the use of AE or 5-Fu, likely via regulation of caspase-8, -9, and -3 expressions. Incorporating AE into the liposomal formulation accelerated cell death of A431 and SCC25 cells within a short time. Furthermore, skin permeation profiles of drug suggest that the liposomal formulation enhances transdermal delivery of AE. Experimental data demonstrate the feasibility of applying liposome to deliver AE in clinical therapy.
This study was designed to compare the initial tremor response to 4.0 mg albuterol and 5.0 mg terbutaline orally administered and to study the question of tachyphylaxis by rechallenge after 3 wk of maintenance dosing. Twenty fasting patients with severe COPD in whom orally administered sympathomimetics were withheld for 2 wk were challenged with single doses of each drug in a crossover, randomized fashion 1 wk apart. Then after a further 3 wk of dosing 3 times a day of the second medication (10 patients received each medication), they were challenged once more 16 h after the last dose. Rest and postural tremor were measured at zero and 2 h using an accelerometer affixed to the finger, and measurements of subjective tremor, tremor power spectrum, plasma cyclic AMP and lactate, and forced vital capacity were also made. Postural tremor increased from 25.05 to 36.20 relative units for albuterol, an increase of 11.15 units, and from 24.90 to 57.70 units for terbutaline, an increase of 32.80 units (difference significant at p = 0.01). Plasma cyclic AMP (p less than 0.01) and lactate (p = 0.05) increases were also less for albuterol, and the FEV1 and FVC responses, though about one third less, did not differ significantly. After 3 wk, mean baseline tremor for both drugs was elevated even 16 h after the last 3 times a day dosing (38.00 and 33.10) for albuterol and terbutaline (difference, NS), and responses were much less to the single tablet (3.40 and 9.10, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To search for a reliable biomarker of preneoplastic lesions arising early in mouse hepatocarcinogenesis the proteomes of microdissected basophilic foci, hepatocellular adenomas (HCAs), carcinomas (HCCs) and normal-appearing liver of B6C3F1 mice initiated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) were analysed on anionic (Q10) surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF-MS) ProteinChip arrays. Significant overexpression of cytokeratin 8 (CK8; m/z 54, 565), cytokeratin 18 (CK18; m/z 47,538) proteins was found in basophilic foci as well as in HCAs and HCCs. Furthermore, immunohistochemistry demonstrated profound overexpression of CK8 and CK18 proteins (CK8/18) in all basophilic foci, mixed cell type foci, HCAs and HCCs in B6C3F1 and C57BL/6J mice initiated with DEN. A strong correlation between CK8/18-positive foci development and multiplicity of liver tumors in B6C3F1 and C57Bl/6J mice was further observed. Moreover, formation of CK8 and CK18 complexes due to CK8 phosphorylation at Ser73 and Ser431 was found to be strongly associated with neoplastic transformation of mice liver basophilic foci. Elevation of CK8/18 was strongly correlated with induction of cell proliferation in basophilic foci and tumors. In conclusion, our data imply that CK8/18 is a novel reliable marker of preneoplastic lesions arising during mouse hepatocarcinogenesis which might be used for prediction of tumor development and evaluation of environmental agents as well as drugs and food additives using mouse liver tests.
Ceftriaxone may precipitate in the bile leading to the formation of biliary sludge. Biliary complications, even serious ones, have rarely been described in patients treated with this antibiotic. A 71-year-old woman presented to the emergency room with biliary sludge complicated by acute cholecystitis and pancreatitis after 10 days of treatment with ceftriaxone (2 g, 40 mg/kg per day). There had been no evidence of sludge or gallstones on a transabdominal ultrasonography performed 6 months earlier. The patient underwent open cholecystectomy and recovered fully. Ceftriaxone should be kept in mind as a potential cause of biliary sludge. In most cases, resolution of sludge occurs after interruption of ceftriaxone. Young subjects, patients receiving a prolonged course and a daily dose > or = 40 mg/kg, and subjects with impaired gallbladder emptying have a greater risk of ceftriaxone-associated sludge. Cholecystectomy is the definitive therapy for severe complications.
The use of adriamycin (ADR) in cancer chemotherapy has been limited due to its cumulative cardiovascular toxicity. Earlier observations that ADR interacts with mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) and suppresses its enzyme activity led us to investigate ADR's action on the cardiovascular functions and heart mitochondrial morphology in Balb-c mice i.p. treated with ADR for several weeks. At various times during treatment, the animals were assessed for cardiovascular functions by electrocardiography and for heart tissue damage by electron microscopy. In parallel, total RNA was extracted from samples of dissected heart and analyzed by Northern blot hybridization to determine the steady-state level of three RNA transcripts encoded by the COXII, COXIII, and COXIV genes. Similarly, samples obtained from the liver of the same animals were analyzed for comparative studies. Our results indicated that 1) treatment of mice with ADR caused cardiovascular arrhythmias characterized by bradycardia, extension of ventricular depolarization time (tQRS), and failure of QRS at high concentrations (10-14 mg/kg body weight cumulative dose); 2) the heart mitochondria underwent swelling, fusion, dissolution, and/or disruption of mitochondrial cristae after several weeks of treatment. Such abnormalities were not observed in the mitochondria of liver tissue; and 3) among the three genes of COX enzyme examined, only COXII gene expression was suppressed by ADR treatment, mainly after 8 weeks in both heart and liver. Knowing that heart mitochondria represent almost 40% of heart muscle by weight, we conclude that the deteriorating effects of ADR on cardiovascular function involve mitochondrial structural and functional impairment.
Terasosine study covered 36 females aged 61 to 76 years (mean age 70.1 +/- 0.5 years) with hyperactive urinary bladder (HAUB). Thirty patients received alpha1-adrenoblocker terasosine (setegis) in a dose 1 mg twice a day for 2 months, 6 females were given placebo. At baseline, in 1 and 2 months the patients self-estimated urination, urine incontinence, imperative voiding, quality of life, discomfort, treatment satisfaction. Two months of therapy reduced imperative voiding by 70%, number of episodes of ugent incontinence by 90%. Capacity of the bladder increased by 30%. The patients reported improved condition of their bladder, 3 times lower discomfort because of imperative symptoms, satisfaction with treatment reached 71%. Patients of the placebo group noticed no significant positive trend in the above parameters. 43% patients with maximal improvement and cure of urine incontinence had good long-term results.
