In 2 patients receiving a long-term lithium carbonate therapy, persistent cerebellar, pyramidal, and extrapyramidal signs were observed, following a febrile pulmonary event. The mechanism of these disturbances is discussed, emphasizing the lithium-neuroleptics interaction as well as the possible role of hyperthermia.
Ankylosing spondylitis is a common form of inflammatory arthritis predominantly affecting the spine and pelvis that occurs in approximately 5 out of 1,000 adults of European descent. Here we report the identification of three variants in the RUNX3, LTBR-TNFRSF1A and IL12B regions convincingly associated with ankylosing spondylitis (P < 5 × 10(-8) in the combined discovery and replication datasets) and a further four loci at PTGER4, TBKBP1, ANTXR2 and CARD9 that show strong association across all our datasets (P < 5 × 10(-6) overall, with support in each of the three datasets studied). We also show that polymorphisms of ERAP1, which encodes an endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase involved in peptide trimming before HLA class I presentation, only affect ankylosing spondylitis risk in HLA-B27-positive individuals. These findings provide strong evidence that HLA-B27 operates in ankylosing spondylitis through a mechanism involving aberrant processing of antigenic peptides.
Human cocaine addicts show altered function within the basal ganglia and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and altered glutamate function within these areas is postulated to be critical for cocaine addiction. The present project utilized a highly valid animal model of cocaine addiction, to test whether excessive use of cocaine alters glutamate function within these brain areas. Rats were trained to lever-press for i.v. saline vehicle or cocaine (0.25 mg/infusion) over seven 1-h daily sessions, after which, saline controls and half of cocaine self-administering animals (brief access condition) received 10 more 1-h daily sessions, whereas the remaining cocaine animals received 10 additional 6-h daily sessions (extended access condition). One, 14, or 60 days after the last self-administration session, animals were sacrificed. Tissue samples from the ventral tegmental area (VTA), nucleus accumbens (N.Acc) core and shell, and mPFC were analyzed by immunoblotting for expression of Homer1b/c, Homer2a/b, mGluR1, mGluR5, NR2a, and NR2b subunits of the NMDA receptor. Brief and extended access to cocaine failed to alter protein levels within the VTA, and produced transient and similar changes in N.Acc protein expression, which were more pronounced in the core subregion. In contrast, extended access to cocaine resulted in distinct and long lasting alterations of protein expression within the mPFC that included: increased levels of Homer1b/c at 1 day, NR2b at 14 days, and NR2a at 60 days, of withdrawal. These data support the notion that altered NMDA function within the mPFC may contribute, in part, to the transition to excessive uncontrolled consumption of cocaine.
We were interested in studying nigral degeneration with inclusion body formation and behavioral changes in rats after proteasomal inhibition.
Observation of progressive behavioral and pathological changes in rats following a unilateral nigral injection of lactacystin, a selective proteasome inhibitor.
After administration at a concentration of 10 microg (2 microl) of lactacystin, when tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining decreased gradually in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and corpus striatum, alpha-synuclein-immunopositive inclusion appeared extensively in the surviving neurons. We also observed the degeneration of diverse cellular organelles by transmission electron microscopy. The effect of cellular organelle degeneration on behavior, a clinical index, was striking and was statistically significant. Over the 3 weeks following the administration of lactacystin, a highly significant decrease in TH immunostaining was observed and alpha-synuclein-immunopositive inclusions gradually appeared. Interestingly, there was a strong correlation in behavioral changes and the increase in alpha-synuclein-immunopositive inclusions whereas the decrease in TH immunostaining did not seem to induce any behavioral changes.
Our results reveal that unilateral nigral proteasome inhibition induces degeneration in the SNc and corpus striatum as well as behavioral changes demonstrating strong time dependence. Behavioral changes were driven by the formation of alpha-synuclein inclusions, but not by decreased TH neurons.
Combining restraint with cold temperature (4°C) consistently induces gastric ulceration in rats after 3.5 h. The cold restraint-stress (CRS) method provides a suitable model for acute ulcer investigations. This study compares the antiulcer activities of lansoprazole (a proton pump inhibitor), PD-136450 (CCK(2)/gastrin receptor antagonist) and ranitidine (histamine H(2) receptor antagonist) on CRS-induced gastric ulcers in rats. The results have shown that lansoprazole, which is a potent anti-secretory agent, provides complete protection in this model of ulcer formation. The use of indomethacin pretreatment to inhibit the prostaglandin (PG) synthesis and N(G)-nitro L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) pretreatment to inhibit nitric oxide synthase did not alter the lansoprazole-induced inhibition of ulcer index obtained in the untreated Wistar rats indicating that these two systems were not involved in the activation of lansoprazole. PD-136450, an effective anti-secretory agent against gastrin- but not dimaprit-induced stimulation, evoked a dose-dependent inhibition of CRS-induced gastric ulcers. The results show that both PG and nitric oxide pathways can influence the inhibitory effect of PD-136450 against CRS-induced gastric ulcer. The antiulcer activities of both lansoprazole and PD-136450 were compared to that of ranitidine. The results showed that ranitidine was more potent than lansoprazole and PD-136450 in inhibiting CRS-induced gastric ulcers and its effect was shown to be influenced by PG as well as nitric oxide synthase. The results of this study have demonstrated that although lansoprazole, PD-136450 and ranitidine were protective against CRS-induced gastric ulcers, the antiulcer activities of PD-136450 and ranitidine involved both PG and nitric oxide pathways, while lansoprazole acted independently of these two systems during CRS.
We examined the antianginal and anti-ischemic effects of oral zatebradine, a direct sinus node inhibitor that has no blood pressure-lowering or negative inotropic effects in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris taking extended-release nifedipine.
Heart rate reduction is considered an important pharmacologic mechanism for providing anginal pain relief and anti-ischemic action in patients with chronic stable angina, suggesting a benefit for sinus node-inhibiting drugs.
In a single-blind placebo run-in, randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study, patients already receiving extended-release nifedipine (30 to 90 mg once a day) were randomized to receive zatebradine (5 mg twice a day [n = 64]) or placebo (n = 60). All subjects had reproducible treadmill exercise-induced angina at baseline, and after randomization they performed a serial exercise test 3 h after each dose for 4 weeks.
Zatebradine reduced rest heart rate both at 4 weeks ([mean +/- SEM] 12.9 +/- 1.23 vs. 2.3 +/- 1.6 [placebo] beats/min, p < 0.0001) and at the end of comparable stages of Bruce exercise (16.7 +/- 1.2 vs. 3.4 +/- 1.2 [placebo] beats/min, p < 0.0001). Despite the significant effects on heart rate at rest and exercise, there were no additional benefits of zatebradine from placebo baseline in measurements of total exercise duration, time to 1-mm ST segment depression or time to onset of angina. Subjects taking zatebradine also had more visual disturbances as adverse reactions.
Zatebradine seems to provide no additional antianginal benefit to patients already receiving nifedipine, and it raises questions regarding the benefit of heart rate reduction alone as an antianginal approach to patients with chronic stable angina.
Coats plus is a highly pleiotropic disorder particularly affecting the eye, brain, bone and gastrointestinal tract. Here, we show that Coats plus results from mutations in CTC1, encoding conserved telomere maintenance component 1, a member of the mammalian homolog of the yeast heterotrimeric CST telomeric capping complex. Consistent with the observation of shortened telomeres in an Arabidopsis CTC1 mutant and the phenotypic overlap of Coats plus with the telomeric maintenance disorders comprising dyskeratosis congenita, we observed shortened telomeres in three individuals with Coats plus and an increase in spontaneous γH2AX-positive cells in cell lines derived from two affected individuals. CTC1 is also a subunit of the α-accessory factor (AAF) complex, stimulating the activity of DNA polymerase-α primase, the only enzyme known to initiate DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. Thus, CTC1 may have a function in DNA metabolism that is necessary for but not specific to telomeric integrity.
Adult cocaine addicts, abstinent at the time of testing, show a variety of neurocognitive impairments. Less clear is whether there are differences in the degree of impairment if cocaine use is initiated during adolescence rather than adulthood.
Using a preclinical model, we evaluated if stimulus-reward learning was impacted differently in rats exposed to cocaine during adolescence (beginning on postnatal day 37) vs adulthood (beginning on postnatal days 74-79) and then tested after a drug-free period.
A yoked-triad design of intravenous cocaine self-administration in adult (n = 8 triads) and adolescent (n = 8 triads) rats was used. Sets of three animals either contingently self-administered cocaine or received cocaine or saline in a noncontingent manner. Rats self-administering 1-mg/kg doses of cocaine responded under a fixed-ratio 5, timeout 20-s schedule of reinforcement. After 18 2-h drug or saline sessions, all rats (now adults) began the drug-free period in their home environments. Testing in a stimulus-reward learning task (conditioned cue preference) began 19 days later.
Self-administration behavior was similar in adolescent and adult rats. Lever responses were not significantly different, and both age groups averaged approximately 20 infusions per session. Rats contingently self-administering cocaine or passively exposed to cocaine during adulthood showed stimulus-reward learning deficits in the conditioned cue preference task. Rats exposed to contingent or noncontingent cocaine during adolescence had normal learning, showing strong preferences for a Froot Loops-paired cue.
These findings suggest that adolescents are insensitive to cocaine-induced impairment of learning related to amygdala memory system functioning.
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. To date, 22 common breast cancer susceptibility loci have been identified accounting for ∼8% of the heritability of the disease. We attempted to replicate 72 promising associations from two independent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in ∼70,000 cases and ∼68,000 controls from 41 case-control studies and 9 breast cancer GWAS. We identified three new breast cancer risk loci at 12p11 (rs10771399; P = 2.7 × 10(-35)), 12q24 (rs1292011; P = 4.3 × 10(-19)) and 21q21 (rs2823093; P = 1.1 × 10(-12)). rs10771399 was associated with similar relative risks for both estrogen receptor (ER)-negative and ER-positive breast cancer, whereas the other two loci were associated only with ER-positive disease. Two of the loci lie in regions that contain strong plausible candidate genes: PTHLH (12p11) has a crucial role in mammary gland development and the establishment of bone metastasis in breast cancer, and NRIP1 (21q21) encodes an ER cofactor and has a role in the regulation of breast cancer cell growth.
Ischemic brain injury is a major problem associated with stroke. It has been increasingly recognized that acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) contribute significantly to ischemic neuronal damage, but the underlying mechanism has remained elusive. Here, we show that extracellular spermine, one of the endogenous polyamines, exacerbates ischemic neuronal injury through sensitization of ASIC1a channels to extracellular acidosis. Pharmacological blockade of ASIC1a or deletion of the ASIC1 gene greatly reduces the enhancing effect of spermine in ischemic neuronal damage both in cultures of dissociated neurons and in a mouse model of focal ischemia. Mechanistically, spermine profoundly reduces desensitization of ASIC1a by slowing down desensitization in the open state, shifting steady-state desensitization to more acidic pH, and accelerating recovery between repeated periods of acid stimulation. Spermine-mediated potentiation of ASIC1a activity is occluded by PcTX1 (psalmotoxin 1), a specific ASIC1a inhibitor binding to its extracellular domain. Functionally, the enhanced channel activity is accompanied by increased acid-induced neuronal membrane depolarization and cytoplasmic Ca(2+) overload, which may partially explain the exacerbated neuronal damage caused by spermine. More importantly, blocking endogenous spermine synthesis significantly attenuates ischemic brain injury mediated by ASIC1a but not that by NMDA receptors. Thus, extracellular spermine contributes significantly to ischemic neuronal injury through enhancing ASIC1a activity. Our data suggest new neuroprotective strategies for stroke patients via inhibition of polyamine synthesis and subsequent spermine-ASIC interaction.
Postheparin plasma hepatic lipase (HL) activity has been shown to correlate with features of the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes in humans. We examined HL postheparin plasma enzyme activity, hepatocyte mRNA, and protein mass in the insulin-resistant, fructose-fed Syrian golden hamster, and the response of the insulin-sensitizing peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma agonist rosiglitazone. Male Syrian golden hamsters were treated for 5 weeks with 1) normal diet (DIET group), 2) 60% fructose diet (FRUC group), or 3) 60% fructose and rosiglitazone (20 mmol . kg(-1) . day(-1)) (FRUC+RSG group). Hepatocyte HL mRNA, protein mass, and postheparin plasma HL activity were increased in FRUC compared with DIET hamsters. FRUC+RSG hamsters had partial normalization of HL mRNA, mass, and activity. There was a shift in the size of LDL particles from large to small in FRUC animals and a shift back to large LDL size in FRUC+RSG. This is the first demonstration that HL hepatocyte mRNA, mass, and plasma enzymatic activity increase concomitantly with induction of an insulin-resistant state and can be partially normalized by treatment with an insulin sensitizer. The increase in HL in insulin-resistant states may play an important role in the typical dyslipidemia of these conditions, and reduction of HL could explain some of the beneficial effects of insulin sensitizers on the plasma lipid profile.
This case study illustrates the delayed association of administration of synthetic nonsteroidal estrogen to mothers in early pregnancy with the postmenarchial onset of vaginal adenocarcinoma in their offspring. An 18-year-old-patient, whose mother had received 25 mg of diethylstilbestrol (DES) 4 times/day during the 1st 4 months of pregnancy, presented with irregular vaginal bleeding. Pelvic examination revealed circumferential thickening and induration of the posterior vaginal wall. The area was nodular to granular and discolored by irregular hemorrhages. 1 month after biopsy confirmation, a Wertheim hysterectomy with right salpingo-oophorectomy, vaginectomy, resection of the anterior rectal segment and including pelvic lymphadenectomy, was preformed. The left oviduct and ovary were preserved, and vaginal reconstruction was also carried out. Microscopical examination of the vaginal tumor revealed clear-cell adenocarcinoma confined to the vaginal wall (Stage 1). The patient progressed normally, and was discharged on the 16th postoperative day. She remains well.
This study was designed to examine the impact of cocaine withdrawal on several behavioural parameters in rats. After 1 and 3 day withdrawal from continuous cocaine administration (50 mg kg-1 for 28 days, subcutaneous infusion via osmotic minipumps), rats showed significant changes in spontaneous locomotor activity, conditioned avoidance response and increased levels of anxiety. However, cocaine withdrawal did not alter the motor co-ordination, body weight, food and water consumption of these animals. The neurochemical effects of cocaine on central dopaminergic neuronal systems may account for locomotor deficit observed in these cocaine-withdrawal animals.
Electrocochleography was performed on three patients to monitor the intravenous administration of tobramycin. When peak serum tobramycin levels exceeded 8-10 mug/ml an immediate dramatic reduction in cochlear output was observed, which recovered fully as serum levels fell. The patients had no auditory or vestibular symptoms either during or after treatment.
Doxorubicin, whose dose-limiting toxicity is cardiomyopathy, was given to four cancer patients. Endomyocardial biopsy specimens and test results of cardiac function were obtained before, during, and after treatment. The biopsy specimens were examined by light and electron microscopy and were graded blindly. Evidence of specific doxorubicin injury was found in 3/4 patients with as little as 180 mg/sq m of the drug and became progressively more severe with higher doses. All test results of cardiac function, including systolic time intervals, remained normal. These data suggest that a specific, progressive subclinical injury to the heart occurs with doxorubicin therapy, which cannot be reliably detected by routine tests. This potential risk must be taken into account with the use of doxorubicin, especially when combined with synergistic agents.
One of the most striking features of exposure to low doses of mercury in mice is the high-titer haplotype-linked anti-nucleolar (ANoA) autoantibody response. Mice of H-2(s) haplotype have been high responders, while H-2(b) mice have been low. This pattern has been attributed to the class II molecule itself, but the poor response of F1 crosses between high and low responders raised the possibility that the anti-fibrillarin specificity was actually due to a closely linked dominant negative gene. To test the role of class II explicitly, F1 crosses between congenic B6.SJL (H-2(s)) and C57BL/6 (H-2(b)) mice with a targeted deletion of I-AbAbeta were generated, creating mice heterozygous for all MHC loci, but expressing only I-As. In comparison with B6.SJL, no diminution of ANoA titers was found, proving that I-As itself was responsible for susceptibility and I-Ab for downregulation. Unlike I-A, expression of the I-E class II molecule could not downregulate the response in an otherwise susceptible mouse. These results suggest a complicated role for class II in the regulation of a novel, environmentally induced autoimmune response.
Carvedilol is one of the most effective beta blockers for preventing ventricular tachyarrhythmias in heart failure, but the mechanisms underlying its favorable antiarrhythmic benefits remain unclear. Spontaneous Ca(2+) waves, also called store overload-induced Ca(2+) release (SOICR), evoke ventricular tachyarrhythmias in individuals with heart failure. Here we show that carvedilol is the only beta blocker tested that effectively suppresses SOICR by directly reducing the open duration of the cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2). This unique anti-SOICR activity of carvedilol, combined with its beta-blocking activity, probably contributes to its favorable antiarrhythmic effect. To enable optimal titration of carvedilol's actions as a beta blocker and as a suppressor of SOICR separately, we developed a new SOICR-inhibiting, minimally beta-blocking carvedilol analog, VK-II-86. VK-II-86 prevented stress-induced ventricular tachyarrhythmias in RyR2-mutant mice and did so more effectively when combined with either of the selective beta blockers metoprolol or bisoprolol. Combining SOICR inhibition with optimal beta blockade has the potential to provide antiarrhythmic therapy that can be tailored to individual patients.
Our aim was to investigate the possible involvement of spinal voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs) in vincristine-induced hyperalgesia and also to characterize this hyperalgesic state in the spinal cord. Mice receiving vincristine displayed significantly lower mechanical nociceptive thresholds than controls. Intrathecal omega-conotoxin GVIA (an N-type blocker) produced dose-dependent inhibition of the mechanical nociception, its antinociceptive effect being greater in vincristine-treated mice than in controls. The antinociception of omega-agatoxin IVA (a P/Q-type blocker) and calciseptine (an L-type blocker) were both slightly, but not significantly greater in vincristine-treated mice. An N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor antagonist but not a tachykinin-NK1-receptor antagonist produced greater antinociception in vincristine-treated mice. These results suggest that vincristine-induced hyperalgesia involves a sensitization of the spinal processing of mechanical sensory information via a mechanism involving N-type but not P/Q- or L-type VDCCs. A spinal glutamatergic pathway also appears to be involved in this hyperalgesia.
Dydrogesterone, similar to women's natural progesterone, has been used in a wide range of gynecological conditions. Despite its widespread use, dydrogesterone-induced hepatotoxicity and dydrogesterone-induced hemolytic anemia have, to the best of our knowledge, never been reported previously. We describe a case of hepatitis and warm antibody hemolytic anemia due to dydrogesterone.
The cadherin family consists of several homophilic adhesion molecules that, together with their intracellular binding partners the catenins, are known to mediate axonal navigation, target recognition, and synapse formation during development. Here, we have examined the potential role of these molecules in axonal sprouting induced in the adult brain. Over a period of 3 to 60 days, an episode of pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) led to sprouting of hippocampal mossy fibers both into the CA3 pyramidal cell layer and the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (DG). We found focal up-regulation of N-cadherin, beta-catenin, and alpha-catenin immunoreactivity within segments of the CA3 pyramidal cell layer with pronounced neuron loss that was associated with the development of mossy fiber sprouting. In contrast, expression of these 3 molecules was unaltered in the DG molecular layer despite mossy fiber sprouting in this area. The levels of E-cadherin immunoreactivity were altered prior to the detection of mossy fiber sprouting, with a general reduction in the neuropil and increased expression in CA1/CA3 pyramidal cell somata. Our results imply that members of the cadherin/catenin families undergo specific spatiotemporal patterns of regulation, which may be important in axon target recognition and synapse formation during lesion-induced sprouting.
Smoking marijuana causes working and short-term memory deficits, an effect that is mediated by cannabinoid receptor (CB1) activation in the brain. While this may be due to the main psychoactive constituent Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta9-THC), plant extracts also contain other cannabinoid and terpenoid compounds with unknown properties. Towards this end, we have recently shown that high concentrations of plant extracts rich in cannabidiol (CBD) can reverse working memory deficits induced by Delta9-THC which is a remaining contaminant of this extract [Fadda P, Robinson L, Fratta W, Pertwee RG, Riedel G. Differential effects of THC- and CBD-rich cannabis-extracts on working memory in rats. Neuropahrmacology 2004;47:1170-9]. Since this effect was dose-dependent and indicative of memory enhancing qualities of the CBD-rich extract, this prompted a wider investigation into the effects of CBD on other forms of amnesia in order to determine the mechanism of action and to reveal its potency against anticholinergic and antiglutamatergic agents. We employed a spatial delayed matching to position task in the open-field water maze. Both scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) and dizocilpine (MK801: 0.1mg/kg i.p.) impaired working memory at delays of 30 s and 4 h. Two doses of CBD-rich extracts (5 and 10 mg/kg), which did not affect working memory when given alone, were unable to reverse these deficits when co-administered with scopolamine or MK801. These data suggest that reversal of working memory deficits by CBD-rich extracts are specific to the cannabinoid system and do not compensate for acutely induced cholinergic or glutamatergic receptor hypoactivity.
Cyclophosphamide (CY) and its derivative ifosfamide are alkylating agents used to treat osteosarcoma (OS). The purpose of these studies was to determine whether alkylating agents affect the expression of Fas ligand (FasL) and whether interleukin 12 enhances the sensitivity of human OS cells to alkylating agents. 4-Hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC), the preactivated CY compound, and 4-hydroperoxydidechlorocloclophosphamide (4-HDC), its nonalkylating analogue, human OS LM6 cells, and a clone of cells derived by transfection with the interleukin 12 gene (LM6-#6) were used for these studies. Incubation of LM6 and LM6-#6 with 10 micro M 4-HC increased the expression of FasL mRNA (2.5- and 3.0-fold, respectively). By contrast, 4-HDC, Adriamycin (ADR), cisplatin (CDP), and methotrexate (MTX) had no effect on FasL mRNA expression. Increased FasL expression after treatment with 4-HC was also demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. Drug-induced FasL was functional and mediated cell death. We examined the effect of FasL up-regulation by 4-HC on LM6 and LM6-#6 cells. Flow cytometry showed that LM6-#6 cells expressed 2.2-fold more Fas than LM6 cells. Cytotoxicity of 4-HC, 4-HDC, ADR, CDP, and MTX on LM6, LM6-neo, and LM6-#6 were quantified. Colony-forming assay revealed an IC(50) of 2.10 micro M for 4-HC in LM6-neo cells compared with 0.41 micro M in LM6-#6 cells. The IC(50) for 4-HDC, ADR, CDP, and MTX were not significantly different between the two cell lines. We concluded that the increased expression of Fas enhanced LM6-#6 sensitivity to 4-HC. These data indicate that Fas/FasL may be involved in the cytotoxic pathway of CY. Combining biological agents with chemotherapeutic agents that have complementary Fas/FasL pathway actions may offer new therapeutic alternatives.
Prion diseases are caused by the misfolding and aggregation of the prion protein (PrP). Herein we provide evidence that the CuII adduct of the unstructured amyloidogenic fragment of the human PrP (PrP(91-126)) is redox active under physiological conditions. We have identified that the relevant high-affinity CuII binding region of PrP(91-126) is contained between residues 106 and 114. Both [CuII(PrP(91-126))] and [CuII(PrP(106-114))] have CuII Kd values of approximately 90 microM. Furthermore, the smaller PrP fragment PrP(106-114) coordinates CuII producing an electronic absorption spectrum nearly identical with [CuII(PrP(91-126))] (lambda max approximately 610 nm (epsilon approximately 125 M-1 cm-1)) suggesting a similar coordination environment for CuII. Cu K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) reveals a nearly identical CuN(N/O)2S coordination environment for these two metallopeptides (2N/O at approximately 1.97 A; 1S at approximately 2.30 A; 1 imidazole N at approximately 1.95 A). Both display quasireversible CuII/CuI redox couples at approximately -350 mV vs Ag/AgCl. ESI-MS indicates that both peptides will coordinate CuI. However, XAS indicates differential coordination environments between [CuI(PrP(91-126))] and [CuI(PrP(106-114))]. These data indicate that [CuI(PrP(91-126))] contains Cu in a four coordinate (N/O)2S2 environment with similar (N/O)-Cu bond distances (Cu-(N/O) r = 2.048(4) A), while [CuI(PrP(106-114))] contains Cu in a four coordinate (N/O)2S2 environment with differential (N/O)-Cu bond distances (Cu-(N/O) r1 = 2.057(6) A; r2 = 2.159(3) A). Despite the differential coordination environments both Cu-metallopeptides will catalytically reduce O2 to O2*- at comparable rates.
Current therapies for acute heart failure syndromes (AHFS) target hemodynamics by decreasing congestion or increasing myocardial contraction. Several new agents for AHFS use novel mechanisms of action that focus on new treatment targets, such as those providing anti-ischemic and anti-stunning effects, blocking vasopressin receptors, or blocking endothelin-1 receptors. For example, levosimendan acts as a calcium sensitizer and adenosine triphosphate-dependent potassium (K(ATP)) channel opener that increases contraction, causes vasodilation, and provides cardioprotective effects. This is accomplished by its dual mechanism of action. Levosimendan binds to cardiac troponin C, thereby enhancing calcium myofilament responsiveness and increasing myocardial contraction without increasing intracellular calcium levels. Thus, contraction is increased with no significant increase in myocardial oxygen consumption. The opening of K(ATP) channels by levosimendan causes vasodilation and exerts anti-ischemic and anti-stunning effects on the myocardium. Other new agents target neurohormonal pathways. Tezosentan is an antagonist of endothelin-1 receptors A and B. By inhibiting endothelin-1 receptors, tezosentan may counteract the activities of endothelin-1, which include vasoconstriction, proarrhythmic activities, potentiation of other neurohormones, and mediation of increased vascular permeability. Tolvaptan is a vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist that functions as an aquaretic (ie, it increases urine volume and serum sodium with little or no sodium loss). Therefore, by using novel mechanisms of action, these agents may provide new opportunities for helping patients with AHFS.
The memory for location of objects, which binds information about objects to discrete positions or spatial contexts of occurrence, is a form of episodic memory particularly sensitive to hippocampal damage. Its early decline is symptomatic for elderly dementia. Substances that selectively reduce alpha5-GABA(A) receptor function are currently developed as potential cognition enhancers for Alzheimer's syndrome and other dementia, consistent with genetic studies implicating these receptors that are highly expressed in hippocampus in learning performance. Here we explored the consequences of reduced GABA(A)alpha5-subunit contents, as occurring in alpha5(H105R) knock-in mice, on the memory for location of objects. This required the behavioral characterization of alpha5(H105R) and wild-type animals in various tasks examining learning and memory retrieval strategies for objects, locations, contexts and their combinations. In mutants, decreased amounts of alpha5-subunits and retained long-term potentiation in hippocampus were confirmed. They exhibited hyperactivity with conserved circadian rhythm in familiar actimeters, and normal exploration and emotional reactivity in novel places, allocentric spatial guidance, and motor pattern learning acquisition, inhibition and flexibility in T- and eight-arm mazes. Processing of object, position and context memories and object-guided response learning were spared. Genotype difference in object-in-place memory retrieval and in encoding and response learning strategies for object-location combinations manifested as a bias favoring object-based recognition and guidance strategies over spatial processing of objects in the mutants. These findings identify in alpha5(H105R) mice a behavioral-cognitive phenotype affecting basal locomotion and the memory for location of objects indicative of hippocampal dysfunction resulting from moderately decreased alpha5-subunit contents.
(S)-3-methyl-5-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)isoxazole (ABT 418), an isoxazole analog of (-)-nicotine, is a potent agonist at the alpha-4/beta-2 subtype of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) that exists in mammalian brain (Arneric et al., 1994). Compared to (-)-nicotine, ABT 418 has reduced potency to interact with the subunit isoforms of nAChR found in sympathetic ganglia, and it does not compete for alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites in brain or at the neuromuscular junction. ABT 418 [minimum effective dose (MED), 0.062 mumol/kg i.p.) was 10-fold more potent in improving retention of avoidance learning in normal mice than (-)-nicotine, whereas the (R)-enantiomer of ABT 418, A-81754, was inactive. The memory-enhancing effect of ABT 418 was prevented by the nAChR channel blocker, mecamylamine. In the elevated plus-maze model of anxiety, ABT 418 (MED, 0.19 mumol/kg i.p.) increased open-arm exploration in mice, as previously shown for (-)-nicotine (MED, 0.62 mumol/kg i.p.). A-81754, did not have anxiolytic-like effects in this test. Unlike the classical anxiolytic, diazepam, ABT 418 did not impair rotorod performance in the dose range where beneficial effects occurred. In rats, ABT 418 (MED, 0.002 mumol/kg i.v.) was remarkably potent in enhancing basal forebrain-elicited increases in cortical cerebral blood flow, whereas resting cerebral blood flow was unaffected. Free running cortical electroencephalography in rats was unaffected by ABT 418 at a dose of 1.9 mumol/kg i.p., whereas the same dose of (-)-nicotine caused cortical activation (decreased power in the 1-13 Hz range and increased power in the 25-50 Hz range). Whereas ABT 418 was approximately 3- to 10-fold more potent than (-)-nicotine in memory enhancement and anxiolytic test paradigms, the compound had less emetic liability in dogs as compared to (-)-nicotine, and was less potent than (-)-nicotine in eliciting hypothermia, seizures, death and reduction of locomotor activity in mice. The measured pharmacokinetic or brain disposition properties of ABT 418 in rats did not account for the observed enhancement in efficacy with reduced toxicity as compared to (-)-nicotine. The potent cognitive-enhancing and anxiolytic properties obtained for ABT 418 in animal models without eliciting significant side effects suggest that this ligand is a selective activator of cholinergic channel-mediated behaviors. Thus, ABT 418 may represent a novel, safe and effective treatment of the cognitive and emotional dysfunctions associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Twenty-seven patients with myasthenia gravis have been treated with azathioprine in conjunction with pyridostigmine and prednisolone for a total of 138 patient years. Side effects necessitated discontinuation of treatment in only four patients. Treatment with azathioprine was associated with marked clinical improvement in all the remaining 23 patients, resulting in reduction in the dose of pyridostigmine and prednisolone. The number of hospital admissions as well as the number of episodes of respiratory failure were markedly reduced.
