Exercise-induced asthma (EIA) is a common problem that can be controlled with long-acting beta-agonists and leukotriene-modifying compounds. There is, however, limited information on the comparative effectiveness of the two classes of drugs, as well as the relative potencies of the antileukotriene agents.
The purpose of the present study was to provide data on the above issues.
We performed a random-order, blinded, double-dummy, placebo-controlled trial in 10 patients with EIA. Each subject received standard single doses of salmeterol, montelukast, zafirlukast, zileuton, and placebo on separate days. The participants performed 4 minutes of cycle ergometry while breathing frigid air 1, 4, 8, and 12 hours after administration of the test agents. The primary endpoint was the extent of the decrement in the FEV(1) 10 minutes after exertion.
With placebo, symptomatic airway narrowing developed at all times (mean +/- SE decrease in FEV(1) ranged between 21% +/- 5% and 26% +/- 5%). Salmeterol acted quickly and significantly blunted the obstructive response for 12 hours (DeltaFEV(1) first hour: 8% +/- 3%; DeltaFEV(1) twelfth hour: 8% +/- 3%; P <.0001 vs placebo and P =.72 vs time). The leukotriene-modifying agents produced effects within 1 hour of ingestion. Like salmeterol, montelukast and zafirlukast also offered long-lasting protection, and there were no significant differences between them (montelukast DeltaFEV(1) twelfth hour: 9% +/- 4%; zafirlukast DeltaFEV(1) twelfth hour: 11% +/- 2%; P =.75) or the beta(2)-agonist (montelukast vs salmeterol: P =.72; zafirlukast vs salmeterol: P =.48). Zileuton provided equivalent prophylaxis for the first 4 hours (DeltaFEV(1) fourth hour: 11% +/- 2%); however, by 8 hours, it was less efficacious than all of the other active compounds, and by 12 hours it did not differ from placebo (DeltaFEV(1) twelfth hour: 19% +/- 4%; P =.33).
Single doses of the currently available leukotriene receptor antagonists provide prompt effective and persistent defense against EIA that equals that seen with a long-acting beta(2)-agonist. The synthesis inhibitor zileuton affords a comparable magnitude of prophylaxis but has a considerably shorter duration of action.
Cardiomyopathy is a major dose-limiting factor for applications of Adriamycin, a potent chemotherapeutic agent. The present study tested the hypothesis that increased tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha signaling via its receptors protects against Adriamycin-induced cardiac injury. We used mice in which both TNF receptor I and II have been selectively inactivated (DKO) with wild-type mice as controls. Morphometric studies of cardiac tissue following Adriamycin treatment revealed greater ultrastructural damage in cardiomyocyte mitochondria from DKO mice. Biochemical studies of cardiac tissues showed cytochrome c release and the increase in proapoptotic protein levels, suggesting that lack of TNF-alpha receptor I and II exacerbates Adriamycin-induced cardiac injury. The protective role of TNF receptor I and II was directly confirmed in isolated primary cardiomyocytes. Interestingly, following Adriamycin treatment, the levels of Fas decreased in the wild-type mice. In contrast, DKO mice had an increase in Fas levels and its downstream target, mitochondrial truncated Bid. These results suggested that TNF-alpha receptors play a critical role in cardioprotection by suppression of the mitochondrial-mediated associated cell death pathway.
Thirty-three patients with acute or subacute eczematous dermatitis were treated for two weeks in a double-blind, parallel-group study to compare the efficacy and cosmetic acceptability of 0.1 percent amcinonide cream and 0.1 percent halcinonide cream. Patients in both treatment groups showed significant (p less than 0.05) improvement from baseline for most signs and symptoms at the three evaluation times (days 3, 7, and 14). Comparisons between groups showed no significant differences at any evaluation except at day 14, when the amicinonide-treated patients had significantly (p = 0.04) less edema. The physician's evaluations were not significantly different except at day 7, when the halcinonide patients showed significantly (p = 0.04) more overall improvement. The patients' overall evaluations were not significantly different at any time. In general, both creams were cosmetically acceptable. At day 3, seven amcinonide patients noted skin tightening compared to one halcinonide patient; four halcinonide patients (as well as two at day 7 and one at day 14) reported stinging compared to only one amcinonide patient. In addition, two halcinonide patients reported a burning sensation at one or more evaluations compared to no such reports from amcinonide patients. One other side effect, a metallic taste in the mouth, occurred in a halcinonide-treated patient.
Priapism is a "persistent erection not accompanied by sexual desire or stimulation, usually lasting more than six hours and typically involving only the corpora cavernosa." Here we report on a gay male patient from our HIV/AIDS mental health clinic who developed serious priapism on quetiapine and recreational amphetamine. Gay men are at high risk for amphetamine use, and as such, this potential association between priapism, quetiapine, and amphetamine use should be considered in making prescription decisions with these patients.
Case report and literature review of cervical flexion myelopathies.
To increase awareness that prolonged extreme neck flexion, in association with profound muscular relaxation, can produce a severe cervical myelopathy.
Similar case reports of cervical myelopathies have been documented in the neurosurgical literature after intraoperative prolonged neck flexion, and after forcible prolonged neck flexion during a robbery. To the authors' best knowledge, this is the first report of a cervical flexion myelopathy after a medication overdose, and the only clinical-pathologic correlation.
Retrospective case report with clinical, radiographic, and postmortem data available for analysis.
A transverse myelopathy at the sixth cervical level developed in a 25-year-old woman after an overdose of valproic acid in a suicide attempt. She was found in the sitting position, with her neck in extreme flexion, where she had been for an estimated 18 hours. Magnetic resonance imaging showed that her cervical cord was enlarged, maximally at C6, with prominent paraspinal soft tissue swelling. The patient died of pulmonary embolism and pneumonia. Pathologic findings included transverse spinal cord necrosis at C6; central gray matter necrosis extended to several segments below this.
Prolonged extreme neck flexion, in association with profound muscular relaxation, can produce a severe myelopathy that is at least partly related to compromise of the spinal cord's microcirculation.
To study the effects of long term use of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) nasal spray on bone density with perennial allergic rhinitis (AR) in adults.
A 5-year randomized study was conducted on the effects of BDP nasal spray on serum calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase, and bone density determined before and after the treatment in 36 adult patients with perennial AR. 20-45 years of age, were randomly divided into 3 groups. That is group A (nasal spray 1 - <3 year), group B (nasal spray BDP 3 - <5 year) and group C (nasal spray BDP > or =5 year). The data were analyzed by paired t test.
The perennial AR were followed up for more than > or =1 year, > or =3 year and > or =5 year to observe the influences of nasal spray BDP. There were no significant difference between the data examined before and after the treatment (P > 0.05). Bone development is not influenced by nasal spray BDP < or =400 microg/d within 5 years.
Long term use of BDP nasal spray in adult patients does not lead to osteoporosis if the lowest effective steroid dose is given.
The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the in vivo beta-adrenoceptor antagonistic properties of urapidil, a new antihypertensive alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocking agent. In dogs anesthetized with pentobarbital, the cardioaccelerator nerve was isolated, decentralized and stimulated electrically to elicit adrenergically mediated increases in heart rate. Dobutamine was administered (3-30 micrograms/kg i.v.) to elicit increases in heart rate by the direct stimulation of beta-adrenoceptors. Urapidil 2 mg/kg i.v. had no significant effect on cardioaccelerator nerve-induced tachycardia, but 5 mg/kg i.v. decreased the response by 27%. Heart rate responses to dobutamine were suppressed slightly by the low dose of urapidil and to a greater degree by the high dose of urapidil, whereas the pressor response to dobutamine was markedly attenuated at both dose levels. Neurally or dobutamine-elicited tachycardia remaining after urapidil treatment was eliminated by propranolol (1 mg/kg i.v.). When the selective alpha 2-antagonist rauwolscine was administered (1000 micrograms/kg i.v.), tachycardic responses to nerve stimulation increased 49% above control, and urapidil (5 mg/kg) given subsequently, caused a 48% reduction in the response. These data indicate that urapidil has weak beta 1-blocking activity more clearly seen after blockade of alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
Two genetic forms of hereditary angioedema (HAE) are currently recognized. Both are transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner and are characterized by recurrent episodes of localized angioedema. Involvement of the gut leads to episodes of severe abdominal pain, and laryngeal involvement can lead to airway obstruction and even death. One type results from heterozygosity for a nonexpressed C1 inhibitor allele, and the other results from heterozygosity for a nonfunctional C1 inhibitor allele.
This report identifies a third type of HAE, with a unique estrogen-dependent phenotype.
Detailed medical histories were obtained from family members, and a pedigree was constructed to ascertain the mode of inheritance. Determination of serum complement factors, C1 inhibitor protein, C1 inhibitor function, coagulation factor XII, plasma prekallikrein, high molecular weight kininogen, and selected DNA sequences were performed in affected members by using standard assays.
Episodes of angioedema were clinically indistinguishable from those associated with previously described forms of HAE; however, these occurred only during pregnancy or the use of exogenous estrogens. Patients were otherwise asymptomatic, except for one patient who had acetyl salicylic acid/nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug-related angioedema later in life. History was available for members spanning 4 generations, and affected individuals were identified in 3 generations. Of 46 family members, phenotype could be determined in 13 members. Seven were affected, and 6 were not. One male of undetermined phenotype was an obligate carrier. The unique estrogen-dependent nature of the phenotype means that the status of several members in the third and fourth generation remains unknown. The disorder appears to be transmitted in an autosomal dominant fashion, although other modes of inheritance cannot be excluded entirely. C1 inhibitor protein, C1 inhibitor function, C2, C4, C1q, coagulation factor XII, prekallikrein, and high molecular kininogen were normal in 3 affected family members during asymptomatic periods. DNA sequencing revealed no abnormality in 3 patients in the coding region of the gene encoding C1 inhibitor or in the 5' flanking regions of the genes encoding C1 inhibitor and factor XII.
This family appears to have a novel form of inherited angioedema that does not result from C1 inhibitor deficiency or dysfunction. The phenotype is uniquely estrogen dependent. Implications for diagnosis and treatment are discussed. Further studies are required to define the exact nature of the genetic abnormality involved.
Cocaine is one of the most common substances of abuse. When used intranasally, cocaine is cut with a variety of agents, which may increase local and systemic toxic reactions.
We examined a 34-year-old man who complained of color disturbance. The patient reported a 10-year history of daily intranasal cocaine use, but denied use during the last year. Color vision testing showed a dysregulation of blue -yellow color vision. Electroretinogram revealed significantly reduced blue cone responses. Dilated fundus examination of both eyes revealed a bilateral maculopathy. Fluorescein angiography disclosed an early hyperfluorescence in both foveal areas which maintained in late phase. Optical coherence tomography was normal in both eyes. The patient was diagnosed with an unusual maculopathy related to a long-term intranasal cocaine use.
All 6 eyes exhibited pigmentary changes located along the border of the staphyloma, and also radially to it, giving a particular T-shaped pattern of pigmentary changes. These changes were visible as either a linear strip or a triangular or oval-shaped area. Three eyes had a documented history of subretinal leakage that mimicked central serous chorioretinopathy, a well-known complication of tilted disk syndrome.
Ocular complications from topical cocaine abuse are rare. Impaired color vision, as in our patient, has been reported in cocaine-withdrawn patients. To our knowledge, this is the first described case of a bilateral and symmetric maculopathy associated with long-term intranasal cocaine use. To avoid a delay of treatment, ophthalmologists should be aware that a maculopathy with small defects in color vision may be related to adulterants added to cocaine when it is used intranasally.
To expand our knowledge on the transplacental carcinogenic potential of inorganic arsenic, pregnant Tg.AC mice received drinking water with 0, 42.5, or 85 ppm arsenite from gestation day 8 to 18. After birth, groups (n = 25) of offspring received topical 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) (2 microg twice a week) for 36 weeks and were killed; nonskin tumors were assessed. Arsenic increased adrenal cortical adenomas (ACAs; 25%-29%) compared with control (0%) independent of TPA in all male groups. Arsenic increased urinary bladder (UB) hyperplasia in males, but only with TPA. Arsenic induced ACAs in all female groups (control 0%; arsenic 17%-26%). Arsenic-treated females had UB hyperplasia in most groups (control 0%; arsenic 26%-32%), with 2 UB papillomas. All arsenic-treated females had uterine hyperplasia (26%-40%; control 4%) independent of TPA, and 3 had uterine tumors. Thus, arsenic in utero rapidly induces ACAs and uterine and UB preneoplasias in Tg.AC mice, showing transplacental carcinogenic potential in yet another strain of mice.
Many studies have shown that hexavalent chromium (Cr(6+)) compounds cause variety of toxicity, such as carcinogenic effects and pulmonary fibrosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of vitamins C and E on hexavalent chromium-induced lung fibrosis in animal model. Rats weighing 180-210 g were used during the study. The negative control group received a single dose of 0.2 ml intratracheal normal saline. Other groups were given single intratracheal instillation of 50 mg/kg sodium dichromate in saline vehicle and then treated with either vitamin C or E orally. Vit C group treated with 75 mg/kg/day vit C. Vit E group treated with 20 mg/kg/day vit E. Vit C+E group treated with 75 mg/kg/day vit C + 20 mg/kg/day vit E. Three weeks after such treatments animals were killed, lungs were removed for histology and biochemical investigation. Collagen and hydroxyproline content of lung tissue were determined using spectrophotometric methods. Hexavalent chromium caused marked alveolar thickening associated with fibroblasts and myofibroblasts proliferation and collagen production in interstitial tissue leading to pulmonary fibrosis. Administration of vitamins C and E reduced the fibrotic damage in lung tissue. The combination of vit E and C had more pronounced effect. From this study it can be concluded that co-administration of vit C & E may significantly diminish the toxic effects of hexavalent chromium on lung.
Genetically modified mice have been extensively used for analyzing the molecular events that occur during tumor development. In many, if not all, cases, however, it is uncertain to what extent the mouse models reproduce features observed in the corresponding human conditions. This is due largely to lack of precise methods for direct and comprehensive comparison at the molecular level of the mouse and human tumors. Here we use global gene expression patterns of 68 hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) from seven different mouse models and 91 human HCCs from predefined subclasses to obtain direct comparison of the molecular features of mouse and human HCCs. Gene expression patterns in HCCs from Myc, E2f1 and Myc E2f1 transgenic mice were most similar to those of the better survival group of human HCCs, whereas the expression patterns in HCCs from Myc Tgfa transgenic mice and in diethylnitrosamine-induced mouse HCCs were most similar to those of the poorer survival group of human HCCs. Gene expression patterns in HCCs from Acox1(-/-) mice and in ciprofibrate-induced HCCs were least similar to those observed in human HCCs. We conclude that our approach can effectively identify appropriate mouse models to study human cancers.
Hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HOKPP) is a rare disorder characterized by episodic muscle weakness with hypokalemia. Mutations in the CACNA1S gene, which encodes the alpha 1-subunit of the skeletal muscle L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel, have been reported to be mainly responsible for HOKPP. The paralytic attacks generally spare the respiratory muscles and the heart. Here, we report the case of a 16-year-old boy who presented with frequent respiratory insufficiency during the severe attacks. Mutational analysis revealed a heterozygous c.1582C>G substitution in the CACNA1S gene, leading to an Arg528Gly mutation in the protein sequence. The parents were clinically unaffected and did not show a mutation in the CACNA1S gene. A de novo Arg528Gly mutation has not previously been reported. The patient described here presents the unique clinical characteristics, including a severe respiratory phenotype and a reduced susceptibility to cold exposure. The patient did not respond to acetazolamide and showed a marked improvement of the paralytic symptoms on treatment with a combination of spironolactone, amiloride, and potassium supplements.
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a lymphoma arising within the brain or spinal cord in the absence of evident localisation outside the central nervous system (CNS). Poor results in the management of relapsed PCNSL justify the need for vigorous initial therapeutic regimens, and chemotherapy should not be reserved for recurrent disease. Chemotherapy (MBACOD scheme) was delivered prior to irradiation in a group of 20 PCNSL patients, another 8 PCNSL patients underwent radiotherapy only, and the overall survival was evaluated. Computed tomography (CT) images in the group of patients treated with chemotherapy, showed there to be 70% complete responders (CR), 15% non-responders (NR) and 15% partial responders (PR). Half of the CR were scheduled for radiotherapy only at tumour recurrence. The median disease-free period and survival time of the whole group treated with early chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy were 24 and 32 months, respectively, but in the subgroup of CR (70%), taking into account also the patients not yet receiving radiotherapy, these were 38 and 48 months, respectively. The disease-free and survival times in the group of CR (75%) of patients treated with radiotherapy only were 13 and 18 months, respectively. At tumour recurrence, CR to chemotherapy had a second disease-free period longer than 2 years after radiotherapy. Our data support the belief that in scheduling the treatment of PCNSL after histological diagnosis, the first step is to devise high-dose chemotherapy with drugs able to cross an intact blood-brain barrier. The results of our primary approach with early chemotherapy in PCNSL support a consensus to continue chemotherapy until tumour recurrence, and only at that event to initiate radiotherapy. It is a challenge and an option worthy of continuing investigation.
Cyclosporine A is a well-known immunosuppressant drug that is currently used for prevention of allograft rejection. The current study was conducted to explore the therapeutic potential of cyclosporine A against 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP)-induced neurotoxicity, an animal model of Huntington disease (HD). Systemic administration of 3-NP (10 mg/kg) for 14 days significantly impaired body weight, motor activity, biochemical parameters (raised lipid peroxidation, nitrite concentration, depletion of superoxide dismutase [SOD] and catalase), and mitochondrial enzymes. Cyclosporine A (2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg) treatment significantly attenuated behavioral, biochemical, and cellular alterations. Furthermore, L-arginine pretreatment with cyclosporine A (5 mg/kg) significantly reversed the protective effect of cyclosporine A. However, L-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 10 mg/kg) pretreatment potentiated the protective effect of cyclosporine A (5 mg/kg). Study highlights the therapeutic potential of cyclosporine A in the treatment of HP. Study suggests that nitric oxide (NO) modulation is involved in the neuroprotective effect of cyclosporine A against 3-NP neurotoxicity.
Hydroxyurea and higher hemoglobin F improve the clinical course and survival in sickle cell disease, but their roles in protecting from pulmonary hypertension are not clear. We studied 399 children and adolescents with sickle cell disease at steady state; 38% were being treated with hydroxyurea. Patients on hydroxyurea had higher hemoglobin concentration and lower values for a hemolytic component derived from 4 markers of hemolysis (P < or = .002) but no difference in tricuspid regurgitation velocity compared with those not receiving hydroxyurea; they also had higher hemoglobin F (P < .001) and erythropoietin (P = .012) levels. Hemoglobin F correlated positively with erythropoietin even after adjustment for hemoglobin concentration (P < .001). Greater hemoglobin F and erythropoietin each independently predicted higher regurgitation velocity in addition to the hemolytic component (P < or = .023). In conclusion, increase in hemoglobin F in sickle cell disease may be associated with relatively lower tissue oxygen delivery as reflected in higher erythropoietin concentration. Greater levels of erythropoietin or hemoglobin F were independently associated with higher tricuspid regurgitation velocity after adjustment for degree of hemolysis, suggesting an independent relationship of hypoxia with higher systolic pulmonary artery pressure. The hemolysis-lowering and hemoglobin F-augmenting effects of hydroxyurea may exert countervailing influences on pulmonary blood pressure in sickle cell disease.
The "absolute safety" of bromocriptine as a drug of choice in suppression of lactation is questioned. Two cases of cerebrovascular events after the use of bromocriptine for lactation suppression are presented, and the available, pertinent literature is reviewed.
Manganese is known to impede the male reproductive function, however, the mechanisms through which the adverse effects are mediated are not clearly elucidated. In order to get insight into those mechanisms, the effects of manganese on the biosynthesis of testosterone by primary rat Leydig cells were examined. Primary Leydig cells were exposed to various concentrations of manganese chloride for different periods of time. Dose and time-dependent reductions of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)-stimulated testosterone level were observed in the culture medium. The expression of Steroidogenic Acute Regulatory (StAR) protein and the activities of P450 side-chain cleavage (P450scc) and 3beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) enzymes were also detected. The expression of StAR protein stimulated by hCG was suppressed by manganese chloride at all concentrations (0.01, 0.1, 1.0 mM) and time points (2, 4, 24, 48 h) tested. Progesterone productions treated with 22R-hydroxycholesterol or pregnenolone were reduced after treated by manganese chloride for 24 or 48 h, respectively. The manganese exposure effect on cell viability was significant at 1.0 and 1.5 mM at 24 h, while at 48 h it was significant at every concentration tested. The decreasing effect of manganese on mitochondrial membrane potential was significant at every concentration measured and every time point tested. These data suggest that manganese exposure for 2 and 4 h inhibited rat primary Leydig cell steroidogenesis by decreasing StAR protein expression while 24 and 48 h exposure of manganese chloride caused adverse effects on both StAR protein and P450scc and 3beta-HSD enzyme activity to reduce steroidogenesis. Manganese may also disrupt StAR expression and/or function secondary to mitochondrial dysfunction.
Histologic tumor regression (TR) in rectal cancer after preoperative chemoradiotherapy (CT/RT) may be useful as a surrogate end point for early treatment efficacy, but little is known about its prognostic value. The aim of this follow-up study was to evaluate whether TR is able to predict prognosis in rectal cancer patients. Furthermore, the prognostic value of thymidylate synthase (TS)-gene, thymidine phosphorylase (TP)-gene, and dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD)-gene expression after neoadjuvant CT/RT was determined. Forty patients with rectal cancer cUICC stage II/III, receiving preoperative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) based CT/RT were studied for therapy-induced TR and categorized as "responders" or "nonresponders" according to their TR-grade. Posttherapeutical TS-gene, TP-gene, and DPD-gene expression on surgical resection specimens was quantified by TaqMan real-time PCR after microdissection. During a median follow-up of 58 months, cancer recurrence occurred in 28%. A significant correlation was seen between disease-free survival and lymph node status (P<0.001). All patients, who developed cancer recurrence had a posttherapeutical positive lymph node status. The majority of patients with cancer recurrence were "responders" (91%) after CT/RT. There was a significant correlation between posttherapeutical TS-gene expression and cancer recurrence within the subgroup of "responders." TS-gene expression was significantly higher in patients with cancer recurrence than in those, who are disease-free up to date (P=0.028). In conclusion, lymph node status remains the most important prognostic marker in rectal cancer patients, whereas posttreatment TR by itself has no prognostic significance. Furthermore, measurement of posttherapeutical TS-gene expression may help to identify patients at higher risk for cancer recurrence.
ADL-8-2698 is a novel peripherally restricted opioid antagonist that may selectively prevent opioid-induced gastrointestinal effects without reversing analgesia. Gastrointestinal transit time (lactulose hydrogen breath test) was measured in 14 volunteers with oral and intravenous placebo, oral placebo and intravenous morphine (0.05 mg x kg(-1)), and oral ADL 8-2698 (4 mg) and intravenous morphine (0.05 mg x kg(-1)) in a double blind, cross-over study. Morphine prolonged gastrointestinal transit time from 69 to 103 minutes (P = .005); this was prevented by ADL 8-2698 (P = .004). Postoperatively, 45 patients were randomly assigned in a double-blind fashion to receive ADL 8-2698 (4 mg) or placebo and intravenous morphine (0.15 mg/kg) or to receive oral and intravenous placebo. Analgesia and pupil constriction were measured. Morphine analgesia and pupil constriction were unaffected by ADL 8-2698 and differed from placebo (P < .002). We conclude that ADL 8-2698 prevents morphine-induced increases in gastrointestinal transit time by means of selective peripheral opioid anitagonism without affecting central opioid analgesia.
Chronic and excessive alcohol intake is associated with an increased risk of a variety of cancers (e.g., oral cavity, larynx, esophagus, liver, lung, colorectal, and breast). Retinoids (vitamin A and its derivatives) are known to exert profound effects on cellular growth, cellular differentiation, and apoptosis, thereby controlling carcinogenesis. Lower hepatic vitamin A levels have been well documented in alcoholics. Substantial research has been done, investigating the mechanisms by which excessive alcohol interferes with retinoid metabolism. More specifically, (1) alcohol acts as a competitive inhibitor of vitamin A oxidation to retinoic acid involving alcohol dehydrogenases and acetaldehyde dehydrogenases; (2) alcohol-induced cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP), particularly CYP2E1, enhance catabolism of vitamin A and retinoic acid; and (3) alcohol alters retinoid homeostasis by increasing vitamin A mobilization from liver to extrahepatic tissues. As a consequence, long-term and excessive alcohol intake results in impaired status of retinoic acid, the most active derivative of vitamin A and a ligand for both retinoic acid receptors and retinoid X receptors. Moreover, this alcohol-impaired retinoic acid homeostasis interferes with (1) retinoic acid signaling (e.g., down-regulates retinoid target gene expression) and (2) retinoic acid "cross-talk" with the mitogen-activated protein kinase [(MAPK), including Jun N-terminal kinase, extracellular signal-regulated kinase, and p38 kinase] signaling pathway. In addition, restoration of retinoic acid homeostasis by retinoic acid supplementation restored the normal status of both retinoid and MAPK signaling, thereby maintaining normal cell proliferation and apoptosis in alcohol-fed animals. These observations would have implications for the prevention of alcohol-promoted liver (and peripheral tissue) carcinogenesis. However, a better understanding of the alcohol-retinoid interaction and the molecular mechanisms involved is needed before retinoids can be pursued in the prevention of alcohol-related carcinogenesis in human beings, particularly regarding the detrimental effects of polar metabolites of vitamin A.
Ticlopidine inhibits platelet aggregation and provides beneficial secondary prevention of cerebrovascular and coronary artery disease. Frequently reported adverse effects of ticlopidine include diarrhea, nausea, and rash. However, to our knowledge, there are only a few published reports of the simultaneous occurrence of cholestatic hepatitis and pure red cell aplasia. Here we report a patient with simultaneous severe cholestatic hepatitis and pure red cell aplasia associated with ticlopidine. Although these adverse effects are rare, periodic hematological and liver function tests are recommended after starting ticlopidine.
Two young patients with dilated cardiomyopathies associated with long-term use of cocaine are described. A 42-year-old male cocaine abuser with normal coronary arteries experienced recurrent myocardial infarction, with development of a dilated, globally hypocontractile left ventricle. The second patient, a 28-year-old woman with a prominent history of inhaling vaporized cocaine ("free-basing"), presented with symptoms and signs of biventricular heart failure and was found to have a dilated cardiomyopathy. The clinical spectrum of cocaine cardiotoxicity is reviewed, and pathophysiologic mechanisms of cocaine-induced cardiomyopathy are discussed. Long-term cocaine use may cause dilated cardiomyopathy and recurrent myocardial infarction, even in the absence of atherosclerotic epicardial coronary artery disease.
An autosomal recessive condition (thc/thc) in our closed colony of New Zealand White rabbits (Uaz:NZW-thc) results in nonfatal, behavioral convulsions following intravenous (i.v.) injections of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other psychoactive cannabinoids of marijuana. The ontogeny of the convulsive response was evaluated in potential THC-seizure-susceptible (SS) rabbits from postnatal Days (PN) 15-548. Ages of nonsusceptibility (PN 15-23), partial susceptibility (PN 24-38), and complete susceptibility (PN 39-548) were found. Also, open-field activity was determined in PN 14-25 THC-SS and THC-seizure-resistant (SR) rabbits. Administration of THC during the seizure-insensitive period resulted in genotype-dependent alternations in photocell activity and sprawling.
A patient receiving antihypertensive therapy developed acute intravascular hemolysis and died. Hemolysis was due to an immune process associated with antibody to thiazide. Only two other cases have been reported. Thiazide-induced hemolysis appears to be confined to those patients treated concommitantly with methyldopa.
We conducted a genome-wide association study of pancreatic cancer in 3,851 affected individuals (cases) and 3,934 unaffected controls drawn from 12 prospective cohort studies and 8 case-control studies. Based on a logistic regression model for genotype trend effect that was adjusted for study, age, sex, self-described ancestry and five principal components, we identified eight SNPs that map to three loci on chromosomes 13q22.1, 1q32.1 and 5p15.33. Two correlated SNPs, rs9543325 (P = 3.27 x 10(-11), per-allele odds ratio (OR) 1.26, 95% CI 1.18-1.35) and rs9564966 (P = 5.86 x 10(-8), per-allele OR 1.21, 95% CI 1.13-1.30), map to a nongenic region on chromosome 13q22.1. Five SNPs on 1q32.1 map to NR5A2, and the strongest signal was at rs3790844 (P = 2.45 x 10(-10), per-allele OR 0.77, 95% CI 0.71-0.84). A single SNP, rs401681 (P = 3.66 x 10(-7), per-allele OR 1.19, 95% CI 1.11-1.27), maps to the CLPTM1L-TERT locus on 5p15.33, which is associated with multiple cancers. Our study has identified common susceptibility loci for pancreatic cancer that warrant follow-up studies.
A 32-year-old man with mental retardation and uncontrolled complex partial epilepsy receiving carbamazepine (CBZ) and divalproex sodium (VPA), developed frequent episodes of forced upward gaze after increase in the daily VPA dosage. CBZ dosage was decreased, with prompt resolution of symptoms. The upward gaze problem recurred several months later. CBZ dosage was decreased further with subsequent resolution of symptoms. Therefore, the oculogyric crisis (OGC) appeared to be induced by CBZ.
The development of a large animal model of fulminant hepatic failure produced with acetaminophen that should be useful in the development and evaluation of potential medical therapies for the important clinical problem of fulminant hepatic failure is described. Acetaminophen in dimethyl sulfoxide (600 mg/ml) given as three subcutaneous injections, with the first dose (750 mg/kg body wt) being given at noon, the second dose (200 mg/kg body wt) being given 9 h later, and the third dose (200 mg/kg body wt) being given 24 h after the initial dose consistently produces fulminant hepatic failure in dogs. The dimethyl sulfoxide vehicle, injected intramuscularly, does not influence either animal survival or hepatic function in control-treated dogs. No deaths occur within the first 36 h. By 72 h after initial drug administration, the mortality is 90%. Histopathological and biochemical investigations demonstrate a high degree of hepatocellular necrosis in nonsurviving animals without appreciable damage to the kidneys, lungs, or heart. The drug schedule and preparation outlined avoids the administration of large volumes of vehicle and results in prolonged high levels of acetaminophen in the blood sufficient to induce severe hepatic injury. Ranitidine (120 mg/kg body wt i.m.) given 30 min before each acetaminophen dose significantly reduces the mortality and hepatic necrosis produced using this model. This model satisfies all criteria established by Miller et al. for the production of a suitable large animal model of fulminant acute hepatic failure.
