The angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril improves the altered hemodynamics in many patients with chronic heart failure, but the first dose may precipitate hypotension. Ten patients with chronic heart failure were studied, nine with high plasma concentrations of renin and one with a low concentration. Frequent measurements of plasma concentrations of angiotensin II, renin, and catecholamines were made over 60 minutes after a small dose (6.25 mg) of captopril and related to concurrently measured hemodynamic variables. Captopril caused a decrease in systemic and pulmonary artery pressure and an increase in cardiac index, and these changes coincided with reductions in the plasma concentrations of angiotensin II and increases in plasma concentrations of renin. The hemodynamic changes were accompanied by reductions in the plasma concentrations of norepinephrine but transient increases in plasma concentrations of epinephrine in patients in whom vasomotor syncope developed. The patient with a low plasma renin concentration showed little hemodynamic response to the drug. It is concluded that vasomotor syncope occurs quite frequently in patients with severe chronic heart failure after captopril in a small dose and is associated with a selective increase in epinephrine secretion from the adrenal medulla.
Intravenous phenytoin has come under increased scrutiny with the introduction of the prodrug, fosphenytoin. We evaluated adverse events and length-of-stay using parenteral the two drugs in routine emergency department use. Open-label randomization of phenytoin or fosphenytoin in 256 Emergency Department patients prescribed 279 parenteral doses of a phenytoin-equivalent. All phenytoin was administered intravenously, and fosphenytoin was given intravenously or intramuscularly (physician preference). Adverse events and Emergency Department length-of-stay were recorded; re-presentation to the Emergency Department within three months was reviewed for evidence of the purple glove syndrome. Nonparametric statistics were used to analyze the data. Seventy-seven patients received phenytoin and 202 fosphenytoin; 28 (10.0%) received intramuscular fosphenytoin. The mean phenytoin-equivalent dose was similar between the groups. Eighteen patients required reduction in infusion rates because of an adverse event (phenytoin = 6.5%, fosphenytoin = 6.4%; OR 0.9, 95% CI 0.4 2.6; p = 1.0). Adverse events occurred with similar frequency (phenytoin 9.1%, fosphenytoin 15.8%; OR 0.7, 95% CI 0.3 1.4; p = 0.3). The most common events were: pruritus, pain on infusion, and paresthesias. One patient developed hypotension (fosphenytoin); there were no other serious adverse events, including phlebitis. Median Emergency Department length-of-stay was 6.7 h for phenytoin and 5.7 h for fosphenytoin (p = 0.6). In routine Emergency Department use, our data do not support formulary conversion from phenytoin to fosphenytoin, based on the incidence of adverse events or Emergency Department length-of-stay.
We screened thirteen male breast cancers for the presence of germline mutations in exons 2 and 3 encoding the DNA-binding domain of the androgen receptor. These two exons were amplified from genomic DNA extracted from patients' white blood cells. In one of these thirteen patients, single strand conformation polymorphism and direct sequencing detected a guanine-adenine point mutation at nucleotide 2185 that changes Arg608 into Lys in a highly conserved region of the second zinc finger of the androgen receptor. This mutation occurred in a 38 year old man with partial androgen insensitivity syndrome and normal androgen-binding capacity in cultured genital skin fibroblasts. To our knowledge, only one germline Arg to Gln androgen receptor gene mutation has been previously reported at position 607 in male breast cancer. This androgen receptor mutation along with the Arg608 into Lys mutation we describe, suggests that this genetic abnormality is not fortuitous: a decrease in androgen action within the breast cells could account for the development of male breast cancer by the loss of a protective effect of androgens on these cells. Activation of estrogen regulated genes by the change of DNA-binding characteristics of the mutant androgen receptor cannot, however, be ruled out.
A total of 3,074 cases of cutaneous leishmaniasis was evaluated for demography, diagnosis, clinical characteristics and treatment. A peak in the number of cases was observed in 1991 and 1992, with a total of 1,550 cases. There were seasonal differences in frequency, the highest levels being recorded during the period October-December each year. The disease was more frequent in females (59%) and in the age group 10-19 years (41%). More than 80% of 4394 lesions were located on exposed body sites, and most patients (87%) had the acute form of the disease. Diagnosis was made by the smear method in 90% of cases. Treatment was by intralesional injection of antimony compounds in 76% of cases. Cryotherapy was used in most of the remaining cases, either alone or combined with intralesional injection of antimony compounds. The overall healing rate was over 90%.
To investigate the mechanisms underlying the depressed sarcolemmal (SL) Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity in congestive heart failure (CHF), different isoforms and gene expression of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase were examined in the failing left ventricle (LV) at 8 weeks after myocardial infarction (MI). In view of the increased activity of renin-angiotensin system (RAS) in CHF, these parameters were also studied after 5 weeks of treatment with enalapril (10 mg x kg-1 x day-1), an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, and losartan (20 mg.kg-1.day-1), an angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist, starting at 3 weeks after the coronary ligation in rats. The infarcted animals showed LV dysfunction and depressed SL Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity. Protein content and mRNA levels for Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha2 isoform were decreased whereas those for Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha3 isoform were increased in the failing LV. On the other hand, no significant changes were observed in protein content or mRNA levels for Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha1 and beta1 isoforms. The treatment of infarcted animals with enalapril or losartan improved LV function and attenuated the depression in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha2 isoform as well as the increase in alpha3 isoform, at both the protein and mRNA levels; however, combination therapy with enalapril and losartan did not produce any additive effects. These results provide further evidence that CHF due to MI is associated with remodeling of SL membrane and suggest that the blockade of RAS plays an important role in preventing these alterations in the failing heart.
A case study of a severe cholestatic syndrome induced by danazol, with ultrastructural description of liver morphology, is reported. Cholestasis appeared after 3 months treatment with danazol (300 mg/daily) and completely resolved 2 months after withdrawal. In spite of the severe increase in serum bilirubin and total serum bile salts, transaminases were only slightly elevated and GGT and alkaline phosphatases were almost normal. Light microscopy shows a pattern of predominantly centrolobular cholestasis without necrosis, with minimal inflammatory infiltrate and with no sign of bile ductule involvement. At the ultrastructural level very dilated bile canaliculus predominate with stunted or loss of microvilli and dense bile material in the lumen. Nonspecific alterations were seen in hepatocyte intracellular organelles. It is suggested that danazol may cause a rare but severe hepatocanalicular cholestasis, differing from the "bland" cholestasis frequently described during therapy with other anabolic steroids.
The triggers that induce antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-positive vasculitis (APV) are largely unknown. However, there have been reports suggesting that hydralazine, propylthiouracil, and several other drugs may cause some cases of APV, and the majority of these cases have been associated with antimyeloperoxidase (anti-MPO) ANCA. Our experience led us to hypothesize that cases of high titers of anti-MPO antibodies are often drug-associated.
In this study, we determined the prevalence of exposure to hydralazine, propylthiouracil, and other drugs previously implicated in APV among 30 patients with vasculitis and the highest titers of anti-MPO antibodies newly detected in our laboratory between 1994 and 1998. The clinical, histologic, and other serologic features of these 30 patients were also examined.
The 30 study patients accounted for 12% of the 250 new patients with APV and anti-MPO who were tested during the study period. All 30 study subjects had anti-MPO titers that were more than 12 times the median titer of the 250 patients. Ten (33%) of the 30 patients had been exposed to hydralazine and 3 (10%) had been exposed to propylthiouracil. An additional 5 patients (17%) had been exposed to 1 of the other previously reported candidate drugs: 2 to penicillamine, 2 to allopurinol, and 1 to sulfasalazine. One of the patients exposed to hydralazine had also been exposed to allopurinol. In all cases, the clinical and histologic findings were typical of APV. There was a strong association between the presence of antielastase and/ or antilactoferrin antibodies and exposure to candidate drugs.
These data suggest that a sizable proportion of cases of APV with high titers of anti-MPO antibodies are drug-associated, especially following exposure to hydralazine or propylthiouracil. We recommend that the use of these drugs should be sought in cases of anti-MPO-positive vasculitis, particularly among patients with high titers of these antibodies.
Three patients with Parkinson's disease had so-called sleep attacks at the wheel while taking bromocryptine, lisuride pergolide, or piribedil. We believe that all dopamine agonists can induce sleep attacks.
The effects of the non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist GYKI 52466 (2.4 and 4.8 mg/kg, i.p.) on spontaneous locomotor activity and haloperidol-induced catalepsy (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) were assessed in naive rats and in rats pretreated with the NMDA antagonist dizocilpine (0.08 mg/kg, i.p.). GYKI 52466 given alone did not alter locomotor activity and haloperidol-induced catalepsy, but significantly antagonized the dizocilpine-induced locomotor stimulation and counteracted the anti-cataleptic effects of dizocilpine on haloperidol-induced catalepsy. Thus blockade of non-NMDA glutamate receptors antagonized the behavioural stimulant effects of a NMDA receptor blockade.
Effective treatment of opioid dependence with methadone and of tobacco dependence with nicotine illustrates the potential usefulness of agonist medications for drug abuse treatment. The monoamine-releaser d-amphetamine is one drug under consideration as an agonist pharmacotherapy for cocaine dependence. To assess the concordance between preclinical evaluations and ongoing clinical trials, the present study examined the effects of chronic treatment with saline or d-amphetamine on cocaine- and food-maintained responding in rhesus monkeys. Cocaine injections and food pellets were available under a second-order schedule during alternating daily sessions of cocaine and food availability. d-Amphetamine (0.01-0.1 mg/kg per h i.v. for 7 consecutive days) dose-dependently decreased self-administration of a unit dose of cocaine (0.01 mg/kg per injection) at the peak of the cocaine self-administration dose-effect curve. d-Amphetamine (0.032-0.1 mg/kg per h for 7 days) also decreased self-administration of a broad range of cocaine doses (0.0032-0.1 mg/kg per injection) and produced rightward and downward shifts in the cocaine dose-effect curve. Food-maintained responding was usually decreased less than cocaine self-administration, and few signs of toxicity were noted. To evaluate the effects of a longer treatment regimen, d-amphetamine (0.1 mg/kg per h) was administered for 28 consecutive days. d-Amphetamine nearly eliminated self-administration of cocaine (0.01 mg/kg per injection) throughout this treatment, whereas food-maintained responding returned to baseline levels after approximately 9 days. These preclinical findings are concordant with recent clinical studies and suggest that chronic d-amphetamine may selectively decrease cocaine-taking behavior in rhesus monkeys, possibly by producing a selective decrease in the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Modafinil is a novel compound that is approved for the treatment of narcolepsy. It is now being studied as a potential treatment for cocaine dependence. Cocaine withdrawal symptoms are associated with poor clinical outcome and are likely to be reversed by modafinil. In addition, the neurotransmitter actions of modafinil are opposite to cocaine-induced neuroadaptations affecting dopamine and glutamate reward circuits. Since cocaine-dependent subjects might use cocaine during a clinical trial with modafinil, this study tested the safety of intravenous cocaine (30 mg) in combination with modafinil. Each of seven subjects received a baseline (open-label) cocaine infusion. Three subsequent cocaine infusions were administered after subjects received 4 days of low dose modafinil (200 mg/day), high dose modafinil (400 mg/day), or placebo in randomized double-blind sequences. One subject received placebo prior to all infusions. Our results indicate that co-administering modafinil and a single dose of intravenous cocaine is not associated with medical risk in terms of blood pressure, pulse, temperature, or electrocardiogram measures. Furthermore, pretreatment with modafinil did not intensify cocaine euphoria or cocaine-induced craving. In fact, cocaine euphoria was significantly blunted (P=0.02) in one of our subjective measures.
Although specific pesticides have been associated with wheeze in farmers, little is known about pesticides and asthma. Data from 19,704 male farmers in the Agricultural Health Study were used to evaluate lifetime use of 48 pesticides and prevalent adult-onset asthma, defined as doctor-diagnosed asthma after the age of 20 yrs. Asthma cases were categorised as allergic (n = 127) and nonallergic (n = 314) based on their history of eczema or hay fever. Polytomous logistic regression, controlling for age, state, smoking and body mass, was used to assess pesticide associations. High pesticide exposure events were associated with a doubling of both allergic and nonallergic asthma. For ever-use, 12 individual pesticides were associated with allergic asthma and four with nonallergic asthma. For allergic asthma, coumaphos (OR 2.34; 95% CI 1.49-3.70), heptachlor (OR 2.01; 95% CI 1.30-3.11), parathion (OR 2.05; 95% CI 1.21-3.46), 80/20 mix (carbon tetrachloride/carbon disulfide) (OR 2.15; 95% CI 1.23-3.76) and ethylene dibromide (OR 2.07; 95% CI 1.02-4.20) all showed ORs of >2.0 and significant exposure-response trends. For nonallergic asthma, DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane) showed the strongest association (OR 1.41; 95% CI 1.09-1.84), but with little evidence of increasing asthma with increasing use. Current animal handling and farm activities did not confound these results. There was little evidence that allergy alone was driving these associations. In conclusion, pesticides may be an overlooked contributor to asthma risk among farmers.
Thrombocytopenia (platelet count, 5,000 to 96,000/cu mm; average platelet count, 48,000/cu mm) developed in 31 patients while they were receiving prophylactic or therapeutic heparin sodium therapy. Twenty-one of these patients had associated thromboembolic complications that contributed to the deaths of eight patients. Twelve arterial thromboembolectomies were required for limb preservation in eight patients, with seven arterial thrombolectomies, early in the series, failing because heparin therapy was continued in the postoperative period. Coagulation tests failed to identify a consumptive coagulopathy as the cause of the thrombocytopenia. Cessation of heparin administration was associated with avoidance or remission of the thromboembolic complication and immediate improvement of the thrombocytopenia. Platelet count monitoring during heparin therapy remains the most effective means for the identification of this disorder before the development of the thromboembolic complications.
Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is one of the most devastating subtypes of stroke. Since angiogenesis is a fundamental process to brain development and repair by new blood vessel formation from pre-existing ones, mediated by numerous angiogenic factors including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), the goal of the present work is to establish whether there is cerebral angiogenesis in rat brains with collagenase-induced ICH. Investigations were also performed to evaluate whether ICH alters expression of VEGF and its receptors Flt-1 and Flk-1. ICH was induced on adult male Sprague-Dawley rats by stereotactic injection of collagenase type VII into right globus pallidus. Angiogenesis was identified by hematoxylin-eosin stain and double immunolabeling method, and expression of VEGF and the receptors was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and quantitative real time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. New vessels appeared around the hematoma and extended into it from 7 days, and 5-Bromo-2-Deoxyuridine-labeled nuclei in cerebral endothelial cells resided around the hematoma and the labeling peaked from 7 to 14 days. Expression of VEGF, Flt-1 and Flk-1 was observed in cerebral endothelial cells at the hemorrhagic basal ganglion, and increases of their mRNA persisted to 28 days. These findings suggest that ICH can induce cerebral angiogenesis and upregulation of VEGF, Flt-1 and Flk-1 and that modulation of angiogenesis via altering expression of VEGF and its receptors may be a potential strategy for promoting ICH repair.
Two cases of male sexual dysfunction associated with lithium therapy for major affective disorder, bipolar type I, are reported. One patient received a blind placebo substitution, with rapid disappearance of dysfunction. The second patient presented similar symptoms, which remitted spontaneously on continued lithium therapy. Since lithium is among the most effective and frequently used treatments for affective illness, such side effects, previously considered rare, may be expected to increase in frequency.
A patient who developed renal insufficiency following nitrosourea therapy is reported. Light, immunohistochemical, and electron microscopic studies of the renal biopsy disclosed an unusual glomerular basement membrane injury. Light microscopy showed extensive basement membrane splitting and capillary aneurysm formation. Electron microscopic examination revealed an extensive subendothelial accumulation of electron-lucent granular material. The glomerular basement membrane was separated from the mesangium and showed splitting of the lamina densa. Immunofluorescent and immunoperoxidase staining of the glomeruli was negative for immunoglobulin, complement, and fibrinogen. This form of nitrosourea-associated glomerular injury has not been described previously.
Anxiety disorders are associated with an increase in cardiovascular mortality. Studies using heart rate (HR) and QT interval variability measures suggest a decreased cardiac vagal function and a relatively increased sympathetic function in anxiety. This is important, as increased sympathovagal balance is associated with life-threatening arrhythmias. Several studies have shown that panic disorder is associated with an increased sensitivity to yohimbine and a blunted growth hormone response to clonidine, which are alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist and agonist, respectively. This study investigated the changes in QTvi (QT variance corrected for mean QT interval squared/HR variance corrected for mean HR squared) during placebo, oral clonidine (150 mg) and oral yohimbine (20 mg) in a double-blind design in 12 normal controls and 19 patients with panic disorder. HR and QT variability measures, especially QTvi, were obtained before and after the administration of these drugs to patients in supine and standing postures. As expected, patients with panic disorder became more anxious after yohimbine. In addition, the patients had a significant increase in QTvi after yohimbine and a significant decrease in QTvi after clonidine, which was not seen in the control group. The decreased anxiety after placebo was associated with decreased QTvi in patients. This study supports the previous reports of an abnormal sensitivity of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in patients with panic disorder compared to controls and partly explains the association of increased cardiovascular mortality with conditions of anxiety. QTvi, a non-invasive indicator of cardiac repolarization lability, appears to be a useful tool to study cardiac sympathetic function.
Increased sedation, somnolence, and sleep episodes seem to occur with several, if not all, dopamine agonists and dopaminergic treatment. Patients at risk of sleep episodes can be identified by well-chosen questions, and could be managed by appropriate measures including dose reduction.
Three cases of intracranial arteriopathy associated with the administration of ergot derivatives are reported. In the first case, excessive doses of dihydroergotamine and of ergotamine tartrate seemed to be the cause, but simultaneous treatment with an antibiotic and the existence of a cytomegalovirus infection could have favoured the arteriopathic process. The second patient also received excessive doses of these two drugs, but in addition she was taking oestrogen and progesteron containing contraceptives. In the third case, an intravenous injection of methylergometrine in a dose of 0.2 mg seemed to have initiated the arteriopathy. Arteriograms were comparable in all three cases, with segmental stenosis of several cerebral arteries, whereas internal carotid and vertebral arteries remained normal. In the first case a control cerebral arteriography was normal one month later. These findings suggest that widespread cerebral arteriopathy can appear in subjects who chronically abuse ergotamine tartrate.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are ubiquitous and persistent environmental contaminants that disturb normal endocrine functions, including gonadal functions in humans and mammals. PCBs (Aroclor 1254) - induced toxic manifestations are associated with the production of free radicals. Lycopene belongs to the group of natural carotenoids, which are found in many fruits, vegetables and other green plants. Lycopene, the most potent antioxidant protects against oxidative damage. The present study was conducted to elucidate the protective role of lycopene against Aroclor 1254-induced changes in Leydig cellular steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) protein, cytochrome P450 side chain cleavage (P450 scc) enzyme expression and 3beta-hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) activity. The rats were divided into four groups. Each group consists of six animals. Group I rats were administered with corn oil intraperitoneally (i.p.) for 30 days. Group II rats were treated with Aroclor 1254 (i.p.) 2mgkg(-1)body weight (bwt)day(-1) for 30 days. Group III rats were treated with Aroclor 1254 (i.p.) 2mgkg(-1)bwtday(-1) along with simultaneous supplementation of lycopene 4mgkg(-1)bwtday(-1) (gavage) for 30 days. Group IV rats administered with lycopene alone at the dose of 4mgkg(-1)bwt day(-1) (gavage) for 30 days. After 24h of the last treatment, animals were decapitated, blood was collected and serum testosterone level was estimated by radioimmunoassay (RIA). Testes were removed and Leydig cells were isolated in aseptic condition. StAR protein, cytochrome P450 scc enzyme expression were studied by Western blot analysis and 3beta-HSD activity was estimated spectrophotometrically. Aroclor 1254 treatment significantly reduced the serum testosterone level. Simultaneous supplementation of lycopene maintained the serum testosterone to near normal. Aroclor 1254 exposure decreased Leydig cellular StAR protein, cytochrome P450 scc enzyme expression and activity of 3beta-HSD. However, simultaneous supplementation of lycopene improved Leydig cellular StAR protein, cytochrome P450 scc expression and activity of 3beta-HSD. These results suggested that lycopene have ameliorative role against Aroclor 1254 induced Leydig cell dysfunction.
In the past 15 years, improvements in the treatment of HIV infection have dramatically reduced morbidity and mortality. Nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors are the backbone of combination antiretroviral therapy for the treatment of HIV. One of the recommended and commonly used therapies in this class is the once-daily fixed-dose combination of abacavir/lamivudine. Clinical studies and practice have shown these drugs to be potent, safe, and easy to use in a variety of settings; however, several recent reports have challenged the safety and efficacy claims among certain patient populations, including those at risk for cardiovascular disease and in those with high viral loads prior to treatment initiation. We reviewed abacavir/lamivudine as a treatment for HIV and discussed limitations of its use due to these controversial issues.
3beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3beta-HSD) deficiency is a rare cause of congenital adrenal hyperplasia caused by inactivating mutations in the HSD3B2 gene. Most mutations are located within domains regarded crucial for enzyme function. The function of the C terminus of the 3beta-HSD protein is not known.
We studied the functional consequences of three novel C-terminal mutations in the 3beta-HSD protein (p.P341L, p.R335X and p.W355X), detected in unrelated 46,XY neonates with classical 3beta-HSD type II deficiency showing different degrees of under-virilization.
In vitro expression of the two truncated mutant proteins yielded absent conversion of pregnenolone and dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), whereas the missense mutation p.P341L showed a residual DHEA conversion of 6% of wild-type activity. Additional analysis of p.P341L, including three-dimensional protein modeling, revealed that the mutant's inactivity predominantly originates from a putative structural alteration of the 3beta-HSD protein and is further aggravated by increased protein degradation. The stop mutations cause truncated proteins missing the final G-helix that abolishes enzymatic activity irrespective of an augmented protein degradation. Genital appearance did not correlate with the mutants' residual in vitro activity.
Three novel C-terminal mutants of the HSD3B2 gene are responsible for classical 3beta-HSD deficiency. The C terminus is essential for the enzymatic activity. However, more studies are needed to clarify the exact function of this part of the protein. Our results indicate that the genital phenotype in 3beta-HSD deficiency cannot be predicted from in vitro 3beta-HSD function alone.
Macrocytosis and megaloblastic changes in the bone marrow are frequently seen in renal transplant recipients treated with azathioprine (Az). However, severe anemia is a rare side effect of Az. We recently observed a case of severe megaloblastic anemia with pancytopenia in a renal transplant recipient who had been receiving Az therapy for 22 years. The patient was a 46-year-old woman who had been administered Az and prednisolone at a dose of approximately 1.7 mg/kg and 0.17 mg/kg daily, respectively. A bone marrow aspiration revealed megaloblastic anemia with the depletion of myeloid cells and megakaryocytes. She did not have vitamin B12 or folate deficiency. Therefore, FK506 (tacrolimus), a macrolide produced by Streptomyces tsukubaensis, which acts directly on T cells and is known to have less myelosuppression than Az, was substituted for Az. Although the leukopenia improved, the anemia and thrombocytopenia did not improve in the short term. She developed dyspnea and severe subcutaneous bleeding of the right lower extremity due to knee contusions. Hemodialysis was started to treat her uremic state. Although it was impossible to evaluate the long-term effects of FK506 therapy for the pancytopenia in our case, the conversion from Az to a less myelosuppressive drug, such as FK506, should be considered in renal transplant recipients with severe myelosuppression caused by long-term Az treatment.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) involves in multiple processes in carcinogenesis, including inflammation, apoptosis inhibition, immune response suppression, tumor cell invasion, and angiogenesis. COX-2 is overexpressed in various cancers, including gastric cancer. COX-2 is encoded by prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase 2 (PTGS2) gene. We hypothesized that potentially functional polymorphisms in PTGS2 may contribute to gastric cancer risk. To assess this hypothesis, we conducted a case-control study with 1681 gastric cancer cases and 1916 control subjects in a Chinese population to evaluate the association between a polymorphism in 3'-untranslated region of PTGS2, rs5275, and the risk of gastric cancer. Logistic regression analysis revealed that variant allele (C) of rs5275 was significantly associated with an increased risk of gastric cancer (per allele odds ratio [OR] = 1.14, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.01-1.29, p = 0.030). This association was more prominent in females (per allele OR = 1.42, 95% CI = 1.11-1.81, p = 0.005) and nonsmokers (per allele OR = 1.35, 95% CI = 1.14-1.59, p = 0.001). Interestingly, we detected a negative interaction between rs5275 and smoking on the gastric cancer risk (p = 0.007). Our findings indicate that PTGS2 rs5275T/C may be a candidate genetic marker for gastric cancer susceptibility.
Twenty cases of acute intermittent porphyria were studied during the acute phase. Cardiovascular manifestations were noted in all the cases, with tachycardia in 20 and with hypertension in 17. Propranolol in doses ranging from 20--200 mg was given to all the cases and produced adequate control of tachycardia and hypertension. At follow-up, smaller doses of propranolol were found to maintain the pulse rate and BP within normal limits and also to prevent acute attacks.
It has been suggested that the immunopharmacological activity of soluble (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan depends on its conformation in mice. In this study, we examined the relationship between the conformation of Sonifilan (SPG) and hematopietic responses in cyclophosphamide (Cy)-induced leukopenic mice. SPG, a high molecular weight (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan, has a triple helical conformation in water, and it was changed by treatment with aqueous sodium hydroxide to the single helical conformer (SPG-OH). The effects of SPG or SPG-OH on hematopoietic responses in cyclophosphamide induced leukopenic mice were investigated by monitoring i) gene expression of cytokines by RT-PCR, ii) protein synthesis of interleukin 6 (IL-6) by ELISA and iii) colony formation of bone marrow cells (BMC). The mice administered Cy and SPG or SPG-OH expressed and produced higher levels of IL-6 mRNA and protein than the mice administered only Cy. Gene expression of NK1.1 was also induced by Cy/SPG (or SPG-OH) treatment. Induced gene expression of stem cell factor (SCF) and macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) by SPG/SPG-OH were also found in in vitro culture of BMC from Cy treated mice. These results strongly suggested that conformation of the glucans, single and triple helix, are independent of the hematopietic response.
Activation of cannabinoid receptors (CB(1), CB(2) and GPR(55)) produces analgesic effects in several experimental pain models, including visceral pain arising from the gastrointestinal tract. We assessed the role of CB(1), CB(2), and GPR(55) receptors and the endogenous cannabinoid system on basal pain responses and acute mechanical hyperalgesia during colorectal distension (CRD) in rodents. The effects of cannabinoid receptor agonists and antagonists on pain-related responses to CRD were assessed in rats and in wild-type and CB(1) receptor knock-out mice. The dual CB(1/2) agonist, WIN55,212-2, and the peripherally acting CB(1)-selective agonist, SAB-378, inhibited pain-related responses to repetitive noxious CRD (80 mmHg) in a dose-related manner in rats. The analgesic effects of WIN55,212-2 and SAB-378 were blocked by the selective CB(1) antagonist SR141716, but were not affected by the selective CB(2) antagonist SR144528. SR141716, per se, increased the responses to repetitive noxious CRD, indicative of hyperalgesia, and induced pain-related responses during non-noxious CRD (20 mmHg), indicative of allodynia. The cannabinoid receptor agonists anandamide, virodhamine and O-1602 had no effect. At analgesic doses, WIN55,212-2 did not affect colonic compliance. In accordance to the rat data, WIN55,212-2 produced analgesia, whereas SR141716 induced hyperalgesia, during noxious CRD (55 mmHg) in wild-type but not in CB(1)-knock-out mice. These data indicate that peripheral CB(1) receptors mediate the analgesic effects of cannabinoids on visceral pain from the gastrointestinal tract. The allodynic and hyperalgesic responses induced by SR141716 suggest the existence of an endogenous cannabinoid tone and the activation of CB(1) receptors during noxious CRD.
Pulmonary complications of alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency are most commonly manifested by panlobular emphysema. This report describes histologically proven bronchiectasis in a 21 year old man with massive haemoptysis and homozygous deficiency of alpha 1-antitrypsin. Neither panlobular emphysema nor cirrhosis of the liver were present. Bronchiectasis must be considered part of the spectrum of the pulmonary pathology that may be encountered in individuals with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency.
The precise cause of levodopa-induced dyskinesias is unknown. Current evidence indicates that dyskinesias develop in response to pulsatile stimulation of striatal dopamine receptors. The half-life of the dopaminergic agent employed and disease severity are thought to affect the occurrence of pulsatile stimulation. Dyskinesias are not seen or are attenuated with continuous delivery of levodopa or short-acting agonists, or with the use of long-acting agonists. In advanced disease, there are fewer striatal dopamine terminals and reduced buffering capacity; fluctuations in plasma levodopa concentration are more likely to cause fluctuations in striatal dopamine concentration and pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors. Pulsatile stimulation is thought to induce postsynaptic gene and protein changes that result in alterations in the patterns of neuronal communication, with the emergence of dyskinetic movements. Thus, strategies preventing pulsatile stimulation may prevent the development of dyskinesias. These could include the use of dopaminergic agents with a relatively long half-life, neuroprotective therapies that prevent the loss of dopamine neurons, and transplantation strategies or trophic factors that increase the number of dopamine terminals capable of buffering fluctuations in striatal dopamine. Alternatively, approaches that interfere with or compensate for postsynaptic molecular and neurophysiologic changes that ensue in downstream neurons might provide antidyskinetic benefits.
