Risk assessment is currently based on the no observed adverse effect levels (NOAELs) for single compounds. Humans are exposed to a mixture of chemicals and recent studies in our laboratory have shown that combined exposure to endocrine disrupters can cause adverse effects on male sexual development, even though the doses of the single compounds are below their individual NOAELs for anti-androgenic effects. Consequently, we have initiated a large project where the purpose is to study mixture effects of endocrine disrupting pesticides at low doses. In the initial range-finding mixture studies, rats were gavaged during gestation and lactation with five doses of a mixture of the fungicides procymidone, mancozeb, epoxyconazole, tebuconazole and prochloraz. The mixture ratio was chosen according to the doses of each individual pesticide that produced no observable effects on pregnancy length and pup survival in our laboratory and the dose levels used ranged from 25 to 100% of this mixture. All dose levels caused increased gestation length and dose levels above 25% caused impaired parturition leading to markedly decreased number of live born offspring and high pup perinatal mortality. The sexual differentiation of the pups was affected at 25% and higher as anogenital distance was affected in both male and female offspring at birth and the male offspring exhibited malformations of the genital tubercle, increased nipple retention, and decreased prostate and epididymis weights at pup day 13. The results show that doses of endocrine disrupting pesticides, which appear to induce no effects on gestation length, parturition and pup mortality when judged on their own, induced marked adverse effects on these endpoints in concert with other pesticides. In addition, the sexual differentiation of the offspring was affected. This as well as the predictability of the combination effects based on dose-additivity modelling will be studied further in a large dose-response study.
A 53-year-old woman presented with a chronic history of recurrent, painful ulcers, predominantly involving her lower legs. Both her clinical picture and histopathological findings were consistent with a diagnosis of livedoid vasculopathy, although she did have unusual findings of deep tender nodules and the presence of lesions over her elbows. Multiple investigations were undertaken, the only abnormality being a heterozygous mutation of the prothrombin G2021A gene. Although various coagulopathic states have been associated with livedoid vasculopathy, the finding of an associated prothrombin gene mutation is quite rare. Warfarin has ameliorated the clinical course when anti-inflammatory drugs and other anticoagulants were unhelpful.
Biologic treatments including antibody-based therapies are still in early-phase development in Hodgkin lymphoma. The authors present the case of a 10-year-old girl with massive, solid, unilateral cervical, nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma. Chemotherapy (doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine [ABVD]) and radiotherapy were given, according to the Italian Association of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (AIEOP) MH-96 study protocol, but the patient failed to enter complete remission. Soon after, 6 intravenous infusions of the chimeric anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab 375 mg/m2 were administered, resulting in complete remission. The patients is still in continuous complete remission for 2 years. Novel therapies, such as rituximab, may be useful for children with CD20+ nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of CD20+ nodular lymphocyte-predominant Hodgkin lymphoma treated with rituximab in children. Further controlled trials and long-term outcome studies are warranted to define its clinical application and to improve the care of patients.
The thiazolidin-4-one derivatives and the corresponding spiro compounds were synthesized from sulphanilamide and were evaluated for anti-inflammatory and analgesic activity in acute and sub acute models. Compounds were also evaluated for antipyretic and cyclooxygenase enzyme inhibitory activity. All the compounds showed significant antiinflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic activity at 100 mg/kg in all the models. The compounds B1, B2, B5, B6, and B8 showed maximum inhibition of COX-2 activity without inhibiting the COX-1 activity. The nimesulide was used as standard drug for comparison. The substitution at R, R(1) and R(2) with the functional groups Cl, OCH(3), NO(2) and OH in the aromatic ring resulted in increased activity as compared to unsubstituted thiazolidin-4-ones. However the substitution at R(3) with spiro group did not improve the activity. The study suggests that COX-2 binding site may not be a rigid structure but might adopt to various related molecules.
Selegiline, an irreversible monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor, is under investigation as a treatment for cocaine relapse prevention. To evaluate its safety, human volunteers (n = 5) received intravenous cocaine (0, 20 and 40 mg, 1 h apart) following treatment with placebo or selegiline (10 mg, p.o.). Cocaine increased heart rate, blood pressure, pupil diameter and subjective indices of euphoria and craving. Selegiline produced no measureable effects, except for miosis, and did not alter the effects of cocaine. These data suggest that selegiline may be safely administered in combination with cocaine, and that selegiline is unlikely to increase reinforcing effects of cocaine.
1-(4-Chloro-3-sulfamylbenzamido)-2-methyl-indoline (indapamide), after single oral dose administration, showed antihypertensive activity in genetically hypertensive rats, DOCA/saline hypertensive rats, unilaterally-nephrectomised DOCA/saline hypertensive rats and dogs made hypertensive by renal encapsulation. The activity was observed at doses as low as 1-3 mg/kg and lasted at least 48 h. Increasing the dose level considerably prolonged the duration of action but did not substantially enhance the maximum antihypertensive effect. In genetically hypertensive rats indapamide was 30-300 times more potent than furosemide, spironolactone and chlorthalidone. Indapamide had no effect on blood pressure in normotensive rats. In concentrations of 1 X 10(-5) to 1 X 10(-3) g/ml, indapamide antagonised contractions of arterial and venous strips to angiotensin, epinephrine and norepinephrine revealing a direct vascular action. Indapamide has a prolonged saluretic action which in combination with the direct vascular effects may well account for its antihypertensive activity.
A 34-year old male renal transplant recipient developed thrombotic microangiopathy (Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome) in the early post-transplant period following combined immuno-suppressive therapy with tacrolimus and everolimus. The management consisted of discontinuation of tacrolimus and substitution with mycophenolate mofetil. His renal functions improved, the hematological abnormalities reversed and he continues to have good graft function one year later.
The role of angiotensin II (ANG II) in the development of isoproterenol (Iso)-induced cardiac hypertrophy was examined in rats. Iso increased cardiac mass, left ventricular RNA-to-DNA ratio, and the cardiac content of both myosin heavy chain and hydroxyproline in a dose-dependent manner, indicating that Iso-induced cardiac hypertrophy involves growth of both muscle and connective tissue. Cardiac hypertrophy reverted within 11-14 days after cessation of Iso. Propranolol prevented development of Iso-induced cardiac hypertrophy but did not affect the rate of its reversal. The ANG II receptor blocker losartan (Los) did not significantly decrease the hypertrophic response to Iso. Los injected after cessation of Iso dramatically enhanced the reversal of cardiac hypertrophy, even in rats that received Los with Iso during the induction of Iso-induced cardiac hypertrophy. ANG II, injected continuously at a subpressor dose that did not affect heart weight when given alone, inhibited reversal of cardiac hypertrophy when given after cessation of Iso. Los did not significantly affect the induction of the protooncogene c-fos by Iso. We conclude that endogenous ANG II has a major function in maintaining Iso-induced cardiac hypertrophy but does not mediate its induction. This suggests that different interactive stimuli may be required for development of cardiac hypertrophy, i.e., for initiation and for maintenance.
In order to define antigens that might be suitable as vaccines for pancreatic carcinoma, we investigated the composite expression of 10 cancer testis (CT) antigens (SCP-1, NY-ESO-1, SSX-1, SSX-2, SSX-4, GAGE, MAGE-3, MAGE-4, CT-7 and CT-8) by Reverse Transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) in fresh biopsies of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma, chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic carcinoma cell lines. While all CT genes were frequently expressed in cell lines derived from pancreatic cancer, no expression of MAGE-3, SSX-1, SSX-2, NY-ESO-1 and CT-7 was detected in fresh tumor biopsies, and MAGE-4 (1/52), SSX-4 (1/39) and CT-8 (2/41) were only rarely expressed. In contrast, HOM-TES-14/SCP-1 was expressed in 48% (29/61) and GAGE in 21% (13/61) of cases, respectively. One CT gene was expressed by 59% (75% in male, 46% in female patients; p = 0.05) and 2 or more CT genes by 15% of the samples. SCP-1 protein expression correlated well with mRNA expression. While SCP-1 and GAGE were absent in normal pancreas, they were found in 2/8 (SCP-1) and 1/8 (GAGE) samples of chronic pancreatitis, respectively, supporting the concept of chronic pancreatitis as a premalignant condition. SCP-1 and GAGE represent promising candidates for vaccine development in pancreatic carcinoma. Whether SCP-1 and GAGE expression identify cases of chronic pancreatitis with a high risk of malignant transformation remains to be shown.
Arsenic trioxide, As(2)O(3), already used in human anti-cancer therapy, is also an efficient agent against the autoimmune and inflammatory diseases developed in MRL/lpr mice. Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), notably Crohn's disease, which remain without efficient treatment, display autoimmune and inflammatory components. We, therefore, hypothesized that As(2)O( 3) may be active on IBDs. Using the 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid-induced murine model of colitis, we demonstrate that As(2)O(3) used either in a preventive or a curative mode markedly reduced the induced colitis as assessed by macroscopic and microscopic scores, leading to prolonged mice survival. In addition, As(2)O(3) was able to inhibit NF-κB expression and DNA-binding in colon extracts leading to decreased cytokine gene expression (i.e. tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin(IL)-1β, IL-12, IL-17, IL-18, and IL-23). Interestingly, As(2)O(3) also reduced keratinocyte-derived chemokine (KC), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA levels, and myeloperoxidase (MPO) protein expression suggesting an impairment of neutrophils. This was associated with a marked increase of procaspase-3 and induced caspase-3 activation. This caspase-3 co-localized with MPO in the remaining neutrophils suggesting that As(2)O( 3) might have eliminated inflamed cells probably by inducing their apoptosis. These results assessed the potent anti-inflammatory effect of As(2)O( 3), that targets both NF-κB and caspase-3 pathways, and suggests a therapeutic potential for Crohn's disease and other severe IBDs.
The chemopreventive efficacies of raloxifene and nimesulide, an anti-estrogen but with anti-androgen action and a cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective inhibitor, respectively, were evaluated in probasin/SV40 T antigen (Tag) transgenic (TG) rats. The treatment groups were placebo, nimesulide (400 p.p.m. in basal diet p.o.), raloxifene (slow-release pellets implanted s.c., 5 mg/kg/day), raloxifene (5 mg/kg/day) plus nimesulide (400 p.p.m.), and raloxifene (10 mg/kg/day) plus nimesulide (400 p.p.m.). Animals were killed at 17 weeks of age, and prostate tissues were harvested and weighed by lobes. Tissues were evaluated by histology, immunohistochemistry, and western blot analyses and blood was collected to measure the testosterone levels. All the animals in the placebo group had tumors in each lobe compared with only 43% each in the dorsolateral (DLP) and anterior prostate (AP) of the animals treated with raloxifene (10 mg/kg/day) plus nimesulide. The total prostate weights and adenocarcinoma portions were significantly reduced in the three raloxifene-treated groups, whereas atrophic glands were increased. There were no significant differences between the nimesulide alone and placebo groups or between the raloxifene (5 mg/kg/day) alone and raloxifene (5 mg/kg/day) plus nimesulide group, suggesting a lack of cancer preventive effects of the COX-2 inhibitor in this animal model. PCNA positive rates in ventral prostate (VP) and DLP, and androgen receptor (AR) levels in VP were significantly reduced in the three raloxifene-treated groups. Furthermore, circulating testosterone was decreased after raloxifene (10 mg/kg/day) plus nimesulide treatment. These results demonstrate that raloxifene, but not nimesulide, inhibits prostate carcinogenesis in SV40 Tag TG rats associated with a decline in circulating testosterone levels and a loss of AR expression, as well as an inhibition of cell proliferation.
Antiseizure effects of progesterone (P) and its metabolite, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha, 5alpha-THP) were investigated following continuous vs. discontinuous P exposure. In Experiments 1, 32 cycling Long-Evans rats were administered kainic acid (32 mg/kg SC), ictal behavior was examined, and plasma 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Proestrus/estrus rats showed less ictal activity and had elevated 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels prior to kainic acid compared to diestrus/metestrus subjects. In Experiment 2, 49 ovariectomized (ovx) rats were SC injected with estradiol benzoate (EB; 10 microg) and P (500 microg), to mimic estrus, or sesame oil vehicle (0.2 cc); all subjects were administered kainic acid. Rats tested with EB+P showed a reduced mean duration of full seizures and increased 3alpha,5alpha-THP, whereas those tested 24 h following EB+P had more tonic clonic seizures and lower 3alpha,5alpha-THP concentrations, comparable to ovx control animals. In Experiment 3, 49 ovx rats were stereotaxically implanted with bipolar electrodes into the perforant pathway. Prior to perforant pathway stimulation, rats received cholesterol or EB+P capsules for 1 month, continuously or intermittently. Irrespective of continuous or intermittent EB+P, the presence of progestins at the time of perforant pathway stimulation reduced partial seizure activity. Continuous EB+P capsules resulted in increased 3alpha,5alpha-THP levels compared to all other conditions, and less damage in the hilus of the hippocampus, compared to intermittent EB+P. These data confirm that P and 3alpha,5alpha-THP have antiseizure effects, and further suggest that repeated cycles of endogenous or exogenous P and/or 3alpha,5alpha-THP withdrawal influences seizure threshold and/or hippocampal integrity.
Doxorubicin-eluting-bead embolization (DEB) is considered a safe and efficient treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with a low complication rate and an increased tumor response compared with conventional transarterial chemoembolization. We describe a case of a 69-year-old patient who underwent DEB for HCC and who developed a liver abscess requiring urgent left liver lobectomy. Despite this severe complication, efficacy of DEB embolization was histologically proved as a large ischemic zone with complete tumor necrosis.
The etiology of acute chest syndrome, the most severe complication of the sickle cell crisis, is unknown.
Our objective was to assess exposure to morphine as an etiologic factor for acute chest syndrome in sickle cell disease.
A post hoc analysis of a randomized controlled trial comparing oral with continuous infusion of morphine was performed. Children (aged 5-17 years) with sickle cell crisis were randomized to receive oral sustained-release morphine, 1.9 mg. kg(-1). 12 h(-1), or a continuous intravenous infusion of morphine at 0.04 mg. kg(-1). h(-1) by use of a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. In a subgroup of 15 patients, the pharmacokinetics of morphine and its active metabolite morphine-6-glucuronide were also studied.
At baseline, demographic and physiologic characteristics were similar between groups. There were no differences in the number of previous rescue doses per day, painful sites per episode, physician contacts per year, and hospitalizations per year between treatment arms. There was a 2-fold higher morphine area under the concentration-time curve at steady state (AUC(ss)) and a 3-fold higher morphine-6-glucuronide AUC(ss) with oral morphine than with a continuous intravenous infusion of morphine (P <.001 and P <.006, respectively). New onset of acute chest syndrome was 3-fold more prevalent in the oral group (57%) versus the continuous intravenous infusion group (17%) (P <.001).
The risk of acute chest syndrome is significantly associated with high systemic exposure to morphine and its active metabolite morphine-6-glucuronide after oral administration of slow-release morphine. Morphine may facilitate respiratory deterioration by eliciting a decrease in oxygen saturation, by inducing histamine release, or through an as-yet-unidentified mechanism. The safe systemic exposure to morphine in terms of area under the concentration-time curve should be further studied in children with sickle cell disease.
To predict the therapeutic efficacy of hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) with 5-fluorouracil (5FU) for patients with liver metastases from colorectal carcinomas, 5FU-related gene expressions were examined in primary colorectal carcinomas.
Thirty-eight patients with liver metastases from colorectal carcinoma received HAI of 5FU. The expressions of the mRNAs for thymidine synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidine phosphorylase (TP), and oroteta phophoribosyl transferase (OPRT) in primary colorectal carcinomas were measured by RT-PCR.
The response rate was 52.6% (20/38). The overall median survival time was 29.1 months. DPD and TP expression was significantly higher in the progressive disease (PD) group than in the complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) group (p = 0.032, p = 0.014), respectively. The levels of DPD and TP mRNAs showed a significant correlation (r = 0.76, p = 0.0001).
The expression of DPD and TP mRNAs in primary colorectal carcinomas was significantly predictive of the therapeutic response to 5FU HAI.
This study investigated the relevance of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 genotype to the adverse drug reactions (ADRs) of H1-antihistamines and the level of sedation.
Japanese participants in a health screening program were asked to describe any past history of ADRs. Any subjects reporting ADRs induced by H1-antihistamines were then individually interviewed and defined as cases. Excessive daytime sleepiness, which had occurred in the cases as an H1-antihistamine-induced ADR, was assessed by the Epworth sleepiness scale (ESS), and an ESS score >or=12 was considered hypersomnia. CYP2D6*4, *5, *14, and *10 were genotyped by a panel of polymerase chain reaction techniques.
Out of 2,074 participants, 100 cases (M:F = 37:63, mean age 51.9 +/- 9.2 years) were eligible for analysis. The most common etiological drug was chlorpheniramine, which is the most frequently used H1-antihistamine in Japan. CYP2D6*10 allele and genotypes were more frequently found in the cases than in the healthy Japanese population in a large study (P < 0.005 and P = 0.039, respectively), but no difference was observed in the null alleles and genotypes. The ESS scores in 75 cases (M:F=25:50) who had experienced excessive daytime sleepiness were 9.5 +/- 5.5 in men and 12.9 +/- 6.1 in women (P < 0.001, cases vs. 34 subjects without symptoms; P = 0.001 men vs. women). The occurrence of hypersomnia increased as the number of CYP2D6 mutant alleles increased (P = 0.045).
The results suggest that the presence of the CYP2D6*10 allele is a risk factor for development of H1-antihistamine-induced ADRs in Japanese.
Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common non-skin cancer among men in Western countries. Inflammation appears to be involved in the pathogenesis of PCa. Recent studies have shown that many inflammatory genes are associated with the risk of PCa. Alpha 1 antichymotrypsin (ACT) is an acute phase protein and it is part of the circulating prostate specific antigen (PSA).
Allele and genotype frequencies of a promoter single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in ACT gene were investigated in patients with benign prostate hypertrophy (BHP) or PCa and controls.
The G allele was more represented in PCa patients (odds ratio = 2.349). The PSA levels and prostatic volume did not correlate with the ACT genotype. However, stratifying subjects by age, a correlation of PSA levels and the GG genotype in young PCa patients was found.
Carriers of the ACT G allele are at risk of developing PCa and genotyping healthy subjects could be a new approach for early prevention.
Several factors have been shown to promote the growth of colorectal cancers. Here, we provide evidence that periostin, a protein with structural and sequence homology with a TGF-beta-inducible gene, beta ig-h3, is upregulated in colorectal cancers and their liver metastasis, and it may play a role in promoting growth in these tumors. In vitro studies reveal that periostin promotes growth and cell proliferation in colorectal cancers and that this effect can be abrogated with antibodies to periostin. Furthermore, exposure of colorectal cancer cells to anti-periostin antibodies activates apoptosis and potentiates the effects of 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. The results demonstrate the growth-promoting properties of periostin, and a possible role of targeting this protein as a therapeutic option in colorectal cancers.
The potential modifying effects of testosterone propionate (TP) and high-caloric high-fat diet (20% corn oil, HF) on rat accessory sex gland carcinogenesis were investigated. Male F344 rats were treated five times at 4-week intervals with N-methylnitrosourea (MNU) i.v. or N-nitrosobis(2-oxopropyl)amine (BOP) s.c., each injection following 2 weeks pretreatment with dietary ethinyl estradiol. After completion of this carcinogen administration stage, animal groups received subcutaneous implantation of Silastic tubes filled with 40 mg TP with or without HF for 40 weeks. Carcinomas of the seminal vesicles and/or coagulating glands were induced in 5, 39 and 56% of rats given MNU alone, MNU and TP, and MNU and HF plus TP respectively. No equivalent tumors were found in rats given MNU and HF. In the BOP-treated groups, 11% of animals receiving TP but no HF diet demonstrated seminal vesicle carcinomas and 6% of rats receiving TP plus HF diet had coagulating gland carcinoma. Thus while TP exerted a strong enhancing effect on tumor growth in the seminal vesicles and coagulating glands, high caloric HF did not manifest any significant influence.
T-2 toxin is one of the most toxic among several trichothecenes involved in both human and animal poisoning cases. We investigated the biochemical and histological alterations behind inflammation and cutaneous injury caused by T-2 toxin. Swiss albino mice were exposed to T-2 toxin topically at doses of 0.5, 1 and 2 LD50 (2.97, 5.94 and 11.88 mg/kg respectively) and observed till 3, 24 and 72 h. Topical application of T-2 toxin resulted in skin oxidative stress in terms of increased reactive oxygen species generation, lipid peroxidation and neutrophil mediated myeloperoxidase activity. The histological alterations include degenerative changes like vacuolation, ballooning of basal keratinocytes and infiltration of inflammatory cells in dermis. The mRNA levels of skin pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β showed significant up regulation. Anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 showed significant up regulation at 24h whereas IL-4 showed down regulation for all the doses and time points. Gelatin zymography and immunoblot analysis of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-9 and 2 indicated MMP activation and their role in degenerative skin histological changes. Time dependent increase in inducible nitric oxide synthase levels was seen. Immunoblot analysis revealed significant increase in the levels of phosphorylated p38 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK). Flow cytometry analysis of propidium iodide stained epidermal cells showed increase in sub-G1 population at all the doses and time points indicating apoptosis. In summary, T-2 toxin induced skin inflammation and cutaneous injury is mediated through oxidative stress, activation of myeloperoxidase, MMP activity, increase in inflammatory cytokines, activation of p38 MAPK and apoptosis of epidermal cells leading to degenerative skin histological changes.
Angiotensin enzyme converting (ACE) inhibitors are a widely prescribed group of drugs used in the management of hypertension and heart failure. Several unwanted effects are associated with ACE inhibitors and this paper highlights those significant to the dental surgeon. Of particular concern is the problem of angioedema, which can be life threatening. Three case reports are presented that illustrate this problem and the management is discussed.
As the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection continues to rise the clinician is encountered with a diagnostic challenge. Nonsurgical diseases such as acute colitis or enteritis can appear similar to such true surgical emergencies as abscess, perforation, or mesenteric ischemia. We report a case of fulminant hepatic failure associated with didanosine and masquerading as a surgical abdomen and compare the clinical, biologic, histologic, and ultrastructural findings with reports described previously. This entity should be kept in mind when evaluating the acute abdomen in the HIV-positive patient.
To evaluate relative efficacy, safety, and time course of analgesia, nefopam (45 and 90 mg), a new centrally acting nonnarcotic analgesic, was compared with propoxyphene (65 mg) and placebo in a single oral dose, parallel, stratified, randomized, double-blind trial with 100 hospitalized postpartum women with medium or severe episiotomy pain. Using subjective reports as indices of response, patients rated pain intensity and side effects at periodic interviews for 6 hr. After 45 and 90 mg nefopam, 21 of 25 and 20 of 25 patients (p less than 0.01) reported more than 50% reduction of pain, whereas after 65 mg propoxyphene 18 of 25 (p less than 0.05) and after placebo 11 of 25 reported reduction in pain. Relative efficacy, based on summed pain intensity differences, showed measurable but modest dose-dependent analgesia with nefopam, suggesting that the effectiveness of 65 mg propoxyphene lay between 45 mg nefopam and placebo. Side effects included mild dizziness and hypothermia after nefopam and mild elevation of diastolic arterial pressure after nefopam and propoxyphene. Our results suggest that 45- and 90-mg doses of nefopam induced more analgesia than 65 mg propoxyphene in the relief of episiotomy pain.
WNT signaling pathway dysregulation is an important event in the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC) with APC mutations seen in more than 80% of sporadic CRC. However, such mutations in the WNT signaling pathway genes are rare in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) associated neoplasia (dysplasia and cancer). This study examined the role of epigenetic silencing of WNT signaling pathway genes in the pathogenesis of IBD-associated neoplasia.
Paraffin-embedded tissue samples were obtained and methylation of ten WNT signaling pathway genes, including APC1A, APC2, SFRP1, SFRP2, SFRP4, SFRP5, DKK1, DKK3, WIF1 and LKB1, was analyzed. Methylation analysis was performed on 41 IBD samples, 27 normal colon samples (NCs), and 24 sporadic CRC samples.
Methylation of WNT signaling pathway genes is a frequent and early event in IBD and IBD-associated neoplasia. A progressive increase in the percentage of methylated genes in the WNT signaling pathway from NCs (4.2%) to IBD colitis (39.7%) to IBD-associated neoplasia (63.4%) was seen (NCs vs. IBD colitis, p < 0.01; IBD colitis vs. IBD-associated neoplasia, p = 0.01). In the univariate logistic regression model, methylation of APC2 (OR 4.7, 95% CI: 1.1-20.63, p = 0.04), SFRP1 (OR 5.1, 95% CI: 1.1-31.9, p = 0.04), and SFRP2 (OR 5.1, 95% CI: 1.1-32.3, p = 0.04) was associated with progression from IBD colitis to IBD-associated neoplasia, while APC1A methylation was borderline significant (OR 4.1, 95% CI: 0.95-17.5, p = 0.06). In the multivariate logistic regression model, methylation of APC1A and APC2 was more likely to be associated with IBD-associated neoplasia than IBD colitis. (OR APC1A: 6.4, 95% CI: 1.1-37.7 p = 0.04; OR APC2 9.1, 95% CI: 1.3-61.7, p = 0.02).
Methylation of the WNT signaling genes is an early event seen in patients with IBD colitis and there is a progressive increase in methylation of the WNT signaling genes during development of IBD-associated neoplasia. Moreover, methylation of APC1A, APC2, SFRP1, and SFRP2 appears to mark progression from IBD colitis to IBD-associated neoplasia, and these genes may serve as biomarkers for IBD-associated neoplasia.
Corticosteroids often induce a variety of psychiatric symptoms, such as alterations of mood, neuropsychological deficits and even psychotic states. To date, only a few studies have specifically addressed behaviour as well as cognitive functioning in patients under steroid treatment. Fifty ophthalmologic patients participated in this prospective study. They received methylprednisolone or fluocortolone at doses of 119 +/- 41 mg/day in the beginning and 75 +/- 22 mg after 8 days of treatment. Psychopathology and neuropsychological functioning were examined before and after steroid therapy, mood was self-rated on days 0, 3, 5 and 8. No marked psychopathological abnormalities such as psychosis, dementia or delirious states were observed. However, a significant proportion of patients suffered from an organic mood disorder, 26-34% experienced a hypomanic syndrome, 10-12% a depressive syndrome. Most neuropsychological tests did not reveal significant effects of steroid treatment. Performance of Word Fluency and Trail Making A improved, while the Auditory-Verbal-Learning and the Digit-Symbol showed a worsening. Psychopathological and neuropsychological effects were not significantly correlated.
Until recently, all cephalosporin-induced immune hemolytic anemias appeared to react by a "penicillin-type" drug adsorption mechanism, and hemolysis was extravascular. In 1987 and 1988, the first two cases of cephalosporin-induced immune hemolytic anemia with intravascular hemolysis associated with a so-called immune complex mechanism were reported. This report describes a case of extravascular hemolysis due to a third-generation cephalosporin, cefotaxime, which, to the authors' knowledge, is the first to show in vitro characteristics of both the drug adsorption and the so-called immune complex mechanisms.
Daily rifampicin in a single dose of 600 mg, combined with other drugs, usually streptomycin and isoniazid, was given to 49 patients for three months. It was planned to continue for another 15 months with twice-weekly rifampicin 1,200 mg plus isoniazid 900 mg, but the high incidence of side effects led to cessation of the intermittent regimen when only two patients had completed 18 months.Though there was no serious problem with daily treatment 11 patients (22%) were unable to continue rifampicin on the intermittent regimen. In 8 (16%) a pyrexial syndrome occurred. In one of these patients there was also temporary renal failure, and in another precipitous thrombocytopenia led to epistaxis and bleeding into the tongue and lips. Symptomless thrombocytopenia developed in two other patients, making three cases (6%) of thrombocytopenia in all.In 16 (33%) of the 49 patients antibodies to rifampicin were detected in the blood. Side effects occurred in 9 (56%) of these, including the three developing thrombocytopenia, but in only 2 (6%) of the 33 patients with no antibodies detected. This association of toxic reactions with antibodies is highly significant (P<0.001).
The first case of cyclophosphamide-induced myocardial ischaemia with electrocardiographically documented ST-segment elevation, T-wave inversion, arrhythmias, angina pectoris and cardiac decompensation is reported. The data suggest that cyclophosphamides induces myocardial ischaemia by eliciting coronary artery spasm.
A 43-year-old man who experienced profound dose-related erectile and ejaculatory dysfunction without loss of libido on three separate antidepressants and on the anorectic agent mazindol is described. Bethanechol chloride 20 mg p.o., taken 1 to 2 hours prior to sexual activity, permitted satisfactory erection and ejaculation during sexual intercourse, while the patient continued to take protriptyline or mazindol. Bethanechol chloride may prove to be of use in treating sexual dysfunction associated with drugs or conditions which increase sympathetic tone.
