The aim of the present study was to verify the effects of beta-blockers on renal function in patients with heart failure (HF).
A total of 40 patients with HF (New York Heart Association class, II-III) were enrolled, who had beta-blocker therapy initiated with carvedilol (n=23) or metoprolol (n=17). The changes in renal and cardiac function were retrospectively analyzed over 16 weeks. The study population was divided into 2 groups according to the median baseline (65.9 ml/min) of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) calculated by the Modification of Diet in Renal Disease formula. eGFR significantly decreased in the higher eGFR group (P=0.04), but did not in the lower eGFR group. Left ventricular ejection fraction significantly increased in both groups with lower eGFR (P=0.01) and higher eGFR (P<0.01). There was an interaction between plasma norepinephrine concentration and eGFR in terms of beta-blocker treatment (P=0.02, ANOVA). eGFR significantly decreased in patients who received metoprolol (from 75.7+/-33.5 to 59.5+/-20.0 mlxmin(-1).1.73 m(-2), P<0.01), but did not change in those who received carvedilol (from 67.1+/-27.7 mlxmin(-1).1.73 m(-2) to 65.6+/-23.2 mlxmin(-1).1.73 m(-2)).
Beta-blockers preserved renal function in HF patients with lower baseline eGFR, but not in those with higher baseline eGFR. Carvedilol may be preferable to metoprolol to prevent the development of chronic kidney disease during beta-blocker therapy for HF.
Diagnostic patch testing in allergic contact dermatitis faces the risk of boosting existing hypersensitivities or active sensitization. Risk-free and reliable in vitro assays using peripheral blood are, therefore, wanted.
Here, we studied new approaches for in vitro monitoring of nickel-specific effector ad regulatory cell functions in allergic patients and potentially tolerized individuals.
Lymphocyte proliferation assays were carried out with the allergen and additional IL-12/IL-7 or IL-4/IL-7 cytokine supplements. Release of IFN-gamma and IL-5 were assessed as measures for type-1 and type-2 effector T cell function, respectively, and IL-10 and TGF-beta1 to monitor possible regulatory T cell function reflecting immunological tolerance. After optimization of in vitro cut-off values, potency of these parameters was evaluated as compared with conventional nickel patch testing.
One hundred and fifty six outpatients were included in this study, 74 of whom presenting with a positive history of nickel allergy. Nickel-sulphate patch test results showed positive reactions in 43 patients, of whom 40 had a positive history (test sensitivity 54%; specificity 96%; overall accuracy 76%). Proliferation tests without cytokine supplementation showed an accuracy of 68%, which was further improved by supplementing IL-4/IL-7 (82%). IFN-gamma and IL-5 cytokine production, as revealed in IL-12/IL-7 and IL-4/IL-7 supplemented cultures, respectively, showed accuracies of 70% and 83%. As to the production of putatively immunoregulatory cytokines, IL-10 was most informative, with highest production rates in nickel-skin test negative individuals with long-lasting mucosal metal contact preceding skin piercing.
These results indicate that measuring both T cell proliferation and cytokine secretion profiles, in particular IL-5 release using IL-4/IL-7 supplemented medium, offers a promising improvement of the in vitro diagnostic options in monitoring nickel contact sensitization. Since oral nickel contact has been shown earlier to induce active tolerization, nickel-induced in vitro IL-10 production may help identify nickel-tolerized individuals.
A 73-year-old man was admitted because of delirium that had already persisted for 5 days. The physical examination and extensive tests did not reveal any somatic pathology. The only drug he used was betahistine, taken for several years because of supposed Ménière's disease. After withdrawal of betahistine and treatment with haloperidol the patient recovered completely within a few days. A new delirium was induced when, after discharge from the hospital, betahistine was restarted because of dizziness. There was again a complete remission after betahistine was stopped and haloperidol was restarted. Betahistine is not known to induce delirium, but an investigation in side-effects databases did reveal several cases in which delirium might have been present, even though the term was not actually used. In this case, delirium was possibly caused by the combination of an elevated betahistine plasma level and a damaged blood-brain barrier due to cerebral infarctions, which were revealed by CT and MRI.
Valproate-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy is an unusual but serious complication that may occur in people with normal liver-associated enzyme levels, despite normal therapeutic doses and serum levels of valproate. Here, we describe an adolescent girl who had absence seizure and complained about progressive dizziness and general malaise several days after restarting valproate. Then, she presented vomiting and decreased consciousness three weeks after valproate use. Notably, her serum ammonia level was five times the upper limit of normal (184 micrommol/L), with normal liver-associated enzyme and supra-therapeutic valproate level. EEG showed continuous generalized slowing. The tandem mass analysis revealed carnitine deficiency. Consciousness improved after emergent hemodialysis. Ammonia level and EEG also returned to normal. Possible mechanisms, risk factors and the treatments of valproate-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy are described. Physicians should consider this possibility when consciousness disturbance occurs in patients treated with valproate.
To review primary literature regarding the risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in users of combined oral contraceptives (COCs) containing drospirenone compared to COCs containing other progestins.
A literature search of MEDLINE and EMBASE (1950-January 2010) was conducted using the following search terms: VTE, thrombosis, thromboembolism, COC, combined hormonal contraceptives, drospirenone, Yasmin, and Yaz. Additional references were retrieved from reference citations.
All English-language primary literature studies were evaluated for relevance. Five studies were identified for evaluation: 1 prescription event monitoring study, 2 prospective postmarketing cohort studies, 1 validation study, and 1 retrospective cohort study.
Use of a COC is associated with a 3- to 6-fold increase in VTE risk compared to nonuse. This risk may vary among different oral contraceptives due to the progestin component. Studies evaluated showed that women utilizing a drospirenone-containing COC did not have a higher risk of VTE when compared to women utilizing other progestins. The crude incidence rate ratio for VTE in women taking a COC containing drospirenone compared to a COC containing other progestins ranged from 0.9 to 1.7 (95% CI 0.5 to 2.4). While the studies evaluating VTE risk were mostly large and long term, most failed to consider important risk factors for VTE such as prolonged immobility, obesity, smoking history, and family history of VTE (which could suggest a genetic predisposition to thrombotic events). It was also unclear with some of the studies whether equivalent estrogen doses were used in the comparisons.
Several studies have evaluated the risk of VTE in users of COC-containing drospirenone compared with other progestins, and none were able to show a significantly increased risk of VTE with drospirenone. The recent media attention regarding VTE risk and drospirenone-containing COCs does not seem to be well supported by the research currently available.
The noradrenergic system modulates performance on tasks dependent on semantic and associative network flexibility (NF) in individuals without neurodevelopmental diagnoses in experiments using a beta-adrenergic antagonist, propranolol. Some studies suggest drugs decreasing noradrenergic activity are beneficial in ASD. In individuals without neurodevelopmental diagnoses, propranolol is beneficial only for difficult NF-dependent problems. However, in populations with altered noradrenergic regulation, propranolol also benefits performance for simple problems. Due to decreased flexibility of access to networks in ASD, we wished to examine the effect of propranolol on NF in ASD. ASD subjects benefited from propranolol on simple anagrams, whereas control subjects were impaired by propranolol. Further study will be necessary to confirm this finding in a larger sample and to compare clinical response with cognitive response to propranolol.
FOLFOX-4 (folinic acid/5-fluorouracil/oxaliplatin) chemotherapy is used to treat patients with colorectal liver metastases. We aimed to assess hepatic histopathological responses to neoadjuvant FOLFOX-4 chemotherapy in patients with colorectal liver metastases. We selected all patients (n = 54) treated with FOLFOX-4 for colorectal liver metastases between June 2002 and June 2005. Only 25 underwent hepatectomy and formed the study group. Histological responses were assessed in the study group and a matched control group (n = 25) that did not receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The median (IQR) body mass index in the study and control groups was 24 (22-26) and 24 (23-25) kg/m(2), respectively, (P = NS). Complete histological resolution of tumour occurred in six (24%) patients in the study group. Median residual tumour cellularity was less (35 vs 70%) and fibrosis greater (50 vs 5%) in patients in the study group when compared with controls (P < 0.001). The liver surrounding the tumour was steatotic in 17 (68%) patients in the study group and five (20%) controls (P = 0.001). Hepatic sinusoidal dilatation was more pronounced in patients in the study group than in controls (P < 0.001). The response to FOLFOX-4 was associated with tumour necrosis, fibrosis and inflammation. More than two thirds of patients undergoing hepatectomy after FOLFOX-4 had steatosis despite being non-obese.
A healthy 17-year-old male received standard intermittent doses of pethidine via a patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) pump for management of postoperative pain control. Twenty-three h postoperatively he developed a brief self-limited seizure. Both plasma pethidine and norpethidine were elevated in the range associated with clinical manifestations of central nervous system excitation. No other risk factors for CNS toxicity were identified. This method allowed frequent self-dosing of pethidine at short time intervals and rapid accumulation of pethidine and norpethidine. The routine use of pethidine via PCA even for a brief postoperative analgesia should be reconsidered.
The experiments investigated the applicability of two established criteria for arrhythmogenicity in Scn5a+/Delta and Scn5a+/- murine hearts modelling the congenital long QT syndrome type 3 (LQT3) and the Brugada syndrome (BrS). Monophasic action potentials (APs) recorded during extrasystolic stimulation procedures from Langendorff-perfused control hearts and hearts treated with flecainide (1 microM) or quinidine (1 or 10 microM) demonstrated that both agents were pro-arrhythmic in wild-type (WT) hearts, quinidine was pro-arrhythmic in Scn5a+/Delta hearts, and that flecainide was pro-arrhythmic whereas quinidine was anti-arrhythmic in Scn5a+/- hearts, confirming clinical findings. Statistical analysis confirmed a quadratic relationship between epicardial and endocardial AP durations (APDs) in WT control hearts. However, comparisons between plots of epicardial against endocardial APDs and this reference curve failed to correlate with arrhythmogenicity. Restitution curves, relating APD to diastolic interval (DI), were then constructed for the first time in a murine system and mono-exponential growth functions fitted to these curves. Significant (P<0.05) alterations in the DI at which slopes equalled unity, an established indicator of arrhythmogenicity, now successfully predicted the presence or absence of arrhythmogenicity in all cases. We thus associate changes in the slopes of restitution curves with arrhythmogenicity in models of LQT3 and BrS.
Five patients with essential tremor were treated with increasing daily doses of propranolol. Tremor intensity was assessed after each propranolol dose had been given daily for a period of at least seven days. The evaluation was made 12 to 15 hours after the last propranolol ingestion. It included a semiquantitative clinical tremor evaluation and quantitative registration with an accelerometer. Electronic integration of the accelerometer curves gave an arbitrary measure of tremor intensity. Plasma propranolol concentration was determined at each tremor measurement. The reduction in tremor correlated with increasing propranolol doses, whereas plasma propranolol concentrations varied widely among individuals and could not be correlated with tremor reduction. Most of the patients had considerable diminution in tremor at low propranolol doses, often with an unmeasurable plasma propranolol concentration. Determination of plasma concentrations has little value in long-term treatment of essential tremor with propranolol. The dosage can be sufficiently guided by clinical evaluation of effect.
Isatin, an indole alkaloid has been shown to have anti-microbial, anti-tumor and anti-inflammatory effects. Due to its findings, we evaluated whether this alkaloid would have any effect on TNBS-induced colitis. Animals (male Unib:WH rats, aged 8 weeks old) were induced colitis through a rectal administration of 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid using a catheter inserted 8 cm into the rectum of the animals. The rats were divided into two major groups: non-colitic and colitic. The colitic group was sub-divided into 6 groups (10 animals per group): colitic non-treated, Isatin 3; 6; 12.5; 18.75 and 25 mg/kg. Our main results showed that the oral treatment with Isatin 6 and 25 mg/kg were capable of avoiding the increase in TNF-α, COX-2 and PGE₂ levels when compared to the colitic non-treated group. Interestingly, the same doses (6 and 25 mg/kg) were also capable of preventing the decrease in IL-10 levels comparing with the colitic non-treated group. The levels of MPO, (an indirect indicator of neutrophil presence), were also maintained lower than those of the colitic non-treated group. Isatin also prevented the decrease of SOD activity and increase of GSH-Px and GSH-Rd activity as well as the depletion of GSH levels. In conclusion, both pre-treatments (6 and 25 mg/kg) were capable of protecting the gut mucosa against the injury caused by TNBS, through the combination of antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, which, together, showed a protective activity of the indole alkaloid Isatin.
The aim of the present study was to find out whether the metabotropic receptor 1 (mGluR1) and group II mGluRs, localized in the striatum, are involved in antiparkinsonian-like effects in rats. Haloperidol (1 mg/kg ip) induced parkinsonian-like muscle rigidity, measured as an increased resistance of a rat's hind foot to passive flexion and extension at the ankle joint. (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA; 0.5-15 microg/0.5 microl), a potent and selective mGluR1 antagonist, or (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (2R,4R-APDC; 7.5-15 microg/0.5 microl), a selective group II agonist, was injected bilaterally into the striatum of haloperidol-treated animals. AIDA in doses of 7.5-15 microg/0.5 microl diminished the haloperidol-induced muscle rigidity. In contrast, 2R,4R-APDC injections were ineffective. The present results may suggest that the blockade of striatal mGluR1, but not the stimulation of group II mGluRs, may ameliorate parkinsonian muscle rigidity.
To determine the maximum-tolerated doses (MTD), the principal toxicities, and the pharmacologic behavior of high doses of Taxol (paclitaxel; Bristol-Myers Squibb, New York, NY) combined with cisplatin and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF).
Untreated and minimally pretreated solid-tumor patients received 24-hour infusions of Taxol on day 1 followed by cisplatin on day 2 and G-CSF, 5 micrograms/kg/d subcutaneously (SC), beginning on day 3. Treatment was repeated every 3 weeks. Starting doses of Taxol and cisplatin were 135 and 75 mg/m2, respectively.
The development of a severe peripheral neuropathy and/or severe myalgias precluded the chronic administration of Taxol and cisplatin with G-CSF at doses greater than 250 mg/m2 and 75 mg/m2, respectively. At this dose, the mean Taxol steady-state plasma concentration (Css) exceeds concentrations capable of inducing pertinent antimicrotubule effects in vitro. The severity of the neuropathy was related to the cumulative dose of Taxol, the magnitude of the dose administered during each treatment, and the presence of a pre-existing medical disorder associated with peripheral neuropathy. A proximal myopathy of modest severity also was documented. Although severe neutropenia occurred frequently, especially at the MTD, it was rarely associated with fever (8% of courses), and absolute neutrophil counts (ANCs) less than 500/microL never persisted for more than 5 days. Responses were noted in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and head and neck, breast, and esophageal cancers.
Taxol and cisplatin doses of 250 mg/m2 and 75 mg/m2, respectively, can be administered repetitively with G-CSF to untreated and minimally pretreated patients. However, these doses are not recommended for patients with pre-existing neuropathies until additional experience in high-risk patients is obtained. Although this Taxol dose is nearly 85% higher than the dose that can be combined with cisplatin in the absence of G-CSF, this high-dose regimen should not be used outside the investigational setting until a dose-response relationship has been demonstrated for Taxol in randomized clinical trials.
Estrogens are very successful in premenopausal and postmenopausal therapy. Synthetic estrogens, such as ethinyl estradiol and mestranol, are used in hormonal contraception, while natural estrogen are used for treatment during and after climaterium. It seems that the major difference between the action of synthetic and of natural estrogens is at the level of the venous endotelial system. It has been proven that the use of synthetic estrogen used in hormonal contraception can increase the risk of thrombotic accidents, and that the risk is even greater in women over 40, or in smokers. Synthetic estrogens can alter lipid metabolism and blood coagulation, and often lead to hypertension. Such complications are not reported with the use of natural estrogens traditionally used in menopausal and postmenopausal therapy.
Neuropsychological examinations have shown an elevated risk for cognitive impairment 2 years after therapy in breast cancer patients randomized to receive adjuvant high-dose cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, carboplatin (CTC) chemotherapy compared with a non-treated control group of stage I breast cancer patients. Patients randomized to receive standard-dose fluorouracil, epirubicin, cyclophosphamide (FEC) chemotherapy showed no elevated risk compared with controls. However, breast cancer patients treated with conventional cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil (CMF) chemotherapy showed a higher risk of cognitive impairment. The present study was designed to obtain a greater insight into these long-term neuropsychological sequelae following chemotherapy and their course in time.
At 4 years post-therapy, 22 of the original 34 CTC patients, 23 of 36 FEC patients, 31 of 39 CMF patients and 27 of 34 control patients were re-examined with neuropsychological tests.
Improvement in performance was observed in all chemotherapy groups, whereas in the control group there was a slight deterioration in test results. A differential attrition was observed among the groups, with a relatively high percentage of initially cognitively impaired patients from the CTC group dropping out due to factors related to disease progression.
The results suggest that cognitive dysfunction following adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients may be transient. Additional studies are needed to investigate the differential attrition of patients with cognitive impairment.
This study evaluated the activity of daptomycin combined with either gentamicin or rifampin against three methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) clinical isolates in vitro and one isolate in vivo against a representative strain (MRSA-572). Time-kill experiments showed that daptomycin was bactericidal against these strains at concentrations over the MIC. Daptomycin at sub-MIC concentrations plus gentamicin at 1x and 2x the MIC yielded synergy, while the addition of rifampin at 2 to 4 microg/ml resulted in indifference (two strains) or antagonism (one strain). The in vivo activity of daptomycin (6 mg/kg of body weight once a day) was evaluated +/- gentamicin (1 mg/kg intravenously [i.v.] every 8 h [q8h]) or rifampin (300 mg i.v. q8h) in a rabbit model of infective endocarditis by simulating human pharmacokinetics. Daptomycin plus gentamicin (median, 0 [interquartile range, 0 to 2] log10 CFU/g vegetation) was as effective as daptomycin alone (0 [0 to 2] log10 CFU/g vegetation) in reducing the density of bacteria in valve vegetations (P = 0.83), and both were more effective than daptomycin plus rifampin (3 [2 to 3.5] log10 CFU/g vegetation; P < 0.05) for the strain studied. In addition, daptomycin sterilized a ratio of vegetations that was similar to that of daptomycin plus gentamicin (10/15 [67%] versus 9/15 [60%]; P = 0.7), and both regimens did so more than daptomycin plus rifampin (3/15 [20%]; P = 0.01 and P = 0.02, respectively). No statistical difference was noted between daptomycin plus gentamicin and daptomycin alone for MRSA treatment. In the combination arm, all isolates from vegetations remained susceptible to daptomycin, gentamicin, and rifampin. Sixty-one percent of the isolates (8/13) acquired resistance to rifampin during monotherapy. In the daptomycin arm, resistance was detected in only one case, in which the daptomycin MIC rose to 2 microg/ml among the recovered bacteria. In conclusion, the addition of gentamicin or rifampin does not enhance the effectiveness of daptomycin in the treatment of experimental endocarditis due to MRSA.
Erythropoietic protoporphyria patients can develop cholestasis, severe hepatic damage, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. We modeled this hepatic pathology in C57BL/6J and BALB/c mice using griseofulvin and analyzed 3,127 genes for alteration of expression in the liver before and during the onset of protoporphyria, cholestasis, inflammation, and hepatic fibrosis. The two mouse strains developed different levels of pathologic damage in response to the griseofulvin. Characteristic gene expression profiles could be associated with griseofulvin-induced gene expression, disruption of lipid metabolism, and the pathologic states of inflammation, early fibrosis, and cholestasis. Additionally, some genes individually indicated an alteration of homeostasis. or pathologic state; for example, fibroblast proliferation was potentially indicated by increased calcyclin (SA100a6) expression. Changes in cytochrome P450 (Cyp) gene expression were particularly pronounced, with increased expression of the Cyp2a, Cyp2b, and Cyp3a families. Decreased Cyp4a10 and Cyp4a14 expression was observed that could be associated with early pathologic change. A potential decrease in bile acid and steroid biosynthesis was indicated by the decreased expression of Cyp7b1 and Hsd3b4, respectively. DNA damage was indicated by induction of GADD45. This study illustrates how transcriptional programs can be associated with different stimuli in the same experiment. The time course of change in the gene expression profile compared with changes in pathology and clinical chemistry shows the potential of this approach for modeling causative, predictive, and adaptive changes in gene expression during pathologic change.
To investigate the hepatoprotective activity of tea polyphenols (TP) and its relation with cytochrome P450 (CYP450) expression in mice.
Hepatic CYP450 and CYPb(5) levels were measured by UV-spectrophotometry in mice 2 d after intraperitoneal TP (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg per day). Then the mice were intragastricly pre-treated with TP (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg per day) for six days before paracetamol (1000 mg/kg) was given. Their acute mortality was compared with that of control mice. The mice were pre-treated with TP (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg per day) for five days before paracetamol (500 mg/kg) was given. Hepatic CYP2E1 and CYP1A2 protein and mRNA expression levels were evaluated by Western blotting, immunohistochemical staining and transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction.
The hepatic CYP450 and CYPb(5) levels in mice of TP-treated groups (100, 200 and 400 mg/kg per day) were decreased in a dose-dependent manner compared with those in the negative control mice. TP significantly attenuated the paracetamol-induced hepatic injury and dramatically reduced the mortality of paracetamol-treated mice. Furthermore, TP reduced CYP2E1 and CYP1A2 expression at both protein and mRNA levels in a dose-dependent manner.
TP possess potential hepatoprotective properties and can suppress CYP450 expression.
Although the mechanisms for fibrosis development remain largely unknown, recent evidence indicates that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) may act as an important fibrotic stimulus in diseased lungs. ER stress is observed in lungs of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. In this study we evaluated if ER stress and the UPR was present in macrophages exposed to chrysotile asbestos and if ER stress in macrophages was associated with asbestos-induced pulmonary fibrosis. Macrophages exposed to chrysotile had elevated transcript levels of several ER stress genes. Macrophages loaded with the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye Fura2-AM showed that cytosolic Ca(2+) increased significantly within minutes after chrysotile exposure and remained elevated for a prolonged time. Chrysotile-induced increases in cytosolic Ca(2+) were partially inhibited by either anisomycin, an inhibitor of passive Ca(2+) leak from the ER, or 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxyl)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA-AM), an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator known to deplete ER Ca(2+) stores. Anisomycin inhibited X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) mRNA splicing and reduced immunoglobulin-binding protein (BiP) levels, whereas BAPTA-AM increased XBP1 splicing and BiP expression, suggesting that ER calcium depletion may be one factor contributing to ER stress in cells exposed to chrysotile. To evaluate ER stress in vivo, asbestos-exposed mice showed fibrosis development, and alveolar macrophages from fibrotic mice showed increased expression of BiP. Bronchoalveolar macrophages from asbestosis patients showed increased expression of several ER stress genes compared with normal subjects. These findings suggest that alveolar macrophages undergo ER stress, which is associated with fibrosis development.
1. The central cardiovascular effects of several opioid receptor selective agonists and the nonselective opioid antagonist, naloxone, were studied in anesthetized normotensive control rats, in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), and in foot-shock-stressed rats. 2. Receptor-selective agonists injected into the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), paraventricular nucleus (PVN), and dorsal hippocampus (dHip) were DAGO (mu), DADLE (delta), and U50,488H (kappa). 3. DAGO and DADLE (3 nM) decreased arterial pressure and heart rate in RVLM and PVN of all rat strains, while U-50,488H (9 nM) had only minimal effects in these areas. 4. In dHip, only DADLE (3 nM) had depressor and bradycardic effects, and then, only in SHR, with DAGO and U50,488H being ineffective in any strain, even at 9 nM. 5. Prior injection of naloxone (10 nM) into the RVLM, PVN and dHip blocked and postinjection reversed the cardiovascular effects of the agonists. Naloxone alone increased blood pressure and heart rate in all three areas, in all rat strains except SHR, suggesting a tonic depressor effect of endogenous opioids. 6. Lack of significant quantitative differences in opioid agonist and antagonist effects between normotensive and hypertensive or stressed rats argues against a role for endogenous brain opioids in experimental hypertension.
Previous research has revealed associations between autism and immune genes located in the human leukocyte antigen (HLA). To better understand which HLA genetic loci may be associated with autism, we compared the class I HLA-A and -B alleles in autistic probands with case control subjects from Caucasian families. The frequency of HLA-A2 alleles was significantly increased in autistic subjects compared with normal allelic frequencies from the National Marrow Donors Program (NMDP) (p = 0.0043 after allelic correction). The transmission disequilibrium test for the A2 allele revealed an increased frequency of inheritance for autistic children (p = 0.033). There were no significant associations of autism with HLA-B alleles; however, the A2-B44 and A2-B51 haplotypes were two times more frequent in autistic subjects. The association and linkage of the class I HLA-A2 allele with autism suggests its involvement in the etiology of autism. Possible roles are discussed for the HLA-A2 association in the presentation of microbial antigen within the central nervous system and/or in the establishment of synaptic and neuronal circuits in the developing brain.
A child with cerebral palsy and carnitine deficiency developed ventricular arrhythmias with loss of cardiac output during elective surgery under general anaesthesia with concomitant epidural analgesia. Sinus rhythm was restored on administration of adrenaline, but hypotension persisted despite resuscitation. Bolus administration of 0.8 ml*kg(-1) (20 ml) lipid emulsion resulted in rapid improvement in cardiac output. Blood samples taken before and after the lipid bolus did not demonstrate toxic concentrations of bupivacaine. This case suggests that carnitine deficiency may increase susceptibility to bupivacaine cardiotoxicity.
Determined the efficacy of methylphenidate (MPH) in a clinical population of aggressive, urban children diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In previous studies of prepubertal children with ADHD, MPH has been shown to be effective when compared with placebo. Eighteen inner-city children (ages 6 to 12 years), diagnosed with ADHD and attending a summer treatment program for youth with disruptive behavior disorders, participated in a double-blind placebo trial with assessment data obtained from staff in the program and parents at home. Based on staff ratings of the children's behavior in the program and an academic classroom, the children displayed significant improvements in ADHD symptoms and aggressive behavior with low- and high-dose MPH conditions. At home, parents and guardians reported few significant differences between placebo and MPH on behavior ratings. In both settings, MPH was well tolerated with few side effects found during active drug conditions.
