This study assessed the effects of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist dextromethorphan (DM) on levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease (PD).
Recent experimental evidence suggests that increased synaptic efficacy of NMDA receptors expressed on basal ganglia neurons may play a role in the pathophysiology of levodopa-induced motor response complications.
DM was given to six PD patients with motor fluctuations in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over study. At the end of each 3-week study arm, patients received several brief i.v. levodopa infusions while parkinsonian symptoms and dyskinesias were frequently scored. Levodopa dose-response curves for antiparkinsonian and dyskinetic effects were then compared for each study arm.
With DM, average and maximum dyskinesia scores improved by >50%, without compromising the antiparkinsonian response magnitude or duration of levodopa, although in some subjects the levodopa threshold dose was slightly higher with DM than with placebo.
These findings support the view that drugs acting to inhibit glutamatergic transmission at the NMDA receptors can ameliorate levodopa-associated dyskinesias.
1. Valproic acid, useful in the treatment of migraine, is an inhibitor of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) aminotransferase and activator of glutamic acid decarboxylase. Its mechanism in migraine remains obscure. The effects of valproic acid (2-propylpentanoic acid) were examined on the number of cells expressing c-fos-like immunoreactivity (c-fos-LI), a marker of neuronal activation, within the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (lamina I, IIo, TNC) 2 h after intracisternal injection of the irritant, capsaicin (0.1 ml; 15.25 micrograms ml-1), in urethane-anaesthetized Hartley guinea-pigs. Positive cells were counted in eighteen sections (50 microns) at three representative levels (rostral, middle and caudal) within lamina I, IIo of the TNC in 90 animals. 2. Numerous cells were labelled after capsaicin instillation (244 +/- 25; 1 ml; 15.25 mM) but not after capsaicin vehicle (11 +/- 1). Positive cells were also found within the medial reticular nucleus, the area postrema and the nucleus of the solitary tract. A similar distribution has been demonstrated previously after application of intracisternal irritants such as autologous blood or carrageenin. 3. Valproate (> or = 10 mg kg-1, i.p.) reduced labelled cells by 52% (P < 0.05) in lamina I, IIo but not within the area postrema, the nucleus of the solitary tract or the medial reticular nucleus. A similar finding was obtained previously after administration of sumatriptan, dihydroergotamine or the NK1 receptor antagonist RPR 100,893. 4. Pretreatment with bicuculline (30 micrograms kg-1; i.p.), a GABAA antagonist, but not phaclofen (1 mg kg-1) a GABAB antagonist, reversed the effect of valproate and increased c-fos positive cells within lamina I, IIo. Somewhat paradoxically, bicuculline by itself (30 micrograms kg-1 i.p.) decreased the number of labelled cells suggesting that more than a single GABAergic mechanism can suppress c-fos expression. 5. We conclude that the mechanism of action of valproate is mediated via GABAA receptors. Since valproate decreases both c-fos expression and as previously shown, neurogenic inflammation within the meninges, the GABAA receptor complex might provide an important target for drug development in migraine and related headaches.
The purpose of this study was to compare the activity of bromperidol to that of haloperidol, as an initial treatment on admission of psychotic patients. In general, patients reacted equally on both drugs, showing a marked improvement in most of the scored psychiatric elements. After 2 weeks, an improvement in the energy score was noticed for bromperidol, but not for haloperidol, which emphasizes the disinhibiting effect of bromperidol. Most frequent side-effects were tremor, parkinsonism and acathisia.
Bilateral vocal cord paralysis is uncommon. Most cases occur secondary to trauma, malignancy, surgery, or intubation. Also, it was reported as a side effect of Vinca alkaloids.
We report a patient with small cell lung cancer who developed bilateral vocal cord paralysis and needed to be intubated after treatment with cisplatin and etoposide. All workups excluded metastases as a cause of bilateral vocal cord paralysis. The patient required tracheostomy; she did not receive any further chemotherapy. After 11 weeks, vocal cord paralysis disappeared, tracheostomy was reversed, and the patient remained symptom free; however, 6 months later, the patient developed brain and liver metastases and died from her disease with no evidence of vocal cord paralysis.
We report a case of reversible bilateral vocal cord paralysis that we believe to be secondary to cisplatin toxicity, which is an undescribed complication of this drug.
Cisplatin can induce reversible bilateral vocal cord paralysis. The concurrent use of cisplatin and etoposide might have contributed to this complication in our patient.
A cross-over study comparing the effects of doxazosin, moduretic and amlodipine on fasting blood glucose and blood pressure levels in 9 adult hypertensive Nigerians is presented. The results showed that doxazosin, moduretic and amlodipine were effective in reducing diastolic blood pressure and thus confirmed our previous observation of blood pressure reduction during the monotherapies of these antihypertensive agents. The study further indicated the effectiveness of doxazosin in the management of severe essential hypertension in Nigerian patients. Fasting blood glucose level significantly decreased during doxazosin treatment phase and increased during moduretic phase, while amlodipine treatment did not have any effect on blood glucose level. In conclusion, the cross-over study seem to confirm the effectiveness of doxazosin therapy and its antidiabetic effect in hypertensive patients. The effectiveness of amlodipine therapy in controlling blood pressure was also observed, but no effect on blood glucose level, while moduretic therapy has hyperglycemic effect despite its effectiveness in blood pressure control in African patients.
We investigated the relationship between lung- and skin-tumor promotion and oxidative stress caused by administration of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA(V)) in mice. The incidence of lung tumors induced by lung tumor initiator (4NQO) and DMA(V) were, as well as 8-oxo-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG), suppressed by cotreatment with (-)epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG). When mice were topically treated with trivalent dimethylated arsenic (DMA(III)), a further reductive metabolite of DMA(V), not only an increase in skin tumors but also an elevation of 8-oxodG in epidermis were observed. These results suggest that tumor promotion due to DMA(V) administration is mediated by DMA(III) through the induction of oxidative stress.
Disulfiram is used in alcohol rehabilitation because it inhibits aldehyde dehydrogenase and consequently causes the disulfiram-ethanol reaction (vomiting, vertigo, anxiety, cardiovascular effects) after ingestion of alcoholic beverages. However, adverse effects on the central nervous system (for the most part psychotic reactions, acute organic brain syndrome, catatonia) may appear as a direct result of the drug itself. Disulfiram and its metabolite carbon disulfide inhibit dopamine beta-hydroxylase, increasing the levels of dopamine and reducing those of norepinephrine in the central nervous system. We observed direct disulfiram-induced toxicity on the central nervous system in 8 abstinent patients in whom a disulfiram-ethanol reaction had been excluded. Risk is increased when 1) excessive amounts of the drug are ingested; 2) the patient is already suffering from a major psychiatric illness; 3) the patient has anatomical brain lesions. In all cases observed, the toxic effects appeared in the first weeks and were reversed after suspension of the drug (except in one patient who died from severe bronchopulmonary infection). We thus suggest the following protocol: 1) physical examination and interview 3-4 weeks after initiation of treatment; 2) as a general rule, in abstinent patients, the lowest possible maintenance dosage should be administered. This strategy, despite the risk of underdosage, meets the goals inherent in an integrated medical and psychosocial approach to the treatment of alcoholism with which these patients seem better able to comply.
Development of hepatitis B virus (HBV)-resistant strains following nucleos(t)ide analog treatment is a major medical concern. This report describes a case of an adult patient with chronic HBV infection, sequentially treated with the nucleos(t)ide analogues, lamivudine, adefovir, and entecavir. During monotherapy with lamivudine, the patient developed lamivudine-resistant variants, which were undetectable during adefovir dipivoxil monotherapy. Twenty-two months after discontinuing lamivudine therapy, the resistant variants were again detected while the patient was receiving entecavir monotherapy. Genotypic analysis by sequencing the HBV polymerase was confirmed with the INNO-LiPA method. The results of this study suggest that entecavir treatment reselected residual lamivudine-resistant HBV variants, possibly because lamivudine-resistant HBV is less susceptible to entecavir than the wild-type virus. Despite the presence of these variants, the patient has had a complete virological response.
We studied the influence of sulindac, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent on experimental streptozotocin-induced diabetic neuropathy. Untreated diabetic rats were compared with nondiabetic rats, diabetic rats treated with low dose insulin and diabetic rats given sulindac (6.0 mg/kg by gavage 5 of 7 days weekly). Neuropathy was assessed by following serial in vivo motor and sensory caudal conduction, resistance to ischemic conduction failure, and in vitro conduction in sural myelinated and unmyelinated sensory fibers. The impact of low dose insulin and sulindac treatment on the microenvironment of the L4 dorsal root ganglion and sciatic endoneurium was assessed by measuring local perfusion and oxygen tension after 16 weeks of diabetes. Sulindac normalized conduction velocity in caudal sensory fibers, sural myelinated fibers and sural unmyelinated fibers, and reduced the number of diabetic cataracts. Sulindac also normalized a deficit in dorsal root ganglion blood flow and a reduction in sciatic endoneurial oxygen tension in diabetic rats. Low dose insulin improved neuropathy as well but the pattern of benefits was less robust than that of sulindac. Sulindac may be a candidate for a clinical trial in human diabetic polyneuropathy.
Pim-3, a proto-oncogene with serine/threonine kinase activity, was enhanced in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues. To address the roles of Pim-3 in HCC development, we prepared transgenic mice that express human Pim-3 selectively in liver. The mice were born at a Mendelian ratio, were fertile and did not exhibit any apparent pathological changes in the liver until 1 year after birth. Pim-3-transgenic mouse-derived hepatocytes exhibited accelerated cell cycle progression. The administration of a potent hepatocarcinogen, diethylnitrosamine (DEN), induced accelerated proliferation of liver cells in Pim-3 transgenic mice in the early phase, compared with that observed for wild-type mice. Treatment with DEN induced lipid droplet accumulation with increased proliferating cell numbers 6 months after the treatment. Eventually, wild-type mice developed HCC with a frequency of 40% until 10 month after the treatment. Lipid accumulation was accelerated in Pim-3 transgenic mice with higher proliferating cell numbers, compared with that observed for wild-type mice. Pim-3 transgenic mice developed HCC with a higher incidence (80%) and a heavier burden, together with enhanced intratumoral CD31-positive vascular areas, compared with that observed for wild-type mice. These observations indicate that Pim-3 alone cannot cause, but can accelerate HCC development when induced by a hepatocarcinogen, such as DEN.
The clinical course of a 9-month-old boy with Vit. D resistant rickets receiving treatment course 1-Alpha-hydroxycholecalciferol is described. Patient's response to therapy was excellent, after regression of bone changes and normalization of serum parameters drug treatment was discontinued for differential diagnostic considerations. Even several months later no relapse occurred. Due to this fact and the high concentration of serum 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol concentration during therapy the very rare pseudovitamin-D-deficiency type II, which is characterized by a bone receptor defect, was assumed. In contrast, successful treatment with low-dose 1 Alpha-OHCCF indicates that the underlying defect is pseudovitamin-D-deficiency rickets type I, however this form would require lifelong therapy. The differential diagnosis based on recent knowledge of Vitamin-D-metabolism is discussed.
Male mice were treated (i.p.) for 3 days with 15 different environmentally encountered epoxides, and the effects of these compounds on liver microsomal and cytosolic epoxide hydrolase (mEH and cEH), glutathione S-transferase (mGST and cGST) and carboxylesterase (mCE) activities were determined. The epoxides included the pesticides: heptachlor epoxide, dieldrin, tridiphane, and juvenoid R-20458; the natural products: disparlure, limonin, nomilin, and epoxymethyloleate; the endogenous steroids: lanosterol epoxide, cholesterol-alpha-epoxide, and progesterone epoxide; and the industrial or synthetic epoxides: epichlorohydrin, araldite, trans-stilbene oxide, and 4'-phenylchalcone oxide. The pesticide epoxides were the most effective inducers of liver weight, microsomal protein, and the enzyme activities measured, with mEH and cEH activities towards cis-stilbene oxide (mEHcso and cEHcso), cGST activities towards four of five substrates, and mCE towards clofibrate (mCEclof) and p-nitrophenylacetate (mCEpna) increased following treatment with most of the pesticides. The synthetic epoxides increased some of the same activities, while the natural products, except for increases in cGST activities, and endogenous steroid epoxides were generally not inductive. cEH activity towards trans-stilbene oxide (cEHtso) was increased only following treatment with the peroxisome proliferator, tridiphane, but decreased following treatment with several of the epoxides, while microsomal cholesterol epoxide hydrolase (mEHchol) was increased only moderately by disparlure. Microsomes could effectively conjugate glutathione to chlorodinitrobenzene (mGSTcdnb) and cis-stilbene oxide (mGSTcso). These two activities were differentially induced by a few of the epoxides, suggesting that they may be selective substrates for different isozymes of mGST. Correlation coefficients were determined for the relative response of liver weight, subfraction protein, and enzyme activities. A relatively high correlation was found between the response of liver weight and cytosolic hydrolysis of trans-stilbene oxide (r = 0.73) and cis-stilbene oxide (r = 0.62), and cytosolic glutathione conjugation of dichloronitrobenzene (r = 0.66) and trans-stilbene oxide (r = 0.75). In addition, relatively high correlations were found between the different cGST activities, in particular for dichloronitrobenzene with trans-stilbene oxide (r = 0.89). These studies show that there exists a wide variation in the response of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes to environmentally encountered epoxides and that a fairly strong correlation exists between the increases in liver size and increases in certain cytosolic enzyme activities; they also suggest further studies concerning the possibility of an additional isozyme of mGST.
To explore the effects of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) in prevention of mother-to-infant hepatitis B virus (HBV) transmission.
A total of 279 pregnant women positive for HBsAg alone or for both HBsAg and HBeAg were enrolled into this study from January 2001 to May 2005. They were respectively divided into two groups at random, namely, only HBsAg-positiveexperimental group (n = 80), only HBsAg-positive control group (n = 60), both HBsAg and HBeAg-positive experimental group (n = 79) and both HBsAg and HBeAg-positive control group (n = 60). The two experimental groups were injected with HBIG once every four weeks until labor. The two control groups received no HBIG. The infants received intramuscular HBIG 16 hours after birth and two weeks later, in addition to routine immunization with hepatitis B vaccine. The infants were followed up and HBsAg was determined.
The HBsAg infection rates of babies in the four groups were respectively 3%, 13%, 10%, 32%. The infection rate of the infants whose mothers were injected with HBIG was significantly lower than that of the control group.
The HBIG could effectively prevent HBV transmission from mothers to infants and reduce the HBV infection rate.
The emergence of nanotechnology has produced a multitude of engineered nanomaterials such as carbon nanotubes (CNTs), and concerns have been raised about their effects on human health, especially for susceptible populations such as individuals with asthma. Multiwalled CNTs (MWCNTs) have been shown to exacerbate ovalbumin (OVA)-induced airway remodeling in mice. Moreover, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) has been described as a protective factor in asthma. We postulated that COX-2-deficient (COX-2(-/-)) mice would be susceptible to MWCNT-induced exacerbations of allergen-induced airway remodeling, including airway inflammation, fibrosis, and mucus-cell metaplasia (i.e., the formation of goblet cells). Wild-type (WT) or COX-2(-/-) mice were sensitized to OVA to induce allergic airway inflammation before a single dose of MWCNTs (4 mg/kg) delivered to the lungs by oropharyngeal aspiration. MWCNTs significantly increased OVA-induced lung inflammation and mucus-cell metaplasia in COX-2(-/-) mice compared with WT mice. However, airway fibrosis after exposure to allergen and MWCNTs was no different between WT and COX-2(-/-) mice. Concentrations of certain prostanoids (prostaglandin D2 and thromboxane B2) were enhanced by OVA or MWCNTs in COX-2(-/-) mice. No differences in COX-1 mRNA concentrations were evident between WT and COX-2(-/-) mice treated with OVA and MWCNTs. Interestingly, MWCNTs significantly enhanced allergen-induced cytokines involved in Th2 (IL-13 and IL-5), Th1 (CXCL10), and Th17 (IL-17A) inflammatory responses in COX-2(-/-) mice, but not in WT mice. We conclude that exacerbations of allergen-induced airway inflammation and mucus-cell metaplasia by MWCNTs are enhanced by deficiencies in COX-2, and are associated with the activation of a mixed Th1/Th2/Th17 immune response.
Two patients experienced new onset or worsening of panic disorder during treatment with propranolol for tachycardia or palpitations associated with a diagnosis of mitral valve prolapse. Both patients had a family history of panic disorder; one also had a family history of mitral valve prolapse and depression. As antidepressant drugs can treat both depression and panic disorder, it would not be inconsistent that propranolol might exacerbate either disorder. Other possible interpretations of these two cases are discussed.
Systemic toxic reactions to local anesthetics are brought about by absolute overdosage, and, most commonly, inadvertent intravascular injections. The anti-convulsant action of ketamine has been studied. However, the effect of ketamine on lidocaine-induced convulsions has not been reported. This study investigated the effect of ketamine on lidocaine-induced seizures in mice. Mice (32-41 g) were divided into 2 groups, 15 in each group, and were pretreated with intraperitoneal normal saline solution or intraperitenoeal (ip) ketamine before lidocaine. Group 1 (N = 15) received 75 mg kg ip lidocaine; Group 2 (N = 15) received 20 mg kg ketamin ip; 5 min later 75 mg kg lidokaine ip were applied. Clinical features, incidences, latencies, durations, and mortality rate of convulsions were recorded. After 75 mg kg lidocaine injection, ataxia, loss of righting reflex, and generalized tonic-clonic convulsions were seen within 2-5 min in Group 1. Generalized tonic-clonic convulsions were seen in 8 mice and deep sedation was seen in 7 mice in Group 2 (p < .05). Generalized status epilepticus occurred in one mouse in both groups. Three mice from Group l and one mouse from Group 2 died during convulsions. There were no differences between the two groups with regard to the onset and duration of seizures (p > .05). It was concluded that ketamine significantly prevented lidocaine-induced generalized tonic-clonic seizures; on the other hand, the lethality of lidocaine was least reduced by ketamine.
Chloracetanilide herbicides are multisite carcinogens in rodents. Progression of alachlor-induced olfactory tumors in rats is accompanied by cytoplasmic accumulation and nuclear localization of beta-catenin, suggesting activation of Wint signaling. Female CD-1 mice were resistant to alachlor-induced olfactory carcinogenesis. The current studies were performed to determine whether Apc(Min/+) mice, which have activated Wnt signaling due to mutation of the second allele of Apc, would be susceptible to alachlor olfactory carcinogenesis. Female and male Apc(Min/+) mice, as well as Apc(+/+) littermates received alachlor in the diet (260 mg/kg/d) for up to 3 months. Female A/J and C57BL/6J wild-type mice were also treated (for 10 and 14 months, respectively), as these strains vary in sensitivity to many respiratory tract insults. No olfactory mucosal tumors were observed in any of the mice, although alachlor-treated Apc(Min/+) mice developed histological changes similar to those in alachlor-treated rats. Alachlor-treated A/J mice developed pronounced intracellular accumulation of amorphous eosinophilic material in the olfactory mucosa, foci of respiratory-like metaplasia,and hyperplasia of nasal mucus glands. A similar but less intense response was seen in C57BL/6J mice. Mice and rats had equivalent levels of the putative bioactivating enzyme (CYP2A) in olfactory mucosa. and mice had induced hepatic CYP3A and CYP2B enzymes with alachlor treatment, which may increase alachlor elimination. These studies extend previous observations by describing alachlor-induced olfactory mucosal changes in mice and suggest that hepatic metabolic enzyme induction may be responsible for resistance of mice to alachlor-induced olfactory carcinogenesis.
Many patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have residual symptoms (eg, persistent fatigue, excessive sleepiness) despite an overall antidepressant response. Placebo-controlled studies indicate that modafinil, a wake-promoting agent, may relieve residual symptoms.
This 12-week, open-label, dose titration, extension study followed an 8-week placebo-controlled study of modafinil augmentation in patients with MDD. The dose was 100-400 mg/day. The median stable dose was 300 mg/day. Assessments were the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Brief Fatigue Inventory, Clinical Global Impression of Improvement scale, 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression, and Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale.
Of the 245 patients treated, 194 completed the study; 70% reported Clinical Global Impression of Improvement scale responses of "much improved" or "very much improved" between open-label baseline and final visit (previous randomized modafinil group: 74%; placebo group: 66%). When data were analyzed for four subsets of patients (former modafinil responders, placebo responders, modafinil nonresponders, and placebo nonresponders), improvements in scores on all outcome measures were at least twice as great among former modafinil and placebo nonresponders compared with responders. Most common adverse events were headache (18%), nausea (9%), and dizziness (7%); all were generally mild to moderate in severity.
Twelve weeks of modafinil augmentation relieved excessive sleepiness, reduced fatigue, and improved patients' overall clinical condition, including mood.
With the use of the newer antidepressants beyond the traditional tricyclics and monoamine oxidase inhibitors, newer options in headache prophylaxis are provided as well as the potential for undesirable and even potentially life-threatening interactions between medications. In this article, four patient reports of a specific interaction--the serotonin syndrome--are presented. These events resulted from transitioning headache patients from an older antidepressant (phenelzine) to a newer antidepressant (venlafaxine).
In a prospective, controlled, randomised, multicentre study 252 patients with totally resected cutaneous melanoma (248 in stage II-III and 4 in stage IV) were either treated with two doses of dacarbazine (DTIC) followed by a 6-month treatment with 3 MU thrice weekly of highly purified natural interferon-alpha (n = 128; arm A) or received no adjuvant treatment (n = 124; arm B). Treatment was well tolerated. After a median follow-up of 8.5 years ITT analysis showed that the difference in survival was statistically significant with respect to melanoma-related deaths (HR = 0.65, CI = 0.46-0.97, p = 0.022) and close to significance with respect to overall survival (HR 0.71, CI 0.49-1.00, p = 0.052). The risk reduction of melanoma-associated death, calculated by Cox proportional hazards modelling, after adjusting for identified predictive variables, was almost 50% (p = 0.002). The overall efficacy of the treatment appeared to be mainly attributable to effects observed in patients with deep and/or metastasizing tumours (HR 0.60, CI 0.40-0.90, p = 0.013).
Delirium has many organic causes, one of which is the combination of medications. This is sometimes difficult to differentiate in the psychotic individual. To our knowledge there are no published cases of delirium definitively established by "rechallenge" with a combination of clozapine and benzodiazepines. Lorazepam was given for agitation in two individuals on clozapine. Because of either the short half-life, or the lack of knowledge about this interaction, multiple doses were given. Clonazepam was given to a third individual. Two of the reported individuals developed a delirium associated with the administration and onset of lorazepam. These patients had received both lorazepam and clozapine singularly in the past without the adverse effects seen with the combination. Both patients were rechallenged with second doses of lorazepam, when they again developed a delirium. In one case the patient was admitted on clonazepam and then started on clozapine. A delirium developed at a clozapine dose of 150 mg/day; she was not rechallenged. In all three cases the patients' sensorium cleared when benzodiazepines were discontinued. The combination of benzodiazepines and clozapine should be avoided if possible, and if they are used in combination, it should be with great caution.
Morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) is an active metabolite of morphine with potent analgesic activity. Morphine-3-glucuronide (M3G), the most prevalent metabolite, has minimal affinity for opioid receptors. It has been suggested from animal model data and by examination of metabolite ratios in humans that M3G may functionally antagonize the respiratory depressant and analgesic actions of morphine and M6G.
We performed a double-blind placebo-controlled trial with 10 healthy volunteers. The trial had 6 arms: (1) placebo, (2) 10 mg/70 kg of morphine, (3) 3.3 mg/70 kg of M6G, (4) 30.6 mg/70 kg of M3G, (5) 30.6 mg/70 kg of M3G with 10 mg/70 kg of morphine, and (6) 30.6 mg/70 kg of M3G with 3.3 mg/70 kg of M6G; all were give by slow intravenous bolus. Analgesia was assessed with the use of the submaximal ischemic pain model. The effects were quantified on numerical and visual analogue scales. Respiratory parameters and response to steady state 5% carbon dioxide challenge were assessed with spirometry, mass spectroscopy, and earlobe blood gas analysis.
Morphine and M6G produced significant pain relief compared with placebo (morphine, P < .0001; M6G, P = .033). Pain relief after M6G was less than after morphine (P = .009) and M3G was no better than placebo (P = .26). Pain relief with morphine and M6G were not significantly altered by M3G (P = .59 and P = .28, respectively). Significant and similar dysphoria and sedation occurred with both morphine (P < .002) and M6G (P < .016) but were absent with both M3G and placebo. Respiratory parameters suggested that M6G produced less respiratory depression than morphine. Both morphine and M6G caused a significant reduction in respiratory drive compared with placebo (morphine, P = .002; M6G, P = .013); this effect was not reversed by M3G (P = .35 and P = .83, respectively).
M3G appears to be devoid of significant activity; in these circumstances and at these doses, it does not antagonize either the analgesic or respiratory depressant effects of M6G or morphine.
Sotalol may induce torsade de pointes through cardiac action potential prolongation, but a proarrhythmic effect secondary to its beta blocking action has not been reported. A 54 year old man presented with symptoms of angina and presyncope, subsequently demonstrated to be associated with coronary spasm. Treatment with sotalol exacerbated his symptoms and resulted in recurrent polymorphic ventricular tachycardia with a pattern indistinguishable from that caused by a class III action. Following sotalol with-drawal polymorphic ventricular tachycardia resolved completely. Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in patients treated with sotalol may therefore not always be the result of delayed repolarisation, but may be caused by beta adrenoceptor blockade.
To compare sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced hypotension with desflurane-induced hypotension for the effects on myocardial blood flow and tissue oxygenation in dogs.
Prospective, randomized, crossover, nonblinded.
University teaching hospital.
Male nonpurpose-bred hounds (n = 8).
Dogs were anesthetized with 8% desflurane. Catheters were inserted into the femoral artery and coronary sinus. A flow probe was placed in the left anterior descending (LAD) branch of the coronary artery. A sensor that measured myocardial oxygen pressure (PmO(2)) was inserted into the myocardium of the left ventricle. Myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO(2)) was calculated as LAD flow x arterial - coronary sinus oxygen content.
Measurements were made at baseline blood pressure levels of 99 mmHg (measure 1), during hypotension to 62 to 66 mmHg using intravenous SNP or 14% desflurane (measure 2), and during SNP or 14% desflurane with blood pressure support using phenylephrine (measure 3). Each dog randomly received both hypotensive treatments, separated by 1 hour. Baseline measures were PmO(2) = 46 +/- 9 mmHg, LAD flow = 43 +/- 11 mL/min, and MVO(2) = 2.47 +/- 0.73 mL O(2)/min. During hypotension induced with SNP, PmO(2) decreased 30% (p < 0.05), LAD flow increased 40% (p < 0.05), and MVO(2) did not change. During hypotension induced with 14% desflurane, PmO(2) did not change, and LAD flow and MVO(2) decreased 25% and 40% (p < 0.05). Blood pressure support with phenylephrine increased LAD flow and MVO(2) but did not change PmO(2) during SNP or 14% desflurane treatment.
SNP-induced hypotension produced myocardial vasodilation, but tissue oxygenation was impaired. PmO(2) was maintained during desflurane-induced hypotension.
Exposure of murine thymocytes to doxorubicin (Dox) (0.5-1.0 microM, 24 hr) triggered rapid DNA degradation, as indicated by the appearance of a major subdiploid population demonstrated by DNA flow cytometry. Electron microscopic comparison of samples with large subdiploid populations versus those with little or no such subset revealed significantly more cells with the characteristic features of apoptosis, the morphologically definable stage of programmed cell death. These features include unipolar condensed chromatin, zeiosis, and electron-dense cytoplasm. Dox-induced apoptosis occurred without prior S or G2/M phase arrest or cell size increase. The subset most susceptible to Dox-induced apoptosis in vitro and in vivo was CD3-CD4+CD8+. The same subset is affected by dexamethasone (Dex); as reported for Dex-induced apoptosis, actinomycin D and cycloheximide also blocked Dox-induced apoptosis. Thymocytes exposed to higher Dox concentrations (2-10 microM) did not have a subdiploid population. Although at 2-10 microM Dox significantly reduced cell numbers (probably as a result of necrosis), at least 5-10% of the population was viable at 24 hr. Thymocytes exposed to low concentrations of Dox (0.001-1.0 microM) plus Dex (0.1 microM) exhibited additive induction of apoptosis, whereas those exposed to high concentrations of Dox (2-10 microM) plus Dex were completely devoid of any evidence of apoptosis. These results indicate that the Dox-induced killing in thymocytes (mostly noncycling cells) occurs via different mechanisms depending upon the Dox concentration.
