Neuroprotective functions of erythropoietin (Epo) are thought to involve a heteroreceptor composed of both Epo receptor (Epo-R) and common beta chain (betac). Here, we measured the response of hippocampal Epo system components (Epo, Epo-R and betac) during neurodegenerative processes following pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE), and examined whether recombinant human Epo (rHuEpo) could support neuronal survival. We evidence that Epo is induced in astroglia following SE, in particular within areas displaying delayed neuronal death. In addition, we demonstrate for the first time that rHuEpo reduces considerably hippocampal neurodegeneration following SE. rHuEpo may thus supplement astroglial induction of Epo to promote enhanced hippocampal neuronal survival following SE. We also show that Epo-R is expressed by neurons and astrocytes mainly, while betac is barely detectable in basal conditions and induced in reactive microglia exclusively following SE. Altogether, our results suggest that Epo/rHuEpo exerts neuroprotection, through Epo-R signaling and independently of betac, and, therefore, may be anti-epileptogenic.
Hyperbaric prilocaine 2% is a medium long-acting spinal anaesthetic. There are few data on time to recovery and rate of urinary retention after spinal administration of hyperbaric prilocaine 2%. This prospective study was carried out to evaluate the time to spontaneous micturition, quantify the rate of necessary bladder catheterizations, and identify the risk factors for urinary retention after intrathecal prilocaine administration.
ASA I/II patients (16-80 yr) undergoing ambulatory lower limb surgery were enrolled and received spinal anaesthesia using hyperbaric prilocaine 2% (60 mg). Ringer's lactate was administered for peroperative volume replacement. Bladder ultrasound was performed hourly until spontaneous micturition or catheterization, when bladder filling reached 600 ml, and they were unable to urinate spontaneously.
Eighty-six patients completed the study (49 males and 37 females). Mean (sd) fluid administration was 1200 (499) ml until either micturition or catheterization; 37.8% of the women and 12.2% of the men required catheterization (P=0.009). Mean (sd) time between spinal anaesthesia and catheterization was 190 (88) min, and 260 (61) min to micturition (P<0.0001). Age <40 or >60 yr and female gender were predisposing factors for urinary retention.
After spinal anaesthesia with hyperbaric prilocaine 2% (60 mg) for ambulatory lower limb surgery, 23% of patients required postoperative urinary catheterization. Postoperative bladder ultrasound and early catheterization are essential to avoid bladder distension and facilitate discharge in patients after intrathecal prilocaine 2% administration in ambulatory surgery.
To examine the tumor-promoting effect of troglitazone (TRG), a novel thiazolidinedione insulin-sensitizing agent, on splenic hemangiosarcomas in rasH2 mice, histopathological and molecular analyses were performed in the spleen of female rasH2 mice fed a diet containing 6,000 or 0 ppm TRG for 16 weeks after 1,000 or 0 mg/kg urethane (UR) initiation. Histopathologically, splenic hemangiosarcomas were observed in the UR-alone and UR + TRG groups, but there was no significant difference in the incidence of splenic hemangiosarcomas between the UR-alone and UR+TRG groups. There were increasing tendencies in the number of positive cells for anti-PCNA antibody and gene expression in the UR + TRG group, but such a change was not statistically significant as compared to that in the UR-alone group. The gene expressions of VEGF, VEGFR1, VEGFC, VEGFR2 and Tie2 related to angiogenesis; c-fos related to MAPK cascade activation; and cyclin D1 related to cell cycle in the UR-alone and UR + TRG groups were significantly higher than those in the untreated control group. However, only the Tie2 gene in the UR + TRG group was significantly increased as compared to that in the UR-alone group. These results suggest that the vascular tumor-promoting activity of TRG in rasH2 mice is extremely low in the present experimental condition and a part of the gene related to angiogenesis probably contributes to the promotion of splenic hemangiosarcomas in rasH2 mice given TRG.
Although the association between exposure to particulate matter and health is well established, there remains uncertainty as to whether certain chemical components are more harmful than others. We explored whether the association between cause-specific hospital admissions and PM(2.5) was modified by PM(2.5) chemical composition.
We estimated the association between daily PM(2.5) and emergency hospital admissions for cardiac causes (CVD), myocardial infarction (MI), congestive heart failure (CHF), respiratory disease, and diabetes in 26 US communities, for the years 2000-2003. Using meta-regression, we examined how this association was modified by season- and community-specific PM(2.5) composition, controlling for seasonal temperature as a surrogate for ventilation.
For a 10 microg/m3 increase in 2-day averaged PM(2.5) concentration we found an increase of 1.89% (95% CI: 1.34- 2.45) in CVD, 2.25% (95% CI: 1.10- 3.42) in MI, 1.85% (95% CI: 1.19- 2.51) in CHF, 2.74% (95% CI: 1.30- 4.2) in diabetes, and 2.07% (95% CI: 1.20- 2.95) in respiratory admissions. The association between PM2.5 and CVD admissions was significantly modified when the mass was high in Br, Cr, Ni, and Na(+), while mass high in As, Cr, Mn, OC, Ni, and Na(+) modified MI, and mass high in As, OC, and SO(4)(2-) modified diabetes admissions. For these species, an interquartile range increase in their relative proportion was associated with a 1-2% additional increase in daily admissions per 10 microg/m(3) increase in mass.
We found that PM(2.5) mass higher in Ni, As, and Cr, as well as Br and OC significantly increased its effect on hospital admissions. This result suggests that particles from industrial combustion sources and traffic may, on average, have greater toxicity.
Eleven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spanning OPRD1 were examined in 1063 European Americans (EAs) (620 cases with substance dependence (SD), including 557 with alcohol dependence (AD), 225 with cocaine dependence (CD) and 111 with opioid dependence (OD), and 443 controls). Nominally significant associations (P<0.05) of five SNPs with SD were observed; only the association of the non-synonymous variant G80T with OD remained significant after correction for multiple testing using SNPSpD. Haplotype analyses with six tag SNPs indicated that a specific haplotype GCAACT, which harbors G80T G-allele and C921T C-allele, was significantly associated with AD (chi(2)=14.82, degrees of freedom (d.f.)=1, P<0.001), CD (chi(2)=9.19, d.f.=1, P=0.002) and OD (chi(2)=20.68, d.f.=1, P<0.001). Logistic regression analyses, with sex and age being considered, demonstrated that this haplotype had a risk effect on AD (P=0.03, beta=1.86, odds ratio (OR)=6.43) and especially on OD (P<0.001, beta=3.92, OR=50.57). Moreover, seven SNPs covering OPRK1 were examined in the majority of the above subjects (390 cases, including 327 AD, 177 CD and 97 OD subjects, and 358 controls). Although no significant differences in allele, genotype or haplotype frequency distributions were seen between cases and controls, a specific OPRK1 haplotype, GGCTTCT, was significantly associated with AD (chi(2)=8.12, d.f.=1, P=0.004). Logistic regression analyses also revealed its risk effect on AD (P=0.009, beta=1.06, OR=2.90). Population stratification artifact was not observed in the sample. Taken together, our findings supported a positive association between OPRD1 variants and SD, and a positive haplotypic association between OPRK1 and AD in EAs.
The present study was designed to determine whether neurons within cardiovascular control nuclei of the rat brainstem that become activated following a hypotensive insult also possess the capacity to utilize neuropeptide Y. Adult male Wistar-Kyoto rats were injected with glyceryl trinitrate (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle, and 4 h later anaesthetized (pentobarbitone, 60 mg/kg, i.p.) and transcardially perfused. The brains were removed and processed by standard two-colour peroxidase immunohistochemistry. Activated cells were determined by incubation with a primary antibody to Fos protein, which was followed by a second incubation with a primary antibody to neuropeptide Y for double labelling of Fos-positive cells. Compared to vehicle, glyceryl trinitrate-induced hypotension caused a marked induction of Fos protein in the caudal one-third of the nucleus tractus solitarius (bregma -14 to -13.3 mm), which tailed off rapidly in more rostral sections. Following hypotension, significant populations of activated cells were also observed in the rostral and caudal ventrolateral medulla. In the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius and the posterior part of the medial nucleus tractus solitarius, respectively, 15 of 104 and 40 of 120 Fos-positive cells exhibited cytoplasmic neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity following hypotension, compared to seven of 40 and 15 of 40 in vehicle-treated rats, indicating a significant (two- to three-fold) increase in double-labelled cells following systemic glyceryl trinitrate (P < 0.05, unpaired t-test). In contrast, in the anterior part of the medial nucleus tractus solitarius, the number of double-labelled cells did not change following hypotension. An increase in double-labelled cells was also observed in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (2.5-fold increase compared to vehicle) and caudal ventrolateral medulla (5.8-fold increase compared to vehicle) following hypotension. These data indicate that, in the rat, neuropeptide Y-containing neurons are involved in the central response to a hypotensive challenge. The primary regions where neuropeptide Y-containing neurons appear to be activated are the caudal one-third of the nucleus tractus solitarius and the caudal ventrolateral medulla/rostral ventrolateral medulla, which are key nuclei associated with the integration of the baroreceptor heart rate reflex and sympathetic vasomotor outflow.
Functional and histological changes in skeletal muscle developing during hypolipemic therapy, especially with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors are rare. This paper reports a case of simvastatin-induced myopathy confirmed histopathologically and ultrastructurally.
Severe hemorrhagic shock often results in cardiac arrest due to vital organ hypoperfusion, especially of the heart. Although fluid resuscitation is the mainstay of management in hemorrhagic shock, treatment of cardiac arrest in association with severe hemorrhagic shock is unclear.
This study was designed to determine the effect of early infusion of norepinephrine on hemodynamics and survival in hemorrhagic shock.
Twelve Sprague-Dawley rats were bled to about 35% of estimated blood volume for 30 min and randomized to one of two groups: the study group received norepinephrine (10 microg/kg/min) in 5% dextrose solution (n = 6); the control group received the same volume of 5% dextrose (n = 6) concurrently with Lactated Ringer's solution. After 30 min of resuscitation, half of the shed blood was transfused in both groups. Time to cardiac arrest and mean arterial pressure (MAP) were compared between the two groups.
MAP during the resuscitation period was higher in the norepinephrine group than in the control group. Five of 6 rats in the norepinephrine group but none of the control group survived until the transfusion period (83.3% vs. 0.0%, respectively; p = 0.003). Median time to cardiac arrest was significantly longer in the norepinephrine group (67.0 min, interquartile range [IQR] 60.0-77.0) than in controls (41.0 min, IQR 40.0-47.0; p = 0.002).
Early use of norepinephrine in a rat model of hemorrhagic shock increased mean arterial pressure during the resuscitation period and delayed the onset of cardiac arrest.
Benign intracranial hypertension occurred in four young women taking tetracycline for acne; two were also taking vitamin A. In a fifth case a 14-year-old boy developed papilloedema after taking a short course of tetracycline for bronchitis. All symptoms disappeared soon after stopping the drugs, though in two cases the papilloedema persisted for many months. Benign intracranial hypertension should be sought in any young woman complaining of headache during treatment with tetracycline. Moreover, young women given vitamin A and tetracycline in combination for acne may be at special risk and should be kept under surveillance.
Heroin addiction markedly affects the nutritional and metabolic status and frequently leads to malnutrition. The aim of our study was to compare circulating concentration of adipose tissue-derived hormones leptin, adiponectin and resistin in 12 patients with heroin addiction before and after one-year methadone maintenance treatment with the group of 20 age- and body mass index-matched healthy subjects. Basal serum leptin and adiponectin levels in heroin addicts were significantly decreased (3.4+/-0.4 vs. 4.5+/-0.6 ng/ml and 18.9+/-3.3 vs. 33.9+/-3.1 ng/microl, respectively; p 0.05) while serum resistin concentrations were increased compared to healthy subjects (10.1+/-1.2 vs. 4.6+/-0.3 ng/ml; p 0.05). Moreover, positive correlation of serum leptin levels with body mass index was lost in the addicts in contrast to control group. One year of methadone maintenance treatment normalized serum leptin, but not serum adiponectin and resistin concentrations. In conclusion, circulating concentrations of leptin, adiponectin and resistin are markedly altered in patients with chronic heroin addiction. These alterations appear to be relatively independent of nutritional status and insulin sensitivity.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy and tolerability of quetiapine and divalproex for the treatment of impulsivity and reactive aggression in adolescents with co-occurring bipolar disorder and disruptive behavior disorders.
Patients were included in this post hoc analysis if they scored > or = 14 on the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) Excited Component (EC) and > or = 4 on at least one of the PANSS EC items, had a current diagnosis of bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed episode, and had a lifetime and/or current diagnosis of a disruptive behavioral disorder (DBD) [conduct disorder (CD) or oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)]. Thirty-three (92%) of the 36 subjects with bipolar disorder and DBD met the PANSS EC inclusion criteria. These thirty-three adolescents were randomized to quetiapine (400-600 mg/day) or divalproex (serum level 80-120 microg/mL) for 28 days in this double-blinded study. The primary efficacy measure was change in PANSS Excited Component (EC) score over the study period and at each time point.
Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) demonstrated statistically significant within-treatment-group effects for divalproex (baseline = 20.6, end point = 13.3, p < 0.0001) and quetiapine (baseline = 18.8, end point = 10.8, p < 0.0001) for the PANSS EC. There were no statistically significant treatment group differences in PANSS EC changes from baseline to end point scores (p = 0.7, d = 0.14). Mixed regression analyses (comparison of slopes, DAY*TREATMENT) revealed that there was no significant difference in the rate of improvement in the PANSS EC scores between the two treatment groups [F(1,31) = 0.78, p = 0.39, d = 0.28].
Quetiapine and divalproex showed similar efficacy for the treatment of impulsivity and reactive aggression related to co-occurring bipolar and disruptive behavior disorders in adolescents. Quetiapine and divalproex are both useful as monotherapy for the treatment of impulsivity and reactive aggression in adolescents with bipolar and disruptive behavior disorders. Placebo-controlled studies are necessary.
A 22-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus experienced generalized pruritus, shortness of breath, pleuritic chest pain, visual blurring, severe photophobia, a stiff neck, an occipital headache, and a temperature of 39.4 degrees C within one hour after taking sulindac (Clinoril). Findings from a CSF examination disclosed a notable elevation of protein and a polymorphonuclear pleocytosis. All symptoms disappeared within 24 hours. Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis did not seem to be the mechanism of this adverse reaction, since the patient tolerated aspirin.
Hydroquinone, an intermediate used in the chemical industry and a metabolite of benzene, is a nephrocarcinogen in the 2-year National Toxicology Program bioassay in male Fischer 344 rats. Current evidence suggests that certain chemicals may induce carcinogenesis by a mechanism involving cytotoxicity, followed by sustained regenerative hyperplasia and ultimately tumor formation. Glutathione (GSH) conjugates of a variety of hydroquinones are potent nephrotoxicants, and we now report on the effect of hydroquinone and 2,3,5-(tris-glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone, on site-selective cytotoxicity and cell proliferation in rat kidney. Male Fischer 344 rats (160-200 g) were treated with hydroquinone (1.8 mmol/kg or 4.5 mmol/kg, p.o.) or 2,3,5-(tris-glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone (7.5 micromol/kg; 1.2-1.5 micromol/rat, i.v.), and blood urea nitrogen (BUN), urinary gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), glutathione-S-transferase (GST) and glucose were measured as indices of nephrotoxicity. Hydroquinone (1.8 mmol/kg, p.o.) is nephrotoxic in some rats, but not others, but cell proliferation (BrDU incorporation) in proximal tubular cells of the S3M region correlates with the degree of toxicity in individual rats. At 4.5 mmol/kg, hydroquinone causes significant increases in the urinary excretion of gamma-GT, ALP and GST. Pretreatment of rats with acivicin prevents hydroquinone-mediated nephrotoxicity, indicating that toxicity is dependent on the formation of metabolites that require processing by gamma-GT. Consistent with this view, 2,3,5-(tris-glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone, a metabolite of hydroquinone, causes increases in BUN, urinary gamma-GT and ALP, all of which are maximal 12 h after administration of 2,3,5-(tris-glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone. In contrast, the maximal excretion of GST and glucose occurs after 24 h. By 72 h, BUN and glucose concentrations return to control levels, while gamma-GT, ALP and GST remain slightly elevated. Examination of kidney slices by light microscopy revealed the presence of tubular necrosis in the S3M segment of the proximal tubule, extending into the medullary rays. Cell proliferation rates in this region were 2.4, 6.9, 15.3 and 14.3% after 12, 24, 48 and 72 h, respectively, compared to 0.8-2.4% in vehicle controls. Together with the metabolic data, the results indicate a role for hydroquinone-thioether metabolites in hydroquinone toxicity and carcinogenicity.
In an attempt to answer questions regarding nerve injection injuries, we injected 11 agents in current use and commonly administered by intramuscular injection into the sciatic nerves of adult Wistar rats. Equal volumes of normal saline were used as control. We harvested the sciatic nerves at various times after injection and examined them by both light and electron microscopy. We performed myelinated nerve fiber counts and constructed histograms. Any impairment of motor function was also noted. We gave injections to 79 animals a total of 158 times; 116 injections were directly into the nerve fascicle (intrafascicular) and 42 were into the epineural tissue (extrafascicular). The results revealed considerable variation in the degree of nerve fiber injury according to the agent injected. Minimal damage resulted from the injection of iron-dextran, meperidine, and cephalothin, and maximal nerve injury followed the injection of penicillin, diazepam, and chlorpromazine. The site of injection was crucial. Intrafascicular injection was invariably associated with severe nerve injury, but, with few exceptions, extrafascicular injection resulted in minimal damage. The quantity of drug injected was also important in determining the degree of injury. Large, heavily myelinated fibers were more susceptible to injection injury than smaller, thinly myelinated nerve fibers. The effect of the injected drug seemed to be related to injury of the nerve fiber unit--both the axon and the Schwann cell with its myelin sheath. Regeneration in damaged nerves was a constant finding; even the most severely injured nerves, with total axonal degeneration, underwent subsequent regeneration.
Metallothioneins (MT1, MT2, MT3, and MT4) are regarded as modulators regulating a number of biological processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, and invasion. We determined the effects of androgen, cadmium, and arsenic on MT1/2 and MT3 in prostate carcinoma cells, and evaluated the functional effects of MT3 on cell proliferation, invasion, and tumorigenesis.
We determined the expression of MT1/2 and MT3 in prostate carcinoma cells by immunoblotting assays or real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactions. The effects of ectopic MT3 overexpression or MT3-knockdown on cell proliferation, invasion, and tumorigenesis were determined by (3) H-thymidine incorporation, matrigel invasion, and murine xenograft studies. The effects of androgen, cadmium, and arsenic on target genes were assessed using immunoblotting and reporter assays.
Androgen, cadmium, and arsenic treatments enhanced gene expression of MT1/2 and MT3 in prostate carcinoma LNCaP cells. Results of immunohistochemical staining indicated MT3 overexpression was found predominantly in the nuclear areas of PC-3 cells overexpressing MT3. Overexpression of MT3 significantly increased cell proliferation, invasion, and tumorigenic activities in PC-3 cells in vitro and in vivo. MT3 overexpression downregulated the gene expressions of N-myc downstream regulated gene 1 (Ndrg1) and maspin, and attenuated blocking effects of doxorubicin in PC-3 cells on cell proliferation. MT3-knockdown enhanced Ndrg1 and maspin expressions in LNCaP cells.
The experiments indicate that MT3 is an androgen-upregulated gene, and promotes tumorigenesis of prostate carcinoma cells. The downregulation of Ndrg1 and maspin gene expressions appears to account for the enhancement of proliferative and invasive functions of MT3 in PC-3 cells.
The immunomodulator AS101 has previously been found to induce mouse and human hematopoietic cells to secrete cytokines such as interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1 alpha), IL-2, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and gamma interferon (IFN-gamma). The compound was shown to protect mice from lethal and sublethal effects of chemotherapy and irradiation. AS101 prevented the decrease in the number of bone marrow (BM) and spleen myeloid progenitor cells, and increased the survival of lethally treated mice. In this study, we show a dose-dependent response of AS101 in the induction of high secretion levels of IL-6, IL-3, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and stem cell factor (SCF). Since these growth factors are known to induce the proliferation and differentiation of multilineage progenitors, including megakaryocytic and erythroid progenitors, we designed this study to evaluate the role of AS101 in attenuating thrombocytopenia, anemia, and multilineage myelosuppression associated with chemotherapy. We demonstrate that pretreatment of mice with AS101 24 hours before intraperitoneal injection of 250 mg/kg cyclophosphamide (CYP) or intravenous injection of 150 mg/kg 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) significantly increased the number of circulating white blood cells (WBC) and platelets. The numbers of both neutrophils and lymphocytes were significantly increased in AS101-treated mice subjected to chemotherapy. In addition, AS101 attenuated erythropenia caused by 5-FU. It could also increase megakaryocyte and erythroid progenitor cells (CFU-MK and CFU-E) in the BM of treated mice severely affected by chemotherapy. We demonstrate that the protective effect of AS101 could be abrogated by treatment with anti-IL-1R or anti-SCF antibodies. We suggest that the endogenous production of cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6, IL-3, SCF, and GM-CSF in mice treated with AS101 offers protection to circulating blood elements and ameliorates the reconstitution of megakaryocytic and erythroid progenitors. The simultaneous protection by AS101 of multilineage cell compartments is probably due to stimulation by AS101 of a selective subpopulation of primitive stem cells resistant to chemotherapy. On the basis of these studies, phase II clinical trials with patients treated with chemotherapy in combination with AS101 have been initiated.
To assess tolerability and short-term efficacy of oral administration of pregabalin as an adjunct to phenobarbital, potassium bromide, or a combination of phenobarbital and potassium bromide for treatment of dogs with poorly controlled suspected idiopathic epilepsy.
Open-label, noncomparative clinical trial.
11 client-owned dogs suspected of having idiopathic epilepsy that was inadequately controlled with phenobarbital, potassium bromide, or a combination of these 2 drugs.
Dogs were treated with pregabalin (3 to 4 mg/kg [1.4 to 1.8 mg/lb], PO, q 8 h) for 3 months. Number of generalized seizures in the 3 months before and after initiation of pregabalin treatment was recorded. Number of responders (>or= 50% reduction in seizure frequency) was recorded, and seizure frequency before and after initiation of pregabalin treatment was compared by use of a nonparametric Wilcoxon signed rank test.
Seizures were significantly reduced (mean, 57%; median, 50%) after pregabalin administration in the 9 dogs that completed the study; 7 were considered responders with mean and median seizure reductions of 64% and 58%, respectively. Adverse effects for pregabalin were reported in 10 dogs. Mean and median plasma pregabalin concentrations for all dogs were 6.4 and 7.3 microg/mL, respectively.
Pregabalin may hold promise as a safe and effective adjunct anticonvulsant drug for epileptic dogs poorly controlled with the standard drugs phenobarbital or potassium bromide. Adverse effects of pregabalin appeared to be mild. Additional studies with larger numbers of dogs and longer follow-up intervals are warranted.
A convulsant dose (100 mg/kg) of l-methionine-RS-sulphoximine (MSO) produced temporally correlated decreases in central 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and plasma and brain tryptophan (TRY) concentrations in C57BL/6J mice. In contrast, a subconvulsant dose of MSO (50 mg/kg) had no effect on central 5-HT levels and only decreased brain tryptophan at one time-point after its administration. The pattern of findings suggests that the decrease in central 5-HT levels resulting from a convulsant dose of MSO is related to an impairment in 5-HT synthesis resulting from a restriction of tryptophan availability. Administration of 25 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg doses of l-tryptophan with convulsant doses of MSO significantly increased seizure latency. It is suggested that the central 5-HT system modulates the expression of MSO-induced seizures.
Operating time for idiopathic hydroceles and epididymal cysts is scarce as these conditions compete with an increasing caseload of more consequential surgical disease. Therapy is often relegated to repeated aspiration. Sclerotherapy appears to be effective in a majority of published trials, but comparative effectiveness, efficacy and safety of most agents, including phenol versus tetracycline, has not been established A deliberate strategy of re-treatment until cure is not universally practised, with surgery still being offered after single-treatment failures. Two trials, the first consisting of 53 scrotal cysts treated with 5% phenol-in-water and the second, 42 cysts treated with tetracycline, are compared for effectiveness, efficacy and safety of sclerotherapy per se and of re-treatment. Intention-to-treat analysis yields similar cure rates (no re-accumulation three months after last injection) for phenol and tetracycline (83% and 81% respectively, p = 0.8). Per-protocol analysis also yields similar cure rates (100% and 97% respectively, p = 0.26) and mean number of injections to cure (1.34 and 1.12 respectively, p = 0.069), with range 1-4 and 1-3 respectively. Severe pain following tetracycline injection required administration of pre-injection cord block. Other complications occurred equally (25% and 25.7% respectively, p = 0.94) and were trivial except for one case of chronic haematocele treated by orchiectomy in the tetracycline group. Phenol (5%) and tetracycline are equally efficacious sclerosants for idiopathic scrotal cysts, achieving almost 100% cure with re-treatment and matching the efficacy of surgery. Concern about post-treatment fertility applies equally to surgery and demands informed consent for both modalities.
The protective effect of rossicaside B, the major phenylpropanoid glycoside from Boschniakia rossica, on CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity and the mechanisms underlying its protective effect were investigated. The mice were administered orally with rossicaside B (100 or 200 mg/kg of body weight) 48, 24 and 1 hr before CCl(4) (0.5 ml/kg of body weight) administration. The CCl(4) challenge caused a marked increase in the levels of serum aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase and of tumour necrosis factor-alpha, and propagated lipid peroxidation with a concomitant reduction in reduced glutathione (GSH) and antioxidative enzyme activities in the liver. The administration of rossicaside B to CCl(4)-treated mice not only decreased the serum toxicity marker enzymes and TNF-alpha but also reduced hepatic oxidative stress, as demonstrated by decreased lipid hydroperoxide and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance concentrations, combined with elevated GSH content and antioxidative enzyme activities in the liver tissues. Furthermore, the contents of hepatic nitrite, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and haem oxygenase-1 (HO-1) were elevated after CCl(4) treatment while the cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1)-specific monooxygenase activity was suppressed. Rossicaside B treatment inhibited the formation of liver nitrite, reduced the over-expression of iNOS and COX-2 proteins, but increased the CYP2E1 function compared with the CCl(4)-treated mice. However, the protein expression of HO-1 was further elevated by rossicaside B treatment. The results demonstrate that rossicaside B provides a protective action on CCl(4)-induced acute hepatic injury, which may be related to its antioxidative activity, suppressed inflammatory responses, induced HO-1 expression and improved CYP2E1 function in the liver.
The efficacy of the combined immunoprophylaxis approach (passive plus active immunization) was evaluated in babies born to 52 HBsAg-carrier Saudi mothers, of whom seven (13.5%) were HBeAg-positive and seven were anti-HDV-positive. Newborns were given 100 IU of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) from the Hepuman Berna-Swiss Serum and Vaccine Institute, Berne, and hepatitis B vaccine (5 micrograms) within 12 hours of birth, and the vaccine was given again at 1 and 6 months of age (5 micrograms/injection). After 18 months of follow-up, all but one baby had protective levels of antibody to HBsAg and none of the babies born to anti-HDV-positive carrier mothers showed evidence of HDV infection. These results show that the combined immunoprophylaxis approach is quite successful in protecting against perinatal transmission of HBV and HDV in the Saudi population. Furthermore, early vaccination against HBV will also protect against HDV infection later in life.
Psychotic depression is a clinical subtype of major depressive disorder. A number of clinical studies have demonstrated the efficacy of the combination of an antidepressant (for example, a tricyclic antidepressant or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)) and an atypical antipsychotic or electroconvulsive therapy in treating psychotic depression. In some cases, the clinician or patient may prefer to avoid antipsychotic drugs altogether because of the risk of extrapyramidal side effects (EPS) in patients with psychotic depression treated with these drugs.
We report five cases where fluvoxamine monotherapy was effective in the patients with psychotic depression.
The scores on the Hamilton Depression (HAM-D) scale and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) in the five patients with psychotic depression were reduced after fluvoxamine monotherapy.
Doctors should consider fluvoxamine monotherapy as an alternative approach in treating psychotic depression because it avoids the risk of EPS from antipsychotic drugs.
We describe a patient where intravenous injection of metoclopramide was immediately followed by asystole repeatedly. The patient received metoclopramide 10 mg i.v. five times during 48 h. After interviewing the attending nurses and reviewing the written documentation, it is clear that every administration of metoclopramide was immediately (within s) followed by asystole. The asystole lasted 15-30 s on four occasions, on one occasion it lasted 2 min. The patient received atropine 0.5-1 mg and chest compressions, before sinus rhythm again took over. We interpret this as episodes of cardiac arrest caused by metoclopramide. The rapid injection via the central venous route and the concomitant tapering of dopamine infusion might have contributed in precipitating the adverse drug reaction.
