This study focused on exploring the antidepressant potential of resveratrol (RES) and its possible mechanisms of action. Cell injury was induced by corticosterone (CORT) and detected through cell viability and contents of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and malonaldehyde (MDA). A rat model of depression was established through 3weeks of consecutive chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS), and both the depression-like behaviors and the activity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis were tested. Apart from the inhibitory effect on MDA production in vitro and in vivo, the results showed that RES (10(-10)mol/L to 10(-5)mol/L) could significantly increase the cell viability and decrease the LDH activity and that RES (15mg/kg) treatment could alleviate the depression-like behavior of CUMS rats, as indicated by increased sucrose preference and decreased immobility in forced swimming test and tail suspension test. Rats that received RES treatment displayed a reduction of serum CORT, suggesting that RES affected the hyperactivity of the HPA axis in CUMS rats. However, RES did not affect the expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the hypothalamus of CUMS rats. In summary, our results demonstrated that in addition to its widely known antioxidant properties, RES also has antidepressant-like effects, and suggested that the underlying mechanism might involve its peripheral effect on the regulation of the HPA axis.
This report presents 2 patients with hemopericardium and tamponade encountered among a group of 26 patients who had received intravenous thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction during an 8-month time span. Both responded promptly to pericardiocentesis and pericardial catheter drainage. It is suggested that this rarely reported complication has the potential of occurring more frequently with increasing use of thrombolytics followed by aggressive anticoagulant regimens.
Kidney tumors from stilbene estrogen (diethylstilbestrol)-treated Syrian hamsters were screened for somatic genetic alterations by Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain-reaction (RAPD-PCR) fingerprinting. Fingerprints from tumor tissue were generated by single arbitrary primers and compared with fingerprints for normal tissue from the same animal, as well as normal and tumor tissues from different animals. Sixty one of the arbitrary primers amplified 365 loci that contain approximately 476 kbp of the hamster genome. Among these amplified DNA fragments, 44 loci exhibited either qualitative or quantitative differences between the tumor tissues and normal kidney tissues. RAPD-PCR loci showing decreased and increased intensities in tumor tissue DNA relative to control DNA indicate that loci have undergone allelic losses and gains, respectively, in the stilbene estrogen-induced tumor cell genome. The presence or absence of the amplified DNA fragments indicate homozygous insertions or deletions in the kidney tumor DNA compared to the age-matched normal kidney tissue DNA. Seven of 44 mutated loci also were present in the kidney tissues adjacent to tumors (free of macroscopic tumors). The presence of mutated loci in uninvolved (non-tumor) surrounding tissue adjacent to tumors from stilbene estrogen-treated hamsters suggests that these mutations occurred in the early stages of carcinogenesis. The cloning and sequencing of RAPD amplified loci revealed that one mutated locus had significant sequence similarity with the hamster Cyp1A1 gene. The results show the ability of RAPD-PCR to detect and isolate, in a single step, DNA sequences representing genetic alterations in stilbene estrogen-induced cancer cells, including losses of heterozygosity, and homozygous deletion and insertion mutations. RAPD-PCR provides an alternative molecular approach for studying cancer cytogenetics in stilbene estrogen-induced tumors in humans and experimental models. Although the exact functional importance of mutated loci is unknown, this study indicates that these altered loci may participate during tumor progression in the kidney.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether perinatal exposure to a moderate dose of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) alters cortical gene expression and neurotransmission, leading to enduring cognitive dysfunctions in rat offspring. To this purpose, rat dams were treated, from gestational day 15 to postnatal day 9, with THC at a daily dose (5 mg/kg, per os) devoid of overt signs of toxicity. THC did not influence reproduction parameters, whereas it caused subtle neurofunctional deficits in the adult offspring. Particularly, perinatal THC induced long-lasting alterations of cortical genes related to glutamatergic and noradrenergic systems, associated with a decrease in the cortical extracellular levels of both neurotransmitters. These alterations may account, at least in part, for the enduring cognitive impairment displayed by THC-exposed offspring. Taken together, the present results highlight how exposure to cannabinoids during early stages of brain development can lead to irreversible, subtle dysfunctions in the offspring.
We describe the case of a 37-year-old man who presented with inferior wall myocardial infarction shortly after the concomitant use of cocaine and ethanol. The patient showed prompt ST resolution after thrombolytic therapy. Within two hours from his arrival at the hospital the patient had an episode of ventricular fibrillation, which was successfully treated with electrical cardioversion. Coronary angiography showed normal coronary arteries. The number of patients with acute myocardial infarction after the use of cocaine alone, or in combination with ethanol, is increasing in the USA and other countries; most are young adults. In Greece such cases are still rare, because of the lesser extent of cocaine abuse in the general population and the low sensitivity in recognising cocaine users who present with chest pain in the emergency department.
Parlodel, 2.5 mg daily, was given during 1-3 months to 14 uremic hypogonadal patients (placebo controlled in 6). Except for a decrease in serum prolactin levels on Parlodel (p less than 0.01), no significant changes in hormonal values (gonadotropins and testosterone) were observed either on Parlodel or on placebo. Parlodel treatment improved the potency of 10 patients, eliminated gynecomastia in 2 and normalized spermatogenesis in 6; the best results were obtained in patients on low-protein diet. On placebo, potency improved only in 1 patient; no improvement in spermatogenesis was registered. Thus, Parlodel can improve sexual function and spermatogenesis in hypogonadal uremic males.
An incidence of drug-induced neutropenia of 2.5% has been found in the first 1000 patients to be treated with clozapine in the UK. The majority of affected patients experienced mild neutropenia (n = 22) with only 3 patients developing agranulocytosis. Data collected from these 25 patients suggest that the mechanism of neutropenia may be multifactorial. Laboratory investigation using liquid culture systems and immunofluorocytometry has identified clozapine and its major metabolite N-desmethyl clozapine as exhibiting toxic effects against myeloid maturation and myeloid mitotic compartments, respectively. Increased susceptibility to the toxic effects of clozapine was shown in 1 patient who had previously developed clozapine-associated neutropenia. No clinical or laboratory evidence of drug-induced antineutrophil or antimyeloid precursor antibodies was found.
Malnutrition states are relatively uncommon in the UK but we have seen two recent cases which have heightened our awareness of both dermatological manifestations of malnutrition and of nutritional sequelae of a dermatological problem. Case 1 is a patient with anorexia nervosa presenting with features of pellagra. This condition is due to deficiency of niacin and responds rapidly to replacement therapy. Classical presentation is an erythematous rash on photoexposed sites, often related to heat or friction. There are three reported cases of pellagra occurring in patients with anorexia nervosa. Case 2 is an adult atopic with sensitizations to multiple foodstuffs. A self-imposed restriction diet caused multiple nutritional deficiencies. Restriction diets in adult atopics are not particularly common in the UK, but there is some evidence to suggest that they may cause significant nutritional deficiency. A nutrition screen may be indicated more frequently than is currently recognized.
We report the case of a 54-year-old African-American male with IgG multiple myeloma (MM) with disease resistant to multiple chemotherapy regimens and immunomodulatory treatment with thalidomide. In spite of achieving a partial remission of short duration, his disease accelerated to peripheral plasmacytosis and subsequent development of cutaneous plasmacytomas. The malignant plasma cells derived from the dermal lesions were CD45+, CD38+, CD138+ and matched the immunophenotype of the plasmacytes during the leukaemic phase. Occurrence of extramedullary lesions in the setting of MM treated with thalidomide is of concern, although currently there are very few reports describing this association. We discuss the possible relationship between the patient's unusual disease course and the administered chemo- and immunotherapy. The significance of the changes in adhesion molecules, especially CD138 and CD56, relevant to the development of cutaneous plasmacytomas is discussed.
General pharmacological properties of penfluridol (TLP-607) a long-acting antipsychotic drug, were examined in experimental animals and the following results were obtained. 1) TLP-607 produced a lowering of arterial blood pressure and bradycardia but had almost no effect on respiration and peripheral blood flow. 2) TLP-607 slightly hypertension induced by dopamine, adrenaline and noradrenaline, but had no effect on hypotension induced by acetylcholine and histamine. 3) Antagonistic actions of TLP-607 on such spasmogens as acetylcholine, histamine and barium chloride were slightly stronger than those of haloperidol and chlorpromazine. 4) TLP-607 had neither ganglionic nor neuromuscular blocking action. 5) TLP-607 had a slight or no effect in the following experiments; protection against stomach ulcer, activity of ileum and uterus in vivo and in vitro, urinary volume and electrolytes excretion, and gastro-intestinal propulsion. These results suggest that TLP-607 has no striking peripheral actions in experimental animals.
An underrecognized side effect of long-term lithium carbonate therapy is hyperparathyroidism with associated hypercalcemia and hypocalciuria. Because cessation of lithium carbonate therapy usually does not correct the hyperparathyroidism and associated hypercalcemia, parathyroidectomy frequently is necessary. This is the initial report of 2 patients with lithium carbonate-induced hyperparathyroidism treated with cinacalcet hydrochloride (HCl), which normalized serum calcium levels and reduced intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) secretion. The patients, both with bipolar disease and a 15- to 30-year history of lithium carbonate therapy, were evaluated for stage 3 chronic kidney disease, persistent hypercalcemia, and hyperparathyroidism. A 67-year-old woman was administered cinacalcet HCl, 30 mg/d, for 11 months. Mean serum calcium level decreased from 10.8 +/- 0.4 mg/dL (2.69 +/- 0.10 mmol/L) to 9.9 +/- 0.4 mg/dL (2.47 +/- 0.10 mmol/L; P < 0.001), and iPTH level decreased from 139 +/- 31 pg/mL (139 +/- 31 ng/L) to 114 +/- 39 pg/mL (114 +/- 39 ng/L; P = not significant). A 63-year-old man was administered 30 mg/d of cinacalcet HCl for 8 months, then 60 mg/d for another 2 months. Mean serum calcium and iPTH levels decreased from 11.0 +/- 0.5 mg/dL (2.74 +/- 0.12 mmol/L) to 10.3 +/- 0.4 mg/dL (2.57 +/- 0.10 mmol/L; P < 0.001) and 138 +/- 10 pg/mL (138 +/- 10 ng/L) to 73 +/- 7 pg/mL (73 +/- 7 ng/L; P = 0.03), respectively. Urinary fractional excretion of calcium was low for both patients before (<0.026 and <0.015) and after (0.026 and 0.008) treatment with cinacalcet HCl. These findings suggest that cinacalcet HCl can provide an alternative nonsurgical means to control this disorder in patients with hypercalcemia of variable severity for whom surgical treatment is not a consideration because of perceived mildness of disease or unsuitability of the patient for surgical intervention.
Acute hypertension was induced by adrenaline or bicuculline in rats mechanically ventilated with 70% nitrous oxide in oxygen, in unrestrained rats breathing the same gas mixture, and in conscious unrestrained rats breathing air. The unrestrained rats had permanent indwelling catheters in the aorta and in one jugular vein. Three minutes after the pressure rise the rats were killed and the brains perfused in situ with saline. The protein leakage into the brain was studied with Evans blue-albumin and 125IHSA (human serum albumin). The extravasation of 125IHSA in unrestrained rats breathing nitrous oxide was higher than in rats breathing air after injection of bicuculline, but the difference was not statistically significant. Lidocaine significantly decreased the protein leakage in both conscious and anaesthetized rats. It is concluded that not only the vascular tone but also endothelial cell membrane properties can influence the hypertensive blood-brain barrier dysfunction.
Accumulation of eosinophils in the bronchial mucosa of individuals with asthma is considered to be a central event in the pathogenesis of asthma. In animal models, airway eosinophil recruitment and airway hyperresponsiveness in response to allergen challenge are reduced by specific targeting of interleukin-5. A previous small dose-finding study found that mepolizumab, a humanized anti-interleukin-5 monoclonal antibody, had no effect on allergen challenge in humans.
To investigate the effect of three intravenous infusions of mepolizumab, 250 or 750 mg at monthly intervals, on clinical outcome measures in 362 patients with asthma experiencing persistent symptoms despite inhaled corticosteroid therapy (400-1,000 mug of beclomethasone or equivalent).
Multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
Morning peak expiratory flow, forced expiratory volume in 1 second, daily beta(2)-agonist use, symptom scores, exacerbation rates, and quality of life measures. Sputum eosinophil levels were also measured in a subgroup of 37 individuals. Mepolizumab was associated with a significant reduction in blood and sputum eosinophils in both treatment groups (blood, P < 0.001 for both doses; sputum, P = 0.006 for 250 mg and P = 0.004 for 750 mg). There were no statistically significant changes in any of the clinical end points measured. There was a nonsignificant trend for decrease in exacerbation rates in the mepolizumab 750-mg treatment group (P = 0.065).
Mepolizumab treatment does not appear to add significant clinical benefit in patients with asthma with persistent symptoms despite inhaled corticosteroid therapy. Further studies are needed to investigate the effect of mepolizumab on exacerbation rates, using protocols specifically tailored to patients with asthma with persistent airway eosinophilia.
The presence of folliculostellate cells in the anterior pituitary was described 49 years ago. These cells give about 10% of the whole cell population and through their long processes they provide intrahypophyseal communication. The folliculostellate cells contain S-100 protein. Its immunostaining was used to identify these cells. It was previously found that the diethylstilbestrol treatment basically influences the morphology and function of the trophic hormone secreting as well as the folliculostellate cells. In the present experiment, we have studied whether a concomitant progesterone treatment can prevent or attenuate changes caused by diethylstilbestrol treatment in the distribution of folliculostellate, prolactin, and GH cells. Diethylstilbestrol alone induced the appearance of prolactinomas. Inside the prolactinomas, folliculostellate cells were scattered but outside the prolactinomas they formed a demarcation line. Inside the prolactinomas, there were only a few growth hormone immunoreactive cells but they surrounded the prolactinomas in a ring-like pattern. When diethylstilbestrol was implanted with progesterone, the changes being characteristic for diethylstilbestrol treatment, could not develop. Concomitant progesterone influence prevented morphological changes in the anterior pituitary. Progesterone alone had no effect. In accordance with the formation of prolactinomas, the plasma prolactin level was very high in diethylstilbestrol treated rats. Concomitant progesterone treatment prevented the effect of diethylstilbestrol. Progesterone alone did not influence the prolactin level. GH levels did not significantly differ in any groups.
Benzoyl peroxide (BPO), a free radical generating compound, is widely used in topical medications prescribed for acne vulgaris and in cosmetic products. It has been shown to possess tumor-promoting activity in murine skin initiated with chemical carcinogens such as 7,12-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene (DMBA). In the present study we assessed the effect of the antioxidants nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) and diallyl sulfide (DAS) against BPO-mediated tumor promotion in murine skin. Pretreatment of Sencar mice with NDGA and DAS prior to skin application of BPO resulted in a time- and dose-dependent inhibition of epidermal ODC induction caused by BPO. Tumor initiation was achieved by a single topical application of DMBA (10 micrograms/animal) to Sencar mice. Ten days later tumor promotion was begun by twice-weekly topical application of BPO (20 mg/animal). The anticarcinogenic effects of NDGA (25 mumol/mouse) and DAS (20 mumol/mouse) were evaluated by administering these agents topically 60 min prior to each BPO application. After 26 weeks on test, the number of benign papillomas/mouse were 0.10 +/- 0.07 and 2.15 +/- 0.30 in the NDGA and DAS pretreated group of animals as compared to 4.40 +/- 1.14 in animals receiving BPO alone. After 51 weeks on test, the number of squamous cell carcinomas/mouse were 0.00 +/- 0.00, 0.35 +/- 0.10 in the NDGA and DAS pretreated group of animals as compared to 0.65 +/- 0.12 in animals receiving BPO alone. From these data we suggest that the antioxidants NDGA and DAS can abrogate the tumor-promoting effects of BPO in murine skin and that NDGA is substantially more effective than DAS in this regard.
Previous studies have shown that residual acoustic hearing supplements cochlear implant function to improve speech recognition in noise as well as perception of music. The current study had two primary objectives. First, we sought to determine how cochlear implantation and electrical stimulation over a time period of 14 to 21 months influence cochlear structures such as hair cells and spiral ganglion neurons. Second, we sought to investigate whether the structures that provide acoustic hearing also affect the perception of electrical stimulation. We compared psychophysical responses to cochlear implant stimulation in two groups of adult guinea pigs. Group I (11 animals) received a cochlear implant in a previously untreated ear, while group II (ten animals) received a cochlear implant in an ear that had been previously infused with neomycin to destroy hearing. Psychophysical thresholds were measured in response to pulse-train and sinusoidal stimuli. Histological analysis of all group I animals and a subset of group II animals was performed. Nine of the 11 group I animals showed survival of the organ of Corti and spiral ganglion neurons adjacent to the electrode array. All group I animals showed survival of these elements in regions apical to the electrode array. Group II animals that were examined histologically showed complete loss of the organ of Corti in regions adjacent and apical to the electrode array and severe spiral ganglion neuron loss, consistent with previous reports for neomycin-treated ears. Behaviorally, group II animals had significantly lower thresholds than group I animals in response to 100 Hz sinusoidal stimuli. However, group I animals had significantly lower thresholds than group II animals in response to pulse-train stimuli (0.02 ms/phase; 156 to 5,000 pps). Additionally, the two groups showed distinct threshold versus pulse rate functions. We hypothesize that the differences in detection thresholds between groups are caused by the electrical activation of the hair cells in group I animals and/or differences between groups in the condition of the spiral ganglion neurons.
Hypomorphic mutations in the bone morphogenic protein receptor (BMPR2) confer a much greater risk for developing pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). However, not all carriers of a mutation in the BMPR2 gene suffer from PAH. We have previously shown that prolonged T helper 2 (Th2) responses in the lungs to a mild antigen delivered via the airways induce severe pulmonary arterial remodeling, but no pulmonary hypertension. The current studies were designed to test the idea that Th2 responses to a mild antigen together with the expression of a hypomorphic BMPR2 gene would trigger pulmonary hypertension.
Mice that expressed a hypomorphic BMPR2 transgene (transgene-positive) and transgene-negative mice were either exposed to saline, or primed and exposed to a mild antigen (Ovalbumin) over a prolonged period of time. Only transgene-positive but not transgene-negative mice exposed to antigen developed significantly increased right ventricular systolic pressures, while both groups showed pulmonary artery remodeling with severe muscularization and airway inflammation to a similar degree. Antigen exposure resulted in a smaller increase in the percentage of Interleukin (IL)-13 positive T cells in the lymph nodes, and in a smaller increase in resistin-like-molecule (RELM)α expression and a decreased ratio of expression of IL-33 relative to its receptor (IL-1-receptor-like 1, IL1RL1-ST2) in the right ventricles of transgene-positive mice compared to transgene-negative animals. Furthermore, only antigen-challenged transgene-positive mice showed a significant increase in Interferon (IFN)γ positive T cells over saline-exposed controls.
Our study suggests that exposure with a mild Th2 antigen can trigger pulmonary hypertension on the background of the expression of a hypomorphic BMPR2 gene and that conversely, the expression of the hypomorphic BMPR2 gene can alter the immune response to a mild, inhaled antigen.
Vinyl chloride (VC) and its metabolites are human carcinogens associated with liver angiosarcomas (LAS) and also with hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). In VC associated LAS mutations of the K-ras-2 gene have been reported, however, no data about the prevalence of such mutations in VC-associated HCCs are available. The aim of the study was to evaluate possible specific K-ras-2 oncogene mutations in the case of HCCs due to VC.
The presence of K-ras-2 mutations was analysed in tissue from 12 patients with VC-associated HCCs. All patients had known long-term exposure to VC (average exposure amount: 9,942 ppm-years). Twenty patients with hepatocellular carcinoma due to hepatitis B (n = 7), hepatitis C (n = 5) and alcoholic liver cirrhosis (n= 8) served as a control group. The specific mutations were determined by direct sequencing of codons 12 and 13 of the K-ras-2 gene in carcinomatous and adjacent non-neoplastic liver tissue after microdissection. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to detect p21ras protein.
K-ras-2 mutations were found in five of 12 (42%) examined HCCs and in three cases of adjacent non-neoplastic liver tissue (25%). There were three guanine to adenine (G --> A) point mutations in the tumour tissue. All three mutations found in non-neoplastic liver from VC-exposed patients were also G --> A point mutations (codon 12- and codon 13-aspartate mutations). Within the control group, K-ras-2 mutations were found in three of 20 (15%) examined HCCs.
Mutations of the K-ras-2 gene in hepatocellular carcinomas associated with VC exposure are frequent events. We observed a K-ras-2 mutation pattern characteristic of chloroethylene oxide, one of the carcinogenic metabolites of VC analysed in animal models. Our results suggest that VC had direct toxic effects not only on endothelial cells but also on hepatocytes, as it was previously only described in animal models.
Diazepam 0.05-0.25 mg/kg increased the dose of lignocaine required to cause seizures in Rhesus monkeys by 24-34%. Spontaneous ventilation was maintained adequately during lignocaine administration following diazepam treatment and no adverse cardiovascular effects occurred. Before the onset of lignocaine-induced seizures in non-treated animals, the animals appeared to be drowsy. However, prior to administration of diazepam masked this effect. Convulsions were controlled by smaller doses of diazepam in non-treated animals than in diazepam-treated animals. Also, the animals that were pretreated with diazepam had a greater duration of depression after seizure.
A number of studies have examined the effects of naloxone on nitrous oxide-induced analgesia with conflicting results. In the present study the effects of a relatively high dose of naloxone was examined to determine its effects on nitrous oxide-induced analgesia, as well as on the subjective and psychomotor effects of nitrous oxide. Fourteen subjects participated in a four-session crossover trial in which they received intravenous injections of either saline or 30mg/70kg naloxone 10min into a 35min period in which they were inhaling either 100% oxygen or 30% nitrous oxide in oxygen. Ten minutes after the naloxone administration, subjects were tested on the cold pressor test. Mood and psychomotor performance were also assessed before, during and after the inhalation period. Subjects reported higher pain ratings after the naloxone injection than the saline injection, but there was no evidence of naloxone reversing the analgesic effects of nitrous oxide. Similarly while naloxone also affected mood and impaired psychomotor performance, there was no evidence of naloxone reversing the effect of nitrous oxide on these measures. The results of this study call into question the role of the opioidergic system in mediating various effects of nitrous oxide in humans.
The ecotoxicological effects of three biocidal agents frequently employed as active ingredients in phenolic-based disinfectants were evaluated using a test battery comprising of organisms representing three aquatic trophic levels. Phenolic-based disinfectants are commonly used by mushroom growers to disinfect spent mushroom compost. In general, the most sensitive assay used in this study was the Microtox test. In the case of the fish lethality assay, sodium o-benzyl-p-chlorophenol was found to be slightly more sensitive than the bacterial test system. The freshwater alga and invertebrate tests were also among the most sensitive test species employed. The active ingredient, sodium o-benzyl-p-chlorophenol (with the exception of the Microtox assay), was the most toxic chemical tested on each species. The majority of ecotoxicity data obtained in this research has not been previously reported and may therefore assist in the management and planning decisions regarding the application of pesticides and utilisation of SMC.
In order to enhance antioxidant protection of the organism in various pathological states, effective combinations of antioxidants have been developed that interact with various types of free radicals. On two experimental models,--acute alcohol intoxication and calcium chloride arrhythmia of rats, the prophylactic activity of antioxidant combinations was established for certain doses, rather then for monotherapy. The possibility of obtaining high protective effects at relatively low concentrations of the components in the complex preparation was shown. Am increase of antioxidant concentration in the preparation could decrease its efficiency. The highest efficiency in the complex preparations, as compared with in each component taken separately, was observed in the case of calcium chloride arrhythmia when dibunol and beta-carotene were combined at concentrations of 10 mg/kg and in the case of acute alcohol intoxication (1 and 0.25 mg/kg, respectively). Enhanced efficiency of combined antioxidant therapy opens up the way to the production of new active complex preparations with minimum toxic side toxic effects and complications.
In this paper, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy of flucloxacillin treatment of meningitis caused by methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus. We identified 33 patients with meningitis due to S. aureus; eight had community-acquired meningitis and 25 had neurosurgical meningitis. Six of the eight patients with community-acquired meningitis were cured. Eighteen of the 22 patients treated with flucloxacillin were cured without relapse (86%, 95%CI 65-97%) and their cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures were sterile after a median of 3 days of treatment. The cure rate for 12 patients who also received an additional antibiotic at the outset of treatment was 75% (95%CI 43-95%). This was not different to the cure rate for the ten patients who received flucloxacillin alone 90% (95%CI 56-100%). We conclude that flucloxacillin is an effective treatment for meningitis caused by S. aureus.
To investigate the role of histamine in airway remodeling, 50 healthy guinea pigs were divided into 5 groups: control group: nebulized inhalation of distilled water for 8 weeks; asthma model group: nebulized inhalation of ovalbumin (OVA) for 8 weeks after sensitization; continued asthma model group: nebulized inhalation of OVA for 14 weeks after sensitization; histamine group: nebulized inhalation of OVA for 14 weeks after sensitization and histamine was added in the last 6 weeks; antagonist group: nebulized inhalation of OVA for 14 weeks after sensitization and histamine receptor antagonists were added in the last 6 weeks. For each group, the concentration of histamine, sodium ion (Na(+)), chlorine ion (Cl(-)), arterial partial pressure of oxygen (PaO2), arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PaCO2), pH, actual bicarbonate (AB), standard bicarbonate (SB) in serum, and thickness of airway mucosa, base membrane and smooth muscle were measured and compared with each other. The results showed that: (1) the concentration of histamine in serum and the thickness of airway increased, the following order was, the control group, the asthma model group, the continued asthma model group and histamine group (P<0.01); and the concentration of histamine in serum and the thickness of airway of antagonist group was lower than that of the continued asthma model group (P<0.05, 0.01). (2) PaO2 of the asthma model group was lower than that of the normal control group (P<0.01); PaO2, pH, AB, SB decreased, the following order was, the asthma model group, the continued asthma model group and the histamine group (P<0.01); and PaO2, pH, AB, SB of the antagonist group was higher than that of the continued asthma model group (P<0.01); but for PaCO2, the order was converse (P<0.01); For the concentration of Na(+) and Cl(-) in serum, there was no difference among these groups. It is concluded that: (1) Histamine is one of the mediators in the airway remodeling of asthma. (2) Histamine receptor antagonists may play a role in preventing and treating airway remodeling. (3) There is a negative correlation between the PaO2, pH and the wall thickness of the airway (P<0.01), while a positive correlation between the PaCO2, anion gap (AG) and the wall thickness of the airway (P<0.01).
