Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is one of the deadliest cancers. We performed exome sequencing on 113 tumor-normal pairs, yielding a mean of 82 non-silent mutations per tumor, and 8 cell lines. The mutational profile of ESCC closely resembles those of squamous cell carcinomas of other tissues but differs from that of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Genes involved in cell cycle and apoptosis regulation were mutated in 99% of cases by somatic alterations of TP53 (93%), CCND1 (33%), CDKN2A (20%), NFE2L2 (10%) and RB1 (9%). Histone modifier genes were frequently mutated, including KMT2D (also called MLL2; 19%), KMT2C (MLL3; 6%), KDM6A (7%), EP300 (10%) and CREBBP (6%). EP300 mutations were associated with poor survival. The Hippo and Notch pathways were dysregulated by mutations in FAT1, FAT2, FAT3 or FAT4 (27%) or AJUBA (JUB; 7%) and NOTCH1, NOTCH2 or NOTCH3 (22%) or FBXW7 (5%), respectively. These results define the mutational landscape of ESCC and highlight mutations in epigenetic modulators with prognostic and potentially therapeutic implications.
The effects of 2-chloroadenosine, aminophylline, bicuculline, beta-carboline-3-carboxylic acid methylester and Ro 15-1788 on seizures produced by pilocarpine were examined in rats. In animals pretreated with aminophylline at doses of 25-100 mg/kg, non-convulsant dose of pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg, resulted in severe motor limbic seizures, which rapidly developed into the status epilepticus. Electroencephalographic monitoring showed progressive evolution of seizure activity with initial high-voltage fast activity followed by high-voltage spiking and electrographic seizures. Morphological analysis of frontal forebrain sections with light microscopy demonstrated widespread damage to the hippocampal formation, thalamus, amygdala, olfactory cortex, substantia nigra and neocortex. Bicuculline, 2 mg/kg, beta-carboline-3-carboxylic acid methylester, 5 mg/kg, and Ro 15-1788, 50 mg/kg, did not augment seizures produced by pilocarpine, 100 mg/kg. 2-Chloroadenosine, 5 and 10 mg/kg, blocked the appearance of behavioral and electrographic seizures produced by pilocarpine, 380 mg/kg, and prevented the occurrence of brain damage. The results indicate that purinergic mechanisms are involved in the buildup of pilocarpine-induced convulsions and seizure-related brain damage in rats.
The addition of bevacizumab to fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy as first-line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer results in clinically significant improvements in patient outcome. However, clinical trials have been conducted primarily in Caucasian patients with only a small proportion of Asian patients. This Phase I/II study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of XELOX (capecitabine plus oxaliplatin) plus bevacizumab in Japanese patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Patients with previously untreated, measurable metastatic colorectal cancer received bevacizumab 7.5 mg/kg and oxaliplatin 130 mg/m(2) on day 1, plus capecitabine 1000 mg/m(2) twice daily on days 1-14, every 3 weeks. A three-step design evaluated in: step 1, initial safety of XELOX in six patients; step 2, initial safety of XELOX plus bevacizumab in six patients; and step 3, efficacy and safety in a further 48 patients. The primary study endpoints were safety and response rate.
No dose-limiting toxicity occurred during Steps 1 and 2. Fifty-eight patients were enrolled in Steps 2 and 3 and received XELOX plus bevacizumab. In the 57 patients assessed for response, the overall response rate was 72% (95% confidence interval, 58.5-83.0). Median progression-free survival was 11.0 months (95% confidence interval, 9.6-12.5) and median overall survival was 27.4 months (95% confidence interval, 22.0-not calculated). Eight patients (14%) underwent surgery with curative intent. The most common grade 3/4 adverse events were neurosensory toxicity (17%) and neutropenia (16%).
XELOX plus bevacizumab is effective and has a manageable tolerability profile when given to Japanese patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
To evaluate the effects of nifedipine, diltiazem, and verapamil overdose on systemic hemodynamics and blood flows to the coronary, superior mesenteric, renal, and iliac arteries in the unanesthetized dog.
Nonblinded, controlled animal study.
Research laboratory of a large pharmaceutical company.
Nineteen healthy mongrel dogs obtained from a commercial supplier.
Under general anesthesia, flow probes were placed about the ascending aorta, circumflex coronary, superior mesenteric, renal, and iliac arteries; a micromanometer was implanted into the tip of the left ventricle; and a catheter was inserted into the descending aorta. Experiments were performed after a recovery period of at least two weeks.
Arterial blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, left ventricular pressure, and regional blood flows were measured prior to drug administration, and after 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mg/kg IV administration of the study drugs. Dogs receiving diltiazem or verapamil also received a dose of 10.0 mg/kg. When the blood pressure had been reduced from baseline by 30%, 1.43 mg/kg nifedipine IV (six dogs) decreased total peripheral resistance by 51%, increased cardiac output by 35%, and increased heart rate by 132%. Coronary blood flow and iliac blood flow increased 93% and 45%, respectively, but mesenteric blood flow and renal blood flow were not significantly altered. Diltiazem (eight) and verapamil (seven) at equivasodepressor doses (1.43 to 4.43 mg/kg) caused less peripheral vasodilation and reflex tachycardia. At severely toxic levels when arterial blood pressure fell by 50%, all three drugs decreased cardiac output. Nifedipine still increased heart rate. Diltiazem and verapamil caused high-grade atrioventricular block, resulting in bradycardia. All three drugs caused a redistribution of cardiac output favoring the coronary bed over the other beds.
In the conscious dog, calcium channel blocker-induced hypotension at the moderate level is associated with disparate effects on systemic hemodynamics, probably resulting from differential reflex sympathetic activation. However, at a more severe level, their toxic effects are similar and manifested predominantly by their actions on the slow calcium channel.
The clinical experience of the significant difference in iron metabolism between multiple myeloma and myelodysplasia prompted us to analyse patients according to mutation frequency in the hemochromatosis gene (HFE) known to participate in the regulation of iron metabolism. HFE genotyping results were also evaluated in view of the clinical data in multiple myeloma (MM) patients. 49 patients with MM were compared to 61 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) concerning the incidence of two genetic variants of the HFE gene (C282Y and H63D) identified with PCR-RFLP. Data of serum iron, transferrin saturation, consumed blood units and initial white blood cell counts (WBC) were analysed in relation to the HFE genotype status. 30 out of the 61 MDS patients (49%) and only 9 out of the 49 MM patients (20%) were positive for either HFE variant. Serum iron and transferrin saturation levels were all normal in MM and elevated in MDS patients. The initial WBC were significantly lower in the minority of MM patients who were at the same time heterozygous for the HFE gene variants. We found significant differences in the frequencies of the HFE genetic variants between MDS and MM patients with strong correlation to their iron metabolism. The low WBC in HFE positive MM patients unrelated to bone marrow infiltration rate might raise the suspicion of co-existent myelodysplasia.
Tacrolimus improves lipid profile in renal and liver transplant recipients. The impact of conversion from cyclosporine microemulsion (Neoral) to tacrolimus (Prograf) in a large randomized study of stable heart transplant recipients with treated but persistent mild dyslipidemia is reported.
One hundred twenty-nine long-term (>or=12 months) cyclosporine microemulsion-treated heart transplant recipients with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol >2.5 mmol/liter and/or a total cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio >4 were recruited for the study. Complete lipid profile was assessed before (baseline) and after 6 months of treatment with either cyclosporine microemulsion maintenance (n=64) or tacrolimus conversion (n=65).
At 6 months, tacrolimus-converted patients exhibited a greater decrease in total cholesterol (from 5.51 +/- 0.16 to 4.88 +/- 1.22 mmol/liter [tacrolimus], vs 5.61 +/- 1.36 to 5.38 +/- 0.87 mmol/liter [cyclosporine]; p = 0.0078). This decrease in cholesterol was caused largely by a decrease in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (-0.41 +/- 0.54 [tacrolimus] vs -0.13 +/- 0.55 [cyclosporine]; p=0.0018). There were no changes in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and triglyceride levels, but apolipoprotein B therapy was reduced in tacrolimus-converted vs cyclosporine-maintained patients (p=0.0003). By 6 months, 23.7% of tacrolimus- vs 6.7% of cyclosporine-treated patients met the target lipid levels for high-risk patients (p=0.0094). Conversion from cyclosporine to tacrolimus resulted in decreases in blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, and uric acid without any changes in glucose, HbA(1C), and insulin levels.
Conversion from cyclosporine microemulsion- to tacrolimus-based immunoprophylaxis resulted in decreased cholesterol, apolipoprotein B, urea, creatinine, and uric acid without any clinically evident perturbation of glucose metabolism in stable heart transplant recipients with treated but persistent mild dyslipidemia.
The hemodynamic effects of captopril and other angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors may be mediated by the endogenous opioid system. The opioid antagonist naloxone has been shown to block or reverse the hypotensive actions of captopril. We report a case of an intentional captopril overdose, manifested by marked hypotension, that resolved promptly with the administration of naloxone. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of captopril-induced hypotension treated with naloxone. Our experience demonstrates a possible role of naloxone in the reversal of hypotension resulting from captopril.
Intermittent exogenous parathyroid hormone (PTH) is a potent osteoanabolic agent used for the treatment of severe osteoporosis. Two molecules of recombinant PTH are commercially available: the full-length PTH (PTH 1-84) and teriparatide (PTH 1-34). We present the first report of PTH-induced mild, asymptomatic, normochromic normocytic anemia in a postmenopausal woman treated sequentially with PTH 1-84 and PTH 1-34. Anemia was more pronounced with PTH 1-84 compared to PTH 1-34 and was reversed with each regimen discontinuation. We suggest monitoring of hematocrit and hemoglobin in PTH-treated patients, especially when PTH 1-84 is used.
Oxytocin is widely used in obstetric settings to stimulate uterine contraction and prevent postpartum hemorrhage. Its adverse effects which include transient hypotension and increase heart rate could be life-threatening in patients with fixed cardiac output or hypotension resulting from hemorrhage. We reported two cases suspected to have preexisting prolonged Q-T interval syndrome (PQTS) who developed ventricular tachycardia immediately after intravenous injection of oxytocin. Anesthetic management of and use of oxytocic agents in patients with PQTS were discussed.
Isotretinoin, a medication for acne, has been reported to cause a variety of side effects on the musculoskeletal system. We present a case of sacroiliitis (a relatively uncommon feature) and sensorimotor demyelinating polyneuropathy, which has been reported previously in only a few cases during isotretinoin therapy. Clinical symptoms were improved after the withdrawal of isotretinoin and the follow-up electrophysiological study performed 2 years after the initial diagnosis of polyneuropathy showed mild improvement. Dermatologists are advised to be alert to symptoms of polyneuropathy and sacroiliitis during treatment with isotretinoin.
Bepridil is effective for intractable cardiac arrhythmia, but in rare cases will induce torsades de pointes (TdP) associated with QT interval prolongation. Beta-blockers will effectively prevent TdP in some clinical settings, so the effect of beta-blocker on the change in QT interval, QT dispersion and transmural dispersion of repolarization (TDR) induced by bepridil was investigated in 10 patients (7 male, 3 female; 62+/-6 years old) with intractable paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. The QTc interval, QTc dispersion and TDR were measured before and after 1 month of administration of bepridil, and then a beta-blocker was added and the QTc interval, QTc dispersion and TDR re-measured 1 month later. Bepridil significantly prolonged the QTc interval (0.42+/-0.05 to 0.50+/-0.08; p<0.01), and increased both the QT dispersion (0.07+/-0.05 to 0.14+/-0.08; p<0.01) and TDR (0.10+/-0.04 to 0.16+/-0.05; p<0.01). The addition of a beta-blocker decreased the QTc interval (0.50+/-0.08 to 0.47+/-0.04; p=0.09) and significantly decreased both the QTc dispersion (0.14 +/-0.08 to 0.06+/-0.02; p<0.01) and TDR (0.16+/-0.05 to 0.11+/-0.04; p<0.001). Compared with the control, the combination therapy significantly prolonged the QTc interval, but did not increase either QTc dispersion or TDR, and so was effective in all patients with intractable AF. The findings suggest that beta-blocker reduces the increase in QT dispersion and TDR induced by bepridil, and combined therapy with bepridil and beta-blocker might thus be useful for intractable atrial fibrillation.
This study reports coronary and systemic hemodynamics, and metabolic responses to atrial pacing, prostacyclin (PGI2), and iloprost, its stable analogue, in 16 patients with severe coronary obstruction as well as predominant narrowing in the left anterior descending artery. PGI2 caused ischemia in six patients with low anginal threshold during pacing. In three of them ischemia was also precipitated by iloprost. Drugs were infused at therapeutic doses and were discontinued when pain occurred. Angina disappeared promptly (less than or equal to 3 minutes) and spontaneously after the infusion of PGI2, whereas after the analogue it was long lasting (greater than or equal to 5 minutes) and was relieved by 125 mg intravenous aminophylline, an antagonist of dipyridamole-induced coronary dilation. Ischemia was associated with a drug-induced decrease in arterial blood pressure and reflex tachycardia, and occurred despite increased great cardiac vein (GCV) blood flow and decreased resistance, which is consistent with either a failure of regional flow to increase proportionally to the metabolic demand or a subendocardial-subepicardial steal. However, the following findings favor the latter hypothesis: heart rate and rate-pressure product at the onset of pain were lower with drugs than with pacing, and GCV blood flow, measured at a comparable heart rate, was less with pacing than with drugs. In conclusion, PGI2 and analogues may induce ischemia in patients with advanced coronary artery disease. The mechanism appears to be related to a dipyridamole-like maldistribution of flow. Counteraction of ischemia can be achieved by aminophylline.
Prostate cancer is one of the most promising candidates for sodium iodide symporter (NIS)-mediated gene therapy. Adenovirus-mediated expression of NIS that is driven by prostate-specific promoters induces generous radioiodine accumulation in prostate cancer cells that may be used for therapy with (131)I. We have recently developed a replication-deficient adenovirus carrying the human NIS cDNA linked to a composite probasin promoter, ARR(2)PB, aiming toward specific expression of the human NIS gene (h-NIS) in prostate tissue for targeted radioactive iodide therapy of prostate cancer (Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS). The ability of Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS to cause NIS expression in tumor cells was characterized by iodide uptake assay and compared with Ad-CMV/hNIS in which the h-NIS expression is driven by the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. Androgen-dependent prostate cancer cell lines (LNCaP) and non-prostate origin tumor cell lines (SNU449, MCF-7, HCT116, OVCAR-3, and Panc-1) were infected with the viral constructs, and perchlorate-sensitive (125)I uptake and NIS protein expression were measured. Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS-infected LNCaP cells showed androgen-dependent and perchlorate-sensitive iodide uptake. Iodide accumulation in LNCaP cells infected with Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS, followed by incubation with synthetic androgen, was 5.3-fold increased compared with those coincubated with perchlorate (15,184 +/- 1,173 cpm versus 2,837 +/- 187 cpm). Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS-infected LNCaP cells revealed a 3.2-fold increase of iodide accumulation compared with those infected with Ad-CMV/hNIS (multiplicity of infection = 30). Iodide uptake in a panel of non-prostate tumor cell lines infected with Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS was no more than 2,500 cpm, demonstrating the tissue specificity of this construct. These results indicate that Ad-ARR(2)PB/hNIS can be used to achieve high-magnitude and tissue-specific expression of h-NIS in prostate tissue and is a promising candidate for cancer gene therapy of prostate cancer.
Ten Kenyan patients with visceral leishmaniasis unresponsive to sodium stibogluconate, at a dose of 16 to 20 mg Sb/kg body-weight/day given for 30 to 98 days, were treated with 20 mg Sb/kg bw given every eight hours. This regimen was modified or abandoned in six patients because of suspected toxicity, although toxicity was difficult to assess because of intercurrent illness. Toxic effects included lethargy, anorexia, vomiting, electrocardiographic changes, fall in haemoglobin and rise in liver enzymes. One patient died, probably from a cardiac arrhythmia. Two patients were cured, four responded partially and four showed no response. Pentamidine, at a dose of 4 mg/kg body-weight given one to 3 times per week for 5 to 39 weeks, was given as initial treatment in one patient and after failure of sodium stibogluconate in seven. Toxic effects included nephritis, hepatitis, transient diabetes and subcutaneous abscesses. Two patients were cured, two responded partially, three showed no response and one, after apparent cure, relapsed and was unresponsive to additional pentamidine treatment. Low-frequency, long-duration pentamidine was often useful in maintaining any improvement made during treatment with the less well tolerated high-dose, high frequency sodium stibogluconate. We observed the step-wise development of resistance to both sodium stibogluconate and pentamidine. The problems of managing patients with visceral leishmaniasis which is unresponsive to conventional doses of pentavalent antimonials are discussed and some tentative suggestions put forward.
Immunosuppressive medication in renal transplant recipients (RTR) strongly increases the risk of cancers on sun-exposed skin. This increased risk was considered an inevitable collateral effect of immunosuppression, because UV-induced carcinomas in mice were found to be highly antigenic. Here, we posed the question whether immunosuppression also increases the frequency of p53-mutant foci ('p53 patches'), putative microscopic precursors of squamous cell carcinomas. As the majority of RTR was kept on azathioprine for most of the time, we investigated whether this drug could increase UV-induced p53 patches by immunosuppression. As azathioprine can impair UV-damaged DNA repair under certain conditions, we also investigated whether DNA repair was affected. Archive material of RTR and immunocompetent patients (ICP), as well as azathioprine-administered hairless mice were examined for p53 patches. DNA repair was investigated by ascertaining the effect of azathioprine on unscheduled DNA synthesis (UDS) in UV-irradiated human keratinocytes. P53 patches were more prevalent in RTR than in ICP in normal skin adjacent to carcinomas (P = 0.02), in spite of a lower mean age in the RTR (52 vs 63 years, P = 0.001), but we found no increase in UV-induced p53 patches in mice that were immunosuppressed by azathioprine. We found a significant reduction in DNA repair activity in keratinocytes treated with azathioprine (P = 0.011). UV-induced UDS in humans is dominated by repair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers, and these DNA lesions can lead to 'UV-signature' mutations in the P53 gene, giving rise to p53 patches.
Various experimental models related to Adriamycin (ADR)-induced nephropathy have been reported. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the efficacy of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), deferoxamine (DFO) and selenium in protection against renal injury in ADR nephropathy.
The study included 53 Sprague Dawley male rats. Nephrotic syndrome was induced by injection of ADR 5 mg/kg intravenously (n=46). Control rats (n=7) were injected with an equal volume of isotonic saline. After ADR administration, they were divided into a group given only ADR (n=17) and 3 antioxidant treatment groups: (i) NAC (n=10), (ii) DFO (n=10) and (iii) selenium (n=9). In both renal tissue and erythrocytes, oxidative system parameters and trace elements were determined.
Nephrotic syndrome was proven in ADR-injected rats 4 weeks after injections, with proteinuria, higher blood lipids and hypoalbuminemia. All of the antioxidant agents used in the present study to prevent the development of nephrotic syndrome provided benefits for the nephrotic state. Of them, selenium seemed to offer relatively lower and statistically insignificant efficacy for preventing proteinuria compared with the others.
Our results showed that concomitant administration of some antioxidants with ADR injections seems to have beneficial effects on clinical parameters even if antioxidants were given in a single dose. NAC and DFO are more effective than selenium to prevent renal injury.
Proteasome inhibitors and protease inhibitors are currently being discussed to be useful to sensitize drug-resistant cancer cells to chemotherapeutic agents or to act independently as single agents on drug-resistant cancer cells. We tested the effect of the clinically applied HIV protease inhibitor nelfinavir on ovarian cancer cells. Nelfinavir efficiently induced cell death in carboplatin-sensitive (SKOV3, OV-GH-5) and carboplatin-resistant (OVCAR3, OV-GH-1) ovarian cancer cell lines as well as in cancer biopsies and ascites samples from patients with recurrent ovarian cancer. Nelfinavir significantly changed the morphology of ovarian cancer cells, resulting in formation of large ER-derived vacuoles and induced upregulation of the hsp70 heat shock family member BiP (GRP78) which accumulated within swollen ER membranes. Upregulation of BiP and phosphorylation of eIF2alpha indicated induction of the unfolded protein response, which can cause cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Correspondingly, we observed downregulation of cell cycle regulatory proteins after nelfinavir treatment, especially that of cyclin D3, and induction of apoptosis as confirmed by annexin binding. Because nelfinavir represents an already approved drug for use in humans with HIV infection, it could rapidly be tested in clinical studies as a potential treatment strategy against drug-resistant ovarian cancer.
There is an urgent need to identify genes involved in familial ALS (FALS), as mutations in the CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene can account for 20% of FALS cases. The mechanisms by which the many mutations in the SOD1 gene lead to motoneuron degeneration are unknown, although current experimental evidence supports a toxic gain of function, possibly through copper-induced cytotoxicity. Copper is an integral component of a number of enzymes as well as SOD1. Since abnormalities in connective tissue cross-linking have been reported in ALS patients, an enzyme of possible relevance is lysyl oxidase (LOX), a copper-containing enzyme which catalyses the crosslinking of collagens and elastin. The aim of this study was to investigate the hypothesis that allelic variants or mutants of LOX gene result in altered function of LOX in ALS patients.
The coding regions of the LOX gene were screened for polymorphism and mutations in a cohort of sporadic and familial ALS patients.
A novel polymorphism, Pro159Gln, was identified in eight individuals with sporadic ALS (5.0%) and five controls (3.6%). The previously identified Arg158Gln polymorphism was also detected in ALS patients and controls. These polymorphisms were genotyped in 192 ALS patients, including 31 unrelated familial cases and 138 controls, and no association was found between any of these polymorphisms and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or its phenotype.
Mutations in the LOX gene are unlikely to be directly causative of ALS.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) is a natural polyphenol that presents various physiological activities. It has been reported that the methylated derivatives of resveratrol show better potential antifungal and antiproliferative activities than resveratrol. In the present study, we investigated the inhibitory effect of 3,5,4'-trimethoxy-trans-stilbene (MR-3), a methylated derivative of resveratrol, on the invasion of A549 cells (a human lung adenocarcinoma cell line). We found that treatment with MR-3 at the concentration of 5 muM resulted in antiadhesive, antimigratory, and antiinvasive activities on A549 cells through the suppression of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 protein expression and transcriptional levels in a time-dependent manner. The suppression of MMP-2 expression by MR-3 led to an inhibition of A549 cell invasion by inactivating phosphorylation of SAPK/c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 MAPK signaling pathways. A time-dependent inhibition of protein levels for p65, c-Jun, and c-Fos in the nucleus by MR-3 treatment was also observed. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that the antiinvasive effects of MR-3 on A549 cells are likely mediated through the inhibition of phosphorylation of JNK and p38, as well as a reduction in the protein levels of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1) in the nucleus, ultimately leading to downregulation of MMP-2 expression.
A 24-year-old woman developed malignant hypertension while on oral contraceptives (OCs). She was found to have incomplete systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with DNA antibodies and high levels of antiphospholipid antibodies (APLA). She later developed SLE and has had three miscarriages and a cerebellar infarction.
Reported is the case of a 24-year-old Finnish woman who developed malignant hypertension while taking an oral contraceptive (OC) that contained 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol. She presented with blurred vision, but reported no other remarkable signs or symptoms during the 5 months in which she had been using OCs. Laboratory tests at admission revealed incomplete systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with DNA antibodies and high levels of antiphospholipid antibodies. Her blood pressure was 220-140 mmHg. OC use was discontinued and antihypertensive treatment initiated, with good results. 2 years later, however, the patient developed epileptic seizures and an area of local atrophy in the cerebellum was identified through computerized tomography. In the 4-6th years after initial presentation, the patient experienced 3 miscarriages, all at 7-8 weeks of gestation. 1 year after presentation, the patient satisfied 4 of the criteria for SLE (positive DNA and antiphospholipid antibodies, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and proteinuria). At present, the patient's symptoms are being controlled with carbamazepine and metroprolol. The patient's older sister, who had never used OCs, had SLE. It appears that high levels of antiphospholipid antibodies are an additional risk factor for the development of vascular complications in OC users but are not induced by OCs. Similarly, while OCs are not believed to cause SLE, they can exacerbate the disease or unmask a lupus diathesis.
We undertook a retrospective review of all the liver biopsies done by us between 1985 and 1990 for the purpose of monitoring methotrexate (MTX)-induced hepatotoxicity in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients. A total of 29 biopsies were done in 25 patients. The mean total cumulative dose of MTX was 1585 +/- 348 (SD) mg. Average duration of MTX therapy was 31 +/- 9.8 mo (SD). Liver biopsy after accumulating 900 mg and 1200 mg MTX, respectively, in 2 obese diabetic patients showed evidence of cirrhosis. Obese diabetics may represent a subgroup of RA patients at risk for developing MTX-induced hepatotoxicity.
A 52 year old man developed bullous pemphigoid, Coombs' positive haemolytic anaemia and diarrhoea related to the use of mefenamic acid. Clinical manifestation of the bullous pemphigoid, haemolytic anaemia and diarrhoea resolved following discontinuation of the mefenamic acid. Mefenamic acid should be added to the list of agents that are known to induce bullous pemphigoid.
The protective effect of interleukin 1 alpha (IL-1 alpha) in mice with acetaminophen (AAP)-induced hepatitis was investigated. IL-1 alpha had a significant protective effect if given 2 or more hours (up to 24 hours) before AAP; it significantly reduced mortality of mice and decreased serum transaminase level. The maximal effect was obtained with the dose of 1000 U (166 ng/kg) IL-1 alpha. Pretreatment with IL-1 significantly increased the synthesis of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) in samples of liver tissue from AAP-treated mice, but had no effect on the synthesis of leukotriene C4 (LTC4). Pretreatment with indomethacin (IMC) did not abrogate significantly the protective effect of IL-1. Thus, the hepatoprotective effect of IL-1 alpha can not be entirely explained by the stimulation of prostaglandin (PG) synthesis.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common disabling movement disorder owing to progressive depletion of dopamine in nigrostriatal region, and can be experimentally accelerated by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). MPTP-treated mice are a representative animal model for searching for the therapeutic agents for PD without adverse effect. In this study we investigated the effect of geraniol (GE) on chronic MPTP/probenecid (MPTP/p) induced apoptotic changes in nigrostriatal region. We observed that chronic exposure to MPTP/p led to increased expression of apoptotic markers, results in neurodegeneration and motor behavioral impairments in mice. Pretreatment with GE to MPTP/p significantly improved motor functions and ameliorated striatal antioxidant balance. In addition, GE attenuated the expression of apoptotic markers evident by the normalized Bcl-2/Bax ratio and decreased expression of cytochrome-C and caspase-9 in the substantia nigra and striatum of MPTP/p induced mice model of PD. The findings of the present study suggested that GE, a new therapeutic potential avenue may have beneficial effects in slowing or preventing the progression of PD and other neurodegenerative disorders.
