To develop a stepwise methodology for the development and validation of clinically relevant genotypic score for resistance to antiretroviral drugs and to apply this approach to the genotypic resistance to abacavir.
All patients having received abacavir during the Narval trial were included in this study. The impact of each nucleoside analogue resistance mutation on the virologic response to abacavir was studied in a univariate analysis. Mutations with a P value < 0.20 and those selected by abacavir were retained. According to the number of mutations three levels of resistance were defined. A multivariate analysis accounting for confonding variables assessed whether the genotypic score was an independent predictor of the response. The robustness of the score was analysed using the bootstrap resampling method.
In the 175 patients exposed to abacavir, the strongest association between the decrease in viral load and the number of mutations was observed with a set of six mutations at codons 41, 67, 210, 215, 74 and 184 of the reverse transcriptase gene. In patients with fewer than four mutations (no evidence of resistance) the median decrease in viral load was -1.64 log(10) copies/ml while it was -0.69 log(10) and -0.19 log(10) in those with four (possible resistance) and five or six (resistance) mutations respectively. In the multivariate analysis this score was an independent predictor of the response. The bootstrap analysis showed the robustness of the score.
We developed a new strategy for the analysis of correlation between genotype profile at baseline and virologic response.
Myocarditis and cardiomyopathy are rarely reported complications of clozapine treatment. The incidence of clozapine-related myocarditis has been variably reported at between 0.03% and 0.19% of initiations and cardiomyopathy has been reported even less commonly. In our Brisbane-based service, nine of 94 patients initiated on clozapine over the previous 3 years appeared to have experienced myocarditis or cardiomyopathy. The unique co-location of our service with a major cardiothoracic hospital facilitated a review of identified cases to inform decisions regarding clozapine treatment and rechallenge in this service.
Cases were identified by survey of psychiatric and cardiac medical staff at The Prince Charles Hospital and subjected to re-evaluation by a multidiscipline consensus panel. The panel compared cases to international reports and identified the clinical features that supported a diagnosis of clozapine-related myocarditis or cardiomyopathy.
This process resulted in the stratification of the nine cases into the following categories of diagnostic likelihood: three highly probable, three probable, and two possible cases of clozapine-related myocarditis, and one possible case of clozapine-related cardiomyopathy. Successful clozapine rechallenge/continuation was undertaken in two patients and the panel agreed that this was a viable future option for several other patients.
Findings of the panel review supported the initial clinical diagnoses. This confirmed that there was an apparent high incidence of clozapine-related myocarditis within this service, for which there was no clear reason. Mechanisms underlying clozapine-related myocarditis and cardiomyopathy, as well as successful clozapine continuation and rechallenge were considered, but definitive explanations remain unknown. This review highlighted the clinician's role in post-marketing drug surveillance to guide rational management of suspected adverse drug effects.
Around 6% of infants born to mothers taking anticonvulsants have malformations, including neural tube defects, and a further proportion show developmental delay in later childhood. Three commonly used anticonvulsants, carbamazepine, phenytoin and sodium valproate, interfere with folic acid metabolism. We investigated the common 677 C>T mutation in the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene in samples from 57 patients and their parents and 152 controls to determine its contribution to the risk of fetal anticonvulsant syndrome. The 677 C>T mutation frequency was significantly higher in the mothers than in the controls, but there was no significant difference in 677 C>T frequency in the patients or in the fathers. Genotype frequencies in the mothers were significantly different from controls, there being an excess of 677 C>T homozygotes. Amongst the patients, there was an apparent excess of heterozygotes (not statistically significant), and the fathers were not significantly different from controls. Mutation in the MTHFR gene in a mother taking sodium valproate, phenytoin or carbamazepine during pregnancy is associated with fetal anticonvulsant syndrome in her offspring. The skewed distribution of genotypes in the affected children probably reflects the association of fetal anticonvulsant syndrome with the maternal genotype.
We report a patient with chronic plaque psoriasis who developed clinical and electrophysiologic features of polyneuropathy affecting motor and sensory fibers in upper and lower extremities after three months of treatment with oral acitretin. Drug withdrawal resulted in a complete clinical recovery and normalization of all electrophysiologic abnormalities within two months.
Although acute cocaine use has been correlated with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, its effect on vasospasm and outcome is controversial. We investigated the effect of acute cocaine use on response to vasospasm treatment and neurologic outcome in patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Data from 600 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage admitted to the University of Illinois Medical Center in Chicago between June 2002 and July 2007 were retrospectively analyzed. Patients who were positive for cocaine on urine toxicology or admitted to cocaine use within 72 hours of admission were compared with control patients with no history of cocaine use. Patients with unknown or remote history were excluded.
Of the 600 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage, 27 (5%) were excluded. Thirty-one patients (5%) acutely used cocaine before admission. Cocaine users were younger than control (45.1 vs 54.1; P ≤ .0003), and were more likely to smoke tobacco, drink alcohol, and have renal dysfunction. There was no significant difference in Hunt-Hess or Fisher grade. In univariate and multivariate analyses, there was no difference in unfavorable short-term outcome (modified Rankin scale > 3), incidence of symptomatic or radiologic vasospasm, stroke, or death. The number of interventional procedures for the treatment of vasospasm did not differ between the two groups.
There is no significant difference in incidence of symptomatic vasospasm or neurologic outcome between cocaine users and nonusers. The severity of the vasospasm and the response to treatment, as indicated by the number of vasospasm interventions, did not differ between the two groups.
Benzodiazepines, which are gamma-aminobutyric acid-A (GABA(A)) receptor positive modulators, can block the behavioral effects of psychomotor stimulants. In the present study, the ability of oxazepam, which may have less abuse potential compared to some other benzodiazepines, to attenuate the discriminative-stimulus, subject-rated and psychomotor performance effects of d-amphetamine in humans was determined. Six healthy participants (2 female, 4 male) learned to discriminate 15 mg oral d-amphetamine. After acquiring the discrimination (i.e., > or = 80% correct responding on 4 consecutive days), the effects of d-amphetamine (0, 2.5, 5, 10 and 15 mg), alone and in combination with acutely administered oxazepam (0 and 20 mg) were assessed. d-Amphetamine alone functioned as a discriminative stimulus, produced stimulant-like subject-rated effects (e.g., increased ratings of Stimulated on a Drug-Effect Questionnaire) and enhanced psychomotor performance. Oxazepam alone increased subject ratings of sedation (e.g., increased ratings of Sluggish, Fatigued and Lazy on a Drug-Effect Questionnaire) and impaired psychomotor performance. Oxazepam alone did not occasion d-amphetamine-like discriminative-stimulus effects, and had no effect on the discriminative-stimulus or subject-rated effects of d-amphetamine when given in combination. The results of this experiment are discordant with previous research and suggest that benzodiazepines differ in their ability to modulate the behavioral effects of d-amphetamine.
Renal papillary necrosis (RPN) and a decreased urinary concentrating ability developed during continuous long-term treatment with aspirin and paracetamol in female Fischer 344 rats. Renal structure and concentrating ability were examined after a recovery period of up to 18 weeks, when no analgesics were given, to investigate whether the analgesic-induced changes were reversible. There was no evidence of repair to the damaged medullary interstitial matrix, or proliferation of remaining undamaged type 1 medullary interstitial cells after the recovery period following analgesic treatment. The recovery of urinary concentrating ability was related to the length of analgesic treatment and the extent of the resulting inner medullary structural damage. During the early stages of analgesic treatment, the changes in urinary concentrating ability were reversible, but after prolonged analgesic treatment, maximum urinary concentrating ability failed to recover. This study shows that prolonged analgesic treatment in Fischer 344 rats causes progressive and irreversible damage to the interstitial matrix and type 1 interstitial cells leading to RPN. The associated urinary concentrating defect is reversible only during the early stages of structural damage to the inner medulla.
The effects of the ethanol extract of Pavetta crassipes on the central nervous system (CNS) and on actions of some selected centrally acting drugs were studied in mice and rats. These studies were carried out using the spontaneous motor activity (SMA), amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and stereotyped behaviour, pentobarbital-induced hypnosis and exploratory activity, apomorphine-induced climbing and haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. The results demonstrated that the extract of P. crassipes dose-dependently decreased SMA in mice and attenuated amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and the different episodes of stereotypic behavioural patterns induced by amphetamine. In addition, the extract decreased the number of head dips in the exploratory activity test and potentiated pentobarbital-induced sleeping time in rats. Furthermore, the extract inhibited apomorphine-induced climbing in mice and potentiated haloperidol-induced catalepsy in rats. Our results suggest that the extract of P. crassipes contains biologically active substance(s) that might be acting centrally through the inhibition of dopaminergic pathway or a system linked to this pathway to mediate the observed pharmacological effects.
The binding of [3H] quinuclidinyl benzilate (QNB) to rat striatum membranes after diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) induced seizures was characterized. There was a 36% decrease in Kd and a 33% decrease in the number of muscarinic receptors. Paraoxon caused inhibition fo [3H] QNB binding to the striatal membranes of intact rats. It is possible that a direct action of DFP on the muscarinic receptor is not the cause of anti-cholinesterase-induced changes in [3H] QNB binding.
Earlier studies show that antagonism of sigma receptors using high to moderate affinity compounds or antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeting the sigma(1) subtype significantly attenuates the behavioral effects of cocaine in mice. In this study, the novel sigma receptor ligand YZ-069 [N-phenylpropyl-N'-(3,4-dichlorophenethyl)piperazine] and four analogs (representing nitrophenyl and methoxyphenyl derivatives) were evaluated in receptor binding and behavioral studies to further delineate structural features that convey favorable anticocaine actions. In receptor binding studies, all of the compounds had low nanomolar affinities for sigma(1) and sigma(2) receptors but only micromolar affinities for monoamine transporters. Consistent with the favorable affinities of the compounds for sigma receptors, they also significantly attenuated cocaine-induced convulsions in mice. The compounds with the 3,4-dichlorophenyl and methoxyphenyl substitutions provided better protection against cocaine-induced convulsions than the nitrophenyl derivative. This is consistent with the reduced lipophilicity of the nitro substitution, which would reduce its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. The position of the substituent on the phenyl ring had no significant effect on binding affinity or behavioral protective actions. Together with earlier studies, the data suggest that favorable features of sigma receptor ligands with anticocaine actions include high affinity for brain sigma receptors, antagonistic actions at the receptor, and lipophilicity to facilitate crossing the blood-brain barrier.
Patients are typically switched from parenteral opioids to oral opioids during the 24 to 48 hours after surgery. In June 2006, an oral immediate-release (IR) tablet formulation of oxymorphone was approved for the treatment of acute moderate to severe pain. Single doses of oxymorphone IR have been reported to provide significant pain relief after orthopedic surgery.
This study assessed the efficacy and tolerability of multiple fixed doses of oxymorphone IR in the treatment of acute postoperative pain after abdominal surgery.
This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, active- and placebo-controlled, parallel-group study in men and women aged >or=18 years undergoing abdominal surgery that required a >or=3-cm incision. Patients who discontinued short-acting parenteral opioids and developed moderate or severe pain (4-point categorical scale [none, mild, moderate, or severe] and pain intensity >or=50 mm on a 100-mm visual analog scale [from 0 = no pain to 100 = worst pain imaginable]) within 30 hours after abdominal surgery were randomized to receive oxymorphone IR 10 or 20 mg, oxycodone IR 15 mg, or placebo every 4 to 6 hours after the previous dose. The study included 2 efficacy assessments: a single-dose evaluation for up to 6 hours after the dose, and a multipledose evaluation for up to 48 hours after the first dose. Pain was assessed at 15-minute intervals during the hour after the first dose, hourly thereafter for the next 5 hours, and before each subsequent dose. The primary efficacy end point was the median time to study discontinuation for all causes. Assessment of tolerability was based on the proportion of study discontinuations due to treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs).
Three hundred thirty-one patients were included in the study. Demographic characteristics were similar across all groups: 98.8% (327) of patients were women, and 80.1% (265) of the abdominal surgeries were hysterectomies. The mean (SD) age of the study population was 42.6 (9.3) years. The median time to study discontinuation for all causes was significantly longer for all active treatments compared with placebo (oxymorphone IR 10 mg, 17.9 hours; oxymorphone IR 20 mg, 20.3 hours; oxycodone IR 15 mg, 24.1 hours; placebo, 4.8 hours; P < 0.006). Oxymorphone IR 20 mg was significantly more effective than placebo over the 6-hour single-dose evaluation (P < 0.05). With multiple dosing, all active-treatment groups had significantly lower least squares mean current and average pain intensities compared with placebo (P < 0.004 and P < 0.005, respectively). The least squares means of the average pain intensity were significantly lower among patients treated with oxymorphone IR 10 mg, oxymorphone IR 20 mg, or oxycodone IR 15 mg compared with those who received placebo (39.7, 35.2, 39.8, and 50.1, respectively; P < 0.005). Discontinuations due to treatment-emergent AEs did not differ significantly between groups: 8.5% (7/82), 17.3% (14/81), 13.3% (11/83), and 12.9% (11/85) in the oxymorphone IR 10-mg, oxymorphone IR 20-mg, oxycodone IR 15-mg, and placebo groups, respectively. The proportions of patients reporting at least 1 treatment-emergent AE were 46.3% (38/82), 51.9% (42/81), and 54.2% (45/83) in the oxymorphone IR 10-mg, oxymorphone IR 20-mg, and oxycodone IR 15-mg groups, respectively, compared with 34.1% (29/85) in the placebo group (P = NS). The fixed-dose design was a study limitation, as it did not allow titration to effect and thus did not mirror clinical practice.
In this predominantly female population undergoing abdominal surgery, oxymorphone IR given every 4 to 6 hours for up to 48 hours provided efficacious and tolerable analgesia for moderate to severe pain.
Despite intense investigation, the mechanism of isoflurane-induced cerebral hyperemia is unclear. The current study was designed to determine the contributions of neuronal nitric oxide synthase, prostaglandins, and epoxyeicosatrienoic acids to isoflurane-induced cerebral hyperemia.
Regional cerebral cortical blood flow was measured with laser Doppler flowmetry during stepwise increases of isoflurane from 0.0 to 1.2, 1.8, and 2.4 vol% end-tidal concentration in alpha-chloralose-urethane-anesthetized, C57BL/6 mice before and 45 min after administration of the neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI, 40 mg/kg, intraperitoneal), the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin (INDO, 10 mg/kg, intravenous), and the cytochrome P450 epoxygenase inhibitor N-methylsulfonyl-6-(2-proparglyoxyphenyl)hexanoic acid (PPOH, 20 mg/kg, intravenous).
Isoflurane increased regional cerebral cortical blood flow by 9 +/- 3, 46 +/- 21, and 101 +/- 26% (SD) at 1.2, 1.8, and 2.4 vol%, respectively. The increases in regional cerebral cortical blood flow were significantly (*P < 0.05) smaller after 7-NI (5 +/- 6, 29 +/- 19*, 68 +/- 15%*) or PPOH (4 +/- 8, 27 +/- 17*, 67 +/- 30%*), but not after administration of INDO (4 +/- 4, 33 +/- 18 [NS], 107 +/- 35% [NS]). The effect of combined treatment with 7-NI, PPOH, and INDO was not additive and was equal to that of either 7-NI or PPOH alone (5 +/- 5, 30 +/- 12*, 76 +/- 24%*). Chronic treatment of mice for 5 days with 7-NI (2 x 40 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) produced similar decreases in regional cerebral cortical blood flow as those seen with acute administration. Neither PPOH nor INDO conferred a significant additional block of the hyperemia in these animals.
Nitric oxide and epoxyeicosatrienoic acids contribute to isoflurane-induced hyperemia. However, only approximately one third of the cerebral hyperemic response to isoflurane is mediated by autacoids. The remaining part of this response appears to be mediated by a direct action of isoflurane on smooth muscle by some yet-unknown mechanism.
Arsenic has been linked to increased prevalence of cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD), but the long-term impact of arsenic exposure remains unclear. Human paraoxonase (PON1) is a high-density lipoprotein-associated antioxidant enzyme which hydrolyzes oxidized lipids and is thought to be protective against atherosclerosis, but evidence remains limited to case-control studies. Only recently have genes encoding enzymes responsible for arsenic metabolism, such as AS3MT and GSTO, been cloned and characterized. This study was designed to evaluate the synergistic interaction of genetic factors and arsenic exposure on electrocardiogram abnormality. A total of 216 residents from three tap water implemented villages of previous arseniasis-hyperendemic regions in Taiwan were prospectively followed for an average of 8 years. For each resident, a 12-lead conventional electrocardiogram (ECG) was recorded and coded by Minnesota Code standard criteria. Eight functional polymorphisms of PON1, PON2, AS3MT, GSTO1, and GSTO2 were examined for genetic susceptibility to ECG abnormality. Among 42 incident cases with ECG deterioration identified among 121 baseline-normal subjects, arsenic exposure was significantly correlated with incidence of ECG abnormality. In addition, polymorphisms in two paraoxonase genes were also found associated with the incidence of ECG abnormality. A haplotype R-C-S constituted by polymorphisms of PON1 Q192R, -108C/T and PON2 C311S was linked to the increased risk. Subjects exposed to high levels of As (cumulative As exposure >14.7 ppm-year or drinking artesian well water >21 years) and carrying the R-C-S haplotype had significantly increased risks for ECG abnormality over those with only one risk factor. Results of this study showed a long-term arsenic effect on ECG abnormality and significant gene-gene and gene-environment interactions linked to the incidence of CVD. This finding might have important implications for a novel and potentially useful biomarker of arsenic risk.
The hepatoprotective effect of carnosine was investigated against cadmium-induced acute liver injury in mice. Hepatotoxicity was induced by a single i.p. injection of cadmium chloride (6.5mg/kg). Carnosine treatment (10mg/kg/day, i.p.) was applied for three consecutive days, starting one day before cadmium administration. Carnosine significantly decreased the cadmium-induced elevations in serum aminotransferases. Carnosine suppressed lipid peroxidation and restored the deficits in the antioxidant defense mechanisms (reduced glutathione level, and catalase and superoxide dismutase activities) in liver tissue resulted from cadmium administration. Also, the reductions in hepatic nitric oxide and zinc ion levels, and the increases in hepatic cadmium ion concentration, and myeloperoxidase and caspase-3 activities following cadmium exposure were significantly attenuated by carnosine treatment. In addition, carnosine markedly ameliorated cadmium-induced liver tissue damage as evidenced by light and electron microscopic examinations. It was concluded that carnosine can be considered a potential candidate to protect the liver against the deleterious effect of acute cadmium intoxication.
Two female patients (75 and 68 yr old) developed jaundice 4 and 7 weeks respectively after treatment with flucloxacillin. Liver biopsies showed intrahepatic cholestasis. After cessation of the drug, the liver tests became normal.
A patient is described who developed prolonged apnoea following a single normal dose of suxamethonium which was shown by nerve stimulation to be due to persistent neuromuscular blockade. The plasma cholinesterase profile demonstrated a normal genotype.
It has been suggested that the neuroleptic-induced acute dyskinetic syndrome in monkeys may be a useful model of extrapyramidal dysfunction. Various drugs that have well-characterized effects on clinical extrapyramidal syndromes and on catecholaminergic, cholinergic, or GABAergic neurotransmission were assessed in dyskinesia-susceptible squirrel monkeys. Catecholamine depletors (alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, tetrabenazine) induced the syndrome, as do dopamine (DA) receptor antagonists, and d-amphetamine reversed the effects of tetrabenazine. The haloperidol-induced syndrome was reversed by the indirectly acting DA agonists amantadine and L-dopa. Neither of the DA autoreceptor agonist TL-99 or 3-PPP elicited this syndrome, suggesting that these agents lack extrapyramidal involvement. Anticholinergics reversed haloperidol-induced dyskinesias and the cholinomimetic arecoline was capable of inducing dyskinesias. When coadministered repeatedly with haloperidol, benztropine suppressed the emergence of susceptibility to neuroleptic-induced dyskinesias. These results confirm that the acute dyskinetic syndrome in the monkey is characterized by DA deficiency and acetylcholine excess. Diazepam and baclofen, which have been reported to have some clinical benefit in tardive dyskinesia, suppressed haloperidol-induced acute dyskinesias without causing gross motor depression. Pharmacological manipulation of GABAergic pathways from striatum may constitute a fruitful approach to the treatment of dyskinetic motor disorders.
Alcoholic liver disease is associated with increased hepatic iron accumulation. The liver-derived peptide hepcidin is the central regulator of iron homeostasis and recent animal studies have demonstrated that exposure to alcohol reduces hepcidin expression. This down-regulation of hepcidin in vivo implies that disturbed iron sensing may contribute to the hepatosiderosis seen in alcoholic liver disease. Alcohol intake is also a major factor in expression of the hemochromatosis phenotype in patients homozygous for the C282Y mutation of the HFE gene.
To assess the effect of alcohol in mice with iron overload, alcohol was administered to mice with disrupted Hfe and IL-6 genes and Tfr2 mutant mice and their respective 129x1/SvJ, C57BL/6J, and AKR/J wild-type congenic strains. Iron absorption, serum iron levels, and hepcidin expression levels were then measured in these mice compared with water-treated control mice.
Alcohol was shown to have a strain-specific effect in 129x1/SvJ mice, with treated 129x1/SvJ mice showing a significant increase in iron absorption, serum iron levels, and a corresponding decrease in hepcidin expression. C57BL/6J and AKR/J strain mice showed no effect from alcohol treatment. 129x1/SvJ mice heterozygous or homozygous for the Hfe knockout had a diminished response to alcohol. All 3 strains were shown to have high blood alcohol levels.
The effect of alcohol on iron homeostasis is dependent on the genetic background in mice. In an alcohol-susceptible strain, mutation of the Hfe gene diminished the response of the measured iron indices to alcohol treatment. This indicates that either maximal suppression of hepcidin levels had already occurred as a result of the Hfe mutation or that Hfe was a component of the pathway utilized by EtOH in suppressing hepcidin production and increasing iron absorption.
In a randomised, double-blinded, two-centre trial we evaluated the effect of a microbiological filter (Supor, Pall Life Sciences) on propofol injection pain. We studied 336 unpremedicated adult patients, who graded pain experienced during induction of anaesthesia with propofol on a 4-point verbal rating scale. Use of the microfilter reduced both the incidence and severity of propofol injection pain (p < 0.001). Incidence of severe pain in the filter group was 2.4% compared with 16.6% in the control group. Overall, 33.7% in the filter group experienced pain compared with 62.1% in the control group. A microbiological filter may provide a non-pharmacological alternative to a lidocaine/propofol mixture for reducing injection pain. It would also reduce the risk of any glass and bacterial contamination.
We evaluated the therapeutic activity and safety of continuously infused mitomycin C in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who had recurred (less than 3 months) or progressed following first- or second-line 5-fluorouracil-based chemotherapy. Treatment consisted of mitomycin C 20 mg/m2 i.v. given over 120 h (5 days) followed by a 3 week rest period. Fifty-two consecutively enrolled patients were assessable for toxicity and 49 for response evaluation (three patients evaluable but not measurable), completing at least one full course of chemotherapy. Previous chemotherapy regimens consisted of bolus 5-fluorouracil/folinic acid (5-FU/FA) (Machover) n=26 (50%) or continuous (24 h) 5-FU+/-FA+/-interferon n=26 (50%). Forty-two percent of patients had received one previous chemotherapy regimen and 58% more than one. One partial remission (2%) lasting 7 months and 11 disease stabilizations (23%) with a median duration of 3.2 months (range 1-8) were achieved in 49 patients. Median survival time since start of mitomycin C was 4.7 months (1.2-28.1) resulting in a 6 month survival rate of 36%. The progression-free interval was 10 weeks (range 4-36). Delayed and cumulative thrombo- and leukocytopenia (WHO grade III/IV) were observed in 19 and 6%, and anemia in 2% of patients. WHO grade I/IV mucositis, diarrhea and fever/infection occurred each in 6% of patients. Treatment delays and dose reductions were necessary in 11 (21%) and 21 (40%) patients, respectively. In three cases treatment was stopped due to cumulative thrombocytopenia (6%). Continuous infusion of single-agent mitomycin C displays modest activity in heavily pretreated 5-FU refractory colorectal cancer patients combined with a low toxicity level.
In rare cases mitomycin C (MMC) may induce cancer-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome, which is characterized by hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and progressive renal failure. Treatment possibilities of this multisystem disease up to now remain disappointing. We report a case of MMC-related hemolytic uremic syndrome, and discuss the etiologic parameters, clinical aspects, prognosis and treatment modalities of this severe syndrome.
Glucocorticoid administration can lead to the development of ocular hypertension and corticosteroid glaucoma in a subset of the population through a decrease in the aqueous humor outflow facility. The purpose of this study was to determine whether glucocorticoid treatment can directly affect the outflow facility of isolated, perfusion-cultured human eyes.
The anterior segments of human donor eyes from regional eye banks were placed in a constant flow, variable pressure perfusion culture system. Paired eyes were perfused in serum-free media with or without 10(-7) M dexamethasone for 12 days. Intraocular pressure was monitored daily. After incubation, the eyes were morphologically characterized by light microscopy, transmission and scanning electron microscopy, and scanning laser confocal microscopy.
A significant increase in intraocular pressure developed in 13 of the 44 pairs of eyes perfused with dexamethasone with an average pressure rise of 17.5 +/- 3.8 mm Hg after 12 days of dexamethasone exposure. The contralateral control eyes, which did not receive dexamethasone, maintained a stable intraocular pressure during the same period. The outflow pathway of the untreated eyes appeared morphologically normal. In contrast, the dexamethasone-treated hypertensive eyes had thickened trabecular beams, decreased intertrabecular spaces, thickened juxtacanalicular tissue, activated trabecular meshwork cells, and increased amounts of amorphogranular extracellular material, especially in the juxtacanalicular tissue and beneath the endothelial lining of the canal of Schlemm. The dexamethasone-treated nonresponder eyes appeared to be morphologically similar to the untreated eyes, although several subtle dexamethasone-induced morphologic changes were evident.
Dexamethasone treatment of isolated, perfusion-cultured human eyes led to the generation of ocular hypertension in approximately 30% of the dexamethasone-treated eyes. Steroid treatment resulted in morphologic changes in the trabecular meshwork similar to those reported for corticosteroid glaucoma and open angle glaucoma. This system may provide an acute model in which to study the pathogenic mechanisms involved in steroid glaucoma and primary open angle glaucoma.
Six new cases of mitomycin C (MMC)-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome are reported and the literature on renal-, pulmonary- and cardiotoxicity of the drug is reviewed. The number of reports concerning these side effects is still increasing. The incidence of all three side effects will be below 10%, while there appears to be a dose-dependency, with toxicity mainly occurring at cumulative doses of 20-30 mg/m2 or more. Toxicity often develops very sudden and the mortality rate especially of HUS is very high despite supportive care. The pathogenesis of toxicity is still unknown, although for HUS there are indications for a role of circulating immune complexes. The pulmonary toxicity can often be treated by corticosteroids, while the left ventricular cardiac failure can be treated with diuretics. The possible role of oxygen radicals in the development of MMC side effects is mentioned.
Aplastic anemia is a rare but severe complication of thionamide therapy. Although colony-stimulating factors have been used extensively in thionamide-induced agranulocytosis with good results, the same might not apply to aplastic anemia. We present a case of a patient with methimazole-induced aplastic anemia in which, as administration of recombinant human granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor for a week did not result in an increase in peripheral blood cell count, standard immunosuppressive treatment was needed to restore normal hematopoiesis. The clinical characteristics of this patient are compared with those of previous cases of thionamide-induced aplastic anemia, especially with the only other reported patient in which colony-stimulating factors were used.
