The authors evaluated indoor air pollution from coal combustion (IAPCC) as a potential risk factor for neural tube defects (NTDs) in a rural population in Shanxi Province, China. The studied rural population has both high IAPCC exposure and a high prevalence of NTDs. A population-based case-control study was used to identify 610 NTD cases and 837 normal controls between November 2002 and December 2007. Information was collected within 1 week following delivery or pregnancy termination due to prenatal NTD diagnosis. The authors derived an exposure index by integrating a series of IAPCC-related characteristics concerning dwelling and lifestyle. Compared with women with no IAPCC exposure, women with any exposure at all had a 60% increased risk of having a child with an NTD (adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 1.6, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.1, 2.1). An increased NTD risk was linked to both residential heating (adjusted OR = 1.7, 95% CI: 1.1, 2.4) and cooking (adjusted OR = 1.5, 95% CI: 1.1, 2.1). The risk increased with increases in the exposure index, showing a dose-response trend (P < 0.001). This is the first known study to link IAPCC to NTDs. Additional studies are needed to confirm the link between IAPCC and NTDs.
To investigate the regulatory effects of micronutrients complex (MC) on the expression of Th1 and Th2 cytokines in diabetic mice for exploring the molecular mechanisms of MC in treating for diabetes.
IDDM mice model was made by the injection of multiple low dose of streptozotocin (MLDS). The composition of Selenium (Se), Vitamin E (VE), Vanadium (V) and Chrome (Cr) was supplemented. The percentage of Th1 cytokines(TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma) and Th2 cytokines (IL-4, IL-10) positive lymphocytes were detected by flow cytometer (FCM).
The expression of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma of peripheral blood lymphocytes of MLDS group significantly increased (P < 0.01), while the IL-10 expression of blood and spleen lymphocytes of MLDS group obviously decreased (P < 0.01). Combined supplementation of MC markedly decreased blood lymphocytes TNF-alpha expression (P < 0.01) and increased blood lymphocytes IL-10 expression (P < 0.01) and spleen lymphocytes IL-4 expression (P < 0.05) of IDDM mice respectively.
MC may prevent from the onset and development of IDDM by down-regulating Th1 cytokines genes expression and up-regulating Th2 cytokines genes expression of IDDM mice.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of common polymorphisms in the nucleotide excision repair pathway genes in the tumorigenesis of osteosarcoma and in the response to DNA damaging therapies, such as cisplatin-based neoadjuvant therapy. Excision repair cross-complementing (ERCC) group 2 (XPD; rs13181 and rs1799793), group 5 (XPG; rs17655) and group 1 (XPA; rs3212986 and rs11615) polymorphisms were analyzed in a group of 130 homogenously treated patients with high-grade osteosarcoma, for association with event-free survival (EFS), using the Kaplan-Meier plots and log-rank test. A positive association was observed between both XPD single-nucleotide polymorphisms and an increased EFS (hazards ratio (HR) = 0.34, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.12-0.98 and HR = 0.19, 95% CI 0.05-0.77, respectively). We had also performed a case-control study for relative risk to develop osteosarcoma. Patients carrying at least one variant allele of XPD rs1799793 had a reduced risk of developing osteosarcoma, compared with wild-type patients (odds ratio = 0.55, 95% CI 0.36-0.84). This study suggests that XPD rs1799793 could be a marker of osteosarcoma associated with features conferring either a better prognosis or a better outcome after platinum therapy, or both.
We have reported that vitamin D deficiency may be implicated in the pathogenesis of hypoalbuminemia observed in patients with end-stage renal disease, but the mechanism remains to be clarified. The aim of the present study was to determine whether supplementation with alfacalcidol might increase protein intake in hemodialyzed patients with hypoalbuminemia.
Twelve patients with hypoalbuminemia under 3.5 g/dl undergoing maintenance hemodialysis and not taking active forms of vitamin D were orally supplemented with 0.5 microg of alfacalcidol daily for 8 weeks. Normalized protein catabolic rate (nPCR), an index of protein intake, and serum concentrations of albumin, interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1beta, and soluble tumor necrosis factor-alpha receptor-II (sTNFR-II), an index of tumor necrosis factor-alpha activity, were determined before and after supplementation with alfacalcidol.
Supplementation with alfacalcidol increased nPCR from 0.96 +/- 0.20 to 1.16 +/- 0.15 g/kg/day (p < 0.005), thereby increasing serum albumin concentration from a baseline of 3.13 +/- 0.35 to 3.32 +/- 0.29 g/dl (p < 0.05). The baseline serum concentrations of sTNFR-II and IL-6 were markedly elevated, whereas those of IL-1beta were under the detection limit. Supplementation with alfacalcidol significantly decreased serum concentration of sTNFR-II from 23.8 +/- 4.38 to 19.7 +/- 3.93 ng/ml (p < 0.001) but did not alter serum IL-6 concentration.
Supplementation with alfacalcidol can increase protein intake and serum albumin concentration in hemodialyzed patients with hypoalbuminemia, probably through the suppressed tumor necrosis factor activity.
Drug-induced pneumonitis is an uncommon complication of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug administration. Herein is the first reported case of pneumonitis resulting from diflunisal therapy. The patient demonstrated clinical and biopsy evidence of systemic vasculitis. She responded dramatically to administration of systemic glucocorticoids.
Telavancin is an investigational, rapidly bactericidal lipoglycopeptide antibiotic that is being developed to treat serious infections caused by gram-positive bacteria. A baseline prospective surveillance study was conducted to assess telavancin activity, in comparison with other agents, against contemporary clinical isolates collected from 2004 to 2005 from across the United States. Nearly 4,000 isolates were collected, including staphylococci, enterococci, and streptococci (pneumococci, beta-hemolytic, and viridans). Telavancin had potent activity against Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase-negative staphylococci (MIC range, 0.03 to 1.0 microg/ml), independent of resistance to methicillin or to multiple agents. Telavancin activity was particularly potent against all streptococcal groups (MIC(90)s, 0.03 to 0.12 microg/ml). Telavancin had excellent activity against vancomycin-susceptible enterococci (MIC(90), 1 microg/ml) and was active against VanB strains of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (MIC(90), 2 microg/ml) but less active against VanA strains (MIC(90), 8 to 16 microg/ml). Telavancin also demonstrated activity against vancomycin-intermediate S. aureus and vancomycin-resistant S. aureus strains (MICs, 0.5 microg/ml to 1.0 microg/ml and 1.0 microg/ml to 4.0 microg/ml, respectively). These data may support the efficacy of telavancin for treatment of serious infections with a wide range of gram-positive organisms.
The effect of caffeine given in combination with mefenamic acid on the renal medulla was examined. Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups and gavage fed either vehicle suspension (control), mefenamic acid, mefenamic acid+caffeine or caffeine only for 4 months. Renal tissue taken from the corticomedullary junction was processed for electron microscopy. Ultrathin sections were cut after identification of vasa rectae on survey sections. On subsequent morphometric analysis, percentage interstitial tissue was calculated from the total area of vasa recta less the non-interstitial tissue. The median percentage of interstitial tissue in the mefenamic acid and caffeine group was 41 (range 33-50; n = 15) compared with 34 (20-48; n = 20) in mefenamic acid (P less than 0.01), 29 (15-42; n = 15) in caffeine only (P less than 0.001) and 32 (20-46; n = 18) in vehicle-treated animals (P less than 0.001). There were no significant differences between mefenamic acid alone and vehicle or caffeine-only groups or between caffeine-only and vehicle-treated controls. This suggests that caffeine potentiates the effect of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, mefenamic acid, on the rat renal medulla, resulting in a quantitative increase in the interstitial tissue between adjacent afferent and efferent vasa recta.
Current cochlear implant processors poorly represent sound waveforms in the temporal discharge patterns of auditory-nerve fibers (ANFs). A previous study [Litvak et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 114, 2079-2098 (2003)] showed that the temporal representation of sinusoidal stimuli can be improved in a majority of ANFs by encoding the stimuli as small modulations of a sustained, high-rate (5 kpps), desynchronizing pulse train (DPT). Here, these findings are extended to more complex stimuli by recording ANF responses to pulse trains modulated by bandpass filtered vowels. Responses to vowel modulators depended strongly on the discharge pattern evoked by the unmodulated DPT. ANFs that gave sustained responses to the DPT had period histograms that resembled the modulator waveform for low (< 5%) modulation depths. Spectra of period histograms contained peaks near the formant frequencies. In contrast, ANFs that gave a transient (< 1 min) response to the DPT poorly represented the formant frequencies. A model incorporating a linear modulation filter, a noisy threshold, and neural refractoriness predicts the shapes of period histograms for both types of fibers. These results suggest that a DPT-enhanced strategy may achieve good representation of the stimulus fine structure in the temporal discharge patterns of ANFs for frequencies up to 1000 Hz. It remains to be seen whether these temporal discharge patterns can be utilized by cochlear implant subjects.
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and characterize the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of 17-AAG, gemcitabine and/or cisplatin. Levels of the proteins Hsp90, Hsp70 and ILK were measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PMBC) lysates to assess the effects of 17-AAG.
Phase I dose-escalating trial using a "3 + 3" design performed in patients with advanced solid tumors. Once the MTD of gemcitabine + 17-AAG + cisplatin was determined, dose escalation of 17-AAG with constant doses of gemcitabine and cisplatin was attempted. After significant hematologic toxicity occurred, the protocol was amended to evaluate three cohorts: gemcitabine and 17-AAG; 17-AAG and cisplatin; and gemcitabine, 17-AAG and cisplatin with modified dosing.
The 39 patients enrolled were evaluable for toxicity and response. The MTD for cohort A was 154 mg/m(2) of 17-AAG, 750 mg/m(2) of gemcitabine, and 40 mg/m(2) of cisplatin. In cohort A, DLTs were observed at the higher dose level and included neutropenia, hyperbilirubinemia, dehydration, GGT elevation, hyponatremia, nausea, vomiting, and thrombocytopenia. The MTD for cohort C was 154 mg/m(2) of 17-AAG and 750 mg/m(2) of gemcitabine, with one DLT observed (alkaline phosphatase elevation) observed. In cohort C, DLTs of thrombocytopenia, fever and dyspnea were seen at the higher dose level. The remaining cohorts were closed to accrual due to toxicity. Six patients experienced partial responses. Mean Hsp90 levels were decreased and levels of Hsp70 were increased compared to baseline.
17-AAG in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin demonstrated antitumor activity, but significant hematologic toxicities were encountered. 17-AAG combined with gemcitabine is tolerable and has demonstrated evidence of activity at the MTD. The recommended phase II dose is defined as 154 mg/m(2) of 17-AAG and 750 mg/m(2) of gemcitabine, and is currently being investigated in phase II studies in ovarian and pancreatic cancers. There is no recommended phase II dose for the cisplatin-containing combinations.
To evaluate the effect of antileukotriene therapy, we examined the morphologic alteration in experimental rat endometriosis both with and without leukotriene receptor antagonist treatment.
Light and electron microscopic analysis.
Tochigi Institute of Clinical Pathology, Japan.
Female Sprague-Dawley rats maintained on a schedule of 12 hours of light and 12 hours of dark for 2 weeks.
Uterine transplants were attached to rat peritoneum via the surgical autotransplantation technique. After autotransplantation, the rats were given daily administration of leukotriene receptor antagonist, and the lesions were examined at 4 and 7 days after autotransplantation.
The morphologic comparison of rat endometriosis with and without antileukotriene therapy.
In the rats treated with leukotriene receptor antagonist, a significant decrease in stromal proliferation was observed when compared with nontreated rats. The treated rats showed not only the suppression of infiltration and activation of mast cells but also widespread apoptosis of proliferative fibroblasts in the lesions.
Our results reveal that a leukotriene receptor antagonist has significant therapeutic value for the treatment of rat endometriosis. It is likely that antileukotriene therapy would be efficacious in the treatment and prevention of human endometriosis.
Tobacco smoke influences cancer development in tissues that are not directly exposed, and epidemiological studies have indicated that smoking women might experience decreased risk of breast cancer as a result of antiestrogenic effects. However, it remains to be clarified whether nicotine, one of the major addictive and best-investigated constituents of tobacco smoke, has any effect on breast cancer. Our recent work demonstrated that the retinoic acid metabolizing enzyme CYP26A1 enhances oncogenic and cell survival properties of breast carcinoma cells, implying a role as an oncogene. Here, we present evidence that nicotine significantly suppresses constitutive expression of CYP26A1, and that cells treated with nicotine exhibit enhanced sensitivity to apoptosis. In addition, nicotine may inhibit anchorage independent growth, cellular invasiveness and motility. These data show that nicotine can limit CYP26A1-mediated oncogenic characteristics, and suggest mechanisms by which nicotine might inhibit breast cancer development.
Rubinstein et al. [Hear. Res. 127, 108-118 (1999)] suggested that the neural representation of the waveforms of electric stimuli might be improved by introducing an ongoing, high-rate, desynchronizing pulse train (DPT). A DPT may desynchronize neural responses to electric stimulation in a manner similar to spontaneous activity in a healthy ear. To test this hypothesis, responses of auditory-nerve fibers (ANFs) to 10-min-long electric pulse trains (5 kpps) were recorded from acutely deafened, anesthetized cats. Stimuli were delivered via an intracochlear electrode, and their amplitude was chosen to elicit a response in most ANFs. Responses to pulse trains showed pronounced adaptation during the first 1-2 min, followed by either a sustained response or cessation of spike discharges for the remainder of the stimulus. The adapted discharge rates showed a broad distribution across the ANF population like spontaneous activity. However, a higher proportion of fibers (46%) responded to the DPT at rates below 5 spikes/s than for spontaneous activity, and 12% of the fibers responded at higher rates than any spontaneously active fiber. Interspike interval histograms of sustained responses for some fibers had Poisson-like (exponential) shapes, resembling spontaneous activity, while others exhibited preferred intervals and, occasionally, bursting. Simultaneous recordings from pairs of fibers revealed no evidence of correlated activity, suggesting that the DPT does desynchronize the auditory nerve activity. Overall, these results suggest that responses to an ongoing DPT resemble spontaneous activity in a normal ear for a substantial fraction of the ANFs.
To compare pulmonary emboli resulting from pulse-spray pharmacomechanical thrombolysis (PSPMT) and mechanical thrombolysis performed to declot dialysis-access grafts.
Polytetrafluoroethylene arteriovenous shunts were created in eight dogs and were deliberately clotted at monthly intervals. Animals were randomly assigned to treatment with pulse-spray urokinase thrombolysis or a low-speed rotational percutaneous thrombolytic device. Perfusion imaging, pulmonary-artery pressure measurements, and pulmonary arteriography were performed before and after each procedure.
A total of 22 procedures were performed (11 PSPMT and 11 mechanical thrombolysis). Declotting was successful in all procedures, with 100% 30-day patency. Segmental defects were seen on perfusion images after 10 (91%) of 11 PSPMT procedures and two (18%) of 11 mechanical thrombolysis procedures (P < .002). Transient increases in pulmonary-artery pressure occurred in the PSPMT group. Complete resolution of emboli and return to baseline pressures were seen in all cases, even after multiple (up to four) procedures in the same animal. There was no histologic evidence of pulmonary infarction in either group.
The percutaneous thrombolytic device is effective for declotting dialysis grafts in dogs and results in statistically significantly fewer pulmonary emboli compared with PSPMT.
Nicotinic afferent pathways may be involved in the regulation of bladder inflammation. Based on that hypothesis we investigated the role of nicotinic signaling in a comparative analysis of 2 models of experimental bladder inflammation using protamine sulfate and cyclophosphamide.
Protamine sulfate and cyclophosphamide were used to induce acute bladder inflammation. Nicotinic agonists and antagonists were given concomitant to the bladder inflammatory agents. Changes in bladder inflammation were measured histologically by a pathologist and through the expression of inflammatory genes.
Histologically cyclophosphamide induced more inflammatory changes than protamine sulfate during acute bladder inflammation. Antagonizing nicotinic signaling with mecamylamine induced further inflammatory changes on histology when used with cyclophosphamide but not with protamine sulfate. However, antagonizing nicotinic signaling in combination with protamine sulfate induced greater increases in mRNA expression of the inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 compared to cyclophosphamide and mecamylamine combination treatments. The activation of nicotinic signaling attenuated acute bladder inflammation by protamine sulfate and cyclophosphamide independently through the down-regulation of increased interleukin-6 expression.
Acutely cyclophosphamide treatment results in a greater frank bladder inflammation model in mice than protamine sulfate. However, cholinergic signaling can inhibit inflammation by either mechanism of induced bladder injury. Interleukin-6 gene expression is present and it can be regulated by afferent neuronal signaling even in the absence of observed histological changes in acute bladder inflammatory models.
Apart from proper hydration, only oral N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has shown efficacy in reducing radiographic contrast media (RCM)-induced acute renal failure, though its benefit has been challenged. We investigated the effect of intravenous (i.v.) NAC on renal function in patients with vascular disease receiving RCM for angiography.
Single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Based on a previous study, a trial with 44 patients each in placebo and treatment arms would give at least 80% power to show a statistically significant difference at the 5% level. Vascular patients undergoing angiography were consented and segregated into those whose serum creatinine (SC) level was normal or raised (men >1.32 mg/dl; women >1.07 mg/dL). All patients received 500 mL i.v. normal saline 6 to 12 hours prior to and then after angiography. Groups with normal SC and raised SC were randomly assigned to either 1 g of NAC with normal saline before and after angiography or nothing (placebo). Main outcome measures were change in SC and creatinine clearance (CrCl) as measured 1, 2, and 7 days postangiography (with comparison between active and placebo groups using unpaired t test) and incidence of acute renal decline (>25% or 0.5 mg/dL rise in SC) at 48 hours (with comparison between active and placebo using the Fisher exact test).
Forty-six patients received NAC (29 normal SC, 17 raised SC), and 48 received placebo (27 normal SC, 21 raised SC). There was no significant difference in postangiography SC or CrCl at any of the time points measured between NAC and placebo in patients with either normal or raised SC. In the raised SC group, 3 patients from both the NAC and placebo groups suffered acute renal declines. Importantly, at 48 hours, the impaired SC group had a significant reduction in CrCl (-14% +/- 41% vs +18% +/- 58%: P = .0142) and a significant rise in SC (+7.0 +/- 25% vs -1.6% +/- 10%; P = .0246) when compared with the normal SC group.
NAC (i.v. at 1 g) precontrast and postcontrast does not confer any benefit in preventing RCM-induced nephropathy in vascular patients. Patients with pre-existing raised SC have an increased risk of renal impairment as defined by a fall in CrCl and a rise in SC post-RCM when compared with patients with normal SC who appear to benefit from hydration.
To investigate the changes of certain immunological indexes in development of Guinea Pig allergic dermatitis induced by trichloroethylene (TCE).
The Guinea Pig model of TCE-induced allergic dermatitis was established by Guinea Pig Maximisation Test. IgG levels in serum were measured by sandwich enzyme immunoassay. The splenic T lymphocytes ConA-stimulated proliferation function and natural killer (NK) cell activity were detected by MTT assay and micro-LDH release assay, respectively.
The sensitization rate of TCE was 66.7%. The IgG level in serum of TCE-sensitized animals was significantly higher than that in normal animals (P < 0.05). No obvious differences in Splenic T lymphocytes proliferation index and NK cell activity between TCE-sensitized and normal animals were found (P > 0.05).
Humoral immunity may play an important role in development of allergic dermatitis induced by TCE.
In C57BL/6 mice caffeine antagonized morphine-induced hyperactivity. This effect was most evident when caffeine was used in doses that slightly increased locomotor activity. Given at the same dose caffeine did not affect morphine-induced analgesia. Two possibilities of explanation of this effect are discussed: action of caffeine on dopaminergic mechanisms responsible for morphine-induced running fit through its effect on cyclic AMP level, and a direct action of caffeine on delta opiate receptors involved in the stimulatory effect of morphine.
It is widely hypothesized that the interactions of multiple genes influence individual risk to prostate cancer. However, current efforts at identifying prostate cancer risk genes primarily rely on single-gene approaches. In an attempt to fill this gap, we carried out a study to explore the joint effect of multiple genes in the inflammation pathway on prostate cancer risk. We studied 20 genes in the Toll-like receptor signaling pathway as well as several cytokines. For each of these genes, we selected and genotyped haplotype-tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) among 1,383 cases and 780 controls from the CAPS (CAncer Prostate in Sweden) study population. A total of 57 SNPs were included in the final analysis. A data mining method, multifactor dimensionality reduction, was used to explore the interaction effects of SNPs on prostate cancer risk. Interaction effects were assessed for all possible n SNP combinations, where n = 2, 3, or 4. For each n SNP combination, the model providing lowest prediction error among 100 cross-validations was chosen. The statistical significance levels of the best models in each n SNP combination were determined using permutation tests. A four-SNP interaction (one SNP each from IL-10, IL-1RN, TIRAP, and TLR5) had the lowest prediction error (43.28%, P = 0.019). Our ability to analyze a large number of SNPs in a large sample size is one of the first efforts in exploring the effect of high-order gene-gene interactions on prostate cancer risk, and this is an important contribution to this new and quickly evolving field.
Exposure to lead even at low levels correlates with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). However, lead-contaminated environments are often contaminated with other heavy metals that could exacerbate lead-induced ADHD. We conducted this study to evaluate the relationship between multiple heavy metals and child behaviors, and the involvement of S100 calcium-binding protein β (S100β) expression in child ADHD in Guiyu, an internationally-known e-waste contaminated recycling town. Two hundred and forty kindergarten children, 3- to 7-years of age, who lived in Guiyu, were recruited for this study. Child behavioral assessment was derived from parent and teacher ratings. Serum S100β was assayed by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd) and manganese (Mn) levels in whole blood were measured using graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS). The prevalence of children with ADHD symptoms in Guiyu was 18.6%, with the percentage of children suspected to have behavior problems being 46.2% or 46.5%, based on the Rutter parents' or teachers' scale scores, respectively. Child blood levels of Pb, Cd, and Mn correlated with certain behavioral abnormalities, such as conduct problems and antisocial behavior. Serum S100β levels were associated with heavy metal levels in blood, and certain behavioral abnormalities. These findings suggest that exposure to various environmental heavy metals in Guiyu might result in child behavior disorders. Results also indicate that S100β may provide information for laboratory evaluation of neurotoxicity.
The neurotoxic metals lead (Pb), arsenic (As) and manganese (Mn) are ubiquitous contaminants occurring as mixtures in environmental settings. The three metals may interfere with enzymes of the heme bioshyntetic pathway, leading to excessive porphyrin accumulation, which per se may trigger neurotoxicity. Given the multi-mechanisms associated with metal toxicity, we posited that a single biomarker is unlikely to predict neurotoxicity that is induced by a mixture of metals. Our objective was to evaluate the ability of a combination of urinary porphyrins to predict the magnitude of motor activity impairment induced by a mixture of Pb/As/Mn. Five groups of Wistar rats were treated for 8 days with Pb (5mg/kg), As (60 mg/L) or Mn (10mg/kg), and the 3-metal mixture (same doses as the single metals) along with a control group. Motor activity was evaluated after the administration of the last dose and 24-hour (h) urine was also collected after the treatments. Porphyrin profiles were determined both in the urine and brain. Rats treated with the metal-mixture showed a significant decrease in motor parameters compared with controls and the single metal-treated groups. Both brain and urinary porphyrin levels, when combined and analyzed by multiple linear regressions, were predictable of motor activity (p<0.05). The magnitude of change in urinary porphyrin profiles was consistent with the greatest impairments in motor activity as determined by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, with a sensitivity of 88% and a specificity of 96%. Our work strongly suggests that the use of a linear combination of urinary prophyrin levels accurately predicts the magnitude of motor impairments in rats that is induced by a mixture of Pb, As and Mn.
This report describes the occurrence of chest pain and electrocardiographic features of acute myocardial infarction following intravenous dipyridamole-handgrip stress. Myocardial perfusion imaging (Rb-82 PET) demonstrated a stress-induced perfusion defect. Following failure to respond to medical therapy, urgent cardiac catheterization demonstrated total occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. The vessel was revascularized, with limitation of myocardial damage evidenced by failure to develop anterior Q waves and only modest elevation of cardiac enzyme levels. Complications of intravenous dipyridamole stress are rare, this case constituting the first major problem in over 500 such procedures at this institution. However, this experience demonstrates the importance of vigilant observation during the performance of this technique.
In spite of the efficacy of Her2-targeted therapies, recurrence and progression remain a challenge for treatment of Her2 positive breast cancer. CDK4/6 controls pathway downstream of Her2, Inhibition of these kinases could represent an important therapeutic approach to augment the effectiveness of standard therapies. In models of acquired resistance to Her2-targeted therapies, Cyclin D1 was inappropriately activated and CDK4/6 inhibition was effective at blocking proliferation by targeting this common pathway associated with resistance. These data were recapitulated in Her2 positive xenografts. Furthermore, in a series of 35 primary breast tumor explants, treatment with PD-0332991 resulted in a greater than 4-fold suppression of the Ki67. The effects of CDK4/6 inhibition were dependent on an intact RB-pathway, and consonantly, loss of RB and high-levels of p16 were associated with resistance to CDK4/6 inhibition. Combination studies illustrated that CDK4/6 inhibition is cooperative with multiple Her2-targeted agents and provides a complementary mechanism of action to T-DM1 to efficiently suppresses the proliferation of residual Her2-positive tumor cell populations that survive T-DM1. Together, these data indicate CDK4/6 is a viable therapeutic target that functions downstream of Her2, and tissue based markers are available to direct rational utilization of CDK4/6 inhibitors in combination with Her2-targeted agents.
To examine the hypothesis that glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) may cause headache in patients with normal coronary arteries more often than in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease (CAD). This simple assessment may aid clinicians in the initial evaluation of chest pain syndrome and possible CAD.
118 patients (66 men and 52 women) with new onset of chest pain were enrolled in this study. Patients were excluded from the study if they had a history of chronic headache, long term nitrates use, or any coronary artery procedures. Mean age of the patients was 62.5 years. Coronary angiography was performed within one month of GTN administration with the usual clinical indications such as recurrent chest pain, abnormal ECG, or abnormal results of stress tests. Thirty patients had normal coronary arteries or minimal or non-obstructive CAD. Eighty eight patients had obstructive CAD defined as luminal narrowing greater than 50% in any one or more of the left or right coronary arteries or their major branches. All the patients had a varying degree of relief of chest pain with GTN administration within 10 minutes. 36% of patients reported significant headache after GTN administration.
In patients with normal coronary arteries or minimal CAD, 73% had significant headache caused by sublingual GTN. In patients with obstructive CAD, only 23% had significant headache after GTN use (p < 0.001). There were no differences in patients' sex and vascular risk factors concerning the frequency of headache in patients with or without obstructive CAD.
GTN causes significantly more frequent headache episodes in patients with normal coronary arteries or minimal CAD than in patients with obstructive CAD. This unique finding may provide clinicians with an additional tool for the differential diagnosis of patients with chest pain syndrome.
Doxorubicin is known to be the most effective single cytotoxic drug against anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC). Although doxorubicin has been shown to cause cell death, at least partly, by inducing apoptosis in ATC cells, the mechanism underlying its pharmacological efficacy has not been fully delineated. We, in this study, revealed that doxorubicin induced apoptosis in ATC cells by altering the acetylation state of histone. Doxorubicin reduced histone deacetylase activity and induced hyperacetylation of histone 3. Noticeably, ladder-like DNA fragments from their genomic DNA on agarose gel were not detected irrespective of several lines of evidence supporting the induction of apoptosis. Pulse field electrophoresis showed disintegration of nuclear DNA into giant fragments of 1-2 Mbp and high molecular-weight fragments of 100-1000 kbp. We next examined whether a histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A (TsA) augmented doxorubicin-induced apoptosis in ATC cells. TSA potentiated doxorubicin-induced stage I apoptosis in ATC cells. Our study sheds light on the development of a new combination therapy strategy for more effective responses for ATC treatment.
Folate metabolism supports the synthesis of nucleotides as well as the transfer of methyl groups. Polymorphisms in folate-metabolizing enzymes have been shown to affect risk of colorectal neoplasia and other malignancies. Using data from a population-based incident case-control study (1,600 cases and 1,962 controls), we investigated associations between genetic variants in the reduced folate carrier (RFC), thymidylate synthase (TS), methionine synthase (MTR), and 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and colon cancer risk. The TS enhancer region (TSER) variant was associated with a reduced risk among men [2rpt/2rpt versus 3rpt/3rpt wild-type; odds ratio (OR), 0.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.6-0.98] but not women. When combined genotypes for both TS polymorphisms (TSER and 3'-untranslated region 1494delTTAAAG) were evaluated, ORs for variant genotypes were generally below 1.0, with statistically significantly reduced risks among women. Neither MTR D919G nor RFC 80G>A polymorphisms were associated with altered colon cancer risk. Because folate metabolism is characterized by interrelated reactions, we evaluated gene-gene interactions. Genotypes resulting in reduced MTHFR activity in conjunction with low TS expression were associated with a reduced risk of colon cancer. When dietary intakes were taken into account, individuals with at least one variant TSER allele (3rpt/2rpt or 2rpt/2rpt) were at reduced risk in the presence of a low folate intake. This study supports findings from adenoma studies indicating that purine synthesis may be a relevant biological mechanism linking folate metabolism to colon cancer risk. A pathway-based approach to data analysis is needed to help discern the independent and combined effects of dietary intakes and genetic variability in folate metabolism.
Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) and severe aplastic anemia (SAA) are rare nonpredictable side effects of several drugs. To our knowledge there are no reports on the coexistence of these two disorders. This study presents a 23 year-old man with TEN diagnosed 6 days after treatment with aminophenazone, paracetamol and phenoxymethylpenicillin. The resolution of the skin disorder was observed after few days of treatment with G-CSF and cyclosporin A. In contrast, SAA only partially responded to treatment with these agents.
