Vinclozolin is an endocrine-disrupting chemical (EDC) that binds with high affinity to the androgen receptor (AR) and blocks the action of gonadal hormones on male reproductive organs. An alternative mechanism of action of Vinclozolin involves transgenerational effects on the male reproductive tract. We previously reported in utero Vinclozolin exposure-induced prostatitis (prostate inflammation) in postpubertal rats concurrent with down-regulation of AR and increased nuclear factor-kappaB activation. We postulated the male reproductive abnormalities induced by in utero Vinclozolin exposure could be reversed by testosterone supplementation, in contrast to the permanent modifications involving DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts) described by others. To test this hypothesis, we administered high-dose testosterone at puberty to Vinclozolin-treated rats and determined the effect on anogenital distance (AGD); testicular germ cell apoptosis, concentration of elongated spermatids, and the onset of prostatitis. Concurrently we examined Dnmt1, -3A, -3B, and -3L mRNA expression. Consistent with previous reports, in utero exposure to Vinclozolin significantly reduced AGD, increased testicular germ cell apoptosis 3-fold, reduced elongated spermatid number by 40%, and induced postpubertal prostatitis in 100% of exposed males. Administration of high-dose testosterone (25 mg/kg) at puberty normalized AGD, reduced germ cell apoptosis, and restored elongated spermatid number. Testosterone restored AR and nuclear factor-kappaB expression in the prostate and abolished Vinclozolin-induced prostatitis. Altered Dnmt expression was evident with in utero Vinclozolin exposure and was not normalized after testosterone treatment. These data demonstrate in utero Vinclozolin-induced male reproductive tract abnormalities are AR mediated and reversible and involve a mechanism independent of Dnmt expression.
Thoracic epidural analgesia can effectively relieve post-thoracotomy pain but may also adversely affect pulmonary function. This randomised, prospective study compared the effects on pulmonary function of three different epidural analgesics (clonidine, bupivacaine and methadone). Forty-seven patients undergoing thoracotomy were treated postoperatively for 72 h with one of the study drugs. Doses were titrated to maintain visual analogue pain scale values below 4 out of 10. Throughout the postoperative period, reductions of up to 70% of the pre-operative value were observed in forced expiratory volume in 1 s, forced vital capacity and peak expiratory flow rate. Patients who received clonidine showed significantly faster recovery rates of forced expiratory variables compared to other patients, and by the third postoperative day significantly higher spirometry values (10-15%) were recorded in this group. As clonidine was the most effective drug in terms of preservation of pre-operative lung function, it may be clinically advantageous in post-thoracotomy patients.
This study prospectively evaluated the clinical efficacy, the incidence of torsades de pointes, and the presumable risk factors for torsades de pointes in patients treated with d,l-sotalol for sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Eighty-one consecutive patients (54 with coronary artery disease, and 20 with dilated cardiomyopathy) with inducible sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation received oral d,l-sotalol to prevent induction of the ventricular tachyarrhythmia. During oral loading with d,l-sotalol, continuous electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring was performed. Those patients in whom d,l-sotalol prevented induction of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were discharged with the drug and followed up on an outpatient basis for 21 +/- 18 months. Induction of the ventricular tachyarrhythmia was prevented by oral d,l-sotalol in 35 (43%) patients; the ventricular tachyarrhythmia remained inducible in 40 (49%) patients; and two (2.5%) patients did not tolerate even 40 mg of d,l-sotalol once daily. Four (5%) patients had from torsades de pointes during the initial oral treatment with d,l-sotalol. Neither ECG [sinus-cycle length (SCL), QT or QTc interval, or U wave] nor clinical parameters identified patients at risk for torsades de pointes. However, the oral dose of d,l-sotalol was significantly lower in patients with torsades de pointes (200 +/- 46 vs. 328 +/- 53 mg/day; p = 0.0017). Risk factors associated with the development of torsades de pointes were the appearance of an U wave (p = 0.049), female gender (p = 0.015), and significant dose-corrected changes of SCL, QT interval, and QTc interval (p < 0.05). During follow-up, seven (20%) patients had a nonfatal ventricular tachycardia recurrence, and two (6%) patients died suddenly. One female patient with stable cardiac disease had recurrent torsades de pointes after 2 years of successful treatment with d,l-sotalol. Torsades de pointes occurred early during treatment even with low doses of oral d,l-sotalol. Pronounced changes in the surface ECG (cycle length, QT, and QTc) in relation to the dose of oral d,l-sotalol might identify a subgroup of patients with an increased risk for torsades de pointes. Other ECG parameters before the application of d,l-sotalol did not identify patients at increased risk for torsades de pointes. Recurrence rates of ventricular tachyarrhythmias are high despite complete suppression of the arrhythmia during programmed stimulation. Therefore programmed electrical stimulation in the case of d,l-sotalol seems to be of limited prognostic value.
This report describes a patient with coronary artery disease who was instructed to take extended-release niacin to treat low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and instead purchased "flush-free niacin" available at the pharmacy. There was no significant change in his lipids. Once the patient switched to extended-release niacin, the anticipated beneficial effects were seen. The article reviews the composition of flush-free niacin, its purported and real lipid effects, and warns against the effects of misleading marketing.
Nonylphenol (NP) is an endocrine disruptor (ENDR). It is a chemical associated with the production and degradation of nonylphenol ethoxylates (NPE). NPE is widely used as nonionic surfactants. Previously, we observed that NP increased the production of corticosterone and aldosterone from zona fasciculata-reticularis, and zona glomerulosa cells, respectively. By the "fetal origins adult diseases" (Barker hypothesis), we examined the possible impact of NP exposure during developmental (in utero and neonatal) period with focus on disturbed adrenal function and related hyperadrenal syndrome, i.e. Cushings syndrome/metabolic syndrome. In this study, female rats drink NP water during pregnancy and lactation conferred F(1) generation: (1) increase the corticosterone, aldosterone concentration in plasma; (2) increase 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD1) activity in liver and adipose tissue; (3) increase aldosterone synthase activity in adrenal for adult offspring. Furthermore, it can increase body weight, adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) concentration in plasma, 11β-HSD1 protein expression in liver, steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) protein expression and 11β-hydroxylase activity in adrenal for male adult offspring. In summary, NP exposure during developmental period bestowed F(1) generation with hyperadrenalism and its consequence of metabolic syndrome.
Indinavir has been described to cause crystalluria and nephrolithiasis in a variable number of treated patients. Acute renal failure, often reversible with discontinuation of the medication, induction of a diuresis and correction of urinary obstruction if present, occurs in a smaller percent of patients. One recent report described renal biopsy findings, indinavir crystals within cellular casts in the collecting tubules, in a patient receiving this antiretroviral agent. We report a second case of a patient with mild renal insufficiency and pyuria following indinavir therapy and describe similar renal biopsy findings.
Cephalosporins are commonly used drugs that interact with red blood cell membranes. They frequently cause a positive direct antiglobulin test but rarely cause hemolysis. A case of cefotetan-induced hemolytic anemia is described in which two types of antibodies were detected. One reacted with red blood cells by a hapten mechanism, the other reacted with drug to form immune complexes. This case is compared with the 13 cases of cephalosporin-induced hemolytic anemia reported to date. Understanding the interactions of red blood cells and cephalosporins is critical to the safe use of these commonly prescribed drugs.
A patient with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and sickle cell anemia presented to the University of Wisconsin Hospital on two separate occasions with pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP). On both occasions he was treated with high-dose intravenous trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX). Several days into each treatment course he developed hyperkalemia and systemic acidosis consistent with hyperkalemic renal tubular acidosis (RTA). The abnormalities resolved in the first instance with the addition of amphotericin B while continuing TMP/SMX, and in the second upon discontinuation of the TMP/SMX. While an increasing number of cases with TMP/SMX-induced hyperkalemia have been reported, hyperkalemic RTA is an uncommon complication of TMP/SMX therapy, occurring in patients with predisposing factors for acidosis such as aldosterone defects, medullary dysfunction and renal insufficiency.
Excessive activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1), a nuclear enzyme catalyzing the transfer of ADP-ribose units from NAD to acceptor proteins, induces cellular energy failure by NAD and ATP depletion and has been proposed to play a causative role in a number of pathological conditions, including ischemia/reperfusion injury. In this study, we used an in vitro enzyme activity assay to characterize a series of newly synthesized isoquinolinone derivatives as potential PARP-1 inhibitors. Several compounds displayed powerful inhibitory activity: thieno[2,3-c]isoquinolin-5-one (TIQ-A) displayed a submicromolar IC50 of 0.45 +/- 0.1 microM, whereas the 5-hydroxy and 5-methoxy TIQ-A derivatives had IC50 values of 0.39 +/- 0.19 and 0.21 +/- 0.12 microM, respectively. We then examined the neuroprotective effects of the newly characterized compounds in cultured mouse cortical cells exposed to 60 min of oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD). When PARP-1 inhibitors were present in the incubation medium during OGD and the subsequent 24-h recovery period, they significantly attenuated neuronal injury. TIQ-A provided neuroprotection even when added to the culture 30 min after OGD and was able to reduce the early activation of PARP induced by OGD as detected by flow cytometry. When the IC50 values observed in the PARP-1 activity assay for selected compounds were compared with their IC50 values for the neuroprotective activity, a significant correlation (r = 0.93, P < 0.01) was observed. Our results suggest that TIQ-A and its derivatives are a new class of neuroprotectants that may be helpful in studies aimed at understanding the involvement of PARP-1 in physiology and pathology.
Human carboxylesterase 1 (hCE1) is a serine esterase involved in both drug metabolism and activation, as well as other biological processes. hCE1 catalyses the hydrolysis of heroin and cocaine, and the transesterification of cocaine in the presence of ethanol to the toxic metabolite cocaethylene. We have determined the crystal structures of hCE1 in complex with either the cocaine analogue homatropine or the heroin analogue naloxone. These are the first structures of a human carboxylesterase, and they provide details about narcotic metabolism in humans. hCE1's active site contains rigid and flexible pockets, explaining the enzyme's ability to act both specifically and promiscuously. hCE1 has also been reported to contain cholesteryl ester hydrolase, fatty acyl-CoA hydrolase and acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase activities, and thus appears to be involved in cholesterol metabolism. Since the enzyme may be useful as a treatment for cocaine overdose, and may afford protection against chemical weapons like Sarin, Soman and VX gas, hCE1 could serve as both a drug and a drug target. Selective hCE1 inhibitors targeted to several sites on the enzyme may also pave the way for novel clinical tools to manage cholesterol homoeostasis in humans.
The mechanism of the anticolorectal cancer activity of the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug indomethacin is poorly understood. Indomethacin inhibits both cyclooxygenase (COX) isoforms, but it may also act via COX-independent targets. Indomethacin can bind and activate the transcription factor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma. Moreover, natural and synthetic PPARgamma ligands can induce growth arrest and apoptosis of human colorectal cancer cells in vitro. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that the antiproliferative activity of indomethacin on human colorectal cancer cells in vitro is explained by a PPARgamma-dependent mechanism of action. Human colorectal cancer cell lines SW480 and HCT116 both expressed functional PPARgamma. Indomethacin directly activated PPARgamma in both cell lines (HCT116 > SW480). A dominant-negative PPARgamma strategy was used to demonstrate that endogenous PPARgamma represses proliferation of HCT116 cells (compatible with tumor suppressor activity) but that the presence of functional PPARgamma is not necessary for the antiproliferative activity (or reduction in cyclin D1 protein) associated with indomethacin in vitro. In summary, indomethacin (>100 microM) directly activates PPARgamma in human colorectal cancer cells. However, PPARgamma activation does not underlie the antineoplastic activity of indomethacin on human colorectal cancer cells in vitro.
Hirulog-1 effectively prevents thrombosis in coronary artery disease and is associated with a low incidence of bleeding complications. Our study characterized the effect of Hirulog-1 on thrombin-induced production of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in cultured baboon aortic smooth-muscle cells (BASMCs). Thrombin increased the steady-state levels of PAI-1 messenger RNA (mRNA) and the release of PAI-1 antigen from BASMCs. Treatments with 10-20 mg/L of Hirulog-1 inhibited >80% of thrombin-induced PAI-1 generation from BASMCs. Hirulog-1 alone did not significantly alter PAI-1 production in the absence of thrombin. Significant reduction of thrombin-induced PAI-1 release was observed in cultures treated with Hirulog-1 for 1 h. The maximal effect of Hirulog-1 on thrombin-induced PAI-1 release was achieved in cultures treated with thrombin plus Hirulog-1 for 3 to 6 h, associated with the normalization of PAI-1 mRNA levels induced by thrombin treatment. Strong inhibition by Hirulog-1 on thrombin-induced PAI-1 release remained in cultures with 8 h of the treatment, but the effect was attenuated 16 h after a single addition of the inhibitor. Our study demonstrates that Hirulog-1 effectively inhibited thrombin-induced PAI-1 production in cultured vascular SMCs at mRNA and protein levels. Vascular SMCs may be exposed to high concentrations of thrombin when endothelium is injured. The information generated from this study suggests that Hirulog-1 potentially prevents intravascular thrombogenesis through inhibiting thrombin-induced PAI-1 production in vascular SMCs, especially when hypercoagulation and endothelial injury occurs.
The optimum conditions (duration and concentration) of a fixed dose, intra-arterial melphalan infusion in relation to its antitumor effect and toxicity in the liver were investigated in a rat colon tumor model (CC531) of liver metastases. We studied the difference in tumor and liver uptake, as well as antitumor effect and hepatotoxicity after 5- and 20-min hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) of a fixed melphalan dose. Melphalan content in perfusate, liver, and tumor tissue was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. The antitumor effect and hepatotoxicity in rats treated either systemically or with 5- and 20-min HAI, with a fixed dose melphalan (4.4 micromol), were assessed 2 weeks after treatment. No difference in melphalan content of tumor/liver tissue or antitumor effect was observed between rats treated with 5- and 20-min HAI. Hepatotoxicity was strongly affected by perfusion duration/concentration, however. Rats treated with 5-min HAI weighed significantly less, and liver toxicity parameters were significantly increased compared with those of all other groups; eight of nine rats showed severe cholangiofibrosis. Body weights and liver toxicity parameters of the rats treated with 20-min HAI were not statistically different from the control group. In conclusion, duration of HAI with 4.4 micromol of fixed dose melphalan did not affect tumor uptake and antitumor effect, but the resulting increase in melphalan concentration had major impact on hepatobiliary toxicity. Therefore, in a clinical setting, caution should be taken when infusion duration and concentration of melphalan are changed.
Pamidronate is used frequently to treat malignancy-associated hypercalcemia and osteolytic lesions. This widely used bisphosphonate has been noted to cause nephrotoxicity in patients with multiple myeloma and metastatic breast cancer. We encountered a patient with Langerhans's histiocytosis who developed nephrotic syndrome and renal failure after pamidronate therapy. We describe the clinical and renal biopsy findings in this patient.
Genital clear cell adenocarcinoma is a rare cancer in young women related to prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES). From the Diethylstilbestrol Registry, an analysis of 57 cases of genital clear cell adenocarcinoma is presented from the state of California, the most populous state in the United States. Approximately two-thirds of these patients have positive histories of prenatal diethylstilbestrol exposure. The majority of patients had early-stage genital cancer. Generally, early-stage clear cell cancer is successfully treated with radical pelvic surgery. A carefully structured screening program of the DES exposed patient is advised.
This study was conducted to determine the functional role of phospholipase D (PLD) involved in testicular Leydig cell damage caused by di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) in Sprague-Dawley rats. DEHP (500 mg/kg/day) was administered orally to prepubertal rats for 1, 7, 14, 21 or 28 days. After 7 days of exposure, DEHP produced morphological changes in the testis, including alterations in seminiferous tubule diameters and loss of spermatogenic cells. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) analyses revealed that DEHP increased Leydig cell number in the testes as well as significantly increased the expression of PLD1/2 in Leydig cells after 7 days of exposure. Furthermore, the protein levels of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (pERK1/2) increased in a similar manner to the PLD1/2 expression patterns. DEHP significantly reduced the expression of sperm-associated antigen 4 (Spag4) and lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) mRNA. In contrast, there was a significant increase in the expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) mRNA against DEHP in a time-dependent manner, but serum testosterone concentration was decreased. These findings demonstrate that DEHP induces PLD expression in the testicular Leydig cells; this plays a key role in hyperplasia of Leydig cells and steroidogenic pathway via pERK1/2 activation.
Thimerosal is a vaccine antimicrobial preservative which has long been suspected an iatrogenic factor possibly contributing to neurodevelopmental disorders including autism. The association between infant vaccine thimerosal exposure and autism remains an open question. Although thimerosal has been removed from mandatory childhood vaccines in the United States, thimerosal-preserved vaccines are still widely used outside of the United States especially in developing countries. Notably, thimerosal-containing vaccines are being given to the newborns within the first 12-24 h after birth in some countries. To examine the possible neurotoxic effects of early neonatal exposure to a higher level of thimerosal, FVB mice were subcutaneously injected with thimerosal-mercury at a dose which is 20× higher than that used for regular Chinese infant immunization during the first 4 months of life. Thimerosal-treated mice exhibited neural development delay, social interaction deficiency, and inclination of depression. Apparent neuropathological changes were also observed in adult mice neonatally treated with thimerosal. High-throughput RNA sequencing of autistic-behaved mice brains revealed the alternation of a number of canonical pathways involving neuronal development, neuronal synaptic function, and the dysregulation of endocrine system. Intriguingly, the elevation of anterior pituitary secreting hormones occurred exclusively in male but not in female thimerosal-treated mice, demonstrating for the first time the gender bias of thimerosal-mercury toxicity with regard to endocrine system. Our results indicate that higher dose of neonatal thimerosal-mercury (20× higher than that used in human) is capable of inducing long-lasting substantial dysregulation of neurodevelopment, synaptic function, and endocrine system, which could be the causal involvements of autistic-like behavior in mice.
It has been reported that naloxone, an opiate receptor antagonist, blunts the hypotensive effect of captopril in normotensives. However, our previous data did not show any interaction between captopril given acutely and naloxone (0.1 mg/kg) in hypertensives. To test whether a greater naloxone dose could interfere with the hemodynamic effect of chronically administered captopril, 12 male hypertensives were studied: Six of them had been under captopril treatment (50 mg tid) for at least 1 month, whereas the others had been drug free for the same time. Both groups randomly received a saline or naloxone (0.2 mg/kg) infusion for 1 hour, and blood pressure, heart rate, PRA, plasma aldosterone, adrenaline, and noradrenaline were measured at regular intervals before, during, and after naloxone infusion. In drug-free hypertensives, naloxone tended to reduce blood pressure slightly and did not modify heart rate, PRA, plasma aldosterone, adrenaline, or noradrenaline. In captopril-treated hypertensives, naloxone did not blunt the hypotensive effect of captopril, but rather enhanced it, without changing the heart rate, adrenaline, and noradrenaline. Moreover, naloxone increased the renin-stimulating action and did not modify the aldosterone-inhibiting effect of captopril. Our results show that the hemodynamic action of captopril given chronically is not influenced by opioid receptor blockade and therefore that the antihypertensive effect of this drug seems to be unrelated to the activation of the opioidergic system.
The anxiogenic action of intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) administered Mesobuthus tamulus venom (MTV) was investigated in rats. MTV (1, 3 and 5 g/rat, i.c.v.) induced a dose-related anxiogenic response which was qualitatively comparable to that produced by yohimbine (2 mg/kp, i.p.), an established anxiogenic agent. Both MTV and yohimbine reduced exploratory activity and rears, while increasing immobility and defaecation, in the open-field test. Likewise, both the drugs decreased the number of entries and time spent on the open arms of the elevated plus-maze, reduced social interaction and increased feed-latency in a novel environment. Rat brain levels of tribulin, a postulated endocoid indicator of anxiety, assessed in terms of endogenous monoamine oxidase (MAO) A and B inhibitor activity, were increased by both MTV and yohimbine. The results indicate that the venom has significant anxiogenic activity, which is consonant with some of the clinical symptoms seen after scorpion sting.
To study color vision in Congolese patients with tuberculosis receiving ethambutol therapy.
A prospective, descriptive study of color vision test in patients with systemic tuberculosis receiving ethambutol was performed between April 1995 and January 1998 at the Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kinshasa. Color vision tests were assessed with pseudoisochromatic plates (the Ishihara Pseudo-isochromatic Plates), the AO-HRR (American Optical Handy Rand Rittler), the Bölle and Kastel anomaloscope, Farnsworth-Munsell test (the D-15 and the FM-100).
There were 42 patients with a mean age of 33 years (range, 14 to 75 years). The color vision of all the patients was found to be normal as measured by the Ishihara pseudoisochromatic plates. One (2%) patient showed color vision defect (anarchic axis] with the OA-HRR test. Three (7%) of 42 patients displayed blue-yellow color axis or anarchic axis color vision test on the D-15 test. Fifteen (36%) of 42 patients had high total error scores at the Farnsworth-Munsell 100 test. The color axis was as follows: anarchic axis (13.1%), red-green-color and blue-yellow-color combined axis (13.1%), blue-yellow color axis (7.5%). Results of the Bölle and Kastel anomaloscope were normal in all patients.
Our results confirm the importance of color vision examinations in the detection of the complications of ethambutol treatment.
Insufficient growth and rarefaction of capillaries, followed by endothelial dysfunction may represent one of the most critical mechanisms involved in heart damage. In this study we examined histochemical and ultrastructural changes in myocardial capillary endothelium in two models of heart failure streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus (STZ) and NO-deficient hypertension in male Wistar rats. Diabetes was induced by a single i.v. dose of STZ (45 mg/kg) and chronic 9-week stage was analysed. To induce NO-deficient hypertension, animals were treated with inhibitor of NO synthase L-nitroarginine methylester (L-NAME) (40 mg/kg) for 4 weeks. Left ventricular tissue was processed for enzyme catalytic histochemistry of capillary alkaline phosphatase (AlPh), dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP IV), and endothelial NO synthase/NADPH-diaphorase (NOS) and for ultrastructural analysis. In diabetic and hypertensive rats, lower/absent AlPh and DPP IV activities were found in focal micro-areas. NOS activity was significantly reduced and persisted only locally. Quantitative evaluation demonstrated reduction of reaction product intensity of AlPh, DPP and NOS by 49.50%, 74.36%, 20.05% in diabetic and 62.93%, 82.71%, 37.65% in hypertensive rats. Subcellular alterations of endothelial cells were found in heart of both groups suggesting injury of capillary function as well as compensatory processes. Endothelial injury was more significant in diabetic animals, in contrast the adaptation was more evident in hypertensive ones. CONCLUDING: both STZ-induced diabetes- and NO-deficient hypertension-related cardiomyopathy were accompanied by similar features of structural remodelling of cardiac capillary network manifested as angiogenesis and angiopathy. The latter was however, predominant and may accelerate disappearance of capillary endothelium contributing to myocardial dysfunction.
Cigarette smoking is one of the major risk factors in the development and further progression of tumorigenesis, including oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Recent studies suggest that interplay cancer stem-like cells (CSCs) and epithelial-mesenchymal transdifferentiation (EMT) properties are responsible for the tumor maintenance and metastasis in OSCC. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of long-term exposure with nicotine, a major component in cigarette, on CSCs and EMT characteristics. The possible reversal regulators were further explored in nicotine-induced CSCs and EMT properties in human oral epithelial (OE) cells. Long-term exposure with nicotine was demonstrated to up-regulate ALDH1 population in normal gingival and primary OSCC OE cells dose-dependently. Moreover, long-term nicotine treatment was found to enhance the self-renewal sphere-forming ability and stemness gene signatures expression and EMT regulators in OE cells. The migration/cell invasiveness/anchorage independent growth and in vivo tumor growth by nude mice xenotransplantation assay was enhanced in long-term nicotine-stimulated OE cells. Knockdown of Snail in long-term nicotine-treated OE cells was found to reduce their CSCs properties. Therapeutic delivery of Si-Snail significantly blocked the xenograft tumorigenesis of long-term nicotine-treated OSCC cells and largely significantly improved the recipient survival. The present study demonstrated that the enrichment of CSCs coupled EMT property in oral epithelial cells induced by nicotine is critical for the development of OSCC tumorigenesis. Targeting Snail might offer a new strategy for the treatment of OSCC patients with smoking habit.
The authors report 8 cases of regular tachycardia with wide QRS complexes during treatment with Vaughan-Williams class 1 antiarrhythmic drugs. These antiarrhythmics, prescribed to prevent atrial fibrillation (3 patients) and atrial flutter (5 patients), were flecainide in 4 cases, propafenone in 2 cases and cibenzoline and hydroquinidine respectively associated with digitoxine and propranolol. These wide complex tachycardias were regular atrial tachycardias with 1/1 conduction to the ventricle. The action of the drug, more pronounced on intra-atrial conduction velocities than on atrioventricular node refractoriness resulted in transformation of flutter at 300 cycles/min with 2/1 conduction and a ventricular rate of 150 cycles/min to atrial flutter at 210 cycles/min with 1/1 ventricular conduction. This acceleration of the ventricular rate was accompanied by widening of the QRS complex. Using the new ventricular tachycardia criteria recently published by Brugada resulted in a diagnostic error in 7 out of the 8 cases. The recording of a wide QRS complex tachycardia in a patient on class 1 antiarrhythmic therapy for an atrial arrhythmia should alert the physician to 1/1 atrial tachycardia despite morphological electrocardiographic criteria of ventricular tachycardia. The 1/1 atrial tachycardia may be poorly tolerated and require emergency treatment. The preventive association of a drug which slows conduction through the atrioventricular node is not always effective.
Exposure to inorganic arsenic (iAs) early in life is associated with adverse health effects in infants, children, and adults, and yet the biological mechanisms that underlie these effects are understudied. The objective of this research was to examine the proteomic shifts associated with prenatal iAs exposure using cord blood samples isolated from 50 newborns from Gómez Palacio, Mexico. Levels of iAs in maternal drinking water (DW-iAs) and the sum of iAs and iAs metabolites in maternal urine (U-tAs) were determined. Cord blood samples representing varying iAs exposure levels during the prenatal period (DW-iAs ranging from <1 to 236 μg As/l) were analyzed for altered expression of proteins associated with U-tAs using a high throughput, antibody-based method. A total of 111 proteins were identified that had a significant association between protein level in newborn cord blood and maternal U-tAs. Many of these proteins are regulated by tumor necrosis factor and are enriched in functionality related to immune/inflammatory response and cellular development/proliferation. Interindividual differences in proteomic response were observed in which 30 newborns were "activators," displaying a positive relationship between protein expression and maternal U-tAs. For 20 "repressor" newborns, a negative relationship between protein expression level and maternal U-tAs was observed. The activator/repressor status was significantly associated with maternal U-tAs and head circumference in newborn males. These results may provide a critical groundwork for understanding the diverse health effects associated with prenatal arsenic exposure and highlight interindividual responses to arsenic that likely influence differential susceptibility to adverse health outcomes.
The purpose of this study was to examine cognitive functioning and neuroimaging in children with leukemia treated with the Pediatric Oncology Group 9605 protocol at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario. Mean age at diagnosis was 4.88 +/- 2.54 years. The mean (n = 24) Wechsler Verbal and Performance IQ fell in the low-average range (87.33 +/- 15.69 and 84.83 +/- 19.11, respectively). Mean (n = 20) Verbal and Visual Memory Indexes of 82.95 +/- 15.46 and 88.30+/- 10.80, respectively, were obtained. The proportion of scores on measures of intelligence and memory falling > 1 SD below the normative mean was substantially higher than expected. Paired t-test suggested that Wechsler Verbal IQ and memory remained stable, whereas Wechsler Performance IQ declined significantly. The results of growth curve analyses replicated these findings and suggested a significant adverse effect of cumulative dosage of intrathecal methotrexate on estimated Wechsler Performance IQ. Although only two children experienced seizures, 78% of the group showed leukoencephalopathy on at least one magnetic resonance image. Reliance on seizures as a predictor of leukoencephalopathy might underestimate the incidence of neurotoxicity.
To determine a 16-week total healthcare cost and the cost-effectiveness of short-term, lipid-lowering therapy with atorvastatin 80 mg following acute coronary syndrome (ACS) in Canada.
The expected costs per patient on atorvastatin 80 mg per day and placebo were compared using clinical outcome data from the MIRACL study and cost data from the Ontario Case Costing Project and the Ontario Schedule of Benefits. The cost per event avoided was also assessed. The clinical outcomes measured included: death, cardiac arrest, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI), fatal MI, angina pectoris, stroke, congestive heart failure, and surgical or percutaneous coronary revascularizations. All direct medical costs from the perspective of the Canadian health care system were taken into account.
The total expected cost per patient was 2,590 dollars in the placebo group and 2,639 dollars in the atorvastatin group. The incremental cost of atorvastatin treatment (49.26 dollars per patient) corresponded to a cost of 1,285 dollars per event avoided. The cost savings obtained through the reduction in events offset 86% of the cost of atorvastatin treatment. Budget impact analysis revealed that increased rates of atorvastatin usage following ACS were associated with large numbers of events avoided at a small additional cost when projected to the Canadian population.
In Canada, the clinical benefits of intensive short-term atorvastatin treatment administered within 96 hours after ACS were associated with a favorable cost-effectiveness ratio. The incremental cost of atorvastatin is mostly offset by savings due to the reduction in events in patients treated with atorvastatin.
