N-acetylcysteine improves survival in established acute liver failure following paracetamol overdose by reducing the incidence of multiorgan failure. These benefits are thought to be related to decreased tissue hypoxia by the enhancement of both oxygen delivery and oxygen extraction. Similar findings have been recorded in critically ill patients from an alternative aetiology. The cardiovascular properties of N-acetylcysteine are to increase stroke volume index, and thus cardiac output, although there is no effect on cardiac output in normal subjects. N-acetylcysteine is known to improve myocardial contraction in a hamster model of chronic myocardial ischaemia, but such effects have not previously been described in humans. We report the beneficial circulatory effect of N-acetylcysteine in a patient with marked left ventricular dysfunction secondary to acute viral myocarditis.
We report an 80-year-old woman with hemichorea probably due to amantadine hydrochloride. She visited our hospital because of gait disturbance and decreased mental activity. She was diagnosed as multiple cerebral infarctions and treated with 100 mg/day of amantadine hydrochloride. After two weeks she showed choreic movement of the face and right arm and leg. Haloperidol was administered and her choreic movement disappeared. Brain MRI showed multiple cerebral infarctions in the white matter. There was no lesion in the left basal ganglia. SPECT showed hyperperfusion in the left basal ganglia when choreic movement appeared. After choreic movement disappeared, SPECT showed no asymmetrical blood flow. These findings suggest hemichorea was related to hyperfunction of dopaminergic neurons in the left basal ganglia.
Previous studies have shown that propranolol, an effective mainstay for angina pectoris and unstable angina, can induce coronary arterial spasm in patients with variant angina. However, no report has yet associated it with painless Prinzmetal's ST elevation in patients without a history of variant angina. The present communication describes such an unusual and negligible case after propranolol overdose. Coronary arterial spasm can be induced by beta-blocker, not only in patients with variant angina but also in normal persons.
This study examined the potential roles of astragalus and angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2) in rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic cardiomyopathy. Of 52 female 4-week-old Wistar rats treated with high glucose and lipid diet to induce insulin resistance, 7 treated with sodium citrate buffer (pH=4.5) served as controls (con1) and the other 45 were treated by intraperitoneal injection (ip) of STZ to induce type 2 diabetes. After 20 weeks, the maximal velocity decrease of pressure per second in left ventricle within the period of isovolumic relaxation (-dp/dtmax) was detected by inserting cannula through right carotid artery. Of the 45 rats, 24 with -dp/dtmax < or = 700 mmHg/s (1 mmHg=0.133 kPa) developing diabetic cardiomyopathy were grouped as follows: 7 treated with double distilled H2O (ip) were included in control group 2 (con2); other 8 treated with AT2 agonist (CGP42112A, ip) were included in experimental group1 (exp); 9 treated with astragalus (po) constituted experimental group 2 (exp2). All injections lasted 4 weeks (qd) and the heart weight (HW) was recorded. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis index (CAI), mRNA of AT2 and Bcl-2 as well as AT2 and Bcl-2 protein values in cardiomyocytes were also measured. Our results showed that -dp/dtmax in exp1, exp2 and con2 were much lower than those in con1 (P<0.01). CAI and AT2 in both mRNA and protein in con1 were lower than those in the other three groups (P<0.01). The three parameters above were higher in exp1 but less in exp2 than those in con2, respectively (P<0.01). The three parameters and HW in exp1 were much higher than those in exp2 (P<0.01). Changes of Bcl-2 were opposite to those of AT2. Our results suggested that high expression of AT2 might accelerate the apoptosis of cardiomyocytes in diabetic rats and play an important role in precipitating diabetic cardiomyopathy and astragalus protects diabetic rats from developing cardiomyopathy by downregulating AT2.
A case of subdural hematoma following ACTH-Z therapy for infantile spasms was presented. A female baby of 5 months old showed little clinical evidence of cerebral dysfunction associated with subdural hematoma. There have been several reports about the relationship between steroid treatment and apparent brain atrophy on the CT brain scans. Then, we studied the CT brain scans before and after ACTH-Z therapy for infantile spasms, atonic seizure or Lennox syndrome and showed some relationship between apparent brain atrophy on the CT brain scans and ACTH-Z treatment. We also discussed the possible etiology of apparent brain atrophy and subdural hematoma, and stressed the necessity of extreme caution with long-term ACTH-Z administration.
Cocaine induces an increase in hippocampal and nucleus accumbens (Nac) serotonin (5-HT) concentration parallel to locomotor activation. Both effects can be modulated by systemic 5-HT(1A)-receptor agonism/antagonism. Given the contribution of the hippocampus to spontaneous behavioral activity, these observations suggest a role for hippocampal 5-HT as well in the modulation of cocaine effects on behavior. To determine the role of hippocampal 5-HT(1A)-receptors in cocaine effects on behavior and hippocampal 5-HT release, we used in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats. The 5-HT(1A)-receptor agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (0, 0.1, 1 and 10 microM), was applied locally into the hippocampus by reversed dialysis followed by a cocaine (10 mg/kg) or saline i.p. injection. The hippocampal 5-HT(1A)-receptor activation attenuated cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion and rearing behavior dose-dependently. Parallel to that, the cocaine-induced 5-HT increase was attenuated dose-dependently in the hippocampus but was left unaffected in the Nac. The intra-hippocampal application of 8-OH-DPAT affected neither behavioral activity nor 5-HT concentration in the hippocampus and in the Nac. In accord with these findings, hippocampal 5-HT(1A)-receptors may not be directly involved in the regulation of spontaneous behavior or basal 5-HT concentration in the hippocampus and Nac. However, the results indicate an inhibitory role of hippocampal 5-HT(1A)-receptors in cocaine-induced hyperactivity and in the 5-HT increase evoked by cocaine in the hippocampus but not in the Nac.
Peripheral nerve lesion results in changes in protein expression by neurons and denervated Schwann cells. In the present study we have addressed the question whether similar changes take place following functional denervation. Using immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy we examined changes in growth-associated protein (GAP-43) and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor (p75NGFR) in rat gastrocnemius muscle following botulinum toxin-induced paralysis. GAP-43 and p75NGFR were selected because they are not expressed by mature intact motor neurons or Schwann cells, but are expressed following nerve lesion in both motor neurons and denervated Schwann cells. In control muscle, GAP-43 and p75NGFR immunoreactivity was seen only in nerve fibres near blood vessels. Two weeks after toxin injection, GAP-43 immunoreactivity could be seen at the motor endplates and in axons. Intensity of staining increased with longer survival and reached a peak between 4 and 8 weeks post-injection. Ultrastructurally, GAP-43 immunoreactivity was confined to nerve terminals and axons, whereas Schwann cells remained negative. Immunostaining for p75NGFR also increased following toxin injection and was detected in some terminal Schwann cells and in perineurial cells of small nerve fascicles near the paralyzed target cells, but not in axons. These results show that changes in expression of GAP-43 in motor neurons following functional denervation closely resemble the changes following anatomical interruption of nerve-muscle contact. GAP-43 was not expressed in Schwann cells, indicating that its upregulation in these cells is induced by loss of axonal contact or nerve degeneration products. There is no support for a role of p75NGFR in incorporation of neurotrophins in axons. The restriction of p75NGFR expression to terminal Schwann cells and perineurial cells in close proximity to the paralyzed target suggests a role for a target-derived signal or, alternatively, macrophages in eliciting this expression.
Partial lesions were made with kainic acid in the interpeduncular nucleus of the ventral midbrain of the rat. Compared with sham-operated controls, lesions significantly (p < 0.25) blunted the early (<60 min) free-field locomotor hypoactivity caused by nicotine (0.5 mg kg(-1), i.m.), enhanced the later (60-120 min) nicotine-induced hyperactivity, and raised spontaneous nocturnal activity. Lesions reduced the extent of immunohistological staining for choline acetyltransferase in the interpeduncular nucleus (p <0.025), but not for tyrosine hydroxylase in the surrounding catecholaminergic A10 region. We conclude that the interpeduncular nucleus mediates nicotinic depression of locomotor activity and dampens nicotinic arousal mechanisms located elsewhere in the brain.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are childhood neurodevelopmental disorders with complex genetic origins. Previous studies focusing on candidate genes or genomic regions have identified several copy number variations (CNVs) that are associated with an increased risk of ASDs. Here we present the results from a whole-genome CNV study on a cohort of 859 ASD cases and 1,409 healthy children of European ancestry who were genotyped with approximately 550,000 single nucleotide polymorphism markers, in an attempt to comprehensively identify CNVs conferring susceptibility to ASDs. Positive findings were evaluated in an independent cohort of 1,336 ASD cases and 1,110 controls of European ancestry. Besides previously reported ASD candidate genes, such as NRXN1 (ref. 10) and CNTN4 (refs 11, 12), several new susceptibility genes encoding neuronal cell-adhesion molecules, including NLGN1 and ASTN2, were enriched with CNVs in ASD cases compared to controls (P = 9.5 x 10(-3)). Furthermore, CNVs within or surrounding genes involved in the ubiquitin pathways, including UBE3A, PARK2, RFWD2 and FBXO40, were affected by CNVs not observed in controls (P = 3.3 x 10(-3)). We also identified duplications 55 kilobases upstream of complementary DNA AK123120 (P = 3.6 x 10(-6)). Although these variants may be individually rare, they target genes involved in neuronal cell-adhesion or ubiquitin degradation, indicating that these two important gene networks expressed within the central nervous system may contribute to the genetic susceptibility of ASD.
The use of indomethacin as a tocolytic agent in pregnant women appears to be accompanied by a low incidence of neonatal complications. However, the neonatal effects of indomethacin have been studied primarily in infants born after 32 weeks' gestation. This study was designed to examine the incidence of neonatal complications in very premature infants.
We identified 57 infants delivered at or before 30 weeks' gestation whose mothers had been treated with indomethacin for preterm labor and matched them with 57 infants whose mothers had not received indomethacin. The infants in the two groups were matched for sex, gestational age at delivery (mean [+/- SD], 27.6 +/- 2.0 weeks), exposure to betamethasone for 24 hours or more before delivery, and rupture of membranes 24 hours or more before delivery.
There were no significant differences between the two groups in birth weight, Apgar scores, cord-blood gas values, frequency of multiple gestation, or incidence of respiratory distress syndrome. The proportion of infants who required exogenous surfactant was similar, as were ventilator settings at 24 hours, the incidence of chronic lung disease, and the incidence of sepsis. The infants exposed to indomethacin had a lower urine output and higher serum creatinine concentrations during the first three days after delivery. More indomethacin-exposed infants had necrotizing enterocolitis (29 percent vs. 8 percent, P = 0.005), intracranial hemorrhage grade II to IV (28 percent vs. 9 percent, P = 0.02), and patent ductus arteriosus (62 percent, vs. 44 percent, P = 0.05). More indomethacin-exposed infants with a patent ductus arteriosus required surgical ligation because of either a lack of initial response or a reopening of the duct after postnatal indomethacin therapy (50 percent vs. 20 percent of the unexposed infants, P = 0.05).
Antenatal indomethacin therapy for preterm labor appears to increase the risk of serious neonatal complications in infants born at or before 30 weeks' gestation.
New natural and synthetic compounds are continuously introduced into the illicit drug market. Their origin, composition, main and side-effects are often not exactly known by the users themselves. Thus, the control of these substances is extremely difficult.
In year 2008, a new synthetic drug called mephedrone (2-metilamino-1-(4-metilfenil) propan-1-on) appeared in Hungary. This work summarizes its frequency in biological samples investigated for illicit drugs, and experiences of the medical examination of mephedrone-users.
Toxicological analyses of biological samples (urine and/or blood) were carried by GC-MS at the Institute of National Toxicology and at Department of Forensic Medicine, University Szeged.
Altogether 5386 samples were analyzed in 2010 (4922 in Budapest and 464 in Szeged), and mephedrone was identified in 363 cases (7%).
Mephedrone is banned in Hungary since January 1st, 2011, but it still available in the illegal drug market. At present we do not have sufficient experience with its long-term effects, tolerance, addiction, withdrawal symptoms or toxic dose. Thus, it is difficult to establish whether addiction and/or mental disorder occurred.
Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) represent a group of childhood neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by deficits in verbal communication, impairment of social interaction, and restricted and repetitive patterns of interests and behaviour. To identify common genetic risk factors underlying ASDs, here we present the results of genome-wide association studies on a cohort of 780 families (3,101 subjects) with affected children, and a second cohort of 1,204 affected subjects and 6,491 control subjects, all of whom were of European ancestry. Six single nucleotide polymorphisms between cadherin 10 (CDH10) and cadherin 9 (CDH9)-two genes encoding neuronal cell-adhesion molecules-revealed strong association signals, with the most significant SNP being rs4307059 (P = 3.4 x 10(-8), odds ratio = 1.19). These signals were replicated in two independent cohorts, with combined P values ranging from 7.4 x 10(-8) to 2.1 x 10(-10). Our results implicate neuronal cell-adhesion molecules in the pathogenesis of ASDs, and represent, to our knowledge, the first demonstration of genome-wide significant association of common variants with susceptibility to ASDs.
To compare myocyte cell damage induced by doxorubicin or mitoxantrone, we performed left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) measurements and indium 111 antimyosin antibody studies in a group of patients with advanced breast cancer who had been treated with these anthracycline derivatives.
We studied 35 patients eligible to receive chemotherapy including the anthracyclines: doxorubicin or mitoxantrone (cumulative dose of doxorubicin, 500 mg/m2; or mitoxantrone, 120 mg/m2). LVEF was measured before and after 10 cycles of chemotherapy. Antimyosin uptake in the myocardium was quantified by means of a heart-to-lung ratio (HLR).
Patients treated with doxorubicin presented with a significant decrease in LVEF after chemotherapy (before, 60.4% +/- 8.92%; after, 49.8% +/- 9.71%; P = .001). Antimyosin uptake was observed in all patients with a HLR of 2.03 +/- 0.25. Seven of eight patients with a HLR greater than 2.03 had a greater than 10% decrease in LVEF. Patients treated with mitoxantrone did not present with a decrease in LVEF after chemotherapy (before, 55.4% +/- 6.25%; after, 55.8% +/- 7.25%; not significant). Antimyosin uptake was observed in 14 of 17 patients with a HLR of 1.77 +/- 0.18 (P < .05).
111In antimyosin monoclonal antibodies defect myocardial cell damage produced by doxorubicin and mitoxantrone. In patients with advanced breast cancer, cumulative doses of 120 mg/m2 of mitoxantrone produce less myocardial cell damage than cumulative doses of 500 mg/m2 of doxorubicin. 111In antimyosin uptake without decrease in LVEF after treatment with mitoxantrone indicates the presence of myocyte cell damage, but not to the extent necessary to deteriorate function. These results indicate that 111In antimyosin antibody studies are useful in the noninvasive comparative assessment of cardiotoxicity produced by different anthracycline derivatives.
The involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and the potential modulation of NO synthase (NOS) activity by platelet-activating factor were investigated in a rat model of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. Male Wistar rats received a single intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide, and cystitis was evaluated 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours later by determining the changes in bladder wet weight and plasma protein extravasation and the macro- and microscopic morphological alterations. In addition, NOS activity and NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry were studied in bladder tissues. Normal bladders showed extensive NADPH-diaphorase staining and a high level of constitutive NOS whereas the activity of inducible NOS was almost undetectable. Cyclophosphamide dose- and time-dependently increased the bladder wet weight and bladder plasma protein extravasation. These events were accompanied at a microscopic level by urothelial necrosis, sloughing, ulceration, hemorrhage, and leukocyte infiltration. Cyclophosphamide also increased the levels of inducible NOS but reduced those of constitutive NOS. The NOS inhibitors L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester and L-NG-nitroarginine significantly reduced the cyclophosphamide-induced plasma protein extravasation and urothelial damage. This reduction was completely reversed by L-arginine but not by D-arginine. The administration of the platelet-activating factor antagonist BN 52021 decreased the cyclophosphamide-induced plasma protein extravasation as well as the rise in inducible NOS activity but had no effect on the fall in constitutive NOS activity. These results suggest that endogenous NO participates in the urothelial damage and in the inflammatory events leading to cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis. Platelet-activating factor also seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of this condition, possibly by inducing NOS.
Mycophenolic acid (MPA) is an immunosuppressive agent that acts as a selective, non-reversible inhibitor of the enzyme inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH). Malformations have been described in children after maternal exposure to mycophenolate. However, the causal link is unclear in most cases because women had been treated with a combination of drugs and birth defects may have other causes. Therefore, it is important to study the action of this drug and its main metabolite on embryonic tissue. We studied the teratogenic potential of MPA and its major metabolite, the mycophenolic acid glucuronide (MPAG) in the rat whole-embryo culture. A total of 147 day 9.5 embryos were cultivated for 48 h in the standard medium containing 85 % serum. We tested MPA at concentrations of 0.1; 0.25; 0.5; 0.75 mg/l (0.31; 0.78; 1.56; 2.34 μM) and MPA glucuronide at concentrations of 3; 10; 30; 100 mg/l (6.04; 20.14; 60.43; 201.43 μM). Both substances are highly protein bound, and MPA glucuronide might displace MPA from protein binding. Therefore, we examined whether the effects of MPA can be enhanced when studied in combination with the glucuronide. Furthermore, the focus was on additional endpoints to the standard evaluation of cultivated embryos, such as development of cranial nerves [trigeminal nerve (V), facial nerve (VII), glossopharyngeal nerve (IX), vagus nerve (X)] after staining with an antibody against 2H3 neurofilament. Ultrastructural changes were evaluated by electron microscopy. At a concentration of 0.75 mg MPA/l medium, all embryos showed dysmorphic changes. Embryos exposed to 0.25 mg MPA/l medium showed impaired development of nerves, and at 0.1 mg/l, no effects were detectable. Concentration-dependent ultrastructural changes, such as signs of apoptosis, were found by electron microscopy. The examination of the metabolite in this assay showed that at a concentration of 100 mg MPAG/l, the embryos exhibited distinct malformations. This is probably caused by MPA, which was detectable at 0.6 % in the material used for our experiments. The combination of the parent compound (0.03; 0.1; 0.25 mg/l) with its metabolite MPAG (3 mg/l) did not cause enhanced toxicity under our experimental conditions. IMPDH, the target enzyme of MPA, could be detected in rat embryos on day 9.5 of embryonic development as well as at the end of the culture period 48 h later. In summary, MPA impairs embryonic development at low, therapeutically relevant concentrations, but the glucuronide does not exhibit such a potential. Activity of MPA is not enhanced by MPAG.
The study was conducted to examine the role of free radicals in Indomethacin induced gastric mucosal injury and to evaluate the gastroprotective effects of melatonin and beta-carotene. Gastric mucosal injury was produced in rats by administering indomethacin 30 mg/kg subcutaneously. Melatonin was administered in three different doses of 5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, 30 minutes prior to the administration of indomethacin. Beta-carotene was administered as a single dose of 100 mg/kg. Following parameters were calculated: ulcer index, lipid peroxidation and antioxidant defense enzymes i.e. superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase. Indomethacin caused gastric mucosal injury in the form of haemorrhages, increased the lipid peroxidation and decreased the levels of the antioxidant defense enzymes. Melatonin (20 mg/kg) and beta-carotene decreased the ulcer index and lipid peroxidation, and reduced the decrease in antioxidant enzyme levels. These findings suggest the melatonin and beta-carotene show protective effect against indomethacin induced gastric injury and this effect is mediated by scavenging of oxygen derived free radicals.
alpha-N-acetylgalactosaminidase (alpha-NAGAL; E.C. 3.2.1.49) is a lysosomal exoglycosidase that cleaves terminal alpha-N-acetylgalactosamine residues from glycopeptides and glycolipids. In humans, a deficiency of alpha-NAGAL activity results in the lysosomal storage disorders Schindler disease and Kanzaki disease. To better understand the molecular defects in the diseases, we determined the crystal structure of human alpha-NAGAL after expressing wild-type and glycosylation-deficient glycoproteins in recombinant insect cell expression systems. We measured the enzymatic parameters of our purified wild-type and mutant enzymes, establishing their enzymatic equivalence. To investigate the binding specificity and catalytic mechanism of the human alpha-NAGAL enzyme, we determined three crystallographic complexes with different catalytic products bound in the active site of the enzyme. To better understand how individual defects in the alpha-NAGAL glycoprotein lead to Schindler disease, we analyzed the effect of disease-causing mutations on the three-dimensional structure.
Liposomal cytarabine (DepoCyte) is a slow-release formulation for intrathecal application, ensuring prolonged drug exposure. Although there is an urgent need for new treatment options for infants with leptomeningeal dissemination of a malignant brain tumour, there are no clinical and pharmacokinetic data available on this drug for children aged <3 years. The objective of this pilot study was to determine the feasibility, safety and pharmacokinetics of cytarabine after intrathecal administration of liposomal cytarabine 25 mg in patients aged <3 years.
Six male patients with a mean age of 21 months and CNS primitive neuroectodermal tumours (n = 3) or atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumours (n = 3) were included. Liposomal cytarabine (25 mg) was administered intraventricularly. One patient also received the drug by lumbar puncture. Dexamethasone was used concomitantly for 3-5 days to prevent arachnoiditis. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma samples were collected before administration of liposomal cytarabine and 1 hour, 12 hours, 24 hours, 1 week and 2 weeks post-dosing. Noncompartmental pharmacokinetic analysis of CSF and plasma was performed.
Liposomal cytarabine was generally well tolerated; only grade 2 headache occurred in one patient. After intraventricular administration of cytarabine 25 mg, free and encapsulated drug concentrations above the cytotoxic drug level of 0.1 microg/mL were detectable in the CSF for at least 7 days and up to 14 days post-dosing. The average elimination half-lives were 56.7 hours for encapsulated cytarabine and 59.3 hours for free cytarabine. After intralumbar administration, the elimination half-life of free cytarabine, measured in the ventricular CSF during two courses in one patient, was significantly shorter (32.7 hours).
Application of liposomal cytarabine with concomitant dexamethasone appears to be safe and well tolerated in children aged <3 years. Drug exposure in infants aged <3 years after an intraventricular dose of 25 mg is comparable to that after administration of 50 mg in adult patients and 35 mg in older children.
The electromyographic (EMG) stretch reflex in the gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles was elicited by passive bending and stretching of the rat's hind foot in the ankle joint. The EMG stretch reflex was increased by pretreatment with reserpine (10 mg/kg ip) which is a model compound commonly used to induce parkinsonian rigidity in laboratory animals. Dizocilpine (MK-801) (0.32, 0.64 and 1.28 mg/kg sc) inhibited long-latency supraspinal components of the reserpine-increased EMG stretch reflex, whereas a short-latency spinal component was not diminished. The present results suggest that MK-801 exhibits an antiparkinsonian action against reserpine-induced rigidity.
Cisplatin (Cisp) is one of the most widely used chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of several human malignancies. The efficacy of Cisp is dose dependent and at higher doses serious kidney injury may occur. Recombinant human erythropoietin (rhEPO) has recently been shown to exert an important cytoprotective effect in experimental brain injury and ischemic acute renal failure. The aim of the present study was to explore whether rhEPO administration is protective against Cisp-induced oxidative damage and renal injury. Our results showed that Cisp induced a marked oxidative stress and renal failure. Administration of rhEPO (pre-, co- or postadministration with regard to Cisp) decreased oxidative damage induced by Cisp. Recombinant human EPO reduced malondialdehyde and protein carbonyl levels. Recombinant human EPO also prevented glutathione depletion and ameliorated the increased catalase activity induced by Cisp treatment. Furthermore, rhEPO restored creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels increased by Cisp. We concluded that rhEPO administration especially in pretreatment condition protected rats against Cisp-induced renal oxidative stress and nephrotoxicity.
Using Doppler echocardiography, we studied the left ventricular systolic and diastolic function in 124 healthy control children (group C), 110 oncology patients who had received anthracycline (group A), and 76 oncology patients who had received chemotherapy not including anthracycline (group N), at rest and after supine bicycle exercise. The mean dosage of anthracycline that group A patients received was 219 +/- 95 mg/m2. Impaired systolic function was detected in 29% of the patients in group A and 4% in group N. Figures for impaired diastolic function for group A and N were 27% and 28% respectively. Abnormal diastolic function was detected more frequently in the first two years after chemotherapy in both groups. Four parameters measured at rest appeared to be specifically abnormal in group A but not in group N. These were ejection fraction, fractional shortening, rate-corrected velocity of circumferential fiber shortening (VCFC) and left ventricle peak systolic wall stress (LVWS). After exercise more parameters were abnormal in group N patients when compared to normal children, but abnormalities of VCFC and LVWS remained specific for group A. In conclusion, abnormalities of diastolic function were common among paediatric oncology patients no matter whether they had received anthracycline treatment or not. Abnormalities of systolic function were more specific to anthracycline toxicity. VCFC and LVWS were the most sensitive measurements for differentiating group N patients from group A patients.
Promoter hypermethylation is a common event in human cancer. O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) is a gene involved in DNA repair, which is methylated in a variety of cancers. We aimed to explore the methylation status of MGMT gene among the North Eastern population where esophageal cancer incidence and exposure to carcinogens like nitrosamines is high.
A total of 100 newly diagnosed esophageal cancer cases along with equal number of age, sex and ethnicity matched controls were included in this study. Methylation specific PCR was used to determine the MGMT methylation status in serum samples.
Aberrant promoter methylation of the MGMT gene was detected in 70% of esophageal cancer cases. Hypermethylation of MGMT gene was found to be influenced by environmental factors like betel quid and tobacco which contain potent carcinogens like nitrosamines. Tobacco chewing and tobacco smoking habit synergistically with MGMT methylation elevated the risk for esophageal cancer development [adjusted OR=5.02, 95% CI=1.35-18.74; p=0.010 for tobacco chewing and Adjusted OR=3.00, 95% CI=1.22-7.36; p=0.014 for tobacco smoking].
Results suggest that the DNA hypermethylation of MGMT is an important mechanism for MGMT gene silencing resulting in esophageal cancer development and is influenced by the environmental factors. Thus MGMT hypermethylation can be used as a biomarker for esophageal cancer in high incidence region of North East India.
There are currently three protocols used for the administration of N-acetylcysteine in the treatment of acute paracetamol poisoning. In the USA only the oral protocol is approved, while in Europe an intravenous protocol is used. If treatment is started within 10 h. after paracetamol ingestion, all three protocols appear to be equally effective. If treatment is started 10 to 24 h. after the ingestion, the oral protocol and the Smilkstein protocol appear to be superior to the Prescott protocol. N-acetylcysteine is effective also when started more than 15 h after the ingestion. Patients who present with liver failure after paracetamol poisoning should be treated with a prolonged course of N-acetylcysteine.
This study examined the effects of DAU 6215, a selective 5-HT3-receptor antagonist, on either impairment of a passive-avoidance task or hypermotility, both caused by scopolamine in rats. In the first experiment, scopolamine (0.75 mg kg-1, i.p.) disrupted acquisition of a one-trial 'step through' passive-avoidance response. Pretreatment with DAU 6215 (1, 10, 30 and 100 micrograms kg-1, i.p.) antagonized this deficit induced by scopolamine, with a bell-shaped dose-response curve. Scopolamine (0.75 mg kg-1, i.p.) produced a significant increase in locomotor activity which was unaffected by pretreatment with DAU 6215 (10 and 30 micrograms kg-1, i.p.). The present results further support the suggestion that 5-HT3-receptor antagonists may prevent the memory disturbance caused by a reduction in central cholinergic function in the rat. The inefficacy shown by DAU 6215 on hyperactivity induced by scopolamine appears to rule out the possibility of a pharmacokinetic interference between DAU 6215 and scopolamine.
Two common polymorphisms in the beta1-adrenergic receptor gene, Ser49Gly and Arg389Gly, are associated with variable antihypertensive response to metoprolol. We sought to determine whether similar pharmacogenetic associations were present with the negative chronotropic response phenotype to metoprolol. Metoprolol was titrated in 54 untreated hypertensive patients to achieve blood pressure control. We found no association between either resting or exercise heart rate at baseline (untreated) or in response to metoprolol by codon 389 genotype. In contrast, when compared by codon 49 genotype, Ser49 homozygotes had significantly higher resting heart rates at baseline (untreated) than Gly49 carriers (82+/-10 versus 74+/-11 bpm, respectively, P=0.016). When corrected for plasma concentration, we found no difference in reduction in exercise heart rate in response to metoprolol between Ser49 homozygotes and Gly49 carriers (0.75+/-0.11 versus 0.57+/-0.17%/ng/ml, respectively, P=0.37). However, if one fails to account for plasma concentration, trends toward a significant difference in heart rate reduction are seen between Ser49 homozygotes and Gly49 carriers (31% reduction versus 25% reduction, P=0.05). Our data suggest that neither the beta1-adrenergic receptor Arg389Gly, nor the Ser49Gly polymorphisms are associated with variable negative chronotropic response to metoprolol. In addition, our data highlight the importance of measuring metoprolol concentration in order to account for variable pharmacokinetics and avoid misinterpretation of the data.
Several studies indicate that the mu-opioid receptor plays a role in addiction not only to opiate drugs but also to alcohol and non-opiate addictive drugs. Our studies aim to reveal the associations between gene polymorphisms and methamphetamine (MAP) dependence/psychosis. We newly identified several polymorphisms and four substantial linkage disequilibrium (LD) blocks in the mu-opioid receptor (OPRM1) gene. We found significant differences in both genotype and allele frequencies of the single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) IVS2+G691C between control (n=232) and MAP-dependent/psychotic patients (n=128). There was also a significant association between IVS2+G691C and patients with transient psychosis. These results suggest that the OPRM1 gene variations may be a factor in development and prognosis of MAP psychosis.
