The major physical and psychological health effects of methamphetamine use, and the factors associated with such harms.
Comprehensive review.
Physical harms reviewed included toxicity and mortality, cardiovascular/cerebrovascular pathology, dependence and blood-borne virus transmission. Psychological harms include methamphetamine psychosis, depression, suicide, anxiety and violent behaviours.
While high-profile health consequences, such as psychosis, are given prominence in the public debate, the negative sequelae extend far beyond this. This is a drug class that causes serious heart disease, has serious dependence liability and high rates of suicidal behaviours.
The current public image of methamphetamine does not portray adequately the extensive, and in many cases insidious, harms caused.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal injury. We demonstrated recently that the preischemic treatment with resiniferatoxin, a transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1) agonist, attenuates renal TNF-alpha mRNA expression and improves ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal injury in rats. In addition, we found that SA13353 [1-[2-(1-adamantyl)ethyl]-1-pentyl-3-[3-(4-pyridyl)propyl]urea], a novel orally active TRPV1 agonist, inhibits TNF-alpha production through the activation of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons and reduces the severity of symptoms in established rat collagen-induced arthritis. In the present study, we investigated effects of treatment with SA13353 on ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal injury in rats. Ischemic acute kidney injury (AKI) was induced by occlusion of the left renal artery and vein for 45 min followed by reperfusion, 2 weeks after contralateral nephrectomy. Renal function in vehicle-treated AKI rats markedly decreased at 24 h after reperfusion. Treatment with SA13353 (3, 10, and 30 mg/kg p.o.) 30 min before ischemia dose-dependently attenuated the ischemia/reperfusion-induced renal dysfunction. Histopathological examination of the kidney of AKI rats revealed severe renal damage, which were significantly suppressed by the SA13353 treatment. In renal tissues exposed to ischemia/reperfusion, neutrophil infiltration, superoxide production, TNF-alpha mRNA expression, and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 mRNA expression were augmented, but these alterations were attenuated by the treatment with SA13353. On the other hand, ischemia/reperfusion-enhanced renal interleukin-10 mRNA expression and its plasma concentration were further augmented by SA13353 treatment. These results demonstrate that the orally active TRPV1 agonist SA13353 prevents the ischemia/reperfusion-induced AKI. This renoprotective effects seem to be closely related to the inhibition of inflammatory response via TRPV1 activation.
Clinical effects and safety of doxazosine + finasteride combination were studied in patients with obstructive and irritative symptoms due to prostatic adenoma (PA). Lower urinary tract symptoms according to IPSS, size of the prostatic gland, Qmax and Qmid, bladder capacity, residual urine volume, blood pressure, PSA level, sexual function, side effects were assessed before and after combined use of the drugs in 30 patients aged 58 to 83 years (mean age 70.5 years). A significant regression of both obstructive and irritative symptoms by IPSS occurred after the treatment. Quality of life has improved. Combined treatment of PA patients has improved quality of life, urination parameters, reduced volume of residual urine. Good tolerance of the treatment was observed. Combined therapy with doxazosine and finasteride can be recommended as a basic scheme of treatment for patients with risk of PA progression.
Though a reduced flush response to niacin has been found in schizophrenic patients, whether it is a vulnerability indicator to schizophrenia remains little known. We aimed to examine the familial aggregation in niacin flush response among schizophrenic patients and their nonpsychotic relatives. In a sample of 153 schizophrenia probands, 217 parents, 70 siblings, and 94 normal subjects, 3 concentrations (0.001 M, 0.01 M, and 0.1 M) of niacin were applied to the forearm skin and the flush response was rated at 5, 10, and 15 minutes, respectively, with a 4-point scale. Both the heritability for continuous flush scores and the recurrence risk ratios for binary non-flush response in the nonpsychotic relatives of schizophrenic patients were estimated, and ordinal logistic regression analyses of relatives' niacin response on probands' were further conducted to adjust for potential confounders. The greatest heritabilities ranged from 47% (0.01 M at 10 minutes) to 54% (0.1 M at 5 minutes). The risk ratios of 0.01 M at 10 minutes (ranging from 2.60 for using score 1 or less to 5.06 for using score 0 as non-flush) and 5 minutes (1.66 for using score 0 as non-flush) were significantly greater than one. Multiple ordinal logistic regression analyses further revealed that the association between probands and relatives in niacin flush response remained after adjustment for potential confounders, including age, sex, allergy, tobacco smoking, and coffee drinking. These findings provide support for the potential of niacin flush response as a vulnerability indicator to schizophrenia.
A 57-year-old woman with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and inadequate glycemic control was prescribed acarbose (100 mg 3 times daily). Two months later she presented with acute hepatitis (ALT 2,300 IU/l). Other causes of liver damage were excluded. Three months after acarbose had been discontinued, all results of laboratory tests returned to normal values. Three years later the patient was given acarbose again. Acarbose (100 mg three times daily) had been added to glibenclamide (15 mg daily) 2 weeks before she presented with acute hepatitis (ALT 2,778 IU/l). Acarbose was stopped and the results of liver tests returned to normal within 2 months. Of the eight cases of acarbose-associated hepatotoxicity previously reported, five (as well as the two presented herein) were Spanish. The latency period, from the start of drug therapy to the onset of liver injury, was relatively long (> 2 months). We suggest that acarbose be included in the list of drugs which may induce acute hepatitis.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a serious cause of morbidity and mortality in hepatitis B surface (HBsAg) antigen-positive patients treated with chemotherapy. Because the hepatitis is related to HBV virological reactivation, application of effective antiviral therapy, such as Lamivudine, has been attempted. Despite the use of these antiviral agents at the time of clinical hepatitis, some HBsAg-positive patients still develop hepatic failure and die. We used the Molecular Adsorbent Recirculating System (MARS) (MARS Monitor; Teraklin AG, Rostock, Germany) to treat 5 HBsAg-positive lymphoma patients with acute hepatic failure due to chemotherapy despite lamivudine treatment. Before and after each treatment we monitored the parameters of neurological status (EEG, cerebral CT and Glasgow coma score), hemodynamic parameters, acid-base equilibrium and blood gases as well as hepatic and renal function. The inclusion criteria were these of the King's College Hospital. Statistical analysis by Student t method showed significant results (P < .01). Three of 5 patients are alive without signs of reactivation of viral or hematological diseases at 1 year follow-up. The 2 patients died because MARS treatment was started too late, with Glascow coma score grade IV, hemodynamic instability, and mechanical ventilator assistance. Despite the limited number of cases, we believe that MARS can be applied to patients with a high tolerance and yield good results, but the treatment has to start at the first signs of hepatic failure.
First isolated in the early 1960s, doxorubicin (DOX) remains among the most effective anticancer drug ever developed. However, this drug has proven to be a double-edged sword because it also causes a cardiomyopathy that leads to a form of congestive heart failure that is usually refractory to common medications. It is hoped that a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying DOX's cardiotoxicity will enable development of therapies with which to prevent and/or treat the heart failure it causes. Suggested contributors to DOX-induced cardiomyopathy include formation of reactive oxygen species, apoptosis, inhibited expression of cardiomyocyte-specific genes, and altered molecular signaling. And taking these various contributors into consideration, a variety of approaches aimed at preventing or mitigating the cardiotoxicity of DOX have been tried, but so far, the ability of these treatments to protect the heart from damage has been limited. That said, one recent approach that shows promise is adjuvant therapy with a combination of hematopoietic cytokines, including erythropoietin, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and thrombopoietin. We suggest this approach to preventing DOX-induced cardiomyopathy is worthy of serious consideration for clinical use.
A model of chronic serum sickness was used to induce immune-complex glomerulonephritis in seven experimental cats, by daily intravenous inoculation of an increasing dose (5 to 35 mg) of human serum albumin (HSA). At week four, two of the seven animals developed anterior uveitis. At week 23, two different animals developed the subcutaneous oedema characteristic of the nephrotic syndrome (NS), whilst the other five cats appeared clinically normal. The kidneys were examined at necropsy by light microscopy and by transmission electron microscopy. The glomeruli of four animals (three with both proteinuria and uraemia, and one with proteinuria only) showed morphological changes under light microscopy. The abnormalities suggested that a diffuse mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis (GN) had been induced in three cats and diffuse membranoproliferative GN induced in another. Ultrastructural studies revealed electron-dense deposits (immune-complexes) in six of the seven cats. Two cats without glomerular abnormalities by light microscopy had mesangial deposits and three cats with mesangial proliferative GN had deposits at mesangial, subendothelial and/or subepithelial sites. The single cat with membranoproliferative GN had deposits at mesangial, subendothelial, subepithelial and intramembranous sites. Immunohistological examination (peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique) showed that HSA and immunoglobulin (IgG and IgM) were deposited in the glomeruli of these cats. Deposits were the most dense in cats with more severe renal lesions. Deposits of IgM were most abundant. An extensive cellular infiltrate, comprising macrophages, neutrophils and plasma cells, was observed only in the four animals which showed abnormalities in glomerular ultrastructure. The disease induced in these cats thus appears to differ from the membranous nephropathy previously described in the cat and bears a close resemblance to immune complex (IC) disease in man. In view of the relatively few specific animal models of IC-mediated proliferative GN, this model has potential for application to the study of human IC disease.
The novel calcium sensitizer levosimendan improves myocardial contractility without causing an increase in intracellular calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate concentrations. It also has a vasodilator action due to an opening of the adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channels. In a double-blind clinical trial levosimendan was compared with dobutamine in 203 patients with severe low-output congestive heart failure. A 24-hour infusion of these inotropic drugs was administered to increase the cardiac output by at least 30% together with a decrease in the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure by > or = 25%. The pre-defined hemodynamic improvement was achieved in 28% of patients receiving levosimendan compared to only 15% with dobutamine (p = 0.022). Levosimendan also reduced the 1- and 6-month mortality more than dobutamine (7.8 vs 17%, p = 0.045 and 26 vs 38%, p = 0.029, respectively). Levosimendan produced less myocardial ischemia and cardiac arrhythmias than dobutamine. Calcium sensitizers offer a new therapeutic possibility in patients with decompensated low-output heart failure.
For reducing gastrointestinal toxicity associated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) a variety of 6-phenyl/(4-methylphenyl)-3(2H)-pyridazinon-2-propionamide were synthesized. The structures of these new pyridazinone derivatives were confirmed by their IR, 1H-NMR spectra and elementary analysis. All the new compounds were tested in vivo for their analgesic and anti-inflammatory activities. The analgesic activity of the test compounds was determined by phenylbenzoquinone-induced writhing assay and the anti-inflammatory activity was evaluated by the carrageenan-induced rat paw edema model. 6-Phenyl-3(2H)-pyridazinon-2-yl-[4-(4-fluorophenyl)piperazinyl] propanamide IVa-3 was the most active one among the synthesized compounds. Also this compound exhibited most potent anti-inflammatory activity. Acetylsalicylic acid and indometacin were used as reference drugs. Adverse effects of the compounds were examined on gastric mucosa. None of the compounds showed gastric ulcerogenic effect compared with the reference NSAIDs.
11-Deoxy-16,16-dimethyl PGE(2) (DDM-PGE(2)) protects renal proximal tubule epithelial cells (LLC-PK(1)) against the toxicity induced by 2,3,5-tris(glutathion-S-yl)hydroquinone (TGHQ), a potent nephrotoxic and nephrocarcinogenic metabolite of hydroquinone. We have now determined the ability of DDM-PGE(2) to protect against other renal toxicants and report that DDM-PGE(2) only protects against oncotic cell death, induced by H(2)O(2), iodoacetamide, and TGHQ, but not against apoptotic cell death induced by cisplatin, mercuric chloride, or tumor necrosis factor-alpha. DDM-PGE(2)-mediated cytoprotection is associated with the upregulation of at least five proteins, including the major endoplasmic reticulum (ER) chaperone glucose-regulated protein 78 (Grp78). To elucidate the role of Grp78 in oncotic cell death, we used LLC-PK(1) cells in which induction of grp78 expression was disrupted by stable expression of an antisense grp78 RNA (pkASgrp78). As anticipated, DDM-PGE(2) failed to induce Grp78 in pkASgrp78 cells, with a concomitant inability to provide cytoprotection. In contrast, DDM-PGE(2) induced Grp78 and afforded cytoprotection against H(2)O(2), iodoacetamide, and TGHQ in empty vector transfected cells (pkNEO). These data suggest that Grp78 plays an essential role in DDM-PGE(2)-mediated cytoprotection. Moreover, TGHQ-induced p38 MAPK activation is disrupted under conditions of a compromised ER stress response in pkASgrp78 cells, which likely contributes to the loss of cytoprotection. Finally, using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectroscopy, we found that DDM-PGE(2) induced several proteins in pkNEO cells, but not in pkASgrp78 cells, including retinol-binding protein, myosin light chain, and heat shock protein 27. The findings suggest that additional proteins may act in concert with Grp78 during DDM-PGE(2)-mediated cytoprotection against oncotic cell death.
To investigate the neuropsychologic effects of cranial irradiation (CRT), intrathecal methotrexate (IT-MTX), and systemic methotrexate (SYS-MTX) in a cohort of pediatric patients with cancer who had either received no, moderate, or high doses of these treatments alone or in various combinations.
Data were collected on 120 pediatric cancer patients from a large variety of diagnostic groups. Patients completed a comprehensive neuropsychologic test battery designed to assess most areas of cognitive functioning. In analyzing cancer treatment effects, the following variables were statistically controlled: (1) age, (2) socioeconomic status (SES), (3) age at diagnosis, (4) months since both onset and cessation of CNS treatments, (5) time missed from schooling, and (6) presence/type of CNS cancer.
CRT, largely in combination with IT-MTX, was significantly associated with deficits in several, primarily nondominant, hemispheric neuropsychologic functions, even after control and other treatment variables were addressed. This relationship was somewhat, but not highly, dose-dependent at CRT doses greater than approximately 18 Gy, at least over the first several years posttreatment. While there was statistically significant evidence for cognitive impairment, absence from school during treatment and age at diagnosis were more predictive of reading and spelling academic achievement than having received CRT. IT-MTX and SYS-MTX alone were not associated with significant degrees of neuropsychologic involvement.
CRT, especially when administered with IT-MTX, at currently used dosages was associated with significant neuropsychologic impairment in children. These impairments are most likely to be reflected in nonverbal intelligence, perceptual abilities, and susceptibility to distraction. IT-MTX and SYS-MTX did not result in a consistent pattern of cognitive deficit.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine antagonists are commonly used agents for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting. However, these drugs can have significant cardiovascular adverse effects. We report a case of acute myocardial infarction after administration of dolasetron in a 17-year-old adolescent girl during strabismus corrective surgery.
A double-blind randomized trial was conducted to compare etidocaine, the new local anaesthetic agent, with bupivacaine. One hundred patients were each given a single dose of one of the drugs during the surgical induction of labour. The results showed that etidocaine had a quicker onset of action than bupivacaine, but that its duration of action was shorter, and that it produced a greater degree of muscle weakness. No differences were noted in the side effects of the two drugs.
To compare the effectiveness of treating established postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) with an antiemetic acting at a different receptor with that of treating PONV with the antiemetic used for prophylaxis.
Analysis of data collected in a previously published randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.
Outpatient surgical procedures from 50 institutions in North America.
Patients (N = 2061) undergoing outpatient surgical procedures planned to last no more than 2 hours.
Patients were randomized to receive ondansetron 4 mg, droperidol 1.25, droperidol 0.625 mg, or placebo. In the postoperative anesthesia care unit, patients who developed PONV received rescue antiemetics at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist. The following antiemetics were used for rescue: ondansetron 4 mg, droperidol 0.625 to 1.25 mg, metoclopramide 10 mg, promethazine 6.25 to 25 mg, and dimenhydrinate 25 to 50 mg.
The complete response rate (no nausea, no emesis, and no need for further rescue) after administration of the rescue antiemetic in patients with established PONV was calculated. The complete response rate after administration of each of the different rescue antiemetics was compared with that after administration of the same antiemetic used for PONV prophylaxis.
In patients who failed prophylaxis with ondansetron 4 mg, the complete response rate was significantly higher (P = .02) after rescue with promethazine 6.25 to 25 mg (78%) than after rescue with ondansetron 4 mg (46%). In patients who failed prophylaxis with droperidol 0.625 and 1.25 mg, the complete response rate was significantly higher after rescue with promethazine 6.25 to 25 mg (77%; P = .02) and dimenhydrinate 25 to 50 mg (78%; P = .04) than after rescue with droperidol 0.625 to 1.25 mg (56%).
In patients who failed prophylaxis with ondansetron or droperidol, promethazine was significantly more effective than the agent used for prophylaxis for the treatment of PONV. In patients who failed prophylaxis with droperidol, dimenhydrinate was also more effective than droperidol for the treatment of established PONV in the postoperative anesthesia care unit.
Blood surgar and serum potassium (K+) concentrations were measured before, during and 60 min after surgery in two groups of 10 non-diabetic patients during nitrous oxide/halothane/tubocurarine anaesthesia. In the control group the arterial pressure was maintained within the patients' normal ranges, while in the study group pentolinium was administered i.v. (average 22 mg per patient) to achieve and maintain a mean arterial pressure of 50 mm Hg (+/-10 SEM). In the normotensive group the blood sugar concentration increased markedly and significantly during surgery and in the early postoperative period while the serum K+ concentration was essentially unchanged. In the hypotensive group pentolinium produced a striking modification of the surgery-induced hyperglycaemic response (but not to hypoglycaemic values) as well as a small but significant decrease in serum K+ concentration. The observed increase in the blood sugar concentration may be part of the autonomic response to surgical stress. Two mechanisms can explain the reduction in serum K+ concentration: (1) decreased hepatic glycogenolysis and (2) attenuation of the suppressive effect of adrenaline on insulin release, both effects being secondary to the ganglion-blocking property of pentolinium. These results are in contrast to the widely held belief that ganglion-blocking drugs cause hypoglycaemia.
Monoclonal antibodies specific to the light- and heavy-chain subunits of chicken skeletal muscle myosin have been used to identify fast and slow myosin-containing fibers in the thigh muscles of embryonic and adult chickens and to determine when in development diversification of muscle fiber types first occurs. Primary generation fibers which expressed different MLC and MHC types were evident within the dorsal and ventral premuscle masses and in the first muscles to form in the limb. These early embryonic muscle fiber types became distributed among and within the individual muscles of the thigh in a characteristic spatial pattern which served as a "blueprint" for guiding future muscle development and predicting the future fiber composition of the muscle. Despite the continuous addition of muscle fibers to the limb throughout development, the pattern remained unchanged. Neither the time of appearance, initial specialization, nor characteristic distribution of these primary fiber types within the limb was altered during the early embryonic period by chronic neuromuscular paralysis induced by D-tubocurarine. In contrast, muscles at later stages of embryonic development were markedly affected by such treatments and underwent atrophy and loss of differential staining characteristics. These results demonstrate that diversification of fibers in terms of myosin content is one of the earliest events in the formation of these muscles and suggest that the development of avian muscles be divided into two phases: an embryonic phase during which fibers of differing myosin content appear independently of innervation to become distributed in a specific topographic pattern within each muscle as it forms, followed by a fetal phase during which innervation becomes essential for maintaining this pattern and modulating the myosin content of its fibers.
Dermatologists and rheumatologists have differed in their use of serial liver biopsy and liver function tests (LFT) to monitor the risk of hepatic fibrosis in long-term MTX therapy. It is judged safe to monitor LFT only in RA. Whilst there are few studies in PsA to justify this approach, it is widely used in rheumatology practice. The study aimed to assess prevalence of hepatic fibrosis in both psoriasis and PsA patients on long-term MTX therapy.
A prospective study of 54 patients with psoriatic disease had a liver biopsy according to dermatology guidelines on long-term MTX treatment with full assessment of risk factors. Previously, monitoring these patients was in accordance with ACR guidelines with 3-monthly LFT.
MTX treatment duration was a mean of 6.9 years, with a mean cumulative dose of 4396 mg. There were no cases of advanced fibrosis or of cirrhosis and mild early fibrosis in 11 (22%) patients. The presence of early mild changes was related to the number of risk factors that the patient had for hepatic fibrosis [also the risk factors for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH)]. Pro-collagen 3 N-terminal peptide (PIIINP) was unhelpful in PsA and frequently elevated despite normal liver biopsy.
Despite other risk factors for NASH, monitoring for hepatic fibrosis using serial liver function and ACR guidelines tests alone as in RA appears safe in psoriasis and PsA. Liver biopsy ought to be considered to assess the liver if LFT are persistently elevated. PIIINP is misleading in active PsA.
A 15-year-old girl, who had been treated with minocyclin for acne for 2 months, was admitted for investigation of headache, nausea and papilledema. A space-occupying lesion was ruled out by computerized brain tomography. The diagnosis of benign intracranial pressure (pseudo-tumor cerebri) was made because of elevated cerebrospinal fluid pressure with normal biochemistry and cytology. Tetracyclines, especially minocyclin, commonly used for treating acne in adolescents, can cause benign intracranial pressure.
To examine the effects of standardized (reference) tobacco preparations on human oral cavity cells, two oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines (101A, 101B) and normal human gingival epithelial cells (HGEC) were treated with cigarette smoke total particulate matter (TPM), smokeless tobacco extracted with complete artificial saliva (ST/CAS), or whole-smoke conditioned media (WS-CM). EC-50 values, as determined by sulforhodamine B assays, varied among the cell types and agents. When normalized to nicotine content, cytotoxicity for WS-CM and TPM was higher compared to that observed with ST/CAS. Nicotine alone had no or only minimal cytotoxicity for all cell types in the applied range. Activation of pro-apoptotic caspase-3 was examined in all cell types at their respective EC-50 doses for the three agents. TPM, but not ST/CAS or WS-CM significantly activated caspase-3 in all three cell types. Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) for expression of the early apoptosis marker Annexin V and for nuclear staining by 7-aminoactinomycin (7-AAD) revealed different extents of apoptosis versus non-apoptotic cell death for the three agents. These data characterize differential responses of normal and malignant oral cells after exposure to TPM, ST/CAS, or WS-CM. They assist in understanding differential effects of combustible versus non-combustible tobacco products, and in identifying novel biomarkers for tobacco smoke exposure and effect in the oral cavity.
Using a modified noninvasive volume-displacement plethysmography system, we investigated the effects of inhaled dichlorvos (2,2-dimethyl-dichlorovinyl phosphate, or DDVP) vapor on the respiratory mechanics and blood cholinesterase activity of guinea pigs. Data revealed significant dose-dependent changes in several pulmonary parameters. Animals exposed to a DDVP concentration of 35 mg/m(3) did not show any significant changes in frequency, tidal volume, or minute ventilation. However, animals exposed to 55 mg/m(3) DDVP showed significantly decreased respiratory frequency and significantly increased tidal volume with no significant changes in minute ventilation. Similarly, animals exposed to 75 mg/m(3) DDVP showed significantly decreased respiratory frequency along with significantly increased tidal volume. The decreased respiratory frequency was large enough in the high exposure group to offset the increased tidal volume. This effect resulted in significantly decreased minute ventilation by the end of exposure, which remained attenuated 10 min after exposure. An analysis of whole-blood cholinesterase activity revealed significantly decreased activity for both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyl-cholinesterase (BChE). Peak inhibition occurred for both enzymes at the end of exposure for all three concentrations and rapidly recovered within several minutes of exposure. Analysis of blood samples using gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS) revealed that minute ventilation may only play a minimal role in the dosimetry of inhaled DDVP vapor.
IkappaB kinases (IKKs) IKK1 and IKK2 are two putative IkappaBalpha kinases involved in NF-kappaB activation. To examine the in vivo functions of IKK1, we generated IKK1-deficient mice. The mutant mice are perinatally lethal and exhibit a wide range of developmental defects. Newborn mutant mice have shiny, taut, and sticky skin without whiskers. Histological analysis shows thicker epidermis, which is unable to differentiate. Limbs and tail are wrapped inside the skin and do not extend properly out of the body trunk. Skeleton staining reveals a cleft secondary palate, split sternebra 6, and deformed incisors. NF-kappaB activation mediated by TNFalpha and IL-1 is diminished in IKK1-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) cells. The IKK complex in the absence of IKK1 is capable of phosphorylating IkappaBalpha and IkappaBbeta in vitro. Our results support a role for IKK1 in NF-kappaB activation and uncover its involvement in skin and skeleton development. We conclude further that the two related kinases IKK1 and IKK2 have distinct functions and can not be substituted for each other's functions.
Genetic studies of delinquent and criminal behavior are rare in spite of the wide recognition that individuals may differ in their propensity for delinquency and criminality. Using 2524 participants in Add Health in the United States, the present study demonstrates a link between the rare 2 repeat of the 30-bp VNTR in the MAOA gene and much higher levels of self-reported serious and violent delinquency. The evidence is based on a statistical association analysis and a functional analysis of MAOA promoter activity using two human brain-derived cell lines: neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y and human glioblastoma 1242-MG. The association analysis shows that men with a 2R report a level of serious delinquency and violent delinquency in adolescence and young adulthood that were about twice (CI: (0.21, 3.24), P=0.025; and CI: (0.37, 2.5), P=0.008 for serious and violent delinquency, respectively) as high as those for participants with the other variants. The results for women are similar, but weaker. In the functional analysis, the 2 repeat exhibits much lower levels of promoter activity than the 3 or 4 repeat.
Adriamycin (doxorubicin), one of the most active cytotoxic antineoplastic agents, can cause heart failure. This side effect is dose-dependent, the frequency of heart failure being 3% at a cumulative Adriamycin dose of 400 mg/m2 and 18% at 700 mg/m2. It is assumed that Adriamycin, or other anthracycline derivatives, are still active when the cardiotoxic level is reached. In this retrospective study of 171 patients with various metastatic malignant tumors, the total dose of Adriamycin given to the patients and the reasons for withholding the treatment have been analyzed. Overall, among the 171 patients treated by Adriamycin-containing combination chemotherapy, 54 objective remissions (31%) were observed. Remissions were more frequent in untreated patients (52%) than in previously treated patients (20%). In 36 of 54 patients the disease progressed before the cumulative cardiotoxic level was reached. Adriamycin could be discontinued in only 18 patients still in remission. 8 of 171 patients received more than 450 mg/m2 Adriamycin without cardiotoxic side effects being observed. Among the 171 patients, cardiotoxicity probably related to anthracyclines developed in 5 cases (3%), in all cases at a level below 450 mg/m2. These results suggest that in most cases Adriamycin becomes inactive before the dose-limiting cumulative cardiotoxic level is reached.
A patient with post-traumatic seizure disorder developed lymphadenopathy, exfoliative dermatitis, and hepatic failure while on diphenylhydantoin therapy and died in hepatic coma. Autopsy disclosed massive hepatic necrosis. The clinical and pathological pictures are similar to the six previously reported cases of diphenylhydantoin-induced hepatic necrosis, with the exception of the time of onset of hepatic failure, which is explained. The cause of such hepatotoxicity is unknown, although hypersensitivity is postulated. It appears that studies of liver function in patients receiving diphenylhydantion are indicated to assess the true indicence of hepatocellular injury.
A woman at 32 weeks' gestation with eclampsia was given 120 mg diazepam shortly before emergency caesarean section. The infant had persistent apnoea and required respiratory support. Spontaneous respiration began after intravenous flumazenil infusion was started. Diazepam and its active metabolites were assayed during and after 5 d of treatment with flumazenil.
To describe concentric visual field loss found in the presurgical evaluation of patients with drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy and relate the findings to potential causative factors.
A series of 157 consecutive patients with drug-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy, who had been selected for neurosurgical treatment, was examined in a study set up as a prospective investigation of their visual fields, to document the loss of visual field resulting from surgery. Pre-as well as postoperative visual field examinations were performed following a standard protocol using static and kinetic perimetry. As a number of patients appeared to have an unexplained concentric visual field contraction in the presurgical examination, a relation with potentially causative factors was analyzed in a cross-sectional study of all these patients. Correlations were sought with duration and severity of the seizure disorder, underlying pathology as indicated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and demonstrated by pathology, any type of antiepileptic drug (AED) ever prescribed, and gender.
In this cross-sectional analysis of 157 consecutive patients who were candidates for surgery for temporal lobe epilepsy, absolute concentric contraction of the visual field of 10 to 30 degrees was found in the presurgical examination in 20 (17%) of 118 patients who had ever used vigabatrin (VGB) and in none of 39 who had not had this medication. This difference was significant (p = 0.004). In addition, men [15 (21%) of 72] were significantly more often affected (p = 0.007) than women [five (6%) of 85]. The degree of visual field loss, as indicated by the Esterman grid, showed a positive correlation with the duration of VGB medication. There was no correlation of visual field contraction with a history of meningitis as potential cause of the epilepsy, duration of the epilepsy, status epilepticus in the medical history, or histologic abnormality of the brain tissue removed. Ophthalmologic examination of the patients with concentric contraction revealed no abnormalities. None of the patients with concentric contraction complained spontaneously of their visual field loss.
VGB medication is a causative factor in concentric visual field loss. Visual field examination of patients using VGB should be seriously considered.
We report a case of a young girl who developed pseudotumor cerebri while taking minocycline for acne vulgaris.
A 16-year-old girl without a history of menstrual irregularity, weighing 60 kg (body mass index: 26.0%) presented with a history of 1 week of headache and sudden onset of a horizontal diplopia.
Examination revealed bilateral papilledema and an abduction deficit in her right eye. Her cerebrospinal fluid had an opening pressure of 400 mm H(2)O and a normal composition. Following normal findings on computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, a diagnosis of pseudotumor cerebri was made. She reported receiving minocycline to treat acne vulgaris during the previous 3 weeks. The headache resolved with withdrawal of minocycline. The diplopia and papilledema resolved after two lumbar punctures, although the visual field defects persisted. The minocycline concentrations in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid taken after cessation of the drug were below the detectable level.
The role of minocycline should be considered and routine ophthalmologic examination during minocycline treatment should be performed when pseudotumor cerebri occurs in patients treated for acne vulgaris.
