Cimetidine and ranitine are histamine H2-receptor blockers widely used for the treatment of gastric hypersecretion and duodenal pathologies. They are known to induce hyperprolactinemia in humans. Forty-six patients treated with cimetidine or ranitidine who were exhibiting a neurobehavioral syndrome after withdrawal of the drugs were selected. This syndrome was associated with a drop in plasma prolactin levels. The symptoms of this syndrome were greatly improved by restoration of treatment with the same drugs and reappeared when the treatment was again suspended. This syndrome was inhibited in 36 patients by administration of domperidone (30 mg/day), a drug inducing hyperprolactinemia without crossing the blood-brain barrier, as compared with 10 control patients treated with placebo. These results suggest that the drop in prolactin levels occurring when cimetidine and ranitidine are suspended may contribute to the development of this syndrome. Also, the withdrawal of H2-receptor blockers could be included among the possible causes of some neurotic syndromes.
The perphenazine and fluphenazine GABA esters 3 and 4 evaluated in rat models for antipsychotic activity displayed a significant decrease of catalepsy associated with increased prolactin blood levels. Efficacy was evaluated in the d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity model, where perphenazine abolished hyperactivity and induced sedation and catalepsy, whereas 3 reduced hyperactivity without sedation or catalepsy. Thus, 3 (BL-1020) constitutes a prototype of novel antipsychotics possessing GABAergic activity. A phase II study is in progress.
Rats were chronically implanted with a lateral cerebral ventricular guide cannula. After recovery they were trained to self-inject morphine sulfate. A week after this training period, self-injection behavior was studied during nociceptive stimulation. In response to a nociceptive stimulation rats increased their intracerebroventricular self-administration of morphine. This effect is specific for morphine since under identical conditions rats did not increase NaCl administration. Naloxone pretreatment inhibits self-administration of morphine in 5 rats. However, two rats increased morphine self-intake. These results show that rats can directly perceive a decrease of pain sensation induced by the morphine self-administration. This experimental situation is therefore similar to the therapeutic situation in humans, in which the criterion of efficacy of an analgesic is a reduction of the conscious pain sensation. Experimental self-administration during painful stimulation might therefore be used for preclinical evaluation of the efficacy of an analgesic drug.
Increased secretion of adrenal cortical steroids may account in part for its cancer inhibitory activity of energy restriction (ER). To test this hypothesis, a study was conducted to determine the effects of dietary administration of corticosterone on the post-initiation stage of mammary carcinogenesis. Eighty-four female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with 50 mg 1-methyl-1-nitrosourea/kg body wt (i.p.) at 21 days of age. One week later, animals were randomly divided into three groups and fed control diet, or that diet to which was added 200 or 400 mg corticosterone/kg. Diets were fed for 5 weeks after which the experiment was terminated. With increasing dietary corticosterone, a dose-dependent reduction in the incidence (P=0.03), multiplicity (P=0.003) and size (P<0.003) of mammary carcinomas was observed. Dietary administration of corticosterone also reduced plasma insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and levels of IGF-1 receptor in mammary carcinomas (P<0.01). In order to investigate molecular mechanisms underlying anticancer activity, the levels and activities of cell cycle components involved in the G1-S transition were investigated in mammary carcinomas that emerged in treated animals. Levels of cyclin D1, cyclin E, cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)-2 and CDK-4 were reduced in carcinomas from corticosterone treated rats; whereas, levels of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKI) Kip1/p27 and Cip1/p21 were elevated. Binding of these CKIs to both the cyclin D1-CDK-4 complex and the cyclin E-CDK-2 complex were increased and the kinase activities of these complexes were reduced with increasing dietary corticosterone. These effects were consistent with those observed in response to ER in vivo and corticosterone exposure in vitro. Whereas the effects of exogenously administered corticosterone and ER had many similarities, the lower efficacy of corticosterone versus ER in inhibiting the carcinogenic process imply that changes in cortical steroid metabolism alone are unlikely to explain the cancer inhibitory activity of ER.
Twenty-two patients with refractory solid tumors or lymphoma were treated with a single course of high-dose cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg intravenously [IV] over 2 days) whereas three patients received two courses each. Marrow infusion was not used. In the 22 courses evaluable for tumor response there were 14 responses (64%) of which 11 were partial responses (PR) (50%) and three complete responses (CR) (14%). In the 12 evaluable courses given in patients with lymphoid malignancies a partial response was obtained in seven (58%) and complete response in two (17%) for an overall response rate of 75%. The median duration of response was short: 2 months (range, 1-12 months). Twenty-seven courses were evaluable for toxicity. All patients had nadir polymorphonuclear leukocytes counts less than 500/mm3 with median time to recovery to a level greater than 500/mm3 of 9 days (range, 6-21 days). The median nadir platelet count was 30,000/mm3. One patient had prolonged thrombocytopenia of 225 days. There were two toxic deaths related to leukopenia, one secondary to Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and the second from probable sepsis and cholecystitis. Nineteen patients had previously received cyclophosphamide in standard doses. In the patients with lymphoid malignancies who had previously received cyclophosphamide, 22% achieved a CR with an overall response rate of 78%. High-dose cyclophosphamide may be given with acceptable toxicity in heavily pretreated patients. Given the short response duration in patients with progressive disease, the optimal results of such high-dose cyclophosphamide may be achieved when it is employed earlier in the natural history of the disease in conjunction with other alkylators, or as consolidation therapy.
Valproic acid, an antiepileptic drug, is extensively metabolized in humans. Two putative metabolites, 2-n-propyl-3-aminopentanoic acid (3-aminovalproic acid, 3-amino-VPA; 2a) and 2-n-propyl-4-aminopentanoic acid (4-amino-valproic acid, 4-amino-VPA; 4a), which may result from the transamination of the respective keto acids 1a and 3a may explain the unusual extended seizure protection elicited by valproic acid. The title compounds were synthesized as their diasteriomeric ethyl esters 2b and 4b and submitted for anticonvulsant evaluation by the Antiepileptic Drug Development Program of the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke. The results verified our hypothesis, as 4b was active in the subcutaneous pentylenetetrazol (scMet) evaluation at 30 mg/kg. Both compounds were highly toxic at 300 mg/kg.
Intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator therapy within 3 hours of stroke onset is a proven effective treatment for acute ischemic stroke.
To assess the feasibility and safety of rt-PA therapy for reperfusion in routine clinical practice in Israel, in the setting of a dedicated stroke unit.
Consecutive patients presenting within less than 3 hours of stroke onset were evaluated by an emergency physician and the neurology stroke team. After brain computerized tomography, eligible patients were treated with intravenous rt-PA (0.9 mg/kg, maximum dose 90 mg) according to an in-hospital protocol corresponding to recommended criteria. Patients were admitted to the acute stroke unit. Safety and clinical outcome were routinely assessed. Recanalization was assessed by serial transcranial Doppler.
The study group comprised 16 patients, mean age 61 years (range 47-80 years), male to female ratio 10:6, whose median baseline National Institutes of Health stroke scale was 13 (range 6-24). They were treated within a mean door-to-CT time of 39 minutes (range 17-62 min), door-to-drug time 101 minutes (range 72-150), and stroke onset-to-drug time 151 minutes (range 90-180). There was an early improvement within 24 hours (of > or = 4 points in the NIHSS score) in 7 patients (44%) and no early deteriorations. There were no protocol deviations, no symptomatic intracranial hemorrhages, and no major systemic hemorrhage within 36 hours of rt-PA treatment. Three asymptomatic hemorrhagic transformations of the infarct were noted on routine follow-up brain CT associated with neurologic improvement. Outcome data were comparable to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA Stroke Study.
Intravenous rt-PA treatment within 3 hours of stroke onset in routine clinical practice in Israel is feasible and appears safe in the setting of a neurology stroke unit and team. Careful implementation of rt-PA therapy for selected patients in Israel is encouraged.
Antineoplastic agents have been associated with cerebral hemorrhage, infarction and cerebral venous thrombosis. Infarctions have been reported in association with L-asparaginase, cisplatinium, methotrexate and 5-fluro-uracil. The mechanisms by which antineoplastic agents may lead to stroke include endothelium toxicity and abnormalities of coagulation factors.
Chemotherapy can cause vaginal irritation and mucositis, although rarely reported.
A 62-year-old patient with ovarian cancer reported vaginal burning associated with dyspareunia, which emerged 3-5 days after her initial chemotherapy and persisted throughout her treatment. Her discomfort persisted until she was evaluated by our sexual health service and interventions were implemented. On examination, her vaginal vault was erythematous, with mild signs of vaginal atrophy. Her management schema consisted of the following: avoidance of intercourse 3-5 days after chemotherapy, intravaginal vitamin E suppositories three times per week, intravaginal estrogen tablets (initial course of 14 days followed by twice weekly usage), use of lubricants (Astroglide) during coitus, and counseling. Once interventions were introduced, she subsequently resumed sexual intercourse during the remainder of her chemotherapy treatments.
Patients with sexual complaints during or following cancer treatment can be treated by their community gynecologists or gynecology oncologists or can be treated through a comprehensive sexual health program with restoration of sexual function.
On November 30, 2012, at approximately 7:00 am, a freight train derailed near a small town in New Jersey. Four tank cars, including a breached tank car carrying vinyl chloride, landed in a tidal creek. Vinyl chloride, a colorless gas with a mild, sweet odor, is used in plastics manufacture. Acute exposure can cause respiratory irritation and headache, drowsiness, and dizziness; chronic occupational exposure can result in liver damage, accumulation of fat in the liver, and tumors (including angiosarcoma of the liver). Because health effects associated with acute exposures have not been well studied, the New Jersey Department of Health requested assistance from the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) and CDC. On December 11, teams from these agencies deployed to assist the New Jersey Department of Health in conducting an assessment of exposures in the community as well as the occupational health and safety of emergency personnel who responded to the incident. This report describes the results of the investigation of emergency personnel. A survey of 93 emergency responders found that 26% of respondents experienced headache and upper respiratory symptoms during the response. A minority (22%) reported using respiratory protection during the incident. Twenty-one (23%) of 92 respondents sought medical evaluation. Based on these findings, CDC recommended that response agencies 1) implement the Emergency Responder Health Monitoring and Surveillance (ERHMS) system for ongoing health monitoring of the emergency responders involved in the train derailment response and 2) ensure that in future incidents, respiratory protection is used when exposure levels are unknown or above the established occupational exposure limits.
Evidence suggests a genetic predisposition to chronic beryllium disease (CBD) and sarcoidosis, which are clinically and pathologically similar granulomatous lung diseases. TGF-beta1, a cytokine involved in mediating the fibrotic/Th1 response, has several genetic variants which might predispose individuals to these lung diseases. We examined whether certain TGF-beta1 variants and haplotypes are found at higher rates in CBD and sarcoidosis cases compared with controls and are associated with disease severity indicators for both diseases. Using DNA from sarcoidosis cases/controls from A Case Control Etiologic Study of Sarcoidosis Group (ACCESS) and CBD cases/controls, TGF-beta1 variants were analyzed by sequence-specific primer PCR. No significant differences were found between cases and controls for either disease in the TGF-beta1 variants or haplotypes. The -509C and codon 10T were significantly associated with disease severity indicators in both CBD and sarcoidosis. Haplotypes that included the -509C and codon 10T were also associated with more severe disease, whereas one or more copies of the haplotype containing the -509T and codon 10C was protective against severe disease for both sarcoidosis and CBD. These studies suggest that the -509C and codon 10T, implicated in lower levels of TGF-beta1 protein production, are shared susceptibility factors associated with more severe granulomatous disease in sarcoidosis and CBD. This association may be due to lack of down-regulation by TGF-beta1, although future studies will be needed to correlate TGF-beta1 protein levels with known TGF-beta1 genotypes and assess whether there is a shared mechanisms for TGF-beta1 in these two granulomatous diseases.
In 43 patients the time-dependent behaviour of somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP) before and during induction of anesthesia with 0.3 mg/kg etomidate was studied. The SSEP components could be reliably recorded in one-minute intervals and the modulations of SSEP (early and middle latencies) following bolus injection with its pharmacokinetically non-stationary states could be quantified. The central conduction time (CCT) between the cervical N13- and the cortical N20-component was less prolonged (from 5.6 ms to 6.4 ms) than known from other anesthetics. Middle latency SSEP exhibited a more marked increase and were reduced in amplitude. All patients showed a 2- to 12-fold increase of the primary complex N20/P25 2-3 min after bolus injection. This amplification cannot be explained either by muscle artifacts nor exclusively by activation of muscle afferents. Myoclonia as a side effect of etomidate coincide with the increase of SSEP-components. The combination of myoclonia and SSEP-enhancement is known to be associated with the familial progressive myoclonus epilepsy. This observation therefore may indicate a cortical excitatory or disinhibitory effect, although no spike-wave complexes have been reported in the EEG after etomidate.
To study the relationship between acute myocardial ischemia rat induced by isoprenaline (Iso) and expression of some apoptosis related genes in myocardium.
Acute myocardial ischemic rat model was induced by subcutaneous injection of large doses of Iso. The myocardial expression of apoptosis related genes, Fas, CPP32, Bcl-2 and Bax, were detected with RT-PCR method. The influences of aloperine (Alo, 20 mg.kg-1) and propranolol (Prop, 2 mg.kg-1) on apoptosis related genes were also investigated by the same method.
Myocardial expression of Fas, CPP32 and Bcl-2 were increased in acute myocardial ischemic rats, but no significance was detected in Bax expression. Both Alo and Prop were shown to decrease the expression of Fas and CPP32, and increase expression of Bcl-2. Prop also showed down regulated effect on expression of Bax.
Subcutaneous injection of large doses of Iso was shown to induce expressions of apoptosis related genes in rat myocardium, which were also influences by Alo and Prop.
The carcinogenic potential of environmental xenoestrogens (i.e., organochlorines) is a matter of controversy. Their pathogenic role as promoters in breast cancer has been previously suggested. In Europe, despite their prohibition since the '70s, residues persist in soil and rivers resulting in a widespread contamination of the general population. In this study, we have compared the serum levels of p,p'-1,1-dichloro-2, 2-bis (4-chlorophenyl) ethylene (DDE) and hexachlorobenzene (HCB) in 231 women at the time of breast cancer discovery and in 290 age-matched healthy controls. p,p'-DDE was found in 76.2% of cases and in 71.1% of controls but HCB was present only in 12.6% of cases (29 from 231) and in 8.9% of controls (26 from 290). Even if taking all undetectable results (recorded as "0") into consideration, mean values were significantly different in cases when compared to controls. The serum level of p,p'-DDE was 3.46 +/- 3.48 ppb (0.58 +/- 0.58 microg/g lipid) in patients and 1.85 +/- 2.09 ppb (0.31 +/- 0.35 microg/g lipid) in controls (p < 0.0001). The HCB serum level was 0.66 +/-.25 ppb (0.11 +/- 0.21 microg/g lipid) in patients and 0.20 +/- 1.02 ppb (0.03 +/- 0.17 microg/g lipid) in controls (p < 0.0001). When considering p,p'-DDE and HCB as binary variables (1 if higher than the limit of quantification, 0 if lower), the presence of both residues was significantly associated with an increased risk of breast cancer development (OR 2.21, 95% CI 1.41-3.48 for p,p'-DDE and OR 4.99, 95% CI 2.95-8.43 for HCB). No excess was observed among parous women or when familial history of breast cancer was considered. In the cancer group, no differences in serum levels of p,p'-DDE or HCB were found in relation with estrogen-receptor (ER) status, Bloom stage or lymph node metastasis, but the HCB level was moderately correlated with tumor size (p = 0.026).
Metastasizing epithelioid sarcoma (ES) is an extremely aggressive tumor, because conventional chemotherapy and irradiation are largely ineffective. Here, we analyzed the impact of the CD95-mediated drug-induced apoptosis in ES cell lines.
The effects of paclitaxel (Taxol) and 5-FU were determined by MTT assay. The extent of apoptosis was analyzed by light microscopy and Annexin V staining (flow cytometry). The expression of death receptors and ligands was defined by RT-PCR, Western blotting and flow cytometry.
All cell lines expressed CD95, but not the CD95 ligand. The CD95 activation resulted in apoptosis and cell death in all cell lines. Both paclitaxel and 5-FU are able to trigger apoptosis, and furthermore, to upregulate CD95, whereas only paclitaxel increases CD95 ligand expression. Neutralizing antibodies directed against CD95 ligand effectively inhibited paclitaxel-induced cell death, thereby providing evidence for a direct involvement of the CD95 system in paclitaxel-induced apoptosis.
Concomitant upregulation of CD95 receptor and ligand may significantly enhance the response of ES to anticancer drugs. As evident from the differential response of our clonal ES subpopulations to paclitaxel and 5-FU, effective activation of the CD95 system depends on intrinsic properties of both the chemotherapeutic agent and target cell population.
It is suggested that simultaneous treatment with the radical scavenger edaravone has an effective protective effect against tobramycin ototoxicity in rat. Even if the edaravone treatment is postponed for 7 days, it can still prevent hearing loss, but a 14 day delay cannot protect from ototoxicity.
With the aim of alleviating hearing loss caused by aminoglycoside ototoxicity, we performed a trial to assess the hearing protective efficacy of the radical scavenger edaravone.
In part one of the study, 21 male Sprague-Dawley albino rats were used; 2 rats served as controls for the safety of edaravone. Eight rats each received 10 subcutaneous injections (s.c.) of tobramycin (160 mg/kg b.w.) once daily and saline injection intraperitoneally for 2 weeks. Eleven rats were given 10 s.c. tobramycin injections simultaneously with an intraperitoneal injection of edaravone (3 mg/kg b.w.). In part two, tobramycin was injected in 13 rats (as above). Five of these received two edaravone injections 7 days later and four rats similarly 14 days later. Auditory brainstem response (ABR) was used to assess hearing.
All rats treated only with tobramycin showed a deterioration of hearing. None of the rats given simultaneous treatment with tobramycin and edaravone demonstrated hearing loss. A 7 day delay in edaravone injection still prevented hearing loss, but a 14 day delay had only a temporary prophylactic effect.
We retrospectively analyzed the effect of maintenance endocrine therapy (MET) after high-dose chemotherapy with hematopoietic progenitor cell transplant (HDCT) on the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with hormone-dependent metastatic breast cancer (MBC). One hundred and nine consecutive patients with estrogen receptor (ER) and/or progesterone receptor (PgR)-positive MBC, who were progression free for at least 4 months after HDCT with cyclophosphamide, carmustine and thiotepa (CBT), were analyzed. Of these, 55 were non-randomly submitted to MET. After a median follow-up of 34.4 months (17.1-91.0), univariate analysis showed that MET was significantly associated with improved median PFS (31.1 vs 19.2 months, P = 0.022). Complete response to HDCT, pattern of metastatic spread, extent of the disease, single vs multiple metastatic sites, prior endocrine therapy for metastatic disease and prior exposure to any hormonal therapy (adjuvant and/or for the advanced disease) were also associated with PFS at univariate analysis. A multivariate Cox proportional hazard model was fitted to the data in order to correct the effect of MET for the other significant covariates. After correcting for these covariates, MET was still significant, predicting improved PFS (hazard ratio (HR) 0.580, 95% CI; 0.362-0.931). Administration of MET after optimal cytoreduction might result in increased efficacy of HDCT in hormone-dependent metastatic breast cancer.
Chronic administration of triazolam (0.25 mg/kg/day, i.p.) on days 1-8 and its withdrawal produced an anxiogenic reaction in mice as assessed in the mirrored-chamber test. Daily administration of bupropion (2 or 5 mg/kg, i.p.) prior to triazolam for 8 days prevented withdrawal-induced anxiety in mice. Triazolam withdrawal also induced a significant increase in the locomotor activity of mice indicating an anxiogenic response. Daily administration of bupropion (2 or 5 mg/kg) prior to triazolam for 8 days also prevented withdrawal-induced increased locomotor activity. In conclusion, chronic administration of bupropion (2 and 5 mg/kg) exhibited a significant protection against triazolam withdrawal-induced anxiety and hyperlocomotor activity in mice. The result suggests the protective effect of bupropion in the management of triazolam withdrawal reactions.
The role of "moderate-dose" systemic methotrexate in preventing central nervous system lymphomatous relapse is unknown. Certain patients with diffuse non-Hodgkin's histologic subtypes have an increased risk of relapse in the central nervous system, and it would be helpful to know if intravenous "moderate-dose" methotrexate might treat or possibly protect the meninges from involvement. In part, the rationale behind the recent regimen of methotrexate, bleomycin, doxorubicin (Adriamycin), cyclophosphamide, vincristine (Oncovin), and dexamethasone (m-BACOD) is to protect the central nervous system, and the empiric proof of this protection awaits the follow-up results of trials currently underway. In the meantime, the systemic and cerebrospinal fluid pharmacokinetics of moderate-dose intravenous methotrexate were studied in one patient whose histologic subtype places him at high risk for central nervous system involvement. Although the central nervous system levels of methotrexate in this patient never reached 1 X 10(-6) M, the levels exceeded 1 X 10(-7) M for at least 24 hours. The implications of peak dose versus sustained exposure to a lower dose of methotrexate are discussed.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a major health problem and a leading cause of chronic liver disease in the United States and developed countries. In humans, genetic factors greatly influence individual susceptibility to NAFLD. The goals of this study were to compare the magnitude of interindividual differences in the severity of liver injury induced by methyl-donor deficiency among individual inbred strains of mice and to investigate the underlying mechanisms associated with the variability. Feeding mice a choline- and folate-deficient diet for 12 wk caused liver injury similar to NAFLD. The magnitude of liver injury varied among the strains, with the order of sensitivity being A/J ≈ C57BL/6J ≈ C3H/HeJ < 129S1/SvImJ ≈ CAST/EiJ < PWK/PhJ < WSB/EiJ. The interstrain variability in severity of NAFLD liver damage was associated with dysregulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism, primarily with a down-regulation of the peroxisome proliferator receptor α (PPARα)-regulated lipid catabolic pathway genes. Markers of oxidative stress and oxidative stress-induced DNA damage were also elevated in the livers but were not correlated with severity of liver damage. These findings suggest that the PPARα-regulated metabolism network is one of the key mechanisms determining interstrain susceptibility and severity of NAFLD in mice.
Linezolid is a novel oxazolidinone antibiotic with mild reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) activity. The potential for interaction with over-the-counter (OTC) medications requires quantification. The authors present data evaluating the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic responses to coadministration of oral linezolid with sympathomimetics (pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine) and a serotonin reuptake inhibitor (dextromethorphan). Following coadministration with linezolid, minimal but statistically significant increases were observed in pseudoephedrine and phenylpropanolamine plasma concentrations; a minimal but statistically significant decrease was observed in dextrorphan (the primary metabolite of dextromethorphan) plasma concentrations. Increased blood pressure (BP) was observed following the coadministration of linezolid with either pseudoephedrine or phenylpropanolamine; no significant effects were observed with dextromethorphan. None of these coadministered drugs had a significant effect on linezolid pharmacokinetics. Minimal numbers of adverse events were reported. Potentiation of sympathomimetic activity by linezolid was judged not to be clinically significant, but patients sensitive to the effects of increased BP due to predisposing factors should be treated cautiously. No restrictions are indicated for the coadministration of dextromethorphan and linezolid.
The therapeutic effect of thalidomide in chronic discoid lupus erythematosus (CDLE) was studied in sixty patients who were followed up for 2 years. In fifty-four patients (90%) a complete or marked regression of the disease was observed, but when the thalidomide was stopped, thirty out of forty-one (71%) patients relapsed. Patients undergoing a second course of thalidomide treatment again responded well. Nine of the patients in whom the disease recurred after successful treatment with thalidomide and who had been unresponsive to intermittent treatment with antimalarials, showed a good response to a second or third course with thalidomide. Mild side-effects were common and 25% of patients complained of slight to moderate polyneuritic symptoms. Since electroneurological examinations had not been performed before the thalidomide therapy, the frequency of neurological side-effects cannot be accurately calculated but we recommend neurological examinations before and periodically during thalidomide treatment. Thalidomide is a very effective drug in CDLE, but in most cases it exerts its effect only whilst treatment is continued. Its use should be restricted to patients resistant to topical steroids and systemic antimalarials.
Twelve commercial pyrethroid insecticides (technical-grade active ingredients) were evaluated individually for acute neurobehavioral manifestations of toxicity under conditions suited to assist with determining whether they act by a common mechanism of toxicity. The pyrethroids that were tested reflect a diversity of structures, including six with an alpha-cyano phenoxybenzyl moiety (beta-cyfluthrin, lambda-cyhalothrin, cypermethrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate and fenpropathrin) and six without this moiety (bifenthrin, S-bioallethrin, permethrin, pyrethrins, resmethrin and tefluthrin). These chemicals also present a variety of behavioral effects, including ones that are historically classified as causing a T (tremor), CS (choreoathetosis with salivation) or intermediate syndrome of intoxication, and others that have not previously been classified. Each pyrethroid that was tested consisted of the complement of isomers that occur in commercial products--a key factor for relevance for environmental and human exposure and for comparisons, since the biological activity of the individual isomers can vary tremendously. Young-adult male Sprague-Dawley rats (10 per dose group) were administered a single dose of pyrethroid by oral gavage, in corn oil, at a volume of 5 ml/kg. Each was tested at a range of two or three dose levels, including a minimally toxic dose, to establish the more sensitive manifestations of toxicity, and a more toxic dose, to establish a more complete spectrum of neurobehavioral manifestations. Animals were evaluated using a functional observational battery (FOB) that was designed to characterize and distinguish effects classically associated with T or CS syndromes of intoxication. The FOB was performed when manifestations of toxicity were most apparent at the time of peak effect (2, 4, or 8 h post-dosing) by observers who were blinded to dose group assignment, thus avoiding possible bias. The results from this study indicate that some pyrethroids clearly exhibit the historic classification symptoms of the T and CS syndromes while others do so less obviously. Use of the statistical technique of Principal Component Analysis (PCA) further helped interpret the study findings, as described in the accompanying paper (Breckenridge et al., 2009). These results establish manifestations of neurotoxicity in vivo that can be used as weight of evidence to determine whether pyrethroid insecticides act through a common mechanism of toxicity in mammals. Based on a review of the FOB data, analyzed by PCA, and other published data, two common mechanism groups are proposed. Group 1 would include pyrethrins, bifenthrin, resmethrin, permethrin, S-bioallethrin and tefluthrin. Group 2 would include cypermethrin, deltamethrin, esfenvalerate, beta-cyfluthrin and lambda-cyhalothrin. Fenpropathrin exhibited features of both groups.
Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is a common complication of diabetes. Currently, there is no drug treatment to prevent or slow the development of DN. Rosiglitazone (Rosi) is a potent insulin sensitizer and may also slow the development of DN by a mechanism independent of its effect on hyperglycemia. A two by two design was used to test the effect of Rosi treatment on the development of DN. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic DBA/2J mice were treated with Rosi. DN and oxidative stress were quantified, and gene expression was profiled using the Affymetrix Mouse Genome 430 2.0 microarray platform. An informatics approach identified key regulatory elements activated by Rosi. Diabetic DBA/2J mice developed severe hyperglycemia, DN, and elevated oxidative stress. Rosi treatment did not affect hyperglycemia but did reduce oxidative stress and prevented the development of thermal hypoalgesia. Two novel transcription factor binding modules were identified that may control genes correlated to changes in DN after Rosi treatment: SP1F_ZBPF and EGRF_EGRF. These targets may be useful in designing drugs with the same efficacy as Rosi in treating DN but with fewer undesirable effects.
