Rebound insomnia is one of the medical effects of reduction in dosage or discontinuation of neuroleptic drugs. The electrophysiologic features of sleep dysfunction are reported and discussed in 3 patients manifesting withdrawal-related DIMS. Electrographic anachronism and cyclic alternating pattern are signs of N-Rem sleep dysfunction. Clinical and neurophysiologic data suggest that rebound insomnia in neuroleptic withdrawal is due to an enhancement of physiologic mechanisms and rebound supersensitivity of cholinergic transmission in the ARAS.
This report describes a patient who developed marked generalized adenopathy and nephrotic syndrome while receiving mephenytoin (mesantoin) for a seizure disorder. Renal biopsy showed a diffuse proliferative glomerulonephritis. Lymph node histopathology revealed replacement of parenchyma with lymphocytes, eosinophils, and reticuloendothelial cells. A hypersensitivity reaction is postulated as the etiology of both these processes.
Using high-resolution array-CGH, we identified unique duplications of a region on 6q27 in four multiplex families with at least three cases of chordoma, a cancer of presumed notochordal origin. The duplicated region contains only the T (brachyury) gene, which is important in notochord development and is expressed in most sporadic chordomas. Our findings highlight the value of screening for complex genomic rearrangements in searches for cancer-susceptibility genes.
Four (17%) of 23 consecutive female outpatients developed significant urinary or urgency incontinence when treated with lithium carbonate. The symptoms remitted or abated with the addition of oxybutynin (an anticholinergic drug), imipramine, or with decreased lithium dosing. A proposed mechanism involves lithium-induced changes in bladder cholinergic-adrenergic balance.
The synthesis of analogues of the antipsychotic drug butaclamol bearing chloro substituents on the benzene rings is described. On the basis of a perceived topographical similarity of a putative chlorophenylethylamine pharmacophore present in these analogues and in VUFB-10032 and doclothepin, agents related to octoclothepin which do not induce catalepsy, they have been tested for "noncataleptic" neuroleptic activity. None of the butaclamol analogues exhibit this type of activity. Depending on the position of the chlorine, the analogues either retained butaclamol-like activity or were inactive.
To test the long-term effect of enalapril maleate treatment on progression of clinical signs of heart disease in dogs with moderate or severe naturally acquired heart failure associated with chronic degenerative mitral valvular disease (mitral regurgitation [MR]) or dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).
Prospective multicenter study.
110 dogs enrolled at 15 locations in the United States.
All dogs enrolled in this study were maintained on their randomly allocated treatment regimen until death, treatment failure (deterioration of condition requiring additional medication), or termination of the study. All dogs entered in the study received standard heart failure treatment (furosemide with or without digoxin). Statistical analysis (log-rank test) was performed to compare the distribution of number of days in the study between dogs that received placebo tablets and dogs that received enalapril tablets.
When dogs with MR and DCM were grouped together, mean number of days until treatment failure was significantly different between those receiving enalapril and those given placebo tablets (157.5 and 77.0 days, respectively). For dogs with MR, mean number of days until treatment failure was significantly different between those receiving enalapril and placebo tablets (159.5 and 86.6 days, respectively). Mean number of days until treatment failure among dogs with DCM receiving enalapril and placebo tablets was 142.8 and 56.5, respectively.
Use of enalapril in combination with standard treatment (diuretics with or without digoxin) appears to be beneficial over an extended period, compared with standard treatment alone.
We have previously shown that the beta-blocking drug metoprolol improves cardiac function in the streptozotocin-diabetic rat partly by inducing parallel improvements in cardiac metabolism and gene expression. beta-blockers have been previously reported to increase the expression of beta(1) and beta(2)-adrenoceptors, but their effects on the expression of beta(3)-adrenoceptors are unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether metoprolol increases beta(3)-adrenoceptor expression and downstream Akt-mediated signaling. Left ventricular function was measured in paced isolated working hearts. beta(1), beta(2) and beta(3) adrenoceptor-expression levels were measured using Western blotting. Protein kinase A (PKA) and calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CAMK-II) activities, as well as Akt phosphorylation, were measured as indices of downstream target activation. Chronic metoprolol treatment improved cardiac function and produced a marked increase in the expression of all three beta-adrenoceptor subtypes which was associated with a decrease in PKA activity and an increase in Akt phosphorylation. Akt-mediated phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) was not altered, but phosphorylation of the transcription factor FOXO-3 was increased. Metoprolol increased the expression of beta(1), beta(2) and beta(3) adrenoceptors, associated with repression of FOXO-3 expression. beta-adrenoceptor signaling shifted from PKA to Akt-mediated signaling, associated with phosphorylation of FOXO-3 but not eNOS.
Four groups (groups 1-4) of female Donryu rats were given continuously 400, 200, 100, or 0 ppm solution of 1,3-dibutyl-l-nitrosourea (B-BNU) as their drinking water, and were studied for the development of tumors. The incidence of mammary tumors was 15/19 (79%), 20/24 (83%), 21/26 (81%), and 8/25 (32%) in groups 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively. In addition, hematopoietic neoplasms, uterine tumors, and vaginal tumors developed in 13, 11, and six rats, respectively in 69 treated rats. Other tumors were infrequent.
Migraineurs experience a spectrum of headaches: migraine, migrainous, and episodic tension-type as defined by the International Headache Society (IHS).
To evaluate the effectiveness of sumatriptan, 50-mg tablets, in treating the spectrum of headaches in IHS-diagnosed migraineurs.
Migraineurs with severe disability (Headache Impact Questionnaire score 250 or greater) were enrolled in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study. Patients treated up to 10 headaches with sumatriptan, 50 mg, or placebo (4:1). Headache features, recorded prior to treatment, were used to classify each headache using IHS criteria. Headache response (moderate or severe pain reduced to mild or no pain) and pain-free response were recorded at 2 and 4 hours postdose (primary endpoint). Because patients treated multiple attacks, statistical methods controlling for within-subject correlation were used.
Two hundred forty-nine migraineurs treated 1576 moderate or severe headaches: migraine (n = 1110), migrainous (n = 103), and tension-type (n = 363). Sumatriptan was superior to placebo for headache response 4 hours postdose (primary endpoint) across all headache types (migraine, 66% versus 48%; P<.001; migrainous, 71% versus 39%; P<.01; tension-type, 78% versus 50%, P<.001). Sumatriptan was also superior to placebo for pain-free response 4 hours postdose for migraine (41% versus 24%, P<.001) and tension-type headaches (56% versus 36%, P =.001). Sumatriptan provided superior pain-free response 2 hours postdose for migraine (18% versus 7%, P<.0001) and tension-type headache (28% versus 14%, P =.0005) compared with placebo.
Sumatriptan, 50-mg tablets, are effective for the full spectrum of headaches experienced by patients with disabling migraine due to a sumatriptan-responsive mechanism.
Card15/Nod2 has been suggested to be an intracellular pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMPs) recognition molecule, which contains a leucine-rich repeat region similar to the Toll-like receptors (TLRs). Card15/Nod2 gene variants play an important role in the susceptibility to Crohn's disease. In this study, we examined the kinetics of Card15/Nod2 expression in intestinal tissue during inflammation in the 2, 4, 6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-treated rat experimental colitis model. At 2 and 4 days after TNBS administration, the mononuclear cells remarkably infiltrated the mucosal layer and tunica muscularis, which was followed by a gradual decrease to resting levels at 14 days after TNBS administration. Card15/Nod2 mRNA expression increased and peaked at 4 days after the TNBS administration, followed by a gradual decrease in accordance with the amelioration of the inflammatory response. Expressions of Tlr2, Tlr4 and Myd88 were also upregulated in the inflamed colonic region, and in an in situ hybridization study, a positive signal for Card15/Nod2 was observed in the crypt of the epithelial cell layer and in the infiltrated cells of the submucosal and myenteric regions. These results suggest that in addition to the TLR recognition systems, Card15/Nod2 may contribute to the inflammatory process not only in the epithelial and submucosal layers but also in the tunica muscularis.
Acetanilide like phenylbutazone is paraoxidized by the liver endoplasmic reticulum as a primary biotransformation step. Both compounds were given at different times to each of 10 healthy volunteer subjects and the plasma disappearances measured. Correlation was shown between plasma clearance values of the two compounds (r = + 0.7067; P < 0.05).Eight patients with hypoplastic anaemia after phenylbutazone therapy were investigated. Plasma clearance values and half lives of acetanilide were measured in this group of patients and compared with those of a group of 30 healthy volunteer controls. There was a significant decrease in clearance (P < 0.01) and lengthening of half lives (P < 0.001 in the patients with phenylbutazone-associated hypoplasia. Five patients with idiopathic aplastic anaemia-that is, without history of antecedent phenylbutazone ingestion-were similarly investigated with acetanilide and there was no significant difference between the results in these patients and those in the control group.It is suggested that relatively poor paraoxidation of phenylbutazone producing high blood concentrations on a given dose may be a factor responsible for the drug-associated hypoplasia even though it does not explain the similar pattern of adverse reactions reported in association with oral administration of the metabolite oxyphenbutazone.
Allurement of herbs as health beneficial foods (physiologically functional foods) and as a source material for the development of new drugs, has led to greater furtherance in the study of herbal medicines during recent years. Plant extracts are being utilized to treat a wide variety of diseases like hepatotoxicity. Premna tomentosa is one such medicinal plant used widely in Indian ayurvedic medicine for the treatment of liver disorders. This study appraised the effectiveness of P. tomentosa leaf extract in protecting the liver against mitochondrial damage induced by acetaminophen, since mitochondrial injury has been investigated as a potential initiator of hepatotoxicity. Normal Wistar strain rats were pre-treated with P. tomentosa extract (750 mg/kg, orally) for 15 days and then intoxicated with acetaminophen (640 mg/kg, orally). Mitochondria were isolated from liver of experimental animals and assessed for the levels of lipid peroxide products, GSH and mitochondrial enzymes (isocitrate dehydrogenase, alpha-keto glutarate dehydrogenase, succinate dehydrogenase, malate dehydrogenase, NADH dehydrogenase and cytochrome-C-oxidase). The levels of Lipid peroxidation products were increased and the levels of the other assessed parameters were significantly decreased in hepatotoxicity induced animals. Whereas, the levels were brought back to normal in P. tomentosa pre-treated rats, which shows the protective effect of the extract against mitochondrial damage. Presence of anti-oxidant compound D-limonene (58%) in P. tomentosa leaves, which is known to enhance conjugation of toxic metabolites by maintaining liver GSH concentrations may explain the hepatoprotective property of the extract.
Our previous studies have shown a local decrease in glutamate and aspartate levels during seizures, induced by picrotoxin microdialysis in the hippocampus of chronic freely moving rats. In this paper, we study the effect of continuous hippocampal microperfusion of the NMDA, AMPA and kainate glutamate receptor inhibitors 5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5, 10-imine (MK-801); 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), and 1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine hydrochloride (GYKI 52466). We also examine the action of L(-)-threo-3-hydroxyaspartic acid (THA), a glutamate and aspartate reuptake blocker, on the modification of extracellular glutamate and aspartate levels induced by picrotoxin, using the microdialysis method in freely moving rats. We found that changes in extracellular hippocampal concentrations in both amino acids are prevented by NMDA, AMPA and kainate receptor inhibitors. Seizures elicited under DNQX also induce a transient increase in aspartate extracellular levels coincident with seizure time. L(-)-threo-3-hydroxyaspartic acid increased the basal extracellular concentrations of both amino acids, but did not prevent the seizure-related decrease. Our results suggest that glutamate, the major neurotransmitter at the synaptic level, may also play an important role in non-synaptic transmission during seizures.
We report on a case of a 17-year-old female with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), with a clinical history of complex partial seizure, who developed a tonicoclonic crisis after receiving hydroxychloroquine for 2 weeks at a dosage of 200 mg/day (5 mg/kg). The absence of previous similar episodes and of recurrences after withdrawal of the drug in subsequent months, the short latency after administration and the favourable short-term evolution raised suspicions for a potential role of the drug in the development of the isolated convulsive crisis. It is possible for hydroxychloroquine to be responsible for tonicoclonic seizures in predisposed subjects.
The effect of humoral modulators on the morphine-induced increase in locomotor activity of mice was studied. The subcutaneous administration of 10 mg/kg of morphine-HC1 produced a marked increase in locomotor activity in mice. The morphine-induced hyperactivity was potentiated by scopolamine and attenuated by physostigmine. In contrast, both methscopolamine and neostigmine, which do not penetrate the blood-brain barrier, had no effect on the hyperactivity produced by morphine. Pretreatment of mice with alpha-methyltyrosine (20 mg/kg i.p., one hour), an inhibitor of tyrosine hydroxylase, significantly decreased the activity-increasing effects of morphine. On the other hand, pretreatment with p-chlorophenylalamine (3 X 320 mg/kg i.p., 24 hr), a serotonin depletor, caused no significant change in the hyperactivity. The study suggests that the activity-increasing effects of morphine are mediated by the release of catecholamines from adrenergic neurons in the brain. And the results are consistent with the hypothesis that morphine acts by retarding the release of acetylcholine at some central cholinergic synapses. It is also suggested from collected evidence that the activity-increasing effects of morphine in mice are mediated by mechanisms different from those which mediate the activity-increasing effects of morphine in rats.
IL-5 was produced in vitro by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of mite-sensitive atopic patients upon challenge with specific allergen, while PBMC of healthy controls produced essentially no IL-5. Stimuli delivered by the combination of phorbol ester and Ca2+ ionophore induced marked IL-5 production by PBMC obtained from atopic and non-atopic asthmatics, suggesting that both protein kinase C and Ca2+ influx are required for IL-5 production. CD2- or CD4-bearing cell depletion almost completely removed IL-5-producing cells while CD8-bearing cell depletion rather enriched them. These findings indicate that CD4+ T cells are the principal source of IL-5 in PBMC. The capacity of PBMC of atopic asthmatics, non-atopic asthmatics and healthy controls to produce IL-2, IL-4, IL-5 and IFN-gamma was compared, to find that cytokine-producing capacities other than that of IL-5 (IL-2, IL-4 and IFN-gamma) were not significantly different among the three groups. Dexamethasone, FK506 and cyclosporin A suppressed IL-5 production in vitro in a dose-dependent manner. Clear dose-dependent suppression of IL-5 gene expression by FK506 was also observed. Treatment of asthmatic patients with inhaled glucocorticoid (beclomethasone dipropionate) ameliorated clinical symptoms, improved lung function and markedly suppressed IL-5 production by PBMC, suggesting the essential role of IL-5 in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma and the clinical importance of its regulation.
Aromatase inhibitors have not been adequately assessed in treatment of ovarian cancer. The aromatase inhibitor letrozole (2.5 mg daily) was administered in 2 cases of advanced endometrioid ovarian cancer with positive estrogen receptor. CASE 1: A 52-year-old woman with a grade 2-3, stage iiic endometrioid ovarian cancer was optimally debulked and received 6 cycles of intravenous paclitaxel and intraperitoneal cisplatin-paclitaxel. Post chemotherapy, one of several biopsies showed residual disease during the second-look laparoscopy. This patient was treated with letrozole and remained disease-free during 30 months of follow-up. CASE 2: A 47-year-old woman with a grade 3, stage iiic endometrioid ovarian cancer was optimally debulked and treated with intravenous carboplatin-paclitaxel. After a 15-month remission, her first recurrent disease was treated with carboplatin-docetaxel. The second remission lasted only 11 months, after which the patient was treated with splenectomy and subsequent liposomal doxorubicin. Letrozole was administered after the chemotherapy. The patient had a 30-month remission before the next recurrence of her disease.
Endometrioid ovarian carcinoma may benefit from aromatase inhibitors, especially when the tumour burden is low after primary chemotherapy or when the inhibitor is used as maintenance therapy between chemotherapies.
The benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms are presented here. The psychotic reactions to benzodiazepine withdrawal are seldom described in the literature. We report a case of acute manic-like reaction induced by sudden lorazepam withdrawal. The sudden release of catecholamines following abrupt cessation of short half-life benzodiazepine is suggested as underlying mechanism for such reaction.
Women are most susceptible to psychotic reactions during the postpartum period, a time of intense psychological and physiological stress. Mania and depression are particularly common at this time, especially in women with past or family histories of major or minor affective disorders, specifically cyclothymia and dysthymia. Close attention after childbirth is warranted to alleviate and prevent these episodes in such women. Sympathomimetic drugs such as bromocriptine and the over-the-counter diet aids, which are linked to the induction of manic episodes, are frequently used in the puerperal period and may act as catalysts. This case report documents a postpartum manic episode in a cyclothymic woman who was prescribed bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, for prevention of lactation.
The transition element molybdenum is of essential importance for (nearly) all biological systems. It needs to be complexed by a special cofactor in order to gain catalytic activity. With the exception of bacterial Mo-nitrogenase, where Mo is a constituent of the FeMo-cofactor, Mo is bound to a pterin, thus forming the molybdenum cofactor Moco, which in different versions is the active compound at the catalytic site of all other Mo-containing enzymes. In eukaryotes, the most prominent Mo enzymes are nitrate reductase, sulfite oxidase, xanthine dehydrogenase, aldehyde oxidase, and the mitochondrial amidoxime reductase. The biosynthesis of Moco involves the complex interaction of six proteins and is a process of four steps, which also requires iron, ATP, and copper. After its synthesis, Moco is distributed to the apoproteins of Mo enzymes by Moco-carrier/binding proteins. A deficiency in the biosynthesis of Moco has lethal consequences for the respective organisms. In humans, Moco deficiency is a severe inherited inborn error in metabolism resulting in severe neurodegeneration in newborns and causing early childhood death. Eubacteria possess different versions of the pteridin cofactor as reflected by a large number of enzymes such as nitrate reductase, formate dehydrogenase, and dimethyl sulfoxide reductase, while in archaea a tungsten atom replaced molybdenum as catalytic metal in the active center.
This investigation examined the effects of perinatal cadmium exposure on subsequent self-administration of cocaine during the adult cycle. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were gavaged daily with 0.0 (14% sucrose solution, w/v) or 5.0 mg cadmium chloride (dissolved in 14% sucrose solution, w/v) for 30 days prior to breeding with non-exposed males. Dams continued to experience cadmium exposure through gestation and until pups were weaned at postnatal day (PND) 21. On PND 70, offspring were anesthetized and chronic indwelling jugular catheters were implanted. Following recovery, test subjects were trained in operant chambers to self-administer 0.500 mg/kg infusion (inf) intravenous cocaine on a fixed-ratio (FR) 2 schedule of reinforcement. Following acquisition, self-administration rates were tested for saline, 0.030, 0.060, 0.125, 0.250, and 0.500 mg/kg inf cocaine. Rats exposed developmentally to cadmium self-administered significantly less than controls at saline, 0.030, and 0.060 mg/kg inf cocaine. These data indicate that early-life cadmium exposure, a common exposure vector of which is the use of tobacco products, may affect cocaine sensitivity.
Increases in serum prolactin concentrations after administration of risperidone have been attributed, by some, to the availability of paliperidone in plasma. This double-blind, randomized, parallel-group study in patients with schizophrenia compared serum prolactin concentrations following the administration of paliperidone extended-release and risperidone immediate-release tablets. At steady state, the doses administered resulted in a similar exposure to paliperidone and the pharmacologically active fraction of risperidone (i.e. risperidone + paliperidone), respectively. Eligible patients were randomized to either paliperidone extended-release 12 mg on days 1-6 or risperidone immediate-release 2 mg on day 1 and 4 mg on days 2-6. Mean serum prolactin concentrations increased on day 1 (C(max): 71.8 ng/ml and 89.7 ng/ml reached at 6.5 hours and 2.6 hours for paliperidone extended-release and risperidone immediate-release, respectively). On day 6, serum prolactin concentration-time profiles were similar for both treatments, with overall higher serum prolactin concentrations than on day 1 (AUC(0-24 h): 1389 and 842 ng h/ml, and 1306 and 741 ng.h/ml on day 6 and day 1 for paliperidone extended-release and risperidone immediate-release, respectively). These results indicate that paliperidone extended-release 12 mg and risperidone immediate-release 4 mg, administered over a period of 6 days, lead to similar elevations in serum prolactin concentrations.
The study, undertaken with the aim of further investigating the effects of methylmercury (MeHg) exposure on the developing brain, was performed in the cerebellum of chick embryos, chronically treated with a MeHgCl solution dropped onto the chorioallantoic membrane, and in control embryo cerebella. Quantitative evaluations, performed by cold vapour atomic absorption spectrophotometry, demonstrated a high mercury content in the chorioallantoic membrane, encephalon, liver and kidney of the treated embryos. The morphological observations showed severe neuronal damage consisting of degenerative changes of the granules and Purkinje neurons. The effects on astrocytes were even more severe, since they were extremely rare both in the neuropil and around the vessel wall. Compared with the controls, the cerebellar vessels of MeHg-treated embryos showed immature morphology, poor differentiation of endothelial barrier devices, and high permeability to the exogenous protein horseradish peroxidase. These findings support the hypothesis that MeHg-related neuronal sufferance may be secondary to astrocytic damage and suggest that the developmental neurotoxicity of this compound could also be related to astrocyte loss-dependent impairment of blood-brain barrier (BBB) differentiation.
Vascular-related diseases, including Blackfoot Disease and atherosclerosis, are prominent clinical findings among populations residing in arseniasis areas. While oxidative stress provided a general but nonspecific mechanistic base for arsenic-induced endothelial cell damage in vitro, more specific mechanism is needed to explain the highly targeted vascular lesions induced by arsenic in vivo. Based on our previous studies, we hypothesized that arsenic exerted its action on blood vessels via the neurogenic inflammation process involving release of a neuropeptide (substance P) and activation of endothelial Neurokinin 1 (NK-1) receptor in vivo. Indeed, our present study demonstrated a significantly higher substance P levels in arsenic-treated tissues when compared to saline-treated controls indicating a rapid release of substance P under the influence of arsenic. Furthermore, the arsenic-induced vascular leakage could be significantly reduced when the neurogenic inflammation process was interrupted (via either disruption on the release of substance P, interference on the action of substance P, or blockage of endothelial NK-1 receptor) showing that the neurogenic inflammation process was indeed involved. Histamine release was not found to play a significant role in arsenic-induced vascular permeability change. Our present study affirmed a de novo concept that a pathophysiological mechanism involving the neurogenic release of substance P and activation of endothelial NK-1 receptor underlies the arsenic-induced vascular injury and dysfunction in vivo. This pathophysiological process constituted a two-tiered biological interaction between the nervous system and vascular system and therefore was not readily unveiled by traditional in vitro studies in the past. Our present finding unveiled an important de novo concept on arsenic vascular toxicity in vivo.
It has been demonstrated previously that orally administered lorazepam can cause anterograde amnesia in young adults. In this study, the effects of 7.5 and 15 mg clorazepate and 1 and 2 mg lorazepam on recall were compared in 74 healthy adults. Word list presentation tests were administered to subjects at selected intervals to measure immediate and delayed recall. Statistically significant memory impairment was found with 2 mg lorazepam during both immediate and delayed recall testing. Clorazepate produced no statistically significant amnestic effects. The data suggest that benzodiazepines differ in their potential for causing memory impairment.
To report a case of Carbamazepine toxicity following the administration of Oxybutynin and Dantrolene.
A case report.
The Spinal Rehabilitation Department, Loewenstein Hospital, Raanana, Israel.
A patient with C6D tetraplegia who sustained intoxication because of drug interaction is presented. She had been treated by Carbamazepine 1000 mg/day for neuropathic pain for 2 years without clinical or laboratory signs of toxicity. After administration of Oxybutynin concomitantly with an increase in the dose of Dantrolene, she presented the clinical symptoms and laboratory finding of Carbamazepine intoxication. Trying to adjust the treatment to the patient's requirements, Carbamazepine together with Oxybutynin and Dantrolene was readministrated in lower doses.
The combination of these drugs, even small doses, caused toxicity. Adding Dantrolene and Oxybutynin elevated the blood level of Carbamazepine, possibly by inhibition of cytochrome P450.
A possible pharmacokinetic interaction between Dantrolene and Oxybutynin should be borne in mind when considering Carbamazepine medication for a patient with a spinal cord lesion.
To examine the effects of carvedilol on myocardial ischemia and reperfusion injury and on gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC).
The left coronary artery was occluded for 30 min and reperfused for 4 h. The activity of creatine phosphokinase (CK), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and the infarct size were measured. Isolated buffer-perfused hearts were divided randomly into four groups, sham operation (SO), myocardial ischemia and reperfusion (IR), carvedilol (CV) and heptanol (a gap junctional inhibitor) (HT). The effect of carvedilol on GJIC was measured by a modification of Scrape-loading and dye transfer method, and the state of CX43 phosphorylation was evaluated by Western blot.
Compared with the SO group, Increased CK, LDH and infarct size were found in the IR group after 4 h reperfusion. GJIC in the IR group was not inhibited, but dephosphorylated CX43 was increased after 30 minutes of ischemia. Carvedilol decreased CK, LDH and infarct size compared with the IR rats; after 30 minutes of ischemia, both carvedilol and heptanol significantly reduced the GJIC, associated with a significant augmentation of dephosphorylated CX43.
These results suggest that carvedilol reduces GJIC during ischemia presumably by dephosphorylating Cx43, which may be one of the mechanisms of lessening myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury.
Meningococcal disease is an infection caused by Neisseria meningitidis. Genetic factors contribute to host susceptibility and progression to disease, but the genes responsible for disease development are largely unknown. We report here a genome-wide association study for host susceptibility to meningococcal disease using 475 individuals with meningococcal disease (cases) and 4,703 population controls from the UK. We performed, in Western European and South European cohorts (consisting of 968 cases and 1,376 controls), two replication studies for the most significant SNPs. A cluster of complement factor SNPs replicated independently in both cohorts, including SNPs within complement factor H (CFH) (rs1065489 (p.936D<E), P = 2.2 x 10(-11)) and in CFH-related protein 3 (CFHR3)(rs426736, P = 4.6 x 10(-13)). N. meningitidis is known to evade complement-mediated killing by the binding of host CFH to the meningococcal factor H-binding protein (fHbp). Our study suggests that host genetic variation in these regulators of complement activation plays a role in determining the occurrence of invasive disease versus asymptomatic colonization by this pathogen.
CBL encodes a member of the Cbl family of proteins, which functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase. We describe a dominant developmental disorder resulting from germline missense CBL mutations, which is characterized by impaired growth, developmental delay, cryptorchidism and a predisposition to juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). Some individuals experienced spontaneous regression of their JMML but developed vasculitis later in life. Importantly, JMML specimens from affected children show loss of the normal CBL allele through acquired isodisomy. Consistent with these genetic data, the common p.371Y>H altered Cbl protein induces cytokine-independent growth and constitutive phosphorylation of ERK, AKT and S6 only in hematopoietic cells in which normal Cbl expression is reduced by RNA interference. We conclude that germline CBL mutations have developmental, tumorigenic and functional consequences that resemble disorders that are caused by hyperactive Ras/Raf/MEK/ERK signaling and include neurofibromatosis type 1, Noonan syndrome, Costello syndrome, cardiofaciocutaneous syndrome and Legius syndrome.
