HIV-associated dyslipemic lipodystrophy (HADL) is a heterogeneous syndrome of fat redistribution, hypertriglyceridemia, and insulin resistance, associated with markedly accelerated rates of lipolysis, intraadipocyte and intrahepatic reesterification, and very low-density lipoprotein-triglyceride synthesis and release. The objective of the study was to determine if rosiglitazone can ameliorate these lipid kinetic defects in patients with HADL. Infusions of [(13)C(1)]palmitate and [(2)H(5)]glycerol were used to measure total and net lipolysis, adipocyte and hepatic reesterification, and plasma free fatty acid (FFA) oxidation in 9 men with HADL, before and after 3 months of treatment with rosiglitazone (8 mg/d). Rosiglitazone treatment significantly increased both total lipolysis (R(a) FFA(total) from 3.37 ± 0.40 to 4.57 ± 0.68 mmol FFA per kilogram fat per hour, P < .05) and adipocyte reesterification (1.25 ± 0.35 to 2.43 ± 0.65 mmol FFA per kilogram fat per hour, P < .05). However, there was no change in net lipolysis (R(a) FFA(net) 2.47 ± 0.43 to 2.42 ± 0.37 mmol FFA per kilogram fat per hour), plasma FFA oxidation (0.30 ± 0.046 to 0.32 ± 0.04 mmol FFA per kilogram lean body mass per hour), or FFA flux available for hepatic reesterification (0.59 ± 0.07 to 0.56 ± 0.10 mmol FFA per kilogram fat per hour). There were significant decreases in fasting plasma insulin concentrations and insulin resistance, but not in fasting plasma lipid or glucose concentrations. There was a significant decrease in waist to hip ratio (0.98 ± 0.02 to 0.95 ± 0.02, P < .05) consistent with a significant increase in hip circumference (0.93 ± 0.02 to 0.95 ± 0.02 m, P < .05), without change in waist circumference. Rosiglitazone significantly increased adipocyte reesterification and improved insulin sensitivity, but the potential benefit of these changes was compromised by increase in total lipolysis. Combining rosiglitazone with agents designed to blunt lipolysis could expand depleted peripheral adipose depots in patients with HIV lipodystrophy.
A 31-year-old white man was referred for investigation of a persistent sinus tachycardia. His only significant past medical history was of chronic schizophrenia for which he had been taking clozapine for six years. An electrocardiogram demonstrated sinus tachycardia, voltage criteria for left ventricular hypertrophy, and a prolonged QTc. Echocardiographic findings were consistent with a dilated cardiomyopathy. Serious cardiac complications of clozapine use are rare but have been reported previously. It is important to note that sinus tachycardia may be the only obvious clinical sign, and that complications can manifest months or even years (as in this case) after starting the drug. Patients on clozapine should be informed of potential cardiac symptoms and doctors should maintain a high degree of clinical suspicion throughout the duration of treatment.
Although the effects of acute pesticide poisoning are well known but, hardly any data exists regarding the health effects after long-term low-level exposure. Major unresolved issues include the effect of moderate exposure in the absence of poisoning. The present study elucidates a possible mechanism by which chronic organophosphate exposure (dichlorvos 6 mg/kg b.wt., s.c. for 12 weeks) causes liver dysfunction. Mitochondria, a primary site of cellular energy generation and oxygen consumption represent a likely target for organophosphate poisoning. Therefore, the objective of the current study was planned with an aim to investigate the effect of chronic dichlorvos exposure on liver mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), mitochondrial calcium uptake and its implications on the induction of liver enzymes and liver dysfunction in rodent model. Our results indicated decreased mitochondrial electron transfer activities of cytochrome oxidase along with altered mitochondrial complexes I and II activity. This decrease in the activities of electron transport complexes in turn affected the ATP synthesis and ATP levels adversely in the mitochondria isolated from dichlorvos (DDVP) treated rat liver. Mitochondrial preparation from DDVP treated rat liver demonstrated significant increase in mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake and increase ROS levels. The alterations in the mitochondrial calcium uptake, mitochondrial electron transfer enzyme activities and increase ROS levels in turn might have caused an increase in liver enzymes (ALT, AST and ALP). The electron micrographs of liver cells depicted morphological changes in mitochondria as well as nucleus following 12 weeks of exposure to DDVP. These studies provide an evidence of impaired mitochondrial bioenergetics which may lead to liver dysfunction after chronic exposure to dichlorvos.
Doxorubicin (Adriamycin) is a potent and broad-spectrum antineoplastic agent, the clinical utility of which is restricted by a cumulative and progressive cardiomyopathy that develops with repeated dosing. Fundamental to the cardiac failure is an interference with mitochondrial respiration and inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation. Global gene expression arrays in cardiac tissue indicate that inhibition of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation by doxorubicin (DOX) is accompanied by a decreased expression of genes related to aerobic fatty acid oxidation and a corresponding increase in expression of genes involved in anaerobic glycolysis, possibly as an alternate source for ATP production. The aim of this investigation was to determine whether this is also manifest at the metabonomic level as a switch in metabolic flux in cardiac tissue, and whether this can be averted by co-administering the cardioprotective drug, dexrazoxane (DZR). (13)C-isotopomer analysis of isolated perfused hearts from male Sprague-Dawley rats receiving 6 weekly s.c. injections of 2mg/kg DOX demonstrated a shift from the preferential oxidation of fatty acids to enhanced oxidation of glucose and lactate plus pyruvate, indicative of a compensatory shift towards increased pyruvate dehydrogenase activity. Substrate-selective isotopomer analysis combined with western blots indicate an inhibition of long-chain fatty acid oxidation and not MCAD activity or fatty acyl-carnitine transport. Co-administering DZR averted many treatment-related changes in cardiac substrate metabolism, consistent with DZR being an effective cardioprotective agent against DOX-induced cardiomyopathy. This switch in substrate metabolism resembles that described for other models of cardiac failure; accordingly, this change in metabolic flux may represent a general compensatory response of cardiac tissue to imbalances in bioenergetic demand and supply, and not a characteristic unique to DOX-induced cardiac failure itself.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the cytokine network is central to the immunopathology of bronchial asthma and the existence of naturally occurring cytokine antagonists has added to this complexity. Upregulation of both interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) and its naturally occurring receptor antagonist, interleukin 1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra), has previously been observed on asthmatic bronchial epithelium compared with normal airways.
The effect of inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) on asthmatic bronchial epithelial expression of IL-1 beta and IL-1ra was studied. Frozen bronchial biopsy specimens from nine asthmatic subjects receiving 1000 micrograms BDP daily for eight weeks and from six asthmatic subjects receiving matching placebo were stained with anti-IL-1 beta and anti-IL-1ra antibodies. Hue-saturation-intensity (HSI) colour image analysis was used to quantify the brown immunoperoxidase reaction colour present on the bronchial epithelium.
There was a significant twofold decrease in the epithelial expression of IL-1 beta after treatment with BDP but no significant change was seen in IL-1ra (P = 0.175).
The selective inhibition of IL-1 beta, without effect on IL-1ra, provides a novel mechanism for the anti-inflammatory action of glucocorticosteroids.
Transient receptor potential, melastatin-like 7 (Trpm7) is a combined ion channel and kinase implicated in the differentiation or function of many cell types. Early lethality in mice and frogs depleted of the corresponding gene impedes investigation of the functions of this protein particularly during later stages of development. By contrast, zebrafish trpm7 mutant larvae undergo early morphogenesis normally and thus do not have this limitation. The mutant larvae are characterized by multiple defects including melanocyte cell death, transient paralysis, and an ion imbalance that leads to the development of kidney stones. Here we report a requirement for Trpm7 in differentiation or function of dopaminergic neurons in vivo. First, trpm7 mutant larvae are hypomotile and fail to make a dopamine-dependent developmental transition in swim-bout length. Both of these deficits are partially rescued by the application of levodopa or dopamine. Second, histological analysis reveals that in trpm7 mutants a significant fraction of dopaminergic neurons lack expression of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis. Third, trpm7 mutants are unusually sensitive to the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium, an oxidative stressor, and their motility is partially rescued by application of the iron chelator deferoxamine, an anti-oxidant. Finally, in SH-SY5Y cells, which model aspects of human dopaminergic neurons, forced expression of a channel-dead variant of TRPM7 causes cell death. In summary, a forward genetic screen in zebrafish has revealed that both melanocytes and dopaminergic neurons depend on the ion channel Trpm7. The mechanistic underpinning of this dependence requires further investigation.
The effect of cyclosporine and steroids on early renal allograft function and eventual graft outcome was analyzed in 100 recipients; 33 recipients of living related donor (LRD) and 67 recipients of cadaveric donor (CAD) allografts were studied. A concurrent population of 47 CAD recipients treated with azathioprine and steroids was used for comparison. Recipients received oral cyclosporine (14 mg/kg) 48 hours (LRD) or 6-12 hours (CAD) pretransplant. No cases of acute tubular necrosis (ATN) were observed in the LRD recipients. The incidence of posttransplant ATN was similar in the cyclosporine-treated (41%) and in the azathioprine-treated (45%) CAD recipients (P = ns). Cyclosporine-treated CAD kidneys preserved less than 24 hr experienced a lower rate of ATN (P less than .01) using simple cold storage (31%), as compared with hypothermic pulsatile perfusion (57%). One-month creatinine nadirs were higher in cyclosporine-treated than in azathioprine-treated recipients, using median values for each group. One-year actuarial patient survival for cyclosporine-treated LRD recipients was 97%; CAD recipients, 94%, and azathioprine-treated CAD recipients, 91%. Graft survival rates in the same groups were 91%, 76%, and 55%, respectively. The major causes of graft loss in cyclosporine-treated patients were nonimmunologic. It is concluded that cyclosporine and prednisone are a safe, efficacious combination for LRD and CAD renal transplantation. The possibility of nephrotoxicity leading to impaired graft function in the early posttransplant period should not preclude the administration of cyclosporine prior to alloantigen presentation.
We investigated in rats whether alterations in noradrenergic function caused by 6-hydroxydopamine or alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists and antagonists would modify the susceptibility of the brain to electroencephalographic seizures induced by intrahippocampal infusion of quinolinic acid. 6-Hydroxydopamine depletion of norepinephrine facilitated the expression of seizures while alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation by clonidine had either proconvulsant (0.1 mg/kg) or anticonvulsant (from 0.5 to 2 mg/kg) effects. Clonidine's anticonvulsant activity (0.5 mg/kg) was mimicked by methoxamine given intrahippocampally (10 micrograms), and antagonized by prazosin (1 mg/kg), whereas both yohimbine (5 and 10 mg/kg) and piperoxane (5 mg/kg) had no significant effect. Seizure facilitation induced by clonidine (0.1 mg/kg) was blocked by yohimbine (10 mg/kg). Systemic (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) or intrahippocampal (10 and 20 micrograms) isoproterenol and propranolol (10 mg/kg) had no effect. Spiking activity and neurotoxicity induced by quinolinic acid were unaltered by treatments which protected against convulsions. Modulation of quinolinic acid-convulsive activity by alpha-adrenoceptor subtypes appears to be selective and complex, since alpha 1-type activation reduces seizures while alpha 2-type stimulation has proconvulsant effects.
Doxorubicin (dox) is an effective chemotherapeutic agent that leads to cardiotoxicity. An alternative treatment for dox-cardiotoxicity is autologous mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) transplantation. It remains unclear if dox has deleterious effects on MSCs from subjects under chemotherapy, therefore this study aimed to evaluate dox in vivo toxicological effects on ex vivo cultured MSCs, inferring whether autologous transplantation may be an alternative treatment in patients who are exposed to the drug. Wistar rats received either dox or saline. Following treatments, animals were sacrificed and bone marrow MSCs were isolated, characterized for cell surface markers and assessed according to their viability, alkaline phosphatase production, and proliferation kinetics. Moreover, MSCs were primed to cardiac differentiation and troponin T and connexin 43 expressions were evaluated. Compared to control, undifferentiated MSCs from dox group kept the pattern for surface marker and had similar viability results. In contrast, they showed lower alkaline phosphatase production, proliferation rate, and connexin 43 expression. Primed MSCs from dox group showed lower troponin T levels. It was demonstrated a toxic effect of dox in host MSCs. This result renders the possibility of autologous MSCs transplantation to treat dox-cardiotoxicity, which could be a non-suitable option for subjects receiving such antineoplastic agent.
1. The mouse is the animal of choice for studies involving genetic manipulation and transgenic and knockout mice are valuable tools for physiological studies. We have studied adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH)- and steroid-induced hypertension in both rat and humans. The aim of the present study was to develop a model of ACTH-induced hypertension in the mouse and to assess a chronically implanted telemetric device for measurement of blood pressure (BP). 2. Male Swiss Outbred and Quackenbush Swiss (QS) mice (35-45 g) were implanted with TA11PA-C20 BP devices (Data Sciences International, St Paul, MN, USA) under isoflurane anaesthesia. Seven to 10 days later, mice were monitored telemetrically for baseline BP for 4 days. Mice were then randomly allocated to: (i) sham treatment with normal saline s.c.; or (ii) ACTH at 500 microg/kg per day, s.c. Mice were monitored 24 h/day for 10 days. 3. Sham treatment (n = 7) did not affect BP (114 +/- 2/84 +/- 1 to 115 +/- 2/84 +/- 1 mmHg; P = NS). Adrenocorticotrophin treatment (n = 5) raised BP from 112 +/- 7/82 +/- 4 to 138 +/- 3/104 +/- 4 mmHg, which was significantly different from sham treatment (P = 0.0021 for systolic BP; P < 0.0001 diastolic BP). The increase in BP with ACTH was comparable with that seen in previous studies in humans, sheep and rat. Sham and ACTH-treated animals each lost 3% bodyweight. 4. Administration of ACTH (500 microg/kg per day) raises BP in two strains of mice, measured using a telemetry system. This model will allow the selective use of transgenic and/or knockout mice to further elucidate the mechanism of ACTH- and steroid-induced hypertension.
Two cases of autoimmune hemolytic anemia that occurred during the treatment of chronic hepatitis C with pegylated alpha-2a interferon and ribavirin, in HIV coinfected patients, are presented and described. The late occurrence (after six months of therapy) of this severe hemolytic anemia leads to the recommendation that hemoglobin levels should be monitored throughout the treatment period, even among patients who presented stable hemoglobin levels in the preceding months.
Two patients with prolonged postictal encephalopathy lasting 63 and 72 hours, respectively, following seizures with clozapine are reported. Clozapine alters the EEG in a majority of patients treated, with seizure frequency as high as 5-10% in doses above 600 mg/d. Prolonged postictal encephalopathy following a clozapine-induced seizure has not been previously reported but may be an important side effect of this medication. Pharmacologic and clinical issues are discussed.
Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may aggravate pre-existing seizures and trigger new seizure types. However, the extent and mechanisms of this problem are unclear, for several reasons. AED trials are not designed to detect worsening of seizures, severe childhood epilepsies may fluctuate in severity, and worsening of seizures may be over-hastily ascribed to the introduction of a new AED. Moreover, the seizure and the epilepsy type may have been incorrectly diagnosed. The problem is identification of true aggravation of epilepsy in the absence of overdosage or toxicity. This is a common and clinically important problem that concerns both established and newer AEDs, but the biologic mechanisms involved are unknown. An increase in seizure frequency due to overdosage has been reported with phenytoin but is rare with other AEDs. Paradoxical reaction has been reported with carbamazepine (CBZ), benzodiazepines, and vigabatrin (VGB). Exacerbation of seizures may also occur during AED-induced encephalopathy or hepatopathy. An inappropriate choice of the AED (i.e., a purely pharmacodynamic mechanism) can induce worsening when CBZ or VGB is used in absence and myoclonic seizures. Further research should determine whether seizure exacerbation is associated with the type of epilepsy or with the type of EEG abnormality. Recent evidence indicates that lamotrigine is inappropriate in severe myoclonic epilepsy. Some childhood epileptic encephalopathies have been affected by certain seizure-worsening mechanisms. Whether this is due to a predisposition in specific syndromes or to an increased risk for adverse effects in patients undergoing multiple AED manipulations is unclear. Furthermore, some syndromes are not the sum of accompanying seizure types but have unique neurobiology.
The combination of calcium channel blockers and beta blockers is more effective for the treatment of exercise-induced angina pectoris than beta blocker monotherapy. Since ischemia in exercise-induced angina is essentially preceded by an increase in heart rate, calcium channel blockers with negative chronotropic property may perform better for this purpose than nonchronotropic compounds. A 335-patient, 10-week, double-blind, parallel-group comparison of amlodipine 5 and 10 mg, diltiazem XR 200 and 300 mg, and mibefradil 50 and 100 mg treatment added to baseline beta blocker treatment was performed. Exercise testing (ETT) was performed by bicycle ergometry. Although none of the calcium channel blockers improved duration of exercise or amount of workload, all of them significantly delayed onset of 1 mm ST segment depression on ETT (p<0.001 for any treatment versus baseline). In addition, mibefradil, both low- and high-dose treatment, produced the largest delays (low dose: different from diltiazem and amlodipine by 24.1 and 29.8 s, p<0.003 and <0.001, respectively; high dose: different from diltiazem and amlodipine by 33.7 and 37.0 s, p<0.001 and <0.001, respectively). These effects were linearly correlated to the amount of rate pressure product (RPP) reduction. Serious symptoms of dizziness likewise occurred significantly more frequently with mibefradil (p<0.05) and led 19 patients taking mibefradil to withdraw from the trial. The authors conclude that calcium channel blockers with negative chronotropic property provide better delay of ischemia in patients with exercise-induced angina but that the concomitant risk of intolerable dizziness largely reduces this benefit.
Colchicine, a long established anti-inflammatory agent now used in several rheumatologic conditions, acts by inhibiting microtubular polymerization, as it binds equimolarly to tubulin molecules. Cytoskeletal microtubules are crucial in processes of cell viability, such as mitosis and intracellular vesicle motility.Gastrointestinal side effects are quite common and often minor in nature or duration, whereas neuromuscular toxicity is rare. We report 2 cases of colchicine myopathy in the context of very different clinical settings.
Liver cirrhosis is an inveterate disease accompanying fibrosis, hepatocyte damage, and liver dysfunction. In this study, the therapeutic effects of recombinant human hepatocyte growth factor (rhHGF) on liver cirrhosis were examined in rats administered thioacetamide (TAA). Repeated administration of TAA for 10 weeks to rats induced liver cirrhosis with collagen nodes and pseudo-lobe generation, a condition that was pathologically similar to that in humans. Administration of rhHGF after the formation of liver cirrhosis markedly decreased the incidence of pathological fibrosis and the degree of fibrosis as measured by a computed image analysis system. Continuous administration of rhHGF by infusion pump was more effective than bolus administration. Northern blotting analysis showed that rhHGF reduced mRNA levels of procollagen alpha2(I), alpha1(IV), and transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) that were stimulated in the TAA-treated liver. The labeling index of hepatocytes increased following administration of rhHGF in this model. These observations suggest that the pathological recession of liver fibrosis is the result of the reduction of TGF-beta1 and collagen synthesis and, in part, of the stimulation of mitosis of hepatocytes directly by rhHGF and indirectly by TGF-beta1 reduction in the cirrhotic liver. These results demonstrate the usefulness of rhHGF as a therapeutic agent in liver cirrhosis.
The aim of this study was to determine the relation between plasma fluphenazine levels and clinical response in first-episode schizophrenic patients.
Data from 36 first-episode schizophrenic or schizoaffective inpatients diagnosed according to the Research Diagnostic Criteria were evaluated. The patients received open, standardized treatment with fluphenazine, 20 mg/day, for at least 4 weeks. Psychopathology was assessed biweekly, and plasma fluphenazine levels were ascertained weekly. Patients were classified as responders or nonresponders, and correlations between their neuroleptic levels and ratings of psychopathologic and extrapyramidal symptoms were computed.
Plasma fluphenazine levels for weeks 1 through 4 were significantly correlated with each other but were not correlated with age, gender, diagnosis, or race. Mean neuroleptic levels (weeks 3 and 4) were not different between responders and nonresponders and were not correlated with measures of psychopathology or extrapyramidal symptoms.
These results do not indicate an association between plasma fluphenazine levels and response to treatment or extrapyramidal side effects in first-episode schizophrenia. The disparity between the results of this study and those of previous studies may be due to methodological differences or to a biologically based difference between first-episode and chronic patients.
Epidemiology studies indicate that exposure to endocrine disruptors during developmental "window" contributes to adipogenesis and the development of obesity. Implication of endocrine disruptor such as diethylstilbestrol (DES) on adipose tissue development has been poorly investigated. Here we evaluated the effects of DES on adipocyte differentiation in vitro and in vivo, and explored potential mechanism involved in its action. DES induced 3T3-L1 preadipocyte differentiation in a dose-dependent manner, and activated the expression of estrogen receptor (ER) and peroxisome proliferator-acivated receptor (PPAR) γ as well as its target genes required for adipogenesis in vitro. ER mediated the enhancement of DES-induced PPARγ activity. Moreover, DES perturbed key regulators of adipogenesis and lipogenic pathway in vivo. In utero exposure to low dose of DES significantly increased body weight, liver weight and fat mass in female offspring at postnatal day (PND) 60. In addition, serum triglyceride and glucose levels were also significantly elevated. These results suggest that perinatal exposure to DES may be expected to increase the incidence of obesity in a sex-dependent manner and can act as a potential chemical stressor for obesity and obesity-related disorders.
Axonal degeneration is a central process in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that are involved in axonal degeneration is crucial to developing new therapies against diseases involving neuronal damage. Resveratrol is a putative SIRT1 activator that has been shown to delay neurodegenerative diseases, including Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, Alzheimer, and Huntington's disease. However, the effect of resveratrol on axonal degeneration is still controversial. Using an in vitro model of Wallerian degeneration based on cultures of explants of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), we showed that resveratrol produces a delay in axonal degeneration. Furthermore, the effect of resveratrol on Wallerian degeneration was lost when SIRT1 was pharmacologically inhibited. Interestingly, we found that knocking out Deleted in Breast Cancer-1 (DBC1), an endogenous SIRT1 inhibitor, restores the neuroprotective effect of resveratrol. However, resveratrol did not have an additive protective effect in DBC1 knockout-derived DRGs, suggesting that resveratrol and DBC1 are working through the same signaling pathway. We found biochemical evidence suggesting that resveratrol protects against Wallerian degeneration by promoting the dissociation of SIRT1 and DBC1 in cultured ganglia. Finally, we demonstrated that resveratrol can delay degeneration of crushed nerves in vivo. We propose that resveratrol protects against Wallerian degeneration by activating SIRT1 through dissociation from its inhibitor DBC1.
Attempting to develop a new active, convenient regimen, we initiated a phase I study of paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers squibb Company, Princeton, NJ) combined with epirubicin (Farmitalia Carlo Erba, Milan, Italy) in patients with metastatic breast cancer. In addition to standard eligibility criteria, patients with chemotherapy-naive metastasis and at least one measurable lesion had to have left ventricular ejection fractions of at least 50%; the metastatic relapse had to have occurred more than 6 months after adjuvant treatment. Anthracycline-pretreated patients could not have received cumulative doses of more than 300 mg/m2 doxorubicin, 450 mg/m2 epirubicin, or 70 mg/m2 mitoxantrone. An intravenous bolus dose of epirubicin was followed by a 3-hour paclitaxel infusion, with courses repeated every 3 weeks. To date, seven dose levels have been investigated and 31 patients have been treated, 19 of whom had already received anthracyclines. Grades 3 and 4 neutropenia occurred in 37% and 19% of 123 courses, respectively, with five episodes of febrile neutropenia. Grade 2 or 3 neurotoxicity has been observed in 42% of patients and cardiac toxicity in four patients (13%), all of whom had already received anthracyclines. One patient experienced transient myocardial ischemia, one had an asymptomatic decrease in ejection fraction, and two patients had clinical heart failure that required treatment. Dose-limiting toxicity was reached at dose level 5 (paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 plus epirubicin 60 mg/m2), with two of three patients experiencing febrile neutropenia. Reducing the epirubicin dose to 50 mg/m2, however, allowed the paclitaxel dose to be escalated to 250 mg/m2. At this dose level, only one of six patients experienced febrile neutropenia. At a preliminary response evaluation (dose levels 1 to 6), 11 patients (44%) had partial responses, 12 patients (48%) had stable disease, and disease progressed in two patients. We conclude that the combination paclitaxel/epirubicin is safe for patients with metastatic breast cancer and, at this early evaluation, shows promising antitumor activity. Additional patients will be treated at dose level 5 to confirm whether dose-limiting toxicity occurs at this step. Indeed, we took into consideration that dose-limiting toxicity observed at this particular dose level in two of three patients might be due to hazard, since paclitaxel dose escalation up to 250 mg/m2 was further possible in association with 50 mg/m2 epirubicin.
A 39-year-old patient was admitted to the emergency department for acute abdominal pain. Physical examination showed a peritoneal syndrome. However, CT-scan, Doppler and blood analysis were unremarkable. As the patient had a history of auto-medication with benzodiazepines at high doses, a withdrawal syndrome was considered. An intravenous administration of 3 mg of midazolam determined the relief of all symptoms in a few minutes.
To assess whether preeclampsia risk is elevated in pregnancies of diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed daughters.
This study used data from the National Cancer Institute DES Combined Cohorts Follow-up Study. A total of 285 preeclampsia cases (210 exposed and 75 unexposed) occurred in 7,313 live births (4,759 DES exposed and 2,554 unexposed). Poisson regression analysis estimated relative risks and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for preeclampsia adjusted for age at the index pregnancy, parity, education, smoking, body mass index, year of diagnosis, and cohort.
In utero DES exposure was associated with nearly a 50% elevation in preeclampsia risk. Adjustment for preeclampsia risk factors attenuated the relative risk slightly (1.42, 95% CI 1.04-1.94). The excess risk with DES was concentrated among women who developed preeclampsia in their first pregnancies (relative risk 1.81, 95% CI 1.17-2.79), who were exposed before 15 weeks of gestation (relative risk 1.57, 95% CI 1.11-2.23), and who were treated with magnesium sulfate (relative risk 2.10, 95% CI 0.82-5.42). Among DES-exposed women who had a prior hysterosalpingogram, preeclampsia prevalence was higher in those with uterine abnormalities (12.4%) than in those without (7.7%).
These data suggest that in utero exposure to DES is associated with a slightly elevated risk of preeclampsia, and that one possible biological mechanism involves uterine abnormalities.
The diuretic drug hydrochlorothiazide was administered to 24 male and 24 female F344 rats as a mixture of 0.1% in powdered food. A parallel group of the same size was given 0.1% hydrochlorothiazide plus 0.2% sodium nitrite in the food. A third group received 0.2% sodium nitrite in the food and there was a similar group of untreated controls. The treatments were well tolerated and there was no significant life shortening. A majority of the rats given hydrochlorothiazide, with or without nitrite, developed chronic progressive nephropathy, which was more severe in males than in females. Associated with this were diffuse parathyroid hyperplasia in both groups receiving the drug, also more severe in males than in females, and parallel increases in lesions of the blood vessels (mural thrombosis of the heart and polyarteritis). The few adenomas of the parathyroid and tubular cell adenomas of the kidney in rats ingesting hydrochlorothiazide were not statistically significant.
A 76-year-old woman was admitted to the ICU for a meningitis with rhombencephalitis due to Listeria monocytogenes. The treatment included amoxicillin (250 mg.kg-1.day-1) and gentamicin (3 mg.kg-1.day-1 over 6 days). Neurological outcome was favourable. However at the 14th day, an acute renal failure occurred, following macroscopic haematuria and milkiness urine. CT scan and sonography confirmed the diagnosis of obstructive renal failure with bilateral ureteral obstruction. Crystalluria caused by amoxicillin was suspected. Endoscopic ureteral insertion of double-J catheters permitted the recovery of a normal renal function.
Olmesartan medoxomil is an orally administered angiotensin II receptor antagonist, selective for the angiotensin II type 1 receptor, which has established antihypertensive efficacy in adults. In children and adolescents with hypertension (n = 302), oral olmesartan medoxomil significantly and dose-dependently reduced seated systolic blood pressure (BP) and seated dystolic BP from baseline (the primary endpoint) in a 3-week, dose-response period in a well designed phase II/III clinical trial. Patients received olmesartan medoxomil high dose (20 or 40 mg once daily depending on bodyweight) or low dose (2.5 or 5.0 mg once daily depending on bodyweight). The response was significant for both cohorts, which were stratified by race (cohort A was mixed race [62% White] and cohort B was 100% Black). In addition, BP control was maintained in olmesartan recipients relative to placebo recipients in cohort A and the combined cohort A + B, but not for patients in cohort B, during a placebo-controlled withdrawal period of this trial. Oral olmesartan medoxomil was generally well tolerated in children and adolescents with hypertension. The majority of adverse events were of mild to moderate intensity.
This article presents a rare case of acute toxic hepatitis in thirty-one-year old primigravida. In the 36th week of gestation, the patient was introduced nitrofurantoin 100 mg a day due to symptoms of dysuria and enterococcus isolated from urine culture. After induced delivery at term because of hypertension, repeated laboratory findings showed increased aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and negative hepatitis C and B markers. The patient was subicteric at the time. Coagulation and complete blood count values were within the normal range. Nitrofurantoin therapy was discontinued. Abdominal ultrasound was normal with the exception of a slight hepatomegaly without any lesions, focal or diffuse. Given that discontinuation of nitrofurantoin and introduction of methylprednisolon therapy significantly lowered liver enzyme levels, restoring most of them to normal, we concluded that this was probably the case of toxic liver damage caused by nitrofurantoin.
To investigate the etiologic diagnoses of parkinsonism, underlining aspects of each form and comparing our findings with those published in a similar setting, 10 years before.
A large cohort of 1528 patients with parkinsonism was analyzed, gathering data on demography, motor and non-motor characteristics, as well as the final etiologic diagnoses based on established criteria.
Parkinson's disease (PD) was the most common diagnosis representing 74.7%, followed by drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP) in 7.9%, vascular parkinsonism (VP) in 3.9%, other neurodegenerative disorders in 10%, and rare sporadic causes, divided as genetic, infectious and others, that summed 3.5%. Comparative analysis of these groups showed that each has particularities that extend beyond their diagnostic criteria.
The main conclusions are that the most important causes of parkinsonism in this setting are typical, with PD been the most common diagnosis, although other causes were frequent, encompassing one fourth of all cases. Although DIP was identified in a particularly large part of this cohort, this proportion is smaller than demonstrated previously in a Brazilian study conducted in the 90s. This decrease probably reflects higher awareness regarding the risk of this motor complication and the more widely used newer antipsychotics.
Clinical impressions suggest that thioridazine hydrochloride produces fewer extrapyramidal effects and more sedation than thiothixene. These drugs were given, each for three weeks, to 15 chronic schizophrenic outpatients in a counterbalanced, double-blind, crossover study. Spontaneous locomotion was recorded with an unobtrusive actometer toward the end of each three-week drug period. Surprisingly, patients were significantly more active with thioridazine, whereas parkinsonian scores, prolactin levels, and Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale scores remained about equal with the two drugs; thioridazine's extrapyramidal side effects were not "atypical." There are some explanations for why common clinical impressions and recent rodent studies have not predicted these results.
