Using microarrays, we identified de novo copy number variations in the SHANK2 synaptic scaffolding gene in two unrelated individuals with autism-spectrum disorder (ASD) and mental retardation. DNA sequencing of SHANK2 in 396 individuals with ASD, 184 individuals with mental retardation and 659 unaffected individuals (controls) revealed additional variants that were specific to ASD and mental retardation cases, including a de novo nonsense mutation and seven rare inherited changes. Our findings further link common genes between ASD and intellectual disability.
The first family identified as having a nonsyndromic intellectual disability was mapped in 1988. Here we show that a mutation of IQSEC2, encoding a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for the ADP-ribosylation factor family of small GTPases, caused this disorder. In addition to MRX1, IQSEC2 mutations were identified in three other families with X-linked intellectual disability. This discovery was made possible by systematic and unbiased X chromosome exome resequencing.
In electrophysiological and behavioral experiments on rats we studied the effects of pefloxacin, a member of fluoroquinolone family, on the nociceptive system. Intraperitoneal injection of pefloxacin (80 mg/kg) decreased the thresholds of nociceptive response to noxious stimulation in the hot-plate test. In addition, it decreased the threshold of the late component of nociceptive flexor reflex. Intrathecal application of pefloxacin in a dose of 20 microg provoked allodynia, while the higher dose of 400 microg induced behavioral pattern characteristic of central pain syndrome. It was hypothesized that pain induced by pefloxacin results from disturbances in GABAergic inhibition in the central subdivisions of the nociceptive system.
PTPN2 (protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 2, also known as TC-PTP) is a cytosolic tyrosine phosphatase that functions as a negative regulator of a variety of tyrosine kinases and other signaling proteins. In agreement with its role in the regulation of the immune system, PTPN2 was identified as a susceptibility locus for autoimmune diseases. In this work, we describe the identification of focal deletions of PTPN2 in human T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). Deletion of PTPN2 was specifically found in T-ALLs with aberrant expression of the TLX1 transcription factor oncogene, including four cases also expressing the NUP214-ABL1 tyrosine kinase. Knockdown of PTPN2 increased the proliferation and cytokine sensitivity of T-ALL cells. In addition, PTPN2 was identified as a negative regulator of NUP214-ABL1 kinase activity. Our study provides genetic and functional evidence for a tumor suppressor role of PTPN2 and suggests that expression of PTPN2 may modulate response to treatment.
Tail-tremor induced by repeated and daily administration (0.5 mg/kg SC x 6 times/day) of nicotine as well as effects of various drugs on this response were investigated in Wistar strain male rats. Daily administration of nicotine in doses of 0.5 mg/kg SC caused tail-tremors to appear beginning on the 3rd day. Tail-tremor induced by the first injection of each day gradually increased with the daily injections, however, the heightened effect of this first injection at the beginning of each day decreased during the day upon repeated administration of 6 times/day at 2-hr intervals. Basically, tail-tremor appeared about 5 min after SC administration of nicotine and reached a peak approximately 7-9 min after injection, declining to zero afterwards. Different drugs showed various effects on this response. While mecamylamine (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg IP) abolished nicotine-induced tail-tremor, arecoline (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg IP), atropine (2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg IP), scopolamine (1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg IP) and hexamethonium (0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg IP) showed no such effects. Furthermore, physostigmine (0.1 mg/kg IP) actually potentiated this action. These results suggest that tail-tremor induced by nicotine may be mediated through central nicotine receptor system.
Over 3 months, 13 Caucasian and 16 Asian schizophrenic patients were sequentially treated with weight-adjusted fixed doses and clinically determined, variable doses of haloperidol. During the fixed-dose phase, Asians had a slightly higher mean serum haloperidol concentration and a significantly higher rating for extrapyramidal symptoms. During the variable-dose phase, the Asian patients' mean required dose was significantly lower, resulting in lower serum haloperidol concentrations at the first emergence of extrapyramidal symptoms and for optimal clinical response. These results indicate pharmacodynamic differences in therapeutic response but no significant difference in steady-state serum concentration between the two groups.
To evaluate the impact of a shared care approach in clinical management with a drug liaison midwife (DLM) service for mothers and infants established in 1995-1996 in an inner city area and to address the problem of congenital abnormality and microcephaly with fetal drug exposure.
Descriptive analysis of data in live births of women enrolled in a methadone maintenance programme in 1991-1994 (n = 78) and 1997-2001 (n = 98), including time spent in hospital, treatment for neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS), admission to the neonatal medical unit (NMU) and follow-up for child health checks.
In 1997-2001 compared with 1991-1994, the mothers used more methadone in the last week of pregnancy (median 40.0 mg/day vs. 21.5 mg/day, P = 0.0006) and there were more preterm deliveries (36% vs. 21%, P = 0.03). The infants spent less time in hospital (median 5 days vs. 28 days, P < 0.0001), a smaller proportion had treatment for NAS (14% vs. 79%, P < 0.0001), and NMU admission was reduced (median 14 days vs. 26 days, P < 0.0003). Neonatal convulsions (P = 0.0001) and jaundice (P < 0.001) occurred less frequently, and more infants were breastfed (P = 0.001). One infant in each study group had a cleft palate and none had microcephaly. Child health checks for 18-24 months showed a favourable outcome in 1997-2001.
We altered antenatal care and modified neonatal management, subsequently infants spent less time in hospital and NMU admissions were reduced with less NAS treatment. Congenital abnormalities and microcephaly were not common and as regular child health checks were possible, the impact of the DLM service in shared management merits further investigation, for mother-infant bonding and developmental outcome.
In the process of drug design, it is important to consider potential structural alerts that may lead to toxicosis. This work illustrates how using trifluoroethane as a part of a novel chemical entity led to cytochrome P450 - mediated N-dealkylation and the formation of trifluoroacetaldehyde, a known testicular toxicant, in exploratory safety studies in rats. Testicular toxicosis was noted microscopically in a dose-dependent manner as measured by testicular spermatocytic degeneration and necrosis and excessive intratubular cellular debris in the epididymis. This apparent toxic effect correlated well with the dose-dependent formation of trifluoroacetaldehyde, identified from in vitro rat liver microsome metabolism studies. A similar safety study performed with an N-tetrazole substitution in place of the N-trifluoroethane showed no evidence of testicular injury, implicating further the role of trifluoroacetaldehyde in the testicular lesion observed. These results highlight the relevance of early metabolic and safety testing in assessing potential structural alerts in drug design.
Two cases of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) treated with all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) developed fever, dyspnea and chest pain. A chest roentgenogram showed bilateral pleural effusion (case 1) and bilateral interstitial infiltration (case 2). The first case was a 50-year-old female in her first relapse, who was initially diagnosed as having pleuritis tuberculosa and was treated with anti-tuberculotic agents. Her symptoms continued for 44 days and complete remission was achieved 53 days after commencing ATRA therapy. The second case was a previously untreated 46-year-old male. His case had been diagnosed as adult respiratory distress syndrome and he had been treated with prednisolone. His symptoms rapidly improved and complete remission was achieved 38 days after the ATRA therapy. This was the first report of patients in Japan considered to have developed "retinoic acid syndrome (RAS)". In our five APL cases treated with ATRA, the syndrome was not always accompanied by peripheral blood leukocytosis even though the two cases with RAS showed higher leukocyte counts than the other two cases without RAS and also had DIC. We should pay attention to the severe respiratory symptoms that develop in APL patients after ATRA treatment and immediate steroid therapy is required for such patients.
Lung hypoplasia and persistent pulmonary hypertension are the principal causes of high mortality and morbidity in infants with congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). Amine- and peptide-producing pulmonary neuroendocrine cells (PNEC), widely distributed throughout the airway mucosa, are thought to play an important role in both pulmonary development and regulation of pulmonary vascular tone. Furthermore, recent studies show increased levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a pulmonary vasodilator produced by PNEC, during chronic hypoxia. The article reports data on morphometric analysis of CGRP immunoreactive PNEC clusters (neuroepithelial bodies, NEB) in a rat model of CDH. CDH was induced in neonatal Sprague Dawley rats by oral administration of 2,4-dichloro-phenyl-p-nitrophenylether (Nitrofen; Rohm Haas, Philadelphia, PA) to the mother at 10 days of gestation. Sections of lungs from term neonatal rats with and without CDH and controls were immunostained for CGRP (marker of NEB) with specific antibody against rat CGRP. NEB size and number of NEB/area of lung were assessed using a semiautomatic image analysis system. In lungs of neonatal rats with CDH, the number of NEB per surface area of lung parenchyma was significantly increased compared with the age-matched controls. Although the mean size of NEB was larger in CDH, the differences were not significant. This is the first study of PNEC in CDH. Whether the phenomenon observed in this study results in altered NEB function including imbalance in vasoactive mediators requires further studies, especially in the human being.
Aspirin remains the most widely used drug for prevention of vascular events. Recent observational epidemiological evidence has raised the concern that aspirin withdrawal for treatment noncompliance, surgery, or side effects can carry an increased thrombotic risk. The delay to the thrombotic event was between 7 to 30 days in most reports and most frequently 7 to 10 days. The mechanism underlying this effect remains poorly understood. Using an in vivo model of laser-induced thrombosis, aspirin injected in 1 single dose of 100 mg/kg body weight has also shown a prothrombotic activity in the rat 8 to 10 days after injection in the normal rat. The hypothesis was made that minimal concentrations of aspirin or ultra-low dose aspirin (ULDA) could induce this effect. ULDA showed prothrombotic properties in the same model of induced thrombosis that were very similar to those described after aspirin withdrawal, but the effect was observed only 1 hour after aspirin administration. This prothrombotic effect of ULDA is very similar to the effect observed after COX 2 selective inhibition with NS 398. The administration of both the selective COX 2 inhibitor and ULDA did not produce further changes. In conclusion, the prothrombotic effects described in recent observational studies are likely produced by a direct effect of aspirin, whose putative mechanism involving COX 2 inhibition remains poorly understood.
To critically evaluate the 30 year debate of beta-blocker use in cocaine-induced acute coronary syndrome (CIACS).
An Ovid MEDLINE In-Process and Other Non-Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, and Ovid MEDLINE (1966-August 21, 2007) search of the medical literature was conducted using the key terms cocaine, myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndrome, and adrenergic beta-antagonists.
All clinical trials, case reports, national cardiovascular guidelines, and reviews published in English were evaluated. Case reports were included based on whether (1) acute coronary syndrome was suspected, (2) a beta-blocker was used during the treatment course, and (3) objective and subjective patient-specific information was documented.
Three case reports and 2 placebo-controlled trials were identified that used 4 beta-blockers (atenolol, labetalol, metoprolol, propranolol). Three national guidelines addressed beta-blocker use. Although published data are limited, propranolol and labetalol exert minimal to no effect on alleviating cocaine-induced coronary vasoconstriction. None of the evaluated national guidelines recommends beta-blockers as first-line agents in CIACS management.
Beta-blockers should not be considered first-line agents for controlling chest pain in patients with documented CIACS. If long-term beta-blockade is warranted, its benefits should be weighed against recurrent use of cocaine and possible exacerbation of acute coronary syndrome. Given that carvedilol exhibits ancillary pharmacologic proprieties beneficial in CIACS, and post-myocardial infarction mortality data are available regarding its use, this agent could be considered to be appropriate therapy.
Methamphetamine (MA) use has been linked anecdotally to rampant dental disease. The authors sought to determine the relative prevalence of dental comorbidities in MA users, verify whether MA users have more quantifiable dental disease and report having more dental problems than nonusers and establish the influence of mode of MA administration on oral health outcomes.
Participating physicians provided comprehensive medical and oral assessments for adults dependent on MA (n=301). Trained interviewers collected patients' self-reports regarding oral health and substance-use behaviors. The authors used propensity score matching to create a matched comparison group of nonusers from participants in the the Third National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES III).
Dental or oral disease was one of the most prevalent (41.3 percent) medical cormorbidities in MA users who otherwise were generally healthy. On average, MA users had significantly more missing teeth than did matched NHANES III control participants (4.58 versus 1.96, P<.001) and were more likely to report having oral health problems (P<.001). Significant subsets of MA users expressed concerns with their dental appearance (28.6 percent), problems with broken or loose teeth (23.3 percent) and tooth grinding (bruxism) or erosion (22.3 percent). The intravenous use of MA was significantly more likely to be associated with missing teeth than was smoking MA (odds ratio=2.47; 95 percent confidence interval=1.3-4.8).
Overt dental disease is one of the key distinguishing comorbidities in MA users. MA users have demonstrably higher rates of dental disease and report long-term unmet oral health needs. Contrary to common perception, users who smoke or inhale MA have lower rates of dental disease than do those who inject the drug. Many MA users are concerned with the cosmetic aspects of their dental disease, and these concerns could be used as behavioral triggers for targeted interventions.
Dental disease may provide a temporally stable MA-specific medical marker with discriminant utility in identifying MA users. Dentists can play a crucial role in the early detection of MA use and participate in the collaborative care of MA users.
Three patients with glaucoma drainage devices and one patient who had trabeculectomy with mitomycin C were treated with a combination of topical timolol 0.5% and dorzolamide hydrochloride in the late postoperative period to decrease the intraocular pressure to the target level. All four patients developed ciliochoroidal effusions with hypotony that resolved with the discontinuation of the topical medication. Aqueous suppressants can induce ciliochoroidal effusions and hypotony in the late postoperative phase in some patients with glaucoma drainage devices. Discontinuation of the medication usually results in the resolution of the choroidal effusions.
Clusterin is a heterodimeric glycoprotein that has been associated with such diverse biologic functions as reproduction, cell regression, cell aggregation, and regulation of the cytolytic activity of the membrane attack complex of complement. Clusterin is a component of glomerular immune deposits in the kidney, and increased clusterin expression occurs in a number of renal injury states. To further explore the interaction between clusterin and complement, the requirement for an intact complement system for renal clusterin induction in an acute (folic acid nephropathy) and a chronic (subtotal renal ablation) model of renal injury was examined. After it was first demonstrated that folic acid increased renal clusterin mRNA in the rat, a species in which renal clusterin was highly inducible by other stimuli, the effects of folic acid (250 mg/kg ip) on clusterin mRNA and immunoreactivity were examined in mice sufficient and deficient for the fifth component of complement. Similar increases in clusterin mRNA and immunoreactivity were seen in both the C5-sufficient and C5-deficient mice compared with their respective vehicle-injected control groups. Renal clusterin mRNA was also increased to a similar extent in the remaining kidney of both C5-sufficient and C5-deficient mice 10 days after subtotal nephrectomy. In conclusion, the induction of clusterin after folic acid administration or subtotal nephrectomy was independent of the presence of an intact complement system, because similar increases in clusterin expression were observed in C5-sufficient and C5-deficient mice.
We present the case of a patient with acute onset of dyspnoea after a long-distance flight. Pulmonary embolism was suspected, but could be excluded by perfusion scintigraphy. The electrocardiogram and chest X-ray were compatible with acute myocardial infarction and pulmonary oedema, but the slightness of the elevation of pulmonary capillary wedge pressure allowed cardiogenic pulmonary oedema to be excluded. The clinical picture was then interpreted as pneumonia with sepsis and hypotension. The rapid and full clinical recovery within 48 h, together with the close temporal relationship of ingestion of hydrochlorothiazide and the onset of symptoms, allowed the diagnosis of drug-induced pulmonary oedema and anaphylactoid hypotension.
We previously described chimeric HIV-1, EcoHIV, which can infect mouse cells in culture and cause spreading infection in conventional immunocompetant mice. We have now applied this system as a model for preclinical evaluation of anti-retroviral drugs.
We used chimeric virus EcoHIV/NDK constructed on the backbone of subtype D NDK. EcoHIV/NDK expression in mice was characterized 5-10 days after infection by testing viral DNA, RNA, and protein burdens in spleen and macrophages by real-time PCR (QPCR), RT-PCR, and p24 ELISA. For antiviral evaluation, groups of 5-7 mice were pretreated with 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), abacavir, or vehicle; mice were then infected with EcoHIV/NDK, treatment maintained for additional 48 h, and tested for viral DNA and RNA burdens in spleens and macrophages by QPCR.
EcoHIV/NDK infected mice reproducibly showed viral burdens of up to 1.4 x 10 viral DNA copies and 200 pg p24 per 10 spleen cells and expressed spliced Vif RNA and mature p24 in macrophages 5-10 days after infection. Treatment of mice with 60 or 300 mg ddC/kg/day blocked EcoHIV/NDK infection in a dose-dependent manner with significantly lower viral DNA and RNA burdens at both drug doses (P < 0.001) in the spleens of infected mice. Abacavir tested at 100 mg/kg/day caused 96% inhibition of viral DNA synthesis in spleen and it almost completely abolished viral spliced RNA synthesis in spleens and macrophages.
The system of chimeric HIV-1 infection of mice permits rapid, statistically powerful, and inexpensive evaluation of antiretroviral drugs in vivo.
The effects of algin-based drugs--algipor, algimaf, teralgim--on the course of maxillofacial purulent wounds healing were under study. Cytologic and morphometric data and findings of pH measurements evidence a high efficacy of teralgim and of algipor and algimaf combinations with trypsin immobilized on a cloth base during the first phase of the wound process. Application of these drugs was conducive to a sooner wound purification and to stimulation of the reparative processes.
The highly potent and selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist SB-271046 [5-chloro-N-(4-methoxy-3-piperazin-1-yl-phenyl)-3-methyl-2-benzothiophenesulfonamide] has previously been demonstrated to improve retention significantly in a spatial water maze paradigm in adult rats. However, SB-271046 did not have any effect on task acquisition. As these apparently contradictory findings may be reconciled by a prime influence of SB-271046 on memory consolidation, the ability of this compound to reverse the discrete temporal action of a cholinergic antagonist in the 6-h period following passive avoidance training was investigated. SB-271046, given orally, by gavage, 30 min prior to training Wistar rats in a step-through, light-dark passive avoidance task, was found to reverse significantly the amnesia produced by administering scopolamine (0.8 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) in the 6-h post-training period. The effect was dose-dependent over a range of 3-20 mg/kg. Further, we investigated the cognition-enhancing effects of chronic SB-271046 administration (10 or 20 mg/kg/day; 40 days) on the acquisition and consolidation of a water maze spatial learning task in a population of 20-month-old Wistar rats with age-related learning deficits. Drug treatment progressively and significantly decreased platform swim angle and escape latencies over the five sequential trials on four consecutive daily sessions compared to vehicle-treated controls. SB-271046 also improved task recall as measured by significant increases in the searching of the target quadrant on post-training days 1 and 3, when the animals would have been substantially drug-free. This significant improvement of task recall suggests SB-271046, in addition to inducing symptomatic cognition-enhancing actions, also attenuates age-related decline in neural function.
Remoxipride is a novel substituted benzamide that more effectively blocks mesolimbic than striatal D2 dopamine receptors. We used remoxipride in the management of nine patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) who were experiencing visual hallucinations due to dopaminergic therapy. Remoxipride was begun in a dose of 25 mg three times daily and gradually increased to 75-225 mg/d (mean 161 mg). The psychiatric status improved in eight patients. Little or no change in the severity of parkinsonism was noted in five, a mild increase in two, and a moderate increase in two. Because one patient with moderately severe levodopa-induced dyskinesias experienced a reduction in the abnormal movements without a substantial increase in parkinsonism, we began a trial of remoxipride for disabling peak-dose dyskinesias. The trial was abandoned after every one of the first four patients entered experienced an immediate, severe, and prolonged increase in off periods with single 10- to 25-mg doses. This striking differential response to an atypical neuroleptic with weak striatal D2 antagonist properties indicates that different states of postsynaptic dopamine receptor sensitivity or synaptic dopamine levels may be associated with various disease- and treatment-related problems found in late-stage PD.
In December of 2002, the FDA approved azelaic acid 15% gel for the topical treatment of inflammatory papules and pustules of mild to moderate rosacea. Azelaic acid is a saturated dicarboxylic acid, which is naturally occurring and has been used in the treatment of rosacea, acne, and melasma. The 15% gel has a high efficacy and is generally well tolerated, with the local irritation (burning, stinging, itching, and scaling) being typically mild and transient. Azelaic acid 15% gel is considered effective and safe as a therapy for inflammatory papulo-pustular rosacea and is suitable for use on all skin types.
Five hundred outpatients undergoing endoscopy were admitted into a controlled trial comparing the incidence of thrombophlebitis following intravenous diazepam administered in the way, with the effects of either a saline flush following the diazepam or diluting the drug with the patient's own blood before injection ('barbotage'). The results were assessed using a questionnaire completed by patients two weeks after endoscopy; 80% replied. A saline flush reduced the incidence of side effects, particularly pain (P less than 0.05). 'Barbotage' gave the highest incidence of side effects. Saline flush is therefore recommended as a means of reducing the thrombophlebitis which may follow intravenous diazepam.
To use dynamic electrocardiographic (ECG) techniques to study the influence of heart rate on dofetilide-induced QT prolongation among healthy volunteers.
The extent to which heart rate modulates QT prolongation induced by the new class III antiarrhythmic drug dofetilide is a matter of debate.
Ten healthy volunteers underwent two 24-hour ECG recordings, one in the absence of dofetilide and the other after a single oral dose of 0.5 mg dofetilide. Two 4-hour periods were defined during the second recording: Dh, which corresponded to stable high concentration of the drug, and D1, which corresponded to low concentration of the drug. Corresponding baseline recording periods, Ch and C1, matched by time with Dh and D1 were selected from the control ECG recording in the absence of dofetilide. QT versus R-R relations were compared in the presence and absence of dofetilide. The QT versus R-R relation slope was used as an index of the rate dependence QT prolongation. Rate-independent changes in QT duration were also analyzed.
During Dh, dofetilide induced a mean 12% lengthening of ventricular repolarization. Dynamic ECG analysis showed that this prolongation increased as R-R cycles became longer, a phenomenon known as reverse rate dependence. However, QT prolongation persisted at the shortest (600 ms) R-R cycle length that could be analyzed. During D1, dynamic ECG analysis showed a persistent, although small, effect of dofetilide on both QT prolongation (3%) and reverse rate dependence of this effect.
Dofetilide prolongs QT duration, and this class III effect is influenced by heart rate. Although dofetilide-induced QT prolongation decreases when the R-R cycle shortens, this reverse rate dependence is only partial because marked QT prolongation persists at an R-R cycle of 600 ms. The results of our study indicated that dynamic ECG techniques can be useful in detection of subtle, drug-induced changes in the duration of ventricular repolarization.
Male Fischer rats were fed a N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl]-2-thiazolyl]formamide (FANFT) diet for 6 weeks followed by a phenobarbital (PB) diet for an additional 86 weeks. PB significantly increased the incidence of bladder tumors, but not the incidence of hepatic foci and areas of cellular alterations caused by FANFT. The results suggest that PB may be a weak promoter for bladder carcinogenesis, and that FANFT may not be an initiator for hepatocarcinogenesis.
