Helicobacter pylori infection increases the risk of gastric cancer but the molecular mechanisms responsible are not well understood. Gastric cells chronically exposed to H pylori in vitro develop resistance to apoptosis associated with low levels of p27, a cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor and haplo insufficient tumour suppressor gene that is downregulated in gastric cancer.
To determine whether the low level of p27 protein is responsible for the resistance to apoptosis of gastric cancer cells.
The effects of increasing the expression of p27 protein were examined by transiently and stably transfecting a plasmid encoding full length p27 mRNA into apoptosis resistant gastric cancer cell lines with low p27 expression that were derived from AGS gastric cancer cells by chronic H pylori coculture followed by dilutional cloning.
Low p27 expression in the apoptosis resistant derivative cell lines was associated with an approximate 30% decrease in p27 mRNA and an 80% decrease in p27 protein that was not due to increased proteasome dependent degradation of p27 protein. Transient or stable transfection with p27 constructs partially restored the sensitivity of the apoptosis resistant cells to 5-fluorouracil and H pylori induced apoptosis without altering spontaneous apoptotic cell death.
These results demonstrate that p27 positively regulates, at least in part, the apoptotic response of gastric epithelial cells to H pylori. Low gastric p27 may promote gastric carcinogenesis associated with H pylori infection by inhibiting apoptotic pathways.
We have previously reported that the Wistar/Furth (W/Fu) rat strain is resistant to mineralocorticoid hypertension. In the current study, we have examined renal mRNA levels for mineralocorticoid receptor (MR), glucocorticoid receptor (GR), renin and Na+, K(+)-ATPase in response to treatment with mineralocorticoids. Uninephrectomized male Wistar (WI) and W/Fu rats were treated with aldosterone or deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA) and were given 1% NaCl to drink. Rats were sacrificed after 1, 3 or 7 days of treatment. Renal MR and ATPase mRNA levels were significantly reduced in aldosterone and DOCA-treated WI rats (e.g. MR was 30% on day 3 and ATPase was 50% of control on day 7 of aldosterone treatment). Unexpectedly, GR mRNA levels paralleled the changes in MR. In W/Fu rats the level of message was either unchanged or only moderately altered by this treatment. In vivo administration of the MR antagonist RU28318 or the GR antagonist RU38486 to WI rats for 4 days reduced renal mRNA levels for both subunits of ATPase. In the W/Fu rat, this treatment resulted in no change in the alpha subunit and an increase in the beta subunit of ATPase. In preliminary studies, we have determined that the W/Fu rat is also resistant to dexamethasone-induced hypertension. These studies suggest that altered MR- and GR-mediated mechanisms may contribute to the resistance of the W/Fu rat strain to steroid-induced hypertension.
To describe the clinical and demographic characteristics of fatal hepatitis due to single-drug isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis, we did a survey of cases from state health departments, published case reports, and reports to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 1970 to 1992. Of 108 reported cases, some clinical information was available for 76. A medical review panel judged 39 of these deaths as probably due to isoniazid hepatitis and 23 deaths as possibly due to isoniazid hepatitis. Of the 62 probable and possible cases combined, 50 (81%) were female, 49 (79%) were non-Hispanic black or Hispanic, and 19 (31%) were younger than 35 years. The median duration of isoniazid preventive therapy before symptom onset was 16 weeks. Of the 60 cases with symptom information, 54 (90%) presented with jaundice. Of the 62 cases, 26 (42%) were monitored monthly in accordance with current recommendations, and 6 of the patients were younger than 35 years. We estimate that the rate of fatal isoniazid hepatitis among patients in the public sector was no greater than 4.2 per 100,000 persons beginning therapy and no greater than 7 per 100,000 persons completing therapy. Adherence to isoniazid preventive therapy guidelines apparently reduces, but does not eliminate, the risk of fatal hepatitis. Careful patient selection, education, and monitoring are critical for minimizing that risk.
Interferon (IFN)-alpha and ribavirin combination therapy is the standard treatment for patients with chronic hepatitis C. However, ribavirin induces anaemia, especially by haemolysis, an adverse effect that is dose-limiting.
The aim of this study was to determine the relationships between ribavirin exposure and haemoglobin time-course, the time-to-anaemia and the covariates influencing these relationships in a population of patients treated for chronic hepatitis C. In addition, we also intended to establish a simple rule defining the need for dosage adjustment, using data obtained during the first month of treatment.
A retrospective analysis of 99 patients treated with IFNalpha plus ribavirin, with known dosage administration history, liver biopsy, demographic data, red blood cell counts, haemoglobin level (1037 measurements, median 10 per patient, range 2-31) and serum creatinine during the entire treatment period (178 days, range 53-382 days) was conducted. The data were analysed by a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic population model and Weibull time-to-anaemia model. The rule defining the need for dosage adjustment was as follows: adjustment was needed if haemoglobin at steady state (H(ss)), estimated by the Bayesian method based on data obtained during the first month of treatment, was <12 g/dL for men or <11 g/dL for women.
In both models, anaemia was related to the exposure of erythrocytes to ribavirin at time t (RT in mg/kg/day) by a maximum effect model, with RT(50) (dosage administration rate at which half the maximal effect is reached) approximately 12 mg/kg/day, and the significant covariates were initial haemoglobin level and bodyweight. Performances of a Bayesian prediction of H(ss) based on two early haemoglobin level measurements were encouraging (mean prediction error 0.12 g/dL, precision 0.85 g/dL). The proposed rule for the need of dosage adjustment was able to predict the actual evolution of the dosage regimen in 76% of non-adapted patients and 69% of adapted patients.
The current guidelines for ribavirin dosage administration, based on bodyweight, are adequate, at least in the 45-105 kg range. Results indicate that Bayesian therapeutic monitoring could be helpful in controlling ribavirin-induced anaemia.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are commonly prescribed for a variety of inflammatory conditions; however, the benefits of this class of drugs are accompanied by deleterious side effects, most commonly gastric irritation and ulceration. NSAID-induced ulceration is thought to be exacerbated by intestinal microbiota, but previous studies have not identified specific microbes that contribute to these adverse effects. In this study, we conducted a culture-independent analysis of approximately 1,400 bacterial small-subunit rRNA genes associated with the small intestines and mesenteric lymph nodes of rats treated with the NSAID indomethacin. This is the first molecular analysis of the microbiota of the rat small intestine. A comparison of clone libraries and species-specific quantitative PCR results from rats treated with indomethacin and untreated rats revealed that organisms closely related to Enterococcus faecalis were heavily enriched in the small intestine and mesenteric lymph nodes of the treated rats. These data suggest that treatment of NSAID-induced ulceration may be facilitated by addressing the microbiological imbalances.
We analyzed the effect of molecular iodine (I2), potassium iodide (KI) and a subclinical concentration of thyroxine (T4) on the induction and promotion of mammary cancer induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea. Virgin Sprague-Dawley rats received short or continuous treatment. Continuous I2 treated rats exhibited a strong and persistent reduction in mammary cancer incidence (30%) compared to controls (72.7%). Interruption of short or long term treatments resulted in a higher incidence in mammary cancer compared to the control groups. The protective effect of I2 was correlated with the highest expression of the I-/Cl- transporter pendrin and with the lowest levels of lipoperoxidation expression in mammary glands. Triiodothyronine serum levels and Na+/I- symporter, lactoperoxidase, or p53 expression did not show any changes. In conclusion continuous I2 treatment has a potent antineoplastic effect on the progression of mammary cancer and its effect may be related to a decrease in the oxidative cell environment.
Ochratoxin A (OTA) is one of the most potent rodent renal carcinogens studied to date. Although controversial results regarding OTA genotoxicity have been published, it is now widely accepted that OTA is not a mutagenic, DNA-reactive carcinogen. Instead, increasing evidence from both in vivo and in vitro studies suggests that OTA may promote genomic instability and tumorigenesis through interference with cell division. The aim of the present study was to provide further support for disruption of mitosis as a key event in OTA toxicity and to understand how OTA mediates these effects. Immortalized human kidney epithelial cells (IHKE) were treated with OTA and monitored by differential interference contrast microscopy for 15 h. Image analysis confirmed that OTA at concentrations ≥ 5 μM, which correlate with plasma concentrations in rats under conditions of carcinogenesis, causes sustained mitotic arrest and exit from mitosis without nuclear or cellular division. Mitotic chromosomes were characterized by aberrant condensation and premature sister chromatid separation associated with altered phosphorylation and acetylation of core histones. To test if OTA directly interferes with histone acetyltransferases (HATs) which regulate lysine acetylation of histones and nonhistone proteins, a cell-free HAT activity assay was conducted using total nuclear extracts of IHKE cells. In this assay, OTA significantly blocked HAT activity in a concentration-dependent manner Overall, results from this study provide further support for a mechanism of OTA carcinogenicity involving interference with the mitotic machinery and suggest HATs as a primary cellular target of OTA.
To study if cabergoline, a long-lasting specific dopamine D2 receptor agonist, has neuroprotective effects against oxidative stress, we exposed (3 h) SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells to tert-butylhydroperoxide (t-BOOH; 500 microM). t-BOOH caused a 42+/-4% neuronal death, which was prevented by cabergoline (2 h before) in a concentration-dependent manner (EC(50): 1.24 microM). This effect was not antagonised by haloperidol (concentration up to 10 microM), and was associated with an increased availability of intracellular GSH contents (+30+/-11%) and a decrease in the membrane lipid peroxidation (-23+/-9%). Our data suggest that cabergoline has neuroprotective effects useful for Parkinson's disease therapy.
Prolonged exposure to the chemical intermediate, 1,3-dinitrobenzene (1,3-DNB), produces neuropathology in the central nervous system of rodents analogous to that observed in various conditions of acute energy deprivation including thiamine deficiency and Leigh's necrotizing encephalopathy. Increased production of reactive intermediates in addition to induction of oxidative stress has been implicated in the neurotoxic mechanism of 1,3-DNB, but a clear metabolic target has not been determined. Here we propose that similar to thiamine deficiency, the effects of 1,3-DNB on metabolic status may be due to inhibition of the thiamine-dependent α-ketoacid dehydrogenase complexes. The effects of 1,3-DNB on astroglial metabolic status and α-ketoacid dehydrogenase activity were evaluated using rat C6 glioma cells. Exposure to 1,3-DNB resulted in altered morphology and biochemical dysfunction consistent with disruption of oxidative energy metabolism. Cotreatment with acetyl-carnitine or acetoacetate attenuated morphological and metabolic effects of 1,3-DNB exposure as well as increased cell viability. 1,3-DNB exposure inhibited pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHc) and the inhibition correlated with the loss of lipoic acid (LA) immunoreactivity, suggesting that modification of LA is a potential mechanism of inhibition. Treatment with antioxidants and thiol-containing compounds failed to protect against loss of LA. Alternatively, inhibition of dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase, the E3 component of the complex attenuated loss of LA. Collectively, these data suggest that 1,3-DNB impairs oxidative energy metabolism through direct inhibition of the PDHc and that this impairment is due to perturbations in the function of protein-bound LA.
The objective of this study was to assess minor neurological dysfunction, cognitive development, and somatic development after dexamethasone therapy in very-low-birthweight infants. Thirty-three children after dexamethasone treatment were matched to 33 children without dexamethasone treatment. Data were assessed at the age of 3-7 years. Dexamethasone was started between the 7th and the 28th day of life over 7 days with a total dose of 2.35 mg/kg/day. Exclusion criteria were asphyxia, malformations, major surgical interventions, small for gestational age, intraventricular haemorrhage grades III and IV, periventricular leukomalacia, and severe psychomotor retardation. Each child was examined by a neuropediatrician for minor neurological dysfunctions and tested by a psychologist for cognitive development with a Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children and a Draw-a-Man Test. There were no differences in demographic data, growth, and socio-economic status between the two groups. Fine motor skills and gross motor function were significantly better in the control group (p<0.01). In the Draw-a-Man Test, the control group showed better results (p<0.001). There were no differences in development of speech, social development, and the Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children. After dexamethasone treatment, children showed a higher rate of minor neurological dysfunctions. Neurological development was affected even without neurological diagnosis. Further long-term follow-up studies will be necessary to fully evaluate the impact of dexamethasone on neurological and cognitive development.
We compared the use of prolonged synchronous combination therapy with interferon (IFN)-alpha-2b and lamivudine with the use of IFN-alpha-2b monotherapy in patients with untreated hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Thirty-three patients received therapy with lamivudine (100 mg daily) and IFN-alpha-2b (10 million U 3 times per week) for 12 months; 16 patients received IFN-alpha-2b alone (10 million U 3 times per week for 12 months). The primary end point was sustained suppression of HBV DNA and HBeAg seroconversion, which was observed in 15 (45%) of 33 patients treated with combination therapy and in 3 (19%) of 16 patients treated with monotherapy (P=.133). Both therapeutic regimens were well tolerated. Combination therapy increased the rate of sustained suppression of HBeAg and resulted in significant improvement in Knodell histologic activity index scores, compared with monotherapy. However, there was no significant difference in rates of sustained suppression between the 2 groups at the end of follow-up.
The novel capsid-binding antiviral pleconaril inhibits in vitro replication of most rhinoviruses and enteroviruses. Oral pleconaril treatment was studied in 2 parallel randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. Among 1363 picornavirus-infected participants (65%) in the studies combined, the median time to alleviation of illness was 1 day shorter for pleconaril recipients than for placebo recipients (P<.001). Cold symptom scores and frequency of picornavirus cultured from nasal mucus specimens were lower among pleconaril recipients by day 2 of treatment. No treatment effects were seen in those without picornavirus infection. Pleconaril was associated with a higher incidence of nausea (6% vs. 4%) and diarrhea (9% vs. 7%) and with small increases in mean serum cholesterol levels and platelet counts, compared with baseline measurements. A subsequent 6-week prophylaxis study found that pleconaril induces cytochrome P-450 3A enzymes, which metabolize a variety of drugs, including ethinyl estradiol. Early pleconaril treatment was well tolerated and significantly reduced the duration and severity of colds due to picornaviruses in adults.
Neither androgen ablation nor chemotherapeutic agents are effective in reducing the risk of prostate cancer progression. On the other hand, multifaceted effects of phytochemicals, such as triterpene saponins, on cancer cells have been suggested. A promising safety and tolerability profile indicate their possible application in the treatment of advanced prostate cancers. We analyzed the specificity, selectivity and versatility of desglucoanagalloside B effects on human prostate cancer cells derived from prostate cancer metastases to brain (DU-145 cells) and bone (PC-3 cells). Prominent growth arrest and apoptotic response of both cell types was observed in the presence of sub-micromolar desglucoanagalloside B concentrations. This was accompanied by cytochrome c release and caspase 3/7 activation. A relatively low cytostatic and pro-apoptotic response of cancer cells to a desglucoanagalloside B analog, anagallosaponin IV, illustrated the specificity of the effects of desglucoanagalloside B, whereas the low sensitivity of normal prostate PNT2 cells to desglucoanagalloside B showed the selectivity of its action. Inhibition of cancer cell motility was observed in the presence of both saponins, however only desglucoanagalloside B attenuated cancer cell invasive potential, predominantly through an effect on cell elastic properties. These data demonstrate the versatility of its effects on prostate cancer cells. In contrast to PNT2 cells, cancer cells tested in this study were relatively resistant to mitoxantrone. The multifaceted action of desglucoanagalloside B on basic cellular traits, crucial for prostate cancer progression, opens perspectives for elaboration of combined palliative therapies and new prostate cancer prophylaxis regimens.
To assess the impact of ketamine abuse on genitourinary tract dysfunction.
Eleven patients with urinary tract symptoms and a history of ketamine abuse in recent years were studied. Urinalysis, urine culture, renal function tests, abdominal sonography and urodynamic studies were done. Bladder biopsies were carried out in selected cases.
The most common complaints were lower urinary tract symptoms, including dysuria, frequency, urgency and gross hematuria. Urinalyses showed nonbacterial pyuria and were negative for tuberculosis. All biopsy specimens showed infiltrations of granulocytes (mostly eosinophils) and mast cells within the bladder tissue. Medications produced only slight clinical improvements. Intravesical instillation of hyaluronan solution was performed for some patients and a significant improvement of lower urinary tract symptoms was observed.
Although the dosage and duration of ketamine abuse causing severe side-effects are still unclear, some patients develop irreversible histological changes in the urinary tract. Therefore, clinicians should be aware of the negative effects of ketamine abuse on genitourinary tract function.
Chronic ethanol consumption is associated with an increased risk of upper aerodigestive tract cancer. As acetaldehyde seems to be a carcinogenic factor associated with chronic alcohol consumption, alcoholics with the alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) 1C*1 allele seem to be particularly at risk as this allele encodes for a rapidly ethanol metabolising enzyme leading to increased acetaldehyde levels. Recent epidemiological studies resulted in contradictory results and therefore we have investigated ADH1C genotypes in heavy alcohol consumers only.
We analysed the ADH1C genotype in 107 heavy drinkers with upper aerodigestive tract cancer and in 103 age matched alcoholic controls without cancer who consumed similar amounts of alcohol. Genotyping of the ADH1C locus was performed using polymerase chain reaction based on restriction fragment length polymorphism methods on leucocyte DNA. In addition, ethanol was administered orally (0.3 g/kg body weight) to 21 healthy volunteers with the ADH1C*1,1, ADH1C*1,2, and ADH1C*2,2 genotypes, and 12 volunteers with various ADH genotypes consumed ethanol ad libitum (mean 211 (29) g). Subsequently, salivary acetaldehyde concentrations were measured by gas chromatography or high performance liquid chromatography.
The allele frequency of the ADH1C*1 allele was found to be significantly increased in heavy drinkers with upper aerodigestive tract cancer compared with age matched alcoholic controls without cancer (61.7% v 49.0%; p = 0.011). The unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios for all cancer cases versus all alcoholic controls were 1.67 and 1.69, respectively. Healthy volunteers homozygous for the ADH1C*1 allele had higher salivary acetaldehyde concentrations following alcohol ingestion than volunteers heterozygous for ADH1C (p = 0.056) or homozygous for ADH1C*2 (p = 0.011).
These data demonstrate that heavy drinkers homozygous for the ADH1C*1 allele have a predisposition to develop upper aerodigestive tract cancer, possibly due to elevated salivary acetaldehyde levels following alcohol consumption.
The role of xanthine oxidase as a source of reactive oxygen species in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis was examined. The effects of allopurinol (a xanthine oxidase inhibitor as well as a reactive oxygen species scavenging enzyme) and tungsten (a specific xanthine oxidase inhibitor) on glomerular epithelial cell ultrastructure, renal xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase activity, and urinary protein excretion were examined in puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats. Co-administration of allopurinol to such rats reduced proteinuria by approximately 70% over the 10 days studied, and reduced the degree of glomerular epithelial cell foot process effacement at both 5 and 10 days, compared to rats that received puromycin aminonucleoside alone. Unexpectedly, co-administration of allopurinol to puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats did not reduce xanthine oxidase activity; however, the combined activity of xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase in such animals was reduced on day 5. Co-administration of tungsten to puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats did not reduce proteinuria or alter the number of filtration slits. Rats co-administered tungsten and puromycin aminonucleoside had significantly reduced renal xanthine oxidase and combined xanthine oxidase and xanthine dehydrogenase activities on days 5 and 10, compared to rats treated with puromycin aminonucleoside alone. These results provide evidence that the protection provided by allopurinol in puromycin aminonucleoside-treated rats is due to the antioxidant properties of allopurinol, rather than to its activities as a xanthine oxidase inhibitor.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of site of nitroglycerin ointment placement on headache and flushing in healthy subjects. Twenty-six subjects were given two doses of nitroglycerin ointment 3 hr apart in a randomly assigned arm-chest sequence or chest-arm sequence. Subject reports of headache and flushing using the visual analogue scale were recorded. There were no significant differences in headache or flushing based on the site or sequence of placement. Thus, the practice by nurses of routinely teaching patients to vary the site of nitroglycerin ointment placement to minimize side-effects must be questioned.
Mandibuloacral dysplasia type A (MADA; OMIM 248370) is a rare progeroid syndrome characterized by dysmorphic craniofacial and skeletal features, lipodystrophy, and metabolic complications. Most Italian patients carry the same homozygous missense mutation (p.R527H) in the C-terminal tail domain of the LMNA gene, which encodes lamin A/C, an intermediate filament component of the nuclear envelope.
The objective of the study was to identify novel LMNA mutations in individuals with clinical characteristics (bird-like facies, mandibular and clavicular hypoplasia, acroosteolysis, lipodystrophy, alopecia) observed in other well-known patients.
The LMNA gene was sequenced. Functional properties of the mutant alleles were investigated.
We report a 27-yr-old Italian woman showing a MADA-like phenotype. Features include a hypoplastic mandible, acroosteolysis, pointed nose, partial loss of sc fat, and a progeric appearance. Due to the absence of clavicular dysplasia and normal metabolic profiles, generally associated with muscle hyposthenia and generalized hypotonia, this phenotype can be considered an atypical laminopathy.
We identified a patient compound heterozygote for the p.R527H and p.V440M alleles. The patient's cells showed nuclear shape abnormalities, accumulation of pre-lamin A, and irregular lamina thickness. Lamins A and C showed normal expression and localization. The electron microscopy detected heterochromatin defects with a pattern similar to those observed in other laminopathies. However, chromatin analysis showed a normal distribution pattern of the major heterochromatin proteins: heterochromatin protein-1beta and histone H3 methylated at lysine 9.
The clinical and cellular features of this patient show overlapping laminopathy phenotypes that could be due to the combination of p.R527H and p.V440M alleles.
The anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide (CYP) is nephrotoxic besides being urotoxic thereby limiting its clinical utility. Since the nephrotoxicity of CYP is less common compared to its urotoxicity, not much importance has been given for the study of mechanism of CYP-induced nephrotoxicity. The aim of the present study is to investigate the possible role of lysosomal enzymes in CYP-induced renal damage. Adult female Wistar rats weighing 200-250 g were used for the study. The rats were administered single-intraperitoneal injection of CYP at the dose of 150 mg/kg body wt and sacrificed at various time intervals 6, 16 or 24 h after the dose of CYP. The control rats were administered saline alone. Nephrotoxicity was assessed by measuring plasma creatinine and urea and histopathology of the kidney. The kidney was weighed and used for the assay of lysosomal enzymes namely acid phosphatase, beta-glucuronidase and N-acetylglucosaminidase and total protein content. Histologically, the CYP-treated rat kidneys showed progressive renal damage with increase in time after treatment. Glomerular nephritis, cortical tubular vacuolization and interstitial edema were observed in the CYP-treated rats. Surprisingly, a significant drastic decrease (instead of an increase) in the activities of lysosomal enzymes was observed in the kidneys of CYP-treated rats at 16 and 24 h as compared with the control. A highly significant increase (270%) in protein content was observed in the kidneys of the CYP-treated rats as compared with the control. Decrease in the activities of lysosomal protein digestive enzymes may contribute to CYP-induced renal damage. The accumulation of abnormal amounts of the protein in the kidney may be due at least in part to defect in lysosomal enzyme activity and contribute to renal damage.
Exposure to excessive quantities of bacterial-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is associated with injury to the lung and the liver. Macrophages are thought to play a key role in the pathogenic response to LPS by releasing proinflammatory/cytotoxic mediators. Macrophage responses to LPS are mediated in large part by toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4). In the present studies we used C3H/HeJ mice, which possess a mutated nonfunctional TLR4, to examine its role in lung and liver macrophage responses to acute endotoxemia induced by LPS administration. Treatment of control C3H/HeOuJ mice with LPS (3 mg/ml, i.p.) was associated with a significant increase in the number of macrophages in both the lung and the liver. This was most prominent after 48 h, and was preceded by expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), suggesting that macrophage proliferation contributes to the response. In liver, but not lung macrophages, LPS administration resulted in a rapid (within 3 h) increase in mRNA expression of Mn superoxide dismutase (SOD) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), key enzymes in antioxidant defense. In contrast, HO-1 protein expression decreased 3 h after LPS administration in liver macrophages, while in lung macrophages it increased. mRNA expression of enzymes mediating the biosynthesis of eicosanoids, including cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-1 (mPGES-1), but not 12/15-lipoxygenase (LOX), was upregulated in liver macrophages 3-24 h after LPS, with no effect on lung macrophages. However, COX-2 protein expression increased in both cell types. Loss of functional TLR4 significantly blunted the effects of LPS. Thus, no major changes were observed after LPS administration in the number of lung and liver macrophages recovered from TLR4 mutant mice, or on expression of PCNA. Increases in HO-1, MnSOD, COX-2 and PGES-1 mRNA expression in liver macrophages were also reduced in these mice. Conversely, in lung macrophages, loss of functional TLR4 resulted in increased expression of COX-2 protein and 12/15-LOX mRNA. These results demonstrate distinct lung and liver macrophage responses to acute endotoxemia are mediated, in part, by functional TLR4.
Infiltration of a long-lasting anaesthetic is helpful during the post-operative period. The recently developed local drug delivery system, biodegradable nanoparticles in a thermo-sensitive hydrogel (nanogel system), may possibly provide an extended duration of drugs. Therefore, we evaluated whether prolonged infiltration anaesthesia could be achieved by loading lidocaine into this delivery system.
Thirty male rats were randomized into five groups of six rats each: saline; 2% hydrochloride lidocaine solution; lidocaine-loaded nanogel system and its compositing formulations, namely lido-nano gel; lido-nano; and lidogel. Durations of local anaesthesia with subcutaneously injected agents were measured by tail flick latency tests in a randomized, blind fashion.
Lido-nano gel produced effective anaesthesia for 360+/-113 min, compared with 150+/-33 min by lidogel, 180+/-37 min by lido-nano, and 110+/-45 min by lidocaine solution (P<0.001, means+/-SD), and elicited complete sensory blockade for 300+/-114 min, compared with 75+/-37 min by lidogel, 105+/-53 min by lido-nano, and 60+/-33 min by lidocaine solution (P<0.001, means+/-SD) without severe skin/systemic toxicity.
Lidocaine-loaded biodegradable nanoparticles in hydrogel produced prolonged infiltration anaesthesia in rats without severe toxicity, indicating a possible way to develop long-lasting local anaesthetics.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a reproductive and metabolic disorder associated with obesity and insulin resistance that often precedes the development of type-2 diabetes. Rats continuously exposed to dihydrotestosterone from prepuberty display typical reproductive and metabolic PCOS characteristics including anovulation, polycystic ovaries, insulin resistance, and obesity. Our aim was to investigate if resveratrol improves reproductive and metabolic functions in PCOS rats. The effect was compared to exercise. Control and PCOS rats were treated with vehicle or resveratrol (400 mg · kg(-1) · day(-1)) for 5-6 weeks. Another group of PCOS rats received vehicle treatment and exercised for 5-6 weeks. Insulin sensitivity was determined by euglycemic-hyperinsulinemic clamp. The glucose infusion rate was lower in the PCOS-vehicle group compared to control-vehicle rats (P < 0.05). Exercise increased insulin sensitivity compared with PCOS-vehicle rats (P < 0.05), but resveratrol did not. Resveratrol treatment and exercise resulted in smaller adipocytes, upregulated estrogen-related receptor α gene expression in subcutaneous fat, and improved estrus cyclicity in the previously acyclic PCOS rats. Although resveratrol had positive effects on adiposity and cyclicity in a similar manner to exercise, resveratrol does not seem to be a good candidate for treating insulin resistance associated with PCOS because no improvement in insulin sensitivity was observed in PCOS rats on normal chow.
Although the extent of chemical-induced liver injury differs substantially from individual to individual, it is very hard to identify susceptible population priori to chemical exposure. We report here that the gene expression of the blood samples collected predose might identify the susceptible population without actual exposure to hepatotoxicant. The innate gene expressions in the blood samples collected at predose were compared using whole-genome microarray analysis and semiquantitative PCR with the extent of hepatotoxicity following the treatment of a model hepatotoxicant, carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) posteriori. The expression of 18 genes was found to innately differ in the blood of the susceptible animals from the resistant to CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity. Of these 18 genes, three genes, NADH dehydrogenase subunit 6 (ND6), transient receptor potential cation channel, subfamily C, member 6 (Trpc6), and tetraspanin 12 (Tspan12), were found to be different reproducibly in real-time PCR analysis with independent sets of animals. Of particular note, animals with the low expression level of ND6 and Tspan12 showed significantly higher susceptibility to CCl(4)-induced hepatotoxicity indeed. This study demonstrated that blood gene expression profiling might identify the susceptible individuals to chemical-induced hepatotoxicity without actual chemical exposure, providing a novel and important methodology for the prevention of drug-induced hepatotoxicity.
A 70 year old woman developed a sensory-motor polyneuropathy 12 years after almost continuous treatment with hydrochloroquine for SLE. Sural nerve biopsy disclosed abundant lipid inclusions in schwann cells and vessels against a background of axonal degeneration. After cessation of therapy the patient improved moderately. This case underscores the usefulness of nerve biopsy in the study of management of patients with peripheral neuropathy associated with systemic illnesses.
The gradual or abrupt withdrawal of tranylcypromine can result in syndromes ranging in severity from mild discomfort to incapacitation. Five patients were subjected to the withdrawal of tranylcypromine. Vignettes describing the withdrawal syndrome experienced by these patients are presented. These patients suffered from severe depression or impairment of cognition in association with a reduction in their daily dose of tranylcypromine. The authors conclude that reductions in a patient's dose or the discontinuation of tranylcypromine warrant the careful supervision of a physician.
