Aminoglycosides have previously been shown to suppress nonsense mutations, allowing translation of full-length proteins in vitro and in animal models. In the mdx mouse, where muscular dystrophy is due to a nonsense mutation in the dystrophin gene, gentamicin suppressed truncation of the protein and ameliorated the phenotype. A subset of patients with Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy similarly possess a nonsense mutation, causing premature termination of dystrophin translation. Four such patients, with various stop codon sequences, were treated once daily with intravenous gentamicin at 7.5 mg/kg/day for 2 weeks. No ototoxicity or nephrotoxicity was detected. Full-length dystrophin was not detected in pre- and post-treatment muscle biopsies.
Tacrolimus is a substrate of P-glycoprotein (PGP) encoded by the multidrug resistant (MDR)1 gene (ABCB1). PGP, a multidrug efflux pump, restricts the distribution of tacrolimus in the brain. In this study, we investigate the correlation of ABCB1 gene polymorphism with tacrolimus-induced neurotoxicity in patients after liver transplantation.
The genotype of 6 patients with neurotoxic events and 11 patients without neurotoxic events was analyzed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and 8 mutations were detected. In addition to laboratory findings and patient characteristics, the contribution of mutations in the ABCB1 gene was evaluated with stepwise discriminant function analysis.
High tacrolimus concentration, liver dysfunction, and mutation at position 2677 in exon 21 were demonstrated as positive predictors of tacrolimus-induced neurotoxicity.
It is indicated that blood concentrations, liver function, graft weight, and polymorphism in the ABCB1 gene are important factors in tacrolimus-induced neurotoxicity.
Drinking arsenic-contaminated water is associated with increased risk of neoplasias of the skin, lung, bladder and possibly other sites, as well as other diseases. Earlier, we showed that human lymphoblast lines from different normal unexposed donors showed variable sensitivities to the toxic effects of arsenite. In the present study, we used microarray analysis to compare the basal gene expression profiles between two arsenite-resistant (GM02707, GM00893) and two arsenite-sensitive lymphoblast lines (GM00546, GM00607). A number of genes were differentially expressed in arsenite-sensitive and arsenite-resistant cells. Among these, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase 1 (GGT1) and NF kappa B inhibitor-epsilon (NFKBIE) showed higher expression levels in arsenite-resistant cells. RT-PCR analysis with gene-specific primers confirmed these results. Reduction of GGT1 expression level in arsenite-resistant lymphoblasts with GGT1-specific siRNA resulted in increased cell sensitivity to arsenite. In conclusion, we have demonstrated for the first time that expression levels of GGT1 and possibly NFKBIE might be useful as biomarkers of genetic susceptibility to arsenite. Expression microarrays can thus be exploited for identifying additional biomarkers of susceptibility to arsenite and to other toxicants.
Severe hypertension with arterial spasm was observed after i.v. administration of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) during uterine exploration under general anaesthesia for control of postpartum haemorrhage. This hypertension was exceptional because PGE2 is known to cause a decrease in systemic arterial pressure. Different hypotheses for this paradoxical hypertensive crisis after PGE2 administration are discussed.
1. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of ganglion blockade on blood pressure in cortisol treated human subjects. 2. Four healthy male subjects were treated with cortisol 80 mg/day for a 5-day period. Ganglion blockade was achieved by intravenous trimethaphan. 3. Ganglion blockade did not significantly alter blood pressure in the pretreatment phase or on the last day of cortisol treatment. 4. Taken together with our previous observations that sympathetic activity is unaltered or reduced by cortisol, these results suggest that cortisol induced hypertension in humans is not a result of overactivity of the autonomic nervous system.
We report about a 66-year-old-male patient who was hospitalized with generalized exanthema and increase of liver enzymes after intake of metamizole because of flue-like symptoms. Despite initial high dose steroids, disease activity persisted, and therefore liver biopsy was performed. Histology revealed acute hepatitis with perivenular non-bridging confluent necrosis and granuloma formation consistent with drug-induced hepatitis. A metamizole-induced process was suspected. Lymphocyte transformation test confirmed the sensitization of the patient's lymphocytes to metamizole and three of its four metabolites (4-methylaminoantipyrine, 4-acetylaminoantipyrine and 4-formylaminoantipyrine). Other drugs could be excluded with high probability. In the follow-up, the general condition of the patient improved, and liver enzymes decreased under treatment with steroids. Thus, we conclude that in this patient metamizole has induced an allergic reaction not only of the skin but also of the liver. To our knowledge, an allergic cholestatic hepatitis caused by metamizole has been reported only once in literature.
In this study, changes in plasma levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP) during a spontaneous-like cluster headache attack provoked by nitroglycerin were evaluated. Peptide variations after spontaneous or sumatriptan-induced remission were also assessed. Blood was collected from the external jugular vein homolateral to the pain side of 30 male cluster headache patients; 18 men were in an active and 12 in a remission one. Plasma levels of CGRP and SP were determined using sensitive radioimmunoassays for each peptide. CGRP-like immunoreactivity (CGRP-LI) was found to be augmented in patients in an active period and became elevated further at the peak of the provoked attack. A complete reversal occurred both after spontaneous and sumatriptan-induced remission. On the contrary, nitroglycerin neither provoked a cluster headache attack nor altered CGRP-LI in the patients in a remission period. The augmented levels of CGRP-LI measured before and after nitroglycerin administration, when the provoked attack reached the maximum intensity, suggest an activation of the trigeminovascular system during the active period of cluster headache. Moreover, the clinical and biochemical actions showed by sumatriptan stress the involvement of serotonin in cluster headache mechanisms.
7,12-Dimethylbenz-[a]anthracene (DMBA) is an environmental carcinogen which has a potent ovotoxic affect on rat and mouse ovaries, causing complete follicular depletion resulting in premature ovarian failure. Although the overall effects of DMBA on ovarian folliculogenesis are well known, little is known about the exact molecular mechanisms behind its ovotoxicity. In this study, we characterized the mechanisms behind DMBA-induced ovotoxicity in immature follicles. Microarray analysis of neonatal mouse ovaries exposed to DMBA in vitro revealed a multilayered mechanism of DMBA-induced neonatal ovotoxicity involving a distinct cohort of genes and ovarian signaling pathways primarily associated with follicular atresia, tumorigenesis, and follicular growth. Histomorphological and immunohistological analysis supported the microarray data, showing evidence of primordial follicle activation and preantral follicle atresia both in vitro and in vivo. Further immunohistological analysis identified increased Akt1 phosphorylation, mTOR activation, and decreased FOXO3a expression in DMBA-treated primordial oocytes. Our results reveal a novel mechanism of DMBA-induced preantral ovotoxicity involving selective immature follicle destruction and primordial follicle activation involving downstream members of the PI3K/Akt and mTOR signaling pathways.
To determine the functional development of children born after treatment of mild-to-moderate gestational hypertension with labetalol versus methyldopa, and no antihypertensive treatment.
Historical cohort study.
Twelve Dutch hospital departments of obstetrics.
Live-born children born in these hospitals and prenatally exposed to labetalol, methyldopa, or bed rest because of mild-to-moderate gestational hypertension.
Central nervous system development was measured with standard tests at 4-10 years of age. Linear regression techniques and Pearson's chi-square tests were used to compare the groups with regard to the outcome measures.
Intelligence quotient (IQ), concentration, motor development, and behaviour at primary school age.
A total of 202 children were included in the analyses. More children exposed to labetalol had attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) than those exposed to methyldopa (OR 2.3; 95% CI 0.7-7.3), or those born to women who had been admitted for bed rest (OR 4.1; 95% CI 1.2-13.9). Sleeping problems seemed to be reported more frequently after prenatal methyldopa exposure than after exposure to labetalol (OR 3.2; 95% CI 0.6-16.7) or bed rest (OR 4.5; 95% CI 0.9-23.2), although the differences were not statistically significant. Test scores on other aspects of functional development did not differ between the three groups.
In this hypothesis-generating study, labetalol exposure in utero seemed to increase the risk of ADHD among children of primary school age, whereas prenatal methyldopa exposure might influence sleep. Further studies with appropriate sample sizes are warranted to determine the long-term effects of antihypertensive medications.
Apolipoprotein E (APOE) is a major protein in lipid metabolism existing in three common isoforms: APOE2, -3 and -4. The varepsilon4 allele of the APOE gene ( APOE ) coding for the APOE4 isoform is associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction (MI) and of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recently, several polymorphisms in the APOE regulatory region have been reported. Some of these have been associated with AD and modified APOE allelic mRNA expression in AD brains. Here, we have investigated whether three of these promoter polymorphisms (-491AT, -427CT and -219GT) can also modify cardiovascular risk. The hypothesis was tested in a large multicentre case-control study of MI, the ECTIM Study, on 567 cases and 678 controls. Among the three APOE promoter polymorphisms tested, only the-219T allele was associated with a significantly increased risk of MI (OR = 1.29, 95% CI: 1.09-1.52, P < 0.003) and the effect was shown to be independent of the presence of the other mutations, including the APOE epsilon2/epsilon3/epsilon4 polymorphism. Moreover, the-219T allele greatly decreased the APOE plasma concentrations in a dose-dependent manner ( P < 0.008). These data indicate that the-219GT polymorphism of the APOE regulatory region emerges as a new genetic susceptibility risk factor for MI and constitutes another common risk factor for both neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases.
Diazoxide is commonly used in the treatment of neonatal hyperinsulinism. We describe a one month-old infant who was treated with diazoxide for prolonged neonatal hyperinsulinism. Shortly after starting diazoxide, she was admitted to the hospital for tachypnea with hypoxemia, and was subsequently diagnosed with laryngomalacia and obstructive apnea. During hospitalization, her clinical course worsened due to the development of severe pulmonary hypertension, presumed due to diazoxide toxicity. Lung biopsy revealed a probable toxic vascular drug reaction. After discontinuing diazoxide, her clinical status improved and eventually returned to baseline.
Heparin therapy in acute stroke is a controversial issue. It is uncertain, whether heparin has a therapeutic or preventive effect in the early phase of the stroke. From 1984-1989, 1095 patients with acute ischemic stroke were treated, 141 (12.9%) of whom received heparin within 3 days of stroke onset. The mean duration of heparin anticoagulation was 10 days. In 28 cases (20%), heparin was used as antithrombotic agent (25/28 patients suffered a basilar artery occlusion, of whom 22 died). In 113 cases (80%), heparin was used in embolic stroke to prevent recurrence (24% cardioembolic stroke, 54% arterio-arterial embolism, and 22% embolism of unknown etiology). The rate of recurrent stroke in the early phase was 13% with a persistent deficit in 5.3%. The results are comparable with those of other trials reported in the literature. Only 2 patients had an anticoagulation-related haemorrhage with clinical deterioration. Heparin anticoagulation in acute stroke is a low-risk therapy, but its preventive value has not yet been demonstrated.
Itraconazole, a triazole antifungal agent, has been demonstrated to act as an inhibitor of the ligand induced pregnane X receptor-mediated transcriptional regulation of the CYP3A4 gene. Here, we study the potential endogenous serum marker of CYP3A4 activity, 4beta-hydroxycholesterol, during therapy with itraconazole.
8 male patients with onychomycosis received two 1-week cycles of treatment with 400 mg itraconazole once daily in an open, prospective exploratory trial. Fasting serum samples were taken at the beginning and at the end of each cycle. The levels of cholesterol were measured using gas chromatography-flame ionization detection, while cholesterol and bile acid precursors were quantified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.
Total cholesterol decreased by 10% (p < 0.0005) during the itraconazole treatment. Concentrations of the cholesterol precursor lanosterol and 24, 25-dihydrolanosterol increased 10- and 240-fold, respectively (p < 0.001 for both). Interestingly, the ratio of serum lathosterol to cholesterol, an indicator of endogenous cholesterol synthesis downstream from lanosterol, remained unchanged. Absolute and cholesterol-corrected concentrations of 4beta-hydroxycholesterol, formed by CYP3A4-mediated oxidation, decreased significantly during both cycles, on average by 29.1% (p = 0.0006) and 20.8% (p = 0.0062), respectively. The brain-specific cholesterol metabolite 24S-hydroxycholesterol as well as its ratio to cholesterol increased by 19.7% (p = 0.0422) and 34.9% (p = 0.0013), respectively, while the concentrations of the other bile acid precursors, 7alpha-hydroxycholesterol and 27-hydroxycholesterol, remained unchanged.
In conclusion, 4beta-hydroxycholesterol appears to be a sensitive endogenous surrogate marker in human serum for inhibition of CYP3A4 by itraconazole.
Dysregulated intracellular iron homeostasis has been found not only in rodent and human hepatocellular carcinomas but also in several preneoplastic pathological states associated with hepatocarcinogenesis; however, the precise underlying mechanisms of metabolic iron disturbances in preneoplastic liver and the role of these disturbances remain unexplored. In the present study, using an in vivo model of rat hepatocarcinogenesis induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene, we found extensive alterations in cellular iron metabolism at preneoplastic stages of liver carcinogenesis. These were characterized by a substantial decrease in the levels of cytoplasmic non-heme iron in foci of initiated hepatocytes and altered expression of the major genes responsible for the proper maintenance of intracellular iron homeostasis. Gene expression analysis revealed that the decreased intracellular levels of iron in preneoplastic foci might be attributed to increased iron export from the cells, driven by upregulation of ferroportin (Fpn1), the only known non-heme iron exporter. Likewise, increased Fpn1 gene expression was found in vitro in TRL1215 rat liver cells with an acquired malignant phenotype, suggesting that upregulation of Fpn1 might be a specific feature of neoplastically transformed cells. Other changes observed in vivo included the downregulation of hepcidin (Hamp) gene, a key regulator of Fpn1, and this was accompanied by decreased levels of CCAAT/enhancer binding proteins alpha and beta, especially at the Hamp promoter. In conclusion, our results demonstrate the significance of altered intracellular iron metabolism in the progression of liver carcinogenesis and suggest that correction of these alterations could possibly affect liver cancer development.
In pentobarbital-anesthetized normotensive dogs, clonidine (20.0 micrograms/kg i.v.), in contrast to pergolide (30.0 micrograms/kg i.v.), reduced significantly both aortic blood pressure and plasma concentration of norepinephrine. However, in dogs that had been made hypertensive by sectioning the vagi and carotid sinus nerves, pergolide, like clonidine, lowered the blood pressure and plasma concentrations of epinephrine and norepinephrine that were enhanced markedly by deafferentation. Furthermore, in this preparation pergolide decreased the calculated resistance in vascular regions supplied by the upper abdominal aorta and the innervated femoral and renal arteries, but it increased vascular resistance in the denervated hind leg. Pergolide (1.0 microgram/kg) injected intracisternally (i.c.m.) induced a fall in blood pressure of comparable magnitude to that produced by a 30 times higher i.v. dose. Intravenously and i.c.m. administered pergolide lowered blood pressure by acting at distinct anatomical sites inasmuch as i.v. sulpiride blocked the effects of i.v. but not i.c.m. pergolide. The combination of sulpiride plus yohimbine injected i.c.m. was necessary to abolish the decrease in blood pressure evoked by i.c.m. pergolide. In atropinized spinal dogs, i.v. pergolide inhibited the vasoconstriction elicited by electrical stimulation of the lumbar sympathetic chain, an effect which was antagonized by sulpiride. Similarly, pergolide (30.0 micrograms/kg i.v.) like clonidine, reduced the heart rate and coronary venous plasma norepinephrine concentration raised by sustained electrical stimulation of the cardioaccelerator nerve. Sulpiride, but not phentolamine, antagonized this pergolide-induced inhibition of sympathetic nerve function. In chlorisondamine-pretreated dogs, pergolide produced a transient pressor response due to stimulation of postsynaptic vascular alpha-2 adrenoceptors. In conclusion, the failure of i.v. pergolide to decrease aortic blood pressure in pentobarbital-anesthetized normotensive dogs is presumably due to the inability of pergolide to produce a significant inhibition of the vascular sympathetic tone in this preparation. However, in neurogenic hypertensive dogs which are characterized by an elevated level of sympathetic drive, i.v. pergolide reduced blood pressure and aortic plasma norepinephrine concentration. These effects of pergolide are compatible with a DA-2 dopamine receptor stimulation on peripheral sympathetic nerve fibers. In contrast, the antihypertensive effects of i.c.m. pergolide would appear to be mediated by both alpha-2 adrenoceptors and DA-2 dopamine receptors located within the central nervous system.
The authors describe a case of optic neuropathy in a child undergoing MOPP chemotherapy for Hodgkin's disease stage IIISA. Visual acuity improved after substitution of the aforementioned regimen with ABVD chemotherapy, and reached 1 during maintenance therapy with vinblastine. Various neurologic deficits have been ascribed to vincristine, a well-known neurotoxin. This case of optic neuropathy is supposed to be a rare example of involvement of the 2nd cranial nerve due to vinca alkaloids. The absence of neurotoxicity of vinblastine in this case is emphasized.
Large brain size is one of the defining characteristics of modern humans. Seckel syndrome (MIM 210600), a disorder of markedly reduced brain and body size, is associated with defective ATR-dependent DNA damage signaling. Only a single hypomorphic mutation of ATR has been identified in this genetically heterogeneous condition. We now report that mutations in the gene encoding pericentrin (PCNT)--resulting in the loss of pericentrin from the centrosome, where it has key functions anchoring both structural and regulatory proteins--also cause Seckel syndrome. Furthermore, we find that cells of individuals with Seckel syndrome due to mutations in PCNT (PCNT-Seckel) have defects in ATR-dependent checkpoint signaling, providing the first evidence linking a structural centrosomal protein with DNA damage signaling. These findings also suggest that other known microcephaly genes implicated in either DNA repair responses or centrosomal function may act in common developmental pathways determining human brain and body size.
We identified loss-of-function mutations in ATP6V0A2, encoding the a2 subunit of the V-type H+ ATPase, in several families with autosomal recessive cutis laxa type II or wrinkly skin syndrome. The mutations result in abnormal glycosylation of serum proteins (CDG-II) and cause an impairment of Golgi trafficking in fibroblasts from affected individuals. These results indicate that the a2 subunit of the proton pump has an important role in Golgi function.
Evidence for increased plasma levels of complexes containing Gc (vitamin D-binding protein) and cellular actin has been previously reported during fulminant hepatic necrosis in man. In order to study this process in more detail, we produced liver injury in hamsters using increasing doses of acetaminophen, with serial collection of sera for up to 168 hr after acetaminophen injection. Hamster Gc was purified using a three-step procedure and was shown to resemble closely human Gc. Polyclonal antihamster Gc was prepared and used in rocket immunoelectrophoresis and radial immunodiffusion studies for quantitation of total serum Gc and the percentage of Gc complexed with actin. Serum Gc levels were depressed in animals having liver damage, and the extent of depression 42 hr after acetaminophen correlated with the extent of elevation of AST. The proportion of the total Gc that was present in the complexed form increased in relation to the severity of the liver disease. In serial studies, diminution in Gc level preceded the rise in AST and increase in the percent complexed. These changes closely resemble observations in man and suggest that the hamster-acetaminophen hepatotoxicity model may be of value in further study of interactions of Gc with intracellular actin components and its role in actin homeostasis in conditions of massive tissue necrosis.
NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1; DT-diaphorase) is elevated in certain tumors, such as non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Compounds such as mitomycin C and streptonigrin are efficiently bioactivated by NQO1 and have been used in an enzyme-directed approach to chemotherapy. Previously, 2,5-diaziridinyl-3,6-dimethyl-1,4-benzoquinone (MeDZQ) was identified as a potential antitumor agent based on its high rate of bioactivation by human NQO1 and its selective cytotoxicity to cells containing elevated NQO1. RH1, a water-soluble analogue of MeDZQ synthesized in this work, was a better substrate for recombinant human NQO1 than the parent compound. RH1 was, correspondingly, more cytotoxic to human tumor cells expressing elevated NQO1 activity (H460 NSCLC and HT29 human colon carcinoma), as measured by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2,5-diphenyl)tetrazolium assay, than it was to cells deficient in NQO1 activity (H596 NSCLC and BE human colon carcinoma). RH1 exhibited a greater selective toxicity (ratio of IC50s in H596:H460 and BE:HT29) to cells with elevated NQO1 activity relative to MeDZQ. Additionally, we report the establishment of a stable line of BE human colon carcinoma cells transfected with wild-type human NQO1 (BE-NQ7). BE cells are devoid of NQO1 activity due to a homozygous point mutation in the NQO1 gene. In comparison to the parental cell line, RH1, MeDZQ, and mitomycin C were significantly more cytotoxic to BE-NQ7 cells (17-, 7-, and 3-fold, respectively), confirming that the presence of NQO1 is sufficient to increase cytotoxicity of these antitumor quinones. These data suggest that RH1 may be an effective NQO1-directed antitumor agent for the therapy of tumors with elevated NQO1 activity, such as NSCLC.
Intracerebroventricular injections of nicardipine (10 micrograms/kg) to SHR induced hypotension which was suppressed by pretreatment with 6-OHDA. This hypotension was also inhibited by a previous injection of naloxone (100 micrograms/kg i.c.v.) whereas the hypotension induced by intravenously injected nicardipine (10 micrograms/kg) was not changed. It is suggested that the release of endogenous opioids is involved in the sympatho-inhibitory effect of centrally administered dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonists.
1,4-Dichlorobenzene is commonly used as a space deodorant in toilets and for moth control. Because of its extensive production and use and the absence of carcinogenicity data, carcinogenesis studies were conducted by administering 1,4-dichlorobenzene (greater than 99% pure) in corn oil by gavage (5 days per week) to male F344/N rats at doses of 0, 150, or 300 mg/kg and to female F344/N rats and male and female B6C3F1 mice at doses of 0, 300, or 600 mg/kg per day for 2 years (50 animals per group). Fourteen-day and 13-week studies were performed to characterize the toxicity, identify affected sites, and set doses for the 2-year studies. Clinical chemistry and hematologic studies were performed during the 13-week studies to assess the effects of 1,4-dichlorobenzene on the liver, kidney, and hematopoietic system and to assess whether the compound produced hepatic porphyria. Two 13-week studies were performed in rats. In the first study, rats were dosed with 300-1,500 mg/kg 1,4-dichlorobenzene. Because histologic changes were observed in the kidney of male rats at all doses, a second 13-week study was performed at doses of 38-600 mg/kg. In the 13-week studies, survival was decreased in groups of male rats given 1,200 or 1,500 mg/kg and in female rats given 1,500 mg/kg. Weight gain was decreased in male rats receiving doses of 300 mg/kg or more and in female rats given doses of 1,200 or 1,500 mg/kg. Doses of 1,200 or 1,500 mg/kg produced degeneration and necrosis of hepatocytes, hypoplasia of the bone marrow, lymphoid depletion of the spleen and thymus, and epithelial necrosis of the nasal turbinates in male and female rats. Renal tubular cell degeneration was observed in male rats receiving 300 mg/kg or more in the first study, but only slight changes were seen at 300 mg/kg in the second study. Liver weight to brain weight ratios were increased at 900 mg/kg or more for both male and female rats. The kidney weight to brain weight ratio was increased in male rats receiving doses of 600 mg/kg or more. Administration of 1,4-dichlorobenzene to rats for 13 weeks produced slight but statistically significant decreases in the hematocrit, red blood cell count, and hemoglobin level in all males receiving doses of 300-1,200 mg/kg. No clear hematologic changes were observed in female rats. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene produced minimal changes in clinical chemistry parameters in the 13-week studies. Serum cholesterol levels were increased by doses of 600 mg/kg or more in male rats and 900 mg/kg or more in female rats. Serum triglycerides were reduced by doses of 300 mg/kg or more in male rats. The blood urea nitrogen level was increased slightly in male rats dosed with 900 mg/kg or more. Urinary porphyrins were increased slightly in male rats administered 1,200 or 1,500 mg/kg and female rats receiving 1,200 mg/kg. However, these increases were modest and indicative of a mild porphyrinuria rather than hepatic porphyria. Liver porphyrins were not increased at any dose. Two 13-week studies were performed in mice. The doses selected for the first study were 600-1,800 mg/kg. Survival was decreased in male and female mice receiving doses of 1,500 mg/kg or more, and body weight gain was decreased at all doses. Hepatocellular degeneration was observed in both sexes at all doses, and the liver weight to brain weight ratio was increased at doses of 900 mg/kg or more. Serum cholesterol levels were increased in male mice at doses of 900 mg/kg or more, whereas serum protein and triglycerides were increased at doses of 1,500 mg/kg or more. These relatively modest clinical chemistry changes probably reflect the hepatic effects of this compound. The white blood cell count was reduced significantly in male mice receiving doses of 600 mg/kg or more and female mice receiving 1,000 mg/kg or more, but this effect was not dramatic. Hepatic porphyria was not found in mice at any dose in the 13-week study. Because hepatic effects were seen in all dose groups in the first study, a second 13-week study was performed at doses of 85-900 mg/kg. In this study, hepatocellularellular cytomegaly was observed im male and female mice at doses of 675 mg/kg or more but not at 338 mg/kg. Renal damage was not observed in mice in either 13-week study. Based on the histopathologic findings in the kidney of male rats and in the liver of both sexes of rats and mice in the 13-week studies, the doses selected for the 2-year studies were 150 and 300 mg/kg for male rats and 300 and 600 mg/kg for female rats and male and female mice. In the 2-year studies, survival of female rats and of both sexes of mice was comparable to that of the vehicle controls; survival of high dose male rats was significantly lower than that of the vehicle controls (vehicle control, 32/50; low dose, 31/50; high dose, 20/50). Mean body weights of high dose male rats were 5&percnt;-8&percnt; lower than those of vehicle controls after week 38, and those of high dose female rats were 5&percnt;-7&percnt; lower than those of vehicle controls after week 55. Mean body weights of mice dosed with 1,4-dichlorobenzene were comparable to those of vehicle controls throughout the studies. Administration of 1,4-dichlorobenzene to male rats increased the average seveity of nephropathy and caused epithelial hyperplasia of the renal pelvis (1/50; 30/50; 31/50), mineralization of the collecting tubules in the renal medulla (4/50; 46/50; 47/50), and focal hyperplasia of renal tubular epithelium (0/50; 1/50; 9/50). There were increased incidences of nephropathy in both low and high dose female rats compared with vehicle controls (21/49; 32/50; 41/49). 1,4-Dichlorobenzene produced a dose-related increase in the incidence of tubular cell adenocarcinomas of the kidney in male rats (1/50; 3/50; 7/50); one tubular cell adenoma was observed in a high dose male rat. These malignant tumors are uncommon in male F344/N rats. They have been diagnosed in only 4/1,098 (0.4&percnt;) corn oil gavage controls in previous NTP studies. There were no tubular cell tumors in dosed or vehicle control female rats. There was a marginal increase in the incidence of mononuclear cell leukemia in dosed male rats compared with that in vehicle controls (5/50; 7/50; 11/50). 1,4-Dichlorobenzene increased the incidences of nonneoplastic liver lesions in male and female mice, including alteration in cell size (cytomegaly and karyomegaly), hepatocellular degeneration, and individual cell necrosis. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene also increased the incidences of nephropathy in male mice and renal tubular regeneration in female mice. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene increased the incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas in high dose male (14/50; 11/49; 32/50) and female (5/50; 5/48; 19/50) mice and hepatocellular adenomas in dosed male (5/50; 13/49; 16/50) and high dose female (10/50; 6/48; 21/50) mice. Hepatoblastomas were observed in four high dose male mice but not in vehicle controls. This rare tumor has not occurred in 1,091 male vehicle control mice in NTP studies. An increase in thyroid gland follicular cell hyperplasia was observed in dosed male mice (1/47; 4/48; 10/47), and there was a marginal positive trend in the incidence of follicular cell adenomas of the thyroid gland in female mice (0/48; 0/45; 3/46). Pheochromocytomas (benign or malignant, combined) of the adrenal gland occurred with a positive trend in dosed male mice, and the incidence in the high dose group was significantly greater than in vehicle controls (0/47; 2/48; 4/49). The incidence of adrenal gland medullary hyperplasia in male mice was 2/47; 4/48; and 4/49. Focal hyperplasia of the adrenal gland capsule was also observed in dosed male mice (11/47;21/48; 28/49). 1,4-Dichlorobenzene was not mutagenic in Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98, TA100, TA1535, or TA1537 with or without activation by Aroclor 1254-induced male Sprague-Dawley rat or male Syrian hamster liver S9 when tested according to a preincubational protocol at concentrations up to 100 ug/plate. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene did not induce forward mutations in the mouse lymphoma L5178Y/TK&plusmn; assay in the absence of exogenous metabolic activation; however, the results were equivocal in this system in the presence of metabolic activation. 1,4-Dichlorobenzene did not produce an increase in sister-chromatid exchanges or chromosomal aberrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells in culture with or without exogenous metabolic activation. No increase in micronucleated cells was seen in erythrocytes of mice from the first 13-week studies. An audit of the experimental data was conducted for the 2-year studies of 1,4-dichlorobenzene. No data discrepancies were found that influenced the final interpretations. Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, 1,4-dichlorobenzene produced clear evidence of carcinogenicity for male F344/N rats, as shown by an increased incidence of renal tubular cell adenocarcinomas. There was no evidence of carcinogenicity for female F344/N rats receiving doses of 300 or 600 mg/kg. There was clear evidence of carcinogenicity for both male and female B6C3F1 mice, as shown by increased incidences of hepatocellular carcinomas and hepatocellular adenomas. Marginal increases were observed in the incidences of pheochromocytomas of the adrenal gland in male mice. Nonneoplastic effects in the kidney of male and female rats, in the liver of male and female mice, and in the thyroid gland and adrenal gland of male mice were also associated with the administration of 1,4-dichlorobenzene. Synonyms: p-dichlorobenzene; para-dichlorobenzene; para-chlorophenyl chloride
Polyneuropathies in patients with dermatitis herpetiformis (Duhring's disease) can be due to dapsone therapy as well as due to an associated enteropathy. Dapsone causes an axonal, purely motor neuropathy, whereas the neuropathy due to an enteropathy is mainly sensory in type. The characteristics of both neuropathies are described considering the clinical and electrophysiological findings in a patient with enteropathic neuropathy and improvement during continuous dapsone therapy.
Co-deletion of chromosomes 1p and 19q is a common event in oligodendroglial tumors (OTs), suggesting the presence of OT-related genes. The aim of this study was to identify the target genes residing in the minimally deleted regions on chromosome 1p36.31-p36.32 that might be involved in OTs. A novel gene KIAA0495/p53-dependent apoptosis modulator (PDAM) was found frequently deregulated, with 37 of 58 (63.8%) OTs examined showing reduced expression compared with normal brain. Chromosome 1p loss and epigenetic modifications were the major mechanisms contributing to PDAM downregulation. The role of PDAM in chemosensitivity was also evaluated. PDAM knockdown had no effect on sensitivity to vincristine, lomustine, temozolomide and paclitaxel, but could induce cisplatin resistance in glioma cells harboring wild-type p53. B-cell CCL/lymphoma 2 (BCL2)-like 1 (BCL2L1) exhibited significant upregulation, while BCL2 showed partial derepression in PDAM-silenced cells after cisplatin treatment, suggesting that alteration of anti-apoptotic genes contributed in part to cisplatin resistance. Knockdown of BCL2L1 abrogated the induced cisplatin-resistant phenotype. Moreover, our data suggested that PDAM might function as a non-protein-coding RNA. Collectively, these findings suggest that PDAM deregulation may play a role in OT development and that PDAM may possess the capacity to modulate apoptosis via regulation of p53-dependent anti-apoptotic genes.
Thalidomide is effective in several cutaneous diseases. Peripheral neuropathy is the most important adverse event limiting its use. Its incidence rate and its relation to thalidomide doses remain unclear. We prospectively monitored 135 patients treated with thalidomide for various dermatologic diseases for 2 y in order to estimate the annual incidence rate and risk factors for neuropathy. Patients underwent standardized neurologic examination and nerve conduction studies prior to, and regularly during treatment. Risk factors for neuropathy were assessed using a Cox proportional-hazards model. Clinical and electrophysiologic evidence of a thalidomide-induced neuropathy were present in 25.2% of the patients; however, when considering all potential cases, this rate reached 55.6%. The incidence rate was maximal during the first year of treatment (20%). The risk of neuropathy was related to the daily dose whatever the duration of treatment (p<10-3). Considering a daily dose < or =50 mg per day as reference, the relative risk for thalidomide neuropathy was 8.2 for a daily dose comprised between 50 and 75 mg per day and 20.2 for a daily dose >75 mg per day (p<10-3). No neuropathy occurred for daily doses < or =25 mg per day. The neuropathy was subclinical in nearly a quarter of patients with such an adverse event. These data confirm the high rate of thalidomide neuropathy and identify the daily dose as the main risk factor. The risk of neuropathy seems to be negligible for doses less than 25 mg per day, whatever the duration of therapy.
Mitemcinal (GM-611) is a novel erythromycin-derived prokinetic agent that acts as an agonist at the motilin receptor. We investigated the QT-prolonging effects of mitemcinal using a halothane-anesthetized canine model. Intravenous administration of mitemcinal at doses of more than 8.3 mg/kg per 10 min significantly prolonged the QT interval corrected by Fridericia's corrections. Mitemcinal exhibited a bradycardiac effect and produced significantly greater prolongation in monophasic action potential duration (MAP(90)) at sinus rhythm compared with MAP(90) at pacing and showed reverse use-dependent prolongation of repolarization, suggesting that the negative chronotropic effect of mitemcinal potentiates the prolongation of the repolarization period. A technique using MAP/pacing electrodes allowed measurements of both MAP(90) and effective refractory period (ERP) simultaneously at the same ventricular site. Although mitemcinal slightly prolonged the MAP(90(CL400)) and ERP in comparison with the control group at the dose of 25 mg/kg per 10 min, the terminal repolarization period, the difference between MAP(90(CL400)) and ERP, did not increase suggesting the absence of a proarrhythmic effect even with a 7000-fold for the therapeutic blood concentration as free level. The electrophysiological results from mitemcinal in this study indicate that the risk of serious arrhythmia such as torsades de pointes, a major clinical concern related to QT interval prolongation, might be low.
Benzene ranks 16th in production volume for chemicals produced in the United States, with approximately 9.9 billion pounds being produced in 1984, 9.1 billion pounds in 1983, and 7.8 billion pounds in 1982. This simplest aromatic chemical in used in the synthesis of styrene (polystyrene plastics and synthetic rubber), phenol (phenolic resins), cyclohexane (nylon), aniline, maleic anhydride (polyester resins), alkylbenzenes (detergents), chlorobenzenes, and other products used in the production of drugs, dyes, insecticides, and plastics. Benzene, along with other light, high-octane aromatic hydrocarbons, such as toluene and xylenes, is a component of motor gasoline. Benzene is also used as a solvent, but for most applications, it has been replaced by less hazardous solvents. During the 17-week studies, groups of 10 or 15 male and female F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice were gavaged 5 days per week with benzene in corn oil (5 ml/kg) at doses of 0 to 600 mg/kg. No benzene-related deaths occurred; in rats that received benzene, final mean body weights were 14%-22% lower compared with vehicle controls and in mice, slight dose-related reductions were observed (less than 10% differences). Doses for the 2-year studies were selected based on clinical observations (tremors in higher dosed mice), on clinical pathologic findings (lymphoid depletion in rats and leukopenia in mice), and on body weight effects. Two-year toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of benzene (greater than 99.7% pure) were conducted in groups of 50 F344/N rats and 50 B6C3F1 mice of each sex and for each dose. Doses of 0, 50, 100, or 200 mg/kg body weight benzene in corn oil (5 ml/kg) were administered by gavage to male rats, 5 days per week, for 103 weeks. Doses of 0, 25, 50, or 100 mg/kg benzene in corn oil were administered by gavage to female rats and to male and female mice for 103 weeks. Ten additional animals in each of the 16 groups were killed at 12 months and necropsies were performed. Hematologic profiles were performed at 3-month intervals. These studies were designed and conducted because of large production volume and potential human exposure, because of the epidemiologic association with leukemia, and because previous experiments were considered inadequate or inconclusive for determining potential carcinogenicity in laboratory animals. In the 2-year studies, mean body weights of the 200 mg/kg male rats (-23%) and the 100 mg/kg mice (-14% to -19%) were lower than those of the vehicle controls, and survival of dosed groups decreased with increasing dose (rats--male: vehicle control, 32/50; low dose, 29/50; mid dose, 25/50; high dose, 16/50; female: 46/50; 38/50; 34/50; 25/50; mice--male: 28/50; 23/50; 18/50; 7/50; female: 30/50; 26/50; 24/50; 18/50). At week 92 for rats and week 91 for mice, survival was greater than 60% in all groups; most of the dosed animals that died before week 103 had neoplasia. Compound-related nonneoplastic or neoplastic effects on the hematopoietic system, Zymbal gland, forestomach, and adrenal gland were found both for rats and mice. Further, the oral cavity was affected in rats, and the lung, liver, harderian gland, preputial gland, ovary, and mammary gland were affected in mice. Significantly increased (P<0.05) incidences of neoplasms were observed at multiple sites for male and female rats and for male and female mice. Primary neoplasms observed in rats and mice are summarized in Table 1 (see page 12 of the Technical Report). Hematologic data from vehicle control and dosed rats and mice were obtained at 3-month intervals from 0 to 24 months. Reliably identifiable hematologic effects were limited to lymphocytopenia and associated leukocytopenia in benzene-dosed rats and mice. These effects were seen from 3 to 18 months in dosed male rats and in dosed male mice; a similar but less pronounced response was observed in dosed female rats during this same time period. The effect in female mice was limited to 12-18 months. The technical quality of certain of these data was questionable; thus, more detailed analyses (e.g., investig questionable; thus, more detailed analyses (e.g., investigation of the association between hematologic and pathologic changes) are deemed inappropriate for these data. Benzene increased the frequency of micronucleated normchromatic peripheral erythrocytes in male and female mice (rats were not examined); males were more sensitive than females. The hematopoietic system of rats and mice of each sex was affected by benzene in the 2-year studies. The incidences of malignant lymphomas in all dosed groups of mice were greater than those in the vehicle controls (male: 4/49; 9/48; 9/50; 15/49; female: 15/49; 24/45; 24/50; 20/49). Lymphoid depletion of the splenic follicles (rats) and thymus (male rats) was observed at increased incidences. Bone marrow hematopoietic hyperplasia was observed at increased incidences in dosed mice of each sex (male: 0/49; 11/48; 10/50; 25/49; female: 3/49; 14/45; 8/50; 13/49). The incidences of Zymbal gland carcinomas in mid and high dose male rats and in dosed female rats were greater than those in the vehicle controls (male: 2/32; 6/46; 10/42; 17/42; female: 0/45; 5/40; 5/44; 14/46). The incidences of Zymbal gland carcinomas in mid and high dose male mice and in high dose female mice were greater than those in the vehicle controls (male: 0/43; 1/34; 4/40; 21/39; female: 0/43; 0/32; 1/37; 3/31). In mid and high dose male mice and in high dose female mice, the incidences of epithelial hyperplasia of the Zymbal gland were also increased (male: 0/43; 3/34; 12/40; 10/39; female: 1/43; 1/32; 2/37; 6/31). Hyperplasia of the adrenal capsule was observed at increased incidences in dosed mice of each sex (male: 2/47; 32/48; 14/49; 4/46; female: 5/49; 19/44; 34/50; 30/48). The incidence of pheochromocytomas in mid dose male mice was greater than that in the vehicle controls (male: 1/47; 1/48; 7/49; 1/46), whereas the incidences in dosed female mice were lower than that in the vehicle controls (female: 6/49; 1/44; 1/50; 1/48). Hyperplasia of the zona fasciculata of the adrenal cortex was observed at increased incidences in low dose rats of each sex (male: 0/50; 13/49; 0/48; 2/49; female: 0/50; 17/50; 0/47; 0/49). Benzene was associated with increased incidences of neoplasms of the skin and oral cavity of rats. The incidences of squamous cell papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin in high dose male rats were greater than those in the vehicle controls (squamous cell papilloma: 0/50; 2/50; 1/50; 5/50; squamous cell carcinoma: 0/50; 5/50; 3/50; 8/50). Increased incidences of uncommon squamous cell papillomas or squamous cell carcinomas (combined) of the oral cavity were observed in dosed male and female rats (male: 1/50; 9/50; 16/50; 19/50; female: 1/50; 5/50; 12/50; 9/50). Incidences of squamous cell papillomas or carcinomas (combined) (male: 2/45; 2/42; 3/44; 5/38; female: 1/42; 3/40; 6/45; 5/42), hyperkeratosis, and epithelial hyperplasia of the forestomach were increased in some dosed groups of male and female mice; incidences of hyperkeratosis and acanthosis were increased in high dose male rats. Compound-related effects in the lung, harderian gland, preputial gland, ovary, mammary gland, and liver were seen in mice but not in rats. Administration of benzene was associated with increased incidences of alveolar epithelial hyperplasia in mid and high dose mice (male: 2/49; 3/48; 7/50; 10/49; female: 1/49; 1/42; 9/50; 6/49). Increased incidences of alveolar/bronchiolar carcinomas and alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas or carcinomas (combined) were observed in high dose male mice (carcinomas: 5/49; 11/48; 12/50; 14/49; adenomas or carcinomas: 10/49; 16/48; 19/50; 21/49). Alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas were seen at increased incidences in high dose female mice (4/49; 2/42; 5/50; 9/49), as were alveolar/bronchiolar carcinomas (0/49; 3/42; 6/50; 6/49) and alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas or carcinomas combined (4/49; 5/42; 10/50; 13/49) in mid and high dose female mice. The incidences of focal or diffuse hyperplasia of the harderian gland were increased in dosed mice of each sex (male: 0/49; 5/46; 11/49; 7/48; female: 6/48; 10/44; 11/50; 10/47). The incidences of harderian gland adenomas (0/49; 9/46; 13/49; 11/48) in dosed male mice were greater than that in the vehicle controls. A marginal increase in the incidence of adenomas or carcinomas (combined) of the harderian gland was seen in high dose female mice (5/48; 6/44; 10/50; 10/47). The administration of benzene to male mice was associated with increased incidences of hyperplasia (1/21; 18/28; 9/29; 1/35) and squamous cell carcinomas (0/21; 3/28; 18/29; 28/35) of the preputial gland. Increased incidences of mammary gland carcinomas were found in mid dose and high dose female mice (0/49; 2/45; 5/50; 10/49) and carcinosarcomas in high dose female mice (0/49; 0/45; 1/50; 4/49). Increased incidences of various uncommon neoplastic and nonneoplastic lesions of the ovary (papillary cystadenoma, luteoma, granulosa cell tumor, tubular adenoma, benign mixed tumor, epithelial hyperplasia, and senile atrophy) were associated with the administration of benzene to female mice. In mid and high dose female mice, the incidences of granulosa cell tumors (1/47; 1/44; 6/49; 7/48) and benign mixed tumors (0/47; 1/44; 12/49; 7/48) were greater than those in the vehicle controls. Increased incidences of hepatocellular adenomas were observed in low dose female mice (1/49; 8/44; 5/50; 4/49) and hepatocellular adenomas or carcinomas (combined) in low dose and mid dose female mice (4/49; 12/44; 13/50; 7/49). An audit of the experimental data was conducted for these 2-year carcinogenesis studies on benzene. No data discrepancies were found that influenced the final interpretations. Under the conditions of these 2-year gavage studies, there was clear evidence of carcinogenicity of benzene for male F344/N rats, for female F344/N rats, for male B6C3F1 mice, and for female B6C3F1 mice. For male rats, benzene caused increased incidences of Zymbal gland carcinomas, squamous cell papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity, and squamous cell papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the skin. For female rats, benzene caused increased incidences of Zymbal gland carcinomas and squamous cell papillomas and squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity. For male mice, benzene caused increased incidences of Zymbal gland squamous cell carcinomas, malignant lymphomas, alveolar/bronchiolar carcinomas and alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas or carcinomas (combined), harderian gland adenomas, and squamous cell carcinomas of the preputial gland. For female mice, benzene caused increased incidences of malignant lymphomas, ovarian granulosa cell tumors, ovarian benign mixed tumors, carcinomas and carcinosarcomas of the mammary gland, alveolar/bronchiolar adenomas, alveolar/bronchiolar carcinomas, and Zymbal gland squamous cell carcinomas. Dose-related lymphocytopenia was observed for male and female F344/N rats and male and female B6C3F1 mice. Synonyms: benzol, cyclohexatriene, pyrobenzol
1. Plasma levels of propranolol were measured fluorometrically in patients with angina pectoris and in patients admitted to the Coronary Care Unit with acute myocardial infarction. 2. In thirty patients with stable angina pectoris, plasma propranolol levels varied almost linearly with doses between 10 and 120 mg during 6-hourly chronic oral administration. Plasma levels greater than 100 ng/ml produced 70-80% reduction in the tachycardia induced by strenous exercise on a treadmill. 3. In nineteen patients with acute myocardial infarction given oral propranolol, 20 mg 6-hourly, peak as well as trough plasma levels of the drug increased progressively but remained below 100 ng/ml in all except two patients during the first 24 h after their admission to the Coronary Care Unit. 4. The data suggest that the use of low and fixed doses of propranolol may not produce adequate plasma levels or significant beta-adrenoceptor blockade in the early stages of acute myocardial infarction in man.
