Fluoxetine is associated with substantial objective and subjective sleep disturbance in adults with major depressive disorders. In this preliminary report, the effects of fluoxetine on sleep electroencephologram (EEG) are described in 6 children and adolescents with nonpsychotic major depression. Fluoxetine increased light Stage 1 sleep, the number of arousals and rapid eye movement (REM) density. REM latency was largely unaffected. Oculomotor abnormalities were also evident on treatment, accompanied by an increase in myoclonic activity. Subjective sleep was also disturbed on treatment. These results are in keeping with those observed in depressed adults treated with fluoxetine.
In the present study, we tested whether or not acute antioxidant treatment with vitamin C is able to protect the heart during myocardial infarction. The effects of vitamin C on the autonomic balancing of the heart and on the histopathological and immunohistochemical changes in response to isoproterenol administration (ISO) were evaluated.
Four groups of male Wistar rats (n = 32) were studied: control; ISO treated; vitamin C treated; ISO + vitamin C treated. ISO 150 mg/kg was administered for 2 consecutive days. Vitamin C (250 mg/kg, oral) was administered 30 min before each ISO treatment. Phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside were administrated to increase or decrease blood pressure in conscious rats.
The baroreceptor reflex index for bradycardia was significantly reduced in the ISO group (control, -3.4 +/- 0.3 beats/mm Hg; ISO -2 +/- 0.4 beats/mm Hg) and vitamin C treatment significantly improved the reflex index (-2.9 +/- 0.7 beats/mm Hg). Treatment with vitamin C showed mild degenerative changes in the myocardial tissue of the ISO group. The antioxidant was able to decrease the inducible nitric oxide (iNOS) expression in rats treated with vitamin C.
Vitamin C administration proved to be effective in reducing the extent of myocardial damage during ISO-induced myocardial infarction in rats associated with an iNOS downregulation and improving the autonomic balancing of the heart.
The MITO-2 (Multicentre Italian Trials in Ovarian cancer) study is a randomized phase III trial comparing carboplatin plus paclitaxel to carboplatin plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in first-line chemotherapy of patients with ovarian cancer. Due to the paucity of published phase I data on the 3-weekly experimental schedule used, an early safety analysis was planned.
Patients with ovarian cancer (stage Ic-IV), aged < 75 years, ECOG performance status <or= 2, were randomized to carboplatin AUC 5 plus paclitaxel 175 mg/m2, every 3 weeks or to carboplatin AUC 5 plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin 30 mg/m2, every 3 weeks. Treatment was planned for 6 cycles. Toxicity was coded according to the NCI-CTC version 2.0.
The pre-planned safety analysis was performed in July 2004. Data from the first 50 patients treated with carboplatin plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin were evaluated. Median age was 60 years (range 34-75). Forty-three patients (86%) completed 6 cycles. Two thirds of the patients had at least one cycle delayed due to toxicity, but 63% of the cycles were administered on time. In most cases the reason for chemotherapy delay was neutropenia or other hematological toxicity. No delay due to palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE) was recorded. No toxic death was recorded. Reported hematological toxicities were: grade (G) 3 anemia 16%, G3/G4 neutropenia 36% and 10% respectively, G3/4 thrombocytopenia 22% and 4% respectively. Non-haematological toxicity was infrequent: pulmonary G1 6%, heart rhythm G1 4%, liver toxicity G1 6%, G2 4% and G3 2%. Complete hair loss was reported in 6% of patients, and G1 neuropathy in 2%. PPE was recorded in 14% of the cases (G1 10%, G2 2%, G3 2%).
This safety analysis shows that the adopted schedule of carboplatin plus pegylated liposomal doxorubicin given every 3 weeks is feasible as first line treatment in ovarian cancer patients, although 37% of the cycles were delayed due to haematological toxicity. Toxicities that are common with standard combination of carboplatin plus paclitaxel (neurotoxicity and hair loss) are infrequent with this experimental schedule, and skin toxicity appears manageable.
To determine the most effective combination chemotherapy with S-1 against pancreatic cancer and to clarify the mechanism of synergy between S-1 and the partner drug.
We tested a combination of S-1 with the following antitumor drugs in an in vitro MTT assay against pancreatic cancer cell line MIA PaCa-2: gemcitabine (GEM), cisplatin (CDDP), irinotecan (CPT-11), mitomycin C, adriamycin, and paclitaxel. The efficacy of S-1, GEM, and a combination of S-1 and GEM was also tested in vivo by administering S-1 (10 mg/kg) orally to nude mice five times a week for 3 weeks, and GEM (100 mg/kg) intravenously every 2-3 days for a total of six times. A treated-to-control ratio (T/C) of relative mean tumor weight values less than 50% was determined to be effective. Furthermore, we investigated the mechanism of the synergistic effect of S-1 and GEM on the cell cycle by flow cytometry, because both S-1 and GEM are known as antimetabolic drugs. To verify cell death induced by a change in the distribution of the cell cycle phases, we investigated apoptosis by sub-G1 analysis and a TUNEL assay.
From classical isobolography analysis of the in vitro MTT assay, the combination of S-1 plus GEM was found to be the most effective of the combinations tested. In vivo, T/C (percentage) with the combination of S-1 plus GEM was 48.2%, which was lower than that of S-1 or GEM alone, and the combination enhanced antitumor activity. Cell cycle analysis showed greater cell cycle delay with the combination treatment (S-1 plus GEM) than for each single drug treatment, and apoptotic cells were detected only in treatments including GEM.
The combination chemotherapy of S-1 and GEM appears to be useful for pancreatic cancer. Both cycle delay by S-1 plus GEM and apoptosis induced by GEM are involved in this synergistic mechanism.
Gentamicin and tobramycin were compared for cost effectiveness in the treatment of adult patients with serious infections in a general medical service. We used data from a randomized double-blind trial in which the only observed difference between the clinical effects of these aminoglycosides was the incidence of nephrotoxicity (26% with gentamicin and 12% with tobramycin). According to 1984 cost data, the combined average drug and nephrotoxicity costs per patient were $127 for tobramycin and $72 for gentamicin. An extensive sensitivity analysis--varying frequency and cost of nephrotoxicity, dialysis requirements, aminoglycoside acquisition costs, and length of hospitalization--showed gentamicin to be more cost effective than tobramycin, unless hospitalization is prolonged by an average of at least 15 days for patients with severe nephrotoxicity or at least 3 days for all patients with moderate or severe nephrotoxicity.
The value of prophylactic antibiotics in fracture surgery was studied in a series of 90 patients with open fractures of various bones and 180 patients with closed malleolar fractures treated by open surgery. Dicloxacillin and benzyl penicillin were compared to saline (placebo). The soft tissue lesions of the open fractures were divided into Grade I wounds and Grade II & III wounds. Of the patients with Grade I wounds, 17 received dicloxacillin, 21 benzyl penicillin and 17 saline. No major infections occurred. Twelve patients with Grade II & III wounds were treated with dicloxacillin, 10 with benzyl penicillin and 13 with saline. In the saline group, 2 patients developed a deep infection. Fifty-eight patients with closed malleolar fractures received dicloxacillin, 59 benzyl penicillin and 63 saline. Two infections developed in the placebo group. A statistically significant difference was found between the number of infections in the antibiotic groups and the number in the placebo group. Superficial thromboplebitis following the antibiotic infusion occurred in 16 per cent of the dicloxacillin treated patients and in 1 per cent of those treated with benzyl penicillin or placebo.
The anthracyclines daunorubicin and doxorubicin and the epipodophyllotoxin etoposide are potent DNA cleavage-enhancing drugs that are widely used in clinical oncology; however, myelosuppression and cardiac toxicity limit their use. Dexrazoxane (ICRF-187) is recommended for protection against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
Because of their widespread use, the hematologic toxicity following coadministration of dexrazoxane and these three structurally different DNA cleavage enhancers was investigated: Sensitivity of human and murine blood progenitor cells to etoposide, daunorubicin, and doxorubicin +/- dexrazoxane was determined in granulocyte-macrophage colony forming assays. Likewise, in vivo, B6D2F1 mice were treated with etoposide, daunorubicin, and doxorubicin, with or without dexrazoxane over a wide range of doses: posttreatment, a full hematologic evaluation was done.
Nontoxic doses of dexrazoxane reduced myelosuppression and weight loss from daunorubicin and etoposide in mice and antagonized their antiproliferative effects in the colony assay; however, dexrazoxane neither reduced myelosuppression, weight loss, nor the in vitro cytotoxicity from doxorubicin.
Although our findings support the observation that dexrazoxane reduces neither hematologic activity nor antitumor activity from doxorubicin clinically, the potent antagonism of daunorubicin activity raises concern; a possible interference with anticancer efficacy certainly would call for renewed attention. Our data also suggest that significant etoposide dose escalation is perhaps possible by the use of dexrazoxane. Clinical trials in patients with brain metastases combining dexrazoxane and high doses of etoposide is ongoing with the aim of improving efficacy without aggravating hematologic toxicity. If successful, this represents an exciting mechanism for pharmacologic regulation of side effects from cytotoxic chemotherapy.
A 37 year old female with acute renal failure following malignant hypertension and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia as a side effect of oral contraceptives is reported as a first from Japan. Although she had enough medical treatment including hemodialysis for 2 years from the onset of symptoms, the complete remission did not occur due to severe narrowing of the small renal arteries. 3 interval biopsies revealed considerable myxoid intimal thickening of small arcuated and interlobular arteries without evident histological regression. No fibrinoid necrosis is present in arterioles. Glomeruli show a wrinkling of GBM with a partial mesangial interposition and a translucent subendothelial deposit. A year after onset, both kidneys contracted slightly. Platelet factors which were probably released during the hemolytic uremic state in the kidney may play an important role in severe myxoid intimal thickening of the small renal arteries. (author's)
From April 1982 through February 1984, 29 patients with pancreatic cancer were treated with ifosfamide (1.25-1.5 g/m2 on days 1-5) + N-acetylcysteine (NAC) 2 g p.o. every 6 h on days 1-7 every 3 weeks. In responding patients without serious toxicity, subsequent courses of ifosfamide were escalated every 3 weeks by 0.25 g/m2 per day to a maximum of 2 g/m2 per day, with escalation of NAC to 12 g/day. Patients with KPS less than 50, serum creatinine or bilirubin greater than 2 mg/d 1, or obstructive uropathy were ineligible. The median age was 54 (range 36-78), median KPS 70, and median pretreatment weight loss 9 kg. Toxicity included nausea, vomiting, moderate myelosuppression, and occasional mental confusion. Hematuria (greater than 11 RBC/HPF) developed in only 1/29 courses (17 patients) of ifosfamide at greater than or equal to 1.75 g/m2 per day, and in 7/52 courses (27 patients) overall (13%). Of 27 evaluable patients 6 responded (22%), including 1 with complete response. The median survival was 6 months. Based upon these results, we are currently evaluating ifosfamide + 5-fluorouracil in pancreatic cancer.
In an effort to develop new methods for preventing side effects of chemotherapy, the authors initiated studies to determine whether Adriamycin (doxorubicin) inhibits the metabolism of riboflavin (vitamin B2). Adriamycin has been shown to form a 1:1 stoichiometric complex with riboflavin, as well as to compete for binding to tissue proteins. Adult rats treated with Adriamycin in clinically relevant doses were compared to control animals in ability to convert riboflavin into flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD), the active flavin coenzyme derivative, in heart, skeletal muscle, liver, and kidney. Rats treated with Adriamycin exhibited diminished formation of carbon 14 (14C)FAD in skeletal muscle to nearly 50% that of controls, and in heart to about 70% to 80% of controls. Under these conditions, (14C)FAD formation in liver and kidney was largely unaffected by Adriamycin. In preliminary studies, riboflavin-deficient animals treated with Adriamycin had accelerated mortality rates compared to those of food restricted controls treated with similar doses of Adriamycin. The data as a whole suggest a potential mechanism for Adriamycin-induced cardiac and skeletal myopathy, i.e., inhibition of synthesis of FAD, a flavin coenzyme which is involved in electron transport, lipid metabolism, and energy generation. These findings in an animal model raise the possibility that defects of riboflavin nutriture, either dietary or drug-induced, may be a determinant of Adriamycin toxicity. Further studies are required to explore the potential for preventing side effects due to Adriamycin by administration of this vitamin.
This study examined the association between prenatal cocaine exposure (PCE) and autonomic regulation at 13 months of age.
Measures of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) were obtained from 156 (79 exposed, and 77 nonexposed) infants during baseline and during tasks designed to elicit positive (PA) and negative affect (NA).
There was a significant suppression of RSA during the negative affect task for nonexposed infants but not for exposed infants. Maternal symptoms of depression or anxiety (MDA) did not mediate this association. However, gender and MDA did moderate this association such that exposed boys and exposed infants whose mothers had higher levels of MDA had an increase in RSA during a task designed to elicit NA rather than the typical pattern of RSA suppression.
These results suggest that there are several possible pathways from PCE to physiological dysregulation during late infancy.
Alterations in glomerular permeability were studied in Adriamycin-induced proteinuria in rats by measuring fractional clearances (C/GFR) of uncharged labeled dextrans of varying molecular radii (ae) and of anionic, native, and cationic horseradish peroxidases (HRP) in experimental and control animals. Experimental animals were studied between days 14 and 55 after a single intravenous dose of Adriamycin (doxorubicin), 7.5 mg/kg. Mean proteinuria in the experimental animals was 98 mg/24 hr. Glomerular morphology showed few changes except for epithelial cell swelling, vacuolization, and foot process obliteration, and a significant reduction of glomerular colloidal iron staining. Polyethyleneimine staining revealed a similar distribution of anionic sites in the laminae rarae interna and externa in proteinuric rats as compared with controls. Inulin clearances revealed reduction in GFR and RPF of 20 and 15%, respectively. Dextran C/GFR values showed in experimental animals a size defect for molecules with an ae exceeding 40 A, with a four- to fivefold increase over the values found in control animals for dextrans with ae of 58 and 60 A. The peroxidase clearances showed a slight increase in C/GFR of anionic HRP in experimental animals, as could be expected on the basis of the sieving defect, whereas the C/GFR values for native and cationic HRP were virtually unchanged, indicating an intact functional charge barrier in the proteinuric animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Folic acid (pteroyl-L-glutamine acid, PGA), when injected into the rat striatum, has the kainic acid (KA) property of inducing sustained seizures and a disseminated pattern of distant brain damage, but lacks the KA property of destroying neurons locally at the injection site. This suggests the interesting possibility that one component of KA neurotoxicity (seizure-related distant damage) may involve interaction with a folate system. Folates are promising tools for exploring the neurotoxic properties of KA and, more importantly, for studying mechanisms of epilepsy and epileptic brain damage.
The use of usnic acid and usnic acid-containing products is associated with acute liver failure; however, mechanistic studies of hepatotoxicity caused by usnic acid are limited. In this study, we investigated and characterized the possible mechanisms, especially the role of autophagy in usnic acid's toxicity in human HepG2 cells. Usnic acid caused apoptosis as demonstrated by an increased caspase-3/7 activity and an increased subdiploid nucleus formation. Usnic acid-induced autophagy as demonstrated by the conversion of LC3B-I to LC3B-II, degradation of P62, and an increased number of puncta. Inhibition of autophagy by treating cells with autophagy inhibitors (3-methyladenine or chloroquine) or by small interfering RNA against Atg7 aggravated usnic acid-induced apoptosis and decreased cell viability, indicating that autophagy plays a protective role against usnic acid-induced toxicity. Moreover, usnic acid activated the MAPK signaling pathway. Usnic acid-elicited apoptosis was enhanced and autophagy was decreased when JNK was suppressed by a specific inhibitor. Additionally, inhibition of autophagy decreased the activity of JNK. Taken together, our results suggest that usnic acid perturbs various interrelated signaling pathways and that autophagy induction is a defensive mechanism against usnic acid-induced cytotoxicity.
A 36 year old man with chronic hepatitis B and cirrhosis was admitted in our Department for the onset of jaundice, ascites and ALT flare (x 35 u.n.v.) while under lamivudine treatment. Serum HBV-DNA was 1.48 x 10(6) IU/ml and lamivudine (LAM) resistance mutations were present. Tenofovir (TDF) 300 mg/day was added to LAM after its off-label use was authorised. HBV-DNA decreased in a biphasic manner and became undetectable by day 45. A parallel improvement in ALT and bilirubin values was detected. Tenofovir was substituted with adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg/day. Ten months after this switch HBV-DNA remained undetectable. Tenofovir is an effective salvage therapy for critically ill patients with LAM-resistant HBV flares and can be switched to adefovir after HBV-DNA becomes undetectable. Local cost and reimbursement policies are important determinants in antiviral therapy.
Amikacin is principally used to treat infections caused by microorganisms resistant to other aminoglycosides. Ototoxicity is one of the side effects of amikacin, but the causative mechanism of damage to the ear has not been fully established. Thus, the aim of this work was to examine the impact of amikacin on the melanogenesis and antioxidant defense system in cultured human normal melanocytes (HEMa-LP). Amikacin induced the concentration - dependent loss in melanocytes viability. The value of EC50 was determined to be ~7.5 mM. The analyzed antibiotic inhibited melanin biosynthesis in concentration-dependent manner. Increasing the amikacin concentration also resulted in a decrease in cellular tyrosinase activity. To study the antioxidant defense system in melanocytes, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT) and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) in cells exposed to amikacin were determined. Significant changes in cellular antioxidant enzymes activities were observed. Modulation of melanogenesis and the antioxidant status of melanocytes resulting from the use of amikacin in vitro may explain a potential role of melanin and melanocytes in the mechanisms of aminoglycosides ototoxic effects in vivo.
Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (Doxil, Caelyx) is a formulation of doxorubicin in poly(ethylene glycol)-coated (stealth) liposomes with a prolonged circulation time and unique toxicity profile. We review the preclinical and clinical pharmacology as well as recent clinical data obtained in specific cancer types. Doxil liposomes retain the drug payload during circulation and accumulate preferentially in tissues with increased microvascular permeability, as often is the case of tumors. Doxil toxicity profile is drastically different from that of doxorubicin, and is characterized by dominant and dose-limiting mucocutaneous toxicities, mild myelosuppression, minimal alopecia, and no apparent cardiac toxicity. Although the single maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Doxil is actually lower than that of conventionally administered doxorubicin, the cumulative MTD dose of Doxil may be substantially greater than that of free doxorubicin. Doxil is probably one of the most active agents in AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma and has a definite role in management of recurrent ovarian cancer. The potential of Doxil in the treatment of other cancer types and the opportunities it offers in combination with other drugs and therapeutic modalities are under active investigation.
The author presents a case of a 52-year old woman who suffered from dermatitis seborrhoica. She was treated with chloroquine. During the third month of treatment with chloroquine the symptoms of myasthenia appeared and led to hospitalization. The neurological and additional examinations confirmed the diagnosis. Four days after withdrawal of chloroquine treatment the myasthenic symptoms began to disappear and they finally ceased after two weeks. At this all other drugs were also withdrawn. The control examination after two months showed normal neurological status.
A sprightly 79-year-old woman was treated for high blood pressure with indapamide (2.5 mg/day) and the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor lisinopril (5 mg/day). About 12 months after starting treatment a blood count carried out because of a syncopal attack revealed pancytopenia (haemoglobin 3.3 g/dl, erythrocytes 1.0 x 10(6)/microliters, leucocytes 1100/microliters, platelets 8000/microliters). Until then the blood count had been unremarkable. The bone marrow showed severe hypoplasia of all three cell lines with reactive plasmocytosis. Malignant cells were not present. The patient received a total of nine units of erythrocytes and seven units of platelets. Her care included reverse barrier nursing and antibiotic treatment. She was also given high dose steroid therapy (methylprednisone up to 150 mg/day) and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (filgrastim 300 micrograms/day subcutaneously for 25 days), and after a latent period of several weeks juvenile myeloid precursors reappeared in the blood. Before discharge from hospital the results rose to subnormal levels without further transfusions (haemoglobin 8.5/dl, erythrocytes 3.1 x 10(6)/microliters, leucocytes 3900/microliters, platelets 21.000/microliters). In the bone marrow, all three cell lines were beginning to recover. The final diagnosis was incompletely reversible pancytopenia resulting from secondary aplastic anaemia during ACE inhibitor therapy.
The effect of ranitidine administration upon the hepatotoxic effect produced by a multidose acetaminophen administration regimen was examined. Seventy-two dogs received three subcutaneous injections of acetaminophen (750, 200, 200 mg/kg body wt) in DMSO (600 mg/ml) at time zero, 9 hr later, and 24 hr after the first dose. Ten control animals (group I) were not given ranitidine, the remaining 62 dogs received an intramuscular injection of ranitidine 30 min before each acetaminophen dose. Three different doses of ranitidine were used (mg/kg body wt): 50 mg, group II (33 dogs); 75 mg, group III (14 dogs); 120 mg, group IV (15 dogs). Ranitidine reduced the expected acetaminophen-induced hepatoxicity in a dose-response manner. Moreover, a significant correlation was found between the ranitidine dose and the survival rate, as evidenced by transaminase levels in the serum and histology of the liver. This model of fulminant hepatic failure induced by acetaminophen and its modulation with ranitidine provides clinical investigators with a research tool that will be useful in the future investigation of putative medical and surgical therapies being investigated for use in the clinical management of fulminant hepatic failure. Because of the size of the animal used in this model, frequent and serial analyses of blood and liver were available for study to determine the effect of therapy within a given animal as opposed to within groups of animals.
Amines have potential to be used in CO2 capture and storage (CCS) technology, but as they can be released into the environment and be degraded into more toxic compounds, such as nitrosamines and nitramines, there have been concerns about their negative impact on human health. We investigated the potential toxic effects from acute exposure to dimethylnitramine (DMA-NO2), methylnitramine (MA-NO2), ethanolnitramine (MEA-NO2) and 2-methyl-2-(nitroamino)-1-propanol (AMP-NO2). The eye irritation, and skin sensitization, irritation and corrosion potential of these substances have been evaluated in vitro using the Bovine Corneal Opacity and Permeability (BCOP) assay, VITOSENS® assay, Reconstructed Human Epidermis (RHE) skin irritation test and Corrositex Skin corrosion test, respectively. Exposure to DMA-NO2 induced a mild eye irritation response, while MA-NO2, MEA-NO2 and AMP-NO2 were shown to be very severe eye irritants. MA-NO2 and MEA-NO2 were tested for skin sensitization and found to be non-sensitizers to the skin. In addition, none of the four test substances was irritant or corrosive to the skin.
1. We have shown previously that the chronic hypotensive effect of the angiotensin II AT1 receptor antagonist losartan is mediated, in part, by the subfornical organ (SFO). However, the neural pathway(s) mediating this central effect of losartan downstream from the SFO has not been completely elucidated. 2. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that the median preoptic nucleus (MnPO) is a crucial part of the neural pathway necessary for the chronic hypotensive effect of losartan. To test this hypothesis, male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to either Sham or electrolytic lesion of the MnPO (MnPOx). Rats were instrumented with radiotelemetric transducers and aortic flow probes for the continuous measurement of mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate and cardiac output (CO), respectively. Total peripheral resistance (TPR) was calculated as MAP/CO. After 3 days of baseline measurements, rats were infused intraperitoneally with losartan (10 mg/kg per day) via an osmotic minipump at a rate of 5 microL/min. 3. The data revealed that, by Day 9 of losartan treatment, MAP had decreased 34 +/- 2 mmHg in MnPOx rats (n = 9), whereas the MAP of Sham-lesioned rats (n = 8) had only decreased 24 +/- 3 mmHg. These findings were accompanied by a greater decrease in TPR in MnPOx compared with Sham rats (-0.464 vs-0.237 mmHg/mL per min, respectively), whereas CO remained unchanged throughout the study protocol. 4. These results do not support the hypothesis that an intact MnPO is necessary to mediate the full chronic hypotensive effect of losartan in normal rats. Instead, they appear to suggest that the MnPO may play an important role in buffering the profound hypotension induced by losartan.
Glutathione S-transferase (GST) plays a major role in the detoxification of many compounds by conjugation with glutathione. GSTM1 and T1, which are important members of the GST multigene family, are polymorphic in humans. Complete deletion of the gene results in the null genotype and loss of function. However, it is not clear whether deletion of this gene is associated with a vulnerability to methamphetamine (MAP) abuse. To clarify the potential role and mechanisms of genetic polymorphisms of GSTM1 and T1 in susceptibility to MAP abuse in the Japanese population, we investigated GSTM1 and T1 polymorphisms in subjects with diagnosed MAP-related disorders and in control groups. The risk of MAP abuse associated with GSTM1 null genotype was significantly higher only in females than in subjects with the GSTM1 genotype. GSTM1 and GSTT1 null genotype combined conferred increased risk for MAP abuse compared with GSTM1 and GSTT1 genotype combined. In conclusion, we found that GSTM1 gene deletion may contribute to a vulnerability to MAP abuse in female subjects. Moreover, we identified an association between GSTM1 and GSTT1 null genotype combined and risk of MAP abuse in the Japanese population.
1. Hypotension frequently occurs with use of intravenous amiodarone and is managed by slowing the rate of administration. This response has been attributed to the cosolvents in the formulation and is believed to be solely related to the initial loading dose. The present study was performed to determine whether intravenous amiodarone-induced hypotension persists beyond the loading dose and into the maintenance infusion period and also whether hypotension occurs with maintenance level dosing alone. 2. Anaesthetized beagle dogs (n = 7/group) were instrumented to assess haemodynamics. Animals were treated with the human-equivalent dosing regimen (loading dose followed by maintenance infusion) of intravenous amiodarone or control (5% dextrose in water). 3. No haemodynamic changes were observed in the control group during the 6 h study. In contrast, administration of the standard intravenous amiodarone regimen produced rapid and significant decreases in mean aortic pressure, cardiac output and maximum rate of change of left ventricular pressure that persisted throughout the 6 h maintenance infusion period. Administration of amiodarone as the maintenance infusion dose alone produced haemodynamic changes that were similar in magnitude to those observed with administration of the full dosing regimen, but were delayed in onset by approximately 60 min. 4. Dosing with a cosolvent-free formulation of amiodarone (PM101) caused no haemodynamic effects during the 6 h dosing period, indicating that the cardiodepressant effects of intravenous amiodarone were due to its cosolvents. 5. These data suggest that consideration should be given to intravenous amiodarone as a potential cause for sustained hypotension during prolonged infusion.
Wernicke's encephalopathy is a serious neurologic disorder caused by vitamin-B1 or thiamine deficiency. The classical triad of clinical symptoms described by Wernicke (gait ataxia, ophthalmoplegia, and confusion) are found in only a third of patients upon initial examination. Typical findings upon MR imaging in patients with Wernicke's encephalopathy are well documented, with signal intensities in the medial thalami and periaqueductal regions of the midbrain. We report a case of Wernicke's encephalopathy revealing an unusual contrast enhancement. It is therefore important to note that the acute stage of Wernicke's encephalopathy may be associated with an intense contrast enhancement upon MR-imaging reflecting the disruption of the blood-brain barrier and inflammatory processes caused by thiamine deficiency. As a consequence from the guideline for managing Wernicke's encephalopathy by the Royal College of Physicians early B-vitamin treatment in suspected is recommended cases.
Superprecipitation of normal and hypertrophic cardiac actomyosin--made from individually purified cardiac myosin and skeletal F-actin-, compared with that of synthetic skeletal actomyosin was investigated. A proportional relationship was found between the extent maximum of superprecipitation (Emax) and the concentration of actomyosin complex in the range of 0.1-0.5 mg protein/ml. At 3 X 10(-5) M ATP the Emax was higher in the case of skeletal actomyosin than ardiac actomyosin. At 1.5 X 10(-4) M ATP the superprecipitation was preceded by clearing phase and the time required for the half-maximal increase of turbidity (t//2) was longer for cardiac actomyosin than skeletal actomyosin. The superprecipitation was promoted by decreasing Mg2+ concentration, while the increase in Mg2+ concentration inhibited the superprecipitation and caused the prolongation of clearing phase. The decreased superprecipitation of the actomyosin from hypertrophied hearts and the narrower potassium chloride concentration range, in which the superprecipitation took place, may be the consequence of the significantly lower ATPase activity.
Stimulation of the brain CCK2 receptor by the C-terminal octapeptide CCK8 of cholecystokinin (CCK) negatively modulates opioid responses. This suggests the existence of physiologically relevant interactions between endogenous CCK and opioid peptides, opening new perspectives particularly in the treatment of pain or drug addiction. CCK2 receptor-deficient mice were used to analyze the incidence of this gene invalidation on opioid system. Compared with wild-type mice, mutants exhibited the following: (1) a hypersensitivity to the locomotor activity induced by inhibitors of enkephalin catabolism or by morphine; (2) a spontaneous hyperalgesia to thermal nociceptive stimulus, which was reversed by previous administration of the NMDA antagonist MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate], and a large reduction in analgesic effects of endogenous or exogenous opioids; and (3) a more severe withdrawal syndrome after chronic morphine treatment. As expected, stimulation of mu, delta, and D2 receptors on brain tissue of wild-type animals induced a dose-dependent decrease in adenylate cyclase activity, whereas a striking mirror effect was observed in mutants. All of these results suggest that the absence, in knock-out mice, of the negative feedback control on the opioid system, normally performed out by CCK2 receptor stimulation, results in an upregulation of this system. These biochemical and pharmacological results demonstrate the critical role played by CCK2 receptors in opioid-dependent responses.
Two patients with poor-prognosis leukemia were treated with high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), 3 g/m2, for induction. Both patients developed serious jaundice in the second posttreatment week. Clinically, the jaundice was characterized by conjugated hyperbilirubinemia, normal amino transferase levels, significant elevation of alkaline phosphatase, and no evidence of obstruction. Microscopic examination of the liver showed only passive congestion with blood, and no bile lakes or plugs. This was believed to be most consistent with drug-induced intrahepatic cholestasis, possibly as a result of injury to the hepatocyte transport system.
Hyperthyroidism during pregnancy is treated with the antithyroid drugs (ATD) propylthiouracil (PTU) and methimazole (MMI). PTU currently is recommended as the drug of choice during early pregnancy. Yet, despite widespread ATD use in pregnancy, formal studies of ATD teratogenic effects have not been performed.
We examined the teratogenic effects of PTU and MMI during embryogenesis in mice. To span different periods of embryogenesis, dams were treated with compounds or vehicle daily from embryonic day (E) 7.5 to 9.5 or from E3.5 to E7.5. Embryos were examined for gross malformations at E10.5 or E18.5 followed by histological and micro-CT analysis. Influences of PTU on gene expression levels were examined by RNA microarray analysis.
When dams were treated from E7.5 to E9.5 with PTU, neural tube and cardiac abnormalities were observed at E10.5. Cranial neural tube defects were significantly more common among the PTU-exposed embryos than those exposed to MMI or vehicle. Blood in the pericardial sac, which is a feature indicative of abnormal cardiac function and/or abnormal vasculature, was observed more frequently in PTU-treated than MMI-treated or vehicle-treated embryos. Following PTU treatment, a total of 134 differentially expressed genes were identified. Disrupted genetic pathways were those associated with cytoskeleton remodeling and keratin filaments. At E 18.5, no gross malformations were evident in either ATD group, but the number of viable PTU embryos per dam at E18.5 was significantly lower from those at E10.5, indicating loss of malformed embryos. These data show that PTU exposure during embryogenesis is associated with delayed neural tube closure and cardiac abnormalities. In contrast, we did not observe structural or cardiac defects associated with MMI exposure except at the higher dose. We find that PTU exposure during embryogenesis is associated with fetal loss. These observations suggest that PTU has teratogenic potential.
We report a 4-month-old infant with torsade de pointes secondary to procainamide treatment. The infant presented with atrial flutter and converted to normal sinus rhythm with intravenous procainamide. Oral procainamide therapy was initiated as the infusion was tapered, and the patient subsequently developed incessant torsade de pointes. Once the proarrhythmia was recognized, procainamide was withheld, and intravenous magnesium was administered. The torsade de pointes resolved after one bolus of magnesium sulfate. An infusion regimen of magnesium was given until the procainamide and N-acetylprocainamide concentrations became undetectable. Intravenous magnesium should be administered to newborns with acquired torsade de pointes; dosing guidelines for its use are suggested.
