Amphetamine (AMPH)-induced hyper-locomotion has been well manifested in an animal model of psychiatric diseases such as drug addiction and bipolar disorder. In this study, we investigated the effects on AMPH-induced locomotor activity of chronically microinjected valproic acid into the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Rats with guide cannular implanted bilaterally were divided into three groups and either saline or valproic acid (100 or 300 microg/0.5 microl/side) was microinjected into the NAcc once daily for 7 days. On day 8, half of each group received either saline or AMPH (1mg/kg, i.p.), respectively, and locomotor activity was measured for 2h. The increases of both horizontal locomotion and rearing by AMPH were attenuated in the rat pre-treated with valproic acid compared to saline in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate that neuronal modifications in the NAcc induced by chronic valproic acid can modulate amphetamine-induced locomotor activity.
At 4 h during pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (DPISE) in rat, protein kinase C (PKC)beta1, PKCbeta2, and PKCgamma were induced at the border between the stratum oriens and alveus (O/A border) of CA1 in the hippocampus. Induced PKCgamma was colocalized with metabotropic glutamate receptor alpha (mGluR alpha). By intracerebroventricular injection of mGluR1alpha antagonists, (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), PKCbeta1, PKCbeta2, and PKCgamma immunoreactive products decreased dramatically; however, intracerebroventricular injection of saline did not change the expression of PKCbeta1, PKCbeta2, and PKCgamma, suggesting that these three PKC isoforms might be involved in mGluR1alpha-related excitoneurotoxicity. One day after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (APISE), PKCdelta was induced in microglial cells. At this time point, both PKCgamma and PKCepsilon immunopositive products decreased in the inner molecular layer of upper blade of the stratum granulosum. At 7-31 days APISE, induced PKCbeta1, PKCdelta, PKCeta, and PKCzeta positive astrocytes were demonstrated in all parts of hippocampus, suggesting that they may be involved in gliosis. By this time, both PKCgamma and PKCepsilon immunopositive products in the inner molecular layer had almost disappeared, suggesting that they may be involved in the inhibition of granule cells by controlling neurotransmitter release presynaptically in the dentate gyrus of normal rats.
Our objective was to investigate the efficacy and safety of alvimopan, a peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor (PAM-OR) antagonist, in subjects with non-cancer pain and opioid-induced bowel dysfunction (OBD), and to identify at least one treatment regimen that improves OBD. Following a 2-week baseline period, 522 subjects reporting <3 spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs)/week (with >or=25% accompanied by a sensation of incomplete evacuation, straining, or lumpy hard stools), requiring analgesia equivalent to >or=30 mg oral morphine/day were randomized to alvimopan 0.5mg twice daily (BID), 1mg once daily (QD), 1mg BID, or placebo for 6 weeks. Compared with placebo, there was a statistically and clinically significant increase in mean weekly SBM frequency over the initial 3 weeks of treatment (primary endpoint) with alvimopan 0.5mg BID (+1.71 mean SBMs/week), alvimopan 1mg QD (+1.64) and alvimopan 1mg BID (+2.52); P<0.001 for all comparisons. Increased SBM frequency and additional treatment effects, including improvements in symptoms such as straining, stool consistency, incomplete evacuation, abdominal bloating/discomfort, and decreased appetite, were sustained over 6 weeks. The most frequently reported adverse events were abdominal pain, nausea, and diarrhea, occurring more frequently in the higher dosage groups. The alvimopan 0.5mg BID regimen demonstrated the best benefit-to-risk profile for managing OBD with alvimopan in this study population, with a side effect profile similar to that of placebo. There was no evidence of opioid analgesia antagonism. Competitive peripheral antagonism of opioids with alvimopan can restore GI function and relieve OBD without compromising analgesia.
The case of a patient who developed thrombocytopenia during treatment with carbamazepine (CBZ) is described. The platelet count recovered soon after discontinuation of CBZ, Lymphocyte stimulation test with carbamazepine-10, 11-epoxide (CBZ-10, 11-EPOX), a major metabolite of CBZ, was positive, although with CBZ it was negative. These findings suggest that CBZ-10, 11-EPOX was possibly causative in the pathogenesis of CBZ-induced thrombocytopenia in this case.
This report examined the effect of methylphenidate on social communication and self-regulation in children with pervasive developmental disorders and hyperactivity in a secondary analysis of RUPP Autism Network data. Participants were 33 children (29 boys) between the ages of 5 and 13 years who participated in a four-week crossover trial of placebo and increasing doses of methylphenidate given in random order each for one week. Observational measures of certain aspects of children's social communication, self-regulation, and affective behavior were obtained each week. A significant positive effect of methylphenidate was seen on children's use of joint attention initiations, response to bids for joint attention, self-regulation, and regulated affective state. The results go beyond the recent literature and suggest that methylphenidate may have positive effects on social behaviors in children with PDD and hyperactivity.
Resveratrol (RSV), polyphenol from grape, was studied to evaluate its effects on calorimetric parameters, energy metabolism, and antioxidants in the myocardium of diabetic rats. The animals were randomly divided into four groups (n = 8): C (control group): normal rats; C-RSV: normal rats receiving RSV; DM: diabetic rats; and DM-RSV: diabetics rats receiving RSV. Type 1 diabetes mellitus was induced with administration of streptozotocin (STZ; 60 mg(-1) body weight, single dose, i.p.). After 48 hours of STZ administration, the animals received RSV (1.0 mg/kg/day) for gavage for 30 days. Food, water, and energy intake were higher in the DM group, while administration of RSV caused decreases (p<0.05) in these parameters. The glycemia decreased and higher final body weight increased in DM-RSV when compared with the DM group. The diabetic rats showed higher serum-free fatty acid, which was normalized with RSV. Oxygen consumption (VO2) and carbon dioxide production (VCO2) decreased (p<0.05) in the DM group. This was accompanied by reductions in RQ. The C-RSV group showed higher VO2 and VCO2 values. Pyruvate dehydrogenase activity was lower in the DM group and normalizes with RSV. The DM group exhibited higher myocardial β-hydroxyacyl coenzyme-A dehydrogenase and citrate synthase activity, and RSV decreased the activity of these enzymes. The DM group had higher cardiac lactate dehydrogenase compared to the DM-RSV group. Myocardial protein carbonyl was increased in the DM group. RSV increased reduced glutathione in the cardiac tissue of diabetic animals. The glutathione reductase activity was higher in the DM-RSV group compared to the DM group. In conclusion, diabetes is accompanied by cardiac energy metabolism dysfunction and change in the biomarkers of oxidative stress. The cardioprotective effect may be mediated through RVS's ability to normalize free fatty acid oxidation, enhance utilization glucose, and control the biomarkers' level of oxidative stress under diabetic conditions.
Non-selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX) has been reported to reduce atherosclerosis in both rabbit and murine models. In contrast, selective inhibition of COX-2 has been shown to suppress early atherosclerosis in LDL-receptor null mice but not more advanced lesions in apoE deficient (apoE(-/-)) mice. We investigated the efficacy of the novel COX inhibitor indomethacin phenethylamide (INDO-PA) on the development of different stages of atherosclerotic lesion formation in female apoE(-/-) mice. INDO-PA, which is highly selective for COX-2 in vitro, reduced platelet thromboxane production by 61% in vivo, indicating partial inhibition of COX-1 in vivo. Treatment of female apoE(-/-) mice with 5mg/kg INDO-PA significantly reduced early to intermediate aortic atherosclerotic lesion formation (44 and 53%, respectively) in both the aortic sinus and aorta en face compared to controls. Interestingly, there was no difference in the extent of atherosclerosis in the proximal aorta in apoE(-/-) mice treated from 11 to 21 weeks of age with INDO-PA, yet there was a striking (76%) reduction in lesion size by en face analysis in these mice. These studies demonstrate the ability of non-selective COX inhibition with INDO-PA to reduce early to intermediate atherosclerotic lesion formation in apoE(-/-) mice, supporting a role for anti-inflammatory approaches in the prevention of atherosclerosis.
Positron emission tomography (PET) was used to assess the role of dopamine D2 receptors in the striatum and serotonin S2 receptors in the frontal cortex in the susceptibility to methamphetamine-induced psychosis. Subjects were six men who had previously experienced methamphetamine psychosis (methamphetamine subjects) and 10 age- and sex-matched control subjects. The radiotracer used was 11C-N-methylspiperone. Although binding availability, assessed by dynamic analysis, in the two regions did not differ between the two groups, the ratio of binding availability in the striatum to that in the frontal cortex significantly decreased in the methamphetamine subjects as compared with the control subjects. These findings suggest that an imbalance in the activity of these two receptors may be related to the susceptibility to methamphetamine psychosis.
To evaluate the effects and the possible mechanism of Cryptoporus polysaccharides (CP) extracted from fruiting body of Cryptoporus volvatus in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute lung injury (ALI) in rats and mice.
Acute lung injury was induced by intratracheally instillation of LPS into lung in either rats or mice, assessing leukocyte numbers and myeloperoxidase activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, as well as evaluating cytokines mRNA and protein expressions, and Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR(2)) and nuclear factor (NF)-κB mRNA levels in the lung tissues of mice. Vascular permeability and edema of lung in mice, and arterial blood gas in rats were also performed.
In ALI, CP-treated mice and rats exhibited significantly reduced leukocyte invasion, myeloperoxidase activity, vascular permeability, edema of lung, as well as tumor necrosis factor-α and Interleukin-1β mRNA and protein expressions in the lung tissues compared with vehicle-treated mice. TLR(2) and NF-κB mRNA levels of the lung tissues were decreased in CP-treated mice in response to LPS. And decline in arterial blood gas was recovered in CP-treated rats.
Our results supported a protective role of CP in ALI and suggested that the reduction of the activation of TLR(2) and NF-κB signal pathway in lung injury may be relavant to the pretreatment of CP.
The effects of various sodium channel blocking agents on acute thermal and mechanical nociception, as assessed using the plantar and tail pressure tests, respectively, were compared with the effects of morphine. The drugs used were mexiletine, lidocaine, carbamazepine, phenytoin, eperisone, tolperisone, and zonisamide. The sodium channel blocking agents exhibited a rather preferential elevation of the threshold for thermal nociception. By contrast, morphine produced similar analgesic effects on thermal and mechanical nociception. In the sciatic nerve isolated from mice, mexiletine, lidocaine, eperisone, and tolperisone impaired the propagation of low frequency action potentials (evoked at 0.2 Hz). Carbamazepine, phenytoin, and zonisamide generated a more frequency-dependent local anesthetic action with their obvious effects on higher frequency action potentials (evoked at 5 and/or 10 Hz). Our results show that sodium channel blocking agents have a preferential antinociceptive action against thermal stimulation that is likely to be attributed to their local anesthetic action.
The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBDs) are a group of genetically heterogeneous diseases lethal in early infancy. Although the clinical features of PBD patients may vary, cells from all PBD patients exhibit a defect in the import of one or more classes of peroxisomal matrix proteins. This cellular phenotype is shared by yeast pex mutants, and human orthologues of yeast PEX genes have been shown to be defective in some groups of PBD patients. We identified a putative human orthologue of ScPEX12 by screening the database of expressed sequence tags for cDNAs capable of encoding a protein similar to yeast Pex12p. Although its sequence similarity to yeast Pex12 proteins was limited, PEX12 shared the same subcellular distribution as yeast Pex12p and localized to the peroxisome membrane. PEX12 expression restored peroxisomal protein import in fibroblasts from PBD patients of complement group 3 (CG3) and frameshift mutations in PEX12 were detected in two unrelated CG3 patients. These data demonstrate that mutations in PEX12 are responsible for CG3 of the PBD and that PEX12 plays an essential role in peroxisomal matrix protein import.
Neurotensin, a tridecapeptide, is widely distributed in the brain and gastrointestinal tract. It possesses analgesic, hypothermic, and antipsychotic-like properties. Neurotensin's effects are mediated mainly through two receptor subtypes, NTS1 and NTS2. Activation of NTS1 has been implicated in most of the pharmacological effects of neurotensin but is associated with hypothermia and hypotension. We report on a novel neurotensin analog with higher selectivity to NTS2, namely, NT79, which exhibits selective behavioral effects. NT79 was tested in animal models for pain (thermal-hot plate test; visceral-acetic acid-induced writhing test), and in animal models that are predictive of antipsychotic-like effects (apomorphine-induced climbing; d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity; disruption of prepulse inhibition). Its effects on body temperature and on blood pressure were also determined. Neurochemical changes in extracellular neurotransmitters were measured using in vivo microdialysis while the rats were simultaneously evaluated for acetic acid-induced writhing with and without pretreatment with NT79. Binding data at molecularly cloned hNTS1 and hNTS2 suggest selectivity for hNTS2. NT79 blocked the acetic acid-induced writhing with an ED(50) of 0.14 microg/kg while having no effect on thermal nociception. The writhing was paralleled by an increase in 5-HT which was attenuated by NT79. NT79 demonstrated antipsychotic-like effects by blocking apomorphine-induced climbing, d-amphetamine-induced hyperactivity, and reducing d-amphetamine- and DOI-induced disruption of prepulse inhibition. Uniquely, it caused no significant hypothermia and was without effect on blood pressure. NT79, with its higher selectivity to NTS2, may be potentially useful to treat visceral pain, and psychosis without concomitant side effects of hypothermia or hypotension.
In this study, we investigated whether the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCX) inhibitor SEA0400 (2-[4-[(2,5-difluorophenyl)methoxy]phenoxy-5-ethoxyaniline) might have a protective effect against myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats. In particular, we focused on cardiac function using Doppler echocardiography and cardiac gene expression. We intravenously administered either SEA0400 and delivery vehicle or only the vehicle (as a control) to Wistar rats 5 min before ischemia was induced. Reperfusion was performed after 30 min of ischemia. At 1 week after ischemia-reperfusion injury, we assessed hemodynamics by inserting a polyethylene-tubing catheter, cardiac function by Doppler echocardiography, and myocardial mRNA expression was determined by Northern blot analysis. Left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic dimensions (LVDd) and LV end-diastolic volume (LVEDV) were significantly increased in the ischemia-reperfusion rat model group compared to the control group. The SEA0400-treated group had a significantly attenuated LVDd (P<0.05) and LVEDV (P<0.01) increase, compared to the vehicle-treated group. A decrease in the LV ejection fraction (P<0.05) was significantly prevented in the SEA0400-treated group compared to the vehicle-treated group. Moreover, mRNA expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in the non-infarcted LV of the SEA0400-treated group was significantly lower than in the vehicle-treated group (P<0.05). This study demonstrates that the NCX is an important mechanism for cell death in myocardial ischemia and reperfusion in rats. SEA0400 may prove to be a promising new drug in the clinical treatment of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion.
Adriamycin is known to be effective in the treatment of breast cancer. Serial radionuclide determinations of the left ejection fraction can provide advanced warning of adriamycin cardiotoxicity, prior to clinical signs of the left ventricular dysfunction. Patients at high risk of congestive heart failure can be detected. Depending on the results of the second course of chemotherapy, guidelines and criteria can be laid down to predict the appropriate time for drug discontinuation.
In vivo antiarrhythmic effects of diltiazem hydrochloride and nifekalant hydrochloride, a pure class III antiarrhythmic drug (Vaughan Williams' classification), on adrenaline induced ventricular arrhythmias were examined in halothane anesthetized guinea pigs. Continuous adrenaline infusion (12.5 microg/kg per min) induced ventricular arrhythmias. Arrhythmogenicity was significantly increased with vagotomy and higher concentration of halothane. After injection of diltiazem at 0.5 mg/kg, the arrhythmic ratio (the number of ventricular ectopic beats divided by the total heart beats) was significantly reduced compared with the predrug control value (0.69 vs 0.04, P<0.05). No significant change of arrhythmic ratio was observed after injection of nifekalant (0.57 vs 0.61, ns). After administration of nifekalant, the mean minimum adrenaline infusion rate that induced ventricular arrhythmia decreased from 9.29 to 6.43 microg/kg per min. On the other hand, before administration of diltiazem, the mean arrhythmogenic rate of adrenaline was 8.50 microg/kg per min, but ventricular arrhythmias were no longer induced during continuous infusion of diltiazem at 0.5 mg/kg per min. These results were qualitatively consistent with previous experiments using the canine halothane-adrenaline model. In conclusion, the halothane-adrenaline arrhythmia model using the in vivo guinea pig is useful for screening drugs with potential anti- or pro-arrhythmic properties.
Exposure to traffic-related pollution (TRP) and tobacco smoke have been associated with new onset asthma in children. Psychosocial stress-related susceptibility has been proposed to explain social disparities in asthma. We investigated whether low socioeconomic status (SES) or high parental stress modified the effect of TRP and in utero tobacco smoke exposure on new onset asthma. We identified 2,497 children aged 5-9 years with no history of asthma or wheeze at study entry (2002-2003) into the Children's Health Study, a prospective cohort study in southern California. The primary outcome was parental report of doctor-diagnosed new onset asthma during 3 years of follow-up. Residential exposure to TRP was assessed using a line source dispersion model. Information about maternal smoking during pregnancy, parental education (a proxy for SES), and parental stress were collected in the study baseline questionnaire. The risk of asthma attributable to TRP was significantly higher for subjects with high parental stress (HR 1.51 across the interquartile range for TRP; 95% CI 1.16-1.96) than for subjects with low parental stress (HR 1.05, 95% CI 0.74-1.49; interaction P value 0.05). Stress also was associated with larger effects of in utero tobacco smoke. A similar pattern of increased risk of asthma was observed among children from low SES families who also were exposed to either TRP or in utero tobacco smoke. These results suggest that children from stressful households are more susceptible to the effects of TRP and in utero tobacco smoke on the development of asthma.
Acute challenges with psychostimulants such as amphetamine affect impulsive behavior in both animals and humans. With regard to amphetamine, it is important to unravel how this drug affects impulsivity since it is not only a widely abused recreational drug but also regularly prescribed to ameliorate maladaptive impulsivity. Therefore, we studied the effects of amphetamine in two rat models of impulsivity, the five-choice serial reaction time task and the delayed-reward task, providing measures of inhibitory control and impulsive choice, respectively. We focused on the role of opioid receptor activation in amphetamine-induced impulsivity as there is ample evidence indicating an important role for endogenous opioids in several behavioral and neurochemical effects of amphetamine. Results showed that amphetamine-induced inhibitory control deficits were dose-dependently attenuated by the preferential μ-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, but not by the selective δ-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole or κ-opioid receptor antagonist nor-BNI (nor-binaltorphimine dihydrochloride). In contrast, naloxone did not affect amphetamine-induced improvements in impulsive decision making. Naloxone also completely prevented inhibitory control deficits induced by GBR 12909 [1-(2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)methoxy] ethyl)-4-(3-phenylpropyl)piperazine dihydrochloride], a selective dopamine transporter inhibitor. Intracranial infusions of naloxone, the selective μ-opioid receptor antagonist CTAP (H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2)), morphine, and the selective μ-opioid receptor agonist DAMGO ([D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin acetate salt) revealed that μ-opioid receptor activation in the shell rather than the core subregion of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) modulates inhibitory control and subserves the effect of amphetamine thereon. Together, these results indicate an important role for NAc shell μ-opioid receptors in the regulation of inhibitory control, probably via an interaction between these receptors and the mesolimbic dopamine system.
To investigate the roles of cardiac output and systemic and regional resistances in corticotropin (ACTH)-induced hypertension in the rat
This study consisted of three series of experiments with eight groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 132). Series 1 comprised groups 1-4, where group 1 = sham (0.9% NaCl, subcutaneous (s.c.) injection); group 2 = ACTH (0.5 mg/kg per day, s.c.); group 3 = atenolol + sham; group 4 = atenolol + ACTH treatments. Series 2 comprised groups 5 and 6, where group 5 = minoxidil + sham and group 6 = minoxidil + ACTH treatments. Series 3 comprised groups 7 and 8, where group 7 = ramipril + sham and group 8 = ramipril + ACTH treatments. Systolic blood pressure, water and food intakes, urine volume, and body weight were measured every second day. After 10 days of treatment, mean arterial blood pressure was measured by intra-arterial cannulation, and cardiac output (CO), and renal, mesenteric and hindquarter blood flows (RBF, MBF and HBF) determined using transonic small animal flowmeters.
ACTH treatment increased blood pressure (P < 0.001) with a rise in CO (P < 0.01) and renal vascular resistance (RVR, P < 0.05), but did not affect total peripheral resistance (TPR). Atenolol blocked the rise in CO without affecting the rise in blood pressure produced by ACTH treatment Minoxidil lowered TPR, but did not prevent the rise in blood pressure or renal vascular resistance. Ramipril blunted the rise in RVR and blood pressure without significantly affecting TPR.
Neither preventing rise in CO nor lowering TPR altered the ACTH-induced rise in blood pressure in the rat However, both the hypertension and rise in RVR were prevented by ramipril. These data suggest that increase in RVR may play a role in the pathogenesis of ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat.
In the present study, three materials extracted or isolated from the roots of B. kaoi, an endemic plant to Taiwan, were used to be examined the hepatoprotective effect against dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced hepatic fibrosis in rats, they were water extract (BKW), polysaccharide-enriched fractions (BKP) and saponin-enriched fractions (BKS). After treated with DMN for 4 weeks, the levels of aminotrasferases (GOT, GPT) were significantly elevated in serum, and the levels of total protein (TP) and albumin were significantly decreased in serum and liver homogenates. Furthermore, the collagen contents were significantly elevated in liver homogenates and corresponded to the hepatofibrotic pathological examination. As the results showed, treated with groups of BKW, BKP, BKS markedly reduced GOT, GPT levels in rats serum. In addition, treated with groups of BKW, BKP, BKS markedly raised TP levels in rats serum and liver homogenates. Furthermore, treated with groups of BKW, BKP markedly raised albumin levels in rats serum and liver homogenates. Treated with groups of BKW, BKP, BKS markedly raised interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) levels in rats serum, where only BKS and silymarin markedly raised interkeukin-10 (IL-10) levels in rats serum compared to that of DMN treated rats. None of test materials of B. kaoi except silymarin reduced the malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, but BKW, BKP markedly raised hepatic glutathione (GSH) levels to reveal the activity of anti-lipid peroxidation. Otherwise, treated with groups of BKW, BKP, BKS significantly reduced collagen contents in rats liver homogenates. In conclusion, B. kaoi demonstrated the anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic activities followed by anti-oxidant activity of enhanced GSH production, enhanced the liver cell regeneration and concerned with regulations of INF-gamma and IL-10. The ability of hepatoprotective and anti-fibrotic activities of B. kaoi are higher than B. chinense, a Bupleuri Radix imported from China to Taiwan.
Hepatic synthesis of lipoproteins and apolipoproteins was investigated in male Wistar rats with severe nephrotic syndrome induced by puromycin aminonucleoside by incubating liver slices with a mixture of 14C-amino acids. Labeled lipoproteins were separated by preparative ultracentrifugation from the incubation medium after the addition of carrier plasma. The incorporation of 14C-amino acids into very low density lipoproteins (VLDL) (1.006 g/ml), low density lipoproteins (LDL) (1.006-1.063 g/ml) and high density lipoproteins (HDL) (1.063-1.210 g/ml) was increased in nephrotic liver 6.1-, 5.7- and 5.0-fold, respectively. The measurement of radioactivity associated to apolipoproteins isolated by SDS-PAGE documented an increased incorporation into apolipoprotein E (apoE) of nephrotic VLDL (33.1% vs 20% of the total radioactivity incorporated into VLDL apoproteins) and a markedly increased incorporation into apolipoprotein A-I (apo-A-I) of nephrotic HDL (44.3% vs 16.3% of the total radioactivity incorporated into HDL apoproteins). In nephrotic liver, the total incorporation of amino acids into apolipoproteins (apoVLDL + apoLDL + apoHDL) was increased 12.6 times for apo-A-I, 6,4 times for apoB, 5.0 times for apoE, 4.2 times for apoC + apoA-II and 2.5 times for apoA-IV. We suggest that, in nephrotic liver: (a) the synthesis of VLDL, LDL and HDL is increased, and (b) the total synthesis of apoA-I is selectively increased when compared to that of the other apolipoproteins.
An infant, 2 months old, underwent cardiac surgery because of congenital heart defects and pulmonary hypertension. Surgery was performed in hypothermia and cardiac standstill. On the second day after surgery the infant had to be resuscitated due to a combination of acute left-ventricular failure, pulmonary vascular hypertension and a slight right-to-left-shunt. A breakthrough in the treatment was achieved by using levosimendan to improve left-ventricular function and to decrease vascular resistance.
A clinical survey of the mental side effects of prophylactic amantadine usage is reported. A total of 43 of 295 hospital employees taking the drug reported some mental side effects. While the majority of the side effects were alterations in mood (elevation or depression), there were also reports of delusions (7%), disturbances in memory and orientation (20%), and night terrors (33%). The author does not feel the findings warrant discontinuing the prophylactic usage of amantadine but do highlight the need for physician and patient education about its side effects.
Parenteral iron is often required by hemodialysis patients to maintain adequate iron stores. Until recently, the only available form of intravenous iron was iron dextran, which is associated with significant adverse reactions, including anaphylaxis and death. Sodium ferric gluconate complex (SFGC) was recently approved for use in the U.S. under FDA's priority drug review. This Phase IV study was designed to evaluate the safety of a single dose of intravenous SFGC as compared to placebo and a historical iron dextran control.
This multicenter, crossover, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled prospective comparative study was performed in hemodialysis patients requiring at least 125 mg of elemental iron. The historical control was obtained from a meta-analysis of four publications examining outcomes in patients exposed to iron dextran. SFGC naïve patients were administered SFGC without a test dose, undiluted, at a rate of 125 mg over 10 minutes, and compared to placebo comprising bacteriostatic saline.
A total of 2534 patients were enrolled. The incidence of drug intolerance (an adverse event precluding re-exposure) was significantly less [0.44%, confidence interval (CI) 0.21 to 0.71%] after SFGC as compared to the iron dextran control (2.47%, CI 1.87 to 3.07%, P < 0.0001), but higher than after placebo (0.1%, P = 0.02). There was no difference found between SFGC and placebo in serious adverse events. A single life-threatening event occurred after SFGC (0.04%, CI 0.00 to 0.22%), which was significantly less than following iron dextran (0.61%, CI 0.36 to 0.86%), P = 0.0001.
SFGC is well tolerated when given by intravenous push without a test dose. SFGC has a significantly lower incidence of drug intolerance and life-threatening events as compared to previous studies using iron dextran. The routine use of iron dextran in hemodialysis patients should be discontinued.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a chronic liver disease associated with insulin resistance, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Evidence indicates that chromium has a role in the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism and may improve insulin sensitivity. In this study, we report that chromium supplementation has a beneficial effect against NAFLD. We found that KK/HlJ mice developed obesity and progressed to NAFLD after feeding with high-fat diet for 8weeks. High-fat-fed KK/HlJ mice showed hepatocyte injury and hepatic triglyceride accumulation, which was accompanied by insulin resistance, oxidative stress, and inflammation. Chromium supplementation prevented progression of NAFLD and the beneficial effects were accompanied by reduction of hepatic triglyceride accumulation, elevation of hepatic lipid catabolic enzyme, improvement of glucose and lipid metabolism, suppression of inflammation as well as resolution of oxidative stress, probably through enhancement of insulin signaling. Our findings suggest that chromium could serve as a hepatoprotective agent against NAFLD.
In the present study, the role of ROS and RNS in activation of inflammatory response and associated molecular events during apoptosis of polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMNs) in patients from an outbreak of argemone oil (AO) poisoning leading to epidemic dropsy in Lucknow, India was undertaken. It was observed that generation of superoxide radical, nitrite formation and phagocytosis (103-429%) were significantly increased in PMNs of dropsy patients. Furthermore, activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) (47-79%) were found to be increased while that of catalase and glutathione reductase (GR) (56-57%) were decreased. Lipid and protein oxidation, nitrotyrosine formation and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) excretion were significantly enhanced with concomitant depletion of GSH levels (67%) in dropsy patients. In addition, significant elevation of IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-alpha (68-406%) in plasma was observed. Apoptosis was enhanced (1.5 folds) with increased (2.0-3.6 folds) caspases 3, 8 and 9 activities along with DNA fragmentation (119%). The results suggest that generation of ROS and RNS along with enhancement of secretion of inflammatory mediators leading to DNA damage followed by apoptosis may have an effect on immune system, which in turn may be responsible for histopathological changes in target organs of dropsy patients.
