We report two patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in whom hypercalcemia and elevated 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25-(OH)2D3) levels developed in the absence of any lytic bone lesions. Hypercalcemia responded only transiently to glucocorticoids which were ill tolerated. Intravenous APD administration was needed to circumvene hypercalcemia. Humoral hypercalcemia of malignancy is discussed. Our cases confirm that hypercalcemia associated with elevated 1,25-(OH)2D3 may occur in malignant lymphoma.
Lithium salts, well recognised as acute nephrotoxins, have recently been implicated in the development of a chronic focal interstitial nephropathy. As part of a clinico-pathological study of lithium nephrotoxicity, renal function and renal histology has been compared between 25 patient on maintenance lithium therapy and 19 patients with affective illnesses prior to commencement of lithium therapy. Significant evidence of chronic renal damage was present in biopsies of lithium treated patients when compared with cadaveric donor kidneys (p less than 0.001). Similar damage was noted in biopsies from patient prior to lithium and differed from donor kidneys (p less than 0.01). The degree of damage was not significantly different between the patients on lithium and those not yet on lithium. An acute specific tubular lesion was note in patients on lithium, and a marked degree of distal tubule dilation and microcyst formation were also observed. Significant defects in urinary concentrating ability and urinary acidification were present in patients on lithium and there was a correlation between the degree of these defects and the duration of lithium therapy. There was no evidence of a substantial reduction in glomerular filtration rate, which could be ascribed to the lithium therapy.
The occurrence of pain and changes in serum concentrations of liver enzymes and amylase were investigated after challenge with intramuscular morphine (0.12 mg/kg) and neostigmine (0.012 mg/kg) in 25 control subjects and 80 patients with undefined biliary type pain, both with and without prior cholecystectomy. Peak enzyme concentrations were reached at four hours after the injection of morphine-neostigmine. When compared with controls, patients who had pain after cholecystectomy and a dilated bile duct and/or spontaneous changes in liver enzymes, had a higher frequency of drug induced pain and a higher frequency of rise (greater than 2 X N) in serum concentrations of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and amylase; postcholecystectomy patients with pain but without bile duct dilatation, and patients with pain without prior cholecystectomy, had a higher frequency of drug induced pain but did not have a higher frequency of enzyme rise. Increases in liver enzymes after morphine-neostigmine were abolished by endoscopic sphincterotomy. Thirty three patients with a dilated bile duct and/or spontaneous changes in liver enzymes were also studied by endoscopic manometry of the sphincter of Oddi: similar frequencies of enzyme changes were observed in patients with normal manometry as in those with various manometric disorders. Increases in serum concentrations of liver enzymes after morphine-neostigmine may be explained by high biliary pressures resulting from an exaggerated motor response in the sphincter of Oddi.
Mitoxantrone (MXN) has demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in the intraperitoneal treatment of malignancies. However, severe local toxicity is dose limiting. Therefore, a particulate formulation of MXN, the drug incorporated in albumin microspheres, was evaluated concerning tolerability. Survival rates as well as alterations in body weight, food intake, water intake, urine volume, urine specific gravity, urine protein content, and complete blood count were observed following single or multiple intraperitoneal injections of MXN solution, dispersions containing MXN-loaded microspheres or unloaded microspheres, and the injection vehicle to female and male Sprague-Dawley rats. Applied MXN dosage was equivalent to 30 mg/m2 body surface area. Unloaded microspheres were well tolerated without signs of toxicity. Application of MXN solution or MXN-loaded microspheres resulted in similar survival rates (56% 9 weeks after single injection) and in a comparable bone marrow toxicity (mainly leucopenia). Body weight, food and water intake as well as urine volume were decreased following application of MXN solution, whereas a progressive gain in weight and no remarkable alterations in nutrition and urine excretion were noted after administration of MXN-loaded and unloaded microspheres, or of the injection vehicle. In conclusion, intraperitoneal injection of MXN incorporated in albumin microspheres exhibits in part less toxicity than conventional treatment.
1. To elucidate the role of central imidazoline receptors in the genesis of adrenaline-induced arrhythmias under halothane anaesthesia, we investigated the effects of rilmenidine, a selective agonist at imidazoline receptors, on this type of arrhythmia in dogs. Rilmenidine (1, 3, 10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.) did not affect basal haemodynamic parameters (heart rate and blood pressure), but dose-dependently inhibited adrenaline-induced arrhythmias under halothane anaesthesia. 2. Although, rilmenidine has a weak affinity for alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, pretreatment with idazoxan (10 micrograms kg-1, intracisternally i.c.), an imidazoline receptor antagonist which has also alpha(2)-adrenoceptor blocking potency, blocked the antiarrhythmic effect of rilmenidine (10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.). In contrast, pretreatment with rauwolscine (20 micrograms kg-1, i.c.), a classical alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist with little affinity for imidazoline receptors, did not affect the effect of rilmenidine (10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.). Furthermore, bilateral vagotomy completely blocked the antiarrhythmic action of rilmenidine (10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.). 3. It is suggested that the antiarrhythmic action of rilmenidine is due to the activation of central imidazoline receptors and that vagal tone is critical for this action of rilmenidine.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) (ALA-PDT) using intense pulsed light (IPL) as a light source (IPL-ALA-PDT) has been used for photorejuvenation, but it is unclear if this protocol can be applied to darker skin types. We performed this study to assess our IPL-ALA-PDT protocol for photorejuvenation in Asian skin. To determine an appropriate dose, ALA ointment (0-20%) was applied to the upper arm of five healthy volunteers and the fluorescence intensity (FI) was measured using a spectrofluorometer. Non-linear regression analysis of FI 2 h after ALA application with global fitting gave a typical sigmoid dose-response curve with R² = 0.9705 and saturation after 5% ALA. The entire faces of 16 Japanese women with photodamage were then treated with IPL (500-670 and 870-1400 nm, 23-30 J/cm²) 2 h after application of 5% ALA to one side of the face. Three treatments were delivered at 4-week intervals with follow-up visits. Comparative analysis of photorejuvenation showed noticeable improvements on both sides of the face, although the reduction in the photoaging score from baseline did not differ significantly between the two sides in all subjects. Despite this finding, 75% of the patients felt that the IPL-ALA-PDT-treated side of the face showed greater improvement than the IPL-treated side. However, all IPL-ALA-PDT-treated sides showed adverse effects such as erythema and pain. Therefore, we conclude that the IPL-ALA-PDT protocol requires optimization for photorejuvenation in Asians.
The antiarrhythmic amiodarone (AM) and its metabolite desethylamiodarone (Des) are known to cause AM-induced pulmonary toxicity, but the mechanisms underlying this disorder remain unclear. We hypothesized that AM might cause AM-induced pulmonary toxicity in part through the induction of apoptosis or necrosis in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs). Two models of type II pneumocytes, the human AEC-derived A549 cell line and primary AECs isolated from adult Wistar rats, were incubated with AM or Des for 20 h. Apoptotic cells were determined by morphological assessment of nuclear fragmentation with propidium iodide on ethanol-fixed cells. Necrotic cells were quantitated by loss of dye exclusion. Both AM and Des caused dose-dependent necrosis starting at 2.5 and 0.1 microg/ml, respectively, in primary rat AECs and at 10 and 5 microg/ml in subconfluent A549 cells (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively). AM and Des also induced dose-dependent apoptosis beginning at 2.5 microg/ml in the primary AECs (P < 0.05 for both compounds) and at 10 and 5 microg/ml, respectively, in the A549 cell line (P < 0.01). The two compounds also caused significant net cell loss (up to 80% over 20 h of incubation) by either cell type at drug concentrations near or below the therapeutic serum concentration for AM. The cell loss was not due to detachment but was blocked by the broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor Z-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone. Furthermore, the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (500 ng/ml) and the angiotensin-receptor antagonist saralasin (50 microg/ml) significantly inhibited both the induction of apoptosis and net cell loss in response to AM. These results are consistent with recent work from this laboratory demonstrating potent inhibition of apoptosis in human AECs by captopril (Uhal BD, Gidea C, Bargout R, Bifero A, Ibarra-Sunga O, Papp M, Flynn K, and Filippatos G. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol 275: L1013-L1017, 1998). They also suggested that the accumulation of AM and/or its primary metabolite Des in lung tissue may induce cytotoxicity of AECs that might be inhibitable by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or other antagonists of the renin-angiotensin system.
In the Crigler-Najjar type I syndrome, the genetic absence of efficient hepatic glucuronidation of unconjugated bilirubin (UCB) by the uridine 5'-diphospho-glucuronosyltransferase1A1 (UGT1A1) enzyme produces the rise of UCB level in blood. Its entry to central nervous system could generate toxicity and neurological damage, and even death. In the past years, a compensatory mechanism to liver glucuronidation has been indicated in the hepatic cytochromes P450 enzymes (Cyps) which are able to oxidize bilirubin. Cyps are expressed also in the central nervous system, the target of bilirubin toxicity, thus making them theoretically important to confer a protective activity toward bilirubin accumulation and neurotoxicity. We therefore investigated the functional induction (mRNA, EROD/MROD) and the ability to oxidize bilirubin of Cyp1A1, 1A2, and 2A3 in primary astrocytes cultures obtained from two rat brain region (cortex: Cx and cerebellum: Cll). We observed that Cyp1A1 was the Cyp isoform more easily induced by beta-naphtoflavone (βNF) in both Cx and Cll astrocytes, but oxidized bilirubin only after uncoupling by 3, 4,3',4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (TCB). On the contrary, Cyp1A2 was the most active Cyp in bilirubin clearance without uncoupling, but its induction was confined only in Cx cells. Brain Cyp2A3 was not inducible. In conclusion, the exposure of astrocytes to βNF plus TCB significantly enhanced Cyp1A1 mediating bilirubin clearance, improving cell viability in both regions. These results may be a relevant groundwork for the manipulation of brain Cyps as a therapeutic approach in reducing bilirubin-induced neurological damage.
To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy data, adverse effects, and drug interactions of sibutramine as a treatment for obesity.
English-language clinical studies, abstracts, and review articles were identified using MEDLINE, EMBASE, and a manual search from January 1980 through December 1998. References were also obtained from the reference section of published articles.
All articles identified were evaluated for possible inclusion in this review. Evaluative and comparative data from prospective, open-label, double-blind, and controlled studies were reviewed.
Sibutramine is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake-inhibitor effective in the treatment of obesity. It does not act as a releasing agent of these neurotransmitters. Sibutramine undergoes extensive metabolism in the liver via CYP3A4, forming two pharmacologically active metabolites. This agent has demonstrated efficacy superior to placebo in reducing weight when used as part of an integrated regimen involving behavior modification, physical activity, and a reduced-calorie intake. The most frequently reported adverse effects include dry mouth, anorexia, headache, insomnia, and constipation. Sibutramine has also been shown to substantially increase blood pressure and heart rate in some patients.
Based on anorectic efficacy data, sibutramine, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake-inhibitor, is a viable therapeutic option for the treatment of obesity. Recommended candidates for this medication are patients with a body mass index (BMI) > or = 30 kg/m2 without concomitant risk factors or patients with a BMI > or = 27 kg/m2 with concomitant risk factors. Sibutramine should be used with caution in patients with a history of hypertension and should not be used in those with uncontrolled hypertension and concomitant cardiovascular disease. Further studies need to be conducted in order to identify long-term outcomes beyond one year.
In the last twenty years, using all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) as a differentiation inducer, Shanghai Institute of Hematology has achieved an important breakthrough in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), which realized the theory of reversing phenotype of cells and provided a successful model of differentiation therapy in cancers. Our group first discovered in the world the variant chromosome translocation t(11;17)(q23;q21) of APL, and cloned the PML-RAR alpha, PLZF-RAR alpha and NPM-RAR alpha fusion genes corresponding to the characterized chromosome translocations t(15;17); t(11;17) and t(5;17) in APL. Moreover, establishment of transgenic mice model of APL proved their effects on leukemogenesis. The ability of ATRA to modify the recruitment of nuclear receptor co-repressor with PML-RAR alpha but not PLZF-RAR alpha caused by the variant chromosome translocation elucidated the therapeutic mechanism of ATRA from the molecular level and provides new insight into transcription-modulating therapy. Since 1994, our group has successfully applied arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) in treating relapsed APL patients, with the complete remission rate of 70% - 80%. The molecular mechanism study revealed that As(2)O(3) exerts a dose-dependent dual effect on APL. Low-dose As(2)O(3) induced partial differentiation of APL cells, while the higher dose induced apoptosis. As(2)O(3) binds ubiquitin like SUMO-1 through the lysine 160 of PML, resulting in the degradation of PML-RAR alpha. Taken together, ATRA and As(2)O(3) target the transcription factor PML-RAR alpha, the former by retinoic acid receptor and the latter by PML sumolization, both induce PML-RAR alpha degradation and APL cells differentiation and apoptosis. Because of the different acting pathways, ATRA and As(2)O(3) have no cross-resistance and can be used as combination therapy. Clinical trial in newly diagnosed APL patients showed that ATRA/As(2)O(3) in combination yields a longer disease-free survival time. With the median survival of 18 months, none of the 20 cases in combination treatment relapsed, whereas 7 relapsed in 37 cases in mono-treatment. This is the best clinical effect achieved in treating adult acute leukemia to this day, possibly making APL the first adult curable leukemia. Based on the great success of the pathogenetic gene target therapy in APL, this strategy may extend to other leukemias. Combination of Gleevec and arsenic agents in treating chronic myeloid leukemia has already make a figure both in clinical and laboratory research, aiming at counteracting the abnormal tyrosine kinase activity of ABL and the degradating BCR-ABL fusion protein. In acute myeloid leukemia M(2b), using new target therapy degradating AML1-ETO fusion protein and reducing the abnormal tyrosine kinase activity of c-kit will also lead to new therapeutic management in acute leukemias.
l-DOPA remains the gold-standard treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the emergence of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) and motor fluctuations represents a major clinical problem in PD. The selective localization of adenosine A(2A) receptors to the basal ganglia and specifically to the indirect output pathway appear to be crucial both in the pathogenesis of PD and in the development of LID. In this study, we investigated the effects of a 3-week treatment with l-DOPA (50mg/kg/day+benserazide 12.5mg/kg/day, twice daily, i.p.) alone or combined with adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist 8-(3-Chlorostyryl)caffeine (CSC) (5mg/kg/day, twice daily), on the rotational motor response duration, abnormal involuntary movements (AIM) and the associated striatal expression of adenosine A(2A) receptor in rats with a nigrostriatal lesion. CSC treatment ameliorated the shortening of the rotational motor response duration, partly attenuated dyskinesia and reduced striatal expression of adenosine A(2A) receptor induced by l-DOPA. Electron microscopy technique results showed that the postsynapse density depth was much thicker, synapse cleft width was narrower and the ratio of perforated synapses significantly increased in the l-DOPA-treated rats, while systemic coadministration of CSC with l-DOPA attenuated the overactivity of corticostriatal synaptic ultrastructure and function induced by l-DOPA. In conclusion, CSC by means of its dual action as A(2A) receptor antagonist and MAO-B inhibitor ameliorated the changed behavior, expression of adenosine A(2A) receptor and postsynaptic effects, observed in the 6-OHDA-lesioned rats, pointing out to its potential benefit for the treatment of LID.
To establish the frequency and appearance of fetal malformations in women with epilepsy and teratogenic risk of the antiepileptic drugs.
This study is prospective and covers a 12-year period (1996-2007). During this time 107 women with epilepsy till their delivery were studied in the Clinic of Pregnancy in Risk of Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology of Medical University of Pleven.
We found in 5 cases (4.76%) fetal and baby's malformations. We point out that during the pregnancy 4 of these 5 women with epilepsy had taken valproates, and the other one--carbamazepine. We found, that the neural tube defects were predominant in this cohort.
This study shows that all pregnant women with epilepsy should be carefully followed during their period of pregnancy with the help of echocardiography, biochemistry and if it's necessary--amniocenteses. We should inform every pregnant woman with epilepsy for the benefits and risks of the long-term therapy with antiepileptic drugs.
Activation of beta-catenin, the central effector of the canonical Wnt pathway and a recognized oncogene, has been implicated in hepatocellular carcinoma. We examined N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN)-induced tumorigenesis in hepatic beta-catenin conditional knockout mice (beta-cat KO). Male beta-cat KO and age- and sex-matched littermate controls were given a single intraperitoneal DEN injection and followed for 6-12 months for hepatic tumors. Hepatic tumors were characterized for histology, proliferation, apoptosis, oxidative stress, and specific proteins by way of western blot, immunohistochemistry, and coprecipitation studies. For in vivo tumor intervention studies, specific inhibitors were administered intraperitoneally or through drinking water. Intriguingly, beta-cat KO mice showed a paradoxical increase in susceptibility to DEN-induced tumorigenesis. This accelerated tumorigenesis is due to increased injury and inflammation, unrestricted oxidative stress, fibrosis, and compensatory increase in hepatocyte proliferation secondary to platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRalpha)/phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PIK3CA)/Akt activation and c-Myc overexpression. In vitro suppression of beta-catenin expression in hepatoma cells led to enhanced PDGFRalpha expression, which was abrogated in the presence of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) inhibitor. Daily treatment of 6-month-old DEN-exposed beta-cat KO with PDGFRalpha inhibitor dramatically reduced tumor numbers and size. Inclusion of N-acetyl-L-cysteine, a known antioxidant and NF-kappaB inhibitor, in the drinking water led to complete abolition of tumorigenesis in DEN-exposed beta-cat KO.
Loss of beta-catenin impairs the liver's ability to counteract DEN-induced oxidative stress and enhances tumorigenesis through PDGFRalpha/PIK3CA/Akt signaling. Blockade of PDGFRalpha or oxidative stress dramatically affects beta-catenin-deficient tumorigenesis. Also, hepatoma cells use PDGFRalpha/PIK3CA signaling as an escape mechanism following beta-catenin suppression, and their sequential suppression profoundly impedes tumor proliferation.
GABAergic hypofunction in the basal ganglia is stated as an important mechanism underlying the pathophysiology of tardive dyskinesia. In the present study we sought to establish the protective effect of progesterone in haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia. Besides this we also tried to find out whether the GABA(A) facilitatory action of progesterone metabolites is responsible for the action of progesterone in attenuating the haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia, an animal model of tardive dyskinesia. Chronic administration of haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p. 21 days) induced significant increase in hyperkinetic orofacial dyskinetic movements and oxidative damage in the brain as compared to control group. Coadministration of progesterone (5-20 mg/kg, i.p. 21 days) dose dependently prevented the hyperkinetic orofacial movements as well as oxidative damage parameters. The protective activity of progesterone was reversed by pre treatment with finasteride (50 mg/kg i.p.), a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor that blocks the metabolism of progesterone to allopregnanolone and other metabolites. Further, chronic administration of haloperidol resulted in significant decrease in dopamine levels in rat striatum homogenates and increase in catecholamine metabolite levels. Coadministration of progesterone also reversed the decrease in dopamine levels induced by chronic haloperidol treatment, an effect which was again reversed by pre treatment with finasteride. Our study provides strong evidence that the protective effect of progesterone resides in the GABAergic as well as neuroprotective activity of its metabolite allopregnanolone. These findings lend support to recognized GABA hypofunction theory of tardive dyskinesia and strongly suggest progesterone as a protective therapy in this debilitating movement disorder.
The contribution of the acute phase inducer interleukin 6 (IL-6) in the pathogenesis of liver diseases is yet unclear. Our analysis showed enhanced expression of IL-6 in livers derived from patients with acute and chronic liver diseases. Additionally, IL-6 plasma levels were significantly increased in patients with chronic liver diseases and showed an inverse correlation with biochemical markers of liver function and a positive correlation with inflammatory markers, signs of portal hypertension, and the degree of liver fibrosis. To prove the relevance of these clinical findings, we applied the tetrachlorcarbonide (CCl(4)) model to conditional knockout animals (Cre/loxP system) for gp130, the common signal transducer of IL-6 family cytokines. Cre recombinases were expressed through a hepatocyte (AlfpCre) and a ubiquitous (MxCre) control element. Gp130 deleted mice had a totally abolished STAT3 activation and acute phase response induction, but gp130 deletion had no effect on the degree of acute liver injury and subsequent hepatocyte proliferation. In contrast, during chronic liver injury induced by biweekly application of CCl(4), deletion of the gp130 receptor in nonparenchymal liver cells and not hepatocytes resulted in fibrosis progression. In conclusion, our experiments indicate an involvement of IL-6 in the pathogenesis of liver diseases and suggest a protective role of IL-6/gp130-dependent pathways in nonparenchymal liver cells during fibrosis progression in chronic liver diseases. (Hepatology 2003;38:218-229).
The association between the progestin-only pill used for treatment of menstrual disorders and central venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) has rarely been reported in the literature. This report describes a case of central venous sinus thrombosis following intake of norethindrone acetate for dysfunctional uterine bleeding secondary to polycystic ovary syndrome in a young woman with undiagnosed underlying hyperhomocysteinemia.
A 23-year-old woman presented with severe headache, followed by hemiparesis, seizures, and altered sensorium. She had been prescribed norethindrone acetate for the management of dysfunctional uterine bleeding secondary to polycystic ovary syndrome. Investigations revealed acquired hyperhomocysteinemia, presumably due to nutritional deficiencies, and evidence of CVST on MRI and magnetic resonance venography. Investigations showed no evidence of inherited thrombophilia. The patient was treated with low molecular weight heparin, followed by warfarin, vitamin B12, vitamin B6, and folic acid, and recovered successfully.
Although venous thrombosis is usually linked to the ingestion of estrogen, rather than progestogen, this case illustrates that patients who are prescribed progestogen-only pills for gynaecological disorders may develop thrombosis, especially if they have predisposing metabolic disorders.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is an anthracycline antibiotic that is widely used as a chemotherapeutic agent. However, usefulness of this agent is limited due to its cardiotoxic effects. The aim of this study was to investigate the potential protective effects of morphine against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with morphine (10mg/kg i.p.) and/or DOX (1.25mg/kg i.p.), 4 times per week, for 4 weeks. Mortality, general condition and body weight of the animals were observed during the whole treatment, and for a further 4-week period, until the end of experiment. Evaluation of cardioprotective efficacy of morphine was performed by analyzing the electrocardiographic parameters and contractility force of left ventricular papillary muscle. Necropsy was also performed at the end of the experiment, and heart excision, weight and macroscopic examination were done before histological evaluation. Doxorubicin caused heart disturbances manifested by prominent electrocardiographic changes (S(alpha)-T prolongation), decrease of the heart contractility, as well as histopathologically verified myocardial lesions. The changes in heart parameters were accompanied by 50% mortality rate, significant decline in body mass and severe effusion intensity score of the animals. Application of morphine before each dose of DOX either significantly reduced or completely prevented its toxic effects. Therefore, since morphine had very good protective effects against a high dose of DOX given as a multiple, low, unitary dose regimen, not only on the heart but on the whole rat as well, it could be recommended for further investigation in this potentially new indication for clinical application.
L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) in rodents induces behavioral signs similar to the symptoms of neuropathic pain in humans. L5/L6 SNL in rats has been well characterized so far, but there have been few studies using mice. In this study, we established an L5/L6 SNL model in mice and examined the effects of known antinociceptive drugs in the model. We also analyzed the changes in gene expression in dorsal root ganglions with special reference to those which are known to change in a neuropathic pain state to validate the model. Mechanical allodynia in the ipsilateral side paw was observed beginning on day 1 and lasted for at least 2 months following surgery. Diclofenac showed no significant effect on the mechanical allodynia. Gabapentin and pregabalin completely reversed allodynia, but they also caused a decrease in locomotor activity. Duloxetine caused a partial recovery of the threshold. Mexiletine completely reversed allodynia, but it also caused sedation or motor impairment. Morphine caused a partial recovery of the threshold and hyper-locomotion. This mouse L5/L6 SNL model represents a robust mechanical allodynia, which shows a similar pharmacological response to that reported in rats and human patients with neuropathic pain. The pattern changes in gene expression also resembled those reported in rats. This model will therefore be useful for investigation of the effects of novel antinociceptive compounds and the mechanisms of neuropathic pain.
Chronic schizophrenic patients were maintained for six months on a dosage of haloperidol adjusted to give optimum clinical effect. A correlation was found between extrapyramidal symptoms and prolactin levels and also between plasma haloperidol concentration and plasma prolactin levels. Estimation of plasma prolactin would be a reliable measurement of patients' compliance with medication.
Hyperoxic lung injury, believed to be mediated by reactive oxygen species, inflammatory cell activation, and release of cytotoxic cytokines, complicates the care of many critically ill patients. The cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha is induced in lungs exposed to high concentrations of oxygen; however, its contribution to hyperoxia-induced lung injury remains unclear. Both TNF-alpha treatment and blockade with anti-TNF antibodies increased survival in mice exposed to hyperoxia. In the current study, to determine if pulmonary oxygen toxicity is dependent on either of the TNF receptors, type I (TNFR-I) or type II (TNFR-II), TNFR-I or TNFR-II gene-ablated [(-/-)] mice and wild-type control mice (WT; C57BL/6) were studied in >95% oxygen. There was no difference in average length of survival, although early survival was better for TNFR-I(-/-) mice than for either TNFR-II(-/-) or WT mice. At 48 h of hyperoxia, slightly more alveolar septal thickening and peribronchiolar and periarteriolar edema were detected in WT than in TNFR-I(-/-) lungs. By 84 h of oxygen exposure, TNFR-I(-/-) mice demonstrated greater alveolar debris, inflammation, and edema than WT mice. TNFR-I was necessary for induction of cytokine interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-1 receptor antagonist, chemokine macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1beta, MIP-2, interferon-gamma-induced protein-10 (IP-10), and monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 mRNA in response to intratracheal administration of recombinant murine TNF-alpha. However, IL-1beta, IL-6, macrophage migration inhibitory factor, MIP-1alpha, MIP-2, and MCP-1 mRNAs were comparably induced by hyperoxia in TNFR-I(-/-) and WT lungs. In contrast, mRNA for manganese superoxide dismutase and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 were induced by hyperoxia only in WT mice. Differences in early survival and toxicity suggest that pulmonary oxygen toxicity is in part mediated by TNFR-I. However, induction of specific cytokine and chemokine mRNA and lethality in response to severe hyperoxia was independent of TNFR-I expression. The current study supports the prediction that therapeutic efforts to block TNF-alpha receptor function will not protect against pulmonary oxygen toxicity.
Methamidophos (MET), widely used in developing countries, is a highly neurotoxic organophosphate pesticide that has been associated with male reproductive alterations. Commercial formulations of pesticides used by agricultural workers and urban sprayers are responsible for thousands of intoxications in developing countries and may not have the same effects as active pure ingredients. Therefore, we compared effects of MET technical (METt) and commercial (METc) grades on sperm quality and DNA integrity. Male mice were injected (intraperitoneal, i.p.) with METt or METc (3.75, 5, and 7 mg/kg bw/day/4 days) and sacrificed 24 h post-treatment. Sperm cells collected from epididymis-vas deferens were evaluated for quality parameters, DNA damage by the comet assay, and lipoperoxidation by malondialdehyde (MDA) production. Erythrocyte acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was evaluated by acetylthiocholine inhibition as an index of overall toxicity. A dose-dependent AChE inhibition was observed with both formulations. Sperm quality was decreased after treatment with both MET compounds, but the commercial formulation showed stronger effects; a similar profile was observed with the DNA damage, being METc more genotoxic. None MET formulation increased MDA, suggesting no peroxidative damage involved. In summary, the commercial formulation of MET was more reprotoxic and genotoxic than the active pure ingredient, highlighting that commercial formulations must be considered for more appropriate risk assessment of pesticide exposures.
High psychiatric morbidity has been reported among those who complain of food intolerance or allergy. Many cases of food allergy or intolerance to drugs are not due to allergy to the food or drugs themselves, but to the additives used for coloring, flavoring, preserving, thickening, emulsifying, or stabilizing the product. Of various coloring dyes used, tartrazine (FD & C yellow no. 5) is the color most frequently incriminated in producing allergic reactions. The exact epidemiology and pattern of allergic reactions to tartrazine in psychotropic drugs have not been frequently studied and reported.
The present study included consecutive outpatients (May 1996 to April 1998) who developed allergic reactions or intolerance to tartrazine in psychotropic drugs. Total patients exposed to tartrazine-containing drugs were also recorded. The subjects showing allergic reactions to tartrazine were then exposed to non-tartrazine-containing brands.
Of 2210 patients exposed to tartrazine-containing drugs, 83 (3.8%) developed allergic reactions. The symptoms subsided within 24 to 48 hours of stopping the drug. None of the patients showed allergy to non-tartrazine-containing brands. History of allergy to tartrazine was present in 13.2%, and 15.7% of patients had a history of aspirin sensitivity.
Tartrazine allergy should be considered in patients developing drug allergy, because it would require changing the brand rather than stopping treatment with that drug.
