Effects of 1-(2-ethoxyethyl)-2-(4-methyl-1-homopiperazinyl)benzimidazole difumarate (KB-2413) on the central nervous system were compared with those of ketotifen and chlorpheniramine. Among the various activities related to the central nervous system, KB-2413 showed inhibitory effects on locomotor activity, acetic acid-induced writhing in mice and reserpine-induced hypothermia in rats at a high dose such as 100 mg/kg p.o. However, in mice, it (10-100 mg/kg p.o.) exerted no significant influence on muscle tone, various experimental convulsions, oxotremorine-induced tremor, physostigmine-induced mortality or hexobarbital-induced sleep, and in rats, it had no effect on rectal temperature or conditioned avoidance. It also did not affect spontaneous electroencephalogram (EEG), EEG arousal responses or photic driving response in rabbits at 5 mg/kg i.v. On the other hand, ketotifen and chlorpheniramine affected more widely and strongly the central nervous system than KB-2413. In conclusion, KB-2413 showed a less potent effect on the central nervous system than ketotifen and chlorpheniramine, and no results suggested serious side effects of KB-2413.
Psychic distress is often expressed in the form of physical pain or disease, but the converse also occurs. Illnesses with an organic aetiology are sometimes misdiagnosed as psychogenic. We describe three patients who developed rare forms of acute drug-induced dystonia when treated with antipsychotic drugs. All three cases were initially misdiagnosed as "hysteria" because the patients had psychiatric illnesses and because the symptoms were bizarre and became worse when the patients became very anxious. Furthermore, if the patients were helped to relax the symptoms disappeared for a moment. One of the patients developed dystonia 24 hours after ingestion of 750 mg tetrabenazine in an attempt at suicide. Another patient who had HIV/AIDS developed severe dystonia after receiving only 2 mg haloperidol by mouth. The clinical presentation, treatment, and possible mechanisms of the pathophysiology of acute drug-induced dystonia are briefly reviewed.
A two-year-old boy received by mistake 50 mg racemic adrenaline intravenously, corresponding to 1.8 mg kg-1 of L-adrenaline. Blood pressure increased to 160/105 mm Hg, heart rate to 160 beats min-1 and pulmonary oedema developed over the next two hours. He was treated with nitroprusside, nitroglycerine and digitoxin, and was intubated and ventilated. After three hours a hypotensive phase occurred, probably due to down-regulation of the beta- and alpha-adrenoceptors. This recessitated infusions of very high concentrations of catecholamines for 72 hours. Renal failure recessitated renal transplantation, after which the child made an uneventful recovery.
The present study was conducted to evaluate scopolamine-induced convulsions in fasted mice after food intake effects on the cortical electroencephalogram (EEG). Continuous EEG recordings were taken with Neuroscan for 10 min in freely moving mice with six chronic cortical electrode implants. Animals were weighed and deprived of food for 48 h. EEG recordings were taken at the 24th and 48th hour after their food deprivations. Later, all animals were treated with saline or scopolamine of 3mg/kg i.p. and EEG recordings were repeated for 10 min. Twenty minutes later, they were given food pellets and were allowed to eat ad libitum. All animals were observed for 60 min to determine the incidence and onset of convulsions and EEG recordings were taken simultaneously. The present results demonstrate that food deprivation causes differences in EEG in the elapsed time. The changes in EEG induced after food deprivation become different with scopolamine administration. In scopolamine treatment group, eating caused a series of high-voltage polyspikes and synchronized spikes with a predominant frequency in the 1-3 Hz range and fast activity that represents a typical epileptiform manifestation. It was concluded that the EEG properties and the behavioral patterns of these convulsions are in accordance with each other.
Laser-Doppler flowmetry was used to study cerebral cortical blood flow responses to morphine and naloxone in morphine-naive and -dependent rats. The experiments were performed in spontaneously breathing anesthetized rats. Morphine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) administration reduced regional cerebral blood flow in control, sham-operated and morphine-dependent rats, but the depressant effect of morphine in morphine-dependent animals was less than that in control and sham-operated groups. While naloxone (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) had no considerable effect on regional cerebral blood flow in control and sham-operated groups, it increased regional blood flow in morphine dependent ones. The depressant effect of morphine in all groups and the enhancing effect of naloxone in morphine-dependent animals were not seen after local application of lidocaine at the recording site. This study may provide a framework to study the cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for coupling neuronal electrical activity with regional alterations in blood flow during precipitation of morphine withdrawal.
Common clinical practice in many tropical paediatric departments is that chloramphenicol courses are limited to 2 weeks due to concerns about anaemia. However, this approach is not supported by current research and animal models. We used chloramphenicol for 6 weeks in 146 children with septic arthritis. All the children improved clinically. Most children were anaemic on presentation (mean haemoglobin [Hb] 8.43 SD 1.9), but the anaemia improved rapidly with clinical resolution of the infection and was maintained at 6 months after presentation (mean Hb 10.57 SD 1.86).
We recently identified two thiazolidin compounds, 5-[(4-methylphenyl)methylene]-2-(phenylamino)-4(5H)-thiazolone (MMPT) and 5-(2,4-dihydroxybenzylidene)-2-(phenylimino)-1,3-thiazolidin (DBPT), that inhibit the growth of human non-small-cell lung and colon cancer cells independent of P-glycoprotein and p53 status. Here we further investigated the mechanism by which these thiazolidin compounds mediate their anticancer effects. Treatment of cancer cells with MMPT and DBPT led to a time-dependent accumulation of cells arrested in the G2/M phase with modulation of the expression of proteins such as cyclin B1, cdc25C, and phosphorylated histone H3. Moreover, treatment with MMPT and DBPT increased M-phase arrest with abnormal spindle formation. DBPT-mediated G2/M phase arrest and phosphorylation of cdc25C and histone H3 were abrogated when JNK activation was blocked either with SP600125, a specific JNK inhibitor, or a dominant-negative JNK1 gene. Moreover, DBPT-mediated microtubule disruption was also blocked by SP600125 treatment. Our results demonstrate that thiazolidin compounds can effectively induce G2/M arrest in cancer cells and that this G2/M arrest requires JNK activation.
Ozone is a well-known oxidant air pollutant, inhalation of which can result in oxidative stress, and lead to pulmonary inflammation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the time-course events after a single ozone exposure in transcription-coupled repair defective Csb and wild type mice. Mice were exposed for 3 h to 2 ppm ozone and biological parameters related to oxidative stress and inflammation were examined in the lungs at 0, 4, 9, 24 and 48 h after exposure. In addition the procoagulant and thrombomodulin activities were explored by a combination of assays for tissue factor and thrombin generation. This study revealed a significant biological response to ozone, for both Csb and wild type mice. The onset of inflammation in Csb mice, as indicated by an increase in interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and total cell influx, occurred earlier compared with those seen in wild type mice. On the other hand, Csb mice showed a delayed antioxidant reaction compared with wild type mice. Both genotypes developed a procoagulant reaction characterized by a stably increased tissue factor activity and a progressive increase in thrombin generation after 2 days. These experiments have shown that ozone, a well-known toxic substance from the environment, induces not only inflammation, but also procoagulant reactions in the lungs of mice. These results have implications for understanding the systemic effects induced by oxidant air pollutants.
The effect of therapeutic doses of Prednisolone (1 mg/kg) on the indices of energy metabolism in different regions of the heart, liver and kidneys was studied in 70 dogs within the initial 10 days after the ligation of the left coronary artery. The administration of such doses of Prednisolone was found to increase the respiration of the mytochondria and especially the binding of the inorganic phosphate in the zone of the infarction, to switch over from the poorly effective oxidation in the nondamaged area of the left ventricle to the one firmly conjugated with phosphorylation, to level the balance between the respiration and phosphorylation of the mytochondria in the right ventricle, liver and kidneys. The beneficial effect of Prednisolone upon the energy metabolism in the tissues during myocardial infarction manifested itself in growing depots of ATP and creatinephosphate in all regions of the heart. This effect of Prednisolone is most clearly expressed during the initial 5 days of its administration, and is less demonstrative when given for 10 days.
The risk of torsades de pointes in patients on sotalol is increased in the setting of renal failure. QT dispersion and prolonged QT intervals have been described as markers for pro-arrhythmia. Four cases of torsades de pointes caused by low dose sotalol in patients with renal failure are reported. All four cases demonstrated that the 12-lead electrocardiogram, with markedly prolonged QT intervals and increased QT dispersion, could have been used to predict pro-arrhythmia.
1. The expression of c-raf protooncogene in early stages of chemically induced rat liver tumorigenesis was studied in weanling female and adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. After initiation with diethylnitrosamine, promotion by polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or phenobarbital (PB) was studied in the female. Male rats were promoted with PCBs only. 2. The incidence of enzyme-altered foci was evaluated histochemically by demonstrating a deficiency in adenosine-5'-triphosphatase and the emergence of gamma-glutamyl-transpeptidase. C-raf expression was measured in liver tissue containing preneoplastic foci, and in small (< 3 mm in diameter) and large (> 3 mm in diameter) neoplastic nodules up to 36 weeks. 3. Foci numbers amounted to 60-70 per cm2 liver section with both histochemical markers and both promoters in female rats. In male rats foci numbers were about 20-40 per cm2 liver section with both markers and with PCBs as promoting agents. Foci area developed more rapidly in female rats. 4. Small and large nodules were found in females during the entire observation period with both promoting agents, PCBs being more effective than PB. C-raf expression in nodules was increased up to 10-fold in PCB-treated animals compared with untreated controls. No dependence on the size of the nodules was seen. In male rats nodule incidence was very low and c-raf induction was marginal. 5. In conclusion, c-raf proto-oncogene expression correlated with the incidence of foci and nodules, female rats being more sensitive than males.
Although drinking alcohol is an established esophageal cancer risk factor, the mechanisms by which alcohol induces this high-mortality rate cancer are not clear. To help elucidate this problem and develop an implementable preventive strategy, this genetic epidemiological study focused on aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2), the key enzyme for elimination of acetaldehyde generated by alcohol consumption. This enzyme is polymorphic; its mutant allele, ALDH2*2, which leads to the enzyme inactivity, is prevalent in Orientals. This Japanese case-control study of ALDH2-related risk for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma included alcoholics (40 cases and 55 controls) and nonalcoholic drinkers (29 cases and 28 controls). The analysis of the results of genotyping these subjects showed that the increased risk for esophageal cancer in those with one ALDH2*2 allele was substantially higher in both alcoholics (odds ratio = 7.6; 95% confidence interval = 2.8-20.7) and nonalcoholic drinkers (odds ratio = 12.1; 95% confidence interval = 3.4-42.8). The results strongly suggest that because persons who have this mutant ALDH2*2 allele have a high concentration of blood acetaldehyde after drinking alcohol, acetaldehyde (a recognized animal carcinogen) plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of alcohol-related esophageal cancer in humans. These results suggest that to help lower their risk for esophageal cancer, persons with the ALDH2*2 allele should be encouraged to reduce their consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Recombinant human erythropoietin (r-HuEPO) was administered in 4 lung transplant recipients to treat chronic anemia beyond the immediate postoperative period. There were 2 males and 2 females with a mean age of 38 years (range 22-49). None of the patients had major infection or rejection problems, and no blood products were used. Because of different individual responses duration of therapy was 1 to 17 weeks (median 5) with a total dosage ranging from 8 to 36 x 10(3) IU (mean 21 x 10(3)). The median single dose was 58 IU/kg (range 36-100). Hemoglobin levels increased significantly from 9.1 +/- 0.2 to 12.7 +/- 0.3 g/dl (mean +/- SE; p < 0.01). There were no side effects. r-HuEPO is recommended in treatment of chronic anemia in lung transplant patients to save blood products and to exclude the potential risk of transfusion-transmitted viral infections.
Homozygous beta-thalassemia patients may develop iron overload even if untransfused, due to inappropriately high intestinal iron absorption. Reduction of hepcidin synthesis has been reported both in patients and in animal models. We have measured liver hepcidin and other iron gene transcripts in two different mouse models of beta-thalassemia at different ages.
Mice Hbb(th/th), characterized by spontaneous homozygous deletion of the major b1 globin gene were studied at 2 and 8 months. Mice Hbb(th/3+), characterized by the heterozygous deletion of b1 and b2 globin genes were studied at 4 and 10 months. Hematologic data were obtained and iron overload estimated by Perls' staining of the liver. Expression of liver hepcidin, Tfr2, Hjv, Fpn and Hfe RNA was assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Levels of serum cytokines (interleukin-6, IL-1beta, IL-10, granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor) levels were assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Hemoglobin, hematocrit and mean corpuscular volume were significantly reduced in both beta-thalassemia models, more significantly in Hbb(th/3+), which have the greater, age-dependent, iron overload. Hepcidin RNA was not increased despite iron overload in both strains. Fpn RNA was increased and Tfr2 was decreased in older animals. Inflammatory cytokine levels were striking variable and unrelated to hepcidin levels.
Although anemia is reported to inhibit hepcidin expression, normal hepcidin synthesis was maintained in both thalassemic models studied. However, hepcidin levels were inappropriate for the body iron, especially in Hbb(th/3+) 10-month-old animals. As we previously reported in wild type mice after parenteral iron overload, Tfr2 is reduced and Fpn RNA increased in thalassemic mice. Inflammatory cytokines did not play a major role in increasing hepcidin levels or in modifying iron homeostasis in this study.
Five patients with severe hemorrhagic cystitis induced by radiation and/or cyclophosphamide were systematically treated with conjugated estrogen. Two patients received conjugated estrogen twice each day (1 mg. per kg.) intravenously, followed on day 3 and thereafter by 5 mg. per day orally. Hematuria decreased markedly 6 to 8 hours after the initial dose and urine color became light yellow within 1 to 3 days. The other 3 patients received 5 mg. conjugated estrogen per day orally and urine color became clear within 4 to 7 days. Hematuria did not recur during 12 to 22 months in 4 patients who received daily conjugated estrogen (1.25 mg.). However, transient episodes of mild hematuria persisted in 1 patient during the 3-month followup despite a higher dose of conjugated estrogen (10 mg. per day). Complications, including thromboembolism and other side effects associated with conjugated estrogen, were not observed in these patients. We postulate that conjugated estrogen controls hematuria in hemorrhagic cystitis by decreasing the fragility of the mucosal microvasculature of the bladder.
Nitrates relieve symptoms and improve left ventricular haemodynamics during acute myocardial ischaemia. The ability to increase cardiac output appears to be greatest in those patients with the most severe left ventricular failure. In humans and in animal experiments it has been demonstrated that indices of infarct evolution are reduced by early (less than 6 hours) administration of nitrate. Glyceryl trinitrate reduces myocardial oxygen consumption and improves delivery of oxygen to the ischaemic subendocardium. In addition, nitrates dilate epicardial coronary vessels with improvement of collateral flow Glyceryl trinitrate appears to have a more favourable effect on coronary collateral flow, pulmonary artery pressure, myocardial oxygen consumption and lactate production than other vasodilators. The effect of glyceryl trinitrate is dose dependent; doses larger than 100 micrograms/min may cause a paradoxical increase in the ischaemic condition. Hypovolaemic patients or patients with right heart infarction seem especially susceptible to hypotension. Nitrate-induced hypotension occurs in 15 to 20% of all patients with acute myocardial infarction. Administration of glyceryl trinitrate appears to offer most benefit in acute myocardial infarction complicated by significant left ventricular dysfunction. There is evidence that morbidity and mortality are reduced by early administration of nitrates; however, a properly conducted randomised double-blind trial remains to be performed.
Connexin32 (Cx32) is the major gap junction forming protein in liver. We have recently shown that hepatocarcinogenesis is strongly enhanced in mice deficient in Cx32, demonstrating that lack of functional Cx32 accelerates liver tumorigenesis. Many tumor-promoting agents, including phenobarbital, block gap junctional intercellular communication in vitro, and it has been suggested that this effect is relevant for clonal expansion of neoplastic cells in vivo. We have now tested this hypothesis by analyzing the potency of phenobarbital as a liver tumor promoter in male Cx32-wild-type (Cx32(Y/+)) and Cx32-null (Cx32(Y/-)) mice. Preneoplastic and neoplastic liver lesions were induced in 6-week-old male mice by a single injection of 90 microg/g body weight of N-nitrosodiethylamine, and groups of mice were subsequently kept on phenobarbital-containing (0.05%) or control diet for 39 weeks. Frozen liver sections were prepared, and (pre)neoplastic lesions were identified by their deficiency in glucose-6-phosphatase staining. In addition, the number and size of macroscopically visible tumors were monitored. Phenobarbital led to a approximately 5-fold increase in the volume fraction occupied by glucose-6-phosphatase-deficient liver lesions in Cx32(Y/+) mice, whereas there was no such increase in Cx32(Y/-) mice. Even more pronounced differences were observed with respect to tumor response. Whereas phenobarbital clearly promoted the occurrence of numerous large hepatomas in Cx32(Y/+) mice, no such effect was seen in Cx32(Y/-) mice. These results demonstrate, for the first time, that functional Cx32 protein is required for tumor promotion by phenobarbital.
Cardio-respiratory effects of an intravenous injection of arvanil, a structural "hybrid" between capsaicin and anandamide, were investigated in 40 urethane-chloralose anaesthetized and spontaneously breathing rats. In the group of rats the response to arvanil was checked to establish the appropriate dose of the drug. To analyze the pattern of the cardio-respiratory effects rats were challenged with bolus injection of arvanil (0.8 mg kg(-1)) into the femoral vein. Administration of the drug evoked, in all tested rats, a significant increase of tidal volume (V(T)) and diaphragm activity, hypertension coupled with a fall in respiratory rate (f). To test the contribution of vanilloid (VR1) and cannabinoid (CB1) receptors to post-arvanil response, administrations of the drug were preceded by nonselective VR1 antagonist ruthenium red, selective VR1 antagonist SB366791 or selective CB1 antagonist AM281. All antagonists eliminated an increase in V(T) but failed to block the hypertension evoked by arvanil. Ruthenium red as well as SB366791 abolished post-arvanil fall in respiratory rate. The rise of diaphragm activity was totally eliminated by ruthenium red and markedly reduced by SB366791. AM281 blockade of post-arvanil changes in f and diaphragm activity was ineffective. These findings indicated that the post-arvanil rise of V(T) was mediated by both VR1 and CB1 receptors. Only vanilloid receptors were involved in the increase of diaphragm activity and decrease of respiratory frequency. Hypertensive response to arvanil might depend on different types of receptors.
Tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate (TDCPP) and tris(1-chloropropyl) phosphate (TCPP) belong to a group of chemicals collectively known as triester organophosphate flame retardants (OPFRs). OPFRs are used in a wide range of consumer products and have been detected in biota, including free-living avian species; however, data on toxicological and molecular effects of exposure are limited. An in vitro screening approach was used to compare concentration-dependent effects of TDCPP and TCPP on cytotoxicity and messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in cultured hepatocytes and neuronal cells derived from embryonic chickens. TDCPP was toxic to hepatocytes (LC₅₀ = 60.3 ± 45.8μM) and neuronal cells (LC₅₀ = 28.7 ± 19.1μM), whereas TCPP did not affect viability in either cell type up to the highest concentration administered, 300μM. Real-time reverse transcription-PCR revealed alterations in mRNA abundance of genes associated with phase I and II metabolism, the thyroid hormone (TH) pathway, lipid regulation, and growth in hepatocytes. None of the transcripts measured in neuronal cells (D2, D3, RC3, and Oct-1) varied in response to TDCPP or TCPP exposure. Exposure to ≥ 10μM TDCPP and TCPP resulted in significant upregulation of CYP2H1 (4- to 8-fold), CYP3A37 (13- to 127-fold), and UGT1A9 (3.5- to 7-fold) mRNA levels. Transthyretin was significantly downregulated more than twofold by TCPP at 100μM; however, TDCPP did not alter its expression. Liver fatty acid-binding protein, TH-responsive spot 14-α, and insulin-like growth factor-1 were all downregulated (up to 10-fold) in hepatocytes exposed to ≥ 0.01μM TDCPP and TCPP. Taken together, our results indicate that genes associated with xenobiotic metabolism, the TH pathway, lipid regulation, and growth are vulnerable to TDCPP and TCPP administration in cultured avian hepatocytes. The mRNA expression data were similar to those from a previous study with hexabromocyclododecane.
Fibroblast growth factor 19 (FGF19) represses cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (Cyp7α1) and inhibits bile acid synthesis in vitro and in vivo. Previous studies have shown that anti-FGF19 antibody treatment reduces growth of colon tumor xenografts and prevents hepatocellular carcinomas in FGF19 transgenic mice and thus may be a useful cancer target. In a repeat dose safety study in cynomolgus monkeys, anti-FGF19 treatment (3-100 mg/kg) demonstrated dose-related liver toxicity accompanied by severe diarrhea and low food consumption. The mechanism of anti-FGF19 toxicity was investigated using in vitro and in vivo approaches. Our results show that anti-FGF19 antibody had no direct cytotoxic effect on monkey hepatocytes. Anti-FGF19 increased Cyp7α1, as expected, but also increased bile acid efflux transporter gene (bile salt export pump, multidrug resistant protein 2 [MRP2], and MRP3) expression and reduced sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide and organic anion transporter 2 expression in liver tissues from treated monkeys and in primary hepatocytes. In addition, anti-FGF19 treatment increased solute transporter gene (ileal bile acid-binding protein, organic solute transporter α [OST-α], and OST-β) expression in ileal tissues from treated monkeys but not in Caco-2 cells. However, deoxycholic acid (a secondary bile acid) increased expression of FGF19 and these solute transporter genes in Caco-2 cells. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of monkey feces showed an increase in total bile acids and cholic acid derivatives. These findings suggest that high doses of anti-FGF19 increase Cyp7α1 expression and bile acid synthesis and alter the expression of bile transporters in the liver resulting in enhanced bile acid efflux and reduced uptake. Increased bile acids alter expression of solute transporters in the ileum causing diarrhea and the enhanced enterohepatic recirculation of bile acids leading to liver toxicity.
The antimalarial compounds chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine are widely used in the treatment of connective tissue diseases and are usually well tolerated. We report two cases of chloroquine cardiotoxicity.
Two women (aged 43 and 48 years) were treated for 5 years for lupus. They developed severe conduction disturbances requiring a pacemaker. Plasma chloroquine concentrations were abnormally high in both cases. In one case, a genetic polymorphism modulating the activity of a cytochrome involved in chloroquine metabolism (CYP2C8) was identified.
Since 1965, 60 cases of occasionally severe cardiotoxicity have been reported following long-term treatment with chloroquine in most cases, but also with hydroxychloroquine. This toxicity must be detected early and close cardiac assessment is required.
The proglucagon gene gives rise to multiple peptides that play diverse roles in the control of energy intake, gut motility, and nutrient disposal. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), a 30-amino-acid peptide regulates glucose homeostasis via control of insulin and glucagon secretion and by inhibition of gastric emptying and food intake. Oxyntomodulin (OXM) a 37-amino-acid peptide also derived from the proglucagon gene, binds to both the glucagon and GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1R); however, a separate OXM receptor has not yet been identified. Here we show that OXM, like other GLP-1R agonists, stimulates cAMP formation and lowers blood glucose after both oral and ip glucose administration, actions that require a functional GLP-1R. OXM also directly stimulates insulin secretion from murine islets and INS-1 cells in a glucose- and GLP-1R-dependent manner. Moreover, OXM ameliorates hyperglycemia and significantly reduces apoptosis in murine beta-cells after streptozotocin administration and directly reduces apoptosis in thapsigargin-treated INS-1 cells. Unexpectedly, OXM, but not the GLP-1R agonist exendin-4, increased plasma levels of insulin after oral glucose administration. Moreover, OXM administered at doses that potently lower blood glucose had no effect on inhibition of gastric emptying but reduced food intake in WT mice. Taken together, these findings illustrate that although structurally distinct proglucagon-derived peptides such as GLP-1 and OXM engage the GLP-1R, OXM mimics some but not all of the actions of GLP-1R agonists in vivo. These findings may have implications for therapeutic efforts using OXM as a long-acting GLP-1R agonist for the treatment of metabolic disorders.
The orphan nuclear receptor steroidogenic factor-1 (SF-1, NR5A1) regulates the transcription of multiple genes involved in steroidogenesis, reproduction, and male sexual differentiation. A heterozygous loss-of-function SF-1 mutation (G35E) has been described in a patient with adrenal failure and complete 46XY sex-reversal, indicating that haploinsufficiency of this factor is sufficient to cause a severe clinical phenotype. This mutation in the P-box region of the DNA-binding domain markedly impairs SF-1 binding to most response elements. In an infant with a similar clinical phenotype, we identified an SF-1 mutation (R92Q) in a highly conserved residue of the A-box, a region that functions as a secondary DNA-binding domain. Strikingly, the affected infant was homozygous for the R92Q mutation, but three relatives (parents, sister) were phenotypically normal despite being heterozygous for the mutation. In functional assays, the R92Q mutant exhibited partial loss of DNA binding and transcriptional activity when compared with the G35E P-box change, consistent with its phenotypic expression only when transmitted as a homozygous trait. Taken together, these two naturally-occurring SF-1 mutations reveal the relative functional importance of the P-box and A-box regions for monomeric binding by nuclear receptors. In addition, these patients reveal the exquisite sensitivity of SF-1-dependent developmental pathways to gene dosage and function in humans.
Drug addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder characterized by compulsive drug seeking and use. Environmental conditioning factors are among the major determinants of relapse in abstinent cocaine users. Here we describe a role of the neuropeptide S (NPS) system in regulating relapse. In rats with a history of cocaine self-administration, presentation of stimuli predictive of drug availability reinstates drug seeking, triggering relapse. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of NPS increased conditioned reinstatement of cocaine seeking, whereas peripheral administration of the NPS receptor antagonist SHA 68 reduced it. Manipulation of the NPS receptor system did not modify cocaine self-administration. We also found that ICV NPS administration activates c-Fos expression in hypocretin-1/orexin-A (Hcrt-1/Ox-A) immunoreactive neurons in the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and in the perifornical area (PeF). Of note, intra-LH and intra-PeF administration of NPS increased conditioned reinstatement of cocaine responding, an effect that was selectively blocked with the Hcrt-1/Ox-A receptor selective antagonist SB334867. Finally, results showed that intra-LH injection of the NPS antagonist [D-Cys(tBu) (5)]NPS blocked cue-induced cocaine seeking, indicating a role for this system in the pathophysiology of drug relapse.
Familial glucocorticoid resistance is characterized by increased cortisol secretion without clinical evidence of hypercortisolism, but with manifestations of androgen and mineralocorticoid excess. This condition is mainly caused by mutations of the GR gene that cause inadequate transduction of the glucocorticoid signal in glucocorticoid target tissues. The clinical features of glucocorticoid resistance in females include hirsutism, acne, male pattern baldness, oligomenorrhea, and oligoanovulation. We describe here a new phenotype, female pseudohermaphroditism and severe hypokalemia, caused by a homozygous inactivating mutation of the GR gene. The proband was born with ambiguous genitalia from consanguineous parents and was mistreated as a 21-hydroxylase deficiency case since the age of 5 yr. She had very high levels of plasma ACTH (759 pg/ml or 167 pmol/liter) and high levels of cortisol (28-54 microg/dl or 772-1490 nmol/liter), androstenedione (5-14 ng/ml or 17-48 nmol/liter), T (174-235 ng/dl or 7-8 nmol/liter), and 17-hydroxyprogesterone (8-12 ng/ml or 24-36 nmol/liter). Her cortisol and 17-hydroxyprogesterone levels were not compatible with the diagnosis of classic congenital adrenal hyperplasia; furthermore, cortisol was not properly suppressed after dexamethasone administration (28 microg/d or 772 nmol/liter). Her laboratory evaluation indicated a diagnosis of glucocorticoid resistance. To investigate this puzzling clinical and biochemical picture, we analyzed both GR and CYP21 genes. Indeed, a homozygous T to C substitution at nucleotide 1844 in exon 5 of the GR gene was identified in the patient that caused a valine to alanine substitution at amino acid 571 in the ligand domain of the receptor. Her parents and an older sister were heterozygous for this mutation. A whole Epstein-Barr virus-transformed cell dexamethasone-binding assay revealed that this Ala(571) mutant had a 6-fold reduction in binding affinity compared with the wild-type receptor. In a functional assay using mouse mammary tumor virus promoter-driven luciferase reporter gene, the mutant receptor displayed 10- to 50-fold less trans-activation activity than the wild-type receptor. In addition, a large heterozygous CYP21 conversion was identified in the patient and her father. In conclusion, we described the first case of female pseudohermaphroditism caused by a novel homozygous GR gene mutation. This phenotype indicates that pre- and postnatal virilization can occur in females with the glucocorticoid resistance syndrome.
