A combination of xylazine and ketamine was used to anesthetize 60 male rats, and then yohimbine was given to evaluate its reversing effect on xylazine-ketamine-induced anesthesia. In experiment A, xylazine (21 mg/kg of body weight) and ketamine (45 mg/kg) were admixed and administered IM to 12 Sprague-Dawley rats. Anesthesia lasted approximately 70 minutes. The xylazine-ketamine combination also induced polyuria, bradycardia, and bradypnea. When yohimbine (2.1 mg/kg) was given intraperitoneally 20 minutes after the xylazine-ketamine injection, the rats regained consciousness and righting reflexes within approximately 10 minutes. Yohimbine also reversed the bradycardia and bradypnea and appeared to reduce the polyuria induced by the xylazine-ketamine combination. In experiment B, xylazine (15.4 mg/kg) and ketamine (33 mg/kg) were admixed and given IM to 48 Holtzman rats. The combination induced surgical anesthesia for at least 30 minutes, during which a surgical procedure involving grafting a section of the sciatic nerve into the hypothalamus was performed. In rats in which yohimbine (1 mg/kg) was given intraperitoneally 45 to 60 minutes after xylazine-ketamine administration (before natural recovery from the anesthesia), the righting reflex was apparent in less than 10 minutes.
The objective of the study was to determine whether indomethacin used as a tocolytic agent is associated with adverse neonatal outcomes.
We used published guidelines of the Metaanalysis of Observational Studies in Epidemiology Group (MOOSE) to perform the metaanalysis. The search strategy used included computerized bibliographic searches of MEDLINE (1966-2005), PubMed (1966-2005), abstracts published in Obstetrics and Gynecology (1991-2005), abstracts published in Pediatric Research (1991-2005), and references of published manuscripts. Study inclusion criteria were publication in English, more than 30 deliveries less than 37 weeks' gestation, and meeting diagnostic criteria for individual neonatal outcomes. Exclusion criteria included case reports, case series, and multiple publications from the same author. Metaanalysis was performed using random effects model if there were more than 2 observational studies for a specific outcome. Eggers test was performed to exclude publication bias. Sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the effect of antenatal steroid exposure, gestation, and recent antenatal indomethacin exposure (duration of 48 hours or more between the last dose and delivery).
Fifteen retrospective cohort studies and 6 case-controlled studies met inclusion criteria. Antenatal indomethacin was associated with an increased risk of periventricular leukomalacia (odds ratio [OR], 2.0; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-3.1). Recent exposure to antenatal indomethacin was associated with necrotizing enterocolitis (OR, 2.2; 95% CI; 1.1-4.2). Antenatal indomethacin was not associated with intraventricular hemorrhage, patent ductus arteriosus, respiratory distress syndrome, bronchopulmonary dysplasia, and mortality.
Antenatal indomethacin may be associated with an increased risk of periventricular leukomalacia and necrotizing enterocolitis in premature infants and therefore should be used judiciously for tocolysis.
Of 17 healthy adults without nystagmus who ingested 100 mg of pentobarbital sodium, six had up-beating, gaze-evoked vertical nystagmus 12 hours later. Three of them had nystgmus 36 hours later, but none of them had it 60 hours later. Therefore, one should be reluctant to ascribe this type of nystagmus to a disease of the central nervous system in patients who received a barbiturate within several days of examination.
Hereditary cutis laxa comprises a heterogeneous group of connective tissue disorders characterized by loose skin and variable systemic involvement. Autosomal dominant and recessive as well as X-linked forms have been described. Some dominant forms are caused by mutations in the elastine gene (ELN). The X-linked form is now classified in the group of copper transport diseases. The genetic defect underlying the autosomal recessive (AR) forms of cutis laxa is not known. The phenotypic abnormalities recently observed in a fibulin-5 knockout mouse model are reminiscent of human AR cutis laxa type I. Both share cutis laxa, lung emphysema and arterial involvement. Molecular study of the fibulin-5 (FBLN5) gene in a large consanguineous Turkish family with four patients affected by AR cutis laxa type I demonstrated the presence of a homozygous missense mutation (T998C) in the FBLN5 gene resulting in a serine-to-proline (S227P) substitution in the fourth calcium-binding epidermal growth factor-like domain of fibulin-5 protein. This amino acid substitution is predicted to have important structural and functional consequences for normal elastogenesis. As such, we provide evidence that a genetic defect in fibulin-5 (FBLN5, also known as EVEC or DANCE) is responsible for a recessive form of cutis laxa in humans.
To evaluate the effect of genistein on the fibrosis and matrix degradation caused by experimentally induced fibrosis in rats.
Hepatic fibrosis was brought about by chronic administration of carbon tetrachloride to rats. To evaluate the effect of genistein on liver fibrosis and function, total collagen content and proteolytic activity in the liver were quantified. Urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) expression during experimental fibrosis was localized by immunohistochemistry. Histopathological changes were evaluated using light and electron microscopy.
Animals with fibrosis and treated with genistein showed an important reduction (73%) in hepatic collagen content as well as an improvement in liver function (p < 0.001). Genistein increased the capacity of the liver to degrade type I collagen and Matrigel (3.1- and 3.7-fold, respectively; p < 0.001) in animals with liver fibrosis. Genistein increased the number of uPA-immunoreactive cells. The increase in the uPA expression correlated with an increase in proteolytic activity. Histological analysis revealed a reduction in the number of fiber septa in pericentral and perisinusoidal areas. Transmission electron micrographs of livers from animals with fibrosis and treated with genistein showed a reduction in the number of hepatic stellate cells activated and a smaller number of collagen fibers.
Genistein is able to improve the liver after injury and fibrosis induced by chronic administration of carbon tetrachloride. This finding suggests that genistein has antifibrogenic potential and could therefore be useful for treating chronic liver disease.
Newer microbiologic methods to determine the species of coagulase-negative staphylococci (CoNS) have evolved which have shown that most endocarditis due to CoNS is caused by Staphylococcus epidermidis, and far fewer by Staphylococcus warneri and Staphylococcus lugdunensis.
The recent opportunity to successfully treat a patient with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus capitis endocarditis secondary to an infected transvenous pacemaker led to a review of the literature relating to S. capitis endocarditis.
Thirteen previously recorded patients were identified. Twelve (86%) patients were male. Ten had endocarditis associated with a native valve, two with prosthetic valves and one with a transvenous pacemaker. Mortality was low in all 14 cases (including this case report) with only two deaths; one in a patient with a native valve and the other with a prosthetic valve. Four of the isolates were methicillin resistant but sensitive to vancomycin, which was used in the treatment of eight patients. Those patients with prosthetic cardiac devices appear to do better when the devices are surgically removed.
CoNS as a cause of endocarditis appears to be increasing and the current ability to determine the species of these organisms should elicit the epidemiology, clinical characteristics and biomolecular mechanisms involved in the induction of valvular disease.
Recent studies have investigated D-amphetamine as a potential agonist medication for cocaine dependence. In rats, a 14-day continuous infusion of D: -amphetamine via osmotic mini-pump has been shown to decrease cocaine-reinforced responding under a progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement.
This study was designed to assess the influences of the D-amphetamine treatment dose and self-administered cocaine dose on the magnitude of this effect.
Experiment 1: rats were trained to self-administer 1.5 mg/kg/inj cocaine under a PR schedule, then implanted with D-amphetamine mini-pumps for 14 days (days 1-7, 5 mg/kg/day; days 8-14, 7.5 mg/kg/day). Breakpoints were evaluated throughout the treatment period and 14 days post-treatment. Experiment 2: rats were trained to self-administer cocaine under a PR schedule and initial dose-response curves were determined before implantation of D-amphetamine mini-pumps. During the 14-day D-amphetamine (5 mg/kg/day) treatment period, rats self-administered one of four cocaine doses (0.19, 0.38, 0.75, or 1.5 mg/kg/inj). A post-treatment PR dose-response curve and responding under a fixed ratio 1 (FR1) schedule were evaluated after mini-pump removal.
Experiment 1: breakpoints for 1.5 mg/kg/inj cocaine were unchanged by the increasing dose of D-amphetamine. Experiment 2: the PR dose-response curve was shifted downward after the treatment period in rats that had self-administered 0.19 and 0.38 mg/kg/inj cocaine. In contrast, rats in the 0.75 and 1.5 mg/kg/inj groups demonstrated increased rates of cocaine intake under an FR1 schedule after the treatment period.
These data suggest that continuous D-amphetamine treatment attenuates the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
Some non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs, and especially diclofenac, may, in some susceptible patients bring about the appearance of segmentary myoclonic symptoms, which in some cases where there is kidney failure may cause real myoclonic encephalopathy. We present the case of a patient admitted into the nephrology service suffering from prerenal kidney failure as a result of dehydration. Once her kidney problems had been overcome and analytical parameters normalized, during treatment with diclofenac for inflammation of the lower left extremity arthritic in origin, she showed generalized myoclonic symptoms of action and attitude especially in the upper extremities. Neurologic examination showed no abnormalities other than certain drowsiness. General analysis and kidney function were normal, as was brain CT scan, EEG showed only a general tendency towards slowing down. Myoclonic symptoms completely disappeared in the next 24 hours after giving diclofenac up, the patient remaining neurologically asymptomatic and not showing a similar clinical picture in any subsequent check-up.
Inhalation of particulate nickel subsulfide (Ni3S2) causes chronic active inflammation and fibrosis of the lungs. However, the mechanisms for these effects are not well understood. Therefore, cell culture experiments with BEAS-2B human airway epithelial cells were conducted to test the hypothesis that exposure to non-cytotoxic levels of Ni3S2 induces expression of inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-8 (IL-8). Exposure to Ni3S2 for 48 h was required to significantly increase IL-8 protein levels. Transcriptional stimulation of IL-8 mRNA levels preceded the increase in protein. Transient exposure to soluble nickel sulfate failed to increase IL-8 mRNA. Transfection with truncated IL-8 promoter constructs linked to the luciferase gene demonstrated that nickel-induced IL-8 transcription required -272 bp of the promoter relative to the transcriptional start site. A -133-bp construct, containing cytokine and hypoxia-sensitive AP-1, NF-IL6, and NF-kappaB sites, was insufficient for induction by nickel. Transfection with a dominant negative AP-1 construct or mutation of the AP-1, GATA, or C/EBP sites in the -272-bp IL-8 promoter construct blocked induction by nickel. Inhibiting ERK, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, but not p38 kinase, diacylglycerol kinase, or hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha, attenuated nickel induction of IL-8. These studies indicate that nickel induced IL-8 transcription through a novel pathway that requires both AP-1 and non-traditional transcription factors.
The forensic pathologist is responsible for determining the cause, manner and approximate time of death and injury. After recording the detailed description of the external and internal appearances, a short summary should be offered of the major positive findings and their relationship to the cause of death. In many cases this will be obvious, however when the findings are less clear-cut, or are multiple, then the alternatives should be discussed detailing the possible sequence of events and interpreting the findings in concluding the cause of death. It is essential to causally connect the autopsy findings to the cause of death. We present a case report wherein a person who sustained avulsion injury to his left hand in an industrial accident, died due to, fulminant hepatitis, hepatic encephalopathy and acute renal failure, having undergone six operations under general anesthesia with halothane during his stay in the hospital.
In hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected patients who develop anemia during combination therapy, erythropoietic growth factors maintain higher drug treatment levels compared to ribavirin dose reduction, which may lead to an increase in treatment response rates. This study estimated the cost-effectiveness of growth factor therapy in maintaining anemic HCV-infected patients on target drug levels during combination therapy. A decision analysis using a Markov model was developed with 7 health states: Sustained viral response, chronic HCV, compensated cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplantation, and death. Data sources included population-based studies of growth factor therapy, previously published estimates of costs and natural history of hepatitis C, and recent prospective studies. Our reference case was a 45-year-old Caucasian man with HCV infection (genotype 1, 2, or 3) who developed anemia while undergoing combination therapy with ribavirin and pegylated interferon. We compared growth factor injections (darbepoetin alpha or epoetin alpha) during combination therapy with standard ribavirin dose reduction. Compared to a ribavirin dose reduction strategy, the cost of darbepoetin per additional quality-adjusted life-year was 34,793 dollars for genotype 1 and 33,832 dollars for genotypes 2 or 3 versus 60,600 dollars and 64,311 dollars for epoetin. For all genotypes, the results were sensitive to changes in the cure rates of HCV therapy, the utility of chronic HCV, the costs of growth factors, and the age at which therapy is begun. In conclusion, use of erythropoietic growth factors, specifically darbepoetin, for patients with anemia occurring during HCV combination therapy appears to be cost-effective for genotypes 1, 2, or 3.
Exposure to environmental agents can compromise numerous immunological functions. Immunotoxicology focuses on the evaluation of the potential adverse effects of xenobiotics on immune mechanisms that can lead to harmful changes in host responses such as: increased susceptibility to infectious diseases and tumorigenesis; the induction of hypersensitivity reactions; or an increased incidence of autoimmune disease. In order to assess the immunosuppressive response to short-term exposure to some commonly used pesticides, the studies here focused on the response of mice after exposures to the organochlorine pesticide methoxychlor, the organophosphorus pesticide parathion, or the agricultural insecticide synergist piperonyl butoxide. In these studies, 7-week-old mice were orally administered (by gavage) methoxychlor, parathion, or piperonyl butoxide daily for five consecutive days. On Day 2, all mice in each group were immunized with sheep red blood cells (SRBC), and their SRBC-specific IgM responses were subsequently assessed. In addition, levels of B-cells in the spleen of each mouse were also analyzed via surface antigen expression. The results of these studies indicated that treatments with these various pesticides induced marked decreases in the production of SRBC-specific IgM antibodies as well as in the expression of surface antigens in IgM- and germinal center-positive B-cells. Based on these outcomes, it is concluded that the short-term exposure protocol was able to detect potential immunosuppressive responses to methoxychlor, parathion, and piperonyl butoxide in situ, and, as a result, may be useful for detecting other environmental chemical-related immunotoxicities.
Studies of acute liver failure from drugs have included cases mostly attributed to acetaminophen (APAP) but have reported limited data on other drugs. We used the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) liver transplant database from 1990 to 2002 to identify recipients and estimate a U.S. population-based rate of liver transplantation due to acute liver failure from drugs. Patients were identified if their diagnosis was acute hepatic necrosis from an implicated drug at the time of transplant. Liver transplantation for drug hepatotoxicity accounted for 15% of liver transplants for acute liver failure over the study period. In our cohort (n = 270), 206 (76%) recipients were female. APAP alone, or in combination with another drug, accounted for 133 (49%) cases. In the non-acetaminophen (non-APAP) group (n = 137), the most frequently implicated drugs were: isoniazid, n = 24 (17.5%); propylthiouracil, n = 13 (9.5%); and phenytoin and valproate in 10 (7.3%) cases each. One-year patient and graft survival for the entire cohort was 77 and 71%, respectively. Among Caucasians (n = 206) and African-Americans (n = 48), APAP only was implicated in 110 (53%) patients and 12 (25%) patients, respectively, and non-APAP drugs were implicated in 96 (47%) patients and 36 (75%) patients, respectively (P =.0004). Among African-Americans in the non-APAP group, 28 (78%) were women. In conclusion four drugs were implicated in 42% of patients undergoing liver transplantation for acute liver failure due to drugs other than APAP. The increased frequency of African-American women undergoing liver transplantation for non-APAP drug induced liver injury warrants further study.
The aim of this study was to investigate the quality of intra- and postoperative analgesia obtained by alfentanil compared to that produced by peripheral blockade in children.
During sevoflurane-nitrous oxide atracurium anaesthesia for minor abdominal or genito-urinary surgery, three groups of children aged 0-8 yr received 25 microg kg(-1) alfentanil intravenously (n = 28), or peripheral nerve blockade using 1 mLkg(-1) ropivacaine 0.475% (n = 24), or 12.5 microg kg(-1) alfentanil intravenously with peripheral nerve blockade using 1 mL kg(-1) ropivacaine 0.475% (n = 30). Changes in blood pressure and heart rate were measured during the procedures. Postoperative pain was assessed using the face, legs, activity, cry, consolability (FLACC) observational tool for quantifying pain behaviour and a numerical scale scored by nurses, doctors, parents and children.
There was no significant difference in intra- or postoperative analgesic efficacy among the three groups. Patients who received alfentanil had significantly lower heart rates than those who received nerve blockade only (96.0+/-15.6 vs. 115.9+/-23.2 beats min(-1), P < 0.001). FLACC and numerical scale scores did not differ among the groups. There were no significant differences in incidence of vomiting or use of pain medications.
It was concluded that a low-dose, intravenous bolus of alfentanil may be an efficient alternative to peripheral nerve blockade in controlling pain during and after minor abdominal and genito-urinary surgery.
Estrogen has been related to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this molecular epidemiological study, we used logistic regression to compare the genotype frequencies of estrogen-metabolizing genes that are involved in estrogen biogenesis (CYP17), hydroxylation (CYP1A1) and inactivation of the reactive metabolites (catechol-O-methyltransferase, COMT) in HCC patients and control subjects, and determined their relationship with the risk of female HCC. The heterozygous or homozygous variants of high activity CYP17 (A2), high inducibility CYP1A1(m1), and low activity COMT (L) alleles were considered as high-risk genotypes. We found that the risk of HCC was elevated in women harboring either heterozygous or homozygous variants of the CYP1A1 gene and the respective OR (and 95% confidence interval) were 6.61 (1.35, 32.43) and 12.00 (1.73, 83.46). Moreover, we found that the risk of HCC was increased in the female subjects harboring higher numbers of high-risk genotypes, but not in male subjects. The OR for female HCC associated with two putative high-risk genotypes was 12.63 (1.50, 106.37), and the OR for three putative high-risk genotypes was 16.67 (1.82, 152.77). These findings strongly suggest that estrogen play a critical role in female hepatocarcinogenesis.
The administration of a serotonin reuptake inhibitor may lead to extra pyramidal signs, as reported in the literature. The risk seems to be increased in elderly people. We describe a case of acute dystonic reaction to paroxetine treatment in an elderly patient, who presented with a bipolar affective disorder. The underlying mechanism, possibly generated in the subcortical motor areas, is linked to changes that occur in the pharmacokinetic variables, the decreased neuroplasticity of ageing neurones and to previous exposure to neuroleptic medications.
Four water extracts of Kampo formulae (Yi-kkan-sen, Dai-ho-in-gan, Ni-chi-gan, Tsu-kan-gan) were screened for their inhibitory activities on bone resorption induced by parathyroid hormone (PTH) in organ culture using neonatal mouse parietal bones. Among the Kampo formulae, Tsu-kan-gan (TKG) showed the most potent inhibitory activity. We further fractionated the TKG water extract by monitoring the inhibitory activity on bone resorption stimulated by PTH in vitro. The MeOH fraction of the water extract inhibited PTH-stimulated bone resorption, and its inhibitory activity was more potent than those of other fractions. The MeOH fraction was then subjected to Sephadex LH-20 column chromatography to give fractions I, II and III, which were examined for bone resorption activity. Fraction I inhibited PTH-stimulated bone resorption, and its inhibitory activity was more potent than those of the other fractions. Upon oral administration of the three fractions (100 mg/kg/d) to ovariectomized (OVX) mice, fractions I and III prevented the decrease of bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar vertebra. Eleven compounds isolated from the MeOH fraction were examined for their inhibitory effect on PTH-stimulated bone resorption. Among them, berberine (1), syringin (3), limonin (4) and mangiferin (10) showed a significant inhibitory effect on bone resorption. In the formation assay of osteoclast-like cells, these compounds decreased the number of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive multinucleated cells (MNCs). The inhibitory effect of TKG on bone resorption may be at least partly due to the inhibitory action of these compounds.
Using the FANFT-induced tumors MBT-2 and MBT-683 we compared the response rate and survival using cisplatin alone and in various combinations with doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin), mitomycin C, methotrexate, and vinblastine. Sixty C3H/He female mice received 7.5 x 10(4) MBT-2 cells in the right hind limb. The animals were randomly divided into a control group and four treatment groups as follows: cisplatin, 6.0 mg/kg; cisplatin, 2.0 mg/kg, vinblastine, and methotrexate; cisplatin, 2.0 mg/kg, vinblastine, methotrexate, and doxorubicin hydrochloride; and cisplatin, 2.0 mg/kg, vinblastine, methotrexate, and mitomycin C. The drugs were given intraperitoneally on days 7, 14, and 21. The study was repeated using MBT-683. Drug effect on tumor diameter and survival were compared. Cisplatin alone was as effective in MBT-2 and more effective in MBT-683 in reducing tumor volume and increasing survival than the various combinations. The higher tolerable dose of cisplatin used as a single agent probably accounts for these results and suggests that cisplatin is the most effective agent in these combination therapy regimens.
The effects of helodermin, a basic 35-amino acid peptide isolated from the venom of a lizard salivary gland, on arterial blood pressure and heart rate were examined in the rat, focusing on the possibility that activation of ATP sensitive K+ (K(ATP)) channels is involved in the responses. The results were also compared with those of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). Helodermin produced hypotension in a dose-dependent manner with approximately similar potency and duration to VIP. Hypotension induced by both peptides was significantly attenuated by glibenclamide, which abolished a levcromakalim-produced decrease in arterial blood pressure. Oxyhemoglobin did not affect helodermin-induced hypotension, whereas it shortened the duration of acetylcholine (ACh)-produced hypotension. These findings suggest that helodermin-produced hypotension is partly attributable to the activation of glibenclamide-sensitive K+ channels (K(ATP) channels), which presumably exist on arterial smooth muscle cells. EDRF (endothelium-derived relaxing factor)/nitric oxide does not seem to play an important role in the peptide-produced hypotension.
The hemodynamic effects of dopamine and dobutamine (at doses of 6 micrograms X kg-1 X min-1) were compared during fluid resuscitation from septic shock induced by endotoxin (3 mg/kg) in the dog. In the first part of the study, when a standard amount of saline solution was infused (in 24 dogs), dopamine infusion resulted in higher cardiac filling pressures than did dobutamine infusion, whereas dobutamine infusion resulted in higher cardiac output. In the second part of the study, when fluid infusion was titrated to maintain pulmonary artery balloon-occluded pressure at constant level (in 24 dogs), the total amount of fluids was significantly greater with dobutamine than when dopamine was used (109 +/- 13 vs 71 +/- 10 ml/kg). The combination of dobutamine with fluids resulted in significantly greater stroke volume (39.6 +/- 3.8 vs 21.0 +/- 4.0 ml, P less than 0.05) and oxygen consumption (194 +/- 18 vs 144 +/- 8 ml/min, P less than 0.05). The different effects of dopamine and dobutamine on cardiac filling pressures can be due to differences in effects on myocardial contractility, ventricular afterload, and cardiac compliance. This experimental study indicates that when fluid therapy is combined with adrenergic agents in resuscitation from septic shock, dobutamine can be associated with higher cardiac output and oxygen transport and can result in higher tissue oxygen consumption than dopamine.
Both antibodies and circulating immune complexes (CIC), which bind to platelets and induce the destruction and clearance of platelets by the reticuloendothelial system, are found in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). IgG and CIC were removed from patients' plasma by extracorporeal immunoadsorption using protein A-silica columns (PROSORBA columns). Of the 36 HIV-positive ITP patients treated, 29 received more than one treatment and were evaluated for response. Sixteen patients showed more than a 50% increase in their platelet counts. Platelet-associated IgG (PAIgG) and/or platelet-directed IgG and CIC were elevated in all patients. After four to eight treatments, 16 of 29 patients showed a 170% to 430% increase in platelet counts. A decrease in CIC and PAIgG was noted in responding patients. The median duration of response to date was 8 to 12 months. This treatment was associated with immune modulation and the development of an anti-F (ab')2 antibody response. The antibody functions by complexing with both platelet-binding IgG and CIC, neutralizing their binding capacity for platelets and enhancing their clearance from the circulation. Nine patients with mitomycin-C-induced hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) were also treated with PROSORBA columns. Pretreatment platelet counts were markedly reduced while a definite increase in platelet counts was observed upon completion of therapy. There was a decrease of hemolysis and stabilization of renal function in three patients. PROSORBA column treatment has demonstrated marked activity against both HIV-ITP and HUS, and has successfully freed patients from the bleeding diathesis associated with these syndromes.
Kras is the most frequently mutated ras family member in lung carcinomas, whereas Hras mutations are common in tumors from stratified epithelia such as the skin. Using a Hras knock-in mouse model, we demonstrate that specificity for Kras mutations in lung and Hras mutations in skin tumors is determined by local regulatory elements in the target ras genes. Although the Kras 4A isoform is dispensable for mouse development, it is the most important isoform for lung carcinogenesis in vivo and for the inhibitory effect of wild-type (WT) Kras on the mutant allele. Kras 4A expression is detected in a subpopulation of normal lung epithelial cells, but at very low levels in lung tumors, suggesting that it may not be required for tumor progression. The two Kras isoforms undergo different post-translational modifications; therefore, these findings can have implications for the design of therapeutic strategies for inhibiting oncogenic Kras activity in human cancers.
Hyperpigmented lesions are a predominant component of photoaging in Chinese and Japanese persons. Topical 0.1% tretinoin cream improves the hyperpigmentation associated with photoaging in Caucasian persons.
Our purpose was to assess the efficacy of 0.1% tretinoin cream treatment of hyperpigmented lesions associated with photoaging in Chinese and Japanese patients.
Forty-five photoaged patients (23 Chinese, 22 Japanese) completed a double-blind, randomized study in which 21 applied 0.1% tretinoin cream and 24 applied vehicle cream once daily to face and/or hands for 40 weeks. Patients' hyperpigmented lesions were evaluated clinically and by colorimetry throughout the study and by histologic analysis of skin biopsy specimens taken before therapy and at the end of treatment.
At the end of treatment, hyperpigmented lesions of the face and hands were lighter or much lighter in 90% of patients receiving tretinoin compared with 33% receiving vehicle (p < 0.0001). Colorimetry demonstrated significant lightening of lesions after tretinoin compared with vehicle (p < 0.05). Histologic analysis of hyperpigmented lesions demonstrated a statistically significant 41% decrease in epidermal pigmentation with tretinoin therapy as compared with a 37% increase in the vehicle group (p = 0.0004). No patient withdrew for adverse effects.
By clinical, colorimetric, and histologic evaluation, 0.1% tretinoin cream significantly lightens the hyperpigmentation of photoaging in Chinese and Japanese patients.
We conducted a genome-wide association study of 299,983 tagging SNPs for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and performed validation in two additional series totaling 1,529 cases and 3,115 controls. We identified six previously unreported CLL risk loci at 2q13 (rs17483466; P = 2.36 x 10(-10)), 2q37.1 (rs13397985, SP140; P = 5.40 x 10(-10)), 6p25.3 (rs872071, IRF4; P = 1.91 x 10(-20)), 11q24.1 (rs735665; P = 3.78 x 10(-12)), 15q23 (rs7176508; P = 4.54 x 10(-12)) and 19q13.32 (rs11083846, PRKD2; P = 3.96 x 10(-9)). These data provide the first evidence for the existence of common, low-penetrance susceptibility to a hematological malignancy and new insights into disease causation in CLL.
