The angiotensinogen M235T polymorphism has been linked to hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Carotid intima-media thickness (IMT) is an early marker of atherosclerosis. The objectives of the present study were to determine in previously untreated essential hypertensive patients whether carotid IMT was associated with the M235T polymorphism, and to determine whether the M235T polymorphism could influence the reduction of carotid IMT by antihypertensive treatment. Common carotid artery IMT was determined with a high-definition echotracking system in 98 previously untreated hypertensive patients in a cross-sectional study. A subgroup of 56 patients was included in a randomized double-blind parallel group study comparing the effect of the angiotensin-converting-enzyme-inhibitor enalapril with that of the beta-blocker celiprolol during a 5 month period. In the cross-sectional study, a multivariate analysis showed that the M235T genotype was a significant independent determinant of carotid IMT, explaining 7% of the variance. Carotid IMT was higher in patients homozygous for the T allele than in MM patients. In the longitudinal study, the reduction in carotid IMT after antihypertensive treatment was significantly ( P <0.01) higher in patients carrying the TT genotype than in patients carrying the MM genotype, despite similar reductions in blood pressure and independently of drug type. In conclusion, these data suggest that the angiotensinogen TT genotype at position 235 is a genetic marker for early carotid atherosclerosis in a hypertensive population and its regression under antihypertensive treatment.
The authors report the case of a patient treated by subcutaneous injection of calcium heparin after deep vein thrombosis with floating thrombus and pulmonary embolism. She was readmitted to hospital after 16 days' treatment because of a massive aorto-iliac thrombosis due to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (platelet count = 29.000). This thrombosis was treated by local injection of Urokinase (total dose = 7.425.000 U) over 93 hours without any major complications. The aorto-iliac circulation was completely restored to normal after treatment. Thrombotic complications secondary to immuno-allergic heparin-induced thrombocytopenia are relatively common because of the widespread use of heparin. From the therapeutic point of view, it is imperative to stop the heparin, which makes surgery very difficult, and the platelet-fibrin composition of these thrombi suggests that local thrombolysis with Urokinase is the treatment of choice in this syndrome.
Nitric oxide (NO) is believed to be an important messenger molecule in signal transduction pathways that enhance nociceptive transmission in the central nervous system (CNS). The role of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) I and II, which synthesize NO, in central sensitization induced by an intradermal capsaicin injection was investigated. To elucidate whether changes in NOS I and NOS II activities caused by capsaicin injection contribute to behavioral changes, responses to von Frey filaments with two different innocuous bending forces applied on the rat foot were tested. The allodynic responses induced by capsaicin injection in the foot were partially reversed by the administration of either the selective NOS I inhibitor, 7-nitroindazole (7-NINA), or the selective NOS II inhibitor, 2-amino-5,6-dihydro-6-methyl-4H-1,3-thiazine (AMT). To confirm changes at the level of single nociceptive neurons, extracellular recordings were made from rat dorsal horn neurons. The electrophysiological results showed that increased responses to noxious and innocuous stimuli caused by capsaicin injection were blocked by either 7-NINA or AMT delivered through a microdialysis fiber inserted through the dorsal horn. Finally, the expression of both NOS I and NOS II in the spinal cord as demonstrated by Western blots was increased by 20 min following intradermal capsaicin injection in the rat foot. These results suggest that both NOS I and NOS II are upregulated following intradermal capsaicin injection and that both cause NO release that contributes to the secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia following this noxious chemical stimulus.
Synthetic chromanol derivatives (TMC4O, 6-hydroxy-2,2,7,8-tetramethyl-chroman-4-one; TMC2O, 6-hydroxy-4,4,7,8-tetramethyl-chroman-2-one; and Twin, 1,3,4,8,9,11-hexamethyl-6,12-methano-12H-dibenzo[d,g][1,3]dioxocin-2,10-diol) share structural elements with the potent inhibitor of the mitochondrial cytochrome (cyt) bc(1) complex stigmatellin. Studies with isolated bovine cyt bc(1) complex demonstrated that these compounds partially inhibit the mammalian enzyme. The aim of this work was to comparatively investigate these toxicological aspects of synthetic vitamin E derivatives in mitochondria of different species. The chromanols and atovaquone as reference compound were evaluated for their inhibition of the cyt bc(1) activity in mitochondrial fractions from bovine hearts, yeast, and Leishmania. In addition, compounds were evaluated in vitro for their inhibitory activity against whole-cell Leishmania and mouse peritoneal macrophages. In these organisms, the chromanols showed a species-selective inhibition of the cyt bc(1) activity different from that of atovaquone. While in atovaquone the side chain mediates species-selectivity, the marked differences for TMC2O and TMC4O in cyt bc(1) inhibition suggests that direct substitution of the chromanol headgroup will control selectivity in these compounds. Low micromolar concentrations of TMC2O (IC(50) = 9.5 ± 0.5 μM) inhibited the growth of Leishmania, and an esterified TMC2CO derivative inhibited the cyt bc(1) activity with an IC(50) of 4.9 ± 0.9 μM. These findings suggest that certain chromanols also exhibit beyond their antioxidative properties antileishmanial activities and that TMC2O derivatives could be useful toward the development of highly active antiprotozoal compounds.
The aim of this study was to investigate the influence of cigarette smoking on the pro/antioxidant balance in pregnant women with intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). The studies have shown a 2-fold increase of Cd concentration in blood of women with IUGR in labour and a 10-fold increase in smoking pregnant women with IUGR. The increase of malondialdehyde concentration in plasma and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine in serum and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase activity in erythrocyte lysate of pregnants with IUGR, reinforced by smoking, was revealed. We observed a decrease in the concentration of glutathione in blood and glutathione peroxidase activity in plasma and in erythrocyte lysate. A 4-fold higher metallothionein concentration in the plasma of women with IUGR in labour suggests that metallothionein may be one of the IUGR markers. Metallothionein concentration was intensified by smoking up to 7-fold in comparison to the controls. The pro/antioxidant balance during pregnancy is significantly affected by smoking.
Parkinson disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease characterized by a slow and progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra. The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying PD remain unclear. Pin1, a major peptidyl-prolyl isomerase, has recently been associated with certain diseases. Notably, Ryo et al. (Ryo, A., Togo, T., Nakai, T., Hirai, A., Nishi, M., Yamaguchi, A., Suzuki, K., Hirayasu, Y., Kobayashi, H., Perrem, K., Liou, Y. C., and Aoki, I. (2006) J. Biol. Chem. 281, 4117-4125) implicated Pin1 in PD pathology. Therefore, we sought to systematically characterize the role of Pin1 in PD using cell culture and animal models. To our surprise we observed a dramatic up-regulation of Pin1 mRNA and protein levels in dopaminergic MN9D neuronal cells treated with the parkinsonian toxicant 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) as well as in the substantia nigra of the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced PD mouse model. Notably, a marked expression of Pin1 was also observed in the substantia nigra of human PD brains along with a high co-localization of Pin1 within dopaminergic neurons. In functional studies, siRNA-mediated knockdown of Pin1 almost completely prevented MPP(+)-induced caspase-3 activation and DNA fragmentation, indicating that Pin1 plays a proapoptotic role. Interestingly, multiple pharmacological Pin1 inhibitors, including juglone, attenuated MPP(+)-induced Pin1 up-regulation, α-synuclein aggregation, caspase-3 activation, and cell death. Furthermore, juglone treatment in the MPTP mouse model of PD suppressed Pin1 levels and improved locomotor deficits, dopamine depletion, and nigral dopaminergic neuronal loss. Collectively, our findings demonstrate for the first time that Pin1 is up-regulated in PD and has a pathophysiological role in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system and suggest that modulation of Pin1 levels may be a useful translational therapeutic strategy in PD.
Radiotherapy (RT) and concomitant/adjuvant therapy with temozolomide (Temodar) is a common treatment regimen for children and adults with glioma. Although temozolomide is generally well tolerated with temporary myelosuppression as the primary dose-limiting toxicity, irreversible bone-marrow aplasia after treatment with temozolomide has been reported. We report the case of an adolescent patient with a high-grade glioma who, after >2 years of event-free survival, underwent successful bone marrow transplantation for treatment of temozolomide-induced severe aplastic anemia (SAA).
Transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) is activated as a result of liver injury, such as cholestasis. However, its influence on endogenous metabolism is not known. This study demonstrated that TGFβ regulates hepatic phospholipid and bile acid homeostasis through MAD homolog 3 (SMAD3) activation as revealed by lithocholic acid-induced experimental intrahepatic cholestasis. Lithocholic acid (LCA) induced expression of TGFB1 and the receptors TGFBR1 and TGFBR2 in the liver. In addition, immunohistochemistry revealed higher TGFβ expression around the portal vein after LCA exposure and diminished SMAD3 phosphorylation in hepatocytes from Smad3-null mice. Serum metabolomics indicated increased bile acids and decreased lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) after LCA exposure. Interestingly, in Smad3-null mice, the metabolic alteration was attenuated. LCA-induced lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 4 (LPCAT4) and organic solute transporter β (OSTβ) expression were markedly decreased in Smad3-null mice, whereas TGFβ induced LPCAT4 and OSTβ expression in primary mouse hepatocytes. In addition, introduction of SMAD3 enhanced the TGFβ-induced LPCAT4 and OSTβ expression in the human hepatocellular carcinoma cell line HepG2. In conclusion, considering that Smad3-null mice showed attenuated serum ALP activity, a diagnostic indicator of cholangiocyte injury, these results strongly support the view that TGFβ-SMAD3 signaling mediates an alteration in phospholipid and bile acid metabolism following hepatic inflammation with the biliary injury.
Lung cancer is an important public health problem, and tobacco is the main risk factor followed by residential radon exposure. Recommended exposure levels have been progressively lowered. Galicia, the study area, has high residential radon concentrations. We aim (i) to assess the risk of lung cancer linked to airborne residential radon exposure, (ii) to ascertain whether tobacco modifies radon risk, and (iii) to know whether there is a lung cancer histologic type more susceptible to radon.
A hospital-based case-control design was conducted in two Spanish hospitals. Consecutive cases with histologic diagnosis of lung cancer and controls undergoing trivial surgery not tobacco-related were included. Residential radon was measured using standard procedures. Results were obtained using logistic regression.
Three hundred and forty-nine cases and 513 controls were included. Radon exposure posed a risk even with a low exposure, with those exposed to 50 to 100 Bq/m(3) having an OR of 1.87 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.21-2.88] and of 2.21 (95% CI, 1.33-3.69) for those exposed to 148 Bq/m(3) or more. Tobacco increased appreciably the risk posed by radon, with an OR of 73 (95% CI, 19.88-268.14) for heavy smokers exposed to more than 147 Bq/m(3). Less frequent histologic types (including large cell carcinomas), followed by small cell lung cancer, had the highest risk associated with radon exposure.
The presence of airborne radon even at low concentrations poses a risk of developing lung cancer, with tobacco habit increasing considerably this risk.
Public health initiatives should address the higher risk of lung cancer for smokers exposed to radon.
Several trials have demonstrated functional benefit with beta-blockers in patients with chronic heart failure. The aim of this observational study was to investigate if additional beneficial effects can be obtained from beta-blockade in a heart failure population that is already receiving high-dose ACE-inhibitor therapy. Atenolol is a long-acting cardioselective beta-blocking agent and is devoid of additional vasodilatory properties. Twenty-five male patients with class II or III heart failure and background therapy of digitalis, furosemide and 20 mg fosinopril per day were treated with 40 mg fosinopril per day and additional 75 mg atenolol per day (beta-blocker group) or with 40 mg fosinopril per day alone (control group). At the end of one year, changes in left ventricular function, exercise parameters and plasma neurohumoral variables reflecting vasoconstriction (noradrenaline, big endothelin) were measured and compared in the two treatment groups. Nineteen patients completed the study. Drop-outs were due to death (4 patients) and non-compliance (2 patients) with no significant difference between the groups. There was a beta-blocker related improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction (p < 0.05 between groups) and an increase in peak oxygen consumption in the control group only (p < 0.05 between groups). Thus, in a heart failure population receiving high-dose ACE inhibitor background therapy beta-blockade with atenolol produced additional benefit by reversing left ventricular dysfunction.
Low dose ketamine by subcutaneous infusion (0.1 mg.kg-1.h-1) was compared in a double-blind fashion with a similar infusion of morphine (0.03 mg.kg-1.h-1) for postoperative analgesia in 60 ASA-I adults after major abdominal surgery. Pain was assessed using visual analogue scales and sedation was graded on a four-point rank drowsiness score. Cardiovascular and respiratory parameters were also recorded. Pain relief was better with the ketamine infusion than with morphine infusion (P < 0.001). Both tidal and minute volume parameters improved better with ketamine (P < 0.001); patients were more awake and alert as evidenced by the drowsiness score (P < 0.001). Nine out of 30 patients who received morphine required catheterisation for urinary retention (P < 0.05). The study revealed higher analgesic efficacy of a low dose subcutaneous infusion of ketamine with lesser sedation and fewer side effects.
It has been reported that 2-hydroxycinnamaldehyde and 2-benzoyl-oxycinnamaldehyde inhibited the activity of farnesyl protein transferase, angiogenesis, cell-cell adhesion, and tumor growth in vivo model. In order to improve its anti-tumor activity, dimeric cinnamaldehydes have been synthesized based on 2-hydroxycinnamaldehyde. The synthesized compounds strongly inhibited the growth of human colon tumor cells with GI50 values of 0.6-10 microM. Especially, 2-piperazine derivative blocked in vivo growth of human colon tumor xenograft in nude mice at 10 mg/kg. It was found that their anti-tumor effects induce apoptosis and cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase by the compounds. It was confirmed by detection of apoptosis markers such as activated caspase-3 and cleaved PARP, and cell cycle analysis. The dimeric compounds also inhibited Cdc25B phosphatase which is essential for preinitiating G2/M transition and S phase progression.
Tacrolimus and cyclosporine, both calcineurin inhibitors, can cause neurological side effects. While mild symptoms such as tremor are well recognised, severe complications including seizures and encephalopathy are poorly documented following renal transplantation.
We report a 42 year old man who received a cadaver renal transplant. He received tacrolimus and prednisolone. The course was uneventful for 6 weeks when he became intermittently confused, with unsteady gait and slurred speech. Following a grand mal convulsion he was admitted. He had no focal neurological signs, cerebrospinal fluid was normal; electroencephalogram was consistent with temporal lobe partial epilepsy. The magnetic resonance imaging of brain showed widespread changes with multiple areas of low signal intensity in brain stem and cerebral hemispheres. He was readmitted 3 weeks later after further fits, despite anti-convulsant therapy. He was psychotic with visual hallucinations, and rapidly became obtunded. Although his tacrolimus blood concentration had been kept in the normal range, his symptoms improved dramatically when the tacrolimus was stopped.
Severe central nervous system toxicity from calcineurin inhibitors has been rarely reported in renal transplantation and we found only one report of tacrolimus-induced toxicity in an adult. We believe the condition is frequently undiagnosed. It is a very important diagnosis not to miss as the remedy is simple and failure may result in unnecessary brain biopsy, as well as irreversible injury.
Ponatinib, a multi-targeted TKI and potent pan-ABL inhibitor, approved for the treatment of Ph + ALL and CML, was temporarily withdrawn from the U.S. market due to severe vascular adverse events. Cardiac-specific toxicities including myocardial infarction, severe congestive heart failure, and cardiac arrhythmias have also been shown with ponatinib. Targeted oncology agents such as ponatinib have transformed cancer treatment but often induce toxicity due to inhibition of survival pathways shared by both cancer and cardiac cells. These toxicities are often missed by the standard preclinical toxicity assessment methods, which include human Ether-à-go-go-related gene (hERG) and animal toxicity testing. In this study, we show that a multiparameter in vitro toxicity screening approach using human-induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CM) accurately predicted the cardiac toxicity potential of ponatinib. This in vitro model evaluated ponatinib's effect on the overall cell health, mitochondrial stress, and function of hiPSC-CM and also provided mechanistic insight into the signaling pathways and cellular structures altered with treatment. We show here that ponatinib rapidly inhibits prosurvival signaling pathways, induces structural cardiac toxicity (as shown by actin cytoskeleton damage, mitochondrial stress, cell death, and troponin secretion), and disrupts cardiac cell beating. Most of these effects occurred at doses between 10× and 50× ponatinib's Cmax, a dose range shown to be relevant for accurate prediction of in vivo toxicity. Together these studies show that a comprehensive in vitro screening tool in a more relevant human cardiac cell model can improve the detection of cardiac toxicity with targeted oncology agents such as ponatinib.
A recent publication suggested that antinuclear antibodies (ANA) occur in up to one third of patients treated with the hypotensive drug prazosin (Minipress). We have examined a large group of hypertensive patients and found ANA in 9.7% of 145 patients taking prazosin and in 12.2% of hypertensive patients on any treatment regimen. Excluding patients taking methyldopa (a drug associated with a high ANA incidence), the ANA incidence fell to 6.9% in the prazosin-treated group and to 7.2% of all treated hypertensives. Of over 350 untreated hypertensive patients, 6.0% had ANA. Prazosin did not increase the ANA incidence in patients on or off various drug combinations including beta blockers and diuretics. Analysis of the data by age and sex confirmed our conclusion that prazosin therapy is not accompanied by an increase in ANA.
Heavy metals such as cadmium, lead and methylmercury are known to be neurotoxic to developing fetus. ABCG2 which is an efflux transporter located in the maternal facing membranes of human placenta protects fetus from xenobiotics by transferring compounds from syncytiotrophoblast to maternal circulation. The aim of this study was to clarify whether heavy metal compounds (CdCl(2), PbCl(2) and MeHgCl) affect the expression and function of ABCG2 transporter in human placental BeWo choriocarcinoma cells. The expression of ABCG2 was determined by immunoblotting and RT-PCR. The functional activity of ABCG2 was evaluated by measuring the efflux of two known ABCG2 substrates: fluorescent mitoxantrone and (14)C-labeled food carcinogen PhIP. According to MTT assay all compounds were cytotoxic as expected (MeHgCl > CdCl(2) > PbCl(2)). CdCl(2) inhibited the efflux of mitoxantrone and (14)C-PhIP suggesting inhibition of ABCG2 transporter function. PbCl(2) had no effect on mitoxantrone efflux. Because of high toxicity, the inhibitory potency of MeHgCl was not tested. According to protein data these heavy metals did not affect ABCG2 transporter protein expression. Also, the expression of ABCC1, ABCC2 or ABCG2 mRNA were not affected by heavy metals. In conclusion, although the studied metal salts did not affect mRNA or protein expression of ABCG2, CdCl(2) inhibited its function. Further studies to evaluate whether this leads to elevated placental transfer of ABCG2 substrates are needed.
We report the occurrence of rhabdomyolysis and hepatitis in a 17-year-old girl after the ingestion of up to 10.8 g of isoniazid. The initial isoniazid concentration in the blood was 1,230 mmol/L. There were no findings indicating the ingestion of other substances known to be associated with rhabdomyolysis. In addition to rhabdomyolysis (peak creatine phosphokinase 88,000 U/L), the patient had a significant elevation of her liver enzymes (peak aspartate aminotransferase 1,980 U/L). She recovered completely without evidence of liver or renal damage. Rhabdomyolysis and isoniazid-induced hepatitis are complications that should be considered when caring for patients with acute isoniazid ingestion.
Only limited data on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) HIV-1 RNA responses and markers of local inflammation in CSF during antiretroviral therapy are available. HIV-RNA, soluble tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-receptor (sTNFr)-II, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, and interferon-gamma-inducible protein (IP)-10 were measured in the peripheral blood and CSF of 26 antiretroviral-naive HIV-1-positive patients, who were treated with ritonavir (RTV)/saquinavir (SQV) (n = 5), RTV/SQV/stavudine (d4T; n = 8) or zidovudine (AZT)/lamivudine (3TC)/abacavir/nevirapine/indinavir (n = 13). After 8 to 12 weeks of treatment, CSF HIV-RNA dropped to <400 copies/ml in 1 of 5 patients in the RTV/SQV group, 8 of 8 patients in the RTV/SQV/d4T group, and 9 of 10 patients in the five-drug group. CSF sTNFr-II and IP-10 levels increased in patients with detectable CSF HIV-RNA. However, increases in CSF chemokine and sTNFr-II concentrations were also observed in some patients with good CSF HIV-RNA responses. Moreover, CSF MCP-1 concentrations increased in the whole population after 2 months of treatment. Ongoing residual HIV replication in the central nervous system, which cannot be detected with CSF HIV-RNA measurements, may account for this phenomenon.
UFT (Uftoral), a blend of uracil and Tegafur, is an antitumour agent for oral administration that is presumed to maintain the concentration of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in tumour tissue. As a result of increased use of high-dose 5-FU-based chemotherapy for various solid tumours, complicated drug-induced colitis is more frequently observed. Dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the catabolism of 5-FU and its deficiency is responsible for the severe toxicities encountered in cancer patients receiving 5-FU. The authors present the case of a patient with locally advanced temporal bone carcinoma who developed haematochezia during a course of chemotherapy with UFT. Colonoscopy of the patient showed bleeding petechia-like lesions and superficial inflammatory exudate, whilst histology revealed non-specific inflammatory changes of the colon mucosa. As the haematochezia improved with supportive treatment, neutropenia complicated the clinical picture. This patient developed life-threatening UFT toxicity without an exon-14 DPD gene mutation.
The ankyloblepharon-ectodermal defects-cleft lip and palate (Hay-Wells or AEC) and the Rapp-Hodgkin syndrome (RHS) are rare autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasias due to mutations in the transcription factor gene P63. Both are caused by mutations affecting SAM or TID domains of TP63 protein. The two disorders share common features and may represent different phenotypic expressions of the same clinical entity. To date more than 20 P63 mutations have been described associated with AEC and RHS, the majority of which are missense or nonsense mutations. Molecular heterogeneity cannot account for the clinical heterogeneity, because the same mutations were observed both in patient with RHS and with AEC syndrome. Here we report on a novel P63 mutation (the first repeat variation described in the gene) in a patient showing overlapping phenotype of AEC and RH syndromes.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (CEI) have been found effective in numerous cases of arterial hypertension, even non renovascular, and they are now widely used. However, the reference compound, captopril, has exhibited various side-effects, including acute renal failure. Different mechanisms may be responsible for this complication. In some case haemodynamic changes occur which are rapidly reversible after treatment is discontinued. In other, less frequent cases, captopril induces an immunoallergic interstitial nephritis, sometimes accompanied by skin rashes and/or eosinophilia. Since renal biopsies have been performed in only a few cases of CEI-induced nephropathy, we thought that it might be of interest to report a case of acute renal failure due to acute interstitial nephritis with epithelioid granulomas in the interstitium. The favourable outcome was confirmed by two successive follow-up renal biopsies.
Few studies have clearly defined the risk factors and management of steroid-induced mania, particularly in children and adolescents. The case study of a 15-year-old woman with steroid-induced mania is examined to delineate risk factors and management. Genetic predisposition to mood disorders, previous exposure to steroids and the concomitant use of clarithromycin are potential risk factors. Mood stabilizers such as lithium and/or valproic acid may be useful in the acute and prophylactic treatment of steroid-induced mania.
In 40 patients with moderate to severe persistent adult asthma who had been requiring more than 1200 micrograms/day of beclomethasone dipropionate (CAS 5534-09-8, BDP) inhalation, the present study evaluated the combined effects of pranlukast (CAS 103177-37-3, Onon) during highdose steroid inhalation (20 in the pranlukast group and 20 in the control group). In the pranlukast group, 450 mg/day of pranlukast was administered. The course of these patients was monitored for 6 weeks during which the dose of BDP was decreased to 1/2 of the initial dose 2 weeks later and to 1/4 of the initial dose additional 4 weeks later. The dose of BDP was also decreased in the control group. The concomitant use of pranlukast significantly improved asthmatic symptoms and respiratory functions in asthmatic patients receiving high-dose steroid inhalation. Furthermore, the concomitant use of pranlukast significantly inhibited worsening of asthmatic symptoms, respiratory functions and parameters, which are frequently observed when the dose of inhalation steroids is decreased.
Vindesine is des-acetyl vinblastine amide sulfate (Eldisine, Eli Lilly and Co), an investigational derivative of the vinca alkaloid, vinblastine. Initial phase I results with vindesine have determined that myelotoxicity is dose-limiting and that, contrary to preclinical studies in animals [1], a neurotoxic potential is indeed present [2]. Another phase I study also observed a rather high incidence of phlebitis (16%) and of cellulitis (10%), however, myelosuppression remained the dose-limiting toxicity [3]. Because good clinical responses have been noted in lymphomas, leukemias [4] and some solid tumors including breast cancer [5], the drug has a potential for wide utility. However, while we have noted several clinical responses with vindesine, injections of the drug have been complicated by serious infiltration with atypically delayed presentation. The purpose of this communication is to briefly describe the incidence and course of these infiltrations.
We report a case of aseptic meningoencephalitis induced by ibuprofen (Brufen) in a 24-year old unmarried woman with unrecognized systemic lupus erythematosus. The neurological manifestations induced by ibuprofen revealed the systemic disease. Clinicians confronted with aseptic meningitis or meningoencephalitis developed after treatment with a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, notably ibuprofen, should investigate for systemic disease.
Intraoperative power Doppler ultrasonography was used to evaluate the spinal cord blood flow in cervical spondylotic myelopathy patients during hypotensive anesthesia.
To evaluate the effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) induced hypotension on spinal cord blood flow (SBF) during spinal surgery.
Hypotension is frequently induced to decrease blood loss during surgery and to diminish the need for blood transfusion. Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) is reported to maintain cerebral, liver, and renal blood flow during surgery. However, there are few reports on spinal cord blood flow.
Eleven patients underwent laminoplasty for cervical spondylotic myelopathy. After a French door type laminoplasty was carried out, hypotension was induced with PGE1. Before and during hypotension, we evaluated blood flow in the anterior spinal cord artery by determining the pulsatility index (PI) and resistance index (RI) using power Doppler ultrasonography.
Before hypotension, the mean blood pressure was 80 mmHg. The blood pressure decreased to 60 mmHg using PGE1 (P<0.01), although the PI and RI were significantly higher than before hypotension (PI, P=0.0076 RI, P=0.02).
The pulsatility and resistance indices during hypotension were significantly higher than before hypotension, suggesting that the autoregulation of the anterior spinal cord artery and anterior spinal cord blood flow were maintained with hypotension using PGE1. Prostaglandin E1 may be a useful drug for hypotensive anesthesia in spinal surgery.
Oxidative stress contributes to many disease etiologies including ageing, neurodegeneration, and cancer, partly through DNA damage induction (genotoxicity). Understanding the i nteractions of free radicals with DNA is fundamental to discern mutation risks. In genetic toxicology, regulatory authorities consider that most genotoxins exhibit a linear relationship between dose and mutagenic response. Yet, homeostatic mechanisms, including DNA repair, that allow cells to tolerate low levels of genotoxic exposure exist. Acceptance of thresholds for genotoxicity has widespread consequences in terms of understanding cancer risk and regulating human exposure to chemicals/drugs. Three pro-oxidant chemicals, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), potassium bromate (KBrO(3)), and menadione, were examined for low dose-response curves in human lymphoblastoid cells. DNA repair and antioxidant capacity were assessed as possible threshold mechanisms. H(2)O(2) and KBrO(3), but not menadione, exhibited thresholded responses, containing a range of nongenotoxic low doses. Levels of the DNA glycosylase 8-oxoguanine glycosylase were unchanged in response to pro- oxidant stress. DNA repair-focused gene expression arrays reported changes in ATM and BRCA1, involved in double-strand break repair, in response to low-dose pro-oxidant exposure; however, these alterations were not substantiated at the protein level. Determination of oxidatively induced DNA damage in H(2)O(2)-treated AHH-1 cells reported accumulation of thymine glycol above the genotoxic threshold. Further, the H(2)O(2) dose-response curve was shifted by modulating the antioxidant glutathione. Hence, observed pro- oxidant thresholds were due to protective capacities of base excision repair enzymes and antioxidants against DNA damage, highlighting the importance of homeostatic mechanisms in "genotoxic tolerance."
Considerable evidence suggests that the endogenous opioid system plays a role in mediating the behavioral effects of psychostimulants. Opioidergic drugs have been shown to have profound effects on cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and conditioned reward. However, the role specifically of the mu opioid receptor in this regard is unclear as most previous pharmacological studies have used nonselective opioid receptor ligands.
The objective of this series of experiments was to elucidate the role of mu opioid receptors in the behavioral effects of cocaine in the rat.
Adult male rats were used to assess the effects of the selective mu opioid receptor antagonist D: -Phe-Cys-Tyr-D: -Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr (CTAP) on acute hyperactivity, locomotor sensitization, and conditioned place preference induced by cocaine. Intracerebroventricular administration of CTAP, 4 microg, was paired with peripheral injections of cocaine, 10-15 mg/kg.
Mu receptor blockade significantly attenuated cocaine-induced hyperactivity, as well as the development of behavioral sensitization. Pretreatment with CTAP also prevented the development of conditioned place preference to cocaine. Administration of CTAP alone had neither effect on locomotor activity nor did it demonstrate aversive or rewarding properties.
These results suggest that activation of mu opioid receptors by endogenous opioids is an important contributor to cocaine-induced hyperactivity and the development of behavioral sensitization and conditioned reward.
