Compared with naloxone, two opiate antagonists (naltrexone and S-20682) were tested in the intact dog in order to reverse respiratory depression, induced by fentanyl 50 micrograms kg-1 i.v. Respiratory rate and arterial blood-gases were measured at 5, 30, 60, 120, 180 and 240 min after the additional i.v. injection of the antagonist (1 microgram kg-1). Only S-20682, but not naloxone or naltrexone, prevented late (240 min) fentanyl-induced depression of respiratory drive. A late respiratory depression coincided with an increase in amplitudes and a reduction of frequency in electrical cortical activity (EEG). Naltrexone exhibited an antagonistic effect of duration twice (60 min) that of naloxone.
Bisphosphonates have an established role in the treatment of bone metastases from a variety of solid tumours. The objective response to anti-resorptive treatment cannot be evaluated by imaging techniques. A number of bone remodelling markers have been associated with bone metastases status; among them, urine and serum levels of N-terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (NTx) seem to have the best diagnostic accuracy. However, serum NTx has not yet been properly evaluated.
Seventy-one consecutive patients with newly diagnosed skeletal metastases were enrolled in this prospective study. All of them were treated with zoledronic acid at 4 mg, every 3 or 4 weeks. Serum NTx and bone-isoform of alkaline phosphatase (BAP) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays at baseline and every 2 months thereafter.
At baseline, serum NTx and BAP levels were significantly higher in patients with blastic than lytic bone lesions and in those with multiple rather than few bone site involvement. Forty-seven patients were followed for a median period of 139 days. Zoledronic acid resulted in a significant NTx reduction at first and second post-treatment evaluations (mean reduction of 43% at first evaluation); thereafter, mean NTx levels remained suppressed. In contrast, BAP levels did not show any significant changes. Bone disease progression resulted in a significant NTx elevation by an average of 69%. The initial response of NTx to zoledronic acid was correlated with the long-term clinical outcome of bone disease: patients with an initial NTx elevation had a significantly higher rate of bone disease progression compared to those with an initial NTx decline (66.7% versus 18.8%, p=0.001). Extraskeletal disease or bone irradiation did not influence NTx response.
Serum NTx appears to be a useful marker in monitoring patients with skeletal metastases, as it is correlated with the type and bulk of bone disease and reflects bone disease progression. It is also useful in monitoring bisphosphonate therapy, while the initial response to this therapy seems to bear a prognostic significance for bone disease outcome.
We recently reported increased sphingosine kinase 1 (SPHK1) and decreased neutral sphingomyelinase 2 (NSMase2) gene expression in myelodysplastic syndromes and acute leukemia. This alteration is supposed to change the cellular sphingolipid metabolites; however, positive correlations were observed between daunorubicin (DA)-IC50 and the SPHK1 message but not between DA-IC50 and NSMase2 messages, when 16 different leukemia cell lines were used to analyze the relationship between gene expressions and chemosensitivity against DA. Using two cell lines with either the highest or lowest SPHK1 expression, cellular ceramides and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) were quantified by liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. Increased ceramide was observed in DA-sensitive, but not in DA-resistant cell lines treated with low doses of DA. Upon DA treatment, S1P decreased more in the sensitive cell lines than in resistant cell lines. A SPHK inhibitor recovered the DA sensitivity of DA-resistant cells. The modulation of SPHK1 gene expression by either overexpression or using siRNA affected the DA sensitivity of representative cell lines. Results clearly show that SPHK1 is both a good marker to predict the DA sensitivity of leukemia cells and a potential therapeutic target for leukemia with high SPHK1 expression, and suggest that the sphingolipid rheostat plays a significant role in DA-induced cytotoxicity.
Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) protect cells against exogenous and endogenous oxidative stress. GST polymorphisms are associated with the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes mellitus (DM), especially in current-smokers. Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a predictor of future CVD or DM, because oxidative stress contributes to their pathogenesis. This study investigated whether the combination of smoking status and GST genotypes could affect the risk for NAFLD. A cross-sectional analysis was conducted among 713 Japanese participants (458 males and 255 females) during a health screening program. The GSTM1 null, GSTT1 null, GSTP1 A/B or B/B and GSTA1 A/B or B/B genotypes were determined and deemed to be high-risk genotypes. The prevalence of NAFLD was 18.7%. Among never-smokers, carriers of one, and those of two or more high-risk GSTM1, GSTP1 or GSTA1 genotypes were at a higher risk for NAFLD than those who were not carriers [odds ratio (95% confidence interval): 2.6 (1.1-5.9) and 3.3 (1.3-8.1), respectively], and the risk was further increased among current-smokers [4.6 (1.6-13.0) and 5.4 (1.2-23.7), respectively]. This is the first report to show that the combination of current-smoking and harboring high-risk GSTM1, GSTP1 and/or GSTA1 genotypes is interactively associated with the risk of NAFLD.
Drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic signs (DRESS) syndrome is defined by the triad of fever, dermatitis, and internal organ involvement, characteristically occurring with a delay of 3 to 8 weeks after the initiation of treatment with the associated drug. We describe a case of DRESS syndrome in a patient with multiple sclerosis (MS), characterized by a very high eosinophilia and cholestatic hepatitis.
A 44-year-old white woman with primary progressive MS receiving a multidrug of PO baclofen 75 mg/d, PO piracetam 3 g/d, and IV mitoxantrone 10 mg administered once a month presented to the Multiple Sclerosis Center, University of Catania, Catania, Italy. Eight weeks after the introduction of the latter 2 drugs, the patient had clinical and histological signs of severe cholestatic syndrome followed by hypereosinophilia. All treatments were stopped on admission. Laboratory tests (serologic viral markers, autoantibody pattern antinuclear autoantibodies, antismooth muscle autoantibodies, antimitochondrial autoantibodies, antineutrophil-cytoplasmic autoantibodies, antiliver-kidney-microsomes), abdomen ultrasound, and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography did not reveal a cause of the cholestatic syndrome. A liver biopsy was performed because of the persistence of the clinical signs. A Naranjo rating of 4 suggested that mitoxantrone was possibly associated with the occurrence of DRESS. Six months after the first symptoms of DRESS appeared, laboratory tests were normal. Although there are few diagnostic methods for confirming an adverse drug hypersensitivity reaction, a skin prick test suggested a marked positivity for mitoxantrone at all concentrations (100%, 50%, 10%). During the first 72 hours, reaction was characterized by skin edema, erythema, and itchiness in the site of inoculation of the drug. The local reaction started to regress after 72 hours, with a complete restitution ad integrum in 6 days. A blue discoloration of skin remained for an additional 13 days.
We report a case of DRESS syndrome possibly associated with mitoxantrone in a patient with MS.
Deficiency in Daf1, a complement regulatory protein, has been shown to exacerbate development of various autoimmune diseases and recent studies have suggested that this may be explained by Daf1 acting to limit T-cell hyper-responsiveness. It has been suggested that the absence of Daf1 aggravates autoimmune disease in a complement-dependent manner, but others have shown that activation of T cells in the absence of Daf1 can be complement independent. However, the relationship between Daf1, complement components, lymphocyte activation, cytokine expression and antibody production remains to be determined in mice that are not Daf1 deficient. We have recently demonstrated, in murine mercury-induced autoimmunity (mHgIA), that an accumulation of CD44(high) Daf(low) CD4(+) T cells is associated with the development of autoimmunity. In this study we observed that complement depletion does not affect the accumulation of activated CD4(+) T cells, elevation of splenic interleukin-4 expression and autoantibody production in mHgIA. In addition, neither the accumulation of CD44(high) Daf(low) CD4(+) T cells nor the down-regulation of Daf1 expression on CD4(+) T cells was influenced by a lack of complement. In conclusion, these studies show that initiating events in xenobiotic-induced autoimmunity, including lymphocyte activation, cytokine expression and autoantibody production, are not dependent on complement.
In the absence of a cure for Parkinson's disease, development of preventive medications for this devastating disease is particularly encouraged. Dl-3-n-butylphthalide (NBP), an established natural antioxidant for clinical stroke treatment in China, can reportedly reduce beta-amyloid-induced neuronal toxicity in cultured neuronal cells, and attenuate neurodegenerative changes in aged rats. However, whether or not NBP confers neuroprotection in parkinsonian models is still unknown. In this study, we investigated the effects of NBP in rotenone models for Parkinson's diseases. In a cellular model, pretreatment with NBP enhanced cell viability by decreasing nuclear fragmentation, retaining mitochondrial membrane potential, and preventing reactive oxygen species (ROS) from generation. In a rodent model, 2-week treatment with NBP was able to ameliorate apomorphine-evoked rotations by 48% and rescue dopaminergic (DA) neurons by 30% and striatal DA terminal by 49%. Furthermore, NBP upregulated the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 gene expression in vitro and in vivo. Together, NBP protects DA neurons likely by reducing oxidative stress, offering an alternative neuroprotective medication for Parkinson's disease.
The combination of an asymmetric crying face and heart defect has been termed cardiofacial syndrome. This "syndrome" is etiologically heterogeneous and a subset of patients have 22q111.2 deletions. We present a female with Cayler's cardiofacial syndrome phenotype who had a frameshift mutation of the EYA1 gene. We conclude that EYA1 mutation represents a previously undescribed cause of cardiofacial syndrome.
Limited information is available on the long-term effects of in utero methadone exposure. This report describes the somatic and neurobehavioral findings of children in the first 18 months of life born to methadone-maintained mothers and to a matched drug-free comparison group of mothers. Findings during the neonatal period were (1) a 75% incidence of moderate-to-severe narcotic abstinence syndrome, (2) a significant incidence of head circumferences below the third percentile, and (3) elevated systolic blood pressure. In follow-up, the methadone children had (1) a significantly higher incidence of otitis media; (2) a significant incidence of head circumferences below the third percentile; (3) neurologic findings of tone discrepancies, developmental delays, and poor fine motor coordination; (4) a high incidence of abnormal eye findings; and (5) significantly lower scores on the Bayley mental and motor developmental indices. These neurobehavioral findings in children of methadone-treated mothers at 18 months of age may be predictors of later learning and behavioral problems.
Methadone overdoses are increasing in parallel with the increased frequency of opiate substitution therapy in adults. Although unintentional methadone intoxication in children is rare, it is becoming more frequently recognized. We report 3 cases of unintentional methadone overdose in toddlers who initially displayed central nervous system depression associated with severe nonketotic hyperglycemia and discuss the possible pathophysiologic mechanisms of an underrecognized symptom of opiate intoxication in young children.
The subjective and physiological effects of intravenously administered cocaine and nicotine were compared in 10 cigarette-smoking cocaine abusers. Subjects abstained from smoking at least 8 h before each session. Under double blind conditions, subjects received placebo, cocaine (10, 20, and 40 mg/70 mg), or nicotine (0.75, 1.5, 3.0 mg/70 kg) in mixed order. Physiological and subjective data were collected before and repeatedly after each intravenous drug administration. Subjects also completed a drug versus money multiple-choice procedure in which they chose between that day's drug and 44 monetary values. Both drugs increased blood pressure and heart rate and decreased skin temperature. Nicotine showed a more rapid onset of subjective effects than cocaine. Overall, although both cocaine and nicotine increased subjective ratings of "drug effect", "rush", "good effects", "liking", "high", and "stimulated", only nicotine increased ratings of "bad effects" and "jittery". Although the highest nicotine dose produced greater effects than the highest cocaine dose on most subjective measures, the highest cocaine dose produced somewhat greater ratings of drug liking. At doses that produced comparable ratings of drug effect (40 mg/70 kg cocaine versus 1.5 mg/70 kg nicotine), cocaine produced significantly greater good effects, whereas nicotine produced greater bad effects. All three cocaine doses and the intermediate and high nicotine doses were frequently categorized as producing effects similar to those of cocaine or amphetamine. The drug versus money measure showed that the highest cocaine dose was worth twice as much as the highest nicotine dose. Thus, intravenous cocaine and nicotine can be differentiated by their subjective and reinforcing effects.
Midazolam is widely used for procedural sedation and analgesia. Etomidate has been studied mostly in adults. Our objective is to compare the efficacy of etomidate and midazolam for achieving procedural sedation and analgesia in children.
A randomized, double-blind, emergency department and orthopedic clinic-based trial was carried out among patients aged 2 to 18 years with displaced extremity fractures. Patients were administered 1 microg/kg of fentanyl and either 0.2 mg/kg of etomidate or 0.1 mg/kg of midazolam. Adequate sedation was defined, for the purpose of this study, as a score of 4 or more on the Ramsay Sedation Scale. The primary outcome was induction and recovery time. The rates of adverse events, success of fracture reduction, and parent and physician satisfaction were also compared.
From April to August 2004, 100 of 128 eligible patients were enrolled (age 8.7+/-3.7 years; 50% male patients). A higher proportion of patients attained adequate sedation among those who received etomidate: 46 of 50 (92%) versus 18 of 50 (36%) (delta 56%; 95% confidence interval [CI] 38% to 69%). Time taken for induction (hazard ratio 4.9; 95% CI 2.2 to 10.9) and time taken for recovery (hazard ratio 2.8; 95% CI 1.5 to 5.1) were lower among patients who received etomidate. The rates of adverse events were similar in both groups, except for myoclonus and pain at the injection site, which was more frequent in the etomidate group.
Induction and recovery times are shorter with etomidate compared with midazolam. At the dosages used for procedural sedation and analgesia among children with displaced extremity fracture, etomidate has higher efficacy in comparison with midazolam.
Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are one of the most commonly used nanomaterials due to their antibacterial properties. In this study, we examined the effects of polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP)-coated AgNPs (average size 2.3nm) on angiogenesis in both an in vivo model and an in vitro endothelial cell line, SVEC4-10. Increased angiogenesis was detected around the injection site of AgNP-containing Matrigel in vivo. AgNPs also increased the infiltration of endothelial cells and the hemoglobin (Hb) content in AgNP-Matrigel plugs implanted into mice. AgNPs induced endothelial cell tube formation on growth factor-reduced Matrigel, production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and production of angiogenic factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and nitric oxide (NO), in SVEC4-10 cells. In addition, AgNPs promoted the activation of FAK, Akt, ERK1/2, and p38, which are all involved in VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-mediated signaling. Finally, AgNP-treated tumors caused angiogenesis around tumors in B16F10 melanomas after they were injected into mice, and the Hb concentration in the tumors increased in a concentration-dependent manner with AgNP treatment. Thus, our study suggests that exposure to AgNPs can cause angiogenesis through the production of angiogenic factors.
Vancomycin has been reported to be an ototoxic drug in the clinical literature. At best, this literature is confusing. There are no reports of ototoxicity of vancomycin in experimental animals, even when it is administered concurrently with ethacrynic acid, a drug known to augment the ototoxic effect of most other ototoxic drugs. In most of the cases of permanent ototoxicity that have been reported, the patient was treated with an aminoglycoside antibiotic as well as vancomycin. This study found no evidence of vancomycin ototoxicity in guinea pigs, but found that vancomycin greatly enhanced the ototoxicity of gentamicin.
Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (PVT) is a form of ventricular tachycardia characterized by QRS complexes that seem to change direction during the tachycardia. If associated with a prolonged QT interval, it is called torsades de pointes. In the absence of a congenital long QT syndrome, torsades is seen with certain drugs such as antiarrhythmic agents (Class IA, IC, III), psychotropic medications, antidepressants, antihistamines, and electrolyte disturbances. We report the first case of polymorphic ventricular tachycardia with normal QT interval associated with the oral use of levofloxacin in the absence of other etiologies known to cause these arrhythmias.
The SMi's Eighth Annual Conference on Clinical Trials in CNS, held in London, included topics covering new therapeutic developments in the field of CNS disorders. This conference report highlights selected presentations on emerging clinical targets for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, achievements of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, computational assessment methods applicable to Alzheimer's disease and to the monitoring of suicidality, the accelerated antidepressive effect of PNB-01 (PharmaNeuroBoost NV; comprising a combination of pipamperone and citalopram), and clinical trials in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscular atrophy. Investigational drugs discussed also include begacestat (Pfizer Inc) and olesoxime (Trophos SA).
Fair color increases risk of cutaneous melanoma (CM) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Recent genome-wide association studies have identified variants affecting hair, eye and skin pigmentation in Europeans. Here, we assess the effect of these variants on risk of CM and BCC in European populations comprising 2,121 individuals with CM, 2,163 individuals with BCC and over 40,000 controls. A haplotype near ASIP, known to affect a similar spectrum of pigmentation traits as MC1R variants, conferred significant risk of CM (odds ratio (OR) = 1.45, P = 1.2 x 10(-9)) and BCC (OR = 1.33, P = 1.2 x 10(-6)). The variant in TYR encoding the R402Q amino acid substitution, previously shown to affect eye color and tanning response, conferred risk of CM (OR = 1.21, P = 2.8 x 10(-7)) and BCC (OR = 1.14, P = 6.1 x 10(-4)). An eye color variant in TYRP1 was associated with risk of CM (OR = 1.15, P = 4.6 x 10(-4)). The association of all three variants is robust with respect to adjustment for the effect of pigmentation.
Although a neuromuscular syndrome has been induced experimentally by vitamin E deficiency, a human syndrome has not yet been documented. This report describes a 7-year-old boy with severe malabsorption since birth who presented with progressive external ophthalmoplegia, proximal muscle weakness, peripheral neuropathy, hyporeflexia, and bilateral Babinski signs. Abnormalities on neurologic examination included elevated creatine phosphokinase and aldolase, slowed distal sensory latencies, type II muscle fiber atrophy, and a plasma vitamin E level of 8 microgram per deciliter (normal, 550-1500 microgram per deciliter). Treatment with oral water-solubilized vitamin E (400 IU daily; greater than 50 times the normal daily intake) was begun, with repeat laboratory studies at 3-month intervals. Over a 16-month period, plasma vitamin E content gradually increased to 350 microgram per deciliter, associated with declining sarcoplasmic enzyme activities and clinical improvement.
Exacerbation of epilepsy may occur following initiation of therapy with antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). The aim of this study is to analyze the clinical and EEG characteristics of a group of pediatric patients with worsening of seizures and/or EEG deterioration while on oxcarbazepine (OXC).
A retrospective analysis of a clinical database was performed to identify patients with epilepsy treated with OXC over the past 3 years. History, neurological examination, and EEG findings were reviewed to identify any who had developed exacerbation of seizures or new abnormalities on EEG.
Of 290 patients on OXC, we identified 12 patients with new onset seizures, all with initial normal neurological exam and normal EEG, who developed either worsening of preexisting seizures, new seizure types, and/or EEG deterioration following introduction of OXC monotherapy. EEG changes were primarily characterized by new onset of generalized epileptiform activity not reported on the initial baseline EEG. Following substitution of OXC with a broad spectrum AED, significant improvement of seizure control and improvement in the EEG was observed.
These findings suggest that OXC can aggravate seizures and/or worsen EEG features in children. Following initiation of therapy with OXC, monitoring of patients with follow-up EEGs may be important, especially in patients who do not show adequate response to therapy.
To evaluate the effect of desmopressin on nocturia, based on patients' subjective scoring of nocturia, as desmopressin is widely used to treat nocturnal enuresis and nocturnal polyuria.
We investigated a specific subgroup of 28 men with benign prostate obstruction and nocturia who were treated with desmopressin. Patients with nocturnal polyuria were excluded. All the patients were refractory to treatment with antimuscarinics or anticholinergics, e.g. oxybutynin, tolterodine, and propantheline bromide. We assessed the effect of desmopressin using a quantitative nocturia score and analysed its synergistic effect with alpha-blockers.
The mean frequency of nocturia was 6.1 before desmopressin and most (86%) patients had an improvement in nocturia within 1-12 weeks of treatment with desmopressin. There was a 43% reduction in nocturia after using desmopressin (P < 0.001). The correlation coefficient between the number of nocturnal voids and the reduction in nocturia after treatment with desmopressin was 0.756, indicating that the more severe the nocturia, the more effective was desmopressin.
Desmopressin is effective for refractory nocturia in elderly men with no nocturnal polyuria, and has limited side-effects.
The arthritic activity in the initial phase and during manifestation of experimental erysipelas in rats, an animal model for human rheumatoid arthritis, was studied by plethysmometrical methods. The development of body weight and specific pathologic alterations peculiar to the model such as keratitis, thrombosis of the aorta and gangrene of the tip of the tail served as additional parameters. In the volumetric analysis it could be shown that the first arthritic swelling on both hind legs develops symmetrically up to day 6 post infection in rats with about 200 g of body weight-and in contrast-on the 2nd p.i. in younger animals with about 120 g. The first maximal paw volume was measured on day 9 p. i., the greatest decrease in body weight-a reduction of 25%-on day 10 p. i. In addition the reaction of the animal model following the application of steroid and non-steroid symptomatically as well as cytostatically acting antirheumatic drugs was tested. Daily treatment with acetylsalicylic acid, indomethacine or hydrocortisone provoked more or less significant inhibition of arthritic swelling in the paw. Only at the onset of arthritis acetylsalicylic acid was more effective than the other antiphlogistic drugs. No measurable increase of paw volume during cyclophosphamide treatment could be evaluated. None of the antirheumatics used had a positive effect on body weight developement. In hydrocortisone and also in cyclophosphamide treated rats a greater decrease was obtained than in the infected controls. No thrombosis developed after cytostasis with cyclophosphamide. The advantages of this systemic connective tissue disease with regard to its comparability with human rheumatoid arthritis and due to the course of its arthritic manifestation are discussed, together with the disadvantages specific to the model and the experimental conditions.
The degree of albuminuria after selective nephroangiography was investigated in anaesthetized rats. Iopentol, iopromide, iodixanol and compound 2-5410-4A all caused a slight but not statistically significant increase in albuminuria when compared with the control group. After ioxaglate injection a high degree of albuminuria was observed which was statistically significant (p less than 0.05) compared with all other contrast media and control groups.
In the authors' clinical experience, preschool children are more likely to show delirium after sevoflurane than are older children.
Sixty-three preschool boys aged 3-5 yr (classified as American Society of Anesthesiologists [ASA] physical status I), and 53 school-age boys aged 6-10 yr (ASA physical status I) who underwent minor urologic surgery were randomly assigned to receive either halothane or sevoflurane, thus creating four groups: preschool-halothane (n = 32), preschool-sevoflurane (n = 31), school-halothane (n = 27), and school-sevoflurane (n = 26). Anesthesia was induced by inhalation of halothane or sevoflurane in oxygen and was maintained at 1 minimum alveolar concentration of each agent throughout surgery. For intra- and postoperative analgesia, caudal block with 0.5-1.0 ml/kg 0.25% plain bupivacaine and topical infiltration with 3-5 ml 1% lidocaine were provided for all patients. Recovery characteristics and incidence of delirium on emergence were compared among the four groups.
Two patients in the preschool-halothane group, one in the preschool-sevoflurane group, and one in the school-halothane group were excluded from the comparison because of insufficient analgesia or agitation before induction. In both age groups, the time to emergence from sevoflurane was significantly faster (about 3 min) than from halothane. The incidence of delirium during recovery in the preschool-sevoflurane group (40%) was significantly greater than that in the other groups (preschool-halothane, 10%; school-halothane, 15.4%; school-sevoflurane, 11.5%).
Sevoflurane provided quicker emergence and early recovery compared with halothane, but the incidence of delirium was greater in preschool boys after sevoflurane.
We describe two cases of unexpected perineal pain immediately after intravenous injection of fentanyl and dexamethasone (100 microg and 8 mg respectively) during induction of general anaesthesia. In both cases the pain was immediate (onset within 30 seconds), severe, localized to the genital region and of shooting and burning character No other clinical signs or symptoms were observed in either case and both patients made an uneventful recovery without neurological sequelae. We review the existing literature on perineal pain as an adverse effect of intravenous corticosteroid esters and recommend their administration either in diluted form or after induction of general anaesthesia.
Tramadol is a weak opioid with effects on adrenergic and serotonergic neurotransmission that is used to treat cancer pain and chronic non malignant pain. This drug was initiated in association with paroxetine and dosulepine hydrochloride in a tetraparetic patient with chronic pain. Fifty-six days after initiation of the treatment the patient presented hallucinations that only stopped after the withdrawal of psycho-active drugs and tramadol. The case report questions the long term use of pain killers combined with psycho-active drugs in chronic non malignant pain, especially if pain is under control.
