Toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of dl-amphetamine sulfate, a drug used in the treatment of weight control, narcolepsy, and behavioral syndromes in children, were performed in F344/N rats and B6C3F1 mice. In these studies, amphetamine was administered for 2 years at doses of 0, 20, or 100 ppm in the feed to groups of 50 animals/dose/sex/species. The average amount of amphetamine consumed per day was estimated to be 1 or 5 mg/kg for low or high dose rats, 4 or 30 mg/kg for low or high dose male mice, and 3 or 19 mg/kg for low or high dose female mice. Survival was similar in dosed and control groups. The most notable effect of long-term treatment with this drug was the reduction of body weight in comparison to controls, and reduction in spontaneous tumors including pheochromocytomas of the adrenal gland in male rats, fibroadenomas of the mammary gland in female rats, adenomas of the anterior pituitary gland in male and female rats and female mice, endometrial stromal polyps of the uterus of female rats, adenomas or carcinomas of the liver in male and female mice, adenomas of the Harderian gland in male and female mice, and adenomas or carcinomas of the lung in male and female mice. Decreases in spontaneous tumors have previously been seen in 2-year rodent studies in groups of animals that have a reduced body weight in comparison to controls, but the spectrum of reduction in spontaneous neoplasms after treatment with amphetamine is broader than has previously been observed.
In the present study, Xenopus laevis tadpoles were chronically exposed to four concentrations of the synthetic gestagen Levonorgestrel (LNG; 10(-11), 10(-10), 10(-9), and 10(-8)M) starting at Nieuwkoop and Faber (NF) stage 48 until completion of metamorphosis. At NF 58 and 66, brain-pituitary and gonad samples were taken for gene expression analyses of gonadotropins and gonadal steroidogenic enzymes. Exposure to 10(-9) and 10(-8)M LNG until NF 58 repressed messenger RNA (mRNA) expression of luteinizing hormone (LH) β in both genders. This decrease was persistent after further treatment until NF 66 in the 10(-8)M LNG treatment. Expression of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) β was affected sex-specifically. No effect was present in NF 58 females, whereas LNG at 10(-9) and 10(-8)M significantly increased FSHβ mRNA levels in males. In NF 66 females, 10(-9)M LNG treatment increased FSHβ gene expression, whereas a decrease was observed in NF 66 males exposed to 10(-8)M LNG. In gonads, expression of steroid-5-alpha-reductase was affected sex-specifically with increased mRNA levels in females but repressed levels in males. Gene expression of further gonadal steroidogenic factors was decreased by 10(-8)M LNG in both genders at NF 66. Assessment of gonad gross morphology and histology revealed poorly developed testes in the 10(-8)M LNG treatment. Our results reveal considerable effects of chronic LNG exposure on sexual development of amphibians. The persistent inhibition of LHβ expression concomitant with decreased mRNA levels of gonadal steroidogenic enzymes is suggested to result in the disruption of reproduction in adult amphibians.
Deoxycholic acid (DCA) is a known hepatotoxicant, a tissue tumor promoter, and has been implicated in colorectal cancer. Male mice are more susceptible to DCA toxicity than female mice. Organic anion transporting polypeptide 1a1 (Oatp1a1), which is known to transport bile acids (BAs) in vitro, is predominantly expressed in livers of male mice. In addition, the concentrations of DCA and its taurine conjugate (TDCA) are increased in serum of Oatp1a1-null mice. To investigate whether Oatp1a1 contributes to the gender difference in DCA toxicity in mice, wild-type (WT) and Oatp1a1-null mice were fed a 0.3% DCA diet for 7 days. After feeding DCA, Oatp1a1-null mice had 30-fold higher concentrations of DCA in both serum and livers than WT mice. Feeding DCA caused more hepatotoxcity in Oatp1a1-null mice than WT mice. After feeding DCA, Oatp1a1-null mice expressed higher BA efflux-transporters (bile salt-export pump, organic solute transporter (Ost)α/β, and multidrug resistance-associated protein [Mrp]2) and lower BA-synthetic enzymes (cytochrome P450 [Cyp]7a1, 8b1, 27a1, and 7b1) in livers than WT mice. Intravenous administration of DCA and TDCA showed that lack of Oatp1a1 does not decrease the plasma elimination of DCA or TDCA. After feeding DCA, the concentrations of DCA in ileum and colon tissues are higher in Oatp1a1-null than in WT mice. In addition, Oatp1a1-null mice have enhanced intestinal permeability. Taken together, the current data suggest that Oatp1a1 does not mediate the hepatic uptake of DCA or TDCA, but lack of Oatp1a1 increases intestinal permeability and thus enhances the absorption of DCA in mice.
Cocaine abuse as a risk factor for acute cerebrovascular events has received too little attention, in particular in young patients. Cocaine hydrochloride causes mainly intracerebral and subarachnoidal bleeding, while crack (freebase) causes intracranial hemorrhage and ischemic infarctions with equal frequency. Although no specific antidote is known, an attempt should be made to detect the substance or its metabolites in the urine so as to provide optimal management, and encourage the patient to seek expert counselling.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) is a ligand-activated transcription factor that mediates the biological and toxic effects of its xenobiotic ligands. Previous cell culture studies have shown that, in addition to controlling the xenobiotic detoxification response, AHR activation leads to G0-G1 arrest, diminished capacity for DNA replication, and inhibition of cell proliferation. In fact, recent work from our own and from other laboratories suggests that AHR may function as a tumor suppressor gene that becomes silenced during the process of tumor formation. To test this hypothesis and determine whether the mouse Ahr gene acts as a tumor suppressor gene in vivo, we have examined the role of Ahr ablation in liver tumorigenesis induced by the genotoxic chemical diethylnitrosamine (DEN), a hepatic carcinogen that is not an AHR ligand. In mice given a single i.p. injection of DEN, AHR antagonized liver tumor formation and growth by regulating cell proliferation, inflammatory cytokine expression, and DNA damage, parameters which were significantly elevated in the livers of control and, more so, of DEN-exposed Ahr-/- mice. Ahr-/- hepatocytes also showed significantly higher numbers of 4N cells, increased expression of proliferative markers, and repression of tumor suppressor genes. These data support the concept that in its basal state in the absence of a xenobiotic ligand, the Ahr gene functions as a tumor suppressor gene, and that its silencing may be associated with cancer progression.
No single oral mucositis (OM) assessment scale is universally accepted; the most commonly used scales are deficient because they combine subjective and objective measures and do not capture the patient's perspective. Because pain is the hallmark symptom of OM, the authors sought to determine whether a simple measure of patient-reported pain was correlated with objective, physician-assessed measures of OM. The findings of the current study may provide a clinical context for understanding the relation between objective indicators and patients' perceptions of OM.
Three hundred twenty-three patients receiving stomatotoxic chemotherapy and randomized to receive either iseganan or placebo for treatment of OM underwent periodic objective and subjective evaluations of OM. Objective measures included clinician scoring of stomatitis and dysphagia using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria scales. A subjective measure was obtained by having patients complete a questionnaire (with questions based on an 11-point numeric scale) regarding oral pain.
More than 90% of scheduled oral assessments were obtained. Mouth pain scores were closely related to stomatitis and dysphagia; peak mouth pain coincided with peak stomatitis and dysphagia. Analgesic use increased by 0.7 days for each unit rise on the pain scale. Patients receiving iseganan had a significantly lower level of peak mouth pain than did patients receiving placebo (P=0.041).
A separate measurement of patient-reported pain was useful for capturing the patient's perspective on OM and was correlated with the physician's objective assessment. These findings support the use of a simple, patient-reported rating of mouth pain as a clinically relevant and responsive endpoint in clinical trials. This rating system also may provide a straightforward method of following OM in clinical practice.
This paper reports the anti-cryptosporidial effects of, and concomitant amelioration of the histological changes in the gut of neonatal rats with intestinal cryptosporidiosis treated with the dinitroaniline, oryzalin. The ED50 was determined to be 7 mg/kg using twice daily doses administered for 3 consecutive days. A maximum inhibition of 85.5% was achieved at 25 mg/kg and this inhibition remained constant despite increasing the oryzalin dose to 200 mg/kg. Cryptosporidiosis significantly decreased the intestinal villus/crypt (VC) ratio by approximately 50% (duodenum = 2.3, jejunum = 2.5 and ileum = 1.7) when compared to uninfected untreated controls (duodenum = 4.3, jejunum = 5.9 and ileum = 4.5). Treatment with oryzalin doubled the VC ratio in the duodenum, jejunum and ileum following doses of 5 mg, 50 mg and 200 mg/kg respectively. Oryzalin concentrations in the small intestine contents and plasma were determined, using HPLC, at 0.5, 1 and 2 h after dosing. The much greater dose required to return VC ratios to normal in the ileum (200 mg/kg) compared to the duodenum (6.25 mg/kg) appeared to reflect the decreased concentration of the drug in the distal small intestine. Concentrations of oryzalin equivalent to the in vitro IC50 were maintained for 2 h in the first half of the small intestine following a single dose of 100 mg/kg.
The tumour suppressor gene p53 is expressed in response to DNA-damage; its protein product blocks cells in the G1-phase of the cell cycle. This gives cells additional time to repair their DNA-damage. However, it may trigger apoptosis if damage is too high. Loss of p53 function appears to be an important step in carcinogenesis because 50% of human tumours have lost functional p53. In order to study the role of p53 in experimental hepatocarcinogenesis, we determined the expression of p53 in rat liver in response to various hepatocarcinogenic and hepatotoxic compounds. Administration of hepatocarcinogenic compounds increased p53 protein levels in the liver as detected by immunoprecipitation followed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting with ECL-detection. The hepatocarcinogens included N-hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene, aflatoxin B1, and diethylnitrosamine. Their structural analogues N-hydroxy-4-acetylaminobiphenyl and ethyl methane-sulphonate which are not hepatocarcinogenic, did not induce p53. Also, two hepatotoxic compounds (carbon tetrachloride, D-galactosamine) did not induce p53. Other compounds that induced p53 in the rat liver were 2-aminofluorene (administered by drinking water for two weeks) and tris-(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate. Benzo[a]pyrene did not induce p53. N-Hydroxy-2-acetylaminofluorene, aflatoxin B1, and diethylnitrosamine are potent hepatic tumour promoters. At the same time, they induce p53 protein expression and inhibit proliferation of normal hepatocytes. Because this is not observed with non-hepatocarcinogenic analogues, it suggests an involvement of p53 expression in hepatic tumour promotion. A possible mechanism is discussed.
Previous studies have reported that users of the "third-generation" oral contraceptives (OCs) containing the progestins gestodene and desogestrel have about twice the risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE) compared to users of older OCs containing levonorgestrel. Estimates of the risk for VTE among users of norgestimate-containing OCs compared to other OCs, however, are lacking.
The purpose of this study is to obtain quantitative information on the risk of nonfatal VTE in women using OCs containing either norgestimate or desogestrel in comparison with women taking OCs containing levonorgestrel.
Based on information from PharMetrics, a United States-based company that collects and records information on claims paid by managed care plans, we used a nested case-control study design to estimate relative risks of nonfatal VTE among 15- to 39-year-old current users of OCs containing norgestimate with 35 microg of ethinyl estradiol (EE), desogestrel with 30 microg of EE or levonorgestrel with 30 microg of EE, both monophasic and triphasic preparations, during the period January 2000 to March 2005. Cases were women with a well-documented VTE of uncertain origin that was diagnosed in current users of a study drug. Up to four controls were closely matched to each case by age and calendar time, and odds ratios (ORs) were calculated using conditional logistic regression comparing the risk of VTE among users of the three contraceptives. We also estimated and compared the incidence rates for all three OCs.
Based on 281 newly diagnosed idiopathic cases of VTE and 1055 controls, we found that the adjusted ORs for nonfatal VTE comparing norgestimate- or desogestrel-containing OC users to users of levonorgestrel-containing OCs were 1.1 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.8-1.6] and 1.7 (95% CI, 1.1-2.4), respectively. The incidence rates of VTE were 30.6 (95% CI, 25.5-36.5), 53.5 (95% CI, 42.9-66.0) and 27.1 (95% CI, 21.1-34.3) per 100,000 woman-years for users of norgestimate-, desogestrel- and levonorgestrel-containing OCs, respectively. The incidence rate ratios for norgestimate-containing OCs compared to levonorgestrel-containing OCs and desogestrel-containing OCs compared to levonorgestrel-containing OCs were 1.1 (95% CI, 0.8-1.5) and 2.0 (95% CI, 1.4-2.7), respectively.
The risk of nonfatal VTE among users of desogestrel-containing OCs is significantly elevated compared to that of levonorgestrel-containing OCs. The risk of VTE in users of norgestimate-containing OCs was closely similar to that of users of levonorgestrel-containing OCs.
The multiple intestinal neoplasia (Min) mice have a mutation in the murine adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc) gene rendering them highly susceptible to spontaneous intestinal adenoma formation, similar to the familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) syndrome in humans. We studied whether the most abundant mutagenic heterocyclic amine isolated from cooked food, 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), could influence early intestinal neoplasia in C57BL/6J-Min/+ and C57BL/6J- +/+ (wild-type) mice of both sexes. PhIP was given in 4 weekly i.p. injections of 50 mg/kg. Ten weeks after the start of the experiment, PhIP had significantly increased the numbers of small tumors and cystic crypts in the proximal section of the small intestine in male Min/+ mice, and the numbers of aberrant crypt foci (ACF) in the large intestines of both males and females. The effects of PhIP were more pronounced in male than in female Min/+ mice. In +/+ mice, no tumors or cystic crypts in the small intestine, and no tumors and only a very few ACF in the large intestine, were induced by PhIP. These results show that a substance frequently present in the human diet is able to enhance the neoplastic process induced by a genetic lesion, which is also commonly found both in inherited and sporadic colon carcinomas in humans.
Chow and sucrose-fed rats were used as animal models to study the dose-responses of bezafibrate and gemfibrozil in normolipidemic and hypertriglyceridemic states, respectively. Although both drugs lowered plasma triglycerides (TG) to about the same extent in chow-fed rats, gemfibrozil lowered liver TG as well as plasma total and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C), but elevated HDL-cholesterol (HDL-C) and plasma apo E concentrations. Bezafibrate produced opposite effects, namely, decreased HDL-C, apo E and liver TG, and tended to increase LDL-C. TG lowering for both drugs in chow-fed rats was not due to changes in TG secretion (production) in normal rats but was associated with enhanced LPL activity. In hypertriglyceridemic rats both drugs modestly reduced TG secretion rates about 40% at a dose producing maximal TG lowering, but again, gemfibrozil elevated and bezafibrate lowered HDL-C and apo E. Unlike gemfibrozil, bezafibrate induced the appearance of LDL-C in hypertriglyceridemic rats which was not detected in control animals, and also tended to increase rather than decrease plasma apo B levels. Finally, changes in liver TG concentration (mg/g) in hypertriglyceridemic rats were opposite for these drugs, resulting in significant drug-related differences in liver TG content (mg/organ). From these data we postulate that, although similar with regard to TG lowering activity and mechanisms thereof, gemfibrozil and bezafibrate produce fundamentally different effects on LDL, HDL and apolipoprotein metabolism (apo B and apo E) in rats which may relate to potential differential effects on reverse cholesterol transport and atherogenesis.
Altered glomerular metabolism of arachidonic acid (AA) has already been demonstrated in experimental nephrotoxic nephritis. The enhanced synthesis of thromboxane A2 (TxA2) in isolated glomeruli that has been found may mediate changes in renal hemodynamics. The objectives of this investigation were: to check whether glomerular AA metabolism is also altered in a model of glomerulopathy in which no leukocyte infiltration or platelet deposition could be demonstrated; to establish a correlation between the altered AA metabolism and proteinuria; and to explore whether the alteration of the prostaglandin (PG) pathway found in isolated glomeruli is an in vitro artifact or reflects a modification in vivo. We used a model of glomerular damage characterized by heavy and persistent proteinuria, which was induced in the rat by a single intravenous injection of adriamycin. At light microscopy, minimal glomerular abnormalities were found in this model. Electron microscopy showed profound alterations of glomerular epithelial cells with extensive fusion of foot processes and signs of epithelial cell activation. Electron microscopy of numerous glomeruli showed no platelet deposition or macrophage and leukocyte infiltration in this model. Isolated glomeruli from nephrotic rats studied 14 or 30 d after a single intravenous injection of adriamycin (7.5 mg/kg) when animals were heavily proteinuric generated significantly more TxB2, the stable breakdown product of TxA2, than normal glomeruli. No significant changes were found in the other major AA metabolites formed through cyclooxygenase. Urinary excretion of immunoreactive TxB2 was also significantly higher in nephrotic than in normal animals. Administration of a selective Tx synthetase inhibitor, UK-38,485, from day 14 to day 18 after adriamycin resulted in a significant reduction of proteinuria compared with pretreatment values. Glomerular synthesis and urinary excretion of TxB2 were normal during the UK-38,485 treatment. Additional experiments showed that elevated glomerular synthesis and urinary excretion of TxB2 were not a consequence of increased substrate availability. Maximal stimulation of the renin-angiotensin axis with furosemide increased glomerular TxB2 synthesis in normal rats, which was significantly lower than in nephrotic animals. Finally, experiments using a unilateral model of adriamycin nephrosis indicated that the enhancement of glomerular TxB2 synthesis is not simply a consequence of the nephrotic syndrome. We conclude that: there is an abnormality of glomerular AA metabolism in nephritic syndrome, which leads to increased TxA2 production; the increased Tx generation correlates with protein excretion and might be responsible for altering the glomerular basement membrane permeability to protein; and the alteration found in isolated glomeruli probably reflects a modification in vivo, in that urinary excretion of immunoreactive TxB2 is also consistently increased in adriamycin nephrosis.
Congenital dysplasia of the hip is an abnormal seating of the femoral head in the acetabulum, mainly caused by shallow acetabulum and lax joint capsule. Genetic factors play a considerable role in the pathogenesis of congenital dysplasia of the hip. The gene growth differentiate factor 5 (GDF5) has been implicated in skeletal development and joint morphogenesis in humans and mice. A functional single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the 5'-untranslated region of GDF5 (rs143383) was reported to be associated with osteoarthritis susceptibility. As a key regulator in morphogenesis of skeletal components and soft tissues in and around the joints, GDF5 may be involved in the aetiology and pathogenesis of congenital dysplasia of the hip. Our objective is to evaluate if the GDF5 SNP is associated with congenital dysplasia of the hip in people of Han Chinese origin.
The GDF5 SNP was genotyped in 338 children with congenital dysplasia of the hip and 622 control subjects.
The SNP was significantly associated with congenital dysplasia of the hip (p = 0.0037; odds ration (OR) = 1.40; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.11 to 1.75). A significant difference was detected in female samples when stratified by gender (p = 0.0053; OR = 1.46; 95% CI = 1.21 to 1.91), and in hip dislocation when stratified by severity (p = 0.0078; OR = 1.43; 95% CI = 1.11 to 1.85).
Our results indicate that GDF5 is important in the aetiology of congenital dysplasia of the hip. To the authors' knowledge this is the first time that a definite association with the congenital dysplasia of the hip susceptibility has been detected.
Dysmorphologic and anthropometric assessments were performed on 154 6-year-old children prenatally exposed to cocaine (PCE) and 131 high-risk controls (NCE) of similar race and social class. Adjusted mean height z scores demonstrated a dose-response with metahydroxybenzoylecgonine above a threshold of 100 ng/g of meconium and greater cocaine exposure predicted lower weight for height z score. Higher average alcohol exposure throughout pregnancy and 3rd trimester predicted lower head circumference and weight z scores, respectively. Severity of marijuana use also predicted lower height for age but greater weight for height. There was not an increased rate of minor anomalies among the PCE cohort, nor was a consistent phenotype identified. After controlling for covariates, higher average prenatal cigarette exposure predicted higher incidence of cranial facial abnormalities. First trimester alcohol exposure predicted greater rates of ear abnormalities and third trimester marijuana exposure predicted greater rates of chest and head shape abnormalities. These finding indicate that prenatal cocaine exposure has a negative effect on specific growth outcomes including standardized height and weight for height, but not a systematic pattern of structural abnormalities.
Nicotine response and nicotinic receptor binding were characterized in long-sleep (LS) and short-sleep (SS) mice which have been selectively bred for differential "sleep-time" following ethanol administration. LS mice are more sensitive than SS mice to nicotine as measured by a battery of behavioral and physiological tests and as measured by sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. The greater sensitivity of the LS mice is not due to differences in binding of [3H]nicotine. Unlike inbred mouse strains which differ in sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures, these selected mouse lines do not differ in levels of binding of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin (BTX) in the hippocampus. Significant differences in BTX binding were found in the cerebellum and striatum. Although these two mouse lines do not differ in blood levels of nicotine following nicotine administration, they differ slightly in brain levels of nicotine indicating differential distribution of the drug. Since this distribution difference is much smaller than the observed behavioral differences, these mice probably differ in CNS sensitivity to nicotine; however, follow-up studies are necessary to test whether the differential response of these mice is due to subtle differences in distribution of nicotine to the brain.
ErbB-3, an ErbB receptor tyrosine kinase, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several malignancies, including prostate cancer. We found that ErbB-3 expression was up-regulated in prostate cancer cells within lymph node and bone metastases. Despite being a plasma membrane protein, ErbB-3 was also detected in the nuclei of the prostate cancer cells in the metastatic specimens. Because most metastatic specimens were from men who had undergone androgen ablation, we examined the primary tumors from patients who have undergone hormone deprivation therapy and found that a significant fraction of these specimens showed nuclear localization of ErbB3. We thus assessed the effect of androgens and the bone microenvironment on the nuclear translocation of ErbB-3 by using xenograft tumor models generated from bone-derived prostate cancer cell lines, MDA PCa 2b, and PC-3. In subcutaneous tumors, ErbB-3 was predominantly in the membrane/cytoplasm; however, it was present in the nuclei of the tumor cells in the femur. Castration of mice bearing subcutaneous MDA PCa 2b tumors induced a transient nuclear translocation of ErbB-3, with relocalization to the membrane/cytoplasm upon tumor recurrence. These findings suggest that the bone microenvironment and androgen status influence the subcellular localization of ErbB-3 in prostate cancer cells. We speculate that nuclear localization of ErbB-3 may aid prostate cancer cell survival during androgen ablation and progression of prostate cancer in bone.
Following 6 years of continuous chlorpromazine therapy for schizophrenia, a young woman developed multifocal tics and vocalizations characteristic of Tourette syndrome. The symptoms first appeared when chlorpromazine was withdrawn. They were permanent, although partially ameliorated by chronic haloperidol therapy. Because of her age and past history, these symptoms were attributed to chronic neuroleptic therapy analogous to neuroleptic-induced tardive dyskinesia, rather than to Tourette syndrome per se. These symptoms suggest that chronic receptor-site blockade can result in hypersensitivity of dopamine receptor sites, and that this may play a role in the pathophysiology of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. This is the first evidence that hypersensitivity of dopamine receptors is involved in the pathophysiology of Tourette syndrome.
Crescentic glomerulonephritis is an important cause of human kidney failure for which the underlying molecular basis is largely unknown. In previous studies, we mapped several susceptibility loci, Crgn1-Crgn7, for crescentic glomerulonephritis in the Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rat. Here we show by combined congenic, linkage and microarray studies that the activator protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor JunD is a major determinant of macrophage activity and is associated with glomerulonephritis susceptibility. Introgression of Crgn2 from the nonsusceptible Lewis strain onto the WKY background leads to significant reductions in crescent formation, macrophage infiltration, Fc receptor-mediated macrophage activation and cytokine production. Haplotype analysis restricted the Crgn2 linkage interval to a 430-kb interval containing Jund, which is markedly overexpressed in WKY macrophages and glomeruli. Jund knockdown in rat and human primary macrophages led to significantly reduced macrophage activity and cytokine secretion, indicating conservation of JunD function in macrophage activation in rats and humans and suggesting in vivo inhibition of Jund as a possible new therapeutic strategy for diseases characterized by inflammation and macrophage activation.
Benzoyl peroxide (BP) is used as a topical treatment for acne. Besides its anti-bacterial activity, the exact molecular mechanisms underlying its mode of action are not fully understood. In the current study, the effects of BP on cell viability, antioxidant status and, IL-1 and IL-8 gene expression were investigated in HaCaT keratinocytes. Keratinocytes incubated for 24 h with BP exhibited a dose-dependent cytotoxicity at concentrations above 250 microM. Furthermore, in the presence of 300 microM BP about 50% of the cellular vitamin E was depleted within the first 30 min. The intracellular ratio of oxidized to reduced glutathione (GSSG/GSH) was increased significantly starting 6 h after BP treatments indicating that BP reacts rapidly with targets in the cell membrane and more slowly with those in the cytosol. NF-kappaB transactivation was not significantly affected by BP. However, BP treatment of HaCaT keratinocytes resulted in a dose-dependent increase in IL-1alpha gene expression whereas no changes in IL-8 mRNA levels were observed. These results demonstrate that BP induces an inflammatory reaction mediated by oxidative stress by a pathway independent of the redox-sensitive transcription factor NF-kappaB.
During the 12 years from January, 1977, to December, 1988, the Hamilton Centre of the Canadian Red Cross Society (CRCS) Blood Transfusion Service screened 98,712 pregnant patients for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and identified 120 positives (0.12%). The number of positives ranged from six to 16 per year. We were able to trace and enroll 65 mothers (54%) and 96 of their children in the follow-up study. The majority of the women were between 20 and 30 years of age (95.4%) and married (86%), and about one-half were employed outside the home. Sixty-five percent were white and 34% Asian, and 20 countries were listed as their places of origin. Hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) was available for neonatal immunization since 1977 and combined with vaccine since 1982. Of the 96 candidates for HBIG, 60 (63%) received HBIG within 24 hr, one after 3 months, four unknown, and 31 did not receive it. Of the 56 candidates for vaccination from 1982 to 1989, 26 (46%) received three doses, seven had two doses, eight had one dose, one was unknown, and 14 had none. HBsAg tests were performed on 69 children (71.8%) and anti-HBs on 61 (63.5%). Four of the children are HBsAg positive, 31 have anti-HBs, and 31 have no detectable antibodies. All four HBsAg positives had not received vaccine, and only one had received HBIG. Of the children positive for hepatitis B surface antibodies, five had received no immunization and therefore had been subclinically infected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To study the clinical characteristics of propylthiouracil (PTU) induced antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) positive cases and increase the awareness of PTU induced ANCA positive vasculitis (APV).
The clinical data of nine cases with positive ANCA induced by PTU in Peking Union hospital since 2000 were analyzed and literature review was conducted.
(1) Nine patients with hyperthyroidism, at a mean age of 33.1 (16 approximately 51), who were treated with PTU for a mean period of 32.4 months (3 approximately 84); (2) Sera from nine cases were ANCA positive, and autoantibodies from six tested cases could recognize not only MPO, but also PR3, HLE, BPI and LF; (3) Six cases with high titer perinuclear ANGA (pANCA) (> or = 1:1280) were diagnosed APV and all had renal involvement (five confirmed by renal biopsies), three cases with low titer pANCA (< or = 1:320) had little clinical manifestations of vasculitis; (4) Eight patients stopped taking PTU when positive ANCA were noted. One case with APV got remission after stopping PTU, the other three APV were treated with glucocorticosteroid and immunosuppressive agents at meanwhile. Only one patient kept taking PTU for eighteen months without an increased titer of ANCA.
PTU could induce production of ANCA. High titer of ANCA might suggest existence of APV and the titer would be associated with status of APV. Early withdrawal of PTU and administration of glucocorticosteroid and immunosuppressive agents based on renal pathology will greatly improve the prognosis.
We aimed to identify genetic variants associated with heart failure by using a rat model of the human disease. We performed invasive cardiac hemodynamic measurements in F2 crosses between spontaneously hypertensive heart failure (SHHF) rats and reference strains. We combined linkage analyses with genome-wide expression profiling and identified Ephx2 as a heart failure susceptibility gene in SHHF rats. Specifically, we found that cis variation at Ephx2 segregated with heart failure and with increased transcript expression, protein expression and enzyme activity, leading to a more rapid hydrolysis of cardioprotective epoxyeicosatrienoic acids. To confirm our results, we tested the role of Ephx2 in heart failure using knockout mice. Ephx2 gene ablation protected from pressure overload-induced heart failure and cardiac arrhythmias. We further demonstrated differential regulation of EPHX2 in human heart failure, suggesting a cross-species role for Ephx2 in this complex disease.
We evaluated the current status of 131 patients with idiopathic parkinsonism who were receiving levodopa therapy. The residual parkinsonian symptoms and signs were tabulated, as were the adverse effects from medication. Response to therapy was correlated with duration of the disease and with duration of treatment. Patients with on-off or wearing-off effects were likely to have been treated for 4 years or longer. Patients treated with levodopa for 4 to 8 years were significantly more impaired with parkinsonism than patients treated for 0 to 3 years, even when patients were matched for total duration of disease. These data suggest that the deterioration of responsiveness after several years of levodopa therapy may be due to the therapy itself. Our findings support the concept that utilization of levodopa therapy should be delayed until a patient becomes significantly impaired in occupational or social situations.
