Hyperactivity of endogenous opioid systems has been postulated to mediate the associations between defensive/repressive coping styles, enhanced stress responsivity, and reduced immunocompetence. Study 1 examined whether repressive/defensive coping would be associated with greater sensitivity to opioid antagonism. Judgments of the painfulness of ascending series of electrocutaneous stimulation applied to the forearm were determined before and after the administration of naloxone and placebo in 38 men and 42 women. All subjects were healthy with a mean age of 32.9 years. Naloxone (10 mg i.v.) and placebo were administered in double-blind fashion and counterbalanced. Subjects were classified as High- and Low-defensive and repressive copers on the basis of scores on the Marlowe-Crowne Social Desirability Scale and the Balanced Inventory of Desirable Responding, respectively. High Self-Deception was associated with naloxone-induced hyperalgesia, whereas no effects of naloxone on pain ratings were observed in low-Self-Deceptive subjects. In Study 2, resting plasma beta-endorphin levels were found to be positively correlated with defensiveness in men (n = 26), but not women (n = 44). Study 3 examined 82 healthy subjects (mean age = 28.7 years). Beta-endorphin/defensiveness correlations were found to be greater following, compared to prior to, electrical nociceptive stimulation in men (n = 49), but unrelated in women (n = 33). These findings are consistent with the hypothesized endorphinergic dysregulation associated with repressive/defensive coping styles and are discussed in terms of the immuno-regulatory implications of such a dysregulation.
To explore the mechanism of modulation of intestinal mucosal inflammatory factors by curcumin, the inhibitor of the transcriptional factor nuclear factor -kappaB (NF-kappaB), in rats with trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis, and screen for a targeted therapeutic agent for treatment of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Rats with TNBS-induced colitis were fed with diet containing 2.0% curcumin (treatment group), 0.5% sulfasalazine (SASP, positive control group), and normal diet (model group and negative control group). Changes in colonic mucosal histological scores were evaluated and the cytokine mRNA expressions in the colonic tissue assessed by semiquantitative reverse transcriptional PCR (RT-PCR).
Treatment with curcumin ameliorated the histopathologic signs in rats with TNBS-induced intestinal inflammation. Curcumin and sulfasalazine obviously suppressed the high expression of proinflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-1beta mRNA and increased the low expression of IL-10 mRNA in the colonic mucosa. Expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4 mRNA was detected in none of the groups.
Curcumin could modulate the expressions of IL-1beta and IL-10 mRNA in murine model of IBD, which suggests the potential of curcumin as a targeted therapeutic agent for IBD.
A fatal massive hepatic necrosis with widespread thrombotic occlusion of the small hepatic veins developed in two of 68 patients treated with DTIC for advanced melanoma in a randomized study. Thirteen similar reactions, in patients treated with single-agent DTIC, are reported in the literature. Several clinical and pathologic features distinguish this DTIC toxicity from Budd-Chiari syndrome and veno-occlusive disease (both well-known types of possibly drug-related hepatic vascular disease) and make it a distinctive syndrome. We were impressed by the repeated occurrence of this complication in a relatively small set of patients, in contrast with the rarity of the literature reports. We suggest that this dramatic complication could occur more frequently than commonly thought. Therefore, caution should be used with DTIC, particularly in curable patients.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare chromosomal-instability disorder associated with a variety of developmental abnormalities, bone marrow failure and predisposition to leukemia and other cancers. We have identified a homozygous missense mutation in the RAD51C gene in a consanguineous family with multiple severe congenital abnormalities characteristic of FA. RAD51C is a member of the RAD51-like gene family involved in homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair. The mutation results in loss of RAD51 focus formation in response to DNA damage and in increased cellular sensitivity to the DNA interstrand cross-linking agent mitomycin C and the topoisomerase-1 inhibitor camptothecin. Thus, biallelic germline mutations in a RAD51 paralog are associated with an FA-like syndrome.
We present a case of a man who developed gynaecomastia after ingestion of "Dong Quai" pills. "Dong Quai" is the Chinese name for the herb Angelica polymorpha var. sinensis which is widely used as a panacea for gynaecological problems, and it is also proclaimed as an invigorating tonic for both women and men. The pharmacological effects of "Dong Quai" are likely related to the phytoestrogen that it contains. This report highlights the potential adverse effects associated with its consumption in the male, especially for the processed "Dong Quai" pills which may contain significantly higher levels of phytoestrogen than its original herbal product.
Germline mutations in a number of genes involved in the recombinational repair of DNA double-strand breaks are associated with predisposition to breast and ovarian cancer. RAD51C is essential for homologous recombination repair, and a biallelic missense mutation can cause a Fanconi anemia-like phenotype. In index cases from 1,100 German families with gynecological malignancies, we identified six monoallelic pathogenic mutations in RAD51C that confer an increased risk for breast and ovarian cancer. These include two frameshift-causing insertions, two splice-site mutations and two nonfunctional missense mutations. The mutations were found exclusively within 480 pedigrees with the occurrence of both breast and ovarian tumors (BC/OC; 1.3%) and not in 620 pedigrees with breast cancer only or in 2,912 healthy German controls. These results provide the first unambiguous evidence of highly penetrant mutations associated with human cancer in a RAD51 paralog and support the 'common disease, rare allele' hypothesis.
Renal damage following chemotherapy with ifosfamide is attributed to the metabolic activation of the drug and the generation of chloroacetaldehyde (CAA). Little is known about the mechanism by which CAA impairs renal function. In this study the effect of CAA on intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis in human renal proximal tubule cells (RPTEC) in primary culture was investigated.
Intracellular Ca(2+) was measured using the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2. Cell viability was determined by protein content and cell number. Oncotic and apoptotic cell death was assayed using trypan blue exclusion, caspase-3 activity, and 4',6-diamino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining.
CAA (1.5 to 150 micromol/L) induced sustained elevations of intracellular free calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) from 75 +/- 3 nmol/L to maximal 151 +/- 6 nmol/L. This effect was dependent on extracellular Ca(2+), but not Ca(2+) entry. The rise in [Ca(2+)](i) mediated by CAA could be attributed to inhibition of Na(+)-dependent extrusion of intracellular Ca(2+), indicating an inhibitory action of CAA on Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange. Modulation of protein kinase A (PKA), but not protein kinase C (PKC) blunted the effect of CAA. Thus, CAA seems to inhibit Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange by interaction with cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-PKA-signaling. A 48-hour exposure to 15 micromol/L CAA significantly reduced cell number and protein content of RPTEC by induction of necrosis. This effect of 15 micromol/L CAA could be overcome by coadministration of the intracellular Ca(2+) chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl ester (BAPTA-AM).
First, CAA inhibits the Na+/Ca2+-exchanger. Second, this effect is dependent on PKA. Third, CAA induces necrotic rather than apoptotic cell death. Finally, disturbed Ca(2+) homeostasis via Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange contributes to the nephrotoxic action of CAA in RPTEC.
Chagas' disease is the major cause of disability secondary to tropical diseases in young adults from Latin America, and around 20 million people are currently infected by T. cruzi. Heart failure due to Chagas cardiomyopathy is the main clinical presentation in Colombia. Heart failure due to Chagas' disease may respond to digoxin, diuretics and vasodilator therapy. Beta-adrenoreceptor antagonism seems to protect against the increased risk of cardiac arrhythmia and sudden death due to chronic sympathetic stimulation. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of the selective beta-adrenergic receptor blocker Bisoprolol on cardiovascular mortality, hospital readmission due to progressive heart failure and functional status in patients with heart failure secondary to Chagas' cardiomyopathy.
A cohort of 500 T. cruzi seropositive patients (250 per arm) will be selected from several institutions in Colombia. During the pretreatment period an initial evaluation visit will be scheduled in which participants will sign consent forms and baseline measurements and tests will be conducted including blood pressure measurements, twelve-lead ECG and left ventricular ejection fraction assessment by 2D echocardiography. Quality of life questionnaire will be performed two weeks apart during baseline examination using the "Minnesota living with heart failure" questionnaire. A minimum of two 6 minutes corridor walk test once a week over a two-week period will be performed to measure functional class. During the treatment period patients will be randomly assigned to receive Bisoprolol or placebo, initially taking a total daily dose of 2.5 mgrs qd. The dose will be increased every two weeks to 5, 7.5 and 10 mgrs qd (maximum maintenance dose). Follow-up assessment will include clinical check-up, and blood collection for future measurements of inflammatory reactants and markers. Quality of life measurements will be obtained at six months. This study will allow us to explore the effect of beta-blockers in chagas' cardiomyopathy.
Cancer susceptibility has been attributed to at least one heterozygous genetic alteration in a tumor suppressor gene (TSG). It has been hypothesized that subtle variations in TSG expression can promote cancer development. However, this hypothesis has not yet been definitively supported in vivo. Pten is a TSG frequently lost in human cancer and mutated in inherited cancer-predisposition syndromes. Here we analyze Pten hypermorphic mice (Pten(hy/+)), expressing 80% normal levels of Pten. Pten(hy/+) mice develop a spectrum of tumors, with breast tumors occurring at the highest penetrance. All breast tumors analyzed here retained two intact copies of Pten and maintained Pten levels above heterozygosity. Notably, subtle downregulation of Pten altered the steady-state biology of the mammary tissues and the expression profiles of genes involved in cancer cell proliferation. We present an alterative working model for cancer development in which subtle reductions in the dose of TSGs predispose to tumorigenesis in a tissue-specific manner.
There is increasing evidence to support a role for both the amyloid beta-protein precursor (AbetaPP) and its proteolytic fragment, amyloid beta (Abeta), in metal ion homeostasis. Furthermore, metal ions such as zinc and copper can interact with both AbetaPP and Abeta to potentiate Alzheimer's disease by participating in the aggregation of these normal cellular proteins and in the generation of reactive oxygen species. In addition, metal ions may interact on several other AD-related pathways, including those involved in neurofibrillary tangle formation, secretase cleavage of AbetaPP and proteolytic degradation of Abeta. As such, a dysregulation of metal ion homeostasis, as occurs with both aging and in AD, may foster an environment that can both precipitate and accelerate degenerative conditions such as AD. This offers a broad biochemical front for novel therapeutic interventions.
Fanconi anemia (FA) is a genetic disease characterized by congenital abnormalities, bone marrow failure, and susceptibility to leukemia and other cancers. FANCJ, one of 13 genes linked to FA, encodes a DNA helicase proposed to operate in homologous recombination repair and replicational stress response. The pathogenic FANCJ-A349P amino acid substitution resides immediately adjacent to a highly conserved cysteine of the iron-sulfur domain. Given the genetic linkage of the FANCJ-A349P allele to FA, we investigated the effect of this particular mutation on the biochemical and cellular functions of the FANCJ protein. Purified recombinant FANCJ-A349P protein had reduced iron and was defective in coupling adenosine triphosphate (ATP) hydrolysis and translocase activity to unwinding forked duplex or G-quadruplex DNA substrates or disrupting protein-DNA complexes. The FANCJ-A349P allele failed to rescue cisplatin or telomestatin sensitivity of a FA-J null cell line as detected by cell survival or γ-H2AX foci formation. Furthermore, expression of FANCJ-A349P in a wild-type background exerted a dominant-negative effect, indicating that the mutant protein interferes with normal DNA metabolism. The ability of FANCJ to use the energy from ATP hydrolysis to produce the force required to unwind DNA or destabilize protein bound to DNA is required for its role in DNA repair.
To study the arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) induced apoptosis in a human small cell lung cancer cell line (NeI-H cells) and its possible mechanisms.
Apoptotic cells were detected by the TUNEL method. The expression of p53 and bcl-2 was analyzed with immunohistochemical staining.
NeI-H cells showed the sub-G(1) peak after treatment with As(2)O(3) (0.5 micromol/L, 1.0 micromol/L, and 2.0 micromol/L) for 72 hours. The ratio of apoptotic cells increased with the increasing concentrations of the drug and the time of culture. Immunohistochemical staining of NeI-H cells showed increased expression of p53, but decreased expression of bcl-2 with the increasing concentrations of the drug.
The anti-carcinogenic effect of As(2)O(3) is due to the induction of cell apoptosis. Up-regulation of the p53 gene and down-regulation of the bcl-2 gene may be an underlining mechanism.
Recent observations from clinical trials of neural grafting for Parkinson's disease (PD) have demonstrated that grafted dopamine neurons can worsen dyskinesias in some graft recipients. This deleterious side effect reveals a new challenge for neural transplantation, that of elucidating mechanisms underlying these postgraft dyskinesias. One problem facing this challenge is the availability of a cost-effective and reliable animal model in which to pursue initial investigations. In the current study, we investigated the interaction of an embryonic ventral mesencephalic (VM) dopamine (DA) neuron graft on levodopa (LD)-induced dyskinetic movements in unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. Rats were administered LD (levodopa-carbidopa, 50:5 mg/kg) twice daily for 6 weeks after either a sham graft or VM DA graft. Although a single solid graft of embryonic DA neurons can prevent progression of some lesioned-induced behavioral abnormalities such as LD-induced rotation and dystonia, it significantly increases hyperkinetic movements of the contralateral forelimb. This differential effect of grafted neurons on abnormal behavioral profiles is reminiscent of that reported in grafted patients with PD. Data from this study illustrate important similarities between this model of parkinsonism and PD in human patients that make it suitable for initial preclinical investigations into possible mechanisms underlying postgraft aggravation of dyskinetic movements.
It is hypothesized that manganese neurotoxicity could be secondary to a diminution of cellular protective and scavenger mechanisms. Since manganese is known to be sequestered in glial cells, we investigated possible neurotoxic mechanisms involving astrocytes in vitro. Astrocytes differentiated into process-bearing stellate cells in response to manganese treatment. Manganese concentration dependently decreased cellular DNA synthesis, glial fibrillary acidic protein expression, energy production, antioxidant capacity, and glutamate transporter activity. In contrast, manganese increased glutamine synthetase protein expression and cytokine-stimulated interleukin 6 mRNA expression. Under the concentration of 0.1 mM, manganese chloride caused no significant astrocyte death even up to 48 h after treatment. That is, these astrocytic alterations proceeded before the onset of cell demise. As a possible mediator of manganese-derived alterations, we determined intracellular redox state in astrocytes. Manganese time-dependently changed intracellular redox potential into oxidized state. The influx of manganese and its resultant oxidative stress was essential to most of the alterations, except for the action on stellation. Astrocytes are central component of the brain's antioxidant defense. Therefore, the observations suggest that dysfunction of astrocytes possibly involved in neurotoxic action of manganese.
Post-rifampicin (RMP) acute renal failure (ARF) is a complication seldom recognized of the antiTB treatment worldwide. The renal failure which occurs especially after intermittent administration of RMP is most frequent due to acute interstitial nephritis by allergic mechanism. In our study we found very few cases of acute tubular necrosis or glomerular lesions revealed by rapidly progressive glomerulo-nephritis or nephrotic syndrome. The renal lesions, accompanied by anuria and usually needing hemodialysis, were associated to auto-immune hemolytic anemia, trombocytopenia, hepatic failure and gastro-intestinal disturbances. The authors review their experience (60 cases), representing about half of the cases published worldwide. The main causes of this high prevalence of post-RMP ARF in Romania are discussed: intermittent twice-a-week RMP treatment, high incidence of TB, lack of compliance to treatment, possible contribution of some by-substances in RMP capsule. We described the clinic, biology and evolution of this dangerous and underestimated entity. We compared our experience with the published data, discussing the etiology and pathogenesis, trying to design the fine portrait of this ailment.
Since their first description five years ago, knowledge about human atrial 5-HT4 receptors has increased considerably. Progress has been facilitated by the advent of selective antagonists with high affinity for human atrial 5-HT4 receptors. The receptors have been detected in both right and left atrium where they mediate increases in contractile force. Human sinoatrial 5-HT4 receptors may mediate the tachycardia caused by 5-HT and cisapride, and 5-HT elicits arrhythmias via 5-HT4 receptors in human atrium. In this article, Alberto Kaumann suggests that 5-HT may be involved in the genesis of atrial fibrillation and associated thromboembolic stroke and that both the arrhythmia and stroke could be prevented by inhibiting 5-HT4 receptors.
The authors describe a 12-year-old girl with late-onset clinical symptoms due to severe protein C deficiency. Protein C gene analysis showed double heterozygosity for two distinct mutations, associated with type I protein C deficiency. Her parents and only brother were also evaluated. Coumarin-induced skin necrosis was a recurrent feature during oral anticoagulation therapy, forcing her physicians to treat her with nadroparin (Fraxiparin) for only a few months.
Autophagy is a cellular process of degradation of macromolecules and organelles and activated under nutritional stress. Statins are a class of inhibitors of 3-hydroxyl-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, a key enzyme in synthesis of cholesterol. Epidemiological studies have shown that statin use decreases the incidence of advanced prostate cancer. We explored the idea that treatment of atorvastatin, a commonly prescribed statin for treatment of hypercholesterolemia, induces autophagy in prostate cancer cells.
The atorvastatin-induced autophagic process in prostate cancer PC3 cells was determined by detection of cellular level of LC3-II, an autophagosomal marker, via immunoblotting and immunofluorescent staining.
Atorvastatin treatment of PC3 cells for 40 hrs increased expression of LC3-II by more than 10 fold in a dose-dependent manner. Treatment of the cells with pepstatin A and E64-d, the autophagic protease inhibitors, dramatically increased atorvastatin-dependent LC3-II expression level, suggesting that atorvastatin induces autophagic flux. In addition, atorvastatin treatment caused rapid death of PC3 cells. Atorvastatin-induced autophagy and rapid cell death were reversed by addition of geranylgeraniol, not farnesol, into culture medium, indicating that atorvastatin-mediated inhibition of geranylgeranyl biosynthesis causes autophagy and cell death. Furthermore, atorvastatin did not induce autophagy or cell death in normal prostate RWPE1 cells, and induced only a minor autophagic response in AR-positive prostate cancer LNCaP cells.
Our studies demonstrate that statins induce autophagy and autophagy-associated cell death in PC3 cells, likely through inhibition of geranylgeranylation, and suggest that autophagic response to statins may partially underlie the protective effects of statins on prostate cancer progression. Importantly, these findings highlight additional mechanisms by which statins might be used for prostate cancer therapy.
The effect of certain food additives on aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus has been studied in vitro. Extracts of turmeric (Curcuma longa), garlic (Allium sativum) and asafoetida (Ferula asafoetida) inhibited the aflatoxin production considerably (more than 90%) at concentrations of 5-10 mg/ml. Similar results were also seen using butylated hydroxytoluene, butylated hydroxyanisole and ellagic acid at concentration 0.1 mM. Curcumin, the antioxidant principle from Curcuma longa did not have any effect on aflatoxin production. Turmeric and curcumin were also found to reverse the aflatoxin induced liver damage produced by feeding aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) (5 micrograms/day per 14 days) to ducklings. Fatty changes, necrosis and biliary hyperplasia produced by AFB1 were considerably reversed by these food additives.
In view of the occurrence of hepatobiliary disorders in cystic fibrosis (CF) this study addresses the role of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) and of Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channels in promoting HCO3- secretion in bile ductular cells. Human cholangiocytes were isolated from control livers and from 1 patient with CF (DeltaF508/G542X mutations). Single channel and whole cell currents were analyzed by patch clamp techniques, and HCO3- secretion was determined by fluorometric analysis of the rate of recovery of intracellular pH following alkaline loading. In control cholangiocytes, both cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) and protein kinase A (PKA) catalytic subunit, activated CFTR Cl(-) channels that exhibited a nonrectifying conductance of 8 pS and appeared in clusters. Activation of Cl(-) current by cAMP was associated with an increase in the rate of HCO3- secretion. The basal rate of HCO3- secretion was lower in CF than in control cholangiocytes. In both control and CF cholangiocytes, raising intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations with ionomycin led to a parallel activation of Cl(-) current and HCO3- secretion. Consistent with reports that premature stop codon mutations (class I; e.g., G542X) can be read over by treatment with aminoglycoside antibiotics, exposure of CF cholangiocytes to gentamicin restored activation by cAMP of Cl(-) current and HCO3- secretion. The observation that activation of Ca(2+)-dependent Cl(-) channels can substitute for cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in supporting HCO3- secretion and the efficacy of gentamicin in restoring CFTR function and HCO3- secretion in class I mutations are of potential clinical interest.
Data is presented on 12 patients in whom phenobarbital, when used as an anticonvulsant medication, either precipitated hyperactivity or permanently exacerbated existing hyperactivity. Discontinuation of the medication resulted in a decrease in hyperactivity in all patients. None of the patients returned to a pre-drug level of activity. The effect of phenobarbital on the reticular system is discussed. It is important for clinicians to carefully consider the potential side-effects of the use of phenobarbital in children in whom overactivity is a problem. Ascertaining whether hyperactivity has been caused or exacerbated by exposure to phenobarbital may be important in the differential diagnosis of hyperactivity.
Resveratrol is a polyphenolic compound in red wine that has antioxidant and cardioprotective effects in animal models. Listeria monocytogenes is a pathogen that mainly affects immunocompromised individuals and is initially detected at the cell surface or in phagosomes by toll-like receptor 2. Many antioxidants also exert anti-inflammatory activities; therefore, we evaluated the anti-inflammatory properties of resveratrol by studying the various inflammatory responses induced by heat-killed L. monocytogenes (HKLM). Resveratrol strongly blocked HKLM-induced NADPH oxidase-1 mRNA and reactive oxygen species production by macrophages. Resveratrol also suppressed monocyte chemotactic protein-1 expression, cyclooxygenase-2 expression, prostaglandin production, inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase expression, and NO production induced by HKLM. We investigated the signaling pathway involved in the resveratrol effect. HKLM stimulated glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation. The involvement of GSK3β and ERK1/2 was tested using inhibitors. While the GSK3β inhibitor LiCl potentiated the effect of HKLM, the MEK inhibitor U0126 blocked these responses. Additionally, pretreatment with resveratrol blocked phosphorylation of both kinases induced by HKLM. These results suggest that HKLM is strong inducer of inflammatory mediators, and that the inhibitory effect of resveratrol may be mediated by the GSK3β and ERK1/2 pathways.
A multicenter, investigator-blinded, randomized, parallel-group study was conducted to compare oral levofloxacin 500 mg once/day for 14 days with clarithromycin 500 mg twice/day for 14 days in the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis. Of 216 adult outpatients randomized to treatment, 190 were evaluable for efficacy. The primary efficacy measure was clinical response, based on resolution of signs and symptoms 2-5 days after therapy. A secondary efficacy measure was relapse rate 1 month after therapy. Among evaluable patients, clinical success rates (cured or improved) were 96.0% and 93.3% for levofloxacin (L) and clarithromycin (C), respectively (95% CI -9.2%, 3.7%). The confidence interval (CI) for treatment difference (C-L) included zero and its upper limit was less than 15%, indicating that levofloxacin was as effective as clarithromycin. In all, 4.1% of patients receiving levofloxacin and 7.2% receiving clarithromycin had a relapse of symptoms 1 month after therapy (95% CI-12.2%, 3.2%). Long-term success (initial success, absence of relapse at 1 month, no further antibacterial therapy 2-5 days after therapy) was 79.2% in the levofloxacin group and 76.4% in the clarithromycin group (95% CI -14.7%, 9.0%). Based on investigator-assessed treatment-emergent adverse events, overall tolerability of the drugs was similar, except for a higher frequency of taste perversion and diarrhea in the clarithromycin group. Levofloxacin had an advantage over clarithromycin based on two quality-of-life (QOL) parameters: number of times taking other drugs for targeted medical conditions and mean total cost of these drugs. No statistical significance was found in other QOL variables. These findings suggest that the efficacy and tolerability of levofloxacin 500 mg once/day are comparable with those of clarithromycin 500 mg twice/day in the treatment of acute bacterial sinusitis.
The effects of lifetime captopril treatment on vasopressin (VP) were assessed in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Pregnant and nursing dams were treated with oral Captopril (100 mg/kg/day). After weaning, the pups were maintained on Captopril (50/kg/day) for 19-20 wks. Blood pressures of Captopril-treated SHR were in the normotensive range and significantly lower (p less than .001) than SHR control rats. Control and Captopril-treated SHR were perfused and brains were sectioned for immunohistochemical staining with a polyclonal antibody directed against vasopressin (VP). Compared to control SHR, Captopril-treated rats displayed decreased VP-like immunoreactivity in the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei of the hypothalamus. Captopril treatment also selectively decreased the number of brightly labeled cell bodies in the SON and PVN and reduced VP-like labeling in the axons of the neurons in these nuclei. Concurrent with a decrease in VP-like immunoreactivity, Captopril treatment reduced plasma VP levels (RIA) (p less than 0.01, Captopril, 5.6 +/- 0.5 pg/ml; control, 11.8 +/- 2.2 pg/ml). Scatchard analysis of 3H-VP binding indicated that Captopril treatment increased the number but not the affinity of VP receptors in the hypothalamus and brain stem of SHR. These results suggest that in SHR oral Captopril treatment attenuates the synthesis and release of VP, an effect that may contribute to the blood pressure lowering effect of converting enzyme inhibitors.
Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) is an industrial agent with toxic effects on the immune system, kidney, lung, and nervous tissue, but little is known about its effect on bone. Metallothionein (MT) is a cysteine-rich metal-binding protein that exerts cytoprotective effects against heavy metal toxins. It has been reported that the susceptibility of renal and pulmonary toxicity of mercury was markedly enhanced in MT-null mice compared to control mice. However, there is no report about the effects of anti-metallothionein (anti-MT) Ab induction on mercury toxicity. We investigated the effect of anti-MT Ab induction on mercury-induced bone injury. BALB/c mice were injected with MT (10 microg/mouse ic) five times to induce anti-MT Ab and then treated with HgCl2 (1 mg/kg sc) three times per week for 3 weeks. MT immunization plus HgCl2 treatment dramatically decreased bone mineral density (BMD), and the humoral bone formation indices, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and osteocalcin. MT immunization or HgCl2 treatment alone did not affect either BMD or serum ALP activity and osteocalcin levels. MT immunization impeded HgCl2-induced increase of MT expression in the liver and led to an increase of mercury in serum and the liver but a decrease in the kidney. Furthermore, serum titers of IgE and IgG1 were significantly elevated in the MT-immunized plus HgCl2 treatment group compared with those in the HgCl2 treatment group. Similar results were also observed in splenic secretions of IL-4 and IL-10 based on anti-CD3 Ab stimulation. Taken together, our results indicate that anti-MT Ab induction causes mercury-induced bone injury in BALB/c mice and also enhances mercury-related immune disorders.
