Inactivation of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), a mitochondrial antioxidant, has been associated with renal disorders and often results in detrimental downstream events that are mechanistically not clear. Development of an animal model that exhibits kidney-specific deficiency of MnSOD would be extremely beneficial in exploring the downstream events that occur following MnSOD inactivation. Using Cre-Lox recombination technology, kidney-specific MnSOD deficient mice (both 100% and 50%) were generated that exhibited low expression of MnSOD in discrete renal cell types and reduced enzymatic activity within the kidney. These kidney-specific 100% KO mice possessed a normal life-span, although it was interesting that the mice were smaller. Consistent with the important role in scavenging superoxide radicals, the kidney-specific KO mice showed a significant increase in oxidative stress (tyrosine nitration) in a gene-dose dependent manner. In addition, loss of MnSOD resulted in mild renal damage (tubular dilation and cell swelling). Hence, this novel mouse model will aid in determining the specific role (local and/or systemic) governed by MnSOD within certain kidney cells. Moreover, these mice will serve as a powerful tool to explore molecular mechanisms that occur downstream of MnSOD inactivation in renal disorders or possibly in other pathologies that rely on normal renal function.
Copper deficiency myelopathy (CDM) is an increasingly recognised mimic of subacute combined degeneration (SCD) of the cord due to cobalamin (vitamin B(12)) deficiency. It has been suggested that copper deficiency induces myelopathy through dysfunction of cytochrome oxidase, which is known to be copper-dependent. However, cytochrome oxidase is not cobalamin-dependent, so this hypothesis fails to explain the phenotypic similarity between CDM and SCD. We propose that the first step in a final common pathway of CDM and SCD is dysfunction of the methylation cycle. This cycle includes both copper and cobalamin-dependent enzymes and catalyses the net transfer of a methyl group from methyltetrahydrofolate to a variety of macromolecules, including myelin proteins. Dysfunction of the cycle might therefore cause failure of myelin maintenance and ultimately myelopathy. One step of the methylation cycle is catalysed by methionine synthase, which is known to be cobalamin-dependent. Nitrous oxide specifically inhibits this enzyme by inactivating methylcobalamin, causing SCD in animals and humans. Both animal and human data suggest that methionine synthase also requires copper, implying that the enzyme may be involved in the pathogenesis of CDM. Another enzyme involved in the methylation cycle, S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase, may be regulated by copper. Although this enzyme is not cobalamin-dependent, its potential impairment in copper deficiency may contribute to the overall dysfunction of the methylation cycle. In cases of congenital deficiencies of methylation cycle enzymes, spinal and cerebral demyelination was observed, providing further support for a critical role of the methylation cycle in myelination. Biochemical dysfunction of the methylation cycle has been reported in HIV myelopathy, which has pathological parallels with SCD. This raises the possibility that other demyelinating myelopathies might involve an impairment of the methylation cycle. Our hypothesis could be tested by measuring CSF concentrations of methylation cycle intermediates in cases of CDM, as these reflect spinal cord tissue levels. If it were confirmed, the hypothesis would not only provide a plausible explanation for the phenotypic similarity between CDM and SCD, but might also open up further therapeutic options such as methionine and betaine supplementation.
Capsaicin, instilled intravesically in normal, unanesthetized rats induced a concentration-dependent bladder hyperactivity, which could be abolished by hexamethonium, given intra-arterially near the bladder, or by morphine administered intrathecally. The effect was reversible and could be repeated. The NK-2 receptor selective antagonist SR 48,968 and the nonselective NK receptor antagonist spantide, given intra-arterially near the bladder, which by themselves, in the concentrations used, did not affect cystometric parameters, both counteracted the capsaicin-induced hyperactivity, whereas the NK-1 receptor selective antagonist RP 67,580 failed to do so. Blockade of tachykinin receptors in the urinary bladder does not seem to produce changes of the micturition reflex associated with bladder filling in the conscious rat. However, tachykinins released from capsaicin-sensitive nerves by various stimuli may, through stimulation of NK-2 receptors, lower the threshold for initiation of the micturition reflex. In the rat, intravesical capsaicin may be a suitable model for studies of afferent activity caused by stimuli releasing peptides from sensory nerves in the bladder, thereby provoking bladder hyperactivity.
This study was designed to assess the role of renin and of the sympathoadrenal system in the maintenance of the hypertension induced by chronic nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition in rats kept on a normal (RS) or a low-sodium (LS) diet. With the administration of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in drinking water (0.4 milligrams) for 6 wk, mean intra-arterial blood pressure rose to a similar extent to 201 mmHg in the RS and 184 mmHg in the LS animals. Simultaneously, plasma norepinephrine was increased to 838 and 527 pg/ml and epinephrine to 2,041 and 1,341 pg/ml in RS and LS, respectively. Plasma neuropeptide Y levels did not change. Plasma renin activity rose to 21 ng.ml-1.h-1 in RS but remained at 44 ng.ml-1.h-1 in the LS. Both losartan (10 mg/kg) and phentolamine (0.1 mg/kg) intravenous bolus injections reduced blood pressure considerably in the L-NAME hypertensive animals. Whole brain NOS activity was reduced by 84%. Hypertension induced by chronic NOS inhibition in LS as well as in RS fed rats seems to be sustained by an interaction of several mechanisms, including the activation of the sympathetic nervous system and the renin-angiotensin system.
A 60-year-old female with sudden onset of abdominal pain and hematochezia was diagnosed with histology-proven ischemic colitis. She used naratriptan on a regular basis for migraine. By exclusion of other causes for colonic ischemia and the absence of cardiovascular risk factors, naratriptan was considered the causal agent. Discontinuation resulted in a complete clinical recovery. With the increasing use of triptans, health care providers should be aware of the possible serious ischemic events associated with these drugs.
Choreoathetosis was induced by phenytoin therapy in an 81-year-old epileptic woman. The plasma concentration of phenytoin was 59 to 80 mumol/L when side effects appeared. Choreoathetosis at ordinary plasma levels has previously been attributed to a preexisting brain damage. In this case, however, it may be explained by a high free fraction (19%) of the phenytoin plasma concentration.
The hence reported non-haematologic toxicity in high-dose cytarabin mainly concerned CNS (cerebellar dysfunction), eyes (keratitis and conjunctivitis), skin (erythema), and gastrointestinal tract (vomiting, diarrhea). It partly depends on dosage and partly on duration of treatment. A dose of 48 g/sq m within one cycle apparently represents a critical upper limit as hence especially the risk of irreversible brain damage increases. Considering the fact that the indication for high-dose cytarabin is given mainly for poor prognostic failures and relapses in acute leukemias toxicity seems to be acceptable.
The temporal evolution of irreversible neuronal damage from pilocarpine-induced seizures was studied by light microscopy. Neuronal cell death was judged on a 0-3 scale by estimating the percentage of acidophilic neurons in each of 23 brain regions. In addition, in the dorsal dentate hilus (CA4), quantitative cell counts of normal and acidophilic neurons were also performed. A few dead neurons (grade 0.5 damage) appeared in ventral hippocampal CA1 and CA3 regions after 20-min status epilepticus (SE). Slight-to-mild damage (grades 0.5-1.5) occurred in 14 and 12 brain regions after 40-min and 1-h SE respectively, and slight-to-moderate damage (grades 0.5-2.0) was found in 15 regions after 3-h SE. Twenty-four h and 72 h after 3-h SE, there was slight-to-severe damage (grade 0.5-3.0) in 22 and 21 regions respectively. Three-h SE produced more severe damage to 7 brain regions compared to 1-h SE, and 16 regions had more pronounced neuronal injury 24 h after rather than 0-4 h after 3-h SE. Eight brain regions had less damage 72 h compared to 24 h after SE, probably because of progressive neuronal lysis and dropout, but in mediodorsal and lateroposterior thalamic nuclei damage worsened from 24 to 72 h after SE. Neuronal cell counting revealed 20% acidophilic neurons in dorsal dentate hilus after 40-min SE and no difference between the 1-h and 3-h seizure groups (31% vs. 43% acidophilic neurons respectively). Among the 3 groups of rats with 3-h SE and varying recovery periods, the 24-h and 72-h recovery groups had higher percentages of acidophilic neurons (65% and 54% respectively) than the 0-4-h group (43%). Finally, the hippocampal CA2 region and dentate granule cell layer and the caudate-putamen, considered resistant to seizure-induced cell injury, were all damaged from SE lasting 40 min or more.
We report a case of a 62-yr-old man with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related cirrhosis who developed hepatic decompensation after being started on lamivudine requiring liver transplantation. Decompensated liver disease while on lamivudine has been previously reported on two occasions, both HIV coinfected patients on a combination of nucleoside analogues. Our patient is alive and well nearly 2 yr after successful liver transplantation.
Troglitazone is currently approved for the treatment of diabetes mellitus. Hepatic abnormalities have been reported in up to 1.9% of patients receiving the drug. Severe hepatotoxicity, including the need for liver transplantation, has also been reported in patients treated with troglitazone. Troglitazone has been reported to be beneficial in a small group of patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We present a patient with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis and diabetes mellitus who developed severe cholestasis after treatment with troglitazone. The exact mechanism of troglitazone toxicity is unknown, and whether preexisting liver abnormalities increase the incidence of toxicity is speculative. Further data are needed before more widespread use of troglitazone can be recommended for patients with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
A 17-year-old male who had been diagnosed with ulcerative colitis was prescribed 80 mg prednisolone and 1,500 mg 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) per day. Two weeks after initiating therapy, he was referred to our hospital for evaluation of chest pain and high fever. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed ST elevation in limb and precordial leads. Chest pain with high fever and ECG changes were resolved after 5-ASA was discontinued. Three weeks later, the administration of a low dose of 5-ASA was associated with the immediate recurrence of pericarditis associated with chest pain, suggesting a hypersensitive reaction to 5-ASA in this patient.
The 'vanishing bone' or inherited osteolysis/arthritis syndromes represent a heterogeneous group of skeletal disorders characterized by mineralization defects of affected bones and joints. Differing in anatomical distribution, severity and associated syndromic features, gene identification in each 'vanishing bone' disorder should provide unique insights into genetic/molecular pathways contributing to the overall control of skeletal growth and development. We previously described and then demonstrated that the novel autosomal recessive osteolysis/arthritis syndrome, multicentric osteolysis with arthritis (MOA) (MIM #605156), was caused by inactivating mutations in the MMP2 gene [Al Aqeel, A., Al Sewairi, W., Edress, B., Gorlin, R.J., Desnick, R.J. and Martignetti, J.A. (2000) Inherited multicentric osteolysis with arthritis: A variant resembling Torg syndrome in a Saudi family. Am. J. Med. Genet., 93, 11-18.]. These in vivo results were counterintuitive and unexpected since previous in vitro studies suggested that MMP-2 overexpression and increased activity, not deficiency, would result in the bone and joint features of MOA. The apparent lack of a murine model [Itoh, T., Ikeda, T., Gomi, H., Nakao, S., Suzuki, T. and Itohara, S. (1997) Unaltered secretion of beta-amyloid precursor protein in gelatinase A (matrix metalloproteinase 2)-deficient mice. J. Biol. Chem., 272, 22389-22392.] has hindered studies on disease pathogenesis and, more fundamentally, in addressing the paradox of how functional loss of a single proteolytic enzyme results in an apparent increase in bone loss. Here, we report that Mmp2-/- mice display attenuated features of human MOA including progressive loss of bone mineral density, articular cartilage destruction and abnormal long bone and craniofacial development. Moreover, these changes are associated with markedly and developmentally restricted decreases in osteoblast and osteoclast numbers in vivo. Mmp2-/- mice have approximately 50% fewer osteoblasts and osteoclasts than control littermates at 4 days of life but these differences have nearly resolved by 4 weeks of age. In addition, despite normal cell numbers in vivo at 8 weeks of life, Mmp2-/- bone marrow cells are unable to effectively support osteoblast and osteoclast growth and differentiation in culture. Targeted inhibition of MMP-2 using siRNA in human SaOS2 and murine MC3T3 osteoblast cell lines resulted in decreased cell proliferation rates. Taken together, our findings suggest that MMP-2 plays a direct role in early skeletal development and bone cell growth and proliferation. Thus, Mmp2-/- mice provide a valuable biological resource for studying the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying the human disease and defining the in vivo physiological role of MMP-2.
The purpose of the study was to draw upan experimental model of hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD) induced by dactinomycin (ACT) and to investigate the possible hepatoprotective effects of Ethyol (amifostine). Pathological changes corresponding to a VOD picture of varying intensification were found in the liver samples obtained from all the rats receiving ACT. Amifostine appears to act protectively to liver changes caused by dactinomycin.
The antiviral drug ribavirin (RBV) is widely used in combination with interferon (IFN) in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. A major side effect of RBV is a reversible hemolytic anemia. We have evaluated the in vitro effects of RBV on erythrocyte adenosine triphosphate (ATP) content and on hexosemonophosphate shunt (HMS). The ATP levels were significantly decreased in the presence of RBV and the HMS was increased, suggesting the presence of red cell susceptibility to oxidation. In vivo, we have studied the hematologic effects of treatment with RBV alone or in combination with IFN in 11 patients with chronic hepatitis C: 6 were treated with RBV (1,000-1,200 mg/d) and 5 were treated with a combination of RBV and IFN (5 million U thrice weekly). Patients were studied at semi-monthly intervals from 0 to day 60 of therapy. Both treatments were associated with a significant reduction in hemoglobin levels (steady state level at day 45) and a marked increase in absolute reticulocyte counts. Erythrocyte Na-K pump activity was significantly diminished, whereas K-Cl cotransport and its dithiotreitol-sensitive fraction, malondialdehyde and methemoglobin levels were significantly increased. RBV-treated patients showed an increase in aggregated band 3, which was associated with a significantly increased binding of autologous antibodies and complement C3 fragments indicating an erithrophagocytic removal by reticuloendothelial system.
Cardiotoxicity is an uncommon side-effect of 5-FU-based chemotherapy. Coronary artery vasospasms have been postulated to be involved in the pathogenesis of this rare but serious problem. We found high plasma levels of ET-1, a potent natural vasoconstrictor, in two patients who experienced two of the commonest clinical manifestations of 5-FU-induced cardiac toxicity--i.e., angina pectoris and chronic heart failure. We, therefore, propose ET-1 as the ultimate mediator of this toxicity, even though the mechanism of ET-1 increase in peripheral venous blood is still unknown. Finally, another important question still remains unresolved: is the release of ET-1 from normal coronary endothelial cells the prime cause or simply the consequence of 5-FU-related cardiotoxicity?
Bilateral high frequency subthalamic stimulation has been reported to be effective in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. To analyze the results of this surgical procedure we critically reviewed 17 parkinsonian patients with advanced disease complicated by motor fluctuations and dyskinesias.
Between January 1998 and June 1999 these 17 consecutive patients (age 48-68 years; illness duration 8-27 years) underwent bilateral stereotactically guided implantation of electrodes into the subthalamic nucleus in the Department of Neurosurgery of the Istituto Nazionale Neurologico "C. Besta." Parameters used for continuous high-frequency stimulation were: frequency 160 Hz, pulse width 90 microsec, mean amplitude 2.05 +/- 0.45 V. Parts II and III of the UPDRS were used to assess motor performance before and after operation by the neurologic team. The follow-up ranged between 6 and 18 months.
At latest examination, mean UPDRS II and III scores had improved by 30% (on stimulation, off therapy) with mean 50% reduction in daily off time. Peak dyskinesias and early morning dystonias also improved in relation to therapy reduction. Side effects were persistent postoperative supranuclear oculomotor palsy and postural instability in one case, worsened off-medication hypophonia in three, and temporary nocturnal confusion episodes in three. Postoperative MRI revealed a clinically silent intracerebral haematoma in one case. One electrode required repositioning.
Continuous high frequency STN stimulation is an effective treatment for advanced PD. A functionally useful and safe electrode placement can be performed without microrecording.
We attempted to characterize the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) receptor type/subtype and mediator mechanisms involved in the contractile effects of 5-HT in the in situ autoperfused kidney of long-term diabetic rats. Diabetes was induced in male Wistar rats by a single subcutaneous injection of alloxan. Intra-arterial (i.a.) bolus injection of 5-HT (0.00000125 to 0.1μg/kg) increased renal perfusion pressure in a dose dependent way but did not affect the systemic blood pressure in long-term diabetic rats. The selective 5-HT2 receptor agonist, α-methyl-5-HT, caused a local vasoconstrictor effect in the in situ autoperfused rat kidney similar to 5-HT. However, BW723C86, a selective 5-HT2B receptor agonist, m-CPP (1-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine), a selective 5-HT2B/2C receptor agonist, the 5-HT1 receptor agonist, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), and the selective 5-HT3 receptor agonist, 1-phenylbiguanide did not modify the renal perfusion pressure. In long-term diabetic rats, vasoconstriction elicited by 5-HT and α-methyl-5-HT was significantly decreased by ritanserin (a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist), spiperone (a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist), and the cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors, indomethacin (non-selective COX inhibitor), FR 122047 or nimesulide (selective COX-1 and COX-2 inhibitors, respectively), but was not modified by pretreatment with SB 206553 (3,5-dihydro-5-methyl-N-3-pyridinylbenzo[1,2.b:4,5-b']dipyrrole(1H)-carboxamide hydrochloride), a non-selective 5-HT2C receptor antagonist, prazosin, propranolol, enalapril or losartan. The results of protein expression support these results: COX-1 and COX-2 are expressed in renal tissue. Inducible COX (COX-2) is overexpressed in long-term diabetes. Our data suggest that, in the in-situ autoperfused kidney of long-term diabetic rats, 5-HT vasoconstrictor action is mediated, through cyclooxygenase pathway, by local activation of 5-HT2A receptors.
Patients with severely increased blood pressure often present to the emergency department. Rapid lowering of blood pressure can precipitate or worsen end organ damage. We report two cases that developed cerebrovascular and cardiovascular adverse events associated with aggressive treatment of increased blood pressure by the use of sublingual nifedipine capsule. The first patient had developed ischaemic stroke; the second patient actually had acute left ventricular failure causing deteriorated, and required positive inotropic treatment for persistent hypotension. These cases emphasise that the pseudoemergency may rapidly progress into a real emergency when blood pressure is rapidly and aggressively reduced.
Lansoprazole is a substituted benzimidazole which inhibits gastric acid secretion by inhibiting the hydrogen-potassium ATPase (proton pump) in the parietal cell. The finding of Leydig cell hyperplasia and Leydig cell tumors in 2-year oral studies in Sprague-Dawley rats but not in CD-1 mice prompted investigative studies to determine the mechanism for the Leydig cell changes. hCG challenge studies in Sprague-Dawley rats revealed decreased testosterone responsiveness in rats treated orally for 1 or 2 weeks with lansoprazole. After 4 weeks of daily oral treatment increases in serum LH and decreases in serum testosterone were detected within a few hours after dosing. In a study where 9-month-old male F344 rats were given testosterone supplementation via Silastic implants and then treated with lansoprazole for 6 months, a high incidence of Leydig cell tumors was seen in lansoprazole-treated, unsupplemented rats, whereas no Leydig cell tumors were seen in testosterone supplemented rats. This implied that reduction of the normal feedback inhibition at the level of the hypothalamus and/or pituitary due to reduced testosterone levels, thus giving rise to elevated levels of LH, was involved in the induction of Leydig cell tumors by lansoprazole. In vitro studies with Leydig cells from rats using various stimulators and precursors of testosterone biosynthesis demonstrated that the most sensitive site for inhibition of testosterone synthesis by lansoprazole is the transport of cholesterol to the cholesterol side chain cleavage enzyme. The IC50s for inhibition of LH or hCG-stimulated testosterone synthesis in Leydig cells from rats, mice, and monkeys were 11-12, 8, and 24.7 micrograms/ml, respectively. In vitro studies with metabolites of lansoprazole revealed that three metabolites were more potent inhibitors of testosterone synthesis than the parent drug, two of them being at least 10 times more potent. These metabolites are present in rats at substantial levels but are undetectable in humans. The lack of induction of Leydig cell tumors in mice, lower sensitivity of primate Leydig cells, and the absence of testosterone synthesis-inhibiting metabolites in man suggest that Leydig cell tumors found in rats represent a species-specific sensitivity and does not imply a risk for clinical use in man.
The aims of this study were to examine the presence of mutations in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene among subjects clinically diagnosed with familial hypercholesterolemia and to analyze whether the molecular diagnosis helps to predict the response to simvastatin treatment in our familial hypercholesterolemia population. Fifty-five probands and 128 related subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia were studied. Genetic diagnosis was carried out following a three-step protocol based on Southern blot and PCR-single strand conformational polymorphism analysis. A randomized clinical trial with simvastatin was conducted in 42 genetically diagnosed subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia classified as carriers of null mutations (n = 22) and of defective mutations (n = 20). A mutation-causing familial hypercholesterolemia was identified in 46 probands (84%). In 41 of them (89%), a total of 28 point mutations were detected, 13 of which have not been previously described. The remaining five probands (11%) were carriers of large rearrangements. Familial hypercholesterolemia with null mutations showed a poor response to simvastatin treatment. The mean percentage reduction of plasma total and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in these subjects were significantly lower (24.8 +/- 10.3 vs. 34.8 +/- 10.9, P = 0.04 and 30.0 +/- 39.8 vs. 46.1 +/- 18.2, P = 0.02, respectively) than in subjects with defective mutations. Baseline and posttreatment high-density lipoprotein cholesterol plasma values were significantly lower in subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia with null mutations (P < 0.001). In an outbreed Caucasian population, a three-step protocol for genetic screening detected a mutation in the low-density lipoprotein receptor gene in a high percentage (84%) of subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia. Subjects with familial hypercholesterolemia with null mutations (class I) showed lower plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol values and a poor low-density lipoprotein cholesterol response to simvastatin treatment.
To assess whether dexrazoxane (DZR) given after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg/m2 confers cardioprotection in patients with advanced breast cancer treated with fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FAC).
In two multicenter studies (088001 and 088006), patients were randomized to receive FAC and placebo (PLA) versus FAC and DZR. After a protocol amendment, all patients received open-label DZR after they had reached a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg/m2. Two groups were compared: 99 patients randomized to the PLA arms before the amendment who received FAC and PLA for at least seven courses (PLA group), and 102 patients randomized to the PLA arms after the amendment who received FAC and PLA for six courses followed by open-label DZR (PLA/DZR group).
The hazards ratio of PLA to PLA/DZR was 3.5 (95% confidence interval [CI], 2.2 to 5.7; P < .001, logrank and generalized Wilcoxon tests) for the doxorubicin dose at any cardiac event, ejection fraction changes, or congestive heart failure (CHF). The hazards ratio of PLA to PLA/DZR was 13.1 (95% CI, 3.7 to 46.0; P < .001, logrank and generalized Wilcoxon tests) for the doxorubicin dose at the development of CHF. The overall incidence of CHF in the PLA/DZR group was 3%, compared with 22% in the PLA group (P < .001, Fisher's exact test). Twenty-six percent of PLA/DZR patients received at least 15 courses of therapy, compared with 5% of patients in the PLA group. These results do not appear to be attributable to a time trend.
DZR is a highly effective cardioprotective agent when used in patients with advanced breast cancer who continue to receive doxorubicin-based chemotherapy after a cumulative doxorubicin dose of 300 mg/m2 has been reached.
To determine the cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane (DZR) used in a doxorubicin-based combination therapy in advanced breast cancer.
Between November 1988 and January 1991, 534 patients with advanced breast cancer were randomized to two multicenter, double-blind studies (088001 and 088006). Patients received fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FAC) with either DZR (DZR-to-doxorubicin ratio, 10:1) or placebo (PLA) every 3 weeks and were monitored with serial multiplegated acquisition (MUGA) scans.
The hazards ratio (HR) of PLA to DZR for a cardiac event, which was predefined ejection fraction changes or congestive heart failure (CHF), was 2.63 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.61 to 4.27; P < .001) for 088001 and 2.00 (95% CI, 1.01 to 3.96; P = .038) for 088006. The objective response rates for 088001 were 46.8% for DZR and 60.5% for PLA, a difference of 14% (95% CI, -25% to -2%; P = .019), and for 088006 were 53.7% for DZR and 49.3% for PLA, a difference of 4% (95% CI, -13% to 22%; P = .63). Time to progression and survival were not significantly different between treatment arms in either study. Toxicities on the DZR arms included lower granulocyte and platelet counts at nadir (P = .009 and P = .004, respectively) and more pain on injection (P = .001), with no difference in the rates of fever, infection, or hemorrhage.
DZR had a significant cardioprotective effect as measured by noninvasive testing and clinical CHF. One of the two studies (088001) showed a lower response rate with DZR, but time to progression and survival were not significantly different. DZR is the first agent shown to reduce cardiotoxicity from doxorubicin.
Cocaine-induced thrombosis has been reported in the literature; however, its mechanism is not fully understood. Most cases are of small caliber vessels, such as the coronaries and cerebral vasculature. We report a case of a 36-year-old man with signs and symptoms of acute arterial insufficiency in his right lower extremity. At angiography, the right common iliac artery and the popliteal artery were occluded. The patient was successfully treated with thrombolytic therapy. Cocaine-induced thrombosis should be suspected in a patient with history of cocaine abuse who presents with acute arterial insufficiency in an extremity, without an identifiable source.
The antianginal effectivity of a sustained release isosorbiddinitrate Sorbidilat Retard drug was examined by the number of spontaneous attacks and by ergometry with a constant work load in a double blind trial with cross over technique. An effect on the stress duration, on the ST segment depression, on the "double product", on heart rate, and blood pressure could be proved, which is interpreted as an therapeutic advantage of serum against placebo. The number of spontaneous attacks could be reduced in the verum period significantly. Ergometry every 2 hour after drug adminstration shows an oral effectivity of about 10 hours.
The efficacy of a 5-day treatment with coumermycin A1 (hereafter referred to as coumermycin) (at three dosage regimens), with ciprofloxacin, or with coumermycin plus ciprofloxacin was tested in experimental aortic valve endocarditis induced in rats by a strain of methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus and was compared with the efficacy of a 5-day treatment with cloxacillin plus gentamicin. While coumermycin was far less effective than cloxacillin plus gentamicin in reducing the bacterial counts in vegetations (P less than 10(-8), ciprofloxacin was as effective as cloxacillin plus gentamicin. Coumermycin plus ciprofloxacin was less effective than ciprofloxacin alone (P = 0.01). For endocarditis induced by two additional methicillin-susceptible S. aureus strains, the high-dosage regimen of coumermycin (12 mg/kg every 12 h) had the same low efficacy. Coumermycin-resistant variants of S. aureus emerged in most of the vegetations during coumermycin treatment. The ciprofloxacin susceptibility of S. aureus was unchanged during ciprofloxacin treatment. The addition of ciprofloxacin to coumermycin in the treatment did not prevent the emergence of coumermycin-resistant variants. Twelve additional S. aureus strains isolated from the blood of patients with endocarditis were tested in vitro against coumermycin with precautions to avoid carry-over of the antibiotic. Coumermycin exhibited a bacteriostatic activity at very low concentrations (MIC, less than 0.004 microgram/ml) but only a weak bactericidal activity (MBC for 90% of strains, 8 micrograms/ml), a finding contrasting with that of others. Furthermore, coumermycin-resistant mutants could be selected in vitro from the 15 S. aureus strains tested. These results indicated no evidence in vivo of a synergistic activity of coumermycin and ciprofloxacin. More importantly, these results suggested that coumermycin might not be adequate for the treatment of serious s. aureus infections in humans.
