Estrogen deficiency in postmenopausal women or elderly men is often associated with the skeletal disease osteoporosis. The supplementation of estradiol (E2) in osteoporotic patients is known to prevent bone fracture but cannot be administered because of adverse effect. As 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (17β-HSD2) oxidizes E2 to its inactive form estrone (E1) and has been found in osteoblastic cells, it is an attractive target for the treatment of osteoporosis. Twenty-one novel, naphthalene-derived compounds have been synthesized and evaluated for their 17β-HSD2 inhibition and their selectivity toward 17β-HSD1 and the estrogen receptors (ERs) α and β. Compound 19 turned out to be the most potent and selective inhibitor of 17β-HSD2 in cell-free assays and had a very good cellular activity in MDA-MB-231 cells, expressing naturally 17β-HSD2. It also showed marked inhibition of the E1-formation by the rat and mouse orthologous enzymes and strong inhibition of monkey 17β-HSD2. It is thus an appropriate candidate to be further evaluated in a disease-oriented model.
Impairment of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma), a nuclear receptor that regulates genes involved in lipid and glucose metabolism, may contribute to the onset of metabolic disorders such as diabetes and the accompanying dyslipidemia. Fat-derived tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and the acute-phase response protein, C-reactive protein (CRP), may also have a role in the development of obesity-related insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus. In this study, a group of 14 naturally occurring, insulin-requiring, type 2 diabetic cynomolgus monkeys were used to evaluate the effects of the PPAR-gamma agonist, rosiglitazone, on glycemic and lipid parameters and serum levels of TNF-alpha and CRP. The animals were randomized into 2 groups of 7. One group was treated with 0.5 mg/kg rosiglitazone orally once a day for 7 weeks. Blood was collected for evaluation at baseline, at 2 and 7 weeks during the treatment period, and at 7 and 13 weeks after treatment. Daily insulin requirements were recorded during the entire study. Results showed daily exogenous insulin requirements were significantly reduced (P <.01) in those treated with rosiglitazone, while glycemic control was maintained. Plasma triglyceride concentrations were significantly lower (P <.01) whereas plasma cholesterol levels tended to be lower and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) concentrations tended to be higher after treatment. No significant differences were noted in TNF-alpha and CRP serum levels during the treatment period. Body weights remained steady in both groups during the study. These results suggest overall improvement in insulin regulation and lipid profiles during treatment with rosiglitazone.
The two 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11 beta-HSD) isozymes catalyze the interconversion of cortisol and cortisone. Type 1 11 beta-HSD (11 beta-HSD1) has bidirectional activity, while type 2 11 beta-HSD (11 beta-HSD2) mainly converts cortisol into cortisone. Of these two hormones only cortisol has affinity to mineralocorticoid receptors (MRs) and thus induces mineralocorticoid effects. A normal activity of 11 beta-HSD2 is crucial for prevention of mineralocorticoid activity of cortisol. Absent or decreased 11 beta-HSD2 activity results in cortisol-mediated hypermineralocorticoid hypertension. In several hypertensive syndromes a decreased 11 beta-HSD2 activity has been described as the pathogenetic mechanism of the increased blood pressure. In the apparent mineral corticoid excess (AME) syndrome type 1, absence of 11 beta-HSD2 activity is caused by mutations in the gene coding for 11 beta-HSD2. In licorice-induced hypertension glycyrrhetinic acid, the active substituent of licorice, inhibits 11 beta-HSD2 resulting in an acquired hypermineralocorticoid state. 11 beta-HSD2 activity is not decreased in glucocorticoid hypertension (Cushing's syndrome). In essential hypertension some evidence for decreased systemic and skin activity of 11 beta-HSD1 and/or 11 beta-HSD2 has been found, while renal activity of both isozymes appears to be normal. 11 beta-HSD2 activity is also present in cardiovascular myocytes of humans and dogs, and inhibition of 11 beta-HSD potentiates the vascular response to catecholamines. Although MRs in the central nervous system have been incriminated in the pathogenesis of mineralocorticoid hypertension, a pathophysiological role for 11 beta-HSD2 has not yet been described. Finally, in the placenta 11 beta-HSD2 reduces fetal exposure to maternal glucocorticoids and a decreased activity of this isozyme may result in low birth weight and increased risk of high blood pressure at adult age.
This study assesses whether the high-dose dipyridamole-echocardiography test (DET, 2-D echocardiographic and 12-lead electrocardiographic monitoring during dipyridamole infusion, up to 0.84 mg/kg over 10 minutes) can help to identify patients with syndrome X. DET was performed in 10 control subjects (group A) and in 19 patients with syndrome X (group B). Patients in group B had chest pain on effort, a positive exercise stress response (more than 0.1 mV of ST-segment depression), negative ergonovine test response and normal left ventricular function and coronary angiographic findings. During DET no subject in group A showed transient asynergy or ST-segment depression and none had chest pain; in group B, no patient had transient asynergy, 13 (68%) had chest pain and 16 (84%) had more than 0.1 mV of ST-segment depression. Percent fractional shortening was not significantly different in the 2 study groups, either basally (group A, 35 +/- 7; group B, 37 +/- 8) or at peak hyperkinesia during DET (group A, 48 +/- 8; group B, 54 +/- 10). Thus, dipyridamole-induced chest pain and ST-segment depression in patients with syndrome X are not associated with impaired regional or global left ventricular function. This entity of echocardiographically silent myocardial ischemia during DET may be a clue to noninvasive detection of syndrome X.
The proconvulsive properties of tramadol, bupropion, and nortriptyline have been well documented. Spinal fractures secondary to drug-induced seizures have been rarely reported.
A 39-year-old female presented with a chief complaint of back pain. She went to bed feeling well in a separate room from her husband. During the previous night, he heard a noise and went into her room, finding her confused and twisted in an awkward position on her bed. Later she complained to him of severe back pain, prompting transport to a hospital. Shortly after arrival in the emergency department, staff witnessed a generalized convulsion. Following a one-hour post-ictal period, she complained of worsened back pain. Lab studies were normal, including a urine tox screen for drugs of abuse. No alcohol was implicated. ECG showed sinus rhythm, HR 113 beats/min, QRS 108 ms, QTc 389 ms. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was normal. X-ray and an MRI of the thoracic spine confirmed four contiguous vertebral compression fractures, from T2 through T5. EEG showed diffuse changes consistent with a metabolic or toxicologic process. She denied taking any drugs other than prescribed doses of her medications, which included tramadol, bupropion, and nortriptyline. She had no previous history of seizures, head injury, or CVA. Bupropion and tramadol were discontinued, and seizures did not recur.
This patient's history, EEG findings, and brain imaging all point to a metabolic or toxic cause. It is likely that her three proconvulsant medications--even at therapeutic doses--synergistically lowered her seizure threshold or even precipitated her seizures. Retrospective studies and case reports portray these drugs as potentially offending agents.
Sudden onset of back pain during sleep can be an important clue to a seizure complicated by vertebral compression fractures, even in the absence of trauma. Toxicology consultation in seizures of unclear etiology can help discern drugs that offend even in therapeutic doses.
The peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR) subgroup of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily is activated by a variety of natural and synthetic ligands. PPARs can heterodimerize with retinoid X receptors, which have homology to other members of the nuclear receptor superfamily. Ligand binding to PPAR/RXRs results in recruitment of transcriptional coactivator proteins such as steroid receptor coactivator 1 (SRC-1) and CREB binding protein (CBP). Both SRC-1 and CBP are histone acetyltransferases, which by modifying nucleosomal histones, produce more open chromatin structure and increase transcriptional activity. Nuclear hormone receptors can recruit limiting amounts of coactivators from other transcription factor binding sites such as AP-1, thereby inhibiting the activity of AP-1 target genes. PPAR and RXR ligands have been used in experimental breast cancer therapy. The role of coactivator expression in mammary tumorigenesis and response to drug therapy has been the subject of recent studies.
We examined the effects of loss of SRC-1 on MMTV-neu mediated mammary tumorigenesis.
SRC-1 null mutation in mammary tumor prone mice increased the tumor latency period, reduced tumor proliferation index and metastasis, inhibited response to PPAR and RXR ligands, and induced genes involved in mammary gland differentiation. We also examined human breast cancer cell lines overexpressing SRC-1 or CBP. Coactivator overexpression increased cellular proliferation with resistance to PPAR and RXR ligands and remodeled chromatin of the proximal epidermal growth factor receptor promoter.
These results indicate that histone acetyltransferases play key roles in mammary tumorigenesis and response to anti-proliferative therapies.
Vinclozolin (V), a known antiandrogen, has been used widely to protect fruits, vegetables, and turf from fungus damage. The aim of this study was to clarify the effect of V on both the development of the spinal cord nucleus and testicular descent in rats.
Pregnant rats were administered 200 mg/kg/d of V from day 16 to 18 of gestation. At 5 days of age, the genitofemoral nerve (GFN) of male pups was identified on the psoas muscle, and diamidinophenyl indole was applied to the proximal cut end of the GFN. Forty-eight hours later, the T11 to L4 level of the spinal cord was removed, and 30-microm frozen serial sections were made. Next, the spinal nuclei labeled in a retrograde fashion by diamidinophenyl indole (DAPI) were examined with a fluorescence microscope. Additional male pups survived until 60 days of age to evaluate the position of the testes.
The size of the DAPI-labeled spinal nuclei were smaller in the V-treated rats than in the control rats. The average number of the DAPI-labeled spinal nuclei decreased significantly more in the V-treated rats (176+/-33) than in the controls (247+/- 21; P <.05) during the newborn period. At 60 days of age, 15 of the 26 male rats showed either unilateral or bilateral undescended testes in the V-treated rats. The incidence of cryptorchidism was also significantly higher in the V-treated rats (57.7%) than in the controls (0%; P <.05).
The antiandrogenic effect of the prenatal administration of V inhibited the development of the GFN nucleus in the spinal cord and induced testicular maldescent in rats. These results support the hypothesis that androgens regulate the descent of the testis through GFN development.
In contrast to arsenic (As) poisoning caused by naturally occurring inorganic arsenic-contaminated water consumption, coal arsenic poisoning (CAP) induced by elevated arsenic exposure from coal combustion has rarely been reported. In this study, the concentrations and distributions of urinary arsenic metabolites in 57 volunteers (36 subjects with skin lesions and 21 subjects without skin lesions), who had been exposed to elevated levels of arsenic present in coal in Changshapu village in the south of Shaanxi Province (China), were reported. The urinary arsenic species, including inorganic arsenic (iAs) [arsenite (iAsIII) and arsenate (iAsV)], monomethylarsonic acid (MMAV) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAV), were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) combined with inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS). The relative distributions of arsenic species, the primary methylation index (PMI=MMAV/iAs) and the secondary methylation index (SMI=DMAV/MMAV) were calculated to assess the metabolism of arsenic. Subjects with skin lesions had a higher concentration of urinary arsenic and a lower arsenic methylation capability than subjects without skin lesions. Women had a significantly higher methylation capability of arsenic than men, as defined by a higher percent DMAV and SMI in urine among women, which was the one possible interpretation of women with a higher concentration of urinary arsenic but lower susceptibility to skin lesions. The findings suggested that not only the dose of arsenic exposure but also the arsenic methylation capability have an impact on the individual susceptibility to skin lesions induced by coal arsenic exposure.
Recent advances in immunotherapy have resulted in improved survival after heart transplantation. The use of OKT3 as an induction agent has allowed the identification of a subset of patients who can be successfully withdrawn from prednisone and maintained on only cyclosporine and azathioprine. The latter regimen offers several theoretic advantages in terms of freedom from complications of long-term steroid therapy. To compare both the long-term efficacy and toxicity of steroid-free maintenance immunosuppression with triple-drug therapy, the medical records of 68 patients undergoing transplantation at the Minneapolis Heart Institute during a 3-year period (1988 through 1990) were reviewed. Thirty-six patients were treated with OKT3 induction immunotherapy, 29 were successfully tapered off prednisone by 114 +/- 44 days after transplantation, whereas 32 patients were maintained on triple-drug therapy. The incidence of treated rejection was equivalent in both groups; however, the time to first rejection was longer in patients treated with OKT3/steroid-free maintenance (205 +/- 214 vs 27 +/- 17 days) (p = 0.02). Bacterial infections during the early posttransplant period were more common in the OKT3/steroid-free maintenance group (p = 0.008); however, fungal and viral infections were equally distributed between both groups. The incidence of hypertension was slightly higher in patients maintained on prednisone (67% vs 51%; p = 0.242).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We tested the hypothesis that serum total testosterone and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) levels predict cardiovascular (CV) events in community-dwelling elderly men.
Low serum testosterone is associated with increased adiposity, an adverse metabolic risk profile, and atherosclerosis. However, few prospective studies have demonstrated a protective link between endogenous testosterone and CV events. Polymorphisms in the SHBG gene are associated with risk of type 2 diabetes, but few studies have addressed SHBG as a predictor of CV events.
We used gas chromatography/mass spectrometry to analyze baseline levels of testosterone in the prospective population-based MrOS (Osteoporotic Fractures in Men) Sweden study (2,416 men, age 69 to 81 years). SHBG was measured by immunoradiometric assay. CV clinical outcomes were obtained from central Swedish registers.
During a median 5-year follow-up, 485 CV events occurred. Both total testosterone and SHBG levels were inversely associated with the risk of CV events (trend over quartiles: p = 0.009 and p = 0.012, respectively). Men in the highest quartile of testosterone (≥550 ng/dl) had a lower risk of CV events compared with men in the 3 lower quartiles (hazard ratio: 0.70, 95% confidence interval: 0.56 to 0.88). This association remained after adjustment for traditional CV risk factors and was not materially changed in analyses excluding men with known CV disease at baseline (hazard ratio: 0.71, 95% confidence interval: 0.53 to 0.95). In models that included both testosterone and SHBG, testosterone but not SHBG predicted CV risk.
High serum testosterone predicted a reduced 5-year risk of CV events in elderly men.
The light-enhanced startle paradigm (LES) is suggested to model anxiety, because of the non-specific cue and the long-term effect. In contrast, the fear-potentiated startle (FPS) is suggested to model conditioned fear. However, the pharmacological profiles of these two paradigms are very similar. The present study investigated the effects of putative anxiogenic drugs on LES and FPS and aimed at determining the sensitivity of LES for anxiogenic drugs and to potentially showing a pharmacological differentiation between these two paradigms.
Male Wistar rats received each dose of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine (0.25-1.0mg/kg), the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist m-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP, 0.5-2.0mg/kg) or the GABA(A) inverse receptor agonist pentylenetetrazole (PTZ, 3-30mg/kg) and were subsequently tested in either LES or FPS.
None of the drugs enhanced LES, whereas mCPP increased percentage FPS and yohimbine increased absolute FPS values. Furthermore, yohimbine increased baseline startle amplitude in the LES, while mCPP suppressed baseline startle in both the LES and FPS and PTZ suppressed baseline startle in the FPS.
In contrast to findings in the FPS paradigm, none of the drugs were able to exacerbate the LES response. Thus, a clear pharmacological differentiation was found between LES and FPS.
Neuroleptic-induced oral dyskinesia in rats, a putative analogue to human tardive dyskinesia, may be due to degeneration within the striatum. Using unbiased stereological methods, a decreased number of striatal neurons expressing preprosomatostatin mRNA was observed only in rats that developed pronounced oral dyskinesias after 30 weeks of haloperidol administration. The amount of preprosomatostatin mRNA in each striatal neuron, measured in terms of optical densities of individual neurons, was not affected by haloperidol. A tendency toward a reduction in the number of NADPH-diaphorase positive neurons was observed in rats receiving haloperidol. These results indicate that the mechanism by which neuroleptics induce oral dyskinesias in rats, and perhaps tardive dyskinesia in humans, involves a functional disruption and possibly damage of a subpopulation of interneurons in the striatum.
A 28-year-old woman developed hirsutism, facial edema and clitoromegaly after self-injection of long-acting synthetic androgens. The symptoms were ameliorated by administration of flutamide with a combination oral contraceptive. Flutamide appears to be useful in preventing sequelae of acute androgen excess in women and may be a rational therapy for chronic treatment of androgen excess in women.
Rowell's syndrome (RS) is a rare type of coexistence of one of the lupus erythematosus (LE) types (systemic, subacute cutaneous or discoid) and erythema multiforme (EM) (including toxic epidermal necrolysis). We present the case of a 51-year-old patient with a diagnosis of RS, most probably caused by drugs given as psychiatric treatment. After cessation of sodium valproate and initiation of treatment with prednisolone, a spectacular clinical remission was achieved. The likely role of psychiatric drugs, namely sodium valproate and sertraline, as triggering factors, is discussed.
We studied the effect of intravenous (1 mg/kg) and oral (400 mg) acebutolol on atrioventricular conduction in 22 patients with idiopathic bundle branch block and 1 to 1 atrioventricular conduction. Seven patients had previously symptomatic complete heart block (Group 1) and 15 were asymptomatic with bundle branch block only (Group 2). Following intravenous acebutolol heart rate decreased 82 +/- 16 to 63 +/- 16/min (P less than 0.01), A-H interval lengthened 98 +/- 22 to 121 +/- 30 msec (P less than 0.005) and H-V time was prolonged 60 +/- 13 to 70 +/- 17 msec (P less than 0.02) in those with previous heart block. The corresponding changes in the patients with no previous block were 74 +/- 14 to 61 +/- 8/min (P less than 0.01), 90 +/- 17 to 109 +/- 22 msec (P less than 0.05) and 48 +/- 15 to 56 +/- 14 msec (P less than 0.01). There was no difference between the basal or induced changes between these two groups. After intravenous acebutolol infusion 2 of 6 patients with previous spontaneous heart block and none of those without previous heart block developed atrioventricular block distal to His. The induced block was temporary (less than 10 min) and corresponded to the time of peak plasma acebutolol levels. Temporary atrioventricular block followed oral acebutolol administration in 4/7 patients with previous spontaneous heart block and 0/14 in those without block. In patients with bundle branch block intravenous acebutolol prolonged H-V conduction times in 19/20 patients and intravenous and oral acebutolol induced A-V block in 4/7 patients with previous spontaneous block.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The association between daily cardiovascular/respiratory mortality and air pollution in an urban district of Beijing was investigated over a 6-year period (January 2003 to December 2008). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative importance of the major air pollutants [particulate matter (PM), SO2, NO2] as predictors of daily cardiovascular/respiratory mortality. The time-series studied comprises years with lower level interventions to control air pollution (2003-2006) and years with high level interventions in preparation for and during the Olympics/Paralympics (2007-2008). Concentrations of PM10, SO2, and NO2, were measured daily during the study period. A generalized additive model was used to evaluate daily numbers of cardiovascular/respiratory deaths in relation to each air pollutant, controlling for time trends and meteorological influences such as temperature and relative humidity. The results show that the daily cardiovascular/respiratory death rates were significantly associated with the concentration air pollutants, especially deaths related to cardiovascular disease. The current day effects of PM10 and NO2 were higher than that of single lags (distributed lags) and moving average lags for respiratory disease mortality. The largest RR of SO2 for respiratory disease mortality was in Lag02. For cardiovascular disease mortality, the largest RR was in Lag01 for PM10, and in current day (Lag0) for SO2 and NO2. NO2 was associated with the largest RRs for deaths from both cardiovascular disease and respiratory disease.
Synovial sarcomas account for up to 10 percent of soft-tissue sarcomas and include two major histologic subtypes, biphasic and monophasic, defined respectively by the presence and absence of glandular epithelial differentiation in a background of spindle tumor cells. A characteristic SYT-SSX fusion gene resulting from the chromosomal translocation t(X;18)(p11;q11) is detectable in almost all synovial sarcomas. The translocation fuses the SYT gene from chromosome 18 to either of two highly homologous genes at Xp11, SSX1 or SSX2. SYT-SSX1 and SYT-SSX2 are thought to tunction as aberrant transcriptional regulators. We attempted to determine the influence of the two alternative forms of the SYT-SSX fusion gene on tumor morphology and clinical outcome in patients with this sarcoma.
We analyzed SYT-SSX fusion transcripts in 45 synovial sarcomas (33 monophasic and 12 biphasic) by the reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and compared the results with relevant clinical and pathological data.
The SYT-SSX1 and SYT-SSX2 fusion transcripts were detected in 29 (64 percent) and 16 (36 percent) of the tumors, respectively. There was a significant relation (P=0.003) between histologic subtype (monophasic vs. biphasic) and SSX1 or SSX2 involvement in the fusion transcript: all 12 biphasic synovial sarcomas had a SYT-SSX1 fusion transcript, and all 16 tumors that were positive for SYT-SSX2 were monophasic. Kaplan-Meier analysis of 39 patients with localized tumors showed that the 15 patients with SYT-SSX2 had significantly better metastasis-free survival than the 24 patients with SYT-SSX1 (P=0.03 by multivariate analysis; relative risk, 3.0). There were no significant correlations between the type of SYT-SSX transcript and age, sex, tumor location and size, whether there were metastases at diagnosis, or whether patients underwent chemotherapy. Histologic subtype alone was not prognostically important.
The type of SYT-SSX fusion transcript correlates with both the histologic subtype and the clinical behavior of synovial sarcoma. SYT-SSX fusion transcripts are a defining diagnostic marker of synovial sarcomas and may also yield important independent prognostic information.
Preclinical data support the potential of the death-signaling receptors for TRAIL as targets for cancer therapy. However, it is unclear whether these death-signaling receptors suppress the emergence and growth of malignant tumors in vivo. Herein we show that TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand receptor (TRAIL-R), the only proapoptotic death-signaling receptor for TRAIL in the mouse, suppresses inflammation and tumorigenesis. Loss of a single TRAIL-R allele on the lymphoma-prone Emu-myc genetic background significantly reduced median lymphoma-free survival. TRAIL-R-deficient lymphomas developed with equal frequency irrespective of mono- or biallelic loss of TRAIL-R, had increased metastatic potential, and showed apoptotic defects relative to WT littermates. In addition, TRAIL-R-/- mice showed decreased long-term survival following a sublethal dose of ionizing radiation. Histological evaluation of moribund irradiated TRAIL-R-/- animals showed hallmarks of bronchopneumonia as well as tumor formation with increased NF-kappaB p65 expression. TRAIL-R also suppressed diethylnitrosamine-induced (DEN-induced) hepatocarcinogenesis, as an increased number of large tumors with apoptotic defects developed in the livers of DEN-treated TRAIL-R-/- mice. Thus TRAIL-R may function as an inflammation and tumor suppressor in multiple tissues in vivo.
A five year-old boy undergoing elective tonsillectomy sustained cardiac arrest following the administration of a single dose of succinylcholine during induction of anesthesia. With a 10-minute cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) during which intravenous calcium gluconate, epinephrine, and sodium bicarbonate were given and DC counter shock applied, we were successful to restore cardiac activity without neurological sequelae. The cause of cardiac arrest we speculated was hyperkalemia, possibly secondary to succinylcholine-induced rhabdomyolysis. It is suggested that succinylcholine should not be used in patients with known or suspected muscular dystrophy.
Urinary tract infection (UTI) is a common illness, with > or =30% of all women experiencing a UTI during their lifetime. Less than a decade ago, the standard therapy for acute uncomplicated UTIs involved treatment with > or =7 days of an antibacterial agent, but recent studies using a variety of newly introduced antibiotics, including the fluoroquinolones, have demonstrated that a 1- to 5-day treatment regimen can be equally effective. This randomized, double-masked, multicenter study was conducted to compare the efficacy and tolerability of a single dose of sparfloxacin with those of a 3-day regimen of sparfloxacin and a 7-day regimen of ciprofloxacin in the treatment of women with community-acquired acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection. A total of 1175 women were enrolled; 395 received sparfloxacin as a single 400-mg dose on day 1, 394 received sparfloxacin as a 400-mg loading dose on day 1 followed by 200 mg once daily for 2 additional days, and 386 received ciprofloxacin 250 mg twice daily for 7 days. Patients were comparable with respect to demographic characteristics and underlying conditions. A total of 954 patients were clinically assessable; 490 of these were also bacteriologically assessable. All patients treated were included in the tolerability analysis. Escherichia coli (75.4%), Klebsiella pneumoniae (4.9%), Enterococcus faecalis (4.6%), and Staphylococcus saprophyticus (4.1%) were the most commonly isolated organisms. In the all-treated population, clinical success was achieved 5 to 9 days after therapy in 91.8%, 92.2%, and 91.6% of patients in the single-dose sparfloxacin, 3-day sparfloxacin, and 7-day ciprofloxacin groups, respectively; bacteriologic success was observed in 91.7%, 92.6%, and 96.6% of those in the 3 groups. Sustained clinical success rates 4 to 6 weeks after therapy were 76.6%, 80.2%, and 79.5% in the single-dose sparfloxacin, 3-day sparfloxacin, and 7-day ciprofloxacin groups, respectively; sustained bacteriologic success rates were 80.7%, 90.1%, and 92.6%. The most common adverse events were nausea, headache, vaginal thrush, dizziness, and diarrhea; >92% of adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. The 2 drugs had comparable frequencies of adverse events, except for photosensitivity, which occurred in 3.3% of the 3-day sparfloxacin group, 1.3% of the single-dose sparfloxacin group, and 0.3% of the ciprofloxacin group (P = 0.005). The 3-day sparfloxacin regimen was effective and well tolerated. The initial response to single-dose sparfloxacin treatment was comparable to the response to the other 2 regimens, but the single-dose regimen proved less effective over time, with higher rates of clinical recurrence and bacteriologic relapse. Sparfloxacin provides an alternative to ciprofloxacin for patients with acute uncomplicated urinary tract infection who are not at risk for photosensitivity reactions or adverse events associated with a prolonged corrected QT interval.
Bepridil, a novel active compound for prophylactic treatment of anginal attacks, induced persistent bradycardia and a non-specific anti-tachycardial effect, the mechanisms of which were investigated in vitro and in vivo. In vitro perfusion of bepridil in the life-support medium for isolated sino-atrial tissue from rabbit heart, caused a reduction in action potential (AP) spike frequency (recorded by KCl microelectrodes) starting at doses of 5 X 10(-6) M. This effect was dose-dependent up to concentrations of 5 X 10(-5) M, whereupon blockade of sinus activity set in. Bepridil at a dose of 5 X 10(-6) M, induced a concomitant reduction in AP amplitude (falling from 71 +/- 8 mV to 47 +/- 6 mV), maximum systolic depolarization velocity (phase 0) which fell from 1.85 +/- 0.35 V/s to 0.84 +/- 0.28 V/s, together with maximum diastolic depolarization velocity (phase 4) which fell from 38 +/- 3 mV/s to 24 +/- 5 mV/s. In vivo injection of bepridil at a dose of 5 mg/kg (i.v.) into 6 anaesthetized dogs which had undergone ablation of all the extrinsic cardiac afferent nerve supply, together with a bilateral medullo-adrenalectomy, caused a marked reduction in heart rate which fell from 98.7 +/- 4.2 beats/min to 76 +/- 5.3 beats/min sustained for more than 45 min. It is concluded that bepridil reduces heart rate by acting directly on the sinus node. This effect, which results in a flattening of the phase 0 and phase 4 slope, together with a longer AP duration, may be due to an increase in the time constants of slow inward ionic currents (already demonstrated elsewhere), but also to an increased time constant for deactivation of the outward potassium current (Ip).
Linear IgA bullous dermatosis of childhood is the most common immunobullous disorder of childhood. First-line treatment includes dapsone or sulfapyridine. We report a child with linear IgA dermatosis who was treated successfully with colchicine after developing hemolytic anemia from dapsone. We recommend colchicine as an alternative therapy for linear IgA dermatosis of childhood in patients in whom first-line treatment is contraindicated or who fail first-line treatment or develop side effects from it.
In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel trial of intravenous nadolol in the treatment of sustained supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), 29 patients (20 men, 9 women) were studied. Mean age was 55 years and all patients were required to have well-documented SVT with a ventricular rate greater than or equal to 120/min that was sustained for at least 30 minutes. Patients received sequential doses of 0.01, 0.02 and 0.04 mg/kg of nadolol or placebo at 10 minute intervals. The maximum total dosage of nadolol was 10 mg. Measurements taken during 10 minute monitoring periods after each administration included heart rate, ventricular rate and systolic and diastolic blood pressures. A positive response was defined as a greater than or equal to 20% decrease in heart rate, heart rate less than or equal to 100 beats/min or conversion to normal sinus rhythm. Eleven (79%) of patients given nadolol and 3 (20%) of placebo-treated patients demonstrated a positive response. Of the 11 responders to nadolol, 9 patients responded after the first dose, one after the second dose and one after the third dose. Significant (p less than 0.001) mean reductions in heart rate and ventricular rate were observed with nadolol, but not with placebo. Five (36%) of the patients given nadolol and only 2 (14%) of the patients who received placebo were converted to normal sinus rhythm. Adverse effects were limited to 1 episode of asymptomatic hypotension and 1 episode of wheezing with nadolol and 1 episode of asymptomatic hypotension with placebo. Nadolol is effective in controlling ventricular response in patients with sustained SVT.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Four genes encode electroneutral, Na+-independent, K-Cl cotransporters. KCC2, is exclusively expressed in neurons where it is thought to drive intracellular Cl- to low concentrations and shift the reversal potential for Cl- conductances such as GABA(A) or glycine receptor channels, thus participating in the postnatal development of inhibitory mechanisms in the brain. Indeed, expression of the cotransporter is low at birth and increases postnatally, at a time when the intracellular Cl- concentration in neurons decreases and gamma-aminobutyric acid switches its effect from excitatory to inhibitory. To assert the significance of KCC2 in neuronal function, we disrupted the mouse gene encoding this neuronal-specific K-Cl cotransporter. We demonstrate that animals deficient in KCC2 exhibit frequent generalized seizures and die shortly after birth. We also show upregulation of Fos, the product of the immediate early gene c-fos, and the significant loss of parvalbumin-positive interneurons, both indicative of brain injury. The regions most affected are the hippocampus and temporal and entorhinal cortices. Extracellular field potential measurements in the CA1 hippocampus exhibited hyperexcitability. Application of picrotoxin, a blocker of the GABA(A) receptor, further increased hyperexcitability in homozygous hippocampal sections. Pharmacological treatment of pups showed that diazepam relieved the seizures while phenytoin prevented them between postnatal ages P4-P12. Finally, we demonstrate that adult heterozygote animals show increased susceptibility for epileptic seizure and increased resistance to the anticonvulsant effect of propofol. Taken together, these results indicate that KCC2 plays an important role in controlling CNS excitability during both postnatal development and adult life.
Extensive cutaneous burns caused by alkylating chemical warfare agent sulfur mustard (SM) have been associated with the severe suppression of the immune system in humans. We aimed to study the association between late cutaneous and immunological complications of SM poisoning.
Skin examination was performed on all SM-poisoned Iranian veterans in the province of Khorasan, Iran, who had significant clinical complications, and their SM intoxication was confirmed by toxicological analysis. Light microscopy was performed on eight skin biopsies. Blood cell counts, serum immunoglobulin and complement factor, as well as flow cytometric, analyses were performed on all the patients. The severity of cutaneous complications were classified into four grades and compared with hematological and immunological parameters, using Spearman's rank correlation test.
Forty male subjects, confirmed with SM poisoning 16-20 years earlier, were studied. The main objective findings were hyperpigmentation (55%), dry skin (40%), multiple cherry angiomas (37.5%), atrophy (27.5%), and hypopigmentation (25%). Histopathologic findings were nonspecific and compatible with hyperpigmented old atrophic scars. Except for the hematocrit and C4 levels, hematological and immunological parameters revealed no significant correlation with the severity grades of cutaneous complications.
Sulfur mustard is an alkylating agent with prolonged adverse effects on both the skin and the immune system. Although skin is a major transporting system for SM's systemic absorption, there is probably no correlation between the severity of late cutaneous and immunological complications of SM poisoning.
Response to treatment with antimonial drugs varies considerably depending on the parasite strain involved, immune status of the patient and clinical form of the disease. Therapeutic regimens with this first line drug have been frequently modified both, in dose and duration of therapy. A regimen of 20 mg/kg/day of pentavalent antimony (Sb5+) during four weeks without an upper limit on the daily dose is currently recommended for mucosal disease ("espundia"). Side-effects with this dose are more marked in elderly patients, more commonly affected by this form of leishmaniasis. According to our experience, leishmaniasis in Rio de Janeiro responds well to antimony and, in cutaneous disease, high cure rates are obtained with 5 mg/kg/day of Sb5+ during 30 to 45-days. In this study a high rate of cure (91.4%) employing this dose was achieved in 36 patients with mild disease in this same geographic region. Side-effects were reduced and no antimony refractoriness was noted with subsequent use of larger dose in patients that failed to respond to initial schedule.
