Xenobiotic induced liver injury is a leading cause for drug withdrawal and toxicogenomics may help to identify molecular causes. Here we report studies with cultures of human hepatocytes to detect early responses of liver toxicity upon treatment with the hepatotoxin Aroclor 1254. We studied transcript abundance of 302 genes with biological functions in detoxification, cell proliferation, tumor development, stress response, signal transduction, apoptosis and cell cycle regulation. More than 40 genes were regulated by at least twofold change, the majority coding for xenobiotic defense. In the case of CYP monooxygenases induction of coded protein was confirmed by Western immunoblotting whereas catalytic activities were determined by assaying for testosterone hydroxylase activity. There was good agreement between gene and protein expression and enzyme activity of CYP monooxygenases. In conclusion, xenobiotic induced hepatotoxicity may arise via several mechanisms and gene expression profiling helps to pinpoint location and pathways perturbed by drugs and chemicals.
To examine the pattern of immunoglobulins and cellular constituents in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid obtained from patients with sulfur mustard gas-induced asthma or chronic bronchitis as compared with healthy control subjects.
We studied two groups of nonsmoking veterans with either bronchial asthma (n = 21) or chronic bronchitis (n = 28) believed to have been caused by sulfur mustard gas exposure and a third group of healthy, nonsmoking, non-sulfur mustard gas exposed controls (n = 17). Bronchoalveolar lavage was performed in all three groups. The cellular constituents, albumin content, and immunoglobulin concentrations were determined.
The three groups did not differ in age or in the serum albumin and immunoglobulin concentrations. The volume of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid recovered was approximately 10% less in the patients with asthma and chronic bronchitis (P = 0.008). The proportions of lymphocytes among the bronchoalveolar lavage cells were similar in all three groups, whereas the proportion of eosinophils was greater in lavage fluid from the asthmatic subjects than in either the healthy control subjects or the patients with chronic bronchitis (P = 0.0001). Both the total number of the recovered cells per milliliter of lavage fluid and the proportion of neutrophils were significantly greater in bronchoalveolar lavage from patients with chronic bronchitis than in healthy subjects or in the patients with asthma (all P <0.001).
The bronchoalveolar lavage cellular constituents of patients with sulfur mustard gas-induced asthma and chronic bronchitis are similar to those that have been observed previously in patients with asthma and chronic bronchitis from other common causes.
Nevirapine (NVP) treatment is associated with a significant incidence of skin rash in humans, and it also causes a similar immune-mediated skin rash in Brown Norway (BN) rats. We have shown that the sulfate of a major oxidative metabolite, 12-OH-NVP, covalently binds in the skin. The fact that the sulfate metabolite is responsible for covalent binding in the skin does not prove that it is responsible for the rash. We used various inhibitors of sulfation to test whether this reactive sulfate is responsible for the skin rash. Salicylamide (SA), which depletes 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate (PAPS) in the liver, significantly decreased 12-OH-NVP sulfate in the blood, but it did not prevent covalent binding in the skin or the rash. Topical application of 1-phenyl-1-hexanol, a sulfotransferase inhibitor, prevented covalent binding in the skin as well as the rash, but only where it was applied. In vitro incubations of 12-OH-NVP with PAPS and cytosolic fractions from the skin of rats or from human skin also led to covalent binding that was inhibited by 1-phenyl-1-hexanol. Incubation of 12-OH-NVP with PAPS and sulfotransferase 1A1*1, a human isoform that is present in the skin, also led to covalent binding, and this binding was also inhibited by 1-phenyl-1-hexanol. We conclude that salicylamide did not deplete PAPS in the skin and was unable to prevent covalent binding or the rash, while topical 1-phenyl-1-hexanol inhibited sulfation of 12-OH-NVP in the skin and did prevent covalent binding and the rash. These results provide definitive evidence that 12-OH-NVP sulfate formed in skin is responsible for NVP-induced skin rashes. Sulfotransferase is one of the few metabolic enzymes with significant activity in the skin, and it may be responsible for the bioactivation of other drugs that cause skin rashes.
Drug resistance is a major concern in the successful treatment of ovarian cancer. In the present study we report a combinational drug regime using arsenic trioxide (ATO) and cisplatin (CDDP) to increase therapeutic potentiality in ovarian cancer cells. ATO-mediated growth inhibition and apoptosis in human suspension ovarian cancer COC1 cells were evaluated by MTT assay and annexin V assay using flow cytometry, respectively. cDNA arrays were performed to screen ATO-mediated gene expression. Treatment of COC1 cells with ATO alone resulted in growth inhibition and apoptosis with a dose-and time-dependent fashion; further cDNA arrays showed that 34 genes (23 up-regulated genes and 11 down-regulated genes) may strongly associate with the antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects induced by ATO. Furthermore, Chou-Talalay analysis was used to evaluate the combinational effect of ATO and CDDP as well as dose-reduction index (DRI) in a panel of ovarian cancer cells including CDDP-sensitive and -resistant cell lines. The combination index (CI) analysis indicated that the interaction effect of ATO/CDDP exhibited a wide range of synergism in all the adherent ovarian cancer cells (A2780, IGROV-1, SKOV-3, and R182) as well as 0.93 to 0.69 for IC(50) to IC(90) in suspension COC1 cells where CI < 1, =1, and >1, define synergism, additive effect, and antagonism, respectively. More intriguingly, the combination of ATO and CDDP yielded favorable DRIs ranging from 1.23-fold to 13.51-fold dose reduction. These results suggest that ATO and its combination with CDDP present therapeutic potential for ovarian cancer, and deserve further preclinical and clinical studies.
Pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) is an useful model to study the involvement of neurotransmitter systems as epileptogenesis modulators. Some researches have shown that pharmacological manipulations in dopaminergic, serotonergic, and noradrenergic systems alter the occurrence of pilocarpine-induced SE. The control group was treated with 0.9% saline (control group, s.c.). Another group of rats received pilocarpine (400mg/kg, s.c.) and both groups were sacrificed 24 h after the treatment. This work was performed to determine the alterations in monoamine levels (dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE)) and their metabolites (3,4-hydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanilic acid (HVA), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA)) after pilocarpine-induced SE in hippocampus and frontal cortex of adult rats. The monoamines and their metabolites were determined by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. DA and 5-HIAA concentrations were not altered in the hippocampus of the pilocarpine group, but in the same group the 5-HT (160%), DOPAC (316%) and HVA (21%) levels increased, whereas, the NE (47%) content declined. For the frontal cortex determinations, there was an increase of 20 and 72% in DA and DOPAC levels, respectively, and a decrease in NE (32%), 5-HT (33%) and 5-HIAA (19%) concentrations, but HVA content remained unaltered. These results indicate that pilocarpine-induced SE can alter monoamine levels in different ways depending on the brain area studied, suggesting that different mechanisms are involved.
Diclofenac is a non steroïdal anti-inflammatory drug. In 1978, the case of a myoclonic encephalopathy appearing three days after starting a treatment with this drug in a patients with renal insufficiency was published. A few months later, we observed a case of myoclonus of the lower limbs in a young man in good general status, without renal insufficiency, after four full months of this treatment. Myoclonus vanished 48 hours after withdrawal of the drug.
We investigated the effects of YM264, WEB2086, methylprednisolone and ticlopidine on puromycin-induced nephropathy in the rat. Puromycin produces marked proteinuria, hypercholesterolemia, and hypoalbuminemia. The structurally differing PAF antagonists YM264 and WEB2086 inhibited proteinuria and improved hypercholesterolemia and hypoalbuminemia. Methylprednisolone also exhibited a beneficial effect on these variables. However, ticlopidine, a platelet inhibitor, showed no inhibitory effect on nephropathy. These results indicate that PAF may play a major role in puromycin-induced nephropathy in the rat, and that PAF antagonists may prove of therapeutic value in the treatment of nephropathy in humans.
There have been few reported ocular side effects of parenterally administered deferoxamine when used for the treatment of transfusional iron overload or acute iron poisoning. No auditory side effects have previously been reported. We describe two siblings with beta-thalassemia major who, while receiving daily subcutaneous infusions of deferoxamine, experienced visual loss secondary to optic neuropathy and sensorineural hearing loss. After discontinuation of the drug one sibling showed almost complete reversal of the optic neuropathy, but the other had a permanent unilateral visual loss. Both had a permanent hearing loss but benefited from hearing aids. The mechanism of these complications is presently unknown. Patients receiving deferoxamine should be closely monitored for ocular and auditory side effects. When such effects are detected the drug should be discontinued and the patient observed for improvement. When improvement has stabilized, therapy should be restarted at a reduced dosage.
The pathogenesis of myopathy due to HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors is not entirely clear but the existence of myopathy due to other lipid-lowering medications suggests it is mediated through effects on lipid metabolism. We describe a patient who developed a myopathy after 27 months of ingestion of orlistat that slowly improved after discontinuation of the drug. Orlistat may have caused this myopathy through depletion of a critical nutrient or through some as of yet undefined mechanism.
The aim of the study was to investigate the cytotoxic activity of camalexin and its five synthetic derivatives in cancer and non-cancer cells. In cancer cells the benzocamalexin (BC) displayed the most potent activity with an IC value of 23.3-30.1 μmol/L. On the other hand, minimal toxicity (IC>100.0 μmol/L) in non-cancer cells was observed. Based on these results, BC was selected for further studies. Flow cytometric analysis revealed a BC-induced arrest of the cell cycle in the G2 phase associated with downregulation of α-tubulin, α1-tubulin, β5-tubulin expression. These findings suggest that the inhibitory effect of BC is mediated via inhibition of microtubule formation. Moreover, BC downregulated the expression of microtubule-related protein indicating the effect of this compound on microtubule assembly. After treatment with BC increase of the sub-G DNA content fraction was noted which is considered to be a marker of apoptotic cell death. Apoptosis was also confirmed by DNA fragmentation assay. Moreover, quantitative real-time PCR showed that BC downregulated the expression of antiapoptotic genes Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL and upregulated the expression of proapoptotic Bax. Taken together, our study suggests that the blockade of cell cycle progression and initiation of apoptosis may play an important role in the antiproliferative activity of BC in human cancer cells.
To identify genetic susceptibility loci for hepatitis B virus (HBV)-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in the Chinese population, we carried out a genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 2,514 chronic HBV carriers (1,161 HCC cases and 1,353 controls) followed by a 2-stage validation among 6 independent populations of chronic HBV carriers (4,319 cases and 4,966 controls). The joint analyses showed that HCC risk was significantly associated with two independent loci: rs7574865 at STAT4, P(meta) = 2.48 × 10(-10), odds ratio (OR) = 1.21; and rs9275319 at HLA-DQ, P(meta) = 2.72 × 10(-17), OR = 1.49. The risk allele G at rs7574865 was significantly associated with lower mRNA levels of STAT4 in both the HCC tissues and nontumor tissues of 155 individuals with HBV-related HCC (P(trend) = 0.0008 and 0.0002, respectively). We also found significantly lower mRNA expression of STAT4 in HCC tumor tissues compared with paired adjacent nontumor tissues (P = 2.33 × 10(-14)).
The aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of N-acetylcysteine (NAC) given 30 minutes before carboplatin administration on carboplatin-induced ototoxicity and nitric oxide (NO) levels in a rat model.
Animal study.
Eighteen Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups that each contained six animals. Intraperitoneal injection of physiologic saline was performed in group 1 twice with an interval of 30 minutes. Group 2 was treated with a single bolus administration of carboplatin at a dose of 256 mg/kg 30 minutes after the intraperitoneal injection of physiologic saline. Group 3 was treated with a single bolus administration of carboplatin at a dose of 256 mg/kg 30 minutes after the intraperitoneal injection of NAC at a dose of 400 mg/kg. Pretreatment and posttreatment distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) were performed in rats from all groups. Then, the animals were sacrificed on the fourth day, and cochlear tissue NO and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) levels were measured.
The comparison of pre- and posttreatment DPOAE responses did not demonstrate any significant changes for groups 1 and 3. Results of group 2 showed a decrease of the DPOAE amplitude. Cochlear NO levels were significantly higher in rats treated with carboplatin than in controls and in those treated with carboplatin plus NAC (P < .05). Cochlear GSH-Px levels were higher in rats treated with carboplatin plus NAC than in those treated with carboplatin, but the difference did not reach statistical significance (P = .079).
The present study showed that carboplatin at higher doses induced hearing loss and increased NO levels in the cochlea of rats. NAC appears to have a protective effect against carboplatin-induced ototoxicity, which may be related to its inhibitory effect on NO production.
In this study, the influence of lithium administration on morphine-induced memory impairment and possible interactions with dopamine receptor mechanism have been investigated. Considering that the dorsal hippocampus is involved in memory, lithium and dopamine agents were injected into the CA1 regions of this site (intra-CA1). For memory assessment, a one-trial step-down inhibitory avoidance task was used in adult male mice. The results showed that posttraining subcutaneous administration of morphine (5 mg/kg) decreased the step-down latency on the test day, and this effect was reversed by pretest administration of the drug, which may be a form of morphine state-dependent learning. Interestingly, pretest intra-CA1 microinjection of different doses of lithium (2 and 4 microg/mouse) reversed memory impairment induced by posttraining morphine (5 mg/kg, subcutaneously). In contrast, pretest intra-CA1 administration of either D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.01-1 microg/mouse) or D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride (5-10 microg/mouse) inhibited the improvement of memory retrieval by lithium (4 microg/mouse, intra-CA1). Single pretest administration of SCH23390 or sulpiride neither elicited any response, nor reversed morphine-induced amnesia. In conclusion, it can be suggested that the dorsal hippocampal dopaminergic system is involved in the improving response of lithium on morphine-induced amnesia.
Two groups of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or non-Hodgkin lymphoma, treated with anthracyclines (ANT), were studied: group I, consisting of 10 patients, with coenzyme Q10 (CoQ) therapy; group II, consisting of 10 patients without CoQ therapy. The ANT cumulative dose was 240 +/- 20.0 mg/m2 in group I and 252.0 +/- 20.1 mg/m2 in group II. Echocardiographic study was performed at the beginning, at the cumulative dose of 180 mg/m2 and at the end of therapy with ANT. Percentage left ventricular fractional shortening (%LVFS) decreased from baseline (40.36 +/- 4.6) to end value (35.82 +/- 5.02) (P < 0.05) in group I; %LVFS decreased from baseline (39.89 +/- 4.37) to end value (33.43 +/- 3.46) (P < 0.002) in group II. Interventricular septum wall thickening decreased only in group II from baseline (46.10 +/- 10.1) to end therapy (27.00 +/- 18.54) (P < 0.01). Septum wall motion abnormalities were detected only in 2 patients of group II. These data demonstrate a protective effect of CoQ on cardiac function during therapy with ANT.
In the present paper rat hepatocytes in primary monolayer culture were used to investigate the adverse effects of chlorpromazine (CPZ) at the cellular level. As revealed by thin sectioning many of the ultrastructural alterations were comparable to those described for the isolated perfused rat liver under the influence of CPZ. Alterations comprised short-term effects, such as dilation of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and the nuclear envelope, and long-term effects including huge accumulations of myeloid bodies within the cytoplasm as well as dilation and diverticulation of bile canaliculi. Freeze-fracturing revealed the dislocation of intramembrane particles in the sinusoidal plasma membrane which could be detected as early as 30 min after exposure to CPZ. As judged from filipin cytochemistry, alterations in the cholesterol content seems to play a minor role in the process of membrane damage except at the sinusoidal surface where a reduction of cholesterol content may contribute to the impairment of membrane functions. It is concluded that CPZ exerts its cholestatic effect primarily by a rapid disturbance of the membrane architecture of the sinusoidal surface and secondarily by other interactions with the bile secretory apparatus.
To assess changes induced by lithium maintenance therapy on the incidence of thyroid, parathyroid and ion alterations. These were evaluated with respect to the duration of lithium therapy, age, sex, and family history (whether or not the patient had a first-degree relative with thyroid disease).
Prospective study.
Affective Disorders Clinic at St. Mary's Hospital, Montreal.
One hundred and one patients (28 men and 73 women) with bipolar disorder receiving lithium maintenance therapy ranging from 1 year's to 32 years' duration. The control group consisted of 82 patients with no psychiatric or endocrinological diagnoses from the hospital's out-patient clinics.
Laboratory analyses of calcium, magnesium and thyroid-stimulating hormone levels performed before beginning lithium therapy and at biannual follow-up.
Hypothyroidism developed in 40 patients, excluding 8 patients who were hypothyroid at baseline. All patients having first-degree relatives affected by thyroid illness had accelerated onset of hypothyroidism (3.7 years after onset of lithium therapy) compared with patients without a family history (8.6 years after onset of lithium therapy). Women over 60 years of age were more often affected by hypothyroidism than women under 60 years of age (34.6% versus 31.9%). Magnesium levels in patients on lithium treatment were unchanged from baseline levels. After lithium treatment, calcium levels were higher than either baseline levels or control levels. Thus, lithium treatment counteracted the decrease in plasma calcium levels associated with aging.
Familial thyroid illness is a risk factor for hypothyroidism and hypercalcemia during lithium therapy.
A case of acute cholestatic hepatitis associated with use of propafenone is reported. Hepatitis developed 3 weeks after the beginning of administration of this drug. The close time relationship between the administration of the antiarrhythmic drug and the acute onset of the liver damage, the exclusion of hepatobiliary disease and the rapid normalisation of biochemical parameters following withdrawal of the drug strongly suggest that propafenone was involved in the pathogenesis of this syndrome. Meticulous taking of patient history and clinical assessment are mandatory for the early identification of drug-induced hepatotoxicity and avoidance of more severe types of reactions, such as liver failure.
Methamphetamine has become a major public health issue globally, particularly in the United States. Despite this, no effective pharmacotherapy for methamphetamine abuse has been developed to date. This 6-week, open-label pilot clinical trial examined the safety and tolerability of modafinil up to 400 mg/d in 8 methamphetamine-dependent individuals. Subjects were inducted onto modafinil at 400 mg/d for more than 3 days and remained on 400 mg/d for 4.5 weeks. Participants received weekly blister packs and underwent weekly individual cognitive behavioral therapy. Adjunctive contingency management procedures were used to enhance retention. Vital signs and supervised urine samples were obtained thrice weekly, and self-reported drug use and Hamilton anxiety and depression ratings were completed once weekly. Eight subjects (50% female, 100% white, aged 35-52 years) were enrolled. Four completed the 6-week study, 3 completed a portion, and 1 withdrew consent before completing intake. Results showed that systolic blood pressure (t = 1.09, P = 0.28), diastolic blood pressure, (t = 1.18, P = 0.24), and heart rate (t = 1.55, P = 0.13) did not change over time. Scores on the modafinil side effects checklist (t = -2.63, P = 0.01), Hamilton anxiety scale (t = -2.50, P = 0.018), and Hamilton depression scale (t = -3.25, P = 0.003) all decreased over time. The proportion of urine positive for amphetamines did not change over time (t = -0.52, P = 0.61), whereas self-reported methamphetamine use did (t = -2.86, P < 0.005). These results suggest that modafinil at 400 mg/d is safe and tolerable for methamphetamine-dependent individuals.
Divalproex (DVP) delayed release and DVP extended release (DVP ER) are approved by the Food and Drug Administration for bipolar disorder, epilepsy, and migraine prophylaxis. Divalproex ER is given once daily, improving compliance and reducing adverse events. Overnight switch to DVP ER is advised in the package insert but could produce more adverse events in this susceptible population. In this pilot study, we compared tolerability of overnight versus gradual switching to DVP ER in 16 adults with intellectual and developmental disabilities receiving DVP, in 9 for epilepsy and in all 16 for comorbid bipolar disorder. The study design was open with parallel groups. Sixteen subjects with intellectual and developmental disabilities were randomized to overnight or gradual conversion for 4 to 6 days. A blinded rater completed the Multidimensional Observation Scale for Elderly Subjects on days +1, +4, and +8 after the switch began. We found no major differences between the 2 groups at each time point. Neither group of subjects, except for 1 subject in the overnight group, manifested sedation, seizures, worsening of tremor, or gastrointestinal adverse events. One subject in the overnight group manifested acute diarrhea and vomiting, followed by a very brief tonic leg seizure 6 days later. Larger studies are warranted.
A 56-year-old man who had undergone curative gastrectomy for Borrmann 2 type gastric cancer 43 months before, had a cancer recurrence (liver metastasis and peritoneal dissemination). Intra-arterial hypertensive chemotherapy with MMC for liver metastasis and intra-arterial sequential MTX/5-FU chemotherapy for peritoneal dissemination were given. He died of lung cancer with brain metastasis 27 months after this therapy. But in autopsy the remarkable effects of chemotherapy were recognized in intra-abdominal recurrent sites, and in fact, microscopically no cancer cells were found in metastatic lesions. We thus concluded that intra-arterial noradrenaline-induced hypertensive MMC therapy for liver metastasis and intra-arterial sequential MTX/5-FU therapy for peritoneal dissemination were useful treatment.
A 46-year-old asplenic, nonatopic woman experienced at least one severe generalized reaction to ibuprofen. During her initial hospitalization for suspected septic shock, several laboratory results suggested disseminated intravascular coagulation. Results of oral dye, preservative, and aspirin challenges and tests for systemic lupus erythematosus were negative. She had remained well since she stopped taking ibuprofen. Awareness of the possibility of severe reactions to ibuprofen should be maintained when this medication is prescribed.
The purpose of the present study was to compare influence of central arginine vasopressin (AVP) and of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) on control of arterial blood pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) in normotensive (WKY) and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats. Three series of experiments were performed on 30 WKY and 30 SHR, chronically instrumented with guide tubes in the lateral ventricle (LV) and arterial and venous catheters. MAP and HR were monitored before and after i.v. injections of either vehicle or 1, 10 and 50 ng of AVP and 25, 125 and 500 ng of ANP. Sensitivity of cardiac component of baroreflex (CCB), expressed as a slope of the regression line was determined from relationships between systolic arterial pressure (SAP) and HR period (HRp) during phenylephrine (Phe)-induced hypertension and sodium nitroprusside (SN)-induced hypotension. CCB was measured before and after administration of either vehicle, AVP, ANP, or both peptides together. Increases of MAP occurred after LV administration of 1, 10 and 50 ng of AVP in WKY and of 10 and 50 ng in SHR. ANP did not cause significant changes in MAP in both strains as compared to vehicle, but it abolished AVP-induced MAP increase in WKY and SHR. CCB was reduced in WKY and SHR after LV administration of AVP during SN-induced hypotension. In SHR but not in WKY administration of ANP, AVP and ANP + AVP decreased CCB during Phe-induced MAP elevation. The results indicate that centrally applied AVP and ANP exert differential effects on blood pressure and baroreflex control of heart rate in WKY and SHR and suggest interaction of these two peptides in blood pressure regulation at the level of central nervous system.
We investigated cardiac hypertrophy elicited by rosiglitazone treatment at the level of protein synthesis/degradation, mTOR, MAPK and AMPK signalling pathways, cardiac function and aspects of carbohydrate/lipid metabolism. Hearts of rats treated or not with rosiglitazone (15 mg/kg day) for 21 days were evaluated for gene expression, protein synthesis, proteasome and calpain activities, signalling pathways, and function by echocardiography. Rosiglitazone induced eccentric heart hypertrophy associated with increased expression of ANP, BNP, collagen I and III and fibronectin, reduced heart rate and increased stroke volume. Rosiglitazone robustly increased heart glycogen content ( approximately 400%), an effect associated with increases in glycogenin and UDPG-PPL mRNA levels and glucose uptake, and a reduction in glycogen phosphorylase expression and activity. Cardiac triglyceride content, lipoprotein lipase activity and mRNA levels of enzymes involved in fatty acid oxidation were also reduced by the agonist. Rosiglitazone-induced cardiac hypertrophy was associated with an increase in myofibrillar protein content and turnover (increased synthesis and an enhancement of calpain-mediated myofibrillar degradation). In contrast, 26S beta5 chymotryptic proteasome activity and mRNA levels of 20S beta2 and beta5 and 19S RPN 2 proteasome subunits along with the ubiquitin ligases atrogin and CHIP were all reduced by rosiglitazone. These morphological and biochemical changes were associated with marked activation of the key growth-promoting mTOR signalling pathway, whose pharmacological inhibition with rapamycin completely blocked cardiac hypertrophy induced by rosiglitazone. The study demonstrates that both arms of protein balance are involved in rosiglitazone-induced cardiac hypertrophy, and establishes the mTOR pathway as a novel important mediator therein.
Prevention of variceal bleeding, a major cause of morbidity and mortality, is an important goal in the management of patients with portal hypertension (PHT). Although propranolol has been found useful in preventing the first episode of variceal bleeding (primary prophylaxis) in cirrhotic PHT, it has limitations which include side effects, contraindications, non-compliance and failure in some patients. Endoscopic variceal ligation (EVL) has not been used for primary prophylaxis.
Thirty cirrhotic patients with PHT, grade III to IV oesophageal varices, hepatic venous pressure gradient > or = 12 mmHg and no prior history of upper gastrointestinal bleeding were randomized to receive propranolol (to reduce their pulse rate by 25% from baseline, n = 15) and EVL (weekly to fortnightly until variceal eradication, n = 15). The two groups were comparable. All the patients in EVL group had variceal eradication during 3.8 +/- 2.2 sessions.
There was no major complication or interval bleeding. During a follow-up period of 17.6 +/- 4.7 months, varices recurred in three, two of which bled (successfully treated by EVL). In contrast, during this period of follow up one patient in the propranolol group had variceal bleeding (P=NS). Side effects of propranolol included symptomatic bradycardia requiring reduction of dose in one of 15 patients.
Although sample size in this study is small, it seems that EVL may be a good option for primary prophylaxis for variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhotic PHT; further studies on a larger number of patients and longer follow up are required.
Several million people are exposed to dioxin and dioxin-like compounds, primarily through food consumption. Skin lesions historically called "chloracne" are the most specific sign of abnormal dioxin exposure and classically used as a key marker in humans. We followed for 5 years a man who had been exposed to the most toxic dioxin, 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), at a single oral dose of 5 million-fold more than the accepted daily exposure in the general population. We adopted a molecular medicine approach, aimed at identifying appropriate therapy. Skin lesions, which progressively covered up to 40% of the body surface, were found to be hamartomas, which developed parallel to a complete and sustained involution of sebaceous glands, with concurrent transcriptomic alterations pointing to the inhibition of lipid metabolism and the involvement of bone morphogenetic proteins signaling. Hamartomas created a new compartment that concentrated TCDD up to 10-fold compared with serum and strongly expressed the TCDD-metabolizing enzyme cytochrome P450 1A1, thus representing a potentially significant source of enzymatic activity, which may add to the xenobiotic metabolism potential of the classical organs such as the liver. This historical case provides a unique set of data on the human tissue response to dioxin for the identification of new markers of exposure in human populations. The herein discovered adaptive cutaneous response to TCDD also points to the potential role of the skin in the metabolism of food xenobiotics.
