Three patients suffering from Bartter's syndrome were studied before and after 5 days of treatment with the prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors, aspirin and indomethacin. Saralasin was given by intravenous infusion in increasing doses from 0.6 to 42 micrograms/min.kg/BW. During saralasin infusion a blood pressure reduction was observed in all patients. Aspirin treatment did not affect this response and nor did it affect other manifestations of the syndrome. Indomethacin treatment changed the blood pressure response to saralasin in such a way that the blood pressure was increased in one patient and was unchanged in the other. Indomethacin also tended to normalize other features of Bartter's syndrome, such as the hyperreninaemia and angiotensin unresponsiveness, but did not affect the hypokalaemia. The saralsin effect on blood pressure is thus evidently inversely related to the prevailing activity of the renin-angiotensin system in this condition also, and the patients obviously depended on the renin-angiotensin system to maintain their blood pressure. Our findings, together with data in the literature, indicate that angiotensin unresponsiveness of the vascular bed is not a primary feature in Bartter's syndrome. Chloride loss is currently thought to be the basic abnormality and this may link the Bartter's syndrome with other diseased states characterized by chloride loss, such as the syndrome of habitual vomiting and chronic treatment with loop diuretics.
Administration of isoproterenol to mice at a dose of 30 mg/100 g body weight for 3 consecutive days at an interval of 24 h induced lipid peroxidation in cardiac tissue and exhibited a significantly elevated serum glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (SGOT) level. Increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity with a concomitant decrease in catalase activity has also been observed in cardiac tissue with isoproterenol treatment. Quinidine, a class I antiarrhythmic agent has been found to exhibit a protective role in isoproterenol induced myocardial ischaemia. Cardiac tissue of quinidine treated mice showed reduction of lipid peroxidation reaction. In addition, quinidine treatment is found to influence the cardiac antioxidant enzymes - catalase and SOD. The decrease of SOD activity and increase of catalase activity suggests that quinidine also exerts an 'indirect antioxidant' effect in protecting the myocardial tissue from reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, our current in vitro studies with quinidine have clearly shown in this work that it possesses a very convincing hydroxyl radical scavenging potential with almost no ability to scavenge superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in vitro. Thus, our present investigation suggests that quinidine, when administered to mice, strengthens the antioxidant defense system to resist the free radical induced damage brought about by isoproterenol induced ischaemic condition.
Specific immunotherapies for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) might eliminate residual CML cells after therapy with imatinib or chemotherapy and might enhance a specific graft-versus-leukemia effect after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Here, we investigated the mRNA expression and T-cell recognition of tumor-associated antigens or leukemia-associated antigens (LAAs) in 34 patients with CML. Several LAAs are expressed in CML and therefore are candidate structures for specific immunotherapies: bcr-abl (100%), G250 (24%), hTERT (53%), MPP11 (91%), NEWREN60 (94%), PRAME (62%), Proteinase3 (71%), RHAMM/CD168 (83%), and WT1 (53%), but not BAGE, MAGE-A1, SSX2, or NY-ESO-1. The frequency of mRNA expression of RHAMM/CD168, Proteinase3, and PRAME was higher in acceleration phase and blast crisis. In flow cytometry, CD34+ progenitor cells typed positive for HLA molecules but were deficient for CD40, CD80, CD83, and CD86. However, RHAMM/CD168 R3-peptide (ILSLELMKL)-specific T-cell responses in CML patients were demonstrated by ELISPOT analysis and specific lysis of RHAMM/CD168 R3-pulsed T2 cells and CD34+ CML cells in chromium-51 release assays. RHAMM-R3-specific T cells could be phenotyped as CD8+R3*tetramer+CD45RA+CCR7-CD27- early effector T cells by tetramer staining. Therefore, vaccination strategies inducing such RHAMM-R3-directed effector T cells might be a promising approach to enhance specific immune responses against CML cells.
Genetic factors influence behavioral responses to cocaine as seen in comparisons of Lewis and Fischer 344 inbred rats. Lewis rats have lower D2-like receptor and Gi(alpha) levels in nucleus accumbens, an important area in behavioral responses to cocaine. This study assessed the effects of manipulating D2- and D1 levels pharmacologically in these strains. Experiment 1 investigated how the D2-like antagonist eticlopride (0.01-0.1 mg/kg), the D1-like antagonist SCH 23390 (0.005-0.05 mg/kg), the D2/D3 agonist quinpirole (0.001-0.1 mg/kg), and the partial D1 agonist SKF 38393 (0.1-10 mg/kg) affected responding for food under a fixed ratio 15 schedule. Quinpirole disrupted rates more readily in Lewis versus Fischer 344 rats. In experiment 2, the effects of these agents on cocaine discrimination (10 mg/kg) were examined. Quinpirole substituted and SCH 23390-attenuated cocaine discrimination in both strains. Doses of the drugs that did not disrupt responding in these experiments were tested in cocaine self-administration in experiment 3. Cocaine self-administration (0.25-1.0 mg/kg) was increased by eticlopride (0.03 mg/kg) in Lewis rats but had no effect in Fischer 344 rats, whereas SCH 23390 (0.01 mg/kg) led to greater increased cocaine self-administration in Fischer 344 versus Lewis rats. The dopamine agonists had differential effects on cocaine self-administration in the strains. Cocaine self-administration was decreased in Lewis rats and increased in Fischer 344 rats by SKF 38393 (1 mg/kg). These data show that manipulating D1- and D2-like receptor availability has strain-selective effects on the reinforcing, but not discriminative stimulus, effects of cocaine that are predicted by inherent differences in nucleus accumbens receptor populations.
No useful predictor of risk of acute heart failure in peripheral-blood stem-cell transplantation (PBSCT) regimens, Including high-dose cyclophosphamide, has previously been available. Corrected QT dispersion can predict acute heart failure after high-dose cyclophosphamide chemotherapy used in PBSCT.
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the incidence of warfarin use in 156 consecutive patients presenting to a single tertiary referral centre with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage. Our study found that 11% of patients (16/159) presenting with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage were on warfarin for prophylactic anticoagulation at time of presentation. Comparison was made to other published Australian data with regard to the incidence of warfarin use in patients presenting with spontaneous intracerebral haemorrhage. Patient outcomes were also examined.
Changes in glomerular anionic sites in puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis (PAN) in the rat are controversial. The authors examined glomerular anionic sites in PAN by in vivo staining with polyethyleneimine (PEI). They also quantitated and characterized glomerular heparan sulfate (HS), which is known to be a major glomerular polyanion in PAN, using in vivo incorporation of 35S-sulfate. PAN rats had a mean protein excretion of 96 +/- 23 mg per 24 hours. Staining of anionic sites with PEI showed 15.3 +/- 2.8 sites per 1000-nm length of glomerular basement membrane in controls, 13.7 +/- 1.9 sites in PAN rats (P greater than 0.05), and 50% of rats with early PAN had absent staining. Total 35S-sulfate incorporation was similar in both the controls and established PAN rats (2900 +/- 150 dpm/mg dry wt of glomeruli versus 3005 +/- 260, P greater than 0.05) but decreased in early PAN rats (2025 +/- 148). The percentage of 35S-sulfate incorporated into chondroitin sulfate was similar in all three groups of animals. HS uronic acid was also similar (1.8 +/- 0.2 g/mg dry wt of glomeruli versus 1.7 +/- 0.3, P greater than 0.05) but decreased in early PAN (1.1 +/- 0.2). The distribution of 35S-sulfate activity within the HS subfractions was examined by ion-exchange chromatography and showed a shift in percent present from 1.0 M to 1.25 M fraction in established and early PAN animals (control 1.0 M 37% +/- 3.2% versus PAN 19% +/- 3.4%, P less than 0.01, and 1.25 M 36% +/- 2.9% versus 53% +/- 2.9%, P less than 0.01). These results demonstrate that glomerular heparan sulfate is unchanged in established PAN but decreased in early PAN. SO4 incorporation is unchanged in established PAN and diminished in early PAN. Thus, early in PAN HS synthesis is impaired, but in established PAN the HS is normal, and changes in glomerular HS cannot explain the increased permeability.
Successful treatment in allergic, autoimmune, and infectious diseases often requires altering the nature of a detrimental immune response mediated by a particular CD4+ T helper (Th) cell subset. While several factors contribute to the development of CD4+ Th1 and Th2 cells, the requirements for switching an established response are not understood. Here we use infection with Leishmania major as a model to investigate those requirements. We report that treatment with interleukin 12 (IL-12), in combination with the antimony-based leishmanicidal drug Pentostam, induces healing in L. major-infected mice and that healing is associated with a switch from a Th2 to a Th1 response. The data suggest that decreasing antigen levels may be required for IL-12 to inhibit a Th2 response and enhance a Th1 response. These observations are important for treatment of nonhealing forms of human leishmaniasis and also demonstrate that in a chronic infectious disease an inappropriate Th2 response can be switched to an effective Th1 response.
To investigate whether infusing prostacyclin (PGI2) in patients with septic shock improves splanchnic oxygenation as assessed by gastric intramucosal pH (pHi).
Interventional clinical study.
Surgical ICU in a university hospital.
16 consecutive patients with septic shock according to the criteria of the ACCP/SCCM consensus conference all requiring norepinephrine to maintain arterial blood pressure.
All patients received PGI2 (10 ng/kg x min) after no further increase in oxygen delivery could be obtained by volume expansion, red cell transfusion and dobutamine infusion. The results were compared with those before and after conventional resuscitation. The patients received continuous PGI2 infusion for 33-32 days.
O2 uptake was measured directly in the respiratory gases, pHi was determined by tonometry. Baseline O2 delivery, O2 uptake and pHi were 466 +/- 122 ml/min.m2, 158 +/- 38 ml/min.m2, and 7.29 +/- 0.09, respectively. While O2 uptake remained unchanged, infusing PGI2 increased O2 delivery (from 610 +/- 140 to 682 +/- 155 ml/min.m2, p < 0.01) and pHi (from 7.32 +/- 0.09 to 7.38 +/- 0.08, p < 0.001) beyond the values obtained by conventional resuscitation. While 9 of 11 patients with final pHi > 7.35 survived, all patients with final pHi < 7.35 died (p < 0.01).
Infusing PGI2 in patients with septic shock increases pHi probably by enhancing blood flow to the splanchnic bed and thereby improves splanchnic oxygenation even when conventional resuscitation goals have been achieved.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
To study the dynamic changes of hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA in serum and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients after lamivudine therapy.
A total of 72 patients with chronic HBV infection were included in this study. All patients were confirmed to have the following conditions: above 16 years of age, elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), positive hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg), positive HBV DNA in serum and PBMCs, negative antibodies against HAV, HCV, HDV, HEV. Other possible causes of chronic liver damages, such as drugs, alcohol and autoimmune diseases were excluded. Seventy-two cases were randomly divided into lamivudine treatment group (n = 42) and control group (n = 30). HBV DNA was detected both in serum and in PBMCs by fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), during and after lamivudine treatment.
In the treatment group, HBV DNA became negative both in serum and in PBMC, of 38 and 25 out of 42 cases respectively during the 48 wk of lamivudine treatment, the negative rate was 90.5% and 59.5% respectively. In the control group, the negative rate was 23.3% and 16.7% respectively. It was statistically significant at 12, 24 and 48 wk as compared with the control group (P<0.005). The average conversion period of HBV DNA was 6 wk (2-8 wk) in serum and 16 wk (8-24 wk) in PBMC.
Lamivudine has remarkable inhibitory effects on HBV replication both in serum and in PBMCs. The inhibitory effect on HBV DNA in PBMCs is weaker than that in serum.
Bisphenol A (BPA), an estrogenic chemical, has been shown to reduce sperm count; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Herein, we show that oral administration of BPA (2 µg/kg) for consecutive 14 days in adult rats (BPA rats) significantly reduced the sperm count and the number of germ cells compared to controls. The serum levels of testosterone and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), as well as the level of GnRH mRNA in BPA rats were lower than those of control rats. Testosterone treatment could partially rescue the reduction of germ cells in BPA rats. Notably, the number of apoptotic germ cells was significantly increased in BPA rats, which was insensitive to testosterone. Furthermore, the levels of Fas, FasL and caspase-3 mRNA in the testicle of BPA rats were increased in comparison with controls. These results indicate that exposure to a low dose of BPA impairs spermatogenesis through decreasing reproductive hormones and activating the Fas/FasL signaling pathway.
To report a case of extensive cephalic and basilic venous thrombosis after fluorescein angiography.
Interventional case report.
A 38-year-old Chinese male presented with blurring of vision in his left eye. Clinical examination revealed central serous retinopathy, and a routine fluorescein angiography was performed.
He developed inflammation over the right arm over 4 days. Duplex scan disclosed extensive superficial venous thrombosis of the right upper limb with occlusion of the basilic vein and cephalic vein in the proximal right upper arm to the level of the midarm. He was treated medically but was subsequently lost to follow-up.
Extensive upper-extremity venous thrombosis is infrequent after single-shot intravenous cannulation. Venous thrombosis occurring after fluorescein angiography has not been reported up to this time. It is possible that proper arm positioning during the procedure may reduce this risk, and ophthalmologists should be vigilant of this potentially unusual complication.
L-glutamine is a non-essential amino acid. It decreased blood sugar, stimulated insulin secretion in type 2 diabetic patients. The objective of the present investigation was to evaluate L-glutamine increases glucagon like peptide-1 (GLP-1) (7-36) amide secretion in streptozotocin-nicotinamide (STZ-NTM) induced diabetic Sprague Dawley rats. Molecular docking study was performed to elucidate the molecular basis for GLP-1 receptor agonistic activity. Type 2 diabetes was induced in overnight fasted Sprague Dawley rats pre-treated with nicotinamide (100 mg/kg, i.p.) followed by 20 min after administration of streptozotocin (55 mg/kg, i.p.). The rats were divided into; I - nondiabetic, II - diabetic control, III - sitagliptin (5 mg/kg, p.o.), IV - L-glutamine (250 mg/kg, p.o.), V - L-glutamine (500 mg/kg, p.o.) and VI - L-glutamine (1000 mg/kg, p.o.). The L-glutamine and sitagliptin treatment was 8 week. Plasma glucose was estimated every week. Body weight, food and water intake were recorded daily. Glycosylated haemoglobin, lipid profile, plasma and colonic active (GLP-1) (7-36) amide, mRNA expression of proglucagon GLP-1, plasma and pancreatic insulin, histology of pancreata and biomarkers of oxidative stress (superoxidase dismutase, reduced glutathione, malondialdehyde, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione S transferase) were measured after 8 week. In acute study, the rats were divided into I - glucose (2.5 g/kg, p.o.), II - sitagliptin (5 mg/kg, p.o.), III - L-glutamine (250 mg/kg, p.o.), IV - L-glutamine (500 mg/kg, p.o.) and V - L-glutamine (1000 mg/kg, p.o.). Plasma glucose, active GLP-1 (7-36) amide concentration and insulin levels were measured after glucose loading. The docking data indicated that l-glutamine bind to the GLP-1 receptor. L-glutamine decreased plasma glucose, increased plasma and pancreatic insulin, increased plasma and colonic active GLP-1 (7-36) amide secretion as well as decreased oxidative stress in streptozotocin-nicotinamide induced diabetic rats.
The authors examined whether the presence of extrapyramidal side effects (EPS), measured before neuroleptic treatment was initiated, could be used to predict the development and severity of neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism (NIP) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Twenty-four newly medicated probable AD patients were assessed with a battery of measures of extrapyramidal motor function. Assessments were made before neuroleptic therapy, and 3 and 9 months after treatment. Posttreatment clinical findings revealed that 66.7% of the AD patients developed NIP. Patients who developed NIP exhibited more severe pretreatment bradykinesia on instrument-derived measures. These findings suggest that a substantial proportion of AD patients treated with neuroleptics develop significant EPS and that the risk for EPS can be estimated before intervention by use of instruments measuring motor function.
The study of two novel drugs for management of both painful and silent myocardial ischemia isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IS-5-MN), efox, and its long-acting variant efox-long demonstrated that both drugs exerted noticeable antianginal effect at maximal concentration in blood. This was achieved by a single dose and course administration. The differences in the effects of the two dosage forms of IS-5-MN on painless ischemia may be explained by limited coronary reserves of anginal patients.
Twenty-one patients suffering from Parkinson disease were treated with L-Dopa together with an extra-cerebral dopa-decarboxylase inhibitor (Ro4-4602) and with triesyphenidyl. Seven assessments of the patient's clinical condition were carried out over a period of two years with a number of neurological and psychometric tests. At the beginning of the second year of treatment, the signs and symptoms of Parkinson disease began to worsen with an increased disability. In the present paper two possibilities are discussed, namely whether the deterioration was the consequence of L-Dopa administration or whether this was simply the outcome of inadequacy of drug treatment during a period of natural worsening of the disease.
Diazoxide is one of few available agents for treatment of hypertensive emergencies in pregnancy. From previous studies, there is a question concerning safety after moderate-dose administration caused episodes of hypotension. Rapid control of severe hypertension is necessary to reduce maternal morbidity, for example, stroke and placental abruption. This study was designed to compare the efficacy of mini-bolus diazoxide with intravenous (i.v.) hydralazine.
A randomised controlled trial.
Tertiary referral maternity hospital, Royal Prince Alfred Women and Babies, Sydney Australia.
Antenatal and postnatal women with severe hypertension.
One hundred and twenty-four hypertensive women were randomised to either i.v. hydralazine (5 mg doses) or mini-bolus diazoxide (15 mg doses).
Achievement of target blood pressure reduction; secondary measures included requirement for Caesarean section because of fetal deterioration as determined by non-reassuring cardiotocograph (CTG).
Reduction in systolic and diastolic blood pressure was 34 min for hydralazine and 19 min for diazoxide (P < 0.001). There were no episodes of hypotension after diazoxide and one after hydralazine (after epidural). Episodes of persistent severe hypertension were more common with hydralazine (38%) than with diazoxide (16%), P < 0.01. The Caesarean section rate for no-reassuring CTG was no different between the two groups. Neonatal outcomes were similar.
Diazoxide and hydralazine are safe and effective antihypertensives, showing a controlled and comparable blood pressure reduction in women with hypertensive emergencies in pregnancy. The mini-bolus doses of 15 mg of diazoxide did not precipitate maternal hypotension as previously described and reduces episodes of persistent severe hypertension.
Medical records of 66 dogs that had undergone myelography, using iohexol (240 mg of iodine/ml, 0.3 to 0.5 ml/kg of body weight) during a 2-year period, were reviewed. In 3 dogs, myelography was performed twice during different anesthetic procedures. Neurologic abnormalities were more pronounced the day after myelography in dogs with caudal cervical spondylomyelopathy (P less than 0.01), meningitis (P less than 0.01), or extradural tumors (P less than 0.05). Neither anesthetic regimen nor duration of anesthesia significantly affected the frequency of complications. Seizures occurred after myelography in 6 dogs, and 1 dog had seizures after each of 2 myelographic procedures. The frequency of seizures was significantly greater in male Doberman Pinschers afflicted with caudal cervical spondylomyelopathy. Male dogs (P less than 0.01) and Doberman Pinschers (P less than 0.001) had higher prevalence of seizures. Caudal cervical spondylomyelopathy was associated with higher prevalence of seizures, compared with all other diagnoses (P less than 0.001). Seizures were significantly more prevalent when body weight was greater than or equal to 29 kg (P less than 0.001), when greater than or equal to 2 injections of contrast medium were administered (P less than 0.016), or when 2 injections of contrast medium were given at the cisterna magna (P less than 0.015). The 10% prevalence of seizures after myelography with iohexol in the study reported here is greater than in previous reports, but is lower than that reported after myelography using metrizamide.
Apoptosis is a major mechanism of treatment-induced T-cell depletion in leukemia and autoimmune diseases. While 'classical' apoptosis is considered to depend on caspase activation, caspase-independent death is increasingly recognized as an alternative pathway. Although the DNA-damaging drug cyclophosphamide (CY) is widely used for therapy of hematological malignancies and autoimmune disorders, the molecular mechanism of apoptosis induction remains largely unknown. Here, we report that treatment of Jurkat, cytotoxic, and primary leukemic T cells with an activated analog of CY, 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide (4-OOH-CY), induces caspase activation and typical features of apoptosis, although cell death was not prevented by caspase inhibition. Also depletion of murine thymocytes and splenocytes after CY treatment in vivo was not inhibited by Z-Val-Ala-DL-Asp-fluoromethylketone (Z-VAD.fmk). Caspase-8 and receptor-induced protein (RIP) were dispensable for 4-OOH-CY-mediated apoptosis, while overexpression of Bcl-2 was partially protective. 4-OOH-CY treatment induced reactive oxygen species production, upregulation of Bax, and nuclear relocation of the mitochondrial factors apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) and endonuclease G (EndoG). The antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine substantially inhibited conformational changes of Bax, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, nuclear relocation of mitochondrial factors, and apoptosis induction in 4-OOH-CY-treated T cells. These results strongly indicate that oxidative damage-induced nuclear translocation of AIF and EndoG in 4-OOH-CY-treated T cells might represent an alternative death pathway in the absence of caspase activity.
The use of ifosfamide for conventional chemotherapy of pancreatic tumors is limited by systemic toxicity caused, in part, by its activation by liver-specific cytochrome enzymes and the subsequent systemic distribution of metabolites. Activation at the tumor site, on the other hand, should reduce systemic toxicity and provide more effective local therapeutic concentrations. The results of a phase I/II open, single-arm clinical trial of local intratumor activation of ifosfamide are presented.
Treatment involved angiographic implantation of encapsulated allogeneic cells, genetically modified to overexpress the enzyme cytochrome P-450 2B1, into the vasculature leading to the tumor. The cells are protected from immune rejection and locally activate systemically administered ifosfamide to antitumor metabolites.
Of the 14 patients treated, 4 showed tumor regression and the other 10 patients showed stable disease, i.e., no further tumor growth. The median survival of the patient cohort was twice that of the control group. The 1-year survival was 36%, i.e., threefold that of the control group (twice that reported for gemcitabine). As far as clinical benefit was concerned, 4 of the 13 evaluable patients reported improvements in pain assessment at the last observation, with 6 remaining unchanged (4 of these experienced no pain) and 3 patients experiencing slightly greater pain. Using a worst case scenario, 50% experienced a clinical benefit, which rose to 71% of patients if a best case scenario was applied. The best predictor of clinical benefit was lack of pain, whereas significant weight loss possibly predicts a poor clinical benefit.
The data obtained from this phase I/II clinical trial are promising and suggest that further clinical trials are warranted.
DP-155 is a lipid prodrug of indomethacin that comprises the latter conjugated to lecithin at position sn-2 via a 5-carbon length linker. It is cleaved by phospholipase A2 (PLA)(2) to a greater extent than similar compounds with linkers of 2, 3, and 4 carbons. Indomethacin is the principal metabolite of DP-155 in rat serum and, after DP-155 oral administration, the half-life of the metabolite was 22 and 93 h in serum and brain, respectively, compared to 10 and 24 h following indomethacin administration. The brain to serum ratio was 3.5 times higher for DP-155 than for indomethacin. In vitro studies demonstrated that DP-155 is a selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor. After it is cleaved, its indomethacin derivative nonselectively inhibits both COX-1 and -2. DP-155 showed a better toxicity profile probably due to the sustained, low serum levels and reduced maximal concentration of its indomethacin metabolite. DP-155 did not produce gastric toxicity at the highest acute dose tested (0.28 mmol/kg), while indomethacin caused gastric ulcers at a dose 33-fold lower. Furthermore, after repeated oral dosing, gastrointestinal and renal toxicity was lower (10- and 5-fold, respectively) and delayed with DP-155 compared to indomethacin. In addition to reduced toxicity, DP-155 had similar ameliorative effects to indomethacin in antipyretic and analgesia models. Moreover, DP-155 and indomethacin were equally efficacious in reducing levels of amyloid ss (Ass)42 in transgenic Alzheimer's disease mouse (Tg2576) brains as well as reducing Ass42 intracellular uptake, neurodegeneration, and inflammation in an in vitro AD model. The relatively high brain levels of indomethacin after DP-155 administration explain the equal efficacy of DP-155 despite its low systemic blood concentrations. Compared to indomethacin, the favored safety profile and equal efficacy of DP-155 establish the compound as a potential candidate for chronic use to treat AD-related pathology and for analgesia.
This study aimed to compare the effect of intraluminal acidification on esophageal sensory perception and motor activity between older and younger patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
All 40 subjects had saline and hydrochloric acid infused into the mid-esophagus. The esophageal perception to acid infusion was documented including lag time, intensity rating, and sensitivity score. Esophageal body motility was recorded.
The younger group had a shorter lag time to initial heartburn perception (p = 0.01) and a greater sensory intensity rating (p = 0.001). The acid infusion sensitivity score was lower in the older patients (p = 0.001). Age positively correlated to lag time to initial symptom perception (r = 0.44, p = 0.005), but negatively correlated to sensory intensity (r = -0.40, p = 0.01) and acid infusion sensitivity score (r = -0.39, p = 0.01). When compared with saline infusion, acid infusion induced a significant increase in the deglutition frequency in younger patients (0.51 vs. 0.67, p = 0.005), but not in older patients (0.59 vs. 0.65, p = 0.67).
Age-related decrease in sensorimotor response to esophageal acidification may be an important element in the pathogenesis and clinical presentation of GERD in older adults.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is very uncommon with low-molecular-weight heparin, especially when given for prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism. In two of the four published cases, with thrombotic complications, thrombocytopenia may have been related to cross-reactivity between unfractionated heparin and low-molecular-weight heparin. We report one patient who received low-molecular-weight heparin for prophylaxis against venous thromboembolism without any previous injection of unfractionated heparin, and experienced thrombocytopenia with thrombotic complications. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was confirmed by several laboratory assays. This observation emphasizes the need for platelet count monitoring during low-molecular-weight heparin therapy.
A total of 19 women with detrusor overactivity and associated symptoms completed a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study of doxepin. All patients had previously failed to respond to conventional pharmacotherapy. Doxepin was given at bedtime in a single 50 mg. dose for the first 2 weeks and, if needed, the dose was increased with 25 mg. in the morning for the last week of the 3-week treatment period, which was followed by 2 weeks of washout before crossover. The preference for doxepin to placebo was statistically significant (p less than 0.01). Doxepin caused a significant decrease in the nighttime micturition frequency and the nighttime incontinence episodes (p less than 0.05). Urine loss at the standardized 1-hour pad weighing test decreased significantly during treatment with doxepin although statistical significance (p equals 0.07) was not obtained. Cystometric parameters (first sensation and maximum cystometric capacity) improved significantly during treatment with doxepin (p less than 0.06 and less than 0.04, respectively). Side effects were frequent but mild. Suggestions for use of this tricyclic antidepressant in women with detrusor overactivity and possible mechanisms of action are discussed.
