We describe a young male who suffered intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) following nasal use of amphetamine. He recovered completely within several weeks of hospitalization. Angiography and MRI did not reveal vascular malformation and therefore we suspect that the ICH in our patient may be attributed to the effect of amphetamine alone.
Adaptor protein-2 (AP2), a central component of clathrin-coated vesicles (CCVs), is pivotal in clathrin-mediated endocytosis, which internalizes plasma membrane constituents such as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). AP2, a heterotetramer of α, β, μ and σ subunits, links clathrin to vesicle membranes and binds to tyrosine- and dileucine-based motifs of membrane-associated cargo proteins. Here we show that missense mutations of AP2 σ subunit (AP2S1) affecting Arg15, which forms key contacts with dileucine-based motifs of CCV cargo proteins, result in familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia type 3 (FHH3), an extracellular calcium homeostasis disorder affecting the parathyroids, kidneys and bone. We found AP2S1 mutations in >20% of cases of FHH without mutations in calcium-sensing GPCR (CASR), which cause FHH1. AP2S1 mutations decreased the sensitivity of CaSR-expressing cells to extracellular calcium and reduced CaSR endocytosis, probably through loss of interaction with a C-terminal CaSR dileucine-based motif, whose disruption also decreased intracellular signaling. Thus, our results identify a new role for AP2 in extracellular calcium homeostasis.
The antinociceptive effects of two different modes of nicotine administration were investigated using a within-subject design. Ten minimally-deprived, habitual smokers and fifteen ex-smokers were studied in separate experiments. Nicotine was delivered in research cigarettes and tobacco snuff. Pain was induced using the cold pressor test. Subjects in both experiments exhibited pain reduction after nicotine administration without changes in nicotine withdrawal. The results suggest that nicotine can produce physiological and psychological changes that are relevant to the reinforcement of smoking but are independent of the state of nicotine withdrawal.
Twenty-four inpatients affected by chronic cough completed a single-dose double-blind cross-over study of placebo, glaucine 30 mg and dextromethorphan 30 mg. The study was carried out using a balanced incomplete block design, each patient receiving two of the three experimental treatments. Objective evaluation of cough was ensured by means of a writing cough recorder. Coughs after dextromethorphan and glaucine were fewer than coughs after placebo: however only glaucine was significantly different from placebo in reducing coughs. Treatments were well tolerated: clinical results included a reduction in pulse rate after both dextromethorphan and glaucine , and a large number of patients reporting side effects after dextromethorphan administration.
The combination of a DNA hypomethylating agent with a histone deacetylase inhibitor has synergistic antileukemia activity and may restore sensitivity to all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). We conducted a phase 1/2 study of the combination of 5-azacitidine (5-AZA), valproic acid (VPA), and ATRA in patients with acute myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome. 5-AZA was administered subcutaneously at a fixed dose of 75 mg/m(2) daily for 7 days. VPA was dose-escalated and given orally daily for 7 days concomitantly with 5-AZA. ATRA was given at 45 mg/m(2) orally daily for 5 days, starting on day 3. A total of 53 patients were treated. Their median age was 69 years (range, 5-84 years). The maximum tolerated dose of VPA in this combination was 50 mg/kg daily for 7 days. Dose-limiting toxicity was reversible neurotoxicity. The overall response rate was 42%. In previously untreated older patients, the response rate was 52%. Median number of courses to response was 1 (range, 1-3 courses). Median remission duration was 26 weeks, and median survival has not been reached. A significant decrease in global DNA methylation and induction of histone acetylation were achieved. VPA blood levels were higher in responders (P < .005). In conclusion, the combination studied is safe and has significant clinical activity. This clinical trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as no. NCT00326170.
Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common allergic disease, imposing large social and economic burdens worldwide. Atopic dermatitis is characterized by eczematous skin lesions and immunoglobulin E (IgE) hypersecretion. We investigated the role of JNK1 on the development of AD in mice. The vitamin D3 analogue MC903, a psoriasis therapeutic drug, was used to induce AD-like symptoms in wild-type (WT) and JNK1-/- mice. The symptoms of AD were less severe in JNK1-/- mice compared with WT mice. JNK1-/- mice showed less ear thickening and infiltration of eosinophils and mast cells in AD-like lesions than did WT mice when treated with MC903. MC903-treated JNK1-/- mice also showed significantly lower level of serum IgE, which was elevated in MC903-treated WT mice. Splenocytes isolated from MC903-treated WT and JNK1-/- mice were stimulated with anti-CD3 and anti-CD28 monoclonal antibodies. Splenocytes from JNK1-/- mice produced lower levels of T-helper (Th2) cytokines (interleukin-4 and -13) and transcription factor GATA-binding protein 3, and produced increased levels of the Th1 cytokines interferon-γ and transcription factor T-box expressed in T cells. Our results indicate that JNK1 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of AD and may be a useful target for therapies to ameliorate AD.
Kinins play an important role in regulation of pain and hyperalgesia after tissue injury and inflammation by activating two types of G-protein-coupled receptors, the kinin B1 and B2 receptors. It is generally accepted that the B2 receptor is constitutively expressed, whereas the B1 receptor is induced in response to inflammation. However, little is known about the regulatory effects of kinin receptors on the onset of acute inflammation and inflammatory pain in humans. The present study investigated the changes in gene expression of kinin receptors and the levels of their endogenous ligands at an early time point following tissue injury and their relation to clinical pain, as well as the effect of COX-inhibition on their expression levels.
Tissue injury resulted in a significant up-regulation in the gene expression of B1 and B2 receptors at 3 hours post-surgery, the onset of acute inflammatory pain. Interestingly, the up-regulation in the gene expression of B1 and B2 receptors was positively correlated to pain intensity only after ketorolac treatment, signifying an interaction between prostaglandins and kinins in the inflammatory pain process. Further, the gene expression of both B1 and B2 receptors were correlated. Following tissue injury, B1 ligands des-Arg9-BK and des-Arg10-KD were significantly lower at the third hour compared to the first 2 hours in both the placebo and the ketorolac treatment groups but did not differ significantly between groups. Tissue injury also resulted in the down-regulation of TRPV1 gene expression at 3 hours post-surgery with no significant effect by ketorolac treatment. Interestingly, the change in gene expression of TRPV1 was correlated to the change in gene expression of B1 receptor but not B2 receptor.
These results provide evidence at the transcriptional level in a clinical model of tissue injury that up-regulation of kinin receptors are involved in the development of the early phase of inflammation and inflammatory pain. The up-regulation of B1 receptors may contribute to acute inflammatory pain through TRPV1 activation.
Nitrous oxide (N2O) and ketamine are common general anesthetics and antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors. In clinically relevant concentrations, they induce a psychotomimetic reaction in humans and pathomorphological changes in the rat brain. We have previously shown that ketamine and N2O in combination cause the neurotoxic reaction in young adult rat brain that is apparently synergistic. Ketamine and N2O are occasionally used in geriatric anesthesia since they do not suppress cardiorespiratory function and thus are beneficial for frail elderly patients. However, in view of the evidence that N2O and ketamine have potentially serious neurotoxic effects, and that they potentiate one another's neurotoxicity, their neurotoxic potential in the aging brain needs to be evaluated. In this study we compared the neurotoxicity of ketamine and N2O, alone or in combination, in aging (18- and 24-month-old) rats and in young adult (6-month-old) rats and found that the aging brain is substantially more sensitive than the young adult brain to the neurotoxic reaction induced by either ketamine alone or the ketamine + N2O combination, but equally sensitive to the neurotoxicity induced by N2O alone.
Development of hepatic metastasis is responsible for most of colorectal cancer-related deaths. Osteopontin (OPN) is a small integrin-binding N-linked glycoprotein, which plays a crucial role in the formation of hepatic metastasis. This study aimed to suppress Opn expression by an antisense-oligonucleotide (ASO(Opn)) to decrease liver metastasis in vivo. The effect of ASO(Opn) was investigated in vitro in CC531(lacZ) colorectal cancer cells in comparison to sense (SO) or nonsense (NSO) oligomers, by determining mRNA and protein expression levels, as well as cell survival. For in vivo treatment, CC531(lacZ) cells were intraportally inoculated into rats to compare the effects of ASO, SO and NSO oligomers, following prolonged subcutaneous administration by osmotic mini-pumps. The resulting CC531(lacZ) tumor cell load in the liver was measured by a β-galactosidase assay. Proliferation of CC531(lacZ) cells in vitro was significantly decreased after ASO(Opn) and SO treatment (P<0.001). Liver metastasis development was reduced as long as ASO(Opn) was administered, but this effect was rapidly blunted following the end of the ASO(Opn) administration. In contrast, administration of the SO resulted in a tumor load reduction, which surprisingly surpassed the ASO(Opn) effect in vivo in terms of a long-lasting metastasis suppression, which was accompanied with increased survival of the animals. Administration of the ASO(Opn) in rats was effective in decreasing their liver metastasis. The short-lived effect might be extended by modifications suited to increase the ASOs' half-life. In addition, there was a superior anti-metastatic effect caused by the SO, which has not been reported previously.
The objective of this study was to use volumetric MRI to study brain volumes in 10- to 14-year-old children with and without intrauterine exposure to cocaine, alcohol, cigarettes, or marijuana.
Volumetric MRI was performed on 35 children (mean age: 12.3 years; 14 with intrauterine exposure to cocaine, 21 with no intrauterine exposure to cocaine) to determine the effect of prenatal drug exposure on volumes of cortical gray matter; white matter; subcortical gray matter; cerebrospinal fluid; and total parenchymal volume. Head circumference was also obtained. Analyses of each individual substance were adjusted for demographic characteristics and the remaining 3 prenatal substance exposures.
Regression analyses adjusted for demographic characteristics showed that children with intrauterine exposure to cocaine had lower mean cortical gray matter and total parenchymal volumes and smaller mean head circumference than comparison children. After adjustment for other prenatal exposures, these volumes remained smaller but lost statistical significance. Similar analyses conducted for prenatal ethanol exposure adjusted for demographics showed significant reduction in mean cortical gray matter; total parenchymal volumes; and head circumference, which remained smaller but lost statistical significance after adjustment for the remaining 3 exposures. Notably, prenatal cigarette exposure was associated with significant reductions in cortical gray matter and total parenchymal volumes and head circumference after adjustment for demographics that retained marginal significance after adjustment for the other 3 exposures. Finally, as the number of exposures to prenatal substances grew, cortical gray matter and total parenchymal volumes and head circumference declined significantly with smallest measures found among children exposed to all 4. CONCLUSIONS; These data suggest that intrauterine exposures to cocaine, alcohol, and cigarettes are individually related to reduced head circumference; cortical gray matter; and total parenchymal volumes as measured by MRI at school age. Adjustment for other substance exposures precludes determination of statistically significant individual substance effect on brain volume in this small sample; however, these substances may act cumulatively during gestation to exert lasting effects on brain size and volume.
A girl was born to a mother who had undergone treatment for epilepsy with carbamazepine during pregnancy. The infant had dysmorphic features and was physically and mentally retarded. We consider that the malformations were the result of the maternal treatment with carbamazepine.
The proconvulsive tendency of the novel carbapenem, meropenem was compared to that of imipenem, alone and in combination with cilastatin. The potentiation of metrazole-induced convulsions in mice was measured. Both imipenem and imipenem/cilastatin caused significant potentiation of metrazole-induced convulsions at a dose of 200 mg/kg, i.v. In contrast, meropenem (50-400 mg/kg, iv) failed to exhibit any significant potentiation of metrazole-induced seizures.
Recent clinical and imaging studies have raised the hypothesis that patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) and the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon4 allele may have a more severe disease course than those without the ApoE epsilon4 allele. This seems to be related to more extensive tissue destruction and less efficient neuronal maintenance and repair in ApoE epsilon4 carriers.
To evaluate the influence of different ApoE genotypes on brain tissue integrity in patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS).
We determined the ApoE genotype in 76 RRMS patients. Conventional T1-, T2-, and proton density-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) images were obtained for each patient and in a group of demographically matched healthy control subjects. On conventional T1-weighted MR images, an automated analysis tool was used to obtain total brain volumes normalized for head size (NBVs). Total brain lesion load was estimated on proton density- and T2-weighted MR images.
From the whole group of RRMS patients, we identified 18 with and 58 without the epsilon4 allele. Both patient groups were not significantly different in age, age of disease onset, clinical disability, and disease duration. Carriers of the epsilon4 allele showed significantly (P =.01) lower NBVs than controls and non-epsilon4 allele carriers. When a similar analysis was performed on only those patients with both very short disease duration and absence of clinical disability, NBV values were still significantly lower in RRMS patients with the epsilon4 allele than in those without it (P =.02) and in controls (P =.007). In contrast, RRMS patients with different ApoE genotypes did not show significant differences in values of total brain T2-weighted lesion volumes.
The presence of significant NBV decreases only in the group of RRMS patients with the ApoE epsilon4 genotype provides new evidence that links ApoE epsilon4-related impaired mechanisms of cell repair and severe tissue destruction in MS. Results of the present study suggest that this negative influence of the ApoE epsilon4 genotype might be active from the earliest disease stages.
The principal types of hormonal agents used in the production of meat for human consumption are estrogens, progestagens, and androgens. Only the last class is truly anabolic. Each type of compound named above has fairly characteristic toxic effects after prolonged intake. In this review, an attempt will be made to relate available information from experience with the administration of these three types of hormones to humans to the question whether sufficient amounts of these chemicals can remain in meat cut from carcasses of animals administered hormones during finishing to have deletarious effects on human ingesters. Present indications are that administration of stilbestrol to pregnant women may result in a somewhat increased incidence of cervical and vaginal cancers in their daughters; such administration appears to have no effect on the incidence of cancers in sons and only slight, if any, effect on that in the mothers. Other estrogens seem to have no specific effects on the incidence of cancer. Progestagens also are not known to induce any specific lesions. Although many androgens are known to produce edema, fever, and jaundice, they have not been found to cause specific lesions to any significant extent. With reference to stilbestrol, the doses given to the mothers of affected children have ranged between 5 and 125 mg/day. Because muscle, liver, and kidney from steers treated with stilbestrol in the usual way (s. c. implantation of a pellet at the base of an ear) have been found to contain less than 0.5 ppb of stilbestrol one month after implantation of the pellet, it is obvious that, to approach even the lowest clinically used dose of stilbestrol, a person would have to eat daily a quantity of such animal products that would be impossible to ingest. The findings that a mean of 26.4% of an oral dose of stilbestrol is excreted within 24 hours and that 99.5% is excreted within a week indicate that cumulation of this chemical within the body from the low level of intake provided by meats is not likely to reach a significant level. This would be so even though the animal product contained more than the 0.5 ppb mentioned above.
The liver tumor-promoting effects of indole-3-carbinol (I3C), a cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A inducer found in cruciferous vegetables, were investigated using a medium-term hepatocarcinogenesis model in rats. Six-week-old male F344 rats received an intraperitoneal injection of N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and were fed a diet containing 0 (DEN-alone), 0.25, 0.50 or 1.0% of I3C for 8 weeks from 2 weeks after DEN-initiation. The number and area of liver cell foci positive for glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) significantly increased in the livers of rats given 0.5% I3C or more, compared to those in the DEN-alone group. The number of GST-P positive foci also increased in the 0.25% I3C group. The number of liver cells positive for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) significantly increased in all I3C groups compared to that in the DEN-alone group. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that I3C increased transcript levels of not only Cyp1a1 but also aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and/or nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) gene batteries, such as Cyp1a2, Cyp1b1, Ugt1a6, Nrf2, Nqo1, Gsta5, Gstm2, Ggt1and Gpx2. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the microsomal fraction significantly increased in all I3C-treated groups compared to the DEN-alone group, and thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) levels and 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) content significantly increased in all of the I3C-treated groups and 1.0% I3C group, respectively. These results suggest that I3C is an AhR activator and enhances microsomal ROS production resulting in the upregulation of Nrf2 gene batteries, but the oxidative stress generated overcomes the antioxidant effect of Nrf2-related genes. Such 'a redox imbalance' subsequently induces liver tumor-promoting effects by enhancing cellular proliferation in rats.
Cocaine hydrochloride was administered to experienced users as an intravenous (IV) loading dose of 40 to 80 mg, followed by four-hour continuous IV infusions of either cocaine or placebo. Rates of cocaine infusion were individualized to maintain steady-state cocaine concentrations for the duration of the infusion. During the infusions, subjects rated themselves on questions that assessed their suspiciousness and paranoia, and nurse-observers took descriptive notes on the subjects' behavior; these notes were later scored on a scale for guarded, suspicious, and paranoid behavior. Nurses observed and rated moderately suspicious behavior when cocaine IV bolus loading doses were followed by cocaine infusions, but not when loading doses were followed by saline solution infusions; subjects did not rate themselves as suspicious during any of the study conditions. Suspiciousness during low-dose cocaine infusions significantly correlated with the amount of cocaine previously administered to the subjects. Suspiciousness during infusions was not related to plasma cocaine concentrations, preadmission drug use, or psychiatric symptoms and history. Cocaine infusions may be a useful tool to pursue the biology of stimulant psychoses.
A case of serious undesirable, effect arisen in a 24-year old male treated with intravenous injection of haloperidol, is presented. The patient has been affected by acute psychosis and was treated with intravenous injection of haloperidol, successively a serious uneasiness with muscular rigor, perspiration, high blood-pressure, serious shortness of breath with cyanosis appeared. This case arouses interest for an unusual symptomatology and for a difficult diagnostical framing too, because was too much serious to consider it a simple acute extrapiramidal crisis, however without all characteristics to consider it a neuroleptic malignant syndrome. With this experience is possible to suppose a continuity between these two syndromes that several authors consider expression of different aetiological processes. Final aim of this report is to put in evidence the serious undesirable effects risk with using of a parenteral giving of traditional neuroleptic medications, without consider the alternative opportunity to using other new antipsycotic medications available nowadays, perhaps not quick enough than a traditional neuroleptic for effectiveness, but more sure about the tolerability.
Resveratrol, a grape polyphenol, is thought to be a cancer preventive, yet its effects on metastatic breast cancer are relatively unknown. Since cancer cell invasion is dependent on cell migration, the chemotactic response of MDA-MB-231 metastatic human breast cancer cells to resveratrol, estradiol (E2), or epidermal growth factor (EGF) was investigated. Resveratrol decreased while E2 and EGF increased directed cell migration. Resveratrol may inhibit cell migration by altering the cytoskeleton. Resveratrol induced a rapid global array of filopodia and decreased focal adhesions and focal adhesion kinase (FAK) activity. E2 or EGF treatment did not affect filopodia extension but increased lamellipodia and associated focal adhesions that are integral for cell migration. Combined resveratrol and E2 treatment resulted in a filopodia and focal adhesion response similar to resveratrol alone. Combined resveratrol and EGF resulted in a lamellipodia and focal adhesion response similar to EGF alone. E2 and to a lesser extent resveratrol increased EGFR activity. The cytoskeletal changes and EGFR activity in response to E2 were blocked by EGFR1 inhibitor indicating that E2 may increase cell migration via crosstalk with EGFR signaling. These data suggest a promotional role for E2 in breast cancer cell migration but an antiestrogenic, preventative role for resveratrol.
To report the feasibility and safety profile of 2-mg and 6-mg fluocinolone acetonide implants after long-term follow-up in eyes with choroidal neovascularization (CNV).
Prospective, noncomparative, interventional case series of patients with non-age-related subfoveal choroidal neovascularization enrolled in a compassionate use protocol.
Sustained drug delivery devices containing either 2 mg (eight eyes) or 6 mg (six eyes) of fluocinolone acetonide were implanted through the pars plana into the vitreous cavity of 14 patients with predominantly classic, subfoveal CNV. The main outcome measures were complications related to the device. Secondary outcome measures were involution of established CNV, inhibition of recurrent CNV, and visual acuity.
Patients had a diagnosis of ocular histoplasmosis (seven), myopic degeneration (four), angioid streaks (two), and punctate inner choroidopathy (one). Patients were followed for an average of 33 months (range, 16 to 40 months). All 14 eyes developed elevated intraocular pressure and cataract. Four eyes developed nonischemic central retinal vein occlusion. Complications required implant removal in 8 eyes. Ten of 14 eyes demonstrated involution of CNV or inhibition of recurrent CNV. Ten eyes had stable or improved visual acuity. Median initial visual acuity was 20/64. Median final visual acuity was 20/40.
Long-term follow-up demonstrates a significant complication rate with the sustained release of high-dose intraocular corticosteroids. The complications are treatable, and eyes can retain good vision. This therapeutic approach warrants further study to identify if lower doses of corticosteroids may reduce the complication rate yet still be effective in treating ocular disease.
Diclofenac potassium liquid-filled soft gelatin capsule (DPSGC) is a rapidly absorbed formulation of diclofenac potassium developed for the treatment of mild to moderate acute pain.
The present study was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety profile of DPSGC 25 mg in patients with pain after first-metatarsal bunionectomy.
This was a Phase III, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study conducted over 5 days. Patients experiencing the requisite level of pain (score > or = 4 on an 11-point numeric pain rating scale [NPRS] from 0 = no pain to 10 = worst possible pain) on the day after bunionectomy were randomized to receive DPSGC 25 mg or matching placebo. A second dose was given when patients requested additional medication for pain. Subsequent doses were given every 6 hours over a 48-hour inpatient multiple-dose period and continued over an additional 48-hour outpatient multiple-dose period. Opioid rescue medication was available as needed after the second dose of study medication. The primary efficacy end point was the mean NPRS score over the 48-hour inpatient multiple-dose period. Additional measures included NPRS scores at predefined times over 48 hours, the summed pain intensity difference over 48 hours (SPID48), the time-weighted sum of pain relief scores over the first 8 hours, the mean dosing interval (the time from dosing to the time rescue medication or the next dose of study medication was administered, whichever was less), the proportion of patients requiring rescue medication, and the onset of perceptible and meaningful pain relief (2-stopwatch method). Tolerability was assessed based on physician monitoring and patient reporting of adverse events (AEs) and the results of standard laboratory tests.
Of 201 randomized patients (102 DPSGC 25 mg, 99 placebo; 86.6% female; 58.2% white; mean [SD] age, 45.2 [11.5] years; weight range, 49.4-108.0 kg), 198 completed the study. Mean baseline NPRS scores did not differ significantly between the DPSGC and placebo groups (6.9 and 7.3, respectively). DPSGC was associated with significant improvements compared with placebo in mean NPRS score over 48 hours (2.5 vs 5.6, respectively; P < 0.001), mean SPID48 (210.0 vs 90.3; P < 0.001), and overall mean dosing interval (331.5 vs 263.9 min; P < 0.001). Significant differences in NPRS scores between DPSGC 25 mg and placebo were noted at all time points from baseline through 48 hours (P < 0.001). The proportion of patients requiring rescue medication was significantly lower in the DPSGC group compared with the placebo group (39.2% vs 87.9% on day 1; 21.6% vs 64.6% on day 2; both, P < 0.001). Patients receiving DPSGC had a significantly faster onset of meaningful pain relief compared with those receiving placebo (P = 0.008). The most commonly reported AEs were nausea (7.8% vs 18.2%), headache (5.9% vs 9.1%), vomiting (3.9% vs 9.1%), and constipation (3.9% vs 2.0%). The overall incidence of AEs occurring in > or = 2% of patients was significantly lower in the DPSGC group than in the placebo group (20.6% vs 44.4%; P < 0.05); no patient receiving DPSGC had a serious AE.
DPSGC 25 mg taken every 6 hours was effective in reducing postbunionectomy pain in the patients studied. DPSGC was well tolerated, suggesting that it may be a practicable option for the treatment of mild to moderate acute pain. ClinicalTrials. gov identifier: NCT00366444.
beta1-integrins, which localize to the basolateral surface of basal keratinocytes, are important in the differentiation control and proliferation of the epidermis. Many cutaneous diseases with perturbed differentiation, including arsenical keratosis, show altered patterns of integrin distribution and expression. Arsenic may induce arsenical keratosis through the differentiation and apoptosis aberration by integrins. The purpose of this study is to investigate the role of integrin and arsenic in the pathogenesis of arsenical keratosis.
Twenty-five specimens obtained from 25 patients with arsenical keratosis disease were studied. Immunohistochemistry staining to beta1, alpha2beta1, or alpha3beta1 integrins was performed in arsenical keratosis and clinically normal perilesional skin. Western blotting was used to assess the expression of integrin beta1 and focal adhesion kinase (FAK) in arsenic-treated cultured keratinocytes.
A decreased expression of beta1, alpha2beta1, or alpha3beta1 integrins was demonstrated in arsenical keratosis and clinical normal perilesional skin in a large proportion of arsenical keratosis cases studied. The expressions of integrin beta1 and FAK were both decreased in arsenic-treated keratinocytes.
Our results suggest that arsenic induces abnormal differentiation in arsenical keratosis via the effects of integrin expression in keratinocytes.
The opiate antagonist naloxone reduced the incidence and severity of cardiac arrhythmia induced in rats by intracarotid administration of adrenaline. Naloxone also reversed the adrenaline-induced arrhythmia in isolated heart preparations, suggesting a local antiarrhythmic action of the opiate antagonist. Similar effects were obtained with the (+) stereoisomer of naloxone which is inactive as an opiate antagonist. Thus, the direct action of naloxone at the rat heart is probably not mediated by opiate receptors.
The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib has improved the survival of patients with multiple myeloma but bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy (BiPN) has emerged as a serious potential complication of this therapy. Animal studies suggest that bortezomib predominantly causes pathological changes in Schwann cells. A tractable system to evaluate combination drugs for use with bortezomib is essential to enable continuing clinical benefit from this drug.
Rat schwannoma cells were pretreated with vincristine (VCR), histone deacetylase inhibitors, anticonvulsants, or a heat-shock protein 90 (HSP90) inhibitor. To then monitor aggresome formation as a result of proteasome inhibition and the activation of chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), we performed double-labelling immunofluorescent analyses of a cellular aggregation-prone protein marker.
Aggresome formation was interrupted by VCR, whereas combination treatments with bortezomib involving suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, 17-allylamino-17-demethoxy-geldanamycin, or clonazepam appear to facilitate the disposal of unfolded proteins via CMA, inducing HSP70 and lysosome-associated membrane protein type 2A (LAMP-2A).
This schwannoma model can be used to test BiPN-reducing drugs. The present data suggest that aggresome formation in Schwann cells is a possible mechanism of BiPN, and drugs that induce HSP70 or LAMP-2A have the potential to alleviate this complication. Combination clinical trials are warranted to confirm the relevance of these observations.
In this study we analysed the reliability of HPLC determination of 2.3.5-pyrroletricarboxylic acid (PTCA). This product derives from oxidation of melanin in human hair, and is a good candidate as a risk marker for skin tumors.
We determined PTCA in 100 melanoma cases and 100 controls, 21 replicates from six different reference hairs, two trace elements, and one reference sample (brown hair).
Work-up procedures showed an almost perfect reproducibility with an Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC) of 0.990. We noticed a low, detectable, but not statistically significant decrease in reproducibility proportional to the amount of PTCA. Agreement between determination following injection of the same solution in HPLC column was also high, with an overall ICC of 0.986. Simultaneous analysis of reproducibility showed a partial ICC for work-up (0.986), for injection (0.987), and an overall standardised ICC (0.975). The analysis of the two reference tracers in successive tests showed a weak, not statistically significant, decreasing linear drift, possibly due to various factors, such as aging of chemical solutions and HPLC columns.
PTCA extracted from human hair through oxidation and determined with HPLC can be considered a reliable marker as a candidate for identifying persons at high risk for melanoma.
We previously described the visceral antinociceptive property of alpha, beta-amyrin in a mouse model of cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide (CPM). This study examined the contribution of vanilloid-1 (TRPV1), peripheral NK1 receptors to CPM-evoked nociceptive behaviors and bladder edema, and its possible modulation by alpha, beta-amyrin.
The effect of alpha, beta-amyrin (10, 30, and 100 mg/kg, p. o.) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on CPM (400 mg/kg, i. p.)-induced cystitis was studied in mice. Sensory deafferentation was done by a high dose capsaicin. The parameters analysed were: CPM-evoked noxious behaviors, bladder edema, vascular permeability, and NK(1) immunoreactivity. To assess the role of K(+) (ATP) channels in alpha, beta-amyrin effect, animals were pretreated with glibenclamide.
alpha, beta-amyrin (30 and 100 mg/kg) and NAC significantly (p < 0.01) suppressed the visceral pain-related behaviors and NK(1) immunoreactivity, but bladder edema was reduced weakly. Glibenclamide reversed the effects of alpha, beta-amyrin. Sensory deafferentation by capsaicin significantly reduced the nociceptive responses and the NK(1) immunoreactivity to noxious stimulation by CPM.
alpha, beta-amyrin attenuates CPM-induced visceral pain and bladder edema by mechanisms that involve, at least in part, a block either of Substance P release or its receptor function, and partly by opening K(+) (ATP) channels.
In neurological and behavioral studies in mice, rats, dogs and squirrel monkeys, the imidazobenzodiazepinone Ro 15-1788 acted as a potent benzodiazepine antagonist. The antagonistic activity was both preventive and curative and seen at doses at which no intrinsic effects were detected. It was highly selective in that it acted against CNS effects induced by benzodiazepines but not against those produced by other depressants, such as phenobarbitone, meprobamate, ethanol, and valproate. The onset of action was rapid even after oral administration. Depending on the animal species studied, the antagonistic effects lasted from a few hours to 1 day. The acute and subacute toxicity of Ro 15-1788 was found to be very low. Benzodiazepine-like effects were not seen.
