Triazole-derivatives are potent antifungal agents used as systemic agricultural fungicides and against fungal diseases in humans and domestic animals. They act by inhibiting the cytochrome P-450 conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol, thus resulting in faulty fungal cell wall synthesis. Some data have been published about the teratogenic activity of triazoles on rodent embryos: Hypoplasias, abnormal shape, agenesis of the branchial arches, for example, were reported as typical induced malformations. Unfortunately, no data are available on the embryotoxicity of these compounds in amphibians, despite the increasing concern among the scientific community about the phenomenon of global amphibian population declines. The aim of the present work is to evaluate the embryo-lethal and teratogenic potentials of Triadimefon (FON), a triazole-derivative widely used as an antimycotic in agriculture, by the test FETAX (Frog Embryos Teratogenic Assay, Xenopus) with particular attention being paid to the analysis of branchial arch malformations.
Xenopus laevis embryos were exposed continuously from stage 9 to increasing concentrations of FON and analyzed at stage 47 for mortality and teratogenicity (group I) to determine the median lethal (LC50) and teratogenic (TC50) concentrations. Another two pools of larvae were exposed to FON for a 2 hour period at early gastrula (Group II) or neurula (Group III) stages to verify which period of development is the most sensitive to FON. The malformations observed were further investigated by histological section and cartilage staining with Alcian blue.
The assay has estimated LC50 and TC50 values of 63.8 microM and 2.73 microM, respectively; the resulting TI (Teratogenic Index = LC50/TC50) value of 23.4 has underlined the very high teratogenic risk associated with this compound. Neurulation was more sensitive to FON exposure than gastrulation, since the TC50 estimated values for group III (neurula exposed) specimens was 7.6 times lower than those of group II (gastrula exposed). Interestingly, for each group analyzed, 100% of malformed embryos showed alterations at branchial arch derived cartilages: Anterior cartilages were reduced, missing, fused or incorrectly positioned while gill cartilages were altered only in the most severely affected specimens. In some cases these malformations were associated with hyperpigmentation. Our results support the hypothesis that FON can interfere with Neural Crest Cell (NCC) migration, since craniofacial components and melanophores are derived from neural crest material.
In conclusion, our data show Triadimefon to be a potent teratogen able to induce specific craniofacial malformation in Xenopus laevis embryos, probably interfering with the NCC migration into the branchial mesenchyme. These results are also interesting for ecotoxicological reasons as FON, as well as other pesticides, are likely to be present in water systems near agricultural or urban areas which may serve as habitats for developing amphibians and fishes.
Our results are in agreement with the data obtained on in vitro cultured rat embryos suggesting that the FON mechanism of action involves strongly conserved molecules. The choice of Xenopus laevis as the model organism allows us to extend the toxicological and teratological observations to a molecular level, in order to search for novel genes regulated by FON exposure.
Transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) is a potent stimulator of normal hepatocyte proliferation, considered to have relationship to the liver regeneration or carcinogenesis. In this study, we investigated immunohistochemically the association between expression of TGF-alpha and cell proliferation activity in mouse hepatoblastomas (HBs) and hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) induced in B6C3F1 mice by diethylnitrosamine and sodium phenobarbital. The TGF-alpha-positive rate in HBs (29.2%) was significantly higher than that in HCCs (12.7%). Likewise, the proliferating cell nuclear antigen-positive rate (22.2%) was higher than the HCC value (14.5%). On the individual data for both TGF-alpha and PCNA, most of the HBs showed higher positive rates than HCCs. In HBs, TGF-alpha was localized only in the nuclei, whereas some HCC cells stained positive both in their nuclei and cytoplasm (0.6%). These results suggest expression of TGF-alpha and its localization might be linked to cell proliferation and play a role in malignant progression of mouse HBs.
The soluble p51 antigen alone, or in combination with the soluble p66 (as a preparation of the soluble tumour-associated antigens, sTAA) was shown to be useful in both cancer detection, prevention and therapy.
In colon cancer patients with recurrent cancer, the blood level of p51 increased whereas the blood level of p66 did not change. The correlation and regression coefficients between the serum level of p51 protein and the progress in colon cancer were 0.48 and 0.88, respectively. In patients with melanoma, development of metastases significantly increased the blood levels of p51. The method was shown to be highly sensitive (92 to 96%) and moderately specific (42 to 65%) for the detection of different types of cancer, such as of the colon, uterus, ovary and breast, as well as melanoma.
This was performed using a preparation of both p66 and p51 antigens. sTAA have both tumour-preventive and tumour-suppressive effects on chemically-induced cancers of the colon, skin and mammary glands in rats and mice. sTAA promote suppression of rat mammary tumours by different anticancer drugs, such as cyclophosphamide, tamoxifen and 5-fluorouracil. This effect was shown to be connected with activation of the host's immune system, especially that which is responsible for the activity of T and B lymphocytes.
We propose the follow-up of cancer patients in order to verify, as early as possible, recurrent cancer and perform preventive therapy of suspect cancer patients with their own sTAA as a kind of autoimmunotherapy. Moreover, in combination with anticancer drugs, sTAA may serve as a new tool in prevention of the toxic side-effects of chemotherapy.
We have investigated the role of ginsenoside Re (Re) in preventing 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced apoptosis of the substantia nigra neurons in the mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD). C57BL mice have been administrated i.s.c. with MPTP to establish the PD model. Pretreatment groups were given different doses of Re (6.5, 13, 26 mg kg(-1)) i.g. for 13 days. Transmission electron microscope (TEM), tyrosine hydroxythase (TH) immunostaining and TDT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining have been used to observe the damage of substantia nigral neurons. To measure the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), Bcl-2, Bax protein and expression of Bcl-2, Bax gene, immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization have been explored respectively. Western blot analysis has been performed with anti-caspase-3. Pretreatment with Re (13, 26 mg kg(-1)) markedly increases TH-positive neurons and decreases the TUNEL-positive ratio compared with the MPTP model group. Furthermore, Re could enhance the expression of Bcl-2 protein and Bcl-2 mRNA, but reduce the expression of Bax, Bax mRNA, and iNOS, and weaken the cleavage of caspase-3. In summary, ginsenoside Re showed protection from MPTP-induced apoptosis in the PD model mouse nigral neurons and this effect may be attributable to upregulating the expression of Bcl-2 protein, downregulating the expression of Bax, and iNOS protein, and inhibiting the activation of caspase-3.
The efficacy and safety of bromocriptine mesylate in preventing postpartum breast engorgement and milk secretion were evaluated in 420 normal puerperal women. The usual dose was 2.5 mg twice a day for 14 days. Complete inhibition of the target symptoms was obtained in 97% (409 of 420) of the women after 5 days of therapy. Of 370 women who completed 14 days of therapy, 73.5% (272) were completely symptom free, and the remainder showed only grade I or grade II breast engorgement and secretion. Side effects, primarily nausea, vomiting, and dizziness, were experienced by 3% of the women, and 7% reported rebound engorgement and secretion. It was concluded that bromocriptine is safe and efficacious for the stated indication. Moreover, bromocriptine's apparent lack of thromboembolic complications and low incidence of rebound effects suggest possible advantages over other pharmacologic preparations, ie, estrogen-containing drugs, currently used to prevent postpartum lactation.
A modification of phospholipid composition in rat cardiomyocyte sarcolemma occurring during isadrin myocarditis has been investigated. The fractions of sphingomyelin (SphM), phosphatidylserine (PhS), phosphatidylinositol (PhI), phosphatidylcholine (PhCh), phosphatidylethanolamine (PhEA) have been isolated. The shifts in phospholipid composition during isadrin myocarditis expressing in increase of the amount of choline-containing (PhCh + SphM) and decrease of acid (PhS + PhI) phospholipids have been revealed. During the isadrin myocarditis the incorporation of DL-[3-14C] serine in the fraction of total protein increases and in the fraction of total lipids decreases. The maximum incorporation of the label into total lipids in normal occurs faster than in case of myocarditis. The dynamics of the label distribution between metabolically related PhS, PhEA and PhCh indicates that PhS is the precursor of PhEA, the later being the precursor of PhCh. The label redistribution between PhS, PhEA and PhCh occurs by the sequence of metabolic transformations and by the direct base-exchange reactions. The intensity of the latter has been estimated by the incorporation of radioactive serine into phospholipids of the sarcolemma in vitro. The data obtained demonstrate the inhibitory action of isadrin myocarditis.
Adrenalectomy is known to prevent the proteinuria induced by renin or angiotensin, but it is not clear whether the loss of glucocorticoids or mineralocorticoids is responsible. The problem was reinvestigated using dexamethasone and aldosterone, essentially pure glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid, respectively. Dexamethasone treatment for 2--5 days completely restored the protein-uric response to angiotensin II or norepinephrine, but aldosterone did not, even though the dose and treatment were sufficient to induce changes in electrolyte excretion. Fractional sodium excretion was also increased by angiotensin II and norepinephrine in the dexamethasone-treated rats, but not in the aldosterone-treated rats. Both dexamethasone and aldosterone treatments restored the increase in filtration fraction, but the increase was not associated with proteinuria in some groups, and it is concluded that there is no causal relationship between increased filtration fraction and proteinuria. Reasons for considering binding of norepinephrine and angiotensin to the glomerular basement membrane as causal for the proteinuria and the hormonal requirements for such binding are discussed.
Daunomycin (DM) is one of the most important antitumor agents. However, the cardiotoxicity of DM limits it's clinical use. We have made an ionic complex with heparin to decrease the cardiotoxicity. Cardiotoxicities of DM and DM-heparin complex were compared in hamsters. On the electrocardiogram (ECG), two of the four hamsters given DM showed the serious abnormality, bidirectional ventricular premature contraction, while the hamsters given DM-heparin or saline had no abnormalities. On pathological examination, cardiac tissue in hamsters given DM showed deposition of basophilic materials, mild eosinophilic change of myofibrils and microvascuolization, whereas no change was observed in hamsters given DM-heparin complex or saline. Acute toxic effects on survival rates and body weights were more profound in DM-infused mice than in DM-heparin-infused mice. DM and DM-heparin complex showed similar anticancer activity both in vivo and in vitro. Thus, the present study suggests that the DM-heparin complex may attenuate the cardiotoxicity of DM without affecting it's antitumor effect in humans.
The effect of experimental hyperprolactinemia and hypoprolactinemia on human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) concentration was studied in 34 healthy volunteers between weeks 6 and 11 of normal pregnancy. Hyperprolactinemia was induced in 12 women with 150 mg of sulpiride daily for 2 weeks; treatment led to a mean plasma prolactin (PRL) rise from 14.6 to 84.1 microgram/liter after 1 week and to 83.0 microgram/liter after 2 weeks. Hypoprolactinemia was effected in 11 women wit 5.0 to 7.5 mg of bromocriptine, daily for 2 weeks; treatment decreased the mean plasma prolactin from 19.2 to 6.0 microgram/liter after 1 week and to 5.2 microgram/liter after 2 weeks. These PRL changes were significant (P less than .001) in comparison with the plasma PRL concentrations in the 11 control women. Hyperprolactinemia induced by the sulpiride treatment was accompanied by a significant decrease in hCG concentration, whereas no difference in hCG was seen between hypoprolactinemia and control groups. This may suggest a synergistic action of hCG and PRL, or a direct effect of sulpiride on hCG, but the final mechanism and biologic importance of the phenomenon remain to be investigated.
In humans and experimental animals, structural and functional changes in neural circuits can accompany the development of epilepsy. In the dentate gyrus, seizures enhance adult neurogenesis, but it is unclear to what extent newborn granule cells participate in seizure-induced synaptic reorganization. During the first weeks of their existence, mouse newborn granule cells labeled with enhanced green fluorescent protein have only short dendrites that lack excitatory input. We report that pilocarpine-induced seizures accelerated the morphological development of labeled granule cells, causing their dendrites to extend through the molecular layer. In whole-cell recordings 5-16 d after seizure induction, perforant-path stimulation now evoked glutamatergic input to newborn granule cells. These synaptic responses were mediated by monosynaptic as well as recurrent polysynaptic input. Thus, seizures facilitated functional integration of adult-generated granule cells. One month later, subsequent generations of newborn cells also showed alterations in dendrite morphology, suggesting persistent effects of seizures on granule cell maturation. The sensitivity of newborn granule cells to seizures could contribute to hyperexcitability during the latent period.
This study evaluates the effect of dual PI3K and mTOR inhibition using NVP-BEZ235 in preclinical models of ovarian cancer as a potential novel therapeutic strategy.
Inhibition of PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling by NVP-BEZ235 was demonstrated by immunoblotting. The effect on cell proliferation was assessed in 18 ovarian cancer cell lines, including four pairs of syngeneic cisplatin-sensitive and cisplatin-resistant cell lines. The in vivo effects of NVP-BEZ235 on established tumor growth were evaluated using an immunocompetent, transgenic murine ovarian cancer model (LSL-K-ras(G12D/+)Pten(loxP/loxP)).
NVP-BEZ235 decreased cell proliferation in all ovarian cancer cell lines assayed and sensitized cisplatin-resistant cells to the cytotoxic effects of cisplatin. Cell lines with PI3K-activating mutations or Pten deletions were significantly more sensitive to the effect of NVP-BEZ235 than cell lines without these mutations (P < 0.05). A statistically significant correlation was found between relative levels of p4E-BP1 and the IC(50) for NVP-BEZ235. In LSL-K-ras(G12D/+)Pten(loxP/loxP) mice with established intraperitoneal tumor disease, oral administration of NVP-BEZ235 decreased pAkt, p4E-BP1 and Ki67 in tumor tissue, and resulted in significantly longer survival compared to control animals (P < 0.05). NVP-BEZ235 also induced cell cycle arrest, caspase 3 activity, and reduced cell migration.
Targeting PI3K and mTOR simultaneously using NVP-BEZ235 effectively inhibits ovarian cancer cell growth even in the presence of platinum resistance and prolongs survival of mice with intra-abdominal ovarian tumor disease. We propose that dual PI3K and mTOR inhibition using NVP-BEZ235 may be an effective novel therapeutic approach in patients with ovarian cancer.
Pitx2, a paired-related homeobox gene that encodes multiple isoforms, is the gene mutated in the haploinsufficient Rieger Syndrome type 1 that includes dental, ocular and abdominal wall anomalies as cardinal features. Previous analysis of the craniofacial phenotype of Pitx2-null mice revealed that Pitx2 was both a positive regulator of Fgf8 and a repressor of Bmp4-signaling, suggesting that Pitx2 may function as a coordinator of craniofacial signaling pathways. We show that Pitx2 isoforms have interchangeable functions in branchial arches and that Pitx2 target pathways respond to small changes in total Pitx2 dose. Analysis of Pitx2 allelic combinations that encode varying levels of Pitx2 showed that repression of Bmp signaling requires high Pitx2 while maintenance of Fgf8 signaling requires only low Pitx2. Fate-mapping studies with a Pitx2 cre recombinase knock in allele revealed that Pitx2 daughter cells are migratory and move aberrantly in the craniofacial region of Pitx2 mutant embryos. Our data reveal that Pitx2 function depends on total Pitx2 dose and rule out the possibility that the differential sensitivity of target pathways was a consequence of isoform target specificity. Moreover, our results uncover a new function of Pitx2 in regulation of cell motility in craniofacial development.
To study the longitudinal variations of plasma B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) with reference to left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) during and after chemotherapy with cardiotoxic drugs.
We prospectively measured plasma BNP using an immunoradiometric assay in 12 anthracycline-treated breast cancer patients monitored for a mean time of 880+/-293 days (pilot group). Prior to each cycle and throughout the following year, LVEF and cardiac output were measured by radionuclide ventriculography. Anthracycline pharmacokinetics was studied during the first cycle. Relationships between serial observations were analysed with the general linear mixed effects model. Identical methods were subsequently applied to a test group of 67 anthracycline or trastuzumab-treated patients.
Five out of 70 (6.33%) patients developed anthracycline-induced heart failure. BNP concentrations were found to be positively correlated to anthracycline cumulative dose and negatively to LVEF values. Variables entering the mixed models were cumulative anthracycline dose, time and cardiac output.
An infra-clinical cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines as defined by BNP elevation is frequent but reversible. Patients who developed heart failure showed a continuous BNP increase and concentrations over 100 ng/ml.
Adolescence is a transitional period during development that is associated with a greater likelihood of addiction to drugs than any other age. In the prefrontal cortex (PFC), D(1) dopamine receptors mediate motivational salience attribution, which plays a role in addiction. Here, we investigated the relationship of age-related D(1) dopamine receptor expression in the PFC with the maturation of cocaine place conditioning. Confocal microscopy revealed that retrogradely traced cortical output neurons to the nucleus accumbens express higher levels of D(1) receptors during adolescence compared with younger and older ages. D(1) expression does not change on GABAergic interneurons across age. Adolescent differences in D(1) expression occur independently of cortical-accumbens connectivity, which proliferates through adulthood. Behaviorally, adolescent rats are more sensitive to cocaine place conditioning than younger and older rats. However, microinjections of the D(1) antagonist SCH23390 into the PFC blocked adolescent place preferences, whereas microinjections of D(1) agonists dose-dependently increased preferences for cocaine-associated environments previously not preferred by juveniles. These results suggest that the heightened expression of D(1) receptors on cortical-accumbens projections may help explain increased sensitivity to environmental events and addictive behaviors during adolescence, whereas the paucity of D(1)-expressing projections may reduce risk in juveniles.
Accumulation of genetic changes characterizes the progression of cells, initiated by carcinogens, to full malignancy. Various epigenetic mechanisms, such as high polyamine synthesis, aberrant DNA methylation, and production of reactive oxygen species, may favor this process by stimulating growth and inducing DNA damage. We observed a decrease in S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM) content in the liver, associated with DNA hypomethylation in rat liver, during the development of preneoplastic foci, and in neoplastic nodules and hepatocellular carcinomas, induced in diethylnitrosamine-initiated rats by "resistant hepatocyte" (RH) protocol. Reconstitution of the methyl donor level in the liver by SAM administration inhibits growth and induces phenotypic reversion and apoptosis of preneoplastic cells. A 6-month SAM treatment results in a sharp and persistent decrease in development of neoplastic nodules, suggesting a long duration of SAM chemopreventive effect. Various observations support the suggestion of a role of DNA methylation in chemoprevention by SAM: (1) Exogenous SAM reconstitutes the SAM pool in preneoplastic and neoplastic liver lesions. (2) DNA methylation is positively correlated with SAM:S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH) ratio in these lesions. (3) 5-Azacytidine, a DNA methyltransferase inhibitor, inhibits chemoprevention by SAM. (4) c-Ha-ras, c-Ki-ras, and c-myc are hypomethylated and overexpressed in preneoplastic liver. Their expression is inversely correlated with SAM:SAH ratio in SAM-treated rats. (5) S-Adenosyl-L-methionine treatment results in overall DNA methylation and partial methylation of these genes. Other possible mechanisms of SAM treatment include inhibition of polyamine synthesis, linked to partial transformation of SAM into 5'-methylthioadenosine (MTA), and antioxidant and antifibrogenic activities of both SAM and MTA.
Turmeric oleoresin was fed for 102-109 days to groups of eight pigs (males and females) at dietary levels providing intakes of 60, 296 and 1551 mg/kg body weight/day. Twelve pigs served as controls. The highest dose group showed a reduction in weight gain and in food-conversion efficiency. Statistically significant dose-related increases in the weight of the liver and the thyroid were recorded at all dose levels. Pericholangitis, hyperplasia of the thyroid and epithelial changes in the kidney and urinary bladder were observed in the two higher dose groups. It is questionable whether a no-adverse-effect level can be established on the basis of the observations in this experiment. Further studies should be initiated to elucidate the mechanism of action of turmeric.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Here, we provide evidence that the Forkhead Box (Fox) m1b (Foxm1b or Foxm1) transcription factor is essential for the development of HCC. Conditionally deleted Foxm1b mouse hepatocytes fail to proliferate and are highly resistant to developing HCC in response to a Diethylnitrosamine (DEN)/Phenobarbital (PB) liver tumor-induction protocol. The mechanism of resistance to HCC development is associated with nuclear accumulation of the cell cycle inhibitor p27(Kip1) protein and reduced expression of the Cdk1-activator Cdc25B phosphatase. We showed that the Foxm1b transcription factor is a novel inhibitory target of the p19(ARF) tumor suppressor. Furthermore, we demonstrated that conditional overexpression of Foxm1b protein in osteosarcoma U2OS cells greatly enhances anchorage-independent growth of cell colonies on soft agar. A p19(ARF) 26-44 peptide containing nine D-Arg to enhance cellular uptake of the peptide was sufficient to significantly reduce both Foxm1b transcriptional activity and Foxm1b-induced growth of U2OS cell colonies on soft agar. These results suggest that this (D-Arg)(9)-p19(ARF) 26-44 peptide is a potential therapeutic inhibitor of Foxm1b function during cellular transformation. Our studies demonstrate that the Foxm1b transcription factor is required for proliferative expansion during tumor progression and constitutes a potential new target for therapy of human HCC tumors.
Epinephrine significantly increases lidocaine-induced skeletal muscle necrosis, even in low concentrations that elicit no damage by themselves. Inasmuch as isoproterenol had no influence on lidocaine myotoxicity, a direct effect of epinephrine on muscle fibers is unlikely. Two vasoconstrictors with dissimilar mechanisms of action, phenylephrine and felypressin, duplicated the potentiating effect of epinephrine on fiber destruction in direct relation to their ability to retard lidocaine absorption from the tissue. It is concluded that the augmentation of muscle necrosis caused by epinephrine is largely due to its ability to increase exposure of skeletal muscle to the local anesthetic.
The effects of oxidative stress caused by hyperoxia or administration of the redox active compound diquat were studied in isolated hepatocytes, and the relative contribution of lipid peroxidation, glutathione (GSH) depletion, and NADPH oxidation to the cytotoxicity of active oxygen species was investigated. The redox cycling of diquat occurred primarily in the microsomal fraction since diquat was found not to penetrate into the mitochondria. Depletion of intracellular GSH by pretreatment of the animals with diethyl maleate promoted lipid peroxidation and sensitized the cells to oxidative stress. Diquat toxicity was also greatly enhanced when glutathione reductase was inhibited by pretreatment of the cells with 1,3-bis(2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea. Despite extensive lipid peroxidation, loss of cell viability was not observed, with either hyperoxia or diquat, until the GSH level had fallen below approximately 6 nmol/10(6) cells. The iron chelator desferrioxamine provided complete protection against both diquat-induced lipid peroxidation and loss of cell viability. In contrast, the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol inhibited lipid peroxidation but provided only partial protection from toxicity. The hydroxyl radical scavenger alpha-keto-gamma-methiol butyric acid, finally, also provided partial protection against diquat toxicity but had no effect on lipid peroxidation. The results indicate that there is a critical GSH level above which cell death due to oxidative stress is not observed. As long as the glutathione peroxidase - glutathione reductase system is unaffected, even relatively low amounts of GSH can protect the cells by supporting glutathione peroxidase-mediated metabolism of H2O2 and lipid hydroperoxides.
We are still a long way from discovering an unequivocal pathogenetic interpretation of progressive muscular dystrophy in man. Noteworthy efforts have been made in the experimental field; a recessive autosomic form found in the mouse seems to bear the closest resemblance to the human form from the genetic point of view. Myopathy due to lack of vitamin E and myopathy induced by certain viruses have much in common anatomically and pathologically with the human form. The authors induced myodystrophy in the rat by giving it a diet lacking in vitamin E. The pharmacological characteristics of vitamin E and the degenerative changes brought about by its deficiency, especially in the muscles, are illustrated. It is thus confirmed that the histological characteristics of myopathic rat muscle induced experimentally are extraordinarily similar to those of human myopathy as confirmed during biopsies performed at the Orthopaedic Traumatological Centre, Florence. The encouraging results obtained in various authoratative departments in myopathic patients by using anabolizing steroids have encouraged the authors to investigate the beneficial effects of one anabolizing agent (Dianabol, CIBA) at high doses in rats rendered myopathic by a diet deficient in vitamin E. In this way they obtained appreciable changes in body weight (increased from 50 to 70 g after forty days at a dose of 5 mg per day of anabolizing agent), but most of all they found histological changes due to "regenerative" changes in the muscle tissue, which however maintained its myopathic characteristics in the control animals that were not treated with the anabolizing agent. The authors conclude by affirming the undoubted efficacy of the anabolizing steroids in experimental myopathic disease, but they have reservations as to the transfer of the results into the human field, where high dosage cannot be carried out continuously because of the effects of the drug on virility; because the tissue injury too often occurs at an irreversible stage vis-a-vis the "regeneration" of the muscle tissue; and finally because the dystrophic injurious agent is certainly not the lack of vitamin E but something as yet unknown.
In two prospective, randomized studies conducted in West Germany and involving 80 patients, netilmicin-ticarcillin was compared to tobramycin-ticarcillin in the treatment of serious systemic infections. Both regimens were essentially identical with respect to the clinical and bacteriological results they produced. The netilmicin group developed significantly less nephrotoxicity than the tobramycin group (0% versus 15%, P = 0.03). Ototoxicity also occurred less frequently in the netilmicin-treated patients (3% versus 10%, P = 0.4). In a large collaborative study involving 15 centres, 254 patients were enrolled. Clinical and bacteriological responses were excellent, with netilmicin and tobramycin equally effective, but the incidences of nephrotoxicity and ototoxicity were lower in patients treated with netilmicin than those receiving tobramycin.
We investigated whether the recently described endothelium-derived nitric oxide-mediated gastric hyperemia in the uremic rat protects the gastric mucosa against ethanol injury. Uremia was induced by subtotal nephrectomy. Basal gastric mucosal blood flow, measured by a hydrogen gas clearance technique, was significantly higher in uremic than control rats. Continuous intragastric perfusion with 40% ethanol produced significantly less gross and histological lesions in uremic than in control rats. The administration of 3 mg/kg of NW-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a specific inhibitor of nitric oxide biosynthesis, decreased resting gastric mucosal blood flow to control levels in uremic rats, but had no effect on basal gastric blood flow in control rats. This pretreatment with the inhibitor of nitric oxide biosynthesis increased 40% ethanol-induced gastric mucosal lesions in uremic rats to the same level as that observed in control rats, but had no effect on lesions in control rats. In conclusion, this study suggests that in the uremic rat, gastric hyperemia, mediated by increased endothelium-derived nitric oxide, attenuates ethanol-induced gastric mucosal injury.
To assess the relationship between indinavir-associated urological complaints and indinavir plasma concentrations.
Case series, comparing indinavir plasma concentrations in cases with average concentrations in a control group.
Patients taking 800 mg indinavir three times a day (tid), who presented with overt urological complaints (renal colic, flank pain or haematuria) were selected for the study. Plasma indinavir concentrations were measured by means of a standardized high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method. Plasma samples taken at 1.5-8 h after the last indinavir ingestion were included for evaluation. Results were compared with the full pharmacokinetic curves of indinavir plasma concentrations from a control group of 14 patients taking 800 mg indinavir tid without urological complaints, and were expressed as concentration ratios. A ratio of 1 indicated a plasma concentration equalling the average concentration in the control population at the same point in time after the ingestion of indinavir.
Seventeen patients (five women) were enrolled and the indinavir concentrations of 15 patients could be evaluated. Fourteen (93%) patients had a concentration above the mean of the controls, 12 (80%) patients had a concentration above the upper 95% confidence limit, and one (7%) patient had a concentration below the lower 95% confidence limit. The mean indinavir concentration in patients with urological complaints (ratio range 0.55-11.49) was significantly higher than the average concentration and the upper 95% confidence limit of the control group (P < 0.05). The results could not be explained by differences in weight, sex or drug interactions. Two patients had chronic active hepatitis B infection. In six patients with indinavir concentrations above the upper 95% limit, indinavir was reduced to 600 mg tid. Upon repeat measurement after the dose adjustment, their indinavir plasma concentrations fell within the 95% confidence interval around the mean of the control population. All six patients remained asymptomatic and had viral loads of less than 500 copies per ml after a follow-up of 5-16 months.
Urological complications occurring during indinavir treatment were associated with elevated indinavir plasma concentrations in 80% of patients in this study. Indinavir plasma concentrations should be monitored upon presentation of urological complaints, on the basis of which dose reductions may be applied if brief interruption and increased hydration are ineffective.
In their previous studies, the authors found that simvastatin treatment of traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats had beneficial effects on spatial learning functions. In the current study they wanted to determine whether simvastatin suppressed neuronal cell apoptosis after TBI, and if so, they wanted to examine the underlying mechanisms of this process.
Saline or simvastatin (1 mg/kg) was administered orally to rats starting on Day 1 after TBI and then daily for 14 days. Modified Neurological Severity Scores were used to evaluate the sensory motor functional recovery. Rats were killed at 1, 3, 7, 14, and 35 days after treatment, and brain tissue was harvested for terminal deoxynucleotidyl nick-end labeling (TUNEL) staining, caspase-3 activity assay, and Western blot analysis.
Simvastatin significantly decreased the modified Neurological Severity Scores from Days 7 to 35 after TBI, significantly reduced the number of TUNEL-positive cells at Day 3, suppressed the caspase-3 activity at Days 1 and 3 after TBI, and increased phosphorylation of Akt as well as Forkhead transcription factor 1, inhibitory-kappaB, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase, which are the downstream targets of the prosurvival Akt signaling protein.
These data suggested that simvastatin reduces the apoptosis in neuronal cells and improves the sensory motor function recovery after TBI. These beneficial effects of simvastatin may be mediated through activation of Akt, Forkhead transcription factor 1 and nuclear factor-kappaB signaling pathways, which suppress the activation of caspase-3 and apoptotic cell death, and thereby, lead to neuronal function recovery after TBI.
Pressure-volume (PV) curves are recorded after induction of complete muscle paralysis, which may limit their clinical use. The feasibility of recording PV curves without paralysis has not been tested. In 19 patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and no hemodynamic instability we prospectively evaluated whether PV curves can be safely and reliably recorded under deep sedation without neuromuscular blockade.
After standardized sedation (continuous infusion of midazolam and fentanyl) PV curves were recorded during apneic sedation, defined as absence of respiratory effort during a 6-s expiratory pause and during paralysis induced by cis-atracurium.
Agreement between PV curve parameters in the two conditions was evaluated. Curves were obtained from 10 cmH2O and from zero end-expiratory pressure in all patients under apneic sedation. In five patients propofol was given in addition to midazolam and fentanyl, and in two of them fluid resuscitation was needed. A strong agreement was found for respiratory system compliance and the lower inflection point and for chest wall compliance in the five patients whose esophageal pressure was measured. The variability of the measurements, however, should be taken into account in clinical practice.
Neuromuscular blockade can be dispensed with when recording PV curves in many ARDS patients. Reliable PV curves can be obtained under anesthesia alone, with no serious adverse effects.
The effect of diltiazem-induced hypotension on intracranial pressure (ICP) was studied in dogs with normal and elevated ICP. Eight dogs were anesthetized with intravenous pentobarbital, intubated, and ventilated with N2O:O2. Mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), pulmonary artery pressure (PAP), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), central venous pressure (CVP), and cardiac out-put (CO) were recorded. A ventriculostomy was performed for measurement of ICP. Baselines were established, and diltiazem was infused to reduce MAP 40 +/- 1% for 10 min. After recording the effects of diltiazem-induced hypotension during normal ICP, ICP was elevated by infusion through a ventriculostomy cannula of pH-adjusted Ringer's lactate, baselines were reestablished, and MAP was again reduced by 40 +/- 1% with diltiazem. When baseline ICP was normal, diltiazem-induced hypotension produced a statistically significant increase in ICP (4.8 +/- 0.6 mm Hg) and a decrease in cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). When baseline ICP was elevated, a smaller increase in ICP occurred (1.3 +/- 0.5 mm Hg). Although these increases in ICP were not clinically significant, the dose of diltiazem required to lower MAP 40% caused significant alterations in HR, systemic vascular resistance, CO, and PCWP. Serious cardiac rhythm disturbances occurred in five of eight dogs when baseline ICP was normal and in six of eight dogs when baseline ICP was elevated. The relatively long duration of diltiazem's hemodynamic effect and the high incidence of cardiac rhythm disturbances make it an unsuitable drug for inducing deliberate hypotension.
Busulfan pharmacokinetics, specifically area under the concentration curve (AUC), have been correlated with the occurrence of veno-occlusive disease (VOD) following BMT. To evaluate the risk of VOD, we studied 66 patients who received pharmacotherapeutically monitored busulfan regimens in combination with CY, etoposide (VP16) and/or Ara-C in preparation for BMT. These patients received a total of 16 doses of busulfan dosed as 1 mg/kg/dose q 6 h beginning at 09.00 (n = 39), 18.00 (n = 2), 21.00 (n = 1) or 24.00 (n = 24) h. With the first dose, blood samples were obtained at baseline, every 15-30 min for 2 h, then every 1-2 h for 4 h. Blood was analyzed for busulfan concentration by high performance liquid chromatography and AUC calculated by the trapezoidal rule. Seventeen patients (25.8%) were not evaluable for AUC calculation due to slow absorption and/or elimination: 13 of 27 (48.1%) received the first dose between 18.00-24.00 vs four of 39 (10.2%) patients who received the first dose at 09.00 (P < 0.001). Eighteen of 51 (35.3%) evaluable patients had an AUC > 1500 mumol x min/l; 10 of whom received doses reduced proportionally to achieve an AUC = 1200 mumol x min/l starting with the 10th to 15th dose. Six of 18 (33.3%) patients with an initial AUC > 1500 mumol x min/l developed VOD vs one of 33 (3.0%) patients with an initial AUC < 1500 mumol x min/l (relative risk = 11.1; P = 0.0056). Other pharmacokinetic parameters, age, gender, type of BMT, previous therapy or pre-transplant liver function tests were not predictive of VOD. A higher incidence of VOD occurred in patients receiving BUCY (4 of 10) compared to those receiving BUCYAra-C (1 of 18) or BUCYVP16 (7 of 38), which could not be attributed to increased busulfan exposure in the BUCY patients. Routine pharmacotherapeutic monitoring of busulfan is recommended with further study to evaluate the impact of earlier and greater overall dose reduction in patients with high initial busulfan exposures.
To determine the feasibility and acute (i.e., within 72 hrs) safety of three levels of systolic blood pressure reduction in subjects with supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage treated within 6 hrs after symptom onset.
A traditional phase I, dose-escalation, multicenter prospective study.
Emergency departments and intensive care units.
Patients with intracerebral hemorrhage with elevated systolic blood pressure > or = 170 mm Hg who present to the emergency department within 6 hrs of symptom onset.
Intravenous nicardipine to reduce systolic blood pressure to a target of: (1) 170 to 200 mm Hg in the first cohort of patients; (2) 140 to 170 mm Hg in the second cohort; and (3) 110 to 140 mm Hg in the third cohort.
Primary outcomes of interest were: (1) treatment feasibility (achieving and maintaining the systolic blood pressure goals for 18-24 hrs); (2) neurologic deterioration within 24 hrs; and (3) serious adverse events within 72 hrs. Safety stopping rules based on neurologic deterioration and serious adverse events were prespecified and approved by an NIH-appointed Data and Safety Monitoring Board, which provided oversight on subject safety. Each subject was followed-up for 3 months to preliminarily assess mortality and the clinical outcomes. A total of 18, 20, and 22 patients were enrolled in the respective three tiers of systolic blood pressure treatment goals. Overall, 9 of 60 patients had treatment failures (all in the last tier). A total of seven subjects with neurologic deterioration were observed: one (6%), two (10%), and four (18%) in tier one, two, and three, respectively. Serious adverse events were observed in one subject (5%) in tier two and in three subjects (14%) in tier three. However, the safety stopping rule was not activated in any of the tiers. Three (17%), two (10%), and five (23%) subjects in tiers one, two, and three, respectively, died within 3 months.
The observed proportions of neurologic deterioration and serious adverse events were below the prespecified safety thresholds, and the 3-month mortality rate was lower than expected in all systolic blood pressure tiers. The results form the basis of a larger randomized trial addressing the efficacy of systolic blood pressure reduction in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage.
In the quinazoline antifolate (CB 3717)-induced hyperplastic kidney model, a remarkable increase of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity was paralleled by a smaller, but highly significant augmentation of the ODC transcript level. Catecholamine depletion, evoked by reserpine, strongly impaired antifolate-induced ODC expression; the enzyme activity was almost completely abolished while the mRNA level decreased by 60%. Moreover, under conditions of a depleted catecholamine pool, kidney enlargement was significantly reduced confirming our earlier reports on the indispensability of ODC induction for renal hyperplasia (M. Manteuffel-Cymborowska et al. , Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1182 (1993) 133-141[1]). In normal mouse kidney catecholamines appeared to be inducers of ODC expression. Use of selective agonists of catecholamine receptors demonstrated the importance of dopamine D2 receptors, and to a lower extent beta adrenoreceptors, in the catecholamine mediation of induction of ODC activity and of ODC mRNA levels. These increases were not abolished by an antiandrogen, casodex, suggesting that catecholamine control of ODC expression is an androgen receptor-independent process. The results obtained point to the critical role of renal catecholamines; these biogenic amines are not only involved in the regulation of ODC expression in normal kidney but are also required for the induction of ODC in hyperplastic kidney evoked by antifolate and, as shown recently (M. Manteuffel-Cymborowska et al., Biochim. Biophys. Acta, 1356 (1997) 292-298[2]), in testosterone-induced hypertrophic kidney.
