Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the left motor cortex were recorded from the right first dorsal interosseous (FDI), abductor pollicis brevis (APB), abductor digiti minimi (ADM), flexor carpi radialis (FCR), extensor carpi radialis (ECR) in 17 normal subjects, before and after painful application of capsaicin on the skin overlying the right FDI and FCR muscles. The amplitude of MEPs from the FDI and FCR was significantly reduced from 20 to 30 min after the application of capsaicin over the FDI and FCR muscles, respectively, then progressively returned to the basal values. A similar trend of MEPs inhibition was observed for APB and FCR muscles, but this reduction was not significant. Indices of peripheral nerve (M-wave) and spinal cord excitability (F and H waves) did not change throughout the experiments. Motor cortex inhibition induced by tonic cutaneous pain is maximal to muscles adjacent to the painful area. This inhibition may be due to the activation of the C fibres which mediate 'slow' nociception and might be important to alert subject to possible phasic nociceptive events that may occur close to the painful area.
Authors report a case of hallucinations related to clonidine treatment in an elderly man with hypertension and renal failure. The symptoms appeared shortly after treatment is starting. The hallucinations disappeared after clonidine withdrawal. Implications for clinical practice are evocated.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are known to have a number of potential side effects. Here we report a case demonstrating an uncommon complication, irreversible sensorineural deafness.
A 41-year-old man with pre-existing cardiac and renal dysfunction (for which his regular medications included furosemide) presumed secondary to a viral myocarditis developed acute sensorineural hearing loss 5 days after commencing treatment with indomethacin 25 mg tds for acute gout. His hearing loss was preceded by the development of tinnitus and failed to recover.
Permanent deafness is a rare but serious side effect of NSAIDs. Tinnitus developing in patients on these agents should be regarded as a potential warning sign of impending irreversible ototoxicity.
We performed this dose-finding study with a fixed dose of cisplatin and increasing doses of paclitaxel given every 2 weeks to determine the maximum tolerable dose of this schedule. Sixty-four patients with advanced oesophageal cancer were treated with a cisplatin dose of 60 mg m(-2) and increasing doses of paclitaxel from 100 mg m(-2) up to 200 mg m(-2) both administered over 3 h for a maximum of six cycles in patients with stable disease or eight cycles in responding patients. Patients were retreated when the granulocytes were > 0.75 x 10(9) l(-1) and the platelets > 75 x 10(9) l(-1). The dose of paclitaxel could be increased to 200 mg m(-2) without encountering dose limiting haematological toxicity. At the dose levels 190 mg m(-2) and 200 mg m(-2) of paclitaxel cumulative sensory neurotoxicity became the dose-limiting toxicity. The dose intensity of paclitaxel calculated over six cycles rose from 50 mg m(-2) per week to 85 mg m(-2) per week. Only three episodes of granulocytopenic fever were encountered out of a total of 362 cycles of treatment. Of the 59 patients evaluable for response, 31 (52%) had a partial or complete response. In a biweekly schedule with a fixed dose of 60 mg m(-2) cisplatin it is possible to increase the dose of paclitaxel to 180 mg m(-2). At higher dose levels, neurotoxicity becomes the dose-limiting toxicity. The observed response rate warrants further investigation of this schedule.
To understand the bioavailability and mechanistic pathways of cytoprotection by IH636 grape seed proanthocyanidin extract (GSPE, commercially known as ActiVin) a series of in vitro and in vivo studies were conducted. Comparative protective abilities of GSPE, and vitamins C and E, singly and in combination, were assessed against smokeless tobacco extract (STE)-induced oxidative stress, DNA fragmentation and apoptotic cell death in a primary culture of normal human oral keratinocytes. GSPE protected against STE-induced oxidative stress, DNA damage and apoptotic cell death, and provided better protection as compared to vitamins C and E, singly and in combination. The bioavailability and protective ability of GSPE were examined against acetaminophen (AP)-induced hepato- and nephrotoxicity, amiodarone (AM)-induced lung toxicity, doxorubicin (DX)-induced cardiotoxicity and dimethylnitrosamine (DM)-induced spleenotoxicity in mice. GSPE-fed animals were compared with GSPE-untreated mice to evaluate the protective ability of GSPE against these structurally diverse drugs/chemicals. Serum chemistry changes, histopathology and DNA damage were evaluated. Results indicate that GSPE preexposure prior to the drugs/chemicals such as AP, AM, DX or DM treatment, provided near complete protection in terms of serum chemistry changes and inhibition of both forms of cell death, e.g., apoptosis and necrosis. DNA damage in various tissues triggered by these agents was significantly reduced in GSPE-fed animals. Histopathological examination of multiple target organs provided similar data. The results suggest that GSPE exposure is bioavailable and provides significant multiorgan protection against structurally diverse drug- and chemical-induced toxic assaults. Further, these studies exhibited a series of mechanistic information including free radical scavenging ability, anti-endonucleolytic activity, cytochrome P450 2E1 inhibitory activity, anti-necrotic, anti-apoptotic and anti-carcinogenic activities, modulatory effects on antioxidative and apoptotic regulatory genes such as Bcl2, c-myc and p53, which may be responsible for the novel chemoprotective properties exhibited by GSPE.
Retinoic acid and natural as well as synthetic derivatives (retinoids) are promising anti-neoplastic agents endowed with both therapeutic and chemopreventive potential. Although the treatment of acute promyelocic leukemia with all-trans retinoic acid is an outstanding example, the full potential of retinoids in oncology has not yet been exploited and a more generalized use of these compounds is not yet a reality. This may be the result of issues such as natural and induced resistance as well as local and systemic toxicity. One way to enhance the therapeutic and chemopreventive activity of retinoic acid and derivatives is to identify rational combinations between these compounds and other pharmacological agents. This is now possible given the wealth of information available on the biochemical and molecular mechanisms underlying the biological activity of retinoids. At the cellular level, the anti-leukemia and anti-cancer activity of retinoids is the result of three main actions, cell-differentiation, growth inhibition and apoptosis. At the molecular level, retinoids act through the activation of nuclear-retinoic-acid-receptor-dependent and-independent pathways. The cellular pathways and molecular networks relevant for retinoid activity are modulated by a panoply of other intra-cellular and extra-cellular pathways that may be targeted by known drugs and other experimental therapeutics. The review article aims to summarize and critically discuss the available knowledge in the field and provide a rational framework that may be useful for the design of effective drug combinations with the potential to enhance the therapeutic index of retinoids.
To assess the efficacy of Cellfood's therapy in the treatment of fibromyalgia.
This study was a single-blind, cross-over, randomized placebo-controlled trial. Forty female were selected from 320 cases investigated in the period 2003-2005 of June. To be included in this study, it was required that the diagnosis of fibromyalgia was made by a specialist in according to the ACR classification criteria of 1990. The patient's age was between 35-47 years, the choice of criteria were the absence of improvements with the conventional therapy and the normality of medical check-up. The patients were divided into two different-groups of thirty-one and nine subjects, each-one (group A) treated with Cellfood for six months in according to the Eurodream's scheme, and each-other (group B) treated with placebo for three months and successively with Cellfood for three months. Besides we have estimated the tender points with algometer and the health status of women with the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) at the baseline (T0) and at three (T1) and six month (T2).
The group A had an appreciable improvement of the parameters at T1 statistically significant compared to the group B, while we observed a stability of they at T2 on the group A and an improvement of the parameters of the group B statistically non significant compared to each-one.
Our result suggest that the Cellfood's therapy improve fibromyalgia symptoms and health-related quality of life.
Adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) produces adrenally dependent increases in both blood pressure and salt (NaCl) appetite in the rat. The present study examines the effect of free access to a high intake of NaCl on ACTH hypertension in the rat to test the hypothesis that high NaCl intake would amplify the rise in blood pressure. Either water or 1%NaCl were offered to sham or ACTH treated Sprague-Dawley rats. Subcutaneous injections of synthetic ACTH (0.5 mg/kg/day) for 10 days caused large increases in the intake of both 1%NaCl (+240 +/- 6 ml/day) and water (+45 +/- 4 ml/day), urine volume (1%NaCl + ACTH +182 +/- 4 ml/day, ACTH + water +36 +/- 2 ml/day), adrenal weight (ACTH + water 176 +/- 18, ACTH + 1%NaCl 367 +/- 129 mg/100 g body weight) and maximum systolic blood pressure (SBP) (ACTH + water +18 +/- 5 mmHg; 1%NaCl + ACTH +16 +/- 3 mmHg). Some ACTH + 1%NaCl rats developed severe edema. Thus, free access to NaCl in ACTH treated Sprague Dawley rats did not potentiate the hypertension, but was associated with edema in some animals.
Neurodevelopmental disorders are associated with altered patterns of neuronal connectivity. A critical determinant of neuronal connectivity is the dendritic morphology of individual neurons, which is shaped by experience. The identification of environmental exposures that interfere with dendritic growth and plasticity may, therefore, provide insight into environmental risk factors for neurodevelopmental disorders.
We tested the hypothesis that polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) alter dendritic growth and/or plasticity by promoting the activity of ryanodine receptors (RyRs).
The Morris water maze was used to induce experience-dependent neural plasticity in weanling rats exposed to either vehicle or Aroclor 1254 (A1254) in the maternal diet throughout gestation and lactation. Developmental A1254 exposure promoted dendritic growth in cerebellar Purkinje cells and neocortical pyramidal neurons among untrained animals but attenuated or reversed experience-dependent dendritic growth among maze-trained littermates. These structural changes coincided with subtle deficits in spatial learning and memory, increased [3H]-ryanodine binding sites and RyR expression in the cerebellum of untrained animals, and inhibition of training-induced RyR upregulation. A congener with potent RyR activity, PCB95, but not a congener with negligible RyR activity, PCB66, promoted dendritic growth in primary cortical neuron cultures and this effect was blocked by pharmacologic antagonism of RyR activity.
Developmental exposure to PCBs interferes with normal patterns of dendritic growth and plasticity, and these effects may be linked to changes in RyR expression and function. These findings identify PCBs as candidate environmental risk factors for neurodevelopmental disorders, especially in children with heritable deficits in calcium signaling.
The aim of the study was to investigate the hypoalgesic effects of a single spinal manipulation treatment on acute inflammatory reactions and pain induced by cutaneous application of capsaicin.
Twenty healthy subjects participated in the experiment, which consisted of 2 sessions. In both sessions, following control measurements, topical capsaicin was applied to the right or left forearm to induce cutaneous inflammatory reactions. The cream was removed after 20 minutes. Then subjects received either spinal manipulation treatment (SMT) or "nonspinal manipulation treatment" (N-SMT), respectively. In control as well as pretreatment and posttreatment intervals, the following tests were performed: measurement of the areas of mechanical hyperalgesia and stroking allodynia, assessment of spontaneous pain, and measurement of blood flow.
The results confirmed that topical capsaicin induced inflammatory reactions based on occurrence of hyperalgesia and allodynia, augmented pain perception, and increased blood flow following capsaicin application compared with the control session. When compared with N-SMT, spontaneous pain was rated significantly lower post-SMT (P <.014). In addition, areas of both secondary hyperalgesia and allodynia decreased after SMT (hyperalgesia: P <.007; allodynia: P <.003). However, there was no significant treatment effect for local blood flow.
These results suggest hypoalgesic effects following a single SMT. As local vascular parameter was not affected by the single SMT, the hypoalgesic effects appear to be due to central mechanisms.
Liver fibrosis is the consequence of activation of hepatic stellate cells mediated by persistent or recurrent liver injury, where oxidative stress or inflammatory response resulting from immune cells and cytokines are involved. Targeting of hepatic stellate cells could be an important strategy for the therapy of liver fibrosis. In this study, we showed a tropism of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV, serotype 2) with high efficiency in transduction of a homeostatic gene, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), to activated stellate cells. The binding of rAAVs to stellate cells increased significantly after serum-stimulated activation compared with quiescent status. Portal injection of rAAVs to normal or carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4))-induced liver fibrosis showed a distinct distribution of rAAV binding. The majority of injected rAAVs bound to the cells in fibrotic areas that were associated with higher expression levels of fibroblast growth factor receptor-1alpha at 2 hours after administration. Isolation of different types of cells from CCl(4)-induced fibrotic livers showed predominant expression of transgene in stellate cells after rAAV/HO-1 administration on day 3 and remained stable for 12 weeks. In addition, HO-1-transduced stellate cells showed reduced transcript levels of type 1 collagen and impaired proliferative ability compared with controls. With this approach, the severity of established micronodular cirrhosis was markedly reduced. In conclusion, these findings suggest a new approach for the treatment of liver fibrosis using adeno-associated virus-mediated gene transfer.
Most studies investigating the role of residential mouse allergen exposures in asthma have focused on inner-city populations.
We examined whether elevated mouse allergen levels were associated with occupants' asthma status in a nationally representative sample of U.S. households.
Data for this study were collected as part of the National Survey of Lead and Allergens in Housing. This cross-sectional study surveyed 831 housing units inhabited by 2,456 individuals in 75 different locations throughout the United States. The survey obtained information on demographics, household characteristics, and occupants' health status by questionnaire and environmental observations. We used a polyclonal immunoassay to assess concentrations of mouse urinary protein (MUP) in vacuumed dust collected from various indoor sites.
Of the surveyed homes, 82% had detectable levels of MUP, and in 35% of the homes, MUP concentrations exceeded 1.6 microg/g, a level that has been associated with increased mouse allergen sensitization rates. Current asthma, defined as having doctor-diagnosed asthma and asthma symptoms in the preceding 12 months, was positively associated with increased MUP levels. The observed association was modified by atopic status; in allergic individuals, elevated MUP levels (>1.6 microg/g) increased the odds of having asthma symptoms [adjusted OR=1.93; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.14-3.27], but we found no association in those who did not report allergies (adjusted OR=0.69; 95% CI, 0.33-1.44).
In allergic asthma, residential mouse allergen exposure is an important risk factor for asthma morbidity.
To determine whether childhood medulloblastoma and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) survivors have decreased white matter fractional anisotropy (WMFA) and whether WMFA is related to the speed of processing and motor speed.
For this study, 17 patients (6 medulloblastoma, 5 ALL treated with high-dose methotrexate (MTX) (4 x 5 g/m(2)) and 6 with low-dose MTX (3 x 2 g/m(2))) and 17 age-matched controls participated. On a 3.0-T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) was performed, and WMFA values were calculated, including specific regions of interest (ROIs), and correlated with the speed of processing and motor speed.
Mean WMFA in the patient group, mean age 14 years (range 8.9 - 16.9), was decreased compared with the control group (p = 0.01), as well as WMFA in the right inferior fronto-occipital fasciliculus (IFO) (p = 0.03) and in the genu of the corpus callosum (gCC) (p = 0.01). Based on neurocognitive results, significant positive correlations were present between processing speed and WMFA in the splenium (sCC) (r = 0.53, p = 0.03) and the body of the corpus callosum (bCC) (r = 0.52, p = 0.03), whereas the right IFO WMFA was related to motor speed (r = 0.49, p < 0.05).
White matter tracts, using a 3.0-T MRI scanner, show impairment in childhood cancer survivors, medulloblastoma survivors, and also those treated with high doses of MTX. In particular, white matter tracts in the sCC, bCC and right IFO are positively correlated with speed of processing and motor speed.
Pentavalent antimony (Sbv), formulated as sodium stibogluconate or meglumine antimoniate, is the standard treatment for the leishmaniases. In 16 of 17 consecutive, prospectively observed patients in Washington D.C., serum levels of amylase and lipase rose to abnormal values after therapy with sodium stibogluconate was started; 12 of 17 had symptoms of pancreatitis. Sbv therapy was continued to completion in 7 of 17 patients and interrupted in 10 of 17. Pancreatitis improved in every patient after Sbv therapy was stopped. Sbv treatment was resumed after brief interruptions in 6 of 10 patients. All six of these patients had flares of pancreatitis, but each completed therapy. Subsequently, we measured amylase and lipase levels in stored sera from 32 patients treated in Peru with either sodium stibogluconate or meglumine antimoniate for mucosal leishmaniasis. In all 32 Peruvian patients, serum amylase and lipase rose to abnormal levels during Sbv therapy; 11 of 32 had symptoms of pancreatitis. Standard Sbv regimens induce pancreatitis in almost all patients, but continued therapy is often tolerated; pancreatitis subsides when therapy is stopped, and rechallenge may be tolerated after a brief halt in treatment.
In conscious unrestrained spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats, prepared with permanently indwelling abdominal aortic catheters, the effects of blood pressure and heart rate of a 12-day continuous subcutaneous infusion of guanfacine (10 mg/kg/day) and clonidine (500 micrograms/kg/day) and sudden interruption of these treatments were studied. Both drugs significantly and consistently reduced the mean arterial pressure and heart rate throughout the infusion period in the SH rats, but not in the normotensive animals. The magnitude of the effects of both drugs in the SH rat were similar. Following withdrawal of treatment with guanfacine, a discontinuation syndrome was evoked, much less severe than that observed after suspension of the infusion with clonidine. The withdrawal syndromes were characterized by an overshoot of heart rate and a period of blood pressure lability. In spite of the ineffectiveness of guanfacine and clonidine to reduce blood pressure and heart rate consistently in the normotensive rat, similar withdrawal patterns as those found in the SH rat were observed. These findings are in general agreement with the results previously found in clinical studies in hypertensive patients. The spontaneously hypertensive rat may prove a suitable animal model for pre-clinical studies of discontinuation symptoms after cessation of treatment with antihypertensive drugs.
Arsenic exposure may alter the efficiency of DNA repair. UV damage is specifically repaired by nucleotide excision repair (NER), and common genetic variants in NER may increase risk for non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC).
We tested whether polymorphisms in the NER genes XPA (A23G) and XPD (Asp312Asn and Lys751Gln) modify the association between arsenic and NMSC.
Incident cases of basal and squamous cell carcinoma (BCC and SCC, respectively) were identified through a network of dermatologists and pathology laboratories across New Hampshire. Population-based controls were frequency matched to cases on age and sex. Arsenic exposure was assessed in toenail clippings. The analysis included 880 cases of BCC, 666 cases of SCC, and 780 controls.
There was an increased BCC risk associated with high arsenic exposure among those homozygous variant for XPA [odds ratio (OR) = 1.8; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.9-3.7]. For XPD, having variation at both loci (312Asn and 751Gln) occurred less frequently among BCC and SCC cases compared with controls (OR = 0.8; 95% CI, 0.6-1.0) for both case groups. In the stratum of subjects who have variant for both XPD polymorphisms, there was a 2-fold increased risk of SCC associated with elevated arsenic (OR = 2.2; 95% CI, 1.0-5.0). The test for interaction between XPD and arsenic in SCC was of borderline significance (p < 0.07, 3 degrees of freedom).
Our findings indicate a reduced NMSC risk in relation to XPD Asp312Asn and Lys751Gln variants. Further, these data support the hypothesis that NER polymorphisms may modify the association between NMSC and arsenic.
Ventilatory effects at induction of anaesthesia were studied following intubation in 66 dogs anaesthetised using thiopentone (10 mg/kg) or propofol (4 mg/kg, injected rapidly or 4 mg/kg, injected slowly). Acepromazine and morphine preanaesthetic medication was administered, and anaesthesia was maintained with halothane in nitrous oxide and oxygen. The time from connection of the breathing system to the first breath was measured. Apnoea was defined as cessation of spontaneous respiration for 15 seconds or longer. Respiratory rate and minute volume were measured for the first five minutes of anaesthesia. Propofol was associated with a greater incidence of apnoea than thiopentone (59 per cent and 64 per cent compared with 32 per cent), but this difference was not statistically significant. Time to first breath was significantly longer with propofol than thiopentone and longest with the slower injection of propofol (P<0.05) (median of four seconds for thiopentone, 19.5 seconds for the propofol rapid injection, and 28.8 seconds for the propofol slow injection). In conclusion, the induction agent and speed of injection affect the incidence and duration of post-intubation apnoea.
Methylmercury (MeHg), a worldwide contaminant found in fish and seafood, has been linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality.
We examined 42 Faroese whaling men (30-70 years of age) to assess possible adverse effects within a wide range of MeHg exposures from consumption of pilot whale meat.
We assessed exposure levels from mercury analysis of toenails and whole blood (obtained at the time of clinical examination), and a hair sample collected 7 years previously. Outcome measures included heart rate variability (HRV), blood pressure (BP), common carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), and brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP). We carried out multiple regression and structural equation model (SEM) analyses to determine the confounder-adjusted effect of mercury exposure. Taking into account correlations among related measures, we categorized exposure and outcomes in groups to derive latent exposure and response variables in SEMs. We used multiple regression analysis to compare the predictive validity of individual exposure biomarkers and the latent exposure variable on individual and latent outcomes.
The toenail mercury concentrations varied widely and had a geometric mean of 2.0 microg/g; hair concentrations averaged about 3-fold higher. Mercury exposure was significantly associated with increased BP and IMT. This effect was reflected by SEMs, but mercury in toenails tended to be the best effect predictor.
The results support the notion that increased MeHg exposure promotes the development of cardiovascular disease.
To investigate whether resveratrol (3,4,5-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene) inhibits collagen I synthesis induced by insulin growth factor-1 (IGF-1) in intestinal fibroblasts, and to explore the possible molecular mechanisms.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into two groups: a control group and a 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis group. After 21 d of TNBS administration, the degree of inflammation and fibrosis in colon was measured by HE staining and Masson's trichrome staining. Western blotting was used to examine collagen I, IGF-1 and silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) protein expression in colitis tissues. Western blotting and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction were used to characterize collagen I protein and col1a2 mRNA expression in mouse intestinal fibroblasts and CCD-(18)Co cells treated with IGF-1. A MEK inhibitor (U0126) was used to determine whether IGF-1-induced collagen I expression was mediated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2)-dependent mechanism. Effects of resveratrol on collagen I protein level, insulin growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-1R) and ERK1/2 phosphorylation levels were also examined after IGF-1 treatment in fibroblasts. To evaluate whether SIRT1 was necessary for the anti-fibrosis effect of resveratrol, cells were transfected with SIRT1-specific small interfering RNAs, wild-type SIRT1, and deacetylase-inactive mutant SIRT1.
Collagen I and IGF-1 expression was increased, and SIRT1 expression was decreased (0.67 ± 0.04 vs 1.05 ± 0.07, P < 0.001) in TNBS-induced colitis compared with the control group. In vitro, IGF-1 could induce collagen I expression, mainly through the ERK 1/2 signal pathway. Resveratrol reduced basal and IGF-1-induced collagen I gene and protein expression in intestinal fibroblasts. Overexpression of wild-type SIRT1, not deacetylase-inactive mutant SIRT1, decreased expression of collagen I induced by IGF-1. Moreover, silencing SIRT1 restored collagen I expression in fibroblasts challenged with resveratrol. However, disruption of SIRT1 did not influence the anti-fibrotic effects of resveratrol and IGF-1-induced collagen I expression. Further analysis revealed that resveratrol significantly decreased phosphorylation of IGF-1R and its downstream signaling molecules by inhibiting IGF-1 binding to its receptor.
Our data suggest that resveratrol effectively inhibits collagen I synthesis in IGF-1-stimulated fibroblasts, partly by inhibiting IGF-1R activation, and SIRT1 is also responsible for the process.
Diabetes is associated with endothelial dysfunction, which in part may be related to uncoupling of the endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase enzyme, thus reducing the availability of NO. As folates may potentially reverse the uncoupling of NO synthase, we wanted to determine whether folic acid supplementation could modulate endothelial function and markers of inflammation in patients with type 2 diabetes without vascular disease. Nineteen patients with type 2 diabetes were treated with folic acid (10mg/day for 2 weeks) versus placebo in a randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over study with an 8-week washout period between treatments. Fasting endothelium-dependent flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) of the brachial artery, endothelium-independent nitroglycerin-mediated dilatation (NMD), plasma homocysteine, serum lipids, folate, and inflammatory markers (high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, interleukin-18, tumor necrosis factor-alpha) were assessed after each 2-week treatment period. Folic acid supplementation significantly increased folate levels and lowered plasma homocysteine levels. Folic acid significantly improved FMD compared to placebo (5.8 +/- 4.8% vs 3.2 +/- 2.7%, p = 0.02). There were no significant effects of folic acid supplementation on lipids, NMD, or the inflammatory markers. There was no relationship between the change in homocysteine and the improvement in FMD. Thus, 2 weeks of folic acid supplementation can improve endothelial dysfunction in type 2 diabetics independent of homocysteine-lowering, but does not modulate markers of inflammation.
To evaluate the safety and effectiveness of diltiazem CD for reducing blood pressure in Mexican-American patients with mild to moderate hypertension.
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Twelve clinical sites in the United States.
Patients with baseline diastolic blood pressures between 95 and 115 mm Hg.
Patients were treated with an average daily dose of diltiazem CD 246 mg (60 patients) or placebo (58 patients) to achieve a trough diastolic blood pressure below 90 mm Hg.
Diltiazem CD significantly reduced mean diastolic blood pressure compared with placebo, -8.2 versus -4.1 mm Hg, respectively (p=0.0025). Diastolic blood pressure below 90 mm Hg or a reduction of 10 mm Hg or more was achieved by 57% of diltiazem CD versus 28% of placebo recipients. Systolic blood pressure and heart rate were also reduced with diltiazem CD. Adverse events were mild, with similar frequency for diltiazem CD (15%) and placebo (19%).
Diltiazem CD is safe and effective in hypertensive Mexican-Americans, and diastolic blood pressure reductions compare with those in non-Hispanic white patients.
N-terminal fragments of adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) was reported to exert potent 'dystonia'-like effects on posture and locomotion following a unilateral microinjection into the rat brainstem. The high reliability of this phenomenon provided a suitable animal model for the study of these actions. The present structure-activity study showed that ACTH1-39, in contrast to its N-terminal fragments, did not have any 'dystonic' actions, however transient or slight. Thus, the folded conformation of [1-39] in vivo may prevent its N-terminal region from interacting with those CNS sites that trigger 'dystonic' actions. These results suggest that genetically-linked human dystonia may have originated in part as a consequence of a mutation in the processing of the ACTH molecule, resulting in an aberrantly-folded conformation that allows its N-terminal region to trigger the dystonic syndrome.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on CO2 reactivity during cerebral aneurysm surgery in 37 patients under neuroleptoanaesthesia (NLA). The patients were divided into two groups based on the timing of surgery (A: late surgery B: early surgery). In the early surgery group, aneurysm surgery was performed within three days of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and in the late surgery group surgery was performed more than four days after SAH. Presurgical neurological status was worse in the early surgery group than in the late surgery group (P less than 0.01). Local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) measurements were made using a thermal gradient blood flow meter. Hypotension was induced by PGE1 administration at an initial dose of 0.1 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 and adjusted to maintain the mean arterial pressure (MAP) at about 70 mmHg. The CO2 reactivity was calculated by the % change in LCBF divided by the change in PaCO2 (% delta LCBF/delta PaCO2 (%.mmHg-1)). LCBF, heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure were measured during and after PGE1 infusion. Carbon dioxide reactivity was measured before, during and after PGE1 administration. The LCBF did not change throughout the study but CO2 reactivity was greater in Group A (before hypotension: 2.74 +/- 0.85 %.mmHg-1, during hypotension: 2.54 +/- 0.73 % .mmHg-1, after hypotension: 2.59 +/- 1.17 %.mmHg-1) than in group B (before hypotension: 1.54 +/- 0.57%.mmHg-1, during hypotension: 1.56 +/- 0.59 %.mmHg-1, after hypotension: 1.49 +/- 0.42%.mmHg-1) (P less than 0.01). Outcome which was graded by Glasgow Outcome Scale at discharge, was better in Group A (P less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cerebral vasomotor reactivity to carbon dioxide was studied, using a thermal gradient blood flow meter in 43 patients with intracranial cerebral aneurysm under deliberate hypotension induced by prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) infusion. The patients were divided into three groups according to the neurological status. Patients in Groups A and B had subarachnoid haemorrhage due to ruptured cerebral aneurysms. Group A consisted of 23 patients with a neurological grade of I-II and Group B consisted of 11 patients with a grade of III-V. Nine patients with non-ruptured cerebral aneurysm served as controls (Group C). After the dura was opened, local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) was measured. The PGE1 was started with an initial dose of 0.1 microgram.-kg-1.min-1 and the dose was adjusted to maintain MAP at about 70 mmHg. The LCBF and carbon dioxide (CO2) reactivity were estimated during and after PGE1 administration. The LCBF did not change among groups throughout the study period. Carbon dioxide reactivity was estimated as follows: absolute; delta LCBF/delta PaCO2, and relative; % delta LCBF/delta PaCO2 after changing PaCO2 by increasing minute ventilation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) often exhibit sleep and behavioral disorders. Treatment of sleep disorders can be difficult in these children. Clonidine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, has been shown to be effective in reducing impulsivity, inattention, and hyperactivity, as well as in serving as a sedative for medial procedures. An open labeled retrospective study of clonidine in treatment of insomnia, and/or hyperactivity, inattention, mood disorder, and aggressive behaviors was conducted using parent reports of sleep initiation and maintenance, as well as behaviors prior and during clonidine treatment. Clonidine was effective in reducing sleep initiation latency and night awakening, to a less degree in improving attention deficits hyperactivity, mood instability and aggressiveness in this cohort of 19 children with ASD. The side effects were largely tolerable. Further evaluation with placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trial of clonidine use in ASD will provide more insight into the clinical efficacy and safety of the medicine in ASD.
Eosinophilic carditis with peripheral eosinophilia has been observed in a number of clinical situations. This report describes this association in patients undergoing heart transplantation and offers a possible explanation.
The clinical records and explanted hearts of 31 consecutive patients who received primary orthotopic heart transplants were reviewed. Clinical features particularly analyzed included the following: age, cardiac status and assistance devices, catheterizations, medical or surgical disorders including parasites, tryptophane exposure, medications, and peripheral blood counts. Pathologic features particularly studied included the following: dilatation and hypertrophy, fibrosis, mural thrombi, carditis, eosinophils, myocardial necrosis, vasculitis, valvular disease, and coronary artery disease. Prior endomyocardial biopsy specimens were also reviewed.
Seven patients had eosinophilic carditis compatible with hypersensitivity carditis. Eight had eosinophilia. All patients with carditis received intravenous dobutamine (Dobutrex solution) continuously for more than 1 month immediately preceding transplantation. All patients with eosinophilia received intravenous dobutamine continuously for 15 days or longer and exhibited eosinophilia only during dobutamine therapy with the exception of one patient in whom eosinophilia was observed 8 days after cessation of 8 days of therapy. Among 13 patients who received dobutamine for more than a month immediately before transplantation, nine had eosinophilic carditis, peripheral eosinophilia, or both.
Prolonged continuous intravenous administration of dobutamine was associated with eosinophilic carditis and eosinophilia. No other clinical factor with a relationship to either eosinophilia or carditis was identified. The responsible agent may have been a preservative in the dobutamine solution, sodium bisulfite.
Epidemiological and experimental evidences strongly support the role of estrogens in breast tumor development. Both estrogen receptor (ER)-dependent and ER-independent mechanisms are implicated in estrogen-induced breast carcinogenesis. Tamoxifen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator is widely used as chemoprotectant in human breast cancer. It binds to ERs and interferes with normal binding of estrogen to ERs. In the present study, we examined the effect of long-term tamoxifen treatment in the prevention of estrogen-induced breast cancer. Female ACI rats were treated with 17β-estradiol (E2), tamoxifen or with a combination of E2 and tamoxifen for eight months. Tissue levels of oxidative stress markers 8-iso-Prostane F(2α) (8-isoPGF(2α)), superoxide dismutase (SOD), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), catalase, and oxidative DNA damage marker 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) were quantified in the mammary tissues of all the treatment groups and compared with age-matched controls. Levels of tamoxifen metabolizing enzymes cytochrome P450s as well as estrogen responsive genes were also quantified. At necropsy, breast tumors were detected in 44% of rats co-treated with tamoxifen+E2. No tumors were detected in the sham or tamoxifen only treatment groups whereas in the E2 only treatment group, the tumor incidence was 82%. Co-treatment with tamoxifen decreased GPx and catalase levels; did not completely inhibit E2-mediated oxidative DNA damage and estrogen-responsive genes monoamine oxygenase B1 (MaoB1) and cell death inducing DFF45 like effector C (Cidec) but differentially affected the levels of tamoxifen metabolizing enzymes. In summary, our studies suggest that although tamoxifen treatment inhibits estrogen-induced breast tumor development and increases the latency of tumor development, it does not completely abrogate breast tumor development in a rat model of estrogen-induced breast cancer. The inability of tamoxifen to completely inhibit E2-induced breast carcinogenesis may be because of increased estrogen-mediated oxidant burden.
Metanil yellow (MY) and malachite green (MG) are textile dyes, which, despite the ban occurs unsrupulously as food colouring agents. Accordingly they constitute a serious public health hazard and are of sufficient environmental concern. We have earlier reported that both MY and MG have tumor enhancing effects on the development of hepatic preneoplastic lesions induced by N-nitrosodiethylamine in rats. In order to understand the possible mechanisms by which MY and MG enhance tumor development, in this study we have tested the effects of MY and MG on DNA synthesis and PCNA expression in preneoplastic hepatic lesions during N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN) induced hepatocarcinogenesis in male Wistar (WR) rats. Rats were administered 200 ppm DEN through drinking water for a period of one month. Administration of DEN for a period of one month showed an upregulation of cell cycle regulatory proteins namely cyclin D1, CDK4, cyclin E and CDK2. Accordingly, in other experiments, the animals were further administered MY and MG for a period of one month following one month DEN treatment. The effects of MY and MG were monitored on the basis of cell proliferation markers--DNA synthesis and PCNA expression both by immunohistochemical and immunoblotting. Following DEN administration, MY, MG and PB showed stimulation of DNA synthesis and increased PCNA expression when compared with either the corresponding controls or only DEN treated animals. In the present study, enhancing effect of MY, MG and PB on the cell proliferation markers during DEN-induced hepatic preneoplasia in rats was observed.
The in-vivo antineoplastic potential of the alkylating N-(2-dialkylaminoethyl)benzamides BZA1 and BZA2, novel melanoma targeted anticancer drugs, was evaluated in a mouse melanoma model with nude mice bearing subcutaneous SkMel28, B16 or WM266-4. The maximal tolerated dose (MTD) for the intraperitoneal application of both agents was found to be 24 mg/kg. Treatment was initiated with an intraperitoneal injection of 8 mg/kg of BZA1 or BZA2 on days 0, 2 and 4 in the case of B16 melanoma on days 0, 1 and 2 after the onset of the experiment, when the mean tumor diameter ranged within 4-6 mm. The experiment was terminated when the mean tumor diameter in the control group had reached a value of 12 mm. Tumor growth delay of these agents was compared with dacarbazine (3x250 mg/kg), chlorambucil (3x5 mg/kg) and an untreated control group. Significant tumor growth delay was observed under BZA1, BZA2 and dacarbazine treatment compared with the untreated control group in all three evaluated melanomas with insignificant differences among BZA1, BZA2 and dacarbazine. The insignificant effect of chlorambucil and the strong improvement on growth delay achieved with BZA1 and BZA2 demonstrated melanoma targeting characteristics of the N-(2-dialkylaminoethyl)benzamide structure element. Dacarbazine was more effective in the in-vivo antineoplastic assay compared with the in-vitro cytotoxicity studies, probably due to hepatic bioactivation. Similar side effect intensity of BZA2 and dacarbazine was observed, whereas BZA1 was more toxic. BZA2 might represent an alternative antimelanoma drug, especially in patients not responding to dacarbazine.
