A susceptibility locus for autism was identified to the chromosome 2q24-q33 region in independent cohorts of families, especially in subsets clinically defined with phrase speech delay (PSD). In the present work, we screened 84 linkage-informative SNPs covering this locus in a cohort of 334 families with autism and in subsets identified with PSD. We observed linkage to autism with the highest non-parametric linkage score (NPL) of 2.79 (P = 0.002) in the PSD subset with at least two affected subjects. In addition, using a set of 109 additional gene-oriented SNPs in this interval we observed that several SNPs encompassing the SLC25A12 gene provided the maximum evidence for linkage (NPL = 3.32, P = 0.0003). Using the transmission disequilibrium test to test for associations, we observed significant over-transmissions of rs2056202 (P = 0.006) within the SLC25A12 gene, rs1807984 (P = 0.007) within the STK39 gene, and rs2305586 (P = 0.009) within the ITGA4 gene. We also found evidence for association between autism and two other SNPs (rs1517342, P = 0.012 and rs971257, P = 0.030) or haplotypes (P = 0.003) of the STK39 gene. STK39 encodes a serine/threonine kinase (SPAK/PASK/STE20-SPS1 homolog) abundantly expressed in the brain with roles in cell differentiation, cell transformation and proliferation, and in regulation of ion transporters. In summary, we have observed further evidence for linkage and association between autism and loci within the 2q24-q33 region, including at STK39, a novel candidate gene for autism.
Two randomized studies to test the efficacy of a combination of Piracetam and Ergotoxin on the destabilized brainstem are reported. In the first study, a pharmacological model using Minocycline is employed. A follow-up clinical study analysed the effect of the preparation in 5 patients suffering from vertigo and other related complaints. It was seen that there was a significant improvement in the nystagmus profiles of the pharmacological model volunteers. Similarly, the patient group showed a marked improvement in symptoms, and in orientation capability as tested by Cranio-Corpo-Graphy.
To detect Adriamycin cardiomyopathy, radionuclide myocardial imagings with Tl-201, Tc-99m pyrophosphate, I-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine and Ga-67 were performed in a 49 year-old-woman receiving Adriamycin (a total dose of 230 mg/m2) for the treatment of breast cancer. This patient demonstrated symptoms of congestive heart failure 2 months after the last intravenous administration. At the period of performing the radionuclide studies, echocardiographic LV ejection fraction (EF) was 22%. Despite severe deterioration of cardiac function, Tl-201 SPECT demonstrated no defect and Tc-99m pyrophosphate (PYP) SPECT demonstrated no positive finding. I-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy demonstrated no regional defect. However, I-123 MIBG washout rate during 4 hours was markedly enhanced, probably reflecting abnormalities of norepinephrine kinetics due to the progression of heart failure. Compared to these pharmaceuticals, Ga-67 was diffusely accumulated in the heart. Then, 5 months after the first study, when LV EF improved to 30% and congestive symptoms disappeared probably owing to beta-blockade therapy, myocardial accumulation of Ga-67 markedly reduced. It has been reported that Ga-67 accumulates in malignant tumor cells and leukocytes. Since, in Adriamycin cardiomyopathy, myocardial accumulation of leukocytes with myocardial fibrotic changes have been histologically demonstrated, the results of Ga-67 scintigraphy may reflect the accumulation of leukocytes. Thus, this case indicates that Ga-67 scintigraphy is advantageous for detecting Adriamycin cardiomyopathy and may be more useful than Tl-201 and Tc-99m PYP scintigraphies.
Normal respiratory activity (eupnea) and gasping represent different types of respiratory activity, one of which is supported by oxygen (eupnea) and the other suppressed by oxygen (gasping). There is a loss of respiratory activity post-organophosphate (OP) poisoning that returns following treatment. It is not clear if post-OP respiratory activity represents eupnea or gasping. Depending on the type of respiratory activity, oxygenation during recovery from OP poisoning may have the potential to either support or suppress respiratory activity. We hypothesize that respiratory recovery following OP-induced central apnea represents a resumption of eupnea and is supported by oxygenation. We used an animal model of acute OP poisoning with detailed physiologic recordings. Animals were poisoned with dichlorvos and allowed to recover during a period of mechanical ventilation. Two experimental models were analyzed: (1) animals supported with 100% oxygen and (2) animals supported with a normoxic gas mixture titrated to a PaO(2) of 115 mmHg. Rats in this study demonstrated breathing that resumes spontaneously following OP-induced apnea with characteristics of both eupnea and gasping. The post-OP respiratory activity was suppressed by hypoxia, a characteristic of eupneic respiration and not gasping respiration. However, the respiratory rate during post-apneic breathing corresponded more closely to gasping. Analysis of phrenic nerve discharge activity was distinct from both eupnea and gasping, with peak inspiratory and post-inspiratory discharge activities significantly reduced compared to both eupnea and gasping. In summary, in this animal model post-apneic breathing distinct from eupnea and gasping that emerges following prolonged OP-induced central apnea is suppressed by hypoxia.
The spread of capsule endoscopy has led to a focus on small intestinal injury induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). However, it has been proposed that proton pump inhibitors (PPI), a strong anti-secretary agent, have anti-inflammatory action beyond acid suppression. Therefore, we evaluated the biological effects of lansoprazole, a PPI used in the clinical area, in the setting of experimental rat non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug-induced enteritis. The animals were given indomethacin subcutaneously and the intestinal mucosa was examined 24 h later. Lansoprazole was given subcutaneously just after following indomethacin injection. Single administration of indomethacin at 10 mg/kg provoked severe hemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, mostly the jejunum and ileum. The levels of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS), the myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity and the content of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-1 (CINC-1) in the intestinal mucosa significantly increased in indomethacin-treated groups compared with the sham-operated groups. The development of intestinal lesions in response to indomethacin was dose-dependently prevented by lansoprazole at a dose of 5 mg/kg together with significant suppression of the increased level of TBARS, MPO activities and CINC-1 in the small bowel. Furthermore, the increased CINC-1 mRNA expression after administration of indomethacin was also inhibited by treatment with lansoprazole. These results suggest that lansoprazole administered exogenously prevented the small intestine against indomethacin-induced damage, the action being dependent on its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative responses. This evidence supports the theory that PPI have an expanding role beyond acid suppression.
The subjective and objective sleep patterns of patients with opioid dependence have been previously reported, but the sleep characteristics of patients in early methadone treatment, especially the objective sleep patterns, remain largely unexamined. This study was designed to explore the nocturnal sleep structure of patients on early methadone treatment. Twenty male methadone treatment (MT) patients and 20 male age- and body mass index-matched controls were assessed with overnight limited polysomnography. Subjective sleep was assessed using the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). Compared with healthy controls, MT patients had lower sleep efficiency, shorter total sleep time, more awakenings and shorter slow wave sleep (SWS). The PSQI and ESS scores in MT patients were significantly higher than in the controls. ESS scores of the patients were significantly associated with the SWS. The findings indicate that patients in early MT have poor sleep quality and abnormal sleep architecture.
Hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) is associated with insulin resistance, increased cholesteryl ester transfer (CET), and low HDL cholesterol. Phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) may be involved in these relationships. Associations between CET, lipids, insulin resistance, CETP and PLTP activities, and PLTP mass were investigated in 18 HTG patients and 20 controls. Effects of 6 weeks of bezafibrate treatment were studied in HTG patients. HTG patients had higher serum triglycerides, insulin resistance, free fatty acid (FFA), and CET, lower levels of HDL cholesterol (-44%) and PLTP mass (-54%), and higher CETP (+20%) and PLTP activity (+48%) than controls. Bezafibrate reduced triglycerides, CET (-37%), insulin resistance (-53%), FFA (-48%), CETP activity (-12%), PLTP activity (-8%), and increased HDL cholesterol (+27%), whereas PLTP mass remained unchanged. Regression analysis showed a positive contribution of PLTP mass (P = 0.001) but not of PLTP activity to HDL cholesterol, whereas insulin resistance positively contributed to PLTP activity (P < 0.01). Bezafibrate-induced change in CET and HDL cholesterol correlated with changes in CETP activity and FFAs, but not with change in PLTP activity. Bezafibrate-induced change in PLTP activity correlated with change in FFAs (r = 0.455, P = 0.058). We propose that elevated PLTP activity in HTG is related to insulin resistance and not to increased PLTP mass. Bezafibrate-induced diminished insulin resistance is associated with a reduction of CET and PLTP activity.
Phosphodiesterase-III inhibitors and dobutamine effectively improve cardiac function in patients with cardiac failure, but they are limited by possible hypotensive effects. We tested the hypothesis that dopamine contributes to stabilizing milrinone-induced haemodynamic changes.
Nine patients undergoing major surgery were anaesthetized using nitrous oxide and oxygen supplemented with isoflurane 1-2%. After baseline haemodynamics were recorded, milrinone (25 or 50 microg kg(-1)) was administered over 10min, followed by a continuous infusion (0.5 microg kg(-1) min(-1). The second set of haemodynamic values was measured 50 min after beginning the continuous infusion of milrinone. Dopamine (4 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) was then administered with milrinone.
Milrinone significantly increased the heart rate from 81 +/- 8 to 102 +/- 16beats min(-1), but it decreased the mean arterial pressure from 83 +/- 10 to 66 +/- 10 mmHg and systemic vascular resistance (P < 0.05 for each). The pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, cardiac index and pulmonary vascular resistance did not change significantly. The addition of dopamine to the milrinone infusion significantly decreased the heart rate (94 +/- 12 beats min(-1)) and increased the mean arterial pressure (82 +/- 11 mmHg). Dopamine and milrinone, but not milrinone alone, significantly increased the cardiac index and the rate-pressure product.
The combination regimen of milrinone and dopamine improved cardiac function, and changes in heart rate and mean arterial pressure induced by milrinone were attenuated by dopamine. The results suggest that a combination regimen of milrinone and dopamine rather than milrinone alone should be used to maintain arterial pressure.
Na +, K + -adenosinetriphosphatase (Na +, K + -ATPase) activity was decreased in liver plasma membranes from rats in which cholestasis had been induced by i.v. administration of sodium taurolithocholate (5 mumoles/100 g b. wt). Incubation of liver plasma membranes with taurolithocholate (10--1300 muM) caused significant and dose dependent reductions of Na +, K + -ATPase activity at taurolithocholate concentrations above 100 muM. These findings lend support to the hypothesis that cholestasis induced by monohydroxy bile acids is at least partially the result of an inhibition of hepatic Na +, K + -ATPase activity.
Ketanserin, a selective S2-serotonergic receptor antagonist with alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-blocking properties, as well as nifedipine, a classic calcium channel blocker, is used as an antihypertensive agent during and following cardiac surgery. In a double-blind prospective study, using hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass as a study model, ketanserin (10 mg i.v.) and nifedipine (2 mg i.v.) were evaluated with respect to their effects on the peripheral circulation. The results showed that ketanserin and nifedipine dilate the arterial side of the vasculature, but that ketanserin, unlike nifedipine, also dilates the venous capacitance vessels; nifedipine even caused a short-lasting venous vasoconstriction. Since venous tone is increased during and following cardiopulmonary bypass, antihypertensive treatment with ketanserin might be advantageous under these circumstances.
Progression of heart failure in hypertensive Dahl rats is associated with cardiac remodeling and increased cardiomyocyte apoptosis. This study was conducted to study whether treatment with a novel inotropic vasodilator compound, levosimendan, could prevent hypertension-induced cardiac remodeling and cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
6-week-old salt-sensitive Dahl/Rapp rats received levosimendan (0.3 mg kg(-1) and 3 mg kg(-1) via drinking fluid) and high salt diet (NaCl 7%) for 7 weeks, Dahl/Rapp rats on low-salt diet served as controls. Blood pressure, cardiac functions by echocardiography, cardiomyocyte apoptosis by TUNEL technique, tissue morphology, myocardial expression of calcium cycling proteins, and markers of neurohumoral activation were determined.
Untreated Dahl/Rapp rats on high salt diet developed severe hypertension, cardiac hypertrophy and moderate systolic dysfunction. 38% of Dahl/Rapp rats (9/24) survived the 7-week-follow-up period. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis was increased by 6-fold during high salt diet. Levosimendan improved survival (survival rates in low- and high-dose levosimendan groups 12/12 and 9/12, p<0.001 and p=0.05, respectively), increased cardiac function, and ameliorated cardiac hypertrophy. Levosimendan dose-dependently prevented cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Levosimendan normalized salt-induced increased expression of natriuretic peptide, and decreased urinary noradrenaline excretion. Levosimendan also corrected salt-induced decreases in myocardial SERCA2a protein expression and myocardial SERCA2a/NCX-ratio.
Improved survival by the novel inotropic vasodilator levosimendan in hypertensive Dahl/Rapp rats is mediated, at least in part, by amelioration of hypertension-induced cardiac remodeling and cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
Fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) is a key enzyme in regulating endocannabinoid (eCB) signaling. A common single nucleotide polymorphism (C385A) in the human FAAH gene has been associated with increased risk for addiction and obesity.
Using imaging genetics in 82 healthy adult volunteers, we examined the effects of FAAH C385A on threat- and reward-related human brain function.
Carriers of FAAH 385A, associated with reduced enzyme and possibly increased eCB signaling, had decreased threat-related amygdala reactivity but increased reward-related ventral striatal reactivity in comparison with C385 homozygotes. Similarly divergent effects of FAAH C385A genotype were manifest at the level of brain-behavior relationships. The 385A carriers showed decreased correlation between amygdala reactivity and trait anxiety but increased correlation between ventral striatal reactivity and delay discounting, an index of impulsivity.
Our results parallel pharmacologic and genetic dissection of eCB signaling, are consistent with the psychotropic effects of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, and highlight specific neural mechanisms through which variability in eCB signaling impacts complex behavioral processes related to risk for addiction and obesity.
The putative role of the central nervous system in the maintenance of elevated blood pressure in patients with essential hypertension (EH) and renal hypertension [unilateral renal parenchymal disease (RPD) and unilateral renal artery stenosis (RAS)] was studied by investigating the cardiovascular and hormonal effects of the predominantly centrally acting sympatholytic agent, clonidine. Oral clonidine lowered blood pressure substantially in all three groups. Levels of plasma renin activity were unchanged in EH and RAS but progressively fell in RPD. Plasma noradrenaline levels fell in all three groups. Clonidine therefore reduced blood pressure to the same extent in three distinct groups of hypertensives, in two of which the initiating cause was undoubtedly renal. This indicates that, although the primary cause differed, a prominent factor sustaining hypertension may have been an increase or an inappropriate maintenance of central pressor mechanisms.
We have used control-homozygous weaver mutant, and -heterozygous weaver mutant mice in order to explore the basic molecular mechanism of neurodegeneration and the neuroprotective potential of coenzyme Q(10). Homozygous weaver mutant mice exhibited progressive neurodegeneration in the hippocampus, striatum, and cerebellum, and a reduction in the striatal levels of dopamine and coenzyme Qs (Q(9) and Q(10)) without any significant changes in norepinephrine and serotonin. Mitochondrial complex-1 was down regulated; whereas nuclear factor-kappa B was up regulated in homozygous weaver mutant mice. Rotenone inhibited complex-1, enhanced nuclear factor-kappa B, and caused apoptosis in human dopaminergic (SK-N-SH) neurons; whereas nuclear factor-kappa B antibody suppressed rotenone-induced apoptosis, suggesting that enhancing coenzyme Q(10) synthesis and suppressing the induction of NF-kappa B, may provide neuroprotection.
In Bloom's syndrome (BS) the regulation of uracil-DNA glycosylase, an enzyme involved in the repair of DNA containing 5-FU, is altered. 5-FU induces higher levels of DNA fragmentation in BS cells than in non-BS cells. The increase in DNA fragmentation is connected to the cytotoxic mechanism where 5-FU is incorporated into DNA. When 5-FU induces DNA fragmentation by a mechanism not involving the incorporation of drug into DNA, the levels of DNA fragmentation in BS and non-BS cells remain similar.
A current issue in alcohol research is whether a "neurobehavioral profile" can be identified for prenatal alcohol exposure, even when dysmorphic features are not present, or whether comparable neurobehavioral deficits are detected when damage is incurred by numerous neurotoxicants to which the fetus is exposed during a common developmental period. Failure to detect such differences may, in part, be an artifact of the global developmental tests used to assess outcome. Cognitive effects of prenatal exposure to three different teratogens [polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), alcohol, and cocaine] are examined to determine whether exposure to each substance results in a common or different pattern of impairment on the same set of newer, more narrow band infant tests. Comparison of findings from three independent cohorts indicate that PCB exposure was related to poorer recognition memory on the Fagan Test of Infant Intelligence (FTII) in Michigan infants exposed prenatally to PCB-contaminated fish, whereas prenatal alcohol exposure was unrelated to recognition memory but to slower processing speed on a new FTII measure and slower reaction time on Haith's Visual Expectancy Paradigm (VExP) in our Detroit alcohol-exposed infants. Preliminary findings from a new study of infants recently born to Taiwanese women accidentally contaminated with sizable amounts of PCBs indicate recognition memory deficits, confirming our Michigan findings, but no processing speed effects on the FTII. Recent findings from our Detroit cohort suggest that heavy prenatal cocaine exposure is related to poorer recognition memory on the FTII, but faster reaction times on the VExP, a pattern different from that seen for either PCBs or alcohol.
Some persistent environmental chemicals are suspected of causing an increased risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus, a disease particularly common after the age of 70. This concern was examined in a cross-sectional study of elderly subjects from a fishing population with elevated contaminant exposures from seafood species high in the food chain.
Clinical examinations of 713 Faroese residents aged 70-74 years (64% of eligible population) included fasting plasma concentrations of glucose and insulin, and glycosylated hemoglobin. Lifetime exposure to persistent environmental chemicals from pilot whale and other traditional food was estimated from a dietary questionnaire and by analysis of blood samples for polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and related food contaminants.
Septuagenarians with type 2 diabetes or impaired fasting glycemia tended to have higher PCB concentrations and higher past intake of traditional foods, especially during childhood and adolescence. In nondiabetic subjects, the fasting insulin concentration decreased by 7% (95% CI = -12% to -2%) for each doubling of the PCB concentration after adjustment for sex and body mass index at age 20. Conversely, the fasting glucose concentration increased by 6% (-1% to 13%) for each doubling in PCB. Similar associations were seen in subjects without impaired fasting glycemia, while further adjustment for current body mass index and lipid metabolism parameters attenuated some of the associations.
Impaired insulin secretion appears to constitute an important part of the type 2 diabetes pathogenesis associated with exposure to persistent lipophilic food contaminants.
The utility of transesophageal atrial pacing in sustained left ventricular tachycardia is reported in two cases. A 46 year old man without any apparent cardiac disease presented with invalidating but undocumented palpitations. Transesophageal atrial pacing with isoproterenol infusion induced wide complex tachycardia with a right bundle branch block morphology and left axis deviation. Atrio-ventricular dissociation was observed and it was possible to reduce the ventricular complex width by rapid transesophageal atrial pacing: the tachycardia was terminated by an injection of verapamil. It was not possible to reinduce the tachycardia after treatment with atenolol 100 mg/day, introduced because of the catecholinergic nature of the arrhythmia. The patient is symptom free after 2 years of treatment with this drug. Regular wide complex tachycardia with right bundle branch block and left axis deviation without any detectable atrial activity was recorded in a 50 year old man without known cardiac disease. Transesophageal atrial pacing with isoproterenol infusion induced an identical tachycardia. The tachycardia started after a normally conducted atrial extrastimulus followed by ventriculo-atrial dissociation and it was possible to overdrive with atrial pacing. The tachycardia could not be reinduced after treatment with atenolol and the patient is asymptomatic 12 months later. These reports show that it is possible to study certain ventricular tachycardias by transesophageal atrial pacing. The efficacy of antiarrhythmic therapy can be controlled simply by this non-invasive technique.
Sport and leisure horses in Morocco are treated with several anthelmintics, organophosphates (dichlorvos), benzimidazoles (mostly thiabendazole) or tetrahydropyrimidines (mostly pyrantel pamoate) against nematodes. We studied three horse stables in Rabat, one in Meknes and one in Bouznika. Two of the Rabat and Bouznika stables had introduced a large number of horses from countries (Argentina or Europe) where resistance to benzimidazoles is frequent, whereas the Meknes stud farm remained without foreign introduction. The number of treatments was not very frequent (twice a year in adult horses) but the same anthelmintics were used repeatedly. No resistance to dichlorvos was detected whereas benzimidazole and pyrantel pamoate resistances were detected for the first time in African horses, outside South Africa.
In conjunction with allergens, diesel exhaust particles act as an adjuvant to enhance IgE responses, inducing expression of cytokines/chemokines and adhesion molecules, and increasing airway hyper-responsiveness (AHR). As most studies were designed to expose animals to diesel exhaust throughout the periods of both sensitization and allergen challenge, it remains unclear whether diesel exhaust (DE) exposure exaggerates airway responses in asthmatic animals.
To study effects of exposure to low-dose DE on AHR and allergic airway inflammation in asthmatic mice.
BALB/c mice were sensitized by intraperitoneal injection of ovalbumin and challenged by intranasal administration with ovalbumin. They were exposed to low-dose DE for 7 h/day, 5 days/week, for up to 12 weeks. AHR to methacholine was evaluated by whole-body plethysmography as well as bronchoalveolar lavage cell analysis and cytokine gene expression in lungs.
Repeated exposure of asthmatic mice to low-dose DE resulted in increased AHR and gene expression of several pro-asthmatic cytokines/chemokines, but these effects rapidly subsided with continued exposure to DE.
Repeated exposure to low-dose DE after ovalbumin challenge exaggerates allergic responses in mice, but effects are not prolonged with continuous DE exposure.
Autism is currently considered a multigene disorder with epigenetic influences. To investigate the contribution of DNA methylation to autism spectrum disorders, we have recently completed large-scale methylation profiling by CpG island microarray analysis of lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from monozygotic twins discordant for diagnosis of autism and their nonautistic siblings. Methylation profiling revealed many candidate genes differentially methylated between discordant MZ twins as well as between both twins and nonautistic siblings. Bioinformatics analysis of the differentially methylated genes demonstrated enrichment for high-level functions including gene transcription, nervous system development, cell death/survival, and other biological processes implicated in autism. The methylation status of 2 of these candidate genes, BCL-2 and retinoic acid-related orphan receptor alpha (RORA), was further confirmed by bisulfite sequencing and methylation-specific PCR, respectively. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissue arrays containing slices of the cerebellum and frontal cortex of autistic and age- and sex-matched control subjects revealed decreased expression of RORA and BCL-2 proteins in the autistic brain. Our data thus confirm the role of epigenetic regulation of gene expression via differential DNA methylation in idiopathic autism, and furthermore link molecular changes in a peripheral cell model with brain pathobiology in autism.
An 18-year-old woman taking an oral contraceptive was admitted to hospital because of a stroke due to occlusion of three branches of the right middle cerebral artery. She later developed renovascular hypertension due to occlusion of one of two renal arteries on the right side. Occlusion of the ceoliac artery was also found. The circumstances suggest that the occlusions were caused by multiple emboli, the source of which could not be identified. The kidney with the circulatory disturbance was shown to have a persistent abnormal renin secretion three and six months after the stroke, but the peripheral renin level was lower at the second investigation. Cardiac function studies revealed an alarming degree of left ventricular hypertrophy, and satisfactory blood pressure control could not be maintained despite increasing antihypertensive therapy. Surgical corrrction of the circulatory disturbance promptly led to normotension without drugs, and the patient has remained normotensive during the postoperative observation period of twelve months. The oral contraceptive was probably responsible for precipitating the vascular occlusions, but no predisposing factors or warning symptoms were present to identify this patient as being at risk.
The case history of an 18-year-old patient, who had been taking oral contraceptives for 2 years (ethinylestradiol 50 mcg, megestrol acetate 4 mg) and who developed multiple arterial occlusions and hypertension, is reported. Occlusion of the ceoliac artery was also found. The circumstances suggest that the occlusions were caused by multiple emboli of unknown source. The affected kidney was shown to have an abnormal renin secretion 3 and 6 months after the stroke, but the peripheral renin level was lower at the 6 month investigation. A large degree of left ventricular hypertrophy was seen. Blood pressure was still uncontrolled despite antihypertensive therapy. Surgery was performed on the affected kidney and normal perfusion restored. The patient then became normotensive, and has remained so for a 12-month period. Oral contraceptives were probably responsible for precipitating the vascular occlusion. Predisposing factors or warning symptoms were absent in this patient.
Early developmental perturbations have been linked to adult-onset prostate pathology, including excessive exposure to estrogenic compounds; however, the molecular basis for this imprinting event is not known. An important and controversial health concern is whether low-dose exposures to hormonally active environmental estrogens, such as bisphenol A, can promote human diseases, including prostate cancer. Here, we show that transient developmental exposure of rats to low, environmentally relevant doses of bisphenol A or estradiol increases prostate gland susceptibility to adult-onset precancerous lesions and hormonal carcinogenesis. We found permanent alterations in the DNA methylation patterns of multiple cell signaling genes, suggesting an epigenetic basis for estrogen imprinting. For phosphodiesterase type 4 variant 4 (PDE4D4), an enzyme responsible for cyclic AMP breakdown, a specific methylation cluster was identified in the 5'-flanking CpG island that was gradually hypermethylated with aging in normal prostates, resulting in loss of gene expression. Early and prolonged hypomethylation at this site following neonatal estradiol or bisphenol A exposure resulted in continued, elevated PDE4D4 expression. Cell line studies confirmed that site-specific methylation is involved in transcriptional silencing of the PDE4D4 gene and showed hypomethylation of this gene in prostate cancer cells. Importantly, the PDE4D4 alterations in the estrogen-exposed prostates were distinguishable before histopathologic changes of the gland, making PDE4D4 a candidate molecular marker for prostate cancer risk assessment as a result of endocrine disruptors. In total, these findings indicate that low-dose exposures to ubiquitous environmental estrogens affect the prostate epigenome during development and, in so doing, promote prostate disease with aging.
We present the results of comparative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of matrix metalloproteinases MMP-2, MMP-8, MMP-9; IL-1β and IL-6; tissue inhibitors of MMP (TIMP-1, TIMP-2), and TNF-α. The object of study was oral fluid of practically healthy subjects with intact periodontium and patients with chronic generalized periodontitis with various structural materials of dental restorations. It was found that MMP-9 in oral fluid could be considered as a marker of chronic generalized periodontitis irrespective of the presence or absence of metal dental restorations. The level of MMP-8 surpassed the normal only in oral fluid of patients with chronic generalized periodontitis with metal restorations. The correlations between the studied parameters in patients attest to relatively similar regulation of MMP, IL and TIMP secretion in oral fluid in practically healthy subjects with intact periodontium. In patients with inflammatory destructive periodontal diseases with and without metal dental restorations, the correlation coefficients indicate initiation of biochemical cascade accompanied by activation of cytokine production in response to etiological factors. Patients with periodontitis and metal orthodontic structures showed more pronounced reaction. Orthodontic structures made from chromium-cobalt, or chromium-nickel alloys in the oral cavity of these patients increased the levels of MMP-2, IL-1β and IL-6 in oral fluid.
The antioxidative and protective effects of zeatin against amyloid beta-protein (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity were investigated using PC12 cells. Zeatin showed antioxidative and cell protective effects against Abeta-induced neurotoxicity. In this study, we also evaluated the effect of zeatin on learning and memory capacity in vivo using ICR mice with amnesia induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg of body weight). Zeatin, when administered to mice at 4.5 mg/kg of body weight, significantly ameliorated scopolamine-induced amnesia as measured in both the passive avoidance test and Y-maze test. Injecting mice with scopolamine impaired performance on the passive avoidance test (48 +/- 4.5% decrease) and on the Y-maze test (12 +/- 1.3% decrease). In contrast, mice treated with zeatin before scopolamine injections were protected from these changes (5-34% decrease in step-through latency; 1-4% decrease in alternation behavior). The present results suggest a possible chemopreventive role of zeatin in Alzheimer's disease.
Neuroblastoma is the most common cancer in childhood. The majority of patients with neuroblastoma are assigned to the high-risk group based on age at diagnosis, stage, histology, MYCN status, and DNA ploidy. Their prognosis remains unsatisfactory; the 5-year event-free survival (EFS) rate is generally 40 %. During the past 20 years, much effort has been made to reinforce chemotherapy, including the introduction of high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell rescue, resulting in a 5-year EFS rate of around 30 %. Subsequently, maintenance therapy aimed at eradicating residual tumors after induction and consolidation therapies was introduced, consisting of differentiation-inducing agents, retinoids, and immunotherapy using anti-GD2 antibodies combined with cytokines. However, such additional treatment provided benefit to only 10-20 % of patients, while the prognosis of about half the patients remains poor. Currently, novel targeted agents are under development. Among them, anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitors and aurora kinase A inhibitors are promising. ALK somatic mutation or gene amplification predisposing neuroblastoma development occurs in up to 15 % of neuroblastomas. Crizotinib is a dual-specific inhibitor of ALK/Met and inhibits proliferation of neuroblastoma cells harboring R1275Q-mutated ALK or amplified wild-type ALK, but not cells harboring F1174L. Instead, cells with F1174L are sensitive to another small molecule ALK inhibitor, TAE684. Aurora kinase A plays a pivotal role in centrosome maturation and spindle formation during mitosis. MLN8237 (alisertib) is a small molecule inhibitor of aurora kinase A that is currently in early-phase clinical testing. Future treatment will be individually planned, adapting targeted agents based on personal biological tumor characteristics.
The aim of this article is to elucidate the mechanism by which eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) acts against cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced effects. The prevalence of micronuclei, the extent of lipid peroxidation, and the status of the antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GPX) in both liver and serum of mice were used as intermediate biomarkers of chemoprotection. Lipid peroxidation and associated compromised antioxidant defenses (CAT and GPX) in CP treated mice were observed in the liver, serum, and were accompanied by increased prevalence of micronuclei in bone marrow. The number of MN was significantly different (p < 0.01) between the groups treated with CP (group III, IV, V, VI) and the solvent control (group II) (3.2 ± 0.7‰). There was a dose-dependent reduction in formation CP induced micronuclei by treatment with 100, 200, or 300 mg EPA/kg BW mice. Activities of SOD, CAT, and extent of lipid peroxidation were statistically different in liver cells of mice exposed to EPA only with CP compared with the CP group (group III). The present findings imply that EPA may be a potential antigenotoxic, antioxidant and chemopreventive agent and could be used as an adjuvant in chemotherapeutic applications.
