Human serum paraoxonase (PON1) hydrolyses diazinonoxon, the active metabolite of diazinon, which is an organophosphate used in sheep dip. In a case-referent study, 175 farmers with ill health that they attributed to sheep dip nominated 234 referent farmers who also dipped sheep and whom they believed to be in good health. We calculated odds ratios for polymorphisms in PON1 at positions 192 and 55, and for PON1 activity with diazinonoxon as substrate. Cases were more likely than referents to have at least one R allele at position 192 (glutamine to arginine aminoacid substitution; odds ratio 1.93, 95% CI 1.24-3.01), both alleles of type LL (1.70, 1.07-2.68) at position 55, and to have diazoxonase activity below normal median (1.77, 1.18-2.67). Our results support the hypothesis that organophosphates contribute to the reported ill health of people who dip sheep.
Olanzapine-related seizures have rarely been reported despite its proconvulsant risk. This is the first description of myoclonic status induced by this antipsychotic. A 54-year-old woman with probable Alzheimer disease developed continuous myoclonic jerks just after adding olanzapine for neuropsychiatric symptoms. She was already receiving citalopram and donepezil at low doses. Jerks coincided with spikes and polyspike/wave complexes on EEG. Olanzapine was immediately suspended and the seizures subsided. A control EEG showed no paroxysmal discharges. Several months later she was given haloperidol and she remained seizure free. Olanzapine shares some pharmacologic similarities with clozapine, a neuroleptic with a high risk of dose-dependent seizures. This adverse effect should be taken into account, and olanzapine should be used with caution if concomitant circumstances could decrease the seizure threshold.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. We sequenced and analyzed the whole genomes of 27 HCCs, 25 of which were associated with hepatitis B or C virus infections, including two sets of multicentric tumors. Although no common somatic mutations were identified in the multicentric tumor pairs, their whole-genome substitution patterns were similar, suggesting that these tumors developed from independent mutations, although their shared etiological backgrounds may have strongly influenced their somatic mutation patterns. Statistical and functional analyses yielded a list of recurrently mutated genes. Multiple chromatin regulators, including ARID1A, ARID1B, ARID2, MLL and MLL3, were mutated in ∼50% of the tumors. Hepatitis B virus genome integration in the TERT locus was frequently observed in a high clonal proportion. Our whole-genome sequencing analysis of HCCs identified the influence of etiological background on somatic mutation patterns and subsequent carcinogenesis, as well as recurrent mutations in chromatin regulators in HCCs.
We performed a meta-analysis of five genome-wide association studies to identify common variants influencing colorectal cancer (CRC) risk comprising 8,682 cases and 9,649 controls. Replication analysis was performed in case-control sets totaling 21,096 cases and 19,555 controls. We identified three new CRC risk loci at 6p21 (rs1321311, near CDKN1A; P = 1.14 × 10(-10)), 11q13.4 (rs3824999, intronic to POLD3; P = 3.65 × 10(-10)) and Xp22.2 (rs5934683, near SHROOM2; P = 7.30 × 10(-10)) This brings the number of independent loci associated with CRC risk to 20 and provides further insight into the genetic architecture of inherited susceptibility to CRC.
Perhexiline maleate is a potent anti-anginal drug which may cause alcoholic-type hepatitis and cirrhosis. We report a case of a patient who developed cirrhosis on a relatively low dose within 16 mth.
To survey hepatitis B virus (HBV) integration in liver cancer genomes, we conducted massively parallel sequencing of 81 HBV-positive and 7 HBV-negative hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) and adjacent normal tissues. We found that HBV integration is observed more frequently in the tumors (86.4%) than in adjacent liver tissues (30.7%). Copy-number variations (CNVs) were significantly increased at HBV breakpoint locations where chromosomal instability was likely induced. Approximately 40% of HBV breakpoints within the HBV genome were located within a 1,800-bp region where the viral enhancer, X gene and core gene are located. We also identified recurrent HBV integration events (in ≥ 4 HCCs) that were validated by RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and Sanger sequencing at the known and putative cancer-related TERT, MLL4 and CCNE1 genes, which showed upregulated gene expression in tumor versus normal tissue. We also report evidence that suggests that the number of HBV integrations is associated with patient survival.
IMAGe syndrome (intrauterine growth restriction, metaphyseal dysplasia, adrenal hypoplasia congenita and genital anomalies) is an undergrowth developmental disorder with life-threatening consequences. An identity-by-descent analysis in a family with IMAGe syndrome identified a 17.2-Mb locus on chromosome 11p15 that segregated in the affected family members. Targeted exon array capture of the disease locus, followed by high-throughput genomic sequencing and validation by dideoxy sequencing, identified missense mutations in the imprinted gene CDKN1C (also known as P57KIP2) in two familial and four unrelated patients. A familial analysis showed an imprinted mode of inheritance in which only maternal transmission of the mutation resulted in IMAGe syndrome. CDKN1C inhibits cell-cycle progression, and we found that targeted expression of IMAGe-associated CDKN1C mutations in Drosophila caused severe eye growth defects compared to wild-type CDKN1C, suggesting a gain-of-function mechanism. All IMAGe-associated mutations clustered in the PCNA-binding domain of CDKN1C and resulted in loss of PCNA binding, distinguishing them from the mutations of CDKN1C that cause Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome, an overgrowth syndrome.
End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is associated with numerous complications, which may partly result from excessive amounts of reactive oxygen species and/or decreased antioxidant activity. The aim of the study was to evaluate lipid peroxidation (LP) in plasma and erythrocytes, erythrocyte antioxidant enzyme activity (superoxide dismutase, SOD; catalase, CAT; glutathione peroxidase, GSH-Px), and concentrations of Cu and Zn as cofactors of SOD and Se as a cofactor of GSH-Px in erythrocytes, plasma and in dialysis fluid in children with ESRD. In particular, we analyzed whether the modality of dialysis could modify oxidative stress parameters in children. To determine the influence of hemodialysis (HD) on oxidative stress, the measurements were also performed on HD children 20 min after the beginning of the dialysis session. Thirty-one patients participated in the study: group I with 10 children on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), and group II with 21 on HD. The erythrocyte malondialdehyde concentrations (E-MDA), plasma MDA (P-MDA) and plasma organic hydroperoxide (OHP) in children from both groups were higher than in controls. E-MDA and P-MDA in HD before the session was lower compared to the values after 20 min of HD session (time T20). The activity of SOD, GSH-Px, CAT, concentrations of erythrocyte and plasma Se, Cu, Zn were lower in children with ESRD than in controls. In the HD group, the activity of GSH-Px, CAT, and levels of trace elements in erythrocytes and in plasma were diminished at time T20. In conclusion, increased oxidative stress occurs in children on maintenance dialysis, independent of dialysis modality. The activity of the enzymatic antioxidant defence system is highly reduced in red blood cells of pediatric dialysis patients. Children with ESRD exhibit lower trace element (Se, Cu, Zn) levels in plasma and erythrocytes as compared to healthy subjects. Oxidative stress is aggravated during every single HD session in children.
The subjective, psychomotor and cognitive effects of oral doses of lorazepam (0, 1.5, 3 and 6 mg) and diazepam (0, 10, 20 and 40 mg) were studied under double-blind conditions in 14 volunteers with histories of 'recreational' benzodiazepine use/abuse. For each subject, drug was administered over 4 test days in a 2 (drug) by 4 (dose level) mixed design. Drug was the between-groups factor while dose was the within-subjects factor. Test days were separated by at least 1 week. The results showed that subjective ratings of drug 'liking' and the psychomotor and cognitive effects of lorazepam were generally similar to those of diazepam over the range of doses studied. Lorazepam, however, tended to produce effects of longer duration than diazepam. Since previous studies have shown that diazepam has a relatively high abuse liability among the benzodiazepines, the present findings suggest that lorazepam shares this property with diazepam is subjects with a history of 'recreational' drug use/abuse.
The study was designed to assess the toxicity and activity of high-dose ifosfamide (HDI) administered by continuous infusion at a dose of 4 g/m2/d over 3 days every 4 weeks in adult patients with advanced soft tissue sarcomas (ASTS) pretreated with doxorubicin and/or a standard-dose ifosfamide (SDI)-containing regimen.
Between January 1991 and November 1993, 40 patients with progressive ASTS were entered onto the study. Twenty-eight patients had been pretreated with a multidrug regimen that contained SDI and were classified as follows: SDI-refractory (n = 21), SDI-resistant (n = 2), and indeterminate SDI-sensitive (n = 5). Patients were treated until progression or major toxicity.
One hundred forty-seven cycles of HDI were administered. Neutropenia was dose-limiting, with 100% of patients experiencing grade 3 to 4 toxicity and 12 admissions for febrile neutropenia (30% of patients). Neurotoxicity (17% of patients) was significantly associated with acute renal failure (n = 4) (P < .001), grade 4 thrombocytopenia (P < .01) and febrile neutropenia (P = .048). Chronic renal toxicity (n = 4) was significantly associated with retroperitoneal masses and/or prior nephrectomy (P = .008). Partial responses (PRs) were observed in 12 of 36 assessable patients (33%) and eight patients (22%) experienced disease stabilization. All but one response occurred in patients pretreated with SDI, with five PRs among SDI-refractory patients. Leiomyosarcomas appear resistant to HDI. The median response duration was 8 months (range, 6 to 13+) and the median overall survival time was 12 months.
The activity of HDI in these pretreated ASTS patients and the apparent circumvention of SDI resistance suggest a real dose-response relationship for ifosfamide and deserve further evaluation. Although toxic, this treatment appears feasible and manageable using routine clinical support. Since prophylaxis of ifosfamide-induced renal damage remains unknown, frequent monitoring of renal and tubular functions during therapy is highly recommended.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are among the most significant causative factors of gastroduodenal ulcers. Recent reports have demonstrated that NSAIDs can also frequently induce ulceration and erosions of the small intestine. The aim of this study was to examine whether or not roxatidine (an H(2) receptor antagonist), which is known to increase gastric mucus in addition to inhibiting gastric acid, might suppress indomethacin-induced small intestinal mucosal injury, through an increase in mucus in rats.
Rats were given two p.o. doses of roxatidine, famotidine or cimetidine before and after the s.c. indomethacin injection. The injured area of the small intestine was analyzed. To examine effects of drugs on small intestinal mucus, rats were also given two p.o. doses of roxatidine, famotidine or cimetidine, and the ratio of the periodic acid Schiff (PAS)-positive area to the area of the mucosa in the small intestine was analyzed. In addition, we evaluated the involvement of nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins (PG) in the effect of roxatidine on small intestinal mucus.
Roxatidine significantly ameliorated indomethacin-induced small intestinal injury and increased the PAS-stained areas in the small intestinal mucosa, while cimetidine and famotidine had no significant effect. Pretreatment with N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester but not with indomethacin, suppressed the effect of roxatidine on small intestinal mucus, suggesting that the effect is mediated by endogenous NO but not by PG.
Roxatidine suppressed indomethacin-induced small intestinal injury in rats. One possible mechanism is an increase of small intestinal mucus, mediated by NO.
A case is described of a young man who presented with acute pulmonary edema and flaccid paralysis of the right upper and lower extremity, following his first injection of heroin and was found in a comatose state. Needle electromyographic findings were compatible with a severe lesion of the right brachial plexus and a moderate lesion of the right lumbar plexus. An allergic or a hypersensitivity reaction might have been the possible cause.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-protein-encoding RNAs, regulate gene expression via suppression of target mRNAs. MiRNAs are present in body fluids in a remarkable stable form as packaged in microvesicles of endocytic origin, named exosomes. In the present study, we have assessed miRNA expression in urinary exosomes from type 1 diabetic patients with and without incipient diabetic nephropathy. Results showed that miR-130a and miR-145 were enriched, while miR-155 and miR-424 reduced in urinary exosomes from patients with microalbuminuria. Similarly, in an animal model of early experimental diabetic nephropathy, urinary exosomal miR-145 levels were increased and this was paralleled by miR-145 overexpression within the glomeruli. Exposure of cultured mesangial cells to high glucose increased miR-145 content in both mesangial cells and mesangial cells-derived exosomes, providing a potential mechanism for diabetes-induced miR-145 overexpression. In conclusion, urinary exosomal miRNA content is altered in type 1 diabetic patients with incipient diabetic nephropathy and miR-145 may represent a novel candidate biomarker/player in the complication.
The prevalence, rate, and degree of memory impairment for next-day activities during a short, intermittent course of bedtime doses of triazolam, temazepam, and placebo were assessed in a double-blind parallel-group study. 5 of the 6 subjects in the triazolam group reported at least one episode of next-day memory impairment/amnesia, with a total of 12 episodes being reported for the 30 subject-drug nights (a rate of 40%). In the temazepam group there were no such episodes of memory impairment. Immediate and delayed recall were also tested and related to whether active drug or placebo had been taken the night before. Impairment of delayed recall was significantly and several times greater than that in the temazepam or placebo groups. Next-day memory impairment/amnesia after a bedtime dose of triazolam tended to increase with continued or intermittent drug use. Cognitive impairments associated with triazolam probably represent a spectrum of organic brain dysfunction, with memory impairment/amnesia and confusion being the commonest, and milder manifestations and hallucinations and delusions the more severe and less common, features.
Different doses of dexamethasone were evaluated for the treatment of cerebral trauma using a rat model of cerebral hematoma induced by intracerebral (IC) stereotaxic injections of collagenase. Control animals received an intracerebral collagenase injection followed by intraperitoneal (IP) saline injection. Sham operated animals received saline only (IC, IP). Forty-eight hours following the surgeries, the brains were removed from the euthanized animals. Cerebral hemispheres were separated and the 4 coronal sections (antero-posterior plane) were weighed. Each slice was dried for 24 h (100 degrees C) and weighed again to establish brain water content. In hematoma-induced saline treated rats, significant differences in brain water content were observed when compared to sham operated animals. Rats treated with 1 mg/kg dexamethasone had a significant brain water content decrease; however, no significant differences were observed with higher doses of dexamethasone. In conclusion, low doses of dexamethasone seem to be beneficial for the treatment of cerebral trauma.
The effects of a COMT-inhibitor, U-0521, and a MAO-B-inhibitor, 1-deprenyl, on L-dopa-induced circling behaviour were compared in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats. The actions of U-0521 and 1-deprenyl on the anti-cataleptic effect of L-dopa were also studied. Both U-0521 and 1-deprenyl were found to potentiate L-dopa-induced circling behaviour and anti-cataleptic effect of L-dopa. In both test systems the L-dopa potentiation of 1-deprenyl was longer-lasting than that caused by U-0521. Thus inhibition of COMT, like inhibition of MAO, is able to enhance the central effects of L-dopa. This principle might be beneficial in the treatment of Parkinson's disease especially if COMT-inhibitors with greater performance can be developed.
This study was designed to establish a rat model of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) by calcium chloride (CaCl(2))-induced arterial injury and to explore the potential role of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM), matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their endogenous inhibitors (TIMPs) in TAA formation.
Thoracic aorta of male Sprague-Dawley rats was exposed to 0.5M CaCl(2) or normal saline (NaCl). After 12weeks, animals were euthanized, and CaCl(2)-treated, CaCl(2)-untreated (n=12) and NaCl-treated aortic segments (n=12) were collected for histological and molecular assessments. MMP-TIMP and ADAM mRNAs were semi-quantitatively analyzed and protein expressions were determined by immunohistochemistry.
Despite similar external diameters among CaCl(2)-treated, non-CaCl(2)-treated and NaCl-treated segments, aneurymal alteration (n=6, 50%), media degeneration with regional disruption, fragmentation of elastic fiber, and increased collagen deposition (n=12, 100%) were demonstrated in CaCl(2)-treated segments. MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 mRNA levels were increased in CaCl(2)-treated segments (all p<0.01), with trends of elevation in CaCl(2)-untreated segments, as compared with NaCl-treated segments. Immunohistochemistry displayed significantly increased expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM-10 and ADAM-17 (all p<0.01) in intima and media for CaCl(2)-treated segments. TIMP mRNA and tissue levels did not differ obviously among the three aortic segments.
This study establishes a TAA model by periarterial CaCl(2) exposure in rats, and demonstrates a significant elevation of expression of MMP-2, MMP-9, ADAM10 and ADAM17 in the pathogenesis of vascular remodeling.
In vitro and in vivo experiments from our laboratory and others have suggested that the combination of thymidylate synthase (TS) inhibitor and radiolabeled iododeoxyuridine (IdUrd) is synergistic. Efficacy is limited by drug resistance, which is often mediated by TS overexpression. We designed an in vivo electrogene transfer (EGT) model for delivering antisense TS plasmid (ATS) into tumor to increase the subsequent efficacy of (131)I-IdUrd therapy.
Plasmid complementary to nucleotide 531-710 in the coding region of the mouse TS (mTS) mRNA was constructed. TS activity and (131)I-IdUrd DNA incorporation were determined 48 h after in vitro EGT of ATS to CT26 cells. In vivo therapeutic effect and radioactivity retained in tumor after various combinations of EGT ATS, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and continuous infusion of (131)I-IdUrd by osmotic minipump were determined.
A reduction of TS activity was achieved after in vitro EGT ATS. Flow cytometry analysis indicated that ATS-treated cells were arrested at S phase. In the in vivo tumor model, the combination of EGT ATS and 5-FU was able to partially overcome 5-FU drug resistance. Sixty percent of tumors can be eradicated by the combination of EGT ATS, 5-FU, and infusion of (131)I-IdUrd. The tumors treated by EGT ATS had higher radioactivity retained 1 wk after (131)I-IdUrd therapy than after EGT of control plasmid.
In situ EGT ATS can downregulate TS and increase the therapeutic effect of radiolabeled IdUrd therapy. The combination of EGT ATS, 5-FU, and (131)I-IdUrd may result in tumor eradication.
Using nociceptin-receptor-deficient mice, we studied the participation of nociceptin in herpetic and postherpetic allodynia in mice. Although nociceptin-receptor deficiency did not affect the development of skin lesions and herpetic allodynia, it prevented postherpetic allodynia. Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) of pronociceptin increased in the dorsal horn of lumbar enlargement on day 6, but not on day 40, after inoculation. No changes were observed in the mRNA of the nociceptin receptor. Inhibition of herpetic allodynia by repeated oral administration of gabapentin (100 mg/kg) alleviated the overexpression of mRNA of pronociceptin, as well as the severity of postherpetic allodynia. These results suggest that the spinal nociceptin system is involved in the transitional process from herpetic allodynia to postherpetic allodynia.
Exposure to the chemotherapeutic alkylating agent thiotepa during brain development leads to neurological complications arising from neurodegeneration and irreversible damage to the developing central nerve system (CNS). Administration of single dose of thiotepa in 7-d postnatal (P7) rat triggers activation of apoptotic cascade and widespread neuronal death. The present study was aimed to elucidate whether nicotinamide may prevent thiotepa-induced neurodegeneration in the developing rat brain.
Neuronal cell death induced by thiotepa was associated with the induction of Bax, release of cytochrome-c from mitochondria into the cytosol, activation of caspase-3 and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP-1). Post-treatment of developing rats with nicotinamide suppressed thiotepa-induced upregulation of Bax, reduced cytochrome-c release into the cytosol and reduced expression of activated caspase-3 and cleavage of PARP-1. Cresyl violet staining showed numerous dead cells in the cortex hippocampus and thalamus; post-treatment with nicotinamide reduced the number of dead cells in these brain regions. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemical analysis of caspase-3 show that thiotepa-induced cell death is apoptotic and that it is inhibited by nicotinamide treatment.
Nicotinamide (Nic) treatment with thiotepa significantly improved neuronal survival and alleviated neuronal cell death in the developing rat. These data demonstrate that nicotinamide shows promise as a therapeutic and neuroprotective agent for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders in newborns and infants.
The direct effect and safety of carmofur (Mifurol) in cases of advanced and recurrent breast cancer were evaluated as a cooperative study at twenty-two facilities nationwide. Carmofur 12 mg/kg/day within the maximum daily dose of 600 mg was administered orally for eight weeks or longer. Of 42 patients registered for the study, 38 met the eligibility criterial (qualified patients), of whom 31 completed all tests for evaluation (completely qualified patients). The response rates were 18.4% with the qualified patients (PR, 7; Long NC, 3; NC, 11; PD, 12; NE, 5; ie, 7/38), and 22.6% with the completely qualified patients (PR, 7; Long NC, 2; NC, 10; PD, 12; ie, 7/31). The interval before the onset of PR after administration of carmofur was started was a minimum 29 days, a maximum 190 days and a median 82 days. Side effects were observed in eighteen patients (42.9%). Frequent micturition, loss of appetite, dizziness or feverish feeling were major symptoms, but none were serious.
KF17837 is a novel selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonist. Oral administration of KF17837 (2.5, 10.0 and 30.0 mg/kg) significantly ameliorated the cataleptic responses induced by intracerebroventricular administration of an adenosine A2A receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (10 micrograms), in a dose-dependent manner. KF17837 also reduced the catalepsy induced by haloperidol (1 mg/kg i.p.) and by reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p.). These anticataleptic effects were exhibited dose dependently at doses from 0.625 and 2.5 mg/kg p.o., respectively. Moreover, KF17837 (0.625 mg/kg p.o.) potentiated the anticataleptic effects of a subthreshold dose of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA; 25 mg/kg i.p.) plus benserazide (6.25 mg/kg i.p.). These results suggested that KF17837 is a centrally active adenosine A2A receptor antagonist and that the dopaminergic function of the nigrostriatal pathway is potentiated by adenosine A2A receptor antagonists. Furthermore, KF17837 may be a useful drug in the treatment of parkinsonism.
Little information is available regarding the in-vivo effects of amphotericin B on organs other than the kidney. The increasing use of intrathecal amphotericin B has resulted in several reports of neurotoxicity associated with the drug. Development of parkinsonism following intraventricular treatment with amphotericin B for cryptococcal meningitis in a young woman suggested a direct toxic effect on nervous tissue by amphotericin B. Although transient signs of parkinsonism have been described in a patient receiving intraventricular amphotericin B, persistent parkinsonism is an unprecedented occurrence.
