Combined targeting of distinct cellular signaling mechanisms may improve the efficacy and reduce the toxicity of therapy in pancreatic cancer. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) control cellular functions through epigenetic modulation, and HDACs inhibitors suppress cell growth in pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The Hedgehog (Hh) pathway regulates the development of the pancreas, and aberrant Hh signaling promotes the initiation and progression of pancreatic neoplasia. We hypothesize that HDACs and the Hh pathway cooperatively interact to regulate cellular proliferation of the exocrine pancreas. A combination of the HDAC inhibitor SAHA and the Smoothened antagonist SANT-1 was evaluated for their ability to suppress growth of the Gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines Panc-1 and BxPC-3. The combination of SAHA and SANT-1 supra-additively suppressed cellular proliferation and colony formation. Flow cytometric and immunohistochemical analyses indicated that enhanced induction of apoptotic cell death, cell cycle arrest in G(0)/G(1) phase, and ductal epithelial differentiation are involved. Cell death was associated with nuclear localization of survivin, increased bax expression, and activation of caspases 3 and 7. Consistent with the cell cycle arrest and cytodifferentiation, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21(waf) and p27(kip1) were upregulated, and cyclin D1 downregulated. The potentiated anti-proliferative effect by the combination of SAHA and SANT-1 may involve cooperative suppression of the Hh pathway activity, as shown by the upregulation of HHIP by SAHA, and enhanced repression of of Ptc-1 mRNA expression. In summary, we have developed a molecular target-based therapeutic approach that overcomes chemoresistance in pancreatic cancer cells by chemically inhibiting HDACs and Hh signaling in combination.
Coronary vasospasm has been implicated as a cause of myocardial ischemia and sudden cardiac death in cocaine abusers. However, the mechanism or mechanisms remain unknown. Autopsy records (n = 5,871) from the medical examiner's files at Baltimore, Maryland and northern Virginia were examined and 495 persons (8.4%) were identified with positive toxicologic findings for cocaine. Of these, six subjects (1.2%) had total thrombotic occlusion, involving primarily the left anterior descending coronary artery. The mean number of adventitial mast cells per coronary segment and the degree of atherosclerosis were determined. These observations were compared with findings in age- and gender-matched subjects who died from cocaine overdose and in patients who had sudden cardiac death (acute thrombosis) without a history of illicit drug abuse. There were significantly more mast cells in subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis than in the other groups. The number of mast cells showed a significant correlation with the degree of cross-sectional luminal narrowing (r = 0.68) in subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis but not in subjects with sudden death due to thrombosis (r = 0.34, p less than 0.03). Subjects with cocaine-associated thrombosis also had significant coronary atherosclerosis without plaque hemorrhage (five had one or more vessels with greater than 75% cross-sectional area luminal narrowing) despite a mean age of 29 +/- 2 years. These findings suggest that adventitial mast cells may potentiate atherosclerosis and vasospasm, thrombosis and premature sudden death in long-term cocaine abusers.
We evaluated program entry, retention, and early treatment response of needle exchange program (NEP) attenders referred to a drug treatment program using levomethadyl acetate hydrochloride (LAAM). Of 163 referrals, 114 (70%) entered the program, and 84% were retained for at least 90 days. Comparing baseline and follow-up visits after 1 month, there were significant reductions in the Addiction Severity Index subscale scores for drug and alcohol use and legal situation. We observed a 31% and 22% reduction in heroin- and cocaine-positive urine tests, respectively (p < .0001). Although LAAM is no longer considered a first line treatment for heroin addiction, these results demonstrate the feasibility of utilizing long-acting agonist therapies such as LAAM to treat opioid dependence among NEP attenders.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder resulting from nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration. The impairment of mitochondrial function and dopamine synaptic transmission are involved in the pathogenesis of PD. Two mitochondrial inhibitors, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine (MPP(+)) and rotenone, have been used to induce dopaminergic neuronal death both in in vitro and in vivo models of PD. Because the uptake of MPP(+) is mediated by the dopamine transporter (DAT), we used a cell-permeable rotenone-induced PD model to investigate the role of DAT and dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) on dopaminergic neuronal loss. Rotenone subcutaneously infused for 14 days induced PD symptoms in rats, as indicated by reduced spontaneous locomotor activity (hypokinesis), loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, a marker enzyme for dopamine neurons) immunoreactivity in the substantia nigra and striatum, obvious alpha-synuclein accumulation, downregulated DAT protein expression, and upregulated D2R expression. Interestingly, rotenone also caused significant noradrenergic neuronal loss in the locus coeruleus. Melatonin, an antioxidant, prevented nigrostriatal neurodegeneration and alpha-synuclein aggregation without affecting the rotenone-induced weight loss and hypokinesis. However, rotenone-induced hypokinesis was markedly reversed by the DAT antagonist nomifensine and body weight loss was attenuated by the D2R antagonist sulpiride. In addition, both antagonists significantly prevented the reduction of striatal TH or DAT immunoreactivity but not the loss of nigral TH- and DAT-immunopositive neurons. These results suggested that oxidative stress and DAT downregulation are involved in the rotenone-induced pathogenesis of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration, whereas D2R upregulation may simply represent a compensatory response.
To investigate the effect of polaprezinc on cellular damage induced by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in human colon CaCo2 cells.
CaCo2 cells were treated with polaprezinc (10-100 micromol/L) for 6 h. After polaprezinc treatment, the cells were incubated with H(2)O(2) (20 micromol/L) for 1 h. Cell viability was measured by MTT assay. Western blot analysis for heat shock protein (HSP) 27 and HSP72 in the cells was performed. Moreover, cells were pretreated with quercetin (200 micromol/L), an inhibitor of HSP synthesis, 2 h before polaprezinc treatment, and cell viability and the expression of HSP27 and 72 were assessed in these cells.
Polaprezinc significantly protected CaCo2 cells from cell damage induced by H(2)O(2), and up-regulated the expressions of HSP27 and HSP72 in the cells (10, 30 and 100 micromol/L of polaprezinc; 35.0% +/- 7.7%, 58.3% +/- 14.6% and 64.2% +/- 8.2%, respectively. P < 0.01 versus polaprezinc-nontreated cells; 6.0% +/- 4.4%). Quercetin inhibited the up-regulation of HSP27 and HSP72 by polaprezinc and diminished the protective effect of polaprezinc against H(2)O(2)-caused injury in the cells.
Polaprezinc is a useful therapeutic agent for treatment of colitis and its effects depend on the function of cytoprotective HSP in colon.
Hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is an autosomal dominant, inherited condition that is characterized primarily by the development of early-onset colorectal cancer and a number of other epithelial malignancies. The underlying genetic basis of the disease is associated with a breakdown of DNA-mismatch repair. There are many genes involved in DNA-mismatch repair, and five of them have been implicated in HNPCC. Two of the genes (hMSH2 and hMLH1) account for the majority of HNPCC families (approximately 60%), and it is not known what the exact contributions of the remaining three genes (hPMS1, hPMS2, and hMSH6) are in relation to this condition. In addition, a sixth gene (hEXO1) has been associated with a disease phenotype that is consistent with HNPCC. Current estimates suggest that all four of these genes, combined, may account for up to 5% of families. In this report, we examine the contribution of hPMS2 and hEXO1 to a well-defined set of families that fulfill the diagnostic criteria for HNPCC. The genes, hPMS2 and hEXO1, were studied by denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) analysis in 21 families that have previously been determined not to have mutations in hMSH2 or hMLH1. hPMS2 accounts for a small proportion of HNPCC families, and none were deemed to be associated with hEXO1. Mutations in hPMS2 appear to account for a small proportion of families adhering to the Amsterdam II criteria, whereas hEXO1 does not appear to be associated with HNPCC.
Clonidine is used as second-line medication for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children. Product information concerning clonidine reported seizures only after overdosage of clonidine, and the prescription of clonidine has not been contraindicated in patients with known epilepsy. The present case report discusses a possible association of clonidine with new-onset seizures, in the context of status epilepticus in a 9-year-old girl.
To study the mechanism of pravastatin enhancing atherosclerosis regression.
Patients with hypercholesterolemia were treated with pravastatin 10-20 mg/d for 4 and 8 weeks. The changes of blood cholesterol and platelet functions were examined.
After 4 weeks and 8 weeks treatment, the expression of platelet membrane P-selectin was decreased from 748 +/- 154 molecular number(MN)/platelet to 478 +/- 110 MN/platelet and 378 +/- 119 MN/platelet, respectively, plasma P-selectin was decreased from 24.3 +/- 9.9 micrograms/L to 16.8 +/- 4.5 and 16.1 +/- 4.0 micrograms/L, respectively, correlative with the lowering of blood cholesterol. Platelet P-selectin was positively correlated with plasma P-selectin(r = 0.8722).
The early benefit of pravastatin in enhancing atherosclerosis regression was partly due to the improvement of platelet function.
There is an increasing incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EA) among younger people in the western populations. However, the association between genetic polymorphisms and the age of EA onset is unclear. In this study, 1330 functional/tagging single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) from 354 cancer-related genes were genotyped in 335 white EA patients. Twenty important SNPs that have the highest importance scores and lowest classification error rate were identified by the random forest algorithm to be associated with early onset of EA (age ≤ 55 years). Subsequent logistic regression analysis indicated that 10 SNPs (rs2070744 of NOS3, rs720321 of BCL2, rs17757541 of BCL2, rs11775256 of TNFRSF10A, rs1035142 of CASP8, rs2236302 of MMP14, rs4740363 of ABL1, rs696217 of GHRL, rs2445762 of CYP19A1, and rs11941492 of VEGFR2/KDR) were significantly associated with early onset of EA (≤55 vs >55 years, all P < .05 after adjusting for co-variates and false discovery rate). Among them, five SNPs in the NOS3, BCL2, TNFRSF10A, and CASP8 genes were known to be involved in apoptosis processes. In Kaplan-Meier analyses, rs2070744 of NOS3, rs720321 of BCL2, and rs1035142 of CASP8 were also significantly associated with early onset of EA. Moreover, there was a higher risk of developing EA at a younger age when one had more risk genotypes. In conclusion, polymorphisms in cancer-related genes, especially those in the apoptotic pathway, play an important role in the development of younger-aged EA in a dose-response manner.
The excision repair cross-complementing 1 (ERCC1) gene is coding for a nucleotide excision repair protein involved in the repair of radiation- and chemotherapy-induced DNA damage. We examined the potential of quantitative ERCC1 mRNA expression to predict minor or major histopathological response to neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and 36 Gy of radiation) followed by transthoracic en bloc esophagectomy in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer (cT(2-4), N(x), M(0)).
Tissue samples were collected by endoscopic biopsy before treatment. RNA was isolated from biopsies, and quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR assays were performed to determine ERCC1 mRNA expression. Relative mRNA levels (tumor/normal ratios) were calculated as (ERCC1/beta-actin in tumor)/(ERCC1/beta-actin in paired normal tissue). ERCC1 expression levels were correlated with the objective histopathological response in resected specimens. Histomorphological regression was defined as major response when resected specimens contained <10% of residual vital tumor cells or in case a pathologically complete response was achieved.
Twelve of 36 tumors showed a major histopathological response, and 24 of 36 showed a minor histopathological response. Relative expression levels of ERCC1 of >1.09 were not associated with a major histopathological response (sensitivity, 62.5%; specificity, 100%) and 15 of 24 patients with minor histopathological response to the delivered neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy could be unequivocally identified. This association of dichotomized relative ERCC1 mRNA expression and histopathological response was statistically significant (P < 0.001).
Relative expression levels of ERCC1 mRNA determined by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR appear highly specific to predict minor response to our neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy protocol in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer and could be applied to prevent expensive, noneffective, and potentially harmful therapies in a substantial number (42%) of patients.
Zinc is an essential element required for the cell metabolism, including gene transcription, signal transduction, immunity, and apoptosis. The pathophysiological role of zinc in asthma, however, is not entirely clear. Mast cells have been implicated in atopic asthma, and zinc deprivation has been reported to reduce mast cell activation. Here, we investigate the effects of a zinc chelator, N,N,N',N'-tetrakis (2-pyridyl-methyl) ethylenediamine (TPEN), on asthmatic responses in mouse models of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced airway hyperresponsiveness and allergic airway inflammation.
Mice were sensitized with OVA with or without the adjuvant aluminum hydroxide (alum) and subjected to OVA exposure with or without treatment of TPEN. Cell profiles and cytokine levels in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids, airway responsiveness to inhaled acetylcholine, and goblet cell hyperplasia after allergen exposure were assessed.
In mice sensitized to OVA without alum, TPEN significantly suppressed airway hyperresponsiveness and eosinophilia in BAL fluids. TPEN also attenuated the upregulation of TNFα, IL-13 and IL-4 in BAL fluids and goblet cell hyperplasia after OVA exposure. By contrast, in mice sensitized to OVA with alum, TPEN suppressed eosinophilia in BAL fluids but not airway hyperresponsiveness and goblet cell hyperplasia.
In pulmonary allergic inflammation induced in mice immunized with antigen without alum, zinc chelator inhibits airway inflammation and hyperresponsiveness. These findings suggest that zinc may be a therapeutic target of allergic asthma.
Periconceptional folate supplementation prevents neural tube defects and possibly congenital heart defects (CHD) as well. The search for candidate genes involved in the folate metabolism includes the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 677C > T polymorphism. We studied the association between MTHFR 677C > T variants and CHD risk. The interaction with periconceptional folate supplementation was also investigated.
A case-control study and a family-based transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) were conducted to explore this association. In 133 triads, the TDT revealed no association of the fetal 677T allele with the development of a heart defect. In 158 mothers with a CHD-affected child, the maternal MTHFR 677CT and TT genotypes in combination with no use of periconceptional folate supplements were associated with, respectively, a three-fold (OR 3.3 95% CI 1.46-7.32) and six-fold (OR 6.3 95% CI 2.32-17.27) increased risk for conotruncal heart defects in offspring. In a case-only study, the interaction between periconceptional folate supplementation and maternal MTHFR genotype was significant (P = 0.012).
The maternal MTHFR 677C > T variants are a risk factor for CHD in offspring, confined to conotruncal heart defects. A gene-environment interaction between maternal MTFHR 677CT and TT genotypes with periconceptional folate supplementation was observed. These findings provide a mechanism of the protective role of folate and support the thesis that periconceptional folate supplementation might prevent CHD.
To reduce damage from toxic insults such as glutamate excitotoxicity and oxidative stresses, neurons may deploy an array of neuroprotective mechanisms. Recent reports show that progranulin (PGRN) gene null or missense mutations leading to inactive protein, are linked to frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), suggesting that survival of certain neuronal populations needs full expression of functional PGRN. Here we show that extracellular PGRN stimulates phosphorylation/activation of the neuronal MEK/extracellular regulated kinase (ERK)/p90 ribosomal S6 kinase (p90RSK) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase (PI3K)/Akt cell survival pathways and rescues cortical neurons from cell death induced by glutamate or oxidative stress. Pharmacological inhibition of MEK/ERK/p90RSK signaling blocks the PGRN-induced phosphorylation and neuroprotection against glutamate toxicity while inhibition of either MEK/ERK/p90RSK or PI3K/Akt blocks PGRN protection against neurotoxin MPP(+). Inhibition of both pathways had synergistic effects on PGRN-dependent neuroprotection against MPP(+) toxicity suggesting both pathways contribute to the neuroprotective activities of PGRN. Extracellular PGRN is remarkably stable in neuronal cultures indicating neuroprotective activities are associated with full-length protein. Together, our data show that extracellular PGRN acts as a neuroprotective factor and support the hypothesis that in FTLD reduction of functional brain PGRN results in reduced survival signaling and decreased neuronal protection against excitotoxicity and oxidative stress leading to accelerated neuronal cell death. That extracellular PGRN has neuroprotective functions against toxic insults suggests that in vitro preparations of this protein may be used therapeutically.
Octreotide treatment of acromegalic patients induces cholesterol gallstone formation, in part by impairing cholecystokinin release and gall-bladder contraction. However, there are few data on the effect of octreotide on biliary arachidonic acid-rich phospholipids or mucin glycoprotein, factors which also influence cholesterol gallstone formation.
In acromegalic patients studied before and during 3 months of octreotide treatment, we measured mucin glycoprotein concentrations and the molecular species of phosphatidylcholine, and related the results to the cholesterol saturation and percentage of deoxycholic acid in gall-bladder bile.
The relative proportions of the major arachidonic acid-rich phosphatidylcholine species, PC 16:0-20:4 and PC 18:0-20:4, increased significantly during octreotide treatment. These changes were associated with a rise in the cholesterol saturation index and a non-significant twofold increase in mucin glycoprotein concentration. There were significant correlations between PC 16:0-20:4 and the cholesterol saturation index, percentage of vesicular cholesterol and percentage of deoxycholic acid in gall-bladder bile.
In acromegalic patients, octreotide increases the proportions of arachidonic acid-rich phospholipids, with associated rises in: (a) the cholesterol saturation index and percentage of vesicular cholesterol, and (b) the percentage of deoxycholic acid in gall-bladder bile-changes similar to those found in patients with cholesterol-rich gall-bladder stones.
A case of colorectal cancer in a 60-year-old man became resectable after downstaging was achieved with mFOLFOX 6 for multiple liver metastases from colorectal cancer. The patient received 8 cycles of mFOLFOX 6 on the basis of a diagnosis of multiple liver metastases in the right and left lobes and a single metastasis in the right lung. After chemotherapy, the liver metastases showed partial response, and the lung metastasis stable disease. Because the lung metastasis was controlled and radical cure of the liver metastases was thought possible by resection, we performed right lobectomy of the liver. Postoperative progress was good, and we then planned a staged partial resection of the lung. However,on postoperative day 28, the patient was hospitalized again with liver dysfunction, which evolved into liver failure, in spite of conservative treatment. The patient died on postoperative day 95. The needle biopsy specimens of the liver taken on readmission showed bile duct occlusion, portal hypertension, and perisinusoidal fibrosis, and histopathology of the surgical non-tumoral liver specimen showed the same findings. We think that liver failure was triggered by resection of the liver which had been damaged by mFOLFOX 6. Recently, liver damage due to oxaliplatin was reported, and evaluation of liver injury is considered important before liver resection for colorectal liver metastases with neoadjuvant FOLFOX.
Sodium 2-mercaptoethane sulfonate (mesna, Uromitexan) is oxidized in the organism of rats to 2,2'-dithiodi-(ethane sodium sulfonate) (dimesna). Dimesna is partially reduced to the mercapto compound mesna (kidneys); both compounds are eliminated via the urine. Even after administration of dimesna mesna can be detected in the urine. Accordingly dimesna also proved to be an effective antidote against the urotoxic actions of cyclophosphamide and ifosfamide.
Systemic chemotherapy has not seen widespread use in the treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Recently, it was reported that combination treatment of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and interferon (IFN)-alpha was effective for non-resectable HCC. The effect of 5-FU treatment is influenced by the activities of pyrimidine catabolic enzymes. The aim of this study was to investigate which IFN-alphais most effective in combination therapy via downregulation of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD).
Cell proliferation assay in human hepatoma cells (HepG 2) was performed using 5-FU and/or various IFNs-alpha (C-IFN, Intron A, OIF). At the same time,DPD mRNA levels were quantified by real-time polymerase chain reaction.
5-FU alone but not all the IFNs showed anti-cancer effects, and the combination of each IFN +5-FU had a greater anti-cancer effect than 5-FU alone. C-IFN +5-FU most effectively prevented cancer cell proliferation (p < 0.05). Also, the combination of C-IFN +5-FU most downregulated DPD mRNA expression.
The combination of each IFN-alpha +5-FU showed anti-cancer effects for HCC via downregulation of DPD. C-IFN may be most effective in the combination therapy of IFN-alpha +5-FU for HCC.
A patient under Taxol and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF, Neupogen) treatment for metastatic breast carcinoma of the liver experienced repeated suicidal depression on days 10 and 11 of therapy. MRI and MRS were performed during the fifth and sixth cycles of chemotherapy on days 1 and 10. The MRI was normal in all four examinations. The MRS showed normal levels of metabolites on days 1 of therapy, with remarkable reproducible declines in neurobiochemicals myo-inositol (23-27%), choline (20-24%), creatine (10-14%) and glutamate/glutamine (22-39%) on day 10 of therapy. The neurobiochemical declines coincided with the patient's experience of suicidal depression. Patients reporting depression during standard cancer therapy may be experiencing previously undocumented chemotherapeutic neurobiochemical imbalances or neurotoxicity.
We evaluated the question of whether the chemosensitizers verapamil and quinine given orally to breast cancer patients failing combination chemotherapy alone would result in additional clinical responses. In vitro studies reported here showed verapamil sensitization of Adriamycin resistance in 18.8% of fresh human breast cancer specimens tested. Patients (27) were first treated with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, Adriamycin and dexamethasone (CVAD) alone. Verapamil and quinine were added in patients with tumors failing to respond or progressing on CVAD alone. Following treatment with CVAD alone there were no complete remissions and 3 patients (11%) developed partial remissions lasting 5.5, 8, 10.5 months. With the addition of verapamil and quinine to the CVAD regimen, one patient (4%) developed a complete remission of 11.8 months duration and 4 additional patients (15%) developed partial remissions lasting 2.8, 17.3, 19 and > 40 months. Thus, the overall rate of CVAD sensitization by verapamil and quinine was 19%. Treatment with CVAD plus verapamil and quinine was generally well tolerated with observed toxicities including: myelosuppression, neuropathy, Cushingoid symptoms and tinnitus and/or dizziness due to quinine. We conclude that addition of the non-cytotoxic chemosensitizers verapamil and quinine to CVAD in patients failing CVAD alone results in additional clinical responses in a small percentage of patients, some with long term durations. The results of this study lend credence to the notion that non-cytotoxic chemosensitizers can enhance the clinical activity of combination chemotherapy and the search for more effective and less toxic chemosensitizers continues.
Pain associated with Herpes Zoster (HZ) and Post-herpetic Neuralgia (PHN) has been a challenging task to manage with ease. Topical aspirin dissolved in chloroform is an effective means of reducing pain due to HZ and PHN in most patients. The locus of pain origin and analgesia induced by topical aspirin is supposed to be at cutaneous free nerve ending pain receptors. The present study was conduced in fifty two patients of HZ and PHN. Pain intensity before and after the application of drug was measured with help of Sort Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SE-MPQ). Most of the patients experienced relief of pain within 1-5 minutes after the aspirin-chloroform application. Maximum relief was achieved in about 30-40 minutes and persisted for 5-6 hrs. In the beginning 3-4 applications were required but frequency decreased gradually as the pain abated.
Thirteen out of 44 patients taking bendrofluazide 10 mg daily became hypokalaemic over a period of three months. Oral potassium supplements of 3.6 grams daily (48 mmol) given in addition to bendrofluazide for a further period of 3 months raised plasma potassium level significantly in hypokalaemic patients only. We conclude that where patients on diuretic therapy are followed up with plasma potassium measurements, it is generally necessary to prescribe oral potassium in the presence of hypokalaemia only.
Recent evidence indicates that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) seems to play a considerable role in the development of tubulointerstitial (TI) lesions caused by hyperoxaluria (Hox). The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the specific mechanism by which Hox involving RAS induces chemokine and cytokine expression and, therefore, renal TI damage in the ethylene-glycol (ETG) induced hyperoxaluric rat model. Sprague-Dawley rats, separated into five groups, received: G1 regular water, and G2, G3, G4 and G5 1% ETG (a precursor for oxalates) in their drinking water for 4 weeks. An angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, benazepril (BZ) 10 mg/kg/day, angiotensin II receptor antagonists, subtype 1 (AT1) losartan (LOS) 40 mg/kg/day and subtype 2 (AT2) PD 123,319 (PD) 10 mg/kg/day, were administered daily to G3, G4 and G5, respectively. At the end of the study, the inflammatory response to Hox was evaluated using anti-NF-kappaB (p50), anti-IL-6, anti-MCP-1; anti-RANTES and anti-ED1 (monocytes/macrophages) in each group. In spite of the same urine oxalate levels, rats belonging to the hyperoxaluric groups treated with either BZ or LOS showed significantly (P<0.01) less TI lesions together with a lower immunoexpression of inflammatory mediators when compared with untreated hyperoxaluric animals. NF-kappaB (p50) was increased in tubular cells in the ETG group (43.6+/-8.7 positive cells/mm(2)) and was significantly (P<0.01) reduced by LOS (11.2+/-4 positive cells/mm(2)) and even more by BZ (6.1+/-2.4 positive cells/mm(2)). There was a significant (P<0.01) correlation between NF-kappaB (p50) positive cells and ED1 cells in the ETG group (r=0.88) and in the ETG+LOS group (r=0.92). LOS showed better control on IL-6 and MCP-1 with respect to untreated rats, while BZ showed the best control on RANTES and ED1 cells in comparison with untreated animals. Renal function was significantly (P<0.01) better preserved in BZ and LOS treated groups compared to both untreated animals and rats with PD, as indicated by creatinine clearance values. These results suggest that Hox stimulates the NF-kappaB cascade and, therefore, induces the overexpression of inflammatory mediators like IL-6, MCP-1, and RANTES. This pathway seems to be mediated not only by AT1 but also by AT2 receptors of angiotensin II.
A healthy 18-yr-old male (weight 60 kg, height 167 cm), with a history of febrile convulsions in childhood, developed a grand mal convulsion 10 min after the second of two injections of ropivacaine 150 mg, both given incrementally 15 min apart (total 300 mg), for combined axillary/interscalene brachial plexus block. Treatment was with oxygen, lung ventilation, and i.v. midazolam, and the patient made a complete recovery. Arterial plasma ropivacaine concentration 2 min after the onset of convulsions was only 2.13 mg litre(-1), suggesting that this patient was particularly susceptible to local anaesthetic toxicity. Whether sub-clinical EEG changes identified after operation were related to this sensitivity cannot be determined, but review illustrates wide variation in both the dose and the plasma concentration of local anaesthetics associated with systemic toxicity. The UK recommended dose of ropivacaine for brachial plexus block is 225-300 mg according to stature.
The case of a 59-year-old healthy woman is described, who developed an extreme sinus bradycardia (30/min) with chest pain and acute right heart failure associated with gastrointestinal symptoms and elevation of the liver enzymes while simultaneously taking tizanidine (Sirdalud), diclofenac (Voltaren), and rofecoxib (Vioxx). The symptomatology resolved promptly after stopping the medication.
The usual causes of sinusbradycardia like hypothyroidism, hypothermia, intracranial pressure elevation, typhoid fever, sick sinus syndrome, hyperreactive carotid sinus reflex, organic heart disease, electrolyte disorders, and pharmacotherapy with beta-blockers, digitalis, and antiarrhythmics have been excluded in this case. Bradycardia can occur as a side effect of tizanidine. As this substance is metabolized by cytochrome P450 1A2 and rofecoxib inhibits this enzyme, an interaction between these drugs is probable. Liver function disorders and gastrointestinal symptoms, in the present case mainly due to the acute right heart failure, have also been described as side effects under tizanidine, diclofenac as well as rofecoxib. Supposedly, the combination of tizanidine/rofecoxib used to be prescribed frequently for lumbar pain as selective cyclooxygenase-(COX-)2 inhibitors are visibly replacing the nonsteroidal antirheumatics due to their better side effect profile. An augmented risk of cardiovascular events under rofecoxib led to its withdrawal from the market at the end of September 2004.
When prescribing Sirdalud, the possible pharmacological side effects and interactions should be taken into careful account.
High doses of aspirin counteract the beneficial effects of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. It is not known how low-dose aspirin, with concomitant ACE-inhibitor treatment, affects renal function.
To study renal effects of different doses of aspirin in elderly healthy volunteers who had an activated renin-angiotensin system.
Sixteen subjects each received two different doses of aspirin (0 and160 mg or 80 and 320 mg) after pre-treatment with bendroflumethiazide and enalapril, in a randomised double-blind, cross-over fashion.
Least square means of the observations 30 to 180 min after dosing, showed that urine flow, GFR, excretion rates of sodium, osmolality clearance and free water clearance were significantly decreased in a dose-dependent manner. Urine flow, sodium excretion rate and free water clearance were significantly lower with 320 mg aspirin vs. 0 mg and 80 mg, and GFR was significantly lower with 320 mg vs. 80 mg. Urine flow, sodium excretion rate, free water and osmolality clearance was significantly lower with aspirin 160 mg vs. 0 mg.
The dose-dependent renal effects of aspirin are of clinical importance from a dose of 160 mg. The adverse influence of aspirin doses higher than 80 mg should be taken into consideration in patients with heart failure.
