Furosemide (F)-induced nephrocalcinosis (NC) has been traditionally described in low birth weight premature infants. To investigate the role of age on F-induced nephrocalcinosis we studied 24 Sprague-Dawley male rats grouped by age and F therapy vs. control as follows: A (4-week-old control), B (4-week-old + F), C (6-week-old control), D (6-week-old + F), E (10-week-old control), F (10-week-old + F). The rats were placed in metabolic cages for measurement of urine output, food and water intake. At day 14 they were anesthetized, exsanguinated and their kidneys harvested. Renal calcium deposition was assessed using NC score (scale 0-4) and quantitative calcium analysis in the contralateral kidney. Treated animals gained less weight and had higher urine output and fluid intake than the age-matched controls demonstrating the diuretic effect of furosemide. Control groups A, C, and E scored 0 histologically compared with B 2.75 +/- 0.50, D 2.00 +/- 0.58, and F 3.00 +/- 0.82 (p < 0.05 in all three paired groups). Kidney calcium content (micrograms/g dry weight) in B was 2,815.68 +/- 1,553.77 vs. A 202.58 +/- 32.02 (p = 0.04); D 1,574.05 +/- 540.21 vs. C 212.22 +/- 30.91 (p = 0.02); F 2,591.40 +/- 1,269.80 vs. E 210.38 +/- 26.79 (p = 0.02). There was no difference in the magnitude of NC among the three treated groups themselves. To determine the possible effect of age on timing of onset of NC additional 30 4-week-old and 30 10-week-old rats were studied. All 60 rats received furosemide. Six rats from each group were sacrificed on days 1, 3, 5, 7 and 11. In both groups, significant calcifications were seen already on day 3 and maximum calcification noted between days 3 and 5. We conclude that in this model the development of NC occurs within a few days of furosemide administration and that this phenomenon is not age dependent but rather reflects a property of the loop diuretic itself.
We report a case of cerebral hemorrhage associated with cyclosporin A (CsA)/FK506-related encephalopathy that developed in a 16-year-old woman after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Hematopoietic engraftment occurred on day 15, and the patient developed systemic convulsions after CsA was replaced by FK506 for the treatment of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Based on magnetic resonance imaging, laboratory findings and cerebrospinal fluid studies, she was diagnosed as having CsA/FK506-related encephalopathy with cerebral hemorrhagic infarction. Although she recovered completely after discontinuation of FK506, she developed convulsions again 15 days after re-administration of FK506. A computed tomography scan showed cerebral hemorrhage. She died of respiratory failure. Vascular damage induced by immunosuppressive drugs and enhanced by acute GVHD seemed to be the cause of the cerebral hemorrhage. Since hypertension, which was present during both of the central nervous system events, seemed to have contributed to the development of the cerebral hemorrhage, it is proposed that CsA and FK506 should be reduced or discontinued when patients who have risk factors of hypertension become hypertensive even if they have no symptoms of neurotoxicity.
The absence of a genotoxic action in the rat of several peroxisome proliferators (PP) has been confirmed by measuring gross degradation, unscheduled DNA-synthesis (UDS), as well as by measurement of single strand breaks using alkali unwinding in absence and presence of inhibitors of DNA-repair. Similar results were obtained even after drastically lowering the glutathione content of liver. Further, after oral administration of ciprofibrate, no potentiating effect was found in vivo on the generation of micronuclei in hepatocytes by ionizing radiation. The metabolically inert PP, perfluorooctanoic acid, was found to act as a promoter of liver tumors in the rat induced by diethylnitrosamine in an initiation-selection-promotion protocol. The results are discussed in light of available information concerning the mechanism of action of PPs.
Studies on innate immunity have benefited from the introduction of zebrafish as a model system. Transgenic fish expressing fluorescent proteins in leukocyte populations allow direct, quantitative visualization of an inflammatory response in vivo. It has been proposed that this animal model can be used for high-throughput screens aimed at the identification of novel immunomodulatory lead compounds. However, current assays require invasive manipulation of fish individually, thus preventing high-content screening.
Here we show that specific, noninvasive damage to lateral line neuromast cells can induce a robust acute inflammatory response. Exposure of fish larvae to sublethal concentrations of copper sulfate selectively damages the sensory hair cell population inducing infiltration of leukocytes to neuromasts within 20 minutes. Inflammation can be assayed in real time using transgenic fish expressing fluorescent proteins in leukocytes or by histochemical assays in fixed larvae. We demonstrate the usefulness of this method for chemical and genetic screens to detect the effect of immunomodulatory compounds and mutations affecting the leukocyte response. Moreover, we transformed the assay into a high-throughput screening method by using a customized automated imaging and processing system that quantifies the magnitude of the inflammatory reaction.
This approach allows rapid screening of thousands of compounds or mutagenized zebrafish for effects on inflammation and enables the identification of novel players in the regulation of innate immunity and potential lead compounds toward new immunomodulatory therapies. We have called this method the chemically induced inflammation assay, or ChIn assay. See Commentary article: http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7007/8/148.
Propofol is an effective agent for use in procedural sedation and analgesia (PSA). Most ED studies have used a bolus-dosed protocol. We evaluated the efficacy, complication rate, and satisfaction among caregivers and patients while using an infusion-dosed protocol of propofol for PSA in our ED.
A prospective, observational study was performed in our academic ED. Propofol use was at the discretion of the ordering physician and dosed by predetermined infusion protocol. Variables measured included adverse events, times of sedation, procedure, and recovery. Patient and provider satisfaction were measured using a 10-cm visual analog scale.
Fifty patients were enrolled over 18 months. Procedures were varied, and all were successfully completed. The mean propofol dose was 174 mg (SD = 164 mg). Average times to sedation (4.6 minutes, SD = 2.6 minutes) and recovery (8.2 minutes, SD = 5.8 minutes) were short. Complications included 8 patients with respiratory depression and 6 with hypotension, all easily reversible. Satisfaction scores were uniformly high. Only 34% of patients had any memory of the procedure, and 94% would agree to use it again if necessary.
Infusion-dosed propofol is effective for ED PSA. Total doses, effectiveness, satisfaction rates, and complications of infusion-dosed propofol are comparable to findings from studies using bolus-dosed protocols.
The modifying effects of dietary feeding of an estrogenic compound 4-n-octylphenol on 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (DMAB) induced prostatic carcinogenesis were investigated in male F344 rats. The authors also assessed the effects of test compound on proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) index in induced neoplasms, hyperplastic lesions, and nonlesional glands in the prostrate. Rats were given intraperitoneal injections of DMAB (25 mg/kg body wt) every other week, 10 times, to induce prostatic neoplasms. They also received the experimental diet containing 10 or 100 ppm 4-n-octylphenol for 20 weeks, starting one week after the last dosing of DMAB. DMAB exposure produced prostatic adenocarcinoma with an incidence of 21% at the end of the study (Week 39). Dietary administration of 4-n-octylphenol did not affect the incidence of prostatic adenocarcinoma: 17% in DMAB-->10 ppm 4-n-octylphenol group; and 12% in DMAB-->100 ppm 4-n-octylphenol group. The PCNA indices in adenocarcinomas, hyperplastic lesions, and nonlesional glands in rats treated with DMAB and 4-n-octylphenol were slightly lower than that of the DMAB alone group, but the differences were not statistically significant. These results might suggest that dietary feeding of the weak estrogenic compound 4-n-octylphenol did not have modulating effects on DMAB-induced rat prostatic carcinogenesis.
108 patients who received tobramycin or amikacin could be evaluated for nephrotoxicity in a prospective randomized trial. Both groups had similar illnesses, and causative agents, concurrent drug administration, ages, sex ratios, initial serum creatinine and aminoglycoside levels and total dose and duration of therapy. Using urinary concentration of beta 2 microglobulin (beta 2m) as a marker, nephrotoxicity was detected in 13 (22.4%) of 58 patients given tobramycin and 13 (26%) of 50 given amikacin (n.s.). Using serum creatinine as a marker, nephrotoxicity was detected in 3 (5.2%) of 58 patients given tobramycin and in 7 (14%) of 50 given amikacin (n.s.). The whole group of 108 patients was used to compare the usefulness of serum creatinine levels versus urinary concentration of beta 2m. An elevation of serum creatinine was detected in 10 of 108 patients (9.3%). In 5 of these 10 patients the beta 2m remained normal, suggesting a functional renal failure. In 21 of the 108 patients (19.4%) the beta 2m increased while the serum creatinine remained normal, suggesting an aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity which would have remained undetected if only serum creatinine had been measured. In the remaining patients (77 of the 108; 71.3%) serum creatinine and urinary concentration of beta 2m both remained normal throughout the treatment. In conclusion no statistically significant differences were found between tobramycin and amikacin nephrotoxicity. Urinary beta 2m is more sensitive than serum creatinine and furthermore it allows one to differentiate aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity from functional renal failure.
Mangiferin, a C-glucosylxanthone (1,3,6,7-tetrahydroxyxanthone-C2-beta-D-glucoside) purified from plant sources was shown to have in vivo growth-inhibitory activity against ascitic fibrosarcoma in Swiss mice. Following in vivo or in vitro treatment, it also enhanced tumor cell cytotoxicity of the splenic cells and peritoneal macrophages of normal and tumor-bearing mice. In vitro treatment of the splenic cells of tumor-bearing mice with mangiferin resulted in augmented killing of tumor cells, both resistant and sensitive to natural killer cells. Mangiferin was also found to antagonize in vitro the cytopathic effect of HIV. The drug appears to act as a potent biological response modifier with antitumor and antiviral effect.
The atherosclerotic properties of low-density lipoproteins (LDL) are thought to be strongly enhanced by oxidation. The lipid-lowering drug probucol reduces the susceptibility of LDL to oxidation. Synchrotron X-ray and high-flux neutron solution scattering curves were used to characterise the structural properties of human LDL, before and after modification by oxidation with Cu2+ and the addition of probucol, in order to evaluate these techniques. Analyses based on Guinier plots, simple two-shell spherical modelling, and the use of cubic splines and indirect transformation show that a 20-h incubation with Cu2+ ions (but not 6 h) causes some of the LDL to associate to form larger aggregated particles. Gel electrophoresis on Cu2+ -oxidised LDL shows a concomitant degradation of the apolipoprotein B-100 as well as the formation of high molecular mass forms. These experiments indicate that the apoprotein B-100 structure has been significantly disrupted by oxidation. The addition of probucol to LDL causes an increase in the polydispersity of LDL, as evidenced by small changes in the Guinier curves and some weakening of the minima in the X-ray scattering curves. No changes in the quasispherical shape of LDL are observed and gel electrophoresis indicates no changes. It is possible that probucol may exert its effect by increasing the range of sizes of LDL and that the lipid-lowering effect of probucol in vivo might be caused by the preferential catabolism of the higher molecular mass forms of LDL thus created.
Although numerous transgenic mouse models for atherosclerosis have been developed recently, little is known about their response to hypolipidaemic or anti-atherosclerotic agents. We investigated the effect of the known hypocholesterolaemic and anti-atherosclerotic drug probucol on serum lipids, lipoproteins and atherosclerosis in fat-fed low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor deficient mice. Probucol at doses of 0.2 and 1% in the diet which are similar to those used in the mouse by other investigators reduced serum cholesterol by 26 and 37%, respectively. Probucol also reduced serum triglyceride levels by 33 and 47% at doses of 0.2 and 1%, respectively. The decrease in serum cholesterol and triglycerides was mainly due to a decrease of these lipids in VLDL and or chylomicrons. Despite these potentially beneficial changes in serum lipids atherosclerotic lesion areas in the aortic root were unchanged in the probucol treated mice. After 12 weeks treatment most of the mice receiving probucol had swollen feet and tails due to oedema. Histological examination of the base of the hearts from the probucol treated mice revealed lipid droplets within the reticuloendothelial and other interstitial cells. There was also an interstitial subacute inflammatory cell infiltration associated with the lipid deposition. The oedema induced by probucol could be the result of cardiac insufficiency due to interstitial lipidosis and inflammation in the base of the heart together with the extensive atherosclerotic lesions in the aortic sinus.
To investigate the dynamic alterations of neurofilament subunits (NF) in sciatic nerve of hens with organophosphorus ester induced the delayed neurotoxicity or neuropathy (OPIDN).
Hens with OPIDN were produced by giving 30 mg/kg methamidophos subcutaneously to the 10-month-old Roman hens daily for 15 days, and sacrificed after manifesting neurotoxic clinical signs on the 2nd, 10th, and 23rd day respectively. The sciatic nerves were dissected, homogenized and centrifuged. The levels of NF in supernatant and pellet of sciatic nerves were examined by Western blotting respectively at different time from 2 to 23 days.
Integrated optional density (IOD) of high molecular weight neurofilament (NF-H) in sciatic nerve pellet of hens on the day 2, 10, 23 after appearance of OPIDN were 145,117 +/- 17,038, 55,917 +/- 17,333 and 45,038 +/- 6,662 respectively. As compared with the control group (78,875 +/- 22,569), the contents of NF-H in pellet were increased by 84% on day 2, and decreased by 29% and 43% on day 10 and 23 respectively. IOD of NF-H in supernatant of sciatic nerves were 4,709 +/- 1,739, 12,337 +/- 3,205 and 16,745 +/- 931, which were reduced significantly as compared with the control (44,083 +/- 6,895) at three different times. There was no significant difference in IOD of middle molecular weight neurofilament (NF-M) between control group (27,925 +/- 2,660) and on day 2 (31,493 +/- 4,625) in pellet. Those were 19,367 +/- 2,746 and 6,612 +/- 1,119 respectively on day 10 and day 23 in pellet of hen's sciatic nerve, which were much less than that in control. Little were detected in supernatant on day 10, and the IOD of NF-M were 3,196 +/- 269 and 5,206 +/- 1,292 on day 2 and day 23 respectively, which were lessened by 81% and 70% as compared with the control (17,243 +/- 3,232). In sciatic nerve pellet of hens, IOD of low molecular weight neurofilament (NF-L) on day 2 was 39,211 +/- 3,800, which was much higher than that in the control (28,749 +/- 9,319). There were no significant differences between IOD on day 10 (27,974 +/- 3,611), day 23 (21,507 +/- 2,286) and the control. There was no detection both on day 2 and 10 in supernatant of sciatic nerve, and IOD of NF-L were 5,962 +/- 1,929 on day 23, which were reduced significantly compared with the control (11,897 +/- 352).
The alterations of NF in sciatic nerve might contribute to the occurrence and development of OPIDN.
A case is reported of non-fatal acute cerebral haemorrhage in a 47-year-old female who was taking tranylcypromine and who drank 500 ml of normal beer. Since the tyramine contents of several beers, including low alcohol and alcohol free beer, are similar, it is recommended that patients taking tranylcypromine should avoid all kinds of beer.
Previous studies have generated controversial results regarding the influence of the genetic variations of μ-opioid receptors on morphine analgesia and opioid-related side effects in the postoperative period. Few studies have been conducted attempting to assess the combined effects of variation within ≥2 genes in relation to morphine response. In this study, we investigated whether combined catechol-O-methyltransferase and μ-opioid receptor polymorphisms contribute to the morphine response in postoperative analgesia.
One hundred two surgical patients were enrolled in this prospective, observational study. All patients received general anesthesia and were screened for μ-opioid receptor polymorphism A118G (Asn40Asp) and catechol-O-methyltransferase G1947A (Val158Met) polymorphism using a blood sample of DNA. Patient-controlled analgesia was provided postoperatively and morphine consumption was observed. Any pain at rest or side effects were measured with rating scales.
The heterozygous patients with μ-opioid receptor A118G and catechol-O-methyltransferase G1947A mutation consumed significantly less morphine in the postanesthetic recovery room and 48 hours after surgery compared with homozygous patients of the A118 variant. Nausea and sedation scores were also significantly lower during all observed postoperative periods for heterozygous patients and only 2 patients (18%) from this group received antinausea treatment.
This study has demonstrated the importance of the gene-gene approach in understanding the morphine response in patients after lower abdominal surgery. More studies are needed to characterize the combined effects of multiple genes and demographic as well as clinical variables in predicting the correct morphine dosage and corresponding opioid-related side effects.
We report, for the first time to our knowledge, heart failure and liver abnormalities which developed after 2 months of treatment with tocainide.
In the present study, we investigated the cardiomyogenic potential of human umbilical cord blood (hUCB)-derived stem cells and whether stem cell treatment repairs the pathological hypertrophy induced by doxorubicin (DOX) in cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCM) and in mouse hearts. hUCB, which were labeled with cell tracker dye, were co-cultured with isolated NRCM in vitro. After 48h of incubation, the red stained hUCB cells (30%) contracted rhythmically and synchronously (physical examination). These differentiated hUCB also expressed cardiac specific alpha-actinin and showed diffused expression of connexin 43 and N-cadherin, thereby suggesting a tight electrical coupling among hUCB cells and myocytes. When co-cultured, hUCB also reversed the pathological effects induced by DOX in NRCM and in mice as seen by RT-PCR, immunoblot analysis and immunocytochemistry. hUCB migrated and integrated into the hearts of mice that were treated with DOX after intravenous injection and reversed the expression of pathological hypertrophic markers induced by DOX in mice. Further, we observed a shift from pathological hypertrophy towards physiological hypertrophy by hUCB in DOX-challenged mice. hUCB treatment in mice decreased DOX-induced increase of heart weight to body mass ratio and fibrosis. Taken together, these findings suggest the potential therapeutic use of hUCB in reversing heart failure conditions.
Noninvasive assessment of early cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin is still a problem of clinical concern. We studied whether echocardiography during afterload stress induced by angiotensin II (1,000-3,000 ng/min) allows earlier detection of left ventricular impairment than echo at rest. We compared 30 normals (N) to 30 patients with carcinoma, who had received doxorubicin at a cumulative dose of at least 360 mg/sqm. At rest echocardiograms of patients were either normal (P1; n = 24) or abnormal (P2; n = 6; fractional shortening less than 28%, distance of mitral E-point to septum greater than 7 mm). Best parameter for separation of P1 vs N was the slope K of the regression line of the relation between endsystolic diameter and systolic blood pressure (cuff-method). 38% of P1 and 100% of P2 had K-values below the range of N (less than 4.7 mm Hg/mm). Four of five patients with reduced ejection fraction assessed by scintigraphy (less than 55%) after continued therapy with doxorubicin have had, in previous echocardiographic studies, normal resting parameters but abnormal K-values. We conclude that afterload-stress increases the sensitivity of echocardiography in detecting cardiotoxicity due to doxorubicin.
To assess the role of TP53 status in predicting pathologic complete remission after primary chemotherapy in patients with ethmoidal intestinal-type adenocarcinoma (ITAC).
Thirty patients with ethmoidal ITAC enrolled onto a phase II study received chemotherapy with cisplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin (PFL) followed by surgery and radiation. On surgical specimens, absence of viable tumor cells was defined as pathologic complete remission (pCR). TP53 status/p53 function, analyzed on pretreatment biopsies, were retrospectively correlated with pathologic results and patient outcome.
Twelve patients achieved a pCR; 18 patients did not (overall response rate, 40%). In patients with wild-type (wt) TP53 or functional p53 protein, the pCRs were 83% and 80%, respectively; in patients with mutated TP53 or impaired p53 protein, pCRs were 11% and 0%, respectively (P < or = .0001). At a median 55-month follow-up, all pCR patients were disease-free; 44% of nonresponding patients experienced relapse (P = .0061).
The results indicate the existence of two genetic ITAC subgroups, defined by differences in TP53 mutational status or protein functionality, that strongly influence pathologic response to primary chemotherapy and, ultimately, prognosis. PFL seems to be highly effective in terms of pCR and disease-free survival in the presence of a wt or a still-efficient p53 protein, even when encoded by a mutated TP53 gene (eg, early-stop codon mutation), but ineffective in ITACs carrying a disabled p53 protein. Whether this model is extensible to other head and neck cancers needs appropriate investigation.
Propofol is well known for its association with pain on injection. The most frequently used method to reduce this pain is premixture with lidocaine. Recently, a modified lipid emulsion of propofol containing medium-chain triglycerides (MCT) with long-chain triglycerides (LCT), in contrast to the usual LCT formulation, has been advocated to alleviate pain. In a randomized, prospective, controlled, double-blind study on 222 surgical patients, we compared the effect of the two solutions on the incidence and intensity of injection pain. Patients were randomly allocated to receive either propofol MCT/LCT (group M; n = 109) or standard propofol LCT with the addition of 20 mg of lidocaine (2 mL of lidocaine 1%) to 200 mg of propofol (group L; n = 113). Pain scores were assessed using a verbal analog scale (VAS) ranging from 0-10. Group L was found to have significantly less pain on the injection of propofol (mean VAS, 2.5 +/- 2.9) (mean +/- sd) than group M (mean VAS, 3.8 +/- 3.2; P = 0.002). Regarding postoperative recall of pain on injection, patients in group L indicated significantly less pain (mean VAS, 2.2 +/- 2.4) than patients in group M (mean VAS, 3.0 +/- 2.7; P = 0.02). Premixing of 20 mg of lidocaine (2 mL of lidocaine 1%) to 200 mg of standard propofol LCT causes less pain on injection than propofol MCT/LCT and thus increases patient comfort.
AMP-dependent protein kinase (AMPK) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha facilitate fatty acid oxidation. We have shown that treatment of hepatoma cells with ethanol or feeding ethanol-containing diets to mice inhibited both PPARalpha and AMPK activity. Importantly, WY-14,643 reversed the development of fatty liver in alcohol-fed mice. Whether WY-14,643, a PPARalpha agonist, has any effects on AMPK is not known. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of WY-14,643 on AMPK activity.
The effect of WY-14,643 on AMPK phosphorylation and activity were examined in rat hepatoma cells (H4IIEC3). The effect of WY-14,643 on upstream kinases of AMPK, PKC-zeta/LKB1, intracellular AMP:ATP ratio, oxidative stress, and AMPK gene expression were studied.
Treatment of the H4IIEC3 cells with WY-14,643 for 24h led to 60% increase in the phosphorylation of AMPK. The effect of WY-14,643 on AMPK phosphorylation is PKC-zeta/LKB1 independent. WY-14,643 did not alter the levels of intracellular AMP:ATP ratio and it did not increase the levels of reactive oxygen species at 24-h of treatment. WY-14,643-induced AMPK alpha subunit expression by 2- to 2.5-fold, but there was no change in AMPKalpha subunit protein at 24h. The effect of WY-14,643 on AMPK phosphorylation did not altered by the presence of an NADPH oxidase inhibitor.
WY-14,643 induced AMPKalpha subunit phosphorylation and the activity of the enzyme. This was associated with induction of AMPKalpha1 and alpha2 mRNA, but the mechanism for this activation is uncertain.
Recent reports have demonstrated that mice lacking the transcription factor Cited2 die in utero showing various cardiac malformations. We present for the first time functionally relevant mutations of CITED2 in patients with congenital heart defects (CHDs). CITED2 encodes a CREBBP/EP300 interacting transcriptional modulator of HIF1A and TFAP2. To study the potential impact of sequence variations in CITED2 for CHDs in humans, we screened a cohort of 392 well-characterized patients and 192 control individuals using DHPLC, sequencing, and Amplifluor genotyping techniques. We identified 15 CITED2 nucleotide alterations. Seven of these alterations were found only in CHD patients and were not detected in controls, including three mutations leading to alterations of the amino acid sequence (p.Ser170_Gly178del, p.Gly178_Ser179ins9, and p.Ser198_Gly199del). All three of these amino acid changing mutations cluster in the serine-glycine-rich junction of the protein, to which no functionality had heretofore been assigned. Here we show that these mutations significantly reduce the capacity of CITED2 to transrepress HIF1A, and that the p.Ser170_Gly178del mutation significantly diminishes TFAP2C coactivation. This reveals a modifying role for the serine-glycine-rich region in CITED2 function. In summary, the observation of these mutations in patients with septal defects indicates that CITED2 has a causative impact in the development of CHD in humans.
Using a model of recreational cocaine consumption, we have determined in four rhesus monkeys the impact of self-administered cocaine on mesolimbic and sensorimotor striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission. The effects of cocaine repeated within a self-administration session and across multiple sessions over a 6 month period were determined by the use of fixed-ratio self-administration and microdialysis procedures. The exposure to cocaine was modest, with at most two 0.5 mg/kg infusions permitted in each weekly session. Within a cocaine self-administration session, acute tolerance to the ability of cocaine to elevate extracellular striatal dopamine was observed. Over a period of 6 months of repeated self-administration, there was a significant increase in the impact of a fixed dose on extracellular dopamine, indicating that neurochemical sensitization to the effects of self-administered cocaine occurs in primates. A pronounced dopaminergic response to noncontingent cocaine was also observed, with no increases in extracellular dopamine in response to an unexpected saline substitution, indicating that the neurochemical response to self-administered cocaine is primarily caused by direct pharmacological effects of the drug rather than by conditioning to external environmental cues. These results highlight the contrast in time-dependent changes in neurochemical responsiveness to cocaine, depending on whether within-session or between-session comparisons are made. They also demonstrate that recreational levels of cocaine consumption can result in neurochemical sensitization, an enduring change in brain function that may contribute to addiction.
Very few data are available from the literature on whether nonatopic subjects affected by persistent rhinitis may show the appearance of objective symptoms of rhinitis after the ingestion of food additives such as tartrazine (E102), erythrosine (E127), monosodium benzoate (E211), p-hydroxybenzoate (E218), sodium metabisulphite (E223), and monosodium glutamate (E620). It is still unclear whether the ingestion of food additive may cause, as well, a consensual reduction of nasal peak inspiratory flow (NPIFR). Therefore, we used a double-blind placebo-controlled (DBPC) study to evaluate this hypothesis.
Two hundred and twenty-six consecutive patients (76 males and 150 females) aged 12-60 years (mean age 40.2 +/- 16.3 years). After 1 month of an additive-free diet regimen, an open challenge was carried out (food additive-rich diet for 2 weeks). After this period, challenges were administered in a DBPC manner using the above-mentioned substances under investigation.
Twenty of 226 subjects (8.8%) reported an improvement of the symptoms of rhinitis after additive-free diet. More precisely, six of 226 (2.6%) were symptom-free and 14 of 226 (6.2%) showed an improvement in their symptoms after an additive-free diet. As far as the results for DBPC are concerned, 20 challenges with monosodium benzoate induced both objective (i.e. sneezing and rhinorrhoea) and subjective symptoms (nasal blockage and nasal itching) of rhinitis with reduction of NPIFR >/=20%, 45 challenges induced subjective symptoms of rhinitis (i.e. nasal blockage and nasal itching), without reduction of NPIFR >/=20% of the basal value, two with tartrazine, seven with erythrosine, 19 with monosodium benzoate, three with p-hydroxybenzoate, six with sodium metabisulphite, and eight with monosodium glutamate, respectively.
The observation that nonatopic persistent rhinitis may be caused by the frequent, probably daily, ingestion of small doses of a nontolerated substance is intriguing and suggests that at least some patients with 'chronic vasomotor rhinitis' may be intolerant to a particular food additive. Therefore, food additives can be considered triggers or aggravating factors, rather than aetiological factors.
In utero and lactational exposure of mice to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) leads to cardiac hypertrophy and hydronephrosis in adulthood. We tested the hypothesis that perinatal TCDD exposure increases the susceptibility to cardiovascular disease when offspring are exposed to a common cardiovascular disease risk factor, angiotensin II (Ang II). Pregnant C57BL/6N mice were exposed to corn oil (control) or 6.0 microg/kg TCDD on gestation day 14.5. Male offspring were then exposed to a subpressor (0.1 mg/kg/day) or pressor (0.7 mg/kg/day) dose of Ang II at 3.5 months and cardiac morphology and blood pressure analyzed, respectively. Perinatal TCDD exposure increased left ventricular cavity dilation during diastole, and wall thickness during diastole and systole. While Ang II stimulated an increase in wall thickness, the degree of increase was equivalent between control and TCDD offspring. In contrast, perinatal TCDD exposure did not alter basal blood pressure. However, Ang II increased systolic blood pressure more rapidly and to a greater degree in TCDD offspring. Further, Ang II stimulated renal myofibroblast differentiation and collagen deposition to a greater degree, and tended to increase procollagen I mRNA in TCDD offspring, compared to controls. These data suggest that perinatal TCDD exposure increases the susceptibility of offspring to renal fibrosis and hypertension in adulthood.
Apoptosis and a change in the expression of p53, c-jun and MT-I genes occurred in rats exposed to cadmium in a way known to cause carcinogenesis in testes and ventral prostate. In situ end labelling (ISEL), DNA electrophoresis, and RT-PCR methods were used in present study. Adult male Wistar rats were given a single (s.c.) injection of 0, 5, 10, or 20 micromol/kg CdCl2. Then 12, 48 or 96 h after administration of cadmium, animals were sacrificed. It was observed that cadmium markedly induced apoptosis in the testes at the dose of 5 micromol/kg while 10 and 20 micromol/kg cadmium caused more necrosis than apoptosis. Apoptosis in the ventral prostate was markedly induced by all the doses of cadmium and there was an obvious time- and dose-dependent relationship between apoptotic index (AI) and cadmium treatment. Far fewer apoptotic cells appeared in liver, compared to the testes and ventral prostate. p53 mRNA expression was clearly enhanced in the ventral prostate but clearly suppressed in the testes by cadmium exposure, and the time- and dose-effect was very clear. The expression level of p53 in the liver was not affected by cadmium treatment. Cadmium-induced overexpression of c-jun gene appeared at 12 h in the liver, but not until 96 h in the testes and ventral prostate. Although the MT-I gene was found to be expressed in all tissues, marked induction by cadmium of the expression of MT-I gene was only observed in the liver. These results indicate: (1) that apoptosis is an early mechanism of acute tissue damage by cadmium in the testes and ventral prostate; (2) that p53 and c-jun genes may be involved in cadmium-induced cytotoxicity (apoptosis) and related carcinogenicity in male reproductive tissues; and (3) that the enhanced expression of MT-I in the liver could protect this organ from cadmium-induced cytotoxicity (apoptosis) and carcinogenicity.
To characterize the excretion of 2-mercaptoethanesulfonate sodium (mesna) administered by intermittent infusion, urinary concentrations of mesna and its corresponding inactive disulfide were measured during 50 courses of ifosfamide (1.6 g/m2 for 5 days) and mesna (400 mg/m2 at 0.25, 4, and 6 h after each ifosfamide dose) administered i.v. to 19 patients. Some patients had previously received nephrotoxic therapy that might influence the excretion of mesna and its associated uroprotective effects. The median urinary free thiol concentration increased to 3 mM by 1 h after mesna infusion, declining to background levels by 4 h. The rate of mesna excretion correlated with the creatinine clearance rate in a subset of six patients. The proportion of mesna recovered in urine within 4 h after infusion was lower (P less than 0.05) in children who had evidence of preexisting renal tubular damage. Ifosfamide-induced tubular proteinuria was associated with lower urinary mesna recovery. Low urinary mesna concentrations indicated potentially subtherapeutic renal tubular levels. However, ifosfamide nephrotoxicity was subclinical and is not necessarily linked to differences in mesna excretion.
Several pharmacogenetic studies suggest that response to pharmacotherapy in bipolar disorder may be mediated by genetic factors. The aim of this study was to investigate further the association of the genetic variations of the serotonin transporter (5-HTT) gene with antidepressant-induced mania, already reported in recent studies. We also studied the possible association of these genetic variants with diagnosis expression and treatment response to lithium therapy.
The sample consisted of 103 and 85 outpatients with diagnosis of bipolar and unipolar disorder, respectively, and 101 controls. Two described polymorphisms of the 5-HTT, the variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) and serotonin transporter linked promoter (5-HTTLPR) polymorphisms, were genotyped using standard procedures.
The association analysis performed showed a significantly higher rate of homozygous s/s genotype for 5-HTTLPR among patients with a history of antidepressant-induced mania (60% patients s/s versus 40% l/l, chi, P=0.04). No significant difference in the distribution of genotypes of the two polymorphisms was observed between the three groups. We found no significant association between these polymorphisms and lithium response.
The 5-HTTLPR polymorphism could be a useful contributor, among other clinical variables, to predict the risk for manic switches when a patient with bipolar disorder is treated with antidepressant drugs. The contribution of these genetic markers in diagnosis expression and treatment response to lithium is likely to be minor.
We have found previously that microinjections of carbachol into the pontine reticular formation (PRF) of rats induce an intense cataleptic state which is similar behaviorally with the catalepsy induced by systemic administration of neuroleptic drugs. In the experiments described in the present article we studied the possibility that the pontine carbachol catalepsy is generated via the intermediary of the dopaminergic cataleptogenic mechanism in the striatum. To this purpose we produced kainic acid lesions in the striatum and in the output stations of the striatal cataleptogenic mechanism-substantia nigra reticulata and the VM thalamic nucleus. Catalepsy was tested after systemic haloperidol (2 mg/kg) and pontine microinjections of carbachol (5 micrograms/1 microliter) before and after the kainic lesions. The cataleptogenic effect of carbachol injected in the pons was not attenuated by any of the three types of lesions. On the contrary, the cataleptogenic effect of haloperidol was greatly attenuated by the same lesions. These results suggest that the pontine catalepsy produced by microinjections of carbachol in PRF is generated independently of the dopaminergic cataleptogenic mechanism in basal ganglia.
To define the roles of the calmodulin-stimulated adenylyl cyclases (AC1 and AC8) in morphine-induced analgesia, tolerance, physical dependence, and conditioned place preference, we used mice having targeted disruptions of either the AC1 or AC8 genes or both genes [double knockout mice (DKO)]. Mice lacking either AC1 or AC8 genes or DKO did not differ from wild-type mice in short-term antinociceptive responses to morphine measured in the tail-flick analgesia assay. Morphine tolerance that developed immediately within 3 h of morphine administration (10 mg/kg s.c.) was significantly attenuated in DKO mice and AC8 single knockout mice. Tolerance induced continually by daily injections of morphine (10 mg/kg s.c.) was also reduced in DKO mice. In DKO mice continually treated with morphine, there was a significant reduction in withdrawal behaviors, including reduced wet-dog shakes and forepaw tremor after naloxone injection (10 mg/kg i.p.). Morphine produced hyperlocomotion and conditioned place preference in wild-type mice, whereas DKO mice displayed significantly less hyperlocomotion and conditioned place preference. Furthermore, the significant increase in phosphorylated cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) staining in ventral tegmental area induced by long-term morphine treatment was not evident in DKO mice, suggesting that CREB activation by morphine requires cAMP generated by AC1 and AC8. These results support the hypothesis that calmodulin-stimulated adenylyl cyclases are important mediators of the neuronal responses to morphine.
