Many of the effects of angiotensin (Ang) II are mediated through specific plasma membrane receptors. However, Ang II also elicits biological effects from the interior of the cell (intracrine), some of which are not inhibited by Ang receptor blockers (ARBs). Recent in vitro studies have identified high glucose as a potent stimulus for the intracellular synthesis of Ang II, the production of which is mainly chymase dependent. In the present study, we determined whether hyperglycemia activates the cardiac intracellular renin-Ang system (RAS) in vivo and whether ARBs, ACE, or renin inhibitors block synthesis and effects of intracellular Ang II (iAng II).
Diabetes was induced in adult male rats by streptozotocin. Diabetic rats were treated with insulin, candesartan (ARB), benazepril (ACE inhibitor), or aliskiren (renin inhibitor).
One week of diabetes significantly increased iAng II levels in cardiac myocytes, which were not normalized by candesartan, suggesting that Ang II was synthesized intracellularly, not internalized through AT(1) receptor. Increased intracellular levels of Ang II, angiotensinogen, and renin were observed by confocal microscopy. iAng II synthesis was blocked by aliskiren but not by benazepril. Diabetes-induced superoxide production and cardiac fibrosis were partially inhibited by candesartan and benazepril, whereas aliskiren produced complete inhibition. Myocyte apoptosis was partially inhibited by all three agents.
Diabetes activates the cardiac intracellular RAS, which increases oxidative stress and cardiac fibrosis. Renin inhibition has a more pronounced effect than ARBs and ACE inhibitors on these diabetes complications and may be clinically more efficacious.
The recommended dose of PGE-1 as treatment for erectile dysfunction has ranged from 10-60 mcg in various studies. We conducted the present study to identify factors that influence dose tritration and maintenance. From 96 patients who presented to our institution with erectile impotence, 40 elected self injection with PGE-1. Erectile response to intracavernous injection was assessed in the course of office-based dose titration. Patients were stratified into different groups based on age and etiology of erectile dysfunction. The mean maintenance dose was calculated in each group. Patients were evaluated quarterly by physical palpation of the penis, complete blood count, serum electrolytes, and liver function tests in order to assess safety of therapy. The average maintenance dose varied with the etiology of erectile dysfunction and age of the patient. The central neurogenic group was the most responsive to PGE-1 therapy, requiring an average maintenance dosage of 5 mcg. Men with vascular etiologies required the largest maintenance dosage of 20 mcg. Furthermore, dosage requirement increased linearly with age. We conclude that dosing considerations vary widely in a clinical setting and their determination is greatly facilitated if primary and associated causes of erectile dysfunction and the age of the patient are considered.
Analysis of fuel emissions is crucial for understanding the pathogenesis of mortality because of air pollution. The objective of this study is to assess cardiovascular and inflammatory toxicity of diesel and biodiesel particles. Mice were exposed to fuels for 1 h. Heart rate (HR), heart rate variability, and blood pressure were obtained before exposure, as well as 30 and 60 min after exposure. After 24 h, bronchoalveolar lavage, blood, and bone marrow were collected to evaluate inflammation. B100 decreased the following emission parameters: mass, black carbon, metals, CO, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and volatile organic compounds compared with B50 and diesel; root mean square of successive differences in the heart beat interval increased with diesel (p < 0.05) compared with control; low frequency increased with diesel (p < 0.01) and B100 (p < 0.05) compared with control; HR increased with B100 (p < 0.05) compared with control; mean corpuscular volume increased with B100 compared with diesel (p < 0.01), B50, and control (p < 0.001); mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration decreased with B100 compared with B50 (p < 0.001) and control (p < 0.05); leucocytes increased with B50 compared with diesel (p < 0.05); platelets increased with B100 compared with diesel and control (p < 0.05); reticulocytes increased with B50 compared with diesel, control (p < 0.01), and B100 (p < 0.05); metamyelocytes increased with B50 and B100 compared with diesel (p < 0.05); neutrophils increased with diesel and B50 compared with control (p < 0.05); and macrophages increased with diesel (p < 0.01), B50, and B100 (p < 0.05) compared with control. Biodiesel was more toxic than diesel because it promoted cardiovascular alterations as well as pulmonary and systemic inflammation.
1alpha,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D(3) [1,25(OH)2D3] inhibits growth of cells derived from a variety of tumors in vitro and in vivo. Proliferation in vitro of human SCC25 cells, derived from a primary squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the tongue, was blocked by 1,25(OH)2D3 and its analog EB1089. A similar effect was observed with 13-cis retinoic acid (RA), which has been used in chemoprevention of SCC. We identified amphiregulin, a member of the epidermal growth factor family, as a 1,25(OH)2D3 target gene in SCC25 cells. Induction of amphiregulin mRNA by 1,25(OH)2D3 was rapid and sustained over 48 h, and was unaffected by cycloheximide. 1,25(OH)2D3 also induced amphiregulin mRNA in estrogen receptor-positive and -negative human breast cancer cell lines, but not in LNCaP human prostate cancer cells. RAR- or RXR-specific retinoids did not affect amphiregulin mRNA levels in SCC25 cells; however, 13-cis RA partially blocked the response to 1,25(OH)2D3. Amphiregulin partially inhibited growth of SCC25 cells in culture. Our data show that amphiregulin is a 1,25(OH)2D3 target gene, and suggest that its induction may contribute to the growth inhibitory effects of 1,25(OH)2D3.
The pituitary hormone thyrotropin stimulates the function, expression of differentiation and growth of thyrocytes by cyclic AMP-dependent mechanisms. Tissue hyperplasia and hyperthyroidism are therefore expected to result when activation of the adenylyl cyclase-cAMP cascade is unregulated. This is observed in several situations, including when somatic mutations impair the GTPase activity of the G protein Gsa (ref 6, 7). Such a mechanism is probably responsible for the development of a minority of monoclonal hyperfunctioning thyroid adenomas. Here we identify somatic mutations in the carboxy-terminal portion of the third cytoplasmic loop of the thyrotropin receptor in three out of eleven hyperfunctioning thyroid adenomas. These mutations are restricted to tumour tissue and involve two different residues (aspartic acid at position 619 to glycine in two cases, and alanine at position 623 to isoleucine in one case). The mutant receptors confer constitutive activation of adenylyl cyclase when tested by transfection in COS cells. This shows that G-protein-coupled receptors are susceptible to constitutive activation by spontaneous somatic mutations and may thus behave as proto-oncogenes.
To evaluate the risk of neurotoxicity induced by theophylline and its main metabolites, 1-methylxanthine (1-MX), 3-methylxanthine (3-MX), 1,3-dimethyluric acid (1,3-DMUA) and 1-methyluric acid (1-MUA), we compared their convulsive potency to central nervous system (CNS) after intracerebral administration to mice. All compounds studied induced clonic convulsion in a dose-dependent manner, and the ED50 values for convulsion were 490, 546, 1107, 360 and 620 nmol/kg for theophylline, 1-MX, 3-MX, 1,3-DMUA and 1-MUA, respectively. These compounds were also administered intravenously to mice by constant rate infusion until the onset of convulsion. Clonic convulsion was induced by i.v. infusion of theophylline, 1-MX and 3-MX, while convulsion was not observed during 1,3-DMUA or 1-MUA infusion for 60 min. This finding may be due to the poor blood-brain barrier permeability of both 1-MUA and 1,3-DMUA as compared with theophylline, 1-MX and 3-MX. However, it may be also necessary to consider the possibility of 1,3-DMUA-induced-neurotoxicity judging from its intrinsic convulsive potency.
Bile acids (BAs) play important roles not only in lipid metabolism, but also in signal transduction. TGR5, a transmembrane receptor of BAs, is an immunomodulative factor, but its detailed mechanism remains unclear. Here, we aimed to delineate how BAs operate in immunological responses via the TGR5 pathway in human mononuclear cell lineages. We examined TGR5 expression in human peripheral blood monocytes, several types of in vitro differentiated macrophages (Mϕs) and dendritic cells. Mϕs differentiated with macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interferon-γ (Mγ-Mϕs), which are similar to the human intestinal lamina propria CD14(+) Mϕs that contribute to Crohn's disease (CD) pathogenesis by production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, highly expressed TGR5 compared with any other type of differentiated Mϕ and dendritic cells. We also showed that a TGR5 agonist and two types of BAs, deoxycholic acid and lithocholic acid, could inhibit tumour necrosis factor-α production in Mγ-Mϕs stimulated by commensal bacterial antigen or lipopolysaccharide. This inhibitory effect was mediated by the TGR5-cAMP pathway to induce phosphorylation of c-Fos that regulated nuclear factor-κB p65 activation. Next, we analysed TGR5 levels in lamina propria mononuclear cells (LPMCs) obtained from the intestinal mucosa of patients with CD. Compared with non-inflammatory bowel disease, inflamed CD LPMCs contained more TGR5 transcripts. Among LPMCs, isolated CD14(+) intestinal Mϕs from patients with CD expressed TGR5. In isolated intestinal CD14(+) Mϕs, a TGR5 agonist could inhibit tumour necrosis factor-α production. These results indicate that TGR5 signalling may have the potential to modulate immune responses in inflammatory bowel disease.
Metronidazole, a chemotherapeutic agent against trichomonas infection, was tested for carcinogenicity in noninbred Sas:MRC(WI)BR rats. Three groups were given the drug for life at dose levels of 0.6%, 0.3%, and 0.06% in a powdered diet. The incidence of mammary tumors (P less than 0.020) and hepatomas (P less than 0.050) increased significantly among females given the highest dose (0.6%). Also, the rates of Leydig cell tumors of the testes (P less than 0.040) and pituitary adenomas (P less than 0.040) were statistically significant among males given the highest dose (0.6%). Results are discussed in light of a possible hazard of this drug to humans.
Autism is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder defined by social and communication deficits and ritualistic-repetitive behaviors that are detectable in early childhood. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of autism. In this study, we examined the SNP- and haplotypic-association of BDNF with autism in a trios-based association study (the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange). We also examined the expression of BDNF mRNA in the peripheral blood lymphocytes of drug-naïve autism patients and control subjects. In the TDT of autism trios, the SNP haplotype combinations showed significant associations in the autism group. BDNF expression in the drug-naïve autistic group was found to be significantly higher than in the control group. We suggest that BDNF has a possible role in the pathogenesis of autism through its neurotrophic effects on the serotonergic system.
The importance of inflammation in initiating the sequence of events that lead to liver fibrosis is increasingly recognized. In this study, we tested the effects of SC-236, a selective cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitor, in rats with carbon tetrachloride (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis. Livers from CCl4-treated rats showed increased COX-2 expression and 15-deoxy-prostaglandin (PG)J2 (15d-PGJ2) formation, as well as decreased peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)gamma expression. In these animals, SC-236 reduced liver fibrosis as revealed by histological analysis and by a reduction in hepatic hydroxyproline levels, metalloproteinase-2 activity, and alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. Interestingly, SC-236 normalized 15d-PGJ2 levels and restored PPARgamma expression in the liver of CCl4-treated rats. In isolated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs)--the major player in liver fibrogenesis--and Kupffer cells--the cell type primarily responsible for increased hepatic COX-2-SC-236 exhibited remarkable pro-apoptotic and growth inhibitory properties. Of interest, SC-236 decreased HSC viability to a similar extent than the PPARgamma ligand rosiglitazone. Moreover, SC-236 significantly induced PPARgamma expression in HSCs and acted as a potent PPARgamma agonist in a luciferase-reporter trans-activation assay. These data indicate that, by mechanisms involving non-parenchymal cell apoptosis and PPARgamma activation, the selective COX-2 inhibitor SC-236 might have therapeutic potential for prevention of liver fibrosis.
Pirarubicin, a new antineoplastic antibiotic of anthracycline derivative, was injected into the pleural cavity in 15 patients with malignant pleural effusion. The dose of pirarubicin was 40 mg or 80 mg/body. All 15 patients were evaluable for both efficacy and toxicity. Since one evaluable patient received two courses of intrapleural administration of pirarubicin, we evaluated a total of 16 courses. Overall response rate was 81.3% with 7 CR cases, 6 PR cases and 3 NR cases. As toxicities, transient elevation of fever was observed in 81.3%, chest pain in 37.5%, appetite loss in 18.8%, nausea in 12.5% and bone marrow suppression in 6.3% of 16 courses, but no alopecia was observed. Between 40 mg group (n = 8) and 80 mg group (n = 8), no significant difference was observed in response rate, response duration, survival duration or toxicities except for fever. Fever over 38 degrees C was observed in all (100%) the 80 mg group, which was significantly higher than 50% in the 40 mg group. Response duration in cases with fever over 38 degrees C (n = 12) was significantly longer than in cases with maximum fever under 38 degrees C (n = 4). Intrapleural administration of pirarubicin was considered to be effective for the treatment of malignant pleural effusion without severe toxicities.
A case is presented with the acute development of a pineal region syndrome secondary to hemorrhage into a pineal cyst in a patient who was under anticoagulant therapy. Resolution of the symptoms and signs followed excision of the lesion.
Methamphetamine use is a common problem among women of childbearing age, leading to an increasing number of children with prenatal methamphetamine exposure. Whether microstructural brain changes associated with prenatal methamphetamine exposure can be detected with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is unknown.
Twelve-direction DTI was performed in 29 methamphetamine-exposed and 37 unexposed children ages 3-4 years on a 3-T MRI scanner. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) were determined in the corpus callosum (genu and splenium) and bilaterally in the frontal and parietal white matter (WM), basal ganglia (caudate, putamen, globus pallidus), and thalamus.
Children with prenatal methamphetamine exposure had lower ADC in the frontal (right: -2.1%, p = 0.04; left: -2.0%, p = 0.09) and parietal WM (right: -3.9%, p = 0.002; left: -3.3%, p = 0.02) compared to unexposed children. The methamphetamine-exposed children also showed a trend for higher FA in the left frontal WM (+4.9%, p = 0.06) compared to the unexposed children.
Since less myelination and higher dendritic or spine density have been reported in animals exposed to methamphetamine, lower diffusion in our children may reflect more compact axons or greater dendritic or spine density associated with prenatal methamphetamine exposure. These findings suggest alterations in white matter maturation in these children exposed to methamphetamine in utero.
Lipid-lowering drugs, notably clofibrate, may induce a supersaturation of bile with cholesterol, thus favouring the development of cholelithiasis. In order to see whether or not fenofibrate, a clofibrate analogue, has any influence on biliary cholesterol saturation, we determined the lipid composition of gallbladder bile and the bile acid pool size in 15 patients with type IV hyperlipoproteinemia before and after 6-8 weeks of treatment with a daily dose of 300 mg of the drug. At the end of treatment plasma triglycerides were markedly decreased, whereas no detectable influence on liver cell integrity or bile excretory function could be demonstrated in any patient by comparing the pre- and post-treatment serum levels of liver enzymes, bilirubin and bile acids. The mean bile cholesterol saturation index did not significantly change and cholic acid was the only bile acid to increase significantly. In the 3 patients with an initial saturation index of less than 1, bile became supersaturated with cholesterol. However, in no case were the limits of the metastable phase for cholesterol solubility in bile exceeded. Though only long-term prospective studies may give a definitive answer about the lithogenic potential of fenofibrate, our data on gallbladder bile composition in patients with type IV hyperlipoproteinemia indicate that it is not very likely that fenofibrate administration will increase the risk of gallstone formation in severely hyperlipidemic patients.
To compare the efficacy of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition with calcium antagonism in diabetic patients with microalbuminuria.
Randomised study of diabetic patients with microalbuminuria treated with perindopril or nifedipine for 12 months and monitored for one or three months after stopping treatment depending on whether they were hypertensive or normotensive. Patients were randomised separately according to whether they were hypertensive or normotensive.
Diabetic clinics in three university teaching hospitals.
50 diabetic patients with persistent microalbuminuria. In all, 43 completed the study: 30 were normotensive and 13 hypertensive; 19 had type I diabetes and 24 had type II diabetes.
For 12 months 20 patients were given perindopril 2-8 mg daily and 23 were given nifedipine 20-80 mg daily.
Albumin excretion rate, blood pressure, and glomerular filtration rate.
Both perindopril and nifedipine significantly reduced mean blood pressure. During treatment there was no significant difference between those treated with perindopril and those treated with nifedipine with respect to albuminuria or mean blood pressure. Stopping treatment with both drugs was associated with a sustained increase in albuminuria and mean blood pressure. There was a significant correlation between mean blood pressure and albuminuria and also between the reduction in mean blood pressure and the decrease in albuminuria during treatment with both drugs. In hypertensive patients both drugs caused significant decreases in mean blood pressure and albuminuria. In normotensive patients there was no significant reduction in albuminuria with either regimen.
In diabetic patients with microalbuminuria blood pressure seems to be an important determinant of urinary albumin excretion. Perindopril and nifedipine have similar effects on urinary albumin excretion, both preventing increases in albuminuria in normotensive patients and decreasing albuminuria in hypertensive patients.
The etiology of postpartum eclampsia and hypertension remains controversial. Recent reports have suggested a possible idiosyncratic hypertensive reaction associated with the use of bromocriptine mesylate. The purpose of this study was to determine whether bromocriptine, used for lactation suppression, is a risk factor for postpartum hypertension. In 1813 consecutively delivered staff patients, blood pressures at three separate home visits were obtained between 3-21 days postpartum. Postpartum hypertension, defined for the purposes of this study as systolic pressure of 140 mmHg or greater and/or diastolic pressure of 90 mmHg or greater on any of the three home visits, was the dependent variable; bromocriptine exposure was the independent variable. Covariates included age, race, chronic hypertension, pregnancy-induced hypertension, and antihypertensive medication. Discriminant analysis, including the first-order interactions, revealed that race, history of chronic hypertension, pregnancy-induced hypertension, and antihypertensive medication contributed significantly to postpartum hypertension (F (7, 1803) = 107.9; P less than .001, explained variance 30%). Of all the interaction terms, only the bromocriptine by pregnancy-induced hypertension interaction was significant. These findings support the contention that patients with antepartum pregnancy-induced hypertension who receive bromocriptine for lactation suppression are at increased risk for postpartum hypertension. Avoiding the elective use of this drug in patients with pregnancy-induced hypertension might constitute a reasonable clinical response to these findings.
Three attacks of acute dystonia occurred in a 19-year-old male following the initiation and discontinuation of thiethylperazine administered rectally in therapeutic doses. The time course of onset of the attacks and the proposed mechanisms by which dystonia develops are discussed.
Aggressive behaviors (numbers of bites/hour) within groups (ns = 8) of normal rats and rats in which seizures had been induced by a single systemic injection of lithium/pilocarpine were observed for 11 successive, 1-hr, periods. Mean numbers of neurons and glial cells were counted for 10 different nuclei of the amygdala for 16 different brains (8 control; 8 seizure). Although there was no significant difference found between rats with chronically induced seizures and controls for the numbers of neurons per area within the central medial amygdaloid nucleus, the neuronal density was correlated significantly (.92) with mean numbers of bites per hour for the chronically epileptic group only. The hypothesis that seizure-induced damage within proximal amygdaloid nuclei disinhibits the central nucleus and encourages aggression was supported.
Low birth weight in humans is predictive of hypertension in adult life. Although the mechanisms underlying this link remain unknown, fetal overexposure to glucocorticoids has been implicated. We previously showed that prenatal dexamethasone (DEX) exposure in the rat lowers birth weight and programmes adult hypertension. The current study aimed to further investigate the nature of this hypertension and to elucidate its origins. Unlike previous studies, we assessed offspring blood pressure (BP) with radiotelemetry, which is unaffected by stress artefacts of measurement. We show that prenatal DEX during the last week of pregnancy results in offspring of low birth weight (14% reduction) that have lower basal BP in adulthood ( approximately 4-8 mmHg lower); with the commonly expected hypertensive phenotype only being noted when these offspring are subjected to even mild disturbance or a more severe stressor (up to 30 mmHg higher than controls). Moreover, DEX-treated offspring sustain their stress-induced hypertension for longer. Promotion of systemic catecholamine release (amphetamine) induced a significantly greater rise of BP in the DEX animals (77% increase) over that observed in the vehicle controls. Additionally, we demonstrate that the isolated mesenteric vasculature of DEX-treated offspring display greater sensitivity to noradrenaline and other vasoconstrictors. We therefore conclude that altered sympathetic responses mediate the stress-induced hypertension associated with prenatal DEX programming.
Lithium is known to produce T wave changes in the ECG, whereas effect upon the conducting system of the heart has not been described. In our patient lithium produced sinoauricular block and possibly tachycardia. The correlation between lithium treatment and tachyarrhythmias is discussed. When during lithium treatment block is found, the treatment should preferably be stopped, but if this is not possible it is important to realize that digitalis should not be used as a prophylactic drug against tachycardia, as it worsens the block and therefore increases the frequency of arrhythmia, even leading to Adams-Stokes attacks.
The visual (retinoid) cycle is a fundamental metabolic process in vertebrate retina responsible for production of 11-cis-retinal, the chromophore of rhodopsin and cone pigments. 11-cis-Retinal is bound to opsins, forming visual pigments, and when the resulting visual chromophore 11-cis-retinylidene is photoisomerized to all-trans-retinylidene, all-trans-retinal is released from these receptors. Toxic byproducts of the visual cycle formed from all-trans-retinal often are associated with lipofuscin deposits in the retinal pigmented epithelium (RPE), but it is not clear whether aberrant reactions of the visual cycle participate in RPE atrophy, leading to a rapid onset of retinopathy. Here we report that mice lacking both the ATP-binding cassette transporter 4 (Abca4) and enzyme retinol dehydrogenase 8 (Rdh8), proteins critical for all-trans-retinal clearance from photoreceptors, developed severe RPE/photoreceptor dystrophy at an early age. This phenotype includes lipofuscin, drusen, and basal laminar deposits, Bruch's membrane thickening, and choroidal neovascularization. Importantly, the severity of visual dysfunction and retinopathy was exacerbated by light but attenuated by treatment with retinylamine, a visual cycle inhibitor that slows the flow of all-trans-retinal through the visual cycle. These findings provide direct evidence that aberrant production of toxic condensation byproducts of the visual cycle in mice can lead to rapid, progressive retinal degeneration.
Prostaglandins (PG), the products of arachidonate metabolism through cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway, protect the pancreas from the acute damage. The existence of two isoforms of COX was documented including: COX-1, present in normal tissues and COX-2, expressed at the site of inflammation, such as induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Pretreatment with low dose of LPS and activation of nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS) has been shown to prevent the injury caused by caerulein-induced pancreatitis (CIP) in the rat. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of COX-1 and COX-2 in the LPS-induced protection of the pancreas against CIP and the involvement of NOS in the activation of COX-PG system in the rats with CIP. CIP was produced by subcutaneous (s.c.) infusion of caerulein (5 microg/kg-h for 5 h) to the conscious rats. Protective dose of LPS, from Escherichia coli, (1 mg/kg) was given intraperitoneally (i.p.) 15 min prior to the start of CIP. Nonselective inhibitor of COX; indomethacin (5 or 10 mg/kg), selective inhibitor of COX-1: resveratrol, or a highly selective inhibitors of COX-2: rofecoxib or NS-398 (2 or 10 mg/kg) were injected i.p. 15 min prior to the administration of LPS. COX-1 or COX-2 mRNA was determined by reverse transcription-polimerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in the pancreatic tissue. Pancreatic blood flow (PBF) was measured by a laser Doppler flowmetry. PGE2 content in the pancreas was measured by radioimmunoassay. CIP was manifested by an increase of pancreatic weight and plasma amylase activity (by 500% and 700%, respectively) and it was confirmed by histological examination. CIP slightly increased pancreatic PGE2 generation (by 12%) and diminished PBF (by about 40%). LPS (1 mg/kg i.p.), given prior to the start of CIP, increased PGE2 generation in the pancreas (by 45%), reversed the histological manifestations of pancreatitis, reduced the rise in amylase blood level and improved PBF. Administration of nonselective inhibitor of COX; indomethacin (5 or 10 mg/kg i.p.) prior to the injection of LPS abolished its protective effects on CIP and reduced pancreatic PGE2 generation. Selective inhibitor of COX-1; resveratrol (10 mg/kg i.p.) given prior to the injection of LPS reversed its protective effects against CIP. Pretreatment with a selective inhibitors of COX-2: rofecoxib or NS-398 (10 mg/kg) attenuated LPS-induced pancreatic protection in the CIP rats. COX-1 expression was detected in the intact pancreas and was not significantly changed by CIP, LPS, indomethacin, NS-389 and their combination, while COX-2 mRNA expression appeared in the pancreas of ratssubjected to CIP and was significantly increased after LPS injection to these rats. Addition of selective COX-2 inhibitor; NS-389, or nonselective inhibitor of COX; indomethacin, enhanced COX-2 mRNA expression in the rats with CIP pretreated with LPS. Pretreatment of the rats with inhibitor of NOS; L-NNA (20 mg/kg i.p.), given together with LPS, 15 min prior to the start of caerulein overstimulation, resulted in complete reversion of LPS-induced pancreatic protection and decreased PGE2 generation stimulated by LPS. Addition to L-NNA of the substrate for NOS; L-arginine (100 mg/kg i.p.), restored pancreatic protection afforded by low dose of LPS and increased pancreatic PGE2 level in the rats with CIP. We conclude that: 1. increased pancreatic PGE2 generation, induced by low dose LPS pretreatment, contributes to the pancreatic resistance to acute damage produced by caerulein overstimulation and 2. the NO-system is involved in above stimulation of PGE2 generation and pancreatic protection against acute damage.
To compare estrogen concentrations in endometrial cancer tissue with those in macroscopically normal endometrium and with certain morphological characteristics of the tumor and endocrine parameters in patients.
The estradiol content was evaluated by radioimmunoassay after homogenization and extraction in 78 adenocarcinomas (61 from postmenopausal patients).
Higher concentrations of estradiol in tumor tissue samples than in macroscopically normal endometrium were found in patients of both reproductive and postmenopausal age. This difference was the same in patients with either endometrial carcinoma type I or type II. No association between tumor steroid receptor levels, estradiol concentrations in blood serum, and timing of menopause with intratumoral estradiol contents was discovered. Estradiol concentrations in tumor tissues correlated positively with the clinical stage of disease and rate of tumor invasion (in patients with peripheric/lower type of fat topography), and negatively with tumor differentiation stage (in patients with central/upper type of fat topography) and the percentage of intact double-stranded DNA in normal endometrium.
Tumor estrogen content in endometrial cancer has clinical significance that is modified in the presence of certain endocrine characteristics related to insulin resistance. The role of local estrogen production (aromatase activity) in this setting deserves special study.
Chronic injury to intrahepatic bile duct epithelial cells (BDECs) elicits expression of various mediators, including the αVβ6 integrin, promoting liver fibrosis. We tested the hypothesis that tissue factor (TF)-dependent thrombin generation and protease activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) activation contribute to liver fibrosis induced by cholestasis via induction of αVβ6 expression. To test this hypothesis, mice deficient in either TF or PAR-1 were fed a diet containing 0.025% α-naphthylisothiocyanate (ANIT), a BDEC-selective toxicant. In genetically modified mice with a 50% reduction in liver TF activity fed an ANIT diet, coagulation cascade activation and liver fibrosis were reduced. Similarly, liver fibrosis was significantly reduced in PAR-1(-/-) mice fed an ANIT diet. Hepatic integrin β6 mRNA induction, expression of αVβ6 protein by intrahepatic BDECs, and SMAD2 phosphorylation were reduced by TF deficiency and PAR-1 deficiency in mice fed the ANIT diet. Treatment with either an anti-αVβ6 blocking antibody or soluble transforming growth factor-β receptor type II reduced liver fibrosis in mice fed the ANIT diet. PAR-1 activation enhanced transforming growth factor-β1-induced integrin β6 mRNA expression in both transformed human BDECs and primary rat BDECs. Interestingly, TF and PAR-1 mRNA levels were increased in livers from patients with cholestatic liver disease. These results indicate that a TF-PAR-1 pathway contributes to liver fibrosis induced by chronic cholestasis by increasing expression of the αVβ6 integrin, an important regulator of transforming growth factor-β1 activation.
Treatment with clozapine can affect the heart, leading to serious complications such as myocarditis and cardiomyopathy. When in their early stages both illnesses are difficult to diagnose; this can have serious consequences. Recent analyses of clozapine data suggest that particularly myocarditis is possibly more common than has been assumed hitherto.
To determine the frequency of these complications and to find out what diagnostic tests are available and whether it is necessary or possible to adjust current guidelines on these complications.
The relevant literature was consulted via PubMed, Embase Psychiatry and Psycinfo on the basis of the keywords 'clozapine' and 'myocarditis', 'cardiomyopathy' and 'heart failure'.
Studies showed that the incidence of myocarditis varied from 0.015 to 1.3%. Cardiomyopathy was the subject of fewer studies, one study reported an incidence of 0.022%. More than 50% of the cases of myocarditis developed during the first few weeks of treatment, the average time being about 15 days. For an early diagnosis it is important to monitor the patient's symptoms carefully, especially during the first four weeks following the start of medication. Monitoring should include laboratory tests and electrocardiography. Echocardiography and MRI can be useful additions to the diagnostic process.
Early diagnosis of myocarditis is important because it is a serious condition. Timely recognition of subclinical myocarditis could possibly prevent later complications such as cardiomyopathy. Clinical guidelines are proposed on the basis of the literature.
Intoxications with carbachol, a muscarinic cholinergic receptor agonist are rare. We report an interesting case investigating a (near) fatal poisoning.
The son of an 84-year-old male discovered a newspaper report stating clinical success with plant extracts in Alzheimer's disease. The mode of action was said to be comparable to that of the synthetic compound 'carbamylcholin'; that is, carbachol. He bought 25 g of carbachol as pure substance in a pharmacy, and the father was administered 400 to 500 mg. Carbachol concentrations in serum and urine on day 1 and 2 of hospital admission were analysed by HPLC-mass spectrometry.
Minutes after oral administration, the patient developed nausea, sweating and hypotension, and finally collapsed. Bradycardia, cholinergic symptoms and asystole occurred. Initial cardiopulmonary resuscitation and immediate treatment with adrenaline (epinephrine), atropine and furosemide was successful. On hospital admission, blood pressure of the intubated, bradyarrhythmic patient was 100/65 mmHg. Further signs were hyperhidrosis, hypersalivation, bronchorrhoea, and severe miosis; the electrocardiographic finding was atrio-ventricular dissociation. High doses of atropine (up to 50 mg per 24 hours), adrenaline and dopamine were necessary. The patient was extubated 1 week later. However, increased dyspnoea and bronchospasm necessitated reintubation. Respiratory insufficiency was further worsened by Proteus mirabilis infection and severe bronchoconstriction. One week later, the patient was again extubated and 3 days later was transferred to a peripheral ward. On the next day he died, probably as a result of heart failure. Serum samples from the first and second days contained 3.6 and 1.9 mg/l carbachol, respectively. The corresponding urine concentrations amounted to 374 and 554 mg/l.
This case started with a media report in a popular newspaper, initiated by published, peer-reviewed research on herbals, and involved human failure in a case history, medical examination and clinical treatment. For the first time, an analytical method for the determination of carbachol in plasma and urine has been developed. The analysed carbachol concentration exceeded the supposed serum level resulting from a therapeutic dose by a factor of 130 to 260. Especially in old patients, intensivists should consider intoxications (with cholinergics) as a cause of acute cardiovascular failure.
The level of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (Lrrk2) mRNA expression was measured by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in anterior striatum from normal and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) that had L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia. The level of striatal Lrrk2 mRNA was increased in MPTP-treated common marmosets that had L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia compared with normal animals that did not receive l-DOPA. Marmosets that exhibited higher levels of dyskinesia had the greatest increase in striatal Lrrk2 mRNA. Lrrk2 mRNA expression was also measured in human striatum and substantia nigra from control subjects and patients dying with Parkinson's disease. In contrast to marmoset tissue, no alteration in Lrrk2 mRNA expression was found in parkinsonian human brain. However, the brain was from patients who had an overall low level of dyskinesia. The correlation between striatal Lrrk2 mRNA levels in MPTP-treated common marmoset striatum and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia indicates that LRRK2 may have a role in the molecular alterations that cause L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
The majority of colorectal cancer (CRC) exhibiting the micosatellite instability (MSI) phenotype is due to hypermethylation of the hMLH1 gene promoter. We aimed to test the hypothesis that polymorphisms in genes coding for enzymes involved in folate metabolism play a role in altered promoter-specific hypermethylation and thus predispose to MSI CRC. Analysis of MSI was performed in 1685 CRCs, and polymorphism genotypes were determined in germline DNA for all cases and 2692 cancer-free controls. MSI was observed in 171 cancers (10.1%). Compared to homozygous wild-type individuals, those with MTHFR 677TT genotype were more likely to have MSI than microsatellite stable (MSS) CRC [odds ratio (OR) 1.90; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.09-3.31]. When MTHFR C677T genotype frequencies in MSS CRC cases were compared to controls, individuals with homozygous variant genotype were at 19% reduced risk of cancer compared to wild type (OR = 0.81; 95% CI: 0.65-1.02). Conversely, when MSI CRC cases were compared to controls, individuals with one or two MTHFR 677T alleles were at 42% increased cancer risk (OR = 1.42; 95% CI: 1.02-1.96). Our observations indicate that MTHFR 677TT homozygous individuals are more likely to develop MSI CRC than those with wild-type genotype, and this common polymorphism has differential influences on MSI and MSS CRC risk. Stratification by MSI status should aid future studies investigating the complex relationships between genotype, environmental factors and CRC risk.
A case of a 12 year old girl with Hodgkin's disease is described. In the course of her illness congestive cardiomyopathy developed. The authors discuss many possible etiologies of congestive cardiomyopathy in this case with special referral to the cardiotoxicity of antineoplastic drugs.
