The dysmorphogenic activity of the triazole fungicide triadimefon (FON) has been evaluated using Xenopus laevis development. Embryos, exposed to 500 μM FON during early neurulation phases (stages 13-17, Nieuwkoop and Faber), were allowed to develop until stage 47. Larvae revealed serious craniofacial defects, bent forebrain, and abnormal hindbrain segmentation. CRABP and CYP26 (markers related to retinoic acid homeostasis) gene and protein expression and protein distribution have been evaluated at stage 17 and at the end of the branchial arch morphogenesis (stage 27) by real-time PCR, western blot and whole-mount immunostaining. A significant increase of CYP26 transcript has been observed at both embryonic stages. A co-localization of the two markers has been observed at the cephalic region. Embryos exposed to FON showed abnormal distribution of positive tissues. Due to the strict similarity of these results with those previously described in rodents, a FON-related alteration of mechanism conserved during vertebrate evolution is suggested.
2-hydroxy-saclofen (2-OH-S), a sulphonic analogue of baclofen, slightly increased the twitch height and reversibly antagonised the GABA- and baclofen-induced depression of twitch contractions in the guinea pig vas deferens and isolated ileum, causing a parallel dextral shift in the baclofen dose-response curve in a competitive manner (pA2 = 5.0) in the latter tissue. 2-OH-S (10-50 microM) reversibly elevated the spike height and antagonised the baclofen (8-20 microM)-induced suppression of ictal discharges in rat cortical slices superfused in Mg2+-free Krebs solution, the spike height declining to control level within 15 min of washout. The antagonism by 2-OH-S on GABAB receptor-mediated actions is selective, as 2-OH-S did not affect depressive responses to adenosine or morphine, or contractile responses to GABA (GABAA receptor-mediated), acetylcholine and carbachol in the ileum. Compared to phaclofen, 2-OH-S is a more potent competitive antagonist of GABAB receptor-mediated actions in the central and peripheral nervous system.
This paper aimed to explore three-dimensionally cultured hepatocytes for testing drug-induced nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Gel entrapped rat hepatocytes were applied for investigation of the tetracycline-induced steatohepatitis, while hepatocyte monolayer was set as a control. The toxic responses of hepatocytes were systematically evaluated by measuring cell viability, liver-specific function, lipid accumulation, oxidative stress, adenosine triphosphate content and mitochondrial membrane potential. The results suggested that gel entrapped hepatocytes showed cell death after 96 h of tetracycline treatment at 25 muM which is equivalent to toxic serum concentration in rats, while hepatocyte monolayer showed cell death at a high dose of 200 muM. The concentration-dependent accumulation of lipid as well as mitochondrial damage were regarded as two early events for tetracycline hepatotoxicity in gel entrapment culture due to their detectability ahead of subsequent increase of oxidative stress and a final cell death. Furthermore, the potent protection of fenofibrate and fructose-1,6-diphosphate were evidenced in only gel entrapment culture with higher expressions on the genes related to beta-oxidation than hepatocyte monolayer, suggesting the mediation of lipid metabolism and mitochondrial damage in tetracycline toxicity. Overall, gel entrapped hepatocytes in three-dimension reflected more of the tetracycline toxicity in vivo than hepatocyte monolayer and thus was suggested as a more relevant system for evaluating steatogenic drugs.
We investigated the effect of flumazenil on intravenous (IV) lidocaine-induced convulsions with and without diazepam pretreatment in rats. Wistar rats (200-250 g) were divided into four groups of seven each and were pretreated with IV diazepam or normal saline solution at 6 min and flumazenil or normal saline solution at 3 min before lidocaine infusion. The control group received normal saline solution; the diazepam group received 0.2 mg/kg of diazepam and normal saline solution; the diazepam+flumazenil group received 0.2 mg/kg of diazepam and 0.1 mg/kg of flumazenil; and the flumazenil group received normal saline solution and 0.1 mg/kg of flumazenil. After surgical preparation and recovery from anesthesia, all groups received a continuous IV infusion of lidocaine (15 mg/mL) at a rate of 4 mg.kg-1.min-1 until tonic/clonic convulsions occurred. The values of pH and blood gases were maintained within physiologic ranges. Heart rate was significantly decreased after 5 min of lidocaine infusion, but arterial blood pressure did not change until convulsions occurred in all groups. Pretreatment with diazepam alone increased both cumulative convulsant doses and plasma concentrations of lidocaine at the onset of convulsions. Flumazenil reversed these effects of diazepam. Pretreatment with flumazenil alone changed neither cumulative convulsant doses nor plasma concentrations of lidocaine at the onset of convulsions. Our data show that IV flumazenil reverses the anticonvulsant property of IV diazepam against lidocaine-induced convulsions and that flumazenil itself has no effect on lidocaine-induced convulsions in rats.
The authors report the long-term course of two siblings with L-dopa responsive dystonia (DRD) associated with a compound heterozygous mutation in the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene. Both siblings manifested with lower-limb onset generalized DRD and had a sustained response to low-dose L-dopa therapy for over 35 years. Although the l-dopa therapy was delayed up to 20 years after disease onset, there were no cognitive or neurologic sequelae of the long-term catecholamine deficit.
Gadolinium-enhanced multi-phase dynamic imaging has improved the accuracy of the diagnosis of hypervascular hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but using gadolinium-enhanced dynamic imaging alone is problematic in evaluating hypovascular HCC. This work aimed at evaluating the combined use of superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO)-enhanced and gadolinium set in distinguishing HCCs from regenerative nodules (RNs) in a rat model induced by diethylnitrosamine (DEN).
DEN-induced HCC model rats (n=40) and control rats (n=10) were studied. From weeks 16 to 19 after DEN administration, 4 animals were scanned every week. The hepatic changes were tested with a 1.5 Tesla magnet, and MR images of SPIO-enhanced and gadolinium set were obtained. According to the pathologic changes, the tumorigenesis was divided into HCC and RN (diameter of nodules > or =3 mm). Diagnostic accuracy of the combined SPIO-enhanced and gadolinium set and the gadolinium set alone was evaluated using receiver-operating characteristic curves. Sensitivity and specificity of the combined SPIO-enhanced and gadolinium set and the gadolinium set alone were calculated.
The listed tests were completed in 29 rats (21 treated and 8 controls). One hundred and six nodules (82 HCCs, 24 RNs) were analyzed. The Az value and sensitivity with the combined SPIO-enhanced and gadolinium set (Az 0.94, sensitivity 0.96) were higher than those with the gadolinium set alone (Az 0.92, sensitivity 0.89). Using the combined SPIO-enhanced and gadolinium set led to detection of 6 nodules which were negative in the gadolinium set alone and 3 nodules were correctly characterized.
Using the combined SPIO-enhanced and gadolinium set improved the detectability of HCCs and the SPIO-enhanced imaging compensated for the gadolinium set in differentiating HCCs from RNs in a rat model.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia niara. Levodopa remains the most effective drug in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, with disease progression, levodopa reduces Parkinsonism at the cost of evoking abnormal involuntary movements known as levodopa-induced dyskinesia (LID). In this study, we found that levodopa/benserazide-loaded biodegradable microspheres reduce the expression of LID, which was easily evoked by administrating of the same dose of levodapa and benserazide in rats with Parkinson's disease. Moreover, levodopa/benserazide-loaded biodegradable microspheres can improve the stepping of the lesioned forepaw in rats with Parkinson's disease. These data showed that levodopa/benserazide-loaded biodegradable microspheres might be useful in the treatment of Parkinson's disease and reducing the expression of LID in rats.
We describe three patients who developed refractory hypotension after the administration of bretylium tosylate for postoperative ventricular ectopy. In one patient, the administration of vasopressors and fluid restored the blood pressure, but in the other two patients these measures failed, necessitating open-heart cardiac massage. The hemodynamic effects of bretylium are unpredictable; therefore, this drug should be used cautiously in the treatment of postcardiotomy ventricular arrhythmias.
Papillary and solid transitional cell cancers were induced in the bladders of Fischer rats by ingestion of the carcinogen N-[4-(5-nitro-furyl)-2-thiazolyl] formamide. At sequential regular intervals, purified splenic, peripheral blood, regional lymph node, and thymus lymphocytes were harvested from tumor-bearing and age-matched control animals and tested for cytotoxicity against a variety of cell lines. Lymphocytes were also tested in mixed lymphocyte cultures for blastogenesis. Tumor development was accompanied by decreased lymphocyte cytotoxicity against bladder tumor targets at each interval tested. This decrease was in addition to the age-related decrease in cytotoxicity expressed by lymphocytes from control animals. No corresponding differences were seen in lymphocyte subpopulations as determined by immunofluorescence or in lymphocyte blastogenesis. Suppressor cell activity in tumor-bearing animals could not be demonstrated, and no cause-effect relationship between cytotoxicity depression and tumor development in these experiments was apparent.
Chemoresistance and therapeutic selectivity are major obstacles to successful chemotherapy of ovarian cancer. Manganese superoxide disumutase (MnSOD) is an important antioxidant enzyme responsible for the elimination of superoxide radicals. We reported here that MnSOD was significantly elevated in ovarian cancer cells and its overexpression was one of the mechanisms that increased resistance to apoptosis in cancer cells. Knockdown of MnSOD by small-interfering RNA (siRNA) led to an increase in superoxide generation and sensitisation of ovarian cancer cells to the two front-line anti-cancer agents doxorubicin and paclitaxel whose action involved free-radical generation. This synergistic effect was not observed in non-transformed ovarian surface epithelial cells. Furthermore, our results revealed that this combination at the cellular level augmented activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9, but not caspase-8, suggesting involvement of an intrinsic apoptotic pathway. Evaluation of signalling pathways showed that MnSOD siRNA enhanced doxorubicin- and paclitaxel-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2. Akt activation was not affected. These results identify a novel chemoresistance mechanism in ovarian cancer, and show that combination of drugs capable of suppressing MnSOD with conventional chemotherapeutic agents may provide a novel strategy with a superior therapeutic index and advantage for the treatment of refractory ovarian cancer.
Three adult brown pelicans (Pelicanus occidentalis) were observed to be weak, anorexic and unresponsive to antibiotics, anti-inflammatory drugs, vitamins including vitamin E, and steroids. Blood chemistry revealed high activities of aspartate aminotransferase, creatinine kinase and lactate dehydrogenase. Radiographs of the birds' leg muscles revealed multiple opacities suggestive of calcification; the gross lesions included white streaks in the leg, wing, and heart muscles, and the microscopical lesions consisted of various degrees of degeneration and necrosis characterised by eosinophilia, variations in fibre size, loss of striations, myolysis, mineralisation, and proliferation of mononuclear cells in the skeletal muscles and the myocardium. The levels of heavy metals, selenium and vitamin E in the birds' livers were not abnormal. The level of peroxide in their diet of capelin fish was high, 69 meq/kg, (normal <20 meq/kg) consistent with rancid feed, and the level of vitamin E was very low, 0.5 iu/kg (normal 20 to 30 iu/kg). It was concluded that the myopathy was probably caused by vitamin E deficiency due to feeding the pelicans a rancid diet.
Chronic exposure to benzene results in rats in the decrease of the lymphocyte count in the peripheral blood, the decrease of the beta-glucuronidase (BG) activity both in lymphocytes and neutrophilic granulocytes as well as in the damage to lysosomal apparatus of lymphocytes expressed in diffusion of the enzyme within the cell cytoplasm. Administration of selenium (sodium selenate) in dosis of 1.0 microgram/Kg during consecutive 10 days prior the exposure to benzene resulted in prevention of benzene-induced decrease of the BG activity in granulocytes and of a damage to lymphocyte lysosomes. Application of selenium in dosis of 5.0 microgram/Kg during the same time prior the exposure to benzene prevented the benzene-induced lymphocytopenia, induced the reactive increase of the granulocyte number, and caused, moreover, the prevention of the BG activity decrease in granulocytes. Simultaneously the increase of the BG-positive lymphocyte percentage was noted which was related to the increase of cells exhibiting the cytoplasmatic and extralysosomal localization of the enzyme. The results suggest that only smaller doses of sodium selenate prevented the damage to lysosomal membrane of lymphocytes induced by toxic effect of benzene.
Lead (Pb) is known to have toxic effects on the brain; however, data regarding its specific toxic effects on the olfactory bulb are lacking. Therefore, we investigated the relationship between acute Pb exposure and alterations in gene expression associated with the nitric oxide signaling pathway in the olfactory bulb of mice. After administration of Pb (intraperitoneal injections of 1 or 10 mg/kg Pb(CH(3)CO(2))(2) · 3H(2)O once per day for 4 days), body weight, motor activity, and gene expression in the olfactory bulb of mice were examined. High doses of Pb resulted in significant decreases in body weight, but motor coordination was not significantly altered until 11 days after the end of Pb treatment. The expression patterns of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase 1 (Ddah1), superoxide dismutase 1 (Sod1), and superoxide dismutase (Ccs) were increased, whereas expression of the Stratifin (Sfn) gene was significantly decreased following treatment with 10 mg/kg Pb. The expression patterns of nitric oxide synthases at the mRNA and protein levels, however, were not significantly altered by treatment with 10 mg/kg Pb. These findings indicate that Pb-induced neurotoxicity may be modulated in part by the expression of Ddah1, Sod1, Ccs, and Sfn in the olfactory bulb.
Midazolam, a benzodiazepine used extensively as a sedative and a hypnotic for patients undergoing inpatient and outpatient medical procedures, has been associated with several side effects, the most serious of which are cardiac and respiratory arrest. We studied the use of midazolam and its association with cardiac and respiratory arrest among hospital patients at our institution. From 1988 through 1990 we identified 5439 patients exposed to midazolam, representing 8% of all patients admitted; 3031 (55.7%) received midazolam while not on mechanical ventilation. In the majority of patients the drug was given as a one-time dose, and the total dose was less than or equal to 5 mg in more than 70%. Three patients (0.099%) experienced respiratory arrest. All three events occurred within 2 hours after the last dose of midazolam had been given. All patients were elderly and all survived. The rate of respiratory arrest appears low at our institution and was associated with high doses of midazolam, concurrent use of opiates, and use in elderly patients.
Carbamazepine is gaining recognition as a valuable drug in the treatment of patients with bipolar disorders who fail to respond to lithium. Clinical experience in the treatment of 90 bipolar patients is described: 48% responded to lithium alone or in combination with other standard drug treatments. A subgroup of 34 lithium nonresponders were treated with carbamazepine; of these, 17 (50%) responded to carbamazepine and 5 responded to carbamazepine plus lithium, for a total response rate of 65%. Issues of side effects, blood levels, and compliance are discussed. These observations support the efficacy and safety of carbamazepine and suggest the need for well-controlled double-blind studies.
We describe two patients in whom rapid administration of vancomycin caused severe hypotension. Possible mechanisms for this effect are discussed, with reference to the role of the anaesthetist as administrator of drugs prescribed by others. Recommendations are made on safe administration of vancomycin with respect to rate of infusion and possible interactions.
Studies have demonstrated an important role for endogenous PG and NO in the healing of chronic gastric ulcers. We investigated the effects of COX and NOS inhibitors on the healing of duodenal ulcers, in comparison with gastric ulcers, in rats.
Gastric and duodenal ulcers were induced by serosal application of acetic acid (0.1 ml of 100% acetic acid) for 60 and 20 s, respectively. Indomethacin (a nonselective COX inhibitor) or rofecoxib (a selective COX-2 inhibitor) was given p.o. once daily for 14 days from 3 days after ulcer induction, while N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME: a nonselective NOS inhibitor) or aminoguanidine (a relatively selective iNOS inhibitor) was given s.c. twice daily during this period.
Both gastric and duodenal ulcers induced by acetic acid healed spontaneously within 17 days to a minimal size. Daily administration of indomethacin or rofecoxib significantly delayed the healing of gastric but not duodenal ulcers. In contrast, the healing of both gastric and duodenal ulcers was delayed by repeated administration of either L-NAME or aminoguanidine. Ulceration markedly increased the PGE(2) content of the ulcerated mucosa in both the stomach and duodenum, and the increased PG biosynthetic response was inhibited by either indomethacin or rofecoxib in both tissues. The expression of both COX-2 and iNOS mRNAs was upregulated in the ulcerated mucosa of the stomach and duodenum.
These results suggest that COX-2/PG is actively involved in the healing of gastric but not duodenal ulcers, although the mRNA for COX-2 is expressed in the duodenal mucosa after ulceration, as potently as in the gastric mucosa. In contrast, NO produced by both cNOS and iNOS plays a role in the healing of both gastric and duodenal ulcers.
The authors report a case of systemic lupus erythematosus with posterior leukoencephalopathy who presented with headache, tonic-clonic seizure, loss of consciousness and bilateral loss of vision, after taking azathioprine for three weeks. The patient had hypertension with normal eye grounds. The brain CT showed a hypodensity lesion at both bilateral occipital lobes, mainly in the white matter The symptoms and follow-up MRI were improved after the control of hypertension and discontinuation of azathioprine.
Case report.
To describe two clinical examples of denervation hypersensitivity, an enhanced response to catecholamines demonstrated experimentally in tetraplegic patients.
USA.
A 63-year-old man with chronic paralysis at C4 ASIA Impairment Scale (AIS) A with partial preservation to T6, and a history of coronary artery and pulmonary disease, developed bradycardia leading to cardiac arrest. He was treated with intravenous atropine 0.4 mg and adrenaline 1 mg. He regained consciousness and blood pressure within 30 s, but developed supraventricular tachycardia leading to ventricular fibrillation and death within minutes. The dose of adrenaline was routine for a cardiac arrest.A 60-year-old man with chronic paralysis at C6, AIS A, presented with fever to 106 degrees F and a renal stone. Thirty minutes after treatment with intravenous fluids, antibiotics, and 1 g aspirin orally, he became afebrile, then suddenly lost consciousness and palpable pulse. He recovered with equal rapidity after an intravenous injection of 0.1 mg adrenaline. The dose of adrenaline was a tenth the usual dose for cardiac arrest.
Because of denervation hypersensitivity, effective treatment of a cardiac arrest in tetraplegic patients may require a reduced dose of adrenaline.
Four patients are described in whom anicteric hepatitis appeared to be related to the use of nitrofurantoin. All the patients had increased serum transaminase levels, hypergammaglobulinaemia, and liver biopsies suggestive of chronic active hepatitis. Three patients showed cirrhotic features in the biopsy and two had circulating albumin-IgG-complexes ('tailing-albumin'). The serum transaminases became normal within weeks after withdrawal of the drug whereas the hypergammaglobulinaemia and the liver biopsy findings persisted essentially unchanged during two to six months of observation. One patient was re-challenged with nitrofurantoin, which resulted in recurrence of elevated serum transaminases after nine weeks medication.
