Two strains of inbred mice differed significantly in their susceptibility to tonic seizures induced by caffeine and the benzodiazepine inverse agonist, methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate (DMCM). The hyporesponsive strain, SWR, was not less susceptible to the convulsant action of other chemical convulsants, an observation which indicated that the response differences between the strains were pharmacologically specific. These observations and drug interaction studies suggested that caffeine-induced seizures might be mediated through an "inverse" agonist-like action of caffeine on benzodiazepine receptors associated with GABA receptor-benzodiazepine receptor-chloride ionophore complex. To determine whether the coincident alteration in susceptibility to DMCM and caffeine resulted from a single mutational change or was the result of two different genetic changes occurring coincidentally between these two strains of mice, progeny from conventional Mendelian crosses (F1, F2 and reciprocal backcrosses) were analyzed for the co-segregation of susceptibility to DMCM and caffeine. The inheritance of DMCM sensitivity was consistent with a single autosomal gene determinant in which the allele specifying increased responsiveness was dominant to the allele determining hyporesponsiveness. The frequent occurrence of recombinant phenotypes (e.g., caffeine hyporesponsive but DMCM sensitive mice) among F2 and backcross progeny established that different genetic determinants encode DMCM susceptibility and caffeine susceptibility in these two strains of mice. Thus, while these data establish a simply inherited difference in benzodiazepine responsiveness between the two mouse strains, they also indicate that this pair of strains is inappropriate for a genetic analysis aimed at probing the relationship between caffeine-induced seizures and the benzodiazepine receptor.
We have described a patient with severe rheumatoid arthritis and a history of mefenamic acid nephropathy in whom hyperkalemia and inappropriate hypoaldosteronism were caused by both indomethacin and naproxen, without major decline in renal function. It is likely that preexisting renal disease predisposed this patient to type IV renal tubular acidosis with prostaglandin synthetase inhibitors. Because he was unable to discontinue nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy, fludrocortisone was added, correcting the hyperkalemia and allowing indomethacin therapy to be continued safely.
The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) knockout mice raised in the laboratory of Fujii-Kuriyama have been under investigation for several years because of the presence in their urinary bladder of large, yellowish stones. The stones are composed of uric acid and become apparent in the bladders as tiny stones when mice are 10 wk of age. By the time the mice are 6 mo of age, there are usually two or three stones with diameters of 3-4 mm. The urate concentration in the serum was normal but in the urine the concentration was 40-50 mg/dL, which is 10 times higher than that in the WT littermates. There were no apparent histological pathologies in the kidney or joints and the levels of enzymes involved in elimination of purines were normal. The source of the uric acid was therefore judged to be from degradation of nucleic acids due to a high turnover of cells in the bladder itself. The bladder was fibrotic and the luminal side of the bladder epithelium was filled with eosinophilic granules. There was loss of E-cadherin between some epithelial cells, with an enlarged submucosal area filled with immune cells and sometimes invading epithelial cells. We hypothesize that in the absence of AhR there is loss of detoxifying enzymes, which leads to accumulation of unconjugated cytotoxins and carcinogens in the bladder. The presence of bladder toxins may have led to the increased apoptosis and inflammation as well as invasion of epithelial cells in the bladders of older mice.
In preliminary trials, lamivudine, an oral nucleoside analogue, has shown promise for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. We conducted a one-year, double-blind trial of lamivudine in 358 Chinese patients with chronic hepatitis B. The patients were randomly assigned to receive 25 mg of lamivudine (142 patients), 100 mg of lamivudine (143), or placebo (73) orally once daily. The patients underwent liver biopsies before entering the study and after completing the assigned treatment regimen. The primary end point was a reduction of at least two points in the Knodell necroinflammatory score.
Hepatic necroinflammatory activity improved by two points or more in 56 percent of the patients receiving 100 mg of lamivudine, 49 percent of those receiving 25 mg of lamivudine, and 25 percent of those receiving placebo (P<0.001 and P=0.001, respectively, for the comparisons of lamivudine treatment with placebo). Necroinflammatory activity worsened in 7 percent of the patients receiving 100 mg of lamivudine, 8 percent of those receiving 25 mg, and 26 percent of those receiving placebo. The 100-mg dose of lamivudine was associated with a reduced progression of fibrosis (P=0.01 for the comparison with placebo) and with the highest rate of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) seroconversion (loss of HBeAg, development of antibody to HBeAg, and undetectable HBV DNA) (16 percent), the greatest suppression of HBV DNA (98 percent reduction at week 52 as compared with the base-line value), and the highest rate of sustained normalization of alanine aminotransferase levels (72 percent). Ninety-six percent of the patients completed the study. The incidence of adverse events was similar in all groups, and there were few serious events.
In a one-year study, lamivudine was associated with substantial histologic improvement in many patients with chronic hepatitis B. A daily dose of 100 mg was more effective than a daily dose of 25 mg.
Four patients had pancreatitis associated with valproic acid therapy. Three patients received valproic acid at usual doses, and all were free of other symptoms of toxic reactions, with serum levels of valproic acid in the usual therapeutic range. Two patients underwent exploratory laparotomy prior to diagnosis. Complications included pseudocyst, pericardial effusion, laparotomy wound infection, and coagulopathy. All patients recovered with discontinuation of valproic acid therapy and enteral feeding and administration of intravenous fluids. After recovery, a valproic acid regimen was restarted uneventfully (in one patient). All were asymptomatic with normal serum amylase levels after five to 14 months. Pancreatitis is a serious complication of valproic acid therapy that must be considered in any patient receiving valproic acid who experiences severe abdominal pain and vomiting.
A patient who had received digoxin for 6 months experienced glare and ocular pain induced by eye movement. The symptoms lasted for 2 days and disappeared within hours after the treatment was discontinued. Four months later, digoxin was readministered. After 2 days, the symptoms reappeared but disappeared again within hours of stopping treatment. The origin of the pain is uncertain, although mechanisms related to optic nerve or ocular muscle involvement should be considered. Digoxin toxicity should be included in the differential diagnosis of pain evoked by ocular movements.
A case of episodic delirium with incapacitating myoclonus associated with therapeutic doses of phenelzine is described. No evidence of epilepsy was found. The delirium and the myoclonus remitted rapidly after phenelzine was stopped and treatment with a benzodiazepine was started. No previous reports of the association of phenelzine with myoclonus and delirium have been found. The possible neurophysiology of the association is explored. Treatment with phenelzine should be reviewed if myoclonus occurs.
Levetiracetam (LEV) is increasingly used as adjunctive anticonvulsant therapy because of apparent low toxicity. Somnolence, asthenia, headache, dizziness, and nervousness are the most frequently reported side effects (1). We describe a patient, predisposed to the development of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH), in whom hyponatremia developed after two challenges of LEV.
The investigation describes mortality of vinyl chloride exposed workers in the Montedison-Enichem plant located in Porto Marghera, near Venice, Italy. A total of 1658 workers employed from start of production (1950), present in 1956 or successively hired until 1985, were followed up between 01.01.1973 and 31.07.1999, for a total of 41.037 person years at risk: 248 deaths were observed. Mortality from all causes compared with regional population was lower than expected, (SMR 0.75; 90% CI 0.68-0.83) and from all malignant neoplasms similar to expected (SMR 0.94; 90% CI 0.81-1.09). SMR for primary liver cancer was significantly increased (SMR 2.78 90% CI 1.86-4.14). In the first year since leaving employment observed mortality was significantly above the null value for all causes (SMR 2.76; 90% CI 1.94-3.91), all malignant neoplasms (SMR 1.89; 90% CI 0.97-3.92) and cardiovascular diseases (SMR 2.37; 90% CI 1.13-4.95). Mortality rates for liver angiosarcoma (6 cases) increased with latency (trend test x 2 (1df) = 25.20 p < 0.001) and cumulative exposure (trend test x 2 (1df) = 61.00 p < 0.001), there were no cases with duration of employment less than 12 years, latency less than 10 years and for cumulative exposure less than 2.379 ppm-years. Mortality rates for hepatocellular carcinoma (12 cases) and liver cirrhosis (20 cases) showed a similar pattern for cumulative exposure. Observed mortality from lung cancer was higher than expected among those workers whose only job title was bagger. In the analysis accounting for latency, age and calendar period the RR for only bagger was 2.31 (90% CI 1.15-4.61). Mortality pattern for all causes, all malignancies and cardiovascular disease increased by time since employment, as expected in presence of a particularly strong Healthy Worker Effect (HWE). These results and the increased SMR values during the first year since leaving employment indicate that workers were selected into employment on the basis of good health conditions and early selective removal of weaker ones followed. The study results confirm the causal relationship between VCM exposure and liver angiosarcoma, and add supplementary evidence in favour of a causal explanation of the excess risk for hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis as well as lung cancer among only baggers.
Signal-regulated palmitoylation of RGS7BP(regulator of G-protein-signaling 7-binding protein) initiates the activation of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), including muscarinic receptors, which contribute to the development of asthma and its subphenotypes.
To determine the association of RGS7BP gene polymorphisms with the development of aspirin-exacerbated respiratory disease (AERD).
We evaluated the association of RGS7BP gene polymorphisms with response to oral aspirin challenge and with responsiveness to methacholine challenge. RGS7BP messenger RNA splice variants in peripheral blood platelets from patients with different single-nucleotide polymorphisms were analyzed by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction.
Logistic regression analysis of RGS7BP gene polymorphisms in patients with AERD (n = 102) and aspirin-tolerant asthma (n = 429) revealed that a haplotype of block 3 consisting of rare alleles +98092 C>G, +98853 C>T, and +104450 T>G of the RGS7BP gene was associated with AERD. Multiple linear regression analysis showed that asthmatic patients carrying ht2/ht2 in block 3 were more responsive to aspirin challenge than those not carrying ht2 (P = .008 in a codominant model). The log-transformed provocation concentration that caused a decrease in forced expiratory volume in 1 second of 20% for methacholine was significantly dependent on the BL3-ht2 haplotype. No significant differences in platelet expression of different RGS7BP messenger RNA splice variants were detected between those with and without the BL3-ht2 haplotype.
BL3-ht2 of RGS7BP may be an important genetic variant associated with AERD. The haplotype of block 3 may play a protective role against aspirin hypersensitivity in asthma, perhaps by altering the responsiveness of muscarinic receptors.
The termination of early pregnancy (less than 56 days amenorrhoea) has been investigated using 16,16-dimethyl-trans-delta 2-PGE, methyl ester in a controlled release preparation. The onset of crampy abdominal pain was seen after 270 +/- 39 minutes and bleeding occurred after 603 +/- 95 minutes. Two (15%) patients required no pain relief during treatment, however 5 (38%) requested oral analgesia, and in 6 (46%) individuals the pain was severe enough to warrant parenteral opiates. The overall success rate for complete abortion was 85%. No serious adverse effects were seen, but vomiting occurred in 2 (15%) women, and diarrhoea in 3 (23%). Although the use of this prostaglandin analogue in slow release form provides an effective treatment method for early abortion using a reduced total dose of prostaglandin, the acceptability of the drug as an agent for menstrual induction continues to be limited by the occurrence of troublesome gastro-intestinal side effects.
The occurrence and significance of transient dilation of the left ventricle during dipyridamole stress-redistribution thallium-201 scintigraphy was studied in 73 patients who underwent both dipyridamole thallium-201 study and coronary angiography. Transient dilation ratio was calculated from planar anterior images by dividing the computer-derived left ventricular area on the initial image by that of the 4-hour image. In 11 patients with normal coronary arteriograms or less than 50% coronary stenosis, the transient dilation ratio was 0.98 +/- 0.046. An abnormal transient dilation ratio was defined as greater than or equal to 1.12, representing greater than or equal to 3 standard deviations above the mean normal value. When the 15 patients with an abnormal ratio were compared with the 58 with a normal ratio, the former group had a significantly higher frequency of 3 critical (greater than or equal to 90%) coronary stenoses (33 vs 5%), higher prevalence of collaterals (67 vs 24%), more extensive myocardial reversible defects by planar (71 vs 10%) or by single-photon emission computed tomography (87.5 vs 35%) imaging and a higher incidence of dipyridamole-induced anginal chest pain (53 vs 22%). No significant difference between the 2 groups was noted with respect to age, gender, prior myocardial infarction, single or double critical coronary stenosis, dipyridamole-induced ischemic electrocardiographic response and increased lung uptake. An abnormal transient dilation ratio of greater than or equal to 1.12 was a specific marker of multivessel (87%) or 3-vessel (85%) critical coronary artery disease.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Opioid dependence is correlated with the adaptive changes at the cellular level following chronic opioid use, and believed to be the main cause for the relapse of drug taking behavior of addicts. Despite decades of intensive studies, the underlying mechanisms of morphine dependence are still unclear. Here, we present evidence that JWA was induced by chronic morphine treatment in specific brain regions, and knockdown of JWA expression significantly reduced the withdrawal response to chronic morphine treatment in rats. We further demonstrated that the morphine induced DOR expression, while activation of DARPP-32 and MAP kinase was suppressed by JWA knockdown. Through an in vitro cell model of chronic morphine exposure, we also found that JWA is required for maintaining the stability of DOR via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. These observations suggest that JWA is directly involved in the regulation of chronic morphine dependence.
The antiarrhythmic effect of metoprolol after chronic treatment has been evaluated by 24 hour Holter monitoring in 16 patients with several premature ventricular beats and in 14 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation and compared with the effect of a placebo. Metoprolol induced a mean decrease of heart rate of 14.5% in the 16 patients and reduced the mean value/min of the ventricular premature beats of the 51.2%. In addition the use of metoprolol abolished the ventricular premature beats in 9 cases, while in two cases there was an increase of their frequency. In the 14 patients with chronic atrial fibrillation metoprolol was able to reverse to sinus rhythm three of the patients and in the remaining 11 decreased the ventricular heart rate of the 33%.
In a phase II trial of ifosfamide 2 g/m2 days 1 to 4 with mesna uroprotection in 124 patients who had previously failed treatment for sarcomas, 3% achieved a complete response (CR), and 18% had a CR or partial response (PR). In the subset of patients with soft-tissue sarcomas, the response rate for the 64 patients who received bolus administration was 26% compared with 9% for the 60 patients who received a continuous infusion (Cl) schedule (P = .03). When mesna was unavailable, the incidence of hematuria was significant in patients, with three of four patients affected. Microscopic hematuria was uncommon in patients receiving mesna. Hematuria in the group as a whole was not associated with prior treatment with cyclophosphamide, pelvic radiotherapy, age, or a bolus versus Cl schedule. Thus, this and other studies confirm that ifosfamide is active in failed sarcomas. In sequential phase I/II trials, 111 patients who were previously untreated for metastatic or inoperable sarcomas received doxorubicin, ifosfamide, dacarbazine at doses of 60, 7,500, and 900 mg/m2, respectively, by Cl over 72 hours; myelosuppression was dose-limiting. Eleven patients (10%) achieved CRs, with an overall response rate of 47%. Most responses (approximately 70%) were observed within two cycles, and median times to progression were 10 and 9 months for CR and PR, respectively. Following CR, two patients remained disease-free at 32 and 16 months. Of 15 additional patients rendered disease-free with surgery following at least a minor response to chemotherapy, two remained disease-free at 30 and 18 months with no further therapy. Central nervous system (CNS) metastases developed in 11 patients, all of whom had high-grade sarcomas; seven of these patients were still responding systemically (three CRs). This regimen is undergoing evaluation in a randomized trial versus doxorubicin and dacarbazine alone in untreated advanced sarcoma and is being compared with observation in the adjuvant treatment of high-grade sarcomas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The authors made conspicuous in the rat the appearance of "diabetes insipidus" induced by two lithium salts: chloride and carbonate administered orally, with increasing doses in food. The polyuria, polydipsia and urinary hypotony are reversible and disappeared with stopping the treatment. The animals became insensible to the exogenous antidiuretic hormon during the treatment and progressively became sensible again during the following twenty days so suggesting a nephrogenic mechanism by lithium: either a loss of ADH activity, either the abolition of intrarenal osmotic pressure gradient.
Exposure to particulate matter≤2.5 μm in diameter (PM2.5) increases blood pressure (BP) in humans and animal models. Abnormal activation of the sympathetic nervous system may have a role in the acute BP response to PM2.5 exposure. The mechanisms responsible for sympathetic nervous system activation and its role in chronic sustenance of hypertension in response to PM2.5 exposure are currently unknown.
We investigated whether central nervous system inflammation may be implicated in chronic PM2.5 exposure-induced increases in BP and sympathetic nervous system activation.
C57BL/6J mice were exposed to concentrated ambient PM2.5 (CAPs) for 6 months, and we analyzed BP using radioactive telemetric transmitters. We assessed sympathetic tone by measuring low-frequency BP variability (LF-BPV) and urinary norepinephrine excretion. We also tested the effects of acute pharmacologic inhibitors of the sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic nervous system.
Long-term CAPs exposure significantly increased basal BP, paralleled by increases in LF-BPV and urinary norepinephrine excretion. The increased basal BP was attenuated by the centrally acting α2a agonist guanfacine, suggesting a role of increased sympathetic tone in CAPs exposure-induced hypertension. The increase in sympathetic tone was accompanied by an inflammatory response in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, evidenced by increased expression of pro-inflammatory genes and inhibitor kappaB kinase (IKK)/nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) pathway activation.
Long-term CAPs exposure increases BP through sympathetic nervous system activation, which may involve hypothalamic inflammation.
Sulindac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) effective in regressing adenomas in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). However, a recent randomized trial showed that sulindac, when compared with placebo, failed to prevent the development of adenomatous polyps in genotypically positive but phenotypically negative FAP patients. The present study determined whether polymorphisms in the gene encoding flavin monooxygenase 3 (FMO3), a hepatic microsomal enzyme that inactivates sulindac, played a role in determining the efficacy of sulindac in preventing polyposis in this cohort of FAP patients.
Genotyping was performed on seven established FMO3 polymorphisms previously shown to have functional relevance-M66I, P153L, E158K, V257M, E305X, E308G, and R492W-in 21 and 20 FAP patients, who received sulindac and placebo, respectively.
None of the 41 patients exhibited heterozygous or homozygous M66I and R492W variant alleles, or homozygous P153L, V257M, and E305X variant alleles. Among sulindac-treated patients who did not develop adenomas ("responders"), 4 (33%) were homozygous for E158K and 2 (17%) were homozygous for E308G variant alleles. In contrast, none of the patients on sulindac who developed adenomas ("nonresponders") exhibited homozygosity for either of the two variant alleles. In addition, polymorphisms in the E158K or E308G allele were associated with a significant reduction in mucosal prostanoid levels in patients treated with sulindac.
Polymorphisms in FMO3, particularly at the E158K and E308G loci, may reduce activity in catabolizing sulindac and result in an increased efficacy to prevent polyposis in FAP.
Lithocholic acid (LCA) feeding causes both liver parenchymal and cholestatic damages in experimental animals. Although pregnenolone-16 alpha-carbonitrile (PCN)-mediated protection against LCA-induced hepatocyte injury may be explained by induction of drug metabolizing enzymes, the protection from the delayed cholestasis remains incompletely understood. Thus, the PCN-mediated protective mechanism has been studied from the point of modification of lipid metabolism. At an early stage of LCA feeding, an imbalance of biliary bile acid and phospholipid excretion was observed. Co-treatment with PCN reversed the increase in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) as well as alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activities and hepatic hydrophobic bile acid levels. LCA feeding decreased hepatic mRNA levels of several fatty acid- and phospholipid-related genes before elevation of serum ALT and ALP activities. On the other hand, PCN co-treatment reversed the decrease in the mRNA levels and hepatic levels of phospholipids, triglycerides and free fatty acids. PCN co-treatment also reversed the decrease in biliary phospholipid output in LCA-fed mice. Treatment with PCN alone increased hepatic phospholipid, triglyceride and free fatty acid concentrations. Hepatic fatty acid and phosphatidylcholine synthetic activities increased in mice treated with PCN alone or PCN and LCA, compared to control mice, whereas these activities decreased in LCA-fed mice. These results suggest the possibility that PCN-mediated stimulation of lipogenesis contributes to the protection from lithocholic acid-induced hepatotoxicity.
A case of a busulfan-induced hemorrhage cystitis is reported. Spontaneous resolution occurred following cessation of the drug. The similarity between the histologic appearances of busulfan cystitis and both radiation and cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis is discussed and the world literature reviewed. In view of the known tendency of busulfan to induce cellular atypia and carcinoma in other sites, periodic urinary cytology is suggested in patients on long-term therapy.
Patients, in particular recipients of orthotopic liver transplants, receiving the immunosuppressant tacrolimus (FK-506), are at risk for developing central neurotoxic adverse events. We report the occurrence of a tacrolimus-induced peripheral neurotoxic event, i.e. pure motor axonal polyneuropathy of the lower limbs in a 44-year-old woman, 9 days after combined orthotopic liver and pancreas transplantation. She was treated for 5 days with intravenous immunoglobulins. Partial recovery followed over months to years. An overview of all 11 reported FK506-associated polyneuropathies is given.
Various metabolites of arachidonic acid are now known to influence cell division. In this paper the effects on cell proliferation of arachidonic acid, some inhibitors of arachidonic acid metabolism and some analogs of arachidonic acid metabolites is described. The epithelial cell proliferation rate in the jejunum, in the descending colon and in dimethylhydrazine-induced tumors of rat colon was measured using a stathmokinetic technique. Administration of arachidonic acid resulted in retardation of cell proliferation in each of the tissues examined. A cyclooxygenase inhibitor (Flurbiprofen) prevented this effect of arachidonic acid in the jejunal crypts and in colonic tumors, but not in colonic crypts. In contrast, inhibitors of both cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase (Benoxaprofen and BW755c) prevented the effect of arachidonic acid in the colonic crypts and reduced its effect on colonic tumours but did not alter its effect on the jejunum. An inhibitor of thromoboxane A2 synthetase (U51,605) was also able to prevent the inhibitory effect of arachidonic acid on colonic tumors. Treatment with 16,16-dimethyl PGE2 inhibited cell proliferation in jejunal crypts and in colonic tumors, as did a thromboxane A2 mimicking agent, U46619. Nafazatrom, an agent that stimulates prostacyclin synthesis and inhibits lypoxygenase, promoted cell proliferation in the jejunal crypts and colonic crypts, but inhibited cell proliferation in colonic tumours.
A case of nephrotic syndrome occurring in an elderly woman who was being treated with quinidine is described. The nephrotic syndrome resolved completely after discontinuation of quinidine treatment. It is felt that the use of quinidine was causally related to the development of nephrotic syndrome in this patient. As far as could be determined, no such case has been described previously in the medical literature in English.
Antiepileptic drug-induced dyskinesias are well described with phenytoin but have only occasionally been reported with carbamazepine. We present two patients with carbamazepine-induced dyskinesia, one with ocular skew deviation and down-beating nystagmus associated with a high therapeutic level, and another with systemic dyskinesia with a toxic carbamazepine level, and compare these with previously reported cases.
A rare complication of oral contraceptive therapy is the induction of chorea. We here describe five cases of chorea in patients receiving low- or high-dose estrogen-containing contraceptives. All patients were nulliparous, young (average age 19 years), and became symptomatic shortly (average of 5 weeks) after initiation of contraceptive therapy. Two patients previously suffered an episode of Syndenham chorea; one experienced chorea in the course of Henoch-Schönlein purpura; and two had a history of congenital cyanotic heart disease without chorea. Dyskinesia resolved in all patients upon discontinuing the medication. Patients with preexisting striatal abnormalities appear more susceptible to oral contraceptive-induced chorea which is reversible on drug discontinuation. The mechanism of oral contraceptive-induced chorea is unknown, but clinical and experimental data suggest that it involves altered central dopaminergic activity.
It is known that chorea is a rarely-occurring complication of oral contrceptive therapy. 5 case histories of chorea in patients receiving either low- or high-dose estrogen-containing contraceptives are reviewed. All the patients were young and nulliparous. They developed the symptoms within an average of 5 weeks after therapy initiation. Dyskinesia ceased upon cessation of the oral contraceptive therapy. A summary of 17 previously-reported cases of oral contraceptive-associated chorea is also presented in tabular form. These cases plus the 5 reviewed in this paper suggest that chorea arises in women with abnormalities of the basal ganglia of various etiologies and will probably not occur in normal individuals. Studies with animals have indicated that female sex hormones may enhance central dopaminergic sensitivity, bringing on chorea in oral contraceptive patients. In the 3 of 5 patients here described who had previously experienced an episode of chorea, the contraceptive-induced disorders, i.e., asymmetries, orofacial involvement, and personality changes, were similar to the original movement disorders. The other 2 cases studied here had not experienced a chorea episode but did have a history of neonatal cyanosis.
