Activity of metalloproteinases 2 and 9 (MMP-2 and 9) during promotion and progression of rat liver carcinogenesis was investigated in a modified resistant hepatocyte model. Development of preneoplastic liver lesions positive for glutathione S-transferase 7-7-(GST-P 7-7-positive PNL) and tumors besides hepatocytes positive for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were quantified and compared to MMP-2 and-9 activity using gelatin zymography. Marked increases in GST-P 7-7-positive PNL development, PCNA labeling indices, MMP-2 (pro, intermediate and active forms) and pro-MMP-9 activity were observed after proliferative stimulus induced by 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) exposure cycles. After 2-AAF withdrawal, increase in MMP-2 activity was detected only in neoplastic mixed lesions, whereas active MMP-9 was increased in both PLN and neoplastic tissues. Our findings suggest that MMP-2 may be associated with proliferative events induced by 2-AAF rather than with selective growth of PNL and that MMP-9 could be associated with progression of PNL and neoplastic mixed lesions.
In this case of painful legs and moving toes the essential characteristics were to be secondary to a neuropathy due to vincristine and metronidazole. The disorders regressed in six weeks after the arrest of chemotherapy. To our knowledge, this is the first case due to a toxic, and more precisely to a drug.
Regulation of androgen receptor (AR) and oestrogen receptor α (ERα) expression has direct bearing on the physiology of male reproductive organs. With the help of three independent tools of immunohistochemistry, western blotting and RT-PCR, AR and ER α receptor expression was examined in the testis, epididymis, prostate, seminal vesicle and pituitary of adult rats following testosterone enanthate (TE, 3 mg/100 μl of olive oil/rat per week) intervention for 15 and 30 days. TE administration reduced AR immunoexpression which coincided well with the decline in the receptor protein and transcript levels. In contrast, ERα was found overexpressed in all the organs. While weights of testis and epididymis decreased significantly, those of prostate, seminal vesicle and pituitary demonstrated an upward trend. Spermatogenesis was adversely affected with decline in number of germ cells per tubule and increased prevalence of germ cell apoptosis. Increase in serum and decrease in intra-testicular levels of testosterone were found significant (P < 0.001) in both 15 and 30 days treatment groups. Serum follicle stimulating hormone declined significantly (P < 0.001) at the end of 30 days treatment. Taken together, the above findings indicate that the testosterone intervention differentially modulates, AR ERα expression, which is associated with hypospermatogenesis and increased germ cell apoptosis.
A phase I trial of intrathecal (IT) mafosfamide was performed to determine the optimal dose, dose-limiting toxicities, and incidence and severity of other toxicities when administered in association with concomitant multiagent systemic chemotherapy to children younger than 3 years with newly diagnosed embryonal tumors.
Twenty-five assessable patients received IT mafosfamide at one of six dose levels ranging from 5 mg to 17 mg. Patients were premedicated with dexamethasone (0.15 mg/kg) and morphine (0.1 mg/kg) before receiving IT mafosfamide. Serial samples of CSF for pharmacokinetic studies were obtained in a subset of patients with Ommaya reservoirs.
Irritability, presumably secondary to pain or headache during mafosfamide administration, was dose limiting in two of three patients at the 17-mg dose level. The maximum-tolerated dose of IT mafosfamide following premedication with dexamethasone and morphine was 14 mg.
The maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of IT mafosfamide in patients younger than 3 years with newly diagnosed embryonal CNS tumors is 14 mg. A trial to assess the efficacy of regional therapy with IT mafosfamide administered with intensive systemic chemotherapy in children younger than 3 years with primary intracranial embryonal tumors is now in progress.
Environmental and predisposing genetic factors are known to play a crucial role in the development of systemic autoimmune diseases. With respect to the role of environmental factors, it is not known how and to what extent they contribute to the initiation and exacerbation of systemic autoimmunity. In the present study, I considered this issue and asked if environmental factors can induce autoimmunity in the absence of specific susceptible genes. The development of genetically controlled mercury- and silver-induced B cell activation and anti-nucleolar autoantibodies (ANolA) production in genetically heterozygous outbred Institute of Cancer Research (ICR), Naval Medical Research Institute (NMRI) and Black Swiss mouse stocks were analysed. Four weeks of treatment with both mercury and silver induced a strong B cell activation characterized by increased numbers of splenic antibody-secreting cells of at least one or more immunoglobulin (Ig) isotype(s) in all treated stocks. The three stocks also exhibited a marked increase in the serum IgE levels in response to mercury, but not silver. More importantly, in response to mercury a large numbers of ICR (88%), NMRI (96%) and Black Swiss (100%) mice produced different levels of IgG1 and IgG2a ANolA (a characteristic which is linked strictly to the H-2 genes). Similarly, but at lower magnitudes, treatment with silver also induced the production of IgG1 and IgG2a ANolA in 60% of ICR, 75% of NMRI and 100% of Black Swiss mice. Thus, the findings of this study suggest that long-term exposure to certain environmental factors can activate the immune system to produce autoimmunity per se, without requiring specific susceptible genes.
Gaucher disease is a lysosomal storage disorder (LSD) caused by deficiency in the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (GC). Small molecule chaperones of protein folding and translocation have been proposed as a promising therapeutic approach to this LSD. Most small molecule chaperones described in the literature contain an iminosugar scaffold. Here we present the discovery and evaluation of a new series of GC inhibitors with a quinazoline core. We demonstrate that this series can improve the translocation of GC to the lysosome in patient-derived cells. To optimize this chemical series, systematic synthetic modifications were performed and the SAR was evaluated and compared using three different readouts of compound activity: enzymatic inhibition, enzyme thermostabilization, and lysosomal translocation of GC.
We report two patients who developed extrapyramidal reactions after epidural droperidol given to prevent postoperative nausea and vomiting. The reactions may have been related to interactions of drugs given perioperatively. One patient had been taking amlodipine and amitriptyline preoperatively, capable of causing extrapyramidal reactions, and developed akathisia after 2.5 mg of droperidol given epidurally. The other patient had received 1.5 mg of prophylactic epidural droperidol and 10 mg of metoclopramide for postoperative nausea and vomiting, and developed acute dystonia shortly after 0.5 mg of intravenous droperidol.
Study the renal consequences of lithium therapy and find out whether lithium-induced chronic renal toxicity can provoke a progressive nephropathy, leading to advanced renal failure, requiring periodical dialysis.
Fifty-three patients treated with long-term lithium salts were included in the study. They had developed chronic renal failure (creatinine clearance inferior to 80 ml/min) not due to any other cause.
These patients had received lithium salts for a mean period of 17.7 years. The mean reduction in creatinine clearance was of 2.23 ml/min/year. Final clearance correlated negatively with the duration of lithium administration. In 7 patients treated a mean of 22 years, progression towards terminal kidney failure required periodical dialysis. Around 30% of patients exhibited mild hypercalcemia.
Lithium nephropathy inducing progressive renal failure is a reality. Its prevalence in patients treated long-term with lithium should be assessed.
Histamine is known to have a profound effect on capillary permeability in nonrenal tissues and this effect is presumably mediated by cyclic (c)AMP. Because in our previous experiments we found that histamine stimulates cAMP accumulation in glomeruli (Torres, V. E., T. E. Northryn, R. M. Edwards, S. V. Shah, and T. P. Dousa. 1978. Modulation of cyclic nucleotides in isolated rat glomeruli. J. Clin. Invest.62: 1334.), we now explored whether this amine is formed in renal tissue, namely in glomeruli, and whether its renal metabolism is altered in experimental nephrosis induced by puromycin aminonucleoside (PA) in rats. In normal rats, histamine content was higher (Delta + 240%) in cortex than in medulla. In glomeruli isolated from renal cortex, histamine content was significantly higher (Delta + 260%) than in tubules. Incubation of isolated glomeruli with l-histidine resulted in a time-dependent increase of histamine content in glomeruli, but no change was found in tubules. The increase in glomerular histamine was blocked by the histidine decarboxylase inhibitor bromocresine. In rats with PA nephrosis induced by a single intraperitoneal injection of PA (15 mg/100 g body wt) urinary excretion of histamine was markedly increased (>Delta + 200%), but control rats did not differ from rats with PA nephrosis in urinary excretions of l-histidine and of creatinine. At the peak of proteinuria (day 9 after injection of PA) the plasma level of histamine was slightly elevated, and plasma histidine slightly decreased in animals that developed PA nephrosis. The content of histamine was markedly higher and the level of histidine was significantly lower in the renal cortex of PA-nephrotic rats as compared with controls; PA-nephrotic and control rats did not differ in the content of histidine and histamine in the liver. In addition, the content of histamine was higher in glomeruli isolated from PA-nephrotic rats; lesser difference was found in cortical tubules. The results further indicate that PA-nephrotic rats have higher content of histamine in the renal cortex, predominently in glomeruli with increased urinary histamine excretion. The elevated renal cortical histamine is not due to higher availability of histamine precursor l-histidine. Results thus show that glomeruli are a major site of intrarenal histamine synthesis and accumulation, and also suggest that abnormal renal metabolism of this amine in PA nephrosis may be related, as a cause or as a consequence, to the pathogenesis of this disease.
Adverse fetal environment due to maternal undernutrition or exposure to environmental chemicals alters glucocorticoid (GC) metabolism increasing the risk of metabolic disorders in adulthood. In this study, we investigated the effects of maternal exposure to cadmium (Cd, 50 ppm) during pregnancy in the methylation of fetal hepatic glucocorticoid receptor promoter (GR) and the correlation with its expression and that of the DNA methyltransferases (DNMT1a and 3a). We also studied the expression of liver phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and acyl-CoA oxidase (AOX), two enzymes involved in the metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids respectively. The methylation of the rat GR gene exon 1(10) (GR1(10)) in nucleotides -2536 to -2361 was analyzed by pyrosequencing. Quantitative real time PCR was used to assess hepatic GR, PEPCK and AOX mRNA, and their protein levels using Western blotting analysis. Differential methylation was noted across groups at all CpG sites in the GR exon 1(10) in a sex-dependent manner. In males, CpG were more methylated than the controls (185 ± 21%, p<0.001) but only CpG sites 1,6,7 and 9 showed a significantly different extent of methylation. In addition, a lower expression of GR (mRNA and protein) was found. On the contrary, in females, CpG were less methylated than the controls (62 ± 11%, p<0.05) and overexpressed, affecting PEPCK and AOX expression, which did not change in males. The GR methylation profile correlates with DNMT3a expression which may explain epigenetic sex-dependent changes on GR1(10) promoter induced by Cd treatment. In conclusion, Cd exposure during pregnancy affects fetal liver DNMT3a resulting in sex-dependent changes in methylation and expression of GR1(10). Although these effects do not seem to be directly involved in the low birth weight and height, they may have relevant implications for long-term health.
Tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate (TOCP) can cause toxic neuropathy known as organophosphate-induced delayed neuropathy (OPIDN), which is pathologically characterized by the swollen axon containing aggregations of neurofilaments, microtubules, and multivesicular vesicles. Autophagy is a self-degradative process which plays a housekeeping role in removing misfolded proteins and damaged organelles. The current study was designed to investigate the possible roles of autophagy in the pathogenesis of OPIDN. Adult hens were treated with a dose of 750mg/kg TOCP by gavage, or injected subcutaneously with 60mg/kg phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride (PMSF) dissolved in DMSO 24h earlier and subsequently treated with TOCP, then sacrificed on the time-points of 0, 1, 5, 10, and 21 days after dosing of TOCP respectively. The levels of beclin-1 and μ-calpain in tibial nerves and spinal cords were determined by immunoblotting. The results showed that in both tissues TOCP increased the expression of μ-calpain while decreased that of beclin-1. When given before TOCP administration, PMSF pretreatment could protect hens against the delayed neuropathy. In the meantime, pretreatment with PMSF reduced calpain expression below basal and increased beclin-1 expression above basal in tibial nerve, whereas it simply returned calpain and beclin-1 expression to their basal levels in spinal cord. In conclusion, the intoxication of TOCP was associated with a significant change of beclin-1 in hen nervous tissues, which suggested that disruption of autophagy-regulated machinery in neurons might be involved in the pathogenesis of OPIDN.
The effectiveness of chemoimmunotherapy with ifosfamide derivative CBM-4A and recombinant IL-2, IL-12, GM-CSF, or genetically modified, cytokine-producing tumour vaccines was examined in mice carrying HPV16-associated, MHC class I+ (TC-1), and MHC class I- (MK16) tumours. Intraperitoneal treatment of TC-1 or MK16 tumour-bearing mice with CBM-4A produced a significant tumour-inhibitory effect. When the i.p. treatment of the MHC class I+ TC-1 tumour-bearing mice with CBM-4A was followed by peritumoral s.c. administration of IL-2, IL-12, or both cytokines, the growth of TC1 tumours was inhibited more vigorously than after the chemotherapy alone. In contrast, when the i.p. treatment ofEthe MHC class I- MK16 tumour-bearing mice with CBM-4A was followed by peritumoral s.c. administration of IL-2 or IL-12, the cytokine therapy had no potentiating effect. The only potentiating effect of the MK16 tumour immunotherapy was obtained when the i.p. CBM-4A pretreatment was followed by peritumoral s.c. administration of IL-2 plus IL-12. InEfurther experiments, the TC-1 and MK16 tumour-bearing mice were i.p. pretreated with CBM-4A and then injected s.c., peritumorally, with genetically modified, IL-2 or GM-CSF-producing MK16 tumour vaccines. Whereas both genetically modified tumour vaccines produced a substantial tumour-inhibitory effect in mice carrying TC-1 tumours, no effect of the vaccines was observed in mice carrying MK16 tumour inocula. The systemic effects of local cytokine treatment were examined in mice carrying s.c. MK16 neoplasms, which were pretreated i.p. with CBM-4A, and then injected peritumorally with IL-2 or GM-CSF. Peritumoral administration of GM-CSF had no antimetastatic effect, whereas peritumoral IL-2 administration produced substantial reduction of lung metastases. The systemic antimetastatic effect of IL-2 contrasted with the negligible effect of IL-2 on the s.c. MK16 tumour inoculum. Taken collectively, the results indicate that in mice carrying the MK16 (MHC class I-) tumour, the effects of the adjuvant cytokine therapy were substantially weaker than in mice carrying the TC-1 (MHC class I+) tumour inoculum.
Recent reports have indicated that the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B agonist baclofen attenuates the reinforcing effects of cocaine.
To further evaluate the effect of baclofen on cocaine self-administration under a fixed ratio (FR) and progressive ratio (PR) schedule of reinforcement.
In the first series of experiments, three dose-response curves were generated that examined the effect of three doses of baclofen (1.8, 3.2, or 5.6 mg/kg, i.p.) against four unit-injection doses of cocaine (0.19, 0.38, 0.75, and 1.5 mg/kg per injection) reinforced under a FRI schedule. For comparison, an additional group of rats was pretreated with haloperidol (32, 56, or 100 microg/kg, i.p.). A separate experiment examined the effect of baclofen (1.8, 3.2, or 5.6 mg/kg, i.p.) on responding for concurrently available cocaine or food reinforcement.
Under the FR1 schedule, baclofen suppressed intake of low but not high unit injection doses of cocaine. In contrast to haloperidol, baclofen had no effect on the distribution of inter-injection intervals and, instead, produced long pauses in cocaine self-administration. Baclofen dose dependently reduced cocaine-reinforced responding on a PR schedule; concurrent access to a food-reinforced lever demonstrated that the animals retained the capacity to respond at high rates.
The effect of baclofen pretreatment on cocaine self-administration is dependent on the unit injection dose of cocaine and on the response requirements of the schedule.
Catalepsy--a state of postural immobility (akinesia) with muscular rigidity (rigor)--and reduced locomotion in animals are behavioral deficits showing similarities with symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). The effects of the glycine site antagonists 7-chlorokynurenate and (R)-HA-966 on haloperidol-(D 2 antagonist) and SCH 23390- (D 1 antagonist) induced catalepsy and reduced locomotion are investigated in rats. Both antagonists dose-dependently counteract dopamine D 2 receptor mediated catalepsy but they have no influence on locomotion. Neither 7-chlorokynurenate nor (R)-HA-966 has any effect on dopamine D 1 receptor mediated catalepsy. This finding is surprising, since NMDA receptor antagonists counteract both, dopamine D 1 and D 2 receptor mediated catalepsy. D 1 and D 2 receptors are located on different populations of neurons. Thus, the present findings suggest that these different neuronal populations have different sensitivity for ligands binding at the glycine binding site of the NMDA receptor.
Immune complex nephritis induced by bovine serum albumin (BSA) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was superimposed upon spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR rats) which were pretreated with polyvinyl alcohol (PVA). PVA accumulated predominantly in the mesangium, and the superimposed nephritis developed more accelerated glomerular damage with marked capillary deposition of immune complexes than control animals which were not pretreated with PVA.
Application of recently developed gene expression techniques using microarrays in toxicological studies (toxicogenomics) facilitate the interpretation of a toxic compound's mode of action and may also allow the prediction of selected toxic effects based on gene expression changes. In order to test this hypothesis, we investigated whether carcinogens at doses known to induce liver tumors in the 2-year rat bioassay deregulate characteristic sets of genes in a short term in vivo study and whether these deregulated genes represent defined biological pathways. Male Wistar rats were dosed with the four nongenotoxic hepatocarcinogens methapyrilene (MPy, 60 mg/kg/day), diethylstilbestrol (DES, 10 mg/kg/day), Wy-14643 (Wy, 60 mg/kg/day), and piperonylbutoxide (PBO, 1200 mg/kg/day). After 1, 3, 7, and 14 days, the livers were taken for histopathological evaluation and for analysis of the gene expression profiles on Affymetrix RG_U34A arrays. The expression profile of the four nongenotoxic carcinogens were compared to the profiles of the four genotoxic carcinogens 2-nitrofluorene (2-NF), dimethylnitrosamine (DMN), 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK), and aflatoxin B1 (AB1) from a similar study reported previously. By using statistical and clustering tools characteristically deregulated genes were extracted and functionally classified. Distinct cellular pathways were affected by the nongenotoxic carcinogens compared to the genotoxic carcinogens which at least partly correlated with the two-stage model of carcinogenesis. Characteristic to genotoxic carcinogens were a DNA damage response and the activation of proliferative and survival signaling. Nongenotoxic carcinogens showed responses to oxidative DNA or protein damage, as well as cell cycle progression and signs of regeneration. Many of the gene alterations found with the nongenotoxic carcinogens imply compound-specific mechanisms. Although neither a single gene nor a single pathway will be sufficient to discriminate the two classes of carcinogens, it became evident that combinations of pathway-associated gene expression profiles may be used to predict a genotoxic or nongenotoxic carcinogenic potential of a compound in short-term studies.
The effects of indapamide, a thiazide-like diuretic, and captopril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, on spontaneous hypertension and the development of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), nitric oxide generation and oxidant status were investigated.
Six-week-old male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) were treated with indapamide (1 mg/kg per day) or captopril (10 mg/kg per day) or a combination of indapamide plus captopril. After the 6-week treatment, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, the expression of NOS isoform proteins, conjugated dienes concentration and relaxation responses of the femoral artery were analyzed.
Indapamide and captopril partly prevented a blood pressure increase in young SHR. Captopril in contrast to indapamide reduced LVH. The effect of the combined indapamide and captopril treatment on the prevention of hypertension was additive. Combined indapamide and captopril treatment increased NOS activity and endothelial NOS protein expression in the aorta and decreased conjugated dienes concentration in the kidney compared with the indapamide monotherapy group. Indapamide and indapamide and captopril treatment increased acetylcholine-induced relaxation of the femoral artery.
Whereas captopril reduced LVH, indapamide enhanced NOS activity and decreased oxidative damage in the case of the combined treatment. It is concluded that the complex protective effects of the combined indapamide plus captopril treatment on hypertension may be exerted via its effects on blood pressure, hypertrophy and vasorelaxation.
Statins have similar side effects that do not always occur at the same rate among the various statins. We present a case of simvastatin-induced muscle toxicity that disappeared when pravastatin was substituted for the original drug.
A 74-year-old male, a nonsmoker, complained of severe nocturnal leg cramps. The patient also complained that similar painful cramping occurred when he walked rapidly or jogged. Because some components of his lipid panel exceeded the'desirable' range, and as he had a history of myocardial infarction, his family physician prescribed simvastatin (40 mg/day). The patient had taken this medication for the past eight years. The painful nocturnal episodes started two years ago and affected either one or the other leg. Four months ago we discontinued his simvastatin and prescribed pravastatin (80 mg/day). At a follow-up visit six weeks later, the patient reported that his leg pains at night and the pain experienced after brisk walking had disappeared. Four months after the substitution of pravastatin for simvastatin, the patient reported that his complete lack of symptoms had continued.
These painful muscle cramps were probably caused by an inadequate vascular supply to the calf and foot muscles. Perhaps a combination of advanced age and atherosclerotic changes created a predisposition for the simvastatin-induced leg cramps. Pravastatin differs from simvastatin in several ways.l It is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 oxidases, and thus is not influenced by CYP 3A4 inhibitors like simvastatin. Also, simvastatin is associated with single-nucleotide polymorphisms located within the SLCO1B1 gene on the chromosome 12 and established myopathy, while pravastatin lacks this association. These differences may contribute to increased tolerance to pravastatin in this particular case.
Melatonin was shown to reduce blood pressure, oxidative load and to increase nitric oxide bioavailability predisposing melatonin to have antiremodelling potential.
The aim of this study was to show whether melatonin can reverse left ventricular remodelling in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and to compare this potential protective effect with captopril, spironolactone, or simvastatin.
Six groups of 3-month old rats (eight per group) were treated for 5 weeks: control untreated Wistar rats, control SHR, SHR plus melatonin (10 mg/kg per 24 h), SHR plus captopril (100 mg/kg per 24 h), SHR plus spironolactone (200 mg/kg per 24 h) and SHR plus simvastatin (10 mg/kg per 24 h). Their systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured by the tail-cuff method. The relative weights of the left ventricle, nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity, endothelial NOS and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) protein expression, conjugated dienes concentration, level of collagenous proteins and hydroxyproline were measured.
SBP was reduced by all drugs investigated but most prominently by captopril in SHR. The activity of NOS and endothelial NOS expression increased in the left ventricles of SHR compared with controls. Melatonin and spironolactone further increased NOS expression. Left ventricular oxidative load, estimated by NF-kappaB expression and conjugated dienes concentration, increased in SHR. Only melatonin reduced NF-kappaB expression and decreased conjugated diens concentration. Only captopril reduced left ventricular hypertrophy in SHR, whereas melatonin reduced collagenous protein concentration and hydroxyproline content in the left ventricle.
It is concluded that although melatonin, in comparison with captopril, did not reverse left ventricle hypertrophy, it reversed left ventricular fibrosis. This protection by melatonin may be caused by its prominent antioxidative effect.
The study has been designed to investigate the effect of demethylasterroquinone B1 (DAQ B1), an activator of Akt, in diabetes mellitus (DM) and hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy)-induced vascular endothelial dysfunction. Streptozotocin (55 mg kg(-1), i.v.) and methionine (1.7% w/w, p.o., 4 weeks) were administered to rats to produce DM (serum glucose >140 mg dl(-1)) and HHcy (serum homocysteine >10 microM), respectively. Vascular endothelial dysfunction was assessed using isolated aortic ring preparation, electron microscopy of thoracic aorta and serum concentration of nitrite/nitrate. The expression of messenger RNA for p22phox and eNOS was assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Serum thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) and aortic superoxide anion were estimated to assess oxidative stress. DAQ B1 (5 mg kg(-1), p.o.) or atorvastatin (30 mg kg(-1), p.o.) in diabetic and hyperhomocysteinemic rats significantly reduced serum glucose and homocysteine concentration. DAQ B1 or atorvastatin markedly improved acetylcholine-induced endothelium-dependent relaxation, vascular endothelial lining, serum nitrite/nitrate concentration and serum TBARS in diabetic and hyperhomocysteinemic rats. However, this ameliorative effect of DAQ B1 has been prevented by L-NAME (25 mg kg(-1), i.p.), an inhibitor of eNOS. Therefore, it may be concluded that DAQ B1-induced activation of Akt may activate eNOS and consequently reduce oxidative stress to improve vascular endothelial dysfunction.
Intrathecal granuloma formation has commonly been described with morphine therapy. It has been suggested that a high concentration of intrathecal morphine may be responsible for this complication. Much less commonly, intrathecal hydromorphone has been associated with intrathecal granuloma formation. In the current case we report the evaluation and management of an intrathecal granuloma in a patient receiving a relatively high concentration of intrathecal hydromorphone. A nonsurgical, conservative approach to management involves stopping the infusion and observing the patient for improvement as the granuloma mass often slowly resolves once the infusion is stopped. Cessation of the infusion or addition of clonidine to the IDDS admixture in conjunction with close clinical monitoring may be reasonable treatment options in patients with an asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic inflammatory mass. In the current study, rapidly declining neurologic function with a confirmed inflammatory mass adherent to the spinal canal necessitated urgent surgical intervention. Though use of intrathecal hydromorphone still represents an off label application, this opiate is commonly employed as an alternative first line analgesic agent. This case report highlights the potential of high-dose and high infusate concentration intrathecal hydromorphone to form an inflammatory granuloma.
Inhibition of microglia-mediated neuroinflammation has been regarded as a prospective strategy for treating neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). In the present study, we demonstrated that systematic administration with iptakalim (IPT), an adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channel (K(ATP)) opener, could alleviate rotenone-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in rat substantia nigra along with the downregulation of microglial activation and mRNA levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). In rat primary cultured microglia, pretreatment with IPT suppressed rotenone-induced microglial activation evidenced by inhibition of microglial amoeboid morphological alteration, declined expression of ED1 (a marker for activated microglia), and decreased production of TNF-alpha and prostaglandin E2 (PGE(2)). These inhibitory effects of IPT could be reversed by selective mitochondrial K(ATP) (mitoK(ATP)) channel blocker 5-hydroxydecanoate (5-HD). Furthermore, pretreatment with IPT prevented rotenone-induced mitochondrial membrane potential loss and p38/c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation in microglia, which might in turn regulate microglial activation and subsequent production of TNF-alpha and PGE(2). These data strongly suggest that the K(ATP) opener IPT may be a novel and promising neuroprotective drug via inhibiting microglia-mediated neuroinflammation.
1. The effect of carvedilol on renal function, structure and expression of TGF beta and the matrix proteins fibronectin, collagen I and collagen III, was evaluated in spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (SHR-SP) rats fed a high fat, high salt diet. 2. Carvedilol treatment for 11 to 18 weeks did not alter systolic blood pressure in SHR-SP rats, however, it resulted in a significant reduction in heart rate. 3. Carvedilol treatment reduced renal fibrosis and total, active and chronic renal damage to levels approaching those of WKY rats on a normal diet. 4. Urinary protein excretion was higher in SHR-SP rats (51+/-10 mg day(-1)) than WKY rats (18+/-2 mg day(-1)) and this was further increased when SHR-SP rats were fed a high fat, high salt diet (251+/-120 mg day(-1)). Treatment with carvedilol resulted in significantly lower urinary protein excretion (37+/-15 mg day(-1)). 5. The expression of TGF beta mRNA was significantly higher in SHR-SP rats compared to WKY rats and a further increase was observed when rats were fed a high fat, high salt diet. Renal TGF beta expression was significantly reduced by treatment with carvedilol. The expression of fibronectin and collagen I and collagen III mRNA showed a pattern similar to that observed with TGF beta mRNA expression. Collagen I mRNA expression followed a pattern similar to renal fibrosis. 6. These data indicate that carvedilol can provide significant renal protection in the absence of any antihypertensive activity and that the mechanisms involved in this action may include reduced expression of profibrotic factors such as TGF beta.
The purpose of this study was to document early structural changes in the human heart after the initial administration of doxorubicin. Endomyocardial biopsies were performed at baseline and at 4 and 24 hours after doxorubicin administration to 13 patients. Morphometric analysis of electron micrographs (x 31,200) quantitated mitochondrial and tubular sizes (sarcoplasmic reticulum and T tubules). The mitochondrial size increased from 0.25 +/- 0.01 mu 2 (mean +/- SE) at baseline to 0.27 +/- 0.03 mu 2 (not significant [NS]) at 4 hours and 0.30 +/- 0.03 mu 2 (NS) at 24 hours. The tubular size increased from 2.24 +/- 0.13 x 10(4) nm2 at baseline to 2.60 +/- 0.26 x 10(4) nm2 (P less than 0.05) at 4 hours and 2.46 +/- 0.29 x 10(4) nm2 (NS) at 24 hours. Micrographs analyzed for nuclear changes showed nucleolar contraction and segregation of granular and fibrillar components. These changes were noted in five of ten patients at 4 hours and in eight of 13 patients at 24 hours. Serial echocardiographic and systolic time interval determinations of left ventricular function demonstrated a significant improvement at both 4 and 24 hours. In conclusion, doxorubicin has its most significant effect on tubular structures. Left ventricular function improved during this time despite these findings.
The "fetal basis of adult disease" hypothesis proposes that prenatal exposure to environmental stress can lead to increased susceptibility to clinical disorders later in life. In utero exposure of fetus to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) leads to alterations in T-cell differentiation in the thymus and increased susceptibility to autoimmune disease later in life. TCDD triggers toxicity through activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor and severely affects maternal and fetal immune system during pregnancy.
In this study, using a mouse model, we investigated if administration of resveratrol (RES; 3,5,4'-trihydroxystilbene) would inhibit immunotoxicity induced by TCDD during pregnancy in the mother and fetus. We observed that RES protected not only normal nonpregnant mice but also pregnant mothers and their fetuses from TCDD-induced thymic atrophy, apoptosis, and alterations in the expression of T-cell receptor and costimulatory molecules as well as T-cell differentiation. In addition, there was significantly reduced expression of CYP1A1 in thymi of both the mother and the fetus when RES was used in vivo post-TCDD exposure.
In conclusion, these studies demonstrate that consumption of RES, a natural plant product, during pregnancy, may afford protection to the mother and the fetus from the toxicity induced by environmental pollutants that mediate their effects through activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor.
Multifocal myoclonus is a well-recognized complication of high doses of penicillin. In man, the site of origin of penicillin-induced myoclonus has not been clearly established, but there is evidence from animal studies that it may originate at a cortical, subcoritcal, or spinal level. We report a case of multifocal myoclonus occurring in a patient receiving large doses of penicillin. The myoclonus appeared when there was no clinical or EEG evidence of upper brain stem or cerebral function. The observations reported suggest that penicillin-induced myoclonus may occur in man and may originate at a caudal brain stem or spinal level.
We evaluated the relationship of ritodrine concentration to several maternal variables and to fetal heart rate in 17 women who received the drug for inhibition of preterm labor. Ritodrine was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Ritodrine increased maternal and fetal heart rate and decreased serum potassium in a dose-related manner, but wide variability was noted between patients and within individual patients. Tachyphylaxis of the maternal heart rate response to continuing treatment with ritodrine was seen in at least seven women. Maternal blood pressure, serum glucose concentration, and frequency of uterine contractions were changed by ritodrine treatment, but the changes in these variables were not closely correlated to the concentration of ritodrine (r less than or equal to 0.30 in all cases). The maximal infusion rate and the concentration of ritodrine in maternal serum after 4 hours of treatment were significantly (p less than 0.001) correlated with the frequency of uterine contractions prior to treatment. Successful inhibition of labor was achieved with serum concentrations of 15 to 31 ng/ml in 10 of 17 women; in six of the other seven women, labor could not be inhibited in spite of serum concentrations of 90 to 146 ng/ml. Side effects, such as hypotension, vomiting, chest discomfort, and shortness of breath, were most commonly observed when the infusion rate and concentration of ritodrine were increasing.
