We describe a patient treated with trazodone, amitriptyline and lithium carbonate who developed anxiety, restlessness, tremor, myoclonus, hyperreflexia, diaphoresis, rigidity and hyperthermia. The constellation of findings was diagnostic of serotonin syndrome. Although doses of trazodone and amitriptyline were relatively low, serotonin syndrome developed in this patient. It is suggested that the combination with lithium facilitated the effect of central serotonergic responses mediated by trazodone and amitriptyline.
This study was designed to investigate the susceptibility of liver and brain tissues, as insulinin-dependent tissues, of normal adult male rats to the oxidative challenge of subchronic supplementation with chromium picolinate (CrPic) at low (human equivalent) and high doses (2.90 and 13.20 μg Cr kg(-1) day(-1), respectively). Also, the modulative effect of CrPic administration on the enhanced oxidative stress in the liver and brain tissues of alloxan-diabetic rats was studied. Fasting serum glucose level was not modified in normal rats but significantly reduced in diabetic rats that had received CrPic supplement. A mild oxidative stress was observed in the liver and brain of CrPic-supplemented normal rats confirmed by the dose-dependent reductions in the levels of hepatic and cerebral free fatty acids, superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities, and in contrast increased tissue malondialdehyde concentration. On the other hand, hepatic and cerebral catalase activity was reduced in the high dose group only. CrPic supplementation did not act as a peroxisome proliferator confirmed by the significant reductions in liver and brain peroxisomal palmitoyl CoA oxidase activity. The non significant alterations in liver protein/DNA and RNA/DNA ratios indicate that CrPic did not affect protein synthesis per cell, and that mild elevations in hepatic total protein and RNA concentrations might be due to block or decrease in the export rate of synthesized proteins from the liver to the plasma. In diabetic rats, elevated levels of hepatic and cerebral free fatty acids and malondialdehyde, and in contrast the overwhelmed antioxidant enzymes, were significantly modulated in the low dose group and near-normalized in the high dose group. The significant increases observed in liver total protein and RNA concentrations, as well as protein/DNA and RNA/ DNA ratios in diabetic rats supplemented with the high dose of Cr, compared to untreated diabetics, may be related to the improvement in the glycemic status of the diabetic animals rather than the direct effect of CrPic on protein anabolism.
Resolution of pulmonary oedema is mediated by active absorption of liquid across the alveolar epithelium. A key component of this process is the sodium-potassium ATPase (Na+K+-ATPase) enzyme located on the basolateral surface of epithelial cells and up-regulated during oedema resolution. We hypothesised that lung liquid clearance could be further up-regulated by lipid-mediated transfer and expression of exogenous Na+K+-ATPase cDNA. We demonstrate proof of this principle in a model of high permeability pulmonary oedema induced by intraperitoneal injection of thiourea (2.5 mg/kg) in C57/BL6 mice. Pretreatment of mice (24 h before thiourea) by nasal sniffing of cationic liposome (lipid #67)-DNA complexes encoding the alpha and beta subunits of Na+K+-ATPase (160 microg per mouse), significantly (P<0.01) decreased the wet:dry weight ratios measured 2 h after thiourea injection compared with control animals, pretreated with an equivalent dose of an irrelevant gene. Whole lung Na+K+-ATPase activity was significantly (P<0.05) increased in mice pretreated with Na+K+-ATPase cDNA compared both with untreated control animals as well as animals pretreated with the irrelevant gene. Nested RT-PCR on whole lung homogenates confirmed gene transfer by detection of vector-specific mRNA in three of four mice studied 24 h after gene transfer. This demonstration of a significant reduction in pulmonary oedema following in vivo gene transfer raises the possibility of gene therapy as a novel, localised approach for pulmonary oedema in clinical settings such as ARDS and lung transplantation.
The effect of sublingual captopril on the pressor response to intubation was studied in 40 patients. Captopril was used in one of two doses (12.5 mg and 25 mg) 25 minutes before tracheal intubation. Both doses were associated with a significant reduction in the pressor response to intubation (p less than 0.05) compared to placebo, but no significant difference existed between the two doses. Neither dose controlled changes in heart rate at intubation. Untoward hypotension occurred in the treatment groups. Caution is advised in the peri-operative use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
The baroreflex control of heart rate will be rapidly reset to operate at a lower pressure level after blood pressure reduction by felodipine. The present study investigates whether the baroreflex control of renin release in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) will also be reset after prolonged felodipine administration. Conscious SHR, fitted with catheters in the tail artery and vein, were given felodipine intravenously for 5 hours. The initial reflexogenic elevation in plasma renin activity and heart rate caused by felodipine-induced blood pressure reduction were successively normalised with time. Heart rate returned to pre-drug values after 3 hours and plasma renin activity after 5 hours of stable blood pressure reduction. This indicates rapid resetting of baroreflex control of both cardiac and renal function after blood pressure reduction by felodipine.
The use of antiplatelet therapy in combination with oral anticoagulants remains controversial. The objective of this study was to estimate and compare the incidence of adverse and coronary event rates between patients receiving warfarin monotherapy or warfarin and antiplatelet combination therapy.
This was a retrospective, longitudinal, pharmacoepidemiologic analysis. Adult patients receiving warfarin managed by an anticoagulation service who had documented the use of antiplatelet agents (eg, aspirin, clopidogrel, and/or dipyridamole) [ie, the combination-therapy cohort] or their nonuse (ie, the monotherapy cohort) were identified as of September 30, 2005. Utilizing integrated, electronic medical records, anticoagulation-related adverse events (eg, death, hemorrhage, or thrombosis) and coronary events were identified during a 6-month follow-up period (October 2005 through March 2006). The proportions of events were compared between cohorts. Independent associations between the cohorts and the outcomes were assessed with adjustment for potential confounding factors.
Data from 2,560 patients in the monotherapy cohort and 1,623 patients in the combination-therapy cohort were analyzed. Patients in the combination-therapy cohort were more likely to have had anticoagulation-related hemorrhages (4.2% vs 2.0%, respectively; unadjusted p < 0.001) and coronary events (0.9% vs 0.3%, respectively; p = 0.009), but not death (0.1% vs 0.2%, respectively; unadjusted p = 0.186) or thrombotic events (0.3% vs 0.4%, respectively; unadjusted p = 0.812). With adjustment, combined warfarin and antiplatelet use was independently associated with hemorrhagic events (odds ratio [OR], 2.75; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.44 to 5.28), but not with coronary events (OR, 0.99; 95% CI, 0.37 to 2.62).
At the population level, the hemorrhagic risk associated with warfarin therapy combined with antiplatelet therapy appears to outweigh the benefits. These findings suggest that clinicians should carefully consider the risks and benefits when recommending combined antiplatelet therapy for patients receiving warfarin who do not meet the evidence-based criteria for such therapy.
Bipolar disorder is associated with the highest rates of substance abuse of any psychiatric illness. Therefore, treatments that stabilize mood and decrease drug use or cravings are of great interest. Atypical antipsychotics are in widespread use in patients with bipolar disorder. However, minimal data are available on their use in bipolar patients with comorbid substance abuse.
Open-label, add-on, quetiapine therapy was examined for 12 weeks in 17 outpatients with bipolar disorder and cocaine dependence. Subjects were evaluated with a structured clinical interview; Hamilton Depression Rating (HDRS), Young Mania Rating (YMRS), Brief Psychiatric Rating (BPRS) scales; and Cocaine Craving Questionnaire (CCQ). Urine samples and self-reported drug use were also obtained. Data were analyzed using a last observation carried forward method on all subjects given medication at baseline.
Significant improvement from baseline to exit was observed in HDRS, YMRS, BPRS and CCQ scores (p < or = 0.05). Dollars spent on cocaine and days/week of cocaine use decreased non-significantly, and urine drug screens did not change significantly from baseline to exit. Quetiapine was well tolerated, with no subjects to our knowledge discontinuing because of side-effects.
The use of quetiapine was associated with substantial improvement in psychiatric symptoms and cocaine cravings. The findings are promising and suggest larger controlled trials of quetiapine are needed in this population.
Modification of central serotonergic transmission resulted in alterations of pilocarpine convulsive activity in male Wistar rats. Seizure activity was increased after pizotifen injection and the latency period to onset of convulsions was shortened in animals pretreated with mianserine and quipazine. Stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors with 8-hydroxy-di-N,N-propylaminotetralin (8-OH-DPAT) and blockade of 5-HT1B receptors with cyanopindolol resulted in seizure protection. Intracerebroventricular injections of 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine (5,6-DHT) did not change the protective effect of cyanopindolol. Other agents specifically affecting serotonergic receptors, the agonists 1-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine (mCPP) and 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MT) and the antagonists spiperone, metergoline, methysergide, cyproheptadine and metoclopramide, did not influence pilocarpine-induced seizures. In conclusion, the present study suggests that the inhibition of pilocarpine-induced seizures may be mediated by stimulation of 5-HT1A and by blockade of 5-HT1B receptors, located probably on the cholinergic terminals.
Recent studies have shown that paraoxanase (PON1) has protective effect against oxidative stress and hence can act as an antioxidant. A time course study was carried out in order to find out alterations in PON1 activity in cyclophosphamide (CYP) induced renal injury. Eight to ten weeks old female rats were administered CYP at the dose of 150 mg/kg body wt. (i.p.) and sacrificed at 6, 16, or 24 h after treatment. Saline treated rats served as control. CYP exposure for 6 h caused a dramatic increase in PON1 activity (83%), which escalated to 160% at 16 h. The renal PON1 activity reached control values 24 h after treatment with CYP. The renal malondialdehyde level was unaltered 6 h after treatment with CYP and an increase by 35% was observed 16 h after treatment with CYP. The present investigation shows for the first time that an increase in renal PON1 activity is an early biochemical event in cyclophosphamide induced renal damage. It is suggested that this enzyme may have a role within the antioxidant systems of the kidney.
A man with resistant lithium-induced nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and affective psychosis was successfully treated with carbamazepine. Carbamazepine may be appropriate for concurrently treating lithium-induced renal dysfunction and manic-depression in patients whose prognosis may be jeopardized by lithium discontinuation.
Although multifactorial anemia is common following orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), the late introduction of sirolimus (SRL) has been associated with high rates of anemia, whose pathogenic mechanisms have not been fully studied. Herein we have described a case of severe anemia in an HIV+ OLT patient who was switched from calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) to SRL due to severe nephrotoxicity. After 22 weeks of SRL, hemoglobin levels dropped 4 g/dL to a nadir of 6.5 g/dL. After discarding other causes for anemia, we concluded that it displayed the features of anemia of a chronic inflammatory state (ACIS): decreased mean corpuscular volume (MCV), low serum iron despite high ferritinemia, and elevated fibrinogen and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. SRL trough levels were never above the therapeutic range. After blood transfusions and erythropoietin (EPO) use, SRL was maintained within the lower range of therapeutic levels, with significant improvement in renal function. As described among kidney transplant recipients, SRL-related anemia in this HIV+ patient with CNI nephrotoxicity after OLT showed features of ACIS. Blood transfusions and EPO use allowed SRL maintenance.
Cisplatin-based therapy results in a cumulative anemia that is disproportionate to the effects on other blood cells. The severity of this treatment-induced anemia and the resultant transfusion requirement in cancer patients correlate with cisplatin-induced renal tubular dysfunction. Observed/expected serum erythropoietin (EPO) ratios decline with progressive cisplatin therapy and are proportionate to the degree of renal dysfunction. Recovery from anemia and of observed/expected serum EPO ratios in patients occurs after cessation of cisplatin therapy, along with restoration of renal tubular function. Creatinine clearance, however, remains permanently depressed. Cisplatin-treated rats develop progressive renal dysfunction and anemia that persists for many weeks, without effects on white blood cell counts. The anemia is also associated with a lack of expected EPO and reticulocyte response. With EPO administration, cisplatin-treated rats exhibit a greater reticulocyte response and hematocrit increment then non-cisplatin-treated rats given EPO, indicating minimal erythroid precursor cell damage from cisplatin. These results indicate the primary etiology of cisplatin-associated anemia is a transient, but persisting EPO deficiency state resulting from cisplatin-induced renal tubular damage, which can be prevented or treated by hormone (EPO) replacement.
Exposure to mercury can lead to several injuries in mammals, including immune system dysfunction, and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), as a metal chelator and antioxidant, has been indicated to increase the cytotoxic effects of toxic metals. However, the toxicological effects and possible mechanisms of mercury in combination with PDTC are mostly unclear. In this study, we showed that PDTC dramatically increase the cytotoxic effect of HgCl(2) on cultured murine macrophages (RAW 264.7 cells). PDTC augmented HgCl(2)-induced cytotoxic effects by facilitating the entry of mercury into the cells. The Hg(2+)/PDTC complex significantly and rapidly increased the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and decreased intracellular glutathione (GSH) levels in these cells. Flow cytometry analysis showed that the numbers of sub-G1 hypodiploid cells and annexin V-FITC binding cells increased after Hg(2+)/PDTC complex exposure, and several features of mitochondria-dependent apoptosis were also induced, including mitochondrial membrane depolarization, cytosolic cytochrome c release, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and caspase 3/7 activation, and DNA fragmentation. Moreover, both apoptotic and necrotic cells were detected using acridine orange/ethidium bromide dual staining. Meanwhile, depleted intracellular ATP levels and increased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release were observed, suggesting the induction of necrotic cell death processes. These Hg(2+)/PDTC complex-induced cytotoxicity-related signals could be reversed by pretreatment with the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine. In conclusion, these results suggest that Hg(2+)/PDTC complex-induced oxidative stress causes macrophage cell death via both apoptosis and necrosis. These findings imply for the first time that PDTC dramatically increases the uptake and toxicological effects of Hg(2+) instead of detoxification.
Up-to-date treatment of acute myocardial infarction (AIM) has been based on as early as possible establishment of circulation in ischemic myocardium whether by the use of fibrinolythic therapy and/or urgent coronary intervention which significantly changes the destiny of patients with AMI, but also increases the risk of bleeding. The aim of this study was to compare coronary flow and bleeding complications in patients with acute myocardial infarction with ST-elevation (STEMI) after administration of alteplase or streptokinase.
The study included 254 patients with STEMI. The group I (n = 174) received streptokinase, and the group II (n = 80) received alteplase. We followed frequency of complications such as bleeding and hypotension in the investigated groups of patients, based on the TIMI classification of bleeding, as well as the transience of infarction artery in accordance with TIMI flow.
The patients with myocardial infarction after administration of alteplase had statistically significantly higher coronary flow (TIMI-3), 72.5% as compared to the patients who received streptokinase, 39.2%. Hypotension as complication of fibrynolythic therapy administration occurred in a significantly higher percentage in the group of patients who received streptokinase. There was no statistically significant difference in the appearance of major bleeding in the groups of patients who received streptokinasis and alteplase (6.9% and 7.5%, respectively). Also, there was no difference in the appearance of minor and minimal bleeding among the investigated groups of patients.
It was shown that alteplase in a higher number of patients provided TIMI-3 coronary flow as compared to streptokinese. In comparison with streptokinase, a combination of alteplase, enoxaparin and double antiplatelet therapy enabled earlier achievement of coronary flow through previously blocked coronary artery that was more complete (higher frequency of TIMI-3 flow). There were no statistically significant difference in frequency of bleeding, first of all major bleeding, between the groups treated by alteplase and streptokinase.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are prescribed for many cardiovascular and renal diseases. Adverse hepatic events, especially cholestasis, have rarely been reported with captopril, enalapril, lisinopril, and fosinopril. To date, hepatic injury associated with ramipril has not been reported.
To describe 3 patients who developed hepatitis, with or without jaundice, after receiving ramipril.
Medical records and liver biopsies of the 3 patients were reviewed. Clinical, laboratory, and histologic findings were compared with findings in other cases of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-induced liver injury reported in the literature.
The 3 patients were middle-aged men. In 2 patients, jaundice appeared 4 and 8 weeks after starting ramipril. Bilirubin levels peaked at 15.5 and 5 mg/dL, and alkaline phosphatase values peaked at 957 and 507 U/L. Aminotransferase levels were mildly elevated. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and ultrasonography showed no bile duct obstruction. Liver biopsies from the jaundiced patients were similar, with cholestasis, duct necrosis, and extravasation of bile, ductular proliferation, and portal inflammation. Cholestasis improved in 1 patient 6 weeks after stopping ramipril and was prolonged for 14 months in the other, in whom biliary cirrhosis was present on biopsy. The third patient developed hepatitis without jaundice 3 weeks after starting ramipril; symptoms resolved after stopping the drug. Ramipril-associated liver injury is similar to that seen with other angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, but liver biopsy findings of duct necrosis and extravasation of bile have not been reported previously.
Prolonged cholestatic hepatitis and biliary cirrhosis may result from the use of ramipril. Monitoring of liver enzymes is advisable for patients starting on ramipril.
Most instance of drug-induced renal disease are probably due to direct toxicity; the most common immunologically mediated lesion of the kidney due to drugs appears to be interstitial nephritis-fever, skin rash, eosinophilia, eosinophiluria frequently accompany the renal symptoms. One case we report due to ceftriaxone; the disease subsided completely when the treatment with the drug has been stopped.
The mechanism of action of many anticonvulsive agents is to increase the function of the GABAergic system. Inhibition of GABA-Transaminase (GABA-T), the degradative enzyme for GABA, increases GABA levels in the brain. In this study, antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ASO) targeted at the start codon region of GABA-Transaminase mRNA were used to modify seizure activity. Mice were treated, by intracerebroventricular injection, with antisense oligos or appropriate controls. At various times after treatment, the animals were challenged with cocaine (70 mg/kg, i.p.) and observed for seizure activity. At 15 hours after treatment, 1.152 and 1.44 nmol antisense oligo blocked cocaine-induced seizures. There was no effect of antisense oligo 8 or 36 hours after treatment. In addition, treatment with 7.2 nmol antisense oligo prevented pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures. These data demonstrate the modulation of seizure threshold using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to GABA-T.
It has been shown that the circulating antibodies, which bind to rat hepatic microsomal proteins obtained after in vivo exposure to halothane, are detectable by immunoblotting in patients with "halothane hepatitis (HH)," and that rabbit immunized anti-sera against trifluoroacetylated rabbit serum albumin (TFA-RSA) recognizes rat microsomal distorted polypeptides in almost the same way as do sera from patients with HH. In this paper, we report first the development of a novel method of synthesizing TFA-RSA using p-nitrophenyl TFA, and second the results of tests for circulating anti-TFA antibodies in the serum of 86 patients who had received halothane anaesthesia and developed no (67 patients) or mild (19 patients, the maximum activity of serum alanine aminotransaminase 519 IU.L-1) liver damage. Serum was selected from stored sera of post-transfusion patients. The new method of synthesizing TFA-RSA was convenient and was able to be done at neutral pH. Rabbit sera obtained after immunization with the newly synthesized TFA-RSA recognized the same polypeptides (109 kDa, 92 kDa, 80 kDa, 76 kDa, 64 kDa and 59 kDa) as the established anti-sera against TFA-RSA, and these reactions were inhibited in the presence of TFA-lysine. Circulating antibodies were not detected in our patients who had developed no or mild liver damage. The present finding supports the hypothesis that the appearance of circulating antibodies against microsomal distorted proteins are specific to patients with HH. Furthermore, we have shown here that the halothane-induced mild increase in ALT activity is not associated with the appearance of those circulating antibodies, supporting the pathophysiological difference between HH and halothane-induced mild hepatic damage.
We describe a premature baby with X pentasomy, having a severe pulmonary hypertension secondary to perinatal asphyxia and hyaline membrane disease which appeared to be refractory to conventional treatments (hyperventilation, tolazoline, prostacyclin). Oxygenation and pulmonary hypertension rapidly improved after starting magnesium sulphate infusion (loading dose: 20 mg/kg e.v. of elementary Mg, followed by continuous infusion of 2-4 mg/kg/hr during 6 days). The therapy was associated with hypermagnesemia (5-7 mg/100 ml) and transitory side effects (hypocalcemia, muscular and bladder paresis, bradycardia without hemodynamic decompensation). We suggest that magnesium therapy might be considered in newborns with severe and persistent pulmonary hypertension.
Several factors predisposing patients to statin-induced myopathy have been described. We describe a patient whose statin intolerance was associated with changes in serum potassium arising from previously undiagnosed Gitelman's syndrome.
In this report of opisthotonos during recovery from propofol anaesthesia, we relate clinical observations with scientific considerations, and propose a strategy for treatment of this rare side effect. Following a brief operative procedure, a healthy 29-yr-old woman developed recurrent opisthotonos while recovering from anaesthesia with alfentanil, propofol, and nitrous oxide. In contrast to accumulating reports, the patient remained conscious during each episode of back extension and retrocollis. The preservation of consciousness and similarities to strychnine-induced opisthotonos suggest to us that the mechanism may have a brainstem and spinal origin. Recent investigations show that propofol potentiates the inhibitory transmitters glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) which would enhance spinal inhibition during anaesthesia. Postanaesthetic opisthotonos, however, may be due to a propofol-induced tolerance to inhibitory transmitters. This rebound phenomenon would lead to an acute, enduring refractoriness in inhibitory pathways of the brainstem and spinal cord, resulting in increased activity of extensor motoneurons. We recommend a therapeutic strategy that restores inhibition by glycine and GABA at multiple sites; the preferred therapeutic agents would be diazepam and physostigmine. The episodes are usually short-lived, but two of the reviewed 17 patients developed recurrent retrocollis for four and 23 days following antiepileptic drug therapy. Since high doses of phenytoin and carbamazepine can result in opisthotonos, we recommend that anticonvulsants be reserved for postanaesthetic patients with electroencephalographic evidence of seizure activity.
In the Wobbler mouse, a mutation in the Vps54 gene is accompanied by motoneuron degeneration and astrogliosis in the cervical spinal cord. Previous work has shown that these abnormalities are greatly attenuated by progesterone treatment of clinically afflicted Wobblers. However, whether progesterone is effective at all disease stages has not yet been tested. The present work used genotyped (wr/wr) Wobbler mice at three periods of the disease: early progressive (1-2 months), established (5-8 months) or late stages (12 months) and age-matched wildtype controls (NFR/NFR), half of which were implanted with a progesterone pellet (20 mg) for 18 days. In untreated Wobblers, degenerating vacuolated motoneurons were initially abundant, experienced a slight reduction at the established stage and dramatically diminished during the late period. In motoneurons, the cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was reduced at all stages of the Wobbler disease, whereas hyperexpression of the growth-associated protein (GAP43) mRNA preferentially occurred at the early progressive and established stages. Progesterone therapy significantly reduced motoneuron vacuolation, enhanced ChAT immunoreactive perikarya and reduced the hyperexpression of GAP43 during the early progressive and established stages. At all stage periods, untreated Wobblers showed high density of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)+ astrocytes and decreased number of glutamine synthase (GS) immunostained cells. Progesterone treatment down-regulated GFAP+ astrocytes and up-regulated GS+ cell number. These data reinforced the usefulness of progesterone to improve motoneuron and glial cell abnormalities of Wobbler mice and further showed that therapeutic benefit seems more effective at the early progressive and established periods, rather than on advance stages of spinal cord neurodegeneration.
Among 447 hypertensive patients, most with a history of diuretic-induced hypokalemia, 252 developed diuretic-induced hypokalemia while receiving hydrochlorothiazide, 50 mg/d. In a randomized study we evaluated the efficacy of three drug regimens in restoring potassium levels while maintaining blood pressure control: hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg/d) plus potassium supplement (20 mmol/d); hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg/d) plus potassium supplement (40 mmol/d); or hydrochlorothiazide (50 mg/d) with triamterene (75 mg/d) in one combination tablet. In all groups, mean serum levels of potassium rose within 1 week and showed no further change thereafter. However, the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene and hydrochlorothiazide plus 40 mmol of potassium regimens were significantly more effective in restoring serum potassium levels than was the hydrochlorothiazide plus 20 mmol of potassium regimen. A significant increase in magnesium levels was observed only in the group treated with the hydrochlorothiazide/triamterene combination. Each regimen provided continued control of mild to moderate hypertension.
To characterize the frequency and pattern of hypokalemia (serum potassium level less than 3.5 mmol/L) after theophylline poisoning, we prospectively evaluated 88 consecutive patients with theophylline intoxication (serum theophylline concentration greater than or equal to 0.165 mmol/L). This mean admission serum theophylline concentration of this cohort was 0.331 mmol/L, with a range of 0.165 to 0.982 mmol/L. The simultaneous mean serum potassium concentration was 3.36 mmol/L (range, 2.20 to 5.80 mmol/L). Fifty-three patients (60%) were hypokalemic on hospital arrival. When, on the basis of recent ingestion, patients were separated into acute, chronic, or acute-on-chronic categories of theophylline intoxication, significant differences in serum potassium were found: Patients with acute theophylline intoxication had a mean serum potassium concentration of 2.94 mmol/L; 85% were hypokalemic. In contrast, patients with chronic theophylline intoxication had a mean serum potassium concentration of 3.83 mmol/L, with a 32% frequently of hypokalemia. These data demonstrate that hypokalemia is common after theophylline intoxication and has a significantly higher incidence after acute overdose. The difference in the frequency of hypokalemia between patients with acute vs chronic intoxication has unclear origins but may be related to the disparities in clinical course (particularly the appearance of seizures and cardiac arrhythmias) that have been observed after acute vs chronic theophylline intoxication.
A schizophrenic patient suffered from an episode of unexpected grand mal seizure following an enflurane unaesthetic for biopsy of an orbital lesion. The seizure was brief and subsided spontaneously. An assessment of the anaesthetic technique and a thorough neurological examination which included a CT scan and an EEG, failed to demonstrate any obvious cause for the convulsion. The patient was not an epileptic and was receiving neuroleptic drugs preoperatively for the treatment of schizophrenia. A synergistic role of enflurane and neuroleptic drugs is producing seizure activity in this patients is a distinct possibility. Caution is therefore recommended when administering enflurane to patients on neuroleptic drugs.
A 17-year-old healthy girl was admitted to our hospital with diffuse abdominal pain and decreased oral intake of about 11 days duration. About a week prior to admission, she had taken naproxen, 250 mg four times a day for 4 days. Physical examination was normal except for diffuse abdominal tenderness on deep palpation. Investigations revealed high serum BUN (42 mg/dl) and creatinine (4.0 mg/dl). Serum electrolytes and complement (C3, C4) levels and urinalysis were normal. Antinuclear-antibody and anti-dsDNA were negative. Kidney biopsy revealed renal papillary necrosis, acute tubular necrosis, and focal interstitial nephritis. A diagnosis of nonoliguric acute renal failure due to naproxen nephrotoxicity was made. She received intravenous hydration, and oral steroids, which was gradually discontinued in 3 months. A follow-up at 4 months revealed normal renal function with a serum creatinine of 1.1 mg/dl, BUN 7 mg/dl, and normal urinalysis. The report highlights a need for caution while using naproxen or any other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, even for a short duration.
To assess whether use of tranexamic acid is associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE).
Nested case-control study.
Database study using the General Practice Research Database for the years 1992-1998.
Women aged 15-49 years with a diagnosis of menorrhagia.
Multivariate conditional logistic regression was used to estimate the risk for VTE associated with different drug treatments for menorrhagia, adjusting for confounders.
Adjusted odds ratios with 95% CI.
A total of 134 cases of VTE and 552 matched controls were identified. Recent use of tranexamic acid was scarce, yielding an adjusted odds ratio for VTE of 3.20 (95% CI 0.65-15.78). The use of mefenamic acid (ORadj 5.54 [95% CI 2.13-14.40]) or norethisterone (ORadj 2.41 [95% CI 1.00-5.78]) was associated with an increased risk of VTE, as was a recent--in relation to menorrhagia--diagnosis of anaemia or a haemoglobin value <11.5 g/dl (ORadj 2.23 [95% CI 1.02-4.86]).
We found that tranexamic acid was associated with an increased risk of VTE, although the risk estimate did not reach statistical significance. Increased risks of VTE associated with other treatments for menorrhagia were observed. The increased risk of VTE observed with a diagnosis of anaemia--a proxy for more severe menorrhagia--suggests that menorrhagia could be a prothrombotic condition. The observed association between VTE, tranexamic acid and other treatments for menorrhagia may thus partly be explained by confounding by indication. The possibility that menorrhagia is itself a risk factor for VTE merits further investigation.
Arsenic is a ubiquitous contaminant in drinking water. Whereas arsenic can be directly hepatotoxic, the concentrations/doses required are generally higher than present in the US water supply. However, physiological/biochemical changes that are alone pathologically inert can enhance the hepatotoxic response to a subsequent stimulus. Such a '2-hit' paradigm is best exemplified in chronic fatty liver diseases. Here, the hypothesis that low arsenic exposure sensitizes liver to hepatotoxicity in a mouse model of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease was tested. Accordingly, male C57Bl/6J mice were exposed to low fat diet (LFD; 13% calories as fat) or high fat diet (HFD; 42% calories as fat) and tap water or arsenic (4.9 ppm as sodium arsenite) for ten weeks. Biochemical and histologic indices of liver damage were determined. High fat diet (± arsenic) significantly increased body weight gain in mice compared with low-fat controls. HFD significantly increased liver to body weight ratios; this variable was unaffected by arsenic exposure. HFD caused steatohepatitis, as indicated by histological assessment and by increases in plasma ALT and AST. Although arsenic exposure had no effect on indices of liver damage in LFD-fed animals, it significantly increased the liver damage caused by HFD. This effect of arsenic correlated with enhanced inflammation and fibrin extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition. These data indicate that subhepatotoxic arsenic exposure enhances the toxicity of HFD. These results also suggest that arsenic exposure might be a risk factor for the development of fatty liver disease in human populations.
Nicotine, the major psychoactive compound in tobacco, targets nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and results in drug dependence. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans' (C. elegans) genome encodes conserved and extensive nicotinic receptor subunits, representing a useful system to investigate nicotine-induced nAChR expressions in the context of drug dependence. However, the in vivo expression pattern of nAChR genes under chronic nicotine exposure has not been fully investigated. To define the role of nAChR genes involved in nicotine-induced locomotion changes and the development of tolerance to these effects, we characterized the locomotion behavior combining the use of two systems: the Worm Tracker hardware and the WormLab software. Our results indicate that the combined system is an advantageous alternative to define drug-dependent locomotion behavior in C. elegans. Chronic (24-h dosing) nicotine exposure at 6.17 and 61.7μM induced nicotine-dependent behaviors, including drug stimulation, tolerance/adaption, and withdrawal responses. Specifically, the movement speed of naïve worms on nicotine-containing environments was significantly higher than on nicotine-free environments, suggesting locomotion stimulation by nicotine. In contrast, the 24-h 6.17μM nicotine-treated worms exhibited significantly higher speeds on nicotine-free plates than on nicotine-containing plates. Furthermore significantly increased locomotion behavior during nicotine cessation was observed in worms treated with a higher nicotine concentration of 61.7μM. The relatively low locomotion speed of nicotine-treated worms on nicotine-containing environments also indicates adaption/tolerance of worms to nicotine following chronic nicotine exposure. In addition, this study provides useful information regarding the comprehensive in vivo expression profile of the 28 "core" nAChRs following different dosages of chronic nicotine treatments. Eleven genes (lev-1, acr-6, acr-7, acr-11, lev-8, acr-14, acr-16, acr-20, acr-21, ric-3, and unc-29) were significantly up-regulated following 61.7μM nicotine treatment, in which worms showed significantly increased locomotion behavior. This study provides insights into the linkage between nicotine-induced locomotion behavior and the regulation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.
