The case of a 43-year-old female with propylthiouracil-induced hepatitis is reported. The case is unique because the patient's liver function deteriorated 2 weeks after medication was discontinued.
The splotch gene (Sp) and all-trans retinoic acid (RA) interact to cause spina bifida in mouse embryos. To investigate the mechanisms of action of the two, the spinal regions of Sp homozygotes, RA-treated wild-type, and control wild-type embryos were examined histologically by light microscopy on day 9 of gestation. The mean numbers of cells per section in the neural tube, mesoderm, and notochord were determined, along with the percentages of mitotic and pyknotic nuclei and the numbers of migrating neural crest cells. As well, the effect of Sp and RA on the extracellular matrix was studied histochemically with Alcian blue staining for glycosaminoglycans. The main defect in Sp homozygotes was a marked reduction in the number of migrating neural crest cells and the amount of extracellular matrix around the neural tube. Retinoic acid, on the other hand, caused a number of disruptions in the embryo, including abnormalities in the position of the notochord and the shape of the neural tube. Sp and RA delay neural tube closure and thus cause neural tube defects, through different mechanisms. However, the combined effects of the gene and teratogen on the embryo lead to a greater inhibition of neural tube closure than when either is present separately.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the underlying pathology in breast cancer patients treated with tamoxifen who present with abnormal bleeding. A total of 56 cases were studied and the histopathologic features of 50 curettage and 18 laparotomy specimens were reviewed. All patients were under tamoxifen treatment (10-40 mg daily) for a period ranging from 5 months to 15 years. Cervical and endometrial polyps were the most common finding in the D and C material (44%). Hyperplasia was the most frequent feature identified at hysterectomy, often combined with leiomyomas, adenomyosis and ovarian tumors. Five primary adenocarcinomas of the endometrium, most of them Stage I beta, Grade I minimally invading, were found as well. These data support the hypothesis that tamoxifen exerts a proliferative estrogen-like effect on the uterus. Abnormal bleeding in women under TAM treatment warrants prompt investigation and careful follow up of the patients.
We studied the genetic control of murine contact photosensitivity (CPS)1 to 3,3',4',5-tetrachlorosalicylanilide (TCSA) that was induced by subcutaneous injection of TCSA-photomodified epidermal cells (photoTCSA-EC) and spleen cells (photoTCSA-SC). With regard to the H-2 locus, sensitization with both types of photohaptenated cells showed the same pattern of CPS responses: H-2k and H-2b,d haplotypes were closely associated with low and high responders, respectively. On the other hand, the Igh locus affected the CPS reaction induced by photoTCSA-SC but not -EC; the Igh-1d allotype was related to low responsiveness, while high responders possessed Igh-1a,b. Thus, the photoTCSA-SC sensitization was controlled by H-2 and Igh in a codominant manner. The photoTCSA-SC-induced responses of H-2k but not Igh-1d mice were enhanced by CY pretreatment, suggesting that the mechanisms of low responsiveness in H-2k and Igh-1d mice were different. H-2 identity between donors of photoTCSA-EC and recipients was sufficient for effective sensitization, whereas both H-2 and Igh between donors of photoTCSA-SC and recipients should be identical to obtain maximum sensitization. This further confirmed the involvement of the Igh complex in the genetic control of CPS evoked by photoTCSA-SC. B cells as well as macrophages served as an effective presentation template for the photoTCSA-SC sensitization in the high responder Igh-1a mice, whereas B cells failed in inducing the CPS reaction in the low responder Igh-1d mice. These results suggest that B cells play an essential role in the Igh control phenomenon seen in the photoTCSA-SC sensitization. The present study demonstrated that CPS induced by photohapten-modified cells are differentially regulated by the H-2 and Igh gene loci depending on the cell type used for sensitization.
Rats previously implanted with chronic double walled cannulae aimed at the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) ate and drank reliably after minute injections of norepinephrine and carbachol respectively. Later on the rats were curarized and artificially respirated. After an habituation period during which rectal temperature, cardiac rate and peripheral vasomotor activity were continuously recorded, half of the subjects were injected with 1 mul of norepinephrine (40 x 10(-9) moles) and the other half with 1 mul of carbachol (2.4 x 10(-9)moles). Both drugs elicited hypothermia, bradycardia and vasodilatation. Bradycardia after carbachol was significantly greater than after norepinephrine and hypothermia and vasodilatation after norepinephrine were significantly greater than after carbachol. When the treatments were reversed essentially the same effects were observed.
Abnormal sensation and pain are major dose-limiting factors in cancer chemotherapy with vincristine. In this study, we have adapted a model of this condition by using repeated daily intraperitoneal injections of vincristine in rats. Mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia without change in responses to thermal stimuli were first observed following 5-8 days of vincristine treatment (0.1mg/kg/day) and then persisted throughout the remainder of the treatment interval (2-3 weeks). Electrophysiological recording from wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the lumbar (L4-L5) spinal dorsal horn in hyperalgesic rats demonstrated significantly increased spontaneous activity and after-discharges to noxious mechanical stimuli (von Frey filaments with a bending force greater than 58.02mN, skin compression 1.3 and 3N, 1mm(2)), increased acute A- and C-fiber responses, after-discharges and abnormal 'wind-up' to electrical stimuli (5mA, 2ms) at 0.1Hz applied across the receptive field. These results suggest a state of central sensitization develops in spinal WDR neurons with repeated vincristine treatment that contributes to the spontaneous pain and hyperalgesia seen in patients and the hyperresponsiveness to sensory stimuli seen in animals treated with vincristine.
The urothelium covering the luminal surface of the urinary bladder has developed an efficient permeability barrier that protects it against the back-flow of toxins eliminated in the urine. The subapical endocytic vesicles containing the urinary bladder fluid phase are formed during the micturition cycle by endocytosis processes of the superficial cells. In normal conditions, the permeability barrier of the endocytic vesicles blocks the passage of the fluid phase to the cellular cytoplasm and the fluid is recycled to the bladder lumen. The aim of this work was to investigate the alteration of the endocytic vesicle membrane permeability barrier to toxins such as iAs (inorganic arsenic) administered in drinking water. By using an induced endocytosis model and the fluorescence requenching technique, it is shown that the exposure of rats to ingestion of water containing iAs not only induced pre-cancerous morphological changes, but allowed the differential leakage of an endocytosed fluorescent marker, HPTS, and its quencher, DPX, (hydroxypyrene-1,3,6-trisulfonic acid and p-xylene-bis-pyridinium bromide, respectively) out of the vesicular lumen. The leakage of the cationic DPX was almost complete, while the release of the anionic HPTS molecule was partial and higher in arsenic-treated-rats than in controls. Such membrane alteration would allow the toxins to elude the permeability barrier and to leak out of the endocytic vesicles, thus establishing a "bypass" to the permeability barrier. The retention of As in the urinary bladder, assessed by synchrotron radiation X-ray fluorescence spectrometry (SR-μXRF), was lower than the kidney accumulation of arsenic previously observed by our group and was accompanied by altered concentrations of K, Ca, Fe, Cu and Zn, all ions related to cellular metabolism. The results support the hypothesis that low amounts of endocytosed As can accumulate in the interior of the urothelial superficial cells and initiate the cytotoxic effects reflected in the morphological alterations observed.
The aim of this study was the development of an alternative testing method based on human embryonic stem cells for prenatal developmental toxicity with particular emphasis on early neural development. To this purpose, we designed an in vitro protocol based on the generation of neural rosettes, representing the in vitro counterpart of the developing neural plate and neural tube, and we challenged this complex cell model with retinoic acid (RA), a well-known teratogenic agent. The cells were exposed to different concentrations of RA during the process of rosettes formation. Morphological and molecular parameters were evaluated in treated as compared with untreated cells to detect both cytotoxicity and specific neural toxicity. Transcriptomic analysis was performed with microarray Affymetrix platform and validated by quantitative real-time PCR for genes relevant to early neural development such as HoxA1, HoxA3, HoxB1, HoxB4, FoxA2, FoxC1, Otx2, and Pax7. The results obtained demonstrated that neural rosette forming cells respond to RA with clear concentration-dependent morphological, and gene expression changes remarkably similar to those induced in vivo, in the developing neural tube, by RA exposure. This strict correspondence indicates that the neural rosette protocol described is capable of detecting specific teratogenic mechanisms causing perturbations of early neural development and therefore represents a promising alternative test for human prenatal developmental toxicity.
Cyanobacterial microcystins (MCs) represent a toxin group with > 100 variants, requiring active uptake into cells via organic anion-transporting polypeptides, in order to irreversibly inhibit serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatases. MCs are a human health hazard with repeated occurrences of severe poisonings. In the well-known human MC intoxication in Caruaru, Brazil (1996), patients developed signs of acute neurotoxicity, e.g., deafness, tinnitus, and intermittent blindness, as well as subsequent hepatotoxicity. The latter data, in conjunction with some animal studies, suggest that MCs are potent neurotoxins. However, there is little data to date demonstrating MC neuron-specific toxicity. MC exposure-induced cytotoxicity, caspase activity, chromatin condensation, and microtubule-associated Tau protein hyperphosphorylation (epitopes serine199/202 and serine396) were determined. Neurite degeneration was analyzed with confocal microscopy and neurite length determined using image analysis. MC-induced apoptosis was significantly increased by MC-LF and MC-LW, however, only at high concentrations (≥ 3μM), whereas significant neurite degeneration was already observed at 0.5μM MC-LF. Moreover, sustained hyperphosphorylation of Tau was observed with all MC congeners. The concentration- and congener-dependent mechanisms observed suggest that low concentrations of MC-LF and MC-LW can induce subtle neurodegenerative effects, reminiscent of Alzheimer's disease type human tauopathies, and thus should be taken more seriously with regard to potential human health effects than the apical cytotoxicity (apoptosis or necrosis) demonstrated at high MC concentrations.
The cardiovascular effects of tetrahydroaminoacridine (tacrine; THA) were investigated in haemorrhaged rats. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of THA (10, 25 and 50 microg) restored blood pressure in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Atropine (10 microg, i.c.v.), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, attenuated the pressor response to THA (25 microg, i.c.v.), while mecamylamine (50 microg, i.c.v.), a nicotinic receptor antagonist, caused only a slight blockade in the pressor effect of THA. Simultaneous pretreatment with atropine and mecamylamine almost abolished the blood pressure effect of i.c.v. THA (25 microg). Haemorrhage increased plasma levels of adrenaline, noradrenaline, vasopressin and plasma renin activity. THA (25 microg, i.c.v.) administration caused additional increases in vasopressin and adrenaline levels but not of renin activity and noradrenaline levels. The reversal of hypotension by THA was greatly attenuated by administration of either prazosin, an alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.) or by the vasopressin V(1) receptor antagonist [beta-mercapto-beta,beta-cyclopenta-methylenepropionyl(1), O-Me-Tyr(2)-Arg(8)]-vasopressin (10 microg/kg, i.v.). Pretreatment of rats with both prazosin and the vasopressin antagonist simultaneously completely inhibited the pressor response. Intravenous administration of THA (1, 1.5 and 3 mg/kg) also reversed hypotension in rats. Atropine (10 microg, i.c.v.) greatly attenuated the pressor response to THA (1.5 mg/kg, i.v.), while mecamylamine (50 microg, i.c.v.) failed to change the pressor effect of THA. In anaesthetised haemorrhaged rats, THA (1.5 mg/kg, i.v.) increased blood pressure and survival time of the animals. These results show that centrally and peripherally injected THA reverses haemorrhagic hypotension and increases survival time in rats. Activation of central muscarinic and nicotinic receptors is involved in the pressor response to i.c.v. THA. The pressor effect of i.v. THA is solely mediated by central muscarinic receptors. Moreover, the increase in plasma adrenaline and vasopressin levels appears to be involved in the pressor effect of THA.
The objective of this prospective, observational clinical study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of once-daily and twice-daily directly observed therapy (DOT) in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients undergoing methadone treatment. Methadone and highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) were dispensed daily as DOT, with patients in the twice-daily HAART group self-administering the second dose. Clinical and laboratory end points were monitored, along with the impact of ongoing cocaine use. We studied 54 patients coinfected with HIV and hepatitis C virus. At baseline, the median virus load was 111,000 copies/mL, and the median CD4+ cell count was 165 cells/mm3. After a median of 24 months, 17 of 29 patients in the once-daily HAART group and 18 of 25 in the twice-daily HAART group had virus loads of <400 copies/mL, regardless of ongoing cocaine use. Thirty-two patients required methadone dose adjustment, which was managed without modification of HAART. Treatment-limiting hepatic toxicity was rare. A DOT program of coadministered methadone and HAART can be implemented with good results, even for patients who continue to use cocaine.
We describe a case of aplastic anemia in an 8-year-old girl which was diagnosed 8 months after initiation of ethosuximide as treatment for absence seizures. Blood counts had been previously monitored and were normal. The patient successfully underwent allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. Only 8 cases of ethosuximide-associated aplastic anemia have been reported, and in only one of these reports, was ethosuximide used as a single antiepileptic agent. This rare, but potentially fatal complication of ethosuximide raises the question of whether routine monitoring of blood counts during ethosuximide therapy is useful and should be undertaken.
The perirhinal cortex (PRh) has been strongly implicated in object recognition memory and visual stimulus representation. Studies of object recognition have revealed evidence for the involvement of several neurotransmitter subsystems, including those involving NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartic acid) and muscarinic cholinergic receptors. In the present study, we assessed the possible involvement of PRh and related receptor subsystems in two-choice visual discrimination learning by Lister Hooded rats tested in touchscreen-equipped operant boxes. In Experiment 1, daily pre-training inactivation of PRh with the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol (0.5 microg/hemisphere) significantly impaired acquisition of the two-choice visual discrimination. In Experiment 2, daily pre-training blockade of either NMDA or muscarinic receptors in PRh with AP5 (5.9 microg/hemisphere) or scopolamine (10 microg/hemisphere), respectively, impaired task acquisition. These results parallel the findings from object recognition studies and suggest a generality of neurotransmitter receptor involvement underlying the role of PRh in both object recognition memory and visual discrimination learning. The involvement of PRh in both types of tasks may be related to its role in complex visual stimulus representation.
Multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) are an inhomogeneous group of nanomaterials that vary in lengths, shapes and types of metal contamination, which makes hazard evaluation difficult. Here we present a toxicogenomic analysis of female C57BL/6 mouse lungs following a single intratracheal instillation of 0, 18, 54 or 162 μg/mouse of a small, curled (CNT(Small), 0.8 ± 0.1 μm in length) or large, thick MWCNT (CNT(Large), 4 ± 0.4 μm in length). The two MWCNTs were extensively characterized by SEM and TEM imaging, thermogravimetric analysis, and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area analysis. Lung tissues were harvested 24h, 3 days and 28 days post-exposure. DNA microarrays were used to analyze gene expression, in parallel with analysis of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, lung histology, DNA damage (comet assay) and the presence of reactive oxygen species (dichlorodihydrofluorescein assay), to profile and characterize related pulmonary endpoints. Overall changes in global transcription following exposure to CNT(Small) or CNT(Large) were similar. Both MWCNTs elicited strong acute phase and inflammatory responses that peaked at day 3, persisted up to 28 days, and were characterized by increased cellular influx in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, interstitial pneumonia and gene expression changes. However, CNT(Large) elicited an earlier onset of inflammation and DNA damage, and induced more fibrosis and a unique fibrotic gene expression signature at day 28, compared to CNT(Small). The results indicate that the extent of change at the molecular level during early response phases following an acute exposure is greater in mice exposed to CNT(Large), which may eventually lead to the different responses observed at day 28.
The aim of these studies was to characterize the action of STX140 in a P-glycoprotein-overexpressing tumor cell line both in vitro and in vivo. In addition, its efficacy was determined against xenografts derived from patients who failed docetaxel therapy.
The effects of STX140, Taxol, and 2-methoxyestradiol (2-MeOE2) on cell proliferation, cell cycle, and apoptosis were assessed in vitro in drug-resistant cells (MCF-7(DOX)) and the parental cell line (MCF-7(WT)). Mice bearing an MCF-7(DOX) tumor on one flank and an MCF-7(WT) tumor on the other flank were used to assess the in vivo efficacy. Furthermore, the responses to STX140 of three xenografts, derived from drug-resistant patients, were assessed.
In this study, STX140 caused cell cycle arrest, cyclin B1 induction, and subsequent apoptosis of both MCF-7(DOX) and MCF-7(WT) cells. Taxol and 2-MeOE2 were only active in the MCF-7(WT) parental cell line. Although both STX140 and Taxol inhibited the growth of xenografts derived from MCF-7(WT) cells, only STX140 inhibited the growth of tumors derived from MCF-7(DOX) cells. 2-MeOE2 was ineffective at the dose tested against both tumor types. Two out of the three newly derived docetaxel-resistant xenografts, including a metastatic triple-negative tumor, responded to STX140 but not to docetaxel treatment.
STX140 shows excellent efficacy in both MCF-7(WT) and MCF-7(DOX) breast cancer xenograft models, in contrast to Taxol and 2-MeOE2. The clinical potential of STX140 was further highlighted by the efficacy seen in xenografts recently derived from patients who had failed on taxane therapy.
Review of the literature shows that long-term phenytoin therapy is associated with peripheral neuropathy and neuromuscular disorder that rarely can be symptomatic. The usual manifestations of the peripheral neuropathy are lower extremity areflexia, sensory deficits, and reduced conduction velocities. The risk for these peripheral nerve abnormalities is greater with increased serum levels or long duration of therapy (usually more than 5 years). The relative risks according to age groups or number and kinds of antiepileptic drugs used are undetermined. It is not known if detected abnormalities are static or slowly progressive. Isolated case reports have claimed the resolution of signs and symptoms after discontinuance of therapy or correction of a state of intoxication. Appropriate measures to prevent the appearance or progression of the complications are discussed in light of the available evidence.
Seven cases of myasthenia induced by D-penicillamine treatment of rheumatoid arthritis are presented. The 86 cases published so far are reviewed. The clinical symptoms do not differ from those of the idiopathic form. Progress is rapid and, generally, good. The duration and dosage of the treatment are not involved. The presence of acetylcholine-antireceptor antibodies confirms the autoimmune origin of the condition. Possible mechanisms by which this disorder could be induced are discussed. Investigation of HLA phenotypes suggests that the genetic basis of induced myasthenia differs from that of the idiopathic form (increased prevalence of DR1).
Epigenetic therapy for solid tumors could benefit from an in vivo model that defines tumor characteristics of responsiveness and resistance to facilitate patient selection. Here we report that combining the histone deacetylase inhibitor entinostat with the demethylating agent vidaza profoundly affected growth of K-ras/p53 mutant lung adenocarcinomas engrafted orthotopically in immunocompromised nude rats by targeting and ablating pleomorphic cells that occupied up to 75% of the tumor masses. A similar reduction in tumor burden was seen with epigenetic therapy in K-ras or EGFR mutant tumors growing orthotopically. Increased expression of proapoptotic genes and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 was seen. Hundreds of genes were demethylated highlighted by the reexpression of polycomb-regulated genes coding for transcription factor binding proteins and the p16 gene, a key regulator of the cell cycle. Highly significant gene expression changes were seen in key regulatory pathways involved in cell cycle, DNA damage, apoptosis, and tissue remodeling. These findings show the promise for epigenetic therapy in cancer management and provide an orthotopic lung cancer model that can assess therapeutic efficacy and reprogramming of the epigenome in tumors harboring different genetic and epigenetic profiles to guide use of these drugs.
A 31-year-old woman developed acute visual loss in her right eye immediately after a 5-day course of CC for primary infertility. Although she gradually recovered vision, she did not return to 20/20 acuity in that eye. As CC may cause vascular sludging, it is hypothesized that increased blood viscosity resulted in sufficiently reduced flow in a posterior ciliary artery to produce an anterior ischemic optic neuropathy. Patients experiencing visual symptoms while taking clomiphene should have their eyes examined promptly for evidence of visual changes or optic nerve injury.
Methotrexate (MTX) embryopathy was described nearly 50 years ago, when this agent began to be used as a cancer treatment and abortifacient. In this report we describe a case with typical features of MTX syndrome together with new features to expand the phenotype.
A 29-year-old woman decided to terminate her unwanted pregnancy because of ill health, as she had conceived soon after her last delivery by cesarian section. At 6 weeks of gestation, she took 2.5 mg of MTX 3 times a day for 7 days. The pregnancy termination failed, and the pregnancy was carried to term. A female infant was delivered who was growth retarded and had characteristic features of MTX embryopathy in addition to holoprosencephaly and other brain malformations, facial hypertrichosis, and long eyelashes--features that have not hitherto been described.
We report the first case of holoprosencephaly in association with MTX exposure during the first 6 weeks of gestation. Physicians and the public should be aware of the effects of MTX on the fetus during pregnancy.
Hand-Foot Syndrome (HFS) is commonly reported in treatment with liposomal doxorubicin (LD) and capecitabine. We present 3 cases of HFS recall with gefitinib after previous LD therapy. The first 2 cases, in patients with head and neck cancer previously treated with paclitaxel and LD, developed on subsequent therapy with gefitinib. One patient had previously developed HFS on LD and the other had not. In both patients HFS resolved after stopping gefitinib. The third case is of a patient with ovarian cancer, also treated with gefitinib after LD, who developed HFS recall which resolved after gefitinib withdrawal. HFS can occur with gefitinib in patients who have been previously exposed to agents known to cause HFS.
Regimens using cyclosporin (CSP) and either methylprednisolone (MP) or methotrexate (MTX) have been useful in the prophylaxis of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). However, CSP produces a number of side effects, including neurologic toxicity. A retrospective review of recipients of 239 BMTs given CSP-based prophylactic regimens revealed that 10 patients (4.2%, 95% confidence interval 0% to 10.4%) experienced a syndrome characterized by hypertension, severe visual disturbances, seizures and occipital lobe density changes on brain computed tomography (nine patients) or nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (one patient). Neurologic findings were reversible in all cases, usually after temporary discontinuation of CSP. Univariate analysis identified the following risk factors for neurotoxicity: use of unrelated or HLA-mismatched related donors, administration of etoposide (VP-16) or total body irradiation as part of conditioning, use of corticosteroids for prophylaxis or treatment of acute GVHD, or development of either acute GVHD or clinically significant microangiopathic hemolytic anemia (MAHA) post-BMT. In multivariate analysis, the most important predictors were the use of VP-16 (p = 0.008), the use of a continuous infusion CSP plus MP prophylactic regimen for GVHD (p = 0.003) and the development of MAHA after BMT (p less than 0.001). The strong association with MAHA suggests that endothelial damage is related to the development of this complication.
Angioedema is a rare but potentially life-threatening adverse effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. A patient who presented with facial angioedema four months after initiating antihypertensive treatment with enalapril is described. Angioedema due to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors usually appears during the first weeks of treatment. Late-onset angioedema is often unrecognized.
A 47-year-old woman presented for mastectomy and immediate latissimus dorsi flap reconstruction having been diagnosed with carcinoma of the breast 6 months previously. In the preceding months she had received neo-adjuvant chemotherapy with epirubicin, paclitaxel (Taxol) and cyclophosphamide. This had been apparently uncomplicated and she had maintained a remarkably high level of physical activity. She was found to be bradycardic at pre-operative assessment but had no cardiac symptoms. Second degree Mobitz type II atrioventricular block was diagnosed on electrocardiogram, and temporary transvenous ventricular pacing instituted in the peri-operative period. We discuss how evidence-based guidelines would not have been helpful in this case, and how chemotherapy can exhibit substantial cardiotoxicity that may develop over many years. We suggest that patients who have received chemotherapy at any time should have a pre-operative electrocardiogram even if they are asymptomatic.
Platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa is a membrane receptor for fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor, and it has an important role in platelet aggregation. It is known to be involved in the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndromes. Previously, we found a high frequency of a particular polymorphism, PlA2, of the gene encoding glycoprotein IIIa in kindreds with a high prevalence of premature myocardial infarction.
To investigate the relation between the PlA2 polymorphism and acute coronary syndromes, we conducted a case-control study of 71 case patients with myocardial infarction or unstable angina and 68 inpatient controls without known heart disease. The groups were matched for age, race, and sex. We used two methods to determine the PlA genotype: reverse dot blot hybridization and allele-specific restriction digestion.
The prevalence of PlA2 was 2.1 times higher among the case patients than among the controls (39.4 percent vs. 19.1 percent, P=0.01). In a subgroup of patients whose disease began before the age of 60 years, the prevalence of PlA2 was 50 percent, a value that was 3.6 times that among control subjects under 60 years of age (13.9 percent, P=0.002). Among subjects with the PlA2 polymorphism, the odds ratio for having a coronary event was 2.8 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.2 to 6.4). In the patients less than 60 years of age at the onset of disease, the odds ratio was 6.2 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.8 to 22.4).
We observed a strong association between the PlA2 polymorphism of the glycoprotein IIIa gene and acute coronary thrombosis, and this association was strongest in patients who had had coronary events before the age of 60 years.
