It has been suggested that a sub-population of dopamine D3 receptors is located pre-synaptically and these serve as autoreceptors in dopamine projection areas such as the nucleus accumbens/ventral striatum. To study further the physiological role and synaptic location of the dopamine D3 receptor, we have investigated the in vivo effect of the D3/D2 receptor agonist quinelorane on amphetamine-induced hyperactivity and extracellular dopamine release from the nucleus accumbens of the conscious rat. Amphetamine increased dopamine release to 202 +/- 34% of pre-injection control values, but quinelorane at 2.5 micrograms/kg, a dose which effectively blocked amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion, had no significant effect on amphetamine-induced dopamine release. These data suggest that hyperlocomotion is mediated via post-synaptic rather than pre-synaptic dopamine receptors. Since quinelorane has significant affinity for the dopamine D3 receptor, these effects may be via post-synaptic D3 receptors; however, D2 receptor effects cannot be disregarded. In summary, these data indicate that the quinelorane effect on amphetamine-stimulated hyperlocomotion is not mediated via D3 or D2 autoreceptors, but rather a population of receptors located post-synaptically, which appear to mediate the inhibition of rat locomotor activity.
A 38-year-old white woman developed left medical rectus myositis possibly due to an immune response to mepivacaine (Carbocaine) injected around her upper left first molar. Ten months after resolution, a recurrence of left medial restus myositis and also left lateral rectus myositis occured after the injection of chemically related lidocaine (Xylocaine) in the same area. At this time, with gaze to the left, there appeared vertical pendular nystagmus of greater amplitude in the involved eye, in the absence of systemic neurologic or posterior fossa disease. This association of vertical pendular nystagmus with chronic myositis of the medial and lateral rectus, to my knowledge, has not been previously reported.
The effect of cocaine (7.5, 15 and 30 mg/kg) administered in acute or subchronic mode, on the mating behaviour of sexually active male rats varied in a dose- and mode-dependent manner. Regardless of mode of treatment, 30 mg/kg markedly impaired the rats copulatory ability and impairment continued for a week after suspension of subchronic treatment. An acute dose of 15 mg/kg reduced intromission frequency, while in subchronic mode it also reduced ejaculation latency. Mount frequency was increased by 7.5 and 15 mg/kg, but only on first injection. In the case of sexually-naive male rats, acute administration of cocaine (3-30 mg/kg) stimulated penile erections at 7.5 mg/kg and motor hyperactivity at all doses. (-) Eticlopride (0.025 and 0.05 mg/kg), a DA D2 antagonist, counteracted cocaine-induced motor hyperactivity but not penile erection, which it enhanced. (-) Eticlopride at the same doses also antagonized cocaine potentiation of lisuride (0.2 mg/kg)-induced behavioural effects. When male rats treated with subchronic cocaine (15 mg/kg) were injected with the DA D2 agonist SND 919 (0.1 mg/kg), they displayed a more marked stretching-yawning behaviour than control animals receiving SND 919 at the same dose. The involvement of DA D2 receptors in cocaine-induced effects is suggested.
We report two infants with gastrointestinal anomalies: one with esophageal atresia and tracheo-esophageal fistula and the other with biliary tree atresia, born to hyperthyroid women diagnosed and treated with methimazole after 14 weeks' gestation. Euthyroidism was documented in both infants. These cases raise the issue of whether untreated hyperthyroidism and not methimazole intake is the teratogen.
Leukotrienes are increased locally in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Furthermore, a role for these arachidonic acid metabolites has been thoroughly characterized in the animal bleomycin model of lung fibrosis by using different gene knock-out settings. We investigated the efficacy of pharmacological inhibition of leukotrienes activity in the development of bleomycin-induced lung injury by comparing the responses in wild-type mice with mice treated with zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor and MK-571, a cys-leukotrienes receptor antagonist. Mice were subjected to intra-tracheal administration of bleomycin or saline and were assigned to receive either MK-571 at 1 mg/Kg or zileuton at 50 mg/Kg daily. One week after bleomycin administration, BAL cell counts, lung histology with van Gieson for collagen staining and immunohistochemical analysis for myeloperoxidase, IL-1 and TNF-alpha were performed. Following bleomycin administration both MK-571 and zileuton treated mice exhibited a reduced degree of lung damage and inflammation when compared to WT mice as shown by the reduction of:(i) loss of body weight, (ii) mortality rate, (iii) lung infiltration by neutrophils (myeloperoxidase activity, BAL total and differential cell counts), (iv) lung edema, (v) histological evidence of lung injury and collagen deposition, (vi) lung myeloperoxidase, IL-1 and TNF-alpha staining. This is the first study showing that the pharmacological inhibition of leukotrienes activity attenuates bleomycin-induced lung injury in mice. Given our results as well as those coming from genetic studies, it might be considered meaningful to trial this drug class in the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis, a disease that still represents a major challenge to medical treatment.
Trichloroethylene (TCE), dichloroacetic acid (DCA), and trichloroacetic acid (TCA) are environmental contaminants that are carcinogenic in mouse liver. 5-Methylcytosine (5-MeC) in DNA is a mechanism that controls the transcription of mRNA, including the protooncogenes, c-jun and c-myc. We have previously reported that TCE decreased methylation of the c-jun and c-myc genes and increased the level of their mRNAs. Decreased methylation of the protooncogenes could be a result of a deficiency in S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), so that methionine, by increasing the level of SAM, would prevent hypomethylation of the genes. For 5 days, female B6C3F1 mice were administered, daily by oral gavage, either 1000 mg/kg body weight of TCE or 500 mg/kg DCA or TCA. At 30 min after each dose of carcinogen, the mice received, by ip injection, 0-, 30-, 100-, 300-, or 450-mg/kg methionine. Mice were euthanized at 100 min after the last dose of DCA, TCA, or TCE. Decreased methylation in the promoter regions of the c-jun and c-myc genes and increased levels of their mRNA and proteins were found in livers of mice exposed to TCE, DCA, and TCA. Methionine prevented both the decreased methylation and the increased levels of the mRNA and proteins of the two pro-tooncogenes. The prevention by methionine of DCA- TCA-, and TCE-induced DNA hypomethylation supports the hypothesis that these carcinogens act by depleting the availability of SAM. Hence, methionine would prevent DNA hypomethylation by maintaining the level of SAM. Furthermore, the results suggest that the dose of DCA, TCA, or TCE must be sufficient to decrease the level of SAM in order for these carcinogens to be active.
(1) There is no reference first-line chemotherapy regimen for metastatic breast cancer. Anthracycline-based combinations are generally used. One of the main problems with anthracyclines is the risk of heart failure, both during and some time after treatment. (2) A liposomal pegylated doxorubicin, an anthracycline, is now available in Europe. The aim of pegylation is supposedly to reduce the cardiotoxicity relative to standard doxorubicin. The marketing licence specifies that liposomal pegylated doxorubicin must not be used in combination with other drugs in people with metastatic breast cancer. This is the second liposomal doxorubicin preparation to be authorised for this use in France; we concluded that the first product, a non-pegylated form, offered no therapeutic advance. (3) According to the only available comparative trial, liposomal pegylated doxorubicin is no more effective than standard doxorubicin in terms of the duration or quality of survival. (4) In this trial, liposomal pegylated doxorubicin was associated with slightly fewer cardioechographic abnormalities than standard doxorubicin. (5) Other adverse events were also less common (hair loss, nausea and vomiting, and neutropenia), while some were more common (palmoplantar erythrodysesthesia, stomatitis and mucitis). Overall, 24% of patients stopped using liposomal pegylated doxorubicin because of adverse events, compared with 11% of patients receiving standard doxorubicin. (6) Unlike liposomal non-pegylated doxorubicin, the liposomal pegylated form is no more difficult than standard doxorubicin to prepare for injection. (7) In practice, when the decision is made to use doxorubicin, the standard form, at an appropriate dose, is suitable for most patients, as long as cardiac function is closely monitored. Differences in the adverse effect profile (especially hair loss) may make liposomal pegylated doxorubicin more attractive to some patients (it costs 20 times more than standard doxorubicin in France).
Liposome encapsulation of doxorubicin (DXR) has been shown to increase the therapeutic index of the drug in several animal systems. The prevention of peak plasma concentrations of free drug might be a major factor contributing to the beneficial effects resulting from liposome encapsulation. If so, the administration of DXR as a continuous infusion should also lead to an improved therapeutic index. In the present paper, the administration of liposome-encapsulated DXR is compared with the infusion of DXR with regard to their potential to preserve antitumor activity, enhance survival and reduce cardiomyo- and nephropathy in IgM immunocytoma-bearing Lou/M Wsl rats. Plasma concentrations of DXR were determined to correlate the biological results with pharmacokinetic parameters. Liposomes containing phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine and cholesterol (extrusion-multilamellar vesicles) were used. Bolus injections of free DXR (free DXR) and DXR liposomes (lip-DXR) in a multiple-dose regimen were compared with 24-h infusions of the same cumulative doses of DXR (inf-DXR). The antitumor activity of inf-DXR equalled that of free DXR as well as that of lip-DXR at doses of greater than 0.25 mg/kg. The overall survival of tumor-bearing animals treated with 2.0 mg/kg lip-DXR was significantly prolonged (P less than 0.01) in comparison with that of animals treated with 2.0 mg/kg free DXR; however, treatment with 2.0 mg/kg inf-DXR did not induce a significant prolongation of survival. At a cumulative dose of 12 mg/kg, inf-DXR appeared to be as effective as lip-DXR in reducing the severity of cardiomyopathy induced by free DXR. However, for the reduction of nephropathy, only therapy with lip-DXR was effective. Inf-DXR induced high nephropathy scores comparable with those obtained with free DXR. For the first 24 h after an injection of 2.0 mg/kg or after the start of a continuous infusion of 2.0 mg/kg given over 24 h, similar areas under the plasma concentration-time curves (AUC) were calculated for free DXR and inf-DXR. However, for lip-DXR a much higher value was calculated. The higher plasma levels of lip-DXR did not result in higher cardiac levels. After five daily doses of 2.0 mg/kg, a much lower DXR concentration was found in cardiac tissue after the administration of lip-DXR than after the administration of free DXR or inf-DXR. This suggests that an important parameter to be determined and correlated with biological results is the free (i.e. not bound to liposomes) circulating fraction of DXR in lip-DXR-injected animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A 67-year-old woman died with massive fatty change in the liver 41 hours after her second enflurane anaesthetic in 28 days. The clinical features of five previously reported similar deaths are summarised. Possible mechanisms of the hepatotoxicity are reviewed briefly.
The therapeutic efficacy of praziquantel, pyrantel embonate and febantel (Drontal Flavour Plus) for three and five consecutive days was evaluated for treating naturally acquired giardiasis in dogs. In the study, 24 dogs naturally infected with Giardia were divided into three groups of eight dogs each. Dogs were treated at the recommended dosage for three or five consecutive days, and a control group remained untreated. Faecal samples from each dog were submitted to coprological examination from day-4 to -2 and at days 5, 7, 9 and 11. Faecal consistency was also assessed daily to study end. All dogs in the control group remained positive until study end. Giardia cysts were not detected in faeces of six of the eight dogs in the group treated on three consecutive days, and in faeces of five of the dogs in the group treated on five consecutive days. Unformed to diarrhoeic faeces were more often reported in dogs in the untreated control group than in dogs in both treatment groups. Efficacy of treatment for five consecutive days was not statistically better than treatment for three consecutive days.
The main aim of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of propafenone versus quinidine as an initial choice in treatment of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
The study consisted of a 3-month treatment with oral propafenone hydrochloride or quinidine sulphate in patients with paroxysmal symptomatic atrial fibrillation, according to a double-blind randomized system.
The study was performed in the out-patient clinic of university hospital.
The effects of the two drugs on attack frequency, ventricular rate and symptoms of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
In the oral propafenone group (n = 48), two patients (4%) discontinued the treatment because of dizziness. In the 46 patients who continued the treatment, the attack frequency decreased from 11 +/- 3 times per week at baseline to 1 +/- 1 times per week after treatment (P < 0.01). Forty (87%) out of the 46 patients had effective response to oral propafenone (more than 75% reduction of symptomatic arrhythmic attacks) on a mean dose of 615 +/- 10 mg day-1; the decrease in attack frequency was from 10 +/- 3 to 1 +/- 1 times per week. Twenty-three (50%) patients were free from recurrence of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Comparisons of symptom scores for patients (n = 23) with attacks of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation after oral propafenone treatment showed that there was a significantly lower symptom score of palpitation, asthenia, effort dyspnea, dizziness, rest dyspnea and chest oppression in attacks of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation after propafenone treatment (11.05 +/- 3.78 versus 7.60 +/- 3.46, P < 0.01). From the oral quinidine group (n = 48), two patients (4%) discontinued treatment because of gastrointestinal discomfort. In the 46 patients who continued the treatment, the attack frequency decreased from 11 +/- 4 times per week at baseline to 3 +/- 2 times per week after treatment (P < 0.01). Twenty-one (46%) out of the 46 patients had effective response to oral quinidine on a mean dose of 1067 +/- 462 mg day-1, with a decrease in attack frequency from 12 +/- 3 to 1 +/- 1 times per week. Only 10 (22%) patients were free from recurrence of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Comparisons of symptom scores for patients (n = 36) with attacks of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation after quinidine treatment showed that there was no significant decrease of symptom score in attacks of atrial fibrillation (10.65 +/- 3.92 versus 10.20 +/- 3.80, P = 0.57). Furthermore, the percentage decrease of ventricular rate during atrial fibrillation was significantly greater in patients with propafenone (-25 +/- 4% versus -8 +/- 3%, P < 0.01).
Oral propafenone appeared to be more effective than quinidine in suppressing attacks and alleviating symptoms of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Abrupt clonidine withdrawal may be associated with sharp marked increases in catecholamine levels, heart rate, and blood pressure, which may induce nausea, vomiting, and palpitations. Relatively little information is available on the incidence of cardiac arrhythmias in this setting. With continuous ambulatory ECG recordings, we determined the incidence of arrhythmias in seven male hypertensive patients (without active heart disease) after abrupt clonidine withdrawal. Serious ventricular arrhythmias, including brief ventricular tachycardia, developed in two patients who had greater increases in mean systolic blood pressure (28 +/- 3 vs 10 +/- 8 mm Hg) and double product (552 +/- 681 vs 333 +/- 195) than the others. The differences were not significant. Ventricular arrhythmias were not related to age, dose, withdrawal symptoms, initial blood pressure, urinary norepinephrine levels, or ECG abnormalities. We conclude that serious ventricular arrhythmias may be relatively common but unpredictable during clonidine withdrawal, even in patients with no clinically apparent heart disease. The triggering of ventricular arrhythmias should be added to the list of components of clonidine withdrawal syndrome.
A set of research diagnostic criteria was developed to identify potential obsessive-compulsive disorders among individuals with mental retardation and aberrant behaviors. The behavior disorders of 10 subjects who met criteria for compulsive behavior disorder and 6 subjects who did not (comparison subjects) were treated using the medication fluoxetine. All subjects were evaluated using an A-B open-trial method with 4-month baseline and treatment phases. Seven of the 10 subjects with compulsive behavior disorder responded favorably to fluoxetine treatment; none of the comparison subjects responded favorably to this medication. Further, there appeared to be a relation between manifest motor stereotypies, compulsive behaviors, and response to fluoxetine.
Eight patients, who underwent neurosurgery for various supratentorial lesions presented unexplained impairment of consciousness during the first post-operative days. These states ranged from stupor to deep coma, and two patients had an emergency re-exploration. All these patients were receiving the usual dosage (1000 to 1500 mg per day) of Valproic acid (VPA). The treatment had been initiated either several weeks or months previously in 4 cases, and was thus well tolerated, or the day before surgery in the 4 other cases. EEG recordings displayed diffuse abnormalities, delta waves and/or high voltage triphasic complexes, that led to the diagnosis of VPA intolerance and drug withdrawal. Then full clinical recovery and EEG clearing occurred within 1 to 5 days. VPA intolerances are wellknown but remain exceptional, about 1 case per 100.000. In our neurosurgical population, however, the rate was higher, approximately 2%. Wide areas of blood brain barrier destruction may contribute to the higher frequency of this easily reversible cause of post-operative stupor or coma.
Dietary bisphenol A (BPA) was evaluated in a mouse two-generation study at 0, 0.018, 0.18, 1.8, 30, 300, or 3500 ppm (0, 0.003, 0.03, 0.3, 5, 50, or 600 mg BPA/kg/day, 28 per sex per group). A concurrent positive control group of dietary 17beta-estradiol (0.5 ppm; 28 per sex) confirmed the sensitivity of CD-1 mice to an endogenous estrogen. There were no BPA-related effects on adult mating, fertility or gestational indices, ovarian primordial follicle counts, estrous cyclicity, precoital interval, offspring sex ratios or postnatal survival, sperm parameters or reproductive organ weights or histopathology (including the testes and prostate). Adult systemic effects: at 300 ppm, only centrilobular hepatocyte hypertrophy; at 3500 ppm, reduced body weight, increased kidney and liver weights, centrilobular hepatocyte hypertrophy, and renal nephropathy in males. At 3500 ppm, BPA also reduced F1/F2 weanling body weight, reduced weanling spleen and testes weights (with seminiferous tubule hypoplasia), slightly delayed preputial separation (PPS), and apparently increased the incidence of treatment-related, undescended testes only in weanlings, which did not result in adverse effects on adult reproductive structures or functions; this last finding is considered a developmental delay in the normal process of testes descent. It is likely that these transient effects were secondary to (and caused by) systemic toxicity. Gestational length was increased by 0.3 days in F1/F2 generations; the toxicological significance, if any, of this marginal difference is unknown. At lower doses (0.018-30 ppm), there were no treatment-related effects and no evidence of nonmonotonic dose-response curves for any parameter. The systemic no observable effect level (NOEL) was 30 ppm BPA (approximately 5 mg/kg/day); the reproductive/developmental NOEL was 300 ppm (approximately 50 mg/kg/day). Therefore, BPA is not considered a selective reproductive or developmental toxicant in mice.
Myocardial infarction in puerperium is infrequently reported. Spasm, coronary dissection, or atheromatous etiology has been described. Bromocriptine has been implicated in several previous case reports of myocardial infarction in the puerperium. Our case (including an inadvertent rechallenge) suggests such a relationship. Although generally regarded as "safe," possible serious cardiac effects of bromocriptine should be acknowledged.
We examined whether significant oxidative stress is induced in the brain of juvenile rats exposed in utero to cocaine, and contributes to their mnesic difficulties. We measured nitric oxide generation, using electron paramagnetic resonance, and the thiobarbituric acid reactive species as specific indexes of lipid peroxidation. Both nitric oxide and lipid peroxidation were elevated in the hippocampus of in-utero cocaine-exposed rats as compared with control animals. In-utero cocaine-exposed rats developed significant learning impairments in the water-maze, shown by probe test retrieval deficits. In parallel, behavioural sessions resulted in increases of thiobarbituric acid reactive species levels only in control animals. Therefore, in-utero cocaine exposure resulted in a significant oxidative stress in basal conditions, which may be related to impaired learning ability.
In the treatment of angina pectoris nitroglycerin is still the most important drug. Its mechanism of action is described in reference to the lowering of preload and afterload as well as to the question of redistribution of regional myocardial blood flow. It is shown that after oral administration of issosorbide dinitrate effects on myocardial ischemia and left ventricular filling pressure can be seen lasting over more than four hours. In the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and left ventricular failure nitroglycerin can be used with favourable results and without undesired side effects if the hemodynamic is carefully observed. Under these conditions the intravenous infusion seems the most appropriate way of administration.
Nitric oxide (NO) promotes adenosine release in the striatum and hippocampus. Behavioral effects of the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside were studied in mice and included an examination of spontaneous locomotion and catalepsy, which are behaviors modulated by adenosine. Sodium nitroprusside caused a dose-dependent (2, 4 and 6 mg/kg) decrease in locomotor activity and catalepsy at the dose of 6 mg/kg. These effects were substantially attenuated by pretreatment with the non-selective adenosine receptors antagonist theophylline (10 and 30 mg/kg). Moreover, combined treatment with theophylline (30 mg/kg) and sodium nitroprusside (6 mg/kg) induced limbic seizures in 23% of animals. The pretreatment with the selective adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1, 3-dimethylxanthine (CPT) (1.2 mg/kg) caused no effect on the spontaneous or sodium nitroprusside-induced behavior. These data suggest that these behavioral effects of sodium nitroprusside are at least partially mediated by adenosine in the striatum and hippocampus, probably via adenosine A(2A) receptors.
The purpose of this study was to examine the anxiety-related effects of acute and repeated amphetamine administration using the elevated plus maze (EPM) and light/dark box tests in mice. D-amphetamine (2 mg/kg ip, 30 min after injection) had a significant anxiogenic effect only in the EPM test, as shown by specific decreases in the percentage of time spent in the open arms as well as in the percentage of open arm entries. Tolerance to this anxiogenic action developed after 8 days of daily d-amphetamine administration (2 mg/kg, ip). An anxiolytic effect was observed after the ninth injection, i.e. there were specific increases in the percentage of time spent in the open arms and in the percentage of open arm entries. L-type voltage-dependent calcium channel antagonists: nimodipine (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, ip), flunarizine (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, ip), verapamil (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, ip), and diltiazem (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, ip) were also injected prior to an acute low dose of d-amphetamine or to each injection of subchronic d-amphetamine. Our results revealed that calcium channel blockers dose-dependently attenuated both an anxiogenic effect of d-amphetamine and the development of tolerance to this effect. Our results suggest that neural calcium-dependent mechanisms are involved in the anxiety-related responses to acute and subchronic amphetamine injection that may lead to addiction relapse in human users.
To study the participation of histamine H1- and H2-receptors in pain perception, H1 and H2 receptor knockout (KO) mice were examined for pain threshold by means of three kinds of nociceptive tasks. These included assays for thermal, mechanical, and chemical nociception. H1KO mice showed significantly fewer nociceptive responses to the hot-plate, tail-flick, tail-pressure, paw-withdrawal, formalin, capsaicin, and abdominal constriction tests. Sensitivity to noxious stimuli in H1KO mice was significantly decreased when compared to wild-type mice. The antinociceptive phenotypes of H2KO were relatively less prominent when compared to H1KO mice. We also examined the antinociceptive effects of intrathecally-, intracerebroventricularly-, and subcutaneously-administered morphine in H1KO and H2KO mice. In these nociceptive assays, the antinociceptive effects produced by morphine were more enhanced in both H1KO and H2KO mice. The effects of histamine H1- and H2-receptor antagonists on morphine-induced antinociception were studied in ICR mice. The intrathecal, intracerebroventricular and subcutaneous co-administrations of d-chlorpheniramine enhanced the effects of morphine in all nociceptive assays examined. In addition, intrathecal co-administrations of cimetidine enhanced the antinociception of morphine in the hot plate tests. These results suggest that existing H1 and H2 receptors play an inhibitory role in morphine-induced antinociception in the spinal and supra-spinal levels.
The use of neonatal ventral hippocampal nVH lesioned rats is well established in animal models of schizophrenia. Moreover, the dysfunction of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) neurotransmission may play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. To examine the effect of glycine (GLY) in this animal model, we compared the effects of GLY (0.8 and 1.6 g/kg, IP) on locomotor activity induced by a novel environment (NOVEL) and methamphetamine (MAP, 1.5 mg/kg, IP) in lesioned and sham-operated rats. Compared with sham rats, GLY significantly reduced NOVEL- and MAP-induced locomotor activity in lesioned rats (p <.001 and p <.05, respectively). It is suggested that GLY attenuated nVH-induced hyperactivity, and that this effect was evident both in the presence and absence of MAP. The nVH lesions may result in a form of hyperactivity that differs from normal locomotion in the degree to which it is highly sensitive to regulation by GLY.
In adult patients and in children of school age who have been treated with vigabatrin (VGB), persistent visual field defects have been reported as a side effect. To date, it is unknown to what extent VGB causes visual field loss in young children and mentally handicapped adolescents who cannot be tested with conventional perimetric
The purpose of the present study was to investigate VGB-induced visual field loss in these patients by using a noncommercial arc perimeter and a forced-choice, preferential-looking method. The visual field size was measured in 30 patients aged 1 to 15 years who had epilepsy and who were treated with VGB. The visual field of these patients was compared to the visual field of 70 control subjects.
In eight (27%) patients who had been treated with VGB, the visual field was constricted compared with the visual field of the children belonging to the control group.
Arc perimetry shows that mentally handicapped patients and children younger than 6 years treated with VGB have visual field loss compared with the loss reported in adult patients receiving VGB.
A 3-month-old infant was administered high-dose systemic prednisolone for management of a hemangioma of the nasal sidewall. After 10 weeks of therapy, medical evaluation of weight loss disclosed hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. After discontinuation of the steroid, the cardiomyopathy resolved.
Diabetic retinopathy is one of the most devastating microvascular complications of long standing type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Neovascularization stimulated by hyperglycemia-mediated induction of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been implicated in the pathogenesis. Various small molecules have been investigated for their ability to inhibit angiogenesis. In this study, we evaluated whether curcumin and its dietary source turmeric can inhibit VEGF expression in strepotzotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat retina. Diabetes was induced in 3-month-old male WNIN rats by a single intraperitoneal injection of STZ. After induction, one group of diabetic rats were fed only the AIN-93 diet and the rest of the groups were fed with AIN-93 diet containing 0.002% or 0.01% curcumin or 0.5% turmeric for a period of 8 weeks. The control rats received sham injection and fed on the AIN-93 diet. At the end of 8 weeks animals were sacrificed and retina was dissected. The VEGF expression was analyzed by both real time PCR and immunoblotting. There was an increase in VEGF expression in diabetic retina as compared to control retina at both transcript and protein level. Notably, feeding of curcumin and turmeric to diabetic rats inhibited expression of VEGF. This study highlights the importance of biologically active compounds derived from dietary agents that could be explored further for the prevention and/or treatment of diabetic retinopathy.
Drug-induced aseptic meningitis has been reported mainly with the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, antibiotics, intravenous immunoglobulins and OKT3 antibodies. We describe today a very unusual reaction on intravenous dexchlorpheniramine with this case of aseptic meningitis.
Tenofovir is a nucleoside reverse transcription inhibitor used to treat human immunodeficiency virus patients with early treatment failure. Increasing numbers of cases of tubular dysfunction and Fanconi syndrome have been reported in patients treated with tenofovir, after the detection of biochemical abnormalities during routine assessments. Some patients have acute renal failure, and bone involvement is observed in rare cases. We describe a case of chronic metabolic complications with bone fractures related to tenofovir treatment. Several factors that increased the renal toxicity of tenofovir included low body mass index, concomitant use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, and other antiretroviral drugs, including ritonavir.
The analgesic response to codeine of patients with postpartum uterine-cramp pain has recently met with controversy. To readdress this question, we conducted a new study comparing codeine sulfate, 60 mg (N = 32) and 120 mg (N = 31), with aspirin, 650 mg (N = 34), and placebo (N = 32) in hospitalized women with moderate or severe postpartum uterine cramps treated with single oral doses in a parallel, stratified, randomized, double-blind trial. Subjective reports were used as indices of response, and patients rated pain intensity, pain relief, and side effects at periodic, uniformly conducted interviews for 6 hr. Most measures of analgesia exhibited important differences among the treatments. In patients with undifferentiated pain (N = 129) and in a subset of patients with pure uterine cramps (N = 56; i.e., no concomitant episiotomy), aspirin showed the greatest response, whereas codeine responses were equivocal with no evidence of a positive dose response. In contrast, in a subset of patients with mixed episiotomy-uterine pain (N = 73), 120 mg codeine showed good separation from placebo and compared favorably with aspirin. Codeine, 60 mg, showed a similar trend, and there was a strong suggestion of dose-dependent analgesia. Side effects were not remarkable except for dizziness and drowsiness after 120 mg codeine in all sets and subsets of patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To assess the probability of cerebrovascular adverse drug reactions (CV-ADRs) due to treatment with selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) using 2 causality methods. case summaries: Two patients with the possibility of SSRI-related stroke were referred for causality assessment. Causality assessment was performed using an adverse drug reaction probability scale, as well as clinical and radiologic parameters. A 31-year-old white man, who had been receiving paroxetine 200 mg/day over a period of 3 years, developed ischemic stroke involving left middle cerebral artery. The second patient was a 46-year-old white woman with a history of recurrent depression who developed delirium and ischemic stroke while she was taking a combination of paroxetine 50 mg/day, trazodone 200 mg/day, and bupropion 150 mg/day.
Carotid and cardiothromboembolism were found to be the major etiological factors for ischemic stroke. Accounting for the temporal relation, prior reports of SSRI treatment-associated CV-ADRs, and the pharmacologic action of serotonin on coagulation and the vascular system, the possible contribution of SSRIs to stroke in these patients was considered. An objective causality assessment using the Naranjo probability scale revealed that a CV-ADR was possible. However, the nature of the stroke, plus clinical and radiologic findings, were inconsistent with known pathophysiologic mechanisms linking SSRIs and stroke in these patients.
Causality assessment may improve unbiased recognition, management, and voluntary reporting of infrequent adverse effects such as SSRI treatment-related cerebrovascular accident.
