The root extract of Operculina turpethum (OTE) has been used as an anti-inflammatory, purgative, and hepato-protective agent. N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) is a potent hepatotoxin that induces fibrosis of the liver. In the present study, we examined the therapeutic effects of OTE root extract against NDMA-induced hepatotoxicity and clastogenicity in rats. Hepatic fibrosis was induced in adult male albino rats through serial intraperitoneal administrations of NDMA at a concentration of 10mg/kg body weight on three consecutive days of each week over a period of three weeks. A group of rats received OTE orally in doses of 75, 150 and 200mg/kg body weight at 5h after the administration of NDMA. The controls and treated animals were sacrificed on days-7, 14 and 21 after the start of the administration of NDMA. The progression of hepatic fibrosis as well as the amelioration effect of OTE was evaluated through histopathologically as well as by immunohistochemical staining for the activation of hepatic stellate cells. Alterations in serum and liver biochemical parameters and LDH isoenzymes were also studied. Serial administration of NDMA resulted in well formed fibrosis in the liver and induction of micronuclei in the bone marrow cells. Staining of alpha-SMA demonstrated activated stellate cells from day-7 onwards which was dramatically increased on day-21. An elevation of micronuclei count, liver function enzymes, serum hydroxyproline levels and LDH isoenzymes 4 and 5 were also observed. All these changes were remarkably reduced in OTE administered animals and fibrogenesis was completely absent. Our results suggest that OTE has hepatoprotective and anti-clastogenic effects against NDMA-induced hepatic fibrosis. Therefore OTE may be used as a hepatoprotective agent against various liver diseases including toxic liver injury.
Bortezomib (Velcade, formerly PS-341) is proteasome inhibitor with documented antitumor activity in multiple myeloma and other lymphoid malignancies. We performed a Phase I study to investigate the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of bortezomib in patients with acute leukemias refractory to or relapsing after prior therapy. Fifteen patients were treated with 0.75 (n = 3), 1.25 (n = 7), or 1.5 (n = 5) mg/m(2) bortezomib administered twice weekly for 4 weeks every 6 weeks. Dose-limiting toxicity included orthostatic hypotension (n = 2), nausea (n = 2), diarrhea (n = 1), and fluid retention (n = 1), all at 1.5 mg/m(2) bortezomib. Proteasome inhibition was dose dependent and reached 68% at 1.5 mg/m(2) bortezomib. Peak inhibition was observed 1 h after treatment and returned to near baseline levels by 72 h after treatment. Incubation of blast cells with bortezomib in vitro showed induction of apoptosis in three of five patients investigated. We conclude that the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib in patients with acute leukemia is 1.25 mg/m(2), using a twice-weekly for 4 weeks every 6 weeks schedule. The in vitro evidence of antileukemia and transient hematological improvements observed in some patients warrants further investigation of bortezomib in acute leukemias, probably in combination with other agents.
To investigate the effect and mechanism of arsenic trioxide (As(2)O(3)) on the prevention of restenosis after vascular injury.
Apoptosis induction of As(2)O(3) on cultured rabbit vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in vitro was observed. Thirty-two New Zealand white rabbits were randomly divided into 2- and 4-wk study groups, and their controls. 10% As(2)O(3) at 2.5 mg x Kg(-1) x d(-1) or 0.9% sodium chloride was intraperitoneally infused for 3 days before left common carotid arteries were denudated with a balloon. After denudation 2- and 4-wk animals were sacrificed for morphometry and immunohistochemical studies on carotid arteries, and for histopathology on liver and kidney.
It was shown via cellular morphology and DNA fragments in electrophoresis that promotion of As(2)O(3) on cultured vascular smooth muscle cell apoptosis was dependent upon its concentration and duration. Compared with the control animals, the mean vascular intimal proliferation areas were reduced in 2-wk study animals (P < 0.05) and no difference was shown in 4-wk (P > 0.05), while the mean vascular luminal areas were all enlarged in both study groups (all P < 0.05). The downregulated bcl-2 expression (all P < 0.05 in 2- and 4-wk) and the upregulated bax expression (P < 0.01 in 2-wk; P < 0.05 in 4-wk) were detected by immunohistochemistry, in comparison with control groups. Gene bcl-2 and bax protein expression were consistent with the suppression of intimal proliferation and the enlargement of luminal areas in corresponding sections.
As(2)O(3) induces apoptosis of VSMCs and inhibits experimental restenosis effectively after artery injury, via downregulation of bcl-2 and upregulation of bax expression.
Smoking of crystalline cocaine, known as "crack" cocaine, has been associated with eosinophilic pneumonitis, but not with pleural effusions. We describe a patient with eosinophilic pneumonitis with an eosinophilic "empyema" after using "crack" cocaine. The illness resolved with corticosteroids. We hypothesised that his effusion would have increased levels of eosinophil cytokines that promote oedema, and found a marked increase in pleural vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and smaller increases in interleukins IL-5, IL-6, and IL-8. In the setting of "crack" use, we suggest that a pleural effusion that appears grossly to be pus should be evaluated for eosinophilic inflammation. Such eosinophilic effusions may respond to corticosteroids alone, consistent with a non-infectious process driven by proinflammatory cytokines.
We administered 0.5% plain bupivacaine 4 ml intrathecally (L2-3 or L3-4) in three groups of 20 patients, according to the position in which they were nursed in the post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU): supine horizontal, 30 degrees Trendelenburg or hammock position (trunk and legs 30 degrees elevated). Patients were observed until anaesthesia descended to less than S1. The incidence of severe bradycardia (heart rate < 50 beat min-1) in the PACU was significantly higher in patients in the Trendelenburg position (60%) than in the horizontal (20%, P < 0.01) or hammock (10%, P < 0.005) position. After 90 min, following admission to the PACU, only patients in the hammock position did not have severe bradycardia. In this late phase, the incidence of severe bradycardia in the Trendelenburg group was 35% (P < 0.005) and 10% in patients in the supine horizontal position. In four patients, severe bradycardia first occurred later than 90 min after admission to the PACU. The latest occurrence of severe bradycardia was recorded 320 min after admission to the PACU. We conclude that for recovery from spinal anaesthesia, the Trendelenburg position should not be used and the hammock position is preferred.
The anti-tumour activity of CPT-11, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, was evaluated in four human neural-crest-derived paediatric tumour xenografts; one peripheral primitive neuroectodermal tumour (pPNET) (SK-N-MC) and three neuroblastomas. Two models, SK-N-MC and IGR-N835, were established in athymic mice from a previously established in vitro cell line. Two new neuroblastoma xenograft models, IGR-NB3 and IGR-NB8, were derived from previously untreated non-metastatic neuroblastomas. They exhibited the classic histological features of immature neuroblastoma along with N-myc amplification, paradiploidy, chromosome 1p deletions and overexpression of the human mdr 1 gene. These tumour markers have been shown to be poor prognostic factors in children treated for neuroblastoma. CPT-11 was tested against advanced stage subcutaneous tumours. CPT-11 was administered i.v. using an intermittent (q4d x 3) and a daily x 5 schedule. The optimal dosage and schedule was 40 mg kg-1 daily for 5 days. At this highest non-toxic dose, CPT-11 induced 100% tumour-free survivors on day 121 in mice bearing the pPNET SK-N-MC xenograft. For the three neuroblastoma xenografts, 38-100% complete tumour regressions were observed with a tumour growth delay from 38 to 42 days, and anti-tumour activity was clearly sustained at a lower dosage (27 mg kg-1 day-1). The efficacy of five anti-cancer drugs commonly used in paediatric oncology or in clinical development was evaluated against SK-N-MC and IGR-N835. The sensitivity of these two xenografts to cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and cisplatin was of the same order of magnitude as that of CPT-11, but they were refractory to etoposide and taxol. In conclusion, CPT-11 demonstrated significant activity against pPNET and neuroblastoma xenografts. Further clinical development of CPT-11 in paediatric oncology is warranted.
To compare the safety and efficacy of intravaginal misoprostol gel with that of tablets for ripening the cervix and inducing labor in women with unfavorable cervices.
Four hundred sixty-seven gravidas were randomized to receive misoprostol tablets (n = 234) or misoprostol gel (n = 233). The gel was prepared in the antepartum unit immediately before use by dissolving the tablet in 1 mL normal saline and mixing with 4 mL hydroxyethylcellulose gel. In both groups, a 50-microgram dose was applied intravaginally every 8 hours for two doses, then increased to 100-microgram for a total of six applications or 500 micrograms.
The mean interval in hours from drug administration to start induction or labor (13.8 versus 18.2) and delivery (22.4 versus 29.0) was significantly less in the tablet group than in the gel group (P < .01 for both). Oxytocin and epidural use and the mean number of misoprostol insertions (1.4 versus 1.9) were lower in the tablet group than in the gel group (P < .05 for all). The incidences of tachysystole (13.7 versus 7.3%) and hyperstimulation (15.8 versus 7.7%) were significantly higher in the tablet group than in the gel group. Cesarean delivery rates and neonatal outcomes were similar between the groups.
Intravaginal misoprostol gel is associated with fewer uterine contractile abnormalities than the tablet form of the drug but results in a slower time to labor or delivery.
To investigate the effects of ET-1 on isolated perfused rat liver and vascular rings at early and late stages of cirrhosis.
Liver cirrhosis was induced by an intraperitoneal injection of 50% CCl(4) (0.3 ml/100 g, twice a week). In the 9th and 14th weekend after injecting CCl(4), the isolated perfused liver and vascular rings were performed to evaluate effects of four concentrations of ET-1 on early and late stages of cirrhosis.
The Ppv of L-HC group at baseline was higher than that of E-HC group, both were higher than that of the controls. However, there showed no differences on Phv in these groups. With the concentration of ET-1 increasing, PVP was elevated accordingly in E-HC and L-HC group. L-HC group showed higher PVP compared with E-HC group, both were higher than the controls. While in isolated vascular rings, with the deteriorating of cirrhosis, the cumulative response curves showed right-shift. 0.1 nmol/L ET-1 showed mild relaxation on vascular rings in L-HC group.
ET-1 can increase the PVP, especially with the deterioration of cirrhosis, there showed higher reaction compared with normal controls. The vascular rings showed low response on the contrary. So ET-1 plays an important role in the pathogenesis of portal hypertension. In view of its different roles on liver and vascular rings at early and late stages, administration of different selective antagonist of ET receptor at different stages of cirrhosis should be well considered.
Rapid increase in inspired isoflurane concentration increases heart rate and arterial blood pressure. To investigate whether the responses to isoflurane were elicited from stimulation of lower airway and/or lungs, haemodynamic responses to isoflurane administered after tracheal intubation were measured with or without endotracheal or intravenous administration of lidocaine.
Seventy-two ASA physical status 1 patients, aged 21-50 yr, were randomly allocated to one of four groups. After tracheal intubation, anaesthesia was maintained with oxygen 100% and isoflurane 1.0% with controlled ventilation. After stabilization for 15 min, the isoflurane concentration was rapidly increased to 3.0% in three groups. An endotracheal lidocaine group received pretreatment with endotracheal 0.4 ml lidocaine 8% spray, an intravenous lidocaine group received pretreatment of 32 mg lidocaine i.v., and an isoflurane 3% group received not pre- treatment. In a control group, inspired isoflurane concentration was maintained at 1.0%. Heart rate, systolic blood pressure and end-tidal isoflurane concentration were measured every minute for 10 min.
The rapid increase in isoflurane concentration increased heart rate (25 +/- 12% increase from baseline; P < 0.05) but the increase was reduced by endotracheal lidocaine (9 +/- 9%), but not by intravenous lidocaine (22 +/- 13%). The plasma concentration of lidocaine was lower in the endotracheal lidocaine group (0.4 +/- 0.3 microgram.ml-1) than in the i.v. lidocaine group (1.5 +/- 0.2 micrograms.ml-1).
The isoflurane-induced tachycardia is reduced by pre-treatment with endotracheal lidocaine.
To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the development of HgCl2-induced acute renal failure (ARF), we examined the expression of endothelin (ET)-1, endothelial (e) nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and inducible (i) NOS, and a role of angiotensin II (ANG II) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in glomeruli and cortices from rats at 20 h after exposure of HgCl2. Prepro-ET-1 and iNOS mRNA were significantly increased in glomeruli and cortices from rats with HgCl2-induced ARF. However, eNOS mRNA was markedly decreased in glomeruli of rats with HgCl2-induced ARF. Blockade of the action of endogenous ANG II with TCV-116, an ANG II receptor type 1 antagonist, or prior administration of TNF antibody (Ab) neutralizing TNF bioactivity or aminoguanidine, an iNOS inhibitor, substantially suppressed the increase in the expression of prepro-ET-1 or iNOS mRNA seen in rats with HgCl2-induced ARF. Both TCV-116 and TNF Ab had no effects on the expression of eNOS mRNA. The abundance of ET-1, iNOS, and eNOS proteins was paralleled by the magnitude of each mRNA expression. Additionally, the aggravation of blood urea nitrogen and serum Cr observed in rats with HgCl2-induced ARF were significantly ameliorated together with the alleviation of proximal tubule epithelial cell injury when the expression of prepro-ET-1 or iNOS mRNA was blunted by prior administration of TCV-116 or prior injection of TNF Ab or aminoguanidine. These observations indicate that ANG II, ET-1, and NO may play an important role in the progression of HgCl2-induced ARF through the acceleration of proximal tubule epithelial cell injury and the deterioration of glomerular hemodynamics. In HgCl2-induced ARF, the gene expression of ET-1 or iNOS is at least in part up-regulated at the transcription level by endogenous ANG II or TNF.
Sodium saccharin has previously been demonstrated to induce hyperplasia and tumors of the urothelium of the rat urinary bladder. It was fed as 5% of the diet to male F344 rats for 2 years. In the present experiment, mild simple hyperplasia of the urinary bladder epithelium was again frequently observed, and a marked nodular and papillary hyperplasia of the urothelium of the kidney pelvis was also found in approximately half of the sodium saccharin-fed rats. This was infrequently associated with focal calcification of the renal papilla and pelvis. In contrast, rats fed sodium saccharin had a significantly reduced incidence of the interstitial nephritis frequently observed in older rats. No significant incidence was observed of lesions of tissues other than those of the urinary tract.
Hepcidin is considered to be a circulatory hormone and a major mechanism regulating iron homeostasis. Our previous publication revealed that acute iron intoxication induced iron deposit and dopaminergic neuron degeneration in the substantia nigra (SN) of a rat model. However, whether and how hepcidin functions in this nigral iron accumulation has not been elucidated. In the present study, we observed a decreased of FPN1 protein level in the SN triggered by peripheral iron overload within 4 h, which correlated with a high hepcidin level. To further investigate the role of intracellular hepcidin under iron overload circumstances, we assessed the expression of hepcidin mRNA and FPN1 protein in vitro. We observed that hepcidin mRNA level was up-regulated and FPN1 protein level was down-regulated in MES23.5 dopaminergic cells in a period of 4h incubation with iron. Both in pCMV-XL4-hepcidin transfected and hepcidin-treated cells, decreased FPN1 protein levels were observed. Our data provide direct evidence that the role for intracellular hepcidin generated in the SN is particularly relevant to restrict iron release by down-regulation FPN1 expression in this region, thus an important contributor to the abnormal iron deposit occurred at an early stage in conditions of peripheral iron intoxication.
Two modalities of epidural analgesia in children with two types of cerebral palsy (CP) were compared for differences in the incidence of common complications (inadequate analgesia, hypopnea, hypoxaemia, sedation, vomiting, pruritus, urinary retention, and seizures).
Demographic, procedural and postoperative complication data were collected on children with CP receiving epidural analgesia. Information was recorded contemporaneously with the child's care by one of the authors on 92 consecutive children with CP (age, 107 +/- 50.1 mo; weight, 26 +/- 14.2 kg) who had undergone infra-umbilical orthopaedic or Nissen fundoplication procedures between December 1994 and December 1996. The first 44 patients received intermittent bolus (IB) epidural morphine and the next 48 received continuous infusion (CI) bupivacaine and fentanyl. Two forms of CP (spastic diplegia and quadriplegia) and the two modalities of analgesia were compared.
Excellent analgesia was obtained in 91/92 patients. Excessive sedation occurred in six patients (6.5%) but only in IB patients, (P < 0.02 vs CI). Emesis occurred in 52% of patients, and was more common in diplegic than in quadriplegic patients (68% vs 38%, P < 0.01). Pruritus was observed in 29% of patients and was more common in diplegia than quadriplegia (48% vs 12.5%, P < 0.001). The incidences of hypopnea, hypoxaemia, urinary retention and seizures were not affected by the types of CP or analgesia and no difference in sedation was observed between spastic diplegic and quadriplegic patients.
Continuous infusion of epidural bupivacaine and fentanyl provided excellent analgesia for children with CP without serious complications. Intermittent bolus epidural morphine was associated with a high incidence of excessive sedation and should be avoided in this population.
Current aquatic chemical testing guidelines recognize that solvents can potentially interfere with the organism or environmental conditions of aquatic ecotoxicity tests and therefore recommend concentration limits for their use. These recommendations are based on evidence of adverse solvent effects in apical level tests. The growing importance of subapical and chronic endpoints in future test strategies, however, suggests that the limits may need reassessment. To address this concern, microarrays were used to determine the effects of organic solvents, dimethylformamide (DMF) and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), on the transcriptome of zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos. Embryos were exposed for 48 h to a range of concentrations between 0.025 and 32.0 ml/L. Effects on survival and development after 24 and 48 h were assessed microscopically, with no effects on mortality or morphology up to 2.0 and 16.0 ml/L for DMF and DMSO. However, analysis of 48-h embryonic RNA revealed large numbers of differentially expressed genes at concentrations well below the 0.1 ml/L solvent limit level. The enrichment of differentially expressed genes was found for metabolic, developmental, and other key biological processes, some of which could be linked to observed morphological effects at higher solvent concentrations. These findings emphasize the need to remove or lower as far as possible the concentrations of solvent carriers in ecotoxicology tests.
English Pointer dogs dosed po with encapsulated 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) or 2-methoxy-3,6-dichlorobenzoic acid (dicamba) developed varying degrees of myotonia. Dogs given 175 or 220 mg of 2,4-D/kg body weight rapidly developed clinical and electromyographic (EMG) manifestations consistent with a diagnosis of myotonia or pseudomyotonia. Dogs given 2,4-D at 86.7, 43.7 or 8.8 mg/kg body weight developed subclinical manifestations of myotonia detectable only with an electromyograph. The administration of 2,4-D at 1.3 or 1.0 mg/kg body weight failed to produce detectable EMG changes. One dog given dicamba at 86.7 mg/kg body weight developed clinical and EMG manifestations of myotonia similar to those induced by the highest doses of 2,4-D.
Ecstasy [3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)] was shown to prolong the action of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) while suppressing dyskinesia in a single patient with Parkinson's disease (PD). The clinical basis of this effect of MDMA is unknown but may relate to its actions on either dopaminergic or serotoninergic systems in brain. In normal, drug-naive common marmosets, MDMA administration suppressed motor activity and exploratory behavior. In 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated, L-DOPA-primed common marmosets, MDMA transiently relieved motor disability but over a period of 60 min worsened motor symptoms. When given in conjunction with L-DOPA, however, MDMA markedly decreased dyskinesia by reducing chorea and to a lesser extent dystonia and decreased locomotor activity to the level observed in normal animals. MDMA similarly alleviated dyskinesia induced by the selective dopamine D2/3 agonist pramipexole. The actions of MDMA appeared to be mediated through 5-HT mechanisms because its effects were fully blocked by the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor fluvoxamine. Furthermore, the effect of MDMA on L-DOPA-induced motor activity and dyskinesia was partially inhibited by 5-HT1a/b antagonists. The ability of MDMA to inhibit dyskinesia results from its broad spectrum of action on 5-HT systems. Serotoninergic receptors appear to play an important modulatory role in l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia, and this study may provide a framework for the use of serotoninergic agents in the treatment of L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.
Two cases are reported of infertile women who developed cold-induced digital vasospasm (Raynaud's phenomenon) on low-dose Parlodel (5.0 to 7.5 mg/day). The cases are reported to alert clinicians to the potential relationship between Raynaud's phenomenon and low-dose Parlodel usage in women using the drug for hyperprolactinemic or infertility indications.
The biological interaction between copper and iron is best exemplified by the decreased activity of multicopper ferroxidases under conditions of copper deficiency that limits the availability of iron for erythropoiesis. However, little is known about how copper deficiency affects iron homeostasis through alteration of the activity of other copper-containing proteins, not directly connected with iron metabolism, such as superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1). This antioxidant enzyme scavenges the superoxide anion, a reactive oxygen species contributing to the toxicity of iron via the Fenton reaction. Here, we analyzed changes in the systemic iron metabolism using an animal model of Menkes disease: copper-deficient mosaic mutant mice with dysfunction of the ATP7A copper transporter. We found that the erythrocytes of these mutants are copper-deficient, display decreased SOD1 activity/expression and have cell membrane abnormalities. In consequence, the mosaic mice show evidence of haemolysis accompanied by haptoglobin-dependent elimination of haemoglobin (Hb) from the circulation, as well as the induction of haem oxygenase 1 (HO1) in the liver and kidney. Moreover, the hepcidin-ferroportin regulatory axis is strongly affected in mosaic mice. These findings indicate that haemolysis is an additional pathogenic factor in a mouse model of Menkes diseases and provides evidence of a new indirect connection between copper deficiency and iron metabolism.
Severe and persistent visual loss with retinitis pigmentosa occurred in a hemodialyzed patient, treated with desferrioxamine (DFO) for aluminium intoxication, with a total DFO dose of 18 g given over 9 weeks. Cases reported since 1983 are reviewed, and hypothesis and risk factors for DFO toxicity are discussed. Caution should be exercised in using DFO in hemodialyzed patients.
Based on clinical data, indicating that chloroacetaldehyde (CAA) is an important metabolite of oxazaphosphorine cytostatics, an experimental study was carried out in order to elucidate the role of CAA in the development of hemorrhagic cystitis. The data demonstrate that CAA after i.v. administration does not contribute to bladder damage. When instilled directly into the bladder, CAA exerts urotoxic effects, it is, however, susceptible to detoxification with mesna.
Calcium antagonists are popular therapeutic agents in the treatment of systemic hypertension. Although these agents have similar antihypertensive efficacy, they have varied effects on left ventricular function at rest in hypertensive patients. The effect of different calcium antagonists on left ventricular function during exercise and on exercise performance in patients with hypertension, however, is less clear. Fifteen patients with essential hypertension (diastolic blood pressure = 95 to 110 mm Hg) were enrolled in a placebo-controlled, single-blinded crossover study comparing nifedipine with verapamil for rest/exercise heart rate and blood pressure, exercise performance, and rest/exercise left ventricular function. Each drug was titrated to achieve resting diastolic pressures less than 90 mm Hg. All patients underwent maximal exercise testing and rest/exercise gated radionuclide ventriculography at the end of 3-week placebo, nifedipine, and verapamil treatment periods. Both calcium antagonists significantly reduced blood pressure at rest and during exercise compared with placebo. Neither calcium antagonist altered resting heart rate; however, both verapamil and nifedipine significantly reduced heart rate at maximal exercise. Verapamil but not nifedipine impaired left ventricular peak emptying rate and left ventricular peak filling rate during exercise but not at rest. Neither verapamil nor nifedipine, however, significantly altered rest or exercise global left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) compared with placebo. There was a trend, however, for impairment in the LVEF response to exercise (delta LVEF) in the verapamil treatment group. Exercise capacity was not significantly altered by either calcium antagonist compared with placebo. Thus verapamil but not nifedipine impairs left ventricular function during exercise in hypertensive patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Steroid withdrawal has potential risks (rejection) and benefits (fewer complications). Most data on steroid-related complications predates cyclosporine (CsA). We tabulated the incidence of posttransplant complications considered to be steroid-related in 748 adult kidney transplant recipients (with at least 1 year of follow-up) on CsA and prednisone. Using logistic regression analysis, we considered the effects of pre- and postoperative variables for these complications: cataracts; new-onset post-transplant diabetes; bone/joint complications; avascular necrosis; and posttransplant hypertension. Variables included pretransplant steroid therapy; initial steroid dose; prednisone dose at 1 month and 1 year; steroid-treated rejection episodes; cumulative time on steroids; sex; age; race; pretransplant hypertension; pretransplant diabetes; donor source; nonsteroid treated rejection episodes; other immunosuppressive therapy; cumulative time on dialysis; and previous renal or extrarenal transplants. Cataracts occurred in 21.1%, new-onset posttransplant diabetes in 7.6%, bone/joint complications in 49.9%, avascular necrosis in 5.5%, and post-transplant hypertension in 74.9% of recipients. Significant variables for cataract development were prednisone dose at 1 year (odds ratio [OR] = 1.32; p < 0.05), cumulative time on steroids (OR = 1.65; p < 0.001), age > 50 years (OR = 1.85; p < 0.0001), and pretransplant diabetes (OR = 1.63; p < 0.0001). For new-onset posttransplant diabetes, age > 50 years (OR = 1.63; p < 0.05) and nonwhite race (OR = 2.12; p < 0.001) were significant. For bone/joint complications, cumulative time on steroids was significant (OR = 1.45; p < 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We found increased levels of atherosclerosis-inducing homocysteine in parkinsonian patients with long-term application of levodopa compared with previously untreated parkinsonian patients and controls. We conclude that antiparkinsonian treatment with levodopa promotes occurrence of vascular disease in Parkinson's disease.
Acute complications from cocaine abuse are commonly treated in the emergency department (ED); one of the most consequential is status epilepticus. The incidence of this complication is not clearly defined in the prior literature on cocaine-associated sequelae. We evaluated the incidence of status epilepticus in patients with seizures secondary to suspected cocaine use.
We performed a retrospective multi-center study of patients with seizures resulting from cocaine use. We identified study subjects at 15 hospitals by record review and conducted a computer-assisted records search to identify patients with seizures for each institution over a four-year period. We selected subjects from this group on the basis of cocaine use and determined the occurrence of status epilepticus among them. Data were collected on each subject using a standardized data collection form.
We evaluated 43 patients in the ED for cocaine-associated seizures. Their age range was 17 to 54, with a mean age was 31 years; 53% were male. Of 43 patients, 42 experienced a single tonic-clonic seizure and one developed status epilepticus. All patients had either a history of cocaine use or positive urine drug screen for cocaine.
Despite reported cases of status epilepticus with cocaine-induced seizures, the incidence of this complication was unclear based on prior literature. This study shows that most cocaine-associated seizures are self-limited.
To investigate low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) function and gene mutation in Chinese patients with familial hypercholesterolemia(FH).
Lymphocytes were isolated from 10 ml anticoagulated peripheral blood of the patients, then a flow-cytometric method (FCM) with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3', 3-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate labelled low density lipoproetin (DiI-LDL) was used to identify the function of LDLR on the surface of lymphocytes. Genomic DNA was isolated from whole blood of FH patients and analyzed by PCR-single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and nucleotide sequencing methods.
Defects of binding and uptaking of LDLR were identified by FCM in 2 FH patients in one family, and their parents were examined in the present study. Then they were analyzed genetically. The detected mutation was a deletion of A, which caused a frame shift in codon 297 of exon 6 and introduced a beforehand stop codon in codon 369.
A novel mutation of LDL receptor gene was detected by the combination of FCM and PCR-SSCP methods.
Repeated exposure to cocaine results in sensitization to many of the behavioral effects of the drug. The present study was undertaken to examine the role of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type of glutamate receptors in the development of sensitization to the convulsive and lethal effects of cocaine in Swiss Webster mice. Repeated administration of subconvulsant doses of cocaine (45 mg/kg for 7 days) produced a progressive increase in the convulsive responsiveness to the drug. This phenomenon was accompanied by an increase in lethality rate after the 5th day of the treatment. Pretreatment with the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801 (5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]- cyclohepten-5,10-imine) abolished completely the development of sensitization to cocaine-induced seizures and lethality. In addition, MK-801 attenuated cocaine-induced loss in animals body weight after 7 days of drug treatment. The lethal effects of acute administration of increasing doses of cocaine were also reduced by pretreatment with MK-801. In vitro receptor binding experiments demonstrated an increase (139% of control) in the number of NMDA receptors, labeled with the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist [3H]CGP 39653 ([3H]-2-amino-4-propyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid), in cortical membranes derived from the mice treated for 7 days with cocaine (45 mk/kg). In agreement with the latter finding, binding of [3H]MK-801 to the phencyclidine/NMDA site in cortical membranes of cocaine-treated mice was more sensitive to the stimulatory effect of glutamate compared to control (saline treatment).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
