The developing brain is particularly vulnerable to oxidative DNA damage, which may be the cause of most major congenital mental anomalies. The repair enzyme ogg1 initiates the highly conserved base-excision repair pathway. However, its function in the embryonic brain is largely unknown. This study is the first to validate the function of ogg1 during brain development using zebrafish embryos. Ogg1 was found to be highly expressed in the brain throughout early embryonic development, with particularly enrichment observed in the midbrain. The lack of ogg1 causes severe brain defects including changes in brain volume and integrity, destruction of the midbrain-hindbrain boundary, and balance and motor impairment, while overexpression of ogg1 can partially rescue these defects. Multiple cellular and molecular events were involved in the manifestation of brain defects due primarily to the lack of ogg1. These included (1) increased apoptosis; (2) decreased proliferation; and (3) aberrant axon distribution and extension from the inner surface towards the outer layers. The results of a microarray analysis showed that the expression of genes involved in cell cycle checkpoint, apoptosis, and neurogenesis were significantly changed in response to ogg1 knockdown. Cmyb was the key downstream gene that responses to DNA damage caused by ogg1 deficiency. Notably, the recruitment of ogg1 mRNA can alleviate the effects on the brain due to neural DNA damage. In summary, we introduce here that ogg1 is fundamentally required for protecting the developing brain, which may be helpful in understanding the aetiology of congenital brain deficits.
Reported here is the case of a 9-year-old girl presenting with disseminated tuberculosis, the manifestations of which included mediastinal adenopathy, an osteolytic parietal lesion with a large associated scalp abscess, cerebral empyema, meningoencephalitis, and tuberculomas. No clear improvement was observed after 4 weeks of first-line antituberculosis treatment (10 mg/kg rifampin, 15 mg/kg isoniazid, 30 mg/kg ethambutol, 30 mg/kg pyrazinamide). The isolation of an isoniazid-resistant organism prompted institution of ofloxacin. Introduction of this drug was associated with dramatic improvement. Its good penetration into the central nervous system and its distribution into macrophages suggest that this drug may be of interest for the treatment of intracranial tuberculomas, particularly those due to isoniazid-resistant strains.
To evaluate the effect of adding zafirlukast or low-dose theophylline to a beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) extra-fine hydrofluoroalkane aerosol on bronchial hyperresponsiveness as the primary outcome variable.
Twenty-four patients with mild-to-moderate asthma were studied using a randomized crossover design with the following three treatment blocks: (1) beclomethasone, 100 microg/d, alone for the first 2 weeks followed by 400 microg/d alone for the next 2 weeks; (2) beclomethasone, 100 microg/d, followed by 400 microg/d, with the addition of zafirlukast, 20 mg bid; (3) beclomethasone, 100 microg/d, followed by 400 microg/d, with the addition of theophylline, 200 to 300 mg bid. Measurements were made after 2 and 4 weeks of each treatment and at pretreatment baseline.
The mean trough plasma theophylline concentration was 6.7 mg/L, coinciding with the anti-inflammatory target range (ie, 5 to 10 mg/L). The provocative dose of methacholine causing a 20% fall in FEV(1) (as doubling dose difference from baseline) was significantly (p < 0.05) greater with beclomethasone, 100 microg, plus zafirlukast (1.1 doubling dose) but not with beclomethasone, 100 microg, plus theophylline (0.7 doubling dose) compared to beclomethasone, 100 microg alone (0.4 doubling dose), but not compared to beclomethasone, 400 microg alone (1.1 doubling dose). There were also significant (p < 0.05) differences between beclomethasone, 100 microg, plus zafirlukast (but not BDP, 100 microg, plus theophylline) vs beclomethasone, 100 microg, alone in terms of nitric oxide level, midexpiratory phase of forced expiratory flow, and peak expiratory flow. There were no further significant improvements observed with the addition of zafirlukast or theophylline to beclomethasone, 400 microg.
A leukotriene receptor antagonist, but not low-dose theophylline, conferred significant additive anti-inflammatory effects to therapy with a low-dose inhaled corticosteroid but not to that with a medium dose of an inhaled corticosteroid. Thus, optimizing the dose of inhaled corticosteroid as monotherapy would seem to be the logical first step, which is in keeping with current guidelines.
Astemizole, a new H1 antihistamine, was tested on 10 patients with chronic dizziness and either spontaneous or positional nystagmus. Patients with Meniere's disease were excluded from the study. The patients took 10 mg of astemizole per day for 30 days. Four ENGs were performed; one pre-drug, one after 2 weeks of drug, one after 4 weeks of drug and one post-drug ENG. Six of the 10 patients showed a clear decrease in spontaneous and/or positional nystagmus at the second and third ENG and a rebound of nystagmus when the drug was stopped. There was a positive relation between subjective symptoms and nystagmus. No side-effects were observed.
Among 2,000 Park. pat. hospitalised during the years 1988 till 1990 we found 61 pat. with hyperkinetic side-effects in the sequence of a long-term L-dopa treatment. 43 (mean age 64y.) had a complete clinical data set and hyperkinesia ratings (AIMS scale). Compared to the system's data base--none of these patients showed a strickly normal CEEG. Our standard parkinson treatment was established in 1986: L-dopa as low as possible, dopamine agonists low, amantadines as high as necessary, L-deprenyl till 10 mg and anticholinergics--no, if possible. Our pat. group got initially a mean of 508 mg L-dopa, at the end of the study 296 mg. Conventional EEG (Picker-Schwarzer) and CEEG data were recorded (Dynamic Brain Mapping, Itil). Clinical and CEEG follow-up investigations were done after 2 weeks and 2 years. At follow-up, a reduction of the hyperkinesias was found in 43 patients (AIMS scale). 28 pat. received an additional treatment with nootropic drugs, 15 pat. were without this additional therapy. The visually evaluated CEEG at the latter group showed an acceleration ("response") in 33%, but among the patients with nootropic drugs the acceleration was seen in 66%. In patients without nootropics the mean delta power increased, patients additionally treated showed a reduction of delta. In cases of high L-dopa dosage--associated with severe hyperkinetic side effects--more slow waves were registered. The non-nootropic treated patients were divided into two groups--non-responders and the responders: a) Non-responders (n = 10) showed a significant reduction of alpha and a significant increase of delta and theta, b) Responders (5 pat.) without nootropics had a significant reduction of theta and a increase of alpha, but the acceleration is less pronounced than in the responder group with nootropics. Without co-medication a high L-dopa dosage may provoke/facilitate an organic cerebral dysfunction. The nootropic-treated but non-responder group showed no significant changes (n = 13). The best results were seen in the nootropic-treated responder group (n = 15): a significant diminution of delta and theta and an increase of alpha and beta. Summing-up documented by CEEG methods--high L-dopa dosages seemed to be one of the causes of cerebral dysfunctions. Nootropic drugs were able to ameliorate the pathological CEEG patterns.
This study was undertaken to assess the impact of 12 months of sumatriptan therapy (6 mg subcutaneously) for migraine on health care use, health-related quality of life, productivity, patient satisfaction with the medication, and clinical efficacy in a health maintenance organization (HMO). One hundred forty-eight patients received open-label sumatriptan for 12 months for the treatment of migraine. Medical records were reviewed to obtain information on the frequency of migraine-related health care use during the 12 months before and during sumatriptan treatment. Patients completed questionnaires on their productivity at work, health-related quality of life, and satisfaction with medication at baseline and after 3, 6, and 12 months of sumatriptan treatment. For each migraine, patients recorded pain severity scores before and after taking sumatriptan and the time between dosing and onset of meaningful relief. Sumatriptan was associated with significant reductions in migraine-related use of general outpatient services, telephone calls, urgent care services, and emergency department visits (P < 0.05); a significant increase in the use of pharmacy services (P < 0.05); and significant and sustained improvements in health-related quality-of-life scores compared with baseline (P < 0.001). Patients lost significantly less time from work and were significantly more satisfied with sumatriptan compared with their usual therapy (P < 0.05). Two hours after dosing, 81% of patients experienced reduction of moderate or severe pain to mild or no pain, and 90% of all patients experienced meaningful relief of pain. The use of sumatriptan for 12 months in an HMO was associated with reductions in health care use and improved health-related quality of life, productivity, and patient satisfaction with medication.
In an attempt to assess separately the peripheral and central effects of clonidine on cardiovascular parameters and plasma catecholamine levels, the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (RX 781094) was given either intravenously (i.v.) or intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) to anaesthetized rats before administration of intravenous clonidine. Plasma noradrenaline and plasma growth hormone concentrations were used as indices of peripheral sympathetic nervous activity and central alpha-adrenoceptor stimulation, respectively. Peripheral and central administration of idazoxan antagonized the cardiovascular responses to i.v. clonidine, 5 micrograms kg-1. However, idazoxan was more effective against the hypotension than the bradycardia induced by clonidine. Idazoxan 300 micrograms kg-1 i.v. and 50 micrograms i.c.v. prevented clonidine-induced falls in plasma noradrenaline and adrenaline. The results suggest that 50 micrograms idazoxan i.c.v. caused some blockade of peripheral as well as central alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Idazoxan, 10 micrograms i.c.v., caused similar inhibition of the hypotensive response to clonidine as 300 micrograms kg-1 i.v. and 50 micrograms i.c.v. but did not significantly inhibit the clonidine-induced fall in plasma noradrenaline concentration. Animals pretreated with i.v. or i.c.v. idazoxan had significantly lower levels of plasma growth hormone than vehicle-treated rats. Idazoxan 10 micrograms and 50 micrograms i.c.v. suppressed growth hormone secretion to the same extent. These results suggest that stimulation of peripheral, prejunctional alpha 2-adrenoceptors in anaesthetized rats may contribute to the fall in plasma catecholamines produced by i.v. clonidine, and confirm that the hypotensive effect is centrally mediated.
Leukotrienes are potent bronchoconstrictors, and they are present in the airways of asthmatic subjects. Leukotriene receptor antagonists given intravenously or orally prior to exercise attenuate the bronchoconstrictor response to exercise in asthma. We have determined the prophylactic effect of an inhaled leukotriene D4-receptor antagonist ICI 204,219 (400 micrograms) against exercise-induced bronchoconstriction in nine asthmatic subjects in a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over study. Exercise challenge was performed on a cycle ergometer at a predetermined work load that was kept constant throughout the study. A "screening" and a "run-in" exercise test were performed to determine the reproducibility of the challenge. ICI 204,219 or matched placebo was given 30 min prior to exercise challenge, and bronchoconstriction after exercise was assessed as change in FEV1 over 30 min. There was no significant effect on baseline airway caliber at 20 min after inhalation of ICI 204,219. ICI 204,219 significantly inhibited the bronchoconstrictor response to exercise. The mean maximal percentage fall in FEV1 after exercise was 14.5% as compared with the placebo of 30.2% (p = 0.043), and the area under curve (AUC) for FEV1 during the first 30 min (AUC0-30) after exercise was significantly reduced (p = 0.043). The time for recovery of FEV1 to 5% of baseline was also significantly shorter with ICI 204,219 than with placebo (median, 20 versus 60 min; p = 0.018). The protection against exercise-induced bronchoconstriction provided by ICI 204,219 was variable, with almost complete inhibition of the response in three subjects, partial inhibition in another three subjects, and no protection in three subjects.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ranitidine is widely used and well tolerated. Ranitidine-related skin eruption is rare and usually mild. We presented two patients who developed Stevens-Johnson syndrome after ranitidine therapy. Before therapy, both patients had severe liver disease and jaundice. The first was a case of ketoconazole-induced hepatitis, and the second was a case of hepatitis C-related liver cirrhosis with hepatocellular carcinoma. Ranitidine was the most likely drug responsible for causing Stevens-Johnson syndrome in these two patients.
We report the case of a patient who developed a nephrotic syndrome after lithium carbonate therapy. The nephrotic syndrome disappeared after withdrawal of therapy and recurred when the patient was rechallenged with the same drug. This seems a convincing argument to believe that lithium was the causal agent. Renal biopsy specimens showed membranous nephropathy, suggesting that immune-complex formation was involved in the reaction to the drug. Membranous nephropathy is an exceptional and benign hazard during lithium therapy, and underlines the need for periodic urinalysis in patients treated with the drug.
Mutagenesis is a multistage process. Substitution mutations can be induced by base modified through alteration of pairing property. Mutations of exon 5 and 8 of p53 gene have been found in most arsenicosis patients with precarcinomas and carcinomas, but never in arsenicosis individuals without precarcinomas and carcinomas. This study investigates whether base modification exists in exon 5 and 8 of p53 gene, and explores the dose-effect relationship between damage of exon 5 of p53 gene and urinary arsenic. Concentrations of urinary 8-hydroxydeoxyguanine (8-OHdG) are analyzed to identify the occurrence of DNA damage. The real-time PCR developed by Sikorsky et al. is applied to detect base modification in exon 5 and 8 of p53 gene for apparently healthy participants. Our results show that the mean total arsenic concentrations of two exposed groups from an arsenic plant are significantly elevated compared with the control group, and the damage level of exon 5 of the high-exposed group is significantly higher than that of the control group, but which does not happen in exon 8. The closely correlation between the damage index of exon 5 and urinary organic arsenic concentration are found. Concentration of 8-OHdG of the high-exposed group is significantly higher than that of the control group. These results imply that base modification in exon 5 of p53 gene can be induced by arsenic. In addition, our study suggests that the damage level of exon 5 is a useful biomarker to assess adverse health effect levels caused by chronic exposure to arsenic.
Chronically, glucocorticoids induce adverse cardiometabolic alterations including insulin resistance, diabetes, dyslipidemia, liver steatosis and arterial hypertension.
To evaluate the effect of regular practice of aerobic exercise on cardiometabolic alterations induced by chronic administration of dexamethasone (Dex - 0.5 mg/kg/day ip) in rats.
Male Wistar rats (n = 24) were divided in four groups: Control group; Trained group; Treated with Dex group and Treated with Dex and trained group. The exercise training (initiated 72 hours after the first dose of Dex) was carried out three times a week until the end of the treatment. At the end of this period, the following biochemical assessments were performed: fasting glycemia, oral glucose tolerance test and analysis of the blood lipid profile that included total cholesterol (TC), LDL-c, HDL-c, VLDL-c and triglycerides (TG). The weight of the gastrocnemius muscle, the histopathological analysis of the liver and cardiometabolic indices (TC/HDL-c, LDL-c/HDL-c and TG/HDL-c) were also performed.
Hyperglycemia, lower glucose tolerance, increased TC, LDL-c, VLDL-c, TG, CT/HDL-c, LDL-c/HDL-c and TG/HDL-c, decreased HDL-c, presence of liver steatosis and muscular hypotrophy were observed in the animals treated with Dex. The exercise training reduced hyperglycemia, improved glucose tolerance, decreased dyslipidemia and prevented liver steatosis, muscular hypotrophy and reduced CT/HDL-c, LDL-c/HDL-c and TG/HDL-c ratios. However, there was no significant effect on HDL-c.
The aerobic exercise training have a protective effect against the cardiometabolic alterations induced by the chronic use of glucocorticoids.
Inflammation plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of obesity. Purple sweet potato color (PSPC) has potential anti-inflammation efficacy. We evaluated the effect of PSPC on kidney injury induced by high fat diet (HFD) and explored the mechanism underlying these effects. The results showed that PSPC (700 mg/kg per day) reduced body weight, ratio of urine albumin to creatinine, inflammatory cell infiltration, and Collagen IV accumulation in mice fed an HFD (60% fat food) for 20 weeks. PSPC significantly reduced the expression level of kidney NLRP3 inflammasome including NLRP3 and ASC and Caspase-1, and resulted in decline of IL-1β. Moreover, PSPC inhibited the activation of I kappa B kinase β (IKKβ) and the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-κB). Additionally, PSPC decreased the expression level of oxidative stress-associated AGE receptor (RAGE) and thioredoxin interacting protein (TXNIP) in the upstream of NLRP3 inflammasome. These data imply that the beneficial effects of PSPC on HFD-induced kidney dysfunction and damage are mediated through NLRP3 signaling pathways, suggesting a potential target for the prevention of obesity.
Colchicine, a microtubule polymerization inhibitor, can very occasionally induce myopathy. We report two cases of colchicine myopathy. Both patients presented with myalgia and proximal muscle weakness. The first patient, an 80-year-old woman, had chronic renal failure related to renal amyloidosis. She had been treated by colchicine for 4 months. The second, a 75-year-old man with normal renal function, suffering from gout, was treated by colchicine for 3 weeks. Muscle biopsies displayed the same alterations, but the degree of severity was different. Conventional histology revealed vacuolar changes characterized by acid phosphatase-positive vacuoles and myofibrillar disarray foci. The lesions were selective for type I fibers. Ultrastructural study demonstrated autophagic vacuoles. Most of the vacuoles expressed dystrophin but not merosin. Several fibers reacted with anti-MHC class I antibody and granular deposits of membrane attack complex were observed on the surface of numerous myofibers. Anti-alphaB-crystallin antibody strongly reacted with vacuolar content. Physiopathologically, microtubules are primordial for vesicle movements and colchicine induces autophagic vacuole accumulation by preventing their fusion with lysosomes. The selective type I involvement is probably due to the higher tubulin amount in type I fibers. AlphaB-crystallin overexpression is related to its microtubule protection properties. Moreover, we suggest that vacuoles randomly floating in sarcoplasm might occasionally meet the plasma membrane and open in the extracellular space, leading to complement activation. Accurate diagnosis of colchicine myopathy is relevant because the treatment is based on colchicine interruption.
Bromocriptine (CB) not only lowers serum prolactin (PRL) levels but also reduces tumor size of human prolactinomas. Gen et al and we have suggested that the size reduction of human prolactinomas by bromocriptine treatment results from the reduction in size of individual tumor cell as well as the reduction in number of tumor cells secondary to cell necrosis. This implies that bromocriptine has a cytosuppressive action and possibly a cytocidal action on human prolactinomas which causes reduction in cell size and cell necrosis, respectively. The mechanism of cytosuppressive action of CB has been investigated by using mostly non-neoplastic pituitary tissues of experimental animals. A decrease in exocytosis of secretory granules and a subsequent accumulation of granules within the cells are suggested to cause the reduction in serum levels of PRL in early stage of CB treatment. However we have reported that in spite of a pronounced reduction of serum PRL levels, the number of exocytosis of the granules in human prolactinomas treated with CB for 2 weeks increased to more than 4 times much as that in the untreated prolactinomas. This is a phenomenon which contradictory to the current hypothesis. The present study is intended to clarify whether the phenomenon we observed is specific for human prolactinomas or common also to the prolactinomas in experimental animals. Seventeen female SD rats were used. They were implanted subcutaneously with a pellet of 20 mg of 17 estradiol-benzoate (20% in cholesterol), and left to grow a pituitary tumor for 10 weeks.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Occupational skin symptoms are prevalent among the workers of the seafood processing industry. In this study we investigate the role of salmon (Salmo salar) and king crab trypsin (Paralithodes camtschaticus) as inducers of inflammation in skin via secretion of inflammatory mediators. Human skin keratinocytes (HaCaT cells) were exposed to purified salmon and king crab trypsin. We observed that salmon trypsin enhanced the secretion of IL-8 and MMP-2 and crab trypsin enhanced the secretion of IL-8, MMP-2 and MMP-9 in a dose dependent manner. As protease activated receptors (PAR)-2 in skin are known to play an important role in physiology and pathology, we explored the involvement of these receptors in mediating the release of interleukin (IL)-8 and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -9 subsequent to exposure of skin keratinocytes to salmon and crab trypsin. In addition we observed that salmon and crab trypsin exhibit individual differences in stimulating the release of these inflammatory mediators. Finally, using specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) against PAR-2, we confirmed that the increase in secretion of IL-8, MMP-2 and MMP-9 in skin keratinocytes following exposure to salmon and crab trypsin was mediated via activation of PAR-2. These results suggest that exposure to proteases from the seafood may lead to inflammatory reactions in skin.
The purposes of this study were to investigate in vivo the effects of two lazaroids,U-74389G (21-[4-(2,6-di-1-pyrrolidinyl-4-pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazinyl]-pregna-1,4,9 (11)-triene-3,20-dione (2)-2-butenenedionate) and U-83836E (-)-2-[[4-(2,6-di-1-pyrrlidinyl-4-pyrimidinyl)-1-piperazinyl]methy l]-3,4-dihydro-2,5,7,8-tetramethyl-2H-1-benzopyran-6-ol, dihydrochloride against the cardiotoxicity induced by doxorubicin in rat and the mechanisms underlying such a toxicity. Doxorubicin (DXR) administered intraperitoneally (5 mg/kg 4 times per week for 1 week) induced significant decrease of body weight, ECG alterations and 100% mortality. The lazaroids used in this study did not protect from DXR-induced cardiotoxicity. Our results showed that the compound U-74389G delayed, but did not reduce DXR-induced mortality, and did not prevent body weight loss and ECG changes. The compound U-83836E was unable to modify any toxic effects induced by DXR. These data indicate that oxygen free radicals and the subsequent increase in intracellular calcium are only steps of DXR progressive general toxicity that leads to cardiac injury. In conclusion, we propose that the 21-aminosteroids, potent inhibitors of membrane lipid peroxidation, alone are not enough to protect from DXR toxic effects.
Published studies of children's neurodevelopment after in utero exposure to cocaine have not separated intrauterine from postnatal environmental effects as cocaine-using mothers cluster in low socioeconomic classes and have other risk factors.
To overcome this limitation, a study was done to assess physical and neurodevelopmental characteristics of 52 children: 26 were adopted by parents who sought counselling in the Motherisk Program at the University of Toronto for prenatal cocaine exposure, and 26 were controls matched for maternal intelligence quotient (IQ), socioeconomic status and gestational age.
Head circumference, McCarthy General Cognitive Index (GCI) score, language performance and temperament tests.
The children in the study group had smaller head circumferences (34th versus 54th percentiles p = 0.009), lower McCarthy GCI scores (102.8 versus 114.2, p = 0.02), poorer receptive and expressive language performance on the Reynell test, and higher activity levels, less persistence and increased distractibility on temperament tests. On multivariate analysis, cocaine exposure was significantly (p = 0.001) associated with lower IQ and poorer language development independent of intrauterine growth retardation and other potential confounders.
By controlling for postnatal environmental factors, this adoption study documents intrauterine developmental risks associated with cocaine exposure. Follow-up into school years is warranted to evaluate the extent of these effects.
After primary surgery, 149 premenopausal breast cancer patients, with node-negative disease, were randomized to one of four treatment groups: goserelin, tamoxifen, goserelin plus tamoxifen or to a systematically untreated control group. The aim was to assess the effects of adjuvant endocrine therapy in terms of physical symptoms and perception of anxiety and depressive symptoms. Assessments were made before randomization, at 3-4 months and at 12 months. Treatment with goserelin resulted in early and more intense menopausal symptoms, while the effects of tamoxifen were slower and milder. The side effects with goserelin appeared to be alleviated by concurrent tamoxifen except for vasomotor symptoms (hot flashes, sweating, feeling warm). No significant group differences were found for anxiety and depressive symptoms. In conclusion, chemical castration with goserelin was associated with the highest level of physical symptoms. The group treated with tamoxifen alone showed the lowest levels of symptoms among the treatment groups, except for vaginal discharge and irregular bleedings.
Cocaine-induced lesions may cause extensive destruction of the osteocartilaginous structures of the nose, sinuses and palate, a syndrome called CIMDL (cocaine-induced midline destructive lesion). In such cases, reconstructive procedures of the lost soft and hard tissues may be indicated, such as local flaps, regional flaps, and free revascularised flaps. Also, prosthetic obturators have been suggested to overcome the functional problems related to the tissue loss. However, the majority of publications are related to relatively small defects, whereas articles related to the surgical treatment of large midfacial defects are less frequently reported. The objective of this article is to report the authors' experience concerning a unique case consisting of a complex reconstruction of a severe cranial base, midface, palate, and nose defect following cocaine abuse with four revascularised flaps followed by prosthetic restoration with implant-supported prostheses.
Abnormal secretion of PTH by the parathyroid glands contributes to a variety of common skeletal disorders. Prior studies implicate platelet-derived growth factor-A (PDGF-A) as an important mediator of selective PTH actions on bone. The present studies used targeted gene profiling and small-molecule antagonists directed against candidate gene products to elucidate the roles of specific PTH-regulated genes and signaling pathways. A group of 29 genes in rats continuously infused with PTH and cotreated with the PDGF receptor antagonist trapidil were differentially expressed compared with PTH treatment alone. Several of the identified genes were functionally clustered as regulators of fibroblast differentiation and extracellular matrix modeling, including the matrix cross-linking enzyme lysyl oxidase (LOX). Treatment with beta-aminopropionitrile, an irreversible inhibitor of LOX activity, dramatically reduced diffuse mineralization but had no effect on PTH-induced fibrosis. In contrast, the receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor Gleevec and the phosphoinositide 3-kinase inhibitor wortmannin each reduced bone marrow fibrosis. In summary, the present studies support the hypotheses that PTH-induced bone marrow fibrosis is mediated by PDGF-A via a phosphoinositide 3-kinase-dependent signaling pathway and that increased LOX gene expression plays a key role in abnormal mineralization, a hallmark of chronic hyperparathyroidism.
Forty-nine adult patients with acute leukemia in relapse, refractory to conventional therapy, were studied. Increasing quantities of i.v. bolus high-dose cytosine arabinoside (cytarabine) were administered using the following schedules: 3 g/m2 every 12 hrs for 4-16 consecutive doses, or 4.5 g/m2 every 12 hrs for 12 consecutive doses. Patients ages ranged 16-76 year (median: 38). Thirty-seven patients had previously received either induction or maintainance therapy with conventional doses of cytarabine. Cerebral or cerebellar dysfunction attributable to cytarabine was observed in eight patients and appeared 6-8 days (mean: 6.6) after the first dose and lasted 3-7 days (mean: 4.7). None of 12 patients receiving up to 24 g/m2 total dose of 48 g/m2 developed reversible neurologic dysfunction. Four of six patients receiving 54 g/m2 developed CNS toxicity (irreversible in two cases), a significantly greater incidence compared to toxicity in patients receiving less than or equal to 48 g/m2 total dose (P less than 0.01). CNS toxicity was dose-related since patients treated for 12 consecutive doses of 4.5 g/m2 had significantly greater CNS toxicity than 12 consecutive doses at 3 g/m2 (P less than 0.04). Systemic cytarabine doses less than 54 g/m2 can be administered with minimal CNS side-effects.
The effect of very early infusion of 1.5 X 10(6) U of streptokinase intravenously was studied in 29 patients with nitroglycerin-resistant chest pain and ST-segment elevation. Infarct size was estimated from maximal LD1 isoenzyme levels, and the diagnosis confirmed by CK-MB determination. Thrombolytic therapy was started within 1 hour of pain onset in 11 patients (group A), between 1 and 2 hours in 10 (group B), and later than 2 hours in eight patients (group C). Marked differences appeared between the groups. Thus, three patients in group A and one patient in group B did not develop infarction, all had critical LAD stenoses. Three patients in group C died in shock without bleeding. Further, the average maximal LD1 values in the 22 patients who survived their infarction differed significantly between the groups, and were 12.6, 19.1 and 36.2 mu kat/l in groups A, B and C, respectively. In conclusion, very early intravenous streptokinase infusion probably reduces myocardial necrosis, and possible prevents infarction in some patients.
Fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis (FCH) is a severe clinical and histological variant of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection seen most commonly in the HBV infected allograft after liver transplantation. Without treatment, FCH is fatal, rapidly and universally. Remission has been reported with lamivudine but is associated with evolving resistance to lamivudine. Adefovir dipivoxil has recently been reported to be a potent and highly effective inhibitor of HBV replication in both wild-type and lamivudine resistant HBV infection. We report a case of FCH 15 months after liver transplantation for HBV related cirrhosis despite therapy with lamivudine and hepatitis B immunoglobulin (HBIg). Within two weeks of commencing treatment with adefovir dipivoxil 10 mg once daily, the patient had made a remarkable recovery with resolution of jaundice and normalisation of liver biochemistry. HBV DNA and hepatitis B e antigen were lost from serum subsequently and liver histology had improved at four months. This case report suggests firstly, that advanced FCH can be reversed and secondly, that addition of adefovir dipivoxil to lamivudine and HBIg may be an effective antiviral strategy.
