The present study was carried out to examine whether nitrofurantoin-induced pulmonary toxicity in normal rats was mediated via oxidant stress mechanisms. The relative importance of the cellular antioxidant enzymes in nitrofurantoin toxicity was also assessed. For this, the pulmonary toxicity induced by nitrofurantoin in rats was evaluated at various time intervals after a single subcutaneous injection. Data from this study showed that nitrofurantoin (200 mg/kg, s.c.) resulted in transient but measurable lung damage as evidenced by the increases in wet lung weight/body weight ratio and decreases in lung angiotensin converting enzyme activity. A transient decrease in GSH concentrations with a concurrent increase in GSSG concentrations as well as an increase in lipid peroxidation levels (measured by the formation of diene conjugates and thiobarbituric acid reactants) were also evident in lungs of nitrofurantoin-treated rats. In addition, nitrofurantoin did not alter the pulmonary superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities, but it did produce transient decreases in catalase and glutathione reductase activities. These data indicate that impairment of the ability of the lung to detoxify reactive oxygen species may play an important role in the development of nitrofurantoin-induced pulmonary toxicity. The results of the present study suggest that nitrofurantoin can damage the lungs of rats, probably through oxidative stress-mediated mechanisms. Also, our data have provided in vivo evidence for substantiating lipid peroxidation as a possible cause of lung damage.
A 3-year-old girl developed acute oliguric renal failure after accidental ingestion of nitrofurantoin (190 mg/kg body weight). The time interval between poisoning and the onset of renal failure was 9 days. She later recovered with symptomatic management.
Two new cases of superior mesenteric, portal and pulmonary venous thrombosis enable the authors to stress the close link between this pathology and the ingestion of oral contraceptives. The resultant vessel wall changes and laboratory changes are described. Whilst complete normalisation at the end of treatment is confirmed, preventive treatment will soon be possible by virtue of the development of new natural substances already perfected in the United States and the Scandinavian countries and recently marketed in our own country.
About 28% of women aged 15-44 use oral contraceptives (OCs) in France. The 2 cases presented here, of superior mesenteric portal and pulmonary venous thrombosis in patients on uninterrupted OCs for 8 years, reconfirm the association between OCs and embolic pathology. Similar cases have been often described in the published literature. 3 main factors influence the induction of such thromboses; 1) modification of blood coagulation, 2) modification of the vessels' walls, and, 3) immunologic role of OCs. Blood coagulation is apparently modified by synthetic estrogens only, and not be progestin agents. The vessels' walls undergo a gradual thickening, together with a proliferation of the smooth muscular cells. On the immunologic plan, it is possible that OCs may cause the procreation of antiethinyl-estradiol antibodies which appear as circulating immune complexes. Thromboembolic risk disappears spontaneously after termination of OC treatment.
Pulmonary veno-occlusive disease (PVOD), an uncommon cause of pulmonary hypertension (PH) has been reported following treatment of a variety of different malignancies with various chemotherapy. We report here the cases of two patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who developed fatal PH after combined treatment with surgery and a mitomycin containing perioperative chemotherapy (PCT). PVOD was documented at autopsy in one patient and was strongly suspected in the other patient who had an identical clinical presentation and in whom the work-up looking for another cause of PH was negative. Mitomycin was incriminated in both cases. Without questioning the potential interest of perioperative chemotherapy in resectable NSCLC, these observations illustrate the risks related to the combination of pneumotoxic chemotherapy and thoracic surgery.
We report here the results obtained using the dithiocarbamate fungicides thiram and ziram to investigate the induction of chromosomal aberrations (CAs) in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells both in the absence and presence of S9 metabolism, and in a Chinese hamster epithelial liver (CHEL) cells which retain metabolic competence to activate different classes of promutagens/procarcinogens. Both thiram and ziram proved to be strong chromosome breaking agents in the CHEL cells and CHO cells in the presence of S9 metabolism. These findings suggest that thiram and ziram require metabolic conversion to become genetically active, and corroborate the evidence that CHEL cells are suitable to activate and detect a broad spectrum of chemical procarcinogens including these two pesticides.
To explore the protective effect of glycyrrhizin in rats with nephrotic syndrome (NS) induced by adriamycin (ADR).
36 Sprague Dawley (SD) male rats were divided into control, untreated and glycyrrhizin treatment groups. The NS rat model was established by injecting ADR twice in the untreated and in the glycyrrhizin treatment groups. Rats in the glycyrrhizin treatment group were fed glycyrrhizin by intragastric administration for 7 days. Changes in the following indices were observed in the three groups before and 4 weeks after the treatment: 24 h urine protein quantitation (UPr), serum cholesterol (Ch), serum albumin (Alb), blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine (sCr), laminin (LN), fibronectin (FN), collagen (Col), transforming growth factor beta1 (TGFbeta1) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF); histopathology by light and electron microscope. Expression of LN, FN, ColIV, TGFbeta1 and CTGF in the cortex of the kidney were detected by semi-quantitative immunohistochemical analysis. Expression of TGFbeta1 and CTGF in the cortex of the kidney was detected by Fluorescein Based Quantitive RT-PCR. Macrophage infiltration was evaluated by the immunoperoxidase staining.
Compared with the control group, 24 h UPr, Ch, BUN and sCr of rats in the untreated group were increased. Glycyrrhizin reduced 24 h Upr, Ch, BUN, sCr, LN, FN, Col, TGFbeta1, CTGF, and mean arterial blood pressure. Pathological changes in the kidney, the expression of LN, FN, Col, TGFbeta1 and CTGF in the cortex of the kidney in the glycyrrhizin treatment group were decreased compared with the untreated group. Glycyrrhizin also suppressed macrophage infiltration in the kidneys of NS rat models.
Glycyrrhizin exerts protective effects in rats with NS, reducing the excretion of Upr, Ch, BUN, sCr, and mean arterial blood pressure, and also decreasing expression of LN, FN, Col, TGFbeta1 and CTGF in the kidney. Renal function is improved and the severity of NS is lessened.
This study examined whether the anti-oxidants ascorbic acid, alpha- or gamma-tocopherol, could modify adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH)-hypertension in Sprague-Dawley rats, a model associated with increased oxidative stress. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) was measured by the tail-cuff method. After four days of ascorbic acid (AA) (200 mg/kg/day drinking) or alpha-tocopherol (500 mg/kg/d i.p. or feed), rats were co-administered ACTH (0.2 mg/kg/day s.c.) or saline for 11 days (prevention studies). In reversal studies, ACTH/saline was administered for 15 days, and from day 9, alpha- or gamma-tocopherol (20 mg/kg/day) was added. ACTH increased SBP compared to saline (p < 0.05). AA or alpha-tocopherol failed to prevent and alpha- or gamma-tocopherol failed to reverse ACTH-induced hypertension. Thus, neither vitamin C (water soluble) nor E (lipid soluble) modified ACTH-induced hypertension in the rat.
Microcystin-LR is a cyanobacterial heptapeptide that presents acute and chronic hazards to animal and human health. We investigated the influence of this toxin on human and chicken immune system modulation in vitro. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were treated with microcystin-LR at environmentally relevant doses of 1, 10 and 25 microg/ml for 12, 24, 48, 72 h (for proliferation assay cells were treated for 72 h). T-cell and B-cell proliferation as well as apoptosis and necrosis were determined in human and chicken samples. IL-2 and IL-6 production by human lymphocytes also was measured. In addition, uptake kinetics of microcystin-LR into human and chicken peripheral blood lymphocytes were calculated by Liquid Chromatography (LS) /Mass Spectrometry (MS) analysis. At the highest dose microcystin-LR decreased T-cell proliferation and all doses of microcystin-LR inhibited B-cell proliferation. The frequency of apoptotic and necrotic cells increased in a dose and time-dependent manner. Human lymphocytes responded to stimulation with microcystin-LR by increased production of IL-6 and decreased production of IL-2. Human lymphocytes were able to uptake from 0.014 to 1.663 microg/ml and chicken lymphocytes from 0.035 to 1.733 microg/ml of the microcystin-LR added to the cultures, depending on the treatment time and dose. In conclusion, microcystin-LR acted as an immunomodulator in cytokine production and down-regulated lymphocyte functions by induction of apoptosis and necrosis. However, further studies dealing with the influence of microcystin-LR on expression cytokine genes and transcription factors are necessary to confirm these hypotheses.
The dose-response of the teratogenic potency of the thalidomide (Thd) derivative EM12 was evaluated in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The smallest daily dose found to be effective was 30 micrograms EM12/kg body wt. This is the lowest dose of a Thd derivative ever reported to induce severe skeletal abnormalities. Ten micrograms EM12/kg body wt may be considered the no-observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL) under the experimental conditions chosen. The teratogenic potencies of the two EM12 enantiomers were tested at 100 micrograms/kg body wt, the dose which just induces an almost 100% effect in the case of the racemate. The S(-)-EM12 was found to induce typical severe limb abnormalities such as amelia, phocomelia, and radius aplasia, and none of the exposed fetuses were devoid of skeletal defects. In contrast, only few and minor skeletal defects were observed after application of the R(+) enantiomer. Although a pronounced teratogenic potency of the R(+)-EM12 can now largely be excluded, these low-dose studies are not sufficient to completely rule out any teratogenic potential of this enantiomer, since racemisation to small amounts of the S(-) form may occur in vivo. Further studies with Thd derivatives which are unable to racemise are necessary to prove the assumed complete ineffectiveness of the R(+) enantiomers.
Men and women with isolated systolic hypertension who were at least 60 years of age were treated for 1 year with chlorthalidone (25-50 mg daily) or matching placebo as the step I drug. Most patients reached goal blood pressure without requiring a step II drug. The blood pressure response was similar in all age, sex and race subgroups, with an overall difference between the randomised groups of 17 mm Hg for systolic blood pressure (p less than 0.001) and 6mm Hg for diastolic blood pressure (p less than 0.001). The only common adverse effects were asymptomatic changes in the serum concentrations of potassium (0.5 mmol/L lower in the chlorthalidone group, p less than 0.001), uric acid (0.9 mg/dl higher, p less than 0.001), and creatinine (0.08 mg/dl higher, p = 0.02). Compliance was good, and more than 80% of participants were still taking the study medications at the end of the year.
Estrogen stimulates proliferation in hormone-responsive breast cancer cells. Progestins inhibit the estrogen-mediated growth in these cells and are used in the treatment of mammary carcinomas. We applied cDNA microarray and real-time RT-PCR methods to reveal 17beta-estradiol- and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA)-regulated genes in MCF-7 breast cancer cells. We identified six genes, two of which were novel MPA and/or 17beta-estradiol-regulated genes: protein tyrosine phosphatase type IVA, member 1 (PTP4A1) and zinc finger protein 36, C3H type-like 1 (ZFP36L1). PTP4A1 expression was upregulated by 17beta-estradiol and this was opposed by MPA treatment of the cells. ZFP36L1 proved to be a direct target of MPA. Since MPA has also been shown to bind to glucocorticoid- and androgen receptors, we studied the regulation of the genes with progesterone, synthetic progestin R5020, dexamethasone and dihydrotestosterone. We also assessed the expression and hormonal regulation of PTP4A1 and ZFP36L1 mRNA in MCF-7-derived MPA-resistant and estrogen-independent sublines. The regulation of PTP4A1 expression upon 17beta-estradiol and combined 17beta-estradiol and MPA treatment was completely reversed in the estrogen-independent and MPA-resistant sublines, respectively. This study suggests an important role for PTP4A1 in cell growth, and shows that MPA may potentiate the effect of 17beta-estradiol in the MPA-resistant breast cancer cells.
Previously, we reported that glycine N-methyltransferase (GNMT) knockout mice develop chronic hepatitis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) spontaneously. For this study we used a phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase promoter to establish a GNMT transgenic (TG) mouse model. Animals were intraperitoneally inoculated with aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) and monitored for 11 months, during which neither male nor female GNMT-TG mice developed HCC. In contrast, 4 of 6 (67%) male wild-type mice developed HCC. Immunofluorescent antibody test showed that GNMT was translocated into nuclei after AFB(1) treatment. Competitive enzyme immunoassays indicated that after AFB(1) treatment, the AFB(1)-DNA adducts formed in stable clones expressing GNMT reduced 51.4% compared to the vector control clones. Experiments using recombinant adenoviruses carrying GNMT cDNA (Ad-GNMT) further demonstrated that the GNMT-related inhibition of AFB(1)-DNA adducts formation is dose-dependent. HPLC analysis of the metabolites of AFB(1) in the cultural supernatants of cells exposed to AFB(1) showed that the AFM(1) level in the GNMT group was significantly higher than the control group, indicating the presence of GNMT can enhance the detoxification pathway of AFB(1). Cytotoxicity assay showed that the GNMT group had higher survival rate than the control group after they were treated with AFB(1). Automated docking experiments showed that AFB(1) binds to the S-adenosylmethionine binding domain of GNMT. Affinity sensor assay demonstrated that the dissociation constant for GNMT-AFB(1) interaction is 44.9 microM. Therefore, GNMT is a tumor suppressor for HCC and it exerts protective effects in hepatocytes via direct interaction with AFB(1), resulting in reduced AFB(1)-DNA adducts formation and cell death.
We report the discovery and validation of a series of benzoisothiazolones as potent inhibitors of phosphomannose isomerase (PMI), an enzyme that converts mannose-6-phosphate (Man-6-P) into fructose-6-phosphate (Fru-6-P) and, more importantly, competes with phosphomannomutase 2 (PMM2) for Man-6-P, diverting this substrate from critical protein glycosylation events. In congenital disorder of glycosylation type Ia, PMM2 activity is compromised; thus, PMI inhibition is a potential strategy for the development of therapeutics. High-throughput screening (HTS) and subsequent chemical optimization led to the identification of a novel class of benzoisothiazolones as potent PMI inhibitors having little or no PMM2 inhibition. Two complementary synthetic routes were developed, enabling the critical structural requirements for activity to be determined, and the compounds were subsequently profiled in biochemical and cellular assays to assess efficacy. The most promising compounds were also profiled for bioavailability parameters, including metabolic stability, plasma stability, and permeability. The pharmacokinetic profile of a representative of this series (compound 19; ML089) was also assessed, demonstrating the potential of this series for in vivo efficacy when dosed orally in disease models.
In the present investigation, the effects of selective inhibitors of 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO), zileuton and TZI-41127, E-6080, AA-861 and antagonists of leukotriene B4 (LTB4) receptors, SC-41930, and SC-51146 and a selective cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, were examined in TPA-induced acute mouse dermal inflammation. Topical application of all these agents, except indomethacin, resulted in marked attenuation of TPA-induced edema and influx of neutrophils reflected in myeloperoxidase measurements. Topically applied SC-41930 attenuated TPA-induced edema and neutrophil influx in a dose-related manner. Oral administration of LTB4 receptor antagonists either as a pre-treatment or post-treatment attenuated TPA-induced edema and influx of neutrophils. The O-demethyl analog of SC-41930, SC-37920, which was nearly 1000-fold less active than SC-41930 in LTB4 receptor binding assays, was inactive in inflammation assays, suggesting a role for LTB4 in this response. Zileuton and TZI-41127 were more effective as anti-inflammatory agents following oral administration than after i.p. administration. Intraperitoneally administered indomethacin attenuated edema response but not influx of neutrophils. Taken together, these results suggest a role for leukotrienes in acute inflammation induced by TPA and possible utility of this model to test in vivo 5-LO inhibitors and LTB4 receptor antagonists.
To evaluate the possible involvement of kappa opioid receptor-mediated mechanisms in levodopa-induced motor fluctuations, we have investigated the effects of U50,488, a selective kappa opioid agonist, on levodopa-induced motor alterations in rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesion. Acute and chronic administration of U50,488 has been studied to evaluate the possible reversion or prevention of these levodopa effects. In a first set of experiments, rats were treated with levodopa (25 mg/kg with benserazide, twice daily, ip) for 22 days and, on Day 23 U50,488 (0.5, 1, or 3 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered immediately before levodopa. In a second set of experiments, rats were treated daily for 22 days with levodopa and U50,488 (1 or 3 mg/kg/day, i.p.). The duration of the rotational behavior induced by chronic levodopa decreased after 22 days (P < 0.05). Acute administration of U50,488 on Day 23 reversed this effect when low doses were administered (P < 0.05). Chronic U50,488 administration did not prevent the shortening in response duration induced by levodopa. Our results demonstrate that the kappa opioid receptor agonist U50,488 reverses but does not prevents levodopa-induced motor alterations in parkinsonian rats. These results suggest a role for kappa opioid receptor-mediated mechanisms in the pathophysiology of levodopa-induced motor response complications. These findings suggest that the stimulation of kappa opioid receptors might confer clinical benefit to parkinsonian patients under levodopa therapy suffering from motor complication syndrome.
Cyp 7-/- mice lack a functional cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase enzyme and develop cholestasis before up-regulation of 27-hydroxycholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase activity. Because 7alpha-hydroxylation is not the initial step in this metabolic pathway, we tested the hypothesis that cholesterol 27-hydroxylase is expressed at an earlier step and leads to the production of monohydroxy bile acids.
Polymerase chain reaction with specific oligonucleotides was used to detect messenger RNA (mRNA) coding for cholesterol 27-hydroxylase in 5-day-old normal and Cyp 7-/- mice. Gas-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and reverse isotope dilution were used to identify intermediates in the cholesterol 27-hydroxylase metabolic pathway. Light and electron microscopy were used to evaluate the morphological appearance of the liver.
mRNA for cholesterol 27-hydroxylase was identified in the liver and spleen. The monohydroxy bile acids 3beta-hydroxy-5-cholenoate and 3alpha-hydroxy-5beta-cholanoate together with their precursor, 27-hydroxycholesterol, were identified in liver homogenates. Cholestasis, present focally, was manifested as dilated bile canaliculi, partial loss of microvilli, and retention of electron-dense biliary material.
The cholesterol 27-hydroxylase metabolic pathway of bile acid synthesis is expressed in neonatal life. The absence of 7alpha-hydroxylase activities unmasks the cholestatic potential of monohydroxy bile acids. The Cyp 7-/- knockout mouse mimics cholestatic events known to occur in humans and provides a unique opportunity for studying regulatory determinants.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha causes much of the hepatocellular injury and cell death that follows toxin-induced liver damage. The mechanism by which toxic liver injury sensitizes hepatocytes to TNF-alpha cytotoxicity is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the role of the antioxidant glutathione in this process.
A rat hepatocyte cell line and primary hepatocytes sensitized to TNF-alpha toxicity by the addition of actinomycin D were examined for changes in glutathione levels and for the effects of glutathione depletion or supplementation on cell death. The in vivo effects of glutathione depletion were determined in mice treated with galactosamine plus lipopolysaccharide.
Treatment of hepatocytes with actinomycin D and TNF-alpha induced apoptotic cell death without affecting cellular glutathione levels or production of the reactive oxygen intermediate H2O2. Glutathione depletion induced by diethyl maleic acid significantly increased TNF-alpha-induced cell death even when this agent was administered 2 hours after TNF-alpha treatment. Hepatocyte cell death was not affected by glutathione supplementation. In mice treated with galactosamine plus lipopolysaccharide, glutathione depletion increased mortality from liver injury from 32% to 72%.
TNF-alpha-induced cytotoxicity in hepatocytes occurs in the absence of glutathione depletion. However, a preexisting reduction in glutathione levels can significantly increase cell death from TNF-alpha.
Nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation and levodopa therapy in animal models and in parkinsonian patients are associated with an enhanced opioid transmission in the striatum. The functional role of this increase has always been a subject of debate. In this study two groups of drug-naïve macaque monkeys with MPTP-induced parkinsonism were treated daily, during four weeks, with l-Dopa alone or l-Dopa plus naltrexone, a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist. The improvement of parkinsonism in all animals treated with l-Dopa alone was clearly displayed from the first day of treatment. By contrast, naltrexone co-treatment blocked the antiparkinsonian action of l-Dopa for 7-14 days. As soon as the therapeutical action of l-Dopa appeared in naltrexone-treated monkeys, the magnitude and duration of the antiparkinsonian response were similar in both groups. Furthermore, in animals treated with l-Dopa plus naltrexone the beginning of the therapeutical effect of l-Dopa was accompanied by the appearance of dyskinesias. In this group, the severity of dyskinesias during the third and fourth weeks of treatment was significantly higher than the group treated with l-Dopa alone. The results of the present study demonstrate that in de novo MPTP parkinsonian monkeys antagonizing the action of opioid receptors worsens the motor response to l-Dopa.
Two patients with status asthmaticus (a 30-year-old female and a 48-year-old male) who developed flaccid quadriplegia and sensory impairment of glove and stocking type after treatment with halothane, muscle relaxants (pancuronium and vecuronium) and steroid are described. They noted motor and sensory impairment immediately after recovery from control ventilation for treatment of status asthmaticus. Histochemical examinations of biopsied muscle demonstrated the necrosis and regeneration of muscle fibers and small diameters in type I fibers. These results suggested that the involvement of muscle (myopathy) was a consequence of the harmful action of halothane and muscle relaxants together with steroids on muscle fibers with subclinical fragility. The sensory impairment (neuropathy) was considered to have been produced mainly by the halothane together with muscle relaxants and aminoglycosides.
The present study showed CCR7, CCR8, CCR9 and CCR10 in the normal Swiss mouse hippocampus at both protein and mRNA levels. CCR7, CCR9 and CCR10 were mainly localized in hippocampal principal cells and some interneurons. CCR9 was also found in the mossy fibres and/or terminals, suggesting an axonal or presynaptic localization, and CCR10 in apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 area. CCR8 was observed in interneurons. Double-labelling immunocytochemistry revealed that most of calbindin (CB)-, calretinin (CR)- and parvalbumin (PV)-immunopositive neurons expressed CCR7-10, except CR-immunopositive cells in which only 10 to 12% expressed CCR8. During and after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, progressive changes of each of CCR7, CCR8, CCR9 and CCR10 proteins occurred in different patterns at various time points. Sensitive real-time PCR showed similar change patterns at mRNA level. At the chronic stage, i.e. at 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, significant reduction of CCR7-10 expression in CB-, CR- and PV-immunpositive interneurons may suggest the phenotype change of surviving interneurons. Double labelling of CCR7, CCR8 and CCR9 with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) at the chronic stage may suggest an induced expression in reactive astrocytes. The present study may, therefore, for the first time, provide evidence that CCR7-10 may be involved in normal hippocampal activity. The demonstration of the progressive changes of CCR7-10 during and after status epilepticus may open a new area to reveal the mechanism of neuronal loss after status epilepticus and of epileptogenesis.
A series of dansylated fluorescent analogs was synthesized and tested for cholinergic and anticholinergic activity in Schistosoma mansoni. The compounds were compared with a previously reported analog, 5-(dimethylamino)-N-(2-dimethylaminoethyl)naphthalenesulfonamide hydrochloride (I). All of the compounds produced some fluorescent labeling of a structure in the head region of the worms. Major differences were not seen among the compounds. The compounds also were tested as antagonists of carbachol-induced paralysis in an activity monitor. Significant carbachol antagonism was seen for all compounds. Effects on the serotonin response also were recorded. Only one compound, a dibutylaminopropylamine derivative, produced striking antagonism of serotonin-induced motor activity.
We sought to examine the effect of resveratrol (3,4',5-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene), a plant-derived polyphenolic compound, on the development of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
AAA was induced in mice by periaortic application of CaCl(2). NaCl (0.9%)-applied mice were used as a sham group. Mice were treated with intraperitoneal injection of PBS (Sham/CON, AAA/CON, n=30 for each) or resveratrol (100 mg/kg/day) (AAA/RSVT, n=30). Six weeks after the operation, aortic tissue was excised for further examinations.
Aortic diameter was enlarged in AAA/CON compared with Sham/CON. Resveratrol treatment reduced the aneurysm size and inflammatory cell infiltration in the aortic wall compared with AAA/CON. Elastica Van Gieson staining showed destruction of the wavy morphology of the elastic lamellae in AAA/CON, while it was preserved in AAA/RSVT. The increased mRNA expression of monocyte chemotactic protein-1, tumor necrosis factor-α, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, CD68, vascular endothelial growth factor-A, p47, glutathione peroxidase (GPX)1 and GPX3 were attenuated by resveratrol treatment (all p<0.05). Administration of resveratrol decreased protein expression of phospho-p65 in AAA. The increased 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine-positive cell count and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-positive cell count in AAA were also reduced by resveratrol treatment. Zymographic activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 and MMP-2 was lower in AAA/RSVT compared with AAA/CON (both p<0.05). Compared with AAA/CON, Mac-2(+) macrophages and CD31(+) vessels in the aortic wall were decreased in AAA/RSVT (both p<0.05).
Treatment with resveratrol in mice prevented the development of CaCl(2)-induced AAA, in association with reduced inflammation, oxidative stress, neoangiogenesis, and extracellular matrix disruption. These findings suggest therapeutic potential of resveratrol for AAA.
High doses of folate and its quinazoline analogue with antitumour activity, N10-propargyl-5,8-dideazafolic acid (CB 3717), caused severe renal damage in mice, leading in the case of folate to death. The mouse kidneys increased in weight, which was accompanied by time- and dose-dependent induction of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity. In contrast, methotrexate (MTX) had negligible effect on mouse kidneys except when applied together with the non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug, indomethacin.
We report the first occurrence of gemcitabine-induced vasculitis. It concerns a 45-year-old man diagnosed with non-small lung cancer since 2 months. After the first cycle of chemotherapy, consisting of gemcitabine and cisplatin, he developed myalgia and swelling of arms and legs with impairment of movement. This re-occurred during the second cycle of chemotherapy. Further anemia, elevated ESR and increased creatininephosphokinase. A surgical biopsy showed leucocytoclastic vasculitis and necrosis of muscle tissue. The chemotherapy was stopped and the complaints disappeared and did not return.
Effects of the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, simvastatin and atorvastatin, on diltiazem-induced hypotension were examined in anaesthetized rats and compared to that of pravastatin. Vehicle, 2 mg/kg/day simvastatin, 2 mg/kg/day atorvastatin, or 4 mg/kg/day pravastatin was administered orally for 4 days. Diltiazem at 3 mg/kg was given orally 2 hours after the final administration of the inhibitors. Arterial blood pressure was measured via a cannula introduced into the left carotid artery, and heart rate was counted from the pulse pressure. In all groups, diltiazem significantly decreased the mean arterial blood pressure without any changes in heart rate. Pretreatment with simvastatin and atorvastatin significantly enhanced the hypotensive effect of diltiazem, while that with pravastatin did not. Heart rate was not modified by pretreatment with the inhibitors. The results indicate that concomitant use of diltiazem with simvastatin or atorvastatin enhances diltiazem-induced hypotension, probably by competitive inhibition of diltiazem metabolism with simvastatin and atorvastatin metabolisms.
We present a puzzling case of a 25-year-old depressive man suffering from seizures and visual hallucinations during clomipramine treatment with a high dose but causing a low serum concentration. We examined alleles of cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes. It was revealed that he was not an ultrarapid metabolizer for CYP2D6, and that the genotypes were homozygous for CYP2D6J and heterozygous for CYP2C19m1. Throughout the treatment period, his compliance was good. Since he was a smoker, it seems likely that his low clomipramine level was due to smoking-induced CYP1A2 activity. These findings suggest that smoking-induced CYP1A2 activity overcomes the possibly inhibiting effects of homozygosity for CYP2D6J and heterozygosity for CYP2C19m1, and that high-dose clomipramine is not always a direct cause of seizures.
The purpose of the current investigation was to study the influence of sulindac and naproxen on renal function and urinary excretion of the stable hydration product of prostacyclin, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, in patients with arthritis and impaired renal function.
In a placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over design, the effects of 7 days of oral sulindac 200 mg twice a day were compared with naproxen 500 mg in the morning and 250 mg in the evening in 10 patients with polyarthritis and stable impaired renal function. Inulin and para-amino-hippurate sodium were used to calculate glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow. The excretion rate of 6-keto-PGF1 alpha was measured in urine collected overnight. After patients ingested drugs in the morning, urine was collected in fractions by spontaneous voiding. Venous blood samples were drawn repeatedly for assay of electrolytes, creatinine, proteins, hormones, and drugs. Grip strength and Ritchie articular index were recorded as indicators of symptomatic antiarthritic effectiveness.
Naproxen decreased urine levels of 6-keto PGF1 alpha by 59% (p less than 0.01). Sulindac had no effect on renal prostaglandin excretion. Naproxen reduced the glomerular filtration rate and renal plasma flow by 18% (p less than 0.05) and 13% (p less than 0.05), respectively, while no significant change was observed during the sulindac treatment periods. Serum levels of creatinine and complement factor D were unaffected by either drug. Plasma renin activity decreased during naproxen and sulindac treatments by 38% (p less than 0.05) and 22% (p less than 0.05). No significant change in plasma aldosterone was observed during the two drug treatments, but urinary aldosterone declined significantly (p less than 0.05) by 34% with naproxen. Albuminuria decreased (p less than 0.05) during both naproxen (41%) and sulindac treatment (72%), while the albumin/creatinine clearance ratio decreased by 59% (p less than 0.05) only during treatment with sulindac. N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase in urine was not changed by either drug. Sulindac and naproxen had no discernible effects on base excess, excretion of water, sodium, or potassium, or on osmolal clearance. However, serum potassium increased slightly but significantly (p less than 0.01) during treatment with naproxen. Sulindac sulfide, the active metabolite of sulindac, could not be traced in the urine from any of the patients. Mean arterial blood pressure declined significantly (p less than 0.05) during sulindac treatment but did not change during treatment with naproxen. Both drugs produced equal clinical improvement as measured by grip strength and the Ritchie articular index.
The results suggest that when sulindac and naproxen are given in clinical equipotent doses to patients with impaired renal function, sulindac does not affect renal prostaglandin synthesis or renal function, whereas naproxen induces suppression of renal prostaglandin synthesis and a further decrease in renal function.
