The PPARγ agonist troglitazone (TG) induced an increased incidence of hemangiosarcomas in mice but was not carcinogenic in rats. In contrast, pioglitazone (PIO) did not induce hemangiosarcomas or any other tumors in mice. We previously demonstrated that TG increased the proliferation of endothelial cells (ECs) in liver and adipose tissue in mice, and acted as a mitogenic stimulant and an inhibitor of apoptosis in vitro in mouse, but not human, ECs. In the present study, we investigated whether TG had any effect on the proliferation of ECs in rats. We also evaluated the in vivo and in vitro effects of PIO on ECs in mice. In rats, TG did not increase the Ki-67 labeling index (LI) of ECs in liver or adipose tissue at doses used in the two-year bioassay, and did not increase hepatocyte proliferation. PIO administered to mice did not increase the Ki-67 LI of hepatocytes or ECs in liver or white adipose tissue, but slightly increased the EC proliferation in brown adipose tissue. PIO was slightly mitogenic on cultured mouse ECs after 3 days of treatment but not after 6 days, and there was no inhibition of apoptosis, in contrast to what was seen with TG. The data support the conclusion that sustained EC proliferation in mice is necessary, for the induction of hemangiosarcomas by TG, and these short-term and long-term effects are not seen with TG in the rat or with PIO in mice, treatments that also are not related to the induction of hemangiosarcomas in two-year bioassays.
Molecular predictors for the effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy in colorectal cancer are of considerable clinical interest. To this aim, we analyzed the serine threonine receptor-associated protein (STRAP), an inhibitor of TGF-beta signaling, with regard to prognosis and prediction of adjuvant 5-FU chemotherapy benefit.
The gene copy status of STRAP was determined using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction in 166 colorectal tumor biopsies, which had been collected from a randomized multicenter trial of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)/mitomycin C (MMC) adjuvant chemotherapy of the Swiss Group for Clinical Cancer Research (SAKK).
Amplification of STRAP was found in 22.8% of the tumors. When left without adjuvant chemotherapy, patients bearing tumors with a STRAP amplification had a significantly better prognosis (hazard ratio for death: 0.26; P=.004). Interestingly, these patients, when receiving adjuvant treatment, had a worse survival (hazard ratio for death: 3.48; P=.019) than without chemotherapy, whereas patients carrying tumors with diploidy or deletion of STRAP benefited from the treatment (hazard ratio for death: 0.44; P=.052). This suggests the amplification of STRAP as a strong predictor of an unfavorable effect of 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
If confirmed, the STRAP gene copy status might provide a parameter to decide about the use of 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
Ventral tegmental area (VTA) brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) contributes to time-dependent increases in cue-induced cocaine seeking after withdrawal (incubation of cocaine craving). Here, we studied the role of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in incubation of cocaine craving because, like BDNF, GDNF provides trophic support to midbrain dopamine neurons.
We first trained rats to self-administer intravenous cocaine for 10 days (6 hours/d, cocaine injections were paired with a tone-light cue). We then manipulated VTA GDNF function and assessed cue-induced cocaine seeking in extinction tests after withdrawal from cocaine.
VTA injections of an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector containing rat GDNF cDNA (5 x 10(8) viral genomes) on withdrawal Day 1 increased cue-induced cocaine seeking on withdrawal days 11 and 31; this effect was not observed after VTA injections of an AAV viral vector containing red fluorescent protein (RFP). Additionally, VTA, but not substantial nigra (SN), GDNF injections (1.25 microg or 12.5 microg/side) immediately after the last cocaine self-administration session increased cue-induced drug seeking on withdrawal days 3 and 10; this effect was reversed by VTA injections of U0126, which inhibits the activity of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK). Finally, interfering with VTA GDNF function by chronic delivery of anti-GDNF monoclonal neutralizing antibodies via minipumps (600 ng/side/d) during withdrawal Days 1-14 prevented the time-dependent increases in cue-induced cocaine seeking on withdrawal days 11 and 31.
Our results indicate that during the first weeks of withdrawal from cocaine self-administration, GDNF-dependent neuroadaptations in midbrain VTA neurons play an important role in the development of incubation of cocaine craving.
Behavioral disturbance in children following sevoflurane anesthesia is a relatively frequent event. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether a higher dose of preoperatively administered rectal midazolam compared with a lower would alleviate this phenomenon. Furthermore the impact of these two doses of midazolam on sedation at induction of anesthesia was compared.
A total of 115 children presenting for minor surgery under anesthesia were included in the study. The children were randomized to receive rectally either 1 mg.kg(-1) midazolam (group H) or 0.5 mg.kg(-1) midazolam (group L). General anesthesia was induced with propofol or sevoflurane and maintained with 1.5% sevoflurane in the inspiratory limb. Prior to the start of surgery a regional block was performed to ensure adequate pain relief. Behavior on emergence was assessed using a three point scale. In case of severe agitation propofol was administered IV.
The children in group H were significantly better sedated preoperatively (P < 0.01). There was no significant difference in emergence behavior: 42.1% of children in group H compared with 36.2% of children in group L exhibited severe agitation requiring sedation with propofol (P = 0.37). However, regardless of the preoperative dose of midazolam more children under the age of 36 months (61.4%) were severely distressed at emergence compared with older children (16.7%) (P < 0.01).
A higher dose of 1 mg.kg(-1) rectal midazolam results in much better sedated children on induction of anesthesia than 0.5 mg.kg(-1). This, however, does not result in a reduced incidence of emergence delirium after sevoflurane anesthesia. Regardless of the premedication negative behavioral changes occur more frequently in children younger than 3 years of age.
trans-Cinnamaldehyde and trans-cinnamic alcohol have been commonly reported to cause allergic contact dermatitis (ACD) in humans. Cinnamaldehyde is a more potent skin sensitizer than cinnamic alcohol. It has been hypothesized that cinnamic alcohol is a "prohapten" that requires metabolic activation, presumably by oxidoreductase enzymes such as alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) or cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1), to the protein-reactive cinnamaldehyde (a hapten). In this study, the in vitro percutaneous absorption and metabolism of cinnamaldehyde and cinnamic alcohol (78 micromol dose) has been examined using freshly excised, metabolically viable, full-thickness breast and abdomen skin from six female donors. Penetration rates and total cumulative recoveries of cinnamic compounds that were present in receptor fluid, extracted from within the skin, evaporated from the skin surface, or remained unabsorbed on the skin surface after 24 h were quantified by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. Biotransformation of cinnamaldehyde to both cinnamic alcohol and cinnamic acid was observed. Topically applied cinnamic alcohol was converted to cinnamaldehyde (found on the skin surface only) and cinnamic acid. To establish whether these biotransformations were enzymatic, experiments were performed in the absence and presence of varying concentrations (80-320 micromol) of the ADH/CYP2E1 inhibitors pyrazole or 4-methylpyrazole. The observation that pyrazole significantly reduced (p < 0.05) the total penetration of cinnamic metabolites into receptor fluid, following either cinnamaldehyde or cinnamic alcohol treatment, but did not significantly affect parent chemical penetration, suggests that we are measuring cutaneous metabolic products of ADH activity. The skin absorption and metabolism of cinnamaldehyde and cinnamic alcohol will play an important role in the manifestation of ACD following topical exposure to these compounds.
Several novel therapies have been licensed for the treatment of myeloma in recent years. We summarize some of the trials leading to their approval and the current evidence for their clinical use. A number of promising agents undergoing phase I/II trial evaluation are also discussed.
The immunomodulatory drugs, thalidomide and lenalidomide, and the proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib, have been shown to be effective agents, both alone and as part of combination regimens, for the treatment of myeloma. Studies are now focusing on the optimal sequencing of these drugs throughout the disease course, with a view to maximizing antitumor efficacy and minimizing overlapping toxicities. New protocols are increasingly based on preclinical evidence of synergy. The incorporation of these agents into transplant-based treatment protocols has improved outcomes. Other examples of novel agents undergoing assessment at present include arsenic trioxide, hsp90 inhibitors and histone deacetylase inhibitors. Future developments are likely to include individualized treatment plans based on patient-specific parameters including cytogenetic analysis and gene expression profiling.
Thalidomide, lenalidomide and bortezomib can now be considered as standard options both as first-line agents and beyond for the treatment of myeloma, with respective combinations also emerging as valid choices for all stages of the disease.
High-dose chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, thiotepa and carboplatin (CTC) has been developed as a possible curative treatment modality in several solid tumours. However, a large interindividual variability in toxicity is encountered in high-dose chemotherapy. A priori identification of patients at risk for toxicity could be an attractive prospect. Genotyping of genes encoding drug-metabolising enzymes might provide such a tool.
We assessed 16 selected polymorphisms in nine genes (CYP2B6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, GSTA1, GSTP1, ALDH1A1 and ALDH3A1) of putative relevance in CTC metabolism using polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing in 113 patients who were treated with high-dose chemotherapy regimens based on CTC.
Patients heterozygous for the ALDH3A1*2 allele (allelic frequency 21.2%) had an increased risk of haemorrhagic cystitis when compared with patients with wild-type alleles [5/38 vs. 1/70; odds ratio (OR): 11.95, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.18-120.56; P=0.04]. Furthermore, patients heterozygous for the ALDH1A1*2 allele (allelic frequency 5.8%) had an increased risk of liver toxicity when compared with patients with wild-type alleles (6/13 vs. 19/99; OR: 5.13, 95% CI: 1.30-20.30; P=0.02). No other relations reached significance.
Patients heterozygous for the ALDH3A1*2 and ALDH1A1*2 allele have an increased risk of haemorrhagic cystitis and liver toxicity, respectively, compared with patients with wild-type alleles when treated with a high-dose chemotherapy combination of CTC. Pharmacogenetic approaches can identify patients who are at risk of experiencing toxic side effects in high-dose chemotherapy.
An investigation of the mechanism of damage to the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system in diabetes mellitus (DM) is highly important in current neurological research. Auditory neuropathy is a hearing disorder in which the auditory brainstem evoked potential is absent or severely abnormal. This study investigated auditory neuropathy caused by streptozotocin in mouse model. In order to assess diabetic auditory neuropathy, we evaluated auditory brainstem response (ABR) for the evaluation of sensorineural function in peripheral auditory nerve. Auditory middle latency response (AMLR) was employed to assess the middle response in the midbrain. STZ groups significantly increased the absolute latencies IV and the interpeak latencies I-III and I-IV of ABR compared with STZ 0 group. Pa latency of AMLR also significantly increased in proportion to STZ dosage. Taken together, our results demonstrate that STZ-induced DM may impair the auditory pathway from peripheral auditory nerve to midbrain in the mouse model. We suggest that the STZ-induced diabetic mouse model may be useful for the evaluation of auditory pathway impairment by using ABR and AMLR tests.
The effect of indomethacin suppositories on both acute urinary colic and urinary calculus, resistant or refractory to conventional therapy with analgesics and spasmolytics was investigated. Fifty-five patients with acute urinary colic refractory to treatment with repeated injections of antispasmodics and analgesics had dramatic or complete pain relief after receiving indomethacin suppositories (100 mg) (P less than 0.01). Fifteen of the 55 patients passed urinary stones within 30 days of treatment with indomethacin. Three out of 30 other patients with renal or ureteric stones were treated with indomethacin suppositories (100 mg) twice daily. Twenty-one of the 30 patients passed their stones within 30 days of treatment. It is concluded that indomethacin suppositories can relieve acute urinary colic resistant to treatment with analgesic/antispasmodic drugs, and facilitate expulsion of urinary calculi. The mechanism of action of indomethacin is discussed in terms of its analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects and its prostaglandin synthesis inhibition.
The use of diazoxide in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension has been advocated recently. We describe three patients who responded less favourably. The first patient had cardiac arrest (asystole) after the acute bolus dose. After recovery only a slight increase in cardiac index was seen while pulmonary vascular resistance was unchanged. The second patient developed total atrioventricular block after the acute bolus dose. Ater recovery the cardiac index was unchanged while pulmonary vascular resistance was decreased. The third patient felt ill after the acute bolus dose, and the blood pressure dropped, but no conduction abnormalities were noted. The cardiac index rose slightly and the pulmonary vascular resistance was essentially unchanged. Long term treatment with oral diazoxide could not be administered to this patient because abdominal pain and distension developed. Because we lack reliable alternative treatment, it is justifiable to try diazoxide, provided great care is taken.
Accumulating evidence shows that inhibition of the vascular renin-angiotensin system results in suppression of injury-elicited neointima formation. We attempted to determine whether or not combined treatment with an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker (ARB) and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) has an additive inhibitory effect on balloon-injury-elicited neointima formation in the carotid artery. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with an ARB (valsartan: 3 mg/kg/day) and/or an ACEI (benazepril: 0.3 mg/kg/day) from 1 week before until 2 weeks after balloon injury. Experiments were also conducted with one-third of the dose combination used in the original experiments. Both ARB and ACEI inhibited neointima formation without any blood pressure changes. The full-dose combination lowered blood pressure and suppressed neointima formation significantly compared with the levels in the groups treated with either ACEI or ARB alone. The low-dose combination without blood pressure reduction also inhibited neointima formation to a similar extent as the full-dose combination. We measured 8-iso-prostaglandin F2alpha (8-iso-PGF2alpha), a marker of oxidative stress, and nitrite and nitrate (NOx), an index of nitric monoxide production, in media conditioned by the injured artery. NOx production was lower and 8-iso-PGF2alpha was higher in the media of the injured artery, compared with those in the normal artery. ACEI restored NOx production more dramatically than ARB, and ARB suppressed 8-iso-PGF2alpha markedly compared with ACEI. These results suggest that the combination of an ARB and an ACEI exerts an additive inhibitory effect, presumably through an increase in production and bioavailability of NO from the endothelium.
We report the case of a woman complaining of dysphonia while she was treated by acitretin. Her symptoms totally regressed after drug withdrawal and reappeared when acitretin was reintroduced. To our knowledge, this is the first case of acitretin-induced dysphonia. This effect may be related to the pharmacological effect of this drug on mucous membranes.
Bupropion is used to help people stop smoking. This drug can cause visual alterations but, up to now, its use was not associated with anisocoria.
A 40 year-old woman with a personal history of migraines, presented with monocular mydriasis during treatment with bupropion. Both pupils dilated equally after a 5% cocaine test, and constricted equally after a 0.025% Pilocarpine test. The anisocoria disappeared after the treatment with bupropion was withdrawn.
Bupropion inhibits neural uptake of norepinephrine and dopamine. Patients with migraine could have a minor unilateral sympathetic pupillary deficit. This deficit could cause hypersensitivity in the oculosympathetic pathway that could be stimulated with bupropion treatment. This feature could explain the mydriasis in our patient. Another explanation could be that bupropion could unmask a physiological anisocoria.
Doxorubicin treatment causes delayed development of cardiotoxicity. Whether the doxorubicin-induced impairment of cardiac functions reverses or progresses with time after the cessation of the treatment was examined. The rats were injected with doxorubicin (2.5 mg/kg, i.v., once a week for 3 weeks) and sacrificed at 1 (1W), 13 (13W), or 18 (18W) weeks after the final doxorubicin administration. The time to peak of twitch contraction observed at 2-Hz stimulation was not altered in left atrial or ventricular muscle preparations isolated from 1W rats, but it was prolonged in those from 13W and 18W rats. The reduction of the magnitude of postrest contraction and the alteration of force-frequency relationships in left atrial muscle preparations in 1W rats were not significant, but were intensified in the 13W and 18W groups. Alterations in the postrest contraction and the force-frequency relationships in ventricular muscle preparations isolated from doxorubicin-treated rat hearts were weaker, but the pattern of alteration was similar to that observed in left atrial muscle preparations. Caffeine-induced contraction observed in skinned fibers that were isolated from the 1W rats was not altered, but it was reduced in the 18W rats. The Ca2+ sensitivity of contractile proteins was not altered in doxorubicin-treated rat hearts in any of the groups. The K(d) values estimated from a [3H]ryanodine binding study were not altered, but the B(max) values were significantly lower in the 13W and 18W groups than those observed in control rats. These results suggest that the dysfunction of the sarcoplasmic reticulum progresses after the completion of doxorubicin treatment and contributes to the doxorubicin-induced late cardiotoxicity.
Monobenzone (hydroquinone monobenzylether, 1) is a potent skin depigmenting agent that causes irreversible loss of epidermal melanocytes by way of a tyrosinase-dependent mechanism so far little understood. Herein, we show that 1 can be oxidized by mushroom tyrosinase to an unstable o-quinone (1-quinone) that has been characterized by comparison of its properties with those of a synthetic sample obtained by o-iodoxybenzoic acid-mediated oxidation of 1. Preparative scale oxidation of 1 with tyrosinase and catalytic l-DOPA, followed by reductive workup and acetylation, led to the isolation of two main products that were identified as the acetylated catechol derivative 4 and an unusual biphenyl-type dimer of 4, acetylated 5, arising evidently by coupling of 4 with 1-quinone. In the presence of l-cysteine or N-acetyl-l-cysteine, formation of 4 and 5 was inhibited, and the reaction led instead to monoadducts (6 or 9) and diadducts (7 and 8). A similar behavior was observed when the tyrosinase-promoted oxidation of 1 was carried out in the presence of sulfhydryl-containing peptides, such as reduced glutathione, or proteins, such as bovine serum albumin (BSA), as inferred by detection of adduct 9 by high pressure liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection (HPLC-ED) after acid hydrolysis. The generation and reaction chemistry of 1-quinone described in this article may bear relevance to the etiopathogenetic mechanisms of monobenzone-induced leukoderma as well as to the recently proposed haptenation hypothesis of vitiligo, a disabling pigmentary disorder characterized by irreversible melanocyte loss.
The antinociceptive effect in rats produced by chronic intrathecal administration of carbachol was studied for 14 days by the tail immersion test and the paw compression test. Daily injection of 10 micrograms carbachol intrathecally (lumbar level) to 8 rats produced an increase in latency times lasting from day 1 to day 4. The effect was statistically significant during the first 4 days, but not thereafter in both the tail immersion test and the paw compression test as compared to the rats (n = 6) injected with saline. Histopathological examinations of the lumbar spinal cord by light and electron microscopy revealed no signs of neurotoxic reactions of the neurons, nor the spinal tracts. Quantitative morphometric analyses were made by the "disector method", which is an unbiased stereological estimator of cell number and mean cell volume. In the laminae I-III of the L:1 segment, an average number of 88,000 cells/mm3 was found and the mean cell volume was calculated at 560 microns3. Comparison with untreated rats (n = 4) and those injected with saline showed no statistically significant differences. In the present study, the combination of different morphological analyses offers a sensitive method to trace toxic reactions of the nervous tissue. According to these results, intrathecal carbachol produces antinociception, and seems atoxic to spinal nervous tissue, but before intrathecal administration of carbachol to humans is considered, more neurotoxicological data must be obtained.
Cyclosporine and tacrolimus are potent inhibitors of the calcineurin-dependent cytokine synthesis in activated lymphocytes. In renal transplant patients tacrolimus is more powerful in preventing severe and refractory rejections, even when compared with the new cyclosporine microemulsion formulation. Both drugs are equally nephrotoxic, but tacrolimus induces less hypertension and less pronounced hyperlipidaemia. Especially in some categories of patients, a higher incidence of de-novo diabetes mellitus is seen with tacrolimus therapy.
Extensive research suggests that a number of plant-derived chemicals and traditional Oriental herbal remedies possess cognition-enhancing properties. Widely used current treatments for dementia include extracts of Ginkgo biloba and several alkaloidal, and therefore toxic, plant-derived cholinergic agents. Several non-toxic, European herbal species have pan-cultural traditions as treatments for cognitive deficits, including those associated with ageing. To date they have not received research interest commensurate with their potential utility. Particularly promising candidate species include sage (Salvia lavandulaefolia/officinalis), Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) and rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis). In the case of sage, extracts possess anti-oxidant, estrogenic, and anti-inflammatory properties, and specifically inhibit butyryl- and acetyl-cholinesterase. Acute administration has also been found to reliably improve mnemonic performance in healthy young and elderly cohorts, whilst a chronic regime has been shown to attenuate cognitive declines in sufferers from Alzheimer's disease. In the case of Melissa officinalis, extracts have, most notably, been shown to bind directly to both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in human brain tissue. This property has been shown to vary with extraction method and strain. Robust anxiolytic effects have also been demonstrated following acute administration to healthy humans, with mnemonic enhancement restricted to an extract with high cholinergic binding properties. Chronic regimes of aromatherapy and essential oil respectively have also been shown to reduce agitation and attenuate cognitive declines in sufferers from dementia. Given the side effect profile of prescribed cholinesterase inhibitors, and a current lack of a well tolerated nicotinic receptor agonist, these herbal treatments may well provide effective and well-tolerated treatments for dementia, either alone, in combination, or as an adjunct to conventional treatments.
Administration of prednisolone causes an abrupt rise in proteinuria in patients with a nephrotic syndrome.
To clarify the mechanisms responsible for this increase in proteinuria we have performed a placebo controlled study in 26 patients with a nephrotic syndrome. Systemic and renal haemodynamics and urinary protein excretion were measured after prednisolone and after placebo.
After i.v. administration of 125-150 mg prednisolone total proteinuria increased from 6.66+/-4.42 to 9.37+/-6.07 mg/min (P<0.001). By analysing the excretion of proteins with different charge and weight (albumin, transferrin, IgG, IgG4 and beta2-microglobulin) it became apparent that the increase of proteinuria was the result of a change in size selectivity rather than a change in glomerular charge selectivity or tubular protein reabsorption. Glomerular filtration rate rose from 83+/-34 ml to 95+/-43 ml/min (P<0.001) after 5 h, whereas effective renal plasma flow and endogenous creatinine clearance remained unchanged. As a result filtration fraction was increased, compatible with an increased glomerular pressure, which probably contributes to the size selectivity changes. Since corticosteroids affect both the renin-angiotensin system and renal prostaglandins, we have evaluated the effects of prednisolone on proteinuria after pretreatment with 3 months of the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor lisinopril or after 2 weeks of the prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor indomethacin. Neither drug had any effect on prednisolone-induced increases of proteinuria.
Prednisolone increases proteinuria by changing the size selective barrier of the glomerular capillary. Neither the renin-angiotensin axis nor prostaglandins seem to be involved in these effects of prednisolone on proteinuria.
A recent report from our laboratory shows that subcutaneous (s.c.) injection of melittin could induce persistent spontaneous nociception (PSN) and primary thermal or mechanical hyperalgesia. However, the exact peripheral mechanisms underlying melittin-induced multiple pain-related behaviors remain unclear. In this study, behavioral tests combined with pharmacological manipulations were used to explore potential roles of local P2X and P2Y receptors in melittin-induced inflammatory pain and hyperalgesia. Post-treatment of the primary injury site with s.c. injection of A-317491 (a potent P2X(3)/P2X(2/3) receptor antagonist) and Reactive Blue 2 (a potent P2Y receptor antagonist) could significantly suppress the development of melittin-evoked PSN and hypersensitivity (thermal and mechanical). Our control experiments demonstrated that local administration of either antagonist into the contralateral hindpaw produced no significant effect on any kind of pain-associated behaviors. Taken together, these data indicate that activation of P2X and P2Y receptors might be essential to the maintenance of melittin-induced primary thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia as well as on-going pain.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of forebrain serotonin projections in behavioural models with relevance to schizophrenia. Mice received stereotaxic micro-injections of the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into the median raphe nucleus (MRN). Two weeks later, MRN-lesioned mice were hyperactive at baseline and showed enhanced locomotor hyperactivity induced by phencyclidine. In contrast, no lesion effect was observed on the locomotor hyperactivity induced by amphetamine treatment or on prepulse inhibition. Lesioned mice showed a 68% depletion of serotonin in the hippocampus and 31% depletion in the striatum. These data confirm previous studies in rats that selective serotonin depletion in the brain enhances the effect of phencyclidine, but not amphetamine, on locomotor activity. This enhanced action of phencyclidine is likely to be mediated by the absence of serotonin-mediated behavioural inhibition in the hippocampus, leaving the psychostimulant effects of phencyclidine unopposed. Taken together with previous studies in rats, these studies in mice suggest that serotonin release in the dorsal hippocampus constitutes a behavioural inhibitory pathway normally involved in dampening excessive behavioural stimulation. Dysfunction of this pathway could be involved in psychosis and its stimulation could be a potential mechanism of action of antipsychotic drugs.
There are many treatment methods for lupus nephritis, including high-dose steroids, pulse methylprednisolone, and cyclophosphamide therapy. In cyclophosphamide therapy, there can be some side effects such as nausea, vomiting, and infection. We report on a case receiving a combination of high dose steroid and intravenous cyclophosphamide. Following this, she developed a fever and a protruding right eye, and septic cavernous sinus thrombosis was diagnosed. This complication had never been reported in a patient with systemic lupus erythematosus, and related literature is reviewed.
Altered hepatic lipid homeostasis, hepatocellular injury, and inflammation are features of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, which contributes significantly to liver-related morbidity and mortality in the Western population. A collection of inflammatory mediators have been implicated in the pathogenesis of steatohepatitis in mouse models. However, the pathways essential for coordination and amplification of hepatic inflammation and injury caused by steatosis are not completely understood. We tested the hypothesis that tissue factor (TF)-dependent thrombin generation and the thrombin receptor protease activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) contribute to liver inflammation induced by steatosis in mice. Wild-type C57Bl/6J mice fed a diet deficient in methionine and choline for 2 weeks manifested steatohepatitis characterized by increased serum alanine aminotransferase activity, macrovesicular hepatic steatosis, hepatic inflammatory gene expression, and lobular inflammation. Steatohepatitis progression was associated with thrombin generation and hepatic fibrin deposition. Coagulation cascade activation was significantly reduced in low TF mice, which express 1% of normal TF levels. Hepatic triglyceride accumulation was not affected in low TF mice or PAR-1-deficient mice. In contrast, biomarkers of hepatocellular injury, inflammatory gene induction, and hepatic accumulation of macrophages and neutrophils were greatly reduced by TF-deficiency and PAR-1-deficiency. The results suggest that TF-dependent thrombin generation and activation of PAR-1 amplify hepatic inflammation and injury during the pathogenesis of steatohepatitis.
To evaluate whether effective methadone treatment affects cocaine use.
421 consecutive patients admitted to a methadone maintenance clinic in Israel (1993-2002) were prospectively studied. Patients' urine samples were analyzed for cocaine during months 1 and 13.
On admission 55(13.1%) of 421 patients had urine positive for cocaine and 366 had negative. Of the 55 cocaine-positive patients, 45(81.8%) stayed in treatment at least one year, as did 267(73%) of cocaine-negative. After one year (n=312) 31 of 45 cocaine users stopped and 25 of 267 started. Methadone dose was highest in 31 patients who stopped cocaine (176.1+/-42.1 mg/ day), followed by 14 who did not stop (161.4+/-37.5 mg/day), and 25 who started during treatment (122.9+/-48.7 mg/day), or 242 who never used cocaine (119.5+/-48.4 mg/day) (ANOVA, F=15.6, p<0.0005).
High methadone dose may reduce cocaine use in patients addicted to both heroin and cocaine.
Although marijuana dependence is prevalent, most individuals with marijuana dependence do not seek treatment. There are few data characterizing treatment seeking marijuana-dependent patients compared to patients presenting for treatment of other drugs regarding the severity of illness and motivation for treatment. Forty-two marijuana-dependent individuals were compared to 58 cocaine-dependent individuals seeking treatment. Compared to cocaine-dependent patients, those with marijuana dependence were younger and less likely to be dependent on alcohol or other drugs. Both groups had similar rates of comorbid anxiety and affective disorders. Marijuana-dependent individuals had lower total number of dependence symptoms but had a higher percentage of individuals endorsing withdrawal symptoms. Although marijuana-dependent individuals had less outpatient treatment exposure, the difference between the two groups was not significant and motivation for change, based on the University of Rhode Island Change Assessment, was similar for both groups of treatment seekers. However, the Circumstances, Motivation, Readiness for Treatment Scale suggested that cocaine-dependent individuals were more motivated for treatment. Taken together, these data suggest that treatment seeking marijuana-dependent individuals have substantial withdrawal dependence symptomatology although it is less clear if they are as motivated to seek out treatment as cocaine-dependent treatment seekers.
