Capsaicin (50 mg kg-1) or vehicle (control) was injected into 2-day-old mice, and apoptotic cell death of the lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells was examined using in situ terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) method at 5, 24, 48 and 72 h after treatment. Apoptotic cells were counted per section under a fluorescent microscope. The mean number of apoptotic cells showed a significant increase in the capsaicin-treated DRG at 24 h, but the number was at most 1-2 per section. Thus, many previous findings of an approximate 70-80% loss of the small primary afferent neurons induced by capsaicin could not be explained by apoptosis alone. Moreover, according to the morphological changes, it appeared that capsaicin preferentially induced necrosis rather than apoptosis, at least in mice.
1. Substance P (SP) and capsaicin induced a mechanical hyperalgesia when injected into rat knee joints. 2. The NK1 receptor antagonists CP 99994 (10-100 nmol) and RP 67580 (0.1-1 nmol) blocked the development of, and also reversed, SP-induced hyperalgesia. Capsaicin (10 nmol)-induced hyperalgesia was blocked by capsazepine (0.5-5 nmol). 3. Capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia was prevented and reversed by the NK1 receptor antagonists CP 99994 (100 nmol) and RP 67580 (1 nmol). 4. The bradykinin B2 receptor antagonist icatibant (5 pmol) blocked the development of both SP and capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. Icatibant (100 pmol kg-1, i.v.) also reversed an established SP and capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. 5. Both low dose SP (1 nmol) and capsaicin (1 nmol)-induced hyperalgesia were potentiated by the kininase II inhibitor captopril (100 micrograms). 6. The B1 receptor antagonists desArg9Leu8-bradykinin (BK) (0.5-5 nmol) and desArg10[Hoe 140] (5-50 pmol) only blocked the development of SP-induced hyperalgesia for 30 min after administration. desArg9Leu8-BK (10 nmol kg-1 i.v.) did not reverse an established SP-induced hyperalgesia. 7. Capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia was blocked by desArg9Leu8-BK (0.5 nmol) and this antagonist also reversed an established capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. 8. Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra 0.1 microgram) reduced the development of SP-induced hyperalgesia up to 4 h after administration, but did not reverse an established hyperalgesia. IL-1ra (0.1 microgram) also blocked the development of and reversed an established capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. 9. Indomethacin pretreatment (1 mg kg-1, s.c.) did not reduce the development of either SP- or capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia but following indomethacin-pretreatment desArg9Leu8-BK (10 nmol kg-1, i.v.) failed to reverse a capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. 10. In conclusion, both SP and capsaicin can induce behavioural hyperalgesia when injected into the knee joint of rats. In addition, blockade of NK1, bradykinin B1, B2 and IL-1 beta receptors can substantially modulate this hyperalgesia.
A 54-year-old woman had seizures and a focal neurologic deficit associated with hyponatremia induced by a thiazide diuretic. Prompt correction of hyponatremia by administration of hypertonic saline solution was followed by resolution of all neurologic defects. Metabolic balance studies and rechallenge with hydrochlorothiazide were undertaken to investigate the mechanism of the thiazide-induced hyponatremia. Abnormal vasopressin secretion was shown by a plasma vasopressin concentration of 0.5 microU/ml with a plasma osmolality of 268 mOsm/kg water after administration of a fluid challenge consisting of 45 ml/kg body weight. Rechallenge with chlorothiazide while on a sodium- and potassium-controlled balanced diet resulted in a decrease in serum sodium concentration (136 to 124 mEq/L) and plasma osmolality (283 to 261 mOsm/kg) within 18 hours. During this period, urine losses of monovalent cation were only 55 mEq and body weight was constant at 48.2 kg. A second challenge while the patient received all fluids and electrolytes intravenously again resulted in decreased serum sodium concentration (134 to 126 mEq/L) after urinary loss of only 69 mEq of cation. Thus this patient's hyponatremia cannot be accounted for solely by changes in external water and electrolyte balance; the rapidity with which changes were produced suggests that osmolar inactivation, probably intracellularly, may contribute to the severe hypotonicity seen in some patients.
Occupational vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) exposure can induce Raynaud's phenomenon (RP). However, not all VCM workers developed RP, which suggests an underlying genetic susceptibility. Genetic polymorphisms of glutathione S-transferases (GSTs), involved in VCM metabolism, have been shown to influence certain VCM-related health effects. We have conducted a case-control study of 58 subjects with RP along with 247 subjects without RP, from a population of 305 French workers exposed or formerly exposed to VCM, to assess any association between GST M1 and GST T1 gene polymorphisms, either separately or in combination, and the presence of RP. None of the GST M1 or GST T1 genotypes were significantly associated with the presence of RP among studied VCM workers. A combination of positive genotypes for both GST M1 and GST T1 was significantly associated with RP presence, compared to the other combinations of genotypes (OR=2.1, 95% CI=1.1-3.8). OR adjusted for age, smoking status, alcohol consumption and history of treated hypertension did not reach significance (OR=2.0, 95% CI=0.9-5.2). None of the GST M1 and GST T1 genotypes seem to contribute separately to the presence of RP, suggesting that they are not, when taken alone, a major determinant of interindividual variability for VCM-induced PR. However, the combination of both positive GST M1 and GST T1 genotypes appears to contribute slightly to susceptibility to RP in VCM-exposed subjects. Nevertheless, our study-the first to examine the role of a genetic component in the occurrence of RP secondary to occupational exposure to a chemical-corroborates the previous considerations that interaction between the genetic constitution and environmental factors is of importance in determining the health-adverse effects of VCM exposure.
20 non-psychotic aged (more than 60 years old) in-patients with behavior troubles were treated with pimozide in an open study for more than 12 weeks. Such symptoms deriving from the emotional sphere, mainly the aggressivity, had the best improvement rate. Together with this could also be seen an improvement of the social behavior. The dosage optimum was between 3 and 4 mg p.d., the improvement period seems to reach from the second to the eighth week. Extrapyramidal side-effects were rare, two patients developed, after more than nine months of therapy and long after the study had finished, a tardive hyperkinesia which was reversible after the withdrawal of the substance.
One month administration of acetazolamide (ACET) (at sea level) improves periodic breathing and decreases the number of central apneas (CA) (De Backer et al., 1995 Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med. 151, 87-91) in nonhypercapnic central apnea syndrome. It remains unclear whether cessation of therapy would provoke recurrence of symptoms. In the present study we evaluated the number of CA after 1 and 6 months interruption of ACET therapy. Eight patients with central sleep apnea were included [central apnea index (CAI) > 5 or apnea and hypopnea index (AHI) > 10 and obstructive apnea index (OAI) < 5]. Polysomnography was repeated once after 1 month treatment (N2), after 1 month off treatment (N3) and after 6 months off treatment. CAI (25 +/- 10 at N1) decreased during N2 (4 +/- 2) and N3 (5 +/- 3) and remained low after N4 (3 +/- 1). However an increase in the number of obstructive apneas and central hypopneas could be observed together with a shift from central apnea to hypopnea after N4. Maybe ACET induces a long lasting resetting of the CO2 threshold which is still present after interruption of the therapy.
The globus pallidus plays a critical role in movement regulation. Previous studies have indicated that the globus pallidus receives neurotensinergic innervation from the striatum, and systemic administration of a neurotensin analog could produce antiparkinsonian effects. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of pallidal neurotensin on haloperidol-induced parkinsonian symptoms.
Behavioral experiments and electrophysiological recordings were performed in the present study.
Bilateral infusions of neurotensin into the globus pallidus reversed haloperidol-induced parkinsonian catalepsy in rats. Electrophysiological recordings showed that microinjection of neurotensin induced excitation of pallidal neurons in the presence of systemic haloperidol administration. The neurotensin type-1 receptor antagonist SR48692 blocked both the behavioral and the electrophysiological effects induced by neurotensin.
Activation of pallidal neurotensin receptors may be involved in neurotensin-induced antiparkinsonian effects.
To elucidate the mechanisms of action of nifedipine in angina pectoris, 14 patients were studied before and after sublingual administration of 10 mg nifedipine. Systemic and coronary hemodynamic and myocardial metabolic measurements were taken at rest and during pacing. At the pacing rate that induced pain in the control situation, no patient experienced angina after nifedipine administration. Lactate production during control turned into extraction after nifedipine administration (p less than .05), and the double product was reduced (p less than .001). Systemic and coronary vascular resistance were reduced by 26% (p less than .001) and 19% (p less than .005), respectively. Systolic blood pressure fell from 160 +/- 29 to 127 +/- 25 mm Hg (p less than .001) and diastolic from 100 +/- 14 to 79 +/- 11 mm Hg (p less than .001). Pulmonary artery diastolic blood pressure fell from 14 +/- 4 to 10 +/- 3 mm Hg (p less than .01). When the pacing rate was further increased after nifedipine administration until pain developed, the double product and the degree of lactate production were the same as during pain before nifedipine was administered. The pacing rate was 131 +/- 12 compared with 119 +/- 13 during control (p less than .001). Both the systolic and diastolic blood pressures were still significantly reduced compared with control pacing values, 131 +/- 26 mm Hg (p less than .01) and 84 +/- 13 mm Hg (p less than .01), respectively. Our data demonstrate that the antianginal efficiency can be partly explained by afterload reduction, which decreases myocardial oxygen consumption. The data also suggest additional mechanisms, possibly an increase in collateral flow, direct dilatation of stenotic parts of epicardial arteries, or a decrease in myocardial back pressure secondary to reduced left ventricular filling pressure.
The role of macrophages in the pathogenesis of acetaminophen (APAP)-induced liver injury remains controversial, as it has been demonstrated that these cells display pro-toxicant and hepato-protective functions. This controversy may stem from the heterogeneity and/or plasticity of macrophages and the difficulty in distinguishing and differentially studying subpopulations of macrophages in the liver. In the present study, using flow cytometric analysis and fluorescence-labeled antibodies against specific cell surface macrophage markers, we were able to, for the first time, identify an APAP-induced macrophage (IM) population distinct from resident Kupffer cells. The data demonstrated that the IMs were derived from circulating monocytes that infiltrated the liver following APAP-induced liver injury. The IMs exhibited a phenotype consistent with that of alternatively activated macrophages and demonstrated the ability to phagocytize apoptotic cells and induce apoptosis of neutrophils. Furthermore, in the absence of the IMs, the resolution of hepatic damage following APAP-induced hepatotoxicity was delayed in CCR2(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice. These findings likely contribute to the role of the IMs in the processes of tissue repair, including counteracting inflammation and promoting angiogenesis. The present study also demonstrated the ability of separating populations of macrophages and delineating distinct functions of each group in future studies of inflammatory disease in the liver and other tissues.
Pulse frequency analysis of LH, PRL, testosterone, and cortisol was carried out with the Cluster Analysis Program in eight male cocaine abusers and eight aged-matched normal men. Four of the eight cocaine abusers had hyperprolactinemia (range, 22.08-44.65 micrograms/L). Cocaine users as a group had significantly higher mean peak height (P less than 0.02) than control subjects. Cocaine users with hyperprolactinemia had higher mean peak height than control subjects or cocaine users with normal PRL levels (P less than 0.01). Cocaine users with hyperprolactinemia also had higher mean amplitude increments than control subjects (P less than 0.02). Cocaine users with hyperprolactinemia had a higher mean valley than controls (P less than 0.01) and cocaine users with normal PRL levels (P less than 0.03). However, there were no significant differences in PRL peak frequency, peak duration, or interpulse intervals between cocaine users with or without hyperprolactinemia and control subjects. There were minimal differences between cocaine users and control subjects in pulse frequency analysis of LH parameters; the small differences in mean LH levels and average interpulse interval were not in the abnormal range and were probably not biologically significant. No differences between cocaine users and controls were detected for pulse frequency analysis of testosterone or cortisol. Cocaine-induced hyperprolactinemia may contribute to disorders of sexual and reproductive function in men who abuse the drug, and recent reports that PRL modulates immune function suggest that cocaine-induced derangements of PRL secretion may also contribute to cocaine-related comorbidity in infectious disease. Since cocaine users with hyperprolactinemia had a higher mean valley as well as a higher peak pulse PRL height than control subjects, but did not have greater PRL pulse frequencies, we conclude that hyperprolactinemia in these men may be due to a cocaine-induced derangement of dopaminergic inhibition of basal PRL secretion.
Liver fibrosis has been characterized as chronic inflammatory processes involving multiple molecular pathogenetic pathways. This therapeutic study investigated whether a combination regimen of Salvia miltiorrhiza (S), Ligusticum chuanxiong (L) and Glycyrrhiza glabra (G) exerted in vivo antifibrotic effects on rats with hepatic fibrosis. Fibrosis was induced in rats by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN) administration for 4 weeks. Fibrotic rats were randomly assigned to one of the three groups: control, SLG (50 mg/kg) or silymarin (50 mg/kg), each given by gavage twice daily for 3 weeks starting 1 week after DMN injection. The results showed that fibrosis scores of livers from DMN-treated rats with SLG (1.13 +/- 0.13) were significantly reduced in comparison with DMN-treated rats receiving vehicle (1.63 +/- 0.18). Moreover, the hepatic collagen content of DMN rats was significantly reduced by either SLG or silymarin treatment. The double immunohistochemical staining results also showed that alpha-SMA positive cells with NF kappa B nuclear translocation were decreased in the fibrotic livers by SLG and silymarin treatments. The mRNA expression levels of TGF-beta1, alpha-SMA, collagen1 alpha 2, iNOS and ICAM-1 genes were attenuated by SLG and silymarin treatment. The results showed that SLG exerted antifibrotic effects in rats with DMN-induced hepatic fibrosis.
Numerous studies have demonstrated lanthanide (Ln) accumulation in the liver, and the corresponding damage; however, very little work has been done to evaluate the relationship between Ln-induced liver injury and its gene expression profile in mice. In this study, liver injury and gene-expressed profiles in male mice induced by oral administration of CeCl3 (2 mg/kg) via gavage for 90 consecutive days were investigated. The results showed that cerium accumulation, liver inflammation, and hepatocyte necrosis were observed. CeCl3 exposure significantly decreased the counts of white blood cells, lymphocyte, and platelet, the reticulocyte count (Ret) and neutrophilic granulocyte percentages as well as A/G ratio, whereas markedly increased the activities of alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, and cholinesterase, and the concentrations of triglycerides and total cholesterol. Furthermore, microarray results of liver showed that the differential expression of 675 known function genes involved in immune/inflammation response, apoptosis, metabolic process, cell cycle, cell proliferation, cytoskeleton, oxidative stress, signal transduction, transcription, translation, and transportation in CeCl3 exposed livers, respectively. Specifically, the significant downregulation of Nt5e led to inflammation, overexpressed Cyp4a12a and great suppression of Cdkn1a resulted in hepatocyte apoptosis, marked elevation of Cel, and Cyp7b1 expression caused the metabolic disorders in mouse liver after long-term CeCl3 exposure. Therefore, these genes may be in great relation to liver damages induced by exposure to CeCl3 .
The carcinogenic and tumor-promoting effects of human transforming growth factor alpha (TGF-alpha) overexpression were examined in a two-stage chemical carcinogenesis protocol using TGF-alpha transgenic mouse line MT42. Male MT42 and CD-1 mice received a single i.p. injection of 5 mg N-nitrosodiethylamine (DEN)/kg body wt at 15 days of age, and were placed on a diet containing 0.05% of phenobarbital (PB) from 4 weeks of age for 35 weeks. DEN-, PB-treated and saline-injected animals in each strain were used as controls. A total of three sequential sacrifices (at 10, 23 and 37 experimental weeks) was performed. Hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) developed earlier at high incidence (100%) after 23 experimental weeks in MT42 mice receiving DEN/PB, while CD-1 mice had a 40% incidence of HCCs only after week 37. HCCs also developed in the DEN-initiated MT42 mice at 80% incidence after week 23, but no HCCs were observed in the DEN-initiated CD-1 mice. PB induced preneoplastic foci (67%), adenomas (33%) and HCCs (33%) after 37 weeks in MT42 mice, but no lesions were found in CD-1 mice. Thus, the carcinogenic response to DEN and/or PB was accelerated in the MT42 transgenic mice. Furthermore, PB promotion was observed from week 10 in MT42 mice and week 23 in CD-1 mice. Thus, the promoting effect of PB was also accelerated in the MT42 transgenic mice. Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) labeling indices of hepatocellular foci and adenomas in DEN- or DEN/PB-treated MT42 mice were significantly higher than those of CD-1 mice. TGF-alpha expression determined by immunohistochemistry revealed higher levels in these lesions than in hepatocytes of surrounding parenchyma of MT42 transgenic mice. In conclusion, TGF-alpha transgenic mice clearly demonstrated enhanced sensitivity to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma in the DEN initiation and PB promotion regime, possibly through a mechanism of increased hepatocyte proliferation in precancerous lesions (foci and adenomas), driven by high expression of the mitogen TGF-alpha in these lesions.
Cell proliferation is pivotal to all stages of the carcinogenesis process and is one of the primary characteristics of the promotion stage of cancer development. Both a two-stage model of initiation and promotion for analysis of early preneoplasia and a three-stage initiation-promotion-progression model of hepatocarcinogenesis were used to address the effect of the liver tumor-promoting agent phenobarbital (PB) on hepatic cellular proliferation. Male rats were subjected to a 70% partial hepatectomy and 10 mg diethylnitrosamine (DEN)/kg or the solvent alone and were administered PB for 4-8 months. Analysis of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation (1 h pulse) in liver within (focal) and not within (non-focal) altered hepatic foci (AHF) demonstrated a labeling index in AHF of 2% in DEN-initiated rats; the non-focal labeling index of placental glutathione S-transferase expressing hepatocytes was 0.3-0.6%. The focal labeling index was constant over the 8 month period of promotion. Inasmuch as one characteristic of promotion is the reversibility of the induced effects on clonal expansion of initiated cells, groups of rats initially promoted with PB were maintained in the absence of continued promotion for 4 or 8 months prior to being killed. Assessment of the focal labeling index after cessation of PB treatment indicated a drop in the index from 2.3% to 0.7%. When a progressor agent, ethylnitrosourea, was given at the time PB was discontinued for 4 or 8 months, a significant change in focal labeling index was not observed relative to the index in AHF when the animals were killed immediately after 8 months of PB promotion. Thus, cell proliferation plays an integral role in both the promotion and progression stages of multistage rat hepatocarcinogenesis and is influenced by administration of promoting and progressor agents.
In this study, the level and distribution of transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) and ferritin in colorectal carcinoma and in normal colon epithelium has been determined relative to the tumor stage and iron status of patients using immunohistochemical staining methods. While the majority of carcinoma patients were anemic, no relationship between the level of colon tissue ferritin and TfR1 and the systemic parameters of iron metabolism was evident. Furthermore, no association between ferritin content and the grade of colorectal carcinoma was observed. However, a relationship between the expression of TfR1 and the grade of colorectal carcinoma was observed. In this case high expression of TfR1 was found in colorectal carcinoma samples of Dukes A or B grade, and well differentiated colorectal carcinoma cells. In comparison, weak or no expression of TfR1 was observed in carcinoma samples of Dukes C or D grade with poorly differentiated cells and in carcinoma samples that had lymph node infiltration and distant metastasis.
To study the effects of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), we determined the proliferation and cytokine production by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and CD4+ T cells in healthy volunteers and patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and explored the possibility of using ATRA as a therapeutic agent for autoimmune diseases.
Proliferation of these cells was determined by modified MTT assay, and expression of CC chemokine receptors 4 (CCR4) and CCR5 was determined by flow cytometry. Production and expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha was determined by Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The presence of STAT6 protein was determined by Western blot analysis.
ATRA did not affect the proliferation or production of IL-2 and IL-4. We did not detect STAT6 protein, and saw no evidence of the differentiation of PBMCs to Th1 or Th2 cells. In contrast, ATRA suppressed the production of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha significantly. There were no significant differences between the healthy volunteers and RA patients.
ATRA was demonstrated to affect the cytokine production of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha. ATRA might be useful in the treatment of autoimmune diseases such as RA.
We recently showed that active immunisation with the nicotine immunoconjugate IP18-KLH reduces the nicotine-induced increase in dopamine (DA) output in the nucleus accumbens (NAC) and prevents reinstatement of nicotine-seeking behaviour in rats. These effects are mediated by altered distribution of nicotine, resulting in reduced amounts of nicotine reaching the brain, thereby interfering with the rewarding properties of the drug. The present study was designed to explore the effect of immunisation against nicotine on mecamylamine-precipitated nicotine withdrawal as assessed by the reduction in DA output in the NAC in rats. Measuring brain reward thresholds and somatic signs of nicotine withdrawal, the effects of immunisation were also tested during chronic nicotine treatment and after its withdrawal. Finally, we examined the effect of immunisation on challenge injections of nicotine on brain reward thresholds after the increases in somatic signs and reward thresholds associated with nicotine withdrawal had dissipated. The results show that immunisation with IP18-KLH prevented the decrease in DA output in the NAC associated with mecamylamine-precipitated nicotine withdrawal. Moreover, immunisation against nicotine did not precipitate a withdrawal syndrome, as measured by brain reward thresholds and somatic signs, in rats chronically exposed to nicotine. Furthermore, the withdrawal syndrome elicited after cessation of chronic nicotine administration was attenuated in immunised rats compared to that of mock-immunised rats. Finally, the lowering in reward thresholds after nicotine challenge injections was attenuated in both naïve and previously nicotine-exposed immunised rats. In conclusion, the present results show that immunisation with IP18-KLH did not precipitate nicotine withdrawal in rats. Thus, immunisation with IP18-KLH may not elicit nicotine withdrawal in smokers either. Furthermore, since the withdrawal syndrome in rats was attenuated by immunisation, the nicotine withdrawal in smokers should not be worsened but may even be ameliorated during a quit attempt.
Carbamazepine is a drug commonly used in the treatment of neuropathic pain. It is an iminostilbene derivative that is extensively metabolized by the liver. We describe a 66-year-old man with dysesthetic pain from cervical myelopathy who developed cholestatic hepatitis, skin rash, and eosinophilia after carbamazepine was administered for 5 weeks (total dose of 18.9gm). Withdrawal of carbamazepine led to complete resolution of both clinical and biochemical abnormalities within 3 weeks. Clinicians should be alert to this rare complication because it can be confused clinically with biliary tract sepsis and viral hepatitis.
To determine the toxicities and potential for dose escalation of intravenous (IV) bolus fluorouracil (5-FU) given with 500 mg/m2/d leucovorin (LCV) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).
Thirty-seven patients received escalating doses of 5-FU/LCV on days 1 to 5 with subcutaneous GM-CSF either 5 or 10 micrograms/kg/d starting on day 6 or 3 micrograms/kg/d starting on day 1. 5-FU was escalated from 370 mg/m2/d by 15% increments between patient cohorts and within patients according to tolerance.
With GM-CSF starting on day 6, dose-limiting toxicity occurred during cycle no. 1 in all three patients entered at 5-FU 490 mg/m2/d. However, individual patients tolerated 5-FU doses up to 644 mg/m2/d. When all cycles were analyzed, grade 3 to 4 mucositis and grade 4 granulocytopenia complicated < or = 15% and < or = 6% of cycles with 5-FU doses < or = 560 mg/m2/d (115 cycles). With GM-CSF starting on day 1, dose-limiting granulocytopenia occurred during cycle no. 1 in five of 10 patients entered at 5-FU 490 mg/m2/d. Although the granulocyte nadirs were significantly lower at each 5-FU dose level with the concurrent GM-CSF schedule (eg, 490 mg/m2/d: median, 879/microL v3,286/microL; two-tailed P [P2] < .001), dose-limiting granulocytopenia complicated < or = 16% of cycles with 5-FU < or = 560 mg/m2/d (99 cycles); > or = grade 3 mucositis occurred in < or = 20% of cycles. Grade 3 to 4 diarrhea was unusual with either GM-CSF schedule. Most patients treated with GM-CSF > or = 5 micrograms/kg/d required dose reductions for constitutional toxicity; 3.0 to 3.8 micrograms/kg/d was better tolerated. Venous thrombosis occurred in 17% of patients (concurrent v sequential GM-CSF, 29% v 5%; P2 = .08). The median delivered 5-FU dose-intensity for GM-CSF starting either on day 6 or on day 1 was 615 and 647 mg/m2/wk (P2 = .41), respectively. Pharmacologic exposure to 5-FU increased with higher doses of 5-FU, and concurrent GM-CSF administration did not affect 5-FU clearance.
A starting dose of 425 mg/m2/d of 5-FU with LCV on days 1 to 5 could be safely combined with GM-CSF starting either on day 1 or day 6, with further 5-FU dose escalation according to individual tolerance.
We compared the effects of patient-controlled interscalene analgesia with ropivacaine 0.2% and patient-controlled interscalene analgesia (PCIA) with bupivacaine 0.15% on hand grip strength after major open shoulder surgery. Sixty patients scheduled for elective major shoulder surgery were prospectively randomized to receive in a double-blinded fashion either ropivacaine or bupivacaine through an interscalene catheter. Before surgery, all patients received an interscalene block (ISB) with either 40 mL of 0.6% ropivacaine or 40 mL of 0.5% bupivacaine. Six h after ISB, the patients received a continuous infusion of either 0.2% ropivacaine or 0.15% bupivacaine for 48 h. In both groups, the PCIA infusion rate was 5 mL/h plus a bolus of 4 mL with a lockout time of 20 min. Strength in the hand was assessed preoperatively, 24 h, and 48 h after ISB and 6 h after stopping the infusion of local anesthetic. The presence of paresthesia in the fingers was checked. Pain relief was assessed using a visual analog scale; side effects were noted, and the patients rated their satisfaction 54 h after the block. A significant decrease of strength in the hand was observed in the Bupivacaine group 24, 48, and 54 h after ISB (P < 0.05). Paresthesia was more frequently reported in the Bupivacaine group for the second and third fingers 48 h after ISB (P < 0.05) and in the first three fingers 6 h after discontinuation of the local anesthetic infusion (P: < 0.05). The pain score was similar in the two groups at all times, and patient satisfaction was comparable between the two groups. We conclude that the use of the PCIA technique with ropivacaine 0.2% or bupivacaine 0.15% provides a similar pain relief after major shoulder surgery. However, ropivacaine 0.2% is associated with better preservation of strength in the hand and less paresthesia in the fingers.
We compared the patient-controlled interscalene analgesia technique with ropivacaine 0.2% and bupivacaine 0.15% after major open shoulder surgery. For similar pain control ropivacaine is associated with better preservation of strength in the hand and less paresthesia in the fingers.
The purpose of the present study was to determine whether chronic administration of temocapril, a long-acting non-SH group angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, reduced proteinuria, inhibited glomerular hypertrophy and prevented glomerulosclerosis in chronic puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) - induced nephrotic rats. Nephrosis was induced by injection of PAN (15mg/100g body weight) in male Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Four groups were used, i) the PAN group (14), ii) PAN/temocapril (13), iii) temocapril (14) and iv) untreated controls (15). Temocapril (8 mg/kg/day) was administered to the rats which were killed at weeks 4, 14 or 20. At each time point, systolic blood pressure (BP), urinary protein excretion and renal histopathological findings were evaluated, and morphometric image analysis was done. Systolic BP in the PAN group was significantly high at 4, 14 and 20 weeks, but was normal in the PAN/temocapril group. Urinary protein excretion in the PAN group increased significantly, peaking at 8 days, then decreased at 4 weeks, but rose again significantly at 14 and 20 weeks. Temocapril did not attenuate proteinuria at 8 days, but it did markedly lower it from weeks 4 to 20. The glomerulosclerosis index (GSI) was 6.21 % at 4 weeks and respectively 25.35 % and 30.49 % at 14 and 20 weeks in the PAN group. There was a significant correlation between urinary protein excretion and GSI (r = 0.808, p < 0.0001). The ratio of glomerular tuft area to the area of Bowman's capsules (GT/BC) in the PAN group was significantly increased, but it was significantly lower in the PAN/temocapril group. It appears that temocapril was effective in retarding renal progression and protected renal function in PAN neprotic rats.
The effects of local application of the endogenous brain neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin) into the dorsal (DR) or median (MR) raphe nuclei on haloperidol-induced catalepsy (CAT) in rats were studied. Local application of 5-HT (40 microg, -10 min) into the DR or MR, respectively, produced a significant reversal of haloperidol-induced CAT. Lower doses (5 or 25 microg) of 5-HT were ineffective. Compared to previous studies using the selective 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT, the non-selective endogenous serotonin receptor agonist 5-HT was significantly less potent in this paradigm. Furthermore, the observed anticataleptic effect of 5-HT was seen following injections into both DR or MR nuclei. The reversal of CAT by local application of 5-HT (40 microg) into the DR was significant also at 70 min after 5-HT administration, with the same tendency for 5-HT injections into the MR. At this time interval, other serotonergic behavioral symptoms like head twitches and wet-dog shakes also emerged. The early reversal of CAT by local 5-HT administration into the MR is in all probability mediated via stimulation of 5-HT1A autoreceptors on raphe serotonergic cell bodies. The reversal of CAT following 5-HT injections into the DR might alternatively be mediated via functional mechanisms other than stimulation of 5-HT1A autoreceptors. The anticataleptic effects observed at the later observation time could be due to stimulation of postsynaptic 5-HT2 receptors following diffusion of 5-HT into 5-HT2 receptor rich areas of the brain.
This review focuses on the biochemical and clinical aspects of methylation in neuropsychiatric disorders and the clinical potential of their treatment with ademetionine (S-adenosylmethionine; SAMe). SAMe is required in numerous transmethylation reactions involving nucleic acids, proteins, phospholipids, amines and other neurotransmitters. The synthesis of SAMe is intimately linked with folate and vitamin B12 (cyanocobalamin) metabolism, and deficiencies of both these vitamins have been found to reduce CNS SAMe concentrations. Both folate and vitamin B12 deficiency may cause similar neurological and psychiatric disturbances including depression, dementia, myelopathy and peripheral neuropathy. SAMe has a variety of pharmacological effects in the CNS, especially on monoamine neurotransmitter metabolism and receptor systems. SAMe has antidepressant properties, and preliminary studies indicate that it may improve cognitive function in patients with dementia. Treatment with methyl donors (betaine, methionine and SAMe) is associated with remyelination in patients with inborn errors of folate and C-1 (one-carbon) metabolism. These studies support a current theory that impaired methylation may occur by different mechanisms in several neurological and psychiatric disorders.
Antiparkinsonian-like activity of glutamate receptor antagonists (mostly of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors) has been demonstrated in animals and for uncompetitive agents, also in humans. In the present study we investigated the potential antiparkinsonian-like activity of compounds acting at the glycine site of the NMDA receptor complex in three animal models of Parkinson's disease and compared them with the new uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MRZ 2/579. Haloperidol-induced catalepsy was inhibited by the Merz glycine site antagonists MRZ 2/570, MRZ 2/571 and MRZ 2/576 but not by another antagonist L-701,324 or the glycine site partial agonists ACPC and D-CS. None of the tested glycine site antagonists or partial agonists increased locomotor activity or potentiated L-DOPA responses in reserpine and alpha-MT treated rats. In rats with a unilateral 6-OHDA medial forebrain bundle lesion neither glycine site antagonists nor partial agonists affected rotations on their own or enhanced the contralateral rotations induced by L-DOPA. In contrast, the uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MRZ 2/579 was active in all antiparkinsonian tests used in this study. Based on the present data the therapeutic potential of the glycine site antagonists and partial agonists tested for the treatment of Parkinson's disease is rather doubtful. Uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonists seem to possess a better profile as antiparkinsonian agents.
Tardive dyskinesia is a serious motor side effect of chronic neuroleptic therapy. Chronic treatment or rats with neuroleptics leads to the development of abnormal oral movements called vacuous chewing movements. Vacuous chewing movements in rats are widely accepted as an animal model of tardive dyskinesia. Atypical antipsychotics such as clozapine and rispiridone are associated with a lower incidence of extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia. The present study was aimed to explore the role of 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A/2C receptors in the expression of neuroleptic-induced orofacial dyskinesia. In the present study rats were chronically (for 21 days) treated with haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) to elicit vacuous chewing movements. The neuroleptic-induced vacuous chewing movements, viz., vertical jaw movements, tongue protrusions and bursts of jaw tremors, were counted during a 5-min observation period. Acute treatment with 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), a 5-HT1A receptor agonist, dose-dependently (0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced the haloperidol-induced vacuous chewing movements and headshakes. Both acute and chronic administration of seganserin, ketanserin and ritanserin, 5-HT2A/2C receptor antagonists, also reduced haloperidol-induced vacuous chewing movements in a dose-dependent (0.05, 0.1 and 0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) manner. In acute studies a higher dose of ritanserin (1 mg/kg) but not ketanserin (1 mg/kg) increased vacuous chewing movements, whereas a higher dose of seganserin (1 mg/kg) did not have any effect on vacuous chewing movements. All the drugs reduced haloperidol-induced headshakes in a dose-dependent fashion. These findings indicate that the serotonergic system, and particularly 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A/2C receptors, may be involved in haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia, and that 5-HT receptors may provide novel targets for the development of drugs that can be used to reverse or prevent the extrapyramidal side effects associated with long-term antipsychotic treatment.
To study the association between upper gastrointestinal (GI) problems and inhalational ketamine abuse.
This is a retrospective study of 64 ketamine abusers treated from 2001 to 2008. Variables studied included clinical presentations, findings of upper GI endoscopy, abstinence from ketamine and relief of epigastric pain.
The following patients with (i) a previous history of upper GI problem; (ii) a history of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), aspirin or other substance abuse; and (iii) a known history of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection were excluded. The study group thus consisted of 37 ketamine abusers, of whom 28 had upper GI symptoms. Overall 14 of these patients had an upper endoscopy performed. The endoscopic diagnoses were: 12 (85.7%) with gastritis, one (7.1%) with gastroduodenitis, and one (7.1%) normal finding. Test for H. pylori, infection was negative. Abstinence from ketamine was found to be associated significantly with relief of symptoms (P= 0.027). Logistic regression showed the odds ratio of symptomatic relief for abstinence versus continued use of ketamine is 12.5 (95% CI[1.20, 130.6], P= 0.035). In patients whom an upper GI endoscopy was performed, H. pylori negative gastritis was the commonest histopathological finding (78.6%). Despite the use of medications, symptoms are commonly not relieved and that is associated with the continued abuse of ketamine.
Ketamine abusers frequently presented with upper GI symptoms, the commonest of which is epigastric pain (73% of abusers). Abstinence from ketamine abuse can lead to the relief of symptoms, which is an important message for ketamine abusers.
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the cognitive enhancing and antioxidant activity of Hibiscus rosa sinensis.
The learning and memory was impaired by administration of scopolamine (1 mg/kg, i.p.) in mice which is associated with altered brain oxidative status. The object recognition test (ORT) and passive avoidance test (PAT) were used to assess cognitive enhancing activity. Animals were treated with an ethyl acetate soluble fraction of the methanol extract of H. sinensis (25, 50 and 100 mg/kg, p.o).
The ethyl acetate soluble fraction of the methanol extract of H. sinensis (EASF) attenuated amnesia induced by scopolamine and aging. The discrimination index (DI) was significantly decreased in the aged and scopolamine group in ORT. Pretreatment with EASF significantly increased the DI. In PAT, scopolamine-treated mice exhibited significantly shorter step-down latencies (SDL). EASF treatment showed a significant increase in SDL in young, aged as well as in scopolamine-treated animals. The biochemical analysis of brain revealed that scopolamine treatment increased lipid peroxidation and decreased levels of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione reductase (GSH). Administration of extract significantly reduced LPO and reversed the decrease in brain SOD and GSH levels. The administration of H. sinensis improved memory in amnesic mice and prevented the oxidative stress associated with scopolamine. The mechanism of such protection of H. sinensis may be due to augmentation of cellular antioxidants.
The results of the present study suggested that H. sinensis had a protective role against age and scopolamine-induced amnesia, indicating its utility in management of cognitive disorders.
