Several medications have been found to prolong the QT interval in overdose. This can predispose to torsade de pointes-type ventricular tachycardia.
To analyse the effects of moclobemide deliberate self-poisoning on the length of both QT and corrected QT (QTc) intervals.
Electrocardiograms (ECG) of all patients presenting to a regional toxicology service with moclobemide ingestion were reviewed. Cases where a cardiotoxic agent was coingested were excluded. QT and QTc parameters were compared with a comparison group of patients ingesting paracetamol or benzodiazepines.
Of 75 patients where ECG were available, the median ingested dose was 4.5 g (interquartile range (IQR): 2.4-7.5; range: 0.6-18 g) and the median age was 34 years (IQR: 26-44). The mean QT interval was 415 ms (standard deviation (SD): 51 ms) with a mean QTc of 459 ms (SD: 44 ms), and were prolonged compared with the comparison group. Twelve female patients had a QTc > 500 ms and in seven of these causality was established based on a pre- or post-ECG with a QTc < 500 ms. Only 10% of the moclobemide cases had a heart rate (HR) > 100 beats per minute, making overcorrection of HR by Bazett's formula an unlikely cause of the findings. No cardiac arrythmias were observed other than one case of first-degree heart block.
Moclobemide prolongs the QT and QTc intervals in overdose and a 12-lead ECG should be done on all moclobemide deliberate self-poisonings. Continuous cardiac monitoring for what is otherwise a relatively benign overdose would appear to be an inappropriate use of resources but can be considered in patients with a QTc > 500 ms or with known risks for QT prolongation.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10), an endogenous antioxidant, is important in oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondria. It has anti-diabetic and anti-cardiovascular disease effects, but its ability to protect against liver fibrosis has not been studied. Here, we assessed the ability of solubilized CoQ10 to improve dimethylnitrosamine (DMN)-induced liver fibrogenesis in mice. DMN treatments for 3 weeks produced a marked liver fibrosis as assessed by histopathological examination and tissue 4-hydroxyproline content. Solubilized CoQ10 (10 and 30 mg/kg) significantly inhibited both the increases in fibrosis score and 4-hydroxyproline content induced by DMN. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blot analyses revealed that solubilized CoQ10 inhibited increases in the transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) mRNA and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) protein by DMN. Interestingly, hepatic glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCL) and glutathione S-transferase A2 (GSTA2) were up-regulated in mice treated with CoQ10. Solubilized CoQ10 also up-regulated antioxidant enzymes such as catalytic subunits of GCL and GSTA2 via activating NF-E2 related factor2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) in H4IIE hepatoma cells. Moreover, CoQ10's inhibition of alpha-SMA and TGF-beta1 expressions disappeared in Nrf2-null MEF cells. In contrast, Nrf2 overexpression significantly decreased the basal expression levels of alpha-SMA and TGF-beta1 in Nrf2-null MEF cells. These results demonstrated that solubilized CoQ10 inhibited DMN-induced liver fibrosis through suppression of TGF-beta1 expression via Nrf2/ARE activation.
We investigated the effects of hyperosmolality, chronic treatment with lithium chloride (LiCl), and the addition of LiCl in vitro on vasopressin-sensitive (VP) adenylate cyclase (AdC) and cAMP phosphodiesterase (cAMP-PDIE) activities in the medullary thick ascending limb of Henle's loop (MAL) and medullary collecting tubule (MCT) microdissected from the outer medulla of the rat kidney. A hyperosmolar medium (800 mosmol) markedly enhanced AdC activity stimulated by 10(-6) M VP specifically in MCT, while having little effect or slightly decreasing VP-stimulated AdC in MAL, compared to activities under standard isotonic conditions. Hyperosmolality decreased cAMP-PDIE activity to about the same degree in MAL and MCT. Inclusion of LiCl in the incubation medium (15-20 mM) caused a significant dose-dependent inhibition of VP-stimulated AdC activity in both MAL and MCT, but had no effect on CAMP-PDIE in either segment. AdC and cAMP-PDIE activities in MAL and MCT from chronic LiCl-treated polyuric rats did not differ from controls when assayed under standard isotonic conditions. However, when assayed in a hyperosmolar (800 mosmol) medium, VP-sensitive AdC activity was significantly lower (P < 0.01) in MCT from LiCl-treated rats compared to control levels, while VP-sensitive AdC in MAL did not differ in LiCl-treated and control rats. The present results suggest that lowered VP-sensitive AdC activity in MCT of LiCl-treated polyuric rats may contribute to the observed lower concentrating ability and collecting tubule resistance to VP. Inhibition of VP-sensitive AdC in MAL as well as MCT by the acute addition of LiCl in vitro may explain the decreased urinary diluting ability observed with acute infusions of Li salts in vivo in the rat.
Although many studies indicated that trichloroethylene (TCE) could induce autoimmune diseases and some protein adducts were detected, the proteins were not identified and mechanisms remain unknown. To screen and identify autoantigens which might be involved in TCE-induced autoimmune diseases, three groups of sera were collected from healthy donors (I), patients suffering from TCE-induced exfoliative dermatitis (ED) (II), and the healed ones (III). Serological proteome analysis (SERPA) was performed with total proteins of TCE-treated L-02 liver cells as antigen sources and immunoglobins of the above sera as probes. Highly immunogenic spots (2-fold or above increase compared with group I) in group II and III were submitted to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS) and tandem mass spectrometry sequencing. Western blot analysis was followed using commercial antibodies and individual serum. Six proteins were identified. Among them, Enoyl Coenzyme A hydratase peroxisoma 1 and lactate dehydrogenase B only showed stronger immunogenicity for group II sera, while Purine nucleoside phosphorylase, ribosomal protein P0 and proteasome activator subunit1 isoform1 also showed stronger immunogenicity for group III sera. Noteworthy, NM23 reacted only with group II sera. Western blot analysis of NM23 expression indicated that all of the individual serum of group II showed immune activity, which confirmed the validity of SERPA result. These findings revealed that there exist autoantibodies in group II and III sera. Besides, autoantibodies of the two stages of disease course were different. These autoantigens might serve as biomarkers to elucidate mechanisms underlying TCE toxicity and are helpful for diagnosis, therapy and prognosis of TCE-induced autoimmune diseases.
Ranolazine is a new drug for use in patients with stable angina pectoris. Unlike other antianginal drugs ranolazine does not alter heart rate or systemic blood pressure. Inhibition of the persistent or late sodium current (I(Na,late)) by ranolazine reduces [Na(+) ](i)-dependent Ca(2+) overload and the effects of ischaemia. Moreover, ranolazine holds potential promise to be effective in treatment of atrial fibrillation and diastolic heart failure.
Alpha1-Antitrypsin (AAT) protects elastic tissue and may play a role in atherogenesis. The association of atherosclerosis progression with common AAT variants was considered in 2 clinical trials.
We examined the association of AAT V213A, S and Z deficiency alleles, and the functional 3' UTR 11478G>A with change in minimal luminal diameter, a measure of focal disease, in the Lopid Coronary Angiography Trial gemfibrozil study of post-bypass men. S or Z carriers (n=14) showed strong progression of disease on placebo (11.5%) but responded well to treatment (3% regression). 11478A carriers treated with placebo or gemfibrozil showed significantly more disease progression (n=8, -14.5% and n=16, -4.0%, respectively) than 11478GG men (n=107, -7.0% and n=108, -1.4%, respectively; overall, P=0.003). VV213 men treated with gemfibrozil (n=68) showed -4.8% progression, whereas A213 carriers (n=55) showed +1.4% regression of disease (P=0.001). No V213A effect was seen on placebo (P=0.11). In the Diabetes Atherosclerosis Intervention Study fenofibrate trial of angiographic progression in type 2 diabetes, the association of 11478A with increased disease progression was confirmed in the treatment group, but not the gemfibrozil-treated A213 association with regression, suggesting a pharmacogenetic difference.
Disease progression is associated with variation in AAT, and low AAT levels promote atherogenesis.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disorder of the elderly characterized by learning and memory impairment. Stress level glucocorticoids (GCs) and β-amyloid (Aβ) peptide deposition are found to be correlated with dementia progression in patients with AD. The astragalosides (AST) was extracted from traditional Chinese herb Astragalus membranaceous. In this study, 12 months male rats were treated with Aβ(25-35) (10 μg/rat, hippocampal CA1 injection) and dexamethasone (DEX, 1.5mg/kg, ig) and AST (8, 16 and 32 mg/kg, ig) or ginsenoside Rg1 (Rg1, 5 mg/kg, ig) for 14 days. We investigated the protective effect of AST against DEX+Aβ(25-35) injury in rats and its mechanisms of action. Our results indicate that DEX+Aβ(25-35) can induce learning and memory impairments and increase APP and Aβ(1-40) expression. AST (16, 32 mg/kg) or Rg1 (5mg/kg) treatment significantly improve learning and memory, down-regulate the mRNA levels of APP and β-secretase, decrease expression of APP and Aβ(1-40) in hippocampus. The results indicated that DEX might increase hippocampal vulnerability to Aβ(25-35) and highlight the potential neuronal protection of AST.
A small initial dose of prazosin ranging from 0.5 to 1 mg has been recommended to avoid the first-dose phenomenon characterized by a sudden and severe drop in blood pressure after the administration of the first dose of prazosin. However, even with an initial dose of 0.5 mg, hypotension with consciousness disturbance developed in three hypertensive patients with recent cerebral hemorrhage. We present this report to alert physicians and pharmacists about the potential risk of the first-dose phenomenon even at the recommended initial doses of prazosin in hypertensive patients who have suffered a recent stroke.
Ifosfamide-associated central nervous system toxicity has been reported in 5% to 30% of patients treated with ifosfamide. Its pattern is characterized by metabolic encephalopathy with confusion, blurred vision, mutism, auditory or visual paranoid hallucinations, seizures, and rarely coma. The biochemical cause of the neurotoxicity is not understood completely, but it is thought to result from an accumulation of drug metabolites with direct central nervous system effects. A case of ifosfamide neurotoxicity is reported that had unusual extrapyramidal features in a patient treated with a 5-day course of infused ifosfamide. Although usually spontaneously reversible with cessation of drug administration, ifosfamide neurotoxicity occasionally has been associated with prolonged psychopathologic sequelae. Death from irreversible encephalopathy has also been reported rarely. The authors believe that classic extrapyramidal symptoms should be considered to be a part of the neurotoxic profile of ifosfamide.
Radiation therapy (RT) alone can cure more than 80% of all patients with pathologic stage IA, IB, and IIA Hodgkin's disease, but some prognostic factors unfavorably affect treatment outcome. Combined-modality approaches improved results compared with RT, but the optimal extent of RT fields when combined with chemotherapy warranted additional evaluation.
In February 1990, we activated a prospective trial in patients with early, clinically staged Hodgkin's disease to assess efficacy and tolerability of four cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) followed by either subtotal nodal plus spleen irradiation (STNI) or involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT).
Main patient characteristics were fairly well balanced between the two arms. Complete remission was achieved in 100% and in 97% of patients, respectively. The 12-year freedom from progression rates were 93% (95% CI, 83% to 100%) after ABVD and STNI, and 94% (95% CI, 88% to 100%) after ABVD and IFRT, whereas the figures for overall survival were 96% (95% CI, 91% to 100%) and 94% (95% CI, 89% to 100%), respectively. Apart from three patients who developed second malignancies in the STNI arm, treatment-related morbidities were mild.
Present long-term findings suggest that, after four cycles of ABVD, IFRT can achieve a worthwhile outcome. The limited size of our patient sample, however, had no adequate statistical power to test for noninferiority of IFRT versus STNI. Despite this, ABVD followed by IFRT can be considered an effective and safe modality in early Hodgkin's disease with both favorable and unfavorable presentation.
To estimate the risk of experiencing clinical features of cocaine dependence within 1-2 years of starting cocaine use, and to examine whether crack smoking might increase this risk.
A national sample of recent-onset cocaine users was identified within public data files of the National Household Surveys on Drug Abuse (NHSDA) for the years 1995 through 1998. The sample included 572 recent-onset users of cocaine HCl powder but not crack, and 190 recent-onset users of crack, some of whom had also started use of cocaine powder no more than 23 months prior to assessment. A separate group of 93 recent-onset crack users was identified; this comparison group had started using cocaine HCl powder 2+ years before assessment. Cocaine dependence was assessed via seven standardized questions about clinical features experienced within 12 months of assessment, such as feeling unable to cut down. Multivariate response regressions were used to evaluate crack-associated excess risk and clinical profiles of cocaine dependence.
Among persons who had recently started to use cocaine HCl powder but not crack cocaine, about 5-12% experienced clinical features of cocaine dependence. Most clinical features occurred 2-3 times more often among crack smoking users as compared to those using powder only, even with statistical adjustment for frequency of cocaine use ( P<0.01). This crack-associated excess risk is more prominent for several clinical features of cocaine dependence, including tolerance associated with cocaine use and narrowed behavioral repertoire attributed to cocaine use.
This new epidemiological evidence suggests that crack-smoking may increase risk of cocaine dependence once cocaine use starts, but we cannot rule out the possibility that crack users start out with a greater susceptibility to become cocaine dependent.
Cocaine blocks uptake by neuronal plasma membrane transporters for dopamine (DAT), serotonin (SERT), and norepinephrine (NET). Cocaine reward/reinforcement has been linked to actions at DAT or to blockade of SERT. However, knockouts of neither DAT, SERT, or NET reduce cocaine reward/reinforcement, leaving substantial uncertainty about cocaine's molecular mechanisms for reward. Conceivably, the molecular bases of cocaine reward might display sufficient redundancy that either DAT or SERT might be able to mediate cocaine reward in the other's absence. To test this hypothesis, we examined double knockout mice with deletions of one or both copies of both the DAT and SERT genes. These mice display viability, weight gain, histologic features, neurochemical parameters, and baseline behavioral features that allow tests of cocaine influences. Mice with even a single wild-type DAT gene copy and no SERT copies retain cocaine reward/reinforcement, as measured by conditioned place-preference testing. However, mice with no DAT and either no or one SERT gene copy display no preference for places where they have previously received cocaine. The serotonin dependence of cocaine reward in DAT knockout mice is thus confirmed by the elimination of cocaine place preference in DAT/SERT double knockout mice. These results provide insights into the brain molecular targets necessary for cocaine reward in knockout mice that develop in their absence and suggest novel strategies for anticocaine medication development.
Thiazide diuretics are a mainstay for the treatment of hypertension. Although there are several thiazide diuretics currently available, hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) continues to be the most popular thiazide used for treating high blood pressure. This is despite several clinical trials that have used and documented the benefits of chlorthalidone for hypertension management. In terms of blood pressure lowering, both HCTZ and chlorthalidone appear to be very effective. Head-to-head studies have shown trends favoring chlorthalidone as a more effective blood pressure lowering agent compared with HCTZ, but statistical significance in this regard has not been consistently demonstrated. Also unclear is the relative benefits of these 2 drugs with regards to reducing clinical complications of hypertension, namely cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Whereas there is more aggregate clinical trial data documenting the benefits of chlorthalidone compared with HCTZ in terms of hard clinical outcomes, these trials are not direct comparisons and can only be used to fuel the debate as to which of the 2 thiazides are better. From a safety perspective, hypokalemia is a risk with any of the thiazide diuretics and has been shown to be dose-related. However, at equipotent dosages, the incidence of hypokalemia between chlorthalidone and HCTZ appears comparable. The available evidence therefore supports both HCTZ and chlorthalidone as safe and effective drugs for treating hypertension. Although there are favorable trends both in terms of antihypertensive efficacy as well as clinical outcomes data with chlorthalidone compared with HCTZ, the results are not conclusive, and as such may not be enough to shift the treatment paradigm in favor of chlorthalidone, given the comfort level that most prescribers have with HCTZ. A head-to-head study looking at hard clinical outcomes, which may or may not ever be performed, may be the only way to resolve the ongoing debate as to which is the preferred thiazide for treating hypertension.
Adenosine is a potent endogenous regulator of tissue repair that is released from injured cells and tissues. Hepatic fibrosis results from chronic hepatic injury, and we have previously reported that endogenously generated adenosine, acting at A(2A) receptors, plays a role in toxin-induced hepatic fibrosis. Adenosine may form intracellularly and then be transported to the extracellular space or it may form extracellularly from adenine nucleotides released from injured cells. Because ecto-5'-nucleotidase (CD73) catalyzes the terminal step in extracellular adenosine formation from AMP, we determined whether CD73 plays a role in the development of hepatic fibrosis. Mice were treated overnight with PBS, CCl(4), ethanol, or thioacetamide (TAA); their livers were harvested, and slices were incubated in medium for 20 h before adenosine concentration in the supernatant was measured by HPLC. Hepatic fibrosis was induced by CCl(4) or TAA treatment in CD73 knockout (CD73KO and C57BL/6 background) and C57BL/6 control mice [wild-type (WT)] mice and quantified by digital analysis of picrosirius red stained slides and hydroxyproline content. mRNA expression was quantified by real-time polymerase chain reaction, and protein was quantified by Western blot or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Livers from WT mice treated with CCl(4), ethanol, and TAA released 2- to 3-fold higher levels of adenosine than livers from comparably treated CD73KO mice. CD73KO mice were protected from fibrosis with significantly less collagen content in the livers of CD73KO than WT mice after treatment with either CCl(4) or TAA. There were far fewer alpha-smooth muscle actin positive hepatic stellate cells in CCl(4)-treated KO mice than that in WT mice. After CCl(4) treatment, the mRNA level of A(1), A(2A), A(2B), and A(3) adenosine receptors, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL) -1beta, IL-13r alpha1, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, MMP-14, tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP) -1, and TIMP-2, and IL-13 level increased markedly in both CD73KO and WT mice, but Col1 alpha1, Col3 alpha1, and transforming growth factor-beta1 mRNA increased much more in WT mice than that in KO mice. Moreover, IL-13r alpha2, MMP-13 mRNA, and MMP-13 protein were higher in KO mice than that in WT mice. These results indicate that adenosine, formed extracellularly from adenine nucleotides, plays a major role in the pathogenesis of hepatic fibrosis and that inhibition of adenosine production or blockade of adenosine receptors may help prevent hepatic fibrosis.
Neuroleptic-induced catatonia (NIC) and milder neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) share parkinsonian features, catatonic symptoms, mild fever, and have been described in patients receiving antipsychotic agents. We report the case of a patient with a schizophreniform disorder and a mild mental retardation who developed a condition which can be diagnosed either as NIC or as a mild form of NMS and has been treated successfully with a combination of amantadine (600 mg/day) and diazepam (30 mg/day). The overlapping between NIC and mild NMS cases might lead to an overestimation of the incidence of current NMS and reinforces the view of the existence of a 'neuroleptic toxicity spectrum'.
To describe the case of a patient who developed symptomatic bradycardia upon initiation of oral ziprasidone and later with oral aripiprazole, both of which resolved shortly after discontinuation of therapy.
An 18-year-old female with bipolar disorder was started on oral ziprasidone 80 mg at night and the dose was subsequently increased to 120 mg for management of acute mania and delusions. The patient developed symptomatic bradycardia (heart rate 31-35 beats/min), which resolved after ziprasidone was decreased to 80 mg. Three months later, the patient was readmitted for treatment of bipolar mania with psychotic features in the context of medication nonadherence. She was started on oral aripiprazole 15 mg daily (subsequently increased to 20 mg) in conjunction with 600 mg lithium carbonate twice daily. The patient again developed symptomatic bradycardia that resolved after discontinuation of aripiprazole.
This is the first case report of symptomatic bradycardia associated with the use of ziprasidone or aripiprazole. The Naranjo probability scale suggests that the likelihood of the atypical antipsychotic as the cause of bradycardia is probable for both ziprasidone and aripiprazole. Symptomatic bradycardia with the use of other atypical antipsychotics has been reported in the literature. Little is known about the mechanisms that contribute to the antipsychotic-associated bradycardic response.
Further studies are needed to better determine the relationship between antipsychotics and reflex bradycardia. Although bradycardia remains a relatively uncommon phenomenon seen with the use of these medications, the severity of this potential adverse effect warrants consideration when initiating antipsychotic therapy.
Infection is a major complication of preterm infants, resulting in increased morbidity and mortality. We recently reported the results of a multicenter trial of dexamethasone initiated at 14 or 28 days in very low birth weight (VLBW) infants who were at risk for chronic lung disease; the results showed an increase in nosocomial bacteremia in the group receiving dexamethasone. This study is an in-depth analysis of bacteremia/sepsis and meningitis among infants enrolled in the trial.
Data on cultures performed and antibiotic therapy were collected prospectively. Infections were classified as definite or possible/clinical.
A total of 371 infants were enrolled in the trial. There were no baseline differences in risk factors for infection. For the first 14 days of study, infants received either dexamethasone (group I, 182) or placebo (group II, 189). During this period, infants in group I were significantly more likely than those in group II to have a positive blood culture result (48% vs 30%) and definite bacteremia/sepsis/meningitis (22% vs 14%). Over the 6-week study period, 47% of those cultured had at least one positive blood culture result (53% in group I vs 41% in group II) and 25% of the infants had at least one episode of definite bacteremia/sepsis/meningitis (29% in group I vs 21% in group II). Among infants with definite infections, 46.8% were attributable to Gram-positive organisms, 26.6% to Gram-negative organisms and 26.6% to fungi. The factors present at randomization were evaluated for their association with infection. Group I assignment and H(2) blocker therapy (before study entry) were associated with increased risk of definite infection, whereas cesarean section delivery and increasing birth weight were associated with decreased risk.
Infants who received a 14-day course of dexamethasone initiated at 2 weeks of age were more likely to develop a bloodstream or cerebrospinal fluid infection while on dexamethasone therapy than were those who received placebo. Physicians must consider this increased risk of infection when deciding whether to treat VLBW infants with dexamethasone.
We treated 39 elderly human immunodeficiency virus-noninfected patients with Mycobacterium avium complex and/or Mycobacterium abscessus lung disease with azithromycin (600 mg daily), given initially as monotherapy. Adverse events occurred in 33 of 39 patients (85%) receiving azithromycin alone, most commonly gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms (32 of 39, or 82%) and hearing impairment (10 of 39, or 26%). Twenty-four of 39 patients (62%) required a lower dose or withdrawal of the drug. The mean serum level in patients who required a dose reduction because of hearing impairment was 0.8 +/- 0.4 microg/mL, and that in patients whose reduction was necessitated by GI symptoms was 0.7 +/- 0.4 microg/mL; in comparison, the mean serum level was 0.3 +/- 0.16 microg/mL in patients with no adverse events (P = .004 and .003, respectively). Decreasing the daily dose to 300 mg resulted in resolution of most adverse events. Serum levels with monotherapy were comparable to levels after the addition of other antituberculous drugs that included rifampin or rifabutin. Thus, a 300-mg rather than 600-mg daily dose of azithromycin is better tolerated by elderly patients, and serum levels appear unaffected by other antituberculous agents, including rifampin.
In two conditioning experiments, identical procedures (previously shown to produce place preferences for a cocaine-paired environment) were used to assess dopaminergic and behavioral activity correlates of cocaine reward conditioning and sensitization. In these experiments, animals received repeated injections of intravenous cocaine (4.2 mg/kgx6) or saline (0.2 mlx6) on alternating days. One group in each of these experiments ('Cocaine Cues') occupied a consistent distinctive environment during cocaine treatments and testing sessions. For the other conditioned group ('Novel'), all procedures were the same, except that the last cocaine injection was administered while animals were occupying a novel environment. During day 1 and day 6 of the cocaine treatment, behavioral activity was assessed in experiment 1 and in vivo microdialysis procedures were conducted in experiment 2. Over the course of the conditioning sessions, cocaine-induced behavioral activity (locomotion and rearing) increased significantly in the Cocaine Cues group, but not in the Novel group. In addition, cocaine-induced increases in NAcc dopamine levels were significantly greater when cocaine-experienced animals were tested in a cocaine-paired environment compared to equally experienced and cocaine-naive animals tested in a novel environment. Context-dependent behavioral sensitization is a well-documented phenomenon. The observation of a corresponding enhancement of dopamine efflux in lieu of a lengthy withdrawal period is uncommon, but can be attributed to methodological differences across studies. The present study uniquely demonstrates concurrent context-dependent potentiation of behavioral and dopaminergic responses to cocaine occurring in conjunction with cocaine reward.
The incidence of tricyclic antidepressant-induced behavioral toxicity appears to be fairly high in elderly patients but has rarely been reported in the young. We present a case of significant behavioral side effects in a young woman secondary to elevated plasma levels of imipramine and desipramine, masquerading as an agitated psychotic depression.
The degrees of albuminuria induced by nephroangiography in dogs with the ionic monomeric contrast medium diatrizoate, the non-ionic iopamidol, iohexol and C29 and the monoacidic dimeric contrast medium ioxaglate were compared. Diatrizoate induced significantly higher albuminuria than the other contrast media. No significant differences in the degree of albuminuria following angiography were found between iopamidol, iohexol, C29 and ioxaglate.
We have previously observed that a chronic drinking water exposure to monomethylarsonous acid [MMA(III)], a cellular metabolite of inorganic arsenic, increases tumor frequency in the skin of keratin VI/ornithine decarboxylase (K6/ODC) transgenic mice. To characterize gene expression profiles predictive of MMA(III) exposure and mode of action of carcinogenesis, skin and papilloma RNA was isolated from K6/ODC mice administered 0, 10, 50, and 100 ppm MMA(III) in their drinking water for 26 weeks. Following RNA processing, the resulting cRNA samples were hybridized to Affymetrix Mouse Genome 430A 2.0 GeneChips(R). Micoarray data were normalized using MAS 5.0 software, and statistically significant genes were determined using a regularized t-test. Significant changes in bZIP transcription factors, MAP kinase signaling, chromatin remodeling, and lipid metabolism gene transcripts were observed following MMA(III) exposure as determined using the Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery 2.1 (DAVID) (Dennis et al., Genome Biol 2003;4(5):P3). MMA(III) also caused dose-dependent changes in multiple Rho guanine nucleotide triphosphatase (GTPase) and cell cycle related genes as determined by linear regression analyses. Observed increases in transcript abundance of Fosl1, Myc, and Rac1 oncogenes in mouse skin support previous reports on the inducibility of these oncogenes in response to arsenic and support the relevance of these genomic changes in skin tumor induction in the K6/ODC mouse model.
