The case of a patient who treated withdrawal symptoms from trans-dermal scopolamine with meclizine is reported.
A 30-year-old woman for whom transdermal scopolamine was prescribed to manage motion sickness during a vacation experienced severe withdrawal symptoms that began 24 hours after patch removal and lasted for several days. Other medications included an oral contraceptive and as-needed zolmitriptan for migraines. She used the scopolamine patches as prescribed, applying one patch behind the ear every 3 days. After 10 consecutive days of wearing the patch and experiencing no motion sickness, she began to develop dry mouth and uncomfortable, dry eyes, which prompted her to remove the patch. After 24 hours without the patch, she developed severe nausea that did not subside during a car ride. Due to the intractable nausea, she applied a new patch, which she wore for 3 consecutive days without recurrence of the nausea. Upon returning from the trip, she removed the last patch. Twelve hours after the last patch was removed, nausea recurred but was not related to motion. She felt better while lying down, but felt nauseated when standing or walking. After 3 days of this nausea, she began taking nonprescription meclizine 25 mg orally every 12 hours. The nausea subsided after two doses, and she was able to resume her normal activities. The nausea did not recur after discontinuation of the meclizine. She had used transdermal scopolamine eight years prior without any withdrawal symptoms.
Withdrawal symptoms experienced after removal of a transdermal scopolamine patch were successfully treated with oral meclizine.
Exposure to beta-Hexachlorocyclohexane (beta-HCH), a contaminant of the hexachlorohexane pesticide lindane, has been implicated as a risk factor in the development of breast cancers in epidemiological studies. Previous studies in our laboratory have demonstrated the ability of beta-HCH to elicit its actions via a ligand-independent activation of the estrogen receptor through increased c-Neu (= erbB2 or HER-2) expression and kinase activation in both the BG-1 and MCF-7 cell lines. In addition, long term exposure (33 passages) to beta-HCH was shown to promote the selection of MCF-7 cells which exhibit a more metastatic phenotype.
In this current study, we decided to investigate the long-term effects of beta-HCH in both the MCF10AT1 cell line which was derived from a normal epithelial cell line by stably transfecting a mutated c-Ha-ras and a MMTV-Neu mouse model for mammary cancer in vivo. MCF10AT1 cells were exposed for 20 passages with beta-HCH, 4-OH-Tamoxifen (Tam), or 17-beta-estradiol (E2) after which cells were analyzed for proliferation rates and mRNA expression by RT-PCR. In our in vivo studies, MMTV-Neu mice were injected with beta-HCH and observed for tumor formation over a 70 week period.
beta-HCH and Tam selected MCF10AT1 cells demonstrated increased mRNA expression of MMP-13 (collagenase-3) a marker of increased invasiveness. beta-HCH treatment was also seen to increase the expression in a number of proto-oncogenes (c-Neu, Cyclin D1, p27), cell status markers (Met-1, CK19), and the inflammatory marker NFkappaB. Previous studies, have demonstrated the role of these markers as evidence of malignant transformations, and further illustrate the ability of beta-HCH to be carcinogenic. To demonstrate beta-HCH's tumorigenic properties in an in vivo system, we used an MMTV-Neu mouse model.MMTV-Neu is a c-Neu overexpressing strain which has been shown to spontaneously develop mammary tumors at later stages of aging. In this experiment, beta-HCH exposure was shown to both accelerate the appearance (~8 weeks for median tumor-free period) and incidence (~25% increase at the end of the test period) of tumors when compared to control mice receiving only the corn-oil vehicle.
Based upon these results, it was concluded that beta-HCH does act as a breast cancer promoter which exerts its tumorigenic activity via increased c-Neu expression.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus has been used extensively in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, the efficacy of such treatments on bradykinesia/akinesia remains low. DBS of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH) elicits spontaneous, non-stereotypical motor behaviours. We tested the hypothesis that PH stimulation could restore movement in animals made cataleptic by the D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol. We further hypothesized that hippocampal-striatal neural synchrony may be important in the organization of motor behaviours. Animals chronically implanted with hippocampal and striatal recording electrodes and PH stimulating electrode were tested in open field, catalepsy and active avoidance paradigms. The degree of hippocampal-striatal theta (5-10 Hz) field coherence was assessed during baseline avoidance testing and following the administration of haloperidol. Haloperidol abolished movement in open field and active avoidance tasks and increased the latency to respond in the catalepsy test. Stimulation of the PH under haloperidol reversed catalepsy. Hippocampal-striatal theta coherence was high throughout the active avoidance task in control experiments but was greatly reduced under haloperidol. PH stimulation was able to reinstate the hippocampal-striatal theta coherence while restoring task-related behaviours. These results support the hypothesis that DBS of the PH could restore motor behaviours in rats made cataleptic with haloperidol, thus providing strong support for the PH as a promising candidate for DBS in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, the results support the view that hippocampal-striatal theta coherence may be important for the planning and execution of goal-oriented behaviors.
A high frequency of cigarette smoking has been reported among individuals with major depression. In a previous study, transdermal nicotine produced short-term improvement in the mood of depressed patients. This study was undertaken to determine the effects of 4 days' administration of transdermal nicotine on mood in nonsmoking patients with major depression.
The effects of nicotine patches (17.5 mg) on 12 nonmedicated outpatients with major depression (DSM-III-R) were studied for 4 continuous days. Patients had to score 18 points or more on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) (21 items) for admission into the study. The HAM-D (10 items), a visual analog scale, and a side effects scale were scored daily during the trial (baseline, 4 days of nicotine patches, and 4 days of follow-up).
Two patients dropped out of the study owing to nausea and vomiting. Results of the visual analog scale and HAM-D (10 items) showed a significant (p < .01) improvement in depression after the second day of nicotine patches. Patients relapsed 3 or 4 days after the last nicotine dose. The side effects observed were an increase in saliva production, nausea, loss of appetite, and mild insomnia.
Nicotine patches produced short-term improvement of depression with minor side effects. Because of nicotine's high risk to health, nicotine patches are not recommended for clinical use in depression. Analogue drugs may be developed in the future that may help improve depression without the risk of other major health problems.
SSR181507 ((3-exo)-8-benzoyl-N-(((2S)7-chloro-2,3-dihydro-1,4-benzodioxin-1-yl)methyl)-8-azabicyclo(3.2.1)octane-3-methanamine monohydrochloride) is a novel tropanemethanamine benzodioxane that displays antagonist activity at dopamine D(2) receptors and agonist activity at 5-HT(1A) receptors. SSR181507 antagonized apomorphine-induced climbing in mice and stereotypies in rats (ED(50) of 2 and 3.4 mg/kg i.p., respectively) and blocked D-amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in rats at lower doses (0.3-1 mg/kg i.p.). At 1-10 mg/kg, it was found to disrupt active avoidance in mice. SSR181507 did not induce catalepsy in rats (MED>60 mg/kg i.p.) and antagonized (3-10 mg/kg i.p.) haloperidol-induced catalepsy. SSR181507 was also active in two models sensitive to antidepressant/anxiolytic drugs: in a guinea-pig pup/mother separation test, it decreased (1-3 mg/kg i.p.) the time spent vocalizing during the separation episode, and in a lithium-induced taste aversion procedure in rats, it partially reversed (3 mg/kg i.p.) the decrease of intake of a saccharin solution. Furthermore, SSR181507 increased (3 mg/kg i.p.) the latency time to paradoxical sleep in rats, an effect commonly observed with antidepressants. Coadministration of the selective 5-HT(1A) blocker SL88.0338 produced catalepsy and antagonized the effects of SSR181507 in the depression/anxiety tests, confirming the view that activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors confers an atypical profile on SSR181507, and is responsible for its antidepressant/anxiolytic properties. Finally, SSR181507 (1-3 mg/kg) did not affect memory performance in a Morris water maze task in rats. The pharmacological profile of SSR181507 suggests that it should control the symptoms of schizophrenia, in the absence of extrapyramidal signs and cognitive deficits, with the additional benefit of antidepressant/anxiolytic activities.
The prevalence of both osteoporosis and renal impairment increases with age.
Using data from the Fracture Prevention Trial, the safety and efficacy of teriparatide [rhPTH(1-34)] in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and renal impairment were explored. Patients were required to have serum creatinine concentrations < or =2.0 mg/dl and normal serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) concentrations and were randomized to receive daily subcutaneous injections of placebo or teriparatide 20 or 40 mcg/day. Glomerular filtration rate (GFR) was estimated using the Cockcroft-Gault equation. Patients were defined from baseline assessments to have normal (GFR > or =80 ml/min), mildly impaired (GFR 50-79 ml/min), or moderately impaired (GFR 30-49 ml/min) renal function for bone mineral density (BMD) and amino-terminal extension peptide of procollagen type 1 (PINP) analyses, and normal (GFR > or =80 ml/min) or impaired (GFR <80 ml/min) renal function for fracture analyses.
Compared with patients with normal renal function, patients with renal impairment were older, shorter, weighed less, had been postmenopausal longer, and had lower baseline lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD. Compared with placebo, teriparatide significantly increased PINP and lumbar spine and femoral neck BMD within each renal function subgroup, and there was no evidence that these increases were altered by renal insufficiency (each treatment-by-subgroup interaction p>0.05). Similarly, teriparatide-mediated vertebral and nonvertebral fracture risk reductions were similar and did not differ significantly between patients with normal or impaired renal function (treatment-by-subgroup interactions p>0.05). The incidences of treatment-emergent and renal-related adverse events were consistent across treatment assignment in the normal, mildly impaired, and moderately impaired renal function subgroups. Teriparatide induced changes in mean GFR were unaffected by baseline renal function (treatment-by-renal function interaction p>0.05 for normal, mildly impaired, or moderately impaired subgroups). Patients in all renal function categories treated with teriparatide 20 or 40 mcg had an increased incidence of 4-6-h postdose serum calcium >10.6 mg/dl (the upper limit of normal) versus placebo; however, teriparatide 20 mcg/day was not associated with significantly increased incidence of 4-6-h postdose serum calcium >11 mg/dl in any renal function category. Teriparatide therapy was associated with increased incidence of elevated uric acid, with the incidences being highest in patients with moderately impaired renal function and in those receiving teriparatide 40 mcg/day. Even so, adverse event data did not suggest an increased incidence of gout or arthralgia or of nephrolithiasis events in teriparatide-treated patients with normal, mild, or moderate renal impairment.
Ortho-cresol (o-cresol) produces a modifying influence on the effect produced by benz/a/pyrene (BP) under mice CC57B exposure to the combined peroral administration of the two chemicals. A low-toxic dose of o-cresol (Img) abruptly activates the effect of the same dose of BP (1 mg) according to all parameters (increase of the frequency, coefficient of multiplicity and degree of malignancy of tumours, shortening of the latency period) and somewhat inhibits its activity when administered before or after BP. Simultaneous administration of o-cresol in a ++super-toxic dose (10 mg) and BP in an optimal dose (5 mg) does not change the frequency of tumours, as compared to the control, however, inhibits the progression of induces neoplasms, which is manifest in the decrease of the frequency of malignancy, multiplicity of appearance and lengthening of the time of the onset of their malignization. Simultaneous administration of o-cresol in the dose relevant to the MAC for water does not change the carcinogenic activity of BP, which testifies to the necessity of sanitary control of observing hygienic regulations for both chemicals, as the most effective measure of prophylaxis of the malignant tumours morbidity of the population.
Case report of polyneuritis and liver dysfunction induced by perhexiline maleate in a 64 years old male patient. The ultrastructural study of nerve, liver, muscle and skin biopsies shows polymorphous, membrane bound, often multilamellar, lysosome-like inclusions, the content of which is probably complex lipids. The histochemical study of liver reveals a lipid storage, consisting mainly of triglycerides and of smaller amount of phospholipids and free fatty acids, the pattern of which is abnormal. The biochemical study of nerve tissue shows a decrease of phospholipids levels and some qualitative disturbances in gangliosides. These changes, some of which are similar to those reported in amphiphilic drug intoxications, are prevalent in high lipid metabolism cells such as hepatic and Schwann cells.
The aim of this article was to describe the effects of chronic fluoxetine on mu opioid receptor expression in obese Zucker rat extrahypothalamic regions. Male obese Zucker (fa/fa) rats were administered with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg; i.p.) daily for two weeks. Brain regional immunostaining for mu opioid receptor was carried out. An increase in the numbers of neural cells immunostained for mu opioid receptor in caudatus-putamen, dentate gyrus, lateral septum, amygdala, and frontal, parietal, and piriform cortices was observed. Increased mu opioid receptor expression in the central amygdaloid nuclei suggests a decreased opioidergic tone at this level that could be involved in fluoxetine anorectic action.
Myocardial trauma and damage were induced by two doses of isoproterenol 40 mg.kg-1 in rats. Isoproterenol injections alone caused the expected cardiotoxicity. Two doses of alprazolam 0.5 mg.kg-1 decreased the severity of electrocardiographic changes after isoproterenol injection and the amount of myocardial tissue damage. The frequency of ischaemic ST-T changes, flat or inverted T waves, Q wave appearance, and heart block was significantly reduced in the alprazolam group. The alprazolam treated group had a significantly smaller proportion of infarcted tissue in the ventricular section (2.3%) and in the apical sections (1.8%) than the vehicle injected rats (6.5% and 14.7% respectively). There was no difference in wet heart weight or in heart rate between the alprazolam group and the control group. These results show that alprazolam has a cardioprotective effect in rats treated with cardiac damaging doses of isoproterenol.
Drug hypersensitivity syndrome is an acute, severe, multi-organ systemic reaction, usually developing with aromatic antiepileptic drugs. Interaction between drug-induced hypersensivity syndrome and viral infections is debated. We report the first case of severe carbamazepine-induced hypersensivity syndrome associated with Epstein-Barr virus infection in a child.
To determine whether pediatric patients given etomidate for rapid sequence intubation (RSI) in the ED develop clinically important hypotension or adrenal insufficiency.
Retrospective review of 100 consecutive patients younger than age 10 years given etomidate for RSI in the ED at two academic medical centers. Data were abstracted from ED and in-patient medical records. Clinically important hypotension was defined as a decrease in systolic blood pressure (BP) measurement to below one standard deviation (SD) of mean normal for age. Clinically important adrenal insufficiency was defined as the need for exogenous corticosteroid replacement for suspected adrenal insufficiency at any time during hospitalization.
BP measurements before and within 20 minutes after etomidate administration for RSI were recorded on 84 intubations (84%). The mean change in BP between pre-intubation and post-intubation measurements was a decrease of 1 mmHg (95% CI: -6 mm Hg to +7 mm Hg, P = 0.83). When expressed as a percentage of normal BP for age, the mean change in BP was a decrease of 1% (95% CI: -7% to +6%, P = 0.82). Four patients (4.8%; 95% CI: 1.3-11.7%) had a systolic BP decrease to below one SD of mean normal for age. Fourteen patients received corticosteroids during hospitalization, but none (0/99, 95% CI: 0-3.7%) for suspected adrenal insufficiency.
We found no evidence of clinically important adrenocorticoid suppression and a low incidence of clinically important hypotension when using etomidate for emergent pediatric RSI. Because other induction agents may also result in hypotension, prospective comparison studies are needed to further evaluate the safety of etomidate in this patient population.
Growing evidence supports the concept that neutrophils accumulating in reperfused ischaemic myocardium play a detrimental role in evolving infarction. Lignocaine, an antiarrhythmic drug commonly used clinically, interferes with neutrophil function in vitro and potentially in vivo. To test the hypothesis that lignocaine may influence infarct size by reducing neutrophil accumulation in reperfused ischaemic myocardium, 31 dogs underwent a 2 h occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, followed by 6 h of reperfusion. One group of dogs received saline (controls) the other a perfusion of lignocaine 0.06 mg.kg-1.min-1 starting 30 min before coronary occlusion and lasting for the duration of the experiment. Blood lignocaine concentrations at the onset of reperfusion were 3.3(0.6) micrograms.ml-1. 111Indium labelled autologous neutrophils were injected at the time of occlusion and their accumulation in the myocardium measured by digital scintigraphy of heart slices. The area at risk and infarct size were evaluated by planimetry of the heart slices (7 mm) after perfusion of Evans blue dye and triphenyltetrazolium staining. Ventricular fibrillation occurred in six controls and in five dogs receiving lignocaine. The phenomenon occurred early during the occlusion period in the lignocaine group (five dogs) and at reperfusion in controls (five dogs; p less than 0.05). In the remaining 20 dogs, 10 in each group, a linear correlation was found between myocardial 111In labelled neutrophil and circulating neutrophil counts at the onset of reperfusion (r = 0.076, p less than 0.05) and with infarct size (r = 0.96 and 0.74, p less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity is increased in experimental nephrotic syndrome and exhibits attenuated cardiopulmonary baroreflex inhibition during volume expansion in anesthetized rats. Additional studies were performed in conscious rats to avoid the potentially confounding influences of anesthesia; these studies used another more specific standardized stimulus for cardiopulmonary baroreflex activation. Sprague Dawley rats were studied 3 to 4 wk after adriamycin injection (3.5 mg/kg iv); all rats developed proteinuria. In sinoaortic denervated rats (anesthetized), graded frequency stimulation of the central end of the cut right vagus nerve produced frequency-dependent decreases in mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity. The decreases in mean arterial pressure and heart rate were similar in control and nephrotic rats, but efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity decreased significantly less in nephrotic than control rats over the entire frequency range (P < 0.02). In sinoaortic denervated rats (conscious), 10% body weight isotonic saline volume expansion decreased mean arterial pressure, heart rate, and efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity. The decreases in mean arterial pressure and heart rate were similar in control and nephrotic rats, but efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity decreased significantly less in nephrotic than control rats over the entire period of volume expansion (P < 0.04). In nephrotic syndrome, the cardiopulmonary baroreflex inhibition of efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity is decreased; the defect lies in the central portion of the reflex. This may contribute to the observed increase in efferent renal sympathetic nerve activity in nephrotic syndrome.
To evaluate feasibility and potential efficacy of amifostine (AMI) in the prevention of toxicities associated with high-dose melphalan (MEL), ten myeloma patients received AMI 910 mg/m2 in 15 min infusion preceding MEL 200 mg/m2 followed by stem cell infusion (AMI group). Hematologic and extra-hematologic toxicities as well as the need for supportive care observed in the AMI group were compared with ten myeloma patients treated in an identical protocol but without AMI. Hypotension was the most important adverse event of AMI infusion. No differences were observed in the time of engraftment between the AMI group and the control group neither was there any difference in the need for supportive care. Oral mucositis grade >2 was observed in 30% of the patients in both groups. Diarrhea grade >2 occurred only in two AMI patients but in five control patients. AMI preceding high-dose MEL is feasible, although adverse events are observed in some patients. Whether AMI could reduce the gastrointestinal toxicity associated with high-dose MEL can be reliably assessed only in prospective randomized trials.
A series of N-substituted and N'-substituted aminothiazole-derived morphinans (5) were synthesized for expanding the structure-activity relationships of aminothiazolo-morphinans. Although their affinities were somewhat lower than their prototype aminothiazolo-N-cyclopropylmorphinan (3), 3-aminothiazole derivatives of cyclorphan (1) containing a primary amino group displayed high affinity and selectivity at the κ and μ opioid receptors. [(35)S]GTPγS binding assays showed that the aminothiazolomorphinans were κ agonists with mixed agonist and antagonist activity at the μ opioid receptor. These novel N'-monosubstituted aminothiazole-derived morphinans may be valuable for the development of drug abuse medications.
This study compares beta-lactam and vancomycin among intravenous drug users with infective endocarditis caused by methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus. Patients who received vancomycin had higher infection-related mortality, even if they were switched to beta-lactam once culture results became available; this relationship persisted after logistic regression analysis controlling for clinical characteristics.
While manganese (Mn) is essential for proper central nervous system (CNS) development, excessive Mn exposure may lead to neurotoxicity. Mn preferentially accumulates in the basal ganglia, and in adults it may cause Parkinson's disease-like disorder. Compared to adults, younger individuals accumulate greater Mn levels in the CNS and are more vulnerable to its toxicity. Moreover, the mechanisms mediating developmental Mn-induced neurotoxicity are not completely understood. The present study investigated the developmental neurotoxicity elicited by Mn exposure (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg; i.p.) from postnatal day 8 to PN27 in rats. Neurochemical analyses were carried out on PN29, with a particular focus on striatal alterations in intracellular signaling pathways (MAPKs, Akt and DARPP-32), oxidative stress generation and cell death. Motor alterations were evaluated later in life at 3, 4 or 5 weeks of age. Mn exposure (20 mg/kg) increased p38(MAPK) and Akt phosphorylation, but decreased DARPP-32-Thr-34 phosphorylation. Mn (10 and 20 mg/kg) increased caspase activity and F2-isoprostane production (a biological marker of lipid peroxidation). Paralleling the changes in striatal biochemical parameters, Mn (20 mg/kg) also caused motor impairment, evidenced by increased falling latency in the rotarod test, decreased distance traveled and motor speed in the open-field test. Notably, the antioxidant Trolox™ reversed the Mn (20 mg/kg)-dependent augmentation in p38(MAPK) phosphorylation and reduced the Mn (20 mg/kg)-induced caspase activity and F2-isoprostane production. Trolox™ also reversed the Mn-induced motor coordination deficits. These findings are the first to show that long-term exposure to Mn during a critical period of neurodevelopment causes motor coordination dysfunction with parallel increment in oxidative stress markers, p38(MAPK) phosphorylation and caspase activity in the striatum. Moreover, we establish Trolox™ as a potential neuroprotective agent given its efficacy in reversing the Mn-induced neurodevelopmental effects.
Paraquat (1,1'-dimethyl-4, 4'-bipyridinium dichloride) is a nonselective herbicide that is extremely toxic after acute exposure. It was once widely used in North America and is still used in some countries, including the United States. Although there is little firm evidence that paraquat is a carcinogen, previous studies have suggested a potential relationship with some cancers. This prospective cohort study was performed to evaluate the association between lifetime paraquat exposure and cancer incidence among licensed pesticide applicators with 9.1 years of median follow-up. The lifetime ever-use of paraquat was evaluated in 56,224 subjects at baseline and exposure-response relationship was evaluated in 24,667 subjects (44%) who provided detailed information on total life-time paraquat exposure in a second questionnaire. Among the total subjects, the risk for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) in the exposed group was marginally elevated (Relative risk [RR], 1.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.97-2.23) compared to the non-exposed group. However, among the 24,667 applicators who supplied total life-time exposure days, the highest tertile of lifetime exposure-days (LE) and intensity-weighted lifetime exposure-days (IWLE) was not significantly associated with NHL risk (RR, 1.57; 95%CI, 0.57-4.23 for LE; RR, 1.42; 95%CI, 0.40-4.71 for IWLE, respectively) and there was no significant exposure-response trend (p-trend > 0.1). There was some suggestion of a possible link between paraquat exposure and NHL risk in humans, but the inconsistency in exposure level trend suggests that this could be a chance finding.
Mefloquine is an effective drug for prophylaxis and treatment of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum. It is generally well tolerated with few side effects. Minimal elevation of liver function tests has been reported after exposure to mefloquine, especially in susceptible individuals with prior abnormal liver function tests. Our patient, who had had elevated liver function tests attributed to heart failure, experienced an acute elevation of liver transaminases 6 weeks after exposure to mefloquine 250 mg/week. Cessation of the drug caused test results to return to normal. Mefloquine should be prescribed cautiously in patients with liver disease.
Mutations in the MRP gene family member MRP6 cause pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE) in humans, a disease affecting elasticity of connective tissues. The normal function of MRP6, including its physiological substrate(s), remains unknown. To address these issues, recombinant rat Mrp6 (rMrp6) was expressed in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. The protein was expressed in the membrane fraction as a stable 170 kDa protein. Its nucleotide binding and hydrolysis properties were investigated using the photoactive ATP analogue 8-azido-[alpha-(32)P]ATP and compared to those of the drug efflux pump MRP1. rMrp6 can bind 8-azido-[alpha-(32)P]ATP in a Mg(2+)-dependent and EDTA-sensitive fashion. Co(2+), Mn(2+), and Ni(2+) can also support 8-azido-[alpha-(32)P]ATP binding by rMrp6 while Ca(2+), Cd(2+), and Zn(2+) cannot. Under hydrolysis conditions (at 37 degrees C), the phosphate analogue beryllium fluoride (BeF(x)()) can stimulate trapping of the 8-azido-[alpha-(32)P]adenosine nucleotide in rMrp6 (and in MRP1) in a divalent cation-dependent and temperature-sensitive fashion. This suggests active ATPase activity, followed by trapping and photo-cross-linking of the 8-azido-[alpha-(32)P]ADP to the protein. By contrast to MRP1, orthovanadate-stimulated nucleotide trapping in rMrp6 does not occur in the presence of Mg(2+) but can be detected with Ni(2+) ions, suggesting structural and/or functional differences between the two proteins. The rMrp6 protein can be specifically photolabeled by a fluorescent photoactive drug analogue, [(125)I]-IAARh123, with characteristics similar to those previously reported for MRP1 (1), and this photolabeling of rMrp6 can be modulated by several structurally unrelated compounds. The P. pastoris expression system has allowed demonstration of ATP binding and ATP hydrolysis by rMrp6. In addition to providing large amounts of active protein for detailed biochemical studies, this system should also prove useful to identify potential rMrp6 substrates in [(125)I]-IAARh123 photolabeling competition studies, as well as to study the molecular basis of PXE mutations, which are most often found in the NBD2 of MRP6.
To explore whether the progression-free survival (PFS) with pemetrexed differs between anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive and other major molecular subtypes of non-small cell lung cancer.
In an ALK-enriched population, patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer were screened by ALK fluorescence in situ hybridization and for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and KRAS mutations. Triple-tested, pemetrexed-treated patients (monotherapy or combination therapy) were identified and PFS with pemetrexed captured retrospectively.
Eighty-nine eligible cases were identified (19 ALK fluorescence in situ hybridization positive, 12 EGFR mutant, 21 KRAS mutant, and 37 triple negatives). Eighty-three cases (93%) were adenocarcinomas, two were adenosquamous, one squamous, and three had large cell histology. None of the ALK-positive patients had received crizotinib before pemetrexed. Pemetrexed was first-line therapy in 48% (72% as platinum-based combinations). Median PFS (95% confidence interval) data were EGFR mutant (5.5 months; 1-9), KRAS mutant (7 months; 1.5-10), ALK positive (9 months; 3-12), and triple negative (4 months; 3-5). In a multivariate analysis adjusting for line of therapy, mono- versus platinum and nonplatinum combination therapy, age, sex, histology, and smoking status, the only variable associated with prolonged PFS on pemetrexed was ALK+ (hazard ratio = 0.36 [95% confidence interval: 0.17-0.73], p = 0.0051).
In this exploratory analysis, ALK-positive patients have a significantly longer PFS on pemetrexed compared with triple-negative patients, whereas EGFR or KRAS mutant patients do not. This information should be considered when sizing randomized studies in ALK-positive patients that involve pemetrexed. Pemetrexed should also be prioritized as a cytotoxic to explore further in patients with known ALK-positive disease.
To estimate whether vaginal isosorbide mononitrate, added to oral misoprostol for cervical ripening and labor induction, shortens time to vaginal delivery.
A prospective, randomized trial was conducted. Women scheduled for labor induction between 32 and 42 weeks and with unfavorable cervices (modified Bishop score 6 or lower) were randomized to receive oral misoprostol every 4 hours, up to four doses, with or without isosorbide mononitrate every 6 hours, up to two doses. A strict protocol was used, including timing of oxytocin use and amniotomy. Side effects were assessed 6 hours after study initiation. One hundred forty-two patients were required to detect a change in time to vaginal delivery of 4 hours (alpha=.05 and beta=.20). Data were analyzed by intent to treat. Student's t, chi square, Fisher's exact, and Mann-Whitney tests were used where appropriate with P< or =.05 deemed significant.
One hundred fifty-six women were randomized; three were excluded after randomization. Seventy-eight women received misoprostol, and 78 received misoprostol with isosorbide mononitrate. Demographic characteristics were similar between groups. The time to vaginal delivery was not reduced when isosorbide mononitrate was added to misoprostol. Cesarean delivery rates and contraction and fetal heart rate abnormalities were similar between groups. Side effects were also similar between groups, except that women given isosorbide mononitrate experienced headaches more often. Neonatal outcomes were similar between groups.
The addition of vaginal isosorbide mononitrate to oral misoprostol for cervical ripening and labor induction did not reduce time to vaginal delivery and was associated with a greater incidence of headache.
ClinicalTrials.gov, www.clinicaltrials.gov, NCT00374621.
I.
The noradrenergic system is implicated in mediating some of the physiological effects of cocaine. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether treatment with an adrenergic blocker, carvedilol, which would be expected to attenuate the physiological effects of cocaine, would also attenuate the subjective and behavioral response to cocaine in humans. Twelve crack cocaine users participated in this double-blind, placebo-controlled outpatient study. Acute treatment with 50 mg of oral carvedilol attenuated the smoked cocaine-induced increases in heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure. The number of cocaine self-administrations was lower under 25 mg carvedilol treatment condition compared with 50 mg carvedilol or placebo treatment conditions. The subjective responses to smoked cocaine deliveries were not affected by carvedilol treatment. These results suggest that acute treatment with carvedilol attenuates the physiological effects of smoked cocaine. The effects of carvedilol on cocaine self-administration need to be studied further.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the psychophysical effects of both TRPA1 and TRPM8 activation in humans by application of either cinnamaldehyde or menthol. We applied 10% cinnamaldehyde or 40% menthol solutions on the forearm in 10 study participants. Quantitative sensory testing and laser Doppler imaging was performed before and after exposure to the compounds. Cinnamaldehyde evoked significant spontaneous pain and induced heat and mechanical hyperalgesia, cold hypoalgesia and a neurogenic axon reflex erythema. In contrast, TRPM8 activation by menthol produced no axon reflex reaction and resulted in cold hyperalgesia. We conclude that agonists of TRPA1 and TRPM8 channels produce strikingly different psychophysical patterns.
Ciguatera is a global disease caused by the consumption of certain warm-water fish (ciguateric fish) that have accumulated orally effective levels of sodium channel activator toxins (ciguatoxins) through the marine food chain. The effect of ciguatoxin standards and contaminated ciguatoxin samples was evaluated by electrophysiological recordings in cultured cerebellar neurons. The toxins affected both voltage-gated sodium (Nav) and potassium channels (Kv) although with different potencies. CTX 3C was the most active toxin blocking the peak inward sodium currents, followed by P-CTX 1B and 51-OH CTX 3C. In contrast, P-CTX 1B was more effective in blocking potassium currents. The analysis of six different samples of contaminated fish, in which a ciguatoxin analogue of mass 1040.6, not identical with the standard 51-OH CTX 3C, was the most prevalent compound, indicated an additive effect of the different ciguatoxins present in the samples. The results presented here constitute the first comparison of the potencies of three different purified ciguatoxins on sodium and potassium channels in the same neuronal preparation and indicate that electrophysiological recordings from cultured cerebellar neurons may provide a valuable tool to detect and quantify ciguatoxins in the very low nanomolar range.
Fusariosis, a rare infectious disease of the immunocompromised host, is relatively resistant to amphotericin B (AmB) or other antifungal agents. We describe a 5-year follow-up of a 40 year old woman with T-type acute lymphoblastic leukemia who following chemotherapy developed prolonged high fever, chills, night sweats, and severe weakness. Liver function tests were impaired and abdominal computerized tomography (CT) showed multiple lesions in the liver and abnormal structure of the spleen. A laparotomy revealed multiple granulomas containing Fusarium sp. in the liver, and the spleen was heavily infiltrated by the same fungus. The patient failed to respond to the conventional AmB dosage form (Fungizone) even after a total dose of 3.0 g was given, and developed significant renal impairment. AmB was complexed (in a mole ratio of 1:16) with a mixture of the phospholipids dimyristoyl phosphatidylcholine and dimyristoyl phosphatidylglycerol (mixed in 7:3 mole ratio). The resulting drug complex, AmB-PLC, was then administered (1-4 mg/kg/day, total dose 4.2 g) and subsequently the patient was cured of all symptoms of fusariosis. There were only mild side effects and no nephrotoxicity was evident. On the contrary, marked improvement of the renal function tests occurred during AmB-PLC treatment. Eight months later, she developed a spinal lesion with dense consistency in L5 and S1, and after receiving another course of AmB-PLC (3.1 g) she recovered completely. In a 2 year follow-up period the patient had no further relapse of the fungal disease. Subsequent chemotherapy given for relapse of the leukemia was followed by a new fungal infection, which was treated with AmB-cholesteryl sulfate complex (Amphocil).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although ischemic stroke is a well known complication of migraine, cerebral hemorrhage has been uncommonly reported.
We present the case of a 56-year-old woman with a long history of headache and abuse of ergotamine and antiinflamatory drugs who was admitted for generalized seizures, right hemiparesis and coma. An early brain CT scan showed multiple cortico-subcortical hemorrhages localized amongst others on right frontal, left parietal, and posterior left temporo parietal regions. In the previous two years she had increased the doses on medications containing 1 mg of ergotamine and 500 mg of dipirone consuming two to six tablets a day, and 500 to 1,500 mg of aspirin a day too. Although she exceeded the maximum ergot cumulative doses allowed of 10 mg per week, it cannot be considered a typical nor a pure manifestation of ergotism. When other possible causes of stroke were excluded, the association of migraine with the protracted vasoconstriction of ergotamine, able per se to damage the capillary endothelium, and an altered local hemostasis induced by aspirin remained as the most probable mechanism of brain bleeding. After discharge she had no motor sequelae and she could return to her usual work. A neuropsychological assessment done four months later showed subclinical cognitive deficits depending on an abnormal frontal functioning.
This life-threatening and potentially disabling complication must stress to physicians about the risks of ergotamine plus aspirin abuse, drawing their efforts to prevent, to recognize and to control the propensity to self medication of some patients with daily headaches.
