A 74-year-old patient is presented in whom quinidine-induced torsade de pointes was abolished by the onset of atrial fibrillation with a fast ventricular response. Heart rate acceleration during atrial fibrillation shortened the Q-T interval from 0.68 on admission to 0.44 milliseconds when sinus rhythm was re-established. This resulted in the suppression of paroxysms of polymorphous ventricular tachycardia.
Four patients are described who developed sensorimotor neuropathy while being treated with simvastatin and had complete or partial resolution of clinical abnormalities after withdrawal of treatment. In one case onset was within days of commencing treatment, but in two cases symptoms did not develop for two years. The electrophysiological and pathological features of the neuropathy were those of axonal degeneration. Clinical evidence of proximal and distal weakness and muscle fasciculations and persistent abnormalities of sensory conduction after recovery suggest the possibility of toxic damage to anterior horn cells and dorsal root ganglia. Thirty eight other cases with symptoms suggestive of peripheral neuropathy have been reported to the Australian Adverse Drug Reactions Advisory Committee, 22 of whom recovered after cessation of treatment; in five cases there was recurrence after re-exposure to the drug. Simvastatin should be considered among the causes of peripheral neuropathy, and the drug should be withdrawn if patients receiving it develop muscle weakness or sensory disturbances.
Human carbonyl reductase1 (CBR1) has been reported to protect cells against lipid peroxidation. Since human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells are under oxidative stress in hypoxic conditions, we tested if CBR1 is upregulated by hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1α, helps tumor growth under hypoxia, and renders chemoresistance to cisplatin and doxorubicin in HCC.
Luciferase, EMSA, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays were performed to analyze whether HIF-1α transactivates CBR1 promoter. CBR1 overexpression, siRNA, and inhibitors were used to study the role of CBR1 in tumor survival under hypoxia and chemoresistance to cisplatin and doxorubicin in HCC. FACS and Western blot analysis for oxidative stress markers were performed to measure ROS. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed to analyze CBR1 expression in 78 cases of HCC and 123 cases of colon cancer tissues.
The CBR1 promoter was activated by HIF-1α. CBR1 overexpression enhanced cell survival by decreasing oxidative stress under hypoxia, cisplatin, and doxorubicin treatment. CBR1-siRNA increased apoptosis via increasing oxidative stress. Combinational therapy of CBR1 inhibitors with cisplatin or doxorubicin enhanced cell death in HCC cells. IHC showed CBR1 overexpression in 56 (72%) out of 78 HCC and 88 (72%) out of 123 colon cancer cases.
Overexpressed CBR1 by HIF-1α plays important roles in tumor growth under hypoxia and chemoresistance to anticancer drugs. The inhibition of CBR1 by specific inhibitors enhances anticancer drug efficacy in HCC. Therefore, we concluded that CBR1 is a good molecular target for the development of anticancer drugs for HCC patients.
Corticosteroids and intravenous immunoglobulins belong to the first line of treatment in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy. In patients with a progressive course, plasma exchange and immunomodulatory drugs are added to the regimen. To reduce the side effects of long-term oral prednisolone, high-dose pulsatile intravenous methylprednisolone treatment has been advocated. We report two children with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy who, after high-dose intravenous pulsatile methylprednisolone, experienced a significant clinical deterioration with profound loss of muscle strength. Both patients improved after changing treatment to immunoglobulins in one and cyclosporine combined with immunoglobulins and oral prednisolone in the other.
Our objective was to characterize the pharmacokinetics of melagatran, the active form of the oral direct thrombin inhibitor ximelagatran, and the relationship between melagatran exposure and clinical outcome in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis.
A population pharmacokinetic analysis was performed on samples from patients with deep vein thrombosis participating in a randomized dose-finding study (THRombin Inhibitor in Venous thrombo-Embolism [THRIVE I]). Patients received fixed doses of oral ximelagatran (24, 36, 48, or 60 mg twice daily) for 12 to 16 days. Thrombus size was evaluated by venography before and after treatment. Exposure-response curves were characterized for the probability of regression, no change, and progression of the thrombus extension and of having a bleeding-related event, by use of logistic regression models.
The pharmacokinetics of melagatran (1836 samples in 264 patients) was predictable, without significant time or dose dependencies. Clearance after oral administration (population mean, 27.3 L/h) was correlated with creatinine clearance (P < 10(-6)), and volume of distribution (population mean, 176 L) was correlated with body weight (P = 2 x 10(-5)). Gender, age, or smoking did not significantly influence melagatran pharmacokinetics after the influence of renal function and body weight was accounted for. Unexplained interpatient variability values in total plasma clearance and bioavailability were 19% and 21%, respectively. The median area under the plasma melagatran concentration versus time curve across all patients and dose levels was 3.22 h x micromol/L (5th-95th percentiles, 1.35-7.69). There was no significant relationship between area under the plasma concentration versus time curve and change in thrombus extension (P = .59) or bleeding-related events (P = .77), and the estimated exposure-response curves were relatively flat.
The pharmacokinetics of melagatran in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis was predictable after oral ximelagatran administration. Shallow exposure-response curves for efficacy and bleeding indicate that there is no need for individualized dosing or therapeutic drug monitoring in the patient population studied.
Clinically relevant animal models of mammary carcinogenesis are crucial for the development and evaluation of new breast cancer chemopreventive agents. The neu-induced retroviral rat mammary carcinogenesis model is based on the direct in situ transfer of the activated neu oncogene into the mammary epithelium using a replication-defective retroviral vector. The resulting mammary carcinomas in intact Wistar-Furth rats exhibit a mixed hormonal response in the same proportion as has been observed in women. In intact rats, approximately 50% of mammary carcinomas can be prevented by tamoxifen treatment. In ovariectomized animals, the mammary carcinomas are hormonally nonresponsive and cannot be prevented by tamoxifen. We evaluated the efficacy of retinoic X receptor-selective retinoids (rexinoids) in this novel model of mammary carcinogenesis. The rexinoids LG100268 and bexarotene (LG1069, Targretin) were highly efficacious in the prevention of neu-induced mammary carcinomas. Dietary LG100268 at 100 mg/kg diet decreased tumor multiplicity by 32% (P = 0.0114) in intact rats and 50% (P < 0.0001) in ovariectomized rats. Bexarotene treatment at a dose of 250 mg/kg diet was associated with reductions in tumor multiplicity of 84% (P < 0.0001) and 86% (P < 0.0001) in intact and ovariectomized animals, respectively. In addition to tumor multiplicity, proliferation and apoptosis were modulated by bexarotene treatment independently of estrogen signaling. The neu-induced retroviral rat mammary carcinogenesis model represents a valuable addition to existing rodent chemoprevention models. The model is useful for assessing the efficacy of chemopreventive agents, specifically those compounds that target hormonally nonresponsive tumors.
A concomitant dosage regimen of a histamine 2 receptor antagonist with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) effectively decreases the incidence of nocturnal acid breakthrough, which is one of the problems encountered when acid-related diseases are treated with a PPI alone. We compared the effectiveness of an increased dosage regimen of rabeprazole with that of a concomitant dosage regimen of rabeprazole with famotidine, relative to cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2C19 genotype status, on nocturnal acid inhibition.
Fifteen Helicobacter pylori-negative volunteers, consisting of 5 homozygous extensive metabolizers (EMs), 6 heterozygous EMs, and 4 poor metabolizers (PMs) of CYP2C19, took 20 mg rabeprazole, 40 mg rabeprazole, and 20 mg rabeprazole plus 20 mg famotidine at bedtime (at 10 PM) for 8 days. The subjects then underwent 24-hour intragastric pH monitoring on day 8.
For the 20-mg rabeprazole, 40-mg rabeprazole, and concomitant dosage regimens, the median percent times and ranges when nocturnal intragastric pH values were lower than 4.0 were 78.8% (47.5%-98.0%), 45.3% (29.0%-52.2%), and 15.5% (0.0%-40.8%), respectively, for homozygous EMs; 51.0% (7.0%-91.6%), 41.3% (33.0%-59.0%), and 18.5% (8.4%-31.9%), respectively, for heterozygous EMs; and 4.5% (2.0%-31.2%), 9.5% (0.0%-31.1%), and 9.3% (0.0%-14.7%), respectively, for PMs. Although significant differences in acid inhibition between the different CYP2C19 genotypes were observed when rabeprazole alone was given (P = .016 for 20 mg rabeprazole and P = .023 for 40 mg rabeprazole), such differences were not observed when famotidine was concomitantly given (P = .206).
The combination regimen of famotidine plus rabeprazole is more effective for nocturnal acid inhibition in homozygous and heterozygous EMs than the increased dosage regimen of rabeprazole. This concomitant therapy could be a rescue regimen for patients with nocturnal acid breakthrough refractory to a standard PPI therapy who are likely to be CYP2C19 EMs.
Macroautophagy (hereafter referred to as autophagy) has emerged as a key tumor suppressor pathway. During this process, the cytosolic constituents are sequestered into autophagosomes, which subsequently fuse with lysosomes to become autolysosomes where their contents are finally degraded. Although a reduced autophagy has been shown in human tumors or in response to oncogenes and carcinogens, the underlying mechanism(s) remain(s) unknown. Here, we show that widely used carcinogen Lindane promotes vacuolation of Sertoli cells. By electron and immunofluorescent microscopy analyses, we showed that these structures are acid autolysosomes, containing cellular debris, and labeled by LC3, Rab7, and LAMP1, markers of autophagosomes, late endosomes, and lysosomes, respectively. Such Lindane-induced vacuolation results from significant delay in autophagy degradation, in relation with a decline of the lysosomal activity of aryl sulfatase A. At molecular level, we show that this defect in autolysosomal maturation is independent of mammalian target of rapamycin and p38 inhibitions. Rather, the activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway is required for Lindane to disrupt the autophagic pathway. Most importantly, we provide the first evidence that sustained activation of ERK pathway is sufficient to commit cell to autophagic vacuolation. Taken together, these findings strongly support that the aberrant sustained activation of ERK by the carcinogen Lindane disrupts the maturation of autophagosomes into functional autolysosomes. Our findings therefore suggest the possibility that high constitutive ERK activity found in all cancers may provide a malignant advantage by impeding the tumor suppressive function of autophagy.
Baclofen, a gamma-aminobutyric acid agonist, is widely used to treat spasticity of cerebral and spinal origin. Patients with both acute baclofen overdose and withdrawal have developed seizures. After several reports of new-onset seizures in children treated with oral baclofen at our institution, we reviewed our experience regarding possible effects of baclofen on seizure induction in a childhood movement disorders program over a 2-year period. Of 54 children (ages 1-10) treated with oral baclofen, 19 (35%) had a prior history of seizures. Five children (14%) developed new-onset seizures after starting baclofen. Although epilepsy is very common in children with cerebral palsy, these findings raise the possibility that baclofen may potentiate seizures in certain young children with cerebral palsy. Further study of the effects of baclofen on seizures is warranted.
To study the effect of unloading followed by reloading on hindlimb bone mineral content (BMC), we used botulinum toxin A (Botox). We studied the timing and degree of recovery upon restoration of muscle function. We also tested to see if reaction to Botox injection occurred as a function of the degree of expression of connexin43 (Cx43). Sixteen mice were divided by gender and genotype; wild-type equivalent (Gja1(+/flox)) and heterozygous (Gja1(+/-)) mice were injected with a single dose of 2U/100 g Botox i.m. in the quadriceps, hamstrings, and posterior calf muscle groups (day 0). Regional BMC was monitored for 12 weeks in the injected and contralateral control limb. Significant bone loss was observed in the injected limb by week 2 in the Gja1(+/flox) mice, and by week 3-4 in the Gja1(+/-) mice. By week 12, BMC in the Botox-treated limb of both male and female wild-type and heterozygous mice was still at least 14% less than that of the noninjected limb. Cortical thickness and BV/TV were lower in the Botox femur compared to the noninjected femur. The heterozygous mice tended to show a slower response to Botox injection as reflected in a slower loss of BMC. Our results show that the rapid and profound bone loss following temporary muscle paralysis is not fully recovered upon restoration of muscle function within 12 weeks. These results underscore the significance of normal muscle function in the maintenance of bone mass.
The human body releases endogenous nitric oxide (NO) from three main sources: neurons, inflammatory processes (induced NO) and endothelium. The chemical industry produces NO by reacting sulfur dioxide and nitric acid, or sodium nitrite and sulfuric acid, or by oxidation of ammonia. Inhaled NO acts on smooth muscle cells of the pulmonary endothelium, causing relaxation by stimulation of guanylate-cyclase. The short half life of NO and its immediate breakdown into hemodynamically inactive but toxic metabolites make this drug a selective pulmonary vasodilator that can decrease pulmonary arterial pressure, improving right ventricular ejection fraction while decreasing intrapulmonary shunt and improving oxygenation.NO has demonstrated its usefulness in treating right ventricular failure secondary to pulmonary hypertension after heart surgery, especially in the transplanted patient. Doses have usually ranged from 5 to 20 parts per million. However, great individual variability in response to NO has been reported. Between 30 and 40% of patients do not respond to treatment. NO is also used to assess the reversibility of chronic pulmonary hypertension in patients who are candidates for heart transplants. Other uses have been suggested, such as reversion of pulmonary vasoconstriction induced by protamine. Applications are limited by the toxicity of metabolites and by route of administration.
Warfarin is a drug with a narrow therapeutic index and large interindividual variability in daily dosing requirements. Patients commencing warfarin treatment are at risk of bleeding due to excessive anticoagulation caused by overdosing. The interindividual variability in dose requirements is influenced by a number of factors, including polymorphisms in genes mediating warfarin pharmacology, co-medication, age, sex, body size and diet.
To develop population pharmacokinetic models of both R- and S-warfarin using clinical and genetic factors and to identify the covariates which influence the interindividual variability in the pharmacokinetic parameters of clearance and volume of distribution in patients on long-term warfarin therapy.
Patients commencing warfarin therapy were followed up for 26 weeks. Plasma warfarin enantiomer concentrations were determined in 306 patients for S-warfarin and in 309 patients for R-warfarin at 1, 8 and 26 weeks. Patients were also genotyped for CYP2C9 variants (CYP2C9*1,*2 and *3), two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in CYP1A2, one SNP in CYP3A4 and six SNPs in CYP2C19. A base pharmacokinetic model was developed using NONMEM software to determine the warfarin clearance and volume of distribution. The model was extended to include covariates that influenced the between-subject variability.
Bodyweight, age, sex and CYP2C9 genotype significantly influenced S-warfarin clearance. The S-warfarin clearance was estimated to be 0.144 l h⁻¹ (95% confidence interval 0.131, 0.157) in a 70 kg woman aged 69.8 years with the wild-type CYP2C9 genotype, and the volume of distribution was 16.6 l (95% confidence interval 13.5, 19.7). Bodyweight and age, along with the SNPs rs3814637 (in CYP2C19) and rs2242480 (in CYP3A4), significantly influenced R-warfarin clearance. The R-warfarin clearance was estimated to be 0.125 l h⁻¹ (95% confidence interval 0.115, 0.135) in a 70 kg individual aged 69.8 years with the wild-type CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 genotypes, and the volume of distribution was 10.9 l (95% confidence interval 8.63, 13.2).
Our analysis, based on exposure rather than dose, provides quantitative estimates of the clinical and genetic factors impacting on the clearance of both the S- and R-enantiomers of warfarin, which can be used in developing improved dosing algorithms.
Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) is a potent exotoxin produced by the Staphylococcus aureus. This toxin is classified as a superantigen because of its ability to directly bind with MHC-II class molecules followed by activation of a large proportion of T cells bearing specific Vβ-T cell receptors. Commonly associated with classic food poisoning, SEB has also been shown to induce toxic shock syndrome, and is also considered to be a potential biological warfare agent because it is easily aerosolized. In the present study, we assessed the ability of indole-3-carbinol (I3C) and one of its byproducts, 3,3'-diindolylmethane (DIM), found in cruciferous vegetables, to counteract the effects of SEB-induced activation of T cells in mice. Both I3C and DIM were found to decrease the activation, proliferation, and cytokine production by SEB-activated Vβ8(+) T cells in vitro and in vivo. Interestingly, inhibitors of histone deacetylase class I (HDAC-I), but not class II (HDAC-II), showed significant decrease in SEB-induced T cell activation and cytokine production, thereby suggesting that epigenetic modulation plays a critical role in the regulation of SEB-induced inflammation. In addition, I3C and DIM caused a decrease in HDAC-I but not HDAC-II in SEB-activated T cells, thereby suggesting that I3C and DIM may inhibit SEB-mediated T cell activation by acting as HDAC-I inhibitors. These studies not only suggest for the first time that plant-derived indoles are potent suppressors of SEB-induced T cell activation and cytokine storm but also that they may mediate these effects by acting as HDAC inhibitors.
Reported is the case of an anaphylactic reaction following sulindac ingestion. A 64-year-old man developed marked shortness of breath following the ingestion of a 200-mg sulindac tablet. On admission he had a palpable blood pressure of 50 mm Hg and diffuse inspiratory and expiratory wheezes on auscultation. He demonstrated marked cardiovascular instability for 24 hours following the adverse reaction. He was treated successfully with a continuous intravenous infusion of epinephrine, a corticosteroid, and an antihistamine. Recovery was complete. This case demonstrates that caution is needed in prescribing sulindac and other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.
Anidulafungin is a novel semisynthetic echinocandin with potent activity against Candida (including azole-resistant isolates) and Aspergillus spp. and is used for serious systemic fungal infections. The purpose of these studies was to characterize the clearance mechanism and potential for drug interactions of anidulafungin. Experiments included in vitro degradation of anidulafungin in buffer and human plasma, a bioassay for antifungal activity, in vitro human cytochrome P450 inhibition studies, in vitro incubation with rat and human hepatocytes, and mass balance studies in rats and humans. Clearance of anidulafungin appeared to be primarily due to slow chemical degradation, with no evidence of hepatic-mediated metabolism (phase 1 or 2). Under physiological conditions, further degradation of the primary degradant appears to take place. The primary degradation product does not retain antifungal activity. Anidulafungin was not an inhibitor of cytochrome P450 enzymes commonly involved in drug metabolism. Mass balance studies showed that anidulafungin was eliminated in the feces predominantly as degradation products, with only a small fraction (10%) eliminated as unchanged drug; fecal elimination likely occurred via biliary excretion. Only negligible renal involvement in the drug's elimination was observed. In conclusion, the primary biotransformation of anidulafungin is mediated by slow chemical degradation, with no evidence for hepatic enzymatic metabolism or renal elimination.
A 55-year-old man, who had been medicated with carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and sodium valproate for 12 years' duration, presented with severe headache, nausea, and transient diplopia. The neurological examination revealed mild disturbance of consciousness and postural tremor. He also complained of severe continuous headache but no throbbing pain. Enhanced head CT showed empty delta sign and irregular pooling of contrast agent around the superior sagittal sinus. Head MRI did not show the flow void in the superior sagittal sinus. Cerebral angiography demonstrated incomplete occlusion of the superior sagittal sinus and well-developed colateral channels. He was diagnosed having superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, and was placed on anticoagulant and antiplatelet drugs. He did not have any other risk factors such as inflammatory disease, infection, malignancy, and oral contraceptives. However, he had been medicated with some anticonvulsants including carbamazepine, which is known to induce venous thrombosis in the leg. Therefore, the association between superior sagittal sinus thrombosis and long term medication with carbamazepine was suspected. This is the first case report of anticonvulsant-associated cerebral venous thrombosis. It suggests that long-term medication with carbamazepine should be considered to be one of the risk factors for cerebral venous thrombosis.
Both neurotensin (NT) and opioid agonists have been shown to induce antinociception in rodents after central administration. Besides, previous studies have revealed the existence of functional interactions between NT and opioid systems in the regulation of pain processing. We recently demonstrated that NTS1 receptors play a key role in the mediation of the analgesic effects of NT in long-lasting pain. In the present study, we therefore investigated whether NTS1 gene deletion affected the antinociceptive action of mu opioid drugs. To this end, pain behavioral responses to formalin were determined following systemic administration of morphine in both male and female NTS1 knockout mice. Acute injection of morphine (2 or 5 mg/kg) produced strong antinociceptive effects in both male and female wild-type littermates, with no significant sex differences. On the other hand, morphine analgesia was considerably reduced in NTS1-deficient mice of both sexes compared to their respective controls, indicating that the NTS1 receptor actively participates in mu opioid alleviating pain. By examining specifically the flinching, licking and biting nociceptive behaviors, we also showed that the functional crosstalk between NTS1 and mu opioid receptors influences the supraspinally-mediated behaviors. Interestingly, sexual dimorphic action of morphine-induced pain inhibition was found in NTS1 null mice in the formalin test, suggesting that the endogenous NT system interacts differently with the opioid network in male and female mice. Altogether, these results demonstrated that NTS1 receptor activation operates downstream to the opioidergic transmission and that NTS1-selective agonists combined with morphine may act synergistically to reduce persistent pain.
Oral administration of lindane (2.5, 5, 10 and 15 mg/kg, body weight) for 5 days was found to produce a dose-dependent increase in the activity of P450 dependent 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase (EROD), 7-pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase (PROD) and N-nitrosodimethylamine demethylase (NDMA-d) in rat brain and liver. A significant increase in the hepatic and brain P450 monooxygenases was also observed when the duration of exposure of low dose (2.5 mg/kg) of lindane was increased from 5 days to 15 or 21 days. As observed with different doses, the magnitude of induction in the activity of P450 monooxygenases was several fold higher in liver microsomes when compared with the brain. Western blotting studies have indicated that the increase in the P450 enzymes could be due to the increase in the expression of P450 1A1/1A2, 2B1/2B2 and 2E1 isoenzymes. In vitro studies using organic inhibitors specific for individual P450 isoenzymes and antibody inhibition experiments have further demonstrated that the increase in the activity of PROD, EROD and NDMA-d are due to the increase in the levels of P450 2B1/2B2, 1A1/1A2 and 2E1 isoenzymes, respectively. Induction studies have further shown that while pretreatment of 3-methylcholanthrene (MC), an inducer of P4501A1/1A2, did not produce any significant effect in the incidence of lindane induced convulsions, pretreatment with phenobarbital (PB), an inducer of P450 2B1/2B2 or ethanol, an inducer of P450 2E1 catalysed reactions, significantly increased the incidence of lindane induced convulsions. Similarly, when the P450-mediated metabolism of lindane was blocked by cobalt chloride incidence of convulsions was increased in animals treated with lindane indicating that lindane per se or its metabolites formed by PB or ethanol inducible P450 isoenzymes are involved in its neurobehavioral toxicity.
Reduced ankle-arm index (AAI), inflammation and mineral bone disorder (MBD) are all associated with increased risk of death and cardiovascular complications in patients on hemodialysis (HD), but the association between them deserves clarification.
To evaluate the association between abnormal AAI with MBD and inflammation in patients on HD.
This was a cross-sectional analysis of 478 patients on hemodialysis for at least one year. The AAI was evaluated using a portable Doppler and mercury column manometer. Patients were divided into 3 groups, according to AAI (low: <0.9, normal: 0.9 to 1.3, and high: >1.3). C-reactive protein measurement was used as an inflammatory marker, whereas MBD was evaluated by calcium, phosphorus and intact parathyroid hormone levels.
Participants were 54 (18 to 75) years old, 56% males, 17% diabetics, and had been on hemodialysis for a mean of 5 (1 to 35) years. The prevalence of low, normal and high AAI was 26.8%, 64.6% and 8.6%, respectively. Using a backward conditional logistic regression model, age (p<0.001), diabetes (p= 0.001), and C-reactive protein levels >6 mg/L (p= 0.006) were associated with the presence of low AAI, whereas male gender (p<0.001), diabetes (p= 0.001) and elevated calcium x phosphorus product (p= 0.026) were associated with high AAI.
In patients on hemodialysis, the presence of diabetes was associated with both low and high AAI. The risk of having low AAI seems to be increased by aging and inflammation, whereas BMD was associated with high AAI.
Neurons in the anterior hypothalamic area play an important role in NaCl-sensitive hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats, and previous studies have suggested that baroreceptor feedback modifies the activity of these neurons. To test the hypothesis that the release of norepinephrine in the anterior hypothalamic area is modified by arterial baroreceptor reflex feedback and that this reflex release is disturbed in spontaneously hypertensive rats on a high NaCl diet, we used the push-pull technique to measure the release of the norepinephrine metabolite 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol in the anterior hypothalamic area. Seven-week-old male spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats were placed on a high (8%) or a basal (1%) NaCl diet for 2 weeks. The high NaCl diet elevated mean arterial pressure and greatly reduced basal norepinephrine metabolite levels in the anterior hypothalamic area of the spontaneously hypertensive (but not the control) rats (305 +/- 32 pg/10 min in the rats consuming 1% NaCl and 93 +/- 9 pg/10 min in the rats consuming 8% NaCl). An infusion of tramazoline (an imidizoline that causes long-lasting hypertension) that increased arterial pressure by 25 mm Hg elevated anterior hypothalamic area norepinephrine metabolite concentrations significantly more in the spontaneously hypertensive rats on the 1% NaCl diet (to 392 +/- 46 pg/10 min) than in those on the 8% NaCl diet (to 113 +/- 18 pg/10 min). In contrast, in Wistar-Kyoto rats the tramazoline-induced increase in arterial pressure elevated anterior hypothalamic area norepinephrine metabolite concentrations slightly more in rats on the 8% NaCl diet than in those on the 1% NaCl diet.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The epothilones are a new class of non-taxane tubulin polymerization agents obtained by natural fermentation of the myxobacteria Sorangium cellulosum. The cytotoxic activities of the epothilones, like those of the taxanes, have been linked to stabilization of microtubules, but they also have important differences. Among the epothilone family, ixabepilone (BMS247550) is a semisynthetic derivative of the natural product epothilone B. Ixabepilone was evaluated in vivo in a panel of human and rodent tumour models, the majority of which were chosen because of their known, well-characterized resistance to paclitaxel, and seems able to overcome the over-expression of multidrug resistance and to be unaffected by mutations in the beta tubulin gene. The interest of ixabepilone was clinically confirmed in clinical studies of phase II which demonstrated a strong activity at the patients with metastatic breast cancer resistant to taxanes and in patients suffering of other types of chemoresistant tumors.
The use of beta-blockers has emerged as a beneficial treatment for cardiac hypertrophy. Hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is tightly regulated in the ventricular myocardium. However, the expression of HIF-1alpha in cardiac hypertrophy due to pressure overload and after treatment with beta-blocker is little known. To evaluate the effect of carvedilol on both myocardial HIF-1alpha expression and cardiac hypertrophy, infra-renal aortic banding was performed for 4 weeks in adult Sprague-Dawley rats to induce cardiac hypertrophy. Carvedilol at 50 mg/kg body weight per day after surgery was given. Heart weight and the ratio of heart weight and body weight increased significantly after aortic banding for 4 weeks in the absence of drug treatment. Mean arterial pressure increased from 80 +/- 9 mmHg in the sham group to 94 +/-5 mmHg (p < 0.001) in the banding group. Echocardiography showed concentric hypertrophy after aortic banding. Mean arterial pressure decreased after treatment with carvedilol. The increased wall thickness and heart weight was reversed to normal by carvedilol. Western blot showed that HIF-1alpha, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) proteins were up-regulated and nerve growth factor-beta (NGF-beta) down-regulated in the banding group. Treatment with valsartan, doxazosin, or N-acetylcysteine did not significantly affect HIF-1alpha and VEGF proteins expression in the banding groups. Real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that mRNA of HIF-1alpha, VEGF and BNP increased and mRNA of NGF-beta decreased in the banding group. Treatment with carvedilol reversed both protein and mRNA of HIF-1alpha, VEGF, BNP, and NGF-beta to the baseline values. Increased immunohistochemical labeling of HIF-1alpha, VEGF, and BNP in the ventricular myocardium was observed in the banding group and carvedilol again normalized the labeling. In conclusion, HIF-1alpha, VEGF, and BNP mRNA and protein expression were up-regulated, while NGF-beta mRNA and protein was downregulated in the rat model of pressure-overloaded cardiac hypertrophy. Treatment with carvedilol is associated with a reversal of abnormal regulation of HIF-1alpha, VEGF, BNP, and NGF-beta in the hypertrophic myocardium.
This was an exploratory study to investigate lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus (HBV) strains in selected lamivudine-naïve HBV carriers with and without human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection in South African patients. Thirty-five lamivudine-naïve HBV infected patients with or without HIV co-infection were studied: 15 chronic HBV mono-infected patients and 20 HBV-HIV co-infected patients. The latter group was further sub-divided into 13 occult HBV (HBsAg-negative) and 7 overt HBV (HBsAg- positive) patients. HBsAg, anti-HBs, anti-HBc, and anti-HIV 1/2 were determined as part of routine diagnosis using Axsym assays (Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, IL). Serum samples were PCR amplified with HBV reverse transcriptase (RT) primers, followed by direct sequencing across the tyrosine-methionine-aspartate-aspartate (YMDD) motif of the major catalytic region in the C domain of the HBV RT enzyme. HBV viral load was performed with Amplicor HBV Monitor test v2.0 (Roche Diagnostics, Penzberg, Germany). HBV lamivudine-resistant strains were detected in 3 of 15 mono-infected chronic hepatitis B patients and 10 of 20 HBV-HIV co-infected patients. To the best of our knowledge, this constitutes the first report of HBV lamivudine-resistant strains in therapy-naïve HBV-HIV co-infected patients. The HBV viral loads for mono-infected and co-infected patients ranged from 3.32 x 10(2) to 3.82 x 10(7) and <200 to 4.40 x 10(3) copies/ml, respectively. It remains to be seen whether such pre-existing antiviral mutations could result in widespread emergence of HBV resistant strains when lamivudine-containing highly active antiretroviral (ARV) treatment (HAART) regimens become widely applied in South Africa, as this is likely to have potential implications in the management of HBV-HIV co-infected patients.
The group of susceptibility genes for pheochromocytoma that included the proto-oncogene RET (associated with multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2 [MEN-2]) and the tumor-suppressor gene VHL (associated with von Hippel-Lindau disease) now also encompasses the newly identified genes for succinate dehydrogenase subunit D (SDHD) and succinate dehydrogenase subunit B (SDHB), which predispose carriers to pheochromocytomas and glomus tumors. We used molecular tools to classify a large cohort of patients with pheochromocytoma with respect to the presence or absence of mutations of one of these four genes and to investigate the relevance of genetic analyses to clinical practice.
Peripheral blood from unrelated, consenting registry patients with pheochromocytoma was tested for mutations of RET, VHL, SDHD, and SDHB. Clinical data at first presentation and follow-up were evaluated.
Among 271 patients who presented with nonsyndromic pheochromocytoma and without a family history of the disease, 66 (24 percent) were found to have mutations (mean age, 25 years; 32 men and 34 women). Of these 66, 30 had mutations of VHL, 13 of RET, 11 of SDHD, and 12 of SDHB. Younger age, multifocal tumors, and extraadrenal tumors were significantly associated with the presence of a mutation. However, among the 66 patients who were positive for mutations, only 21 had multifocal pheochromocytoma. Twenty-three (35 percent) presented after the age of 30 years, and 17 (8 percent) after the age of 40. Sixty-one (92 percent) of the patients with mutations were identified solely by molecular testing of VHL, RET, SDHD, and SDHB; these patients had no associated signs and symptoms at presentation.
Almost one fourth of patients with apparently sporadic pheochromocytoma may be carriers of mutations; routine analysis for mutations of RET, VHL, SDHD, and SDHB is indicated to identify pheochromocytoma-associated syndromes that would otherwise be missed.
Uric acid is a strong scavenger of reactive oxygen species, which are known to contribute to the development of atherosclerosis, while the incidence of atherosclerotic diseases is rather high in patients with gout. Among the established risk factors for atherosclerosis, oxidized LDL is believed to play a major role in its development and progression. Allopurinol and its active metabolite, oxypurinol, have been suggested to possess an antioxidant ability to scavenge the hydroxyl radical. Therefore, allopurinol may be beneficial in the prevention of LDL oxidation, as well as in the treatment of hyperuricemia. The objective of this work was to determine the degree of LDL oxidation in gout and the effect of allopurinol on LDL oxidation.
Age-matched male patients with primary intercritical gout and healthy male adults were included in the study. The serum concentrations of oxidized LDL autoantibodies and total antioxidant status were measured using an enzyme immunoassay.
Serum concentrations of oxidized LDL autoantibodies were significantly higher in patients with gout than the control subjects (p < 0.05) and were significantly decreased after allopurinol treatment (p < 0.05), but not by benzbromarone treatment, in spite of the similar concentrations of uric acid and total antioxidant status in serum following their separate administration.
Although the exact mechanism remains unclear, increased serum concentrations of oxidized LDL may play a role in the high incidence of coronary artery disease in gout. In addition, allopurinol may be more preferable to benzbromarone for treatment of gout in light of its inhibitory action toward LDL oxidation.
Fentanyl and alfentanil may cause bradycardia if used in combination with succinylcholine during induction of anaesthesia. We therefore studied the influence of atropine, fentanyl and alfentanil on the haemodynamics of 90 urological patients (ASA I, II), who were allocated at random to six groups containing 15 patients each. Induction of anaesthesia was carried out using atropine 0.01 mg/kg-1, fentanyl 0.15 mg or alfentanil 1.5 mg depending on the assigned group: I atropine + fentanyl, II: atropine + alfentanil, III: fentanyl, IV: alfentanil, V: control (no atropine, no analgetic), VI: atropine. Following 2 mg alcuronium and thiopentone 4 mg/kg-1 intubation was performed with 2 mg/kg-1 succinylcholine. Atropine in combination with fentanyl caused a significant increase in heart rate following endotracheal intubation (p less than 0.05). Arrhythmias occurred in the groups with atropine in 4 out of 45 cases, while a chest wall rigidity was not influenced by atropine. Bradycardia occurred after fentanyl or alfentanil with atropine in the same frequency as without atropine. According to our results the routine use of atropine for induction of anaesthesia with thiopentone/fentanyl or alfentanil even in combination with succinylcholine is not required in ASA I or II patients.
