Oncogenic signaling in gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) is sustained via PI3K/AKT pathway. We used a panel of six GIST xenograft models to assess efficacy of GDC-0941 as single agent or in combination with imatinib (IMA).
Nude mice (n = 136) were grafted bilaterally with human GIST carrying diverse KIT mutations. Mice were orally dosed over four weeks, grouped as follows: (A) control; (B) GDC-0941; (C) imatinib, and (D) GDC+IMA treatments. Xenografts regrowth after treatment discontinuation was assessed in groups C and D for an additional four weeks. Tumor response was assessed by volume measurements, micro-PET imaging, histopathology, and immunoblotting. Moreover, genomic alterations in PTEN/PI3K/AKT pathway were evaluated.
In all models, GDC-0941 caused tumor growth stabilization, inhibiting tumor cell proliferation, but did not induce apoptosis. Under GDC+IMA, profound tumor regression, superior to either treatment alone, was observed. This effect was associated with the best histologic response, a nearly complete proliferation arrest and increased apoptosis. Tumor regrowth assays confirmed superior activity of GDC+IMA over imatinib; in three of six models, tumor volume remained reduced and stable even after treatment discontinuation. A positive correlation between response to GDC+IMA and PTEN loss, both on gene and protein levels, was found.
GDC+IMA has significant antitumor efficacy in GIST xenografts, inducing more substantial tumor regression, apoptosis, and durable effects than imatinib. Notably, after treatment withdrawal, tumor regression was sustained in tumors exposed to GDC+IMA, which was not observed under imatinib. Assessment of PTEN status may represent a useful predictive biomarker for patient selection.
Undiluted 2-ethoxyethanol or water (control) was applied to the skin of pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats on days 7--16 of gestation (sperm = day 1). Applications were made 4 times daily in volumes of 0.25 or 0.50 ml 2-ethoxyethanol. Females exhibited ataxia following treatment of the high-dose group, and weight gain was significantly (p less than u. 0.001) reduced in the last half of gestation. Litters were collected by caesarian section on day 21 of gestation, and fetuses were examined for external defects. Half of the fetuses were cleared and stained in alizarin red S for skeletal examinations, and half were examined for visceral defects by the Wilson technique. Intrauterine death was 100% in the high-dose group. In the lower dosage group, there was a significant increase in the number of pregnant females with 100% dead implants (p less than 0.001), a significant reduction in the number of live fetuses per litter (p less than 0.001), a significant reduction in fetal body weight (p less than 0.001), and a significant increase in the incidence of skeletal variations (p less than 0.05) and cardiovascular malformations (p less than 0.05).
Baclofen is used for the treatment of post-traumatic spasticity. It carries a risk of overdose as well as of an acute withdrawal syndrome. We report two cases of severe hypertonia and hyperthermia (> 42 degrees C), occurring after accidental discontinuation of intrathecal infusion of baclofen. Both hypertonia and hyperthermia ceased when administration of baclofen was resumed. In parallel, the patients developed transient life-threatening alterations of hepatic (cytolysis), haematologic (coagulopathy) and cardiorespiratory functions for some days. It is concluded that the occurrence of such a withdrawal syndrome should be prevented, especially in patients with chronic intrathecal administration and first symptoms should be recognized without delay. Relationships with other malignant hyperthermias are discussed.
Cocaine stimulates the release of adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and cortisol in both clinical and preclinical studies, but the temporal sequence of cocaine-induced changes in other hormones and affective states is unclear. The purpose of this study was to analyze the pattern and temporal concordance of cocaine-induced changes in ACTH, cortisol, dihydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), epinephrine, heart rate and subjective reports of euphoria. Six healthy men who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-IV (DSM-IV) criteria for cocaine abuse provided informed consent for participation. Cocaine (0.4 mg/kg) or saline placebo was infused intravenously over 1 min under double-blind conditions. Euphoria, ACTH, epinephrine and heart rate increased significantly within 8 to 12 min after i.v. cocaine administration in all subjects (P<0.01-0.001). Moreover, the increases in euphoria, ACTH, epinephrine and heart rate each were significantly correlated with increases in plasma cocaine levels (P<0.001). Euphoria increased significantly within 2 min after i.v. cocaine injection, as plasma cocaine levels were increasing, and peak euphoria was reported at 10 min (P<0.001). Peak ACTH values were measured at 8.7 (+/-0.8) min after cocaine injection (P<0.01). Peak levels of epinephrine were measured at 10 (+/-1) min after cocaine injection (P<0.05). Peak increases in heart rate occurred at 11.7 (+/-1.1) min after cocaine injection (P<0.05). Peak levels of cortisol and DHEA were measured at 36 (+/-4.0) and 28.7 (+/-4.3) min after cocaine injection (P<0.01 and P<0.01). The temporal concordance between cocaine-induced stimulation of ACTH, epinephrine and subjective euphoria suggests that these hormonal changes are significant concomitants of the abuse-related effects of cocaine. The similarities between these hormonal profiles, the subjective effects of cocaine and the effects of "stress" are discussed.
Marie Unna hereditary hypotrichosis (MUHH) is an autosomal dominant form of genetic hair loss. In a large Chinese family carrying MUHH, we identified a pathogenic initiation codon mutation in U2HR, an inhibitory upstream ORF in the 5' UTR of the gene encoding the human hairless homolog (HR). U2HR is predicted to encode a 34-amino acid peptide that is highly conserved among mammals. In 18 more families from different ancestral groups, we identified a range of defects in U2HR, including loss of initiation, delayed termination codon and nonsense and missense mutations. Functional analysis showed that these classes of mutations all resulted in increased translation of the main HR physiological ORF. Our results establish the link between MUHH and U2HR, show that fine-tuning of HR protein levels is important in control of hair growth, and identify a potential mechanism for preventing hair loss or promoting hair removal.
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the colon that presents as diarrhea and gastrointestinal bleeding. We performed a genome-wide association study using DNA samples from 1,052 individuals with ulcerative colitis and preexisting data from 2,571 controls, all of European ancestry. In an analysis that controlled for gender and population structure, ulcerative colitis loci attaining genome-wide significance and subsequent replication in two independent populations were identified on chromosomes 1p36 (rs6426833, combined P = 5.1 x 10(-13), combined odds ratio OR = 0.73) and 12q15 (rs1558744, combined P = 2.5 x 10(-12), combined OR = 1.35). In addition, combined genome-wide significant evidence for association was found in a region spanning BTNL2 to HLA-DQB1 on chromosome 6p21 (rs2395185, combined P = 1.0 x 10(-16), combined OR = 0.66) and at the IL23R locus on chromosome 1p31 (rs11209026, combined P = 1.3 x 10(-8), combined OR = 0.56; rs10889677, combined P = 1.3 x 10(-8), combined OR = 1.29).
We examined the effect of ferulic acid (FA), a naturally occurring phenolic compound on lipid peroxidation and endogenous antioxidant status, DNA damage and inflammation in nicotine-administered Wistar rats. The effect of FA against nicotine toxicity was compared with N-acetylcysteine (NAC), a well-known antioxidant. Lung toxicity was induced by subcutaneous injection of nicotine at a dose of 2.5mg/kg body weight (5 days a week, for 22 weeks) and FA and NAC were given simultaneously by intragastric intubation for 22 weeks. Seventy two Wistar rats were divided into six groups: (i) control, (ii) nicotine, (iii) nicotine+FA (iv), nicotine+NAC, (v) FA and (vi) NAC. At the end of the experimental period, cellular damage was assessed by measuring the activities of lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase in plasma, which were significantly elevated in nicotine-administered rats when compared with control group. Enhanced lipid peroxidation (evaluated by measuring the thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and hydroperoxides) was accompanied by a significant decrease in the endogenous antioxidant status viz., superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase and reduced glutathione in circulation, lung and liver of nicotine-treated rats when compared with control group. DNA single strand breaks (evaluated by comet assay) and frequency of micronuclei were significantly increased in peripheral blood of nicotine-treated rats when compared with control. Our Western blot analysis showed a significant increase in the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and NF-kappaB in lung and liver of nicotine-treated rats. FA and NAC co-treated rats showed a significant decrease in the activities of circulatory lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase, the levels of lipid peroxidative markers (in circulation, lung and liver), DNA single stranded breaks (comet parameters), micronuclei frequency (in the whole blood) and expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and Nf-kappaB (in lung and liver tissues), and significant increase in antioxidant status (in circulation, lung and liver). The protection of FA against nicotine-induced toxicity was merely equal to the effect of NAC. FA and NAC treatment alone did not produce any damage to control rats. Thus, we propose that FA exerts protective effect against nicotine toxicity by modulating the lipid peroxidation, inflammation, DNA damage and endogenous antioxidant status.
Cocaine use and abuse has increasingly been associated with toxic consequences such as seizures and death. This report describes an assessment of the relationship between these toxic effects and multiple cocaine binding sites in the brain. The results suggest that serotonin transporters may be associated with seizures induced by acute injections of cocaine and related drugs. Indeed, drug potency for binding at this site alone accounted for 78% of the variance (r = 0.88) in the potency of cocaine and related compounds for producing seizures. However, binding of cocaine-like drugs at sigma receptors or muscarinic M1 or M2 cholinergic receptors may attenuate the seizurgenic properties of these compounds. In contrast, dopamine transporters appear to be associated with lethality induced by cocaine and related drugs, with drug potency for binding at this site accounting for 56% of the variance (r = 0.75) in the potency of cocaine and related compounds for producing death. However, binding of cocaine-like drugs at muscarinic M1 and sigma receptors also appears to be significantly related to cocaine-induced lethality, with binding at these sites accounting for either an additional 31 or 27%, respectively, of the variance in potencies of cocaine and related drugs to produce death. These findings suggest that, although seizure initiation may depend primarily on affinity of cocaine and related compounds for binding sites associated with the serotonin transporter, the seizure-inducing properties of cocaine may ultimately depend on a final summation of its effects not only on serotonergic systems, but on muscarinic and sigma neuronal systems as well. Likewise, although apparently mediated by relatively distinct neuronal mechanisms, the lethal effects of cocaine and related compounds may depend on an interaction of effects at dopaminergic, muscarinic M1 and sigma receptor sites.
To examine clinical outcomes in Asian patients with schizophrenia receiving monotherapy with olanzapine, risperidone or typical antipsychotics in naturalistic settings.
In this report, data from the first 12 months of the prospective, observational, 3-year Intercontinental Schizophrenia Outpatient Health Outcomes study are presented for patients from participating Asian countries (Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia) who were started on, or switched to, monotherapy with olanzapine (n = 484), risperidone (n = 287) or a typical antipsychotic drug (n = 127) at baseline.
At 12 months, overall reduction in the score of Clinical Global Impressions-Severity of Illness rating scale was greatest with olanzapine (p < 0.001 vs typical agents), followed by risperidone (p = 0.007 vs typical agents) treatment. Olanzapine treatment was found to have significantly better effects than typical agents on negative and depressive symptom scores, and significantly greater improvements than risperidone on negative and cognitive symptoms. The occurrence of extrapyramidal symptoms was least likely with olanzapine (p < 0.001 vs typical agents, and p = 0.012 vs risperidone), while the estimated odds of tardive dyskinesia were greatest in the typical treatment group (p = 0.046 vs olanzapine, and p = 0.082 vs risperidone). Mean weight increase was greater for olanzapine-treated patients compared with the other agents (p = 0.030 vs typical agents and p < 0.001 vs risperidone). The risk of menstrual disturbance was relatively high with risperidone when compared with olanzapine treatment (p < 0.001).
The results of this observational study indicate that, in Asian patients with schizophrenia, olanzapine may offer benefits when compared with typical agents or risperidone. However, the significantly greater odds of weight gain should be considered in the clinical management of olanzapine-treated patients.
In the town of Edea, where falciparum malaria is hyperendemic, an in vivo study of amodiaquine sensitivity of the local strain of the parasite is performed in school children 6 to 12 years of age: 184 children with parasites in their blood and no chloroquine in their urine are given amodiaquine orally. In 96 children having taken 35 mg per kg body weight of amodiaquine base, none is any longer harboring parasites in his blood as soon as the second day following the end of the 3 days treatment (15 mg/kg body weight the first day, 12 mg/kg the second day and 8 mg/kg the third day). The 73 children having taken 27 mg/kg body weight of amodiaquine base are cleared of their parasites at the rate of 93% on the seventh day of the experiment. The 15 children having only taken 15 mg/kg body weight of amodiaquine base are cleared of their parasites at the rate of 54%. At the utilized doses, amodiaquine is generally well tolerated. Conjunctival hyperhaemia has only been observed as a secondary effect in 9 children among the 184 children treated but this side symptom disappeared soon after the end of the treatment. Aminotransferases blood levels are not modified in the course of the amodiaquine treatment.
Previous studies demonstrated changes in urinary bladder neurotrophin content and upregulation of neurotrophin receptors, TrkA and the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)), in micturition reflex pathways after cyclophosphamide (CYP)-induced cystitis. p75(NTR) can bind nerve growth factor (NGF) and modulate NGF-TrkA binding and signaling. We examined p75(NTR) expression and the role of p75(NTR) in the micturition reflex in control and CYP-treated rats. p75(NTR) Immunoreactivity was present throughout the urinary bladder. CYP-induced cystitis (4 h, 48 h, chronic) increased (P < or = 0.05) p75(NTR) expression in whole urinary bladder as shown by Western blotting. The role of p75(NTR) in bladder function in control and CYP-treated rats was determined using conscious cystometry and immunoneutralization or PD90780, a compound known to specifically block NGF binding to p75(NTR). An anti-p75(NTR) monoclonal antibody or PD90780 was infused intravesically and cystometric parameters were evaluated. Both methods of p75(NTR) blockade significantly (P < or = 0.05) decreased the intercontraction interval and void volume in control and CYP-treated rats. Intravesical infusion of PD90780 also significantly (P < or = 0.001) increased intravesical pressure and increased the number of nonvoiding contractions during the filling phase. Control intravesical infusions of isotype-matched IgG and vehicle were without effect. Intravesical instillation of PD90780 significantly (P < or = 0.01) reduced the volume threshold to elicit a micturition contraction in control rats (no inflammation) and CYP-treated in a closed urinary bladder system. These studies demonstrate 1) ubiquitous p75(NTR) expression in urinary bladder and increased expression with CYP-induced cystitis and 2) p75(NTR) blockade at the level of the urinary bladder produces bladder hyperreflexia in control and CYP-treated rats. The overall activity of the urinary bladder reflects the balance of NGF-p75(NTR) and NGF-TrkA signaling.
Ajmaline is a class Ia anti-arrhythmic drug used in several European countries and Japan as first-line treatment for ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Ajmaline has been reported to induce cardiac output (QT) prolongation and to inhibit cardiac potassium currents in guinea pig cardiomyocytes. In order to elucidate the molecular basis of these effects, we examined effects of ajmaline on human ether a-go-go related gene HERG potassium channels. Electrophysiological experiments were performed with human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells (whole-cell patch clamp) and Xenopus oocytes (double-electrode voltage clamp) expressing wild-type and mutant HERG channels. Ajmaline blocked HERG currents with an IC(50) of 1.0 micromol/l in HEK cells and 42.3 micromol/l in Xenopus oocytes. The onset of block was fast and reached steady-state conditions after 180 s. The inhibitory effect was completely reversible upon wash-out. In HERG mutant channels Y652A and F656A lacking aromatic residues in the S6 domain, the inhibitory effect of ajmaline was completely abolished. Ajmaline induced a small shift in HERG current half-maximal activation voltage towards more negative potentials. Ajmaline did not markedly affect HERG inactivation. Inhibitory effects were not voltage-dependent. Ajmaline block exhibited positive frequency dependence. Ajmaline blocked HERG channels in the open, but not in the closed states. Binding of ajmaline to inactivated HERG channels may also be possible. In inactivation-deficient HERG S620T channels, the sensitivity to ajmaline was markedly reduced. The IC(50) of HERG channel blockade in HEK cells lies within the range of unbound therapeutic plasma concentrations of ajmaline. Therefore, inhibitory effects on HERG channels may contribute to both the high anti-arrhythmic efficacy of ajmaline and to its pro-arrhythmic potential.
The modifying potential of capsaicin (CAP) on lesion development was examined in a rat multiorgan carcinogenesis model. Groups 1 and 2 were treated sequentially with diethylnitrosamine (DEN) (100 mg/kg, ip, single dose at commencement), N-methylnitrosourea (MNU) (20 mg/kg, ip, 4 doses at days 2, 5, 8, and 11), and N,N-dibutylnitrosamine (DBN) (0.05% in drinking water during weeks 3 and 4). Group 3 received vehicles without carcinogens during the initiation period. Group 4 served as the untreated control. After this initiating procedure, Groups 2 and 3 were administered a diet containing 0.01% CAP. All surviving animals were killed 20 weeks after the beginning of the experiment and the target organs examined histopathologically. The induction of GST-P+ hepatic foci in rats treated with carcinogens was significantly inhibited by treatment with CAP. CAP treatment significantly decreased the incidence of adenoma of the lung but increased the incidence of papillary or nodular (PN) hyperplasia of the urinary bladder. The tumor incidence of other organs, such as the kidney and thyroid, was not significantly different from the corresponding controls. These results demonstrated that concurrent treatment with CAP not only can inhibit carcinogenesis but can also enhance it depending on the organ. Thus, this wide-spectrum initiation model could be used to confirm organ-specific modification potential and, in addition, demonstrate different modifying effects of CAP on liver, lung, and bladder carcinogenesis.
In the laboratory rat and guinea pig, glucocorticoids (GCs), the adrenal steroids that are secreted during stress, can damage the hippocampus and exacerbate the hippocampal damage induced by various neurological insults. An open question is whether GCs have similar deleterious effects in the primate hippocampus. In fact, we showed that sustained and fatal stress was associated with preferential hippocampal damage in the vervet monkey; however, it was not possible to determine whether the excessive GC secretion that accompanied such stress was the damaging agent. The present study examines this possibility. Pellets of cortisol (the principal GC of primates) were stereotaxically implanted into hippocampi of 4 vervet monkeys; contralateral hippocampi were implanted with cholesterol pellets as a control. One year later at postmortem, preferential damage occurred in the cortisol-implanted side. In the cholesterol side, mild cell layer irregularity was noted in 2 of 4 cases. By contrast in the cortisol-exposed hippocampi, all cases had at least 2 of the following neuropathologic markers: cell layer irregularity, dendritic atrophy, soma shrinkage and condensation, or nuclear pyknosis. Damage was severe in some cases, and was restricted to the CA3/CA2 cellfield. This anatomical distribution of damage, and the cellular features of the damage agree with that observed in instances of GC-induced toxicity in the rodent hippocampus, and of stress-induced toxicity in the primate hippocampus. These observations suggest that sustained GC exposure (whether due to stress, Cushings syndrome or exogenous administration) might damage the human hippocampus.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers and lethal diseases. In view of the limited treatment and a grave prognosis of liver cancer, preventive control has been emphasized. Resveratrol, a polyphenol found in grape skins, peanuts, berries and red wine, has been shown to possess potent growth inhibitory effects against various human cancer cells. Although resveratrol has been found to exhibit chemopreventive actions in experimentally induced skin, breast, colon and esophagus rodent tumors, chemopreventive potential of this dietary constituent has not been explored well against experimental liver cancer. We evaluated the inhibitory effect of resveratrol using a two-stage model of rat hepatocarcinogenesis in Sprague-Dawley rats. Initiation was performed by a single intraperitoneal injection of diethylnitrosamine (DENA, 200 mg/kg), followed by promotion with phenobarbital (0.05%) in drinking water. The rats had free access to food supplemented with resveratrol equivalent to 50, 100 or 300 mg/kg body weight/day. Resveratrol treatment was started 4 weeks prior to the initiation and continued for 20 weeks. Resveratrol dose-dependently reduced the incidence, total number and multiplicity of visible hepatocyte nodules. Mean nodular volume and nodular volume as percentage of liver volume were also inhibited upon resveratrol treatment. Histopathological examination of liver tissue confirmed the protective effect of resveratrol. Immunohistochemical detection of cell proliferation and assay of apoptosis indicated a decrease in cell proliferation and increase of apoptotic cells in the livers of resveratrol-supplemented rats. Resveratrol also induced the expression of pro-apoptotic protein Bax, reduced anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 expression, with a concurrent increase in Bax/Bcl-2 ratio with respect to DENA control. The present study provides evidence, for the first time, that resveratrol exerts a significant chemopreventive effect on DENA-initiated hepatocarcinogenesis through inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis. Resveratrol-induced apoptogenic signal during rat liver carcinogenesis may be mediated through the downregulation of Bcl-2 and upregulation of Bax expression. Due to a favorable toxicity profile, resveratrol can potentially be developed as a chemopreventive drug against human HCC.
The induction of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression is associated with more aggressive gliomas and poor survival. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) inhibit COX activity and have antitumorigenic properties. In this report, our initial aim was to determine if indomethacin would alter gene expression as measured by suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH). Three up-regulated and four down-regulated genes by indomethacin treatment were identified. Laminin gamma1, an extracellular matrix molecule, was the most significantly repressed gene. The repression of laminin gamma1 by indomethacin was confirmed by Northern and Western blot analyses and occurred in a concentration- and time-dependent manner at the protein level. Among several NSAIDs tested, only sulindac sulfide and indomethacin suppressed laminin gamma1 protein expression, and this repression was observed in both COX-expressing and -deficient cell lines, suggesting that laminin gamma1 repression by COX inhibitors was independent of COX. Indomethacin, at a concentration that represses laminin gamma1, inhibited glioblastoma cell invasion that was partially restored with additional human laminin protein containing gamma1 chain. The repression of laminin gamma1 by NSAIDs may be related to attenuation of invasion of brain tumors. These findings are important in understanding the chemopreventive activity of some NSAIDs and could be relevant for designing therapeutic strategies against glioblastoma.
To study the protective effects of scopolamine (Sco) (a muscarinic receptor antagonist) on rabbits with acute brain injury, and preliminarily explore the roles of acetylcholine (ACh) in the early pathologic changes of traumatic brain injury(TBI).
The model of acute brain injury was established by a free-falling device, and the rabbits received Sco intraperitoneally at 5 minutes and 2 hours after brain injury respectively. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) was used to monitor cerebral blood flow velocity (CBV) and pulsatility index (PI) of middle cerebral artery (MCA). The levels of Ca2+, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), the contents of malondiadehyde (MDA) and Evans blue (EB) were measured, and the pathological changes were observed in brain tissue.
This model consisted with the pathologic changes of accelerated brain injury. Sco reduced the levels of Ca2+, EB and MDA, increased the activities of SOD, and improved cerebral blood flow following brain injury.
In the early stage of brain injury, ACh can cause neuron calcium overload, oxide free radical reaction, cerebral vasospasm, and increase blood-brain barry(BBB) permeability. Scopolamine, a muscarinic receptor antagonist, can improve these pathologic changes. As a result, Sco has protective effects on brain tissue injury.
Salvianolic acid B (SalB) is isolated from the traditional Chinese medical herb salvia miltiorrhiza. It has many biological and pharmaceutical activities. This study aimed to investigate the effect of SalB on acute ethanol-induced hepatic injury in rats and to explore the role of SIRT1 in this process. The results showed that pretreatment with SalB significantly reduced ethanol-induced elevation in aminotransferase activities, decreased hepatotoxic cytokine levels such as Interleukin-6 (IL-6), and increased the antioxidant enzyme activity. Moreover, SalB pretreatment reversed the increase in NF-κB, cleaved caspase-3 and decrease in B-cell lymphoma-extra large (Bcl-xL) caused by ethanol exposure. Importantly, SalB pretreatment significantly increased the expression of SIRT1, a NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase, whereas the increase in SIRT1 was accompanied by decreased acetyl-p53 expression. In HepG2 cells, SalB pretreatment increased SIRT1 expression in a time and dose-dependent manner and such an increase was abrogated by siRNA knockdown of SIRT1. Additionally, inhibition of SIRT1 significantly increased the acetylation of p53, and blocked SalB-induced acetylation of p53 down-regulation. Collectively, this study indicated that SalB can alleviate acute ethanol-induced hepatocyte apoptosis through SIRT1-mediated deacetylation of p53 pathway.
The case of a patient with apparent cocaine toxicity and drug-mediated hypertension and tachycardia is presented. IV propranolol was used as the initial treatment for his hyperadrenergic state, resulting in a decrease in heart rate but a paroxsymal increase in blood pressure. The patient required nitroprusside for control of elevated blood pressure. A mechanism of unopposed alpha stimulation as a result of beta-2 receptor blockade is proposed, and a cautious approach to the use of propranolol in these patients is suggested.
To evaluate the potential association of xeroderma pigmentosum group D (XPD) codon 751 variant with outcome after chemo-radiotherapy in patients with resected gastric cancer.
We used PCR-RFLP to evaluate the genetic XPD Lys751Gln polymorphisms in 44 patients with stage III (48%) and IV (20%) gastric cancer treated with surgery following radiation therapy plus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin based chemotherapy.
Statistical analysis showed that 75% (12 of 16) of relapse patients showed Lys/Lys genotype more frequently (P = 0.042). The Lys polymorphism was an independent predictor of high-risk relapse-free survival from Cox analysis (HR: 3.07, 95% CI: 1.07-8.78, P = 0.036) and Kaplan-Meir test (P = 0.027, log-rank test).
XPD Lys751Gln polymorphism may be an important marker in the prediction of clinical outcome to chemo-radiotherapy in resected gastric cancer patients.
Using gene targeting, we have created mice with a disruption in the homeobox-containing gene hoxd-11. Homozygous mutants are viable and the only outwardly apparent abnormality is male infertility. Skeletons of mutant mice show a homeotic transformation that repatterns the sacrum such that each vertebra adopts the structure of the next most anterior vertebra. Defects are also seen in the bones of the limb, including regional malformations at the distal end of the forelimb affecting the length and structure of phalanges and metacarpals, inappropriate fusions between wrist bones, and defects at the most distal end in the long bones of the radius and ulna. The phenotypes show both incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity. In contrast to the defects observed in the vertebral column, the phenotypes in the appendicular skeleton do not resemble homeotic transformations, but rather regional malformations in the shapes, length and segmentation of bones. Our results are discussed in the context of two other recent gene targeting studies involving the paralogous gene hoxa-11 and another member of the Hox D locus, hoxd-13. The position of these limb deformities reflects the temporal and structural colinearity of the Hox genes, such that inactivation of 3' genes has a more proximal phenotypic boundary (affecting both the zeugopod and autopod of the limb) than that of the more 5' genes (affecting only the autopod). Taken together, these observations suggest an important role for Hox genes in controlling localized growth of those cells that contribute to forming the appendicular skeleton.
A number of animal behavioural models were used to study the activity of imidazole (IMID) on the central nervous system. IMID antagonized in a dose-related fashion penile erections (PE) as well as stretching and yawning (SY) elicited in male rats by B-HT 920, an alpha 2 and dopamine (DA) autoreceptor agonist. Inhibition of B-HT 920-induced PE and SY was also exhibited by haloperidol, a DA receptor blocker, and yohimbine, but not by prazosin, alpha 2 and alpha 1 receptor antagonists respectively. Moreover IMID behaved similarly to yohimbine in: 1) counteracting clonidine-induced hypothermia in mice; 2) antagonizing sedation and sleep induced by clonidine and B-HT 920 in chicks, while haloperidol was ineffective. When administered to sexually active rats before the copulatory test, IMID at low doses, significantly altered some aspects of mating, a result which is interpretable in terms of enhanced sexual arousal and resembling the aphrodisiac effect reported for yohimbine. The neurochemical mechanisms involved in these effects are discussed.
It has been proposed that serotonin (5-HT) antagonists counteract neuroleptic-induced extrapyramidal symptoms by disinhibition of dopamine activity. The effects of the 5-HT antagonist mianserin, the anticholinergic drug procyclidine and placebo were evaluated in 16 psychiatric patients with chronic neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism in a double-blind cross-over trial. The patients received each drug in random order in 3-week periods separated by washout periods of 2 weeks. The effect of mianserin did not significantly differ from that of placebo, while parkinsonian symptoms were significantly reduced during treatment with procyclidine (P less than 0.05). Although mianserin was ineffective in chronic neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism, it cannot be excluded that 5-HT antagonists may be effective in the treatment of acute extrapyramidal side effects.
Benzene is one of the most widely used industrial chemical agents. Long-term benzene exposure causes bone marrow aplasia and leads to a wide range of hematopoietic disorders including aplastic anaemia (AA). There are currently no effective approaches to protect people from benzene-induced hematotoxicity and AA. In addition, current treatments for AA have limitations with short- and long-term risks. Protective agents and new therapeutic approaches, therefore, are needed to prevent and treat the disease. Amifostine is a well-known cytoprotective agent and has been widely used in clinical for protecting normal tissues from the toxic effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The authors utilized an established mouse model to determine the protective effect of amifostine on benzene-induced bone marrow hematotoxicity. Whole-blood cell count, morphological and histopathological alterations in the bone marrow and spleen, as well as the production of inducible toxic oxidative species were examined and compared among the mouse groups. Amifostine treatment in benzene-exposed mice significantly improved blood cell counts, and morphological and histopathological signs of hematotoxicity in the bone marrow as well as in the spleen. Moreover, amifostine prevented benzene-induced bone marrow and spleen cell apoptosis and rescinded the inhibition of cell proliferation induced by benzene exposure. Finally, amifostine significantly inhibited the levels of reactive oxidative species and lipid peroxidation induced by benzene exposure. These data suggest that amifostine appears to have substantial protective effect on benzene-induced bone marrow hematotoxicity.
We report a patient who presented with two episodes of severe hypertension after intramuscular injection of betamethasone. The first attack was associated with pulmonary edema, while the second attack was associated with high anion gap metabolic acidosis, renal failure, hyperglycemia, and hypokalemia. The attacks led to the diagnosis of pheochromocytoma, which was confirmed by appropriate diagnostic tests. The tumor was excised successfully and the patient is presently asymptomatic.We believe that these episodes were initiated by glucocorticoid injection, an event reported in a few cases. We briefly review potential mechanisms resulted in hypertensive crisis in such patients.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease, and is the primary cause of heart disease and stroke in Western countries. Derivatives of cannabinoids such as delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) modulate immune functions and therefore have potential for the treatment of inflammatory diseases. We investigated the effects of THC in a murine model of established atherosclerosis. Oral administration of THC (1 mg kg(-1) per day) resulted in significant inhibition of disease progression. This effective dose is lower than the dose usually associated with psychotropic effects of THC. Furthermore, we detected the CB2 receptor (the main cannabinoid receptor expressed on immune cells) in both human and mouse atherosclerotic plaques. Lymphoid cells isolated from THC-treated mice showed diminished proliferation capacity and decreased interferon-gamma secretion. Macrophage chemotaxis, which is a crucial step for the development of atherosclerosis, was also inhibited in vitro by THC. All these effects were completely blocked by a specific CB2 receptor antagonist. Our data demonstrate that oral treatment with a low dose of THC inhibits atherosclerosis progression in the apolipoprotein E knockout mouse model, through pleiotropic immunomodulatory effects on lymphoid and myeloid cells. Thus, THC or cannabinoids with activity at the CB2 receptor may be valuable targets for treating atherosclerosis.
Quercetin, a flavonoid molecule ubiquitously present in nature, has multiple effects on cancer cells, including the inhibition of cell proliferation and migration. However, the responsible molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. We found that quercetin induces the expression of NAG-1 (Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug activated gene-1), a TGF-beta superfamily protein, during quercetin-induced apoptosis of HCT116 human colon carcinoma cells. Reporter assays using the luciferase constructs containing NAG-1 promoter region demonstrate that early growth response-1 (EGR-1) and p53 are required for quercetin-mediated activation of the NAG-1 promoter. Overexpression of NAG-1 enhanced the apoptotic effect of quercetin, but suppression of quercetin-induced NAG-1 expression by NAG-1 siRNA attenuated quercetin-induced apoptosis in HCT116 cells. Taken together, the present study demonstrates for the first time that quercetin induces apoptosis via NAG-1, providing a mechanistic basis for the apoptotic effect of quercetin in colon carcinoma cells.
