Azelastine hydrochloride is an H1-receptor antagonist with antiinflammatory properties that is available in the US as Astelin Nasal Spray for the treatment of seasonal allergic rhinitis. The symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis can initially be treated with monotherapy using either an antihistamine or an intranasal corticosteroid. Patients whose symptoms do not respond adequately are often prescribed a combination of both an antihistamine and an intranasal corticosteroid.
Three multicenter, randomized, double-blind studies were conducted to determine whether patients with moderate-to-severe symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis who had responded inadequately to monotherapy with either an oral antihistamine or an intranasal corticosteroid, and who were candidates for combination therapy with both an oral antihistamine and an intranasal corticosteroid, could be effectively treated with azelastine nasal spray monotherapy.
Following a 1- to 2-week washout period, patients were randomized to 7 days of double-blind treatment with either azelastine nasal spray (2 sprays per nostril bid, 1.1 mg/day) monotherapy or combination therapy with oral loratadine (Claritin, one 10-mg tablet/day) plus intranasal beclomethasone dipropionate monohydrate (Beconase AQ, 2 sprays per nostril bid, 336 microg/day). Efficacy was determined at the end of the study by both a physician assessment of the need for additional anti-rhinitis medication and a patient global evaluation of therapeutic effectiveness. The three studies were conducted at 71 investigational sites during the 1998 spring allergy season. Three separate studies were conducted to verify the reproducibility of the new study design.
In all three studies a total of 1,070 patients were randomized to double-blind treatment. There were no statistically significant differences in the percentage of patients treated with azelastine nasal spray versus patients treated with a combination of loratadine tablets and beclomethasone nasal spray who did not require additional anti-rhinitis medication (32% to 45% and 39% to 46%, respectively). The patient global evaluation indicated that 77% to 84% of the patients treated with azelastine nasal spray had symptomatic improvement and 85% to 90% of the patients treated with loratadine tablets and beclomethasone nasal spray had symptomatic improvement. The most commonly reported adverse experience with azelastine nasal spray was a transient aftertaste (8%), while the most commonly reported adverse experience with loratadine tablets and beclomethasone nasal spray in combination was headache (6%).
Based on the percentage of patients not requiring additional antirhinitis medication and the patient assessment of efficacy, azelastine nasal spray monotherapy was as effective as the combination of oral loratadine plus intranasal beclomethasone in treating moderate-to-severe symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis.
The hemodynamic effects of a single intravenous injection of doxorubicin (DXR) in a dose of 3 mg/kg, verapamil (Vp) in a dose of 0.2 mg/kg and combined administration of the same doses of both drugs in rabbits were investigated. Cardiac output (CO), stroke volume (SV), heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and total peripheral resistance (TPR) were estimated before and repeated in the 1st, 15th, 30th, 45th, 60th, 90th and 120th minute after injection of the drugs. It was found that administration of Vp after DXR or DXR after Vp produced significant decrease of MAP. However, no significant changes of CO, SV, HR and TPR in rabbits treated with DXR and Vp were noted. Rhythm disturbances occurred in animals receiving DXR or DXR with Vp. The obtained results indicate the need for further experimental studies before the introduction of combined treatment with DXR and Vp to cancer patients.
Naegeli-Franceschetti-Jadassohn syndrome (NFJS) and dermatopathia pigmentosa reticularis (DPR) are two closely related autosomal dominant ectodermal dysplasia syndromes that clinically share complete absence of dermatoglyphics (fingerprint lines), a reticulate pattern of skin hyperpigmentation, thickening of the palms and soles (palmoplantar keratoderma), abnormal sweating, and other subtle developmental anomalies of the teeth, hair, and skin. To decipher the molecular basis of these disorders, we studied one family with DPR and four families with NFJS. We initially reassessed linkage of NFJS/DPR to a previously established locus on 17q11.2-q21. Combined multipoint analysis generated a maximal LOD score of 8.3 at marker D17S800 at a recombination fraction of 0. The disease interval was found to harbor 230 genes, including a large cluster of keratin genes. Heterozygous nonsense or frameshift mutations in KRT14 were found to segregate with the disease trait in all five families. In contrast with KRT14 mutations affecting the central alpha -helical rod domain of keratin 14, which are known to cause epidermolysis bullosa simplex, NFJS/DPR-associated mutations were found in a region of the gene encoding the nonhelical head (E1/V1) domain and are predicted to result in very early termination of translation. These data suggest that KRT14 plays an important role during ontogenesis of dermatoglyphics and sweat glands. Among other functions, the N-terminal part of keratin molecules has been shown to confer protection against proapoptotic signals. Ultrastructural examination of patient skin biopsy specimens provided evidence for increased apoptotic activity in the basal cell layer where KRT14 is expressed, suggesting that apoptosis is an important mechanism in the pathogenesis of NFJS/DPR.
Sterculia with and without a smooth-muscle relaxant (alverine citrate) had similar beneficial effects on constipation and reduced the transit times in diverticular disease. Intracolonic pressure, however, varied with the preparation used. Though both preparations relieved the symptoms of diverticular disease, the one containing alverine citrate was more effective. Part of the mode of action of bran may be to relax the smooth muscle of the gut, since its actions were more comparable to those of sterculia plus alverine citrate than to those of sterculia alone.
The recent identification of SATB2 as a candidate gene responsible for the craniofacial dysmorphologies associated with deletions and translocations at 2q32-q33, one of only three regions of the genome for which haploinsufficiency has been significantly associated with isolated cleft palate, led us to investigate the in vivo functions of murine Satb2. We find that, similar to the way in which SATB2 is perceived to act in humans, craniofacial defects due to haploinsufficiency of Satb2, including cleft palate (in approximately 25% of cases), phenocopy those seen with 2q32-q33 deletions and translocations in humans. Full functional loss of Satb2 results in amplification of these defects and leads both to increased apoptosis in the craniofacial mesenchyme where Satb2 is usually expressed and to changes in the pattern of expression of three genes implicated in the regulation of craniofacial development in humans and mice: Pax9, Alx4, and Msx1. The Satb2-dosage sensitivity in craniofacial development is conspicuous--along with its control of cell survival, pattern of expression, and reversible functional modification by SUMOylation, it suggests that Satb2/SATB2 function in craniofacial development may prove to be more profound than has been anticipated previously. Because jaw development is Satb2-dosage sensitive, the regulators of Satb2 expression and posttranslational modification become of critical importance both ontogenetically and evolutionarily, especially since such regulators plausibly play undetected roles in jaw and palate development and in the etiology of craniofacial malformations.
To report a case of lorazepam toxicity in a premature infant and discuss the importance of altered pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics in the neonatal population.
A 2025-g, 33-weeks' gestation infant was born with respiratory distress syndrome that required mechanical ventilation. Lorazepam was used to establish sedation and prevent asynchronous breathing while the infant was on the ventilator. Shortly after the first dose of lorazepam, the infant experienced a seizure and was subsequently given a loading dose of phenobarbital. Lorazepam therapy was continued for sedation. The patient was transferred to our tertiary care center on day 2 of life for evaluation of possible cardiac disease. Upon arrival, the infant was extremely hypotonic and unresponsive; therefore, all sedative medications were discontinued. Two days after admission, the infant continued to exhibit very little spontaneous activity and a lorazepam serum concentration was obtained (63 h after the last dose). Analysis revealed a toxic lorazepam serum concentration of 4453 nmol/L. The patient eventually was weaned to room air and was transported back to the referring hospital.
Lorazepam is commonly prescribed in the pediatric population for sedative, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, antiemetic, and amnestic activity. Few data exist regarding the safety of long-term lorazepam therapy in the neonatal subpopulation. There have been some reports of neurologic toxicity secondary to lorazepam in preterm infants. Its metabolism depends on glucuronidation, an enzymatic process that is very depressed in the premature infant. Accumulation of the drug in the neonate accompanied by clinical toxicity is highly likely.
The inability to establish a clear pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship, along with the increased incidence of reported adverse events of lorazepam in neonates, is concerning. Clinicians should be aware of the altered metabolism and elimination of lorazepam in the premature infant.
The present study examined the postural effects of unilaterally local injection of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists into the subthalamic nucleus (STN), in rats with haloperidol-induced parkinsonism. In rats which received unilateral microinjections of (+)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG), a selective, subtype-non-specific antagonist of mGluR, but not the vehicle, into the STN, systemic administration of haloperidol induced ipsiversive dystonic posturing. The severity of the dystonic posturing was dose-dependent. However, subtype-specific antagonists of group I, II, or III mGluRs induced no dystonic posturing. The present findings suggest that the activity of the STN under conditions of dopamine blockade is facilitated by blockade of mGluRs in the STN, suggesting that mGluRs exert inhibitory influence on glutamate release in the STN.
A total of 20 adults patients presenting with previously untreated lymphoblastic lymphoma underwent an intensive chemotherapy protocol. Either the BACOP or the m-BACOD regimen was used for induction. If the patients achieved a complete clinical remission (CR) after three courses, they were given intensive consolidation and maintenance chemotherapy based on a protocol that was modified from the L10/L17M regimen of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering group for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and lymphoblastic lymphoma. Patients exhibiting localised areas of bulky disease were given additional involved-field radiotherapy. In all, 15 (75%) men and 5 (25%) women were entered in this study. Their median age was 28 years (mean, 30 years; range, 12-64 years). Overall, 3 (15%) had stage II disease, 3 (15%) had stage III disease and 14 (70%) had stage IV disease; 7 (35%) patients exhibited B symptoms and 4 (20%) had bulky disease. The overall (CR) rate was 10/20 (20%), and that following BACOP and m-BACOD therapy was 4/8 (50%) and 6/12 (50%), respectively. In all, 7 of the 10 complete responders (70%) relapsed. The disease-free survival of the ten who achieved a CR was 23% at 3 years. The overall survival of all 20 patients at 3 years was only 37%, and there were very few long-term survivors. More effective treatment for adult lymphoblastic lymphoma is required.
To describe a case of tics associated with fluoxetine.
A depressed adolescent was treated with fluoxetine. The patient had not been exposed to any other pharmacologic agents prior to this treatment. Following eight months of fluoxetine therapy the patient developed numerous tics. The movements subsided six months after discontinuation of fluoxetine.
Antidopaminergic effects have been reported in patients treated with fluoxetine. Because fluoxetine is a specific serotonin reuptake inhibitor, one plausible explanation for the extrapyramidal symptoms observed in these patients is that serotonin modulates dopaminergic neurons.
Extrapyramidal symptoms have been reported in patients receiving fluoxetine, although never previously in an adolescent. This case report provides further evidence that fluoxetine may be associated with severe extrapyramidal adverse reactions.
Protamine reversal of heparin anticoagulation in patients is occasionally associated with life-threatening acute pulmonary hypertension. In a sheep model, we evaluated the effect on this adverse cardiopulmonary reaction of modifying the type of heparin (low molecular weight heparin compared with unfractionated heparin) and the type of heparin antagonist (polybrene compared with protamine). Protamine reversal of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and polybrene reversal of unfractionated heparin induced more than a 10-fold increase of plasma thromboxane B2 levels, a threefold increase of pulmonary vascular resistance and pulmonary artery pressure, and a 25% decrease of PaO2. A similar adverse reaction followed protamine reversal of conventional unfractionated heparin. However, with polybrene (1 mg/kg) reversal of LMWH (1 mg/kg), we measured neither pulmonary hypertension (pulmonary artery pressure was 22.6 +/- 3.6 mm Hg at 1 minute after polybrene reversal of LMWH compared with 47.9 +/- 4.2 mm Hg after protamine reversal of unfractionated heparin, p less than 0.005 groups differ), hypoxemia (PaO2 was unchanged 2 minutes after polybrene compared with a decrease of 26 mm Hg 2 minutes after protamine, p less than 0.05), nor acute release of thromboxane into arterial plasma (thromboxane B2 was 0.2 +/- 0.1 at 1 minute after polybrene compared with 3.7 +/- 1.7 ng/ml at 1 minute after protamine, p less than 0.005). The hemodynamic effects and mediator release were also benign after neutralization of larger doses of LMWH (3 mg/kg) by polybrene (3 mg/kg). The increases of activated clotting time and activated partial thromboplastin time due to both types of heparin were completely reversed with polybrene. Anti-Xa activity increased to more than 3 IU/ml 4 minutes after LMWH anticoagulation (p less than 0.01) but was only partially neutralized by polybrene. Various polyanion-polycation complexes that are formed when heparin anticoagulation is reversed induce thromboxane release and acute pulmonary vasoconstriction in awake sheep. Reversal of LMWH anticoagulation with polybrene does not elicit this adverse reaction.
The present study was designed to investigate whether fluvastatin, a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitor, would attenuate the acute myocardial infarction in isoproterenol-treated rat model via maintaining activities of endogenous antioxidant enzymes. Hemodynamic and electrocardiograph parameters were monitored and recorded continuously, cardiac marker enzymes and antioxidative parameters of plasma and heart tissues were measured, and histopathological examination of heart tissues was performed. Isoproterenol-treated rats showed lower of left-ventricular systolic pressure (LVSP), maximum (LVdP/dtmax) and minimum rate of developed left ventricular pressure (LVdP/dtmin), and higher of left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP), in addition, a significant rise in ST-segment and increase in content of lactate dehydrogenase, glutamic oxalacetic transaminase, creatine kinase and malondialdehyde, as well as fall in activities of glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase and catalase were observed. Oral administration of fluvastatin (5, 10 and 20 mg/kg, respectively) significantly prevented almost all the parameters of isoproterenol-induced heart failure and myocardial injury that mentioned above. The protective role of fluvastatin on isoproterenol-induced myocardial damage was further confirmed by histopathological examination. There was no significant change in heart rate in all experimental groups. Compared with control group, any indexes in sham rats treated with fluvastatin (20 mg/kg) alone were unaltered (all P>0.05). Our results suggest that fluvastatin has a significant effect on the protection of heart against isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction through maintaining endogenous antioxidant enzyme activities.
Dexrazoxane (Dex), used clinically to protect against anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity, possesses iron-chelating properties. The present study was designed to examine whether Dex could inhibit the ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) induced damage to the rat heart.
Isolated perfused rat hearts were exposed to global ischemia (37 degrees C) and 60 min reperfusion. Dex was perfused for 10 min prior to the ischemia, or administered intraperitoneally (150 mg) 30 min prior to anesthesia of the rats. I/R caused a significant hemodynamic function decline in control hearts during the reperfusion (e.g., the work index LVDP X HR declined to 42.7+/-10%). Dex (200 microM) applied during the preischemia significantly increased the hemodynamic recovery following reperfusion (LVDP X HR recovered to 55.7+/-8.8%, p<0.05 vs. control). Intraperitoneal Dex, too, significantly increased the hemodynamic recovery of the reperfused hearts. I/R caused an increase in oxidation of cytosolic proteins, while Dex decreased this oxidation.
The decrease in proteins carbonylation and correlative hemodynamic improvement suggests that Dex decreases I/R free radical formation and reperfusion injury.
A series of bisalkamine esters, bis-basic ethers, and bis-basic ketones of carbazole, N-ethylcarbazole, dibenzofuran, and dibenzothiophene was synthesized and evaluated for antiviral activity. The series also included two bis-basic alkanes of N-ethylcarbazole and one bis-basic carboxamide of dibenzofuran. Structure-activity relationships indicated that within the carbazole and N-ethylcarbazole series the bisalkamine esters gave the most active derivatives while the bis-basic ketone derivatives of dibenzofuran and dibenzothiophene afforded the more potent compounds within the respective series. The [6,5,6]heterocyclic nuclei were compared with the [6,5,6] aromatic nuclei (fluroene and fluoren-9-one) including tilorone with respect to antiviral activity against encephalomyocarditis (EMC) virus. Maximum activity was associated with the bis-basic ketone side chain and fluoren-9-one nucleus.
Hyperammonemic encephalopathy with normal liver function is an uncommon serious adverse effect of valproate therapy. We retrospectively analyzed the case records of 5 patients of epilepsy on valproate with hyperammonemic encephalopathy. Of the 5 patients, 3 were on monotherapy. The mean valproate dose was 1250 mg/day and the duration of therapy ranged between 4 and 90 days. Alteration in the sensorium was the presenting clinical feature. The risk factors included high initial dose (2), long-term valproate therapy (1), and long-term valproate therapy with concomitant topiramate (1). There was good correlation between the fall in serum ammonia levels and clinical improvement. Hyperammonemic encephalopathy should be suspected in patients on valproate with altered sensorium. Response to treatment is rewarding.
In two patients with chronic schizophrenia, who were on clozapine medication for more than 6 months, a sudden withdrawal of the drug resulted in a very pronounced deterioration of the psychosis within 24-48 h. The most prominent symptoms were auditory hallucinations and persecutory ideas and one patient tried to commit suicide. These observations are interpreted as supersensitivity psychoses induced by the very effective clozapine treatment.
Acyclovir-associated renal dysfunction is difficult to study in humans because it occurs in patient populations who are generally receiving multiple medicines concurrently and dysfunctions occur infrequently. We studied the effects of two regimens of acyclovir treatment, a short-term high dose (210 mg/kg/day for 43 hr) via constant infusion and a chronic lower dose by intermittent infusion (15 mg/kg, 3 times/day for 28 days), on selected renal functions in dogs. Urine concentrating capacity as compared to base-line and controls declined during both the short-term (40% decline) and chronic treatments (36% decline). The persistence of the concentrating deficit in the presence of stimulation with vasopressin suggested that the defect resided in the renal response to vasopressin. Glomerular filtration rates significantly decreased during the acute high-dose treatment (from 104 +/- 15 to 87 +/- 11 ml/min) but not during the chronic low-dose treatment. Both acyclovir treatments were associated with a small but significant decline (approximately 10% for both studies) in the plasma potassium concentrations although an increase in urine potassium clearance could not be demonstrated. We conclude that acyclovir can cause renal dysfunction in healthy animals at plasma concentrations higher but comparable to those achieved clinically. Although both treatment regimens decreased renal function, the shorter high-dose regimen which maintained acyclovir plasma concentrations was more detrimental than the longer exposure to a lower dose of the drug given intermittently. The data suggest that renal dysfunction is not related to a rare sensitivity, as all acyclovir-treated animals showed subtle decrements in renal function.
The mRNA expression of nucleophosmin/B23 in gastric cancers (T) and the matched adjacent "normal" gastric mucosa (N) obtained from patients without any preoperative treatment were determined. Telomerase activity was detected in tumor tissues from six of seven patients. Analysis of the adjacent "normal" gastric mucosa in the same patients revealed all seven were negative for telomerase activity. In comparing clinical data for all seven patients, the stages of cancer seemed to be associated with T/N nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA expression. Cancers of later stages seemed to have higher T/N nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA ratio. After 3-4 days of 1 mM indomethacin treatment about 60-85% of gastric cultured KATO III cancer cells exhibited the features with highly condensed nuclei and decrease in cell size. Concomitant with the increase in the percentage of KATO III cells exhibiting the morphological features of apoptosis, there was a decrease in the viability of cells as determined by exclusion of trypan blue. A decline in telomerase activity in indomethacin-treated versus untreated cells was observed over times (2-4 days). The steady-state level of nucleophosmin/B23 mRNA, as determined by the levels of radioactivity of the hybridizing bands also decreased during the indomethacin treatment. At some times after the removal of indomethacin, cell growth and telomerase activity resumed in little extent (approx. 60%). When nucleophosmin/B23 antisense oligonucleotide was included in the cell culture upon removal of indomethacin, virtually no recovery of cell growth and telomerase activity were observed.
Paraquat (1,1'-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridinium chloride; PQ) is widely and commonly used as a herbicides in the world. PQ has been reported to be a major hazard because it causes lung injury. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying PQ-induced lung toxicity still need to be elucidated. Here, we found that PQ significantly decreases cell viability, increases sub-G1 hypodiploids DNA contents and caspase 3/7 activity in lung alveolar epithelial cell-derived L2 cells, which also caused mitochondrial dysfunction, and decreased the mRNA expression of Bcl-2 and increased that of Bax, Bak, and p53. Moreover, the protein expressions of Bax and Bak were increased in PQ-treated cells. In addition, when PQ was exposed to L2 cells, the expressions of ER stress-related signaling genes (including Grp78, CHOP, and caspase-12 mRNA) and proteins (including phospho-eIF-2α, CHOP, Grp78, calpain I and -II, and caspase-12) were significantly increased. PQ also decreased the protein expressions of pro-caspase-9/7/3. Next, we investigated the role of Nrf-2 in PQ-induced alveolar epithelial cell toxicity. In L2 cells, PQ induced Nrf-2 translocation from the cytosol to the nucleus. Cells transfected with Nrf-2 siRNA significantly reversed the PQ-induced toxicity, including depolarization of MMP, increased the Bax, Bak, p53 mRNAs expression, decreased the Bcl-2 mRNA expression, increased the caspase 3/7 activity, Grp78, CHOP, and caspase-12 mRNAs and protein expression, and decreased that of pro-caspase-3. Taken together, these results suggest that Nrf-2-regulated mitochondria and ER stress-related pathways are involved in the PQ-induced alveolar epithelial cell injury.
To assess bupivacaine as a topical anesthetic of the airway, 0.5 ml of 1, 2, and 4% bupivacaine was sprayed down the trachea of lightly anesthetized cats and the duration of anesthesia, systemic toxicity, and local toxicity was compared to that produced by 4% lidocaine. Two percent bupivacaine suppressed the cough reflex longer than 4% lidocaine with no increase in either local or systemic toxicity. Four percent bupivacaine produced arrhythmias in 5 of 10 cats in two groups and apnea in 4 of 6 cats. This study indicates that 2% would be an appropriate concentration to assess bupivacaine as a topical anesthetic of the airway in humans.
Epididymal lithiasis is a reproductive dysfunction of roosters that is associated with loss of fertility and is characterized by the formation of calcium stones in the lumen of the efferent ductules of the epididymal region. The efferent ductules of birds are responsible for the reabsorption of the fluid coming from the testis as well as luminal calcium. It has been hypothesized that the epididymal stone formation may be related to the impairment of local fluid or calcium homeostasis, which depends on hormones such as estradiol (E(2)). Therefore, this study aimed to investigate possible alterations in the expression of ERα (ESR1) and ERβ (ESR2) in the epididymal region of roosters affected by epididymal lithiasis. The study was performed by immunohistochemistry and western blotting assays. In addition, the concentrations of E(2), vitamin D3, and testosterone, which are also key hormones in maintenance of calcium homeostasis, were determined in the plasma and epididymal region, by ELISA. It was observed that ESR2 expression is increased in all segments of the epididymal region of affected roosters, whereas ESR1 levels are not altered. Moreover, the hormone concentration profiles were changed, as in the epididymal region of roosters with lithiasis the E(2) levels were increased and vitamin D3 as well as testosterone concentrations were significantly decreased. These results suggest that a hormonal imbalance may be involved with the origin and progression of the epididymal lithiasis, possibly by affecting the local fluid or calcium homeostasis.
Zolpidem is a short acting hypnotic drug belonging to imidazopyridine family. It produces its hypnotic effects via the GABA-A benzodiazepine receptor complex, and binds preferentially to those receptors containing the alpha-1 subunit. In comparison with benzodiazepines this mechanism is thought to reduce liability to induce dependence. Several case reports of zolpidem abuse and dependence have been published along with a small number of cases demonstrating seizures after sudden zolpidem withdrawal. We describe a case of a 29-year-old Caucasian woman who developed a generalized seizure following sudden zolpidem withdrawal subsequent to drug dependence to 160mg of zolpidem. The clinical effects of zolpidem seem to be comparable to those of benzodiazepines and abuse, dependence and withdrawal seizures belong to the spectrum of its adverse drug reactions.
Diethylstilbestrol (DES) is an estrogenic endocrine disruptor with long-term health effects, possibly including depression, following exposure in utero. Understanding the relation between in utero DES exposure and depression will provide insight to the potential adverse effects of bisphenol A, a functionally similar and ubiquitous endocrine disruptor. The association between in utero DES exposure and depression was assessed among participants in the Nurses' Health Study II who first reported their history of antidepressant use in 1993 and lifetime history of depressive symptoms in 2001. DES exposure was reported by 1,612 (2.2%) women. A history of depression at baseline was higher among women exposed to DES in utero compared with those not exposed (age-adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 1.47, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.26, 1.72) (P < 0.001). Incident depression (first use of antidepressants among women who also reported depressive symptoms) during follow-up (1995-2005) was reported by 19.7% of women exposed to DES and 15.9% unexposed (age-adjusted OR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.22, 1.63) (P < 0.001). Adjustment for risk factors of depression and correlates of DES exposure moderately attenuated the association (multivariable-adjusted OR = 1.30, 95% CI: 1.13, 1.51) (P = 0.0004). These results suggest that the neurophysiologic effects of in utero exposure to DES could lead to an increased risk of depression in adult life. Further research should assess whether in utero exposure to bisphenol A has similar adverse effects.
Certain high-risk populations, such as diabetics and blacks, have sustained elevation in blood pressure and heart rate throughout the day and night, with blunting of the usual diurnal variability pattern. This may contribute to their higher incidence of left ventricular hypertrophy (blacks) and cardiovascular complications (diabetics). Hypertensives who maintain a diurnal pattern of blood pressure variation still exhibit higher daytime and nocturnal blood pressure levels than normotensives. Thus, to achieve maximum effectiveness in treating hypertension, 24-hour control of blood pressure is necessary. Antihypertensive agents should effectively reduce blood pressure consistently throughout a 24-hour period. The objective of this study was to assess the effects of amlodipine, 5 mg once daily, on blood pressure measured by 24-hour ambulatory monitoring in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled single-site study. Patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension were randomized to receive amlodipine (n = 11) or placebo (n = 5) in a 2:1 ratio. A 4-week single-blind placebo run-in period was followed by a 4-week double-blind phase. Ambulatory monitoring of blood pressure was carried out for 24 hours at the end of each 4-week phase. Patients receiving amlodipine had significantly lower blood pressure compared with placebo 24 hours after the last dose (supine blood pressure -25.1/-10.1 mm Hg; standing blood pressure -21.2/-9.7 mm Hg) after 4 weeks of treatment. This effect was clearly demonstrated by the 24-hour postdose measurement and the mean blood pressure over the 24-hour interval as measured by ambulatory recordings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The efficacy and safety of amlodipine (2.5-10 mg) once daily was compared with atenolol (50-100 mg) once daily in patients with mild-to-moderate essential hypertension in a randomized, double-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled study. A total of 125 patients were randomly allocated at the end of a 4-week run-in placebo period to 8 weeks of double-blind treatment with amlodipine (n = 41), atenolol (n = 43), or placebo (n = 41). The placebo group had small mean changes in supine and standing blood pressure compared with baseline. The mean blood pressure changes from baseline 24 hours postdose in the amlodipine group (mean daily dose 8.8 mg) were -12.8/-10.1 mm Hg for supine blood pressure and -11.5/-9.8 mm Hg for standing blood pressure (p < 0.001 compared with placebo), and for the atenolol group (mean daily dose 83.7 mg) the changes were -11.3/-11.7 mm Hg for supine blood pressure and -13.3/-12.3 mm Hg for standing blood pressure (p < 0.001 compared with placebo). There were no statistically significant blood pressure differences between active treatments. The responder rates for amlodipine, atenolol, and placebo were 61.1, 64.9, and 11.1%, respectively. The blood pressure values taken over the 24-hour period at final visit revealed that amlodipine and atenolol maintained the supine blood pressure < or = 140/90 mm Hg throughout the period of observation; the corresponding time-effect curve for the placebo group was clearly in the hypertensive range. Both amlodipine and atenolol were well tolerated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator known to induce liver tumours in rats. A proteomics study was conducted to provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of clofibrate-induced non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogenesis. Rats were treated with 250 mg/kg day clofibrate orally and sacrificed after 7 days. Proteins extracted from the liver were analysed by 2-DE using DIGE technology. The protein identification performed by MS showed that clofibrate induced up-regulation of 77 proteins and down-regulation of 27 proteins. The highest expression ratios corresponded to proteins involved in a series of biochemical pathways such as lipid metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, protein metabolism, citric acid cycle, xenobiotic detoxification and oxidative stress. Proteins implicated in cell proliferation and apoptosis, such as prohibitin, 10-formyl tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase, senescence marker protein-30, pyridoxine 5'-phosphate oxidase and vimentin, were also identified as being regulated. These results provide leads for further investigations into the molecular mechanisms of liver tumours induced by clofibrate. In addition, MS results showed that a series of regulated proteins were detected as several spots corresponding to different pI and/or M(r). Differential effects on those variants could result from specific PTM and could be a specific molecular signature of the clofibrate-induced protein expression modulation in rat liver.
The liver-specific importer organic anion transporting polypeptide 1b2 (Oatp1b2, Slco1b2, also known as Oatp4 and Lst-1) and its human orthologs OATP1B1/1B3 transport a large variety of chemicals. Oatp1b2-null mice were engineered by homologous recombination and their phenotype was characterized. Oatp1b2 protein was absent in livers of Oatp1b2-null mice. Oatp1b2-null mice develop normally and breed well. However, adult Oatp1b2-null mice had moderate conjugated hyperbilirubinemia. Compared with wild-types, Oatp1b2-null mice had similar hepatic messenger RNA expression of most transporters examined except a higher Oatp1a4 but lower organic anion transporter 2. Intra-arterial injection of the mushroom toxin phalloidin (an Oatp1b2-specific substrate identified in vitro) caused cholestasis in wild-type mice but not in Oatp1b2-null mice. Hepatic uptake of fluorescence-labeled phalloidin was absent in Oatp1b2-null mice. Three hours after administration of microcystin-LR (a blue-green algae toxin), the binding of microcystin-LR to hepatic protein phosphatase 1/2a was much lower in Oatp1b2-null mice compared with wild-type mice. In contrast, Oatp1b2-null mice were transiently protected from decrease in bile flow induced by estradiol-17beta-D-glucuronide, a common substrate for Oatps. Oatp1b2-null mice were completely resistant to the hepatotoxicity induced by phalloidin and microcystin-LR, but were similarly sensitive to alpha-amanitin-induced hepatotoxicity compared with wild-type mice. In conclusion, Oatp1b2-null mice display altered basic physiology and markedly decreased hepatic uptake/toxicity of phalloidin and microcystin-LR. Oatp1b2-null mice are useful in elucidating the role of Oatp1b2 and its human orthologs OATP1B1/1B3 in hepatic uptake and systemic disposition of toxic chemicals and therapeutic drugs.
