We present a case of ciprofloxacin-associated pseudotumor cerebri in a 22-year-old African American woman. Withdrawal of ciprofloxacin in our patient resulted in complete resolution of ciprofloxacin-associated pseudotumor, as evidenced by a normal neuro-ophthalmic examination and a cerebrospinal fluid opening pressure of 140 mmH20.
A 22-year-old African American woman presented with a headache of two weeks duration, visual blurring and horizontal diplopia after starting ciprofloxacin for pyelonephritis. An ophthalmic examination revealed that she had left eye esotropia, and a picture of the fundus demonstrated bilateral disc swelling without spontaneous venous pulsations. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and a magnetic resonance venogram were normal. A diagnostic lumbar puncture demonstrated an elevated opening pressure of 380mmH2O in a supine position. Laboratory examinations, including a cerebrospinal fluid exam, were unremarkable.
ciprofloxacin-associated pseudotumor can cause chronic disabling headache and visual complications. Therapy is sub-optimal, often symptomatic, insufficient and complicated by side effects. When ciprofloxacin-associated pseudotumor presents in an atypical population, an inciting agent must be suspected because prompt withdrawal of the agent may lead to complete resolution of symptoms and prevent recurrence of similar episodes.
Paclitaxel (taxol) is extensively used for chemotherapy of various cancers including ovarian cancer. Although paclitaxel induces apoptosis in cancer cells, its exact mechanism of action still remains to be determined. Akt mediates survival signals which preserve various cancer cells from apoptosis pathway. Thus, Akt is considered an exciting target for therapeutics. Here, we demonstrated that inhibition of Akt increases the efficacy of the paclitaxel-induced apoptosis in SKOV3 and PA-1 human ovarian cancer cells. The sensitivity to paclitaxel of SKOV3 and PA-1 cells was examined using the MTT assay. At a concentration of 30 nM, PA-1 cells were more sensitive to paclitaxel than SKOV3 cells. Apoptosis was accompanied by the release of cytochrome c into the cytoplasm and cleavage of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP). To further elucidate the mechanism of apoptosis by paclitaxel, we compared the levels of phosphorylation of Akt between paclitaxel-resistant SKOV3 cells and paclitaxel-sensitive PA-1 cells. The higher level of phosphorylated Akt was shown in SKOV3 cells than in PA-1 cells. Interestingly, the treatment of paclitaxel decreased the amount of phosphorylated Akt in a time-dependent manner in both cell lines. Furthermore, inhibition of Akt by specific phosphatidyinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt inhibitors (Wortmannin, and LY294002) synergistically increased the efficacy of the paclitaxel-induced apoptosis in both cell lines. These results suggest that the addition of the Akt inhibitor may increase the therapeutic efficacy of paclitaxel for patients with ovarian cancer.
Chronic foot pain developed in a 43-year-old woman after taking methysergide, a potent vasoconstrictor. The etiology was believed to be ischemic monomelic neuropathy, which results from the compromise of blood flow to an extremity. The patient eventually required a surgical sympathectomy after lumbar sympathetic blocks failed to provide permanent relief.
We investigated whether urine drug screens (UDS) at admission and platelet paroxetine binding, a measure of serotonin transporter sites, were related to outcome measures for cocaine patients in treatment. Tritiated paroxetine binding sites on platelets were assayed and UDS were obtained for 105 African American cocaine-dependent outpatients. Outcome measures included number of negative urines, days in treatment, dropouts, and number of treatment sessions attended. A significant association was found between cocaine-positive UDS at admission and negative urines, treatment retention, dropouts, and treatment sessions; while Bmax values of paroxetine binding (density of serotonin transporter sites) were significantly associated with treatment retention and negative urines. Moreover, UDS and paroxetine binding combined to enhance prediction of retention and abstinence. Although both admission UDS and paroxetine binding seem to contribute individually in predicting outcome of cocaine patients, a combination of the two variables seems to have a stronger effect in terms of predicting treatment-outcome.
The hypothesis that chemically induced overt maternal toxicity induces a characteristic syndrome of adverse developmental effects in the rat was investigated. Pregnant animals (Sprague-Dawley strain) were dosed by oral gavage with one of a series of compounds on days 6-15 of gestation. These chemicals were diquat (DIQ), ethylene-bis-isothiocyanate (EBIS), toxaphene (TOX), styrene (STY), 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D), 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (2,4,5-Tr), triphenyl tin hydroxide (TPTH), and cacodylic acid (CAC). The compounds were chosen because they exhibited little or no developmental toxicity in previous studies. Dosage levels producing maternal weight loss and/or lethality were determined from preliminary toxicity studies. Significant maternal weight reductions were noted during the course of treatment with all compounds except CAC and 2,4,5-Tr. Maternal lethality was produced by EBIS, TOX, 2,4,-D, and 2,4,5-Tr. The main treatment-related developmental toxicity noted in litters at term consisted of increased lethality (EBIS, TPTH) and decreased fetal weight (EBIS and CAC). Treatment-related anomalies were seen in litters treated with 2,4-D and TOX (supernumerary ribs) and with EBIS and STY (enlarged renal pelvis). No significant developmental effects were produced with DIQ, or 2,4,5-Tr. This study indicates that overt maternal toxicity as defined by weight loss or mortality is not always associated with the same defined syndrome of adverse developmental effects in the rat.
The threshold for hepatotoxicity and cholestasis induced by methylene dianiline (DAPM) in rats is between 25 and 75 mg/kg (Bailie et al., Environ. Health Perspect., 124, 25-30, 1993). Our objectives were to determine if a minimally toxic dose of DAPM provided a model system for studies of selective injury to biliary epithelial cells (BEC) in vivo. Thus, we examined the effects of 50 mg DAPM/kg on (1) biliary constituents, (2) liver constituents likely involved in DAPM biotransformation/detoxification, and (3) early morphological and histochemical changes in the liver. Male Sprague Dawley rats had biliary cannulas positioned under pentobarbital anesthesia. After 1 h of control bile collection, rats received 50 mg DAPM/kg po in 35% ethanol or 35% ethanol only. Bile was collected for another 6 h. Histochemical, ultrastructural, and biochemical liver alterations were assessed at 3 h or at 3 and 6 h. DAPM had minimal effects on biliary bile salt and bilirubin excretion over 6 h. Biliary glucose and protein excretion were increased approximately 2-fold starting in Hour 1, while inorganic phosphate excretion was not increased until Hour 2. Biliary glutathione excretion initially increased (Hour 1) but then declined steadily for 5 h. Microsomal cytochrome P-450 activities were transiently decreased at 3 h but had returned to control values by 6 h. Liver glutathione (GSH and GSSG) was not affected by DAPM at 3 or 6 h. Necrosis of intrahepatic bile ducts was severe at 6 h with moderate injury in smaller bile ducts. Ultrastructural alterations were observed in BEC mitochondria and microvilli at 3 h with no apparent alterations in hepatocyte mitochondria or tight junctions between cells. In addition, histochemical staining of liver sections and assays of mitochondrial enzyme activities in vitro at 3 h revealed no loss of mitochondrial function in hepatocytes. These results provide strong evidence for defining DAPM as a selective bile duct toxicant.
Polyamines are thought to play an essential role in cellular hypertrophy and proliferation. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) catalyzes the first and probably the rate-limiting step in biosynthesis of polyamines. In this study, we evaluated the pathophysiological role of the renin-angiotensin system in isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy, using myocardial ODC activity as an indicator of cardiac hypertrophy. Isoproterenol caused an eight-fold increase of myocardial ODC activity in normotensive Wistar rats within 4 h after injection. Captopril suppressed the induction of ODC by isoproterenol to two-thirds of the control level. These results indicate that the renin-angiotensin system may participate in the induction of myocardial hypertrophy by isoproterenol.
The increased inhaled application of titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO(2) NPs) increases the potential pulmonary health risks. The present investigations were carried out to study the TiO(2) NPs-induced apoptosis, oxidative stress and genotoxicity in the human lung cancer cell line, A549, a widely used cell system for pulmonary toxicity studies. Tetrazolium bromide salt and lactate dehydrogenase release assays were used to study the cytotoxicity. The genotoxicity studies were carried out using cytokinesis block micronucleus assay. Apoptosis was confirmed by the formation of apoptotic bodies and altered expression (messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein) of markers such as P(53), P(21), Bax, Bcl(2) and cleaved caspase-3. Cells exposed to TiO(2) NPs (10 and 50 μg/ml) for 6-24 h shows significant induction in oxidative stress, that is, the production of reactive oxygen species and malondialdehyde and decrease in the activity of catalase and glutathione. TiO(2) NPs exposure also induces the formation of apoptotic bodies and micronucleus as marker of genotoxicity. A significant up-regulation in the expression of apoptosis markers such as P(53), P(21) and cleaved caspase-3 was observed, while the levels were down-regulated for Bcl(2) at both mRNA and protein levels. TiO(2) NPs exposure could not pose significant effects on Bax expression. Data indicate that nano-TiO(2) induces oxidative stress, genotoxicity and apoptosis in human lung cancer cell line, A549. Our result also identifies the mechanisms involved in TiO(2) NP-induced changes in A549 cells. Perhaps, reporting for the first time, the association of TiO(2) NPs-induced genotoxicity and apoptosis at transcriptional and translational level in the human lung cancer cell line, A549 cells.
Spinal epidural lipomatosis, which causes symptomatic compression of neural elements, is a well known but uncommon complication of Cushing's syndrome. Spinal epidural lipomatosis has been reported frequently in association with chronic systemic corticosteroid therapy, but thus far only one case has been attributed to local epidural corticosteroid injections.
We report another case of symptomatic spinal epidural lipomatosis after epidural corticosteroid injections. This is the first such case documented by magnetic resonance imaging and confirmed with surgical exploration.
The patient's symptoms of neurogenic claudication resolved after lumbar laminectomy in the region of previous corticosteroid injections and the removal of epidural fat, which was compressing the thecal sac.
This case should alert clinicians that epidural lipomatosis, which causes symptomatic thecal sac compression, is a possible complication, not only of systemic glucocorticoid therapy, but also of local epidural corticosteroid injections.
Mounting evidence points to lipid accumulation in the diseased kidney and its contribution to progression of nephropathy. We recently found heavy lipid accumulation and marked dysregulation of lipid metabolism in the remnant kidneys of rats with chronic renal failure (CRF). Present study sought to determine efficacy of niacin supplementation on renal tissue lipid metabolism in CRF.
Kidney function, lipid content, and expression of molecules involved in cholesterol and fatty acid metabolism were determined in untreated CRF (5/6 nephrectomized), niacin-treated CRF (50 mg/kg/day in drinking water for 12 weeks) and control rats.
CRF resulted in hypertension, proteinuria, renal tissue lipid accumulation, up-regulation of scavenger receptor A1 (SR-A1), acyl-CoA cholesterol acyltransferase-1 (ACAT1), carbohydrate-responsive element binding protein (ChREBP), fatty acid synthase (FAS), acyl-CoA carboxylase (ACC), liver X receptor (LXR), ATP binding cassette (ABC) A-1, ABCG-1, and SR-B1 and down-regulation of sterol responsive element binding protein-1 (SREBP-1), SREBP-2, HMG-CoA reductase, PPAR-alpha, fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP), and CPT1A. Niacin therapy attenuated hypertension, proteinuria, and tubulo-interstitial injury, reduced renal tissue lipids, CD36, ChREBP, LXR, ABCA-1, ABCG-1, and SR-B1 abundance and raised PPAR-alpha and L-FABP.
Niacin administration improves renal tissue lipid metabolism and renal function and structure in experimental CRF.
Benzene is a recognized haematotoxin and leukaemogen, but its mechanism of action and the role of genetic susceptibility are still unclear. Cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) are involved in benzene activation; and NAD (P)H:quinine oxidoreductase 1 (NQO1), glutathione S-transferase theta 1 (GSTT1) and glutathione S-transferase mu 1 (GSTM1) participate in benzene detoxification. The common, well-studied single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were analysed in these genes drawn from the toxicant-metabolizing pathways. A total of 100 workers with chronic benzene poisoning (CBP) and 90 controls were enrolled in China. There was a 2.82-fold (95% CI = 1.42-5.58) increased risk of CBP in the subjects with the NQO1 609C > T mutation genotype (T/T) compared with those carrying heterozygous (C/T) and wild-type (C/C). The subjects with the GSTT1 null genotype had a 1.91-fold (95% CI = 1.05-3.45) increased risk of CBP compared with those with GSTT1 non-null genotype. There was no association of CYP2E1 and MPO genotype with CBP. A three genes' interaction showed that there was a 20.41-fold (95% CI = 3.79-111.11) increased risk of CBP in subjects with the NQO1 609C > T T/T genotype and with the GSTT1 null genotype and the GSTM1 null genotype compared with those carrying the NQO1 609C > T C/T and C/C genotype, GSTT1 non-null genotype, and GSTM1 non-null genotype. The study provides evidence of an association of a gene-gene interaction with the risk of CBP.
High serum ferritin and liver iron concentrations were found in some patients with NASH, suggesting a role for iron as a co-factor that aggravates liver injury. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of parenteral iron in a rat model of NASH induced by a methionine choline deficient diet (MCDD).
Wistar rats were divided into 1 - Control, 2 - Iron (Fe), 3 - MCDD, 4 - MCDD&Fe groups. Iron dextran 100mg/kg was administered intra-muscularly in groups 2 and 4. All rats were fed MCDD, Groups 1 and 2 were supplied with choline and methionine. Blood and tissue samples were obtained after 4weeks.
The iron injection alone did not affect the liver whereas MCDD led to steatohepatitis. Iron worsened steatosis without any obvious effect on accompanying inflammation. It aggravated tissue injury by increasing apoptosis. Liver fibrosis was observed only in 3 out of 10 rats in the MCDD&Fe group.
Observation of liver fibrosis only in the MCDD&Fe group suggests that iron induced increase in apoptosis contributes to the development of fibrosis at an earlier time than expected.
Nitric oxide (NO) plays a vital role in maintaining the survivability of circulating erythrocytes. Here we have investigated whether NO depletion associated with visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is responsible for the reduced survival of erythrocytes observed during the disease.
Infected hamsters were treated with standard anti-leishmanial sodium stibogluconate (SAG) and NO donor isosorbide dinitrate (ISD). Erythrophagocytosis by macrophages was determined by labelling the cells with FITC followed by flow cytometry. Aggregation of band3 was estimated from band3 associated EMA fluorescence. Caspase 3 activity was measured using immunosorbent assay kit. Phosphatidylserine (PS) externalization and cell shrinkage were determined using annexin V. Aminophspholipid translocase and scramblase activities were measured following NBD-PS and NBD-PC internalization, respectively.
Impairment of both synthesis and uptake of NO resulted in decreased bioavailability of this signaling molecule in erythrocytes in VL. NO level was replenished after simultaneous treatment with ISD and SAG. Combination treatment decreased red cell apoptosis in infected animals by deactivating caspase 3 through s-nitrosylation. Drug treatment prevented infection-mediated ATP depletion and altered calcium homeostasis in erythrocytes. Improved metabolic environment effectively amended dysregulation of aminophospholipid translocase and scramblase, which in turn reduced cell shrinkage, and exposure of phosphatidylserine on the cell surface under the diseased condition.
In this study, we have identified NO depletion to be an important factor in promoting premature hemolysis with the progress of leishmanial infection. The study implicates NO to be a possible target for future drug development towards the promotion of erythrocyte survival in VL.
The purpose of this study was to identify the biochemical and genetic defect in L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria, a neurometabolic disorder characterized by the presence of elevated concentrations of L-2-hydroxyglutaric acid in urine, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid. Evidence is provided for the existence in rat tissues of a FAD-dependent enzyme catalyzing specifically the oxidation of L-2-hydroxyglutarate to alpha-ketoglutarate. This enzyme is mainly expressed in liver and kidney but also at lower levels in heart, brain, and other tissues. Subcellular fractionation indicates that the liver enzyme is present in mitochondria, where it is bound to membranes. Based on this information, a database search led to the identification of a gene encoding a human hypothetical protein homologous to bacterial FAD-dependent malate dehydrogenases and targeted to mitochondria. The gene encoding this protein, present on chromosome 14q22.1, was found to be in a region homozygous in patients with L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria from two consanguineous families. Three mutations that replaced a highly conserved residue (Lys-71-Glu and Glu-176-Asp) or removed exon 9 were identified in homozygous state in patients from three distinct families and were found to cosegregate with the disease. It is concluded that L-2-hydroxyglutarate is normally metabolized to alpha-ketoglutarate in mammalian tissues and that L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria is caused by mutations in the gene that most likely encodes L-2-hydroxyglutarate dehydrogenase. The pathological findings observed in this metabolic disorder must therefore be due to a toxic effect of L-2-hydroxyglutarate on the central nervous system.
Inhibition of Kupffer cells could disrupt the sequence of events leading to organ injury by damping down the fibrogenic stimulus. To elucidate the role of Kupffer cells in liver fibrosis and cirrhosis, rats were treated with gadolinium chloride (GdCl(3)) and cirrhosis was induced by subchronic carbon tetrachoride (CCl(4)) administration. Carbon tetrachloride was administered three times per week for 8 weeks to male Wistar rats treated simultaneously with GdCl(3) (20 mg kg(-1), i.p. daily); appropriate controls were performed. Serum enzyme activities of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (gamma-GTP) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and bilirubin concentration increased significantly by CCl(4), whereas GdCl(3) prevented completely the increase in gamma-GTP and partially prevented the increase in ALP, ALT and bilirubins (P < 0.05). Liver glycogen was depleted by CCl(4), an effect that GdCl(3) was not capable of preventing. Moreover, gadolinium by itself depleted it. Lipid peroxidation increased about 2.5-fold by administration with CCl(4), whereas GdCl(3) preserved lipid peroxidation within normal values. Hepatic collagen increased threefold after subchronic intoxication with CCl(4) (P < 0.05) whereas GdCl(3) prevented partially (P < 0.05) the increase in collagen content, as evidenced by the liver hydroxyproline content and by the histopathological analysis. The present results suggest that Kupffer cells are needed for the production of CCl(4)-induced cirrhosis, because their inactivation with GdCl(3) prevents the disease.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the small G protein Rho and its downstream effector Rho kinase may play important roles in kidney biology. The present study examined the effects of a Rho-kinase inhibitor, fasudil, on daunorubicin-induced progressive glomerulosclerosis and explored the underlying mechanism by which fasudil ameliorates glomerulosclerosis. Thirty-six male SD rats were randomly allocated into sham-operation group (sham group, n=12), unilateral nephrectomy (UNX)+daunorubicin (DRB) group (model group, n=12), UNX+DRB+Fasudil group (treatment group, n=12). Two to four weeks after the establishment of the animal model, 6 rats in each group were taken randomly for the detection of 24-h urine protein excretion. Kidney sections were examined by HE and PAS staining, immunohistochemistry and transmission electric microscopy (TEM). The expression of Rho-kinase mRNA and P27 mRNA in kidney were detected by RT-PCR. It was found that the 24-h urine protein excretion in model group was increased significantly as compared with sham group (P<0.01). But this increase was significantly suppressed by fasudil (P<0.05). At 4 week, the foot process effacement in podocytes, mesangial proliferation and ECM accumulation were observed in model group, presenting as focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. But in the treatment group, the fasudil alleviated glomerular injury, with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA)-positive cell infiltration ameliorated and the expression of P27 increased. The expression of Rho-kinase mRNA was significantly enhanced in model group and was suppressed in treatment group. Moreover, fasudil up-regulated the mRNA expression of P27. Our study demonstrated that the glomerulosclerosis was substantially ameliorated by inhibiting the expression of Rho-kinase. It is suggested that Rho-kinase pathway is involved in the renal injury and the inhibition of Rho-kinase may constitute a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of renal injury.
Acetaminophen (APAP) produces renal necrosis restricted to the straight segment of the proximal tubule in Fischer 344 (F344) rats. On the other hand, Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats are extremely resistant to the nephrotoxic effects of APAP. Such strain differences may be due to different susceptibilities to the nephrotoxic metabolite, p-aminophenol (PAP). PAP administration in both strains of rats resulted in a renal lesion indistinguishable from the APAP-induced renal lesion in F344 rats. The PAP-induced renal lesions in F344 rats, however, were generally more severe than those in SD rats. PAP-induced renal functional changes (elevation in blood urea nitrogen and reduction in the accumulation of p-aminohippurate by renal cortical slices) correlated with strain-dependent histopathological changes. Analysis of urinary metabolites over a 24-hr period following PAP administration (200 and 400 mg/kg) indicated that more PAP was excreted as APAP in SD than in F344 rats. Covalent binding of PAP to renal microsomes in vitro was much greater in F344 rats than in SD rats at substrate concentrations less than 5 mM. These results suggest that strain differences in PAP-induced nephrotoxicity may be related to differences in the intrarenal activation of PAP. Furthermore, strain differences in APAP-induced nephrotoxicity may be related to strain differences in the activation of the nephrotoxic metabolite, PAP.
The paper deals with a clinical evaluation of the results and side-effects of hormonotherapy of 108 patients with prostatic cancer, aged 46-96. Among the most frequent side-effects were: gynecomastia, sexual and neurologic dysfunction. Ziproterone acetate was followed by less frequent side-effects than generic flutamide. Monotherapy was tolerated better than maximum androgen deprivation. No significant correlation was found between survival, lethality and serologic progression duration, on the one hand, and variety of antiandrogen or androgen deprivation technique, on the other.
Deguelin is a rotenoid isolated from several plant species, which has been reported to have chemopreventive effects in skin, mammary, colon and lung cancers. The effects of deguelin on the proliferation and apoptosis of hepatic cancer cells were assessed by MTT assay and flow cytometric analysis. The growth of hepatic cancer cells (HepG2, Huh7 and SK-Hep1) was inhibited by deguelin in a dose-dependent manner. HepG2 cells of all the cell lines were the most sensitive to deguelin (IC50 = 0.62 microM). The proportion of sub-G1 apoptotic cells increased from 5.19 to 41.27% by deguelin (0.01-10 microM) treatment for 3 days in the HepG2 cells. The effects of deguelin on anti-angiogenesis of the HepG2 cells were assessed by using Western blot and RT-PCR analysis. Treatment of HepG2 cells with deguelin for 16 h under hypoxia conditions reduced the expression of the hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha protein and vascular endothelial growth factor mRNA in a dose-dependent manner. In order to investigate whether deguelin shows antiangiogenic activities, we performed in vitro and in vivo angiogenesis assays. In a tube formation assay, deguelin remarkably reduced the capillary network formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) on Matrigel beds. Furthermore, deguelin markedly decreased the migration of HUVECs compared to the control and reduced angiogenesis on the CAM of chick embryos. These results suggest that deguelin is potentially useful as a chemotherapeutic agent in hepatocellular carcinoma.
The current interest in malaria elimination has led to a renewed interest in drugs that can be used for mass administration to minimize malaria transmission. Primaquine (PQ) is the only generally available drug with a strong activity against mature Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes, the parasite stage responsible for transmission. Despite concerns about PQ-induced hemolysis in glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD)-deficient individuals, a single dose of PQ may be safe and efficacious in clearing gametocytes that persist after conventional treatment. As part of a mass drug intervention, we determined the hemolytic effect of sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) plus artesunate (AS) plus a single dose of primaquine (PQ; 0.75 mg/kg of body weight) in children aged 1 to 12 years. Children were randomized to receive SP+AS+PQ or placebo; those with a hemoglobin (Hb) level below 8 g/dl were excluded from receiving PQ and received SP+AS. The Hb concentration was significantly reduced 7 days after SP+AS+PQ treatment but not after placebo or SP+AS treatment. This reduction in Hb was most pronounced in G6PD-deficient (G6PD A-) individuals (-2.5 g/dl; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], -1.2 to -3.8 g/dl) but was also observed in heterozygotes (G6PD A) (-1.6 g/dl; 95% CI, -0.9 to -2.2 g/dl) and individuals with the wild-type genotype (G6PD B) (-0.5 g/dl; 95% CI, -0.4 to -0.6 g/dl). Moderate anemia (Hb level of <8 g/dl) was observed in 40% (6/15 individuals) of the G6PD A-, 11.1% (3/27 individuals) of the G6PD A, and 4.5% (18/399 individuals) of the G6PD B individuals; one case of severe anemia (Hb level of <5 g/dl) was observed. PQ may cause moderate anemia when coadministered with artemisinins, and excluding individuals based on G6PD status alone may not be sufficient to prevent PQ-induced hemolysis.
Pentamidine isethionate was found to be a very effective therapeutic agent in the treatment of pentavalent antimonial-resistant cases of kala-azar. Cardiotoxicity and metabolic disturbance (diabetes mellitus-like state) were found to be limiting factors in the use of this drug. Frequent clinical, electrocardiographic and biochemical observations are required during and after course of treatment and pentamidine treatment should be restricted to in-patients in hospitals.
The recommended dose of prostaglandin E1 as treatment for erectile dysfunction has been reported to be 10 to 40 micrograms. However, adverse effects probably increase with increasing doses. We conducted a prospective, single-blind, dose-escalating study of prostaglandin E1 on 20 men with erectile dysfunction of various etiologies. The response to prostaglandin E1 was assessed by penile palpation and RigiScan rigidity monitoring. A total of 17 patients completed the study: 1 achieved rigidity with 1 microgram., 2 with 2 micrograms. and 4 with 3 micrograms. prostaglandin E1, while more than 70% achieved rigidity with 5 micrograms. or less and more than 80% had a full erection with 20 micrograms. Of 138 injections there were 2 episodes of pain after injection. We conclude that the often recommended starting dose of 20 micrograms. is too high. A more appropriate starting dose is 2.5 micrograms. with increments of 2.5 micrograms. until the lowest effective dose is achieved. This approach may lessen the major impediments to prostaglandin E1 use, that is burning and pain.
Various stressful manipulations in rats (cold-water swim, electric foot-shock administration, imparied access to food reward) were found to reduce the convulsant potency of drugs which interfere with GABA or benzodiazepine central processes. The convulsant threshold dosages of picrotoxin (0.4 mg/ml) or pentetrazol (10 mg/ml) administered after the stress by infusion (0.2 ml/min) via a vein of the tail were enhanced. The onset of generalized seizures induced by isoniazid (800 mg/kg) or by thiosemicarbazide (64 mg/kg) i.p. was delayed after cold-water swim. However, convulsant threshold dosages of bemegride or strychnine perfused at 2 and 0.2 mg/ml respectively were not changed by stress. Cold-water swim increased the number of cortical (but not cerebellar) [3H]flunitrazepam binding sites (+ 24%) but failed to alter cortical [3H]muscimol binding. This post-stress enhancement of binding sties, although suppressed by bicuculline (10(-4) M) seems not to be dependent on GABAergic mechanisms. Indeed cold-water stress did not reduce the ability of muscimol (10(-6) and 10(-5) M) and GABA (5 x 10(-6) and 5 x 10(-5) M) to increase flunitrazepam binding. Finally, this post-stress enhancement of benzodiazepine binding was not found to be paralleled by changes in the protective effects of diazepam against picrotoxin- or pentetrazol-induced seizures.
Conazoles are a class of fungicides used as pharmaceutical and agricultural agents. In chronic bioassays in rats, triadimefon was hepatotoxic and induced follicular cell adenomas in the thyroid gland, whereas, propiconazole and myclobutanil were hepatotoxic but had no effect on the thyroid gland. These conazoles administered in the feed to male Wistar/Han rats were found to induce hepatomegaly, induce high levels of pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase, increase cell proliferation in the liver, increase serum cholesterol, decrease serum T3 and T4, and increase hepatic uridine diphosphoglucuronosyl transferase activity. The goal of the present study was to define pathways that explain the biologic outcomes. Male Wistar/Han rats (3 per group), were exposed to the 3 conazoles in the feed for 4, 30, or 90 days of treatment at tumorigenic and nontumorigenic doses. Hepatic gene expression was determined using high-density Affymetrix GeneChips (Rat 230_2). Differential gene expression was assessed at the probe level using Robust Multichip Average analysis. Principal component analysis by treatment and time showed within group sample similarity and that the treatment groups were distinct from each other. The number of altered genes varied by treatment, dose, and time. The greatest number of altered genes was induced by triadimefon and propiconazole after 90 days of treatment, while myclobutanil had minimal effects at that time point. Pathway level analyses revealed that after 90 days of treatment the most significant numbers of altered pathways were related to cell signaling, growth, and metabolism. Pathway level analysis for triadimefon and propiconazole resulted in 71 altered pathways common to both chemicals. These pathways controlled cholesterol metabolism, activation of nuclear receptors, and N-ras and K-ras signaling. There were 37 pathways uniquely changed by propiconazole, and triadimefon uniquely altered 34 pathways. Pathway level analysis of altered gene expression resulted in a more complete description of the associated toxicological effects that can distinguish triadimefon from propiconazole and myclobutanil.
Forty-four patients suffering from depressive disorders treated with lithium have been subdivide in two groups. One of groups included subjects with previous working anamnesis of exposure to renal toxic agents. The differences of renal function between the two groups have been considered. Significant differences of glomerular and tubular function have been found. These findings permit to hypothesize a synergism between lithium and nephrotoxic agents.
Conazoles are environmental and pharmaceutical fungicides. The present study relates the toxicological effects of conazoles to alterations of gene and pathway transcription and identifies potential modes of tumorigenic action. In a companion study employing conventional toxicological bioassays (Allen et al., 2006), male CD-1 mice were fed triadimefon, propiconazole, or myclobutanil in a continuous oral-dose regimen for 4, 30, or 90 days. These conazoles were found to induce hepatomegaly, to induce high levels of hepatic pentoxyresorufin-O-dealkylase activity, to increase hepatic cell proliferation, to decrease serum cholesterol, and to increase serum triglycerides. Differentially expressed genes and pathways were identified using Affymetrix GeneChips. Gene-pathway associations were obtained from the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, Biocarta, and MetaCore compendia. The pathway profiles of each conazole were different at each time point. In general, the number of altered metabolism, signaling, and growth pathways increased with time and dose and were greatest with propiconazole. All conazoles had effects on nuclear receptors as evidenced by increased expression and enzymatic activities of a series of related cytochrome P450s (CYP). A subset of altered genes and pathways distinguished the three conazoles from each other. Triadimefon and propiconazole both altered apoptosis, cell cycle, adherens junction, calcium signaling, and EGFR signaling pathways. Triadimefon produced greater changes in cholesterol biosynthesis and retinoic acid metabolism genes and in selected signaling pathways. Propiconazole had greater effects on genes responding to oxidative stress and on the IGF/P13K/AKt/PTEN/mTor and Wnt-beta-catenin pathways. In conclusion, while triadimefon, propiconazole, and myclobutanil had similar effects in mouse liver on hepatomegaly, histology, CYP activities, cell proliferation, and serum cholesterol, genomic analyses revealed major differences in their gene expression profiles.
This study was undertaken to test the hypothesis that increased sympathetic vasomotor drive is responsible for cortisol-induced hypertension.
Ten healthy male subjects on a fixed sodium diet (150 mmol/day) were randomized to five days of treatment with cortisol (200 mg/day) or placebo in a double-blind crossover study. On day 5 of each treatment, multi-unit muscle sympathetic activity was recorded from the common peroneal nerve. Resting muscle sympathetic activity (MSA) was measured in the recumbent position and stimulated MSA was measured in the final 20 sec of end-inspiratory capacity apnoea and end-expiratory apnoea and in the second minute of a cold pressor stimulus. A subgroup of six subjects also underwent identical MSA measurements following 5 days treatment with dexamethasone (3 mg/day).
Cortisol, but not placebo, significantly increased systolic (115+/-2 vs 129+/-3 mmHg precortisol vs cortisol day 5, p < 0.001) and diastolic blood pressure (53+/-3 vs 61+/-3, p < 0.05). Resting MSA was significantly reduced by cortisol (23.9+/-2.3 to 5.0+/-2.0 bursts/min, placebo vs cortisol, p < 0.01). Cortisol significantly attenuated the increase in MSA observed at end-inspiratory apnoea (56.3+/-3.9 vs 35.4+/-6.6, p < 0.05) and end-expiratory apnoea (50.5+/-3.5 vs 26.3+/-6.2 bursts/min, n = 8, p < 0.05), and during the cold pressor response (55.0+/-12.7 vs 21.4+/-7.6, n = 5, p < 0.05). Dexamethasone significantly increased systolic blood pressure and suppressed resting and stimulated MSA. No changes in body weight, haematocrit or angiotensin II concentrations occurred during dexamethasone treatment.
MSA is significantly suppressed by cortisol treatment. As suppression of MSA is also observed during treatment with the pure glucocorticoid dexamethasone, suppressed MSA cannot be attributed to increased plasma volume or to changes in angiotensin II concentration. We conclude that cortisol-induced hypertension is not due to increased muscle sympathetic vasomotor drive.
A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, two-by-two factorial trial was carried out among 977 schoolchildren from 19 primary schools in Nyanza Province, Kenya from February 1995 to February 1996. The interventions were multimicronutrient supplementation (vitamin A, 1000 micrograms; vitamin B1, 1.4 mg; vitamin B2, 1.6 mg; vitamin B6, 1.7 mg; vitamin B12, 2.0 micrograms; folate, 150 micrograms; niacin, 16 mg; vitamin C, 50 mg; vitamin D, 5 micrograms; vitamin E, 8 mg; iron, 18 mg; zinc, 20 mg; copper, 2.0 mg; iodine, 150 micrograms; selenium, 40 micrograms) and multihelminth chemotherapy (albendazole 600 mg in a single dose and/or praziquantel 40 mg/kg in a single dose). This paper reports the effects of the supplementation given on all school days on reinfection with hookworm, Ascaris lumbricoides, Trichuris trichiura and Schistosoma mansoni after 11 months. Baseline prevalence and geometric mean intensity for hookworm, A. lumbricoides, T. trichiura and S. mansoni in all children investigated were 54.7%, 13.8%, 45.6% and 70.0%, respectively and 8.6, 2.7, 5.9 and 19.4 eggs per gram (epg), respectively. Children received a mean of 2.3 multimicronutrient/placebo tablets per school week, giving a compliance rate of 46%. Children given multimicronutrients had a slightly, but significantly, lower intensity of S. mansoni reinfection compared with children given placebo (5.5 epg vs. 7.7 epg, P = 0.047). Multiple linear regression analyses controlling for baseline infection status confirmed this, as children who received micronutrients were reinfected with S. mansoni at only 69% of the intensity of those who received placebo. Multiple logistic regression analyses revealed that micronutrient supplementation was associated with a lower S. mansoni reinfection rate (odds ratio = 0.7) although this was only of borderline significance (P = 0.090). There were no significant differences in reinfection rates or intensities of hookworm, A. lumbricoides and T. trichiura. The effect on S. mansoni infection intensity is particularly interesting given the low compliance, suggesting that full micronutrient supplementation might have a role to play in S. mansoni control programmes.
