Aripiprazole is an investigational agent for treating schizophrenia that has a novel pharmacologic profile. The present study investigated the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of aripiprazole and haloperidol compared with placebo.
A 4-week, double-blind, randomized study, conducted at 36 U.S. centers between July 1997 and June 1998, compared aripiprazole (15 mg/day, 30 mg/day) to placebo, with haloperidol (10 mg/day) as an active control. Fixed doses of each agent were administered from day 1 throughout the study. A total of 414 patients with a primary DSM-IV diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder were randomized. Efficacy measures included the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total, PANSS positive, PANSS negative, PANSS-derived Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) core, Clinical Global Impressions (CGI)-Severity of Illness, and mean CGI-Improvement scores. Safety and tolerability evaluations included extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), weight gain, serum prolactin level, and QTc interval.
Both doses of aripiprazole and haloperidol, 10 mg, produced statistically significant (p < or = .05) improvements from baseline in PANSS total, PANSS positive, PANSS-derived BPRS core, and CGI-Severity scores and significantly lower CGI-Improvement scores at endpoint, compared with placebo. Aripiprazole, 15 mg, and haloperidol, 10 mg, significantly improved PANSS negative score compared with placebo. Both aripiprazole doses and haloperidol separated from placebo for PANSS total scores at week 2. Unlike haloperidol, aripiprazole was not associated with significant EPS or prolactin elevation at endpoint compared with placebo. There were no statistically significant differences in mean changes in body weight across the treatment groups versus placebo, and no patients receiving aripiprazole experienced clinically significant increases in QTc interval.
Aripiprazole, effective against positive and negative symptoms, is a safe and well-tolerated potential treatment for schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder.
The goal of this study was to assess the effect of bilateral subthalamic deep brain stimulation (STN DBS) on levodopa-induced diphasic dyskinesia in patients with Parkinson disease (PD).
Six PD patients with diphasic dyskinesia were included in this study. Prior to surgery, the duration and severity of dyskinesia were determined in each patient, along with the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale score and Hoehn and Yahr stage. Bilateral STN electrode implantation was performed during a single operation.
The median duration of the follow-up period was 21.5 months (range 14-24 months). STN DBS had a beneficial effect on diphasic dyskinesia in all patients. At the last follow-up, 3 patients had no dyskinesia and 1 had only a small amount of peak-dose dyskinesia. One patient showed a reduction in the duration of diphasic dyskinesia, despite a lack of reduction in the total duration of dyskinesia. In the last patient, although the total duration of dyskinesia increased, the pattern of dyskinesia changed from severe painful disabling dyskinesia to the less severe peak-dose type of dyskinesia. There were no intraoperative or postoperative surgical complications.
Bilateral STN DBS is good at reducing diphasic dyskinesia, and it can be a good therapeutic option for patients with diphasic dyskinesia.
Paired-box 2 (Pax2) is involved in the development of the female genital tract and has been associated with endometrial pathologies. The expression of Pax2 is induced by epidermal growth factor (EGF) and estrogens. In the present study, Pax2 expression and regulation were investigated in endometriosis.
Pax2 protein expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry in the eutopic (i.e. inside the uterus) and ectopic tissue (endometriosis) from 11 patients. Immunoreactivity was high in the endometrium, with strong epithelial and weaker stromal staining. Similar expression patterns of Pax2 were observed in the endometrium of women without endometriosis (n = 12). The mRNA level of Pax2 was assessed by real-time PCR in the eutopic and ectopic endometria of 14 patients and in the endometrium from women without endometriosis (n = 20). Pax2 expression was lower in endometriotic lesions than that in the eutopic endometrium of patients (P< 0.001) and controls (P= 0.007). Three possible mechanisms determining low Pax2 expression were investigated: EGF signalling, CpG DNA methylation of the Pax2 promoter and steroid response. The mRNA level of the EGF receptor (EGFR1) was assessed in the samples used for Pax2 mRNA assessment. A significant correlation between EGFR1 and Pax2 in both eutopic and ectopic tissues was observed (R = 0.58; slope regression line, 0.81; 95% CI: 0.09-1.52 and R = 0.54; slope regression line, 2.51; 95% CI: 0.02-4.99, respectively). CpG DNA methylation was analyzed by methyl-specific PCR in two regions of the Pax2 promoter but they were unmethylated in all samples. Steroid responsiveness was assessed using endometrial explant cultures and Pax2 was not regulated by either 17β-estradiol or progesterone.
In endometriosis patients, Pax2 is down-regulated in the lesions compared with the eutopic tissue, possibly due to low EGF signalling.
Kleptomania, one of the rare impulse-control disorders, is characterized by an irresistible impulse to steal objects not needed for personal use or monetary value. There is a comorbidity between mood disorders, eating disorders, anxiety disorders, personality disorders, and kleptomania. Several recent case reports have suggested that serotonin reuptake inhibitors could be effective in the treatment of obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders and specifically in kleptomania. We describe three depressed patients who paradoxically experienced kleptomanic behavior during treatment with serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors.
The effects of fenfluramine were examined on 20 children with autism over a 48-week period utilizing a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design. Blood and urine samples and psychological tests (Griffith's Developmental Scales and Real Life Rating Scale) were obtained at each crossover period. The only significant improvement was a decrease in abnormal motor behavior. We did not find any significant improvement in intellectual functioning or any correlation between good clinical response and low baseline serotonin levels or high baseline IQ. Serotonin decreased 53% after fenfluramine treatment and rebounded to a level 35% higher than baseline following a placebo period. Fenfluramine and the active metabolite norfenfluramine were determined in plasma samples.
This study examined rebound insomnia after discontinuation of chronic use of zolpidem (10 mg), a short elimination half-life imidazopyridine. The zolpidem group was bracketed by a placebo group and a positive control group taking 0.5 mg of triazolam (twice the recommended dose), which is known to produce rebound insomnia. Ninety-nine patients with sleep complaints that were polysomnographically documented participated in the study. After randomization, patients completed a 2-night, single-blind, placebo baseline period, a 28-night double-blind treatment phase, and a 3-night, single-blind, placebo substitution period. Polysomnographic and subjective sleep variables indicated a lack of rebound insomnia for the zolpidem group. The positive triazolam control group had rebound insomnia only on the first discontinuation night. There was no significant correlation between rebound insomnia and the level of initial insomnia, the degree of response to treatment in week 4, or the amount of tolerance that developed during drug use. During the 4-week treatment period, efficacy diminished for both drugs. From these data, it cannot be determined whether the lack of rebound insomnia with zolpidem is a result of drug dose or some property of the drug such as receptor selectivity.
A similar pattern of psychosexual disorders has been observed after long-term treatment with levodopa therapy in four male parkinsonian patients treated with apomorphine for severe on-off motor fluctuations. An acute episode in each case had led them to the hospital in the context of a psychiatric emergency (after punishable sexual acts in two cases). In each case, this episode had been preceded by an increase of self-administered apomorphine, whereas other antiparkinsonian drugs remained unchanged. Questioning had revealed psychosexual disturbances as early as the onset of apomorphine treatment, which tended to progressively worsen with the number of apomorphine daily doses. A decrease in the dosage of apomorphine had been followed by the improvement of the psychiatric condition without worsening of the motor status. Recurrence of psychiatric disorders with similar features had been observed when two patients again increased the number of apomorphine daily injections. The absence of somatic manifestations when apomorphine treatment was withdrawn or reduced, with persistence of psychosexual disturbances, could suggest a psychological dependence from the drug.
We report a rare case of torsade de pointes, a polymorphic ventricular tachycardia associated with QT interval prolongation, caused by intravenous ciprofloxacin given for pneumonia in a 22-year-old healthy Marine. Although the risk for quinolone-associated torsade de pointes appears to be low, caution is still warranted when given in the presence of pre-existing QT prolongation.
Chloroprene is the 2-chloro analog of 1,3-butadiene, a potent carcinogen in laboratory animals. Following 2 years of inhalation exposure to 12.8, 32 or 80 p.p.m. chloroprene, increased incidences of lung and Harderian gland (HG) neoplasms were observed in B6C3F1 mice at all exposure concentrations. The present study was designed to characterize genetic alterations in the K- and H-ras proto-oncogenes in chloroprene-induced lung and HG neoplasms. K-ras mutations were detected in 80% of chloroprene-induced lung neoplasms (37/46) compared with only 30% in spontaneous lung neoplasms (25/82). Both K- and H-ras codon 61 A-->T transversions were identified in 100% of HG neoplasms (27/27) compared with a frequency of 56% (15/27) in spontaneous HG neoplasms. The predominant mutation in chloroprene-induced lung and HG neoplasms was an A-->T transversion at K-ras codon 61. This mutation has not been detected in spontaneous lung tumors of B6C3F1 mice and was identified in only 7% of spontaneous HG neoplasms. In lung neoplasms, greater percentages (80 and 71%) of A-->T transversions were observed at the lower exposures (12.8 and 32 p.p.m.), respectively, compared with 18% at the high exposure. In HG neoplasms, the percentage of A-->T transversions was the same at all exposure concentrations. The chloroprene-induced ras mutation spectra was similar to that seen with isoprene, where the predominant base change was an A-->T transversion at K-ras codon 61. This differed from 1,3-butadiene, where K-ras codon 13 G-->C transitions and H-ras codon 61 A-->G transitions were the predominant mutations. The major finding of K-ras A-->T transversions in lung and Harderian gland neoplasms suggests that this mutation may be important for tumor induction by this class of carcinogens.
Gap junction intercellular communication capacity and connexin expression are reportedly decreased in human lung cancer. The mechanisms by which connexins, the gap junction proteins, act as tumor suppressors are unclear. In order to understand the involvement of connexins in tumorigenesis, we analyzed the effect of the heterologous deletion of Gja1 [the connexin43 (Cx43) gene] on the development of lung adenomas in mice. Heterozygous (Cx43(+/-)) and wild-type mice (Cx43(+/+)) were treated or not with single doses of urethane at 15 and 17 days after birth. Twenty-five weeks later, both the number and size of nodules were increased in Cx43(+/-) mice as compared with Cx43(+/+) mice. Moreover, the lesions were histologically more aggressive in the heterozygous mice. However, no increase in spontaneous lesions was observed in the lungs of untreated Cx43(+/-) mice. Heterozygous mice effectively presented lower expression of Cx43 genes and decreased amounts of Cx43. In conclusion, our results indicate that deletion of one allele of the Cx43 gene clearly favors the carcinogenic effect of urethane administration and results in a higher susceptibility to lung adenoma formation in mice.
Haematologic toxicity is the most common adverse effect related to long-term administration of zidovudine (AZT). We evaluated the kinetics of modifications of some haematologic parameters of erythroid series in 65 patients with HIV infection treated with AZT for a mean duration of 7.6 +/- 4.7 months (13 of them with a previous diagnosis of AIDS, 34 with ARC, 18 asymptomatic or with LAS/PGL), in order to correlate the observation and the evolution of these laboratory changes with the onset of severe anaemia. The development of macrocytosis occurs in a large majority of AZT-treated subjects, in spite of folate and vitamin B12 supplementation; the monitoring of erythrocytes distribution according to cellular volume and cellular haemoglobin concentration makes it possible to early recognize the occurrence of modification in erythropoiesis. There is no correlation between an elevated mean corpuscular volume and the development of severe anaemia (Hb less than or equal to 9 g/dl) in an individual patient; a fall in the reticulocyte count appears to be the earliest peripheral blood sign of the development of bone marrow toxicity.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can cause regression of early intestinal tumors and although this is believed to involve cyclooxygenase-2 and apoptosis, the molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Cytoplasmic and nuclear beta-catenin are overexpressed in many of these lesions and Bcl-2, which inhibits apoptosis, may also be elevated during the course of intestinal tumorigenesis. We recently showed that sulindac causes regression of 70-80% of small intestinal tumors in Min/+ mice within 4 days, but does not have the same impact on colonic lesions; after 20 days of treatment the tumor load stabilizes at 10-20% of that in untreated animals. The aim of this study was to determine if NSAID-induced regression of intestinal adenomas might be associated with changes in beta-catenin or Bcl-2 expression. Intestinal tumors from Min/+ mice were harvested after treatment with sulindac for 2, 4 or 20 days and evaluated for expression of beta-catenin and Bcl-2 using immunohistochemistry. There was a > or = 50% decrease in beta-catenin (P = 0.001) and diminishing Bcl-2 (P = 0.019) in small intestinal tumors harvested between 2 and 4 days of treatment when compared with untreated controls. In contrast, small intestinal tumors from animals treated for 20 days were not significantly different from untreated controls. Colonic tumors expressed higher levels of Bcl-2 than those from the small intestine and did not show any significant changes in either Bcl-2 or beta-catenin expression after treatment. Results suggest that modulation of aberrant beta-catenin expression occurs during NSAID-induced regression of intestinal adenomas and that Bcl-2 may confer resistance to these effects.
Dmrt1 and amh are genes involved in vertebrate sex differentiation. In this study, we cloned dmrt1 and amh cDNAs in zebrafish (Danio rerio) and investigated the effects of exposure to 17a-ethinylestradiol (EE2), during early life on their patterns of expression and impact on the subsequent gonadal phenotype. Expression of both amh and dmrt1 in embryos was detected as early as at 1 day post fertilization (dpf) and enhanced expression of amh from 25 dpf was associated with the period of early gonadal differentiation. Sex-dependent differences in enhanced green fluorescent protein transgene expression driven by the promoter of the germ cell-specific vas gene were exploited to show that at 28dpf and 56dpf both amh and dmrt1 mRNA were overexpressed in males compared with females. Exposure during early life to environmentally relevant concentrations of EE2 had a suppressive effect on the expression of both amh and dmrt1 mRNAs and this was associated with a cessation/retardation in male gonadal sex development. Our findings indicate that estrogen-induced suppression in expression of dmrt1 and amh during early life correlate with subsequent disruptive effects on the sexual phenotype in males.
Twenty years of genetic studies have not contributed to improvement in the clinical management of primary arterial hypertension. Genetic heterogeneity, epistatic-environmental-biological interactions, and the pathophysiological complexity of hypertension have hampered the clinical application of genetic findings. In the companion article, we furnished data from rodents and human cells demonstrating two hypertension-triggering mechanisms--variants of adducin and elevated concentrations of endogenous ouabain (within a particular range)--and their selective inhibition by the drug rostafuroxin. Here, we have investigated the relationship between variants of genes encoding enzymes for ouabain synthesis [LSS (lanosterol synthase) and HSD3B1 (hydroxy-δ-5-steroid dehydrogenase, 3β- and steroid δ-isomerase 1)], ouabain transport {MDR1/ABCB1 [ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B (MDR/TAP), member 1]}, and adducin activity [ADD1 (adducin 1) and ADD3], and the responses to antihypertensive medications. We determined the presence of these variants in newly recruited, never-treated patients. The genetic profile defined by these variants predicted the antihypertensive effect of rostafuroxin (a mean placebo-corrected systolic blood pressure fall of 14 millimeters of mercury) but not that of losartan or hydrochlorothiazide. The magnitude of the rostafuroxin antihypertensive effect was twice that of antihypertensive drugs recently tested in phase 2 clinical trials. One-quarter of patients with primary hypertension display these variants of adducin or concentrations of endogenous ouabain and would be expected to respond to therapy with rostafuroxin. Because the mechanisms that are inhibited by rostafuroxin also underlie hypertension-related organ damage, this drug may also reduce the cardiovascular risk in these patients beyond that expected by the reduction in systolic blood pressure alone.
As paclitaxel may induce positive spontaneous visual symptoms or persistent visual loss, we carried out this electrophysiological study in an attempt to clarify the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms of visual pathway involvement. The study involved 30 breast cancer patients: 14 were treated with paclitaxel alone (group A) and 16 with paclitaxel and adriamycin (group B). Pattern visual evoked potentials (VEPs), and transient, 30 Hz flicker (FLK) and oscillatory potential (OP) white flash electroretinograms (ERGs), were recorded before treatment, after the third and sixth therapeutic cycle, and at the end of the programmed regimen. Pretreatment: Abnormal VEP and OP and FLK changes occurred more than 75% of patients; transient ERGs were normal in more than 90%. Serial recordings: VEPs remained unchanged in both goups. In group A, ERG b-wave latency significantly increased (ANOVA P<0.005), and OP and FLK were characterised by non-significant mild attenuation. Several combinations of ERG, OP, FLK and VEP changes occurred in 50% of the patients. The association between transitory lightining scotoma or blurred vision (reported by 12 patients) and VEP, ERG and FLK was poor, whereas that with OP was satisfactory. A few patients showed stable and persistent subclinical electrophysiological changes. Electrophysiological changes during treatment revealed the involvement of both the retina and anterior optic pathway. There was only a weak correlation between visual symptoms and electrophysiology. We suggest that the most likely mechanism of visual symptoms and electrophysiological changes during paclitaxel administration is vascular dysregulation in the retina, or ischemic mechanisms when the optic nerve is involved.
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a common and potentially severe form of liver disease. This study aimed to determine the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid and its NO-releasing derivative NCX-1000 alone or in combination with antioxidants on cultured mouse hepatocytes treated with amiodarone to mimic certain aspects of hepatocyte injury found in NASH. Isolated mouse hepatocytes were incubated with ursodeoxycholic acid or NCX-1000 (0-100 micromol/L) combined or not combined with the hydrophilic antioxidants butylated hydroxytoluene and ascorbic acid (0-100 micromol/L) or with the lipophilic antioxidant alpha-tocopherol (0-100 micromol/L) 15 min before adding amiodarone (50 micromol/L) to the culture medium. Twenty hours later, necrosis, apoptosis, superoxide anion production, and malondialdehyde levels were assessed in cultured cells. Amiodarone led to a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability with an LD50 of 50 micromol/L and increased production of superoxide anion and lipid peroxidation. NCX-1000 showed a better protective potential than ursodeoxycholic acid against the toxic effects of amiodarone. The hydrophilic antioxidants had no effect on the toxicity of amiodarone, whereas alpha-tocopherol at a concentration >100 micromol/L almost completely suppressed it. Ursodeoxycholic acid and NCX-1000 protection was additive only when they were combined with alpha-tocopherol, not with butylated hydroxytoluene or ascorbic acid. In addition, all the antioxidants tested reduced the superoxide anion detected, but only alpha-tocopherol prevented lipid peroxidation induced by amiodarone. The combination of lipophilic antioxidants with ursodeoxycholic acid or NCX-1000 enhances their protective potential and could represent an interesting therapeutic approach to explore for the treatment of NASH.
Amplification of the MET proto-oncogene in gastroesophageal cancer (GEC) may constitute a molecular marker for targeted therapy. We examined a GEC cohort with follow-up and reported the clinical response of four additional patients with MET-amplified tumors to the small molecule inhibitor crizotinib as part of an expanded phase I cohort study.
From 2007 to 2009, patients with GEC were genetically screened as a consecutive series of 489 tumors (stages 0, I, and II, 39%; III, 25%; IV, 36%; n = 222 esophageal, including n = 21 squamous carcinomas). MET, EGFR, and HER2 amplification status was assessed by using fluorescence in situ hybridization.
Ten (2%) of 489 patients screened harbored MET amplification; 23 (4.7%) harbored EGFR amplification; 45 (8.9%) harbored HER2 amplification; and 411 (84%) were wild type for all three genes (ie, negative). MET-amplified tumors were typically high-grade adenocarcinomas that presented at advanced stages (5%; n = 4 of 80). EGFR-amplified tumors showed the highest fraction of squamous cell carcinoma (17%; n = 4 of 23). HER2, MET, and EGFR amplification were, with one exception (MET and EGFR positive), mutually exclusive events. Survival analysis in patients with stages III and IV disease showed substantially shorter median survival in MET/EGFR-amplified groups, with a rank order for all groups by median survival (from most to least aggressive): MET (7.1 months; P < .001) less than EGFR (11.2 months; P = .16) less than HER2 (16.9 months; P = .89) when compared with the negative group (16.2 months). Two of four patients with MET-amplified tumors treated with crizotinib experienced tumor shrinkage (-30% and -16%) and experienced progression after 3.7 and 3.5 months.
MET amplification defines a small and aggressive subset of GEC with indications of transient sensitivity to the targeted MET inhibitor crizotinib (PF-02341066).
Diabetes-induced testicular apoptosis is predominantly due to increased oxidative stress. The nuclear factor-erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), as a master transcription factor in controlling anti-oxidative systems, is able to be induced by sulforaphane (SFN). To examine whether SFN prevents testicular apoptosis, type 1 diabetic mouse model was induced with multiple low-dose streptozotocin. Diabetic and age-matched control mice were treated with and without SFN at 0.5mg/kg daily in five days of each week for 3months and then kept until 6months. Diabetes significantly increased testicular apoptosis that was associated with endoplasmic reticulum stress and mitochondrial cell death pathways, shown by the increased expression of C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), cleaved caspase-12, Bax to Bcl2 expression ratio, and cleaved caspase-3. Diabetes also significantly increased testicular oxidative damage, inflammation and fibrosis, and decreased germ cell proliferation. All these diabetic effects were significantly prevented by SFN treatment for the first 3months, and the protective effect could be sustained at 3months after SFN treatment. SFN was able to up-regulate Nrf2 expression and function. The latter was reflected by the increased phosphorylation of Nrf2 at Ser40 and expression of Nrf2 downstream antioxidants at mRNA and protein levels. These results suggest that type 1 diabetes significantly induced testicular apoptosis and damage along with increasing oxidative stress and cell death and suppressing Nrf2 expression and function. SFN is able to prevent testicular oxidative damage and apoptosis in type 1 diabetes mice, which may be associated with the preservation of testicular Nrf2 expression and function under diabetic condition.
A large number of antibiotics are known to cause drug-induced liver injury in the clinic; however, interpreting clinical risk is not straightforward owing to a lack of predictivity of the toxicity by standard preclinical species and a poor understanding of the mechanisms of toxicity. An example is PF-04287881, a novel ketolide antibiotic that caused elevations in liver function tests in Phase I clinical studies. In this study, a mouse diversity panel (MDP), comprised of 34 genetically diverse, inbred mouse strains, was utilized to model the toxicity observed with PF-04287881 treatment and investigate potential mechanisms that may mediate the liver response. Significant elevations in serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels in PF-04287881-treated animals relative to vehicle-treated controls were observed in the majority (88%) of strains tested following a seven day exposure. The average fold elevation in ALT varied by genetic background and correlated with microscopic findings of hepatocellular hypertrophy, hepatocellular single cell necrosis, and Kupffer cell vacuolation (confirmed as phospholipidosis) in the liver. Global liver mRNA expression was evaluated in a subset of four strains to identify transcript and pathway differences that distinguish susceptible mice from resistant mice in the context of PF-04287881 treatment. The protein ubiquitination pathway was highly enriched among genes associated with PF-04287881-induced hepatocellular necrosis. Expression changes associated with PF-04287881-induced phospholipidosis included genes involved in drug transport, phospholipid metabolism, and lysosomal function. The findings suggest that perturbations in genes involved in protein degradation leading to accumulation of oxidized proteins may mediate the liver injury induced by this drug.
Ninety-two patients with heart failure refractory to digitalis and diuretic therapy had captopril (n = 50) or placebo (n = 42) added to their therapeutic regimen in a randomized, double-blind trial. During a 2 week dosage titration period, one captopril-treated patient died of an intracerebral hemorrhage. Over the remaining 10 week evaluation period, 1 captopril-treated patient (2%) was excluded from the study because of treatment failure as compared with 12 discontinuations (4 deaths and 8 failures [29%]) among the placebo group (p less than 0.001). Eighty percent of patients in the captopril group exhibited some degree of clinical improvement, whereas only 27% in the placebo group did so (p less than 0.001). The therapeutic advantage of captopril over placebo was evidenced by a mean improvement of 0.52 (2.8 +/- 0.1 to 2.3 +/- 0.1) in the New York Heart Association functional class value as compared with 0.03 (2.9 +/- 0.1 to 2.8 +/- 0.1) with placebo (p less than 0.0001). There was a 24% mean increase in exercise tolerance with captopril (495 +/- 22 to 614 +/- 27 seconds) as compared with 0.4% with placebo (480 +/- 28 to 483 +/- 43 seconds) (p less than 0.01); the captopril group had an increase in the ejection fraction from a mean baseline value of 0.19 +/- 0.02 to 0.22 +2- 0.02 as compared with 0.19 +/- 0.02 to 0.18 +/- 0.002 (p less than 0.05) in the placebo group. A cohort analysis revealed that improvement in exercise tolerance with captopril was gradual and progressive throughout the 12 weeks. Improvement in specific symptoms of heart failure, that is, dyspnea, fatigue and orthopnea, and the reduction of edema also were greater in the captopril-treated patients (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.001). Captopril therapy was well tolerated, although symptomatic hypotension after the first dose caused withdrawal of three patients (3%) from the study. It was concluded that captopril is an effective adjunctive treatment to digitalis and diuretic drugs for patients with refractory heart failure.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE; Kininase II; CD143) hydrolyzes small peptides such as angiotensin I, bradykinin, substance P, LH-RH and several others and thus plays a key role in blood pressure regulation and vascular remodeling. Complete absence of ACE in humans leads to renal tubular dysgenesis (RTD), a severe disorder of renal tubule development characterized by persistent fetal anuria and perinatal death.
Patient with RTD in Lisbon, Portugal, maintained by peritoneal dialysis since birth, was found to have a homozygous substitution of Arg for Glu at position 1069 in the C-terminal domain of ACE (Q1069R) resulting in absence of plasma ACE activity; both parents and a brother who are heterozygous carriers of this mutation had exactly half-normal plasma ACE activity compared to healthy individuals. We hypothesized that the Q1069R substitution impaired ACE trafficking to the cell surface and led to accumulation of catalytically inactive ACE in the cell cytoplasm. CHO cells expressing wild-type (WT) vs. Q1069R-ACE demonstrated the mutant accumulates intracellularly and also that it is significantly degraded by intracellular proteases. Q1069R-ACE retained catalytic and immunological characteristics of WT-ACE N domain whereas it had 10-20% of the nativity of the WT-ACE C domain. A combination of chemical (sodium butyrate) or pharmacological (ACE inhibitor) chaperones with proteasome inhibitors (MG 132 or bortezomib) significantly restored trafficking of Q1069R-ACE to the cell surface and increased ACE activity in the cell culture media 4-fold.
Homozygous Q1069R substitution results in an ACE trafficking and processing defect which can be rescued, at least in cell culture, by a combination of chaperones and proteasome inhibitors. Further studies are required to determine whether similar treatment of individuals with this ACE mutation would provide therapeutic benefits such as concentration of primary urine.
There is compelling evidence to indicate an important role for increased local renin-angiotensin system activity in the pathogenesis of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. Resveratrol is a natural polyphenol that activates SIRT1, a novel cardioprotective and longevity factor having NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase activity. We tested the hypothesis whether resveratrol could prevent from angiotensin II (Ang II)-induced cardiovascular damage. Four-week-old double transgenic rats harboring human renin and human angiotensinogen genes (dTGR) were treated for 4 weeks either with SIRT1 activator resveratrol or SIRT1 inhibitor nicotinamide. Untreated dTGR and their normotensive Sprague-Dawley control rats (SD) received vehicle. Untreated dTGR developed severe hypertension as well as cardiac hypertrophy, and showed pronounced cardiovascular mortality compared with normotensive SD rats. Resveratrol slightly but significantly decreased blood pressure, ameliorated cardiac hypertrophy and prevented completely Ang II-induced mortality, whereas nicotinamide increased blood pressure without significantly influencing cardiac hypertrophy or survival. Resveratrol decreased cardiac ANP mRNA expression and induced cardiac mRNA expressions of mitochondrial biogenesis markers peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator (PGC-1alpha), mitochondrial transcription factor (Tfam), nuclear respiratory factor 1 (NRF-1) and cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4 (cox4). Resveratrol dose-dependently increased SIRT1 activity in vitro. Our findings suggest that the beneficial effects of SIRT1 activator resveratrol on Ang II-induced cardiac remodeling are mediated by blood pressure-dependent pathways and are linked to increased mitochondrial biogenesis.
A 70-year-old man was diagnosed as having rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in 2005. He was treated with 1 g salazosulfapyridine (SASP) daily for two years. Hematological investigations conducted since 2005 demonstrated hemoglobin concentrations of 8 approximately 9 g/dl, which then dropped to 4.9 g/dl on November 21, 2007, following which he was admitted to our hospital. Megaloblastic anemia associated with SASP treatment and anemia of chronic disorders were diagnosed on the basis of folate deficiency and bone marrow examination. This report describes a case of megaloblastic anemia, which developed two years after starting SASP and promptly recovered after its withdrawal and treatment with folic acid and prednisolone. The doses of SASP prescribed for RA in Japan are less than those prescribed abroad. Megaloblastic anemia associated with SASP treatment for RA is not usually detected in Japan. Currently, SASP is widely used and one of the key drugs in the treatment of RA. This case suggests that SASP therapy in RA might result in megaloblastic anemia.
An increase in intra-neuronal Ca(2+) concentration has been associated to status epilepticus (SE). Ca(2+) is stored in the endoplasmic reticulum, mediated by the Ca(2+)-ATPases (SERCAs). Here we studied the Ca(2+)-ATPase activity and the SERCA2b distribution in the hippocampus of rats submitted to 5h of SE. The Ca(2+)-uptake was measured using [45Ca]CaCl(2) and the hippocampal distribution of SERCA2b was analyzed by immunohistochemistry. A reduction in the amount of cells expressing SERCA2b in CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus was observed. However, the surviving cells of these regions increased the SERCA2b immunoreactivity, when compared with control tissues. The Ca(2+)-ATPase activity measured in all hippocampal formation was not modified by SE. These results suggest that SE promotes a redistribution of SERCA2b in the hippocampus as a compensatory Ca(2+)-transport mechanism.
The restoration of plasma acetylcholinesterase activity in mice following inhibition by organophosphorus pesticides and nerve agents has been attributed to synthesis of new enzyme. It is generally assumed that activity levels return to normal, are stable and do not exceed the normal level. We have observed over the past 10 years that recovery of acetylcholinesterase activity levels in mice treated with organophosphorus agents (OP) exceeds pretreatment levels and remains elevated for up to 2 months. The most dramatic case was in mice treated with tri-cresyl phosphate and tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate, where plasma acetylcholinesterase activity rebounded to a level 250% higher than the pretreatment activity. The present report summarizes our observations on plasma acetylcholinesterase activity in mice treated with chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos oxon, diazinon, tri-ortho-cresyl phosphate, tri-cresyl phosphate, tabun thiocholine, parathion, dichlorvos, and diisopropylfluorophosphate. We have developed a hypothesis to explain the excess acetylcholinesterase activity, based on published observations. We hypothesize that acetylcholinesterase activity is induced when cells undergo apoptosis and that consequently there is a rise in the level of plasma acetylcholinesterase.
To characterize the cardiac effects of dexamethasone in very low birth weight infants.
Prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial. Enrolled subjects were randomized to receive either a 42-day tapering course of dexamethasone or a saline placebo. Echocardiographic measurements were obtained on days 0, 7, 14, 28, and 42.
Thirteen infants received dexamethasone and 13 a saline placebo. The two groups were similar in birth weight, gestational age, age at enrollment, and sex/ race composition.
Patients receiving dexamethasone had a significantly larger increase in septal thickness on days 7, 14, and 28 and left ventricle (LV) posterior wall thickness on day 14. A significantly lower left ventricular end-diastolic dimension in the dexamethasone group was initially noted on day 7 and persisted until day 42. With the reduced left ventricular end-diastolic dimension, no significant differences in LV mass were noted, despite the increased wall thickness. No differences in LV systolic function, as assessed by area shortening, were seen. Assessment of diastolic function showed a significant increase in the atrial portion of mitral inflow in dexamethasone patients on day 14, as well as a significant prolongation in isovolumic relaxation time on days 7, 14, and 28.
Infants receiving dexamethasone developed evidence for impaired LV filling with a lager increase in wall thickness but no increase in LV mass, asymmetric septal hypertrophy, or augmented systolic function. This suggests that alterations in left ventricular filling play an important role in the development of hypertrophy seen with dexamethasone administration.
Immune hemolytic anemia and chronic active hepatitis developed concurrently in a 76-year-old man after prolonged therapy with methyldopa. Both complications disappeared following cessation of treatment with the offending drug and a short course of a high-dose corticosteroid (prednisone). Inhibition of T-suppressor lymphocyte function by methyldopa may be instrumental in the emergence of autoimmune complications following usage of the drug.
