Auraptene is being investigated for its chemopreventive effects in many models of cancer including skin, colon, prostate, and breast. Many mechanisms of action including anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative, and antiapoptotic effects are being suggested for the chemopreventive properties of auraptene. We have previously shown in the N-methylnitrosourea induced mammary carcinogenesis model that dietary auraptene (500 ppm) significantly delayed tumor latency. The delay in time to tumor corresponded with a significant reduction in cyclin D1 protein expression in the tumors. Since cyclin D1 is a major regulator of cell cycle, we further studied the effects of auraptene on cell cycle and the genes related to cell cycle in MCF-7 cells. Here we show that auraptene significantly inhibited IGF-1 stimulated S phase of cell cycle in MCF-7 cells and significantly changed the transcription of many genes involved in cell cycle.
Resveratrol has been shown to possess multiple pharmacological activities including anti-tumor, anti-inflammation and immunomodulation, and participates in the regulation of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway. However, the mechanism of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway inhibited by resveratrol remains obscure. In this study, we first examined the effect of resveratrol on endogenous and TNF-alpha-induced NF-kappaB activation, and found that resveratrol suppressed NF-kappaB activation in a dose dependent manner. Resveratrol reduced the transcriptional activity of p65, but neither affected the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB nor blocked the nuclear translocation of p65. Moreover, resveratrol had no effect on the expression level of IkappaBalpha protein and inhibited IkappaBalpha degradation. Further investigation revealed that resveratrol blocked the ubiquitination of NEMO and inhibited IkappaB kinase(beta)-mediated NF-kappaB activation. These results demonstrated that resveratrol effectively suppressed NF-kappaB signaling through inhibiting the activities of NF-kappaB and IkappaB kinase. Therefore, resveratrol may provide a novel approach to treating inflammation-associated diseases and cancer.
The bile salt export pump (BSEP) is expressed at the canalicular domain of hepatocytes, where it serves as the primary route of elimination for monovalent bile acids (BAs) into the bile canaliculi. The most compelling evidence linking dysfunction in BA transport with liver injury in humans is found with carriers of mutations that render BSEP nonfunctional. Based on mounting evidence, there appears to be a strong association between drug-induced BSEP interference and liver injury in humans; however, causality has not been established. For this reason, drug-induced BSEP interference is best considered a susceptibility factor for liver injury as other host- or drug-related properties may contribute to the development of hepatotoxicity. To better understand the association between BSEP interference and liver injury in humans, over 600 marketed or withdrawn drugs were evaluated in BSEP expressing membrane vesicles. The example of a compound that failed during phase 1 human trials is also described, AMG 009. AMG 009 showed evidence of liver injury in humans that was not predicted by preclinical safety studies, and BSEP inhibition was implicated. For 109 of the drugs with some effect on in vitro BSEP function, clinical use, associations with hepatotoxicity, pharmacokinetic data, and other information were annotated. A steady state concentration (C(ss)) for each of these annotated drugs was estimated, and a ratio between this value and measured IC₅₀ potency values were calculated in an attempt to relate exposure to in vitro potencies. When factoring for exposure, 95% of the annotated compounds with a C(ss)/BSEP IC₅₀ ratio ≥ 0.1 were associated with some form of liver injury. We then investigated the relationship between clinical evidence of liver injury and effects to multidrug resistance-associated proteins (MRPs) believed to play a role in BA homeostasis. The effect of 600+ drugs on MRP2, MRP3, and MRP4 function was also evaluated in membrane vesicle assays. Drugs with a C(ss)/BSEP IC₅₀ ratio ≥ 0.1 and a C(ss)/MRP IC₅₀ ratio ≥ 0.1 had almost a 100% correlation with some evidence of liver injury in humans. These data suggest that integration of exposure data, and knowledge of an effect to not only BSEP but also one or more of the MRPs, is a useful tool for informing the potential for liver injury due to altered BA transport.
Asthma, a chronic airway disease with known heritability, affects more than 300 million people around the world. A genome-wide association (GWA) study of asthma with 359 cases from the Childhood Asthma Management Program (CAMP) and 846 genetically matched controls from the Illumina ICONdb public resource was performed. The strongest region of association seen was on chromosome 5q12 in PDE4D. The phosphodiesterase 4D, cAMP-specific (phosphodiesterase E3 dunce homolog, Drosophila) gene (PDE4D) is a regulator of airway smooth-muscle contractility, and PDE4 inhibitors have been developed as medications for asthma. Allelic p values for top SNPs in this region were 4.3 x 10(-07) for rs1588265 and 9.7 x 10(-07) for rs1544791. Replications were investigated in ten independent populations with different ethnicities, study designs, and definitions of asthma. In seven white and Hispanic replication populations, two PDE4D SNPs had significant results with p values less than 0.05, and five had results in the same direction as the original population but had p values greater than 0.05. Combined p values for 18,891 white and Hispanic individuals (4,342 cases) in our replication populations were 4.1 x 10(-04) for rs1588265 and 9.2 x 10(-04) for rs1544791. In three black replication populations, which had different linkage disequilibrium patterns than the other populations, original findings were not replicated. Further study of PDE4D variants might lead to improved understanding of the role of PDE4D in asthma pathophysiology and the efficacy of PDE4 inhibitor medications.
Unilateral acute renal failure was induced in dogs by renal artery infusion of norepinephrine. Renal hemodynamics and function were studied before and 5 days after norepinephrine infusion, and during subsequent renal artery infusion of prostaglandin E1. After norepinephrine, the infused kidney exhibited decreased urine volume, sodium excretion, and creatinine clearance. Cortical blood flow, determined with radioactive microspheres, also decreased. No redistribution of intracortical blood flow occurred. Arteriographically, proximal vessels were constricted and the cortical nephrogram density diminished. During prostaglandin E1 infusion, urine volume, sodium excretion, and cortical blood flow increased. Creatinine clearance did not change significantly. Blood flow was redistributed from the outer third to the inner third of the cortex. Proximal vessels were dilated and the cortical nephrogram density was enhanced. The apparent dissociation of cortical blood flow from creatinine clearance suggests that prostaglandin E1-induced diuresis and natriuresis result from a mechanism other than increased glomerular filtration.
The effect of low-dose amiodarone was prospectively evaluated in 110 patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias and structural heart disease. The patient population had frequent and high-grade ventricular premature complexes (VPCs) (greater than or equal to 39/h) (multifocal, couplets, nonsustained ventricular tachycardia) refractory to conventional antiarrhythmic drugs. All patients had structural heart disease (coronary artery disease in 61%) and also a decreased left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) (43 +/- 16%). Patients were treated with low-dose amiodarone (maintenance dose of 275 +/- 102 mg/day.) During follow-up over a period of 15 +/- 11.5 months, 24 patients died of cardiac cause and, of these, 13 died of sudden death. Ventricular arrhythmia suppression at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years was 69%, 80%, 78%, 92% for VPCs, respectively; 96%, 90%, 92%, and 98% for couplets, respectively, and 57%, 57%, 97%, and 91% for nonsustained VTs (NVTs), respectively. Intolerable, reversible side effects requiring withdrawal were encountered in 24 patients (22%) (neurologic 10%, gastrointestinal 6.5%, skin 3.7%, proarrhythmic 0.9%, and cardiac 0.9%). Except for keratopathy (less than or equal to grade II) seen in all patients, the tolerable side effects were transient with dose adjustment. The study population was divided into two groups according to LVEF: Group A (LVEF greater than or equal to 40%, mean 54.4 +/- 9.7) and Group B (LVEF less than 40% mean, 27.7 +/- 7.2). The patients were further classified into responders (suppression of at least 70% of VPCs, 90% of couplets, and 100% of NVTs) and nonresponders. The difference in survival between responders and nonresponders in groups A and B was not statistically significant. Cumulative survival at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years was 90%, 85%, 85%, and 85%, respectively. In conclusion, low-dose amiodarone treatment: 1) Is effective in controlling VPCs and its complex forms and maintains long-term arrhythmia suppression. 2) The side effect profile compares favorably with conventional antiarrhythmics; severe side effects associated with high dosages (pulmonary, hepatic, neurologic, etc.) were rare or absent. 3) Amiodarone improves survival of patients with potentially lethal ventricular arrhythmias.
Three young women developed acute macular neuroretinopathy with persistent paracentral scotomas following acute hypertension caused by intravenous sympathomimetics. The temporal relationship of the acute onset of symptoms suggests either acute hypertension or a direct retinal effect of sympathomimetics as the cause of the retinal changes.
1. Depression could result from changes in tryptophan availability caused by activation of the kynurenine pathway as a result of inflammation. In the present study, we examined patients newly diagnosed with depression to determine whether kynurenines and related factors change in parallel with improvements in mood. 2. Concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin), 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), oxidized tryptophan metabolites, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and inflammatory mediators (interleukin (IL)-2, C-reactive protein (CRP), neopterin) were measured in peripheral blood during an 18 week period of treatment with fluoxetine, fluoxetine plus tri-iodothyronine (T(3)) or psychiatric counselling. 3. The results showed significant improvements in mood, with reduced 5-HT concentrations in patients given fluoxetine and a rise in plasma tryptophan in patients given counselling or fluoxetine and T(3). The addition of T(3) to the fluoxetine regimen appeared to slow recovery from depression, although the use of T(3) was associated with a fall in thyroxine concentrations. Changes in 5-HT concentrations did not correlate with psychiatric scores and were seen only in drug-treated groups, not those given counselling. There were no associated changes in absolute concentrations of kynurenines, BDNF, CRP, neopterin or IL-2. With fluoxetine treatment, there were correlations between the concentrations of kynurenine metabolites and the psychiatric rating scores, whereas no correlations were found with BDNF or inflammatory markers. 4. It is concluded that depression scores are largely independent of inflammatory status, but kynurenine metabolism may be related to the degree of depression after fluoxetine treatment.
The effect of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on local cerebral blood flow (LCBF) and carbon dioxide reactivity (CO2R) was studied during cerebral aneurysm surgery for subarachnoid haemorrhage in 24 patients under neuroleptanaesthesia. Eleven patients had good neurological status (Hunt and Kosnik grade I: group A) and 13 patients poor status (grades II-IV: group B). Arterial hypotension was induced with PGE1 0.1 micrograms kg-1 min-1 initially and adjusted to maintain mean arterial pressure at about 70 mm Hg. PGE1 was discontinued at the completion of aneurysm clipping. LCBF and CO2R were measured during and after administration of PGE1. LCBF was unchanged and CO2R preserved in both groups. The carbon dioxide response was better in group A than in group B (P less than 0.01). PGE1 may be a suitable agent for hypotensive anaesthesia in these patients.
1. Several groups have reported that melatonin produces a significant decrease in blood pressure in mammals and that pinealectomy in rats causes hypertension. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of melatonin and bicuculline methiodide on the blood pressure of rats, both in the developing and fully developed stage of stress-induced hypertension (SIH). 2. Rats with SIH were generated by mild electric foot shocks for 15 days, after which tail arterial systolic pressure and plasma angiotensin (Ang) II levels were measured. The effects of melatonin injections (i.p. or i.c.v.) on mean arterial pressure (MAP) in rats with SIH were also determined. 3. Pretreatment with 1 mg/kg, i.p., melatonin significantly diminished the elevated tail arterial systolic pressure and plasma AngII levels caused by 15 days stress. The suppressive effects of melatonin were blocked by i.p. injection of 1 mg/kg bicuculline methiodide, an antagonist of the GABA(A) receptor. 4. Intraperitoneal (0.2, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg) or i.c.v. (0.15 and 1.5 microg/3 microL) injection of melatonin produced a dose-dependent lowering of MAP in rats with SIH. The antihypertensive response induced by melatonin was blocked by injection of both 1 mg/kg, i.p., and 1.5 x 10(6) microg/3 microL, i.c.v., bicuculline methiodide. 5. In conclusion, melatonin not only prevents increases in blood pressure during the developing stage of SIH, but can also reduce the blood pressure of rats that have already developed SIH. The antihypertensive effect of melatonin may be mediated by GABA(A) receptors through inhibition of plasma AngII levels.
This screening trial evaluated whether amantadine hydrochloride (100 mg bid) demonstrated sufficient clinical efficacy compared to placebo to recommend development as a pharmacotherapy for cocaine dependence. Participants were randomized to amantadine (n=34) or placebo (n=35) conditions in a 16-week, placebo-controlled, double blind trial with three times per week group counseling. Amantadine-treated participants were retained significantly longer than placebo. Based on results of a joint probability index for urine drug testing results (i.e. the proportion of cocaine-metabolite free urine samples divided by the number of participants assigned to the condition), participants assigned to amantadine were found to be significantly more likely to be cocaine abstinent on the last day of 8-weeks of treatment than participants assigned to placebo. Results at the end of 16 weeks of treatment were similar. Standard measures of urine drug testing consistently favored the amantadine condition over placebo, although not at levels of statistical significance. There was no statistical significance infrequency or severity of reported adverse events by treatment condition. Participants assigned to amantadine exhibited greater reductions in global staff ratings of cocaine dependence severity from baseline to termination compared with placebo. There were no significant differences in frequency or severity of reported adverse events by treatment condition. These results provide moderate support for further study of amantadine for the treatment of cocaine dependence.
Estrogen is involved in several physiological and pathological processes through estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated transcriptional gene regulation. miRNAs (miRs), which are noncoding RNA genes, may respond to estrogen and serve as posttranscriptional regulators in tumorigenic progression, especially in breast cancer; however, only limited information about this possibility is available. In the present study, we identified the estrogen-regulated miR-34b and investigated its functional role in breast cancer progression.
Estrogen-regulated miRNAs were identified by using a TaqMan low density array. Our in vivo Tet-On system orthotopic model revealed the tumor-suppressive ability of miR-34b. Luciferase reporter assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated miR-34b were regulated by p53-ER interaction.
In this study, we identified one such estrogen downregulated miRNA, miR-34b, as an oncosuppressor that targets cyclin D1 and Jagged-1 (JAG1) in an ER+/wild-type p53 breast cancer cell line (MCF-7), as well as in ovarian and endometrial cells, but not in ER-negative or mutant p53 breast cancer cell lines (T47D, MBA-MB-361 and MDA-MB-435). There is a negative association between ERα and miR-34b expression levels in ER+ breast cancer patients. Tet-On induction of miR-34b can cause inhibition of tumor growth and cell proliferation. Also, the overexpression of miR-34b inhibited ER+ breast tumor growth in an orthotopic mammary fat pad xenograft mouse model. Further validation indicated that estrogen's inhibition of miR-34b expression was mediated by interactions between ERα and p53, not by DNA methylation regulation. The xenoestrogens diethylstilbestrol and zeranol also showed similar estrogenic effects by inhibiting miR-34b expression and by restoring the protein levels of the miR-34b targets cyclin D1 and JAG1 in MCF-7 cells.
These findings reveal that miR-34b is an oncosuppressor miRNA requiring both ER+ and wild-type p53 phenotypes in breast cancer cells. These results improve our ability to develop new therapeutic strategies to target the complex estrogenic pathway in human breast cancer progression through miRNA regulation.
Thiopentone has a protective effect as far as succinylcholine-induced myalgias are concerned; however, a few studies were done in the efficacy of thiopentone on fasciculation induced by succinylcholine. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of thiopentone on onset, duration, and severity of fasciculation caused by succinylcholine injection.
Three hundred patients, in American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status Classification I and II, undergoing elective ocular surgery at Farabi Eye Hospital in 2003 were considered and divided into 2 groups who received intravenous succinylcholine immediately and 30 seconds after thiopentone injection, respectively. After premedication and induction of anesthesia, the severity and duration of fasciculations caused by succinylcholine were compared between the 2 groups.
In the group using succinylcholine immediately after thiopentone injection, the onset of fasciculation was earlier (P = 0.0006), and duration of fasciculation was shorter (P = 0.0002) than the other group. In addition, moderate to severe fasciculation was found more in the group using succinylcholine 30 seconds after thiopentone injection (P = 0.038).
Pretreatment with thiopentone immediately before succinylcholine administration can decrease the duration and severity of fasciculation more than thiopentone injection 30 seconds before succinylcholine administration.
24 hypertensive patients, who were not satisfactorily controlled (diastolic blood pressure greater than 95 mm Hg) with beta-blockers alone were randomised to 2 treatment groups where felodipine was administered for 2 weeks in a total daily dose of 15 mg divided in 2 or 3 doses. Following a 2-week placebo washout period, the patients were switched to the alternative dose regimen in a double-blind crossover manner. Blood pressure was measured with standard techniques and was also non-invasively monitored for 24 hours at the end of each dose regimen period and at the end of the intermediate placebo period. Mean arterial blood pressure at the end of the placebo run-in period was 169/105 mm Hg. Felodipine 5 mg thrice daily reduced blood pressure by 20/9 mm Hg and felodipine 7.5 mg twice daily by 17/9 mm Hg (p less than 0.05). The difference between the 2 dose regimens was not statistically significant. When 24-hour blood pressure measurements for the 2 dose regimens were compared, there were no statistically significant differences. Both regimens reduced the 24-hour blood pressure significantly compared with placebo. Two patients were withdrawn during the study, 1 before felodipine treatment started and the other due to diarrhoea and flushing related to felodipine. Otherwise felodipine was generally well tolerated.
Only a fraction of subjects exposed to asbestos develop malignant mesothelioma (MM), suggesting that additional factors may render some individuals more susceptible. We tested the hypothesis that asbestos and Simian virus (SV40) are cocarcinogens. Asbestos and SV40 in combination had a costimulatory effect in inducing ERK1/2 phosphorylation and activator protein-1 (AP-1) activity in both primary Syrian hamster mesothelial cells (SHM) and primary human mesothelial cells (HM). Ap-1 activity caused the expression and activation of matrix metalloprotease (MMP)-1 and MMP-9, which in turn led to cell invasion. Experiments using siRNA and chemical inhibitors confirmed the specificity of these results. The same effects were observed in HM and SHM. Experiments in hamsters showed strong cocarcinogenesis between asbestos and SV40: SV40 did not cause MM, asbestos caused MM in 20% of hamsters, and asbestos and SV40 together caused MM in 90% of hamsters. Significantly lower amounts of asbestos were sufficient to cause MM in animals infected with SV40. Our results indicate that mineral fibers and viruses can be cocarcinogens and suggest that lower amounts of asbestos may be sufficient to cause MM in individuals infected with SV40.
Trazodone, a triazolepyridine derivate, is both chemically and pharmacologically distinct from other serotonin reuptake inhibitors and possesses antidepressant, anxiolytic and hypnotic activity. We observed trazodone-induced delirium in three depressed patients who also suffered from preexisting organic cerebral lesions (two cases) or thyroideal dysfunction (one case). The appearance of hallucinations, psychomotoric agitation, and cognitive changes after initiation of trazodone therapy and their prompt cessation after drug discontinuation led to the impression that these were drug-induced phenomena. One possible hypothesis for the observed deliria is an oversensitivity to the effect of meta-chlorphenylpiperazine, which is a metabolite of trazodone with specific 5-HT agonistic properties.
Mutations of the VHL tumor suppressor gene occur in patients with VHL disease and in the majority of sporadic clear cell renal carcinomas (VHL(-/-) RCC). Loss of VHL protein function is associated with constitutive expression of mRNAs encoding hypoxia-inducible proteins, such as vascular endothelial growth factor. Overproduction of angiogenic factors might explain why VHL(-/-) RCC tumors are so highly vascularized, but whether this overproduction is sufficient for oncogenesis still remains unknown. In this report, we examined the activity of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), another VHL-regulated growth factor. We show that TGF-alpha mRNA and protein are hypoxia-inducible in VHL(-/-) RCC cells expressing reintroduced VHL. In addition to its overexpression by VHL(-/-) RCC cells, TGF-alpha can also act as a specific growth-stimulatory factor for VHL(-/-) RCC cells expressing reintroduced wild-type VHL, as well as primary renal proximal tubule epithelial cells, the likely site of origin of RCC. This role is in contrast to those of other growth factors overexpressed by VHL(-/-) RCC cells, such as vascular endothelial growth factor and TGF-beta1, which do not stimulate RCC cell proliferation. A TGF-alpha-specific antisense oligodeoxynucleotide blocked TGF-alpha production in VHL(-/-) RCC cells, which led to the dependence of those cells on exogenous growth factors to sustain growth in culture. Growth of VHL(-/-) RCC cells was also significantly reduced by a drug that specifically inhibits the epidermal growth factor receptor, the receptor through which TGF-alpha stimulates proliferation. These results suggest that the generation of a TGF-alpha autocrine loop as a consequence of VHL inactivation in renal proximal tubule epithelial cells may provide the uncontrolled growth stimulus necessary for the initiation of tumorigenesis.
Identification of critical receptors in seizure controlling brain regions may facilitate the development of more efficacious pharmacological therapies against nerve agent intoxication. In the present study, a number of drugs with anticonvulsant potency were microinfused into the perirhinal cortex (PRC) or posterior piriform cortex (PPC) in rats. The drugs used exert cholinergic antagonism (scopolamine), glutamatergic antagonism (ketamine, NBQX), both cholinergic and glutamatergic antagonism (procyclidine, caramiphen), or GABAergic agonism (muscimol). The results showed that in the PRC anticonvulsant efficacy against soman-induced seizures (subcutaneously administered) was achieved by procyclidine or NBQX, but not by ketamine, scopolamine, caramiphen, or muscimol (Experiment 1). Hence, both muscarinic and glutamatergic NMDA receptors had to be antagonized simultaneously or AMPA receptors alone, suggesting increased glutamatergic activation in the PRC before onset of seizures. In the PPC, anticonvulsant effects were assured by scopolamine or muscimol, but not by procyclidine, caramiphen, NBQX, or ketamine (Experiment 2). Thus, muscarinic and GABA(A) receptors appear to be the critical ones in the PPC. Microinfusion of soman into the PRC or PPC resulted in sustained seizure activity in the majority of the rats of both infusion categories. The rhinal structures encompassed in this study apparently have critical functions as both control and trigger sites for nerve agent-evoked seizures.
Twenty mothers who had requested regional analgesia during labour had a 32-gauge catheter inserted into the lumbar subarachnoid space. The mean time to place the catheters was 116 s (range 55-270 s) and there were no technical difficulties. Incremental diamorphine was given, up to a maximum initial dose of 0.5 mg. Analgesia was excellent in 11 mothers, good in seven and unsatisfactory in two. The duration of initial analgesia from diamorphine was 101 min (range 30-170 min). Eight mothers were able to move about during the first stage, with effective analgesia. Side effects were common: 15 mothers had pruritus, 15 had nausea or vomiting, and eight had mild sedation. No mother had a ventilatory frequency of less than 12 b.p.m. in the 12 h after the last dose of intrathecal diamorphine. Intrathecal 0.5% bupivacaine was given to 16 mothers in the first stage because the analgesia after a top-up with diamorphine became insufficient later in the labour. Fifteen mothers were pain free after bupivacaine; there was one failure. The initial effective dose of bupivacaine was between 0.25 ml and 2 ml. The maximum height of the block after bupivacaine was T9, and there was no hypotension. Nine mothers were given hyperbaric 0.5% bupivacaine 1-2 ml during the second stage; all were pain free for the procedure. The maximum force needed to withdraw the catheters was 700 g; and all catheters were removed intact. There were no post-spinal headaches.
Although the short-term benefits of bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease have been well documented, the long-term outcomes of the procedure are unknown.
We conducted a five-year prospective study of the first 49 consecutive patients whom we treated with bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. Patients were assessed at one, three, and five years with levodopa (on medication) and without levodopa (off medication), with use of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. Seven patients did not complete the study: three died, and four were lost to follow-up.
As compared with base line, the patients' scores at five years for motor function while off medication improved by 54 percent (P<0.001) and those for activities of daily living improved by 49 percent (P<0.001). Speech was the only motor function for which off-medication scores did not improve. The scores for motor function on medication did not improve one year after surgery, except for the dyskinesia scores. On-medication akinesia, speech, postural stability, and freezing of gait worsened between year 1 and year 5 (P<0.001 for all comparisons). At five years, the dose of dopaminergic treatment and the duration and severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesia were reduced, as compared with base line (P<0.001 for each comparison). The average scores for cognitive performance remained unchanged, but dementia developed in three patients after three years. Mean depression scores remained unchanged. Severe adverse events included a large intracerebral hemorrhage in one patient. One patient committed suicide.
Patients with advanced Parkinson's disease who were treated with bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus had marked improvements over five years in motor function while off medication and in dyskinesia while on medication. There was no control group, but worsening of akinesia, speech, postural stability, freezing of gait, and cognitive function between the first and the fifth year is consistent with the natural history of Parkinson's disease.
Clomiphene citrate (CC) is commonly prescribed for ovulation induction. It is considered safe, with minimal side effects. Thromboembolism is a rare but life-threatening complication that has been reported after ovulation induction with CC. Spontaneous coronary thrombosis or thromboembolism with subsequent clot lysis has been suggested as one of the most common causes of myocardial infarction (MI) during pregnancy, with a subsequently normal coronary angiogram.
A 33-year-old woman with a 5-week gestation had recently received CC for ovulation induction and presented with chest pain. An electrocardiogram showed a lateral and anterior wall myocardial infarction. Cardiac enzymes showed a peak rise in troponin I to 9.10 ng/mL. An initial exercise stress test was normal. At the time of admission, the patient was at high risk of radiation injury to the fetus, so a coronary angiogram was postponed until the second trimester. It showed normal coronary vessels.
This appears to be the first reported case documenting a possible association between CC and myocardial infarction. Thrombosis might be a rare but hazardous complication of CC. Given this life-threatening complication, appropriate prophylactic measures should be used in high-risk woman undergoing ovarian stimulation.
A complex polysaccharide accumulation was observed in the central nervous system (CNS) of rats treated with D-penicillamine similar to Lafora-like bodies. They have histochemical similarities comparable to bodies described in previous studies of Lafora disease. The clinical usefulness of D-penicillamine has been limited by many side effects including renal damage. It is suggested that, in addition to D-penicillamine nephropathy, there are toxic effects of this drug on the CNS.
The results of a preliminary study involving the treatment of various malignant pain disorders by intrathecal (I.T.) or epidural (E) morphine sulfate (M.S.) injections in 18 patients are reported. Fourteen (78%) patients obtained satisfactory analgesic effects and 4 (22%) failed. The overall duration of pain relief was modest and ranged from 10 to 72 hours; the intrathecal route provided a slightly longer duration (median: 48 hours; range: 15-72 hours) of analgesia than that of the epidural route (median: 20 hours; range: 10-72 hours). Minor and transient complications occurred in 10 (55%) patients.
Digoxin frequently fails to control the heart rate in patients of chronic atrial fibrillation particularly during exertion. We have studied in 20 such patients the effect of adding diltiazem (180 mg/day) on resting and peak exercise heart rates. An attempt was also made to determine its effects on exercise tolerance by using treadmill and 6 minute walk test. Addition of diltiazem resulted in significant attenuation of heart rate both at rest and at peak exercise. The resting and exercise mean heart rates on digoxin alone were 98.9 +/- 21.5 b.p.m. and 160.2 +/- 35.68 b.p.m. respectively. After diltiazem this reduced to 78.7 +/- 12.30 b.p.m. at rest and 132.4 +/- 40.4 b.p.m. at peak exercise (p < 0.01). There was no significant effect on exercise tolerance. In conclusion, the addition of diltiazem substantially reduced the excessive heart rate response to exercise in digitalised patients of chronic atrial fibrillation.
In this study, the mouse was used to evaluate paternal germline exposure to the organophosphate methamidophos for its potential to produce adverse effects on spermatozoa and in the offspring. There have been reports that organophosphate exposure can increase abnormal sperm morphology in mice. However, effects transmitted to the offspring following paternal exposure have not been reported previously. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was 7.5 mg kg(-1) body weight and this dose resulted in no deaths, although blood plasma cholinesterase activity was still decreased. Males were euthanized 4 weeks after an acute intraperitoneal injection of methamidophos (0.5, 3.75, 5.0, and 7.5 mg kg(-1) body wt) and the number of spermatids per gram testes and sperm morphology were analyzed. In this study, abnormal sperm morphology on a per group basis exhibited a dose-response significantly related to increased methamidophos exposure as indicated by regression analysis and a nested ANOVA (p < 0.0001). Preimplantation embryos that were conceived 6 weeks after paternal methamidophos exposure (5 mg kg(-1) body wt) exhibited a significant increase in cleavage arrest. Fertility of males was also affected as shown by a decrease in the number of two- to four-cell embryos per male (postexposure week 6) and an increase in the number of degenerated embryos (postexposure weeks 4-6). We conclude that methamidophos may have the potential to produce transmissible adverse embryonic effects following an acute paternal germline exposure.
