Intravenously administered clofibrate has previously been used in treating experimental fat embolism. In the present study, this procedure was found to produce a syndrome identical to classical experimental fat embolism syndrome. Following the intravenous injection of clofibrate, and the lungs of rats became hemorrhagic and edematous (increased weight) and contained fat globules (clofibrate emboli) when observed microscopically. Dosages of 100 to 0.88305 mul/100 gm body weight produced symptoms ranging from acute death due to massive embolism of lungs to a subclinical fat (clofibrate) embolism syndrome.
We describe a case of thrombocytopenia and deep venous thrombosis in a boy who received heparin to maintain patency of a central venous catheter. Measurement of the release of serotonin labeled with carbon 14 confirmed the presence of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Children receiving heparin therapy should be monitored for the possibility of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia.
High-dose busulfan is an important component in many conditioning protocols for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or bone marrow transplantation (BMT) in both adults and children. During the past 12y several studies have reported the wide inter-individual variability in busulfan disposition. Age, disease status, hepatic function, circadian rhythmicity, drug interactions and bioavailability, were identified as factors contributing to the high inter-individual variability found in busulfan disposition. Traditionally, a standard busulfan dose of 4mg/kg/d for four days is used in most BMT/HSCT protocols. Many investigations have pointed out the pharmacodynamic relationship between a high busulfan systemic exposure and the occurrence of BMT related toxicity including hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD), interstitial pneumonia and alopecia in adult patients. However, studies in young patients have shown a high rate of graft failure and subsequently relapse which most probably is due to the low systemic exposure despite the standard dose schedule. In children and infants VOD was not observed with the standard doses. Increasing interest for the drug and new modification strategies for children led to higher rate of VOD and CNS toxicity when busulfan was administered according to the body surface area. More pharmacodynamic studies are required to establish the relation between the systemic exposure to busulfan and the therapeutic efficacy, especially in young children undergoing BMT or HSCT. In the present time an accurate and effective busulfan plasma level monitoring combined with dose adjustment based on the known pharmacological parameters may improve the clinical outcome for patients undergoing BMT.
Aarskog-Scott Syndrome (AAS) is an X-linked disorder characterised by short stature and multiple facial, limb and genital abnormalities. A gene, FGD1, altered in a patient with AAS phenotype, has been identified and found to encode a protein with homology to Rho/Rac guanine nucleotide exchange factors (Rho/Rac GEF). However, since this original report on identification of a mutated FGD1 gene in an AAS patient, no additional mutations in the FGD1 gene have been described. We analysed 13 independent patients with clinical diagnosis of AAS. One patient presented a mutation that results in a nucleotide change in exon 10 of the FGD1 gene (G2559>A) substituting a Gln for Arg in position 610. The mutation was found to segregate with the AAS phenotype in affected males and carrier females in the family of this patient. Interestingly, Arg-610 is located within one of the two pleckstrin homology (PH) domains of the FGD1 gene and it corresponds to a highly conserved residue which has been involved in InsP binding in PH domains of other proteins. The same residue is often mutated in the Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) gene in patients with an X-linked agammaglobulinemia. The Arg610Gln mutation represents the first case of a mutation in the PH domain of the FGD1 gene and additional evidence that mutations in PH domains can be associated to human diseases.
Cardiomotor and vasomotor responses were assessed during isoproterenol tilt-induced vasovagal reaction in patients with a history of syncope. In a case controlled study, all patients and controls were subjected to a standard protocol: baseline supine (10 min), baseline tilt (70 degrees, 45 min), isoproterenol supine (0.05 microgram/kg per min, 10 min), and isoproterenol tilt (70 degrees, 10 min). The participants were 11 consecutive patients referred for syncope evaluation (5 men, 6 women; mean age, 34.1 +/- 10.4 years; range, 18-56 years) and 11 age and sex matched controls (5 men, 6 women; mean age, 35.5 +/- 12.2 years; range, 19-63 years). On-line, beat-to-beat measurements of cardiomotor functions (heart rate, stroke volume, and cardiac output) and vasomotor functions (systolic, mean, and diastolic blood pressures and total peripheral resistance [TPR]) were detected noninvasively by volume clamp photoplethysmography and impedance cardiography. Patients and controls had similar cardiomotor and vasomotor responses during passive tilt and during isoproterenol infusion in the supine position. Immediately after tilt during isoproterenol infusion and before the onset of symptoms, decreases in vasomotor functions were significant in study patients when compared with those in controls; whereas responses in cardiomotor functions were similar between the two groups. When compared with baseline supine findings, TPR decreased by 56.5% +/- 10.9% and 29.5% +/- 23.3% in the patient population and controls, respectively (P = 0.005). When compared with isoproterenol supine findings, TPR decreased by 27.5% +/- 22.8% in the study patients and increased by 22.6% +/- 48.1% in the controls (P = 0.005). The inability to overcome isoproterenol-induced vasodilation during orthostatic stress played an important role in the initiation of a vasovagal response. These observations hold the key to early detection of hemodynamic changes and potential therapeutic interventions before patients become symptomatic.
A novel regimen designed to maximize antileukemia activity of carboplatin through inhibiting repair of platinum-DNA adducts was conducted in poor prognosis, acute leukemia patients.
Patients received fludarabine (10 to 15 mg/m(2) x 5 days), carboplatin (area under the curve 10 to 12 by continuous infusion over 5 days), followed by escalated doses of topotecan infused over 72 hours (fludarabine, carboplatin, topotecan regimen). Twenty-eight patients had acute myelogenous leukemia (7 untreated secondary acute myelogenous leukemia, 11 in first relapse, and 10 in second relapse or refractory), 1 patient had refractory/relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia, and 2 patients had untreated chronic myelogenous leukemia blast crisis. Six patients had failed an autologous stem cell transplant. Patients ranged from 19 to 76 (median 54) years. Measurement of platinum-DNA adducts were done in serial bone marrow specimens.
Fifteen of 31 patients achieved bone marrow aplasia. Clinical responses included 2 complete response, 4 complete response with persistent thrombocytopenia, and 2 partial response. Prolonged myelosuppression was observed with median time to blood neutrophils >/=200/microl of 28 (0 to 43) days and time to platelets >/=20,000/microl (untransfused) of 40 (24 to 120) days. Grade 3 or greater infections occurred in all of the patients, and there were 2 infection-related deaths. The nonhematologic toxicity profile was acceptable. Five patients subsequently received allografts without early transplant-related mortality. Maximum tolerated dose of fludarabine, carboplatin, topotecan regimen was fludarabine 15 mg/m(2) x 5, carboplatin area under the curve 12, and topotecan 2.55 mg/m(2) over 72 hours. An increase in bone marrow, platinum-DNA adduct formation between the end of carboplatin infusion and 48 hours after the infusion correlated with bone marrow response.
Fludarabine, carboplatin, topotecan regimen is a promising treatment based on potential pharmacodynamic interactions, which merits additional study in poor prognosis, acute leukemia patients.
Fourteen patients with chronic plaque psoriasis requiring in-patient therapy were treated with a variety of antipsoriatic agents. All had four skin biopsies taken: two prior to therapy, one from a psoriatic plaque and one from adjacent clinically normal skin, and two further biopsies, one 2-3 weeks after starting therapy, and one at clinical clearance, taken from an area where there was previously a psoriatic plaque. In addition, three biopsies were taken from clinically normal skin of non-psoriatics. Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) RNA and protein distributions were estimated in these biopsies, using in situ hybridization with a cRNA TGF-alpha probe, and an antibody to TGF-alpha polypeptide. Prior to therapy, grain counts showed elevated levels of TGF-alpha RNA in the subcorneal layers of the epidermis. These levels decreased during clearance of the psoriasis. In one patient whose plaques did not clear, there was no decrease of TGF-alpha mRNA. Antibody studies showed the presence of TGF-alpha polypeptide in the epidermis prior to therapy, with a relative concentration of immunoprotein in the upper epidermal layers, compared with a more uniform distribution of immunoprotein after treatment, and in uninvolved skin of the same psoriatic patient. These studies extend our knowledge of the relationship between TGF-alpha and psoriatic skin.
Acute histologic and ultrastructural changes, quantification and regional distribution (transmural, circumferential, transaxial) of damaged myocells from anesthetized, open-chested dogs following one hour of intravenous infusions of saline or increasing doses of isoproterenol (0.1, 1.0, 2.5 micrograms/kg/min) or norepinephrine (4.0 micrograms/kg/min) were investigated. Two predominant subsets of acute contraction band lesions were produced: 'paradiscal' involving aggregation of less than 15 sarcomeres adjacent to the intercalated disc and 'holocytic' involving coagulation of groups of adjoining sarcomeres into transverse bands interspersed with areas of myofibrillar rhexis throughout the cell. Both lesions were distributed as isolated cells or as small foci of myocells surrounded by normal myocardium. Quantification of 'paradiscal' and 'holocytic' contraction band lesions/mm2 of area was used as an index of the severity of catecholamine-induced necrosis. Numbers of 'paradiscal' myocells increased with increasing doses of isoproterenol, while 'holocytic' myocells were not present in any significant numbers until 1.0 microgram/kg/min) and increased further at 2.5 micrograms/kg/min. 'Paradiscal' myocells with both isoproterenol (2.5 micrograms/kg/min) and norepinephrine were distributed with the greatest number in the inner third of the free wall. This gradient was not significant for 'holocytic' lesions. There was, generally, no significant difference in distribution of either type of lesion around the circumference. However, transaxially there was a higher frequency of 'paradiscal' lesions at the apex with norepinephrine. The lesions were identical and present in comparable numbers at both the highest dose of isoproterenol and with norepinephrine. Thus, these two catecholamines result in a similar cardiotoxicity, each with two predominant subsets of lesions, despite their hemodynamic diversities.
There is an abundance of literature on the efficacy of gabapentin for the treatment of neuropathic pain. Two studies have demonstrated an effect of a single dose of gabapentin on experimental cutaneous hyperalgesia. This study evaluated the effect of chronic delivery of oral gabapentin on experimentally induced cutaneous hyperalgesia.
A randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover design methodology was conducted. Participants took part in two 10-day study sessions, separated by a 7-day washout period. One session was with gabapentin and one with placebo. Study drug was administered 300 mg b.i.d. from day 1 to 3, 300 mg q.i.d. from day 4 to 6 and 600 mg t.i.d. from day 7 to 10. At baseline, day 4, day 7, and day 10, quantitative sensory testing was performed to thermal and mechanical stimuli. On day 10, only intradermal capsaicin was injected on the volar aspect of the forearm followed by an assessment of pain and hyperalgesia. Side effects were recorded by the participants each evening.
Thirteen participants were enrolled into the study. Three dropped out because of intolerable side effects. Ten participants completed the study and were able to tolerate the highest dose of gabapentin. Oral gabapentin had no significant effect on acute sensory thresholds, pain, secondary hyperalgesia, or flare response induced by intradermal capsaicin. There were significantly more side effects associated with gabapentin with sedation and dizziness being the most common.
This study demonstrated a lack of effect of the chronic delivery of oral gabapentin on experimentally induced cutaneous hyperalgesia. The discrepancy of this finding with other studies using single oral doses may be the result of differences in the models used and differences in drug kinetics and plasma levels. The results of this study do not correlate with the clinical studies on gabapentin, which demonstrate efficacy at 1800 mg/d.
Use of leuprolide acetate (Lupron) has been associated with angina in men, but there have been no previous reports of angina or myocardial infarction associated with its use in women. The first case of angina and myocardial infarction occurring in a woman undergoing treatment with leuprolide acetate depot is reported.
Venlafaxine is an antidepressant that selectively inhibits serotonin reuptake and is a norepinephrine inhibitor. Withdrawal syndromes can occur after abrupt drug discontinuation of long-term regimens.
We report six cases of withdrawal symptoms after venlafaxine discontinuation.
Physicians must be aware of the frequency, rapidity and potent severity of these withdrawal syndromes.
The objective of this study was to investigate the consequences of low dietary folate intake and the impact of the 677 C-->T methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) common mutation on liver function in obese adolescents.
Fifty-seven obese girls (BMI = 36.1 +/- 6.0 kg/m) aged 14.1 +/- 1.5 years were included before starting a weight reduction program. Dietary intakes for folate were assessed by means of an adapted food frequency questionnaire (n = 50). Liver enzymes, plasma lipids, glucose metabolism parameters, ferritin, homocysteine and erythrocyte folate content were measured in plasma or blood obtained under fasting conditions. The MTHFR 677 C-->T polymorphism, which is associated with decreased enzyme activity, was determined using PCR. Body composition was assessed using dual x-ray absorptiometry.
Twenty-three subjects were heterozygote (CT) for the mutation and 5 were homozygote (TT). An increase in alanine amino transferase (ALT) and ALT/aspartate aminotransferase ratio was associated with the mutation (F = 4.46, P = 0.016 and F = 5.92, P = 0.0049, respectively). Alanine amino transferase was correlated negatively to folate intake (r = -0.32, P = 0.024) (n = 50) and positively to homocysteine concentrations (r = 0.30, P = 0.025). Body composition was similar among the 3 genotypic groups. Ferritin was also correlated to ALT concentrations of the entire group (P = 0.009).
Our data suggest that folate intake and the MTHFR polymorphism represent a part of the link between antioxidant status and liver disease in obese adolescent girls.
Fifty patients with disseminated testicular cancer were treated with a three-drug combination consisting of cis-diamminedichloroplatinum, vinblastine, and bleomycin. Three patients were considered inevaluable due to early death. This chemotherapy regimen produced 74% complete and 26% partial remissions. Furthermore, five patients with partial remission became disease-free after surgical removal of residual disease, producing an overall 85% disease-free status. Toxicity, although significant during remission induction with cis-platinum, vinblastine, and bleomycin, was usually manageable, although there were two drug-related deaths during this period. Thirty-eight of these patients remain alive and 32 remain alive and disease-free at 6 + to 30 + months. We believe this regimen represents a major advance in the management of patients with disseminated testicular cancer.
We describe six knees in five patients, referred to us after accidental irrigation with chlorhexidine 1% in aqueous solution during arthroscopy. All six knees developed persisting pain, swelling and crepitus with loss of range of movement. Radiographs showed loss of joint space in all three compartments due to extensive chondrolysis, with many loose bodies and synovitis. Histological examination showed partial necrosis of the cartilage, with slight non-specific inflammation and fibrosis of synovial specimens. Care is needed in checking irrigation fluids, and these should have a distinctive colour.
Adriamycin (ADR) causes dose-dependant toxicities in heart, liver and kidneys via inducing the peroxidative alterations in organ tissues. Recent studies showed that the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) exerts beneficial effects on heart, liver and kidney injuries induced by different pathological conditions. We hypothesize that G-CSF have a protective effect on ADR induced cardiac, renal and hepatic toxicities by inhibiting the peroxidative alterations in organ tissues. Wistar rats were randomly divided into control, ADR, ADR+phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and ADR+G-CSF group (n=16 in each group). ADR was administered intraperitoneally every other day at the dose of 2.5 microg/kg each time per rat (total six times of injection during 2 weeks). Rats in the ADR+G-CSF group were injected subcutaneously with G-CSF at the dose of 50 microg/(kg day) (for 8 consecutive days). After 8 weeks, the serum and urine biochemistry variables were determined. The malondialdehyde (MDA) level and the glutathione (GSH) content in the heart, the liver and the kidney tissues were measured. ADR caused significant cardiac, renal and hepatic toxicities indicated by the serum and urine biochemistry variables. The tissue MDA level in the heart, kidney and liver in rats treated with ADR were markedly elevated, while the GSH content in these tissues were significantly reduced. G-CSF administration palliated the cardiac, renal and hepatic toxicities. Notably, G-CSF induced significant reduction of MDA level and increase of GSH content in the heart, kidney and liver tissues. This study suggests that G-CSF play an overall protective effect on ADR-induced toxicities in heart, liver and kidneys and the inhibition of tissue peroxidative alterations might contribute to this beneficial effect.
Concentration- and time-dependent effects of two antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), levetiracetam (LEV) and valproic acid (VPA), on proliferation, cytotoxicity and expression of cell cycle regulatory genes were investigated in a human ovarian cancer cell line, OVCAR-3. Cells were cultured with VPA or LEV, at concentrations between 100 μM and 10 mM. Cell proliferation was determined by alamarBlue and BrdU incorporation assays; cytotoxic effects by tetrazolium hydroxide (XTT), acid phosphatase (AP) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assays. Expression of cell cycle regulatory genes was determined by real-time PCR. Exposure to VPA caused a concentration- and time-dependent decrease in cell proliferation (alamarBlue and BrdU incorporation assays), cytotoxic effects above 2.5 mM (XTT and AP assays) and modulated expression of genes primarily responsible for cell cycle arrest in G(1) phase. Cell proliferation was unaffected by exposure to LEV for 24 h and 120 h (alamarBlue assay), but increased when exposed to LEV for 72 h and 168 h, at concentrations from 250 μM to 1 mM. The BrdU incorporation assay showed no effect of LEV on cell proliferation. LEV was cytotoxic at higher concentrations (AP assay), but modulation in expression of cell cycle regulatory genes was not observed. Changes in LDH release were not observed with either AED. In summary, VPA apparently decreased cell proliferation by down-regulating genes responsible for transition from G(1) to S phase and up-regulating genes responsible for G(1) phase arrest, which suggest its potential as an anticancer drug. LEV does not exhibit such action.
Visceral hypersensitivity may play a role in the pathogenesis of functional chest pain, although the underlying mechanism(s) is unknown. We investigated the effects of theophylline, an adenosine receptor antagonist, on sensory perception and biomechanical properties of esophagus in patients with functional chest pain. Esophageal balloon distention was performed using impedance planimetry in 21 consecutive patients with functional chest pain. Patients found to have a hypersensitive esophagus received intravenous theophylline and balloon distension was repeated. If the hypersensitivity improved, oral theophylline was prescribed for three months as an open label trial. Balloon distension reproduced typical chest pain in 16 (76%) patients at thresholds suggestive of hypersensitivity. After theophylline infusion, pain thresholds increased in 12 (75%) patients. Median threshold pressures for discomfort and pain improved (P < 0.01). Cross-sectional area increased (P < 0.05) and the tension/strain association shifted to the right (P < 0.01). Seven of eight patients reported sustained improvement in pain after oral theophylline. Theophylline may ameliorate chest pain in patients with hypersensitive esophagus, possibly by altering adenosine-mediated nociception.
Pharmacological management of atrial fibrillation (AF) remains an important unmet medical need. Because available drugs for rhythm control of AF are often associated with a significant risk for development of ventricular arrhythmias or extracardiac toxicity, recent drug development has focused on agents that are atrial selective. Inhibition of the ultrarapid delayed rectifier potassium current (I(Kur)), a current exclusive to atria, is an example of an atrial-selective approach. Recent studies, however, have shown that loss-of-function mutations in KCNA5, the gene that encodes K(V)1.5, the alpha subunit of the I(Kur) channel, is associated with the development of AF and that inhibition of I(Kur) can promote the induction of AF in experimental models. Another potential atrial-selective approach has recently been identified. Experimental studies have demonstrated important atrioventricular differences in the biophysical properties of the sodium channel and have identified sodium channel blockers that can exploit electrophysiological distinctions between atria and ventricles. Atrial-selective/predominant sodium channel blockers such as ranolazine effectively suppress AF in experimental models involving canine-isolated right atrial preparations at concentrations that produce little to no effect on electrophysiological parameters in ventricular myocardium. Chronic administration of amiodarone was also found to exert atrial-selective depression of I(Na)-dependent parameters and thus to prevent the induction of AF. Ranolazine and amiodarone have in common the ability to rapidly dissociate from the sodium channel and to prolong the atrial action potential duration via inhibition of I(Kr). Our observations suggest that atrial-selective sodium channel block may be a fruitful strategy for the management of AF.
Liver fibrosis can be induced by environmental chemicals or toxicants, and finally stimulates fibrogenic cytokines expression, such as transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and its downstream mediator connective tissue growth factor (CTGF). 15-deoxy-Delta(12,14)-prostaglandin J(2) (15d-PGJ(2)) is a metabolite of arachidonic acid, can act as a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) ligand, and function as either anti-inflammatory or inflammatory agents in different cell types. In this study, CTGF was detected in three human hepatoma cell lines, Hep3B, HepG2, and Huh-7, and it was up-regulated by TGF-beta. 15d-PGJ(2) significantly inhibited TGF-beta-induced CTGF protein and mRNA expressions, and promoter activity in hepatoma cells. 15d-PGJ(2) suppressed TGF-beta-induced Smad2 phosphorylation, however enhancing the phosphorylation of ERK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), and p38 in TGF-beta-treated Hep3B cells. Other PPAR ligands like the PPARgamma agonist, troglitazone; the PPARalpha agonist, Wy-14643, and bezafibrate were also able to inhibit TGF-beta-induced CTGF. The results suggest that 15d-PGJ(2) inhibits TGF-beta-induced CTGF expression by inhibiting the phosphorylation of Smad2, which is independent of PPAR, and 15d-PGJ(2) might also act through a PPAR-dependent mechanism in human hepatoma cells. 15d-PGJ(2) might have a beneficent effect on prevention of liver fibrosis induced by environmental toxicants.
The priming principle consists of administering a subparalyzing dose of nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking drug 3-6 min before giving a second dose for tracheal intubation. This study was performed to observe the effects of priming doses of vecuronium and rocuronium on pulmonary function tests and muscular weaknesses in young (25-35 yr of age) and elderly (65-73 yr of age) patients. Ten young and 10 elderly patients were each placed in vecuronium and rocuronium groups. Oxygen saturation and train-of-four (TOF) ratio were determined, and pulmonary function tests were performed. Then 20% of the 95% effective dose (ED95) of the muscle relaxants was given intravenously. All tests were performed again 4 min after vecuronium and 3 min after rocuronium. Other signs of muscular weaknesses were also recorded. Elderly patients showed more signs of muscle weakness in both groups. The TOF ratio was 0.77 and 0.79 in the elderly rocuronium and vecuronium groups, respectively, and 0.89 and 0.90 in the young rocuronium and vecuronium groups, respectively. Dynamic spirometry revealed decreases in forced expiratory volume in 1 s and forced vital capacity in both groups, and no significant changes in peak expiratory flow rate. The expiratory reserve volume was reduced more in the elderly groups. Oxygen saturation decreased in both groups. We conclude that oxygen saturation, pulmonary function, and muscle strength decrease more in the elderly than in their younger counterparts from priming doses of vecuronium or rocuronium.
The priming principle consists of giving a subparalyzing dose of muscle relaxant 3-6 min before giving a second dose for tracheal intubation. We found that priming doses of vecuronium and rocuronium produced greater decreases in oxygen saturation and pulmonary function in the elderly (aged 65-73 yr) than their younger (aged 25-35 yr) counterparts. Priming may not be a safe approach in elderly patients.
The use of high doses of cisplatin (DDP) in the treatment of different solid tumors is often prevented by the onset of a disabling sensory neuropathy. In an attempt to minimize DDP-induced neurotoxicity different schedules of DDP administration have been tested. Moreover, during the past few years some putative neuroprotective drugs have been reported as reducing DDP neurotoxicity. In this prospective, randomized study we evaluated in a series of 33 patients affected by relapsing ovarian cancer the effect on the sensory pathway of a non-conventional schedule of DDP administration as monochemiotherapy or in combination with one of the neuroprotective drugs (i.e. glutathione). The results of the neurophysiologic examinations performed before and immediately after chemotherapy suggest that these schedules besides being safe and effective in the treatment of the ovarian cancer, have an extremely low peripheral neurotoxicity.
Ponatinib (AP24534) is a novel multitargeted kinase inhibitor that potently inhibits native and mutant BCR-ABL at clinically achievable drug levels. Ponatinib also has in vitro inhibitory activity against a discrete set of kinases implicated in the pathogenesis of other hematologic malignancies, including FLT3, KIT, fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1), and platelet derived growth factor receptor α (PDGFRα). Here, using leukemic cell lines containing activated forms of each of these receptors, we show that ponatinib potently inhibits receptor phosphorylation and cellular proliferation with IC50 values comparable to those required for inhibition of BCR-ABL (0.3 to 20 nmol/L). The activity of ponatinib against the FLT3-ITD mutant, found in up to 30% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients, was particularly notable. In MV4-11 (FLT3-ITD(+/+)) but not RS4;11 (FLT3-ITD(-/-)) AML cells, ponatinib inhibited FLT3 signaling and induced apoptosis at concentrations of less than 10 nmol/L. In an MV4-11 mouse xenograft model, once daily oral dosing of ponatinib led to a dose-dependent inhibition of signaling and tumor regression. Ponatinib inhibited viability of primary leukemic blasts from a FLT3-ITD positive AML patient (IC50 4 nmol/L) but not those isolated from 3 patients with AML expressing native FLT3. Overall, these results support the investigation of ponatinib in patients with FLT3-ITD-driven AML and other hematologic malignancies driven by KIT, FGFR1, or PDGFRα.
1 In intact dogs anaesthetized with pentobarbitone, clonidine (10 mug/kg, i.v.) produced a sustained decrease in heart rate. This effect was significantly smaller in vagotomized dogs in which the sympathetic drive to the heart was either left intact or experimentally created by continuous electrical stimulation of the decentralized cardioaccelerator nerve. In the latter preparation, the negative chronotropic action of clonidine was reversed by an intravenous injection of phentolamine, whereas in the former experimental situation it was antagonized only by an intravenous plus an intravertebral artery injection of phentolamine.2 In dogs with denervated hearts the tachycardia produced by electrical stimulation of the cardioaccelerator nerve was accompanied by a rise in noradrenaline overflowing into the coronary sinus plasma. Clonidine inhibited both these effects and phentolamine restored them to pre-clonidine levels.3 Clonidine decreased heart rate in dogs with an intact parasympathetically innervated heart and decentralized stellate ganglia. When the low basal heart rate of this preparation was elevated by electrical stimulation of the cardioaccelerator nerve, clonidine had a negative chronotropic effect, the degree of which was similar to that observed in intact dogs.4 Clonidine neither modified baseline heart rates of dogs with denervated hearts nor the levels of heart rate which in this preparation were reduced by a sustained electrical stimulation of the right vagus or increased by intravenous infusions of either isoprenaline or noradrenaline.5 These findings indicate that in the intact dog, bradycardia induced by clonidine resulted both from a reduction of sympathetic drive and from a concomitant increase in parasympathetic tone. The latter action did not occur at the level of cardiac neuroeffector structures since it was observed only in the presence of centrally connected vagal pathways. The inhibition of cardiac sympathetic tone was of both peripheral and central origin. Clonidine, in fact, diminished the quantity of noradrenaline overflowing into the coronary sinus plasma in cardiac denervated dogs with a tachycardia elicited by electrical stimulation of the decentralized cardioaccelerator nerve. This peripheral effect was probably due to an activation of alpha-adrenoceptors located on sympathetic nerve terminals since it was antagonized by phentolamine. However, in vagotomized dogs (intact sympathetic pathways) intravenous phentolamine failed to antagonize the heart rate effects of clonidine which were abolished by a subsequent injection of phentolamine into the vertebral artery. Thus, the clonidine-induced inhibition of both the peripheral and central sympathetic drive to the heart would appear to be mediated via alpha-adrenoceptors.
Anti-thyroid drugs, like carbimazole and propylthiouracil (PTU) are commonly prescribed for the treatment of hyperthyroidism. One should be aware of the side effects of antithyroid medications. Antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)--associated vasculitis is a potentially life-threatening adverse effect of antithyroidmedications. We report a patient with Graves' disease who developed ANCA positive carbimazole induced vasculitis. The episode was characterized by a vasculitic skin rash associated with large joint arthritis, pyrexia and parotiditis but no renal or pulmonary involvement. He was referred to us for neurological evaluation because he had difficulty in getting up from squatting position and was suspected to have myositis. Carbimazole and methimazole have a lower incidence of reported ANCA positive side effects than PUT. To the best of our knowledge this is the first ANCA positive carbimazole induced vasculitis case reported from India.
Drinking water arsenic exposure has been associated with increased bladder cancer susceptibility. Epidemiologic and experimental data suggest a co-carcinogenic effect of arsenic with exposure to DNA damaging agents, such as cigarette smoke. Recent evidence further supports the hypothesis that genetic variation in DNA repair genes can modify the arsenic-cancer relationship, possibly because arsenic impairs DNA repair capacity. We tested this hypothesis in a population-based study of bladder cancer with XRCC3, ERCC2 genotype/haplotype and arsenic exposure data on 549 controls and 342 cases. Individual exposure to arsenic was determined in toenail samples by neutron activation. Gene-environment interaction with arsenic exposure was observed in relation to bladder cancer risk for a variant allele of the double-strand break repair gene XRCC3 T241M (adjusted OR 2.8 (1.1-7.3)) comparing to homozygous wild type among those in the top arsenic exposure decile (interaction p-value 0.01). Haplotype analysis confirmed the association of the XRCC3 241. Thus, double-strand break repair genotype may enhance arsenic associated bladder cancer susceptibility in the U.S. population.
