To investigate the expression of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and ACE2 Gene in lung of paraquat poisoning rats and the protection of sodium dimercaptopropane sulfonate (Na-DMPS).
One hundred SD male rats were randomly equally divided into 4 groups:normal control group (10 rats), drug control group (40 rats), paraquat poisoning group (40 rats) and drug intervention group(40 rats). The paraquat poisoning and drug intervention group rats were injected intraperitoneally by paraquat (20 mg/kg). The rats in drug intervention group rats were protected by intraperitoneal injection with Na-DMPS (200 mg/kg) 15 min before exposure of paraquat. Behavioral changes of the rats and histological changes of lung tissues under light microscope were observed. And the expression of ACE and ACE2 mRNA in lung tissues of rats both in paraquat poisoned group and drug intervention group were measured by RT-PCR at different time of 6 h, 24 h, 3 and 7 d after poisoning.
The poisoning symptoms of shortness of breath, cramps appeared and deteriorated progressively in rats after paraquat exposure and the protection of NA-DMPS could delay and reduce these symptoms significantly. Histological appearance of disorganization of pulmonary capillary and alveolus, exudation in alveolar space, pulmonary edema, severe bleeding, and inflammatory cells infiltration were obvious in lungs of rats after paraquat poisoning, whereas the histological changes were extenuated by protection of NA-DMPS. As compared with normal control group (NC group), the expressions of ACE, ACE2 mRNA in lung tissue decreased, and the lowest level of ACE mRNA expressions appeared at 24 h (0.457 +/- 0.262), on 3 d (0.385 +/- 0.179) after Paraquat exposure (P < 0.05), while lowest level of ACE2 mRNA expressions appeared on 3 d (0.415 +/- 0.247), 7 d (0.365 +/- 0.215) (P < 0.05). As compared with paraquat poisoned group, the expressions of ACE mRNA in lung tissue of rats in NA-DMPS protected group increased significantly at 24 h (0.739 +/- 0.558) and 3 d (0.749 +/- 0.414) (P < 0.05), while the expressions of ACE2 mRNA increased markedly on 3 d (0.584 +/- 0.345) and 7 d (0.493 +/- 0.292) (P < 0.05). But the expression of ACEmRNA and ACE2 mRNA in lungs had no statistical significance between normal control group and drug intervention group (P > 0.05).
The expressions of ACE and ACE2 mRNA in lung tissue of the rats with paraquat poisoning are decreased. Na-DMPS can effectively improve the balance of RAS in local lung tissue and reduce the pathological changes of lung tissue, delay the poisoning symptoms and show protective effects for acute lung injury induced by paraquat.
Due to the strong evidence on the involvement of active oxygen species in a variety of disorders, the role of antioxidants against oxidative stress has recently received increased attention.
Twenty male rabbits were served a high-cholesterol (HC, 5 g/kg diet) diet or high-cholesterol diet supplemented with naringin (0.5 g/kg diet) or probucol (0.5 g/kg diet) for 8 weeks to compare the antioxidative effects of the citrus bioflavonoid (naringin) and antioxidative cholesterol-lowering drug (probucol).
The plasma thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) concentration was not significantly different between the groups, whereas the hepatic TBARS concentration was significantly lower in the probucol group than in both normal and HC control or naringin group. Probucol and naringin supplementation led to an increase in the hepatic superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) activities, and a decrease in the hepatic mitochondrial hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) content compared to the HC-control group. However, there was no difference in the cytosolic H(2)O(2) content or cytosolic glutathion peroxidase (GSH-Px) activity in the liver between the groups. Both naringin and probucol supplements significantly increased the plasma vitamin E concentration compared to the HC-control group. As regards the antioxidant enzyme gene expressions, naringin significantly increased the expression of three antioxidant enzyme mRNAs compared to the HC-control group, whereas probucol significantly increased the only SOD mRNA expression.
The probucol supplement was very potent in the antioxidative defense system, whereas naringin exhibited a comparable antioxidant capacity based on increasing the gene expressions in the antioxidant enzymes, while also increasing the hepatic SOD and CAT activities, sparing plasma vitamin E, and decreasing the hepatic mitochondrial H(2)O(2) content.
These investigations of riddelliine analyzed potential carcinogenesis and the utility of the female-rat/male-mouse design in bioassays and dose-response. Groups of 50 Fischer rats and B6C3F1 mice were gavage-administered riddelliine 5 days per week for 105 weeks. The dose levels for male rats were 0 or 1.0 mg/kg body weight; female rats 0, 0.01, 0.033, 0.1, 0.33, or 1.0 mg/kg; male mice 0, 0.1, 0.3, or 1.0, 3.0 mg/kg; and female mice 0 or 3.0 mg/kg. The dose groups were purposely designed to evaluate the dose-response relationship only in female rats and male mice. In rats, liver hemangiosarcoma, hepatocellular adenoma, and mononuclear cell leukemia were significantly increased in the 1.0 mg/kg male and female dose groups. Non-neoplastic lesions occurred in the liver and kidney of male and female rats. In mice, hemangiosarcomas increased significantly in the liver of males in the 3.0 mg/kg dose group. Alveolar/bronchiolar neoplasms in the 3.0 mg/kg dose group of female mice were significantly increased. Hepatocellular neoplasms were significantly decreased in the 1.0 mg/kg dose group of male and 3.0 mg/kg dose groups of male and female mice. Non-neoplastic lesions occurred in the liver and kidney of male and female, and lung and arteries of female mice. These studies demonstrate toxicity and carcinogenicity of riddelliine in rats and mice, and a dose-response relationship in female rats and male mice under the experimental conditions employed.
The effects of itraconazole, a triazole antifungal agent, on cytochrome P450 were investigated by measuring the anti-convulsant activity of phenytoin in mice, and zoxazolamine paralysis time, tolbutamide clearance, and plasma dicoumarol concentrations after a single injection of dicoumarol, in rats. Itraconazole, given either as a single dose of 5 or 10 mg/kg, or daily at these levels for five days, had no significant effect on any of the measures. The drug therefore appears to be free of enzyme inhibiting or inducing activity, although an effect on other cytochrome P450 isozymes can not be discounted. Thus itraconazole may possibly show fewer clinically significant drug interactions at the level of hepatic mixed function oxidase than other azole antifungal agents.
Thirty-two children with poor-prognosis solid tumors were treated with a combination of high-dose cisplatin (CDDP) (200 mg/m2 over 5 days) and VP16. In the 30 children evaluable for antitumor effect, there were 7 complete, 12 partial, and 3 minor tumor responses. Wilms' tumor and rhabdomyosarcoma responded best. There were no therapy-related deaths. Severe neutropenia (PMN less than 500/mmc) developed after 29 out of the 45 evaluable courses and lasted a median of 8 days; during periods of neutropenia 8 episodes of fever occurred, 1 of which was caused by streptococcal sepsis. Platelet levels were depressed to less than 50,000/mmc after 17/45 cycles and this thrombocytopenia lasted a median of 8 days. No neurological toxicity occurred. One case developed acute renal failure. A hearing deficit for high frequencies was documented in 14/22 patients evaluated after the first cycle and in all cases after the subsequent cycles; the deficits correlated with the total dose of CDDP administered. High-dose cisplatin and VP16 is an effective association in children with advanced cancer, but cumulative dosage is limited by ototoxicity.
Increased biliary secretion of cholesterol and lipid vesicles (unilamellae and multilamellae) induced by diosgenin (D), a plant-derived steroid, has cytoprotective effects in the rat liver subjected to obstructive cholestasis. In this study, our aims were to investigate the following: 1) the effects of D on the bile secretory process and on the cholestasis induced by estradiol-17beta-(beta-D-glucuronide) (E17G) or 17 alpha-ethynylestradiol (E) administration; 2) whether the potentially protective effects of D are related to D-induced increase of biliary cholesterol and lipid lamellae; and 3) whether D has other effects capable of modifying specific bile secretory processes or preventing the cholestatic effects of estrogens. Rats were fed a standard ground chow (control group) or chow containing D for 6 days. E17G was administered i.v. to control and D-fed rats and bile flow, bile salt output, and alkaline phosphatase excretion were examined. 17alpha-E was administered from days 4 to 6 to rats fed standard chow or chow plus D for 6 days and different functional parameters of the bile secretory process as well as the ultrastructure of hepatocytes and histochemistry of alkaline phosphatase and Mg2+-adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) were examined. D-treatment markedly increased cholesterol and lamellar structures in bile and attenuated the acute cholestatic effects of E17G. D-feeding prevented the decrease of taurocholate maximum secretory rate and the increase of biliary alkaline phosphatase and Ca2+,Mg2+-EctoATPase (EctoATPase) excretion, as well as the increase of cholesterol/ phospholipids ratio, alkaline phosphatase activity, and EctoATPase content in canalicular plasma membranes induced by E. D-feeding did not prevent E-induced decrease of basal bile flow, bile salt, cholesterol, and phospholipid secretory rates nor the decrease of Na+,K+-ATPase activity and Na+-taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide (Ntcp) content in isolated sinusoidal membranes. Cholestatic alterations of canalicular domain were apparent in E-treated rats. D administration was also associated with changes of ultrastructure and histochemistry of hepatocytes. E-induced alterations in ultrastructure and acinar distribution and intensity of histochemical reaction of both enzymes were partially prevented by D-feeding. We conclude that D administration, in addition to inducing a marked increase of biliary cholesterol and lipid lamellar structures output, was associated to changes in hepatocyte morphology and plasma membrane composition, enzymes activity, and histochemistry. D-feeding attenuated the acute cholestatic effects of E17G. D-induced increase of bile cholesterol and lipid lamellae content was not apparent when D-fed rats received E. Despite this fact, D administration prevented some cholestatic effects of E, probably through different metabolic effects and/or direct membrane effects, not related to increased lipid lamellae excretion.
Rizatriptan and zolmitriptan are both used to relieve acute migraine and cluster headaches. The mechanism of action is similar to the other triptans, in that they reverse abnormal cerebral vasodilation through their activity as 5-HT1B receptor agonists. Triptan-induced vasoconstriction is attributed to its activity on peripheral 5-HT1B receptors and has rarely been reported to result in stroke, myocardial infarction and ischemic colitis. We present two cases of renal infarction associated with therapeutic triptan use. The first patient is a 57-year-old man with a history of hypertension that was well controlled on valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide. He was recently diagnosed with cluster headaches and was treated with indomethacin, prednisone, butalbital-acetaminophen-caffeine and hydrocodone without relief. He then received two therapeutic doses of rizatriptan on each of the two days prior to presentation. Subsequently, he presented to the emergency department complaining of nausea, vomiting and right-sided abdominal pain. A computerized tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast revealed a very large wedge shaped infarction of the right kidney. The second patient is a 34-year-old man with a past medical history significant only for life-long migraine headaches successfully treated for the past six years with zolmitriptan. Shortly after taking one therapeutic dose of zolmitriptan, he presented to the emergency department complaining of nausea and left-sided abdominal pain. A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast revealed multiple wedge-shaped infarctions of the left kidney. Renal infarction was confirmed in both patients by arteriogram of the renal arteries. Although both rizatriptan and zolmitriptan are effective in the treatment of migraine and cluster headaches, they may induce peripheral vasospasm leading to renal infarction.
A report is made on two cases of a pharmacogenic delirium as a result of combined lithium-haloperidol therapy, and on one case of lithium-induced diabetes insipidus renales with second-degree high pressure. Also, the development of a hydrocephalus internus male-resorptivus through lithium is discussed. In all patients there was a possible disposition due to old age or cerebral injury. Based on their effect on synaptic transmission the potentiating effect of lithium and haloperidol is discussed. Under the influence of Na-K stimulated ATPase and, thus, of active transport and adenylcyclase a basic mechanism of lithium therapy and its side-effects is seen.
This study is aimed at investigating the novel use of minocycline for cardiac protection during ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, as well as its mechanism of action.
Minocycline is a tetracycline with anti-inflammatory properties, which is used clinically for the treatment of diseases such as urethritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Experimentally, minocycline has also been shown to be neuroprotective in animal models of cerebral ischemia and to delay progression and improve survival in mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases.
We studied 62 rat intact hearts exposed to I/R and cell cultures of neonatal and adult rat ventricular myocytes.
Minocycline significantly reduced necrotic and apoptotic cell death, both in neonatal and adult myocytes, not only when given prior to hypoxia (p < 0.001), but also at reoxygenation (p < 0.05). Moreover, in the intact heart exposed to I/R, in vivo treatment with minocycline promoted hemodynamic recovery (p < 0.001) and cell survival, with reduction of infarct size (p < 0.001), cardiac release of creatine phosphokinase (p < 0.001), and apoptotic cell death (p < 0.001). In regard to its antiapoptotic mechanism of action, minocycline significantly reduced the expression level of initiator caspases, increased the ratio of XIAP to Smac/DIABLO at both the messenger RNA and protein level, and prevented mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO (all, p < 0.05). These synergistic actions dramatically prevent the post-ischemic induction of caspase activity associated with cardiac I/R injury.
Because of its safety record and multiple novel mechanisms of action, minocycline may be a valuable cardioprotective agent to ameliorate cardiac dysfunction and cell loss associated with I/R injury.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation is a well-known complication in cancer patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, resulting in varying degrees of liver damage. The objective of this study was to investigate the efficacy of lamivudine for the prevention of HBV reactivation in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) patients undergoing high-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT).
Thirty-two patients with NHL who were HBV surface antigen (HBsAg)-positive were enrolled in this pilot study. They were divided into two groups: 20 patients received prophylactic oral lamivudine 100 mg/day before, and until at least 6 months after transplantation. The historical control group comprised 12 patients who received high-dose chemotherapy and AHSCT without lamivudine. The incidence and severity of hepatitis due to HBV reactivation, as well as other adverse clinical outcomes, were compared between the two groups.
Most baseline clinical characteristics were similar in the two groups, except for HBV e-antigen (HBeAg)-positive status (85% in the lamivudine group vs 33.3% in the control group, p = 0.006) and the type of AHSCT. There was a lower incidence of hepatitis due to HBV reactivation in the lamivudine group than in the control group (10 vs 50%, p = 0.030), less severe hepatitis (0 vs 25%, p = 0.009), and lower mortality (0 vs 25%, p = 0.236). An HBV variant with tyrosine methionine aspartate aspartate (YMDD) mutation was detected in one patient in the lamivudine group (5%) after administration of lamivudine for 9 months. No significant adverse events were associated with the use of prophylactic lamivudine, and hematopoietic reconstitution was not affected by the intervention.
Prophylactic lamivudine may reduce the incidence and severity of chemotherapy-related HBV reactivation and hepatitis-related mortality in HBsAg-positive NHL patients receiving high-dose chemotherapy and AHSCT. Additional randomized, multicenter trials are warranted.
Aspirin is being increasingly prescribed for cardiovascular protection, but is also recognized to have significant gastrointestinal side-effects. Whether chronic aspirin consumption causes iron deficiency is undetermined, and there is little information available regarding iron deficiency and aspirin use in old age. We studied the relationship between iron deficiency anaemia and regular aspirin prescription in old age.
Thromboxane A synthase (TBXAS1) converts prostaglandin H to thromboxane A, a potent constrictor of smooth respiratory muscle. Thus, functional alterations of the TBXAS1 gene may contribute to aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA).
We investigated the relationship between SNPs in the TBXAS1 gene and AIA. Asthmatics (n = 470) were categorized into AIA (20% or greater decreases in forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV(1)], or 15% to 19% decreases in FEV(1) with naso-ocular or cutaneous reactions) and aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA). A total of 101 SNPs were genotyped. mRNA expression of the TBXAS1 gene by peripheral blood mononuclear cells and plasma thromboxane B2 (TXB2) concentrations were measured by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR and ELISA.
Logistic regression analysis showed that the rare allele frequency of rs6962291 in intron 9 was significantly lower in the AIA group (n = 115) than in the ATA group (n = 270) (p(corr) = 0.04). The linear regression analysis revealed a strong association of rs6962291 with the aspirin challenge-induced FEV(1) fall (p = 0.003). RT-PCR revealed an exon-12-deleted splice variant. We measured TBXAS1 mRNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The mRNA levels of the full-length wild-type and splice variant were significantly higher in the TT homozygotes than in the AA homozygotes of rs6962291 (1.00 ± 0.18 vs 0.57 ± 0.03 and 1.00 ± 0.18 vs 0.21 ± 0.05, p = 0.047 and 0.001, respectively). The plasma TXB2 level was significantly lower in rs6962291 AA carriers than in rs6962291 TT (p = 0.016) carriers.
The rare allele of rs6962291 may play a protective role against aspirin hypersensitivity via a lower catalytic activity of the TBXAS1 gene, attributed to the increase of a nonfunctioning isoform of TBXAS1.
Cardiac complications stemming from intra-cranial hypertension may result from impaired intra-cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of dantrolene, a blocker of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) release, on myocardial dysfunction associated with intra-cranial hypertension in rats. Dantrolene (10 mg) with and without 15% mannitol was administered to halothane-anesthetized rats prior to induction of intra-cranial hypertension by subdural balloon inflation. Its effects were compared to 3% and 15% mannitol and 5% Pentaspan. Dantrolene with mannitol or 15% mannitol alone prevented the transient intra-cranial hypertension-induced hyperdynamic response and ensuing circulatory collapse that was found in animals pre-treated with 3% mannitol solution or pentaspan. Moreover, hemodynamic function was preserved irrespective of TnI cleavage. However, only animals treated with high dose 15% mannitol exhibited lower lipid peroxidation content in the heart. In contrast, pre-treatment with dantrolene alone did not prevent the cardiac complications associated with intra-cranial hypertension. In conclusion, 15% mannitol attenuated the cardiopulmonary complications associated with intra-cranial hypertension. Dantrolene without mannitol was without effect. Since mannitol exhibits free radical scavenging properties, protection could be the result of a decrease in oxidative stress after intra-cranial hypertension.
Heat shock response, mediated by heat shock proteins, is a highly conserved physiological process in multicellular organisms for reestablishment of cellular homeostasis. Expression of heat shock factors and subsequent heat shock protein plays a role in protection against proteotoxicity in invertebrate and vertebrate models. Proteotoxicity due to beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) oligomerization has been linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Previously, we demonstrated that progressive paralysis induced by expression of human Abeta(1-42) in transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans was alleviated by Abeta oligomer inhibitors Ginkgo biloba extract and its constituents [Wu, Y., Wu, Z., Butko, P., Christen, Y., Lambert, M.P., Klein, W.L., Link, C.D., Luo, Y., 2006. Amyloid-beta-induced pathological behaviors are suppressed by Ginkgo biloba extract EGb 761 and ginkgolides in transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans. J. Neurosci. 26(50): 13102-13113]. In this study, we apply a protective heat shock to the transgenic C. elegans and demonstrate: (1) a delay in paralysis, (2) increased expression of small heat shock protein HSP16.2, and (3) significant reduction of Abeta oligomers in a heat shock time-dependent manner. These results suggest that transient heat shock lessens Abeta toxicity by diminishing Abeta oligomerization, which provides a link between up regulation of endogenous chaperone proteins and protection against Abeta proteotoxicity in vivo.
Nevirapine (NVP) can cause serious skin rashes and hepatotoxicity. It also causes an immune-mediated skin rash in rats but not hepatotoxicity. This rash is caused by a metabolite of NVP; specifically, NVP is oxidized in the liver to a benzylic alcohol (12-OH-NVP), which travels to the skin where it forms a reactive benzylic sulfate. This could both act as a hapten and induce a danger signal. In contrast, most of the covalent binding in the liver involves oxidation of the methyl group leading to a reactive quinone methide. In this study, we examined the effects of NVP and 12-OH-NVP on gene expression in the liver and skin. Both NVP and 12-OH-NVP induced changes in the liver, but the list of genes was different, presumably reflecting different bioactivation pathways. In contrast, many more genes were up-regulated in the skin by 12-OH-NVP than by NVP, which is consistent with the fact that 12-OH-NVP is an obligate intermediate in the formation of the reactive sulfate in the skin. Genes up-regulated by 12-OH-NVP in the skin included TRIM63 (18-fold increase), S100a7a (7-fold increase), IL22-RA2 (4-fold increase), and DAPK1 (3-fold increase). TRIM63 acts as a ubiquitin ligase, which is consistent with protein damage leading to an increase in protein turnover. In addition, TRIM proteins are involved in inflammasome activation, and it appears that inflammasome activation is an essential step in the induction of NVP-induced skin rash. S100A7 is considered a danger signal, and its upregulation supports the danger hypothesis. Upregulation of the IL-22 RA2 gene marks an immune response. DAPK1 is involved with inflammasome assembly through binding directly to NLRP3, a NOD-like receptor expressed in keratinocytes. These results provide important clues to how NVP causes the induction of an immune response, in this case leading to skin rash.
Despite the lack of nephrotoxicity, adverse effects of the new antiproliferative immunosuppressant everolimus have been reported. By varying time point and dose of everolimus treatment as well as the degree of glomerular injury, the specific conditions and potential mechanisms leading to adverse actions in the anti-Thy1 model have been determined. Only the combination of early and high-dose everolimus treatment (1-3 mg/kg bw) with a severe glomerular lesion ('full-dose' anti-Thy1 model) caused adverse effects with a high mortality rate, progressive apoptosis, crescent formation and glomerulosclerosis. In contrast, either later start or low-dose (0.3 mg/kg bw) therapy or treatment of a less severe lesion ('reduced dose' anti-Thy1 model) appeared to be relatively safe for the glomerular architecture. The adverse effects of everolimus were linked to its marked inhibition of endothelial cell, but not necessarily mesangial cell proliferation. In addition, everolimus markedly inhibited the angiogenic cytokine vascular endothelial growth factor in nephritic glomeruli in vivo. These experimental results suggest special caution regarding the use of everolimus in all situations of severe glomerular cell injury requiring extensive capillary repair, where at least adaption to a low dose needs to be considered.
Propofol injection during induction of anesthesia induces pain. Ketamine has been shown to reduce the injection pain. However, ketamine has unfavorable adverse effects, including increased secretion production and hemodynamic responses, which might induce pulmonary or hemodynamic adverse events, especially in patients undergoing lung surgery who require a double-lumen tube (DLT). The aim of this study was to determine whether ketamine can safely reduce propofol injection pain during induction of anesthesia for lung surgery.
Forty-five patients scheduled for elective lung surgery requiring DLT were randomly allocated into three groups. Patients received saline (control), ketamine 0.5 mg kg(-1) (0.5 ketamine), or ketamine 1.0 mg kg(-1) (1.0 ketamine), followed by 5 ml propofol 30 s later. An anesthesiologist blinded to the study group assessed pain score during induction, hemodynamics during DLT placement, and secretion production during anesthetic management.
Pretreatment of 0.5 mg kg(-1) ketamine reduced the incidence and intensity of propofol injection pain, whereas 1.0 mg kg(-1) ketamine completely eliminated the pain. There were no significant differences regarding oxygenation during one-lung ventilation (OLV) and hemodynamics during induction among the three groups, although ketamine increased secretion production.
One milligram per kilogram of ketamine completely eliminated pain associated with propofol injection without affecting hemodynamics during induction of anesthesia and oxygenation during OLV.
We studied blood pressure, arterial diameter, and blood flow of the brachial artery in patients with sustained essential hypertension before and after administration of the vasodilating drugs nitroglycerin, captopril, dihydralazine, diltiazem, and isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN). The diameter and the blood flow of the brachial artery were measured with a pulsed Doppler device which allowed the angle between the ultrasound beam and the vessel axis to be determined with a precision better than 2%. Nitroglycerin and captopril decreased blood pressure slightly but increased arterial diameter markedly. Dihydralazine, diltiazem, and ISDN decreased blood pressure similarly and significantly and also reduced forearm vascular resistance. Dihydralazine reduced arterial diameter (p less than 0.001), but did not change brachial blood flow. Diltiazem and ISDN increased the arterial diameter markedly (p less than 0.001 and p less than 0.01, respectively), but only the former increased brachial blood flow. We conclude that antihypertensive drugs that dilate small arteries can either reduce (dihydralazine) or increase (nitroglycerin, captopril, diltiazem, ISDN) the caliber of large peripheral arteries and thus have different effects on peripheral blood flow.
Suppression of prostacyclin (PGI2) biosynthesis may explain the increased incidence of myocardial infarction and stroke which has been observed in placebo controlled trials of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors. Herein, we examine if COX-2-derived PGI2 might condition the response of the vasculature to sustained physiologic stress in experimental models that retain endothelial integrity. Deletion of the PGI2 receptor (IP) or suppression of PGI2 with the selective COX-2 inhibitor, nimesulide, both augment intimal hyperplasia while preserving luminal geometry in mouse models of transplant arteriosclerosis or flow-induced vascular remodeling. Moreover, nimesulide or IP deletion augments the reduction in blood flow caused by common carotid artery ligation in wild-type mice. Generation of both thromboxane (Tx)A2 and the isoprostane, 8, 12 -iso iPF(2alpha)-VI, are increased in the setting of flow reduction and the latter increases further on administration of nimesulide. Deletion of the TxA2 receptor (TP) reduces the hyperplastic response to nimesulide and carotid ligation, despite further augmentation of TP ligand production. Suppression of COX-2-derived PGI2 or deletion of IP profoundly influences the architectural response of the vasculature to hemodynamic stress. Mechanism based vascular remodeling may interact with a predisposition to hypertension and atherosclerosis in contributing to the gradual transformation of cardiovascular risk during extended periods of treatment with selective inhibitors of COX-2.
We recently reported that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) reversed the hypertension induced by nitric oxide inhibition in pregnant rats and that this effect appeared to be progesterone dependent. In the present study, we examined whether the vasodilator responses to CGRP are increased during pregnancy and whether these responses are steroid hormone dependent. Three groups of ovariectomized (Ovx) rats (n = 4-8 rats/group) were studied 3 days after daily treatment (subcutaneous injection) with progesterone (P; 2 mg/injection, twice daily for 3 days, in 0.2 ml of sesame oil), 17beta-estradiol (E; 2.5 microgram/injection, twice daily for 3 days, in 0.2 ml of sesame oil), or vehicle (sesame oil). A fourth group (n = 6 rats) of pregnant rats was studied on day 19 of gestation. A fifth group of adult, nonpregnant rats (n = 6 rats), regardless of stage of estrous cycle, was also used in this study. Mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) was continuously monitored in fully awake and free-moving instrumented rats. MAP was measured before and after administration of either saline or varying bolus doses of CGRP (9-360 pmol/kg body wt). CGRP produced a dose-dependent decrease in MAP in all rats with a significant (P < 0.05) reduction in MAP beginning with a CGRP dose of 90 pmol/kg and with maximal effects observed at 360 pmol/kg. Decreases in MAP in response to CGRP were significantly (P < 0.05) greater in pregnant compared with nonpregnant rats. Similarly to pregnant rats, Ovx rats given both E and P treatments produced greater decreases in MAP in response to CGRP at 90, 180, and 360 pmol/kg doses compared with both ovary-intact and Ovx nonpregnant rats, which were not different from each other. In summary, these data show that 1) the hypotensive effects of CGRP are dose dependent and 2) the hypotensive effects of CGRP are enhanced during pregnancy and in Ovx rats treated with either E or P. Therefore, we suggest that the decrease in vascular tone that is seen during pregnancy may be mediated, at least in part, by a sex steroid hormone-induced increase in the vascular sensitivity to the vasodilator effects of CGRP.
We previously mapped quantitative trait loci (QTL) responsible for approximately 26% of the genetic variance in acute alcohol and barbiturate (i.e., pentobarbital) withdrawal convulsion liability to a < 1 cM (1.8 Mb) interval of mouse chromosome 4. To date, Mpdz, which encodes the multiple PSD95/DLG/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain protein (MPDZ), is the only gene within the interval shown to have allelic variants that differ in coding sequence and/or expression, making it a strong candidate gene for the QTL. Previous work indicates that Mpdz haplotypes in standard mouse strains encode distinct protein variants (MPDZ1-3), and that MPDZ status is genetically correlated with severity of withdrawal from alcohol and pentobarbital. Here, we report that MPDZ status cosegregates with withdrawal convulsion severity in lines of mice selectively bred for phenotypic differences in severity of acute withdrawal from alcohol [i.e., High Alcohol Withdrawal (HAW) and Low Alcohol Withdrawal (LAW) lines] or pentobarbital [High Pentobarbital Withdrawal (HPW) and Low Pentobarbital Withdrawal (LPW) lines]. These analyses confirm that MPDZ status is associated with severity of alcohol and pentobarbital withdrawal convulsions. Using a panel of standard inbred strains of mice, we assessed the association between MPDZ status with seizures induced by nine chemiconvulsants. Our results show that MPDZ status is genetically correlated with seizure sensitivity to pentylenetetrazol, kainate and other chemiconvulsants. Our results provide evidence that Mpdz may have pleiotropic effects on multiple seizure phenotypes, including seizures associated with withdrawal from two classes of central nervous system (CNS) depressants and sensitivity to specific chemiconvulsants that affect glutaminergic and GABAergic neurotransmission.
High levels of catecholamines are cardiotoxic and may trigger acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Similarly, the synthetic catecholamine isoprenaline (ISO) evokes a pathological state similar to AMI. During AMI there is a marked increase of free iron and copper which are crucial catalysts of reactive oxygen species formation. Rutin, a natural flavonoid glycoside possessing free radical scavenging and iron/copper chelating activity, may therefore be potentially useful in reduction of catecholamine cardiotoxicity as was previously demonstrated after its long-term peroral administration. Male Wistar:Han rats received rutin (46 or 11.5 mg kg(-1) i.v.) alone or with necrogenic dose of ISO (100 mg kg(-1) s.c.). Haemodynamic parameters were measured 24h after drug application together with analysis of blood, myocardial content of elements and histological examination. Results were confirmed by cytotoxicity studies using cardiomyoblast cell line H9c2. Rutin in a dose of 46 mg kg(-1) aggravated ISO-cardiotoxicity while the dose of 11 mg kg(-1) had no effect. These unexpected results were in agreement with in vitro experiments, where co-incubation with larger concentrations of rutin significantly augmented ISO cytotoxicity. Our results, in contrast to previous studies in the literature, suggest that the reported positive effects of peroral administration of rutin were unlikely to have been mediated by rutin per se but probably by its metabolite(s) or by some other, at this moment, unknown adaptive mechanism(s), which merit further investigation.
To investigate the effect of paclitaxel and 5-flurouracil (5-Fu) on growth inhibition and apoptosis of human hepatoma BEL-7402 cells.
Growth inhibition of BEL-7402 cells treated with paclitaxel and 5-Fu, respectively, was measured by ATP-tumor chemosensitivity assay (ATP-TCA), and the cell cycle kinetics and apoptosis were analyzed by flow cytometry and microscopic examination.
BEL-7402 cells were highly sensitive to paclitaxel with growth inhibition observed in both dose- and time-dependent manners (IC(50)=5.58 x 10(-7) mol/L). Paclitaxel induced significantly higher rate of cell apoptosis than the control group (P<0.05) but significantly lower rate than that induced by 5-Fu (P<0.01). Necrosis was observed predominantly in paclitaxel-treated cells whereas 5-Fu caused mainly cell apoptosis (P<0.05). Levels of apoptosis increased in proportion to the decrement of paclitaxel concentration but directly proportional to increment of 5-Fu concentration.
Paclitaxel and 5-Fu are effective in inducing growth inhibition and apoptosis of BEL-7402 cells. While 5-Fu causes mainly apoptosis in hepatoma cells, the anticancer mechanism of paclitaxel is predominantly through induction of necrosis.
Heterocyclic amines are potent mutagens and carcinogens formed in cooked protein rich foods. In this study, we screened liver tumors induced by 2-amino-3,4-dimethylimidazo[4,5-f]quinoline (MeIQ) in CDF1 mice for beta-catenin and APC mutations and other genetic alterations shown to occur in human hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC), including mutations in the p53 and H-ras genes, c-myc amplification and E-cadherin promoter methylation. SSCP followed by direct DNA sequencing revealed mutations in exon 2 of the beta-catenin gene in 2 of 16 liver tumors (12.5%). Promoter methylation of the E-cadherin gene was detected in one liver tumor induced by MeIQ. There were no mutations in the mutation cluster region of the APC gene, in exons 5-8 of the p53 gene, or in codons 12, 13 and 61 of the H-ras gene, nor c-myc amplification in any of liver tumors induced by MeIQ. These data indicate that except for the occasional disruption of the Wnt pathway through beta-catenin mutations, the genetic pathways involved in the development of HCC differ significantly between human liver cancer and tumors induced in mice by MeIQ, but do not rule out the possibility that heterocyclic amines constitute a carcinogenic risk factor in humans.
Two cases of light-headedness or 'fainting' in patients with schizophrenia treated with olanzapine are presented. Electrocardiogram investigation revealed first-degree heart block on high normal and high dose olanzapine, which normalized after dose reduction.
Cannabinoids are drugs that are frequently abused not only alone, but also in combination with other drugs. The present study investigated possible functional interactions between the psychostimulant methamphetamine and the cannabinoid receptor agonists anandamide, or R-(+)-methanandamide and cannabinoid antagonist AM 251 in the rat model of i.v. drug self-administration. In rats trained to self-administer methamphetamine, the intake was significantly decreased by the cannabinoid antagonist and tended to be dose-dependently increased by pre-treatment with cannabinoid receptor agonists. Possible mechanisms for these drug interactions are discussed and the use of the cannabinoid antagonist for the treatment of drug abuse is considered.
The inhibitory effect of cardiac sympathetic nerve stimulation (SNS) on bradycardic response to vagal nerve stimulation was examined in anesthetized dogs pretreated with atenolol or propranolol to prevent tachycardia caused by SNS or norepinephrine infusion. The amplitudes of vagal bradycardia (0.5, 1, 2, and 4 Hz) during 10 and 30 Hz of SNS were significantly smaller than those during the resting state. The inhibitory effect of 10 Hz of SNS was neither affected by prazosin (10, 30 and 100 micrograms/kg i.v.) nor by yohimbine (10, 30 and 100 micrograms/kg i.v.). The SNS-induced inhibition of vagal bradycardia was inhibited by naloxone (0.3 and 1 mg/kg i.v.) or by naltrexone (0.3 and 1 mg/kg i.v.). Vagal bradycardia was unaffected by intracoronary infusion of norepinephrine (3 micrograms/min) into the right coronary artery, whereas it was effectively inhibited by leu-enkephalin (10, 30 and 100 micrograms/kg i.v.). Bradycardia induced by intracoronary injection of methacholine (0.3, 1 and 3 micrograms) was unaffected by SNS. These results suggest that a presynaptic alpha adrenoceptor mechanism is not involved in the SNS-induced inhibition of vagal bradycardia in the dog, and suggest further that an opioid receptor mechanism may be responsible for the inhibition.
We recorded intra-arterial ambulatory blood pressure in 13 patients with essential hypertension before and after long-term twice-daily prazosin therapy (mean dosage 13.8 mg, SD 4.2 mg). Nine other patients with essential hypertension inadequately controlled with beta-adrenoreceptor blocking drugs were studied before and after the addition of long-term twice-daily prazosin therapy (mean dosage 8.8 mg, SD 6.7 mg). Ten patients, responders from both groups, then received once-daily prazosin, and intraarterial monitoring was repeated for a third time. Circadian curves from pooled hourly data showed no significant reduction of intra-arterial ambulatory blood pressure with prazosin alone. There was a slight reflex tachycardia. Nine patients receiving combination therapy showed a daytime reduction in blood pressure averaging 24/6 mm Hg (p less than 0.001). Postural hypotension was recorded in both groups. Once-daily prazosin failed to control the blood pressure after 1700 h in the group of 10 patients defined as responders. Following combination therapy the blood pressure was reduced by 19/14 mm Hg at the peak of isometric hand grip and by 25/9 mm Hg on dynamic bicycle exercise. These data indicate that prazosin as an antihypertensive agent is best used in combination therapy with beta-adrenoreceptor blockade.
