An 8-year-old mixed-breed dog was anesthetized for colonoscopy. Moderate sedation was produced by premedication with glycopyrrolate, acepromazine, and hydromorphone, and anesthesia was induced by IV injection of diazepam and ketamine. Frothy, reddish-colored fluid flowed from the endotracheal tube immediately after endotracheal intubation but ceased after several minutes. Furosemide was injected IV. Anesthesia was maintained by sevoflurane in oxygen. Ventilation and arterial blood pressure were satisfactory, however, after oxygen was administered to maintain normal hemoglobin saturation. Radiography revealed changes consistent with a diagnosis of pulmonary edema. The following day, ventricular premature contractions developed and atrial dissociation, valvular regurgitation, and pulmonary hypertension were diagnosed on echocardiography. The proposed etiology is either profound transient hypotension and/or pulmonary hypertension induced by ketamine. The cardiac abnormalities that were present the following day suggest that myocardial dysfunction after induction of anesthesia was more severe than was apparent as assessed by routine physical examination and monitoring methods.
The development of hypercholesterolemia is a multifactorial process in which elevated plasma cholesterol levels play a central role. This study analyzed the variability of the expression and activity of myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) and endothelial permeability in the artery wall of rabbits after feeding the animals with a normal or a high-cholesterol diet. Hypercholesterolemia was induced by a high-cholesterol diet for 4 weeks. Aortas were removed and analyzed for endothelial permeability and MLCK expression. Samples of the arterial media were analyzed for MLCK activity and expression. A selective MLCK inhibitor 1-(5-iodonaphthalene-1-sulfonyl)-1H-hexahydro-1,4-diazepine hydrochloride (ML7) were used in hypercholesterolemia rabbit (1 mg/kg body weight). The aortas of high-cholesterol diet rabbits showed an increase in MLCK expression and activity (nearly threefold compare with control) as well as endothelial permeability. ML7 inhibit MLC phosphorylation and MLCK activity (nearly twofold compare with control) and endothelial permeability stimulated by cholesterol. These results indicate for the first time that hypercholesterolemia may be associated with MLCK expression and activity through which endothelial permeability is increased.
Two different mutations were found in two unrelated probands with lethal chondrodysplasias, one with achondrogenesis type II and the other with the less severe phenotype of hypochondrogenesis. The mutations in the COL2A1 gene were identified by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis of genomic DNA followed by dideoxynucleotide sequencing and restriction site analysis. The proband with achondrogenesis type II had a heterozygous single-base mutation that substituted aspartate for glycine at position 310 of the alpha 1(II) chain of type II procollagen. The proband with hypochondrogenesis had a heterozygous single-base mutation that substituted serine for glycine at position 805. Type II collagen extracted from cartilage from the probands demonstrated the presence of type I collagen and a delayed electrophoretic mobility, indicating post-translational overmodifications. Analysis of CNBr peptides showed that, in proband 1, the entire peptides were overmodified. Examination of chondrocytes cultured in agarose or alginate indicated that there was a delayed secretion of type II procollagen. In addition, type II collagen synthesized by cartilage fragments from the probands demonstrated a decreased thermal stability. The melting temperature of the type II collagen containing the aspartate-for-glycine substitution was reduced by 4 degrees C, and that of the collagen containing the serine-for-glycine substitution was reduced by 2 degrees C. Electron microscopy of the extracellular matrix from the chondrocyte cultures showed a decreased density of matrix and the presence of unusually short and thin fibrils. Our results indicate that glycine substitutions in the N-terminal region of the type II collagen molecule can produce more severe phenotypes than mutations in the C-terminal region. The aspartate-for-glycine substitution at position 310, which was associated with defective secretion and a probable increased degradation of collagen, is the most destabilizing mutation yet reported in type II procollagen.
(1) Misoprostol, a synthetic prostaglandin E1 analogue, is used to treat gastric and duodenal ulcers, and, in combination with mifepristone, for medical abortion. (2) The French and American summaries of product characteristics, based on data submitted to the relevant regulatory agencies, mention no teratogenicity in animals. However, some studies showed malformations in rats and rabbits. (3) Severe malformations have been reported in countries where misoprostol is frequently used for abortion without medical supervision despite its poor efficacy when used alone. The malformations included cranial nerve defects (especially pairs 6 and 7, characteristic of the Möbius syndrome) and various limb abnormalities. (4) Malformations, including one case of Möbius syndrome, have been reported in France after medically supervised use of misoprostol. (5) In practice, when a patient wishes to continue a pregnancy after a failed attempt at drug-induced abortion, she needs to be informed of the risk to her unborn child. Cranial nerve defects are rarely detectable by sonography, however thorough. In addition, misoprostol has a negative risk-benefit balance in the prevention or treatment of gastro-duodenal ulcers in young women.
Dapsone can rarely cause a hypersensitivity reaction called dapsone syndrome, consisting of fever, hepatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, lymphadenopathy and hemolytic anemia. Dapsone syndrome is a manifestation of the DRESS (drug rash with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms) syndrome which is a serious condition that has been reported in association with various drugs. Cholangitis in dapsone syndrome has not been reported so far in the world literature.
We report a patient who presented with fever, exfoliative dermatitis, jaundice and anemia within three weeks of starting of dapsone therapy. These features are typical of dapsone syndrome, which is due to dapsone hypersensitivity and is potentially fatal. Unlike previous reports of hepatitic or cholestatic injury in dapsone syndrome we report here a case that had cholangitic liver injury. It responded to corticosteroids.
We conclude that cholangitis, though unusual, can also form a part of dapsone syndrome. Physicians should be aware of this unusual picture of potentially fatal dapsone syndrome.
Recently, we have reported the therapeutic efficacy of delivering initiator caspase (caspase-8) or executioner active caspase (rev-caspase-6) to telomerase-positive malignant glioma cells using the human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) gene promoter system (hTERT/caspase-8 or hTERT/rev-caspase-6). In the present study, we investigated if conventional treatments for malignant gliomas augment the efficacy of the hTERT/caspase therapy. First, we demonstrated that hTERT/rev-caspase-6 exhibited a greater ability to induce apoptosis in malignant glioma U87-MG and U373-MG cells than hTERT/caspase-8. Next, as conventional treatments to combine with hTERT/rev-caspase-6, apoptosis-inducing agents [cisplatin (CDDP), paclitaxel (PTX), and BCNU] and non-apoptosis-inducing therapies [temozolomide (TMZ) and gamma-irradiation (IR)] were used. Combination of hTERT/rev-caspase-6 gene therapy with PTX yielded a dose-dependent additive effect, while CDDP and BCNU had additive effect only when tumor cells were treated at IC75 of each agent. A decline in the combination effect of CDDP and BCNU at IC50 was due to decreased activity of telomerase in treated tumor cells prior to the hTERT/rev-caspase-6 transfer. On the other hand, TMZ or IR had no significant additive effect on induction of apoptosis. These results suggest that agents, which induce apoptosis without inhibiting telomerase activity are a promising counterpart to combine with hTERT/rev-caspase-6 therapy for the management of malignant gliomas.
Propofol is a potent and widely used central-acting sedative drug. It has been implicated in the development of a usually fatal syndrome characterized by metabolic acidosis, rhabdomyolysis, ventricular arrhythmia, and Brugada-like cardiac rhythm disturbances, all leading to cardiac and renal failure. The investigators describe a 12-year-old male patient with a fatal case of this so-called propofol infusion syndrome. Postmortem investigation showed not only the well-known myocytolysis in skeletal and cardiac muscle but also not previously demonstrated widespread fat accumulation in the myocardium. In conclusion, this cardiac fat accumulation illustrates the proposed underlying pathophysiology of impaired (muscular) free fatty acid utilization.
(1) Interstitial pneumonia usually develops gradually. The signs and symptoms are non-specific, and generally include dyspnea, cough, fatigue, and weight loss. In other cases onset is acute, sometimes beginning with a flu-like syndrome. Interstitial pneumonia can lead to acute respiratory failure, sometimes gradual deterioration of respiratory function, and pulmonary fibrosis progressing to respiratory failure. The fibrosis does not regress when the causal factor is withdrawn. (2) There are numerous causes of interstitial pneumonia, including medicinal drugs. (3) Amiodarone generally induces slow and insidious lung disease. (4) Methotrexate induces lung disease. Most cytotoxic drugs cause chronic dose-dependent lung disease and fibrosis, in some cases long after treatment cessation. (5) The many other implicated drugs include nitrofurantoin, Nonsteroidal antiandrogens, drugs that induce connective tissue diseases, laxatives based on mineral oil, and many other drugs, some of which are known to cause hypersensitivity reactions. (6) In practice, a drug-related cause should be kept in mind in cases of interstitial pneumonia, as symptoms generally improve after drug withdrawal, unless fibrosis has already started to develop.
Sirolimus (SRL) has a concentration-related effect on hematopoiesis. In this study, 430 renal transplant recipients were randomized (1:1) 3 months post-transplantation to continue SRL-cyclosporine (CsA)-steroids (ST) or to have CsA withdrawn (SRL-ST). Over 5 years, on therapy calculated glomerular filtration rate (GFR), hematological indices, erythropoietin (EPO) use, and rates of mild, moderate, and severe anemia were determined. Longitudinal analyses using linear mixed models examined covariates predicting hemoglobin (Hgb) levels. Mean Hgb was significantly lower with SRL-ST at 6 months; but subsequently became significantly higher (at 2 years, 129 vs. 135 g/l, SRL-CsA-ST vs. SRL-ST, P<0.001). Mean corpuscular volume was low with both therapies, and significantly lower with SRL-ST. EPO use was similar in the two groups, approximately 30% during the first year and 10% thereafter. The incidence of anemia was significantly higher with SRL-CsA-ST>or=2 years. At year 5, only 39.1% of SRL-CsA-ST patients had normal Hgb vs. 68.5% of SRL-ST patients. GFR and recipient age as well as the interaction term x treatment time were significant covariates predicting Hgb. CsA withdrawal followed by SRL immunotherapy resulted in significantly less anemia than SRL-CsA-ST, despite twofold higher SRL exposure. This suggests that the improvement in GFR accompanying CsA withdrawal may mitigate the effect of SRL on hematopoiesis. (ClinicalTrials.gov number: NCT00428064).
In this study hematological toxicity was analyzed after the single and repeated applications of tiazofurin (TZF). Cellularity of bone marrow, spleen and peripheral blood was examined, spanning the period of fifty days after the initial application. Analysis of hematological parameters was performed by slightly modified conventional techniques. The fraction of erythroid series was monitored during the experiment. Presented data describe kinetics of damage and recovery of hemopoietic tissue. Our results indicate that the effect of tiazofurin on cellularity of bone marrow and spleen and on erythropoiesis is reversible and dose dependent within tested dose range and therapeutic regimes. Twenty days after the application normal function of hemopoietic tissues was restored. This approach and results can be useful in defining the timing for sequencing and combination therapy with tiazofurin.
Aspirin-intolerant asthma (AIA) is an asthma phenotype characterized by the development of bronchoconstriction following ingestion of aspirin. Despite the well-defined pathological trigger, the underlying mechanisms of AIA are still unclear. With the biophysical characteristics of the human EMI domain-containing protein 2 (EMID2) gene in relation to the extracellular matrix deposition and epithelial-mesenchymal transition as pivotal characteristics of airway remodeling in asthma, we hypothesized that genetic polymorphisms of EMID2 might affect the development of AIA. In this study, the allelic associations of 49 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the human EMID2 gene were evaluated from 163 AIA patients and 429 aspirin-tolerant asthma (ATA) subjects as controls in a Korean population. Logistic analysis showed that five SNPs (P = 0.01-0.04, but P (corr) > 0.05) and EMID2_BL2_ht2 haplotype (unique to the minor alleles of rs4727494 and rs13233066; P = 0.02; P (corr) = 0.02) were significantly associated with AIA. More interestingly, regression analysis of the decline of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV(1)) by aspirin provocation revealed that 10 SNPs (P = 0.003-0.04) and four relevant haplotypes (P = 0.002-0.02) were significantly associated with the fall rate of FEV(1) by aspirin provocation, indicating that genetic polymorphisms of EMID2 could cause meaningful deficits in the upper and lower airways among AIA patients. These findings provide evidence that EMID2 may be a susceptible genetic factor for aspirin hypersensitivity among asthmatics in Korean population.
This was a prospective double blind comparative study on 40 patients. It compared the effects of the leukotriene receptor antagonist montelukast and beclomethasone nasal spray on the post-operative course of patients with sinonasal polyps. All patients underwent endoscopic sphenoethmoidectomy and were randomized post-operatively into two groups. Group I: 20 patients (9 females and 11 males) age 17 to 67 (32.4 +/- 9.5 years), receiving 10 mg montelukast orally daily and Group II: 20 patients (6 females and 14 males) age 17 years to 57 years (33.5 +/- 11.9 years), receiving 400 ug beclomethasone local sprays daily. All patients were followed up for 1 year and a symptom score was recorded throughout this period. There was a significant reduction in symptom scores in both groups throughout the study period. In the montelukast group improvement was more marked in itching, post-nasal discharge and headache. The control of sneezing and rhinorrhea was comparable in both groups with a marginal advantage of montelukast. Steroids had a more marked effect on smell disturbances and obstruction. There was no difference in the recurrence rate or in the need for rescue medications between both groups. Both drugs seem to have a complementary action and further studies are needed to determine which patients should receive which treatment.
Statins have pleiotropic neuroprotective effects in the central nervous system. In this study, we assessed the pharmacological effects of simvastatin on measures of behavior in New Zealand white rabbits embolized using a suspension of small-sized blood clots. For these studies, simvastatin was administered up to 3 hours following embolization, and behavior was measured 48 hours following embolization to calculate the dose of emboli (P(50) in mg) that produces neurological deficits in 50% of the rabbits. A treatment is considered neuroprotective if it significantly increases the P(50) compared to control. Simvastatin treatment (20mg/kg, bolus subcutaneous injection) significantly improved clinical function and increased the P(50) by 143% when administered 1 hour following embolization but was ineffective at 3 hours. In combination studies with the thrombolytic, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) using a standard intravenous dose of 3.3mg/kg (20% bolus, 80% infused), we found that simvastatin could be safely administered with tPA to improve clinical scores; however, the maximum behavioral improvement with the combination treatment was similar to either monotherapy alone, both of which significantly improved behavior (p<0.05). It has been proposed that Simvastatin neuroprotection may be related to a variety of signaling pathways including Rho-kinase (ROCK). To determine if a ROCK mechanism is involved in simvastatin-induced neuroprotection following embolic strokes, we used pharmacological intervention with the ROCK inhibitor, fasudil. When fasudil was administered 30 minutes before simvastatin (given at 1 hour), there was an additional significant (p=0.0217) synergistic increase in behavioral function. However, fasudil as a monotherapy did not affect behavioral function in embolized rabbits. The study suggests that there may be an interaction between simvastatin treatment and the ROCK signaling pathway that should be further explored. Our results suggest that simvastatin treatment may have clinical benefit when used alone or in the presence of tPA, but the therapeutic window using a single-dose regimen is narrow.
Cardiac thrombosis, one of the causes of sudden death throughout the world, plays a principal role in several cardiovascular diseases, such as myocardial infarction and stroke in humans. Data from studies of induction of chemical thrombosis in rodents help to identify substances in our environment that may contribute to cardiac thrombosis. Results for more than 500 chemicals tested in rodents in 2-year bioassays have been published as Technical Reports of the National Toxicology Program (NTP) http://ntp-server.niehs.nih.gov/index. We evaluated atrial thrombosis induced by these chemical exposures and compared it to similarly induced lesions reported in the literature. Spontaneous rates of cardiac thrombosis were determined for control Fischer 344 rats and B6C3F1 mice: 0% in rats and mice in 90-day studies and, in 2-year studies, 0.7% in both genders of mice, 4% in male rats, and 1% in female rats. Incidences of atrial thrombosis were increased in high-dosed groups involving 13 compounds (incidence rate: 20-100%): 2-butoxyethanol, C.I. Direct Blue 15, bis(2-chloroethoxy)methane, diazoaminobenzene, diethanolamine, 3,3'-dimethoxybenzidine dihydrochloride, hexachloroethane, isobutene, methyleugenol, oxazepam, C.I. Pigment Red 23, C.I. Acid Red 114, and 4,4'-thiobis(6-t-butyl-m-cresol). The main localization of spontaneously occurring and chemically induced thromboses occurred in the left atrium. The literature survey suggested that chemical-induced atrial thrombosis might be closely related to myocardial injury, endothelial injury, circulatory stasis, hypercoagulability, and impaired atrial mechanical activity, such as atrial fibrillation, which could cause stasis of blood within the left atrial appendage, contributing to left atrial thrombosis. Supplementary data referenced in this paper are not printed in this issue of Toxicologic Pathology. They are available as downloadable files at http://taylorandfrancis.metapress.com/openurl.asp?genre=journal&issn=0192-6233. To access them, click on the issue link for 33(5), then select this article. A download option appears at the bottom of this abstract. In order to access the full article online, you must either have an individual subscription or a member subscription accessed through www.toxpath.org.
Effects of histaminergic agonists and antagonists were investigated on withdrawal signs in lorazepam-dependent rats. Physical dependence was developed by giving lorazepam admixed with the food in the following dose schedule (in mg/kg given daily x days): 10 x 4, 20 x 4, 40 x 4, 80 x 4, and 120 x 7. The parameters observed during the periods of administration of lorazepam and after its withdrawal were spontaneous locomotor activity (SLA), reaction time to pain, foot shock aggression (FSA), and audiogenic seizures. During the withdrawal period, the rats were divided into groups of 10 each. Control-withdrawal group did not receive any drug. The drugs (in mg/kg administered intramuscularly)--L-histidine (50), histamine-N-methyl (2), promethazine (10), pheniramine (10), astemizole (10), and thioperamide (1)--were given separately in other groups daily during the withdrawal period. The withdrawal signs in control group were hyperkinesia, hyperaggression, and audiogenic seizures. L-Histidine, precursor of histamine, and thioperamide, antagonist of H3 receptor, potentiated hyperkinesia, hyperaggression, and audiogenic seizures. Histamine-N-methyl, agonist of H3 receptor, and H1 receptor antagonists, promethazine and pheniramine, blocked all the withdrawal signs. Astemizole, a peripheral antagonist of H1 receptor, could not affect any withdrawal sign. It may be concluded that histamine H1 receptors are facilitatory and H3 receptors are inhibitory for benzodiazepine (BZD) withdrawal syndrome.
A double blind trial involving intermittent administration of Rifampicin in addition to daily DDS has been undertaken in order to evaluate the efficacy as also the potential dangers of such a regimen. Twenty untreated LL cases who were otherwise healthy were included in the study. Ten cases received weekly 900 mg Rifampicin for 6 weeks in addition to 100 mg daily DDS, while the rest were treated likewise but were given similar looking placebo capsules instead of RFP. A nine month follow-up, as also mouse foot pad results indicate that the efficacy of this regimen was found to be better than that with DDS alone and this compares favourably with trials involving 600 mg Rifampician administration daily. No major untoward side effects were encountered in the trial group thought the incidence of ENL was slightly higher in the trial group.
Abuse of methamphetamine (METH) by adolescents is a major public health issue in the U.S.A. Because of the neurotoxic potential of METH, we examined the response of CNS monoaminergic systems in young (adolescent) animals [postnatal day (PND) 40] to high-dose treatments (10 mg/kg, four injections, 2-h intervals) of this drug and contrasted these effects to those seen in older (young adult) rats (PND 90). Consistent with previous reports, we observed that PND 40 animals did not manifest the long-term (7-day) deficits in extrapyramidal dopamine (DA) parameters observed in PND 90 rats. In contrast, METH-induced rapid (1-h) reduction in the activity of striatal DA transporters occurred in both age groups. In addition, both persistent (7-day) and rapid (1-h) deficits in serotonergic systems (measured as reductions in tryptophan hydroxylase activity) were observed in PND 40 and 90 rats. Age-related differences in METH-induced hyperthermia did not appear to be a principal cause for our observations; however, age-dependent pharmacokinetics of this drug might have contributed to the differential METH monoaminergic responses by PND 40 and 90 animals.
We present the first case of hyposmia after application of lovastatin. Unclear disorders of smell should prompt a detailed drug anamnesis.
Stent thrombosis is an infrequent but severe complication after coronary stent implantation. Dual antiplatelet therapy has markedly reduced the occurrence of this potentially catastrophic event. The optimal duration of clopidogrel therapy in patients with drug-eluting stents is unknown. We describe a case of stent thrombosis 9 days after discontinuation of clopidogrel therapy, more than 3 years after placement of drug-eluting stents.
A series of substituted N-methylisonicotinamidine (2a-f), N-methylpyrazine-2-carboxamidine (2g-i) derivatives were synthesized by reaction of amidine derivatives (1a-i) with methyl iodide in presence of triethylamine. Five-membered condensed dihydroimidazolylbenzenesulfonamide derivatives (3a-i) were obtained by the reaction of amidine derivatives (1a-i) with acylating agent oxalyl chloride. All the compounds, i.e. 2a-i and 3a-i were purified by crystallization. Structures of all the synthesized compounds are supported by correct IR, (1)H NMR, mass spectral and analytical data. Anti-inflammatory activity evaluation was carried out using carrageenan-induced paw oedema assay and compounds 2e, 3a and 3d exhibited good anti-inflammatory activity (44%, 31% and 37% activity at 50 mg/kg p.o., respectively). Analgesic activity evaluation was carried out using acetic acid writhing assay and compounds 2a and 3f gave 75% activity each at 100 mg/kg p.o.; on the other hand compounds 3a and 3d exhibited 60% analgesic activity each at 50 mg/kg p.o. Compounds 3a and 3d exhibited good anti-inflammatory and analgesic activities.
The present study characterized the effects of withdrawal from cocaine on the expression of NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2B) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase. FosB induction was measured to confirm that repeated cocaine exposure influenced protein expression, as previously reported. Administration of cocaine followed by 24 h, 72 h, or 14 days of withdrawal resulted in alterations of NR1 and NR2B subunits and neuronal nitric oxide synthase expression as measured by immunohistochemical labeling of rat brain sections. Optical density analyses revealed significant up-regulation of NR1 in the ventral tegmental area at 72 h and 14 days of withdrawal. Structure-specific and withdrawal time-dependent alterations in NR2B expression were also found. After 24 h of withdrawal, cocaine-induced decreases in NR2B expression were observed in the nucleus accumbens shell, whereas increases in NR2B expression were found in medial cortical areas. Two weeks of withdrawal from cocaine caused an approximately 50% increase in NR2B subunit expression in regions of the cortex, neostriatum, and nucleus accumbens. In contrast, cocaine-induced up-regulation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase was transient and evident in cortical areas only at 24 h after the last drug injection. The results suggest that region-specific changes in interactions among proteins associated with the NMDA receptor complex may underlie neuronal adaptations following repeated cocaine administration.
Previously, we found that high doses of genistein show an inhibitory effect on uterine leiomyoma (UtLM) cell proliferation. In this study, using microarray analysis and Ingenuity Pathways Analysis™, we identified genes (up- or down-regulated, ≥ 1.5 fold, P ≤ 0.001), functions and signaling pathways that were altered following treatment with an inhibitory concentration of genistein (50 μg/ml) in UtLM cells. Downregulation of TGF-β signaling pathway genes, activin A, activin B, Smad3, TGF-β2 and genes related to cell cycle regulation, with the exception of the upregulation of the CDK inhibitor P15, were identified and validated by real- time RT-PCR studies. Western blot analysis further demonstrated decreased protein expression of activin A and Smad3 in genistein-treated UtLM cells. Moreover, we found that activin A stimulated the growth of UtLM cells, and the inhibitory effect of genistein was partially abrogated in the presence of activin A. Overexpression of activin A and Smad3 were found in tissue samples of leiomyoma compared to matched myometrium, supporting the contribution of activin A and Smad3 in promoting the growth of UtLM cells. Taken together, these results suggest that downregulation of activin A and Smad3, both members of the TGF-β pathway, may offer a mechanistic explanation for the inhibitory effect of a high-dose of genistein on UtLM cells, and might be potential therapeutic targets for treatment of clinical cases of uterine leiomyomas.
Current medical management programs for established joint diseases in hemophiliacs are unsatisfactory and do not modify the eventual outcome. D-penicillamine, a drug effective in the proliferative synovitis of rheumatoid arthritis, was evaluated in a rabbit model of hemarthroses-induced arthritis and in four hemophiliacs with chronic synovitis. The animals had intra-articular injections of citrate (left knees) and autologous citrated whole blood (right knees). Eight weeks later, the rabbits were divided into two groups: no treatment and D-penicillamine (50 mg/kg/day, IM) until sacrificed at 6 months. The saline-injected joints showed no inflammation and no iron deposition. The blood-injected knees showed iron deposition in both groups, the D-penicillamine animals had marked suppression of chronic inflammation. Of the four patients treated, three had clinical responses (reduction in synovial thickness, reduction in number of bleeds in the affected joint). One patient, who did not respond, developed mild-moderate proteinuria. Those patients who responded received between 5.3 and 7.1 mg/kg/day of the drug. Mild abnormalities in platelet aggregation were seen in the responders. This preliminary study suggests that D-penicillamine is beneficial in the chronic synovitis/arthritis induced by hemarthroses. Further trials are recommended.
This study evaluates the use of multimodal imaging to qualitatively and quantitatively measure tumor progression and bone resorption in a xenotransplanted tumor model of human neuroblastoma.
Human neuroblastoma cells expressing a luciferase reporter gene were injected into the femur of nu/nu mice. Tumor progression with and without zoledronic acid treatment was monitored using radiographs, D-luciferin-induced luminescence, micro-computer tomography (CT) and micro-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
We observed a gradual increase in D-luciferin-based bioluminescence concomitant with detectable osteolytic lesions. Tumor growth was inhibited (P=0.003-0.07) with zoledronic acid treatment. Micro-CT analysis in vivo provided a method to quantify bone loss, and its prevention by zoledronic acid. High-resolution MRI images allowed the observation of tumor cells within the bone marrow cavity, as well as distant metastasis.
Multimodal imaging allows to measure tumor growth and bone resorption simultaneously in vivo and also proved useful in the detection distant metastasis.
The objective of this study was to monitor metabolic changes, including hyperprolactinemia, in adolescents medicated with atypical antipsychotics, especially when polypharmacy is involved. This study specifically followed risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia in adolescents (14 male patients and 2 female patients) after aripiprazole was added to begin transitioning to another atypical antipsychotic. No other changes were made in the medication regimen. Risperidone was continued at the previous dose during the transition. This sample consists of 16 adolescents, 13 to 18 years old, treated in long-term residential care for behavior problems. Diagnoses included bipolar disorder, schizoaffective disorder, psychotic depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. In retrospective chart review, all 16 of the adolescents (100%) experienced complete normalization of prolactin levels. Thirteen of the adolescents had normal prolactin levels within two weeks and the other three normalized within three months of the addition of aripiprazole while still on risperidone and other previous medications at the original doses. The authors concluded the addition of aripiprazole rapidly normalizes risperidone-induced hyperprolactinemia.
We explored multiple molecular mechanisms of the combination of docetaxel and an oncolytic prostate-restricted replication competent adenovirus (Ad) (PRRA) in advanced prostate cancer (PCa) models. The combinational therapy has potential to overcome the therapeutic limitations of poor virus distribution inside solid tumors.
We evaluated the effect of docetaxel on the antitumor efficacy and efficiency of virus transduction, transgene expression and virus distribution of PRRA in a prostate-specific antigen/prostate-specific membrane antigen-positive tumor xenograft model. We also evaluated the effect of docetaxel on apoptosis induction, cell killing and the efficiency of transgene expression and virus replication in vitro.
Tumor growth inhibition was significantly enhanced when docetaxel was administrated before intratumor injection of PRRA. In vivo dual-photon microscopy and ex vivo fluorescence microscopy and immunohistochemistry showed that docetaxel increased transgene expression and expanded virus distribution. The combination of docetaxel and PRRA also increased cell apoptosis. In vitro, docetaxel significantly increased cell killing in PRRA-treated PCa cells. Docetaxel significantly increased Ad-mediated trangene expression independent of Ad binding receptors and replication capability. Docetaxel increased the activity of cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter but not of a chimeric prostate-specific enhancer, resulting in higher transgene expression. The enhanced CMV promoter activity resulted from activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) because inhibition of p38 MAPK blocked the docetaxel-induced increase in CMV promoter activity.
Combining docetaxel with an oncolytic PRRA improved therapeutic potential by expanding virus distribution and enhancing cell apoptosis and killing. These studies suggested a novel mechanism for enhancing the effect of therapeutic genes delivered by a PRRA.
A total of 62 patients with standard-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia received three-drug induction consisting of vincristine, prednisolone, and L-asparaginase (l-Asp) followed by consolidation therapy with intermediate-dose methotrexate (MTX), intrathecal MTX, and 18 Gy of cranial irradiation. Maintenance therapy consisting of 6 drugs including daunorubicin (DNR, 450 mg/m2 in total) was continued for 3 years. Patients were randomized and half of them received weekly l-Asp during maintenance therapy as a late intensification. Complete remission (CR) was achieved in 61/62 (98.4%), and 11 of 61 patients relapsed. At 10 years, the event-free survival (EFS) was 80.6 +/- 5.0% and overall survival was 88.7 +/- 4.0%; median follow-up time was 9.3 years. The 10-year EFS of patients with additional l-Asp (84.8 +/- 6.2%) was superior to that without l-Asp (75.9 +/- 7.9%), although it was not statistically significant. No patients who received a full dose of DNR and maintained CR developed heart failure, although the shortening fraction decreased from 41.0% at diagnosis to 35.2% (median). The protocol AL841 provided good long-term disease control without severe late cardiac dysfunction.
Exposure to lead (Pb) from environmental and industrial sources remains an overlooked serious public health risk. Elucidating the effect of Pb on bone cell function is therefore critical for understanding its risk associated with diseases of low bone mass.
We tested the hypothesis that Pb negatively affects bone mass. We also assessed the underlying mechanisms of Pb on bone signaling pathways.
We used a model of low-level Pb exposure in a rodent beginning before conception and continuing over 18 months. We characterized the effect of Pb on bone quality using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), micro-computed tomography, Raman spectroscopy, and histology. We assessed the effect of Pb on bone and adipocyte formation by mineral deposition, lipid droplet formation, and Western blot and RNA analysis.
Pb-exposed animals had decreased bone mass that resulted in bones that were more susceptible to fracture. Pb decreased osteoblastic cell number leading to a depression of bone formation. Accompanying this, Pb exposure elevated sclerostin protein levels in the skeleton, and correspondingly reduced levels of β-catenin and Runx2 in stromal precursor cells. Pb also increased skeletal expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ). These results indicate a shift in mesenchymal differentiation wherein Pb promoted enhanced adipogenesis and decreased osteoblastogenesis. Substantial differences in bone marrow composition were observed, highlighted by an increase in adipocytes.
The disruption Pb has on bone mass and bone homeostasis is principally explained by inhibition of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway, which may provide a molecular basis for novel therapeutic strategies to combat Pb-induced bone pathologies.
