A randomised blind controlled trial of hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG) plus hepatitis B vaccine for the prevention of the perinatally transmitted HBsAg carrier state was conducted in Taipei. Infants of e-antigen-positive HBsAg carrier mothers were given HBIG immediately after birth, and then one of three schedules of vaccination. There was no difference in efficacy between the three schedules; the combined efficacy was 94%, compared with that of HBIG alone (71%) or of vaccination alone (75%). Persistent HBs antigenaemia developed in only 9 (6%) of the 159 infants receiving prophylaxis, but in 88% of the controls. Antibodies developed in all those who did not become antigenaemic and presumably will provide long-term protection from hepatitis B virus infection. HBIG should be given as soon as possible after birth and need not be given again if the infant is subsequently vaccinated. With HBIG coverage from birth, the timing of the start of vaccination does not seem to be of importance within the first month of life, but to maximise compliance and minimise costs hepatitis B vaccination should be initiated during the confinement.
The vestibular and ototoxic effects of the aminoglycoside antibiotics (streptomycin, gentamycin, kanamycin, tobramycin, neomycin) are well known; streptomycin, in particular, has been found to cause irreversible, profound, high frequency sensorineural deafness in hypersensitive persons. Aminoglycoside ototoxicity occurs both sporadically and within families and has been associated with a mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) 1555A to G point mutation in the 12S ribosomal RNA gene. We report on the molecular analysis of a South African family with streptomycin induced sensorineural deafness in which we have found transmission of this same predisposing mutation. It is now possible to identify people who are at risk of hearing loss if treated with aminoglycosides in the future and to counsel them accordingly. In view of the fact that aminoglycoside antibiotics remain in widespread use for the treatment of infections, in particular for tuberculosis, which is currently of epidemic proportions in South Africa, this finding has important implications for the family concerned. In addition, other South African families may potentially be at risk if they carry the same mutation.
Diazoaminobenzene (DAAB), a manufacturing intermediate metabolized primarily to the known carcinogens benzene and aniline, has been identified as an impurity in a number of dyes and coloring agents that are components of cosmetics, food products, and pharmaceuticals. Several structural analogs of DAAB are carcinogenic as well. DAAB was selected for metabolism and toxicity studies by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) based on the potential for human exposure, positive Salmonella data, and lack of adequate toxicological data. In the toxicology studies in mice, DAAB exhibited properties similar to benzene and aniline. Because both these metabolites induce micronuclei (MN) in rodent bone marrow erythrocytes, DAAB was tested for induction of micronuclei in male B6C3F(1) mice. DAAB was administered twice by corn oil gavage at 24 h intervals, at doses of 25, 50, and 100 mg/kg per day. In addition, comparative micronucleus tests were conducted with benzene, aniline, and a mixture of benzene plus aniline; doses were based on the respective molar equivalents of each metabolite to DAAB. It was hypothesized that any observed increase in micronuclei seen in DAAB-treated mice would be due primarily to the effects of the benzene metabolite, as benzene is a more potent inducer of chromosomal damage than aniline. Results of this study showed that DAAB and benzene were effective inducers of micronuclei, with stronger responses noted for DAAB at higher doses. Positive results were also obtained with the mixture of benzene and aniline, although the magnitude of the response was lower than for DAAB. Aniline gave a weak positive response at doses exceeding its molar equivalent to 100 mg/kg DAAB. Overall, the data indicated that DAAB is a potent inducer of micronuclei in mice, and its activity appears to be closely related to the activity of benzene, one of its primary metabolites. The results are consistent with a prediction of carcinogenicity for DAAB.
Neopterin, a product of gamma-interferon-activated macrophages, was measured in sera from 28 patients (12 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis and 16 patients with visceral leishmaniasis) to determine the utility as a marker of disease activity and therapeutic efficacy. Patients originated from Kenya (n=5) and from the Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands (n=23). In seven patients follow-up sera after treatment were available. Two patients at the time of diagnosis of visceral leishmaniasis were co-infected with HIV. The 12 patients with cutaneous leishmaniasis had serum neopterin levels below the upper limit of the normal range. All 16 patients with visceral leishmaniasis had elevated levels of serum neopterin before treatment. In six out of seven patients with visceral leishmaniasis followed during treatment neopterin levels decreased to values below the upper limit of the normal range (10 nmol l(-1)). Sequential measurements of serum neopterin levels may be useful for monitoring therapeutic efficacy in patients with visceral leishmaniasis.
To investigate the increased nephrotoxicity of taxol and cisplatin combination chemotherapy in gynecologic cancers as compared to cisplatin alone, the medical records of 25 patients with gynecological cancers were reviewed for evaluation of nephrotoxicity after chemotherapy treatment. The data included age, serum creatinine, calculated creatinine clearance, initial and cumulative dose of cisplatin and taxol, primary site of the cancer, renal ultrasound and hydration protocols. Renal function was evaluated before, during and 6 months after chemotherapy. Renal dysfunction was defined as a greater than 25% decrease in creatinine clearance. Comparing 11 patients treated with taxol and cisplatin versus 14 treated with cisplatin alone, there was a significant difference in effect on renal function. Nine of 11 patients (81%) treated with the combination chemotherapy had a greater than 25% decrease in creatinine clearance while only 4 of the 14 patients (29%) treated with cisplatin alone had such a decrease in creatinine clearance (p < 0.004). The patients treated with the combination chemotherapy, however, received a higher dose of cisplatin (80.4 vs. 66.4 mg/m2, p < 0.02) and were treated longer (6.7 vs. 4.3 months, p < 0.002). Nevertheless, when the patients were matched for age, initial dose and cumulative dose of cisplatin, a higher frequency of nephrotoxicity persisted in patients treated with taxol and cisplatin as compared to cisplatin alone (72 as compared to 20%, p < 0.02). The patients in both groups were comparably hydrated; prerenal failure and urinary tract obstruction were excluded in all patients. Six months after completion of chemotherapy, a significantly lower creatinine clearance was still observed in patients treated with taxol and cisplatin combination therapy (46 vs. 76 ml/min, p < 0.01). In summary, a retrospective analysis of renal function in patients with gynecological cancers showed an increased nephrotoxicity in patients treated with taxol and cisplatin as compared to cisplatin alone. A prospective study is therefore needed to examine the potential additive toxic effect of the combination of taxol and cisplatin on long-term renal function, including potential preventive interventions.
This study was designed to test the hypothesis that rapid bolus administration of an aqueous formulation of intravenous amiodarone causes less hypotension than a 10-minute infusion of the standard formulation, Cordarone IV. Hypotension was the most common adverse event reported with Cordarone IV. The hypotension was not dose related, but related to the rate of infusion. Therefore, product labeling calls Cordarone and its generic formulations to be administered over 10 minutes. Cordarone IV contains polysorbate 80 and benzyl alcohol, each causes hypotension. A new aqueous formulation of amiodarone (Amio-Aqueous) does not contain these agents and therefore may cause less hypotension.
Six conscious beagle dogs were instrumented with a telemetric device for blood pressure monitoring. The study was conducted on 5 days. On the first 2 days, a 10-min infusion or a bolus of D(5)W was administered (placebo). Over the following 3 days, the dogs received (in randomized order, one per day) a 10-min infusion of 2.5 mg/kg Cordarone IV and boluses of 2.5 mg/kg and 5.0 mg/kg Amio-Aqueous injected over 2 to 5 sec. The dogs were monitored for 2 hrs after dosing.
Compared to placebo, boluses of aqueous amiodarone produced no significant changes in the mean arterial blood pressure (MABP). In contrast, Cordarone infusion produced significant decreases in MABP that lasted for at least 2 hrs (p < 0.001).
Amio-Aqueous had significantly better hemodynamic profile permitting rapid intravenous administration. This is a significant advantage over the standard formulation, because Cordarone cannot be administered by rapid bolus due to excipient-related hypotension.
We compared the efficacy and tolerability of controlled-release carbamazepine (CBZ-CR) with conventional carbamazepine (CBZ) in 131 epileptic patients (both men and women, ages 6-65 years) in an open, multicentre, cross-over trial. Patients entered into the trial were previously on CBZ monotherapy or polytherapy. During the first 4 weeks, patients were treated with equivalent daily doses of CBZ and then switched to CBZ-CR for the subsequent 4 weeks. The majority of patients were switched to the more convenient b.i.d. dosing schedule of the controlled-release (CR) preparation without a detrimental effect on seizure frequency or adverse effects. In 44/131 (34%) of patients, the switch to CBZ-CR was accompanied by an improvement in tolerability, primarily due to a reduction in peak-dependent CNS side-effects such as tiredness, double or blurred vision, dizziness and ataxia. At the end of the study, investigators preferred CBZ-CR for 76% of their patients and 70% of the patients preferred CBZ-CR.
Cisapride is a possible cause of potentially life threatening QT prolongation.
We investigated these cardiac side effects in premature infants, mainly in relation to fetal growth.
Forty six preterms (mean birth weight 1.350 g, mean post conceptional age 31 weeks) were studied. Thirty-one of them were appropriate for gestational age (AGA) and 15 were small for gestational age (SGA). Cisapride was randomly administered at a 0.3 mg/kg or 0.6 mg/kg daily dose. Fifty preterms (15 SGA/35 AGA) not treated with Cisapride were used as control group.
A pre-treatment ECG was performed and the QT-corrected (Bazzet's formula) intervals were compared with the in-treatment values (normal values < or =440 mseconds). In the control group two different ECG were performed with a timing similar to the treated group (mean interval 5 days).
No patients showed clinical evidence of drug toxicity. In the small for gestational age group, both baseline QTc (mean 397; range 370-420 ms) and in-treatment QTc (mean 410 range 360-500 ms) were significantly higher than those found in the appropriate for gestational age group (mean 386, range 360-420 ms; mean 396, range 370-420 ms, respectively). This difference was found also in the first ECG of the control group. Moreover the mean QTc lengthening during treatment was significantly higher in small for gestational age group than in the appropriate for gestational age group. Three infants showed a rise in the QTc interval above the value of 440 ms and all were SGA (p = 0.03). No significant correlation was found between birth weight or gestational age and the change in QTc values during Cisapride treatment in the appropriate for gestational age group. Intrauterine growth retardation is a major risk factor for Cisapride-induced QT prolongation in preterm infants.
To determine the impact of environmental exposures (diesel exhaust particle [DEP], environmental tobacco smoke [ETS], and mold) that may contribute to oxidative stress on persistent wheezing in the Cincinnati Childhood Allergy and Air Pollution Study (CCAAPS) birth cohort and to determine how the impact of these exposures is modified by the GST-P1 Ile105Val polymorphism.
A land-use regression model was used to derive an estimate of each child's DEP exposure. ETS exposure was determined by questionnaire data. Each child's home was evaluated for visible mold by a trained professional. Children in the CCAAPS cohort were genotyped for the GST-P1 polymorphism (n = 570). Persistent wheezing was defined as wheezing at both 12 and 24 months.
High DEP exposure conferred increased risk for wheezing phenotypes but only among the Val(105) allele carriers. Infants with multiple exposures were significantly more likely to persistently wheeze despite their genotype.
There is evidence for an environmental effect of DEP among carriers of the GST-P1 Val(105) allele in the development of persistent wheezing in children. The protective effect of the GST-P1 Ile(105) genotype may be overwhelmed by multiple environmental exposures that converge on oxidative stress pathways.
Three patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) in myeloid blast phase received 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CdA) at 0.7 mg/kg per course over 5 days every 2-4 weeks for 7, 2 and 5 courses. Each patient had a decrement in their white blood cell count, and in the absolute number and percentage of circulating immature cells following 2-CdA administration. Two patients achieved hematologic responses of 14 and 3 months and survived 19 and 6 months, respectively, while the non-responder died 2 months later. 2-CdA-induced anemia and thrombocytopenia, generally mild and reversible, were observed in all patients. Given the dismal results and considerable toxicities that follow multiagent induction chemotherapy for CML in myeloid blast phase, 2-CdA therapy may represent a reasonable therapeutic alternative, although confirmation is required in larger numbers of patients.
Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) is an important drug target for human severe unmet diseases. Discovery and/or design of allosteric kinase modulators are gaining importance in this field not only for the increased selectivity of this kind of compounds but also for the subtle modulation of the target. This last point is of utmost importance for the GSK-3 inhibition as a therapeutic approach. GSK-3 activity is completely necessary for life, and only the aberrant overactivity found in the pathologies should be inhibited with its inhibitors treatment. We performed here a search for the druggable sites on the enzyme using the fpocket algorithm with the aim to provide allosteric potential binding sites on it and new clues for further drug discoveries. Moreover, our results allowed us to determine the binding sites of different GSK-3 ATP noncompetitive inhibitors, such as manzamine A and the new small molecule VP 0.7, providing evidence for potential allosteric inhibition of GSK-3.
Angioedema is a rare but potentially fatal side effect of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors. We report for the first time, two children with systemic lupus erythematosus who developed acute angioedema after the long-term use of enalapril. Prompt recognition and appropriate management of ACE-induced angioedema prevented life-threatening complications. This report highlights the potential risks of angioedema associated with the use of ACE inhibitors in children. Patients should be advised to seek medical treatment immediately if they experience swelling of the face, neck, or tongue, and especially if they have trouble breathing, speaking, or swallowing.
Effects of misoprostol, a synthetic prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) analogue, on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) protein level and exudate prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and thromboxane B2 (TXB2) level were investigated in acute carrageenan-induced air pouch inflammation in rats. Treatment with misoprostol (12.5, 25, and 50 microg/kg) has been started in separated groups, 30 min and 2 days before carrageenan injection and it was given twice a day (total of five doses) by orogastric route. Indomethacin, in doses of 0.5 and 5 mg/kg, and specific COX-2 inhibitor SC-58236, in doses of 5, 10, and 20 mg/kg were given 1 h before carrageenan injection by the orogastric route. Misoprostol increased the levels of PGE2 and COX-2 protein at all doses applied. Despite indomethacin and SC-58236 increased the level of COX-2 protein when they used alone, these drugs partially inhibited misoprostol-induced increase in the level of COX-2 protein. Partial inhibition of misoprostol-induced increase in the level of COX-2 protein by indomethacin or SC-58236 may indicate the modulatory roles of endogenous prostaglandins (PGs, especially, PGE2) on the COX-2 expression.
To investigate the risk of incident myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, and all cause mortality associated with prescription of oral antidiabetes drugs.
Retrospective cohort study.
UK general practice research database, 1990-2005.
91,521 people with diabetes.
Incident myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, and all cause mortality. Person time intervals for drug treatment were categorised by drug class, excluding non-drug intervals and intervals for insulin.
3588 incident cases of myocardial infarction, 6900 of congestive heart failure, and 18,548 deaths occurred. Compared with metformin, monotherapy with first or second generation sulphonylureas was associated with a significant 24% to 61% excess risk for all cause mortality (P<0.001) and second generation sulphonylureas with an 18% to 30% excess risk for congestive heart failure (P=0.01 and P<0.001). The thiazolidinediones were not associated with risk of myocardial infarction; pioglitazone was associated with a significant 31% to 39% lower risk of all cause mortality (P=0.02 to P<0.001) compared with metformin. Among the thiazolidinediones, rosiglitazone was associated with a 34% to 41% higher risk of all cause mortality (P=0.14 to P=0.01) compared with pioglitazone. A large number of potential confounders were accounted for in the study; however, the possibility of residual confounding or confounding by indication (differences in prognostic factors between drug groups) cannot be excluded.
Our findings suggest a relatively unfavourable risk profile of sulphonylureas compared with metformin for all outcomes examined. Pioglitazone was associated with reduced all cause mortality compared with metformin. Pioglitazone also had a favourable risk profile compared with rosiglitazone; although this requires replication in other studies, it may have implications for prescribing within this class of drugs.
To compare the effects of amlodipine and nifedipine on heart rate and parameters of sympathetic nerve activity during the acute and chronic treatment periods in order to elucidate their influence on cardiovascular outcome.
A randomized and single-blind study.
We performed 24 h ambulatory electrocardiography and blood pressure monitoring of 45 essential hypertensive inpatients. Plasma and urinary catecholamine levels were measured during the control (pretreatment) period, on the first day (acute period) and after 4 weeks (chronic period) of administration of amlodipine and of short-acting nifedipine or its slow-releasing formulation. The low-frequency and high-frequency power spectral densities and low-frequency: high-frequency ratio were obtained by heart rate power spectral analysis.
Blood pressure was significantly and similarly reduced by administrations of amlodipine, short-acting nifedipine and slow-releasing nifedipine during the chronic period. The total QRS count per 24 h, which remained constant during the chronic period of administration of slow-releasing nifedipine and was increased by administration of nifedipine, was decreased by 2.8% by administration of amlodipine. Administration of amlodipine decreased the plasma and urinary norepinephrine levels during the chronic period, whereas the levels were significantly increased by administration of short-acting nifedipine and not changed by administration of slow-release nifedipine. Although low-frequency: high-frequency ratio was increased significantly by administration of short-acting nifedipine and slightly by administration of slow-releasing nifedipine, administration of amlodipine reduced it during the acute and chronic periods.
Administration of amlodipine did not induce an increase in sympathetic nerve activity in essential hypertensive patients during the chronic period, suggesting that beneficial effects on essential hypertension can be expected after its long-term administration. Administration of slow-releasing nifedipine induces milder reflex sympathetic activation than does that of short-acting nifedipine.
Many anaesthetic drugs and adjuvants can cause the release of histamine by chemical (anaphylactoid) or immunologic (anaphylactic) mechanisms. While both types of reactions can be clinically indistinguishable, they are mechanistically different. In anaphylactoid reactions, only preformed mediators are released, of which histamine may be the most clinically important. In true immunologic reactions, mast cell degranulation occurs, and many vasoactive substances (including histamine) are released. Clinical signs and symptoms of both classes of reactions include hypotension (most common), tachycardia, bronchospasm, or cutaneous manifestations. Anaphylactoid reactions may occur commonly under anaesthesia in response to many drugs, including induction agents, some opiates, plasma expanders, and curariform relaxants. Anaphylactic reactions are far less common than anaphylactoid reactions, but they nevertheless represent more than half of the life-threatening reactions that occur in anaesthetic practice. Muscle relaxants are the most frequently implicated class of drugs; suxamethonium is the most common agent implicated in anaphylactic reactions during anaesthesia, but even drugs without apparent chemical histamine release (i.e., vecuronium) are frequently implicated in anaphylactic reactions.
Continuous epidural anesthesia and analgesia may be considered in liver resection, but is often avoided because of the potential development of coagulopathies and the risk of epidural hematoma. In this prospective, randomized, double-blind study we compared postoperative morphine consumption via patient-controlled analgesia after liver surgery between two groups of patients: patients receiving a preoperative dose of intrathecal morphine (0.5 mg) and fentanyl (15 microg) (treatment group) and patients receiving a sham intrathecal injection (placebo group). Forty patients scheduled for major liver resection (> or = two segments) were enrolled. The primary outcome measure was patient-controlled analgesia morphine consumption. Secondary outcomes were evaluation of pain at rest and with movement, scored on a visual analog scale with assessment of sedation, nausea, pruritus, and respiratory frequency. Outcome measures were recorded at 6, 12, 18, 24, and 48 h postspinal anesthesia or simulation. Patients in the placebo group consumed approximately three times more morphine during each time interval than patients in the treatment group (at 48 h: 124 +/- 30 vs 47 +/- 21 mg, P < 0.0001). Pain evaluation on the visual analog scale was lower for the first 18 h in the treatment group. There was no difference in the incidence of side effects in both groups. Intrathecal morphine (0.5 mg) and fentanyl (15 microg) given before liver surgery significantly decreased postoperative morphine consumption compared to placebo without any increase in side effects.
To determine whether combination of an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor with a high dose of thiazide diuretic avoids adverse metabolic consequences of thiazide diuretics.
Double-blind randomized crossover study of two 12-week treatment periods with captopril (up to 100 mg/day) either alone or in combination with 5 mg bendrofluazide given after a 6-week placebo run-in period. Treatment periods were separated by a 6-week placebo washout period.
Outpatient clinics in greater Belfast.
Fifteen white non-diabetic essential hypertensives (seven male) aged < 65 years recruited from general practices in greater Belfast.
Systolic and diastolic blood pressures and peripheral and hepatic insulin action.
Two patients failed to complete the study. Blood pressure was lowered (139/89+/-18/7 mmHg combination versus 160/97+/-21/7 mmHg captopril; P < 0.001). Fasting insulin level was raised (7.9+/-3.6 mU/l combination versus 6.2+/-3.2 mU/l baseline; P < 0.001). There were no differences between treatments for glucose, urate, cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Serum potassium level was lowered (3.8+/-0.4 mmol/l combination versus 4.2+/-0.4 mmol/l captopril, P < 0.05). Postabsorptive endogenous glucose production was raised (10.8+/-1.7 micromol/kg per min combination versus 10.0+/-1.5 micromol/kg per min captopril; P < 0.01) and was greater than baseline (9.7+/-2.1 micromol/kg per min, P < 0.05). Suppression of glucose production by insulin was similar with both treatments. Exogenous glucose infusion rates required to maintain euglycaemia did not differ (32.4+/-7.6 micromol/kg per min captopril, 32.7+/-6.2 micromol/kg per min combination, 31.5+/-7.2 micromol/kg per min baseline).
Combination therapy increased glucose production (compared with captopril alone), indicating hepatic insulin resistance. It cannot be assumed that combined preparations with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors will ameliorate adverse effects of high doses of thiazide diuretics on insulin action.
Neuroblastomas are characterized by hemizygous 1p deletions, suggesting that a tumor suppressor gene resides in this region. We previously mapped the smallest region of consistent deletion to a 2-Mb region of 1p36.31 that encodes 23 genes. Based on mutation analysis, expression pattern, and putative function, we identified CHD5 as the best tumor suppressor gene candidate.
We determined the methylation status of the CHD5 gene promoter in NLF and IMR5 (with 1p deletion) and SK-N-SH and SK-N-FI neuroblastoma cell lines using methylation-specific sequencing and measured CHD5 mRNA expression by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction in cells treated with or without 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine, an inhibitor of DNA methylation. We transfected the cells with CHD5 and antisense (AS) CHD5 DNA to assess the effect of CHD5 overexpression and suppression, respectively, on colony formation in soft agar and growth of xenograft tumors in athymic mice. We also analyzed the association of CDH5 expression with outcomes of 99 neuroblastoma patients. Statistical tests were two-sided.
CHD5 expression was very low or absent in neuroblastoma cell lines. The CHD5 promoter was highly methylated in NLF and IMR5 lines, and CHD5 expression increased after treatment with 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine. Clonogenicity and tumor growth were abrogated in NLF and IMR5 cells overexpressing CHD5 compared with antisense CHD5 (clonogenicity: mean no. of colonies per plate, NLF-CHD5, 43 colonies, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 35 to 51 colonies, vs NLF-CHD5-AS, 74 colonies, 95% CI = 62 to 86 colonies, P < .001; IMR5-CHD5, 11 colonies, 95% CI = 2 to 20 colonies, vs IMR5-CHD5-AS, 39 colonies, 95% CI = 17 to 60 colonies, P = .01; tumor growth, n = 10 mice per group: mean tumor size at 5 weeks, NLF-CHD5, 0.36 cm(3), 95% CI = 0.17 to 0.44 cm(3), vs NLF-CHD5-AS, 1.65 cm(3), 95% CI = 0.83 to 2.46 cm(3), P = .002; IMR5-CHD5, 0.28 cm(3), 95% CI = 0.18 to 0.38 cm(3), vs IMR5-CHD5-AS, 1.15 cm(3), 95% CI = 0.43 to 1.87 cm(3); P = .01). High CHD5 expression was strongly associated with favorable event-free and overall survival (P < .001), even after correction for MYCN amplification and 1p deletion (P = .027).
CHD5 is the strongest candidate tumor suppressor gene that is deleted from 1p36.31 in neuroblastomas, and inactivation of the second allele may occur by an epigenetic mechanism.
Twenty-two children prenatally exposed to clonidine and no other hypotensive drugs were compared at a mean age of 6.3 +/- 1.6 years to a non-exposed control group, matched for degree of maternal hypertension, sex, birthweight and gestational age. There were no differences in head circumference, neurological findings, school performance and a number of behavioural characteristics except for a marginal excess of hyperactivity and an excess of sleep disturbances in the study group. It is questionable whether the differences represent a direct effect of clonidine on prenatal development but the dose-effect relationship and the fact that the same effects have been found in rats suggest that this may be so.
Clinical trials first began in 1960 with methylprednisolone acetate (Depo-Medrol) administered intrathecally, in an attempt to treat both disk disease and multiple sclerosis. After a few reports of salubrious results, there began an outpouring of contradictory data, which continues in 1988. During this time span, researchers who cautiously tested the different theses of improvement began to publish serious warnings of many complications. For ten years prior to the intraspinal use of methylprednisolone acetate, basic scientists in anesthesiology and neurochemistry had published the following facts: (1) Methylprednisolone acetate's content of polyethylene glycol raises the risks of using it near the central nervous system. (2) Deleterious effects follow the use of glycols when they are placed into or near the neuraxis. (3) Methylprednisolone acetate contains approximately 30 mg of polyethylene glycol per milliliter. (4) When that glycol, which is both alcohol and detergent, is injected intraspinally, sterile meningitis, arachnoiditis, or pachymeningitis will occur. It has also been recognized since the 1960s that the epidural space is not wholly separate from the subdural and/or subarachnoid space. Many thousands of arachnoid villi subtend all the membranes from the intrathecal space, and many of these end in the large epidural veins. Therefore, the various spaces and membranes are not only contiguous, but continuous. It follows that an injection of methylprednisolone acetate into the epidural space does not guarantee that it will remain isolated there. Finally, the inadvertency of injections by the epidural route occurs with the following frequency: 40% of injections can be inadvertently made into interspinous ligaments, and 2.5% into the subarachnoid space.
The authors compared complications and hemodynamic and electrophysiologic effects of two formulations of diatrizoate, one with additives that bind calcium and one without, in diagnostic cardiac angiography.
Two hundred twenty-three consecutive low-risk patients alternately received Hypaque 76 (group 1, little calcium binding effect), and MD 76 (group 2, significant calcium binding). Electrocardiographic and hemodynamic changes related to coronary angiography and left ventriculography were measured, and complications requiring treatment were recorded.
There were more complications in patients in group 2 than in group 1 (18 versus 8, P = 0.04). Arterial pressure fell more, the QT interval increased more, and the heart rate fell more in group 2 after coronary angiography.
Formulations of diatrizoate that minimize calcium binding are advocated for cardiac angiography when using high osmolality contrast media. The more detrimental effects that calcium binding has on myocardial function and cardiac conduction may lead to the higher incidence of complications.
The authors describe the unusual association between diffuse B-cell gastric lymphoma and myotonic dystrophy, the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy, and sudden atrial fibrillation following one cycle of doxorubicin-based chemotherapy in the same patient. Atrial fibrillation or other cardiac arrhythmias are unusual complications in patients treated with chemotherapy. The cardiac toxicity intrinsically associated with the aggressive chemotherapy employed could function as a triggering factor for the arrhythmia in the predisposed myocardium of this patient.
We have investigated prospectively the incidence of extrapyramidal events amongst patients receiving 'first' prescriptions for metoclopramide (n = 2557) and prochlorperazine (n = 2811) from general practitioners in the Northern Region using community pharmacists to capture prescriptions. There were 12 reports of acute dystonic-dyskinetic events following metoclopramide and the incidence of this reaction was significantly greater in those under 30 years than in those 30 years and over. Following prochlorperazine there were eight reports of Parkinsonism in patients whose ages were known; seven were over 60 years. The incidence in those over 60 years was significantly higher than in those less than 60 years.
Although it is now established that neurogenesis of dentate gyrus granule cells increases after experimental seizures, little is currently known about the function of the new granule cells. One question is whether they become integrated into the network around them. Recent experiments that focused on the newly born granule cells in the hilus showed that indeed the new cells appear to become synchronized with host hippocampal neurons [Scharfman et al. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 6144-6158]. To address this issue further, we asked whether the new hilar granule cells were active during spontaneous limbic seizures that follow status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine injection. Thus, we perfused rats after spontaneous seizures and stained sections using antibodies to c-fos, a marker of neural activity, and calbindin, a marker of the newly born hilar granule cells [Scharfman et al. (2000) J. Neurosci. 20, 6144-6158]. We asked whether calbindin-immunoreactive hilar neurons were also c-fos-immunoreactive.C-fos was highly expressed in calbindin-immunoreactive hilar neurons. Approximately 23% of hilar cells that expressed c-fos were double-labeled for calbindin. In addition, other types of hilar neurons, i.e. those expressing parvalbumin or neuropeptide Y, also expressed c-fos. Yet other hippocampal neurons, including granule cells and pyramidal cells, had weak expression of c-fos at the latency after the seizure that hilar neuron expression occurred. In controls, there was very little c-fos or calbindin expression in the hilus.These results indicate that calbindin-immunoreactive hilar cells are activated by spontaneous seizures. Based on the evidence that many of these cells are likely to be newly born, the data indicate that new cells can become functionally integrated into limbic circuits involved in recurrent seizure generation. Furthermore, they appear to do so in a manner similar to many neighboring hilar neurons, apparently assimilating into the local environment. Finally, the results show that a number of hilar cell types are activated during chronic recurrent seizures in the pilocarpine model, a surprising result given that many hilar neurons are thought to be damaged soon after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus.
The effect of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) on intraocular pressure (IOP) remains still controversial, although some preliminary reports suggest that these drugs may be effective in the management of ocular hypertension and low-tension glaucoma. The aim of the present work was to assess the effect of topical diltiazem on IOP in an animal model for glaucoma, the betamethasone-induced ocular hypertension in rabbits. IOP was measured with a manometrically calibrated applanation pneumatonograph. Ocular hypertension was produced in 120 rabbits by weekly subconjunctival injection of a betamethasone suspension into the left eye. The experiments examining the ocular actions of diltiazem were carried out in two stages. In the first one, the ability of topical diltiazem to prevent the rise in IOP induced by betamethasone was studied. In a second phase, the effect of topical diltiazem on IOP in betamethasone-induced ocular hypertensive rabbits was assessed. Diltiazem was topically applied once daily for 5 days a week into the left eye. The effect of five different concentrations of diltiazem was evaluated to obtain dose-response curves. Topical diltiazem was found to prevent in a dose-related fashion the betamethasone-induced IOP rise as well as to reduce IOP in rabbits made ocular hypertensive by weekly subconjunctival injection of betamethasone. Unilateral topical administration did not produce a clear effect on IOP in the untreated eye. This is the first report describing the ocular hypotensive action CCBs in animal model for glaucoma. These findings are in agreement with preliminary evidence suggesting that CCBs may have a beneficial effect in human ocular hypertension.
Vigabatrin can cause retinopathy, resulting in bilateral visual field constriction. Previous analyses of results from a prospective, observational study assessing vigabatrin-induced visual field constriction (described below) employed a partially subjective interpretation of static perimetery. To affirm these previous findings through more objective, quantitative methodology, we now report data from a subset analysis of refractory partial epilepsy patients in the study who underwent Goldmann kinetic perimetry.
Patients aged ≥ 8 years with refractory partial seizures were enrolled and grouped: those receiving vigabatrin for ≥ 6 months (Group I); those who had received vigabatrin for ≥ 6 months and then had discontinued for ≥ 6 months (Group II); and those naïve to vigabatrin (Group III). Patients underwent static or kinetic perimetry, or both, every 4-6 months for ≤ 3 years. For kinetic perimetry, the temporal and nasal visual fields were measured along the horizontal meridian with the largest (V4e, IV4e) and smallest (I2e, I1e) isopters, respectively.
Of 735 patients enrolled, 341 had Goldmann perimetry data. Of these, 258 received vigabatrin. Sixteen percent of vigabatrin-exposed patients had moderate visual field defects (30-60° retained temporal vision), and 3% had severe defects (< 30° retained temporal vision). Visual function questionnaire results indicated a weak correlation between visual field constriction severity and visual symptoms.
These results affirm both an analysis of the same study based primarily on static perimetry and findings from cross-sectional studies. The present analysis verifies that visual field constriction, when it occurs, is most often mild or moderate and is not associated with symptoms of abnormal visual function. The clinical decision to prescribe vigabatrin should be based on a benefit-risk analysis for each individual patient.
Hepatitis following halothane anaesthesia may take two forms: a mild self-limiting disease or a more severe hepatitis with a high mortality. Whether these two forms represent two distinct entities or ends of a spectrum is unclear. Severe hepatitis is commoner after multiple exposures and has many of the characteristics of an immune-mediated hypersensitivity reaction. The incidence is very low; the best, albeit unsatisfactory, estimate of the incidence is about 1 in 3,700 patients with multiple halothane exposures. The mechanism of liver damage is uncertain: in some circumstances halothane may be directly hepatotoxic, but it remains to be conclusively proved that immune mechanisms are responsible. Studies from our unit have suggested that halothane hepatitis can positively be diagnosed by demonstration of antibodies reacting with halothane-altered liver cell determinants. The incidence of the condition can be reduced by taking a full anaesthetic history and avoiding the use of halothane in the high-risk patients, namely those who have had recent previous halothane anaesthesia and those who have had jaundice or unexplained post-operative pyrexia following earlier halothane anaesthetics. When halothane hepatitis has occurred, treatment is purely supportive with the possibility of transplantation for those in grade IV encephalopathy.
