Nicotine has been reported to be therapeutic in some patients with certain neurodegenerative diseases and to have neuroprotective effects in the central nervous system. However, nicotine administration may result in oxidative stress by inducing the generation of reactive oxygen species in the periphery and central nervous system. There is also evidence suggesting that nicotine may have antioxidant properties in the central nervous system. The antioxidant properties of nicotine may be intracellular through the activation of the nicotinic receptors or extracellular by acting as a radical scavenger in that it binds to iron. The possibility that nicotine might be used to treat some symptoms of certain neurodegenerative diseases underlies the necessity to determine whether nicotine has pro-oxidant, antioxidant or properties of both. This review discusses the studies that have addressed this issue, the behavioral effects of nicotine, and the possible mechanisms of action that result from nicotine administration or nicotinic receptor activation.
Myasthenia gravis and Graves' disease are two autoimmune diseases with a similar mechanism, both having circulating organ autoantibodies and cell specific autoantibodies. It is not unusual for these diseases to occur together. There is a large body of data proving that antithyroid drugs such as methimazole and propylthiouracil have an immunomodulatory effect in addition to their thyrosuppressant action. This case report describes a 34-year-old woman hospitalized for just diagnosed myasthenic crisis (Osserman IV). She had a prior history of hyperthyroidism and treatment with methimazole was initiated. However, improvement in thyroid disease led to the burst of myasthenia. The phenomenon described as worsening of one disease while improving the other, the so-called 'see-saw' relationship, occurred in this case. The question is whether antithyroid drugs improve hyperthyroidism while unveiling or worsening myasthenia. Is the 'see-saw' relationship actually a therapeutic side effect of antithyroid drug? The proposed mechanism of methimazole action is intracellular: it lowers the level of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). PCNA promotes selective apoptosis in some T lymphocyte clones. In this way, CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells might 'skip' immune self-tolerance and autoantibodies against acetylcholine receptor may occur. Do antithyroid drugs actually create an immune 'thymic surrounding'?
Cyclosporine (CsA)-associated neurotoxicity has been reported in recipients of solid organ and bone marrow transplants. These neurological side effects are usually mild and resolve with temporary reduction or withdrawal of CsA. We report a 16-year-old renal transplant recipient who developed tremor, tinnitus, and peripheral facial paralysis during oral CsA treatment. Her serum magnesium level was below the normal range and her peripheral facial paralysis did not improve with the cessation of the drug.
In some mammals, halogenated aromatic hydrocarbon (HAH) exposure causes wasting syndrome, defined as significant weight loss associated with lethal outcomes. The most potent HAH in causing wasting is 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-ρ-dioxin (TCDD), which exerts its toxic effects through the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). Since TCDD toxicity is thought to predominantly arise from dysregulation of AHR-transcribed genes, it was hypothesized that wasting syndrome is a result of to TCDD-induced dysregulation of genes involved in regulation of food-intake. As the hypothalamus is the central nervous systems' regulatory center for food-intake and energy balance. Therefore, mRNA abundances in hypothalamic tissue from two rat strains with widely differing sensitivities to TCDD-induced wasting syndrome: TCDD-sensitive Long-Evans rats and TCDD-resistant Han/Wistar rats, 23h after exposure to TCDD (100μg/kg) or corn oil vehicle. TCDD exposure caused minimal transcriptional dysregulation in the hypothalamus, with only 6 genes significantly altered in Long-Evans rats and 15 genes in Han/Wistar rats. Two of the most dysregulated genes were Cyp1a1 and Nqo1, which are induced by TCDD across a wide range of tissues and are considered sensitive markers of TCDD exposure. The minimal response of the hypothalamic transcriptome to a lethal dose of TCDD at an early time-point suggests that the hypothalamus is not the predominant site of initial events leading to hypophagia and associated wasting. TCDD may affect feeding behaviour via events upstream or downstream of the hypothalamus, and further work is required to evaluate this at the level of individual hypothalamic nuclei and subregions.
The aim of the present short-term study was to evaluate the use of a new HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, atorvastatin, in the treatment of hyperlipidemia and the effect on blood pressure in a group of hypertensive stable renal transplant recipients with hypercholesterolemia who received kidney grafts before 18 years of age. Eight patients (aged 10.8-30.1 years) with inadequately controlled total cholesterol (TC) levels by a lipid-lowering diet (8 weeks) were treated daily for 12 weeks with atorvastatin at an initial dose of 2.5 mg. The dose was increased monthly by 2.5 mg in order to lower TC levels to less than 200 mg/dl. Serum lipoprotein profile, cyclosporin A (CsA), serum creatinine (SCr), and liver and muscle enzyme levels were measured before starting the lipid-lowering diet, at the start of treatment (baseline), and during treatment. Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM) (24-h) was carried out in each patient at both baseline and the end of the follow-up. During the lipid-lowering diet, no significant changes in lipoprotein parameters were observed. Atorvastatin was tolerated well and no clinical side effects were noted during the follow-up. The final dose of atorvastatin ranged from 2.5 to 7.5 mg/day. At the end of the study, TC was reduced by 32.2% ( P<0.05), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 41.8% ( P<0.05), and apo B by 29.5% ( P<0.05). No significant changes in HDL-C, VLDL-C, apolipoprotein AI, and lipoprotein(a) were observed. SCr and CsA levels were unaffected. Overall, no significant changes in mean 24-h, daytime, and nighttime ABPM values between the first and the second recordings were observed. However, both daytime and nighttime systolic and diastolic ABPM values dropped in four patients. In conclusion, low-dose atorvastatin appears to be safe, well tolerated, and effective in the treatment of post-transplant hyperlipidemia. In addition, the capacity of atorvastatin to reduce blood pressure, whether or not related to its lipid-lowering action, deserves further investigation.
Doxorubicin is a chemotherapeutic agent indicated for the treatment of a variety of cancer types, including leukaemia, lymphomas, and many solid tumours. The use of doxorubicin is, however, associated with severe cardiotoxicity, often resulting in early discontinuation of the treatment. Importantly, the toxic symptoms can occur several years after the termination of the doxorubicin administration. In this study, the toxic effects of doxorubicin exposure have been investigated in cardiomyocytes derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESC). The cells were exposed to different concentrations of doxorubicin for up to 2 days, followed by a 12 day recovery period. Notably, the cell morphology was altered during drug treatment and the cells showed a reduced contractile ability, most prominent at the highest concentration of doxorubicin at the later time points. A general cytotoxic response measured as Lactate dehydrogenase leakage was observed after 2 days' exposure compared to the vehicle control, but this response was absent during the recovery period. A similar dose-dependant pattern was observed for the release of cardiac specific troponin T (cTnT) after 1 day and 2 days of treatment with doxorubicin. Global transcriptional profiles in the cells revealed clusters of genes that were differentially expressed during doxorubicin exposure, a pattern that in some cases was sustained even throughout the recovery period, suggesting that these genes could be used as sensitive biomarkers for doxorubicin-induced toxicity in human cardiomyocytes. The results from this study show that cTnT release can be used as a measurement of acute cardiotoxicity due to doxorubicin. However, for the late onset of doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy, cTnT release might not be the most optimal biomarker. As an alternative, some of the genes that we identified as differentially expressed after doxorubicin exposure could serve as more relevant biomarkers, and may also help to explain the cellular mechanisms behind the late onset apoptosis associated with doxorubicin-induced cardiomyopathy.
To investigate the effect of arsenic trioxide on multiple myeloma (MM) cell gene expression and explore the molecular mechanism of arsenic trioxide therapy for MM.
U266 cells were divided into two groups, group A as control group and group B as test group. Cells were cultured for 48 hours, and total RNA and mRNA were extracted. Suppression subtractive hybridization (SSHs) was performed to distinguish the differentially expressed genes. The products were cloned into pGEM-T Easy Vector, and transfected into the competent host JM109 to construct two subtractive libraries. Positive colonies were selected by blue-white screening, and the plasmids were extracted. Homologous comparison was conducted in GenBank.
Five downregulated clones were isolated in the first SSH: (1) Aminopeptidase N, (2) Homosapiens tumor translationally-controlled protein 1, (3) Human ATP synthetase A chain, (4) Signal recognition particle A10, (5) Mitochondrial ATP synthetase/ATPase subunit 6. Four upregulated clones were isolated in the second SSH: (1) Calcium-binding protein A10, (2) Keratin 6A, (3) 45 kD MIP repetitive element containing splicing factor and (4) poly(A)-binding protein.
Arsenic trioxide exerts proliferation inhibition and apoptosis induction on MM cells by regulating genes expression.
Methamphetamine (MA) administration to adult rats results in neurotoxicity characterized by depletion of caudate-putamen (CP) dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) and an accompanying increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) content. The severity of MA-induced neurotoxicity correlates with the accompanying thermoregulatory response, i.e., a hyperthermic response facilitates neurotoxicity while a hypothermic response is neuroprotective. In the following study, the thermoregulatory and neurotoxic effects of MA administration (4 x 10 mg/kg) were investigated in developing rats at postnatal days (PND) 20, 40 and 60. Rats at PND 20 and PND 40 were administered MA at ambient temperatures of 22 degrees C and 30 degrees C; and PND 60 rats were administered MA at 22 degrees C only. Temperatures were measured and thermal responses were compared by calculating the total thermal response (TTR) induced by MA treatment. MA administration to PND 60 rats at 22 degrees C induced a hyperthermic response, resulted in a 47% reduction of neostriatal DA and a 49% increase of GFAP content. Administration of MA to PND 40 rats at 22 degrees C failed to induce a hyperthermic response and did not result in reduced DA or increased GFAP. However, administration of MA to PND 40 rats at 30 degrees C induced hyperthermia, reduced neostriatal DA by 54% and increased GFAP by 70%. MA administration to PND 20 rats at either 22 degrees C or 30 degrees C did not result in DA depletion or increased GFAP, even though MA administration to PND 20 rats at 30 degrees C induced hyperthermia. These results demonstrate that the induction of hyperthermia is necessary to exhibit MA-induced neurotoxicity at PND 40; however, PND 20 rats are resistant to the DA depleting effects of MA despite the induction of hyperthermia.
Ovarian hormones play a role in the use of drugs of abuse in women. In female rats estradiol has been shown to enhance acquisition of cocaine self-administration and behavioral sensitization induced by repeated cocaine treatment. Experiments were conducted to determine the effects of estradiol and/or progesterone on cocaine self-administration and behavioral sensitization to cocaine (10mg/kg; in animals with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions). Five groups of ovariectomized females were tested: (1) oil vehicle; (2) estradiol (E); (3) progesterone (P); (4) estradiol and progesterone given concurrently (EPC); (5) estradiol and progesterone given sequentially (EPS: 3 days of estradiol, 1 day progesterone, 1 day oil). All animals were tested during the dark phase of the light:dark cycle at ZT1600 and ZT2000-2100. Behavioral sensitization results: there was substantial conditioned turning throughout the habituation periods, and all animals exhibited behavioral sensitization with repeated cocaine treatment. Multivariate analysis indicated a significant effect of hormone treatment, time of day and day of testing. When individual groups were compared, however, only at ZT1600 did the E-treated and the EPS-treated animals show a trend (p<0.06) for greater behavioral sensitization to cocaine relative to the oil-treated animals. Self-administration results: all groups showed rapid acquisition of cocaine self-administration at 0.3 mg/kg/infusion, so we did not see an effect of ovarian hormones on acquisition, or a difference between groups tested at ZT1600 versus ZT2100 (p<0.05). There was, however, enhanced total intake of cocaine at 0.75 mg/kg/infusion in the E and the EPS groups. Concurrent administration of progesterone with estradiol counteracted the effect of estradiol on cocaine intake at 0.75 mg/kg/infusion, while progesterone alone did not enhance cocaine self-administration.
In asthma, reduced histone deacetylase activity and enhanced histone acetyltransferase activity in the lungs have been reported. However, the precise function of Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1), a class III histone deacetylase, and the effect of the Sirt1 activator SRT1720 on allergic inflammation have not been fully elucidated.
The effect of SRT1720, a synthetic activator of Sirt1, in an ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthma mouse model was investigated. The effect of SRT1720 and resveratrol on OVA stimulation in splenocytes from OVA-sensitized and challenged mice was also examined.
In OVA-sensitized and challenged mice (OVA mice) compared with saline-sensitized and challenged mice (control mice), Sirt1 messenger RNA expression in the lungs was decreased (P = 0.02), while cellular infiltration, airway eosinophilia and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid levels of interleukin (IL)-4, IL-5 and IL-13 were increased (P < 0.01). In OVA mice, SRT1720 treatment decreased total and eosinophil cell counts and IL-5 and IL-13 levels in the BAL fluid compared with the vehicle treatment (P < 0.05). In OVA mice, SRT1720 treatment also decreased inflammatory cell lung infiltrates histologically (P = 0.002). Both SRT1720 and resveratrol suppressed OVA-induced cell proliferation and IL-6 (P < 0.05) and tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) (P < 0.05) production in splenocytes (P < 0.01).
The Sirt1 activator SRT1720 suppressed inflammatory cell infiltration and cytokine production in an OVA-induced mouse model of asthma. SRT1720 and resveratrol suppressed OVA-induced splenocyte proliferation and TNF-α and IL-6 production. Sirt1 activators might have beneficial effects in asthmatics by suppressing inflammation.
We recently observed five cases of early thrombus formation in patients undergoing anticoagulation with subcutaneous heparin following open heart surgery. The reasons prompting surgery were as follows: one mitral valve replacement, one double valve replacement, one mitral valve reconstruction, one aortic valve replacement associated with coronary bypass. In all cases, intravenous heparin was begun on the day of surgery and replaced by subcutaneous (SC) heparin on postoperative day 1. Acute thrombocytopenia was observed between the 6th and 11th postoperative day. This was interpreted as denoting an idiosyncratic reaction to heparin which was replaced by low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) in two cases and by acenocoumarol in the other cases. Massive thrombosis of the aortic valve resulted in the death of one patient. Thrombosis of the left atrium occurred in three patients (two of whom had a transient ischemic attack (TIA)). One patient had aorto-iliac thrombosis. Successful reoperation was carried out in four of the five patients. Although heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis [HITT] is a rare complication of heparin therapy, serial platelet count monitoring and in vitro platelet aggregation tests are mandatory in the diagnosis of this syndrome. Discontinuation of heparin is indicated as soon as the syndrome is recognized and the institution of aspirin is recommended if the thromboembolic complication requires reoperation and reexposure to heparin.
Following intravenous administration of physostigmine salicylate for tricyclic antidepressant poisoning in 21 patients, convulsions occurred in two patients, and severe cholinergic manifestations occurred in two others. Because of these untoward effects and the very short duration of its beneficial action, it is very doubtful that physostigmine has any place in the routine management of tricyclic antidepressant poisoning.
Retinoic acid (RA) displays pronounced anticarcinogenic activities in several types of cancer. Whereas the mechanisms that underlie this activity remain incompletely understood, tumor suppression by RA is believed to emanate primarily from its ability to regulate transcription of multiple target genes. Here, we investigated molecular events through which RA inhibits the growth of MCF-7 mammary carcinoma cells, focusing on the involvement of the two proteins that mediate transcriptional activation by RA, the nuclear hormone receptor retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and the cellular retinoic acid-binding protein (CRABP) II, in this process. RA treatment of MCF-7 cells did not affect cell cycle distribution but triggered pronounced apoptosis. Accordingly, expression array analyses revealed that RA induces the expression of several proapoptotic genes, including caspase 7 and caspase 9. Whereas caspase 7 is an indirect responder to RA signaling, caspase 9 is a novel direct target for RAR, and it harbors a functional retinoic acid response element in its second intron. In agreement with the known role of CRABP-II in enhancing the transcriptional activity of RAR, the binding protein augmented RA-induced up-regulation of caspase 9, cooperated with RA in activating both caspase 7 and 9, and amplified the ability of RA to trigger apoptosis. Surprisingly, the data indicate that CRABP-II also displays proapoptotic activities on its own. Specifically, overexpression of CRABP-II, in the absence of RA, up-regulated the expression of Apaf1 and triggered caspase 7 and caspase 9 cleavage. These observations suggest that, in addition to its known role in direct delivery of RA to RAR, CRABP-II may have an additional, RA-independent, function.
Chronic exposure to atmospheric particles is suspected of exacerbating chronic inflammatory respiratory diseases but the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. An experimental strategy using human bronchial epithelial cells (NHBE) known to be one of the main target cells of particles in the lung was developed to investigate the long term effects of repeated exposure to particles. Primary cultures of NHBE cells were grown at an air-liquid interface and subjected to repeated treatments to particles. Fate of particles, pro inflammatory response and epithelial differentiation were studied during the 5 weeks following the final treatment. Ultrastructural observations revealed the biopersistence of particles in the bronchial epithelium. The expression of cytochrome P450 1A1, was transiently induced, suggesting that organic compounds could have been metabolized. The release of GM-CSF and IL-6 (biomarkers of pro-inflammatory response), was induced by particle treatments and was maintained up to 5weeks after treatments. The release of amphiregulin and TGFα (Growth Factor) was induced after each treatment. The number of cells expressing the mucin MUC5AC, a differentiation marker, was increased in particle-exposed epithelium. The experimental strategy we developed is suitable for investigating in greater depth the long term effects of particles on bronchial epithelial cells repeatedly exposed to atmospheric particles in vitro.
The Bcr-abl oncogene induces hematopoietic cell transformation and protects cells from apoptosis; however, the mechanisms whereby Bcr-abl blocks apoptosis are poorly defined. We examined whether the inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP) family, in particular survivin, are regulated by Bcr-abl. Overexpression of Bcr-abl in Mo7e or BaF3 hematopoietic cells elevated survivin mRNA and protein concomitant with a 4-fold increase in survivin promoter activity. The region of the survivin promoter responding to Bcr-abl was narrowed down to a 116 bp fragment between nucleotides -1,194 and -1,078. The IAP family member IAP-like protein-2 was also up-regulated by Bcr-abl. Disruption of Bcr-abl in Bcr-abl-transduced BaF3 cells by small interfering RNA resulted in 3- to 4-fold reduction in survivin protein confirming the link between Bcr-abl and survivin. Survivin disruption in Bcr-abl-transduced Mo7e cells, or in K562 cells that endogenously express Bcr-abl, by transfection with dominant-negative or antisense survivin constructs promoted apoptosis induced by the Bcr-abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor STI571, which was accompanied by caspase-dependent cleavage of Bcr-abl, mitochondrial membrane potential disruption, and enhanced mitochondrial cytochrome c release. Although ectopic survivin protected K562 cells from apoptosis induced by STI571, it did not protect cells from apoptosis induced either by tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) or the combination of TRAIL plus Hemin. Our results identify a new signal pathway downstream of Bcr-abl, in addition to the Bcl-2 family involved in the antiapoptotic effects of Bcr-abl, and suggest that anti-survivin therapy may have utility in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Septic cavernous sinus thrombosis is an uncommon clinical syndrome with a high morbidity and mortality. The commonest bacterial pathogen is Staphylococcus aureus. We describe the study of a patient with cavernous sinus thrombosis and meningitis caused by community-acquired methicillin-resistant S. aureus (CA-MRSA) infection. The isolate was genotyped as the ST93 (Queensland) clone of CA-MRSA and carried the Panton-Valentine leucocidin genes. Cure was obtained following prolonged antimicrobial therapy with vancomycin, rifampicin, cotrimoxazole and linezolid. Given the high morbidity and mortality of cavernous sinus thrombosis and the worldwide recent emergence of CA-MRSA, clinicians treating patients with this infection should consider early empirical coverage for CA-MRSA with an antimicrobial agent, such as vancomycin or linezolid, particularly in the presence of suspected facial staphylococcal skin infections. If vancomycin is used, we emphasize that high doses may be required to achieve even low levels in the cerebrospinal fluid.
Warfarin sodium has been associated with leucocytoclastic vasculitis and has once been associated with allergic interstitial nephritis. Hypersensitivity to warfarin sodium simultaneously resulting in allergic interstitial nephritis and leucocytoclastic vasculitis has not yet been previously reported. We present a 48-year-old man who was on warfarin sodium for 2 months and presented with acute renal failure and reddish purplish macules on his hypogastric regions and lower extremities bilaterally. Kidney biopsy showed allergic interstitial nephritis and punch skin biopsy showed leucocytoclastic vasculitis. Both biopsies also showed high eosinophil count, highly suggestive of a drug-induced reaction. After a negative comprehensive work-up and the absence of other recent medication changes, our patient was determined to have allergic interstitial nephritis and leucocytoclastic vasculitis secondary to warfarin sodium.
Cigarette smoking is a putative environmental risk factor for colon cancer. Nicotine, an active alkaloid in tobacco, has been implicated in carcinogenesis. In the present study, we demonstrated that oral nicotine administration (50 or 200 microg/ml) for 25 days stimulated growth of human colon cancer xenograft in nude mice. It also increased vascularization in the tumors and elevated cotinine and adrenaline plasma levels. beta-Adrenoceptors, cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in tumor tissues were also increased by nicotine. I.p. injection of beta(1)-selective antagonist (atenolol, 5 or 10 mg/kg) or beta(2)-selective antagonist (ICI 118,551, 5, or 10 mg/kg) blocked the nicotine-stimulated tumor growth dose dependently, in which beta(2)-selective antagonist produced a more prominent effect. beta-Adrenoceptors blockade also abrogated the stimulatory action of nicotine on microvessel densities as well as cell expression of COX-2, PGE(2), and VEGF, in which beta(2)-selective antagonist produced a significant effect. These findings provide a direct evidence that nicotine can enhance colon tumor growth mediated partly by stimulation of beta-adrenoceptors, preferentially the beta(2)-adrenoceptors. Activation of beta-adrenoceptors and the subsequent stimulation of COX-2, PGE(2), and VEGF expression is perhaps an important mechanism in the tumorigenic action of nicotine on colon tumor growth. These data suggest that beta-adrenoceptors play a modulatory role in the development of colon cancer and partly elucidate the carcinogenic action of cigarette smoke.
Phenytoin (PHT) and Valproate (VPA) are known to induce cognitive dysfunction, in terms of long term memory loss. Nitric oxide (NO) on the other hand is said to help in long term potentiation and hence enhance memory. The effects of nitric oxide donor L-arginine (L-Arg) and nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-W-L-Nitroarginine (L-NOARG) were studied on the cognitive dysfunction, induced by PHT and VPA in normal healthy rats, using the step-through passive avoidance test (PAT). It was observed that combining L-Arg with PHT significantly enhanced long term memory while, combining PHT with L-NOARG decreased it, as compared to PHT alone. When combined with VPA, L-Arg and L-NOARG increased the retention latency as compared to PVA alone but this was not statistically significant. We conclude that the No donor L-Arg is able to increase the difference in LTE in acquisition and retention trials with both PHT and VPA, but with VPA the increase is not statistically significant.
Single doses (50 microliters) of 1% and 2% pilocarpine, instilled by a buffer-tip droptainer resulting in an approximate pH 7.0 solution, and 1, 2, and 4% pilocarpine, instilled by the standard droptainer, resulting a pH 5.0 solution, were evaluated in the glaucomatous Beagle model. Pupil size and intraocular pressure measurements were performed at 0, 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours. Signs of topical irritation (blepharospasm, conjunctival hyperemia and chemosis, and any corneal changes) were also monitored. Both solutions produced similar onset and duration of miosis and ocular hypotension, but the pH 5.0 solutions produced a brief elevation in intraocular pressure during the first hour post-drug instillation. Moderate blepharospasm, conjunctival hyperemia, and chemosis occurred with only the pilocarpine solutions with pH 5.0.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), which are risk factors for lung cancer, have been reported to induce oxidative DNA damage. The paraoxonase (PON) plays a significant role in the detoxification of a variety of organophosphorous compounds, with paraoxonase-1 (PON1) being one of the endogenous free-radical scavenging systems in the human body. The aim of this case-control study was to investigate the effects of PAH exposure, oxidative stress and the Q192R polymorphism of PON1 genes, and their interactions in the carcinogenesis of lung cancer.
One hundred and seventy seven lung cancer patients and 177 age- and sex-matched controls were enrolled in this study. Each subject was asked to complete a questionnaire concerning their smoking habits and environmental exposure to PAHs. The Q192R genotypes of the PON1 gene was examined, and the concentrations of urinary 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OHP), 2-naphthol and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) measured.
Cigarette smoking was found to be a significant risk factor for lung cancer. The urinary 8-OH-dG level was higher in the patients, whereas the urinary 1-OHP and 2-naphthol levels were higher in the controls. There was a significant correlation between the urinary levels of 8-OH-dG and 1-OHP in both the cases and controls. The PON1 polymorphism was associated with an increased risk of lung cancer. Individuals carrying the Q/Q genotype of the PON1 gene were found to be at higher risk of developing lung cancer. There was a significant correlation between the urinary levels of 8-OH-dG and 1-OHP in those with the PON1 Q/Q genotype.
These results lead to the conclusion that PAHs would induce oxidative DNA damage, especially in individuals with the PON1 Q/Q genotype. Therefore, people with the PON1 Q/Q genotype would be more susceptible to lung cancer than those with the R/R or Q/R genotypes of the PON1 gene.
Preclinical data indicate that p-53 gene mutations predict resistance to doxorubicin (A) but not to docetaxel (Taxotere) (T). In the TAX 303 trial, A and T have been compared with advanced breast cancer patients.
Primary tumor samples from patients participating in the TAX 303 trial were collected. p-53 gene mutations were evaluated by denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) and confirmed by sequencing. Topoisomerase II alpha (topo II alpha) protein levels were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Clinical and biological data were correlated.
Tumor samples for DHPLC analysis were available for 108 of 326 patients from the clinical trial. p-53 gene mutations were observed in 20% of patients. In patients with a mutated p-53 gene, a trend for a lower percentage of responders was observed in the A arm (17%) compared with the T arm (50%). In the wild-type p-53 cohort, response rates to A and T were 27% and 36%, respectively. Of the 16 patients carrying wild-type p-53- and topo II protein-positive tumors, seven (44%) responded to anthracyclines, while response rate to the same drug was 13% in the remaining cohorts [odds ratio 5.06 (95% confidence interval 1.19-21.41), P = 0.03]. The combination of the two markers had no predictive value in patients treated with docetaxel.
(i) p-53 gene analysis indicates that gene mutations may compromise the efficacy of A while they do not interfere with the antitumor activity of T; and (ii) the evaluation of multiple molecular markers including p-53 and proliferation markers as topo II protein levels looks more promising in predicting response to anthracyclines.
Hydronephrosis is typically observed in terata caused by in utero and lactational exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD), via the arylhydrocarbon receptor, but the molecular mechanism underlying its pathogenesis is largely unknown. In the present study, pregnant Holtzman rats were treated once by gavage with TCDD (1.0 microg/kg bw) or corn oil on gestation day 15. All dams were allowed to litter, and standardized litters in terms of litter size were then reciprocally cross-fostered on postnatal day (PND) 1. On PND1, pups were divided into four experimental groups: pups exposed only in utero, pups exposed only lactationally, pups not exposed via either route (vehicle control), and pups exposed via both routes. Pups were euthanized on PND21 for further analyses. The TCDD dose used was not overtly toxic to the dams or neonates. The incidence and severity of hydronephrosis were markedly high in pups exposed to TCDD lactationally, but not those exposed in utero. On PND21, cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A1 was detected predominantly in the outer zone of the medulla of the kidney from all the pups lactationally exposed to TCDD, regardless of the occurrence of hydronephrosis. Interestingly, TCDD concentrations in the cortex, the outer zone of the medulla and the inner zone of the medulla were similar. When adult Holtzman rats were administered TCDD, the induction of CYP1A1 was immunohistochemically detected in the liver but not in the kidney 7 days postadministration. The present findings suggest that TCDD-inducible genes via an AhR-dependent mechanism may be associated with the etiology of hydronephrosis in a particular region of the kidney.
The monoamine transporters are the main targets of psychostimulant drugs, including methamphetamine (METH) and cocaine. Interestingly, the rewarding effects of cocaine are retained in dopamine transporter (DAT) knockout (KO) mice, while serotonin transporter (SERT) and DAT double KO mice do not exhibit conditioned place preference (CPP) to cocaine. These data suggest that SERT inhibition decreases the rewarding effects of psychostimulants. To further test this hypothesis, in the present study, we investigated the effects of intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of 20 mg/kg fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), on 2 mg/kg METH (i.p.) CPP and locomotor sensitization to 1 mg/kg METH (i.p.) in C57BL/6J mice. Fluoxetine treatment before both the conditioning and preference tests abolished METH CPP. A two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) revealed that METH CPP tended to be lower in mice pretreated with fluoxetine before the preference test than in control mice pretreated with saline before the preference test. Furthermore, pretreatment with fluoxetine had inhibitory effects on METH-induced locomotor sensitization. These results suggest that fluoxetine, a widely used medication for depression, may be also a useful tool for treating METH dependence.
PCR is the primary method for detecting minimal residual disease in hematologic cancers. One such gene target is the bcl-2/immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) translocation found in a majority of cases of follicular lymphoma.
We report an accurate method for quantitative detection of the bcl-2/IgH translocation marker of follicular lymphoma in a series of patients in various stages of remission and relapse who had been treated with a combination of ifosfamide, mitoxantrone, and etoposide (MINE) chemotherapy and monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody (Rituximab). The approach uses seminested PCR followed by analysis of the products on a fluorescent capillary electrophoresis system. The quantitation of bcl-2/IgH translocation-positive cells was sensitive and reproducible, capable of detecting as few as five malignant cells out of 300,000 normal cells.
Quantitative PCR enables one to monitor the kinetics of tumor reduction in patients treated with MINE chemotherapy in combination with Rituximab.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as superoxide anion, hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), hydroxyl radical have been implicated in pathogenesis of various diseases including cancer and metastasis. Tamoxifen (TAM) is a non-steroidal anti-estrogen drug most widely used as an adjuvant hormonal therapy in breast cancer. TAM also has estrogenic activity on liver and endometrium causing severe oxidative stress and hypertriglycerdemia. Coenzyme Q(10) (CoQ(10)), Niacin and Riboflavin are well-known potent antioxidants and protective agents against many diseases including cancer. In this context, this study was undertaken to find if co-administration of CoQ(10), Niacin and Riboflavin along with TAM could augment the antioxidant (AO) status in postmenopausal women with breast cancer.
The vitamin supplementation with Tamoxifen was given for a period of 90 days. Blood samples were collected at the base line, 45th and 90th day during the course of treatment. Plasma lipids, lipid peroxides and various circulating enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants were estimated in 78 untreated, sole TAM treated and combinatorial treated group along with 46 age- and sex-matched controls.
Enhanced oxidative stress as evidenced by increased lipids and lipid peroxides with decreased AO levels in untreated breast cancer patients was observed. Adjuvant TAM-treated group had a limited impact on the increased oxidative stress with decreased AO status. Severe hypertriglycerdemia was observed in TAM-treated group when compared to untreated and control subjects. Combinatorial therapy (CT) of CoQ(10), Niacin and Riboflavin along with TAM decreased the oxidative stress and increased the AO status.
The antioxidant defense system is compromised in breast cancer patients. There is a shift in the oxidant / antioxidant balance in favor of lipid peroxidation (LPO), which could lead to tumour promotion observed in the disease. CT of CoQ(10), Niacin and Riboflavin along with TAM significantly increased the AO status, while decreasing lipid and lipid peroxides. The results suggest the necessity of therapeutic co-administration of antioxidants along with conventional drug to such patients. However, due to limited number of cases included in this study, more studies may be required to substantiate the results and arrive at a definitive conclusion, in terms of safety and efficacy of adding an AO therapy in treatment of breast cancer.
The effects on muscle fasciculations and ease of tracheal intubation of pretreatment with fazadinium before administration of succinylcholine were evaluated in 85 patients. Four dose levels of fazadinium evaluated were 0.05 mg . kg-1, 0.075 mg . kg-1, 0.10 mg . kg-1 and 0.15 mg . kg-1. The 0.05 mg . kg-1 dose did not always prevent succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations. The 0.15 mg . kg-1 dose gave poor conditions for tracheal intubation and was therefore discontinued. The 0.075 mg . kg-1 dose seemed optimal. Most patients felt transient pain at the site of the injection during administration of fazadinium, and many had a sensation of drowsiness.
Aim of the current study was to investigate the ability of deltamethrin to induce testicular injury in rats and its possible attenuation with lycopene. Rats were divided into three groups: Group I (DEL) received deltamethrin, 5 mg/kg b.w./day orally, in corn oil. Group II (DEL + Lyc) received oral dose of lycopene (4 mg/kg b.w./day) in corn oil concurrently with deltamethrin following the same regimen as in group I. Group III (Control) received appropriate volume of corn oil. After 4 weeks, deltamethrin-treated rats showed decreased body weight, serum testosterone, luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone levels. Testicular total oxidant capacity (TOC), nitrite/nitrate (NOx), poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), and DNA damage were significantly increased. RT-PCR demonstrated significant up-regulation in testicular mRNA for glutathione-S-transferase and heat-shock protein-70 (HSP-70), whereas steroidogenic acute regulatory (StAR) protein was down-regulated after deltamethrin exposure. Lycopene was able to restore body weight, serum testosterone, StAR mRNA, TOC, NOx levels, and PARP activity with significant decrease in HSP-70 mRNA, and DNA damage. In conclusion, lycopene was able to counteract the deleterious effect of deltamethrin.
