The dose-response of diethylnitrosamine (DENA) initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis was determined in infant Balb/c male mice with and without subsequent phenobarbital treatment. Male Balb/c mice received a single intraperitoneal injection of DENA (0, 2.5, 10.0, 25.0 or 50.0 micrograms/gbw) in saline on day 15 of age. Ninety mice were treated at each dose level. At weaning, mice received either deionized drinking water (45 mice per group) or deionized drinking water containing 500 mg/L sodium phenobarbital (PB) (45 mice per group). Mice from each group were sacrificed 12, 24, and 40 weeks post-weaning. Liver and lung tumors were found in DENA-only-treated and DENA + PB-treated mice. In DENA-only-treated mice, the incidence and number of hepatic adenomas were similar (not dose-dependent) at DENA doses of 10, 25, and 50 micrograms/gbw at each of the 3 sampling times. DENA-only-treated mice did display a time-related increase in hepatic adenoma incidence and number at each dose. In PB-treated mice, the hepatic adenoma number was dependent upon the dose of DENA between 2.5 and 50 micrograms/gbw. PB treatment following DENA administration resulted in a decrease in the time required for the detection of hepatic adenomas and increased the number of hepatic adenomas at most sampling times compared to the mice that received DENA only. Hepatocellular carcinomas (HPC) were detected in mice receiving the highest DENA doses (25 and 50 micrograms/gbw). PB treatment increased the number and incidence of HPC and decreased the time of first detection of HPC.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The most severe adverse reactions to carbamazepine have been observed in the haemopoietic system, the liver and the cardiovascular system. A frequently fatal, although exceptionally rare side effect of carbamazepine is necrotizing eosinophilic (hypersensitivity) myocarditis. We report a case of hypersensitivity myocarditis secondary to administration of carbamazepine. Acute hypersensitivity myocarditis was not suspected clinically, and the diagnosis was made post-mortem. Histology revealed diffuse infiltration of the myocardium by eosinophils and lymphocytes with myocyte damage. Clinically, death was due to cardiogenic shock. To best of our knowledge this is the second case of fatal carbamazepine induced myocarditis reported in English literature.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in cadmium-induced liver injury. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is a transcription factor that up-regulates cytoprotective genes in response to oxidative stress. To investigate the role of Nrf2 in cadmium-induced hepatotoxicity, Nrf2-null mice, wild-type mice, kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1-knockdown (Keap1-KD) mice with enhanced Nrf2, and Keap1-hepatocyte knockout (Keap1-HKO) mice with maximum Nrf2 activation were treated with cadmium chloride (3.5mg Cd/kg, i.p.). Blood and liver samples were collected 8h thereafter. Cadmium increased serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activities, and caused extensive hepatic hemorrhage and necrosis in the Nrf2-null mice. In contrast, Nrf2-enhanced mice had lower serum ALT and LDH activities and less morphological alternations in the livers than wild-type mice. H(2)DCFDA (2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluoresein diacetate) staining of primary hepatocytes isolated from the four genotypes of mice indicated that oxidative stress was higher in Nrf2-null cells, and lower in Nrf2-enhanced cells than in wild-type cells. To further investigate the mechanism of the protective effect of Nrf2, mRNA of metallothionein (MT) and other cytoprotective genes were determined. Cadmium markedly induced MT-1 and MT-2 in livers of all four genotypes of mice. In contrast, genes involved in glutathione synthesis and reducing reactive oxygen species, including glutamate-cysteine ligase (Gclc), glutathione peroxidase-2 (Gpx2), and sulfiredoxin-1 (Srxn-1) were only induced in Nrf2-enhanced mice, but not in Nrf2-null mice. In conclusion, the present study shows that Nrf2 activation prevents cadmium-induced oxidative stress and liver injury through induction of genes involved in antioxidant defense rather than genes that scavenge Cd.
48 patients (62.8 +/- 9.1 yrs) with III or IV NYHa class congestive heart failure after 2-week therapy with digoxin (D) and furosemide (F) underwent two-dimensional echocardiographic examination to assess left ventricular function. Then in 25 patients (group I) DF and nifedipine (N) were given within 2 weeks, D, F, N and captopril (C) within 4 weeks and again D, F, N within 2 weeks. In 23 patients (group II) isosorbide dinitrate (S) was administered instead of nifedipine. 2-DE examination had been performed at the end of the each study stage. Optimal daily drug dose were: D-0.34 +/- 0.07 mg, F-40.7 +/- 12.5 mg, S-44.3 +/- 10.4 mg and 75.8 +/- 26.4 mg. Nifedipine and isosorbide dinitrate administrated with digoxin and furosemide did not improve left ventricular function in comparison with a standard therapy (DF). The best positive changes were observed in both groups during treatment with captopril. Ejection fraction by Teichholz increased from 42.9 +/- 15.0% during DF stage to 45.2 +/- 11.5% (DFNK stage) in group I (p less than 0.001) and from 35.3 +/- 10.5% to 36.4 +/- 10.4% in group II respectively (p greater than 0.01). Left ventricular systolic and diastolic internal diameters significantly decreased (p less than 0.05) whereas stroke volume and cardiac indices nonsignificantly increased (p greater than 0.05). Captopril with digoxine, furosemide and nifedipine caused significant hemodynamic improvement. Effect of captopril with nifedipine was greater that of captopril with isosorbide dinitrate.
The anticonvulsant agent valproate (VPA) may cause hyperammonemic encephalopathy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and proton MR spectroscopic (MRS) findings in a patient with VPA-induced hyperammonemic encephalopathy are described. MRI showed a metabolic-toxic lesion pattern with bilateral T2-hyperintense lesions in the cerebellar white matter and in the globus pallidus. MR spectroscopic findings were indistinguishable from hepatic encephalopathy with severe depletion of myoinositol and choline and with glutamine excess. N-Acetylaspartate levels were moderately decreased. Quantitative MRS gave detailed insight into alterations of brain metabolism in VPA-induced encephalopathy.
The neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) has been implicated in the regulation of basal and beta-adrenergic inotropy in normal and chronically infarcted hearts. Furthermore, myocardial nNOS expression and activity increase in failing hearts, raising the possibility that nNOS may influence left ventricular (LV) remodeling progression and functional deterioration after myocardial infarction (MI).
We compared LV remodeling at 1, 4, and 8 weeks after MI in nNOS-knockout mice (nNOS(-/-)) and their wild-type (WT) littermates matched for infarct size by using a highly accurate 3-dimensional echocardiographic technique. Basal LV hemodynamics and the inotropic response to dobutamine infusion (4 and 16 ng.g(-1).min(-1)) were also evaluated 8 weeks after MI. Sham-operated nNOS(-/-) mice showed enhanced basal LV contractility (P<0.03 versus WT, as evaluated by preload-recruitable stroke work) but an attenuated inotropic response to dobutamine infusion (P<0.01 versus WT). Both basal and beta-adrenergic LV relaxations were significantly impaired in nNOS(-/-) mice. Survival after MI did not differ between groups. However, nNOS(-/-) mice developed a faster and more severe LV dilation compared with WT mice (P<0.05 for both end-systolic and end-diastolic volume indices). WT mice maintained a positive inotropic response to dobutamine 8 weeks after MI. In contrast, infarcted nNOS(-/-) mice responded to dobutamine with a dramatic fall in LV contractility (P<0.01 for preload-recruitable stroke work).
nNOS plays a crucial role in preventing adverse LV remodeling and maintaining myocardial beta-adrenergic reserve after MI. Taken together, our findings suggest that upregulation of myocardial nNOS in infarcted hearts may be an important adaptive mechanism.
The effects of acute treatment or prenatal exposure of rats to antidepressants on locomotor activity and [3H]spiroperidol binding to striatal membranes were studied in 25 day old rats. Prenatal exposure or acute treatment with the antidepressants chlorimipramine, iprindole or mianserin reduced locomotor activity on postnatal day 25. On the contrary, prenatal exposure to nomifensine induced locomotor hyperactivity. It was also found that chlorimipramine, iprindole or nomifensine enhanced the locomotor response to apomorphine. Acute treatment with mianserin, markedly decreased locomotion but in utero mianserin did not modify the apomorphine-induced hyperactivity. Scatchard analysis showed no change in the characteristics of binding of [3H]spiroperidol to striatal dopamine receptors after antidepressant treatment. However, the ability of dopamine to compete for these sites was significantly enhanced after prenatal exposure to all the antidepressants. This increase in agonist affinity for dopamine receptors may explain the long-lasting behavioural supersensitivity of dopamine receptors observed after chronic treatment with typical or atypical antidepressants.
Infusional 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin with oxaliplatin is one of the standard regimens for patients with pretreated metastatic colorectal cancer, as well as for first-line chemotherapy. FOLFOX4 has shown its efficacy in pivotal trials, but patients must make twice-weekly hospital visits. FOLFOX6 is a more convenient regimen, requiring a visit once every two weeks. The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety profile of FOLFOX6 in Japanese patients with pretreated colorectal cancer.
Fifty-one metastatic colorectal cancer patients who failed to respond to first-line chemotherapy were enrolled in the study from April to July 2005. Oxaliplatin, 5-fluorouracil and l-leucovorin were administered every two weeks. Oxaliplatin (100 mg/m(2)) and l-leucovorin (200 mg/m(2)) were given intravenously over 2 h followed by 5-fluorouracil bolus 400 mg/m(2) i.v. and 46-h infusion of 2400 mg/m(2). The primary endpoint was the response rate.
Two patients had no measurable lesions and were excluded from the efficacy analysis. Of the 49 eligible patients, one complete response and 6 partial responses were observed, resulting in a response rate (RR) of 14.3% (95% confidence interval: 5.9-27.2%). Median time to treatment failure and progression-free survival was 4.4 and 5.3 months, respectively. Overall survival was 11.4 months. The incidence of grade 2/3 (Debiopharm neurotoxicity criteria) peripheral neuropathy was 41.2%, whereas the overall incidence of grade 3/4 neutropenia was 43.2%.
The results of our study suggest that FOLFOX6 had an acceptable profile in terms of both efficacy and safety in previously treated colorectal cancer patients.
The main objective of the treatment of gout is to protect the major organs. Almost all gout patients require medication throughout their lives. Gout patients are asymptomatic during intercritical periods, even if they are not receiving antihyperuricemic drugs. Some patients, therefore, misinterpret that their gout is cured and may cease taking medication of their own accord. Thirty-two gout patients who had received continuous treatment with antihyperuricemic drugs for more than 3 months were selected. The sensation of heaviness was relieved by antihyperuricemic drugs in 14 (44%) of 32 patients. The heaviness did not exist or change in the other patients. Benzbromarone, probenecid, and allopurinol were found to be effective. The sensation of heaviness occurred after increased physical activity in 10 of 14 patients. Of 14 patients, 12 did not notice that the sensation of heaviness was relieved by antihyperuricemic drugs. Two hypotheses for the cause of heaviness are considered. One is mild gouty neuropathy, the other low-grade inflammation. A proper understanding that this symptom is relieved by antihyperuricemic drugs may serve as additional motivation for gout patients to take their medication regularly.
Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic that acts as a partial agonist at the dopamine D(2) receptor. It has been mainly investigated in dopamine-based models of schizophrenia, while its effects on glutamate-based paradigms have remained to be further characterized. Due to its unique mechanism of action, aripiprazole has also been considered as a replacement medication for psychostimulant abuse. Thus, in the present study we tested the hypothesis that aripiprazole would prevent the motor hyperactivity induced by psychostimulant and psychotomimetic drugs that act either by dopaminergic or glutamatergic mechanisms. Male Swiss mice received injections of aripiprazole (0.1-1 mg/kg) followed by drugs that enhance the dopamine-mediated neurotransmission, amphetamine (3 mg/kg) or cocaine (5 mg/kg), or by glutamate NMDA-receptor antagonists, ketamine (60 mg/kg) or MK-801 (0.4 mg/kg). Independent groups also received aripiprazole (0.1-1 mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg) and were tested for catalepsy. All doses of aripiprazole were effective in preventing the motor stimulant effects of amphetamine and cocaine. Moreover, the higher dose also prevented the effects of ketamine and MK-801. The present study reports the effects of aripiprazole in dopaminergic and glutamatergic models predictive of antipsychotic activity, suggesting that both may be useful for screening novel partial agonists with antipsychotic activity. It also shows that aripiprazole may prevent the acute effects of psychostimulant drugs without significant motor impairment.
Clozapine has been linked to significant weight gain and increase in serum lipids and appears to negatively impact glucose metabolism. In this retrospective chart review study, we examine changes in systolic and diastolic blood pressure and treatment for hypertension in clozapine-treated patients.
Data on demographics and systolic and diastolic blood pressure were examined for up to 5 years (September 1987 to September 1992) in 82 patients treated with clozapine. Rates of hypertension treatment in clozapine-treated patients were compared with patients receiving conventional antipsychotics (N = 56) and other atypical antipsychotic agents (N = 102).
The mean age of the 82 patients at the time of clozapine initiation was 36.4 +/- 7.8 years, with 22 (27%) female, 75 (91%) white, 3 (4%) black, 3 (4%) Hispanic, and 1 (1%) Asian. The baseline weight was 175.5 +/- 34.0 lb (79.0 +/- 15.3 kg) and baseline body mass index was 26.9 +/- 5.0 kg/m(2). There was a significant increase in systolic blood pressure (p =.0004) and diastolic blood pressure (p =.0001). Overall, 22 patients (27%) received treatment for hypertension following clozapine initiation. Only 2 (4%) of 56 patients in the conventional antipsychotic group and 9 (9%) of 102 patients in the other atypical antipsychotic group (olanzapine, N = 6; risperidone, N = 3) received treatment for hypertension.
Our findings suggest that long-term clozapine treatment is associated with increased rates of hypertension, which may have a significant impact on medical morbidity and mortality.
We report a case of invasive bladder cancer after cyclophosphamide administration for nephrotic syndrome, and briefly discuss the association of bladder cancer and cyclophosphamide. A 6-year-old boy, who was diagnosed as having nephrotic syndrome, was treated with oral administration of prednisolone and cyclophosphamide for 4 years, receiving a total dose of 49.5 g cyclophosphamide. At age 27, a gross hematuria with bloody clots appeared and he presented with postrenal renal failure. He underwent a radical cystourethrectomy and ileal conduit for stage a pT3a pN0 M0 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. He was not given any adjuvant treatments because of his renal insufficiency, and he died from the disease 14 months after radical surgery.
We describe an elderly case of idiopathic dilatation of the right atrium in which right-sided heart failure was exacerbated by drug-induced bradyarrhythmia. An 84-year-old man, who had a 10-year history of episodic edema, was treated with proscillaridin and verapamil hydrochloride at another hospital. He had experienced a poor appetite and general malaise 2 months previously, and exertional dyspnea 10 days previously. On admission, he had jugular venous dilatation, systemic edema, and hepatomegaly. On auscultation, a third heart sound originating from the right ventricle and systolic murmur of tricuspid regurgitation were heard. An admission electrocardiogram showed an atrial standstill and junctional escape rhythm with a QRS rate of 31 beats/minute. Chest roentgenogram revealed a bilateral pleural effusion and cardiomegaly with a cardiothoracic ratio of 76%, but no pulmonary congestion. Echocardiogram disclosed idiopathic dilatation of the right atrium and secondary tricuspid regurgitation. He was given a diagnosis of right-sided heart failure due to idiopathic dilatation of the right atrium exacerbated by bradyarrhythmia, which was suspected to derive from the side effects of proscillaridin and verapamil hydrochloride. Thus, these agents were withheld. In addition, the patient reduced sodium intake and was treated with diuretics and beta-adrenergic agonist. Thereafter, right-sided heart failure markedly improved. At the time of the last follow-up 16 months after discharge, he felt well.
A 76-year-old woman was admitted with a one-month history of low grade fever and dizziness. She had a palpable right supraclavicular lymph node. Abdominal ultrasonography showed swollen lymph nodes around the abdominal aorta. A specimen from the right supraclavicular lymph node showed malignant lymphoma (diffuse large B cell type). We started chemotherapy according to the low-dose THP-COP protocol (pirarubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine and prednisolone) on the 31st hospital day. Since no adverse effects were detected after two low-dose cycles, the patient received a third course with standard doses on the 87th hospital day. The total dose of pirarubicin was 72 mg/m2. Two days after the third course started, she suffered from dyspnea caused by congestive heart failure. A chest X-ray showed advanced cardiomegaly, severe congestion and bilateral pleural effusion. These conditions improved with transvenous administration of diuretics, a vasodilator and phosphodiesterase inhibitor. In this case, congestive heart failure developed even though the total dose of pirarubicin was lower than in previous reports of this complication. When the THP-COP protocol is indicated in elderly patients, cardiotoxicity should be monitored even if the total dose of pirarubicin is very low.
Recently, we reported the identification of a novel class of pregnane-X-receptor (PXR) agonists, solomonsterols A and B, isolated from the marine sponge Theonella swinhoei. Preliminary pharmacological studies demonstrated that these natural compounds are potential leads for the treatment of human disorders characterized by dysregulation of innate immunity. In this article, we describe the first total synthesis of solomonsterol A and its in vivo characterization in animal models of colitis. Using transgenic mice expressing the human PXR, we found that administration of synthetic solomonsterol A effectively protects against development of clinical signs and symptoms of colitis and reduced the generation of TNFα, a signature cytokine for this disorder. In addition, we have provided the first evidence that solomonsterol A might act by triggering the expression of TGFβ and IL-10, potent counter-regulatory cytokines in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Finally, we have shown that solomonsterol A inhibits NF-κB activation by a PXR dependent mechanism. In summary, solomonsterol A is a marine PXR agonist that holds promise in the treatment of inflammation-driven immune dysfunction in clinical settings.
Manganese has been known to induce neurological disorders similar to Parkinson's disease. One of the features of manganese-induced neurotoxicity is oxidative stress. Accumulating data implicate NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) as a key regulator in the adaptive survival response to oxidative stress. Recent studies suggest that the activation of Nrf2 is induced by manganese in PC12 cells. In the present study, we investigated possible links between reactive oxygen species (ROS), proteasome or mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and Nrf2/HO-1 activation in manganese-treated PC12 cells. After MnCl(2) treatment, there was an increase in nuclear localization and subsequent binding of Nrf2 to the antioxidant-responsive element (ARE) and upregulation of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein in PC12 cells. Pretreatment with N-acetyl cysteine, a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, suppressed MnCl(2) -induced Nrf2 activation, increase in Nrf2-ARE binding and subsequent upregulation of HO-1 expression. However, pretreatment with lactacystin, an inhibitor of proteasome activity, enhanced MnCl(2) -induced Nrf2 activation, increase in Nrf2-ARE binding and subsequent upregulation of HO-1 expression. Pretreatment of cells with a pharmacological inhibitor of MAPK (ERK inhibitor PD 98059, P38 inhibitor SB203580 or JNK inhibitor SP600125) did not affect the MnCl(2) -induced Nrf2 activation, increase in Nrf2-ARE binding or subsequent upregulation of HO-1 expression. These results suggest that Nrf2/HO-1 activation by Mn in PC12 cells is associated with ROS and the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, not MAPK signaling.
A comparative study of the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 2/3 (mGluR2/3) was done in the hippocampus of rats and mice after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (APISE), and of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. At 1 day APISE, there was a marked increase in mGluR2/3 immunoreactivity in the stratum lacunosum moleculare (SLM) of CA1 area and in the middle one-third of the molecular layer (MM) of the dentate gyrus. Immuno-electron microscopic study showed degenerating mGluR2/3 positive axons in the SLM of CA1 area at 1 day APISE. From 7 days, mGluR2/3 immunopositive product decreased, and by 31 days APISE, it almost disappeared in two-thirds of the SLM near CA2. In the mouse model at 2 months APISE, mGluR2/3 immunopositive product in two-thirds of the SLM near the stratum radiatum disappeared, and so did in the whole SLM of CA1 area in patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. Neuropharmacological study by intravenous injection of mGluR2/3 agonist 2R,4R-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate [(2R,4R)-APDC] at different doses at 1h during pilocarpine induced status epilepticus showed that (2R,4R)-APDC could not stop seizures and neuronal death in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. The present study, therefore, suggests that the reduction of mGluR2/3 immunopositive product in the SLM of CA1 is a consequence of neuronal loss in either the entorhinal cortex or CA1 area of the hippocampus, and at the dosage range from 12.5 to 600 mg/kg, (2R,4R)-APDC may not be effective in the prevention of seizures or neuronal death in the hilus of the dentate gyrus.
The presence of the glycoprotein IIIa allele PlA2 is associated with enhanced thrombin formation and an impaired antithrombotic action of aspirin, which could favor coronary thrombosis. We wondered whether PlA1/A2 genetic polymorphism could affect the postoperative bleeding in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. We also aimed to assess the effects of aspirin pretreatment and to ascertain the value of platelet function studies as predictors of postoperative bleeding.
In a randomized, double-blind study, patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting were pretreated with a 150-mg dose of aspirin orally 12 and 3 hours before surgery (n = 51, 41 elective) or with placebo (n = 51, 43 elective). The hemostasis was monitored by Simplate (bioMérieux, Inc, Durham, NC) bleeding time and capillary closure time (platelet function analyzer PFA 100; Sysmex UK Ltd, Milton Keynes, United Kingdom). Postoperative bleeding and blood products transfusions were recorded. The glycoprotein IIIa polymorphism was analyzed.
Bleeding was significantly greater in PlA1 homozygotes from control group. Blood loss was significantly greater (by 25%) in aspirin group. The volume of blood products transfusions in aspirin patients was significantly larger (by 137%). When subjects were stratified accordingly to blood platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa genotype, in the aspirin group PlA2 carriers had greater blood loss than PlA1 homozygotes (1858 +/- 932 mL vs 1216 +/- 525 mL, P < .05).
PlA1 homozygotes normally had a greater risk of perioperative bleeding. Capillary closure time had no advantage relative to Simplate bleeding time in predicting postoperative blood loss. Aspirin pretreatment revealed no beneficial effects and resulted in increased postoperative bleeding and requirement for blood product transfusions after coronary artery bypass grafting in patients with stable angina. It was most unfavorable for PlA2 carriers.
Alterations of striatal glutamate receptors are believed to be responsible, at least in part, for the pathogenesis of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID). To evaluate whether co-administration of CI-1041, a novel NMDA receptor antagonist selective for the NR1A/NR2B subtype, with L-dopa might prevent the appearance of this side effect, eight de novo parkinsonian monkeys were treated chronically orally with either L-dopa alone or L-dopa plus CI-1041 (n= 4 for each group). After 4 weeks of treatment with L-dopa alone, all four animals developed moderate dyskinesias either choreic or dystonic in nature. CI-1041 co-treatment completely prevented the induction of dyskinesias in three animals and only one monkey developed mild dyskinesias at the end of the fourth week of treatment in the L-dopa + CI-1041 group. The magnitude and duration of the antiparkinsonian action of L-dopa was similar in both groups. These results suggest that selective NMDA receptor antagonism may be interesting for managing LID in Parkinson's disease patients.
Tobacco smoking initiated during adolescence is often associated with rapid onset of dependence and difficulty in maintaining abstinence. Animal models have demonstrated that adolescent nicotine exposure causes cell death and altered neurochemistry in the cortex and hippocampus; however, little is known about the neurophysiological consequences of adolescent nicotine exposure in the adult. The primary objective of this study was to assess the consequences of adolescent nicotine exposure on the adult electroencephalogram (EEG) and event-related potentials. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered nicotine (5.0 mg/kg per day) for 5 days between postnatal days 35 and 40 using transdermal nicotine patches. Following 6-7 weeks of nicotine withdrawal, EEG activity and event related potentials were assessed. Motor activity and sucrose preference were also examined during the nicotine withdrawal period. Additionally, a set of rats was exposed to multiple doses of nicotine for a single day to assess nicotine and cotinine blood levels. Transdermal nicotine produced nicotine (88+/-21.5 ng/ml) and cotinine (647.6+/-123.2 ng/ml) levels comparable to those previously reported. Reduced motor activity, decreased 1-4 Hz power in the cortical electroencephalogram, and increased cortical N1 amplitude were observed in nicotine-exposed rats compared to controls. These data demonstrate that transdermal nicotine patches provide an effective and non-invasive nicotine delivery system for the adolescent rat. The combined neurophysiological and locomotor activity changes observed in nicotine-exposed rats demonstrate that adolescent nicotine exposure has lasting neurobehavioral consequences. These changes may be indicative of a lasting 'nicotine abstinence syndrome' characterized by increased arousal, anxiety, or emotionality.
Cortical dysplasia (CD) is associated with epilepsy in both the pediatric and adult populations. The mechanism underlying seizures with cortical malformations is still poorly understood. To study the physiology of dysplastic cortex, we developed an experimental model of CD.
Pregnant rats were given intraperitoneal injections of carmustine (1-3-bis-chloroethyl-nitrosourea; BCNU) on embryonic day 15 (E15). Cortical histology was examined in the resulting pups at P0, P28, and P60. In addition, evoked and spontaneous field potential recordings were obtained in cortical slices from adult control and BCNU-exposed rats. Finally, we used whole-cell recordings to compare physiologic properties of pyramidal neurons and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) responses in control and BCNU-treated animals.
Features characteristic of CD were found in the offspring, including laminar disorganization, cytomegalic neurons, and neuronal heterotopias. Dysplastic cortex also contained abnormal clusters of Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells and disruption of radial glial fibers, as demonstrated with immunohistochemistry. Under conditions of partial GABAA-receptor blockade with 10 microM bicuculline methiodide (BMI), slices of dysplastic cortex demonstrated a significant increase in the number of spontaneous and evoked epileptiform discharges. Individual pyramidal neurons in dysplastic cortex were less sensitive to application of GABA compared with controls.
BCNU exposure in utero produces histologic alterations suggestive of CD in rat offspring. Dysplastic cortex from this model demonstrates features of hyperexcitability and decreased neuronal sensitivity to GABA. Such physiologic alterations may underlie the increased epileptogenicity of dysplastic cortex.
AL-3037A (Sodium ferri ethylenediaminetetraacetate), a novel compound shown to stimulate the degradation of glycosaminoglycans, was evaluated for its effects on aqueous humor outflow and intraocular pressure (IOP) in four experimental models. Its effect on outflow facility was assessed in bovine and human ocular perfusion organ cultures. Its IOP effect was tested in normotensive and dexamethasone-induced ocular hypertensive rabbits. In bovine eyes, perfusion with AL-3037A (0.1% w/v, 2.3 m M) significantly increased the outflow facility well above the normal 'wash-out' effect. At 30 min after perfusion, the outflow facility of drug-treated eyes increased by 26.0+/-2.8% (mean +/- S.E.(M.), n = 8), significantly higher than the 12.1 +/- 2.8% increase in vehicle-treated eyes. This difference sustained throughout the study period (2 hr). The compound also enhanced aqueous outflow in perfused human anterior segments. In non-glaucomatous eyes, it produced a small decrease in IOP (15.4 +/- 4.6%, n = 17), but in tissues derived from glaucoma patients, bolus administration of 3 mg (7 micromol) of AL-3037A lowered the IOP by 52-68% (n = 2) lasting for at least 3 hr. This outflow-enhancing effect of AL-3037A in ex vivo studies was confirmed by in vivo results. In normotensive rabbits, oral (50 mg kg(-1)), intravenous (10 mg kg(-1)), or topical (2 mg; 50 microl of 4% w/v solution) administration of AL-3037A produced maximum reduction of IOP, when compared to vehicle-treated animals, by 34.7+/-3.5% (n = 10), 22.0 +/- 4.6% (n = 10), and 21.6 +/-4.5% (n = 10), respectively. In dexamethasone induced ocular hypertensive rabbits, topical application of the compound (0.5 mg; 25 microl of 2% w/v solution) reduced IOP significantly by 19.2+/- 0.4% (n = 7) at 3 hr after dosing. Importantly, the IOP lowering effect of AL-3037A did not diminish even after repeated treatments in consecutive days. Thus, in the four study models across three animal species, AL-3037A was demonstrated to be an efficacious ocular hypotensive compound whose effect is most likely mediated by augmentation of the aqueous outflow. Its proposed action on the metabolism of glycosaminoglycans may provide a new and unique mechanism for the treatment of glaucoma.
Circulating DNA is observed at higher concentrations in patients with lung cancer than in controls. Qualitative and quantitative analysis of circulating DNA is a promising noninvasive tool. Our aim was to prospectively study the association between the catalytic subunit of telomerase (human telomerase reverse transcriptase [hTERT]) in plasma and clinical variables and survival in a large-scale non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) study.
Four hundred forty-six patients with stages IIIB and IV NSCLC with a median follow-up of 9.7 months (range, 0.5-45) were analyzed. Blood samples were collected before therapy start (cisplatin/docetaxel). Quantification of baseline circulating DNA was determined as the amount of free hTERT in plasma, by using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
Patients with hTERT ≤ 49.8 ng/ml (median value) had a median time to progression (TTP) of 6.3 months compared with 4.9 for hTERT more than 49.8 ng/ml (p = 0.001). Overall survival (OS) was significantly higher (10.9 versus 9.3 months) at lower hTERT levels (p = 0.012). When calculations were done using hTERT as continuous variable, we did not observe independent significant differences. Thus, there is an apparent discrepancy in p values when hTERT is considered as a continuous versus dichotomized variable. There was a tendency to differentiate median hTERT levels with respect to response rates (complete response + partial response: 33.1 versus stable disease + progressive disease: 50.7 ng/ml, p = 0.12), but other clinical variables such as age, gender, performance status, stage, histology, and number of metastatic locations were not associated with hTERT. In multivariate analysis, hTERT was an independent prognostic variable for both TTP (hazard ratio: 1.44, p < 0.001) and OS (hazard ratio: 1.33, p = 0.007).
In advanced NSCLC, high pretreatment circulating hTERT level is an independent poor prognostic marker for TTP and OS. Circulating DNA is a noninvasive marker, which may help to improve the prognostic profile of these patients.
Inorganic copper, such as that in drinking water and copper supplements, largely bypasses the liver and enters the free copper pool of the blood directly and that promote immunosuppression. Nevertheless, the signaling pathways underlying copper-induced immune cell death remains largely unclear. According to our previous in vivo report, to evaluate the further details of the apoptotic mechanism, we have investigated how copper regulates apoptotic pathways in spleen and thymus. We have analyzed different protein expression by western blotting and immunohistochemistry and mRNA expression by RT-PCR and gel electrophoresis. We also have measured mitochondrial trans-membrane potential, ROS and CD4(+) and CD8(+) population by flow cytometry. Sub lethal doses of copper in spleen and thymus of in vivo Swiss albino mice promote different apoptotic pathways. In case of spleen, ROS generation and mitochondrial trans-membrane potential changes promotes intrinsic pathway of apoptosis that was p53 independent, ultimately leads to decrease in CD4(+) T cell population and increase in CD8(+) T cell population. However in case of thymus, ROS generation and mitochondrial trans-membrane potential changes lead to death receptor that regulate extrinsic and intrinsic pathways of apoptosis and the apoptotic mechanism which was p53 dependent. Due to copper treatment, thymic CD4(+) T cell population decreased and CD8(+) T cell population was increased or proliferated. Apart from the role of inflammation, our findings also have identified the role of other partially responsible apoptotic molecules like p27, p73, p62, poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) that differentially changed due to copper treatment in spleen and thymus of Swiss albino mice. Present study firstly demonstrates how apoptotic pathways differentially regulate copper induced immunosuppression.
ZFHX1B encodes Smad-interacting protein 1, a transcriptional corepressor involved in the transforming growth factors beta (TGFbeta) signaling pathway. ZFHX1B mutations cause a complex developmental phenotype characterized by severe mental retardation (MR) and multiple congenital defects. We compared the distribution of ZFHX1B transcripts during mouse and human embryogenesis as well as in adult mice and humans. This showed that this gene is strongly transcribed at an early stage in the developing peripheral and central nervous systems of both mice and humans, in all neuronal regions of the brains of 25-week human fetuses and adult mice, and at varying levels in numerous nonneural tissues. Northern blot analysis suggested that ZFHX1B undergoes tissue-specific alternative splicing in both species. These results strongly suggest that ZFHX1B determines the transcriptional levels of target genes in various tissues through the combinatorial interactions of its isoforms with different Smad proteins. Thus, as well as causing neural defects, ZFHX1B mutations may also cause other malformations.
