We report a case of Schwartz-Jampel syndrome in a 2-year-9-month-old Taiwanese girl and her clinical response to treatment. She had a history of generalized muscle stiffness and hypertrophy since birth. Clinical and electromyographic myotonia were noted. Other clinical features included short stature, unusual facial appearance, ophthalmoplegia, elbow joint contractures, and developmental hip dysplasia. Muscle stiffness and myotonia improved after infusion of lidocaine. She then received oral mexiletine and the symptoms significantly improved.
Impaired platelet function has been reported in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and stroke. However, prospective data on the changes of platelet status in patients before the occurrence of hemorrhagic stroke after thrombolytic therapy are unavailable.
An 86-year-old male patient was among the 23 AMI patients enrolled in the platelet study for the GUSTO-III trial. He received 325 mg of aspirin daily for at least 6 years, suffered an AMI, and was successfully reperfused with alteplase, but after 44 hours developed a large hemorrhagic stroke resulting in paraplegia. Platelet aggregation and receptor expression were measured by flow cytometry and ELISA before thrombolysis and at 3, 6, 12, and 24 hours thereafter. The percentage of platelet aggregation was lower in the stroke patient at every time point when induced by 5 micromol/L of ADP, by 10 micromol/L of ADP, and by thrombin than in the rest of the AMI group. Ristocetin and collagen-induced aggregability were within the group range. Decreased platelet glycoprotein Ib, IIb, IIIa, and IIb/IIIa and vitronectin receptor expression were observed in the stroke patient. No other differences in p24 (CD9), very late antigen-2, P-selectin, and platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 expression were determined.
Profound depression of platelet status preceded the occurrence of hemorrhagic stroke in an elderly long-term aspirin user treated with thrombolytic therapy. Initial "exhausted" platelets may be responsible for the increased risk for hemorrhagic stroke after coronary thrombolysis.
The results of treatment of patients with multiple myeloma with thalidomide and complications of this treatment are presented. Monotherapy with thalidomide and its combinations with corticosteroids and cytostatics is an effective as first line treatment and as a treatment of patients with refractory disease. The most common side effect is toxic neuropathy. Other complications are less common and are easily controlled with medications.
Heat shock proteins (HSPs), induced by a variety of stresses, are known to protect against cellular injury. Recent studies have demonstrated that prior beta-adrenergic stimulation as well as thermal or culture stress induces HSP70 expression and protects against cerulein-induced pancreatitis. The goal of our current studies was to determine whether or not a non-thermal, chemical stressor like sodium arsenite also upregulates HSP70 expression in the pancreas and prevents secretagogue-induced trypsinogen and NF-kappaB activation. We examined the effects of sodium arsenite preadministration on the parameters of cerulein-induced pancreatitis in rats and then monitored the effects of preincubating pancreatic acini with sodium arsenite in vitro. Our results showed that sodium arsenite pretreatment induced HSP70 expression both in vitro and in vivo and significantly ameliorated the severity of cerulein-induced pancreatitis, as evidenced by the markedly reduced degree of hyperamylasemia, pancreatic edema, and acinar cell necrosis. Sodium arsenite pretreatment not only inhibited trypsinogen activation and the subcellular redistribution of cathepsin B, but also prevented NF-kappaB translocation to the nucleus by inhibiting the IkappaBalpha degradation both in vivo and in vitro. We also examined the effect of sodium arsenite pretreatment in a more severe model of pancreatitis induced by L-arginine and found a similarly protective effect. Based on our observations we conclude that, like thermal stress, chemical stressors such as sodium arsenite also induce HSP70 expression in the pancreas and protect against acute pancreatitis. Thus, non-thermal pharmacologically induced stress can help prevent or treat pancreatitis.
Adinazolam is a triazolobenzodiazepine with anxiolytic and antidepressant activity. Adinazolam is metabolized extensively; the major metabolite, N-desmethyladinazolam (NDMAD), possesses significant pharmacologic activity. NDMAD is eliminated predominantly by renal excretion. Ranitidine, a histamine H2-receptor antagonist, is also excreted renally and may compete with NDMAD for renal secretion. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of ranitidine on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of adinazolam and NDMAD. In a randomized, cross-over study, 12 healthy male volunteers received 300 mg of ranitidine orally followed by 30 mg of adinazolam 1 hour later (treatment A), or adinazolam alone (treatment B). Pharmacodynamic alterations were assessed using card sorting, digit-symbol substitution, and short-term memory tests. Venous blood samples were obtained over 24 hours for analysis of adinazolam and NDMAD by high-performance liquid chromatography. Urine samples also were collected and analyzed for NDMAD. No significant difference in adinazolam oral clearance (1,149 vs. 1,135 ml/hr/kg) was noted between treatments (A vs. B, respectively). Furthermore, the renal clearance of NDMAD (196 vs. 198 ml/min) and the cumulative urinary excretion of NDMAD (% dose; 61.2 vs. 62.3) were not significantly different. Repeated-measures analysis of variance indicated no significant differences in psychomotor performance or short-term memory between treatments. Results suggest that ranitidine has no effect on adinazolam disposition, NDMAD renal clearance, or the central nervous system effects mediated by the drug.
Mature male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to an isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction. Animals were sacrificed on a daily basis in order to assess the temporal changes in prolyl hydroxylase activity and collagen metabolism during the acute stages of myocardial necrosis and repair. Total myocardial hydroxyproline, as an indexof collagen content, increased promptly and markedly, beginning on day 4, and remained elevated thereafter. The incorporation of (14Cl)-proline into definitive hydroxyproline of mature collagen was also increased. The activity of the enzyme prolyl hydroxylase, which regulates the rate of conversion of proline to hydroxyproline in collagen, was elevated by day 2, remained high through day4, and then declined to a relatively constant but still slightly elevated level throughout the period of repair. It is believed that changes in these parameters of collagen metabolism reflect changes in myocardial fibroblastic cell and ground substance pertinent to fundamental aspects of repair of the injuried myocardium.
Accumulation of extracellular matrix including fibronectin in mesangium is one of the major pathologic characteristics in diabetic nephropathy. In the current study, we explored role of sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor in fibronectin expression and underlying molecular mechanism. Among five S1P receptors the mRNA level of S1P2 receptor was the most abundant in kidney of diabetic rats and mesangial cells under high glucose condition. S1P augmentation of fibronectin was significantly inhibited by S1P2 receptor antagonist JTE-013 and S1P2-siRNA. S1P-stimulated fibronectin expression was remarkably blocked by ERK1/2 inhibitor PD98059 and p38MAPK inhibitor SB203580. Phospho-ERK1/2 and phospho-p38MAPK level induced by S1P were markedly abrogated by JTE-013 and S1P2-siRNA. In conclusion, S1P2 receptor was significantly up-regulated under diabetic condition. S1P2 receptor mediated fibronectin expression through the activation of S1P-S1P2-MAPK (ERK1/2 and p38MAPK) axis in mesangial cells under high glucose condition, suggesting that it might be a potential therapeutic target for diabetic nephropathy treatment.
The abrupt cessation of heparin and other thrombin inhibitors when used to treat acute coronary syndromes has been accompanied by a clustering of thrombotic events. It is unknown whether these events are the result of inadequate antithrombin therapy or whether they represent a rebound increase in thrombin activity. This study was designed to determine whether there is a true rebound, as defined by an increase followed by a subsequent decrease, in thrombin activity after discontinuation of intravenous heparin therapy.
Thirty-five patients with recent acute myocardial infarction or unstable angina who had received at least 48 hours of intravenous heparin were studied. Patients underwent ST-segment monitoring, and blood samples for determination of thrombin generation and activity were drawn at 0, 3, 6, 10, and 24 hours after heparin discontinuation. Median aPTT was 65 seconds before heparin discontinuation. Median fibrinopeptide A increased from 9.5 to 16.9 ng/mL at 3 hours (P < .0004) and returned to 10.5 by 24 hours. Prothrombin fragment 1.2 likewise transiently increased, from 0.34 to 0.51 nmol/L at 6 hours (P < .0002). Modified antithrombin III decreased over time (P < .002), and activated protein C increased from 2.3 to 4.5 ng/mL at 3 hours (P < .001). Although there were no clinical thrombotic events in the first 24 hours, 4 patients had evidence of ischemia by ST-segment monitoring at a median of 12 hours after heparin discontinuation. The degree of increase in fibrinopeptide A and prothrombin fragment 1.2 was not found to be associated with baseline diagnosis, duration of heparin therapy, baseline level of antithrombin III, or activated protein C.
This study demonstrates a transient rebound increase in thrombin activity as well as in activated protein C upon abrupt discontinuation of intravenous heparin. Clinicians should be vigilant for associated thrombotic events. Further investigation of the significance, mechanism, and possible prevention of this rebound phenomenon is needed.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is an infectious pathogen that commonly occurs after stem cell transplantation. We report a case of meningoencephalitis with multiple abscess formation caused by MRSA, which occurred in a 62-y-old female soon after allogeneic cord blood transplantation, and which was successfully treated by the administration of intravenous linezolid.
Glucocorticoid (GC) therapy is recognized to be effective for the treatment of recurrent airway obstruction (RAO) in horses. Anti-inflammatory properties of GC are thought to be mediated by suppression of inflammatory gene expression via inhibition of transcription factors such as nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and activator protein-1 (AP-1). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of low-dose inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate and injectable dexamethasone 21-isonicotinate on clinical signs, pulmonary function, airway cytology, and activity of NF-kappaB and AP-1 in bronchial cells of RAO-affected horses. Seven horses with RAO were exposed to moldy hay until they developed airway obstruction on 3 separate occasions. In a crossover design, they were then treated with a placebo (injection on day 1), inhaled beclomethasone (500 microg q12h for 10 days), or dexamethasone (0.06 mg/kg, IM on day 1) and monitored for 10 days. Pulmonary function, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cytology, and NF-kappaB and AP-1 activity in bronchial brushing cells were measured before (day 1) and after treatment (day 10). Treatment with beclomethasone resulted in significantly improved pulmonary function of RAO-affected horses compared with placebo and dexamethasone treatments. However, none of the treatments had an effect on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid cytology or NF-kappaB and AP-1 activity. These findings reveal that, in a model of severe RAO, the benefits of low-dose inhaled beclomethasone on pulmonary function are not accompanied by a decrease in airway inflammatory cells or a suppression of transcription factors NF-kappaB and AP-1 DNA-binding activity.
Abnormal processing of somatosensory inputs in the central nervous system (central sensitization) is the mechanism accounting for the enhanced pain sensitivity in the skin surrounding tissue injury (secondary hyperalgesia). Secondary hyperalgesia shares clinical characteristics with neurogenic hyperalgesia in patients with neuropathic pain. Abnormal brain responses to somatosensory stimuli have been found in patients with hyperalgesia as well as in normal subjects during experimental central sensitization. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of gabapentin, a drug effective in neuropathic pain patients, on brain processing of nociceptive information in normal and central sensitization states. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in normal volunteers, we studied the gabapentin-induced modulation of brain activity in response to nociceptive mechanical stimulation of normal skin and capsaicin-induced secondary hyperalgesia. The dose of gabapentin was 1,800 mg per os, in a single administration. We found that (i) gabapentin reduced the activations in the bilateral operculoinsular cortex, independently of the presence of central sensitization; (ii) gabapentin reduced the activation in the brainstem, only during central sensitization; (iii) gabapentin suppressed stimulus-induced deactivations, only during central sensitization; this effect was more robust than the effect on brain activation. The observed drug-induced effects were not due to changes in the baseline fMRI signal. These findings indicate that gabapentin has a measurable antinociceptive effect and a stronger antihyperalgesic effect most evident in the brain areas undergoing deactivation, thus supporting the concept that gabapentin is more effective in modulating nociceptive transmission when central sensitization is present.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of flavone luteolin against cisplatin (CP)-induced kidney injury in mice. Luteolin at doses of 10mg/kg was administered intraperitoneally (ip) once daily for 3 days following single CP (10 or 20mg/kg) ip injection. Mice were sacrificed 24h after the last dose of luteolin. The CP treatment significantly increased serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen and induced pathohistological changes in the kidneys. Renal oxidative/nitrosative stress was evidenced by decreased glutathione (GSH) levels and increased 3-nitrotyrosine (3-NT) and 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) formation as well as cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) expression. The CP administration triggered inflammatory response in mice kidneys through activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) and overexpression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2). Simultaneously, the increase in renal p53 and caspase-3 expression indicated apoptosis of tubular cells. The administration of luteolin significantly reduced histological and biochemical changes induced by CP, decreased platinum (Pt) levels and suppressed oxidative/nitrosative stress, inflammation and apoptosis in the kidneys. These results suggest that luteolin is an effective nephroprotective agent, with potential to reduce Pt accumulation in the kidneys and ameliorate CP-induced nephrotoxicity.
A single high-dose cycle of chemotherapy can produce response rates in excess of 50%. However, disease-free survival (DFS) is 15-20% at 5 years. The single most important predictor of prolonged DFS is achieving a complete response (CR). Increasing the proportion of patients who achieve a complete response may improve disease-free survival. Women with metastatic breast cancer and at least a partial response (PR) to induction chemotherapy received three separate high-dose cycles of chemotherapy with peripheral blood progenitor support and G-CSF. The first intensification was paclitaxel (825 mg/m(2)), the second melphalan (180 mg/m(2)) and the third consisted of cyclophosphamide 6000 mg/m(2) (1500 mg/m(2)/day x 4), thiotepa 500 mg/m(2) (125 mg/m(2)/day x 4) and carboplatin 800 mg/m(2) (200 mg/m(2)/day x 4) (CTCb). Sixty-one women were enrolled and 60 completed all three cycles. Following the paclitaxel infusion most patients developed a reversible, predominantly sensory polyneuropathy. Of the 30 patients with measurable disease, 12 converted to CR, nine converted to a PR*, and five had a further PR, giving an overall response rate of 87%. The toxic death rate was 5%. No patient progressed on study. Thirty percent are progression-free with a median follow-up of 31 months (range 1-43 months) and overall survival is 61%. Three sequential high-dose cycles of chemotherapy are feasible and resulted in a high response rate. The challenge continues to be maintenance of response and provides the opportunity to evaluate strategies for eliminating minimal residual disease.
Chemokines are a large family of low-molecular-weight proinflammatory cytokines that stimulate recruitment of leukocytes. We previously reported that among six chemokines, the expression of mRNAs for MCP-1, MCP-3, TCA3, and MIP-1alpha, but not for MIP-1beta and RANTES, was markedly elevated in the renal cortex of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside induced nephrosis. In this study we have determined the glomerular expression of the chemokine mRNAs in this model using quantitative competitive reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. After an injection of puromycin aminonucleoside, the number of monocytes/macrophages and CD4+ and CD8+ cells markedly increased by day 5 and increased thereafter until day 10. The levels of mRNAs for MCP-1, MCP-3, and lymphotactin increased on day 5 and returned to their normal levels by day 7. The level of TCA3 mRNA increased on day 3, and that of MIP-1alpha mRNA increased on day 7, but both returned to their normal levels within 2 days. No increase in the mRNAs of MIP-1beta or RANTES was observed until day 10. These results indicate that the expression pattern of the chemokine mRNAs in glomeruli resembles that in renal cortex, but is more transient and sequential.
To report the occurrence of lithium-induced neurotoxicity and extrapyramidal symptoms at serum lithium levels within the therapeutic range.
On two occasions, a 73-year-old patient presented with symptoms of lithium-induced neurotoxicity and extrapyramidal symptoms when her serum lithium levels were within the therapeutic range.
Both lithium-induced neurotoxicity and extrapyramidal symptoms resolved when lithium was withdrawn.
Even when serum lithium levels are within the therapeutic range, lithium-induced neurotoxicity may occur. Patients on neuroleptics and the elderly in particular may be more vulnerable to these side effects.
We performed a pilsicainide challenge test in a 38-year-old man who was resuscitated from ventricular fibrillation without apparent baseline electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormality. His father had a history of ventricular fibrillation and his brother had multiple episodes of syncope. Pilsicainide (1 mg/kg) induced short coupled ventricular premature beats followed by repetitive polymorphic ventricular tachycardia without apparent J wave and ST elevation, and excessive changes in QRS duration and QT interval. An implantable cardioverter defibrillator was implanted.
To investigate the malignant potential of hepatic stem cells derived from the bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs) in a mouse model of chemical hepatocarcino-genesis.
BMSCs from male BALB/c mice were harvested and cultured, then transplanted into female syngenic BALB/c mice via portal vein. Hepato-carcinogenesis was induced by 6 months of treatment with diethylnitrosamine (DEN). Six months later, the liver was removed from each treated mouse and evaluated by immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).
Twenty-six percent of recipient mice survived and developed multiple hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). Immunohistochemically, HCC expressed placental form of glutathione-S-transferase (GST-P) and alpha-fetoprotein, but did not express cytokeratin 19. Y chromosome positive hepatocytes were detected by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) in the liver of mice treated with DEN after BMSCs transplantation while no such hepatocytes were identified in the liver of mice not treated with DEN. No HCC was positive for the Y chromosome by FISH.
Hepatic stem cells derived from the bone marrow stromal cells have a low malignant potential in our mouse model of chemical hepatocarcingenesis.
A case of peliosis hepatis in a 64-year-old woman treated with azathioprine because of a lung transplantation is described. The patient was admitted owing to epigastric pain and jaundice. Sixteen months before admission the patient had had a lung transplantation because of pulmonary emphysema. A liver biopsy showed multiple, dilated, blood-filled liver sinusoids consistent with peliosis hepatis. Besides azathioprine, the patient was treated with cyclosporine and prednisolone, but none of these drugs are known to be responsible for the development of peliosis hepatis. This rare condition, which causes liver affection in patients treated with azathioprine, should be kept in mind.
Seven patients ingested (2.5 mg/kg) daily dapsone. Their serum samples were analyzed daily during the first week by spectrophotometry for methaemoglobinemia and weekly blood samples for red blood cells, reticulocytes count and haptoglobin level. The acetylator phenotype of each patient was estimated on the capacity to acetylate isoniazid. Methaemoglobinemia was always observed within the 48 hours after drug intake. The dapsone induced anemia was moderate being maximum between day 25 and 40 after the beginning of treatment. Reticulocytemia appeared in the second week and haptoglobin levels decreased between day 5 and 8 of therapy in 5 patients and at day 15 for the two others. The seven patients are divided in 4 rapid acetylator and 3 slow acetylator. The acetylator phenotype was not correlated with methaemoglobin, haptoglobin levels or RBC counts.
The pharmacologic data obtained from animal experiments with guanfacine, a novel, centrally acting antihypertensive agent, are reviewed. When given orally, guanfacine lowers systemic blood pressure in conscious DOCA-NaCl-hypertensive rats, Grollman rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats in a dose-dependent manner. It is also effective in renal hypertensive cats. Guanfacine reduces blood pressure in cats, rabbits and rats after injection into the lateral cerebral ventricle and in dogs after infusion into the vertebral artery at intravenously ineffective doses. Vagally mediated reflex bradycardia in dogs is enhanced. The preganglionic splanchnic (sympathetic) nerve activity is reduced in cats. In rats, guanfacine reduces the noradrenaline turnover in the brain stem. All these findings indicate a central site of action. Peripheral alpha-adrenoceptor stimulant properties of guanfacine have been demonstrated in various studies. In addition to postsynaptic stimulant effects, presynaptic guanfacine-induced inhibition of sympathetic heart nerve stimulation is antagonized by rauwolscine but not by prazosin, indicating a highly preferential alpha 2-agonistic presynaptic action of the drug. In receptor binding studies using rat cortex membranes and human platelets, guanfacine exhibited a high selectivity for alpha 2 adrenoceptors. Guanfacine has the advantage over other centrally acting antihypertensives of being less sedative and causing no rebound hypertension after discontinuation of treatment. The latter is mainly due to its pharmaco-kinetic properties.
We characterized muscarnic and purinergic receptors and urodynamic parameters in the bladder of cyclophosphamide (CYP)-treated rats to clarify the mechanisms involved in the pathophysiology of interstitial cystitis (IC). In the cystometry of CYP-treated rats compared with control rats, the micturition interval and micturition volume were significantly (55% and 77%, respectively) decreased and the frequency of micturition and basal pressure were significantly (3 and 2.3 times, respectively) increased. These changes in urodynamic parameters may characterize the detrusor overactivity occurring in CYP-treated rats. The maximal number of binding sites (B(max)) for specific binding of [N-methyl-(3)H]scopolamine methyl chloride ([(3)H]NMS) and alphabeta-methylene ATP [2,8-(3)H]tetrasodium salt ([(3)H]alphabeta-MeATP) was significantly (43% and 31%, respectively) decreased in the bladder of CYP-treated rats compared with control rats. On the other hand, the apparent dissociation constant (K(d)) for neither radioligand was significantly altered by the CYP treatment. K(i) value for the inhibition of bladder [(3)H]NMS binding by antimuscarinic agents (oxybutynin, tolterodine, darifenacin, and AF-DX 116) did not differ significantly between control and CYP-treated rats. The inhibition constant (K(i)) for the inhibition of bladder [(3)H]alphabeta-MeATP binding by purinergic antagonists (A-317491, PPADS) was significantly higher in CYP-treated rats than control rats. In conclusion, CYP treatment has been shown to cause down-regulation of pharmacologically relevant (muscarinic and purinergic) receptors in the bladder of rats. Thus, the present study offers further pharmacological evidence that both muscarinic and purinergic mechanisms contribute significantly to the urinary dysfunction due to IC.
Management of cyclic vomiting syndrome in adults is limited by the small number of effective medications for maintenance therapy. The clinical response to treatment with 2 newer antiepileptic drugs was evaluated retrospectively to see whether they might have a prophylactic role in this syndrome.
Outpatient records from 20 adult patients with cyclic vomiting syndrome attending a university-based practice were reviewed. Each had received zonisamide (median dose, 400 mg/d) or levetiracetam (median dose, 1000 mg/d) because tricyclic antidepressants alone were unsatisfactory as maintenance medications. Outcome was graded from chart review and directed interview; characteristics of the vomiting episodes were compared before and after initiation of antiepileptic drug therapy.
At least moderate clinical response was described by 15 (75.0%) subjects, and 4 of these (20.0% of the total) reported symptomatic remission during 9.5 +/- 1.8 months of follow-up. Rate of vomiting episodes decreased from 1.3 +/- 0.3 to 0.5 +/- 0.2 per month (P = .01). Tricyclic antidepressants were discontinued in 11 (61.1%) of the 18 subjects who were still taking the medications when antiepileptic drug therapy was initiated. Moderate or severe side effects were reported by 45.0%, but by switching drugs, intolerance to antiepileptic drug therapy occurred in only 1 subject.
Newer antiepileptic drugs, specifically zonisamide and levetiracetam, appeared beneficial as maintenance medications for nearly three fourths of adults with cyclic vomiting syndrome in this uncontrolled clinical experience. Although side effects occur in a large proportion of subjects, newer antiepileptic drugs might offer an alternative for patients who fail conventional treatment.
