Two patients are described with metastatic neuroendocrine tumours of the pancreas head and region of Vater. After surgery, administration of the long-acting somatostatin analogue octreotide was started. In the first patient we found an IgG-lambda paraproteinaemia and a parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) driven hypercalcaemia. By increasing the dose of octreotide the paraproteinaemia disappeared. In the second patient with a metastasized somatostatin producing neuroendocrine tumour, octreotide showed a long-term stabilizing effect on symptoms and progression of disease. The role of octreotide in the induction of changes in biological behaviour of malignant neuroendocrine cells is discussed.
Ephedrine is widely used to elevate blood pressure, however, one should be cautious to use it concomitantly with phenytoin infusion in neurosurgical procedures. A 59-year-old female was admitted for craniotomy with removal of metastatic brain tumor. During operation phenytoin infusion was given to forestall postoperative seizure. Hypotension, bradycardia and complete atrioventricular block followed by ventricular asystole suddenly occurred when the patient was given ephedrine to elevate the blood pressure to see the hemostatic effect close to the end of operation. We discontinued the phenytoin infusion and immediately injected 1.5 mg epinephrine. She was successfully resuscitated. We conclude that when phenytoin is used intraoperatively it should be administered by an infusion pump at a rate of less than 25 mg/min and under continuous monitoring of cardiac rhythm, heart rate, and blood pressure. When pressure support is required, the use of a pure alpha-agonist may minimize the risk of adverse reactions in the presence of phenytoin infusion.
The nuclear hormone receptor farnesoid X receptor (FXR) plays a critical role in the regulation of bile acid, triglyceride (TG), and cholesterol homeostasis. WAY-362450 (FXR-450/XL335) is a potent synthetic FXR agonist as characterized in luciferase reporter assays and in mediating FXR target gene regulation in primary human and immortalized mouse hepatocytes. In vivo, WAY-362450 dose dependently decreased serum TG levels after 7 days of oral dosing in western diet-fed low-density lipoprotein receptor-/- mice and in the diabetic mouse strains KK-Ay and db/db comparable to that achieved with the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor-alpha agonist, fenofibrate. WAY-362450 treatment also reduced serum cholesterol levels via reductions in LDLc, VLDLc, and HDLc lipoprotein fractions that were not accompanied by hepatic cholesterol accumulation. This cholesterol lowering was dependent on FXR as demonstrated in a hypothyroid-induced hypercholesterolemia setting in FXR-/- mice. In fructose-fed models, WAY-362450 also decreased TG and VLDLc levels in rats and hamsters but significantly increased HDLc levels in rats while reducing HDLc levels in hamsters. The differential effect of WAY-362450 on HDLc is likely due to a murine-specific induction of endothelial lipase and scavenger receptor-BI that does not occur in rats. These studies demonstrate a consistent ability of WAY-362450 to lower both serum TG and cholesterol levels and suggest that synthetic FXR agonists may have clinical utility in the treatment of mixed dyslipidemia.
Few well-controlled studies have examined psychomotor and cognitive performance in methadone maintenance patients (MMP). In the present study, performance of 18 opioid-dependent MMP was evaluated relative to that of 21 control participants without substance abuse histories. The MMP and control groups were balanced with respect to gender, race, age, years of education, current employment status, current reading level, and estimated IQ score. Recent drug abstinence was verified by urine testing. Participants with a urine screen positive for benzodiazepines or a breathalyzer test positive for alcohol prior to performance testing were excluded. To avoid testing under conditions of acute heroin or cocaine intoxication, but without testing under conditions of acute withdrawal, participants with current use of heroin or cocaine were only required to abstain for 24 h prior to performance testing. MMP exhibited impairment relative to controls in psychomotor speed (digit symbol substitution and trail-making tests), working memory (two-back task), decision making (gambling task), and metamemory (confidence ratings on a recognition memory test); results also suggested possible impairment in inhibitory mechanisms (Stroop color-word paradigm). MMP did not exhibit impairment in time estimation, conceptual flexibility or long-term memory. The wide range of impaired functions is striking, and may have important implications for daily functioning in MMP. Further research is necessary to determine the clinical significance of the impairments in laboratory-based tests for daily performance in the natural environment, as well as to differentiate impairments due to acute methadone dosing, chronic methadone maintenance, chronic poly-drug abuse, and other factors.
A number of cancers show increased expression of Nicotinamide phosphoribosyl transferase (Nampt). However, the mechanism through which Nampt is upregulated is unclear. In our study, we found that the Nampt-specific chemical inhibitor FK866 significantly inhibited cell survival and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) levels in LoVo and SW480 cell lines. Bioinformatics analyses suggested that miR-26b targets Nampt mRNA. We identified Nampt as a new target of miR-26b and demonstrated that miR-26b inhibits Nampt expression at the protein and mRNA levels by binding to the Nampt 3'-UTR. Moreover, we found that miR-26b was down regulated in cancer tissues relative to that in adjacent normal tissues in 18 colorectal cancer patients. A statistically significant inverse correlation between miR-26b and Nampt expression was observed in samples from colorectal cancer patients and in 5 colorectal cell lines (HT-29, SW480, SW1116, LoVo, and HCT116). In addition, over expression of miR-26b strongly inhibited LoVo cell survival and invasion, an effect partially abrogated by the addition of NAD. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that the NAD-salvaging biosynthesis pathway involving Nampt might play a role in colorectal cancer cell survival. MiR-26b may serve as a tumor suppressor by targeting Nampt.
Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) is an inhibitor of histone deacetylases (HDACs) used for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL) and under consideration for other indications. In vivo studies suggest reducing HDAC function can enhance synaptic function and memory, raising the possibility that SAHA treatment could have neurological benefits. We first examined the impacts of SAHA on synaptic function in vitro using rat organotypic hippocampal brain slices. Following several days of SAHA treatment, basal excitatory but not inhibitory synaptic function was enhanced. Presynaptic release probability and intrinsic neuronal excitability were unaffected suggesting SAHA treatment selectively enhanced postsynaptic excitatory function. In addition, long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory synapses was augmented, while long-term depression (LTD) was impaired in SAHA treated slices. Despite the in vitro synaptic enhancements, in vivo SAHA treatment did not rescue memory deficits in the Tg2576 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Along with the lack of behavioral impact, pharmacokinetic analysis indicated poor brain availability of SAHA. Broader assessment of in vivo SAHA treatment using high-content phenotypic characterization of C57Bl6 mice failed to demonstrate significant behavioral effects of up to 150 mg/kg SAHA following either acute or chronic injections. Potentially explaining the low brain exposure and lack of behavioral impacts, SAHA was found to be a substrate of the blood brain barrier (BBB) efflux transporters Pgp and Bcrp1. Thus while our in vitro data show that HDAC inhibition can enhance excitatory synaptic strength and potentiation, our in vivo data suggests limited brain availability may contribute to the lack of behavioral impact of SAHA following peripheral delivery. These results do not predict CNS effects of SAHA during clinical use and also emphasize the importance of analyzing brain drug levels when interpreting preclinical behavioral pharmacology.
Fifteen patients with acute myeloid leukaemia were given a total of 17 courses of high-dose cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). The median age of the patients was 37 years. Four patients developed severe irreversible neurotoxicity, three developed mild to moderate, reversible neurotoxicity, whereas eight patients had no toxicity. Of five patients over the age of 55 years given high dose Ara-C, four developed severe, irreversible neurotoxicity, but there were no severe episodes in nine patients aged 55 years or less. (P less than 0.01). At a dose of 3 g/m2 given intravenously every 12 hours for 3 days, three cases of severe irreversible neurotoxicity were noted in elderly patients. Neurotoxicity at this total dose has previously been considered unusual. Administration of high dose Ara-C at total doses of 18 g/m2 and over carries a risk of severe irreversible cerebellar toxicity that increases with age.
We have identified a large Dutch kindred with a new form of X-linked nondysmorphic mild mental retardation. All affected males in this family show very characteristic abnormal behavior, in particular aggressive and sometimes violent behavior. Other types of impulsive behavior include arson, attempted rape, and exhibitionism. Attempted suicide has been reported in a single case. The locus for this disorder could be assigned to the Xp11-21 interval between DXS7 and DXS77 by linkage analysis using markers spanning the X chromosome. A maximal multipoint lod score of 3.69 was obtained at the monoamine oxidase type A (MAOA) locus in Xp11.23-11.4. Results of 24-h urine analysis in three affected males indicated a marked disturbance of monoamine metabolism. These data are compatible with a primary defect in the structural gene for MAOA and/or monoamine oxidase type B (MAOB). Normal platelet MAOB activity suggests that the unusual behavior pattern in this family may be caused by isolated MAOA deficiency.
Caffeine is the most widely used pharmacologic substance. Aortic stiffness is an important factor for cardiovascular system performance and a prognosticator of cardiovascular risk. We investigated the effect of caffeine on aortic stiffness in treated hypertensive patients.
We studied the effect of caffeine (250 mg) in 12 treated hypertensive patients according to a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, cross-over design during a 3-h period. Aortic stiffness was evaluated by carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity.
Systolic blood pressure (BP) and pulse pressure increased significantly throughout the study (by 12.3 and 7.4 mm Hg, P =.005 and P <.01, respectively), whereas diastolic BP did not change. Pulse wave velocity increased (by 0.57 m/sec, P <.05) denoting an increase in aortic stiffness. This effect of caffeine lasted throughout the study (3 h), peaking at 60 min and decreasing progressively thereafter.
These results demonstrate, for the first time, that caffeine exerts an acute unfavorable effect on aortic stiffness in treated hypertensive patients. This finding has important implications for the impact of caffeine consumption on cardiovascular risk in hypertension.
Current controversy exists regarding the role of episodic representations in the formation of long-term semantic memories. Using the drug midazolam to induce temporary amnesia we tested participants' memories for newly learned facts in a semantic cue condition or an episodic and semantic cue condition. Following midazolam administration, memory performance was superior in the episodic and semantic condition, suggesting early semantic learning is supported by episodic representations.
The relationship between cyclophosphamide and hemorrhagic cystitis is well documented; its role in inducing bladder cancer is less clear. To date, 18 cases of cyclophosphamide-associated bladder tumors have been reported. We present 3 additional cases of transitional cell bladder cancer, all preceded by hemorrhagic cystitis. Data implicating cyclophosphamide as a direct carcinogen as well as an immunosuppressive agent allowing bladder tumor development in the compromised host are discussed. While no direct relationship has been established, we suggest patients receiving this drug are at risk for developing bladder cancer, more likely transitional cell rather than squamous cell as has been reported previously.
Levodopa-induced dyskinesias are a common complication of chronic dopaminergic therapy in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). The overall prevalence of levodopa-induced dyskinesias ranges from 40%-90% and is related to the underlying disease process, pharmacologic factors, and to the duration of high dose levodopa therapy. The mechanisms underlying the emergence of levodopa-induced dyskinesias are unknown, although most investigators favor the theory that striatal dopamine receptor supersensitivity is directly responsible for the development of these abnormal movements. In laboratory animals, the pineal hormone melatonin has been shown to regulate striatal dopaminergic activity and block levodopa-induced dyskinesias (Cotzias et al., 1971). Since the pineal gland is known to be a magnetosensitive organ and as application of external magnetic fields has been shown to alter melatonin secretion, we studied the effects of application of external artificial weak magnetic fields in a Parkinsonian patient with severe levodopa-induced dyskinesias ("on-off"). Application of weak magnetic fields with a frequency of 2 Hz and intensity of 7.5 picotesla (pT) for a 6 minute period resulted in a rapid and dramatic attenuation of Parkinsonian disability and an almost complete resolution of the dyskinesias. This effect persisted for about 72 hours after which the patient regressed to his pretreatment state. To ascertain if the responses elicited in the laboratory were reproducible, the patient was instructed to apply magnetic fields of the same characteristics daily at home. These subsequent treatments paralleled the initial response with a sustained improvement being maintained during an observation period lasting at least one month. This case demonstrates the efficacy of weak magnetic fields in the treatment of Parkinsonism and motor complications of chronic levodopa therapy.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder of Cl(-) and Na(+) transport. The vast majority of CF patients have deleterious mutations in an epithelial Cl(-) channel called the CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). In contrast, defects in the epithelial Na(+) channel (SCNN1) have been associated with phenotypes dominated by renal disease (systemic pseudohypoaldosteronism type I and Liddle syndrome). We report two non-classic CF patients without CFTR mutations who have novel deleterious mutations in the beta-subunits of SCNN1 in the absence of overt renal disease.
Megf7/Lrp4 is a member of the functionally diverse low-density lipoprotein receptor gene family, a class of ancient and highly conserved cell surface receptors with broad functions in cargo transport and cellular signaling. To gain insight into the as yet unknown biological role of Megf7/Lrp4, we have disrupted the gene in mice. Homozygous Megf7-deficient mice are growth-retarded, with fully penetrant polysyndactyly in their fore and hind limbs, and partially penetrant abnormalities of tooth development. The reason for this developmental abnormality is apparent as early as embryonic day 9.5 when the apical ectodermal ridge (AER), the principal site of Megf7 expression at the distal edge of the embryonic limb bud, forms abnormally in the absence of Megf7. Ectopic expression and aberrant signaling of several molecules involved in limb patterning, including Fgf8, Shh, Bmp2, Bmp4 and Wnt7a, as well as the Wnt- and Bmp-responsive transcription factors Lmx1b and Msx1, result in reduced apoptosis and symmetrical dorsal and ventral expansions of the AER. Abnormal signaling from the AER precedes ectopic chondrocyte condensation and subsequent fusion and duplication of digits in the Megf7 knockouts. Megf7 can antagonize canonical Wnt signaling in vitro. Taken together, these findings are consistent with a role of Megf7 as a modulator of cellular signaling pathways involving Wnts, Bmps, Fgfs and Shh. A similar autosomal recessive defect may also occur in man, where polysyndactyly, in combination with craniofacial abnormalities, is also part of a common genetic syndrome.
We investigated the effects of combined systemic exposure to the herbicide paraquat (PQ) and the fungicide maneb (MB) in 6-month-old rats, an animal model of Parkinson's disease resulting from environmental toxin exposure. Following two doses of PQ (10 mg/kg) and MB (30 mg/kg), 52% of animals developed fatal lung injury. Examination of the remaining animals showed degeneration of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta 6 weeks, but not 4 weeks, following PQ/MB. In contrast, microglial activation was observed at 4 weeks, but had abated by 6 weeks. Compared with our previous findings in younger rats, these results suggest increased susceptibility of older animals to lung and brain toxicity from PQ/MB exposure. Microglial activation preceded, and therefore likely contributed to, DA neurodegeneration. Further, electron microscopy revealed an abnormal appearance of the Golgi apparatus at 4 weeks that was confirmed using double immunostaining for tyrosine hydroxylase and Golgi. This suggests that PQ/MB causes protein processing dysfunction in nigral DA neurons that may be either a direct effect of PQ/MB or the result of microglial activation.
This study was designed to identify factors associated with persistent delirium in an older medical intensive care unit (ICU) population.
This is a prospective cohort study of 309 consecutive medical ICU patients 60 years or older. Persistent delirium was defined as delirium occurring in the ICU and continuing upon discharge to the ward. The Confusion Assessment Method was used to assess for delirium. Patient demographics, severity of illness, and medication data were collected. Univariate and multivariate analysis were used to assess factors associated with persistent delirium.
Of 309 consecutive admissions to the ICU, 173 patients had ICU delirium, survived the ICU stay, and provided ward data. One-hundred patients (58%) had persistent delirium. In a multivariable logistic regression model, factors significantly associated with persistent delirium included age more than 75 years (odds ratio [OR], 2.52; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.23-5.16), opioid (morphine equivalent) dose greater than 54 mg/d (OR, 2.90; 95% CI, 1.15-7.28), and haloperidol (OR, 2.88; 95% CI, 1.38-6.02); change in code status to "do not resuscitate" (OR, 2.62; 95% CI 0.95-7.35) and dementia (OR, 1.93; 95% CI 0.95-3.93) had less precise associations.
Age, use of opioids, and haloperidol were associated with persistent delirium. Further research is needed regarding the use of haloperidol and opioids on persistent delirium.
Toxic and carcinogenic effects of nickel compounds are suggested to result from nickel-mediated oxidative damage to macromolecules and/or inhibition of cellular antioxidant defenses. We investigated the effects of waterborne Ni(2+) (10, 25 and 50 mg/L) on the blood and blood-producing tissues (kidney and spleen) of goldfish to identify relationships between Ni accumulation and oxidative stress. Whereas the main hematological parameters (total hemoglobin and hematocrit) were unaffected, Ni(2+) exposure had substantial influence on goldfish immune system, causing lymphopenia. Ni accumulation increased renal iron content (by 49-78%) and resulted in elevated lipid peroxide (by 29%) and protein carbonyl content (by 274-278%), accompanied by suppression of the activities of superoxide dismutase (by 50-53%), glutathione peroxidase (15-45%), glutathione reductase (31-37%) and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (20-44%), indicating development of oxidative stress in kidney. In contrast to kidney, in spleen the activation of glutathione peroxidase (by 34-118%), glutathione-S-transferase (by 41-216%) and glutathione reductase (by 47%), as well as constant levels of low molecular mass thiols and metals together with enhanced activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (by 41-94%) speaks for a powerful antioxidant potential that counteracts Ni-induced ROS production. Further, as Ni accumulation in this organ was negligible, Ni-toxicity in spleen may be minimized by efficient exclusion of this otherwise toxic metal.
We studied the acute effects of intravenous infusions of chlorpromazine hydrochloride on bile salt synthesis, bile formation and biliary lipid secretion in the alert female Rhesus monkey prepared with a total biliary fistula and in a steady bile salt secretory state. In twelve studies (three animals), five doses of radiolabelled chlorpromazine hydrochloride (1-10 mg identical to 2.8-28 mumol/kg) were infused intravenously for 1 h in random order. Cholestasis was induced within minutes in all experiments. The radiolabel appeared rapidly in bile, with similar recoveries in bile and urine and a 90% total cumulative output in 4 days. Both bile flow, bile salt and other biliary lipid outputs were inhibited in a dose related and reversible manner. The apparent bile salt independent bile flow was consistently abolished, and a prompt return to basal values occurred when biliary concentration of the drug and metabolities fell below 1-2 mM. When chlorpromazine hydrochloride was infused at three doses (2.5, 5.0 and 10.0 mg identical to 7-28 mumol/kg) during constant intravenous infusion of 14C sodium taurocholate (300 mumol/h), bile flow, total bile salt output and 14C taurocholate output decreased within minutes. This was accompanied by a progressive rise in the serum 14C taurocholate concentration. After 90 min the taurocholate specific activity in bile increased significantly indicating that bile salt synthesis was inhibited. Secretion of retained bile salts and reversal of inhibition of bile salt synthesis occurred with time: the course of both events was correlated with the dose of the drug. Thus, in monkeys, chlorpromazine hydrochloride induces reversible, dose related cholestasis suppression of the bile salt dependent and independent flow, inhibition of bile salt synthesis and impairment of biliary lipid secretion. We suggest that these effects are due to both bile salt-chlorpromazine interactions and the effect of the latter on canalicular and other membranes.
To evaluate the techniques and efficacy of intracranial intraarterial papaverine infusion for symptomatic vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage caused by aneurysm rupture.
Papaverine was infused on 19 occasions in 14 patients, 6 hours to 2 days after spasm became apparent clinically. Sixty vascular territories were treated. Infusion was made into the supraclinoid internal carotid artery 20 times, cavernous internal carotid artery once, selective A1 anterior cerebral artery 8 times, M1 middle cerebral artery 7 times, and basilar artery 3 times. Papaverine doses ranged from 150 to 600 mg and exceeded 400 mg on 8 occasions.
Angiographic improvement occurred in 18 (95%) of the 19 treatment sessions: results were excellent in 3 sessions, moderate in 8, and mild in 7. The best angiographic results often were obtained with superselective infusion, although angiographic results did not always correlate with clinical response. Seven (50%) of the 14 treated patients showed dramatic acute clinical improvement within 24 hours of papaverine therapy, and there was no clinical evidence of recurrent vasospasm in these patients. Recurrence of angiographic vasoconstriction was demonstrated in three patients; one showed marked clinical improvement after a second treatment. There were no episodes of systemic hypotension in any of the cases. Monocular blindness developed in one patient because of papaverine infusion near the ophthalmic artery.
Papaverine was effective in dilating narrowed arteries in most patients with symptomatic vasospasm caused by subarachnoid hemorrhage. This series showed encouraging clinical results with no recurrence of neurologic deterioration in those patients who responded well to papaverine. Superselective infusion appears to be indicated in some cases for adequate papaverine delivery.
One hundred and seventy eight patients admitted to hospital with acute cerebral infarction or transient ischaemic attack were studied to determine if their treatment had been changed during the previous three weeks and to compare their blood pressure after the stroke with premorbid values. Blood pressure measurements taken within one year before the stroke were available for 100 patients; seven of these had had a recent change in antihypertensive or diuretic treatment. Of these, three patients who had started taking frusemide because of hypertension and one whose dosage of a reserpine combination drug had been increased experienced an appreciable decrease in blood pressure immediately after the stroke; they also showed signs of haemoconcentration. The change in treatment probably contributed to the stroke in these four patients. The other three showed a smaller decrease or even an increase in blood pressure and no signs of haemoconcentration; the relation between the change in treatment and stroke is less likely in these patients. The use of high ceiling diuretics such as frusemide in the treatment of hypertension may induce hypovolaemia and hypotension, resulting in cerebral ischaemia, and are therefore best avoided in such treatment.
Five chemicals that are known to induce in rats thyroid follicular-cell adenomas and carcinomas were assayed for their ability to induce DNA damage and DNA repair synthesis in primary cultures of human thyroid cells. Significant dose-dependent increases in the frequency of DNA single-strand breaks and alkali-labile sites, as measured by the same Comet assay, were obtained after a 20-h exposure to the following subtoxic concentrations of the five test compounds: methimazole from 2.5 to 10mM; nitrobenzene, potassium bromate, N,N'-diethylthiourea and ethylenethiourea from 1.25 to 5mM. Under the same experimental conditions, DNA repair synthesis, as evaluated by quantitative autoradiography, was present in potassium bromate-exposed thyroid cells from all the three donors and in those from two of three donors with either nitrobenzene or ethylenethiourea, but did not match the criteria for a positive response in thyroid cells from any of the donors with methimazole and N,N'-diethylthiourea. Consistently with their ability to induce thyroid tumors, all the five test compounds, administered p.o. in rats in a single dose corresponding to 1/2 LD50, induced a statistically significant degree of DNA fragmentation in the thyroid. These findings suggest that the five test compounds might be carcinogenic to thyroid in humans.
Human respiratory epithelia function in airway mucociliary clearance and barrier function and have recently been implicated in sensory functions.
We investigated a link between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) pathogenesis and molecular mechanisms underlying Ca2+ influx into human airway epithelia elicited by diesel exhaust particles (DEP).
Using primary cultures of human respiratory epithelial (HRE) cells, we determined that these cells possess proteolytic signaling machinery, whereby proteinase-activated receptor-2 (PAR-2) activates Ca2+-permeable TRPV4, which leads to activation of human respiratory disease-enhancing matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1), a signaling cascade initiated by diesel exhaust particles (DEP), a globally relevant air pollutant. Moreover, we observed ciliary expression of PAR-2, TRPV4, and phospholipase-Cβ3 in human airway epithelia and their DEP-enhanced protein-protein complex formation. We also found that the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)-predisposing TRPV4P19S variant enhances Ca2+ influx and MMP 1 activation, providing mechanistic linkage between man-made air pollution and human airway disease.
DEP evoked protracted Ca2+ influx via TRPV4, enhanced by the COPD-predisposing human genetic polymorphism TRPV4P19S. This mechanism reprograms maladaptive inflammatory and extracellular-matrix-remodeling responses in human airways. The novel concept of air pollution-responsive ciliary signal transduction from PAR-2 to TRPV4 in human respiratory epithelia will accelerate rationally targeted therapies, possibly via the inhalatory route.
This review aims to determine whether, and to what extent, dietary caffeine may be a risk to cardiovascular health.
A critical review of the relevant experimental and epidemiologic literature was conducted, with particular reference to studies of caffeine and blood pressure (BP).
There is extensive evidence that caffeine at dietary doses increases BP. However, concern that the drug may contribute to cardiovascular disease appears to have been dampened by (1) the belief that habitual use leads to the development of tolerance, and (2) confusion regarding relevant epidemiologic findings. When considered comprehensively, findings from experimental and epidemiologic studies converge to show that BP remains reactive to the pressor effects of caffeine in the diet. Overall, the impact of dietary caffeine on population BP levels is likely to be modest, probably in the region of 4/2 mm Hg. At these levels, however, population studies of BP indicate that caffeine use could account for premature deaths in the region of 14% for coronary heart disease and 20% for stroke.
Current evidence supports the conclusion that the BP-elevating effects of dietary caffeine may be contributing appreciably to population levels of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Accordingly, strategies for encouraging reduced dietary levels of caffeine deserve serious consideration.
We have reported that nicotine and the specific α7AChR agonist ameliorate indomethacin-induced intestinal lesions in mice by activating α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (α7nAChR). Dopamine D₂-receptor antagonists, such as domperidone and metoclopramide, enhance the release of ACh from vagal efferent nerves. The present study examined the effects of domperidone and metoclopramide on indomethacin-induced small intestinal ulceration in mice, focusing on the α7AChR. Male C57BL/6 mice were administered indomethacin (10 mg/kg, s.c.) and sacrificed 24 h later. Domperidone (0.1-10 mg/kg) and metoclopramide (0.03-0.3 mg/kg) were administered i.p. twice, at 0.5 h before and 8 h after indomethacin treatment, while methyllycaconitine (a selective antagonist of α7nAChR, 30 mg/kg) was administered twice, at 0.5 h before each domperidone treatment. Indomethacin caused severe hemorrhagic lesions in the small intestine, mostly to the jejunum and ileum, with a concomitant increase in myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Domperidone suppressed the severity of lesions and the increase in MPO activity at low doses (0.1-3 mg/kg), but not at a high dose (10 mg/kg). Similar effects were also observed by metoclopramide. The protective effects of domperidone and metoclopramide were totally abolished by prior administration of methyllycaconitine. Indomethacin treatment markedly enhanced inducible nitric oxide synthase and chemokine mRNA expression in the small intestine, but these responses were all significantly attenuated by either domperidone or metoclopramide. These findings suggest that dopamine D₂-receptor antagonists ameliorate indomethacin-induced small intestinal ulceration through the activation of endogenous anti-inflammatory pathways mediated by α7nAChR.
Carcinogen-induced DNA base modification and subsequent DNA lesions are the critical events for the expression of premalignant phenotype of the cell. We have therefore investigated the chemopreventive efficacy of a vanadium salt against diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced early DNA and chromosomal damages in rat liver. Hepatocarcinogenesis was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats with a single, necrogenic, intraperitoneal injection of DEN (200mg/kg body weight). 8-Hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosines (8-OHdGs), strand-breaks and DNA-protein crosslinks (DPCs) were measured by HPLC, comet assay and spectrofluorimetry, respectively. There was a significant and steady elevation of modified bases 8-OHdGs along with substantial increments of the extent of single-strand-breaks (SSBs), DPCs and chromosomal aberrations (CAs) following DEN exposure. Supplementation of vanadium as ammonium metavanadate (NH(4)VO(3), +V oxidation state) at a dose of 0.5ppm in terms of the salt weight throughout the experiment abated the formations of 8-OHdGs (P<0.0001; 79.54%), tailed DNA (P<0.05; 31.55%) and length:width of DNA mass (P<0.02; 61.25%) in preneoplastic rat liver. Vanadium treatment also inhibited DPCs (P<0.0001; 58.47%) and CAs (P<0.001; 45.17%) studied at various time points. The results indicate that the anticlastogenic potential of vanadium in vivo might be due to the observed reductions in liver-specific 8-OHdGs, SSBs and/or DPCs by this trace metal. We conclude that, vanadium plays a significant role in limiting DEN-induced genotoxicity and clastogenicity during the early stages of hepatocarcinogenesis in rats.
A 22-year old unmarried healthy woman was admitted to the Swedish department with low fever, tiredness, SR 75 mm, positive uricult, but no urinary tract symptoms. Urinary tract infection was suspected and treatment was started with norfloxacin. Nevertheless, the urine culture proved to be negative. A few weeks later she had increasing trouble with stiff knee and shoulder joints and the left foot became swollen. The subfebrile status continued, and tonsillitis was suspected and diagnosed. V-penicillin and cefaklor treatment was applied. She was transferred to the infectious diseases ware, where fever was confirmed with leukocytosis (19 x 1 billion/1), C-reactive protein at 66 (normal value 10) mcg/ml, pronounced blood pressure increase (160/130 mm Hg), anemic signs, and pathological liver status with increased transaminases (ASAT 6.3-10.4 and ALAT 8.,8-16 ukat/1). ALP increased slightly to 6 ukat/1. The symptoms of weight loss indisposition, and muscles and joints aches, especially in foot ache continued. Collagen disease was suspected, and she was transferred to the internal medicine department. She regularly had tachycardia and high blood pressure. She had to use crutches for mobility because of the pain. S-albumin was 32 (normal 36- 50) g/l and S-hepatoglobin was 2.7 (normal value .4-1.8) g.l. Various others tests were normal. Ulnaris neuropathy was suspected on the left hand. Intensive blood pressure reducing combination treatment was started with 200 mg x 1 of metoprolol, 10 mg x 2 nifedipin, and 20 mg x 1 enalapril. The Desolett oral contraceptive (containing 30 mcg of ethinyl estradiol and 150 mcg of desogestrel) she had been taking for a few months were discontinued. Quick improvement of clinical and laboratory parameters followed. SR and leukocytosis became normal. The values of ALP, ASAT, and ALAT became normal some days later. She was discharged shortly thereafter, and blood pressure medication was gradually discontinued. In the 1940s there were reports about the hepatotoxic effects of synthetic estrogens followed by carbohydrate, lipid, and protein metabolism alterations. Jaundice has also been reported, and the Swedes have an ethnic susceptibility to it. The global incidence rate is 1/10.000 vs. 1/100 and 1/4000 in Sweden induced by high-dose OCs containing more than 50 mcg ethinyl estradiol, but with low-dose OCs this rate is much lower. Both estrogens and gestagens can increase blood pressure. A 1969 study reported that 22 young women developed arthritis, arthralgia, and myalgia after taking pills for 3- 12 months. Rheumatic symptoms were also recorded with pill use. Thus, it is very likely that OCs were responsible for the patient's symptoms, especially since her status rapidly improved after discontinuing them.
We investigated the changes in reactive oxygen species (ROS) and angiogenesis through angiotensin II (Ang II) type 1 receptor (AT1R) after the development of acquired platinum resistance in bladder cancer.
Four invasive human bladder cancer cell lines, T24, 5637, T24PR, and 5637PR, were used in vitro, whereas in vivo, T24 and T24PR cells were used. T24PR and 5637PR cells were newly established at our institution as acquired platinum-resistant sublines by culturing in cisplatin (CDDP)-containing conditioned medium for 6 months.
Ang II induced significantly higher vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production in T24PR and 5637PR cells than in their corresponding parent cells in vitro, whereas Ang II induced a further increase in VEGF production. These platinum-resistant cells also showed significantly higher AT1R expression than their corresponding parent cells. ROS was also significantly upregulated in T24PR and 5637PR cells, whereas increased AT1R expression was significantly downregulated by scavenging free radicals. We also demonstrated the efficacy of AT1R blockade at suppressing the growth of platinum-resistant xenograft model.
Our findings indicate a new molecular mechanism for upregulated AT1R signalling through increased ROS when tumours progressed after the CDDP-based regimens, and shed light on the importance of AT1R blockade for platinum-resistant bladder cancers.
