The toxicity of aldicarb on movement, life cycle, population growth rate and resource allocation, and the gene expression changes underpinning these effects, were investigated for Caenorhabditis elegans. A clear effect of aldicarb on nematode movement was found suggesting that this pesticide acts as a neurotoxicant. Aldicarb also had an effect on life cycle traits including low concentration life-span extension; high concentration brood size reduction and a high concentration extension of time to first egg. All life-cycle and growth data were integrated into a biology-based model (DEBtox) to characterise aldicarb effects on life-history traits, resource allocation and population growth rate within a single modelling framework. The DEBtox fits described concentration dependent effects on individual traits and population growth rate and indicated that the most probable mechanism of action of the pesticide was an increase in energy demands for somatic and reproductive tissue maintenance. Transcriptomic profiling indicated that aldicarb was associated with changes in amino acid metabolism, DNA structure, fatty acid metabolism and cytochrome P450 mediated xenobiotic metabolism. The changes in the amino acid and fatty acid pathways suggest an effect of aldicarb on protein integrity; while effects on DNA suggests that aldicarb influence DNA morphology or replication. Both these effects have the potential to incur increased costs for structural maintenance of macromolecules. These effects, coupled to the effect on biotransformation enzymes also seen, represent the materialisation of the maintenance costs indicated by DEBtox modelling.
Muraglitazar, a PPARalpha/gamma agonist, dose-dependently increased urinary bladder tumors in male Harlan Sprague-Dawley (HSD) rats administered 5, 30, or 50 mg/kg/day for up to 2 years. To determine the mode of tumor development, male HSD rats were treated daily for up to 21 months at doses of 0, 1, or 50 mg/kg while being fed either a normal or 1% NH4Cl-acidified diet. Muraglitazar-associated, time-dependent changes in urine composition, urothelial mitogenesis and apoptosis, and urothelial morphology were assessed. In control and treated rats fed a normal diet, urine pH was generally > or = 6.5, which facilitates formation of calcium-and magnesium-containing solids, particularly in the presence of other prolithogenic changes in rat urine. Urinary citrate, an inhibitor of lithogenesis, and soluble calcium concentrations were dose dependently decreased in association with increased calcium phosphate precipitate, crystals and/or microcalculi; magnesium ammonium phosphate crystals and aggregates; and calcium oxalate-containing thin, rod-like crystals. Morphologically, sustained urothelial cytotoxicity and proliferation with a ventral bladder predilection were noted in treated rats by month 1 and urinary carcinomas with a similar distribution occurred by month 9. Urothelial apoptotic rates were unaffected by muraglitazar treatment or diet. In muraglitazar-treated rats fed an acidified diet, urine pH was invariably < 6.5, which inhibited formation of calcium-and magnesium-containing solids. Moreover, dietary acidification prevented the urothelial cytotoxic, proliferative, and tumorigenic responses. Collectively, these data support an indirect pharmacologic mode of urinary bladder tumor development involving alterations in urine composition that predispose to urolithiasis and associated decreases in urine-soluble calcium concentrations.
Microinjections of cholinergic antagonists in the vicinity of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus produced a marked reduction of amphetamine-induced hyperactivity when amphetamine was administered i.p. in relatively large doses (1.5 mg/kg). Cholinergic agonists enhanced locomotor activity induced by relatively small doses of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg). These observations suggest that cholinergic activity in the amygdala modulates the locomotor response to amphetamine.
Citrinin (CTN) is a fungal secondary metabolite that contaminates various foodstuffs and animal feeds; it also exhibits organotoxicity in several animal models. In this study, the zebrafish was used to elucidate the mechanism of CTN cardiotoxicity in developing embryos. Following CTN administration, the gross morphology of the embryonic heart was apparently altered, including heart malformation, pericardial edema, and red blood accumulation. Whole-mount immunostaining and histological analysis of ventricle and atrium indicated incorrect heart looping and reduced size of heart chambers. From the perspective of cardiac function, the heartbeat and blood flow rate of embryos were significantly decreased in the presence of CTN. CTN also modulated the expression of tbx2a and jun B genes, but not that of bmp4 and nkx2.5. Furthermore, the heart areas of CTN-exposed embryos demonstrated an elevated levels of aldh1a2 and cspg2 messenger RNA; these 2 cardiac-related genes are known to be involved in retinoic acid (RA) pathway as well as downstream targets of microRNA-138 (miR-138) in zebrafish. CTN treatment also downregulated the expression of miR-138. Moreover, overexpression of miR-138 was able to rescue the heart defects generated by CTN. These results support the notion that CTN exposure has a severe impact on heart development, affecting heart morphogenesis through the dysregulation of miR-138, RA signaling, and tbx2a.
To report a case of increased blood pressure associated with the use of salsalate in an elderly patient with no prior history of hypertension.
A 78-year-old white man with no prior history of hypertension initiated salsalate therapy for low-back pain. Over the 15 months prior to the initiation of salsalate, his blood pressure averaged 127 +/- 7 mm Hg systolic and 84 +/- 6 mm Hg diastolic (mean +/- SD). After initiation of salsalate, he experienced significant elevations in blood pressure, which led to a preliminary diagnosis of hypertension. Blood pressure after initiation of salsalate averaged 150 +/- 13 mm Hg systolic and 95 +/- 5 mm Hg diastolic. No changes in medications or medication doses (with the exception of warfarin) occurred in the 18 months prior to or during salsalate therapy. His weight remained stable. A detailed review of his medical records and history revealed no other causes for these elevations in blood pressure. Salsalate therapy was discontinued and his blood pressure returned to normotensive levels (119 +/- 2 mm Hg systolic and 81 +/- 2 mm Hg diastolic).
Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID)-induced elevations in blood pressure have been well documented in patients receiving antihypertensive medications. Due to its relative weak inhibition of cyclooxygenase and lack of published literature in hypertensive patients, salsalate is considered to have little or no effect on blood pressure. Our report documents a possible case of salsalate-induced hypertension in a previously normotensive elderly man. Observational studies suggest that NSAID use may increase the risk of developing hypertension in older patients.
Clinicians should be aware of the possible effects of NSAIDs on blood pressure. Blood pressure monitoring following the initiation of salsalate may be warranted, particularly in older patients.
Mutations in the GLI3 zinc-finger transcription factor gene cause Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome (GCPS) and Pallister-Hall syndrome (PHS), which are variable but distinct clinical entities. We hypothesized that GLI3 mutations that predict a truncated functional repressor protein cause PHS and that functional haploinsufficiency of GLI3 causes GCPS. To test these hypotheses, we screened patients with PHS and GCPS for GLI3 mutations. The patient group consisted of 135 individuals: 89 patients with GCPS and 46 patients with PHS. We detected 47 pathological mutations (among 60 probands); when these were combined with previously published mutations, two genotype-phenotype correlations were evident. First, GCPS was caused by many types of alterations, including translocations, large deletions, exonic deletions and duplications, small in-frame deletions, and missense, frameshift/nonsense, and splicing mutations. In contrast, PHS was caused only by frameshift/nonsense and splicing mutations. Second, among the frameshift/nonsense mutations, there was a clear genotype-phenotype correlation. Mutations in the first third of the gene (from open reading frame [ORF] nucleotides [nt] 1-1997) caused GCPS, and mutations in the second third of the gene (from ORF nt 1998-3481) caused primarily PHS. Surprisingly, there were 12 mutations in patients with GCPS in the 3' third of the gene (after ORF nt 3481), and no patients with PHS had mutations in this region. These results demonstrate a robust correlation of genotype and phenotype for GLI3 mutations and strongly support the hypothesis that these two allelic disorders have distinct modes of pathogenesis.
The incidence of contrast-induced nephropathy was examined in 1,075 patients receiving routine CT angiography and CT perfusion brain imaging at a single institution. Fifty-two patients had a creatinine rise of > or =0.5 mg/dL. In four patients (0.37%), the administration of IV contrast medium possibly contributed to renal failure. Two patients (0.19%) received temporary hemodialysis during hospitalization. The incidence of contrast nephropathy in neurovascular patients is low.
The ready availability of exogenous melatonin means that its use in patients with mood disorders is probably not uncommon. Nonetheless, few controlled trials of exogenous melatonin in these patients have been conducted.
Five patients with rapid-cycling DSM-III-R bipolar disorder were treated with melatonin 10 mg q.d. at 10:00 p.m. for 12 weeks. Melatonin was added to a stable regimen of medication and administered in a double-blind, placebo-controlled fashion.
Melantonin administration had no positive effects. One patient developed a free-running (unentrained) sleep-wake cycle after melatonin withdrawal. In addition, in both this and a second patient, there is evidence that the administration of exogenous melatonin may have suppressed the secretion of endogenous melatonin.
The administration of melatonin had no significant effects on mood or sleep. However, melatonin withdrawal delayed sleep onset time and may have had some mild mood-elevating effects.
Both beta-endorphin and clonidine proved to have statistically significant analgesic activity (increase in latency to hind-paw lick in hot plate test) in rats. Furthermore, the pain inhibition induced by beta-endorphin and clonidine could be antagonized by prior treatment of animals with either naloxone (a narcotic antagonist) or the depletors of central serotonin pathways such as 5,6-dihydroxytryptamine, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine and p-chlorophenylalanine have not effect on latency to hind-paw lick. The data indicate that serotoninergic activity in the brain plays a role in the elaboration or modulation of beta-endorphin and clonidine analgesia in rats.
1. In humans, the hypertensive effects of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) infusion are reproduced by intravenous or oral cortisol. Oral cortisol increases blood pressure in a dose-dependent fashion. At a dose of 80-200 mg/day, the peak increases in systolic pressure are of the order of 15 mmHg. Increases in blood pressure are apparent within 24 h. 2. Cortisol-induced hypertension is accompanied by a significant sodium retention and volume expansion. Co-administration of the type I (mineralocorticoid) receptor antagonist spironolactone does not prevent the onset of cortisol-induced hypertension. Thus, sodium retention is not the primary mechanism of cortisol-induced hypertension. 3. Direct and indirect measures of sympathetic activity are unchanged or suppressed during cortisol administration, suggesting that cortisol-induced hypertension is not mediated by increased sympathetic tone. 4. Preliminary evidence in humans suggests that suppression of the nitric oxide system may play a role in cortisol-induced hypertension. 5. These potential mechanisms of cortisol action may be relevant in a number of clinical contexts, including Cushing's syndrome, apparent mineralocorticoid excess, the hypertension of liquorice abuse and chronic renal failure. There is also preliminary evidence suggesting a role for cortisol in essential hypertension.
We examined the effects of NaCl injections on the polydipsia and polyuria induced by subcutaneous oxytocin (OT) administration in food-deprived male rats. During the first 12 h of the treatment day, both food deprivation and OT administration increased urine excretion but reduced water intake, water balance (fluid intake minus urine volume) and body weight. OT treatment enhanced urine excretion and the reduction in water balance and body weight without reducing the water intake of food-deprived animals. Analysis of the physiological effects of OT administration showed increases in urinary sodium concentration, sodium excretion and a reduced plasma sodium concentration. During the second 12 h, OT increased both urine excretion and water intake in food-deprived but not in ad lib.-fed rats. However, hypertonic NaCl administration at the start of this second 12-h period blocked the polyuric and polydipsic responses observed in the OT/deprived group but increased the water intake of the ad lib. groups. After the whole 24-h period, animals treated with OT showed a water balance and body weight change matching those observed in Control animals. Although the recording time period is a critical factor to demonstrate the effect of peripheral OT administration on water intake, the results obtained suggest that the polyuric and polydipsic responses observed in food-deprived animals depend on the negative sodium and water balance induced by the natriuretic effect of OT and the unavailability of sodium. These OT-induced deficits can be counteracted by the administration of hypertonic NaCl solutions or simply by the intake of standard food.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy is a hereditary pathology transmitted in an autosomal dominant manner. The clinical symptoms are palpebral ptosis, oropharyngeal dysphagia and proximal limb weakness. Upper gastro-esophageal endoscopy is recommended to study the dysphagia, a video-radiology study with barium and an esophageal manometry to study the pharyngeo-esophageal motor disorder. Muscle biopsy reveals the presence of atrophic fibers substituted by an increase in fat and connective tissue. In 1998 Brais described the genetic alteration responsible for this pathology, a limited expansion of the triplet of GCG nucleotides in PABP2 gene on chromosome 14q11. Normal individuals have the homozygotic form (GCG)6 of this triplet, whereas patients with the described syndrome have the heterozygotic form (GCG)6-(GCG)9 or (GCG)6-(GCG)10. We present three siblings from the same family with diagnoses and genetic confirmations of oculopharyngeal dystrophy. Two of the patients underwent cricopharyngeal myotomy to relieve the dysphagia.
The mechanisms by which 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) increases the incidence of human cardiovascular disease are not known. We investigated the degree to which cardiovascular disease develops in mice following subchronic TCDD exposure. Adult male C57BL/6 mice were dosed with vehicle or 300 ng TCDD/kg by oral gavage three times per week for 60 days. Blood pressure was recorded by radiotelemetry and aortic endothelial function was assessed by acetylcholine-induced vasorelaxation. Mean arterial pressure of TCDD-exposed mice was increased significantly by day 4 and between days 7-10, 25-35, and 45-60 with two periods of normalization on days 11-24 and days 36-39. Consistent with a prolonged period of systemic hypertension, heart weight was increased and was associated with concentric left ventricular hypertrophy. Significant increases in superoxide production also were observed in the kidney, heart, and aorta of TCDD-exposed mice. Furthermore, increased aortic superoxide resulted in endothelial dysfunction as demonstrated by significant impairment of acetylcholine-induced vasorelaxation in TCDD-exposed mice, which was restored by tempol, a superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetic. Our model is the first to definitely demonstrate that sustained AhR activation by TCDD increases blood pressure and induces cardiac hypertrophy, which may be mediated, in part, by increased superoxide.
Neurological deterioration during the first day after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) is associated with early hematoma growth in 18 to 38% of patients. While clinical studies continue to evaluate efficacy of activated recombinant factor VII (rFVlla) for reducing frequency of early hematoma growth, there have been no studies investigating the effect of rFVIIa on early hematoma growth. We used a collagenase-induced ICH model in the rat to evaluate the effects of rFVIIa on early hematoma growth. Two hours after injection of 0.14 U of type IV bacterial collagenase in 10 microL of saline into the basal ganglia, a small amount of blood collected in the striatum. The ICH gradually increased in size, extending posteriorly to the thalamus by 24 hours after injection. Intravenous administration of rFVIIa immediately after collagenase injection decreased average hematoma volume at 24 hours compared with vehicle-treated group (168.1 +/- 13.4 mm3 vs. 118.3 +/- 23.0 mm3, p < 0.01). There was also a decrease in total hemoglobin content in rats treated with rFVlla compared with vehicle-treated rats (optical density at 550 nm: 0.87 +/- 0.08 vs. 0.71 +/- 0.09, p < 0.05). There was no difference in cortical brain water content overlying the hematoma between the rFVlla- and vehicle-treated groups (81.4 +/- 0.7% vs. 81.7 +/- 0.4%). Our study indicates that treatment with rFVIla may be useful in reducing the frequency of early hematoma growth in ICH patients.
As part of a plan to eliminate tuberculosis in America, tuberculin skin testing was advised for all US citizens, with isoniazid chemopreventive therapy administered to appropriate positive reactors. Implementation of this plan, however, may be limited by concerns over which skin test reactors should receive isoniazid therapy. Recent decision analyses suggest that, contrary to American Thoracic Society guidelines, asymptomatic skin test reactors under age 35 years with normal chest roentgenograms and no predisposing conditions to tuberculosis reactivation will not benefit from isoniazid chemopreventive therapy. Repeated analysis of these studies reveals that calculated life expectancy depends on estimates of the probability of certain chance outcomes. If the isoniazid-related hepatitis case-fatality rate is below 1%, isoniazid chemopreventive therapy appears to be beneficial. A literature review suggests that this rate is indeed this low. If the tuberculosis case-fatality rate is above 6.7%, also supported by the literature, the advantages of isoniazid therapy are further increased. This repeated analysis should reassure physicians that isoniazid chemoprophylaxis for tuberculin skin test reactors is beneficial to the individual and consonant with public health policies.
This study compared the effects on blood pressure and some metabolic variables of a 3-month period addition therapy of urapidil or metoprolol in 273 hypertensive non-responders to nifedipine sustained release (SR) monotherapy. This was a randomised, open-label, controlled, parallel-group comparative study, followed by another 3-month period during which all patients received the combination nifedipine SR-urapidil independently of the treatment they were previously randomized to. Both treatments caused significant falls in systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) when compared with the nifedipine SR monotherapy phase. The addition of urapidil to nifedipine SR caused a significant blood pressure reduction of 16.6/13.6 mmHg (p < 0.001), whereas after metoprolol the decrease was of 15.1/14 mmHg (p < 0.001). While in the overall population there was no statistically significant difference between the reduction caused by the two antihypertensive agents added to nifedipine SR, significant differences (DBP, p < 0.05; SBP, p < 0.01) were observed in the group of 51 patients aged at least 60 years. Total cholesterol and LDL-cholesterol were significantly reduced (p < 0.001) after the addition of urapidil to nifedipine SR, while, on the contrary, the addition of metoprolol to nifedipine SR was followed by a significant rise (p = 0.001). The changes caused by the two agents were statistically different among them (p < 0.01). The non-atherogenic HDL-cholesterol did not change during the addition of urapidil or metoprolol to nifedipine SR, while, the HDL/total cholesterol ratio was significantly increased after the addition of urapidil (p < 0.01) and unmodified after the addition of metoprolol. Between-group analysis showed a significant difference (p = 0.005). Serum triglycerides did not change in the urapidil plus nifedipine SR group but significantly increased in the metoprolol plus nifedipine SR group (p < 0.001); between-group difference was not statistically significant. Plasma glucose was unchanged after the addition of urapidil whereas it was significantly (p < 0.001) increased in the metoprolol-added group with a between-group difference statistically significant (p < 0.05). When metoprolol was substituted by urapidil during the second 3-month period, the negative effects on glucose, total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides were abolished while in the group already treated with urapidil plus nifedipine SR the favourable effects of urapidil plus nifedipine SR on total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol and HDL/total cholesterol ratio were significantly increased compared with the end of the first 3-month treatment. The results of this study show that when urapidil and metoprolol are added to non-responders to nifedipine SR therapy there is a clinically and statistically relevant blood pressure reduction with both agents, with a therapeutic advantage for the combination urapidil + nifedipine SR in patients more than 60 years old. Moreover, the addition of urapidil was associated with a more favourable effect on serum lipids and glucose than that produced by the addition of metoprolol.
Pellagra is associated with low levels of vitamin B3 (niacin) and/or tryptophan and often involves other other B vitamins. Since the time Gasper Casal first described the disease in 1972, it was observed that the patients with pellagra were all poor, subsisted mainly on maize, and rarely ate fresh meat. Subsequent occurrences have been in the form of epidemic outbreaks, consequent to either introduction to maize as a major food or increased consumption of other niacin-deficient diets like Jowar (Sorgum vulgare). The virtual disappearance of pellagra as an endemic health problem in recent years can be attributed to a rise in the standard of living of farmers and diversification of the diet globally. The clinical picture is a combination of multisystem alterations typically involving gastrointestinal, skin and central nervous system abnormalities. The cardinal manifestations have been popularly known as the three D's, which are dementia, dermatitis and diarrhea. Psychiatric manifestations are fairly common but are easily overlooked due to their non specific nature. These are commonly seen as irritability, poor concentration, anxiety, fatigue, restlessness, apathy and depression. The occurence of psychosis in pellagra is an uncommon finding, which is usually seen in advanced stages of pellagroid encephalopathy, commonly found in chronic alcoholics. Delusional parasitosis has been also reported in this condition, although the association is still controversial. We report a case of pellagra manifesting with delusional parasitosis in a man whose delusion resolved rapidly after he started niacin-augmentation therapy. This case may provide clues to the biological underpinnings of delusional parasitosis as well as niacin treatment as treatment option in similar cases.
Cysteamine, an anti-oxidant aminothiol, is the treatment of choice for nephropathic cystinosis, a rare lysosomal storage disease. Cysteamine is a chemo-sensitization and radioprotection agent and its antitumor effects have been investigated in various tumor cell lines and chemical induced carcinogenesis. Here, we investigated whether cysteamine has anti-tumor and anti-metastatic effects in transplantable human pancreatic cancer, an aggressive metastatic disease.
Cysteamine's anti-invasion effects were studied by matrigel invasion and cell migration assays in 10 pancreatic cancer cell lines. To study mechanism of action, we examined cell viability and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) activity in the cysteamine-treated cells. We also examined cysteamine's anti-metastasis effect in two orthotopic murine models of human pancreatic cancer by measuring peritoneal metastasis and survival of animals. Cysteamine inhibited both migration and invasion of all ten pancreatic cancer cell lines at concentrations (<25 mM) that caused no toxicity to cells. It significantly decreased MMPs activity (IC(50) 38-460 µM) and zymographic gelatinase activity in a dose dependent manner in vitro and in vivo; while mRNA and protein levels of MMP-9, MMP-12 and MMP-14 were slightly increased using the highest cysteamine concentration. In vivo, cysteamine significantly decreased metastasis in two established pancreatic tumor models, although it did not affect the size of primary tumors. Additionally, cysteamine prolonged survival of mice in a dose-dependent manner without causing any toxicity. Similar to the in vitro results, MMP activity was significantly decreased in animal tumors treated with cysteamine. Cysteamine had no clinical or preclinical adverse effects in the host even at the highest dose.
Our results suggest that cysteamine, an agent with a proven safety profile, may be useful for inhibition of metastasis and prolonging the survival of a host with pancreatic cancer.
We describe a patient with mild haemophilia A (original value of factor VIII activity 0.30 U/ml) who developed an inhibitor (36.1 Bethesda U/ml) which cross-reacted with his endogenous factor VIII. This caused a decline in basal factor VIII level (< 0.01 U/ml) and severe haemorrhagic events. Treatment to induce immune tolerance was started with factor VIII/von Willebrand factor (VWF) concentrates, but inhibitor levels increased progressively and the patient suffered serious bleeding. Cyclophosphamide was administered and, after 8 months treatment, factor VIII levels increased to 0.20 U/ml and the inhibitor could no longer be detected. Screening of his factor VIII gene revealed a missense mutation in exon 13 that predicts substitution of Asn618-->Ser in the A2 domain of factor VIII. Immunoprecipitation analysis showed that the antibodies present in the patient's plasma reacted with metabolically labelled A2 domain and, to a lesser extent, with factor VIII light chain. Inhibitory antibodies were completely neutralized by recombinant A2 domain, whereas no neutralization was observed after the addition of factor VIII light chain (A3-C1-C2) and C2 domain. More detailed analysis showed that the majority of inhibitory antibodies were directed against residues Arg484-Ile508, a previously identified binding site for factor VIII inhibitors. Our findings suggest that immune tolerance therapy and cyclophosphamide were successful in eradicating inhibitory antibodies against a common epitope on factor VIII.
To determine whether intrapartum magnesium sulfate (MgSO4) therapy for seizure prophylaxis in pre-eclampsia-eclampsia is associated with biochemical evidence of subacute fetal myocardial damage at delivery.
Troponin I, a cardiac-specific protein used to detect myocardial injury, was measured from the umbilical vein at delivery in term pregnancies complicated by pre-eclampsia and uncomplicated control pregnancies. Women with pre-eclampsia received intravenous MgSO4 as a 6-g load followed by 2 g/hour until delivery. Clinical characteristics and fetal troponin levels were compared between groups.
There was no difference in troponin I concentrations between term patients with intrapartum MgSO4 therapy and controls who did not receive MgSO4 (median 0.86 ng/ml, range 0.72-1.10 vs. 0.89 ng/ml, range 0.68-1.50; p = 1.0). There was also no statistically significant difference in the number of patients with a troponin I level of > or = 1.0 ng/ml between groups (30.8% (4/13) vs. 15.4% (4/26); p = 0.4).
Our findings suggest that, in term fetuses that are not growth impaired, exposure to intrapartum MgSO4 is not associated with subacute myocardial injury.
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is a heterogeneous syndrome associated with follicle growth arrest, minimal granulosa cell proliferation, dysregulated sex hormone profile, hyperthecosis, and insulin resistance. Using a 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT)-induced rat model that recapitulates the reproductive and metabolic phenotypes of human PCOS, we have examined the steroidogenic capability of granulosa cells from DHT-treated rats. Gene expression of several key steroidogenic enzymes including p450 side-chain cleavage enzyme (p450scc), aromatase, steroidogenic acute regulatory protein, hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-17β, and hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-3β were markedly lower in DHT-treated rats than the controls, although the responsiveness of their granulosa cells to FSH was higher. Expression of the adipokine chemerin and its receptor, chemokine receptor-like 1, was evident in control and DHT-treated rats, with significantly higher ovarian mRNA abundances and protein contents of chemerin and its receptor. Recombinant chemerin decreases basal estradiol secretion in granulosa cells from DHT-treated rats. When the inhibitory role of chemerin on steroidogenesis was further examined in vitro, chemerin suppressed FSH-induced progesterone and estradiol secretion in cultured preantral follicles and granulosa cells. Chemerin also inhibits FSH-induced aromatase and p450scc expression in granulosa cells. Overexpression of nuclear receptors NR5a1 and NR5a2 promotes p450scc and aromatase expression, respectively, which is suppressed by chemerin. These findings suggest that chemerin is a novel negative regulator of FSH-induced follicular steroidogenesis and may contribute to the pathogenesis of PCOS.
A series of new aporphine analogues (aporlogues) were synthesized bearing a C-, N-, or O-linkage at the C11 position. Lipoic ester (-)-15 was identified as a full agonist at the dopamine D(2) and serotonin 5-HT(1A) receptors with K(i) values of 174 and 66 nM, respectively. It elicited antiparkinsonian action on Parkinsin's disease (PD) rats with minor dyskinesia. Chronic use of (-)-15 reduced L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia (LID) without attenuating the antiparkinsonian effect. These results suggest that 5-HT(1A) and D(2) dual-receptor agonist (-)-15 may present a novel candidate drug in the treatment of PD and LID.
The effects of cytochrome P-450 (CYP) induction by phenobarbital (PB), CYP 2B, 2C, and 3A inducer in mammalians, on triphenyltin metabolism and toxicity in hamsters were studied. A single dose of 50 mg/kg of triphenyltin chloride was given by gavage to hamsters after pretreatment with or without PB for 3 days continuously at a daily dose of 80 mg/kg intraperitoneally (i.p.). Although the triphenyltin produced marked but reversible hyperglycemia and hypertriglyceridemia in PB-untreated hamsters, the pretreatment of hamsters with PB, which increased levels of CYP, suppressed the diabetogenic effects compared with PB-untreated hamsters. Furthermore, we investigated whether the mitigation of triphenyltin-induced diabetogenic toxicity by PB pretreatment is due to an alteration of triphenyltin metabolism. Triphenyltin and its metabolites in liver, kidneys, pancreas and brain were determined by gas chromatography periodically for 96 h after triphenyltin administration in both groups of hamsters. The initial triphenyltin levels in the tissues of PB-pretreated hamsters were about half of those in the tissues of PB-untreated hamsters and PB pretreatment accelerated metabolism of triphenyltin at early stage in hamsters. We also examined the other CYP 1A and 2A inducers, beta-naphthoflavone (B-NF) and 3-methylcholanthrene (MC). The PB pretreatment showed the strongest suppression of the toxicity at 24 h after the triphenyltin intubation, compared with the effects of B-NF and MC. In addition, the maximum proportion of diphenyltin to parent triphenyltin in pancreas was observed in PB-treated hamsters. These findings suggest that the induction of CYP system enzymes affects the metabolism and toxicity of triphenyltin in hamsters. Especially, based on effects of PB and other CYP inducers, PB induction has a key role in suppressing the diabetogenic action of triphenyltin, i.e. by decreasing triphenyltin accumulation in the hamsters.
One of the major dose-limiting toxicities of anthracyclines is cardiotoxicity due to irreversible cardiomyopathy. Whether cisplatin-based treatment induces caridiotoxicity in the short term, especially in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with cardiovascular comorbidity, has not been studied previously. The aim of this study was to evaluate cardiotoxicity in advanced NSCLC patients receiving cisplatin-gemcitabine (CG) or epirubicin-gemcitabine (EG) as first-line treatment.
Patients were randomised to receive gemcitabine 1125 mg/m2 (days 1 and 8) plus either cisplatin 80 mg/m2 (day 2) or epirubicin 100 mg/m2 (day 1) every 3 weeks for a maximum of 5 cycles. Patients had to have a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) > 45%, measured by multiple gated acquisition (MUGA) scan. A second MUGA scan was performed 12 weeks after the end of treatment.
Sixty-nine patients were included. The mean total dose of cisplatin was 349 mg/m2 and of epirubicin 452 mg/m2. The mean difference in decline in LVEF from baseline was 2% in the CG arm versus 6% in the EG arm (p=0.016). Clinically evident cardiac failure was not observed during 12 months follow-up. No correlation was found with total drug doses administered. In patients with a history of cardiac disease a trend towards a higher decrease in LVEF was observed.
Although in the EG arm the LVEF significantly declined and in the CG arm a trend for LVEF to decline was observed, the risk of cardiac failure is limited in advanced NSCLC patients.
Emerging evidence suggests that statins exert beneficial effects beyond those predicted by their cholesterol-lowering actions. We investigated whether atorvastatin influences the development of left ventricular (LV) dysfunction, independently of cholesterol-lowering, in an experimental model of type 1 diabetes mellitus cardiomyopathy.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were treated with atorvastatin (50 mg/kg daily, orally) or with vehicle for 6 weeks. LV function was analysed using tip-catheter measurements. Cardiac stainings of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, vascular cellular adhesion molecule-1, CD11a/lymphocyte-associated antigen-1, CD11b/macrophage antigen alpha, CD18/beta2-integrin, ED1/CD68, collagen I and III, and Sirius Red were assessed by digital image analysis. Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate (RAC1) and ras homologue gene family, member A (RHOA) activities were determined by RAC1 glutathione-S-transferase-p21-activated kinase and rhotekin pull-down assays, respectively. Cardiac lipid peroxides were measured by a colorimetric assay. The phosphorylation state of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) protein production were analysed by western blot.
Diabetes was associated with induced cardiac stainings of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, cellular adhesion molecules, increased leucocyte infiltration, macrophage residence and cardiac collagen content. In contrast, atorvastatin reduced both intramyocardial inflammation and myocardial fibrosis, resulting in improved LV function. This effect was paralleled with a normalisation of diabetes-induced RAC1 and RHOA activity, in the absence of LDL-cholesterol lowering. In addition, atorvastatin decreased diabetes-induced cardiac lipid peroxide levels and p38 MAPK phosphorylation by 1.3-fold (p < 0.05) and 3.2-fold (p < 0.0005), respectively, and normalised the reduced eNOS production caused by diabetes.
These data indicate that atorvastatin, independently of its LDL-cholesterol-lowering capacity, reduces intramyocardial inflammation and myocardial fibrosis, resulting in improved LV function in an experimental model of diabetic cardiomyopathy.
