An increase in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a putative factor in the pathophysiology of stress-related disorders. As CRF expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is important in adaptation to chronic stress, we hypothesized that unrestrained synthesis of CRF in CeA would mimic the consequences of chronic stress exposure and cause dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, increase emotionality and disrupt reproduction. To test this hypothesis, we used a lentiviral vector to increase CRF-expression site specifically in CeA of female rats. Increased synthesis of CRF in CeA amplified CRF and arginine vasopressin peptide concentration in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and decreased glucocorticoid negative feedback, both markers associated with the pathophysiology of depression. In addition, continuous expression of CRF in CeA also increased the acoustic startle response and depressive-like behavior in the forced swim test. Protein levels of gonadotropin-releasing hormone in the medial preoptic area were significantly reduced by continuous expression of CRF in CeA and this was associated with a lengthening of estrous cycles. Finally, sexual motivation but not sexual receptivity was significantly attenuated by continuous CRF synthesis in ovariectomized estradiol-progesterone-primed females. These data indicate that unrestrained CRF synthesis in CeA produces a dysregulation of the HPA axis, as well as many of the behavioral, physiological and reproductive consequences associated with stress-related disorders.Molecular Psychiatry (2009) 14, 37-50; doi:10.1038/mp.2008.91; published online 12 August 2008.
Acetamide is carcinogenic in rats and mice. To clarify the mechanism of carcinogenesis by acetamide, we investigated DNA damage by and acetamide metabolite, acetohydroxamic acid (AHA), using 32P-5'-end-labeled DNA fragments. AHA treated with amidase induced DNA damage in the presence of Cu(II) and displayed a similar DNA cleavage pattern of hydroxylamine. DNA damage was inhibited by both catalase and bathocuproine, suggesting that H2O2 and Cu(I) are involved. Carboxy-PTIO, a specific scavenger of nitric oxide (NO), partially inhibited DNA damage. The amount of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) by amidase-treated AHA was similar to that by hydroxylamine. ESR spectrometry revealed that amidase-treated AHA as well as hydroxylamine generated NO in the presence of Cu(II). From these results, it has been suggested that AHA might be converted into hydroxylamine by amidase. These results suggest that metal-mediated DNA damage mediated by amidase-catalyzed hydroxylamine generation plays an important role in the carcinogenicity of acetamide.
Cognitive changes due to crack cocaine consumption remain unclear.
For clarification, 55 subjects were assigned to three groups: control group, crack cocaine current users, and ex-users. Participants were submitted to Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and tasks evaluating executive functioning and verbal memory. Mood state was also measured. Intergroup comparisons were carried out.
Control group performance on the MMSE was better than that of users and ex-users. Verbal memory performance for logical memory of users was impaired. Ex-users scored lower on DSST and Trail Making Test (Part B).
Chronic crack cocaine use seems to disrupt general cognitive functioning (MMSE), verbal memory, and attentional resources, but findings suggest that some of these effects could be reversed by abstinence.
The efficacy and safety of intravenously administered miconazole nitrate was examined in eight patients with the following infections: cutaneous North American blastomycosis (one), extensive dermatophytosis(one), and chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis (six). Mycologic assessment included direct examination for fungal elements, fungal culture, and histopathology. Laboratory evaluations were performed before and at regular intervals during the study. The total miconazole nitrate dosage, which was administered over a seven- to 32-day period, ranged from 4.0 to 46.8 g. Follow-up examinations extended from two to 15 months. Excellent results were obtained in five patients and fair results in three. No renal, cardiac, hepatic, or hematopoietic toxicity was observed. Other side effects, however, necessitated premature cessation of therapy in four patients. Overall, intravenously administered miconazole is an effective antifungal agent for these cutaneous infections.
Hyoscine skin patches diminish salivation by their anticholinergic action. The aim of reporting this case series is to present the ophthalmic side effects in children, and to highlight the precautions to take. Five children (two males, three females; age range 8-18y) with quadraplegic cerebral palsy (Gross Motor Function Classification System Level V) and profound intellectual impairment, wearing hyoscine skin patches to control excessive salivation, were examined. Binocular visual acuity, pupil reaction, pupil diameter, and dynamic retinoscopy were recorded before and after instilling guttae cyclopentolate 1%. The accommodative responses were compared with the expected norms. Spectacle correction was provided for refractive error and to compensate for lack of accommodation. Tinted lenses were provided for photophobia. Visual assessment was repeated 6 months later. All children had dilated pupils with a mean diameter of 7.8mm (range 7-9mm) before instilling guttae cyclopentolate. Mean pupil constriction to bright light was only 1.8mm (range 1-2mm). Mean resting accommodation was 0.45 dioptres (D; range 0-1D) and no accommodative responses were detected on dynamic retinoscopy. Three children were photophobic. Visual behaviour was seen to improve after the use of appropriate spectacles. Photophobia was relieved by tinted lenses. The anticholinergic effects of hyoscine skin patches can cause photophobia and impair vision due to pupil dilatation and paralysis of accommodation. Appropriate spectacles are recommended.
Sirolimus (SRL) is a potent immunosuppressive drug used in organ transplantation for prophylaxis of acute allograft rejection. Conversion from calcineurin inhibitors to SRL has become an important alternative in patients with chronic allograft nephropathy. Recently, some reports have described the appearance of proteinuria after the use of SRL. The aim of the present study was to describe the incidence of proteinuria in transplant recipients receiving SRL in our transplant center. We studied 78 patients receiving SRL either de novo or after conversion. Eighteen transplant recipients (23.1%) developed proteinuria after SRL treatment. Proteinuria was diagnosed at 11.2 +/- 2.1 months after the initiation of SRL; in eight patients (44.4%) it occurred in the first 6 months. The mean value of proteinuria was 2.6 +/- 0.6 g/24 hours. In 5 patients (27.8%), proteinuria reached nephrotic levels, and in 13 patients (72.2%) was associated with edema. Renal allograft biopsies were performed before conversion to SRL, and a new biopsy, after the appearance of proteinuria. The light microscopy of biopsies performed after the onset of proteinuria showed no specific glomerular changes, except in 2 cases wherein the diagnosis was focal segmental glomerulosclerosis. Immunofluorescence was negative in all cases. In conclusion, in this study proteinuria was observed in 21.3% of patients receiving SRL therapy either as de novo protocol or after conversion to SRL. Proteinuria occurred early after the initiation of SRL therapy and in these cases, withdrawal of SRL was associated with reversion of proteinuria.
The effects of i.v. captopril on regional blood flow (radioactive microspheres, 15 +/- 5 micron), hemodynamics and maximal oxygen consumption were evaluated in conscious rats with congestive heart failure due to large myocardial infarction (n = 9, infarct size 39.5 +/- 2% of left ventricle) and compared to data obtained from rats subjected to sham surgical procedures (n = 8). In both groups data were obtained at rest and during submaximal treadmill exercise during alternate infusion of captopril and saline. In the congestive heart failure group captopril reduced systemic vascular resistance, mean arterial pressure and left ventricular systolic pressure (P less than .05 each). Blood flow to the renal, gastrointestinal and coronary circulations was reduced in the heart failure group treated with saline vehicle. Flow to the renal and gastrointestinal beds of heart failure animals was enhanced to values similar to those observed in sham animals during captopril treatment. Left ventricular coronary flow was also increased significantly by captopril in both sham and heart failure animals. The most prominent effects of captopril occurred in the renal circulation of the heart failure group in which blood flow increased by 55%. Blood flow to skeletal muscle and skin was unchanged by captopril both in sham and heart failure animals at rest and during exercise. Maximal oxygen consumption was not affected by captopril treatment. Thus, captopril induced a differential pattern of vasodilation with the greatest effect in the renal bed and a less intensive effect in the gastrointestinal and coronary beds. The unchanged flow to skeletal muscle may explain the failure of captopril to improve exercise capacity after short-term administration.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) is frequently used to treat patients with epilepsy, neuralgia, psychiatric diseases, etc. We prescribe it with care due to its side effects, mainly such as dizziness, sleepiness and cerebellar symptoms. But pitch perception abnormality is an uncommon side effect. We describe the case of a 12-year-old girl who exhibited half tone lowered pitch perception abnormality caused by CBZ. As CBZ acts as a central nervous system (CNS) inhibitor, we speculate that CBZ inhibits CNS and patients misperceive notes. We must prescribe CBZ with care to prevent pitch perception abnormalities.
In patients with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) or other conditions requiring oral doses of proton pump inhibitors, it frequently becomes necessary to use parenterally administered gastric acid inhibitors. However, i.v. histamine-2 receptor antagonists are not effective at usual doses and lose their effectiveness because of tachyphlaxis. With the approval in the United States of i.v. pantoprazole, a substituted benzimidazole available in i.v. formulation, it will become possible to acutely manage gastric acid secretion in the acute care setting of a hospital. This study was developed to monitor the safety and establish the efficacy of i.v. pantoprazole as an alternative to oral proton pump inhibitors for the control of gastric acid hypersecretion in patients with ZES.
The efficacy of replacing oral PPI therapy with i.v. pantoprazole was evaluated in 14 ZES patients. After study enrollment, patients taking their current doses of oral PPI (omeprazole or lansoprazole) were switched to pantoprazole i.v. for 6 days during an 8-day inpatient period in the clinical research center. Effective control was defined as an acid output (AO) of < 10 mEq/h (< 5 mEq/h in patients with prior gastric acid-reducing surgery).
The mean age of the 14 patients enrolled in the study was 52.4 yr (range = 38-67). Mean basal AO was 0.55 +/- 0.32 mEq/h and mean fasting gastrin was 1089 pg/ml (range = 36-3720). Four patients were also diagnosed with the multiple endocrine neoplasia type I syndrome, nine were male, and two had previously undergone acid-reducing surgery. Before study enrollment, gastric acid hypersecretion was controlled in nine of 14 patients with omeprazole (20-200 mg daily) and five of 14 with lansoprazole (30-210 mg daily). In the oral phase of the study all patients had adequate control of gastric acid secretion, with a mean AO of 0.55 +/- 0.32 mEq/h (mean +/- SEM). Thereafter, 80 mg of i.v. pantoprazole was administered b.i.d. for 7 days by a brief (15 min) infusion and the dose was titrated upward to a predetermined maximum of 240 mg/24 h to control AO. A dose of 80 mg b.i.d. of i.v. pantoprazole controlled AO in 13 of 14 of the patients (93%) for the duration of the study (p > 0.05 compared to baseline values for all timepoints). One sporadic ZES patient (oral control value = 0.65 mEq/h on 100 mg of omeprazole b.i.d. p.o.) was not controlled with 80 mg of i.v. pantoprazole b.i.d. and dosage was titrated upward to 120 mg b.i.d. after day 2.
There were no serious adverse events observed. Intravenous pantoprazole provides gastric acid secretory control that is equivalent to the acid suppression observed with oral proton pump inhibitors. Most ZES patients (93%) maintained effective control of AO previously established with oral PPIs when switched to 80 mg of i.v. pantoprazole b.i.d.; however, for difficult-to-control patients, doses > 80 mg b.i.d. may be required.
A 6-yr-old male patient underwent live related left lateral segment liver transplant for cryptogenic cirrhosis with portal hypertension. One month after the liver transplant the patient had an isolated liver transaminases increase. He was posted for percutaneous liver biopsy for suspected graft rejection under general anesthesia. The patient was administered ketamine 7 mg/kg along with glycopyrrolate 0.01 mg/kg IM in the preoperative area. He developed generalized tonic clonic seizures just before the biopsy and was treated with IV midazolam 1 mg and thiopental 60 mg. Percutaneous liver biopsy was obtained once the convulsions subsided. Both ketamine and cyclosporine have been implicated as having proconvulsant properties and may have been responsible for the seizures in our patient. Our experience prompted us to suggest that ketamine in a patient immunosuppressed with cyclosporine may not be safe and that alternative anesthetics may need to be considered for such procedures.
Food allergies, and peanut allergy in particular, are leading causes of anaphylactic fatalities worldwide. The immune mechanisms that underlie food allergy remain ill-defined and controversial, in part because studies in humans typically focus on analysis of a limited number of prototypical Th1/Th2 cytokines. Here we determine the kinetics and prevalence of a broad panel of peanut-driven cytokine and chemokine responses in humans with current peanut allergy vs those with stable, naturally occurring clinical tolerance to peanut. Our primary focus is identification of novel indicators of immune dysregulation. Antigen-specific cytokine mRNA and protein responses were elicited in primary culture via peanut or irrelevant antigen (Leishmania extract, milk antigens) mediated stimulation of fresh peripheral blood cells from 40 individuals. Peanut extract exposure in vitro induced a broad panel of responses associated with Th2/Th9-like, Th1-like and Th17-like immunity. Peanut-dependent Type 2 cytokine responses were frequently found in both peanut allergic individuals and those who exhibit clinical tolerance to peanut ingestion. Among Th2/Th9-associated cytokines, IL-9 responses discriminated between allergic and clinically tolerant populations better than did commonly used IL-4, IL-5 or IL-13 responses. Comparison with responses evoked by unrelated control antigen-mediated stimulation showed that these differences are antigen-dependent and allergen-specific. Conversely, the intensity of IL-12, IL-17, IL-23 and IFN-γ production was indistinguishable in peanut allergic and peanut tolerant populations. In summary, the ability to generate and maintain cytokine responses to peanut is not inherently distinct between allergic and peanut tolerant humans. Quantitative differences in the intensity of cytokine production better reflects clinical phenotype, with optimally useful indicators being IL-9, IL-5, IL-13 and IL-4. Equivalent, and minimal, Ag-dependent pro-inflammatory cytokine levels in both healthy and peanut allergic volunteers argues against a key role for such cytokines in maintenance of clinical tolerance to food antigens in humans.
Ivermectin (IVM) was first developed for use with livestock. It is now the only drug used for mass treatment of onchocerciasis. It is difficult to prove whether reports of sub-optimal responses to IVM in some Onchocerca volvulus infected patients are a result of drug resistance, as procedures typically used to examine IVM efficacy in livestock can not be performed on humans. To determine the effects of IVM on O. volvulus, one approach is to examine allele frequencies before and after treatment. Allele(s) linked to resistance may increase in frequency after repeated treatment. Mass treatment of large human populations to reduce transmission of O. volvulus will impose selection pressure for resistance. P-glycoprotein has been implicated as a candidate IVM resistance gene in nematodes. In this study, the intron-exon structure of O. volvulus P-glycoprotein (OvPGP) has been defined. The gene spans 10.6 kb, is AT-rich, contains 24 exons and a high proportion of class 0 introns. The genetic diversity of 28 loci spanning the entire OvPGP gene was examined in four O. volvulus populations from the Volta Region of Ghana. Worms collected in 1999 and 2002 from IVM treated patients showed reduced genetic polymorphism and an increase in the number of loci not in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. Changes in allelic patterns and a reduction in diversity at many loci in P-glycoprotein in the parasites from IVM treated patients in 1999 and 2002 suggest that IVM is imposing selection on this gene, consistent with a possible development of IVM resistance.
A case is described of a patient with an oat cell carcinoma of the bronchus with moderately elevated levels of plasma corticotrophin (ACTH) and antidiuretic hormone (ADH). Ectopic secretion of ACTH induced severe hypokalaemia and concealed the effects of concomitant ADH secretion on renal function. Normal renal responsiveness was restored following correction of hypokalaemia. The hypokalaemia was associated with evidence of a marked increase in corticosteroid secretion but plasma ACTH concentrations did not show a proportionate elevation. Chromatographic studies on tumour extracts suggest that the presence of a large fraction of high molecular weight ACTH in plasma could explain this discrepancy.
Several methods are used for stereotactically guided implantation of electrodes into the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for continuous high-frequency stimulation in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). The authors present a stereotactic magnetic resonance (MR) method relying on three-dimensional (3D) T1-weighted images for surgical planning and multiplanar T2-weighted images for direct visualization of the STN, coupled with electrophysiological recording and stimulation guidance.
Twelve patients with advanced PD were enrolled in this study of bilateral STN implantation. Both STNs were visible as 3D ovoid biconvex hypointense structures located in the upper mesencephalon. The coordinates of the centers of the STNs were determined with reference to the patient's anterior commissure-posterior commissure line by using a new landmark, the anterior border of the red nucleus. Electrophysiological monitoring through five parallel tracks was performed simultaneously to define the functional target accurately. Microelectrode recording identified high-frequency, spontaneous, movement-related activity and tremor-related cells within the STNs. Acute STN macrostimulation improved contralateral rigidity and akinesia, suppressed tremor when present, and could induce dyskinesias. The central track, which was directed at the predetermined target by using MR imaging, was selected for implantation of 19 of 24 electrodes. No surgical complications were noted.
At evaluation 6 months after surgery, continuous STN stimulation was shown to have improved parkinsonian motor disability by 64% and 78% in the "off' and "on" medication states, respectively. Antiparkinsonian drug treatment was reduced by 70% in 10 patients and withdrawn in two patients. The severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias was reduced by 83% and motor fluctuations by 88%. Continuous high-frequency stimulation of the STN applied through electrodes implanted with the aid of 3D MR imaging and electrophysiological guidance is a safe and effective therapy for patients suffering from severe, advanced levodopa-responsive PD.
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a disease with mitochondrial dysfunction and a newly established risk factor for the development of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and fibrosis. We examined mitochondrial homeostasis in the folic acid (FA)-induced AKI model that develops early fibrosis over a rapid time course. Mice given a single dose of FA had elevated serum creatinine (3-fold) and urine glucose (2.2-fold) 1 and 2 d after injection that resolved by 4d. In contrast, peroxisome proliferator gamma coactivator 1α (PGC-1α) and mitochondrial transcription factor A (TFAM), critical transcriptional regulators of mitochondrial biogenesis (MB), were down-regulated ∼80% 1d after FA injection and remained depressed through 14 d. Multiple electron transport chain and ATP synthesis genes were also down-regulated from 1 to 14 d after FA, including NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) 1 beta subcomplex 8 (NDUFβ8), ATP synthase subunit β (ATPS-β), and cytochrome C oxidase subunit I (COXI). Mitochondrial DNA copy number was reduced ∼50% from 2 to 14 d after FA injection. Protein levels of early fibrosis markers α-smooth muscle actin and transforming growth factor β1 were elevated at 6 and 14 d after FA. Picrosirius red staining and collagen 1A2 (COL1A2) IHC revealed staining for mature collagen deposition at 14 d. We propose that mitochondrial dysfunction induced by AKI is a persistent cellular injury that promotes progression to fibrosis and CKD, and that this model can be used to test mitochondrial therapeutics that limit progression to fibrosis and CKD.
Increased levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) during cardiac stress such as ischemia-reperfusion, sepsis and hypertension may display both beneficial and detrimental roles in cardiac contractile performance. However, the precise role of iNOS in the maintenance of cardiac contractile function remains elusive. This study was designed to determine the impact of chronic iNOS inhibition on cardiac contractile function and the underlying mechanism involved with a special focus on the NO downstream signaling molecule Akt. Male C57 or Akt2 knockout [Akt2(-/-)] mice were injected with the specific iNOS inhibitor 1400W (2 mg/kg/d) or saline for 7 days. Both 1400W and Akt2 knockout dampened glucose and insulin tolerance without additive effects. Treatment of 1400W decreased heart and liver weights as well as cardiomyocyte cross-sectional area in C57 but not Akt2 knockout mice. 1400W but not Akt2 knockout compromised cardiomyocyte mechanical properties including decreased peak shortening and maximal velocity of shortening/relengthening, prolonged relengthening duration, reduced intracellular Ca(2+) release and decay rate, the effects of which were ablated or attenuated by Akt2 knockout. Akt2 knockout but not 1400W increased the levels of intracellular Ca(2+) regulatory proteins including SERCA2a and phospholamban phosphorylation. 1400W reduced the level of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, the effect of which was unaffected by Akt2 knockout. Neither 1400W nor Akt2 knockout significantly affected ER stress, autophagy, the post-insulin receptor signaling Akt, GSK3β and AMPK, as well as the stress signaling IκB, JNK, ERK and p38 with the exception of elevated IκB phosphorylation with jointed effect of 1400W and Akt2 knockout. Taken together, these data indicated that an essential role of iNOS in the maintenance of cardiac morphology and function possibly through an Akt2-dependent mechanism.
The effect of enalapril was evaluated in 67 patients with essential hypertension, and its therapeutic efficacy was compared with atenolol in a placebo run-in, single-blind, cross-over trial. Enalapril significantly reduced blood pressure in all grades of essential hypertension. As monotherapy it 'normalized' blood pressure in 88%, 50% and 25% of patients with mild, moderate and severe hypertension respectively. Optimal dose for most of the patients was 20 to 40 mg/day. Comparison with atenolol revealed almost parallel efficacy of the two drugs, although enalapril produced a significantly greater reduction in systolic blood pressure in patients with mild and moderate hypertension (P less than 0.01 in each group). No serious side effects were encountered with either drug. Enalapril, therefore, has a potent and slightly superior antihypertensive effect to that of atenolol, and may be used as a 'first-step' drug in the treatment of hypertensive patients.
Ollier disease and Maffucci syndrome are characterized by multiple central cartilaginous tumors that are accompanied by soft tissue hemangiomas in Maffucci syndrome. We show that in 37 of 40 individuals with these syndromes, at least one tumor has a mutation in isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) or in IDH2, 65% of which result in a R132C substitution in the protein. In 18 of 19 individuals with more than one tumor analyzed, all tumors from a given individual shared the same IDH1 mutation affecting Arg132. In 2 of 12 subjects, a low level of mutated DNA was identified in non-neoplastic tissue. The levels of the metabolite 2HG were measured in a series of central cartilaginous and vascular tumors, including samples from syndromic and nonsyndromic subjects, and these levels correlated strongly with the presence of IDH1 mutations. The findings are compatible with a model in which IDH1 or IDH2 mutations represent early post-zygotic occurrences in individuals with these syndromes.
Ollier disease and Maffucci syndrome are non-hereditary skeletal disorders characterized by multiple enchondromas (Ollier disease) combined with spindle cell hemangiomas (Maffucci syndrome). We report somatic heterozygous mutations in IDH1 (c.394C>T encoding an R132C substitution and c.395G>A encoding an R132H substitution) or IDH2 (c.516G>C encoding R172S) in 87% of enchondromas (benign cartilage tumors) and in 70% of spindle cell hemangiomas (benign vascular lesions). In total, 35 of 43 (81%) subjects with Ollier disease and 10 of 13 (77%) with Maffucci syndrome carried IDH1 (98%) or IDH2 (2%) mutations in their tumors. Fourteen of 16 subjects had identical mutations in separate lesions. Immunohistochemistry to detect mutant IDH1 R132H protein suggested intraneoplastic and somatic mosaicism. IDH1 mutations in cartilage tumors were associated with hypermethylation and downregulated expression of several genes. Mutations were also found in 40% of solitary central cartilaginous tumors and in four chondrosarcoma cell lines, which will enable functional studies to assess the role of IDH1 and IDH2 mutations in tumor formation.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), through the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis and other brain stress systems, is involved in the emotional dysregulation associated with cocaine dependence. Little is known about the response of cocaine-dependent individuals to CRH administration.
The primary objective was to examine the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the subjective and physiologic response to CRH in cocaine-dependent individuals and controls.
A case-control study.
Subjects were admitted to a General Clinical Research Center for testing and abstinence was verified with a urine drug screening.
Participants were male controls (n = 23), female controls (n = 24), cocaine-dependent men (n = 28), and cocaine-dependent women (n = 25). Individuals with dependence on other substances (except caffeine or nicotine) or with major depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, or psychotic or eating disorders were excluded.
Subjects received 1 microg/kg of CRH intravenously.
Primary outcomes included plasma corticotropin levels, cortisol levels, and heart rate and subjective measurements.
Cocaine-dependent individuals exhibited higher stress (P < .001) and craving for CRH compared with controls. A positive correlation (r(s) = 0.51; P < .001) between stress and craving was found in cocaine-dependent subjects. Intravenous CRH elevated heart rates in all groups; however, cocaine-dependent women demonstrated a significantly higher heart rate at all time points (P = .05). Women had higher cortisol responses to CRH (P = .03). No effect of cocaine status was observed. The corticotropin response to CRH was independent of sex and cocaine dependence. Cortisol and corticotropin were positively correlated in the controls and cocaine-dependent men, but not in cocaine-dependent women (r(s) = 0.199; P = .4).
There is an increased subjective and heart rate response to CRH and a relationship between stress and craving in cocaine-dependent individuals. The lack of difference in hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis response between the cocaine-dependent and control groups suggests that the heart rate and subjective responses in the cocaine group may be mediated by sensitization of nonhypothalamic stress-responsive CRH systems.
Cerium oxide (CeO(2)) nanoparticles have been posited to have both beneficial and toxic effects on biological systems. Herein, we examine if a single intratracheal instillation of CeO(2) nanoparticles is associated with systemic toxicity in male Sprague-Dawley rats.
Compared with control animals, CeO(2) nanoparticle exposure was associated with increased liver ceria levels, elevations in serum alanine transaminase levels, reduced albumin levels, a diminished sodium-potassium ratio, and decreased serum triglyceride levels (P < 0.05). Consistent with these data, rats exposed to CeO(2) nanoparticles also exhibited reductions in liver weight (P < 0.05) and dose-dependent hydropic degeneration, hepatocyte enlargement, sinusoidal dilatation, and accumulation of granular material. No histopathological alterations were observed in the kidney, spleen, and heart. Analysis of serum biomarkers suggested an elevation of acute phase reactants and markers of hepatocyte injury in the rats exposed to CeO(2) nanoparticles.
Taken together, these data suggest that intratracheal instillation of CeO(2) nanoparticles can result in liver damage.
Immunological mechanisms are involved in many adverse drug reactions. In certain forms of drug-induced hepatitis, patients have been reported to express specific autoantibodies to hepatic drug-metabolising enzymes. The alcohol deterrent disulfiram is associated with a low frequency of severe liver toxicity, including hepatitis, but the mechanism of the toxicity is unknown. We investigated whether autoantibodies to cytochrome P450 enzymes were expressed in the serum of a 28-year-old male patient, who developed hepatitis after 7 weeks of disulfiram treatment and in whom possible causes of hepatitis other than disulfiram had been ruled out.
Patient serum IgG reactivity was analysed by immunoblotting or ELISA against test antigens consisting of recombinant/purified human or rat liver P450 enzymes, or isolated rat liver microsomes.
A significant serum reactivity was found in immunoblotting against human cytochromes P450 1A2 and rat P450 3A1, using serum dilutions of up to 1:900 and 1:2400, respectively. In contrast, the reactivity against cytochromes P450 2E1, 2C9, 2D6, 3A4, and rat liver P450 reductase was either very low or undetectable. ELISA reactivity was low in general, indicating that the P450 epitopes were not surface exposed. Immunoblotting of rat liver microsomes revealed that autoantibodies recognised one major polypeptide corresponding to P450 3A. Autoantibody titres remained stable for at least 6 months after acute hepatitis. A similar reactivity was not found in any of ten control sera.
The expression of autoantibodies directed against specific cytochromes P450 in a case of disulfiram hepatitis suggests that immunological mechanisms are involved in this adverse drug reaction, and that these P450 proteins should be evaluated as possible diagnostic test antigens in disulfiram hepatotoxicity.
Oral leukotriene receptor antagonists have been shown to have efficacy in chronic asthma.
To compare the clinical benefit of montelukast, a once-daily oral leukotriene receptor antagonist; placebo; and inhaled beclomethasone.
Randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 12-week study.
36 sites worldwide.
895 patients 15 to 85 years of age with chronic asthma and an FEV1 50% to 85% of predicted.
Montelukast, 10 mg once daily at bedtime; inhaled beclomethasone, 200 microg twice daily, administered with a spacer device; or placebo.
Primary end points were daytime asthma symptom score and FEV1. Secondary end points were peak expiratory flow rates in the morning and evening, as-needed beta-agonist use, nocturnal awakenings, asthma-specific quality of life, and worsening asthma episodes.
Over the 12-week treatment period, the average percentage change from baseline in FEV1 was 13.1% with beclomethasone, 7.4% with montelukast, and 0.7% with placebo (P < 0.001 for each active treatment compared with placebo; P < 0.01 for beclomethasone compared with montelukast). The average change from baseline in daytime symptom score was -0.62 for beclomethasone, -0.41 for montelukast, and -0.17 for placebo (P < 0.001 for each active treatment compared with placebo; P < 0.01 for beclomethasone compared with montelukast). Each agent improved peak expiratory flow rates and quality of life, reduced nocturnal awakenings and asthma attacks, increased the number of asthma-control days, and decreased the number of days with asthma exacerbations (P < 0.001 for each active treatment compared with placebo for each end point; P < 0.01 for beclomethasone compared with montelukast for each end point). Although beclomethasone had a greater mean clinical benefit than montelukast, montelukast had a faster onset of action and a greater initial effect. The two agents caused similar decreases in peripheral blood eosinophil counts (P < 0.05 for each agent compared with placebo). Both agents had tolerability profiles similar to that of placebo over the 12-week study.
Although beclomethasone had a larger mean effect than montelukast, both drugs provided clinical benefit to patients with chronic asthma. This finding is consistent with the use of these agents as controller medications for chronic asthma.
Clinical hypothyroidism affects various metabolic processes including drug metabolism. CYP2B and CYP3A are important cytochrome P450 drug metabolizing enzymes that are regulated by the xenobiotic receptors constitutive androstane receptor (CAR, NR1I3) and pregnane X receptor (PXR, NR1I2). We evaluated the regulation of the hepatic expression of CYPs by CAR and PXR in the hypothyroid state induced by a low-iodine diet containing 0.15% propylthiouracil. Expression of Cyp3a11 was suppressed in hypothyroid C57BL/6 wild type (WT) mice and a further decrement was observed in hypothyroid CAR-/- mice, but not in hypothyroid PXR-/- mice. In contrast, expression of Cyp2b10 was induced in both WT and PXR-/- hypothyroid mice, and this induction was abolished in CAR-/- mice and in and CAR-/- PXR-/- double knockouts. CAR mRNA expression was increased by hypothyroidism, while PXR expression remained unchanged. Carbamazepine (CBZ) is a commonly used antiepileptic that is metabolized by CYP3A isoforms. After CBZ treatment of normal chow fed mice, serum CBZ levels were highest in CAR-/- mice and lowest in WT and PXR-/- mice. Hypothyroid WT or PXR-/- mice survived chronic CBZ treatment, but all hypothyroid CAR-/- and CAR-/- PXR-/- mice died, with CAR-/-PXR-/- mice surviving longer than CAR-/- mice (12.3±3.3 days vs. 6.3±2.1 days, p=0.04). All these findings suggest that hypothyroid status affects xenobiotic metabolism, with opposing responses of CAR and PXR and their CYP targets that can cancel each other out, decreasing serious metabolic derangement in response to a xenobiotic challenge.
Since the 1930's, amphetamine drugs have been used therapeutically and recreationally. High doses are associated with acute injury to axon terminals of dopaminergic neurons. It is unknown whether low dose exposure to amphetamine over a prolonged time period is associated with the development of Parkinson's disease (PD).
A telephone survey of drug and chemical exposure was administered to patients from three faculty practice clinics at UCSF. Patients were asked to participate if they had been diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy (PN), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), or PD between the ages of 40 and 64. Spouses or caregivers were also asked to participate. "Amphetamine exposure" was defined as a prior use of amphetamine, methamphetamine or dextroamphetamine. "Prolonged exposure" was defined as amphetamine use that occurred more than twice a week for > or =3 months or weekly usage for > or =1 year and had to occur before diagnosis of the neurological condition.
Prolonged exposure to either prescribed or non-prescribed amphetamine was common, occurring in 15% with PN (11/76), 13% with ALS (9/72), and 11% with PD (17/158). Prolonged amphetamine exposure was more frequent in diseased patients compared to spouses when all diseases were combined (adjusted OR=3.15, 95% CI 1.42-7.00, p=0.005). When tested alone, only the Parkinson's disease group retained statistical significance (adjusted OR=8.04, 95% CI 1.56-41.4, p=0.013). For most individuals, exposure occurred long before diagnosis (averages: PN 25 years, ALS 28 years, and PD 27 years).
The elevated rate of prolonged amphetamine exposure in PD is intriguing and bears further investigation.
Elastin is a chief component of lung interstitium, and it is central to lung morphology and function. Efforts to understand the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis have focused primarily upon collagen turnover in the lung; few studies have focused on elastin. In this study, we examined steady-state elastin mRNA levels after lung injury in the mouse induced by (1) butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) which causes acute lung injury with recovery, (2) BHT + 70% O2 (fibrosis), or (3) 70% O2. Total lung elastin mRNA increased 70-80-fold on d10-14 after BHT/O2, but was unchanged after BHT or O2 alone. In situ hybridization studies localized elastin mRNA to cells in the muscularis of conducting airways and to scattered interstitial cells in fibrotic foci. Elastic fiber morphology was markedly distorted after BHT/O2. Thus, marked upregulation of elastin gene expression is correlated with the histopathology of fibrotic lung disease.
Acute toxic dosage-dependent behavioral effects of caffeine were compared in adult males from seven inbred mouse strains (A/J, BALB/cJ, CBA/J, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, SWR/J). C57BL/6J, chosen as a "prototypic" mouse strain, was used to determine behavioral responses to a broad range (5-500 mg/kg) of caffeine doses. Five phenotypic characteristics--locomotor activity, righting ability, clonic seizure induction, stress-induced lethality, death without external stress--were scored at various caffeine doses in drug-naive animals under empirically optimized, rigidly constant experimental conditions. Mice (n = 12 for each point) received single IP injections of a fixed volume/g body weight of physiological saline carrier with or without caffeine in doses ranging from 125-500 mg/kg. Loss of righting ability was scored at 1, 3, 5 min post dosing and at 5 min intervals thereafter for 20 min. In the same animals the occurrence of clonic seizures was scored as to time of onset and severity for 20 min after drug administration. When these proceeded to tonic seizures, death occurred in less than 20 min. Animals surviving for 20 min were immediately stressed by a swim test in 25 degrees C water, and death-producing tonic seizures were scored for 2 min. In other animals locomotor activity was measured 15 or 60 min after caffeine administration. By any single behavioral criterion or a combination of these criteria, marked differences in response to toxic caffeine doses were observed between strains. These results indicate that behavioral toxicity testing of alkylxanthines in a single mouse strain may be misleading and suggest that toxic responses of the central nervous system to this class of compounds are genetically influenced in mammals.
