Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) is an autosomal dominant, multi-system disorder, typically involving severe neurological symptoms, such as epilepsy, cognitive deficits and autism. Two genes, TSC1 and TSC2, encoding the proteins hamartin and tuberin, respectively, have been identified as causing TSC. Although there is a substantial overlap in the clinical phenotype produced by TSC1 and TSC2 mutations, accumulating evidence indicates that TSC2 mutations cause more severe neurological manifestations than TSC1 mutations. In this study, the neurological phenotype of a novel mouse model involving conditional inactivation of the Tsc2 gene in glial-fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells (Tsc2(GFAP1)CKO mice) was characterized and compared with previously generated Tsc1(GFAP1)CKO mice. Similar to Tsc1(GFAP1)CKO mice, Tsc2(GFAP1)CKO mice exhibited epilepsy, premature death, progressive megencephaly, diffuse glial proliferation, dispersion of hippocampal pyramidal cells and decreased astrocyte glutamate transporter expression. However, Tsc2(GFAP1)CKO mice had an earlier onset and higher frequency of seizures, as well as significantly more severe histological abnormalities, compared with Tsc1(GFAP1)CKO mice. The differences between Tsc1(GFAP1)CKO and Tsc2(GFAP1)CKO mice were correlated with higher levels of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) activation in Tsc2(GFAP1)CKO mice and were reversed by the mTOR inhibitor, rapamycin. These findings provide novel evidence in mouse models that Tsc2 mutations intrinsically cause a more severe neurological phenotype than Tsc1 mutations and suggest that the difference in phenotype may be related to the degree to which Tsc1 and Tsc2 inactivation causes abnormal mTOR activation.
The serum p53 antibody (s-p53 Ab) is a valuable prognostic factor for carcinomas, but its common detection method, based on enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), needs to be improved due to low sensitivity. Although neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is widely used in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in China, forecasting chemoresistance is still a pressing problem.
Hybrid phage and wild-type p53 protein (wt p53 protein) were produced before the establishment of phage-ELISA and p53-ELISA. S-p53 Abs of 829 patients with various types of cancer was detected by a double ELISA system. 47 ΙΙΙ stage NSCLC patients treated with mitomycin, vindesine and cisplatin (MCV)-based NACT were chosen for s-p53 Abs, carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 12-5 predictive value analysis.
Through the combination of p53-ELISA and phage-ELISA (p53-phage ELISA), the sensitivity of s-p53 Abs in lung, breast, colorectal, gastric, esophageal, liver and ovarian cancer increased to 39.0%, 33.3%, 41.7%, 32.1%, 30.9%, 23.1% and 43.2% respectively. S-p53 Abs proved to correlate with nodal involvement, TNM stage, histological type (in lung cancer) or tumor size (in gastric cancer). As for the 47 ΙΙΙ stage NSCLC treated with NACT, s-p53 Abs and CA12-5 remarkably decreased after NACT treatment (P=0.034 and P=0.007) and pre-NACT low s-p53 Abs correlated with high objective chemoresponse rate (P=0.016).
p53-phage ELISA system has an edge over single p53-ELISA. S-p53 Abs level correlates with cancer patients' clinicalpathological parameters and can predict the chemoresponse of ΙΙΙ stage NSCLC patients during MCV-based NACT treatment.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is one of the most effective anticancer drugs. However, its cardiotoxicity remains a clinical concern that severely restricts its therapeutic usage. We designed this study to investigate whether tadalafil, a long-acting phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor, protects against DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. We also sought to delineate the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying tadalafil-induced cardioprotection. Male CF-1 outbred mice were randomized into three groups (n = 15-24/group) to receive either saline (0.2 ml i.p.), DOX (15 mg/kg, given by a single intraperitoneal injection), or tadalafil (4 mg/kg p.o. daily for 9 days) plus DOX. Left ventricular function was subsequently assessed by transthoracic echocardiography and Millar conductance catheter. Cardiac contractile function was impaired by DOX, and it was significantly improved by cotreatment with tadalafil. Tadalafil attenuated DOX-induced apoptosis and depletion of prosurvival proteins, including Bcl-2 and GATA-4, in myocardium. Cardiac oxidative stress was attenuated and antioxidant capacity was enhanced by tadalafil possibly via up-regulation of mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (MnSOD). Moreover, the tadalafil-treated group demonstrated increased cardiac cGMP level and protein kinase G (PKG) activity. Tadalafil did not interfere with the efficacy of DOX in killing human osteosarcoma cells in vitro or its antitumor effect in vivo in tumor xenograft model. We conclude that tadalafil improved left ventricular function and prevented cardiomyocyte apoptosis in DOX-induced cardiomyopathy through mechanisms involving up-regulation of cGMP, PKG activity, and MnSOD level without interfering with the chemotherapeutic benefits of DOX.
Methamphetamine (METH) produces nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) loss, partly resembling that which occurs in Parkinson's disease (PD). In PD there is also a marked alteration in the gut. Given the similarities between the central DA denervation produced by METH and PD, in the present study we evaluated the alterations in the gut following upon METH administration. To compare these effects with those occurring in PD, we also administered the parkinsonism-inducing neurotoxin MPTP. METH and MPTP were administered to mice, and after 7 days we investigated the immunostaining for tyrosine hydroxylase in nervous plexuses. These data indicate that METH did not alter the catecholamine-containing axons and autonomic neurons, while MPTP markedly reduced these components.
Given the loss of therapeutic efficacy associated with the development of resistance to lamivudine (LMV) and the availability of new alternative treatments for chronic hepatitis B patients, early detection of viral genotypic resistance could allow the clinician to consider therapy modification before viral breakthrough and biochemical relapse occur. To this end, 28 LMV-treated patients (44 +/- 12 years; 24 men), on their first therapy schedule, were monitored monthly at four Brazilian centers for the emergence of drug resistance using the reverse hybridization-based INNO-LiPA HBV DR assay and occasionally sequencing (two cases). Positive viral responses (HBV DNA clearance) after 6, 12, and 18 months of therapy were achieved by 57, 68, and 53% of patients, while biochemical responses (serum alanine aminotransferase normalization) were observed in 82, 82, and 53% of cases. All viral breakthrough cases (N = 8) were related to the emergence of YMDD variants observed in 7, 21, and 35% of patients at 6, 12, and 18 months, respectively. The emergence of these variants was not associated with viral genotype, HBeAg expression status, or pretreatment serum alanine aminotransferase levels. The detection of resistance-associated mutations was observed before the corresponding biochemical flare (41 +/- 14 and 60 +/- 15 weeks) in the same individuals. Then, if highly sensitive LMV drug resistance testing is carried out at frequent and regular intervals, the relatively long period (19 +/- 2 weeks) between the emergence of viral resistance and the onset of biochemical relapse can provide clinicians with ample time to re-evaluate drug therapy.
Capsaicin, which has been studied extensively as a treatment for itch and several chronic pain disorders, induces burning during the first week of therapy, causing a substantial percentage of patients to discontinue treatment prematurely. We examined whether pre-treatment with the topical anesthetic EMLA reduces the burning sensation induced by capsaicin and alters capsaicin effects on thermal sensation and pain thresholds. Healthy adult volunteers participated in the single-blind, 6-day study. After baseline measurement of warmth, cold pain and heat pain thresholds with a computerized thermal sensory analyzer, subjects applied EMLA thrice daily on one forearm and vehicle placebo on the other forearm, 60 min before applying capsaicin 0.075% on both forearms. Subjects rated burning sensations 3 times a day throughout the study. After 1 and 5 days of thrice daily application of EMLA or vehicle followed by capsaicin, thermal sensory testing was repeated. Subjects rated burning sensations to the significantly less on the EMLA pre-treated forearm compared with the placebo pre-treated forearm during all 5 days of treatment (p < 0.01). Capsaicin with and without EMLA produced significant heat pain hyperalgesia and cold pain hypoalgesia after 1 day of treatment. After 5 days of treatment, heat pain hyperalgesia persisted on both forearms; however, it was significantly less on the EMLA-treated forearm vs the vehicle-treated site (p < 0.03). Cold pain hypoalgesia persisted in both forearms. The warmth sensation threshold was significantly higher on the EMLA-pre-treated forearm after 1 and 5 days of treatment. In conclusion, pre-treatment with EMLA significantly reduced the burning sensation from capsaicin and attenuated heat hyperalgesia during treatment.
We report about two newborns with sudden onset of inability of mechanical ventilation due to transient chest wall rigidity after fentanyl i.v. bolus of 2 and 4 microg/kg, respectively, resulting in severe hypoxemia and secondary bradycardia. A third case developed a rigidity of the tongue after fentanyl bolus, which created some unusual difficulties in bypassing the tongue for insertion an endotracheal tube. Because of common usage of this agent for analgesia we direct attention to the possibility of fentanyl-induced muscle rigidity. We underline the necessity of a slow bolus injection to prevent this dangerous adverse effect and we recommend the administration of naloxone and/or muscle relaxants as therapy in conjunction with mechanical ventilation.
Psychiatric disorders or drug addiction are often regarded as contraindications against the use of interferon alfa (IFN-alpha) in patients with chronic hepatitis C. Our aim was to obtain prospective data on adherence to as well as efficacy and mental side effects of treatment with IFN-alpha in different psychiatric risk groups compared with controls. In a prospective trial, 81 patients with chronic hepatitis C (positive hepatitis C virus[HCV] RNA and elevated alanine aminotransferase[ALT] level) and psychiatric disorders (n = 16), methadone substitution (n = 21), former drug addiction (n = 21), or controls without a psychiatric history or drug addiction (n = 23) were treated with a combination of IFN-alpha-2a 3 MU 3 times weekly and ribavirin (1,000-1,200 mg/d). Sustained virologic response (overall, 37%) did not differ significantly between subgroups. No significant differences between groups were detected with respect to IFN-alpha-related development of depressions during treatment. However, in the psychiatric group, significantly more patients received antidepressants before and during treatment with IFN-alpha (P <.001). Most of those who dropped out of the study were patients with former drug addiction (43%; P =.04) compared with 14% in the methadone group, 13% in the control group, and 18% in the psychiatric group. No patient in the psychiatric group had to discontinue treatment because of psychiatric deterioration. In conclusion, our data do not confirm the supposed increased risk for IFN-alpha-induced mental side effects and dropouts in psychiatric patients if interdisciplinary care and antidepressant treatment are available. Preexisting psychiatric disorders or present methadone substitution should no longer be regarded as contraindications to treatment of chronic hepatitis C with IFN-alpha and ribavirin in an interdisciplinary setting.
A hemolytic-uremic syndrome associated with methylmalonic aciduria and homocystinuria is seen during the first weeks of life. A molecular defect in the CbIC mutation has been found. This report describes a new case with this association.
A girl, the second in this family, was born at term: her birth weight was 2,100 g, height was 47 cm and head circumference 31.5 cm. She was admitted at 32 days of age with hemolytic anemia and fragmencytosis, renal failure and thrombocytopenia. The renal failure required peritoneal dialysis followed by hemofiltration. The signs of pancytopenia of central origin and liver failure seen at that time raised the possibility of an intracellular defect of B12 metabolism. Chromatography of the amino acids and organic acids in the urine and plasma revealed homocystinemia, hypomethioninemia, homocystinuria and methylmalonic aciduria. The deficient B12 metabolism was confirmed in fibroblasts which showed deficits in both methyl and adenosyl-cobalamin synthesis. The metabolic disturbances were completely resolved after intravenous administration of hydroxy-cobalamin (2,000 micrograms per day) and folinic acid (25 mg per day) for 5 days. But the neurological abnormalities persisted, with retinitis pigmentosa and major leukodystrophic changes seen by MRI, and the infant died one month later.
This new case emphasizes the importance of systematically screening all cases of neonatal hemolytic-uremic syndrome for this autosomal recessive disorder.
Ear drops containing neomycin only rarely cause ototoxicity. The authors report on three patients with a tympanic membrane perforation who developed severe ototoxicity after use of eardrops containing 0.35 per cent neomycin. Mitochondrial DNA analysis revealed that there was no A1555G point mutation in these patients. This finding indicates that application of low concentration neomycin to the middle ear can cause severe inner ear damage even in humans who are not hyper-susceptible to aminoglycosides.
Metabolic changes have been shown to precede mechanical abnormalities in the early stages of adriamycin cardiotoxicity. This study examines the early changes in calcium homeostasis and their mechanical implications in a model of adriamycin cardiomyopathy. Hearts isolated from control and adriamycin-treated rats were coronary-perfused and isovolumic left ventricular (LV) pressure, coronary perfusion pressure and calcium transients from aequorin-loaded cardiomyocytes were recorded. Treated rats received three injections of adriamycin (6 mg/kg) for a period of 1 week. They were sacrificed for experiments 1-2 or 4-5 weeks after the final injection. The LV systolic and end-diastolic pressures were similar in both groups at varied external calcium concentrations (0.5-2.0 mM). However, systolic levels of myoplasmic calcium were substantially higher in the adriamycin-treated hearts, the difference being less at higher external calcium concentrations. Similar responses in both groups to paired pulse stimulation, increased stimulation frequency and caffeine (0.5-2.0 mM) were observed. However, adriamycin-treated hearts exhibited a smaller rise in LV developed pressure, as well as in systolic and diastolic calcium levels, in response to elevated coronary perfusion pressure. The elevated intracellular systolic calcium level is suggestive of an early but persistent effect of adriamycin on the calcium release channels of the sarcoplasmic reticulum. That the elevated systolic myoplasmic calcium levels are not accompanied by an increase in inotropy suggests a decrease in myofibrillar calcium sensitivity in this model of the early stage of adriamycin cardiomyopathy.
Tributyltin (TBT), a member of the organotin family, is primarily used for its biocidal activity. Persistent environmental levels of TBT pose threat to the ecosystem. Since neurotoxic influence of TBT remains elusive, we therefore, studied its effect on cerebral cortex of male Wistar rats. A single oral dose of Tributyltin-Chloride (TBTC) (10, 20, 30mg/kg) was administered and the animals were sacrificed on day 3 and day 7. Blood-brain barrier permeability remained disrupted significantly till day 7 with all the doses of TBTC. Pro-oxidant metal levels (Fe, Cu) were increased with a concomitant decrease in Zn. ROS generation was substantially raised resulting in oxidative damage (increased protein carbonylation and lipid peroxidation) with marked decline in tissue antioxidant status (GSH/GSSG levels). Protein expression studies indicated astrocyte activation, upregulation of inflammatory molecules (IL-6, Cox-2 and NF-κB) and simultaneous elevation in the apoptotic index (Bax/Bcl2). Neurodegeneration was evident by reduced neurofilament expression and increased calpain cleaved Tau levels. The in-vitro study demonstrated involvement of calcium and signaling molecules (p38), with downstream activation of caspase-3 and -8, and apoptotic cell death was evident by nuclear fragmentation, DNA laddering and Annexin V binding experiments. Ca(2+) inhibitors (BAPTA-AM, EGTA, and RR) and free radical scavengers (NAC and biliprotein [C-PC]) increased cell viability (MTT assay), signifying specific roles of Ca(2+) and ROS. Significance of p38 signaling was evaluated on pro-apoptotic proteins by using SB203580, a selective p38 inhibitor. Our data collectively illustrates that TBTC can disrupt BBB, induce oxidative stress, cause cell death and initiate neurodegeneration in rat brain.
Establishment of hematopoietic chimerism is the most stable strategy for donor-specific tolerance. Safer pretreatment regimens are needed for clinical application. We evaluated the efficacy of a simple protocol using cyclophosphamide (CYP) on induction of chimerism and organ transplant tolerance across major histocompatibility complex (MHC) barriers in the rat.
Bone marrow cells from BN (RT1(n)) donors were infused to LEW (RT1(l)) recipients on day 0 after a single injection of CYP at various doses on day -1. Donor-derived hematopoietic chimerism was evaluated by flowcytometry. The recipients received BN or third party (BUF) heart allografts on day 100.
While pretreatment with 200 mg/kg of CYP induced high levels of hematopoietic chimerism, six of eight recipients died of severe graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD). CYP at dose of 150 mg/kg induced 36.5 +/- 24.1% of donor-derived chimerism on day 10, and sustained macrochimerism was seen until day 100 without GVHD. Pretreatment with 100 mg/kg of CYP resulted in only transient chimerism (4.8 +/- 5.2%) which disappeared by day 20. In the recipients with 50 mg/kg of CYP, donor bone marrow cells were rapidly rejected and no chimerism was observed. The recipients with 150 mg/kg of CYP accepted BN heart allografts (>100 days x 5), while rejecting BUF allografts by day 12 (n = 4). BN heart allografts were rejected in the recipients with 100 (MST: 57 days, n = 5) and 50 mg/kg (MST: 7 days, n = 5) of CYP.
A single dose of CYP can induce hematopoietic chimerism across MHC-barriers. The dose of 150 mg/kg seems to be optimal to induce organ transplant tolerance without developing GVHD.
Amikacin is a commonly used antibacterial drug that can cause significant nephrotoxic effects in both humans and experimental animals. It has been reported that one mechanism of the toxic effects of aminoglycoside antibiotics are the result of oxidative reactions. The aim of this study is to examine the effects of N-acetylcysteine, a thiol-containing antioxidant, on renal function (serum creatinine) and morphology (renal tubular damage) in mice subjected to amikacin-induced nephrotoxicity. A total of 32 mice were equally divided into four groups that were injected with either saline, amikacin (1.2 g/kg intraperitoneally), N-acetylcysteine (150 mg/kg intraperitoneally for three days) plus amikacin (1.2 g/kg intraperitoneally on the third day as a single dose), or N-acetylcysteine (150 mg/kg intraperitoneally). Amikacin administration led to granulovacuolar tubular degeneration in light microscopic examination and myeloid bodies, mitochondrial electron-dense material deposition, and mitochondrial swelling in the proximal tubule epithelium in the electron microscopic evaluation. N-acetylcysteine administration before amikacin injection caused significant decreases in myeloid body and mitochondrial swelling and granulovacuolar tubular degeneration formation. Serum creatinine levels did not change as a result of any treatment. The results show that N-acetylcysteine has a protective effect on nephrotoxicity induced by amikacin. Higher doses of amikacin should be tried to observe biochemical effects.
Drug abuse among college students is characterized by lower academic performance and long-term negative consequences. Screening to detect students at high risk of consuming drugs is of primary importance to insure early identification and appropriate levels of care. As a result, this study aimed to determine the current or past use of drug abuse through a questionnaire applied to a student population at the Universidad Autónoma del Estado de Morelos. The results were confirmed by immunoanalysis and gas chromatography of urine. We interviewed 181 students aged 15 to 21 (gender was not considered in this study), and urine samples were collected for analytical analysis. For detection of metabolites Delta9-THCA-A and benzoylecgonine from marijuana and cocaine, respectively, a homogenous enzymatic inmmunoanalysis was used; subsequent samples were analyzed by a mass spectrometer with quadrupole detector. Seven samples of the total (181) did not completely fit the inclusion criteria and were eliminated. The results showed 0.50% and 1.16% positive samples for benzoylecgonine and Delta9-THCA-A, respectively. These results are not different from those of the National Questionnaire on Addiction. We can establish a program for detecting drug consumption in our students. This kind of study is important in order to implement programs that can help us to decrease the abuse of drugs in our college population.
A case of transient splenic accumulation of the bone-seeking agent Tc-99m HMDP is reported. This effect was caused by transient megaloblastic anemia induced by 5-fluorouracil chemotherapy. The extent of splenic uptake reflected the development and severity of megaloblastic anemia. The mechanism of splenic accumulation is thought to be similar to transient iron deposition in the spleen by megaloblastic anemia.
Retinoblastoma (Rb) is the most common intraocular malignancy of childhood. Although systemic and intrathecal chemotherapy with local and cranial radiotherapy have improved overall survival, the prognosis for patients with central nervous system involvement is still poor. We investigated the role of the transcription factor nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB, which promotes cell survival in several other models, in the pathophysiology of Rb. The human Rb cell lines Y79 and WERI-Rb1 were treated with the cell permeable peptide SN50, that specifically inhibits the transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB by blocking its translocation into the nucleus. We found that NF-kappaB inhibition up-regulated Bax; down-regulated the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2, A1, and cIAP-2; and induced loss of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential and caspase-independent, calpain-dependent apoptosis in Rb cells. Inhibition of the p38 kinase sensitized cells to SN50-induced cell death, whereas insulin-like growth factor-1 activated NF-kappaB and attenuated the proapoptotic effect of SN50. Finally, NF-kappaB inhibition sensitized Rb cells to doxorubicin. In conclusion, inhibition of NF-kappaB activity in Rb cells leads to loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential and caspase-independent, calpain-dependent apoptosis. Therapeutic strategies targeting NF-kappaB could be beneficial in the clinical management of Rb, either alone or in combination with conventional chemotherapy.
Activating mutations in and expression of the Ha-ras gene were examined in benign and malignant female Sprague-Dawley rat mammary gland tumors induced by the heterocyclic amine 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP) and promoted by a diet high in polyunsaturated fat. Ha-ras mutations were detected in codons 12 and 13 by selective polymerase chain reaction amplification of mutated sequences and nucleotide sequencing. The percentage of Ha-ras mutations in carcinomas from PhIP-treated rats was significantly higher in rats on a low-fat diet than in rats on a high-fat diet (82% (nine of 11) vs 26% (seven of 27), respectively, P < 0.01). In addition, whereas 56% of the carcinomas with Ha-ras mutations from rats on a low-fat diet carried double Ha-ras mutations, none of the carcinomas from rats on a high-fat diet had double mutations. Ha-ras mutations were also detected in benign tumors (largely adenomas) induced by PhIP in rats on different diets; two of eight and three of four benign tumors examined from rats on low-fat and high-fat diets, respectively, had Ha-ras mutations, suggesting that activating Ha-ras mutations alone are not sufficient for PhIP-induced tumors to become malignant. No differences were observed in the level of Ha-ras mRNA expression in the different groups. In our animal model, a high-fat diet increased the incidence and percentage of malignant PhIP-induced mammary gland tumors yet decreased the percentage of carcinomas showing Ha-ras mutations. Thus, the complement of genetic alterations associated with PhIP-induced mammary gland carcinogenesis is probably altered by the level of dietary fat.
In the literature there are numerous large prospective studies on patients with locally advanced breast cancer, however little is reported on the management of ulcerative breast cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the employment of combined anthracycline-based chemotherapy and hormonal therapy in ulcerative locally advanced mammary carcinoma.
Four patients, aged from 67 to 83 years, presented with ulcerative breast cancer resulting in breast destruction. Histological examination of biopsy specimens revealed highly differentiated estrogen receptor-positive ductal carcinomas. All tumours were classified as locally advanced since there was no clinical or radiologic evidence of distant metastasis in any of the patients. Due to their religious beliefs all patients refused any other treatment but chemotherapy. In these patients hemostasis and reduction of bacterial overgrowth were followed by administration of anthracycline-based chemotherapy and hormonal therapy.
All patients responded well; ulcer healing and partial remission were achieved for a period ranging from 19 to 28 months before disease progression.
There is clinical evidence from this study that the combination of anthracycline-based palliative chemotherapy coupled with tamoxifen is beneficial for patients with inoperable ulcerative breast cancer.
Rats received either single oral doses of 0, 25, 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg tris(2,3-dibromopropyl)phosphate (Tris-BP) or repeated doses of 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg/day Tris-BP for 7 days. Urine was collected over a 24-hr period and subjected to 13C-NMR and biochemical examinations. Tris-BP produced significant increases of urinary glucose and lactate. Urinary gamma-glutamyltransferase, lactate dehydrogenase and alkaline phosphatase levels were significantly elevated on the first 2 days of post-treatment. Histopathologically, the kidney exhibited proximal tubular damage at a dose of 200 mg/kg. There was a good correlation among the histopathological, biochemical results, and the 13C-NMR urinary metabolite fingerprints in the assessment of Tris-BP-induced renal damage. The abnormal patterns of metabolite excretion suggested that the lesions produced by Tris-BP were caused by changes in the metabolic function of tubular epithelial cells. The urinary excretion of lactate, enzymes and inhibition of glucose reabsorption from the tubular lumina may be attributed to necrosis and desquamation of the tubular cell.
Serotonin has been postulated to play a role in the transplant-induced involuntary movements that occur following intrastriatal grafts of ventral mesencephalic tissue in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. Serotonin innervation of the striatum may be derived from either the donor graft tissue or the normal host projections from the midbrain. In two sets of experiments we study the impact of graft- versus host-derived serotonin innervation. All experiments were performed in l-DOPA treated rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. As expected, following intrastriatal transplantation of embryonic ventral mesencephalon all the transplanted rats exhibited pronounced contralateral rotation in response to amphetamine and some animals also showed severe abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). In the first set of experiments, all types of AIMs (axial, limb, orolingual and locomotor) were markedly reduced when amphetamine was co-administered with either the D(2) dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride or the D(1) receptor antagonist SCH23390. Cotreatment with the 5-HT(1A) agonist 8-OH-DPAT significantly attenuated the amphetamine-induced axial and limb dyskinesias, whilst locomotor scores remained unchanged. These data point to a major role for dopamine receptors, and to a modulatory role for 5-HT(1A) receptors, in post-grafting dyskinesias. In the second experiment, grafted rats exhibiting amphetamine-induced dyskinesia were subjected to 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine injections into the midbrain in order to destroy the host serotonin innervation. This intervention had no effect on either amphetamine-induced AIMs or contralateral rotation. Histological examination of all grafted rats showed similar numbers of dopaminergic neurons and a very low number of serotonin neurons within the transplants, regardless of AIMs expression. Our results suggest that amphetamine-induced AIMs in grafted animals primarily depend on an activation of dopamine receptors, and that serotonin neurons within either the grafts or the host brain play a negligible role.
The objective of this study was to determine the effects of an luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH)-I antagonist, Cetrorelix, on human multiple myeloma (MM) cells and to elucidate the mechanisms of action. We showed that LHRH-I and LHRHR-I genes were expressed in MM cell lines and primary MM cells. Treatment with Cetrorelix inhibited growth and colony-forming ability of myeloma cells, including cell lines resistant to arsenic trioxide, bortezomib, or lenalidomide. Cetrorelix induced apoptosis in myeloma cells including primary myeloma cells. In addition, Cetrorelix inhibited the growth of human myeloma cells xenografted into mice without any apparent side effects. Cetrorelix downregulated the nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) pathway activity and the expression of cytokines, including interleukin 6, insulin-like growth factor 1, VEGF-A, and stromal-derived factor 1, important for myeloma cell growth and survival in myeloma cells and/or marrow stromal cells from myeloma patients. Cetrorelix decreased the phosphorylation of extracellular signal regulated kinase 1/2 and STAT3 in myeloma cells, two crucial pathways for myeloma cells growth and survival. Moreover, the expression of p21 and p53 was increased, whereas that of antiapoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) was reduced by Cetrorelix. Our findings indicate that Cetrorelix induces cytotoxicity in myeloma cells through various mechanisms and provide a rationale for investigating Cetrorelix for the treatment of MM.
Thromboembolic events such as deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) are very uncommon in the pediatric age group; even more rare is the white clot syndrome. We present the case of a 13-year-old girl who presented with no known risk factors for thromboembolic disease or cardiopulmonary complaints, yet was found to have extensive lower extremity DVT and PE. This patient also suffered the rare but potentially devastating complication of heparin therapy referred to as the white clot syndrome, resulting in amputation of the lower extremity. Greater awareness of both thromboembolic disease in children and the white clot syndrome may lessen the morbidity and mortality associated with these entities.
Myocardial perfusion single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) occasionally fails to detect coronary stenosis in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). We evaluated coronary flow reserve (CFR) using oxygen 15-labeled water in areas with and without ischemia on technetium 99m tetrofosmin stress perfusion SPECT in patients with angiographically documented CAD.
Twenty-seven patients with CAD and eleven age-matched normal subjects were studied. Baseline myocardial blood flow (MBF) and MBF during hyperemia induced by intravenous adenosine triphosphate infusion (0.16 mg. kg(-1). min(-1)) were determined with the use of O-15-labeled water positron emission tomography, and the CFR was calculated. Tc-99m tetrofosmin stress/rest SPECT was performed for comparison. On the basis of the results of coronary angiography and SPECT, coronary segments were divided into 3 types: segments with coronary stenosis and a perfusion abnormality on stress SPECT imaging (group A, n = 16), segments with coronary stenosis without a perfusion abnormality (group B, n = 42), and remote segments with no coronary stenosis or perfusion abnormality (group C, n = 18). Baseline MBF values were similar among the 3 groups. CFR in group A was lower (1.82 +/- 0.54) than in group B (2.22 +/- 0.87, P <.05), in group C (2.92 +/- 1.21, P <.01), and in normal segments (3.86 +/- 1.24, P <.001). CFR in group B was lower than in group C (P <.02) and in normal segments (P <.001). CFR in group C was lower than in normal segments (P <.02).
Areas with a perfusion abnormality on stress SPECT had reduced CFR. In the areas without a perfusion abnormality and with coronary stenosis, lowering of CFR was intermediate between the areas with a perfusion abnormality and remote segments. Moreover, CFR was slightly, but significantly, lower in remote segments in patients with CAD compared with normal segments.
Children who have status epilepticus have continuous or rapidly repeating seizures that may be life-threatening and may cause life-long changes in brain and behavior. The extent to which status epilepticus causes deficits in auditory discrimination is unknown. A naturalistic auditory location discrimination method was used to evaluate this question using an animal model of status epilepticus. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with saline on postnatal day (P) 20, or a convulsant dose of pilocarpine on P20 or P45. Pilocarpine on either day induced status epilepticus; status epilepticus at P45 resulted in CA3 cell loss and spontaneous seizures, whereas P20 rats had no cell loss or spontaneous seizures. Mature rats were trained with sound-source location and sound-silence discriminations. Control (saline P20) rats acquired both discriminations immediately. In status epilepticus (P20) rats, acquisition of the sound-source location discrimination was moderately impaired. Status epilepticus (P45) rats failed to acquire either sound-source location or sound-silence discriminations. Status epilepticus in rat causes an age-dependent, long-term impairment in auditory discrimination. This impairment may explain one cause of impaired auditory location discrimination in humans.
