A case of acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) complicated by sinus bradyarrhythmia during the course of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) administration is reported. A 3-year-old boy was admitted for evaluation of petechiae and APL was diagnosed. He was initially treated with 45 mg/m2 of ATRA without success, and a complete remission was achieved when the dose was increased to 135 mg/m2. Sinus bradyarrhythmia was first recognized 3 days after the induction therapy with ATRA. It did not disappear even when the patient stopped taking the medication. However, the arrhythmia tended to be augmented whenever he received ATRA again. Close observation of his cardiac condition was mandatory to continue ATRA as an integral part of the therapy for APL, combined with multidrug chemotherapy including anthracyclines, which themselves are potentially toxic to myocardium. In conclusion, the present case revealed the possibility that ATRA therapy induces sinus node arrhythmia, or that it can potentiate preexisting node dysfunctions.
Zonisamide is a broad-spectrum antiepileptic drug used to treat various types of seizures. Although visual hallucinations have not been reported as an adverse effect of this agent, we describe three patients who experienced complex visual hallucinations and altered mental status after zonisamide treatment was begun or its dosage increased. All three had been diagnosed earlier with epilepsy, and their electroencephalogram (EEG) findings were abnormal. During monitoring, visual hallucinations did not correlate with EEG readings, nor did video recording capture any of the described events. None of the patients had experienced visual hallucinations before this event. The only recent change in their treatment was the introduction or increased dosage of zonisamide. With either discontinuation or decreased dosage of the drug the symptoms disappeared and did not recur. Further observations and reports will help clarify this adverse effect. Until then, clinicians need to be aware of this possible complication associated with zonisamide.
Clinical oncology is still challenged by the development of drug resistance of tumors that result in poor prognosis for patients. There is an urgent necessity to understand the molecular mechanisms of resistance and to develop novel therapy strategies. Artesunate (ART) is an anti-malarial drug, which also exerts profound cytotoxic activity towards cancer cells. We first applied a gene-hunting approach using cluster and COMPARE analyses of microarray-based transcriptome-wide mRNA expression profiles. Among the genes identified by this approach were genes from diverse functional groups such as structural constituents of ribosomes (RPL6, RPL7, RPS12, RPS15A), kinases (CABC1, CCT2, RPL41), transcriptional and translational regulators (SFRS2, TUFM, ZBTB4), signal transducers (FLNA), control of cell growth and proliferation (RPS6), angiogenesis promoting factors (ITGB1), and others (SLC25A19, NCKAP1, BST1, DBH, FZD7, NACA, MTHFD2). Furthermore, we applied a candidate gene approach and tested the role of resistance mechanisms towards established anti-cancer drugs for ART resistance. By using transfected or knockout cell models we found that the tumor suppressor p16(INK4A) and the anti-oxidant protein, catalase, conferred resistance towards ART, while the oncogene HPV-E6 conferred sensitivity towards ART. The tumor suppressor p53 and its downstream protein, p21, as well as the anti-oxidant manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase did not affect cellular response to ART. In conclusion, our pharmacogenomic approach revealed that response of tumor cells towards ART is multi-factorial and is determined by gene expression associated with either ART sensitivity or resistance. At least some of the functional groups of genes (e.g. angiogenesis promoting factors, cell growth and proliferation-associated genes signal transducers and kinases) are also implicated in clinical responsiveness of tumors towards chemotherapy. It merits further investigation, whether ART is responsive in clinically refractory tumors and whether the genes identified in the present study also determine clinical responsiveness towards ART.
The short- and long-term effects of gene therapy using AAV-mediated RPE65 transfer to canine retinal pigment epithelium were investigated in dogs affected with disease caused by RPE65 deficiency. Results with AAV 2/2, 2/1, and 2/5 vector pseudotypes, human or canine RPE65 cDNA, and constitutive or tissue-specific promoters were similar. Subretinally administered vectors restored retinal function in 23 of 26 eyes, but intravitreal injections consistently did not. Photoreceptoral and postreceptoral function in both rod and cone systems improved with therapy. In dogs followed electroretinographically for 3 years, responses remained stable. Biochemical analysis of retinal retinoids indicates that mutant dogs have no detectable 11-cis-retinal, but markedly elevated retinyl esters. Subretinal AAV-RPE65 treatment resulted in detectable 11-cis-retinal expression, limited to treated areas. RPE65 protein expression was limited to retinal pigment epithelium of treated areas. Subretinal AAV-RPE65 vector is well tolerated and does not elicit high antibody levels to the vector or the protein in ocular fluids or serum. In long-term studies, wild-type cDNA is expressed only in target cells. Successful, stable restoration of rod and cone photoreceptor function in these dogs has important implications for treatment of human patients affected with Leber congenital amaurosis caused by RPE65 mutations.
Essential tremor is the most common movement disorder and has an unknown etiology. Here we report that gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABA(A)) receptor alpha1-/- mice exhibit postural and kinetic tremor and motor incoordination that is characteristic of essential tremor disease. We tested mice with essential-like tremor using current drug therapies that alleviate symptoms in essential tremor patients (primidone, propranolol, and gabapentin) and several candidates hypothesized to reduce tremor, including ethanol; the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801; the adenosine A1 receptor agonist 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CCPA); the GABA(A) receptor modulators diazepam, allopregnanolone, and Ro15-4513; and the L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist nitrendipine. Primidone, propranolol, and gabapentin reduced the amplitude (power) of the pathologic tremor. Nonsedative doses of ethanol eliminated tremor in mice. Diazepam, allopregnanolone, Ro15-4513, and nitrendipine had no effect or enhanced tremor, whereas MK-801 and CCPA reduced tremor. To understand the etiology of tremor in these mice, we studied the electrophysiological properties of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Cerebellar Purkinje cells in GABA(A) receptor alpha1-/- mice exhibited a profound loss of all responses to synaptic or exogenous GABA, but no differences in abundance, gross morphology, or spontaneous synaptic activity were observed. This genetic animal model elucidates a mechanism of GABAergic dysfunction in the major motor pathway and potential targets for pharmacotherapy of essential tremor.
The efficacy of a wide-spectrum organ carcinogenesis model for detection of modification potential of exogenous agents was investigated in F344 male rats. Groups of animals were sequentially injected with N-bis(2-hydroxypropyl)nitrosamine (1000 mg/kg body weight, i.p., in saline, twice in week 1), N-ethyl-N-hydroxyethylnitrosamine (1500 mg/kg body weight, i.g., in distilled water, twice in week 2) and 3,2'-dimethyl-4-aminobiphenyl (75 mg/kg body weight, s.c., in corn oil, twice in week 3) for wide-spectrum initiation of target organs and then given one of 10 test chemicals, comprising 6 hepatocarcinogens and 4 non-hepatocarcinogens, for 12 weeks. All 10 chemicals exerted modifying effects in their respective target organs. Enhancing influence could be detected in the liver and urinary bladder with 2-acetylaminofluorene, ethionine, and 3'-methyl-4-dimethylaminoazobenzene; in the liver and thyroid with 4,4'-diaminodiphenylmethane and phenobarbital; in the esophagus and urinary bladder with N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine; in the forestomach and urinary bladder with butylated hydroxyanisole; in the liver with 7,12-dimethylbenz[a]anthracene and in the liver and lung with 3-methylcholanthrene. Inhibitory effects on development of glutathione S-transferase placental form-positive liver cell foci were observed with clofibrate. The results indicate that the present model can be reliably utilized as a whole body medium-term bioassay system for assessment of environmental cancer modifiers.
Niacin (nicotinic acid) in its non-physiological dose level is known to be an effective lipid-lowering agent; its potential risk as a therapeutic agent, however, has not been critically considered. Since niacin is excreted predominantly as methylated pyridones, requiring methionine as a methyl donor, the present study was undertaken to examine whether metabolism of the amino acid is altered in the presence of large doses of niacin. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were given a nutritionally adequate, semi-synthetic diet containing niacin at a level of either 400 or 1000mg/kg diet (compared to 30mg/kg in the control diet) for up to 3 months. Supplementation with niacin (1,000 mg/kg diet) for 3 months resulted in a significant increase in plasma and urinary total homocysteine levels; this increase was further accentuated in the presence of a high methionine diet. The hyperhomocysteineaemia was accompanied by a significant decrease in plasma concentrations of vitamins B6 and B12, which are cofactors for the metabolism of homocysteine. The homocysteine-raising action of niacin, in particular, has an important toxicological implication, as hyperhomocysteineaemia is considered to be an independent risk factor for arterial occlusive disease. The niacin-associated change in homocysteine status may be an important limiting factor in the use of this vitamin as a lipid-lowering agent.
The specific aim of this retrospective, observational study was to assess safety and efficacy of long-term (21 months/patient), open-label, gemfibrozil-lovastatin treatment in 80 patients with primary mixed hyperlipidemia (68% of whom had atherosclerotic vascular disease). Because ideal lipid targets were not reached (low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol less than 130 mg/dl, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol greater than 35 mg/dl, or total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol less than 4.5 mg/dl) with diet plus a single drug, gemfibrozil (1.2 g/day)-lovastatin (primarily 20 or 40 mg) treatment was given. Follow-up visits were scheduled with 2-drug therapy every 6 to 8 weeks, an average of 10.3 visits per patient, with 741 batteries of 6 liver function tests and 714 creatine phosphokinase levels measured. Only 1 of the 4,446 liver function tests (0.02%), a gamma glutamyl transferase, was greater than or equal to 3 times the upper normal limit. Of the 714 creatine phosphokinase levels, 9% were high; only 1 (0.1%) was greater than or equal to 3 times the upper normal limit. With 2-drug therapy, mean total cholesterol decreased 22% from 255 to 200 mg/dl, triglyceride levels decreased 35% from 236 to 154 mg/dl, LDL cholesterol decreased 26% from 176 to 131 mg/dl, and the total cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratio decreased 24% from 7.1 to 5.4, all p less than or equal to 0.0001. Myositis, attributable to the drug combination and symptomatic enough to discontinue it, occurred in 3% of patients, and in 1% with concurrent high creatine phosphokinase (769 U/liter); no patients had rhabdomyolysis or myoglobinuria.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The mechanisms of red blood cell destruction in 2 patients with penicillin-induced immune haemolytic anaemia were investigated. Anti-penicillin antibodies of the IgG subclass were found in the patients' sera and in the eluates of their direct antiglobulin positive red blood cells. Using a rapid 51Cr in vitro assay it was shown that fresh peripheral blood mononuclear phagocytes and granulocytes but not lymphocytes from both patients lysed and phagocytosed autologous red blood cells previously treated in vivo or in vitro by penicillin and autologous anti-penicillin antibody. Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) as well as antibody-dependent phagocytosis (ADPh) were proportional to serum concentration and to the number of attacking cells. Anti-penicillin antibody from 1 patient activated the complement system in vitro but failed to induce lysis of penicillin-treated red blood cells in the presence of complement. These results suggest that ADCC as well as ADPh participate in the destruction of red blood cells in penicillin-induced haemolysis in vivo.
Dyskinesia is a major side-effect of chronic l-DOPA administration, the reference treatment for Parkinson's disease. High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-HFS) alleviates parkinsonian motor symptoms and indirectly improves dyskinesia by decreasing the L-DOPA requirement. However, inappropriate stimulation can also trigger dyskinetic movements, in both human and rodents. We investigated whether STN-HFS-evoked forelimb dyskinesia involved changes in glutamatergic neurotransmission as previously reported for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias, focusing on the role of NR2B-containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NR2B/NMDARs). We applied STN-HFS in normal rats at intensities above and below the threshold for triggering forelimb dyskinesia. Dyskinesiogenic STN-HFS induced the activation of NR2B (as assessed by immunodetection of the phosphorylated residue Tyr(1472)) in neurons of the subthalamic nucleus, entopeduncular nucleus, motor thalamus and forelimb motor cortex. The severity of STN-HFS-induced forelimb dyskinesia was decreased in a dose-dependent manner by systemic injections of CP-101,606, a selective blocker of NR2B/NMDARs, but was either unaffected or increased by the non-selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, MK-801.
We report two patients, who developed dilated cardiomyopathy and subsequent congestive heart failure after treatment with amphotericin B (AmB). The echocardiographic findings and the symptoms of heart failure resolved after the discontinuation of the drug. The clinical data from our cases and two similar cases reported in the literature suggest that the presence of other factors predisposing to cardiac dysfunction may facilitate the occurrence of this rare side effect.
Although enoxaparin is more efficacious than many other deep vein thrombosis (DVT) prevention strategies after trauma, its routine use in trauma patients at low risk for venous thrombosis is unlikely to be cost-effective and may be deleterious if risk factors for bleeding are present. By way of consensus of opinion of trauma surgeons and pharmacists, enoxaparin DVT prophylaxis guidelines were developed, implemented, and evaluated. Fifty patients with major orthopedic or spinal trauma were followed throughout hospitalization. Enoxaparin use and frequency of DVT, pulmonary embolism (PE), thrombocytopenia, and enoxaparin-related major bleeding (overt bleeding associated with a hemoglobin decrease > or = 2 g/dl, need for > or = 2 units of packed red blood cells, or need for surgery) were recorded. All pharmacist interventions pertaining to enoxaparin prophylaxis were collected. Average patient age was 45.6+/-19.5 years, average Injury Severity Score was 19.0+/-11.2, and average length of hospitalization was 14.3+/-10.0 days. Most injuries were related to motor vehicles (52%) and falls (30%). Sites of injury were femur or tibia (52%), pelvis or acetabulum (32%), hip (20%), and spinal cord (12%). Two-thirds (72%) of patients received enoxaparin during part of their hospital stay (on average, for 53% of the duration of hospitalization). Sequential compression devices and vena caval filters were used in 86% and 10% of patients, respectively. Duplex-proven DVT occurred in two patients, and angiography-proven PE developed in one patient. Enoxaparin-related major bleeding and thrombocytopenia occurred in three and one patient(s), respectively. Pharmacists recommended enoxaparin initiation in nine (18%) patients and discontinuation of the agent in seven (14%) patients (one for bleeding; six for lack of indication). Most recommendations (78%) were accepted. Data from the 50 patients in this study showed fewer thrombotic complications but more bleeding than the frequencies found in controlled studies. It is unclear whether the large number of days that patients did not receive enoxaparin was due to fears of enoxaparin-related bleeding or other factors.
Obesity is becoming increasingly common worldwide and is strongly associated with the metabolic syndrome (MetS). MetS is considered to be a cluster of risk factors that increase the risk of vascular events.
In an open-label randomised study (the FenOrli study) we assessed the effect of orlistat and fenofibrate treatment, alone or in combination on reversing the diagnosis of the MetS (primary end-point) as well as on anthropometric and metabolic parameters (secondary end-points) in overweight and obese patients with MetS but no diabetes.
Overweight and obese patients (N = 89, body mass index (BMI) > 28 kg/m2) with MetS [as defined by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) III criteria] participated in the study. Patients were prescribed a low-calorie low-fat diet and were randomly allocated to receive orlistat 120 mg three times a day (tid) (O group), micronised fenofibrate 200 mg/day (F group), or orlistat 120 mg tid plus micronised fenofibrate 200 mg/day (OF group). Body weight, BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure, serum total cholesterol (TC), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), non-HDL-C, triglyceride, creatinine (SCr) and uric acid (SUA) levels, as well as homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) index and liver enzyme activities were measured at baseline and after 3 months of treatment.
Of the 89 patients enrolled, three (one in each group) dropped out during the study due to side effects. After the 3-month treatment period, 43.5% of patients in the O group, 47.6% in the F group and 50% in the OF group no longer met the MetS diagnostic criteria (primary end-point, p < 0.0001 vs. baseline in all treatment groups). No significant difference in the primary end-point was observed between the three treatment groups. Significant reductions in body weight, BMI, waist circumference, blood pressure, TC, LDL-C, non-HDL-C, triglyceride and SUA levels, as well as gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase activity and HOMA index were observed in all treatment groups. In the OF group a greater decrease in TC (-26%) and LDL-C (-30%) was observed compared with that in the O and F groups (p < 0.01) and a more pronounced reduction of triglycerides (-37%) compared with that in the O group (p < 0.05). SUA levels and alkaline phosphatase activity decreased more in the F and OF groups compared with the O group (p < 0.05). Moreover, SCr significantly increased and estimated creatinine clearance decreased in the F and OF groups but they were not significantly altered in the O group (p < 0.01 for the comparison between O and either F or OF groups). Glucose (in groups O and OF), as well as insulin levels and HOMA index (in all groups), were significantly reduced after treatment (p < 0.05 vs. baseline).
The combination of orlistat and micronised fenofibrate appears to be safe and may further improve metabolic parameters in overweight and obese patients with MetS compared with each monotherapy.
A case of persistent cerebellar toxicity following systemic high dose cytosine arabinoside (HDCA) treatment of acute myelogenous leukaemia is reported. The symptoms, which developed at a cumulative dose of 32 g/m2, subsided to some extent following discontinuation of the drug, but left signs of cerebellar dysfunction 10 months later. A review of previously published reports indicates that the cerebellar toxicity of HDCA, which has been ascribed to loss of Purkinje cells, usually occurs when the accumulated dose exceeds 36 g/m2. That it may occur at even lower doses is supported by the present case. In addition, available evidence of re-appearance or worsening of previously induced signs of toxicity following its repeated administration stresses the importance of immediate and permanent cessation of cytosine arabinoside therapy, when signs of cerebellar dysfunction develop.
Aortic valve calcification is the most common form of valvular heart disease, but the mechanisms of calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) are unknown. NOTCH1 mutations are associated with aortic valve malformations and adult-onset calcification in families with inherited disease. The Notch signaling pathway is critical for multiple cell differentiation processes, but its role in the development of CAVD is not well understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the molecular changes that occur with inhibition of Notch signaling in the aortic valve. Notch signaling pathway members are expressed in adult aortic valve cusps, and examination of diseased human aortic valves revealed decreased expression of NOTCH1 in areas of calcium deposition. To identify downstream mediators of Notch1, we examined gene expression changes that occur with chemical inhibition of Notch signaling in rat aortic valve interstitial cells (AVICs). We found significant downregulation of Sox9 along with several cartilage-specific genes that were direct targets of the transcription factor, Sox9. Loss of Sox9 expression has been published to be associated with aortic valve calcification. Utilizing an in vitro porcine aortic valve calcification model system, inhibition of Notch activity resulted in accelerated calcification while stimulation of Notch signaling attenuated the calcific process. Finally, the addition of Sox9 was able to prevent the calcification of porcine AVICs that occurs with Notch inhibition. In conclusion, loss of Notch signaling contributes to aortic valve calcification via a Sox9-dependent mechanism.
We evaluated the tolerability and toxicity attributed to pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PL-DOX) in women with recurrent or refractory ovarian cancer, and reviewed procedures to prevent or treat toxicity induced by the agent. Medical records of 13 women who received PL-DOX between October 1997 and December 2000 were reviewed. Patients 1-8 received PL-DOX once it was added to the hospital formulary in 1997. Patients 9-13 received it after medical staff education. Data on premedications, number of cycles, dosage, length of infusion, tolerability, side effects, and indicators for response were collected. The median number of cycles and cumulative dose/patient of PL-DOX were higher (6 and 420 mg) in the second group than in the first group (2 and 240 mg). Patient factors such as duration of disease and number of chemotherapy cycles influenced tolerability. One patient experienced a life-threatening adverse reaction within minutes of receiving the first dose. Treatment was discontinued, and she was resuscitated successfully. Other dose- or treatment-limiting complications (neutropenia, stomatitis, plantar-palmar erythrodysesthesia) were documented. Toxicity management consisted of dosage reduction or treatment delay; treatment often was discontinued. Patients with recent disease tolerated more cycles of PL-DOX when given early in recurrence compared with heavily pretreated women with long-standing disease. Tolerability was not necessarily indicative of response. The agent is simple to administer, but its tolerability and lack of uniform toxicity management remain concerns.
A 53-year-old African-American man with relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma developed seizures and respiratory arrest 2 hours after an infusion of high-dose etoposide in preparation for an autologous bone marrow transplant. Laboratory tests revealed both rapid hemolysis and severe metabolic acidosis. The patient died the following day. Based on toxicities observed, we suspect that our patient possessed an ethnic polymorphism of the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase. Further research is required to determine the relationship between the benzyl alcohol metabolic rate and toxicity and genetic polymorphisms of alcohol dehydrogenase in African-Americans.
Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) shows substantial anticancer activity in patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Unfortunately, limiting the application of this effective agent to APL patients is severe cardiotoxicity. Resveratrol, the natural food-derived polyphenolic compound, is well known for its antioxidant properties and protects the cardiovascular system. But the potential role of resveratrol against As2O3 in heart via nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is unclear. The present study evaluated the effects of pretreatment with resveratrol and As2O3 on oxidative stress and cardiac dysfunction in rat. In the present study, resveratrol decreased As2O3-induced reactive oxygen species generation, oxidative DNA damage, and pathological alterations. In addition, cardiac dysfunction parameters, intracellular calcium and arsenic accumulation, glutathione redox ratio, and cAMP deficiency levels were observed in As2O3-treated rats; these changes were attenuated by resveratrol. Furthermore, resveratrol significantly prohibited the downregulation of both Nrf2 and HO-1 gene expressions that were downregulated by As2O3, whereas resveratrol did not alter As2O3-induced nitric oxide formation. Thus, the protective role of resveratrol against As2O3-induced cardiotoxicity is implemented by the maintenance of redox homeostasis (Nrf2-HO-1 pathway) and facilitating arsenic efflux. Our findings suggest coadministration with resveratrol, and As2O3 might provide a novel therapeutic strategy for APL.
Organotropic chemopreventive effects of n-3 unsaturated fatty acids were studied using a multi-organ carcinogenesis model in male rats. Rats were treated with diethylnitrosamine (DEN), N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU), N-butyl-N-4-hydroxybutylnitrosamine (BBN), 1,2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) and dihydroxy-di-n-propylnitrosamine (DHPN) during the first 7 weeks, and then given unsaturated fatty acid (UFAs), docosahexaenoic acid (n-3, C(22:6)) (DHA), eicosapentaenoic acid (n-3, C(20:5)) (EPA), linoleic acid (n-6, C(18:2)) (LA) or oleic acid (n-9, C(18:1)) (OA) at a dose of 1.0 ml/rat, 3 times a week by gavage for the consecutive 30 weeks. All rats were fed a low LA basal diet throughout the experiment and a calorie-restricted basal diet during the period of UFAs feeding administration. DHA significantly reduced tumor size and numbers in the large intestine as compared to OA treatment. Furthermore, DHA showed a tendency to inhibit carcinogenesis in the small intestine and lung. EPA also showed a tendency to inhibit intestinal carcinogenesis. On the other hand, LA showed a tendency to inhibit lung carcinogenesis, but to promote large intestinal carcinogenesis. However these UFAs did not influence preneoplastic and neoplastic lesion development in the liver, kidney, and urinary bladder. Levels of the administered fatty acids were clearly increased in the serum and organs. In contrast, arachidonic acid (AA) levels in the large and small intestines and liver were markedly decreased by treatment with DHA and EPA. Decreased levels of AA in the large intestine correlated well with tumor incidence, although the number of glutathione S-transferase-positive (GST-P(+)) foci showed an inverse correlation with AA levels. The data thus provide evidence that an organotropism exists with regard to the influence of UFAs on carcinogenesis, which correlates with reduction of tissue AA levels in the target organs.
We report the first investigation of glucose- 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency among the Mazandaranians in the north of Iran. We analysed the G6PD gene in 74 unrelated G6PD-deficient men with a history of favism. Molecular analysis revealed three major different polymorphic variants: G6PD Mediterranean 66.2% (49 out of 74), G6PD Chatham 27% (20 out of 74), G6PD Cosenza 6.75% (5 out of 74). These findings indicated a higher prevalence of G6PD Chatham in this Iranian population than anywhere else in the world. In addition, the distribution of these G6PD variants is more similar to that found in an Italian population than in other Middle Eastern countries.
To report a case of a diffuse papular eruption following treatment of psoriasis with methotrexate injections.
A 52-year-old woman presented with an extensive flare of psoriasis associated with joint pain, especially in her knees and elbows. She was treated with intramuscular injections of methotrexate 20 mg/wk. Ten hours after the second methotrexate injection, the patient experienced a diffuse pruritic papular eruption located mainly on the limbs. Histology showed foci of dyskeratosis in the mucosal layer and a polymorphic perivascular inflammatory infiltrate of the papillary dermis, suggesting a drug-induced skin reaction. According to the Naranjo probability scale, the papular eruption was probably caused by methotrexate. The drug was discontinued and papular lesions gradually disappeared.
Methotrexate-induced papular eruption is rarely reported shortly after beginning methotrexate therapy in patients with acute exacerbation of collagen vascular diseases. Methotrexate-induced papular eruption following treatment of psoriasis has not been previously reported.
The pathogenesis of methotrexate-induced papular eruption in collagen vascular diseases may suggest cutaneous small-vessel vasculitis. In our patient, histology showed aspects of drug-induced skin reaction without vasculitis. Pathogenesis of methotrexate-induced papular eruption in psoriasis may involve immune mechanisms other than those of methotrexate-induced cutaneous vasculitis in collagen vascular disease.
Fetuin-A, a liver-secreted phosphoprotein and physiological inhibitor of insulin receptor tyrosine kinase, is associated with insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome (MetS), and an increased risk for type 2 diabetes. However, studies on the modulation of circulating levels of fetuin-A are limited. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of niacin administration on serum total- and phosphorylated fetuin-A (phosphofetuin-A) concentrations in individuals with MetS and correlate with changes in serum lipids, insulin sensitivity, and markers of inflammation.
Fifteen sedentary, obese, male participants, who met the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III (NCEP ATP III) criteria for MetS, were treated with extended-release niacin (Niaspan) for 6 weeks. Blood samples were obtained before and after treatment with niacin.
Serum fetuin-A and phosphofetuin-A concentrations were decreased following niacin administration (p < 0.005). Changes in fetuin-A concentrations were correlated with changes in triglyceride (r = 0.62, p = 0.01) and C-reactive protein (CRP) concentrations (r = 0.58, p < 0.05) after niacin treatment. Changes in high-density lipoproteins (HDL)-cholesterol following niacin intervention were negatively correlated with changes in serum fetuin-A (p < 0.05) and phosphofetuin-A concentrations (p < 0.05). Serum cortisol levels were significantly elevated after niacin administration.
Niacin treatment lowers serum total- and phosphofetuin-A concentrations in individuals with MetS, and these changes correlate with the beneficial changes in serum lipids. Because niacin is known to induce insulin resistance, these findings suggest that fetuin-A may not be a mediator of niacin-induced insulin resistance but it may blunt the insulin resistance induced by niacin by decreasing its circulating concentrations.
Neuromuscular, circulatory, and adverse effects of intravenous succinylcholine (SCh), mg/kg, were compared in 3 groups of 40 patients each. Group I served as control; group II received diazepam, 0.05 mg/kg, 5 min before SCh; and group III was given d-tubocurarine (d-Tc), 0.05 mg/kg, for pretreatment. Diazepam pretreatment prevented muscle fasciculations, increases in serum potassium (K+) and creatinine phosphokinase (CPK) levels, increased heart rate and arterial pressure, and postoperative myalgia associated with SCh administration. The neuromuscular blocking action of SCh was not affected. Pretreatment with d-Tc did not abolish increases in serum K+ and CPK levels, was associated with a higher incidence of postoperative myalgia, and decreased the onset and magnitude of SCh-induced muscle paralysis. Our data demonstrate that diazepam, a predominant centrally acting muscle relaxant, is more effective than d-Tc in preventing the adverse effects of SCh, a peripherally acting muscle relaxant.
Our comprehensive gene expression profiles of the kidneys in an anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM) nephritis model using DNA arrays revealed that allograft inflammatory factor-1 (AIF-1) was one of the highly expressed genes. Here, we explored the pathological significance of AIF-1 expression in the kidneys. The expression pattern of AIF-1 mRNA and protein in the kidneys of normal and diseased rats, such as anti-GBM nephritis and puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis, was investigated by in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and immunoelectron microscopy. Furthermore, the expression of AIF-1 in human kidneys and urinary sediments was examined. AIF-1 was expressed at both mRNA and protein levels in podocytes of normal and diseased rats, and in infiltrating cells in anti-GBM nephritis kidneys. The expression of AIF-1 in podocytes was constitutive; positive in podocytes of both normal and diseased rats. In humans, AIF-1 was expressed in podocytes and infiltrating inflammatory cells, similarly. Moreover, it was detected in urinary podocytes from patients with immunoglobulin A nephropathy. These data document for the first time that AIF-1, a constitutively expressed protein in rat and human podocytes, is a novel molecular component of podocytes, and that the upregulation of AIF-1 in an anti-GBM nephritis model may mainly be a consequence of its expression in infiltrating cells.
To verify the concept that cell-free organ/tissue-specific mRNAs leaking from drug-damaged organs/tissues into peripheral blood could be toxicological biomarkers for identification of the target organs of drug toxicity, we attempted to detect liver-specific mRNAs in peripheral blood from rats with chemical-induced hepatotoxicity. We selected alpha(1)-microglobulin/bikunin precursor (Ambp) and albumin mRNAs as tentative liver-specific biomarkers and successfully detected them by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR in peripheral blood 24 h after D-galactosamine HCl (D-gal) or acetaminophen administration. Moreover, albumin mRNA was detected 2 h after D-gal administration, although plasma alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels were still unchanged. On the other hand, in peripheral blood from rat with bupivacaine HCl-induced skeletal muscle damage, neither Ambp nor albumin mRNA was detectable while plasma creatine kinase, ALT, and AST levels prominently increased 2 or 12 h after dosing. Furthermore, Ambp mRNA was also detectable in filtered plasma from rats with liver damage, indicating that cell-free Ambp mRNA can be present in peripheral blood. In conclusion, cell-free, liver-specific Ambp, and albumin mRNAs were detectable in peripheral blood from rats with chemical-induced liver damage. It is believed that the detection of cell-free organ/tissue-specific mRNA in peripheral blood is a promising approach in the survey of toxicological biomarkers.
Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis (MS) are commonly treated with high doses of corticosteroids that can influence sleep regulation and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity. We examined the sleep-EEG (including conventional and spectral EEG analysis) in 9 female patients with relapsing-remitting MS (and no psychiatric disorder) just prior to and on days 2 and 10 of high dose corticosteroid treatment (500 mg/day methylprednisolone given IV for 5 days, then PO taper down) and age-matched healthy female controls. Before treatment with corticosteroids, MS patients compared to controls showed few changes of the sleep EEG, namely a significant increase in slow wave sleep (SWS) and a decrease in stage 2 sleep. In contrast, on day 10, but not day 2 of treatment, MS patients showed a number of sleep-EEG changes typically observed in patients with depression, including a reduction in REM latency, an increase in REM density, a decrease in the SWS and delta sleep ratio and a decrease in sigma EEG activity. However, no concomitant effect of treatment on mood was noted. In summary, unlike acute treatment with methylprednisolone, prolonged treatment induces several changes of the sleep-EEG in MS patients, that are also observed in patients with an acute depressive episode. Further prospective studies with longer-term follow-up are needed to examine the clinical relevance of our preliminary data.
Systemic injection of pilocarpine has been shown to induce recurrent seizures and epileptic discharges demonstrated by EEG monitoring. It also has been reported that antioxidants are able to diminish or prevent the occurrence of epileptic discharges induced by pilocarpine through the inhibition of free radical formation and neurotransmitter metabolic alterations. The purpose of this work was to determine the effects of lipoic acid (LA) on the levels of dopamine (DA), serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine (NE) and subsequent metabolites in the hippocampus of rats after seizure induction by pilocarpine. Seizures dramatically decreased the levels of DA, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and NE, whereas significantly increased the levels of neurotransmitter metabolites. The administration of lipoic acid before seizure induction resulted in normalized levels of DA and 5-HA. However, the lipoic acid administration in similar conditions produced a reduction of the metabolites levels when compared with the pilocarpine group. These results suggest that the establishment of acute phase of seizures induced by pilocarpine might be produced by consequent the activation of serotonergic neurons. In addition, the lipoic acid inhibits hyperactivity of this system during the installation of pilocarpine-induced seizures.
The effect of a single dose of suxamethonium on cardiac rate and rhythm during halothane anesthesia with babiturate induction was studied in a prospective, triple-blind trial with 28 patients. No atropine was given and patients were not intubated. A slight but significant preponderance of sinus-bradycardia without hemodynamic consequences was found in the group given suxamethonium. Suxamethonium did not provoke ventricular ectopies or conduction disturbances. It is concluded that in anesthesia with barbiturate induction, but without atropine or intubation, the use of a single dose of suxamethonium is a safe procedure with regard to cardiac rate and rhythm.
