To study the therapy effect of long term lamivudine treatment on active cirrhosis following chronic hepatitis B, and explore the methods for abnormalities resulting from lamivudine withdrawing.
58 patients received lamivudine 100 mg orally everyday for 18 months. The changes were observed and wrote down, including clinical symptoms and signs, aminotransferase, virology indexes, and the abnormalities after lamivudine withdrawing, then further to find out plans for the latter.
(1) After lamivudine treatment, there were 35 patients whose situation stabilized, life quality improved, child-pugh score declined, and liver function turned better. (2) The level of HBV DNA decreased at least 10(3) copies/ml. HBeAg of 33.3% patients (13/39) became negative. (3) Among the 10 patients who stopped lamivudine of their own accord, and came again after 3 - 6 months because of hepatitis B recurring, two were treated with interferon for one month, then turning to liver-protecting methods for deteriorating, the other eight only received liver-protecting and immune-regulating treatment, whose liver function improved.
Long term treatment with lamivudine for active cirrhosis following chronic hepatitis B can improve liver function and life quality, prevent exacerbation. And it is not advisable to use interferon for hepatitis B relapsing after lamivudine withdrawing.
It has recently become apparent that neuroinflammation may play a significant role in Parkinson's disease (PD). This is also the case in animal paradigms of the disease. The potential neuroprotective action of the glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonist exendin-4 (EX-4), which is protective against cytokine mediated apoptosis and may stimulate neurogenesis, was investigated In paradigms of PD.
Two rodent 'models' of PD, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and lipopolysaccaride (LPS), were used to test the effects of EX-4. Rats were then investigated in vivo and ex vivo with a wide range of behavioural, neurochemical and histological tests to measure integrity of the nigrostriatal system.
EX-4 (0.1 and 0.5 mug/kg) was given seven days after intracerebral toxin injection. Seven days later circling behaviour was measured following apomorphine challenge. Circling was significantly lower in rats given EX-4 at both doses compared to animals given 6-OHDA/LPS and vehicle. Consistent with these observations, striatal tissue DA concentrations were markedly higher in 6-OHDA/LPS + EX-4 treated rats versus 6-OHDA/LPS + vehicle groups, whilst assay of L-DOPA production by tyrosine hydroxylase was greatly reduced in the striata of 6-OHDA/LPS + vehicle rats, but this was not the case in rats co-administered EX-4. Furthermore nigral TH staining recorded in 6-OHDA/LPS + vehicle treated animals was markedly lower than in sham-operated or EX-4 treated rats. Finally, EX-4 clearly reversed the loss of extracellular DA in the striata of toxin lesioned freely moving rats.
The apparent ability of EX-4 to arrest progression of, or even reverse nigral lesions once established, suggests that pharmacological manipulation of the GLP-1 receptor system could have substantial therapeutic utility in PD. Critically, in contrast to other peptide agents that have been demonstrated to possess neuroprotective properties in pre-clinical models of PD, EX-4 is in current clinical use in the management of type-II diabetes and freely crosses the blood brain barrier; hence, assessment of the clinical efficacy of EX-4 in patients with PD could be pursued without delay.
This study examined the relationship between novelty seeking between treatment retention and among heroin dependent cocaine users. Participants were treated with buprenorphine maintenance and contingency management. The Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire's (TPQ) Novelty Seeking scale was administered to 68 participants prior to buprenorphine induction. Demographics, mood and anxiety disorders, antisocial personality disorder, and substance use were also assessed. Variables with significant relationships with overall retention were entered into a logistic regression analysis. In addition, using a survival analysis, all variables with significant relationships with time to drop-out were entered into a multivariate proportional hazards regression with time dependent covariates. Results demonstrated that although high novelty seekers, in comparison to low novelty seekers, were more likely to drop-out by the end of treatment, they had higher retention rates during the early phases of treatment. It is suggested that buprenorphine and contingency management were viewed by participants as novel treatment components and thus facilitated high novelty seekers' success early in treatment. If replicated, results suggest that inclusion of novel treatment components might facilitate retention among this at-risk group.
The purpose of our prospective randomized study was to compare the efficacy of theophylline ethylenediamine and caffeine sodium citrate in the treatment of idiopathic apnea in premature infants. Sixteen infants with three or more severe apneic attacks were studied. Twenty-four-hour cardiorespiratory recordings immediately before and after randomization and four days later showed similar significant decreases of the apnea frequency in both theophylline- (group 1, n = 8) and caffeine-treated infants (group 2, n = 8). No undesirable side effects were observed, except for tachycardia in one infant in group 1. We suggest reasons for preferring caffeine to theophylline in the control of idiopathic apnea in premature infants: caffeine is as efficient and easier to administer.
The effect of aminoglycosides on renal function was evaluated in 30 full-term infants who were treated within 24 h of birth with either amikacin (10 infants, group A), gentamicin (9 infants, group B), or netilmicin (10 infants, group C). Renal function was assessed before, during, and 48 h after discontinuation of therapy by measuring the plasma creatinine concentration (PCr), the fractional excretion of sodium (FENa), potassium, magnesium, phosphate (FEP), uric acid, and the urinary excretion of calcium (UCA/UCr ratio) immediately before (trough) and after (peak) the infusion of the aminoglycosides. The results were compared with 10 control newborns who did not receive antibiotics. Significant alterations in renal function were observed only during therapy with gentamicin (group B). These consisted of a sustained elevation of FENa and UCa/UCr ratio throughout therapy, a latent increase in FEP on the 7th day (P < 0.05), and lack of the normal postnatal decline of PCr in 3 of 9 infants (P < 0.01). These abnormalities persisted up to 2 days after discontinuation of therapy. Therapeutic doses of gentamicin may result in significant electrolyte disturbances in sick full-term infants.
Ten patients on long term lithium therapy (mean four years, range 1-10.5 years) were subjected to various renal, thyroid, haematological, cardiac and endocrine tests. There was impaired urinary concentrating ability in seven subjects, which was not responsive to vasopressin stimulation, suggesting a partial nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Nine subjects had metabolic acidosis with higher urinary pH than expected suggesting presence of acidification defect in the kidney. No significant change in renal function, thyroid function, ECG or haematological parameters were detected. Our findings concur with previous reports from the West regarding the safety of lithium administration.
To evaluate the antinociceptive effects of citronellal (CTL) on formalin-, capsaicin-, and glutamate-induced orofacial nociception in mice and to investigate whether such effects might involve a change in neural excitability.
Male mice were pretreated with CTL (50, 100, and 200 mg/kg, ip), morphine (5 mg/kg, ip), or vehicle (distilled water plus one drop of Tween 80 0.2%) before formalin (20 microL, 2%), capsaicin (20 microL, 2.5 microg) or glutamate (40 microL, 25 microM) injection into the right vibrissa. Sciatic nerve recordings were made using the single sucrose gap technique in rats. The data obtained were analyzed by ANOVA followed by Dunnett's test for the behavioral analyses and by the Student t test for CAP evaluation.
Pretreatment with CTL was effective in reducing nociceptive face-rubbing behavior in both phases of the formalin test, which was also naloxone-sensitive. CTL produced significantly antinociceptive effect at all doses in the capsaicin- and glutamate- tests. Rota-rod testing indicated that such results were unlikely to be provoked by motor abnormality. Recordings using the single sucrose gap technique revealed that CTL (10 mM) could reduce the excitability of the isolated sciatic nerve through a diminution of the compound action potential amplitude by about 42.4% from control recordings.
These results suggest that CTL might represent an important tool for management and/or treatment of orofacial pain.
To determine the efficacy of Opiate Maintenance Therapy (OMT) and adjunctive interventions for dual heroin and cocaine dependence by means of a meta-analysis.
We searched for and retrieved randomized controlled clinical trials. We used RevMan 5.0 with random effects modeling for statistical analysis and for comparisons of relative risk, effect sizes, and confidence intervals. Subsequent moderator variables and sensitivity analyses were performed.
Thirty-seven studies, which have enrolled 3,029 patients, have been included in this meta-analysis. High doses of OMT were more efficacious than lower ones in the achievement of sustained heroin abstinence (RR = 2.24 [1.54, 3.24], p < .0001) but had no effect on cocaine abstinence. At equivalent doses, methadone was more efficacious than buprenorphine on cocaine abstinence (RR = 1.63 [1.20, 2.22], p = .002) and also appeared to be superior on heroin abstinence (RR = 1.39 [1.00, 1.93], p = .05). Several pharmacological and psychological potentiation strategies have been investigated. An improvement on sustained cocaine abstinence was achieved with indirect dopaminergic agonists (RR = 1.44 [1.05, 1.98], p = .03) and with contingency management (CM) focusing on cocaine abstinence (RR = 3.11 [1.80, 5.35], p < .0001).
Dual opioid and cocaine dependence can be effectively treated with OMT in combination with adjunctive interventions. Higher OMT doses are preferable to lower ones and methadone to buprenorphine. OMT can be enhanced with indirect dopaminergic drugs and with CM focusing on cocaine abstinence.
Pyloric atresia associated with junctional epidermolysis bullosa (PA-JEB), is a rare inherited disorder characterized by pyloric stenosis and blistering of the skin as primary manifestations. We demonstrate that in one PA-JEB patient the disease resulted from two distinct mutations in the beta 4 integrin gene alleles. The paternal mutation consists of a one base pair deletion causing a shift in the open reading frame, and a downstream premature termination codon. The maternal mutation occurs in a donor splice site, and results in in-frame exon skipping involving the cytoplasmic domain of the polypeptide. Our results implicate mutations in the beta 4 integrin gene in some forms of PA-JEB.
The decrease in the seizure threshold for pentylenetetrazole in diazepam-withdrawn mice was not significantly affected by L-arginine (50 and 100 microg/mouse, i.c.v.), which did have an antiseizure effect in chronically vehicle-treated mice. Sodium nitroprusside (25 and 50 microg/mouse, i.c.v.) increased the seizure threshold for pentylenetetrazole in both diazepam-withdrawn mice and chronically vehicle-treated mice. In addition, the antiseizure effect of L-arginine was blocked by the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine (NOARG) and the NO scavenger, hemoglobin, while the effect of sodium nitroprusside was inhibited by hemoglobin, but not by NOARG, indicating that the antiseizure effect of L-arginine, but not that of sodium nitroprusside, is mediated by NO production resulting from the activation of NO synthase. Therefore, a decrease in the NO production via NO synthase may be involved in the hypersusceptibility to pentylenetetrazole during diazepam withdrawal.
The contribution of chemosensitive neurons to mechanical nociception and hyperalgesia was studied by evaluating mechanical nociceptive threshold and the effect of three directly-acting hyperalgesic agents (prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin E1 and the A2-adenosine agonist, CGS21680) in rats treated neonatally with capsaicin. Mechanical nociceptive threshold was quantified by the Randall-Selitto paw-withdrawal method. The baseline mechanical paw-withdrawal threshold of the capsaicin-treated rats was 40% higher than that of the untreated rats. In the capsaicin-treated rats mechanical hyperalgesia was not induced by prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin E1 or CGS21680. These results are consistent with the suggestion that mechanical nociception and hyperalgesia induced by inflammatory substances is mediated by action on capsaicin-sensitive nociceptors.
131 patients with frequently recurring genital herpes were treated for 1 year with reducing doses of oral acyclovir. The time to first recurrence in patients who commenced therapy on 400 mg twice a day was statistically significantly shorter than those on 200 mg four times a day (p less than 0.02) and as the total daily dose and frequency of therapy were lowered so the time to first recurrence was shortened. By the end of 60 days on 200 mg once a day (the lowest daily dose) 56% of patients had recurrences. Patients showed a marked reduction in the frequency of recurrence during therapy (from a mean of 1.1 per 28 days before to 0.11 during treatment, p = 0.0001). After stopping treatment the frequency of recurrences (0.71 per 28 days) was significantly less than the pre-treatment period (p = 0.001). No important side-effects were seen. It is concluded that long-term suppression with acyclovir is safe and effective for patients with recurrent genital herpes.
Sotalol is a beta-adrenoreceptor blocking drug, the clinical efficacy of which has been linked up to its negative chrono- and inotropic effects and its hypotensive action. In addition, beta-adrenolytic drugs are known to inhibit platelet aggregation in vitro possibly through lowering of calcium ions level. Here, we report that in rats sotalol at a dose of 10-20 mg/kg i.v., apart from hypotension, evokes instantaneous thrombolytic effect. This is associated with an increase in plasma level of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA). In vitro, sotalol at a concentration of 1-100 microM inhibits thrombogenesis on surface of rabbit aorta endothelium superfused with blood. Sotalol also has a weak anti-aggregatory activity (IC50 approximately 500-1000 microM) in human platelet rich plasma (PRP). Since the thrombolytic and fibrinolytic but not hypotensive effects of sotalol were inhibited by cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, while its hypotensive but not thrombolytic potency was dimished by an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), we have linked up the sotalol-induced effects in vivo with the release of prostacyclin and nitric oxide. Our data point out to a possibility that prostacyclin and nitric oxide concomitantly released from endothelium and/or from other blood cells after administration of sotalol, may play different roles: prostacyclin may be responsible for fibrinolytic, thrombolytic and antithrombotic properties, while nitric oxide may take part in the mechanism of sotalol-induced hypotension.
Pimozide, a specific dopamine blocking agent, was compared with chlorpromazine in a 4-week double-blind study of the treatment of 40 schizophrenic patients newly admitted to hospital through the emergency room. Dosage was adjusted according to therapeutic effect and during the final week ranged from 10--70 mg/day (median 30 mg/day) for pimozide and 600--1,500 mg/day (median 900 mg/day) for chlorpromazine. Pimozide was found to exert somewhat less of an overall therapeutic effect than chlorpromazine, particularly in highly agitated patients. Women responded better to either treatment than men. A weighted mean of the doses given to male and female patients during the final week suggests that in the treatment of acutely ill patients the mg dose equivalency of pimozide in terms of chlorpromazine is approximately 1:25, considerably lower than estimates from maintenance studies. Pimozide induced significantly more parkinsonian symptoms but less autonomic side effects than chlorpromazine. It is suggested that the weaker presynaptic dopamine blocking effect of pimozide might be responsible for its reduced potency in the treatment of acute schizophrenic symptoms.
Male inbred 10-12 week old Wistar/Furth rats received either no carcinogen, or 1-2-dimethylhydrazine (DMH) 20 mg/kg body weight s.c. once weekly for 16 weeks, or N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT) 0.2% of the feed for 16 weeks, or DMH and FANFT concurrently. Thirty-three weeks after carcinogen exposure, all surviving treated and control animals were killed and examined for bowel and urinary bladder tumors. Adenocarcinomas of the large and small bowel occurred in approximately 33% of DMH-treated animals, and transitional cell carcinomas of the urinary bladder in approximately 33% of the FANFT-treated animals. After concurrent exposure to both carcinogens, no increased incidence of bladder tumors was noted compared to FANFT treatment alone. However, the number of animals with one or more adenocarcinomas of the bowel (22/30 versus 17/50, p < 0.001), the mean number of tumors per animal (2.1 +/- 0.2 versus 1.1 +/- 0.1, p < 0.01), and the invasiveness of the tumors through the bowel wall were all significantly increased after DMH + FANFT compared to DMH exposure alone.
The recreational drug, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA; 'Ecstasy'), is a synthetic amphetamine derivative and a serotonin neurotoxin. MDMA use is associated with cognitive dysfunction and impulsivity, but since polydrug abuse is common among users it is difficult to attribute these problems specifically to MDMA. Moreover, few studies have examined reward-related cognitive processes. Our aim was to examine reward-related decision-making and impulsivity among MDMA users while controlling for polydrug use via appropriate comparison groups.
We examined decision-making [Iowa Gambling Task, IGT; Bechara, A., Damasio, A.R., Damasio, H., Anderson, S.W., 1994. Insensitivity to future consequences following damage to human prefrontal cortex. Cognition 50, 7-15], self-reported impulsivity (Multidimensional Personality Questionnaire-Brief Form [constraint subscale]; Barratt Impulsiveness Scale; Zuckerman Sensation Seeking Scale), and drug use among 22 abstinent MDMA users, 30 other drug users, and 29 healthy non-drug controls.
MDMA and other drug users showed comparable patterns of decision-making and impulsivity. However, both drug groups demonstrated poorer IGT performance and elevated self-reported impulsivity relative to controls. Poorer decision-making was related to heavier drug use in the past year, heavier weekly alcohol use, and meeting lifetime substance use disorder (SUD) criteria for more drug classes. Elevated impulsivity was associated with heavier drug use, heavier weekly alcohol use, more lifetime SUDs, and higher self-reported depression levels.
These findings contradict the idea that MDMA is specifically associated with deficient decision-making. Drug users, in general, may be at risk for decision-making deficits and elevated impulsivity. Such behaviors may represent trait factors that lead to the initiation of drug and alcohol use, and/or they may represent behavior patterns that are exacerbated by extensive use.
Two randomized trials demonstrated an improvement in survival with docetaxel-based chemotherapy for patients with metastatic, androgen-independent prostate disease. However, the effect of current therapy is suboptimal in that it is complicated by toxicities and has no curative potential. Cilengitide (EMD121974; NSC 707544), is a potent selective alphavbeta3 and alphavbeta5 integrin antagonist. Integrins are cell surface receptors that mediate a variety of cell activities including endothelial cell proliferation and migration. Blocking the ligation of integrins by antagonists promotes apoptosis of proliferative angiogenic cells, thereby suspending new blood vessel formation, which is essential for the growth of malignant disease. In prostate cancer specifically, integrins are known to be involved in metastases with differential expression on tumor cells. Tumors and vascular endothelial cells produce factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, that promote neovascularization, which has been implicated in prostate cancer progression. Cilengitide has been shown to inhibit alphavbeta3- and alphavbeta5-mediated cell adhesion and block in vitro endothelial cell migration. In vivo experiments demonstrated that cilengitide inhibited cytokine-induced basic fibroblast growth factor- and vascular endothelial growth factor-mediated angiogenesis in a dose-dependent manner. Cilengitide also inhibited tumor growth in various in vivo systems. Two Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program-sponsored, multicenter, phase II trials are designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this agent in patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer. National Cancer Institute trial 6735 is evaluating cilengitide at 2000 mg in patients with nonmetastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer, and National Cancer Institute trial 6372 is evaluating 2 dose levels of cilengitide, 500 mg or 2000 mg, intravenously twice weekly in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
Calcium antagonists have been used for the acute treatment of hypertension. Among these compounds, diltiazem induces the least tachycardia in response to acute administration. The effects of this agent, in a dose of 0.3 mg/kg given intravenously, on arterial pressure, heart rate and plasma renin activity were assessed in 10 patients with benign moderate to severe essential hypertension; nifedipine (10 mg sublingually) in 10 patients or 5% glucose (placebo) in 4 patients was used as a control. As compared with the 5% glucose group, diltiazem caused a persistent fall in diastolic pressure during 60 minutes, but only a transient decrease in systolic arterial pressure and heart rate; plasma renin activity was unchanged. Nifedipine caused a persistent fall in both systolic and diastolic pressure and a slight but significant increase in plasma renin activity, but did not modify heart rate. The diltiazem-induced decrease in systolic pressure was significantly smaller than the pressure changes caused by nifedipine. Variations in plasma renin activity between the two calcium antagonists were not significant. These findings suggest that in patients with hypertension diltiazem exerts a less marked acute antihypertensive effect than nifedipine.
The antiangiogenic and immunomodulatory effects of thalidomide induce responses in patients with androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC). Paclitaxel and doxorubicin also have significant antitumor activity. A phase I dose-escalation study was conducted to evaluate the use of these agents in combination to enhance the chemotherapeutic effects of treatment for refractory cancer.
Twelve men with AIPC (mean age, 64.5 years) and a median prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level of 30 ng/mL were enrolled. Patients received starting doses of weekly paclitaxel (100 mg/m(2)) as a 1-hour intravenous infusion, weekly doxorubicin (20 mg/m(2)) as a 24-hour intravenous infusion, and daily oral thalidomide at escalating dose levels of 200 mg (dose level 0), 300 mg (dose level +1), and 400 mg (dose level +2). Paclitaxel and doxorubicin were administered for 3 consecutive weeks of a 5-week cycle. Exposure to thalidomide was daily. Patients were evaluated weekly for dose-limiting toxicities to determine the maximum tolerated dose. In addition, PSA levels were measured before each cycle of treatment. Response to treatment was defined as a > or =50% decrease in baseline PSA levels associated with stable radiographic disease, improvement of bone scan results with plain radiograph correlation, or improvement in soft tissue disease.
Four patients were treated on dose level 0, 5 were treated on dose level +1, and 3 were treated on dose level +2. The thalidomide 400-mg dose level resulted in 3 of 3 patients experiencing grade 3 leukopenia. The maximum tolerated dose was 300 mg of thalidomide in combination with paclitaxel/doxorubicin. Nine of the 12 patients were evaluable for PSA response, with 88% exhibiting partial responses or stable disease. One patient (11%) had a significant response, with PSA levels decreasing > 90% from baseline values. Overall, PSA-level decreases ranged from 0.5 ng/mL to 39.5 ng/mL among the 9 evaluable patients. A maximum of 7 cycles of therapy were administered. Twelve patients were evaluable for toxicity: neutropenia (grade 3, 27%; grade 4, 54%), leukopenia (grade 3, 63%), constipation (grade 3, 27%), fatigue (grade 3, 27%), nausea (grade 3, 9%), and deep vein thrombosis (grade 3, 9%) were reported.
The combined dosing of paclitaxel (100 mg/m(2) weekly), doxorubicin (20 mg/m(2) weekly), and thalidomide (300 mg daily) is tolerated by men with AIPC and merits continued phase II study.
Assessment of anti-inflammatory therapies against sulfur-mustard (bis(2-chloroethyl)sulfide, HD)-induced skin injury has mainly relied on qualitative histopathological evaluation. Development of quantifiable inflammatory biomarkers using fast and reliable molecular methods is needed for screening anti-inflammatory drugs against HD injury. In this study, we used two different HD exposure models to determine the in vivo cutaneous response of the inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1alpha, IL-1beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), in order to identify a suitable inflammatory biomarker common to both models. In the first model, the backs of hairless mice were exposed to HD vapor (1.4 g m(-3)) or sham controls for 6 min using an occluded vapor cup technique. In the second model, right ears of CD1 mice were exposed to a solution (5.0 microl of 195 mM) of HD (0.16 mg) in dichloromethane (CH2Cl2) whereas left ears received only CH2Cl2 (vehicle control). Sulfur-mustard-induced skin inflammation was assessed in skin punch specimens collected at time points up to 24 h post-exposure. Edema was determined by measuring tissue weight, and cytokine content was measured by enzyme immunosorbent assay. Characterized by an increase in edema and IL-6, HD provoked a cutaneous inflammatory response in both models beginning at 6 h post-exposure and continuing to 24 h. An increase in IL-1alpha was observed only in the hairless mouse model, also beginning at 6 h post-exposure and continuing to 24 h. No IL-1beta or TNF-alpha response was observed at any time point in either exposure model. These data document the in vivo production of cutaneous IL-6, a distinct inflammatory biomarker, in two different HD exposure models. We conclude that IL-6 should be a useful in vivo biomarker for evaluating anti-inflammatory drugs against HD-induced skin injury.
We have measured the response to arachidonic acid (AA) in platelet-rich plasma (PRP) of rats with Adriamycin-induced nephrotic syndrome. For this purpose we measured the kinetics of generation of malondialdehyde (MDA), a stable product of cyclooxygenase activity, in response to platelet stimulation with different concentrations of the substrate. The apparent Km of platelet cyclo-oxygenase for AA was similar in PRP from control rats and rats treated 1-5 days previously, whereas it was significantly reduced, as compared to controls, in PRP of rats treated 2-5 weeks previously. Such a difference was not observed when washed platelet suspensions were tested instead of PRP. Experiments with crossed platelet/plasma systems indicated that in rats treated from 2-5 weeks, a plasmatic abnormality was indeed responsible for the increased affinity of platelets for AA. It is conceivable that in this nephrotic syndrome model characterized by heavy proteinuria, some plasmatic component would be lost with the urine which is normally modulating the platelet response to AA. The observed increase in platelet affinity for AA could at least partially contribute to the enhanced thrombotic tendency reported in the same experimental model.
4-Hydroxycoumarin (4-HC) is a coumarin that lacks anticoagulant activity. 4-HC affects the cytoskeletal stability and decreases cell adhesion and motility of the melanoma cell line B16-F10. Together with integrins and other cytoskeletal proteins, paxillin participates in the regulation of cell adhesion and motility, acting as an adapter protein at focal adhesions. The present study determined the participation of paxillin in the reported effects of 4-HC and analyzed the role of paxillin in the formation of melanoma metastases.
4-HC decreased protein and mRNA levels of alpha- and beta-paxillin isoforms in B16-F10 cells. Paxillin downregulation correlated with an inadequate translocation of paxillin to focal adhesions and a reduced phosphotyr118-paxillin pool. Consequently, 4-HC altered paxillin-mediated signaling, decreasing the phosphorylation of FAK and the level of GTP-bound Rac-1. These results partially explain the mechanism of the previously reported effects of 4-HC. Additionally, we studied the effect of 4-HC on metastatic potential of B16-F10 cells through experimental metastasis assays. In vitro treatment of cells with 4-HC inhibited their capability to originate pulmonary metastases. 4-HC did not affect cell proliferation or survival, demonstrating that its antimetastatic effect is unrelated to changes on cell viability. We also studied the importance of paxillin in metastasis by transfecting melanoma cells with paxillin-siRNA. Transfection produced a modest reduction on metastatic potential, indicating that: i) paxillin plays a role as inducer of melanoma metastasis; and ii) paxillin downregulation is not sufficient to explain the antimetastatic effect of 4-HC. Therefore, we evaluated other changes in gene expression by differential display RT-PCR analysis. Treatment with 4-HC produced a downregulation of Adhesion Regulating Molecule-1 (ARM-1), which correlated with a decreased adhesion of melanoma cells to lung slides.
This study shows that reduced paxillin expression is associated with the impaired cell adhesion and motility seen in 4-HC-treated cells and partially contributes to the antimetastatic effect of 4-HC. In contrast, the role of ARM-1 reduced expression in the effects of 4-HC is still to be clarified. The antimetastatic effect of 4-HC suggests that this compound, or others with similar mode of action, might be useful for the development of adjuvant therapies for melanoma.
