Clozapine is an atypical dibenzodiazepine antipsychotic used for resistant schizophrenia. Uncommonly, it is associated with myocarditis. We report a case of myopericarditis masquerading as an acute myocardial infarction based on presenting electrocardiogram and cardiac markers. Emergent coronary angiography confirmed the absence of epicardial coronary occlusion and revealed severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction. Immediate discontinuation of the clozapine, along with aggressive supportive care resulted in complete recovery to baseline. Cardiovascular health professionals should be aware of this uncommon but serious side effect of clozapine since failure to recognize the association may result in adverse clinical outcome and inappropriate therapy.
Drug idiosyncrasy is an adverse event of unknown etiology that occurs in a small fraction of people taking a drug. Some idiosyncratic drug reactions may occur from episodic decreases in the threshold for drug hepatotoxicity. Previous studies in rats have shown that modest underlying inflammation triggered by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) can decrease the threshold for xenobiotic hepatotoxicity. The histamine-2 (H2)-receptor antagonist ranitidine (RAN) causes idiosyncratic reactions in people, with liver as a usual target. We tested the hypothesis that RAN could be rendered hepatotoxic in animals undergoing a modest inflammatory response. Male rats were treated with a nonhepatotoxic dose of LPS (44 x 10(6) endotoxin units/kg i.v.) or its vehicle and then 2 h later with a nonhepatotoxic dose of RAN (30 mg/kg i.v.) or its vehicle. Liver injury was evident only in animals treated with both RAN and LPS as estimated by increases in serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and gamma-glutamyl transferase activities within 6 h after RAN administration. LPS/RAN cotreatment resulted in midzonal liver lesions characterized by acute necrosuppurative hepatitis. Famotidine (FAM) is an H2-antagonist for which the propensity for idiosyncratic reactions is far less than RAN. Rats given LPS and FAM at a dose pharmacologically equipotent to that of RAN did not develop liver injury. In vitro, RAN sensitized hepatocytes to killing by cytotoxic products from activated neutrophils, whereas FAM lacked this ability. The results indicate that a response resembling human RAN idiosyncrasy can be reproduced in animals by RAN exposure during modest inflammation.
Estradiol-17beta-D-glucuronide (E2-17G) induces an acute but reversible inhibition of bile flow after its intravenous administration to rats, due in part to the endocytic retrieval of the canalicular multidrug resistance-associated transporter protein 2 and the bile salt export pump, transporters that contribute to bile flow. Decreased bile salt-independent bile flow (BSIF) is also involved and persists during the phase of recovery from cholestasis. Because glutathione and HCO3- are major contributors to BSIF, we evaluated changes in their biliary excretion and the hepatic content of total glutathione during E2-17G-induced cholestasis. E2-17G acutely decreased bile flow and biliary excretion of total glutathione by about 80%; glutathione excretion was still inhibited at 80 min and 120 min, even though bile flow was partially and totally restored, respectively. Neither liver glutathione content nor the proportions of oxidized glutathione in bile and liver were affected by E2-17G at any time. HCO3- concentrations in bile were unchanged, so that secretion paralleled variations in bile flow. In the isolated perfused liver, addition of E2-17G decreased both bile flow and the biliary concentration of glutathione, whereas addition of its noncholestatic isomer estradiol-3-D-glucuronide (E2-3G) did not inhibit bile flow, but significantly reduced the concentration of glutathione in bile. The bile:liver concentration ratios of glutathione were significantly decreased in vivo by E2-17G and in the perfused liver by E2-17G and E2-3G. These data indicate that E2-17G cis-inhibits the canalicular transport of glutathione and thus contributes to the cholestatic effect by inhibiting BSIF.
The data on clinical trials of newly-developed hormonotherapy of atypical hyperplasia (AH) and cervical adenocarcinoma (CAC) are presented. The study included 34 patients with histologically--confirmed AH and 86--CAC (stage I-II and III-IV). All patients were given preoperative "shock therapy" with a combination of progestins and anticoagulants: 500 mg, i.v., 10 days--(AH) and well-differentiated cell CAC; 20 days--moderately- and poorly-differentiated cell CAC. Total dose was 5 g and 10 g, respectively. Fibrolysin, pelentan and aspirin (antiaggregant of thrombocytes) were used as anticoagulants. For comparison, identical numbers of AH and CAC patients received similar preoperative progestin therapy without anticoagulants. The study was randomized. Hormonal pathomorphosis in tumor was identified after surgery and relevant characteristics of bioptical and resected material were compared. It was found that hormonotherapy used in conjunction with anticoagulants reinforced significantly all features of hormonal pathomorphosism both in AH and CAC stage I-II while, in well-differentiated cell adenocarcinoma, the difference from control was significant (p < 0.05).
To investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of intravenous diltiazem compared with nitroglycerin in the patients with unstable angina pectoris.
A multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel group trial was conducted. A total of 213 eligible patients were enrolled. They were randomized either to diltiazem or nitroglycerin treatment. The diltiazem was administered from 100 microg/min at the initiation of treatment, the largest dosage was 200 - 300 microg/min; the nitroglycerin was administered from 20 microg/min at the initiation of treatment. The largest dosage was 80 - 100 microg/min. Intravenous infusion was kept over 48 hours. The endpoints included refractory angina pectoris, acute myocardial infarction, death, emergency PTCA and CABG.
(1) Intravenous diltiazem was effective on the improvement of symptom and electrocardiogram, and its effects were similar to intravenous nitroglycerin. (2) Compared with nitroglycerin, intravenous diltiazem lowered heart rate and myocardial oxygen consumption index (systolic pressure x heart rate) to more extent significantly. (3) After treatment, the onsets of refractory angina pectoris were reduced more significantly in the diltiazem group than in nitroglycerin group [4 (3.8%) vs 13 (11.9%), RR 0.32 (95% CI 0.11 - 0.96), P < 0.05]. (4) The patients whose heart rate were reduced significantly (<or= 50 beats per minute) in the diltiazem group were more than in the nitroglycerin group [8 (7.7%) vs 0 (0%), P < 0.01]. But these patients could tolerate the lower heart rate very well in the diltiazem group. (5) The needs of beta receptor blocker or calcium antagonists were reduced more significantly in the diltiazem group compared with those in the nitroglycerin group [2 (1.9%) vs 13 (11.9%), P < 0.01].
Intravenous diltiazem therapy is effective and safe for patients with unstable angina pectoris. It may significantly lower the risk of refractory angina pectoris compared with intravenous nitroglycerin.
This report presents a severe case of Poland-Möbius syndrome with central apnea at birth, ventilator-dependent, and with brainstem calcifications. The newborn had unilateral defect of the right pectoralis muscle, breast, and limb. He manifested bilateral paralysis of the cranial nerves resulting in shallow respiration, apnea, and dysphagia. He finally required tracheostomy and gastrostomy. Maternal history revealed multiple uses of cocaine during the first 3 months of pregnancy. The patient supports the Poland-Möbius combination and the possibility of vascular disruption sequence.
Although amphotericin B remains the mainstay of therapy for serious fungal infections, numerous acute and chronic toxicities make clinical usage difficult. Nevertheless, utilization of amphotericin B has increased dramatically in recent years. Accordingly, a study to reassess toxicity associated with the use of amphotericin in the modern era and to determine the aggregate impact toxicities have on the overall therapeutic course of patients was undertaken.
The charts of 50 patients at our institution who had received amphotericin B were retrospectively reviewed for the occurrence of drug-related acute and chronic toxicities and their impact on therapy. Patients evaluated were at least 21 years of age, had received at least 100 mg of amphotericin B, and were treated for at least 3 days. An analysis to investigate associations between drug administration variables and toxicities was also undertaken.
The mean age of study subjects were 54 years, the average duration of therapy was 19 days, and the mean cumulative dose of amphotericin B was 582 mg. Acute toxicities accompanying infusion occurred in 66% of all patients. Fever was experienced by 34% of study subjects and chills by 56%, with rates of 2.6 and 3.5 mean episodes per patient per treatment course, respectively. Other acute toxicities including hypotension were rare, and no patients exhibited bronchospasm or anaphylaxis. Nephrotoxicity occurred in 30 patients (60%). Baseline creatinine values in these patients rose by a mean of 1.55 mg/dL (137 mumol/L), with increases in creatinine ranging from 0.2 to 5.2 mg/dL (18 to 460 mumol/L). Analysis of six drug administration parameters by stepwise multiple linear regression failed to reveal any significant associations with nephrotoxicity. The mean nadir potassium value was 3.1 mEq/L (3.1 mmol/L) (range: 2.3 to 4.8 mEq/L [2.3 mmol/L]), with 45 of 50 patients (90%) receiving potassium supplementation (average daily supplement = 69 mEq). Only increasing amphotericin B concentration was correlated with an increased requirement for potassium supplementation (p less than 0.01, stepwise multiple linear regression).
Although clinically important toxicities continue to occur with usage of amphotericin B despite current methods of infusion and premedication, these are usually manageable and rarely limit the course of therapy.
The authors reported a case of pneumocephalus induced by bromocriptine (Bc) treatment for a recurrent invasive prolactinoma. The patient was a 38-year old man, who had been treated for 12 years, with three times of craniotomies and two times of irradiation therapies. CT scan showed the recurrence of the tumor, which extended into bilateral middle fossa, left orbit and left cerebellopontine angle. Serum prolactin levels elevated to 35,200 ng/ml. Then Bc was administered in a dose of 5 mg/day. Serum PRL concentration fell to 2,090 ng/ml one month after the initiation of the treatment, when he complained of headache, nausea and vomiting. Since these symptoms were considered as the side effects of Bc, the dose was reduced to 2.5 mg/day. Three weeks later, plain craniograms showed marked pneumocephalus, while no tumor was found on CT scan. The administration of Bc was stopped and he was prescribed a complete rest for a month. The air was collected again when he began to walk around. Therefore, the transsphenoidal operation was performed in order to pack the sella turcica and sphenoid sinus with muscle pieces. Since the pneumocephalus could not be cured, the muscle, taken from the thigh, was spread throughout the left middle fossa by the front-temporal craniotomy. When Bc reduces the size of the invasive prolactinomas, the intra- and extra-cranial spaces may be communicated. The greatest care should be taken for pneumocephalus, CSF rhinorrhea and/or meningitis during the Bc treatment of prolactinomas.
We evaluated seven children who had been exposed to sodium valproate (or valproic acid) in utero. A consistent facial phenotype was observed in all seven in addition to other birth defects in four. The facial changes consisted of epicanthal folds which continued inferiorly and laterally to form a crease or groove just under the orbit, flat nasal bridge, small upturned nose, long upper lip with a relatively shallow philtrum, a thin upper vermillion border, and downturned angles of the mouth. Hypospadias, strabismus, and psychomotor delay were found in two males; two children had nystagmus and two had low birth weight.
The effect of microwave irradiation on naloxone-induced withdrawal syndrome was studied in rats made morphine dependent by subcutaneous implantation of morphine pellets. Morphine-dependent rats were either exposed to pulsed low-level microwaves (2450 MHz, 1 mW/cm2, 500 pps, 2 musec pulses) or sham-irradiated for 45 min before the naloxone injection. We found that microwave-exposed rats showed significantly less weg-dog-shakes and had higher body temperature than the sham-exposed animals during withdrawal. There was no significant difference in the incident of diarrhea between the two groups of animals. These data further support the results of our previous research suggesting that pulsed low-level microwave irradiation activates endogenous opioids in the rat.
Acute promyelocytic leukemia was diagnosed in a 28-year-old pregnant woman at 13 gestational weeks. She was immediately started on idarubicin and all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) and achieved remission after her fourth cycle of treatment. Serial fetal ultrasonograms throughout pregnancy did not reveal any intrauterine growth retardation or other obvious malformations. The mother delivered a term (36.7 gestational weeks), 2720-gram female neonate. The infant was admitted to the intermediate care nursery for observation due to transient mild respiratory distress during the peripartum period. Because of right ventricular hypertrophy on an electrocardiogram, an echocardiogram was performed on the first day of life which showed moderate dilation of the right atrium and right ventricle with mildly depressed function, two small secundum atrial septal defects, and a small patent ductus arteriosus. The neonate remained hemodynamically stable and no arrhythmias were detected. The remainder of the hospital course was uneventful. When reassessed 1-1/2 months later, she was doing well and did not show any signs of congestive heart failure. A repeat echocardiogram at that time demonstrated complete resolution of the right heart enlargement and closure of the ductus arteriosus with persistence of the small and hemodynamically insignificant secundum atrial septal defects.
2 Standardbred racehorses that had been winning races while competing as mares underwent postrace drug testing and had serum testosterone concentrations above the acceptable limit for female racehorses.
Initial physical examinations by the referring veterinarian revealed ambiguous external genitalia and suspected intra-abdominally located testes leading to a preliminary diagnosis of male pseudohermaphroditism. Horses were referred for further evaluation of sex. Physical examination of the external genitalia confirmed the findings of the referring veterinarian. Transrectal palpation and ultrasonography revealed gonads with an ultrasonographic appearance of testes. On cytogenetic analysis, both horses were determined to have a 64,XY karyotype and 8 intact Y chromosome markers and 5 SRY gene markers, which were indicative of a genetic male and confirmed an intersex condition. Additionally, both horses had some male-type behavior and endocrinologic findings consistent with those of sexually intact males.
Taken together, these findings confirmed that both horses were male pseudohermaphrodites. Both horses returned to racing competition as males.
As of October 1, 2008, the Pennsylvania Horse and Harness Racing Commissions implemented a postrace drug testing policy that included analysis of blood samples for anabolic and androgenic steroids and set maximum allowable concentrations of testosterone for racing geldings and females. Within 8 months of initiation of this drug testing policy, the 2 horses of this report were identified as having an intersex condition. This raises the possibility that intersex conditions may be more common in racing Standardbreds than was previously suspected.
We investigated the antiviral activity of olive leaf extract (OLE) preparations standardized by liquid chromatography-coupled mass spectrometry (LC-MS) against HIV-1 infection and replication. We find that OLE inhibits acute infection and cell-to-cell transmission of HIV-1 as assayed by syncytia formation using uninfected MT2 cells co-cultured with HIV-1-infected H9 T lymphocytes. OLE also inhibits HIV-1 replication as assayed by p24 expression in infected H9 cells. These anti-HIV effects of OLE are dose dependent, with EC(50)s of around 0.2 microg/ml. In the effective dose range, no cytotoxicity on uninfected target cells was detected. The therapeutic index of OLE is above 5000. To identify viral and host targets for OLE, we characterized gene expression profiles associated with HIV-1 infection and OLE treatment using cDNA microarrays. HIV-1 infection modulates the expression patterns of cellular genes involved in apoptosis, stress, cytokine, protein kinase C, and hedgehog signaling. HIV-1 infection up-regulates the expression of the heat-shock proteins hsp27 and hsp90, the DNA damage inducible transcript 1 gadd45, the p53-binding protein mdm2, and the hedgehog signal protein patched 1, while it down-regulates the expression of the anti-apoptotic BCL2-associated X protein Bax. Treatment with OLE reverses many of these HIV-1 infection-associated changes. Treatment of HIV-1-infected cells with OLE also up-regulates the expression of the apoptosis inhibitor proteins IAP1 and 2, as well as the calcium and protein kinase C pathway signaling molecules IL-2, IL-2Ralpha, and ornithine decarboxylase ODC1.
A group of 32 patients with perennial allergic rhinitis sensitized exclusively to house dust and mites were evaluated for "in vivo" modifications (skin tests for histamine, house dust and mites) and "in vitro" alterations (seric IgE, specific IgE, histamine release curve to different concentrations of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and histamine release curve to this pneumoallergen after incubation with H1 receptor antagonists) to four antihistamines (astemizole, azatadine, mequitazine and terfenadine). The patients were divided into 4 groups of 8 and the "in vivo" and "in vitro" tests were performed on days -1, +15 and +30 of administration of these drugs. The reduction in the size of the wheal (prick test) for histamine when comparing days -1 and +15 and -1 and +30 was 69% and 79% (astemizole), 64% and 71% (azatadine), 69% and 64% (mequitazine) and 61% and 64% (terfenadine), respectively. The difference in the mean size of the wheal in mm2 for house dust, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and farinae was statistically significant (p less than 0.001) except when comparing the results obtained for mequitazine on days -1 and +15. This was also the case on days -1 and +30 for terfenadine. The values of the serum IgE and specific IgE did not attain statistical significance (p greater than 0.05) in the various tests carried out. After incubation with H1 receptor antagonists an inhibition curve of the histamine release in the presence of Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus was obtained. The inhibition of this curve on day -1 was higher for terfenadine and mequitazine than for azatadine and astemizole.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The incidence of liver tumors induced in rats by N-diethylnitrosamine was increased by the feeding of phenobarbital. Liver ornithine decarboxylase activity did not increase in animals receiving phenobarbital in the diet, and the concentration of polyamines in the liver was similarly unchanged. No relationship between the promotion of N-nitrosamine-induced liver tumors by phenobarbital and the ornithine decarboxylase activity of the liver was indicated by these experiments.
Left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy is associated with a substantial risk for malignant arrhythmias and sudden death. The effects of antihypertensive therapy on QT dispersion, which reflects cardiac repolarization heterogeneity, in relation to changes in LV mass has not been well studied. Repeat echocardiography and QT measurements (standard 12-lead electrocardiograms) were performed in hypertensive patients with LV hypertrophy, who were randomized double-blind to receive the angiotensin II type 1-receptor blocker irbesartan (n = 44) or the beta(1)-receptor blocker atenolol (n = 48) for 48 weeks, and in 37 matched hypertensive control subjects without LV hypertrophy. LV mass index was related to QT dispersion (r = 0.34, p <0.001). The reduction in LV mass was greater using irbesartan than using atenolol (-27 +/- 28 vs -15 +/- 21 g/m(2) at 48 weeks, p = 0.021), with similar reductions in blood pressure. Irbesartan decreased QT dispersion (from 56 +/- 24 ms to 45 +/- 20 ms at 48 weeks; p <0.001) and QTc dispersion (from 57 +/- 24 to 44 +/- 19 ms at 48 weeks; p <0.001). In contrast, atenolol had minor effects. The decreases in QT and QTc dispersions were greater using irbesartan than using atenolol (p = 0.001 and p = 0.011, respectively); the same results were found when changes in LV mass, blood pressure, and heart rate were also included in multivariate analyses. Thus, heterogeneity of ventricular repolarization is related to the degree of LV hypertrophy. Irbesartan, but not atenolol, reduces QT and QTc dispersions independent of changes in LV mass, blood pressure, or heart rate, and thus seems to induce structural and electrical remodeling in a direction that could decrease the risk of fatal events in hypertensive patients.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a disease characterized by nonimmune hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia and renal impairment. There are many causes for HUS, but adverse reactions to drugs have been increasingly reported. Even the NSAIDs which have been reported as safe and effective painkillers are described as cause of recurrent HUS.
We describe a case of a 44-year-old woman who was admitted to our hospital because of thrombocytopenia and anemia after the use of 8 tablets of 400 mg ibuprofen (NSAIDs). The diagnosis HUS was made and she recovered completely after treatment with fresh-frozen plasma and seven plasma exchanges.
No cause could be identified except the use of ibuprofen. Recognition of a drug-induced HUS is necessary to avoid reexposure and recurrent HUS.
Multicentric Castleman disease is a systemic lymphoproliferative disease with incomplete understood etiology. The various renal complications of this disease may include minimal change disease, mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis, membranous glomerulonephritis and nephrotic syndrome, caused by secondary amyloidosis. In several reported cases of localized Castleman disease associated with renal amyloidosis and nephrotic syndrome, resection of organs involved by lymphoid proliferation resulted in complete remission. However, therapy of multicentric Castleman disease with renal amyloidosis is not well-established. We treated a case of a 39-year-old woman with multicentric Castleman disease complicated by nephrotic syndrome caused by secondary AA amyloidosis. The patient underwent autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (auto-PBSCT), achieving complete remission. Autologous stem cell transplantation may be an attractive choice in therapy for refractory multicentric Castleman disease.
Hyponatraemia is a very rare but potentially fatal complication of SSRIs and citalopram therapy, especially during the first weeks of treatment and for those who concomitantly use medications known to cause hyponatraemia. We present a 54-year-old hypertensive female patient who was admitted to the hospital with drowsiness, paresthesia, fatigue, nausea, vomiting and visual hallucinations and who was diagnosed to have syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) due to citalopram. All her presenting symptoms disappeared after discontinuation of citalopram therapy, fluid restriction and a careful hypertonic saline infusion. This case suggests that SIADH may develop among hypertensive patients, especially when they use diuretics or follow a salt restricted diet.
Acute muscle pain with stiffness developed in a patient with latent hypothyroidism after administration of clofibrate. Serum creatine kinase (CK), aspartate aminotransferase, and lactate dehydrogenase were markedly elevated, but returned to normal one and a half months after the discontinuation of clofibrate. Clofibrate challenge (750 mg/day) for three days caused muscle pain and an elevation in serum CK. Hypothyroidism may be a predisposing factor in the development of clofibrate-induced myopathy.
To compare the side effect profiles of methylphenidate (MPH) and dexamphetamine (DEX) in children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), as well as to determine which symptoms are genuine adverse effects of stimulant medication, as opposed to aspects of the child's underlying behavioral phenotype.
Double-blind, crossover study.
Pediatric teaching hospital ambulatory behavior clinic.
A total of 125 children with ADHD with a mean age of 104.8 months.
Subjects received DEX (0.15 mg/kg/dose) and MPH (0.3 mg/kg/dose) twice a day for 2 weeks each in a randomized order.
The Barkley Side Effects Rating Scale (17 symptoms; 0 = absent, severity rated from 1 to 9) was completed by parents at baseline and at the completion of each trial fortnight.
Subjects' parents reported a significantly greater mean number (8.19) and mean severity (4.08) of "side effects" before commencing the trial than during the MPH period (number 7.19; severity 3.24), but not the DEX period (number 7.64, severity 3.73). The mean severity (but not mean number) was greater on DEX than on MPH. DEX caused more severe insomnia and appetite suppression compared with the baseline rating. Appetite suppression was the only item rated more severe on MPH than at baseline. Six side effects were significantly more severe on DEX than MPH: insomnia, irritability, proneness to crying, anxiousness, sadness/unhappiness, and nightmares. None were more severe on MPH than DEX. Overall, both MPH and DEX were well tolerated by most subjects, with only four subjects discontinuing the trial period because of severe adverse effects (2 -1.6%- on each stimulant).
Many symptoms commonly attributed to stimulant medication are actually preexisting characteristics of children with ADHD and improve with stimulant treatment. At the doses investigated, both DEX and MPH caused appetite suppression, and DEX caused insomnia. Negative emotional symptoms were more severe on DEX than MPH.
Although Leuconostoc species are rarely pathogenic for humans, they may sometimes give rise to serious infections. In this report, a case of meningitis caused by vancomycin resistant Leuconostoc spp. was reported. Fifty-seven years old female patient was admitted to the hospital with the complaints of headache and sudden onset of unconsciousness and hospitalized in the neurosurgery department because of subarachnoidal hemorrhage. Patient was followed up with dexamethasone treatment and daily lumbar puncture without any surgical intervention. The findings of hemorrhage were receded in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and the consciousness of the patient improved gradually. However, on the ninth day of the hospitalization, the patient became febrile and confused; white blood cell count was 7920/mm3, protein level was 1952 mg/l in the CSF examination. Nosocomial meningitis was diagnosed and empirical treatment with ceftazidime (3 x 2 g/day) and vancomycin (4 x 500 mg/day) was started. CSF culture revealed growth of gram-positive cocci which were identified as Leuconostoc spp. by VITEK 2 Compact (Biomerieux, France) and Phoenix Instrument (Becton-Dickinson, USA) systems. Since the isolate was found susceptible to penicillin, ampicillin, cefotaxime, cefepime, chloramphenicol, clindamycin, erythromycin and linezolid, and resistant to vancomycin by disk diffusion and miniAPI ATB STREP 5 (Biomerieux, France) methods, the treatment was switched to linezolid (2 x 600 mg/day). Vancomycin and teicoplanin resistance was confirmed by E-test. The treatment was continued with linezolid and the patient's clinical condition improved after 14 days of treatment. The possible way of Leuconostoc transmission in this case was thought to be the lumbar punctures performed during the follow-up of subarachnoid hemorrhage. This presentation which demonstrated that Leuconostoc spp. might rarely lead to meningitis, also pointed out that when a vancomycin resistant gram-positive coccus was identified, Leuconostoc spp. should always be kept in mind.
We performed a genome-wide association study of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) by genotyping 1,077 individuals with ESCC and 1,733 control subjects of Chinese Han descent. We selected 18 promising SNPs for replication in an additional 7,673 cases of ESCC and 11,013 control subjects of Chinese Han descent and 303 cases of ESCC and 537 control subjects of Chinese Uygur-Kazakh descent. We identified two previously unknown susceptibility loci for ESCC: PLCE1 at 10q23 (P(Han combined for ESCC) = 7.46 x 10(-56), odds ratio (OR) = 1.43; P(Uygur-Kazakh for ESCC) = 5.70 x 10(-4), OR = 1.53) and C20orf54 at 20p13 (P(Han combined for ESCC) = 1.21 x 10(-11), OR = 0.86; P(Uygur-Kazakh for ESCC) = 7.88 x 10(-3), OR = 0.66). We also confirmed association in 2,766 cases of gastric cardia adenocarcinoma cases and the same 11,013 control subjects (PLCE1, P(Han for GCA) = 1.74 x 10(-39), OR = 1.55 and C20orf54, P(Han for GCA) = 3.02 x 10(-3), OR = 0.91). PLCE1 and C20orf54 have important biological implications for both ESCC and GCA. PLCE1 might regulate cell growth, differentiation, apoptosis and angiogenesis. C20orf54 is responsible for transporting riboflavin, and deficiency of riboflavin has been documented as a risk factor for ESCC and GCA.
Spinal cord injury and cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis dramatically alter lower urinary tract function and produce neurochemical, electrophysiological, and anatomical changes that may contribute to reorganization of the micturition reflex. Mechanisms underlying this neural plasticity may involve alterations in neurotrophic factors in the urinary bladder. These studies have determined neurotrophic factors in the urinary bladder that may contribute to reorganization of the micturition reflex following cystitis or spinal cord injury. A ribonuclease protection assay was used to measure changes in urinary bladder neurotrophic factor mRNA (betaNGF, BDNF, GDNF, CNTF, NT-3, and NT-4) following spinal cord injury (acute/chronic) or cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis (acute/chronic). The correlation between urinary bladder nerve growth factor mRNA and nerve growth factor protein expression was also determined. Each experimental paradigm resulted in significant (P </= 0.05-0.005) changes in urinary bladder neurotrophic factor mRNA, although the magnitude of the changes differed between paradigms. Urinary bladders from rats with acute spinal cord injury (4 days) exhibited the largest increase in neurotrophic factor mRNA levels (betaNGF, 21-fold increase; BDNF, 78-fold increase; GDNF, 11-fold increase; CNTF, 5.5-fold increase; NT-3, 10-fold increase; NT-4, 25-fold increase) relative to control urinary bladders. More modest but significant increases were demonstrated for urinary bladders from rats with chronic (4-6 weeks) spinal cord injury. Significant increases in urinary bladder neurotrophic factor mRNA levels of comparable magnitude were demonstrated following either acute or chronic cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis. Increased abundance of urinary bladder nerve growth factor mRNA was not always associated with increased total urinary bladder nerve growth factor. Total urinary bladder nerve growth factor decreased following acute or chronic cystitis despite increased abundance of nerve growth factor mRNA. Urinary bladder nerve growth factor mRNA correlates with protein measures 5-6 weeks following spinal cord injury but not earlier. The 5- to 6-week time point coincided with the reemergence of the spinal bladder-to-bladder reflex mechanisms following spinal cord injury. Discrepancies between two measures (mRNA and protein) may reflect retrograde axonal transport of nerve growth factor to the dorsal root ganglia (L6-S1). Retrogradely transported NGF may play a role in altered lower urinary tract function following spinal cord injury or cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis.
