Cisplatin (CP)-induced renal damage is associated with inflammation. Hydrogen sulphide (H2S) is involved in models of inflammation. This study evaluates the effect of DL-propargylglycine (PAG), an inhibitor of endogenous H2S formation, on the renal damage induced by CP.
The rats were injected with CP (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or PAG (5 mg/kg twice a day, i.p.) for 4 days, starting 1 h before CP injection. Control rats were injected with 0.15 M NaCl or PAG only. Blood and urine samples were collected 5 days after saline or CP injections for renal function evaluation. The kidneys were removed for tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-α quantification, histological, immunohistochemical and Western blot analysis. The cystathionine γ-lyase (CSE) activity and expression were assessed. The direct toxicity of H(2)S in renal tubular cells was evaluated by the incubation of these cells with NaHS, a donor of H2S.
CP-treated rats presented increases in plasma creatinine levels and in sodium and potassium fractional excretions associated with tubulointerstitial lesions in the outer medulla. Increased expression of TNF-α, macrophages, neutrophils and T lymphocytes, associated with increased H2S formation rate and CSE expression, were also observed in the outer medulla from CP-injected rats. All these alterations were reduced by treatment with PAG. A direct toxicity of NaHS for renal tubular epithelial cells was not observed.
Treatment with PAG reduces the renal damage induced by CP. This effect seems to be related to the H2S formation and the restriction of the inflammation in the kidneys from PAG + CP-treated rats.
Sixty-seven patients with panic disorder were treated with single-blind placebo for one week before being randomized to 6 weeks of double-blind treatment with either lorazepam or alprazolam. Both drugs showed significant and comparable antipanic efficacy throughout the course of the study. With the exception of sedative effects, both drugs were well-tolerated at a mean daily dose of 7 mg for lorazepam and 3 mg for alprazolam. Lorazepam appeared to be as effective as alprazolam in the acute treatment of panic disorder.
Docetaxel (DTX), a taxane drug, has widely been used as an anticancer or antiangiogenesis drug. However, DTX caused side effects, such as vessel damage and phlebitis, which may reduce its clinical therapeutic efficacy. The molecular mechanisms of DTX that cause endothelial dysfunction remain unclear. The aim of this study as to validate the probable mechanisms of DTX-induced endothelial dysfunction in endothelial cells. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were stimulated with DTX (2.5, 5, and 10nM) for 24 h to induce endothelial dysfunction. Stimulation with DTX reduced cell viability in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. DTX upregulated caspase-3 activity and TUNEL-positive cells. DTX treatment also increased PKCβ phosphorylation levels and NADPH oxidase activity, which resulted in ROS formation. However, all of these findings were reversed by PKCβ inhibition and NADPH oxidase repression. Finally, we demonstrated that sotrastaurin (AEB-071), a new PKCβ inhibitor, mitigated DTX-induced oxidative injury in endothelial cells. Our findings from this study provide a probable molecular mechanism of DTX-induced oxidative injury in endothelial cells and a new clinical and therapeutic approach for preventing DTX-mediated vessel injury.
The incidence of prostate cancer is increasing in low-risk populations such as Japanese. One of the causes of this increase is considered to be associated with the Western diet, especially the high intake of red meat and fat. Glutathione S-transferase (GST) A1, T1, M1, and P1 are phase II enzymes that are important for activation and detoxification of chemical carcinogens.
In this study, 190 Japanese male patients with prostate cancer and 294 healthy controls, frequency-matched for age, were compared for frequencies of GSTA1, GSTT1, GSTM1, and GSTP1 genotypes.
Among smokers, the frequency of the GSTA1*A/*B or *B/*B genotype in patients with prostate cancer (27.8%) showed a statistically significant increase compared with the control group frequency (18.2%; odds ratio [OR] =1.72; 95% CI, 1.01-2.94). In addition, the frequency of GSTT1 nondeletion genotype was associated with prostate cancer among smokers (OR =1.68; 95% CI, 1.06-2.68). The OR of carrying the combined genotyping of GSTA1*A/*B or *B/*B and GSTT1 nondeletion was 2.08 (95% CI, 1.14-3.80) with the combined genotyping of GSTA1*A/*A and GSTT1 null as a reference. On the other hand, no significant associations were observed for genotypes of GSTM1 and GSTP1 I105V.
These findings suggest that the GSTA1 and GSTT1 polymorphisms are associated with prostate cancer susceptibility, especially among smokers.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive degeneration via apoptosis of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons associated with inflammation, resulting in behavioral anomalies. Therefore, an anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory regimen may be useful in treatment of PD. CNB-001, a novel pyrazole derivative of curcumin and cyclohexyl bisphenol A has superior biological properties than its parental compounds. The present study utilizes a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of PD to investigate anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic mediated neuroprotection of CNB-001. The administration of MPTP (30 mg/kg for four successive days) significantly induced motor impairments as determined by behavioral studies (narrow beam test, catalepsy and akinesia), lowered dopamine levels and up-regulated the expressions of the inflammatory and apoptotic markers (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1β, interleukin-6, inducible nitric oxide synthase, glial fibrillary acidic protein, cyclooxygenase-2 and Bax). Moreover, MPTP treatment attenuated Bcl-2 and nigrostriatal dopamine transporter expression and also increased total nitrite and citrulline levels in comparison to the control group. However, co-treatment with CNB-001 significantly attenuated motor impairments and pathological changes caused by MPTP administration. Collectively, our results demonstrate that CNB-001 is neuroprotective through its anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic properties. Thus, CNB-001 has potential to be further developed as a therapeutic candidate for treatment of PD.
The anti-rheumatoid drug D-penicillamine (D-pen) has a reactive sulfhydryl group capable of modifying self antigens, and can provoke typical autoantibody-mediated myasthenia gravis (MG), especially in DR1+ individuals. We have selected T cell clones from one such patient that were highly specific for D-pen but not its L-isomer or D-cysteine. Moreover, they were restricted to HLA-DR1, had a Th1 phenotype and used TCR V alpha4.1, V beta6.1. They responded well to blood mononuclear cells prepulsed with D-pen either in the absence of serum or after chloroquine treatment, but not to autologous D-pen-pulsed B cell lines. Thus, D-pen may directly couple to distinctive peptides resident in surface DR1 molecules on circulating macrophages or dendritic cells.
The posttraumatic response to traumatic brain injury (TBI) is characterized, in part, by activation of the innate immune response, including the complement system. We have recently shown that mice devoid of a functional alternative pathway of complement activation (factor B-/- mice) are protected from complement-mediated neuroinflammation and neuropathology after TBI. In the present study, we extrapolated this knowledge from studies in genetically engineered mice to a pharmacological approach using a monoclonal anti-factor B antibody. This neutralizing antibody represents a specific and potent inhibitor of the alternative complement pathway in mice.
A focal trauma was applied to the left hemisphere of C57BL/6 mice (n = 89) using a standardized electric weight-drop model. Animals were randomly assigned to two treatment groups: (1) Systemic injection of 1 mg monoclonal anti-factor B antibody (mAb 1379) in 400 mul phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) at 1 hour and 24 hours after trauma; (2) Systemic injection of vehicle only (400 mul PBS), as placebo control, at identical time-points after trauma. Sham-operated and untreated mice served as additional negative controls. Evaluation of neurological scores and analysis of brain tissue specimens and serum samples was performed at defined time-points for up to 1 week. Complement activation in serum was assessed by zymosan assay and by murine C5a ELISA. Brain samples were analyzed by immunohistochemistry, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) histochemistry, and real-time RT-PCR.
The mAb 1379 leads to a significant inhibition of alternative pathway complement activity and to significantly attenuated C5a levels in serum, as compared to head-injured placebo-treated control mice. TBI induced histomorphological signs of neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis in the injured brain hemisphere of placebo-treated control mice for up to 7 days. In contrast, the systemic administration of an inhibitory anti-factor B antibody led to a substantial attenuation of cerebral tissue damage and neuronal cell death. In addition, the posttraumatic administration of the mAb 1379 induced a neuroprotective pattern of intracerebral gene expression.
Inhibition of the alternative complement pathway by posttraumatic administration of a neutralizing anti-factor B antibody appears to represent a new promising avenue for pharmacological attenuation of the complement-mediated neuroinflammatory response after head injury.
To determine the relative beta1-selectivity of three beta-blockers (nebivolol, bisoprolol and atenolol), administered orally at normal therapeutic doses, by assessing their impact on the beta2-mediated, haemodynamic and biochemical responses to a terbutaline infusion, which decreases serum potassium and increases serum glucose and insulin.
Twenty-four healthy volunteers (14 men, 10 women), with no history of respiratory disease, attended on five separate occasions; beta-blockers (nebivolol 5 mg, bisoprolol 10 mg, atenolol 50 and 100 mg) or placebo were supplied in random order. Three baseline blood samples were collected at 65-85 min post-beta-blocker. A 60-min terbutaline infusion was started 90 min after taking the beta-blocker. Blood samples were taken and blood pressure and heart rate recorded at 15 min intervals up to 30-min post-infusion. Blood samples were analysed for serum potassium, glucose and insulin concentrations.
Terbutaline increased heart rate. Pretreatment with nebivolol caused a modest and non-significant reduction in terbutaline-induced tachycardia whilst bisoprolol produced a more marked effect. Atenolol at both 50 and 100 mg doses caused a highly significant reduction in terbutaline-induced tachycardia. All active preparations had a comparable impact on the terbutaline-induced increase in systolic blood pressure, but the drugs had no impact on the changes produced in diastolic blood pressure. After pretreatment with placebo, the terbutaline infusion caused a significant decrease in serum potassium and increases in serum glucose and insulin. Pretreatment with nebivolol had no discernible effect on potassium compared with placebo. In contrast, when compared with either placebo or nebivolol, bisoprolol (P < 0.01) and both doses of atenolol (P < 0.001) significantly attenuated the hypokalaemic effect of terbutaline. Treatment with nebivolol and bisoprolol modestly but significantly reduced the terbutaline-induced increases in glucose (P < 0.05). The blocking effects of both doses of atenolol were highly significant (P < 0.001) when compared with placebo and also significant (P < 0.05 and P < 0.01, respectively) when compared with nebivolol and bisoprolol. A similar pattern of responses with the different beta-blocker treatments was observed for the effects on insulin concentrations during the terbutaline infusion.
The beta1-selectivity of three different beta1-blockers has been demonstrated in healthy volunteers using the blocking of biochemical and haemodynamic responses to a beta2 stimulus. Terbutaline alone caused an increase in heart rate, a rise in systolic blood pressure, a fall in serum potassium and a rise in both serum glucose and insulin. In this study, for both haemodynamic and biochemical responses, atenolol 100 mg had the greatest beta2-blocking effect, nebivolol 5 mg the least. Bisoprolol 10 mg and atenolol 50 mg had intermediate effects; bisoprolol was the more beta1-selective of these two.
The endogenous opioid system has been shown to have a role in the biological processes involved in addiction to numerous drugs of abuse including cocaine. It has recently been reported that the variable nucleotide tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism in the 5' promoter region of the prodynorphin gene, which encodes the precursor for three endogenous opioid peptides, is associated with the cocaine dependent phenotype. In order to confirm this finding, we genotyped the prodynorphin promoter polymorphism in cocaine dependent (n = 167) and control (n = 88) individuals of African descent. The results from this experiment indicate a statistically significant (chi2 = 5.64, OR = 1.59, P = 0.018) association between the prodynorphin promoter VNTR polymorphism and the cocaine dependent phenotype. In contrast to previous work showing increased risk conferred by one or two copies of the prodynorphin VNTR, the genotyping results from this study indicate that persons with three or four copies of this polymorphism are more likely to become cocaine dependent. This disparity suggests that the prodynorphin promoter VNTR may not be the functional polymorphism associating with the cocaine dependent phenotype. It is possible that different alleles of the prodynorphin promoter VNTR in the independent populations used for this and the previous study may be in linkage disequilibrium with a yet to be identified functional polymorphism in this gene.
Systemic postnatal dexamethasone treatment reduces the risk of chronic lung disease in preterm infants but also may be associated with increased risk of neurodevelopmental impairment. Because it is not known whether these effects are modulated by the cumulative dexamethasone dose, we systematically reviewed the available randomized evidence on the effects of lower versus higher cumulative dexamethasone doses, in terms of death, pulmonary morbidity, and neurodevelopmental outcomes, in preterm infants.
Randomized, controlled trials comparing higher- versus lower-dosage dexamethasone regimens in ventilated preterm infants were identified by searching the main electronic databases, references from relevant studies, and abstracts from the Societies for Pediatric Research (from 1990 onward). Eligibility and quality of trials were assessed, and data on study design, patient characteristics, and relevant outcomes were extracted.
Six studies that enrolled a total of 209 participants were included; 2 studies contrasted cumulative dexamethasone doses in the higher ranges (>2.7 mg/kg in the higher-dosage regimen) and 4 in the lower ranges (<or=2.7 mg/kg in the higher-dosage regimen). Meta-analysis revealed no effect of dexamethasone dose on rates of death and neurodevelopmental sequelae in these 2 subgroups. Subgroup analysis of the studies contrasting dexamethasone doses in the higher ranges showed that the higher dose of dexamethasone was more effective in reducing the occurrence of chronic lung disease than was the lower dose. Interpretation of these data was hampered by the small samples of randomly assigned children, heterogeneity of study populations and designs, use of late rescue glucocorticoids, and lack of long-term neurodevelopmental data in some studies.
Recommendations for optimal dexamethasone doses for preterm infants at risk for chronic lung disease cannot be based on current evidence. A well-designed, large, randomized, controlled trial is urgently needed to establish the optimal dexamethasone dosage regimen.
A neurotoxic regimen of methamphetamine (MA-40 mg/kg ip) administered at 0 (control-MA vehicle), 0.5 and 72 h prior to determinations of striatal dopamine (DA) and DOPAC (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid)/DA ratios were compared among juvenile and adult female and male mice. Adult females and males showed similar depletions in striatal DA at 0.5 h post-MA, but males showed greater DA depletions and DOPAC/DA ratios at 72 h post-MA. Juvenile mice showed neither sex differences, nor any MA neurotoxicity upon striatal DA or DOPAC/DA ratios. Following MA, body temperatures increased in all mice, but increases in adult males were greater than adult females; juveniles showed no sex differences and body temperature increases were similar to that of adult males. MA-evoked DA output was greater in adult compared to juvenile males and a biologically effective regimen of testosterone to juvenile males neither increased MA-evoked DA output nor decreased MA-induced striatal DA like that observed in adult males. These results demonstrate: (1) Unlike adults, juvenile mice show neither a sex difference for MA-induced neurotoxicity or body temperature increases, nor MA neurotoxicity, (2) Initial effects of MA (0.5 h) in adult females and males are similar, but at 72 h post-MA females show no further striatal DA depletion, (3) Increased striatal DA depletion within adult versus juvenile males may be related to initially higher MA-evoked DA responses, and (4) Testosterone fails to convert juvenile males into adults with regard to MA effects.
This study is intended to characterize a protein that is linked with mouse limb teratogenicity as the effects of methoxyacetic acid (MAA) treatment. A single dose of MAA (10 mmol/kg body weight) was given by gavage on gestation day (GD) 11, whereas the control group were administered vehicle only. The pregnant mice were killed at 4 h after MAA treatment, and forelimb buds were isolated from both the control and treated group embryos. Proteins from forelimb buds GD 11 + 4 h, which were precipitated out using 40-60% ammonium sulfate, then were analyzed by two-dimensional sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D SDS-PAGE) technique. The 2-D gels reveal one protein with 41.6 kDa and pI 6.4, which expression was downregulated after MAA treatment. Tentative protein identification via peptide mass database search and definitive protein identification via a primary sequence database search indicate that the protein matches exactly to 34/67 kDa laminin binding protein (LBP; P14206, SwissProt), which is encoded by p40 gene (MGI:105381). The identity was further verified by Western blotting with an antibody against the 67 kDa LBP. The results suggest that MAA treatment to pregnant mice downregulates the LBP-p40 in the forelimb buds.
Cardiac toxicity from anthracyclines (ACH) can lead to therapy discontinuation, hospitalization or congestive heart failure (CHF). Since such risk may vary by patient, we developed and tested a risk-prediction tool for cardiac toxicity in metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients receiving chemotherapy with doxorubicin, either in its traditional (DOX) or pegylated liposomal (PLD) formulation.
Data was obtained (n = 509) from a randomized clinical trial of MBC patients assigned either DOX (60 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks) or PLD (50 mg/m(2) every 4 weeks) (O'Brien Ann Oncol 15, 440-449, 2004). Patient, disease and treatment factors were identified for each cycle of therapy. Factors with a P-value of <or=0.25 with >or=grade 2 cardiac toxicity following a cycle were retained and included in a generalized estimating equations (GEE) regression model A risk scoring algorithm (range 0-62) was then developed from the final model.
Factors predictive of cardiac toxicity included an interaction effect between DOX and the number of cumulative cycles, patient age and weight, previous ACH exposure and poor performance status. A ROC analysis had an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.84 (95% CI: 0.79-0.89). A precycle risk score cutoff of >or=30 to <40 was identified to optimally balance sensitivity (58.5%) and specificity (89.0%). Patients with a score in a given cycle, within or above this threshold, would be considered at high risk for cardiac toxicity.
Our model provides patient specific risk information that could be helpful in assessing the risks and benefits of anthracyclines in the MBC patients.
The effects of the long-acting angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor benazepril hydrochloride on exercise tolerance and signs and symptoms of congestive heart failure (CHF) were evaluated in a double-blind, multicenter, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Patients with chronic New York Heart Association class II to IV symptoms of CHF and an ejection fraction by radionuclide scanning of less than or equal to 35% were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to treatment with ascending doses of oral benazepril (n = 114) or placebo (n = 58) once daily, while continuing to receive background therapy with digoxin and diuretics. After randomization, patients were evaluated clinically every 2 weeks during a 12-week, double-blind treatment period. Maximal exercise tolerance was measured before and at specified time points after randomization by graded treadmill exercise testing. At week 12, mean exercise time increased 95 +/- 12 (SEM) seconds in the group receiving benazepril, whereas the increase was 37 +/- 18 seconds in the group receiving placebo (p less than 0.01 for the difference between the groups). There was also greater improvement in overall clinical status and in the signs and symptoms of CHF in benazepril-treated patients than in control subjects. There were 3 deaths in placebo-treated patients and none in benazepril-treated patients (p less than 0.05); the overall incidence of adverse effects was identical in the 2 groups. Benazepril is a well-tolerated angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor that provides clinically important improvement in exercise tolerance and in signs and symptoms when given once daily to patients with CHF receiving background therapy with digoxin and a diuretic.
Studies have shown that the nucleus accumbens shell plays an integral role in the expression of psychostimulant-induced behavioural sensitization. Dopaminergic regulation of excitatory amino acid inputs in this region of the brain could be a key factor in the neural influence of this phenomenon. Alterations in the dopaminergic innervation patterns in the shell have been demonstrated in rats that received repeated cocaine injections. Furthermore, lesions of brain regions that send projections to the shell alter psychostimulant-induced locomotion, both acutely and in sensitization paradigms. A previous study from our laboratory demonstrated that lesions of the shell before repeated cocaine treatment decrease the locomotor response to cocaine during the induction phase of behavioural sensitization. To better understand the role of this brain region during the expression phase of behavioural sensitization, the present study examined the effects of two forms of cytotoxic lesions of the shell. Rats received a sensitization-inducing regimen of cocaine (bi-daily injections of 15 mg/kg i.p. for 5 consecutive days). Two days after the last injection, rats demonstrating behavioural sensitization received one of three bilateral microinjections into the shell: (i) 0.5 micro L 0.9% saline; (ii) 2.5 micro g/0.5 micro L ibotenic acid (which lesions the cell bodies at the injection site); or (iii), 0.5 ng/0.2 micro L of volkensin (a retrograde suicide transport lectin). Upon challenge with cocaine (15 mg/kg) 12 days after surgery, neither ibotenic acid- nor volkensin-lesioned rats showed any difference in their locomotor response compared with sham controls. These data indicate that bilateral shell lesions do not affect the long-term expression of behavioural sensitization in cocaine-sensitized rats.
Acute exposure to ozone has been related to a wide spectrum of health effects in susceptible individuals. Genetic factors may influence interindividual variation in ozone response. The current authors investigated the relationships between common polymorphisms in two genes involved in response to oxidative stress, i.e. glutathione S-transferases M1 (GSTM1) and P1 (GSTP1), and both respiratory symptoms and lung function in response to ozone among childhood asthmatics. A total of 151 asthmatic children, who were participants in a randomised controlled trial of antioxidant vitamin supplementation in Mexico City, were studied. Children were genotyped using PCR methods and followed from October 1998-April 2000. Increases in reported breathing difficulty were associated with ozone exposure in children with GSTM1 null (8%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1-15%, per 20-ppb increase in 1-h maximum daily average over 7 days) or GSTP1 Valine/Valine (Val/Val) genotypes (14%, 95% CI 5-25%). In children with both GSTM1 null and GSTP1 Val/Val genotypes, the increase in breathing difficulty associated with a 20-ppb increase in ozone exposure was even greater (21%, 95% CI 5-39%). GSTP1 genotypes were not significantly associated with ozone-related lung function changes. In conclusion, asthmatic children with glutathione S-transferase M1 null and glutathione S-transferase P1 Valine/Valine genotypes appear more susceptible to developing respiratory symptoms related to ozone exposure.
By far the majority of 54 patients suffering from hepatic metastases due to colorectal primaries developed obliterations of the arterial vascular bed when being submitted to regional chemotherapy with FUDR. In addition, about 25% exhibited obstructive jaundice in the course of severe sclerosing cholangitis. Either effect, which can be detected by radiological procedures, has to be referred to irritating activities of the chemotherapeutic drug used.
Aortic dissection represents a medical and, potentially, surgical emergency. Hypertension and cystic degeneration of the media are predisposing risk factors in the pathogenesis. Sporadic reports of aortic dissection in association with drug abuse especially crack cocaine are now appearing. We present such a patient whom we recently treated at University of Wisconsin Hospital.
Thalidomide is an oral agent with significant activity in one-third of patients with refractory myeloma. However, long-term continuous administration of thalidomide can be associated with significant side effects such as deep-vein thrombosis and peripheral neuropathy. Furthermore, it is not clear whether continuous administration of thalidomide is necessary for its antimyeloma effect. We performed a phase II study with a combination that was based on the intermittent administration of thalidomide.
A total of 53 patients with previously treated myeloma received cyclophosphamide 150 mg/m(2) p.o. every 12 h before meals on days 1-5, thalidomide 400 mg p.o. in the evening on days 1-5 and 14-18 and dexamethasone 20 mg/m(2) in the morning after breakfast on days 1-5 and 14-18 (CTD). The CTD combination was repeated every 28 days for three courses. Subsequently, responding patients were scheduled to receive maintenance treatment with monthly courses of CTD administered only for the first five days of each month.
On an intention-to-treat basis, 32 patients (60%) achieved a partial response with a median time to response of 1.5 months. Among the 43 thalidomide-naïve patients, 67% responded. Toxicities were mild or moderate and the cumulative incidence of deep-vein thrombosis and peripheral neuropathy was 4 and 2%, respectively. The median time to progression for responding patients was 12 months and the median overall survival for all patients was 17.5 months.
The oral, outpatient pulsed CTD regimen is associated with significant activity in patients with previously treated multiple myeloma. The incidence of deep-vein thrombosis and peripheral neuropathy appears to be lower than expected when thalidomide is being administered on a continuous basis.
Renal failure in cancer patients is a common problem in oncology; this complication is frequently multifactorial in origin. Several antineoplastic agents are potentially nephrotoxic; previous renal impairment as well as combinations with other nephrotoxic drugs may increase the risk of nephrotoxicity during administration of chemotherapy. Methotrexate-related renal damage most frequently occurs with high-dose therapy and can be avoided by forced alkaline diuresis and administration of folinic acid. Renal dysfunction secondary to semustine (CH3-CCNU) is clearly related to cumulative doses in excess to 1,200 mg/m2; the onset may be delayed and renal failure progress despite drug discontinuation. Streptozotocin is also nephrotoxic and may cause proteinuria and renal tubular acidosis; progressive renal failure can be predicted by a close monitoring of proteinuria and prevented by drug discontinuance. Mitomycin-associated renal failure frequently presents with signs of microangiopathic hemolytic anemia; renal failure is usually delayed but occasionally, it may be rapidly progressive despite drug discontinuance. Cisplatin nephrotoxicity is clearly dose-related and used to be considered dose limiting. Renal insufficiency can be prevented by hydration and forced diuresis; in addition, hyperhydration with mannitol-induced saline diuresis may allow administration of high doses and thus circumvent the dose-limiting effect of cisplatin-induced renal toxicity. Cisplatin-induced renal magnesium wasting occurs frequently and should be supplemented. Other approaches to reduce cisplatin nephrotoxicity are currently under investigation and are discussed.
In recent years, meningitis caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus has increased. This study was undertaken to compare the clinical characteristics and prognosis of methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) postneurosurgical meningitis and methicillin-sensible S. aureus (MSSA) postneurosurgical meningitis.
Twenty-five episodes of postneurosurgical meningitis due to S. aureus (13 methicillin-resistant strains) seen during a ten-year period were retrospectively reviewed.
Most common underlying diseases were: intracerebral hemorrhage (50% of MRSA patients and 46% of MSSA patients) and neoplasm (53% of MRSA patients and 33% of MSSA patients). Eleven patients (6 of them with MRSA infection) had received antibiotic treatment previously. Thirteen patients were carriers of intraventricular catheters (8 with MRSA infection), 5 wore a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (4 with infections by MSSA), 5 cases had a CSF leakage (4 with infections by MRSA), and one patient with infection by MSSA wore an epidural catheter. Fifteen patients were cured (7 with MRSA infection), and 8 died due to the infection (27% with MSSA infection and 38% with MRSA infection).
The prognosis of postneurosurgical meningitis by S. aureus does not depend on the presence of resistance to methicillin. Nowadays, the intravenous administration of vancomycin is the treatment of choice in MRSA meningitis.
