Angiogenin (Ang), a potent mediator of neovascularization, is secreted by and is critical for the growth of human tumor cells in experimental animals. However, control mechanisms that regulate its expression under normal physiological conditions have not been described. We have determined previously that Ang is present in normal human serum and that its concentration, normally falling within a narrow range, can vary widely in hospitalized patients. This observation, plus a report that Ang is synthesized in the adult liver, led us to investigate whether it can be regulated as an acute phase protein (APP). Ang concentration in the serum of mice placed into the acute phase by injection with 3% thioglycollate do indeed increase transiently as is typical for APPs. Moreover, a liver-specific rise and subsequent fall in Ang mRNA transcripts also follows entrance into acute inflammation. We conclude that Ang can be regulated in vivo in a manner that is characteristic of an APP and, therefore, may contribute to the angiogenic component of tissue repair that accompanies host response to inflammation and trauma. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration that a well-characterized angiogenic mediator can be regulated as an APP.
Adiponectin is an adipocyte-derived protein that acts to reduce insulin resistance in the liver and muscle and also inhibits atherosclerosis. Although adiponectin reportedly enhances AMP-activated protein kinase and inhibits tumor necrosis factor-alpha action downstream from the adiponectin signal, the precise physiological mechanisms by which adiponectin acts on skeletal muscles remain unknown.
We treated murine primary skeletal muscle cells with recombinant full-length human adiponectin for 12 h and searched, using two-dimensional electrophoresis, for proteins upregulated more than threefold by adiponectin compared with untreated cells.
We found one protein that was increased 6.3-fold with adiponectin incubation. MALDI-TOF (matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-top of flight) mass spectrometric analysis identified this protein as ferritin heavy chain (FHC). When murine primary skeletal muscle cells were treated with adiponectin, IkappaB-alpha phosphorylation was observed, suggesting that adiponectin stimulates nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB activity. In addition, FHC upregulation by adiponectin was inhibited by NF-kappaB inhibitors. These results suggest NF-kappaB activation to be involved in FHC upregulation by adiponectin. Other NF-kappaB target genes, manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), were also increased by adiponectin treatment. We performed a reactive oxygen species (ROS) assay using CM-H(2)DCFDA fluorescence and found that ROS-reducing effects of adiponectin were abrogated by FHC or MnSOD small-interfering RNA induction.
We have demonstrated that adiponectin upregulates FHC in murine skeletal muscle tissues, suggesting that FHC elevation might partially explain how adiponectin protects against oxidative stress in skeletal muscles.
There is increasing concern that animal and human reproduction may be adversely affected by exposure to xenoestrogens that activate estrogen receptors. There is evidence that one such compound, Bisphenol A (BPA), also induces meiotic and mitotic aneuploidy, suggesting that these kinds of molecules may also have effects on cell division. In an effort to understand how Bisphenol A might disrupt cell division, a phenotypic analysis was carried out using sea urchin eggs, whose early embryonic divisions are independent of zygotic transcription. Fertilized Lytechinus pictus eggs exposed to BPA formed multipolar spindles resulting in failed cytokinesis in a dose-dependent, transcriptionally independent manner. By use of novel biotinylated BPA affinity probes to fractionate cell-free extracts, tubulin was identified as a candidate binding protein by mass spectrometry, and BPA promoted microtubule polymerization and centrosome-based microtubule nucleation in vitro but did not appear to display microtubule-stabilizing activity. Treatment of mammalian cells demonstrated that BPA as well as a series of Bisphenol A derivatives induced ectopic spindle pole formation in the absence of centrosome overduplication. Together, these results suggest a novel mechanism by which Bisphenol A affects the nucleation of microtubules, disrupting the tight spatial control associated with normal chromosome segregation, resulting in aneuploidy.
The afferent nociceptive information from the lower urinary tract terminates in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, and then projects to the thalamus. In the present study, we examined the effects of visceral nociception from the lower urinary tract on the neural activity of thalamic neurons using cyclophosphamide (CP)-induced cystitis, a model of visceral nociception. The levels of c-fos mRNA as well as protein, a marker of neural activation, were investigated in the thalamus using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. The effects of pretreatment with capsaicin were also examined. In the CP-treated group, the c-fos mRNA as well as protein was significantly induced predominantly in the paraventricular area of the thalamus. The induction of c-fos mRNA exhibited a dose-dependency. The induction of c-fos mRNA of CP-treated mice was significantly inhibited by capsaicin pretreatment to deplete C-fibers. Our results indicate that visceral nociception from the lower urinary tract activates thalamic neurons and this activation is mediated in part through the activation of the capsaicin-sensitive C-fiber afferents. The present findings suggest that the levels of c-fos in the paraventricular area of the thalamus may be a useful marker for evaluating the afferent nerve activity from the lower urinary tract.
Dioxin Toxic Equivalency Factor Evaluation Overview- Polyhalogenated aromatic hydrocarbons such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) have the ability to bind to and activate the ligand-activated transcription factor, the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Structurally related compounds that bind to the AhR and exhibit biological actions similar to TCDD are commonly referred to as "dioxin-like compounds"(DLCs). Ambient human exposure to DLCs occurs through the ingestion of foods containing residues of DLCs that bioconcentrate through the food chain. Due to their lipophilicity and persistence, once internalized they accumulate in adipose tissue resulting in chronic lifetime human exposure. Since human exposure to DLCs always occurs as a complex mixture, the toxic equivalency factor (TEF) methodology has been developed as a mathematical tool to assess the health risk posed by complex mixtures of these compounds. The TEF methodology is a relative potency scheme that ranks the dioxin-like activity of a compound relative to TCDD, which is the most potent congener. This allows for the estimation of the potential dioxin-like activity of a mixture of chemicals, based on a common mechanism of action involving an initial binding of DLCs to the AhR. The toxic equivalency of DLCs was nominated for evaluation because of the widespread human exposure to DLCs and the lack of data on the adequacy of the TEF methodology for predicting relative potency for cancer risk. To address this, the National Toxicology Program conducted a series of 2-year bioassays in female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats to evaluate the chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs and structurally related polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and mixtures of these compounds. Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and their mixtures including 2,3',4,4',5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB 118) were produced commercially before 1977 for the electric industry as dielectric insulating fluids for transformers and capacitors. Manufacture and use of these chemicals were stopped because of increased PCB residues in the environment, but they continue to be released into the environment through the use and disposal of products containing PCBs, as by-products during the manufacture of certain organic chemicals, during combustion of some waste materials, and during atmospheric recycling. This PCB 118 study was conducted as part of the dioxin TEF evaluation that included multiple 2-year rat bioassays to evaluate the relative chronic toxicity and carcinogenicity of DLCs, structurally related PCBs, and mixtures of these compounds. Female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats were administered PCB 118 (at least 99% pure) in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage for 14, 31, or 53 weeks or 2 years. 2-YEAR STUDY: Groups of 80 female rats were administered 100, 220, 460, 1,000, or 4,600 g PCB 118/kg body weight in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage, 5 days per week, for up to 105 weeks; a group of 80 vehicle control female rats received the corn oil/acetone vehicle alone. Groups of 30 female rats received 10 or 30 g/kg for up to 53 weeks only. Up to 10 rats per group were evaluated at 14, 31, or 53 weeks. A stop-exposure group of 50 female rats was administered 4,600 g/kg PCB 118 in corn oil:acetone (99:1) by gavage for 30 weeks then the vehicle for the remainder of the study. Survival of all dosed groups of rats was similar to that of the vehicle control group. Mean body weights of 1,000 g/kg rats were 7% less than those of the vehicle controls after week 36, and those of the 4,600 g/kg core study and stop-exposure groups were 7% less than those of the vehicle controls after week 7. Following cessation of treatment, the body weight gain in the stop-exposure group was similar to that of the vehicle control group. In general, exposure to PCB 118 lead to dose-dependent decreases in the concentrations of serum total thyroxine (T4) and free T4 in all dosed groups. There were no effects on triiodothyronine or thyroid stimulating hormone levels in any dosed groups evaluated at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations. There were increases in hepatic cell proliferation in the 4,600 g/kg group at 14, 31, and 53 weeks. Administration of PCB 118 led to dose-dependent increases in CYP1A1-associated 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase, CYP1A2-associated acetanilide4-hydroxylase, and CYP2B-associated pentoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activities at the 14-, 31-, and 53-week interim evaluations. Analysis of PCB 118 concentrations in dosed groups showed dose- and duration of dosing-dependent increases in fat, liver, lung, and blood. The highest concentrations were seen in fat at 2 years with lower concentrations observed in the liver, lung, and blood. At the 53-week interim evaluation, three 4,600 g/kg rats had liver cholangiocarcinoma and one had hepatocellular adenoma. At 2 years, there were significant treatment-related increases in the incidences of cholangiocarcinoma and hepatocellular adenoma. Four incidences of hepatocholangioma occurred in the 4,600 g/kg core study group. At 2 years, a significant dose-related increase in hepatic toxicity was observed and was characterized by increased incidences of numerous lesions including hepatocyte hypertrophy, inflammation, oval cell hyperplasia, pigmentation, multinucleated hepatocyte, eosinophilic and mixed cell foci, diffuse fatty change, toxic hepatopathy, nodular hyperplasia, necrosis, bile duct hyperplasia and cyst, and cholangiofibrosis. The incidences of these lesions were often decreased in the 4,600 g/kg stop-exposure group compared to the 4,600 g/kg core study group. In the lung at 2 years, a significantly increased incidence of cystic keratinizing epithelioma occurred in the 4,600 g/kg core study group compared to the vehicle control group incidence. Incidences of bronchiolar metaplasia of the alveolar epithelium were significantly increased in the groups administered 460 g/kg or greater, and the incidence of squamous metaplasia was significantly increased in the 4,600 g/kg core study group. The incidence of carcinoma of the uterus in the 4,600 g/kg stop-exposure group was significantly greater than those in the vehicle control and 4,600 g/kg core study groups at 2 years. A marginal increase in squamous cell carcinoma occurred in the 220 g/kg group. At 2 years, there were marginally increased incidences of exocrine pancreatic adenoma or carcinoma in the 460, 1,000, and 4,600 g/kg core study groups. Numerous nonneoplastic effects were seen in other organs including: adrenal cortical atrophy and cytoplasmic vacuolization, pancreatic acinar cell cytoplasmic vacuolization and arterial chronic active inflammation, follicular cell hypertrophy of the thyroid gland, inflammation and respiratory epithelial hyperplasia of the nose, and kidney pigmentation.
Under the conditions of this 2-year gavage study, there was clear evidence of carcinogenic activity of PCB 118 in female Harlan Sprague-Dawley rats based on increased incidences of neoplasms of the liver (cholangiocarcinoma, hepatocholangioma, and hepatocellular adenoma) and cystic keratinizing epithelioma of the lung. Occurrences of carcinoma in the uterus were considered to be related to the administration of PCB 118. Occurrences of squamous cell carcinoma of the uterus and acinar neoplasms of the pancreas may have been related to administration of PCB 118. Administration of PCB 118 caused increased incidences of nonneoplastic lesions in the liver, lung, adrenal cortex, pancreas, thyroid gland, nose, and kidney. Synonyms: 1,1'-Biphenyl, 2,3',4,4',5-pentachloro-(9CI); 1,1'-biphenyl, 2,3',4,4',5-pentachloro-; 2,3',4,4',5-pentachloro-1,1'-biphenyl; 2,4,5,3',4'-pentachlorobiphenyl; 3,4,2',4',5'-pentachlorobiphenyl; biphenyl, 2,3',4,4',5-pentachloro-; CB 118.
To study absolute and interpeak latencies of the auditory brain response in infants exposed to cocaine and/or opiates in utero.Study design The sample included 477 exposed and 554 comparison infants matched for race, sex, and gestational age. Mothers were recruited at 4 urban university-based centers; most were black, receiving public assistance, and had received adequate prenatal care. Exposure was determined by meconium assay and self-report with alcohol, marijuana, and tobacco present in both groups. At 1 month, infants were tested by masked examiners with the auditory brain response.
Analyses were conducted for exposed and comparison groups and for level of prenatal cocaine exposure with adjustment for covariates (alcohol, marijuana, tobacco, gestational age at birth, social class, and site). Heavy prenatal cocaine exposure (>/=3 days per week, first trimester) led to an increase in the I-III, I-V, and III-V interpeak latencies and to a shorter latency to peak I. Infants with prenatal opiate exposure showed a longer latency to peak V and a longer III-V interpeak latency.
Prenatal cocaine and/or opiate exposure affects neural transmission. Detection of these effects requires a large sample with control for gestational age, other drugs, and level of cocaine use.
The cannabinoid system (CS) is implicated in the regulation of hepatic fibrosis, steatosis and inflammation, with cannabinoid receptors 1 and 2 (CB1 and CB2) being involved in regulation of pro- and antifibrogenic effects. Daily cannabis smoking is an independent risk factor for the progression of fibrosis in chronic hepatitis C and a mediator of experimental alcoholic steatosis. However, the role and function of CS in alcoholic liver fibrosis (ALF) is unknown so far. Thus, human liver samples from patients with alcoholic liver disease (ALD) were collected for analysis of CB1 expression. In vitro, hepatic stellate cells (HSC) underwent treatment with acetaldehyde, Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol H₂O₂, endo- and exocannabinoids (2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and [THC]), and CB1 antagonist SR141716 (rimonabant). In vivo, CB1 knockout (KO) mice received thioacetamide (TAA)/ethanol (EtOH) to induce fibrosis. As a result, in human ALD, CB1 expression was restricted to areas with advanced fibrosis only. In vitro, acetaldehyde, H₂O₂, as well as 2-AG and THC, alone or in combination with acetaldehyde, induced CB1 mRNA expression, whereas CB1 blockage with SR141716 dose-dependently inhibited HSC proliferation and downregulated mRNA expression of fibrosis-mediated genes PCα1(I), TIMP-1 and MMP-13. This was paralleled by marked cytotoxicity of SR141716 at high doses (5-10 μmol/L). In vivo, CB1 knockout mice showed marked resistance to alcoholic liver fibrosis. In conclusion, CB1 expression is upregulated in human ALF, which is at least in part triggered by acetaldehyde (AA) and oxidative stress. Inhibition of CB1 by SR141716, or via genetic knock-out protects against alcoholic-induced fibrosis in vitro and in vivo.
The peroxisome biogenesis disorders (PBD) are characterized by neural, hepatic, and renal deficiencies, severe mental retardation, and are often lethal. These disorders are genetically and phenotypically heterogeneous and are caused by defective peroxisomal protein import and decreased peroxisomal metabolic function. Mutations in PEX10 have been identified in patients from complementation group 7 (CG7) of the PBDs and we report here an analysis of the genotypes and phenotypes of PEX10-deficient patients. All four PEX10-deficient Zellweger Syndrome (ZS) patients were found to have nonsense, frameshift, or splice site mutations that remove large portions of the PEX10 coding region. In contrast, a more mildly affected PEX10-deficient neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy patient expressed a PEX10 allele with a missense mutation, H290Q, affecting the C-terminal zinc-binding domain of the PEX10 product. These results support the hypothesis that severe, loss-of-function mutations in PEX genes cause more severe clinical phenotypes, whereas mildly affected PBD patients have PEX gene mutations that retain residual function. To quantitate the effects of the PEX10 mutations identified here and elsewhere we employed a functional complementation assay. Surprisingly, we observed that nonsense and frameshift mutations predicted to delete the C-terminal 2/3 (R125X) or 1/3 (c.704insA) of the protein displayed nearly normal PEX10 activity. Even more surprising, we found that the unexpectedly high PEX10 activity displayed by these cDNAs could be eliminated by removing or mutating segments of the PEX10 cDNA downstream of the mutations. Although these results demonstrate serious flaws in the PEX10 functional complementation assay, they do suggest that the C-terminal zinc-binding domain is critical for PEX10 function.
Nitroprusside was used with intermittent hemodialysis over a 26-day period in a 6-year-old boy with intractable hypertension. Hemodialysis effectively removed thiocyanate from the blood, thus preventing its accumulation and subsequent toxic manifestations. Prolonged nitroprusside infusion maintained arterial blood pressure at acceptable levels until the patient became responsive to other antihypertensive therapy.
Seven patients with rheumatoid disease were given the iron-chelating drug desferrioxamine (DFX) to evaluate its possible anti-inflammatory effects. Two of these patients, who also received the anti-emetic prochlorperazine, lost consciousness for 48-72 h and then fully recovered. Electroencephalography showed abnormalities of the type associated with metabolic disturbance. One of these patients showed pyramidal features and subsequently developed an optic neuropathy and pigmentary retinopathy. Analysis of his cerebrospinal fluid showed a decrease in loosely-bound (catalytic) iron and increase in loosely-bound (catalytic) copper, total iron and products of lipid peroxidation, with values approaching normal as the symptoms resolved. Subsequent in vivo/vitro studies clearly demonstrated that the neurological effects were due to a synergistic action of desferrioxamine and prochlorperazine, probably resulting in exceptional fluxes of intra/extra cellular iron/copper disturbing noradrenergic and serotonergic systems. Two other patients who did not receive prochlorperazine, developed retinal problems which later improved, one after only 15 g of desferrioxamine. Our observations suggest a new model for metabolic encephalopathy studies and provide insight into the mechanisms of pigmentary retinopathy.
Flumazenil is a competitive benzodiazepine antagonist. It is indicated for reversal of excess benzodiazepine sedation under certain circumstances, including the reversal of overdosage effects when it is felt best to avoid ventilation, such as in the very old or the very young. We report a case where the use of flumazenil was associated with complete heart block in an elderly patient.
Heparin induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis (HITT) syndrome is a rare but potentially life threatening disorder, which is increasingly recognized with the widespread use of heparin. We report a rare case of early stent thrombosis secondary to HITT in a patient initially presenting with cardiogenic shock, which occurred 9 days after primary bare metal stent implantation due to subcutaneous heparin exposure. The most important factor in detection of HITT remains a high index of clinical suspicion and close monitoring of the temporal trend of thrombocytopenia, particularly when trying to distinguish HITT from other sources of thrombocytopenia seen in critically ill patients.
Isothiocyanates (ITCs), such as phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC) and sulforaphane (SFN), are effective cancer chemopreventive compounds. It is believed that the major mechanism for the cancer preventive activity of ITCs is through the induction of cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. However, the upstream molecular targets of ITCs have been underexplored until recently. To identify proteins that are covalently modified by ITCs, human non-small cell lung cancer A549 cells were treated with (14)C-PEITC and (14)C-SFN, and the cell lysates were extracted for analysis by 2-D gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. After superimposing the colloidal Coomassie blue protein staining pattern with the pattern of radioactivity obtained from X-ray films, it was clear that only a small fraction of cellular proteins contained radioactivity, presumably resulting from selective binding with PEITC or SFN via thiocarbamation. More than 30 proteins with a variety of biological functions were identified with high confidence. Here, we report the identities of these potential ITC target proteins and discuss their biological relevance. The discovery of the protein targets may facilitate studies of the mechanisms by which ITCs exert their cancer preventive activity and provide the molecular basis for designing more efficacious ITC compounds.
Flap failure is a major complication in reconstructive plastic surgery. One of the most frequent etiologies of flap failure is venous thrombosis. However, infrequent causes also need to be explored, especially when faced with recurrent thrombosis. Heparin is frequently used in the prevention of venous thrombosis; however, the use of the medication itself may cause a serious thromboembolic state via an immune-related pathophysiological process. This adverse reaction to heparin may be life threatening.
We present two cases, one pedicled and one free flap, with venous congestion concomitant to heparin-induced thrombocytopenia syndrome, in conjunction with severe life-threatening sequelae.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia syndrome can be the cause of postoperative venous congestion. It is necessary to be alert for this syndrome in the presence of recurrent unexplained venous thrombosis or thrombocytopenia in patients receiving anticoagulation therapy.
The folic acid antagonists, methotrexate and aminopterin, are known to be teratogenic in humans. The critical period for their teratogenecity is suspected to be between 6 to 8 weeks post-conception. Fetal exposure from 10 to 32 weeks weeks post-conception to methotrexate alone or in combination with other anti-cancer drugs has not resulted in obvious teratogenic effects. Methotrexate is often used to treat cancers but is occasionally used as an abortifacient. The long-term outcome of the fetal aminopterin syndrome has been published in only four adults. We report on a 28-year-old man with fetal methotrexate syndrome and two children with mild manifestations of the syndrome. One child was inadvertently exposed to methotrexate from 7 1/2 through 30 weeks post-conception because his mother was receiving it for treatment of breast cancer. The other was exposed from 11 weeks and 5 days through 25 weeks in an attempt to induce abortion. The 28-year-old man has craniofacial and digital anomalies, growth retardation but normal intelligence as noted in the previously reported cases. These cases remind us of the teratogenicity of methotrexate and should serve as a warning that if methotrexate is used as an abortifaciant and an abortion does not ensue, there is a teratogenic risk.
Opiate dependence results from impairments of neuronal plasticity, i.e., so-called aberrant neuroplasticity, formation of which involves long-term structural-functional rearrangements persisting even during drug abstinence. Nitric oxide (NO) is involved both in mediating the effects of opiates and in the mechanisms of some types of neuroplasticity, so NO may potentially take part in the development of psychopathological processes on opiate withdrawal. The present study addressed measures of the nitrergic system (nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity and nitrite and nitrate (NO (x) (-) ) concentrations) in areas of the rat brain; anxiety was also assessed, in terms of behavioral measures in the elevated plus maze, during morphine withdrawal. NOS activity was found to increase by day 3, while the NO (x) (-) concentration was increased by day 6 of withdrawal, these changes being seen only in the hippocampus. At six days after morphine withdrawal, rats showed more entries into the open arms of the elevated plus maze and remained in these arms longer. Correlations were found between measures of the NO system in the hippocampus and the behavior of the animals in the maze. These results suggest that changes in the activity of the nitrergic system in the hippocampus represent one of the molecular mechanisms impairing the behavior of animals in abstinence.
Mandibuloacral dysplasia (MAD) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by skeletal abnormalities such as hypoplasia of the mandible and clavicles and acro-osteolysis. Other features include cutaneous atrophy and lipodystrophy. Two genetic loci are known for MAD: lamin A/C (LMNA), encoding structural nuclear lamina proteins, and zinc metalloproteinase (ZMPSTE24), a membrane-bound endoprotease involved in post-translational proteolytic cleavage of carboxy terminal residues of prelamin A to form mature lamin A.
Mutational analysis of ZMPSTE24 in an additional patient with MAD and determination of functional activity of mutant ZMPSTE24 in a yeast growth arrest pheromone diffusion (halo) assay.
We previously reported a Belgian woman with MAD who had ZMPSTE24 mutations and died of complications of chronic renal failure at the age of 27.5 years. We now report a 37-year-old Australian man with MAD who also had compound heterozygous mutations in the ZMPSTE24 gene, a null mutation, Phe361fsX379, and a missense mutation, Asn265Ser, which is partially active in the yeast complementation assay. He also developed end-stage renal disease and, despite receiving a cadaveric renal transplantation, died prematurely at the age of 37 years. Renal biopsies of both patients revealed focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, and the female patient had the collapsing variant.
These observations suggest focal segmental glomerulosclerosis as a phenotypic manifestation in patients with ZMPSTE24 deficiency.
During the period 1991-2007, autopsy was undertaken in 13 fetuses with warfarin embryopathy. Pregnancy data and radiographic babygrams were available in each instance. Gestational age ranged from 17 to 37 weeks. Eleven of the fetuses had the characteristic nasal hypoplasia, but only three had radiological epiphyseal stippling. Cerebral hemorrhage was a major feature of autopsy in 8 of the fetuses, and it is evident that bleeding is a significant factor in the pathogenesis of warfarin embryopathy. A wide variety of additional visceral manifestations which were observed at autopsy have been tabulated. There was no obvious correlation between maternal or gestational age and the presence and severity of any specific embryopathic feature. No information was available concerning the dose and timing of warfarin administration in this series.
Overdosage with the antidepressant amoxapine causes metabolic acidosis and may lead to brain damage and death. To better understand the metabolic disturbances caused by amoxapine overdose, its effects on three simple systems were studied: growth of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mitochondrial energy metabolism, and an electron transport system in microsomal membranes. Growth of yeast on all substrates except lactate was inhibited by amoxapine at 50-100 micrograms ml-1. Growth on lactate was observed at 200 micrograms ml-1 of amoxapine. In beef heart mitochondria, amoxapine at 100 micrograms ml-1 inhibited reactions involving large sections of the electron transport chain. Energy-linked reactions in submitochondrial particles were also inhibited. Electron microscopy showed some disruption of the mitochondrial internal structure by amoxapine and a change from orthodox to condensed conformation. Microsomal NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase was inhibited by amoxapine, but at higher amoxapine concentrations than mitochondrial reactions. The results suggest amoxapine disrupts reactions of membrane-associated enzyme complexes, and mitochondrial energy conservation may be one of the first systems affected. We speculate that lactic acid accumulation in patients with amoxapine overdose may be caused by loss of electron acceptor activity in tissues.
It has been successfully demonstrated that platanna (Xenopus laevis) allows the artificial induction of spawning at any time during the year. The number of eggs collected from a female ranged between 500 and 2400, the fertilization rate varying between 10 and 85%. When unaffected by chemicals, the embryonic development of the larvae took between 8 and 30 weeks. Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), methylmercury chloride, and the thalidomide analog EM 12 were used for the experiments described. DEHP at a concentration of 2 ppm retarded the development of the larvae and caused reduced pigmentation of the tadpoles. Methylmercury chloride has been found to have teratogenic and embryolethal effects at a concentration as low as 0.01 ppm. The following teratogenic effects have been determined: bent tails of the larvae, retarded development of the filter system, disturbed osmotic regulation, deranged positional and spatial orientation. EM 12 has been proven to have embryolethal effects at concentrations around 100 ppm. At lower concentrations this substance has teratogenic effects, i.e., it interferes in various ways with the development of the limbs.
The results of evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of the new psychotropic drugs adepren, didepil, anq tempalgin made by the "Farmakhim" plant (the People's Republic of Bulgaria) are presented. Clinical trials revealed new facts that allowed to expand the scope of the indications for use formulated in the "Farmakhim" recommendations. It was found that Adepren could be used with success (in addition to the indications suggested by "Farmakhim") in the treatment of patients with depressive-paranoid paroxysms of periodic schizophrenia taking its course in the presence of general depression, as well as patients with somatogenic lingering astheno-depressive states. The therapeutic efficacy of didepil (an antiepileptic) was found to be in a direct relationship with the disease duration, character of the attacks, presence or absence of epileptic chandes of personality. The effect was the best in cases of a short duration of the disease and absence of gross epileptic personality changes, when the paroxysmal disorders were confined mostly to grand mals. A new scheme for arresting the epileptic status with didepil solution is offered. For the first time the efficacy of tempalgin in the treatment of patients suffering from alcoholic abstinence syndrome was substantiated. Optimal doses of the drugs have been determined with regard to the disease nosology and the leading syndrome. Contraindications to the use of the drugs have also been formulated.
Indinavir use is associated with a spectrum of renal and urinary tract complications including nephrolithiasis, renal colic and pain without recognizable lithiasis, and a picture of crystalluria-dysuria. A frank nephropathy has not been recognized as part of the spectrum.
A retrospective analysis of 106 HIV-infected individuals receiving indinavir was performed with the purpose of identifying the frequency and risk factors for indinavir-associated nephropathy and urinary complications. Individuals receiving ritonavir or nelfinavir served as controls.
A sustained elevation of creatinine (>20%, into abnormal range) was identified in 20 (18.6%) subjects treated with indinavir but not with other protease inhibitors. Creatinine elevation was associated with treatment duration of more than 54 weeks [odds ratio (OR), 7.1; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.8-27.7], low baseline body mass index < or = 20 kg/m2 (OR, 4.0; 95% CI, 1.0-16.6), and use of trimethoprim-sulphamethoxazole (TMP-SMX; OR, 4.6; 95% CI, 1.5-13.8). Lower urinary specific gravity (P = 0.015), and leukocyturia (P<0.001) were frequently associated features of indinavir nephropathy. No patient developed severe renal impairment and abnormalities were reversible upon discontinuation of the drug. Complications (renal colic, or pain and dysuria) occurred after a mean of 36 weeks (95% CI, 23-48) of indinavir treatment in 13 subjects (12.3%), eight of whom (62%) presented elevated creatinine during follow-up. Only long-term exposure to TMP-SMX (>160 weeks) was identified as a potential risk for the occurrence of a clinical event (OR, 4.7; 95% CI, 1.2-19.2).
A crystal nephropathy, characterized by serum creatinine elevation, loss of concentrating ability of the kidney, leukocyturia, and renal parenchymal image abnormalities, is a frequent complication of indinavir therapy. Identification of individuals at risk, particularly those with low body mass index or receiving TMP-SMX prophylaxis, may help the decision to initiate indinavir or chose an alternative protease inhibitor in order to minimize renal and urinary tract adverse events.
Mda-7/IL-24 (Ad.mda-7) is a novel cytokine gene belonging to the interleukin (IL) 10 gene superfamily. Adenoviral-mediated delivery of mda-7/IL-24 causes growth suppression and apoptosis in a wide spectrum of cancer cells, including prostate, without harming normal cells. We now demonstrate that Ad.mda-7 selectively induces apoptosis in prostate cancer cells by promoting mitochondrial dysfunction and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. Antioxidants (N-acetyl-L-cysteine and Tiron) and inhibitors of mitochondrial permeability transition (cyclosporine A and bongkrekic acid) inhibit Ad.mda-7-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis. Conversely, agents augmenting ROS production (arsenic trioxide, NSC656240, and PK11195) facilitate Ad.mda-7-induced apoptosis. Ectopic expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-x(L) inhibits mitochondrial changes, ROS production, and apoptosis providing additional support for an association between mitochondrial dysfunction and Ad.mda-7 action. These studies present definitive evidence that changes in mitochondrial function and ROS production are key components associated with selective killing of prostate cancer cells by mda-7/IL-24.
In observational studies, statins are associated with lower mortality in patients with heart failure (HF), including those with nonischemic HF. Such benefits could be related to anti-inflammatory effects; however, the effects of statins on systemic inflammation in HF are not well-established. We conducted a 16-week, single-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover clinical trial of the effects of atorvastatin 10 mg/day on concentrations of systemic inflammatory markers in 22 patients with HF (including 20 with nonischemic HF) with New York Heart Association class II or III symptoms and left ventricular ejection fraction of <40%. The absolute and percentage of changes in inflammatory marker levels were evaluated using analysis of variance. Statin treatment reduced the concentrations of soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 by 132 pg/ml (p = 0.04) and 8% (p = 0.056), C-reactive protein by 1.6 mg/L (p = 0.006) and 37% (p = 0.0002), and, after adjustment for treatment order, endothelin-1 by 0.21 pg/ml (p = 0.007) and 17% (p = 0.01). In post hoc analyses, the reduction in tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 levels was highest among patients with elevated levels at baseline (at or higher than the median of 1,055 pg/ml, p interaction = 0.001), among whom statin therapy reduced the levels by 306 pg/ml (p <0.001) and 22% (p <0.001). Statin treatment did not significantly affect the levels of other inflammatory markers, including interleukin-6 and brain natriuretic peptide. In conclusion, short-term atorvastatin therapy reduced the levels of several important inflammatory markers in patients with HF.
Cadmium, a common environmental pollutant and a major constituent of tobacco smoke, has been identified as a new class of endocrine disruptors with a wide range of detrimental effects on mammalian reproduction. During human pregnancy, maternal cadmium exposure, via the environment and/or cigarette smoking, leads to fetal growth restriction (FGR), but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Although a substantial amount of evidence suggests that cadmium may affect fetal growth indirectly via the placenta, the molecular targets remain to be identified. Given that reduced placental 11 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (11 beta-HSD2, encoded by HSD11B2 gene) is causally linked to FGR, the present study was undertaken to examine the hypothesis that cadmium induces FGR in part by targeting placental HSD11B2. Using cultured human trophoblast cells as a model system, we showed that cadmium exposure resulted in a time- and concentration-dependent decrease in 11 beta-HSD2 activity, such that an 80% reduction was observed after 24-h treatment at 1 microM. It also led to a similar decrease in levels of 11 beta-HSD2 protein and mRNA, suggesting that cadmium reduced 11 beta-HSD2 expression. Furthermore, cadmium diminished HSD11B2 promoter activity, indicative of repression of HSD11B2 gene transcription. In addition, the effect of cadmium was highly specific, in that other divalent metals (Zn(2+), Mg(2+), and Mn(2+)) as well as nicotine and cotinine (a major metabolite of nicotine) did not alter 11 beta-HSD2 activity. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that cadmium reduces human placental 11 beta-HSD2 expression and activity by suppressing HSD11B2 gene transcription. Thus the present study identifies placental 11 beta-HSD2 as a novel molecular target of cadmium. It also reveals a molecular mechanism by which this endocrine disruptor may affect human placental function and, consequently, fetal growth and development.
To test the hypothesis that the calcium antagonist diltiazem is effective in the treatment of calcinosis.
Diltiazem, 240-480 mg/day, was given to 4 patients with idiopathic or CREST-related (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, telangiectasias) calcinosis for 1-12 years. Serial radiographs of the affected areas, using identical technique, and clinical evaluations were obtained. A fifth patient, who did not tolerate diltiazem, received verapamil, 120 mg/day for 18 months.
All patients taking diltiazem had a reduction or disappearance of the calcific lesions, with striking clinical improvement. One patient's case was followed for 12 years. The response to diltiazem during the first 5 years of treatment has been previously reported in detail; however, over 7 years of additional treatment, there was further reduction of the lesions. One patient developed a large calcific lesion while receiving verapamil for hypertension, and after verapamil was replaced with diltiazem, there was a dramatic response. Verapamil was ineffective in the fifth patient, who did not tolerate diltiazem.
Long-term treatment with diltiazem, but not verapamil, is effective in calcinosis.
A 48-year-old man presented with bilateral blurred vision and visual field changes while prescribed amiodarone. Improvement of vision and visual field defects was documented within 3 weeks after discontinuation of the medication, and complete resolution occurred at 3 months. A unique feature of this amiodarone-associated optic neuropathy is the absence of any optic nerve edema.
