Our objective was to assess the effects of nortriptyline on electroencephalographic sleep and subjective sleep quality in spousally bereaved, depressed elders. Ten elderly volunteers with bereavement-related major depression had electroencephalographic sleep studies while depressed, after remission of depressive symptoms while still taking nortriptyline, and after nortriptyline discontinuation. Changes in sleep measures over time were compared both within bereaved subjects and with age- and sex-matched healthy controls. Remission of depressive symptoms while still on nortriptyline was associated with improvements in sleep quality (P < .002), rapid eye movement (REM) percent (P < .02), REM latency (P < .05), REM density (P < .05), and delta sleep ratio (P < .05). After discontinuation of nortriptyline, REM percent, REM latency, and delta ratio reverted to pretreatment levels, while sleep efficiency and sleep quality continued to show improvement coincident with sustained clinical remission. These data suggest that nortriptyline may be clinically useful in treating the sleep disturbance of elders with bereavement-related depression and that a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial is warranted.
In addition to hypertrophy of Ito cells and perisinusoidal fibrosis, previously unrecognized ultrastructural abnormalities of the hepatic sinusoids were observed in three patients with chronic hypervitaminosis A: 1) large areas of communication between the sinusoidal lumina and the perisinusoidal spaces, allowing extravasation of blood cells; 2) marked dilation of the perisinusoidal spaces; and 3) swelling and clarification of endothelial cells. Most of these changes, along with some other sinusoidal barrier alterations previously reported in chronic hypervitaminosis A (i.e., bleb formation on the sinusoidal membrane of the hepatocytes and the presence of multiple cellular layers lining the sinusoids), are strikingly similar to those observed in peliosis hepatis. The present findings suggest that sinusoidal barrier abnormalities might constitute a major event in the pathophysiology of vitamin A-induced liver injury as well as of peliosis hepatis.
A 40-year-old man with cervical dystonia developed an acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuritis after botulinum toxin type A treatment. Some cases of idiopathic brachial plexopathy and polyradiculoneuritis have been reported to date. Although a causal relationship is not firmly established, the clinical temporal profile suggests a pathogenic relationship. In patients with cervical dystonia, further use of type A botulinum toxin should be considered contraindicated, and the use of another type of botulinum toxin should be taken into consideration.
Delayed and reversible hearing loss occurred in a 55-year-old male patient with murine typhus infection. The patient had the initial symptoms of headache, fever and chills, followed by the occurrence of bilateral hearing loss on day 9 from fever onset. Murine typhus was diagnosed with a high IgM titre by indirect immunofluorescence assay. After treatment with azithromycin and prednisolone, the fever and other symptoms subsided gradually and bilateral hearing loss improved 3 weeks later. Though an adverse reaction to azithromycin could not be ruled out, delayed onset of hearing loss was more likely a complication of murine typhus, mainly because the hearing loss did not occur during the azithromycin usage period. Although hearing loss due to murine typhus is rare, clinicians should be alert to the existence of such a delayed complication.
In this study, we used a well-established animal model to investigate changes in the peptidergic and parasympathetic innervation of the bladder following chronic bladder inflammation. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with either 70 mg/kg cyclophosphamide diluted in saline, i.p., once every 3 days or saline. After 10 days, all animals were tested for urinary frequency and number of low volume voids, as well as symptoms of spontaneous pain. At the end of 12 days, all animals were perfused with histological fixatives and the urinary bladders processed for immunofluorescence using antibodies against calcitonin gene-related peptide and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter as markers, respectively, of peptidergic primary afferent fibers and parasympathetic efferent fibers. We show that animals treated with cyclophosphamide had inflamed bladders and displayed high urinary frequency as well as some indicators of spontaneous pain, such as piloerection and a rounded-back posture. Furthermore, they had a significant increase in the density of both parasympathetic and peptidergic sensory fibers in the bladder mucosa and an increase in peptidergic sensory fibers in the detrusor muscle. Based on these results, we suggest that peripheral sprouting of parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers could be a mechanism responsible for sensitization of the bladder, leading to urinary symptoms. Since we observed that the parasympathetic and peptidergic fibers often wrapped around one another and that their varicosities were very close, these two fiber populations may be interacting with each other to lead to and maintain sensitization. Future studies are required to establish the role of this fiber sprouting in bladder symptoms.
High dose methotrexate (HDMTX) induced renal failure is a medical emergency, as methotrexate (MTX) is primarily eliminated by renal excretion. High doses of leucovorin (LV) do not necessarily prevent toxicity in the presence of sustained elevated plasma MTX concentrations. The bacterial enzyme carboxypeptidase-G2 (CPDG2) hydrolyzes MTX into inactive metabolites and has been demonstrated to lower plasma MTX concentrations to nontoxic levels rapidly in the nonhuman primate after HDMTX infusion. Therefore, CPDG2 was evaluated as a rescue agent in a patient with acute renal dysfunction secondary to HDMTX:
A 16 year old patient with osteosarcoma experienced acute renal dysfunction after HDMTX administration, which resulted in markedly elevated and sustained plasma MTX concentrations. She received three doses of CPDG2 on the fifth day after HDMTX: Plasma MTX concentrations were determined before and after CPDG2 administration.
The plasma MTX concentrations decreased from 60 to 1.2 microM within 15 minutes after the first dose of CPDG2. No rebound increase in plasma MTX concentrations or adverse reactions to the enzyme were observed. The patient developed only mild mucositis. Serum creatinine at the time of CPDG2 administration was 5 mg/dl and returned to normal within 7 weeks of enzyme administration.
Carboxypeptidase-G2 rapidly, markedly, and persistently lowered plasma MTX concentrations to a level that could be rescued safely with LV. Based on the experience with this patient and on preclinical studies in nonhuman primates, CPDG2 appears to be more effective than hemodialysis or hemoperfusion, and may prove beneficial for patients at risk for life-threatening toxicity secondary to delayed excretion of MTX.
Chronic renal failure has been described only rarely in patients treated with the alkylating agent ifosfamide, which is known to cause renal tubular dysfunction and acute renal failure, and the associated histopathologic features have not been well characterized.
This report describes the clinical course and renal histopathologic features in two patients in whom irreversible renal failure occurred requiring permanent dialysis after treatment with ifosfamide.
Irreversible renal failure developed in a 60-year-old man with malignant fibrohistiocytoma, requiring chronic dialysis within several months after he received two cycles of ifosfamide in a cumulative dose of 28 g/m2. The second patient, a 53-year-old man with osteogenic sarcoma, received two cycles of ifosfamide with a cumulative dose of 26 g/m2, after initial therapy with cisplatin and doxorubicin. His renal function worsened over the next 11 months, at which time permanent dialysis was initiated. In neither patient were other causes of renal failure apparent. Renal biopsies in both patients showed diffuse tubular epithelial damage with degenerative and regenerative epithelial changes, diffuse interstitial fibrosis, and arterial and arteriolar sclerosis.
Irreversible severe renal failure, which appears due to nephrotoxic damage of renal tubular epithelium and/or the renal microvasculature may develop after treatment with ifosfamide. Neither large cumulative doses of ifosfamide nor prior cisplatin treatment are necessary for this toxicity to occur. Because a rising serum creatinine may develop months after completion of treatment with ifosfamide, renal function should be monitored closely both during and after ifosfamide treatment.
Release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol is a critical step in the mitochondrial-dependent signaling pathways of apoptosis. The authors have reported that manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) attenuated cytochrome c release and apoptotic cell death after focal cerebral ischemia (FCI). To investigate downstream to the cytochrome c-dependent pathway, the authors examined caspase-9 activation after transient FCI by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting in both wild-type and Sod2 -/+ mice. Mice were subjected to 60 minutes of middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 1, 2, 4, or 24 hours of reperfusion. Two hours after reperfusion, cytochrome c and caspase-9 were observed in the cytosol and significantly increased in Sod2 -/+ mutants compared with wild-type mice as shown by Western blotting. Immunofluorescent double labeling for cytochrome c and caspase-9 showed cytosolic cytochrome c 1 hour after transient FCI. Cleaved caspase-9 first appeared in the cytosol at 2 hours and colocalized with cytochrome c. Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5;-triphosphate-biotin nick and labeling (TUNEL) showed significant increase of positive cells in Sod2 -/+ mice compared with the wild-type in the cortex, but not in the caudate putamen. The current study revealed Mn-SOD might affect cytochrome c translocation and downstream caspase activation in the mitochondrial-dependent cell death pathway after transient FCI.
The dynamics of spontaneous and haloperidol-induced catalepsy in mice has been studied. It is established that the degree of manifestation of the spontaneous catalepsy is directly related to the number of manipulations (mice standings in the "lector position"). At the same time, the intensity of catalepsy (both spontaneous and haloperidol-induced) was not related to the mice response to apomorphine injections. It is concluded that spontaneous catalepsy rather insignificantly influences the results of pharmacological tests, but this factor has to be taken into account in the study of physiological mechanisms. The absence of correlations between catalepsy manifestations and the apomorphine test results is indicative of complexity of the mechanism of this disorder and cannot be attributed entirely to the violation of dopaminergic processes in CNS.
Conflict procedures are used to study mechanisms underlying the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines (BZs). We established a conflict procedure with rhesus monkeys in order to examine the role of GABAA receptors in the anxiolytic-like effects of BZs.
Four rhesus monkeys responded under a two-component multiple schedule in which responding was maintained under a fixed-ratio schedule of food delivery in the absence (non-suppressed responding) and presence (suppressed responding) of response-contingent electric shock.
Conventional BZs (alprazolam, flunitrazepam, clonazepam, nitrazepam, lorazepam, bromazepam, diazepam, flurazepam, clorazepate, chlordiazepoxide) engendered increases in the average rates of suppressed responding at low to intermediate doses and decreased the average rates of non-suppressed responding at higher doses. Positive correlations were observed when the therapeutic potencies of BZs in humans were compared with potencies to increase the rates of suppressed responding (R2=0.83) or decrease the rates of non-suppressed responding (R2=0.60). The 5-HT1A agonist buspirone increased the rates of suppressed responding, although the effects were modest, whereas the opioid morphine lacked anti-conflict effects. The BZ antagonist flumazenil also modestly increased the rates of suppressed responding. A relatively low dose of flumazenil enhanced, while a high dose blocked, alprazolam's anti-conflict effects. Compounds selective for alpha1 subunit-containing GABAA receptors (zolpidem, zaleplon, CL218,872) engendered relatively weak increases in the rates of suppressed responding.
A rhesus monkey conflict procedure was established with predictive validity for therapeutic doses in people and provided evidence that anxiolytic-like effects of BZs can occur with relatively low intrinsic efficacy at GABAA receptors and are reduced by alpha1GABAA receptor selectivity.
ADAMTS-1 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin motifs) is a member of the ADAMTS family of metalloproteases. Here, we investigated mRNA and protein levels of ADAMTS-1 in normal and neoplastic tissues using qPCR, immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analyses, and we addressed the role of ADAMTS-1 in regulating migration, invasion and invadopodia formation in breast tumor cell lines.
In a series of primary breast tumors, we observed variable levels of ADAMTS-1 mRNA expression but lower levels of ADAMTS-1 protein expression in human breast cancers as compared to normal tissue, with a striking decrease observed in high-malignancy cases (triple-negative for estrogen, progesterone and Her-2). This result prompted us to analyze the effect of ADAMTS-1 knockdown in breast cancer cells in vitro. MDA-MB-231 cells with depleted ADAMTS-1 expression demonstrated increased migration, invasion and invadopodia formation. The regulatory mechanisms underlying the effects of ADAMTS-1 may be related to VEGF, a growth factor involved in migration and invasion. MDA-MB-231 cells with depleted ADAMTS-1 showed increased VEGF concentrations in conditioned medium capable of inducing human endothelial cells (HUVEC) tubulogenesis. Furthermore, expression of the VEGF receptor (VEGFR2) was increased in MDA-MB-231 cells as compared to MCF7 cells. To further determine the relationship between ADAMTS-1 and VEGF regulating breast cancer cells, MDA-MB-231 cells with reduced expression of ADAMTS-1 were pretreated with a function-blocking antibody against VEGF and then tested in migration and invasion assays; both were partially rescued to control levels.
ADAMTS-1 expression was decreased in human breast tumors, and ADAMTS-1 knockdown stimulated migration, invasion and invadopodia formation in breast cancer cells in vitro. Therefore, this series of experiments suggests that VEGF is involved in the effects mediated by ADAMTS-1 in breast cancer cells.
There is growing concern that naturally occurring and chemically manufactured endocrine-active compounds (EACs) may disrupt hormone-dependent events during central nervous system development. We examined whether postnatal exposure to the phytoestrogen genistein (GEN) or the plastics component bisphenol-A (BIS) affected sexual differentiation of the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (AVPV) in rats. The AVPV is sexually differentiated in rodents. The female AVPV is larger than the male AVPV and contains a higher number of cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Sexual differentiation of the AVPV results from exposure of the male nervous system to estrogen aromatized from testicular testosterone secreted in the first few days after birth. Thus, we hypothesized that exposure to EACs during this critical period could alter the sexually dimorphic expression of TH and the overall expression of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) in the AVPV. Animals were given 4 subcutaneous injections of sesame oil (control), 50 microg 17beta-estradiol (E2), 250 microg GEN, or 250 microg BIS at 12-h intervals over postnatal days (PND) 1 and 2 and sacrificed on PND 19. E2 treatment masculinized TH immunoreactivity (TH-ir) in the female AVPV while exposure to GEN or BIS demasculinized TH-ir in the male AVPV. In addition, we identified a population of neurons co-expressing TH and ERalpha located primarily in the medial region of the AVPV. Normally, females have nearly three times as many double-labeled cells as males, but their numbers were defeminized by E2, GEN or BIS treatment. These results suggest that acute exposure to EACs during a critical developmental period alters AVPV development.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) is an antiepileptic drug frequently used to treat a variety of neurologic diseases or symptoms. In addition, the drug is used as a mood stabilizer in patients with affective or schizophrenic disorders. Among its adverse effects, auditory disturbance is described rarely. In this report, we describe a 25-year-old woman who noted falsely higher pitch perception after starting CBZ treatment for schizoaffective disorder. We also review the literature reporting CBZ-associated abnormal pitch perception.
Results from 3 1/2 years of routine patch testing with 3-iodo-2-propynyl-butylcarbamate (IPBC) are presented. From 1996 to 1999, a total of 3168 persons (2093 women and 1075 men) were patch tested with IPBC, and 7 cases were found to be positive. In 2 cases, sensitization could be attributed to cosmetics, and in a further 2 cases cosmetics were the most likely cause of sensitisation. It is concluded that the use of IPBC in cosmetic products can lead to contact sensitization and allergic contact dermatitis. 2 of the 7 reported cases with IPBC allergy were also found positive to thiuram, and possible cross-reactivity between IPBC and thiuram is discussed.
Mean magnesium intake in the US population does not differ from that in East Asian populations with traditionally low risks of colorectal cancer and other chronic diseases, but the ratio of calcium to magnesium (Ca:Mg) intake is much higher in the US population. Transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7) is a newly found gene essential to magnesium absorption and homeostasis.
We aimed to test whether the association of colorectal polyps with intake of calcium, magnesium, or both and Thr1482Ile polymorphism in the TRPM7 gene is modified by the Ca:Mg intake.
Included in the study were a total of 688 adenoma cases, 210 hyperplastic polyp cases, and 1306 polyp-free controls from the Tennessee Colorectal Polyp Study.
We found that total magnesium consumption was linked to a significantly lower risk of colorectal adenoma, particularly in those subjects with a low Ca:Mg intake. An inverse association trend was found for hyperplastic polyps. We also found that the common Thr1482Ile polymorphism was associated with an elevated risk of both adenomatous and hyperplastic polyps. Moreover, this polymorphism significantly interacted with the Ca:Mg intake in relation to both adenomatous and hyperplastic polyps. The subjects who carried >or=1 1482Ile allele and who consumed diets with a high Ca:Mg intake were at a higher risk of adenoma (odds ratio: 1.60; 95% CI: 1.12, 2.29) and hyperplastic polyps (odds ratio: 1.85; 95% CI: 1.09, 3.14) than were the subjects who did not carry the polymorphism.
These findings, if confirmed, may provide a new avenue for the personalized prevention of magnesium deficiency and, thus, colorectal cancer.
Colchicine has been in use for therapeutic purposes for many years. It can, however, cause subacute onset muscle and peripheral nerve toxicity in patients with chronic renal failure. In this report we describe 6 patients who developed neuromyopathy after the administration of colchicine. All patients presented with proximal muscle weakness, elevated serum creatine kinase (CK) levels, and neuropathy and/or myopathy on electromyography (EMG). The diagnosis of colchicine toxicity was confirmed in all cases by the normalization of CK levels and EMG after discontinuation of the drug. Toxicity developed in 4 renal failure patients on therapeutic doses of the drug, while one patient took a massive dose for suicidal reasons, and the other was on high-dose therapy. Patients using colchicine--especially those with renal failure--should be warned about the side effects of the drug and physicians should be careful in the administration of the drug.
Both drug therapy and banding ligation are widely used in the prevention of first variceal bleeding. This study compared the efficacy and safety of band ligation vs. combination of beta-blocker and nitrate for the prevention of first bleeding in patients with cirrhosis and high-risk esophageal varices.
A total of 61 patients with cirrhosis with moderate or severe esophageal varices associated with red color signs but without history of variceal bleeding were randomized to band ligation (30 patients) or treatment with nadolol plus isosorbide-5-mononitrate (ISMN) (31 patients). In the ligation group, multiband ligator with 4 elastic bands was applied during each session. Ligation was repeated at intervals of 4 weeks until variceal obliteration was achieved. In the combination group, the dose of nadolol was sufficient to reduce the pulse rate by 25%. ISMN 1 tablet 20 mg qd or bid was administered.
Both groups were similar in baseline characteristics. In the ligation group, variceal obliteration was achieved in 24 patients (80%), at a mean of 3.2 +/- 0.9 ligation sessions and 11.7 +/- 3.2 elastic bands. In the combination group, the mean daily doses of nadolol and ISMN administered were 40 +/- 14 mg and 40 +/- 12 mg, respectively. During a median follow-up of approximately 23 months, 5 patients (17%) in the ligation group and 8 patients (26%) in the combination group had upper-gastrointestinal bleeding (p = 0.53). Esophageal variceal bleeding occurred in 3 patients (10%) in the ligation group and 6 (19%) in the combination group (p = 0.42). By multivariate Cox analysis, presence of ascites was the only factor predictive of variceal bleeding. Minor complications were noted in 5 patients (17%) in the ligation group and 3 (10%) in the combination group (p = 0.47). Eight patients in the ligation group and 6 in the combination group died (p = 0.49). One (3%) patient in the ligation group and 3 (10%) in the combination group died of uncontrollable variceal bleeding.
Our preliminary results suggest that endoscopic variceal ligation is similar to the combination of nadolol plus ISMN with regard to effectiveness and safety in the prevention of first variceal bleeding in patients with cirrhosis.
To determine the effects of midazolam, 30 ngxmL(-1), on altered perception, mood, and cognition induced by ketamine.
After ketamine was administered to achieve target concentrations of 50, 100, or 150 ngxmL in 11 volunteers, perception, mood, and thought process were assessed by a visual analog scale. Mini-Mental State examination (MMSE) assessed cognition. Boluses of midazolam, 30, 14.5, and 12 microgxkg(-1), were injected every 30 min to maintain the plasma concentration at 30 ngxmL(-1), which was reached 30 min after each injection.
Ketamine produced changes in perception about the body (P < 0.01, 0.001, and 0.0001 at 30, 60, and 90 min), surroundings (P < 0.01 and 0.0001 at 60 and 90 min), time (P < 0.002 and 0.0001 at 60 and 90 min), reality (P < 0.001 and 0.0001 at 60 and 90 min), sounds (P < 0.002 at 90 min), and meaning (P < 0.05 at 90 min). Subjects felt less energetic and clearheaded (P < 0.02 and 0.05) during ketamine, midazolam, and their co-administration. Ketamine impaired thought process (P < 0.003 and 0.0001 at 60 and 90 min). Ketamine and midazolam decreased mean total MMSE and recall scores (P < 0.001 for both). Co-administration reduced the number of subjects with perceptual (body, P < 0.01 and 0.001 at 30 and 60 min) and thought process abnormalities. Within the range of observation, co-administration did not affect the changes in mood or recall.
Midazolam attenuates ketamine-induced changes in perception and thought process.
The combination of intrathecal (IT) 5 microg sufentanil plus 1.25 mg bupivacaine is useful for inducing labour analgesia, albeit of short duration and slow onset. As a supplementation to this regimen, the effect of IT clonidine on the duration of analgesic action was investigated.
Forty-eight healthy parturients were randomly assigned into three groups to receive 0 microg (group C0), 15 microg (C15) or 30 microg (C30) of clonidine IT in addition to 5 microg sufentanil plus 1.25 mg bupivacaine IT for labour analgesia. The quality of pain relief was assessed on 0-100 visual analogue scale by the author. The occurrence of side effects was also evaluated before the request for additional analgesia.
Clonidine (C15 and C30), produced a longer duration of analgesia than C0 (mean 144 +/- sd 27.9, 165 +/- 31.8 vs 111 +/- 21.9 min, P < 0.01). Also, C15 and C30 produced a more rapid onset and a higher quality of analgesia than C0, (P < 0.01). The most cephalad level of sensory block was higher in C30 than C15 (median T3 vs T4, P < 0.05) but lowest in C0 (median T7 vs T3,T4, P < 0.01). Side effects, sedation and hypotension, occurred more frequently in C30 than in either C0 or C 15, (9 vs 2,5 and 9 vs 1,3, respectively, P < 0.05).
The optimal dose of intrathecal clonidine to enhance labour analgesia with the current sufentanil-bupivacaine regimen is 15 microg. In view of the side effect profile, doses greater than 30 microg clonidine are unlikely to be useful.
Although arsenic trioxide (As2O3) has been shown to be an effective anticancer agent for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL), its mechanisms of action as well as its effect on other leukemias than APL remain unclear. We studied in vitro effects of As2O3 at low concentrations (1.0-2.0 microM) on two human leukemia/lymphoma cell lines, HL-60, an acute myeloid leukemia cell line, and RL, a B-cell lymphoma cell line. As2O3 inhibited proliferation of HL-60 cells and RL cells to the similar degree to the reported inhibition by an APL cell line, NB4. As2O3-treated cell lines exhibited typical morphologic changes of apoptosis such as nuclear condensation and apoptotic bodies, and a cell cycle arrest at the subG1 phase. As2O3-treated cell lines also showed upregulation of CD95/CD95L expression and activation of caspases 8 and 3. Treatment of these cells with anti-CD95 antibodies capable of blocking the CD95 signaling pathway ameliorated As2O3-induced apoptosis. These data suggest that As2O3 can inhibit growth of leukemia/lymphoma cells by inducing the cell cycle arrest and apoptosis that is partially mediated by the CD95/CD95L system.
Patients with massive liver cell necrosis that may follow halothane anaesthesia have a high incidence of circulating antibodies against halothane-induced hepatocyte antigens. In order to provide an objective and quantitative method for the detection of these antibodies, an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay has been developed. Sera, after absorption with normal rabbit liver microsomal fraction, are tested for binding to microsomal fractions from control and halothane-pretreated rabbits. Those containing antibodies against halothane-induced determinants give significantly enhanced binding to halothane-altered fractions; this specificity was verified by absorption experiments. Using this method, halothane-related antibodies were detected in sera from 16/24 patients with halothane-associated liver failure, at titres ranging from 1:100 to 1:25600. Such antibodies were not detectable in sera from 26 normal blood donors, 5 healthy anaesthetists, 12 patients who had received multiple halothane anaesthetics but had normal liver function tests and 32 patients with a variety of other liver diseases. This rapid and reproducible assay should be of value for the detection of antibodies and for detailed investigation of patient antibody responses, and also for characterization of the route of production and metabolism of the antigen.
The pathophysiology of L-Dopa-induced dyskinesias (LID), a common problem after long-term use of L-dopa in the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD), is not completely understood. Oscillations in L-Dopa concentrations in the brain are believed to be responsible, at least in part, for their pathogenesis. This study was aimed at verifying whether chronic administration of cabergoline, a long-acting dopamine D2-like receptor agonist, can reverse established LID. Four MPTP-treated cynomolgus monkeys with long-standing and stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias to L-Dopa, were used in this study. We compared the antiparkinsonian and dyskinetic responses of L-Dopa methyl ester (62.5 mg and 125 mg), given with benserazide (50 mg) (L-Dopa/benserazide), administered before and after a 6-week period during which the animals were treated only by daily administration of cabergoline (doses ranging from 0.125 to 0.185 mg/kg, subcutaneous). During cabergoline treatment, the monkeys initially showed marked dyskinesias, which were reduced significantly after 4 weeks of treatment. However, there was no tolerance to its antiparkinsonian effect. L-Dopa/benserazide given 4 days after cabergoline withdrawal produced a significant antiparkinsonian effect, but dyskinesias were dramatically reduced compared to what had been seen before chronic cabergoline treatment. The duration of the L-Dopa response was not increased after chronic administration of cabergoline. Our data suggest that sustained dopamine D2 receptor stimulation could be of value when trying to reduce or to reverse LID in patients with fluctuating advanced PD.
Two patients with toxic reactions to prochlor-perazine (Compazine) prescribed as an antiemetic are presented. The authors caution against wrongfully labeling such patients as having psychiatric disturbances when the cause is iatrogenic.
The ability to read facial expressions is essential for normal human social interaction. The aim of the present study was to conduct the first investigation of facial expression recognition performance in recreational cocaine users.
Three groups, comprised of 21 cocaine naïve participants (CN), 30 occasional cocaine (OC), and 48 regular recreational cocaine (RC) users, were compared. An emotional facial expression (EFE) task consisting of a male and female face expressing six basic emotions (happiness, surprise, sadness, anger, fear, and disgust) was administered. Mean percent accuracy and latencies for correct responses across eight presentations of each basic emotion were derived. Participants were also assessed with the "Eyes task" to investigate their ability to recognize more complex emotional states and the Symptom CheckList-90-Revised to measure psychopathology.
There were no group differences in psychopathology or "eyes task" performance, but the RC group, who otherwise had similar illicit substance use histories to the OC group, exhibited impaired fear recognition accuracy compared to the OC and CN groups. The RC group also correctly identified anger, fear, happiness, and surprise, more slowly than CN, but not OC participants. The OC group was slower than CN when correctly identifying disgust. The selective deficit in fear recognition accuracy manifested by the RC group cannot be explained by the subacute effects of cocaine, or ecstasy, because recent and less recent users of these drugs within this group were similarly impaired. Possible parallels between RC users and psychopaths with respect to impaired fear recognition, amygdala dysfunction, and etiology are discussed.
The consistent finding of a genetic susceptibility to prostate cancer suggests that there are germline sequence variants predisposing individuals to this disease. These variants could be useful in screening and treatment.
We performed an exploratory genome-wide association scan in 498 men with aggressive prostate cancer and 494 control subjects selected from a population-based case-control study in Sweden. We combined the results of this scan with those for aggressive prostate cancer from the publicly available Cancer Genetic Markers of Susceptibility (CGEMS) Study. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that showed statistically significant associations with the risk of aggressive prostate cancer based on two-sided allele tests were tested for their association with aggressive prostate cancer in two independent study populations composed of individuals of European or African American descent using one-sided tests and the genetic model (dominant or additive) associated with the lowest value in the exploratory study.
Among the approximately 60,000 SNPs that were common to our study and CGEMS, we identified seven that had a similar (positive or negative) and statistically significant (P<.01) association with the risk of aggressive prostate cancer in both studies. Analysis of the distribution of these SNPs among 1032 prostate cancer patients and 571 control subjects of European descent indicated that one, rs1571801, located in the DAB2IP gene, which encodes a novel Ras GTPase-activating protein and putative prostate tumor suppressor, was associated with aggressive prostate cancer (one-sided P value = .004). The association was also statistically significant in an African American study population that included 210 prostate cancer patients and 346 control subjects (one-sided P value = .02).
A genetic variant in DAB2IP may be associated with the risk of aggressive prostate cancer and should be evaluated further.
The serotonin (5-HT) releasers (+/-)-fenfluramine and (+)-fenfluramine were withdrawn from clinical use owing to increased risk of valvular heart disease. One prevailing hypothesis (i.e., the '5-HT hypothesis') suggests that fenfluramine-induced increases in plasma 5-HT underlie the disease.
Here, we critically evaluate the possible mechanisms responsible for fenfluramine-associated valve disease.
Findings from in vitro and in vivo experiments performed in our laboratory are reviewed. The data are integrated with existing literature to address the validity of the 5-HT hypothesis and suggest alternative explanations.
The overwhelming majority of evidence refutes the 5-HT hypothesis. A more likely cause of fenfluramine-induced valvulopathy is activation of 5-HT(2B) receptors on heart valves by the metabolite norfenfluramine. Future serotonergic medications should be designed to lack 5-HT(2B) agonist activity.
