Digoxin use has long been recognized to affect adversely male sexual function but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. Digoxin is a known inhibitor of sodium/potassium adenosine triphosphatase (sodium pump), a plasma membrane enzyme that has a role in the regulation of smooth muscle tone. We investigated the effects of digoxin on human corpus cavernosum smooth muscle contractility and overall erectile function.
In human corporeal smooth muscle strips the in vitro effects of digoxin were assessed on sodium pump activity as measured by digoxin inhibitable uptake of 86rubidium, basal tone and endothelium dependent, neurogenic and nitric oxide donor induced relaxation. An in vivo prospective double-blind, placebo controlled, crossover, 4-period investigation was performed in 6 healthy male volunteers. The effects of digoxin on serum hormones, erectile function questionnaire, visual sexual stimulation and nocturnal penile tumescence were recorded.
In vitro digoxin caused concentration dependent inhibition of 86rubidium uptake (half maximum effect at 0.01 microM.) and contraction of corporeal smooth muscle (half maximum effect at 0.8 microM.). Therapeutic concentrations of digoxin (2 nM.) also inhibited relaxation induced by acetylcholine and electrical field stimulation, which release nitric oxide from corpus cavernosum endothelial cells and nonadrenergic noncholinergic nerves, respectively. In vivo digoxin diminished penile rigidity during visual sexual stimulation and nocturnal penile tumescence testing compared to placebo without influencing libido or serum testosterone, estrogen or luteinizing hormone levels.
Digoxin associated alteration of human erectile function may be explained, in part, by inhibition of corporeal smooth muscle sodium pump activity, which promotes contraction and impedes nitric oxide induced relaxation. Such findings suggest therapeutic use of digoxin for treatment of recurrent priapism states.
Selenium binding protein 1 (SELENBP1) was identified to be the most significantly down-regulated protein in ovarian cancer cells by a membrane proteome profiling analysis. SELENBP1 expression levels in 4 normal ovaries, 8 benign ovarian tumors, 12 borderline ovarian tumors and 141 invasive ovarian cancers were analyzed with immunohistochemical assay. SELENBP1 expression was reduced in 87% cases of invasive ovarian cancer (122/141) and was significantly reduced in borderline tumors and invasive cancers (p<0.001). Cox multivariate analysis within the 141 invasive cancer tissues showed that SELENBP1 expression score was a potential prognostic indicator for unfavorable prognosis of ovarian cancer (hazard ratio [HR], 2.18; 95% CI=1.22-3.90; p=0.009). Selenium can disrupt the androgen pathway, which has been implicated in modulating SELENBP1 expression. We investigated the effects of selenium and androgen on normal human ovarian surface epithelial (HOSE) cells and cancer cells. Interestingly, SELENBP1 mRNA and protein levels were reduced by androgen and elevated by selenium treatment in the normal HOSE cells, whereas reversed responses were observed in the ovarian cancer cell lines. These results suggest that changes of SELENBP1 expression in malignant ovarian cancer are an indicator of aberration of selenium/androgen pathways and may reveal prognostic information of ovarian cancer.
X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder associated with reduced very long-chain fatty acid beta-oxidation, mainly affecting the nervous system, the adrenal cortex and the testes. The clinical manifestations of hypogonadism, alopecia and the impairment of the enzyme 5alpha-reductase, which converts testosterone into dihydrotestosterone, clearly point to an involvement of androgens in this pathology. The disease is characterized by mutations in the ABCD1 gene, which codes for the peroxisomal ABC half-transporter ALDP, and by a broad range of clinical manifestations. The altered function of ALDP can be compensated by the overexpression of proteins belonging to the same family of ABC half-transporters. A promising therapeutic approach is represented by the activation of these proteins by specific agonists. In this study we evaluated the effect of the testosterone metabolite dihydrotestosterone (DHT) and 5alpha-androstan-3alpha,17beta-diol (3alpha-diol) on the expression of the ABC half-transporters encoded by the ABCD2 and ABCD3 genes, in fibroblasts drawn from controls and from two affected brothers. The two patients presented the same mutation in exon 9 but had different clinical manifestations, one patient being asymptomatic and the second one severely affected. When the cells were stimulated with testosterone metabolites, only the severely affected patient showed a significant increase in ABCD2 mRNA levels, while the ABCD3 expression remained unchanged in both patients.
Previous studies using the combination of angiotensin-receptor blockers and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) have shown superior ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) reduction in study participants with stage 2 hypertension compared with monotherapy.
This multicenter, double-blind, parallel group, forced-titration study of individuals with stage 2 hypertension, compared the efficacy of valsartan and amlodipine in combination with HCTZ on ABP reduction.
After a 2-week washout period, participants (n=482) with mean office sitting systolic BP >or=160 mmHg and <or=200 mmHg were randomized to receive treatment with either valsartan 160 mg (n=241) or amlodipine 5 mg (n=241), force-titrated to a maximum dose of valsartan/HCTZ 320/25 mg or amlodipine/HCTZ 10/25 mg over 6 weeks and continued through week 10. The primary endpoint was change in mean 24-h ambulatory systolic BP from baseline to week 10.
At week 10, changes from baseline in mean office BP were significantly (P<0.0001) decreased by both valsartan/HCTZ (-34.2/-14.2 mmHg) and amlodipine/HCTZ (-34.1/-14.7 mmHg). Changes from baseline in mean 24-h ABP were significantly (P<0.0001) decreased by both valsartan/HCTZ (-21.1/-12.5 mmHg) and amlodipine/HCTZ (-18.1/-9.9 mmHg). However, treatment with valsartan/HCTZ provided significant additional systolic BP (-3.8 mmHg; P=0.0042) and diastolic BP (-2.7 mmHg; P=0.0002) reduction compared with the amlodipine/HCTZ group. The proportion of individuals reaching the office goal BP (<140/80 mmHg) were similar in the valsartan/HCTZ (55.3%) versus amlodipine/HCTZ (54.9%) group, ABP control rates for the recommended ABP goal (<130/80 mmHg) were greater (P=0.0170) in the valsartan/HCTZ group (54.3%) than the amlodipine/HCTZ group (42.7%). Both treatments were well tolerated.
On the basis of ABP monitoring but not office measurements, the fixed-dose combination of valsartan/HCTZ is a significantly more effective treatment regimen than amlodipine/HCTZ, with similar tolerability.
Allergic rhinitis is one of the most common clinical conditions in children; however, data regarding the safety of antihistamines in children with seasonal allergic rhinitis are limiting. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of fexofenadine in children with seasonal allergic rhinitis, data were pooled from three, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 2-week trials in children (6-11 year) with seasonal allergic rhinitis. All studies assessed fexofenadine HCl 30 mg b.i.d.; two studies included fexofenadine HCl at 15 and 60 mg b.i.d. Patients (and investigators) reported any adverse events during the trial. Physical examinations, including measurements of vital signs and laboratory tests, were performed. Efficacy assessments (total symptom score and individual symptom scores) were evaluated. Exposure to fexofenadine HCl 30 mg b.i.d. and to any fexofenadine dose exceeded 10,000 and 17,000 patient days, respectively. Incidences of adverse events, and discontinuations because of adverse events, were low and similar across treatment groups. In the placebo group, 24.4% of subjects reported adverse events compared with 24.1% for fexofenadine HCl 30 mg b.i.d., and 28.4% for all fexofenadine-treated groups. The most common adverse event overall was headache (4.3% placebo; 5.8% fexofenadine HCl 30 mg b.i.d.; and 7.2% any fexofenadine doses). Treatment-related adverse events were similar across treatment groups with no sedative effects. Fexofenadine HCl 30 mg b.i.d. was significantly superior to placebo in reducing the total symptom score and all individual seasonal allergic rhinitis symptoms, including nasal congestion (p < 0.05). Fexofenadine, at doses of up to 60 mg b.i.d., is safe and non-sedating, and fexofenadine HCl 30 mg b.i.d. effectively reduces all seasonal allergic rhinitis symptoms in children aged 6-11 years.
Methamphetamine (METH) is a drug of abuse used for its stimulant effects. Its neurotoxicity is very variable, and is increased by a number of factors, including crowded conditions and increased ambient temperature. The effects of such factors are increasingly important, with the widespread use of these stimulants at nightclubs and 'raves'. Here, we compared the effect of another dominant feature of nightclubs, continuous loud noise, on the toxicity of METH in mice. We found that mice exposed to loud music exhibited longer lasting stereotypy, an altered place preference in the open field and had more seizures than mice given METH in a quiet setting or when exposed to loud white noise. A greater increase in reactive gliosis was also seen after exposure to METH and loud music. Thus, METH appears to be more toxic when taken while exposed to loud music.
Anxiety is a key symptom of the cocaine withdrawal syndrome in human addicts, and it is considered to be one of the major factors in precipitating relapse to chronic cocaine abuse. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) plays an important role in the pathophysiology of anxiety and depression, and it may also be involved in the acute behavioral and neuroendocrine actions of cocaine. The role of endogenous CRF in cocaine withdrawal-induced anxiety was investigated in the present study. Animals were subjected to chronic cocaine (20 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, once a day for 14 days) administration. Rats tested 30 min after the last cocaine injection did not show withdrawal anxiety on the elevated plus maze or any alterations in brain CRF levels. Withdrawal (48 h) from chronic cocaine administration produced an intense anxiety-like behavior characterized by decreased open arm exploration. Immunoreactive CRF (CRF-LI) levels were selectively altered in the hypothalamus, in the amygdala and in the basal forebrain structures at the time of the behavioral anxiety, reflecting an increased activity of brain CRF systems. Daily intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) pretreatment with an immunoserum raised against CRF completely prevented the development of anxiety induced by cocaine withdrawal. These data suggest that extrahypothalamic-limbic CRF hypersecretion may be involved in the development of anxiety related to cocaine withdrawal and that the CRF system may be a useful target for new pharmacotherapies for cocaine withdrawal and relapse.
To illustrate a case of lithium-associated primary hyperparathyroidism, thyrotoxicosis, and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus and to discuss the potential mechanisms for these complications.
We describe the clinical and laboratory findings in our current patient and review the related medical literature.
A 65-year-old Chinese woman with bipolar affective disorder, who had received maintenance lithium therapy for 10 years, was seen in an acute care hospital because of fever and confusion. Investigations showed that she had primary hyperparathyroidism and hyperthyroidism. She underwent a parathyroidectomy, which revealed a parathyroid adenoma. Her initial subclinical hyperthyroidism evolved into overt hyperthyroidism after use of lithium was discontinued. Therapy was initiated with carbimazole, which was up-titrated briefly; the patient was subsequently weaned off this medication. Her postoperative course was complicated by persistent polyuria in conjunction with a negative fluid balance, consistent with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Thus, amiloride therapy was instituted. The results of an objective causality assessment suggested that the primary hyperparathyroidism, hyperthyroidism, and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus were possibly or probably related to the lithium therapy.
Lithium remains an intriguing drug with numerous potential endocrinologic complications. It is important that clinicians prescribing lithium are aware of its side effects and have a strategy for their detection and management.
Fentanyl is in many neonatal intensive care units the sedative of choice. One side-effect is, however, the possibility of muscle and/or chest wall rigidity. A pregnant woman with a critical pulmonary valve stenosis had a balloon dilatation at 26 weeks of gestation. She was put on propranolol, but went into a severe cardiac failure. In week 31, she developed pregnancy induced hypertension. Periodically absent diastolic flow in the umbilical cord was demonstrated. A Caesarean section was performed using fentanyl as analgesia. A boy weighing 1440 g, had a 1 min Apgar score of 3 without respiratory movements. Mask ventilation was tried, but chest wall expansion was not achieved despite using high pressures. He was intubated and positive pressure ventilation attempted, with the same result. Despite the use of high pressures up to 60-70 cm H2O, no chest movement could be achieved. An intravenous line was established in order to give naloxone and pancuronium. Just before the drugs were given, chest wall movements were achieved and the heart rate normalized.
This is the first report on chest wall rigidity in a neonate after administration of fentanyl to the mother during Caesarean section.
This study was aimed to explore the influence of brucine on the early differentiation of osteoblasts and the metabolic pathway of osteoclast in multiple myeloma (MM) and to compare the effects of brucine and bortezomib on MM. The half inhibitory concentration (IC(50)) of brucine and bortezomib on MM cell line U266 was determined by MTT method; the mRNA levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), osteocalcin (OC), osteoprotegerin (OPG) and osteoprotegerin ligand (RANKL) were detected by RT-PCR after the supernatant of cultured U266 cells was added into the culture system for inducing the differentiation of osteoblast line MC3T3-E1 and culturing. The results showed that the IC(50)of bortezomib and brucine on U266 cells for 48 hours were 22.4 nmol/L and 0.16 mg/ml respectively. As compared with osteoblasts treated by supernatant of cultured MM cells alone, the mRNA levels of ALP, OC and OPG in osteoblasts treated by brucine combined with supernatant of cultured MM cells were enhanced (p < 0.05), while the RANKL mRNA level was lowered (p < 0.05), moreover the enhanced and lowered degree also was large (p < 0.05). It is concluded that the influence of brucine on metabolism of osteoblasts and osteoclasts in MM may be realized through the regulation of osteoclasts by osteoblasts. The therapeutic efficacy of brucine on MM is superior to bortezomib.
The 23-year-old Caucasian male propositus presented with symptomatic hypercalcemia, hypophosphatemia and normocalciuria for 2 months. His 29-year-old brother had undergone an operation for recurrent parathyroid adenoma at age 26 and 28. No other member of the family was affected. His father and mother were second-degree relatives. Laboratory studies showed primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT), while the remaining endocrine studies and genetic testing for multiple endocrine neoplasia 1 and 2A were normal. Technetium-cardiolite scintigraphy and ultrasound scans revealed a parathyroid mass at the left lower neck. Apart from bilateral hearing loss due to gentamicin treatment as a pre-term child, the patient was in of good health. Signs or symptoms of other endocrinopathies were absent. The patient was referred for parathyroidectomy with subsequent autotransplantation of the remaining glands into his sternocleidomastoid muscle. Histological examination revealed an adenoma with oncocytic differentiation, similar to that seen in his brother. The disease may follow a recessive mode of inheritance or may be due to a dominant germ-cell mutation in one of the parents. The presented case may ultimately help in elucidating the molecular genetic basis of this rare form of pHPT.
Lometrexol [(6R)-5,10-dideaza-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrofolate] is the prototype folate antimetabolite that targets the de novo purine synthesis pathway. Early phase I trials were confounded by cumulative myelosuppression that prevented repetitive administration. Subsequent preclinical and clinical studies suggested that coadministration of folic acid might favorably modulate lometrexol toxicity without eliminating potential antitumor activity. We set out to determine if concurrent folic acid would allow administration of lometrexol on a weekly schedule, and, if so, to identify an appropriate dose combination for phase II trials. Pharmacokinetic and metabolism studies were undertaken in an attempt to improve our understanding of lometrexol pharmacodynamics.
Patients with advanced cancer received daily oral folic acid beginning 7 days before lometrexol and continuing for 7 days beyond the last lometrexol dose. Lometrexol was administered by short i.v. infusion weekly for 8 weeks. Scheduled lometrexol doses were omitted for toxicity of more than grade 2 present on the day of treatment, and dose-limiting toxicity was prospectively defined in terms of frequency of dose omission as well as the occurrence of severe toxic events. Plasma and whole blood total lometrexol contents (lometrexol plus lometrexol polyglutamates) were measured in samples taken just prior to each lometrexol dose.
A total of 18 patients were treated at five lometrexol dose levels. The maximum tolerated dose was identified by frequent dose omission due to thrombocytopenia and mucositis. The recommended phase II dose combination is lometrexol 10.4 mg/m(2) per week i.v. with folic acid 3 mg/m(2) per day orally. One patient with melanoma experienced a partial response, and three patients, two with melanoma and one with renal cell carcinoma, experienced stable disease. Lometrexol was not detectable in any predose plasma sample tested. The total red blood cell content of lometrexol increased over several weeks and then appeared to plateau.
Weekly administration of lometrexol is feasible and well-tolerated when coadministered with daily oral folic acid. The nature of the interaction between natural folates and lometrexol that renders this schedule feasible remains unclear. A definition of dose-limiting toxicity that incorporated attention to dose omissions allowed efficient identification of a recommended phase II dose that reflects the maximum feasible dose intensity for a weekly schedule. Lometrexol is a promising, anticancer agent.
Cardiac presynaptic and vascular postsynaptic alpha-adrenergic effects of 1-[2-(1,3-dimethyl-2-butenylidene)hydrazino]phthalazine (budralazine) were studied in comparison with those of hydralazine. Budralazine was about 3 times less potent than hydralazine in producing tachycardia in spontaneously hypertensive and normotensive rats when compared at equihypotensive doses. In normotensive pithed rats, budralazine at 3 mg/kg i.v. affected neither the tachycardiac response to cardioaccelerator nerve stimulation nor the inhibition of clonidine of the stimulation-induced tachycardia. As the dose was increased to 6 and 12 mg/kg i.v., however, budralazine not only inhibited transiently the sympathetic tachycardia but also enhanced the clonidine bradycardia, although this drug was almost without effect on resting heart rate. These effects of budralazine on the heart rate response in the stimulated rats were partially but significantly antagonized by pretreatment with phentolamine. Hydralazine (3 mg/kg i.v.) differed from budralazine in that its transient inhibition of the stimulation-induced tachycardia was not modified by phentolamine and it produced an acceleration of the recovery of clonidine bradycardia as well as an increase in resting heart rate. Budralazine (3--12 mg/kg i.v.), like hydralazine (0.3 and 3 mg/kg i.v.), antagonized pressor responses to noradrenaline and phenylephrine but did not affect the tachycardia produced by both agonists in normotensive pithed rats. Based on these results, a possible mechanism of hypotensive and weak tachycardiac actions of budralazine is discussed in relation to that of hydralazine.
This article reviews eight published studies that describe clozapine's effects on TD and examines the outcome of 30 patients with TD treated with clozapine for up to 36 months. These data indicate that TD response to clozapine is variable but that approximately 43% of cases, particularly those with dystonic features, improved after clozapine treatment. Methodological limitations of the studies described, however, preclude definitive conclusions, which must await appropriately controlled trials.
Resolvins of the D series are generated from docosahexaenoic acid, which are enriched in fish oils and are believed to exert beneficial roles on diverse inflammatory disorders, including inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In this study, we investigated the anti-inflammatory effects of the aspirin-triggered resolvin D1 (AT-RvD1), its precursor (17(R)-hydroxy docosahexaenoic acid [17R-HDHA]) and resolvin D2 (RvD2) in dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)- or 2,4,6-trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid-induced colitis. Our results showed that the systemic treatment with AT-RvD1, RvD2, or 17R-HDHA in a nanogram range greatly improved disease activity index, body weight loss, colonic damage, and polymorphonuclear infiltration in both colitis experimental models. Moreover, these treatments reduced colonic cytokine levels for TNF-α, IL-1β, MIP-2, and CXCL1/KC, as well as mRNA expression of NF-κB and the adhesion molecules VCAM-1, ICAM-1, and LFA-1. Furthermore, AT-RvD1, but not RvD2 or 17R-HDHA, depended on lipoxin A4 receptor (ALX) activation to inhibit IL-6, MCP-1, IFN-γ, and TNF-α levels in bone marrow-derived macrophages stimulated with LPS. Similarly, ALX blockade reversed the beneficial effects of AT-RvD1 in DSS-induced colitis. To our knowledge, our findings showed for the first time the anti-inflammatory effects of resolvins of the D series and precursor 17R-HDHA in preventing experimental colitis. We also demonstrated the relevant role exerted by ALX activation on proresolving action of AT-RvD1. Moreover, AT-RvD1 showed a higher potency than 17R-HDHA and RvD2 in preventing DSS-induced colitis. The results suggest that these lipid mediators possess a greater efficacy when compared with other currently used IBD therapies, such as monoclonal anti-TNF, and have the potential to be used for treating IBD.
We conducted a double-blind study of therapeutic outcome versus mean steady-state levels in 29 newly admitted schizophrenic and schizoaffective patients who were treated with a constant dose of fluphenazine HCI over a 2-week period. both an upper and lower end of the therapeutic window were suggested by three nonresponders whose plasma levels were above 2.8 ng per ml and by two nonresponders and one partial responder whose plasma levels were below 0.2 ng per ml. The mean terminal half-life of fluphenazine (+ or - SD) was 16.4 + or - 13.3 h. We found that concomitant use of benztropn mesylate during the initial 4 weeks of fluphenazine treatment did not significantly alter fluphenazine plasma levels.
We herein, report that theophylline which can induce apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells both in vitro and in vivo, also appears to be effective when used clinically to treat an advanced CLL patient.
We describe the case of a 47-year-old man admitted to the Department of Hematology because of fever, enlarged cervical and supraclavicular lymph nodes, hepatosplenomegaly and non-specific lung infiltrations. The histopathological examination of the cervical lymph node revealed Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) NS type I. Clinical evaluation revealed stage IVB according to Ann Arbor classification and the presence of 5 unfavorable prognostic factors according to the International Prognostic Index. Despite BEACOPP chemotherapy (bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone), the enlarged lymph nodes, lung infiltrations and fever persisted. Microbiological and serological tests did not lead to the identification of any viral or bacterial pathogens. Bronchoscopy showed chronic inflammation and post-tuberculosis (TB) scars in bronchi without acid-fast bacilli in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) in culture and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests. However, the biopsy of the supraclavicular lymph node revealed multiple, caseating and necrotizing granulomatous lesions with scattered Reed-Sternberg (R-S) cells. The auramin staining presented acid-fast bacilli and allowed the diagnosis of productive and caseating TB coexisting with HL. The 4 tuberculostatics regimen and ABVD chemotherapy (adriamycin, bleomycin, vincristine, dacarbazine) resulted in a complete clinical response after 3 months of treatment. In conclusion, the association between HL and TB must be considered, especially in countries where the latter is endemic. The diagnosis may be difficult due to similarities in the clinical course, laboratory tests and imaging procedures.
To determine whether functional cytokine gene polymorphisms influence disease susceptibility and phenotype in patients with psoriatic arthritis (PsA).
DNA was obtained from 147 PsA patients and 389 controls. Seven functional proinflammatory (interleukin-1beta [IL-1beta] +3953, IL-6 -174, tumor necrosis factor alpha [TNFalpha] -308, TNFbeta +252) and antiinflammatory (IL-10 -1082, IL-10 -592, IL-1 receptor antagonist [intron 2, 86 bp, variable-number tandem repeat]) gene polymorphisms were detected by polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism assays.
No significant difference in genotype frequencies was observed between the control and the PsA patient populations, and no association with Steinbrocker functional class, disease classification (polyarticular or oligoarticular), presence of spinal involvement, or age at PsA onset was observed. The presence of joint erosions was significantly associated with the TNFalpha -308 and TNFbeta +252 polymorphisms (P < 0.0001 and P = 0.0017, respectively). Frequencies of the TNFalpha -308 and TNFbeta +252 genotypes were also significantly different (P = 0.0078 and P = 0.0486, respectively) in a group of progressors (patients with early PsA in whom the number of joint erosions in the hands and feet increased over a median interval of 24 months) compared with a group of nonprogressors. Age at psoriasis onset was significantly associated with the TNFbeta +252 and TNFalpha -308 polymorphisms (P = 0.0003 and P = 0.0081, respectively). The TNFB2B2 and TNFalpha -308 AA genotypes were associated with the earliest mean ages at psoriasis onset.
The TNFalpha -308 and TNFbeta +252 polymorphisms were significantly associated with age at psoriasis onset, presence of joint erosions in PsA, and progression of joint erosions in early PsA. TNF gene polymorphisms may be useful prognostic markers in PsA, and these results support the rationale for using anti-TNF treatment in patients with severe, progressive PsA.
Autism spectrum disorders represent a range of neurodevelopmental disorders that have been shown to have a strong genetic etiological component. Microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization and other molecular cytogenetic techniques are discovering an increasing number of copy number variations in individuals with autism spectrum disorder.
We examined the yield of abnormal microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization findings in our laboratory for individuals referred for testing for autism spectrum disorder. We also examined the presence of autistic features among 151 additional individuals who were referred for microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization testing for indications other than autism spectrum disorder but had genomic alterations overlapping those found in cases referred for autism spectrum disorder.
We identified 1461 individuals referred for testing for autism spectrum disorder, with likely significant abnormalities reported in approximately 11.6% of individuals analyzed with whole-genome arrays. These abnormalities include alterations that encompass novel candidate genes such as SNTG2, SOX5, HFE, and TRIP38. A minority of individuals with overlapping abnormalities (19%) had autistic features, and many of the copy number variations identified in our study are inherited (69% among those found in individuals with autism spectrum disorder).
Our results suggest these copy number variations are one of multiple factors contributing to the development of an autism spectrum disorder phenotype. Additionally, the broad phenotypic spectrum of the patients with these copy number variations suggests that these copy number variations are not autism spectrum disorder-specific but likely more generally impair neurodevelopment.
The polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon benzo[b]fluoranthene (B[b]F) is a pervasive constituent of environmental combustion products. We sought to examine the lung tumorigenic activity of B[b]F in strain A/J mice, to study the relationship between formation and decay of B[b]F-DNA adducts and to examine mutations in the Ki-ras proto-oncogene in DNA from B[b]F-induced tumors. Mice were given i.p. injections of 0, 10, 50, 100 or 200 mg/kg body wt and lung adenomas were scored after 8 months. B[b]F induced significant numbers of mouse lung adenomas in a dose-related fashion, with the highest dose (200 mg/kg) yielding 6.95 adenomas/ mouse, with 100% of the mice exhibiting an adenoma. In mice given tricaprylin, the vehicle control, there were 0.60 adenomas/mouse, with 55% of the mice exhibiting an adenoma. Based on dose, B[b]F was less active than benzo[a]pyrene. DNA adducts were analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively by 32P-post-labeling in lungs of strain A/J mice 1, 3, 5, 7, 14 and 21 days after i.p. injection. Maximal levels of adduction occurred 5 days after treatment with the 200 mg/kg dose group, producing 1230 amol B[b]F-DNA adducts/microgram DNA. The major B[b]F-DNA adduct was identified by co-chromatography as trans-9, 10-dihydroxy-anti-11, 12-epoxy-5-hydroxy-9, 10, 11, 12-tetra-hydro-B[b]F-deoxyguanosine. Approximately 86% of the tumors had a mutation in codon 12 of the Ki-ras oncogene, as determined by direct DNA sequencing of PCR-amplified exon 1 and single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis. Analysis of the Ki-ras mutation spectrum in 25 of 29 B[b]F-induced tumors revealed the predominant mutation to be a G-->T transversion in the first or second base of codon 12, congruous with the DNA adduct data. Our data are consistent with previous reports in mouse skin implicating a phenolic diol epoxide as the proximate carcinogenic form of B[b]F that binds to guanine.
Synthetic steroids, such as 9α-bromobeclomethasonedipropionate, have shown gastroprotective activity. For example, the potent glucocorticoid steroid, beclomethasone dipropionate, has been used for treatment of bowel ulcerations. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the effect of a synthetic steroid, (20S)-22-acetoxymethyl-6β-methoxy-3α,5-dihydro-3'H-cyclopropa[3α,5]-5α-pregnane (AMDCP), on ethanol-induced gastric mucosa injuries in rats.
Rats were divided into 8 groups. The negative control and ethanol control groups were administered Tween 20 (10%v/v) orally. The reference control group, 20 mg/kg omeprazole (10% Tween 20, 5 mL/kg), was administrated orally. The experimental groups received 1, 5, 10, 15 or 20 mg/kg of the AMDCP compound (10% Tween 20, 5 mL/kg). After 60 min, Tween 20 and absolute ethanol was given orally (5 mL/kg) to the negative control group and to the rest of the groups, and the rats were sacrificed an hour later. The acidity of gastric content, gastric wall mucus and areas of mucosal lesions were assessed. In addition, histology and immunohistochemistry of the gastric wall were assessed. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and malondialdehyde (MDA) content were also measured. The ethanol control group exhibited severe mucosal lesion compared with the experimental groups with fewer mucosal lesions along with a reduction of edema and leukocyte infiltration. Immunohistochemical staining of Hsp70 and Bax proteins showed over-expression and under-expression, respectively, in the experimental groups. The experimental groups also exhibited high levels of PGE2 as well as a reduced amount of MDA. AMDCP decreased the acidity and lipid peroxidation and increased the levels of antioxidant enzymes.
The current investigation evaluated the gastroprotective effects of AMDCP on ethanol-induced gastric mucosal lesions in rats. This study also suggests that AMDCP might be useful as a gastroprotective agent.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has a copper binding domain (CuBD) located in the N-terminal cysteine-rich region that can strongly bind copper(II) and reduce it to Cu(I) in vitro. The CuBD sequence is similar among the APP family paralogs [amyloid precursor-like proteins (APLP1 and APLP2)] and its orthologs (including Drosophila melanogaster, Xenopus laevis, and Caenorhabditis elegans), suggesting an overall conservation in its function or activity. The APP CuBD is involved in modulating Cu homeostasis and amyloid beta peptide production. In this paper, we demonstrate for the first time that Cu-metallated full-length APP ectodomain induces neuronal cell death in vitro. APP Cu neurotoxicity can be induced directly or potentiated through Cu(I)-mediated oxidation of low-density lipoprotein, a finding that may have important implications for the role of lipoproteins and membrane cholesterol composition in AD. Cu toxicity induced by human APP, Xenopus APP, and APLP2 CuBDs is dependent on conservation of histidine residues at positions corresponding to 147 and 151 of human APP. Intriguingly, APP orthologs with different amino acid residues at these positions had dramatically altered Cu phenotypes. The corresponding C. elegans APL-1 CuBD, which has tyrosine and lysine residues at positions 147 and 151, respectively, strongly protected against Cu-mediated lipid peroxidation and neurotoxicity in vitro. Replacement of histidines 147 and 151 with tyrosine and lysine residues conferred this neuroprotective Cu phenotype to human APP, APLP2, and Xenopus APP CuBD peptides. Moreover, we show that the toxic and protective CuBD phenotypes are associated with differences in Cu binding and reduction. These studies identify a significant evolutionary change in the function of the CuBD in modulating Cu metabolism. Our findings also suggest that targeting of inhibitors to histidine residues at positions 147 and 151 of APP could significantly alter the oxidative potential of APP.
A 74-year-old woman with multiple medical problems including chronic renal failure was admitted for treatment of a diabetic foot infection. On day 12 of therapy with oral ciprofloxacin and metronidazole, the patient experienced generalized myoclonus and muscle twitching. At that time it was realized that although the ciprofloxacin regimen prescribed was a usual dose for a skin and soft-tissue infection, it was excessive for her degree of renal function. This was thought to be the most likely cause of the patient's neurotoxicity. Seizure activity has been reported to occur with the quinolone antibiotics and, with the increasing use of these agents, dose reductions should be kept in mind to avoid potentially serious adverse reactions.
Doppler and M-mode echocardiography (EC) were used to investigate the effects of minoxidil on the cardiac function of the dog and potentially to clarify the pathogenesis of cardiac lesions, in particular the necrotic lesion in the left ventricle and the haemorrhagic lesion in the right atrium. Groups of three dogs were treated with a single oral dose of 0.5 or 2 mg/kg minoxidil or control vehicle, and M-mode and Doppler parameters were recorded at different time points before as well as 1, 3 and 24 h after treatment. The treatment produced a number of changes in M-mode parameters that indicate an increase in left ventricle contractility, in particular, increases in the percentage of thickening of the left ventricle wall during systole and in ejection fraction, and decrease of systolic volume. There was also a decrease in diastolic volume, which indicates a decrease in filling of the left ventricle probably due to the tachycardia and subsequent decrease in inter-systolic time. Doppler EC showed an increase in the velocity of the aortic flow, which indicates an increase in cardiac contractility. There was also a mild increase in stroke volume, which together with the tachycardia resulted in a marked increase in cardiac output. Together, Doppler and M-mode recordings gave evidence of an increase in the contractility of the left ventricle. This change is consistent with the generally accepted mechanism for the development of the left ventricle lesion induced by minoxidil. Minoxidil also produced changes in atrio-ventricular flows. The velocity and/or acceleration of E- and A-waves of the mitral and tricuspid flows increased, and the E/A ratio decreased. The changes in the E-wave indicate a faster diastole of the ventricle probably to compensate for the decrease in inter-systolic time. The changes in A wave are characteristic of an increased amplitude and velocity of the atrial contraction. This latter change is much more marked for tricuspid than for mitral flow. For both flows the E/A ratio decreased, which indicates that the contraction of the atria plays an increased role in ventricle filling after minoxidil treatment. This stimulation of atrial contraction that we evaluate with Doppler EC may play a key role in the development of the atrial lesion produced by minoxidil. The fact that the change is more marked in the right than in the left atrium may explain why the lesion occurs only in the right atrium in dogs. This study showed, therefore, that Doppler EC associated with M-mode EC is a useful method for obtaining pertinent information on the pathogenesis of the left ventricle lesion induced by haemodynamic mechanisms. Moreover, Doppler EC allowed the assessment of changes in the function of the right atrium that may be involved in the development of the right atrial lesion.
Exfoliative dermatitis associated with hepatitis has been reported in leprosy patients taking dapsone in daily dosage of 200 mg daily or more previously. This report concerns a 40 year-old-female who developed exfoliative dermatitis and hepatitis six weeks after starting dapsone in daily dosage of 100 mg for treatment of leprosy. She responded dramatically to administration of corticosteroids.
