The therapeutic efficacy of Bulgarian antidepressants (adepren, linamiphen, and emovit) was assessed. The results showed that adepren, due to the predominance in the spectrum of its action of a stimulating effect over a sedative one, proved the least effective in anxiety depressions and most effective in inhibitory, asthenic and adynamic depressions. Linamiphen had a more marked antidepressive and stimulating action and was effective in inhibitory depressions of different genesis but the incidence of side effects (fast pulse, elevated blood pressure) was rather high. Emovit was characterized by the predominance of sedative versus stimulating action and, hence, it was most effective in anxiety, asthenic-anxiety, depressive-paranoid and hypochondriac depressions, showing no effect in inhibitory depressions. It did not lead to exacerbation of any other, in particular paranoid, symptomatology.
A Gram-negative bacterium was isolated from the blood of a patient with diabetes mellitus. However, it could not be identified by conventional microbiological methods, and so was characterized by phenotypic and genotypic analyses. 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis revealed that the strain belonged to the genus Neisseria. Based on the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics, we propose that strain SMC-A9199(T) (=KCTC 22696(T)=JCM 16127(T)) should be classified as a novel species, 'Neisseria skkuensis' sp. nov. The patient was further treated with amoxicillin-clavulanate and ciprofloxacin for 3 weeks.
The renoprotective effect of cilnidipine ((+/-)-2-methoxyethyl 3-phenyl-2(E)-propenyl 1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4-(3-nitrophenyl)-3,5-pyridinedicarboxylate, CAS 132203-70-4), a L/N-type calcium channel antagonist, on puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN)-induced nephrosis was investigated in rats. In the Experiment I, rats were given an intravenous injection of PAN (70 mg/kg). Cilnidipine (3 mg/kg/day) and enalapril (CAS 75847-73-3, 5 mg/kg/day) were administered orally from 6 days after treatment with PAN (day 6) to day 26, and urinary analysis was performed on days 9, 15, 20 and 27. In the Experiment II, nephrosis was also induced by intravenous injection of PAN (70 or 100 mg/kg) in rats which were treated with cilnidipine and enalapril from days 6 to 10. Systolic blood pressure was measured on day 7 and urinary analysis was performed on day 10. On day 11, serum was collected and the kidneys were removed for immunofluorescence staining for nephrin and podocin proteins. In PAN-treated rats, the daily urinary protein excretion was dramatically elevated on day 5, reached a peak on day 9 and gradually returned to a normal level from days 15 to 27. Cilnidipine (3 mg/kg/ day) significantly suppressed the increase in proteinuria on day 9 and also improved the decrease in creatinine clearance without evident effect on the blood pressure. Furthermore, the elevations in serum total cholesterol and triglyceride tended to be suppressed by cilnidipine. The expression of nephrin and podocin proteins in PAN-treated rats showed the granular pattern in the glomeruli, while the intensity of staining seemed to be dependent on the urinary protein excretion level in the cilnidipine-treated rats. The results obtained in this study suggest a renoprotective effect of cilnidipine in PAN-induced nephrosis in rats.
Little is known about the incidence of isoniazid-associated hepatitis in HIV-infected Africans who receive both isoniazid preventive therapy (IPT) and antiretroviral therapy (ART).
To assess the rate of and risk factors for isoniazid (INH)-associated hepatitis in persons living with HIV (PLWH) during IPT.
PLWH recruited for a clinical trial received 6 months of open-label, daily, self-administered INH at public health clinics. At screening PLWH were excluded if they had any cough, weight loss, night sweats, or other illness. Alcohol abuse was defined as meeting any CAGE criterion. INH-associated hepatitis (INH-hepatitis) was defined as having either alanine or aspartate aminotransferase greater than 5.0 times the upper limit of normal regardless of symptoms when INH was not excluded as the cause.
Of 1,995 PLWH enrolled between 2004 and 2006, 1,762 adhered to at least 4 months of IPT and were analyzed. Nineteen (1.1%) developed hepatitis probably or possibly associated with INH including one death at month 6; 14 of 19 (74%) occurred in months 1-3. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) was received by 480 participants but was not statistically associated with INH-hepatitis (relative risk [RR], 1.56; 95% confidence intervals [CI], 0.62-3.9); those receiving nevirapine had a higher rate (2.0%) than those receiving efavirenz (0.9%; P = 0.34). Although alcohol use did not reach significance (RR, 1.42; 95% CI, 0.57-3.51), meeting at least one CAGE criterion approached statistical significance (RR, 2.37; 95% CI, 0.96-5.84). Neither age greater than 35 years nor the presence of hepatitis B virus core antibody was associated with INH-hepatitis.
The observed rates of INH-hepatitis were similar to published data. Six months of IPT, which is recommended by the World Health Organization, was relatively safe in this, the largest cohort of African PLWH. Clinical trial registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT 00164281).
The present study assessed the effect of carbamazepine and lamotrigine on cognitive function and oxidative stress in brain during chemically induced epileptogenesis in rats. Epileptogenesis was induced by administration of pentylenetetrazole (30 mg/kg, s.c.) on alternate days (three times/week) for 9-11 weeks or until stage 4 of seizure score was achieved. The neurobehavioural parameters used for cognitive assessment were step-down latency in continuous avoidance apparatus and transfer latency in elevated plus maze test paradigm. Carbamazepine and lamotrigine were administered intraperitoneally in doses of 60 mg/kg and 25 mg/kg, respectively, according to the groups, once a day for 11 weeks. Oxidative stress was assessed in isolated homogenized whole brain samples and estimated for the levels of malondialdehyde, reduced glutathione, catalase and superoxide dismutase. The results showed that lamotrigine did not produce any change in cognitive function, while carbamazepine produced cognitive dysfunction. Cognitive decline seen in the carbamazepine-treated pentylenetetrazole-kindled group was also associated with increased oxidative stress. Lamotrigine treatment had no effect on oxidative stress parameters alone, while it significantly decreased oxidative stress in the pentylenetetrazole-kindled group as compared to the pentylenetetrazole-kindled carbamazepine-treated group.
We describe a 42-year-old woman with polyarteritis nodosa characterized by polyarthritis, purpuric rash, mononeuritis multiplex, focal segmental glomerulonephritis and necrotizing arteritis. alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency was diagnosed incidentally on a liver biopsy. This is the third reported case of systemic necrotizing vasculitis in association with alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency of the PI ZZ type, and the first to show significant response to cyclophosphamide and steroids.
From numerous epidemiological studies it is evidenced that risk after exposure to a carcinogen varies with time and there has been an increasing discussion about the temporal variation in case of smoking, ionizing radiation and various chemical carcinogens. The results of several independent epidemiologic studies of occupational cohorts with benzene exposure and the development of leukemia will be presented in order to find common aspects. In this context the data of 537 confirmed cases of leukemia as an occupational disease in Germany during the time period 1978-2007 will be presented. It is concluded that the epidemiologic findings are consistent and demonstrate a smaller or even absent risk of leukemia 10-15 years after exposure to benzene has been stopped. Temporal changes in relative risk highlights the importance of examining the relationship between follow-up time and risk estimates as part of the risk assessment process.
In spite of the solid evidence that beta-blockade reduces mortality and morbidity in congestive heart failure (CHF) this therapy continues to be underused in clinical praxis. The reason for this may lie in scarcity of knowledge about the mechanisms of beta-blockade action. The major aim of this study was to investigate in vivo whether selective beta(1)-blockade may improve cardiac energy metabolism in rats with myocardial infarction in early postinfarct remodeling phase. Myocardial infarction (MI) was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats by ligation of the left coronary artery. Two different groups of rats were studied, rats with MI treated with metoprolol (5 mg/kg/h; n = 9) and rats with MI saline treated (n = 9). The treatment with metoprolol was given by subcutaneously implanted minipumps and was initiated at 3 days postinfarct and during the period of 4 weeks. All rats were investigated with noninvasive methods (31)P magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and transthoracic echocardiography 3 days after induction of MI and 4 weeks later. Phosphocreatine/ATP ratio was normalized after the treatment with metoprolol while it was 50% lower in the saline group (p < 0.001). In the metoprolol group stroke volume and ejection fraction increased while deceleration time of mitral early filling was longer (all p < 0.05). Left ventricular weight as well as volumes and dimensions were similar between the groups. Plasma levels of noradrenaline (p = 0.058), adrenaline (p < 0.01) and brain natriuretic peptide (p = 0.09) were lower in the metoprolol group. Selective beta(1)-blockade with high dose of metoprolol initiated in the early postinfarct phase improves myocardial energy metabolism and function and prevents overactivation of sympathetic system. The beneficial effect on myocardial bioenergetics may be an important mode of action of beta-blockers which contributes to the clinical benefits of the therapy in CHF.
Twenty-one patients slated for high-dose arteriography were studied to investigate the impact of predisposing medical conditions upon contrast medium induced acute renal failure. The study suggests that predisposing medical conditions are the most important factor determining the incidence of acute renal failure and the probability, speed, and degree of recovery of renal function. Patients with diabetes mellitus incur the highest risk of contrast medium induced acute renal failure. A dose relationship is also suggested. Contrast medium doses containing more than 100 g of iodine uniformly produced acute tubular necrosis in patients with predisposing medical conditions. Conversely, contrast medium doses containing less than 80 g of iodine produced clinically manifest acute renal failure in only one of 14 patients with predisposing medical conditions. Subclinical levels of acute renal failure were recognized in a large number of patients by routine measurement of radionuclide filtration fractions, serum creatinine levels, and urine osmolality and sodium concentration.
1,2,3-Trichloropropane (TCP) induces high incidences of tumors at multiple sites in mice and rats when administered chronically by gavage. The animal tumor data are being used to predict human risk from potential exposure to TCP in drinking water. Risk assessment may be affected by differences in the route of exposure. Gavage administration, which results in high bolus concentrations compared to drinking water exposure, may quantitatively affect toxicokinetics, cytotoxicity, and genotoxicity. We have examined the effects of TCP exposure by the two routes on the formation of DNA adducts and the induction of cellular proliferation. Male B6C3F1 mice were administered [14C]TCP for 1 week by gavage or in drinking water at the low dose (6 mg/kg) used in the NTP carcinogenesis bioassay. Two target organs (forestomach and liver) and two nontarget organs (glandular stomach and kidney) were examined for DNA adduct formation. Adducts were hydrolyzed from DNA, isolated by HPLC, and quantitated by measuring HPLC fractions for radioactivity. In the forestomach, liver, and kidney, gavage administration of TCP resulted in 1.4-to 2.4-fold greater yields of the major DNA adduct, previously identified as S-[1-(hydroxymethyl)-2-(N7-guanyl)ethyl]glutathione. Significant differences in cell proliferation, as determined by incorporation of bromodeoxyuridine into DNA, were also observed for the two routes. Gavage administration of TCP for 2 weeks resulted in up to a threefold greater cell proliferation rate relative to administration in drinking water. Our findings of exposure-related differences in TCP-induced DNA adduct formation and cell proliferation suggest that a risk assessment based on the existing gavage study may overestimate human risk.
Aminocaproic acid is a widely used antifibrinolytic agent. Serious adverse effects associated with its use are rare, but we report on a patient with liver disease and cirrhosis who experienced a grand mal seizure during the intravenous administration of aminocaproic acid. Clinicians should be alert to the occurrence of this adverse effect in patients with no previous neurological problems.
Laser capture microdissection, polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis, and DNA sequencing was used to detect H-ras codon 12 and 13 mutations during the stages of mammary gland cancer development in rats exposed to 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP), a carcinogen found in cooked meat. Ten oral doses of PhIP (75 mg/kg, p.o., once per day) were administered to adolescent female Sprague-Dawley rats and mammary glands examined histologically for intraductal proliferations (IDPs), carcinoma in situ and carcinomas 7-14 weeks later. Mammary gland epithelial cells from normal tissue and distinct lesions were collected from glass slides and analyzed for mutations. H-ras codon 12/13 mutations were detected in 73%, 75%, 100%, and 100% of normal mammary glands, IDPs, carcinoma in situ, and carcinoma, respectively, after PhIP treatment. The spectrum of activating mutations included G(35) to A or C base substitution mutations in codon 12, and G(37) to T or A base substitution mutations in codon 13. The spectrum of H-ras mutations was similar among normal mammary gland from PhIP treated rats, preneoplastic lesions, and carcinomas. Furthermore, the spectrum of mutations was consistent with the involvement of PhIP-guanine adduct formation. The results support the notion that mutations in H-ras codons 12 and 13 are largely PhIP-DNA adduct-induced and involved in the initiation and development of mammary gland cancer in rats exposed to PhIP.
Lead exposure has been associated with cardiovascular disease (CVD) in animal and human studies. However, the mechanisms of action have not been fully elucidated. We therefore examined the relationship between lead and multiple biomarkers of CVD.
Participants were older men from the Normative Aging Study without preexisting coronary heart disease, diabetes, or active infection at baseline (n = 426). Serum biomarkers included lipid profile [total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and triglycerides] and inflammatory markers [C-reactive protein, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor receptor-2 (TNF-R2)]. We measured lead in blood and in bone by K-shell X-ray fluorescence. In this sample, 194 men (44.3%) had two or more repeated measures, resulting in 636 observations for analysis. We conducted analyses using mixed effects models with random subject intercepts.
Lead levels were associated with several CVD biomarkers, including levels of TNF-R2 and lipid markers. Specifically, in multivariable models, a 50% increase in blood lead level was associated with 26% increased odds of high TNF-R2 levels (> 5.52 ng/mL; odds ratio = 1.26; 95% confidence interval: 1.09, 1.45). There were positive associations of blood lead level with total cholesterol and HDL levels, and these associations were more evident when modeled as continuous outcomes than when categorized using clinically relevant cut points. In addition, longitudinal analyses indicated a significant increase in TNF-R2 levels over time to be associated with high blood lead level at the preceding visit.
Blood lead level may be related with CVD in healthy older men through its association with TNF-R2 levels. In addition, the magnitude of the association of blood lead level with TNF-R2 level increased with age in the study population.
Monobenzylether of hydroquinone (MBEH) has long been utilized for the depigmentation therapy of patients with extensive vitiligo. In this approach, the normally pigmented areas surrounding vitiligo lesions are depigmented to achieve a uniform skin tone. One of the important disadvantages of MBEH therapy, however, is the resistance of a considerable number of vitiligo patients against the depigmenting effect of this agent. We have previously proposed that the glutathione-dependent cytoprotection of melanocytes can be impaired through the inhibition of the enzyme glutathione S-transferase by retinoic acid (RA). The combination of RA with melanocytotoxic agents could thus lead to increased susceptibility of melanocytes to such compounds. In this study we have shown, for the first time, that the melanocytotoxic and depigmenting effects of MBEH are synergistically enhanced when it is combined with RA. The treatment of black guinea pig skin with RA (0.025%) alone induced no significant changes in the number of epidermal melanocytes and no skin depigmentation. On the other hand, MBEH (10%) produced mild to moderate skin depigmentation and reduced the average number of melanocytes from 76 (+/-5)/field (magnification: x 40) in control sites, to 42 (+/-6)/field in the depigmented skin. The RA (0.025%)-MBEH (10%) combination, however, produced a complete degree of depigmentation in the majority of treated sites after 10 days of application and reduced the average number of melanocytes to only 6 (+/-6)/field. RA-MBEH combination serves as a very potent skin depigmenting formula and now awaits future assessments of its potential use for the treatment of extensive vitiligo.
Triadimefon and triadimenol, fungicides used in agriculture, are suspected of producing craniofacial malformations. As the results of FETAX analysis showed that Triadimefon was highly teratogenic, we studied the action of these triazoles on the development of the branchial apparatus in Xenopus, using early molecular markers and analysis of the cartilaginous-muscular elements of tadpoles. Teratogenic effects were observed, after exposure at the neurula stage, at the level of cartilages and muscles of the 1st and 2nd branchial arches. By in situ hybridization, we observed that in exposed specimens the territories of the branchial arches are perturbed. From these results, we considered the craniofacial malformations related to the influence of triazoles on the differentiation of branchial arches. Comparing the anomalies caused by triazoles and by retinoic acid (RA) led us to the conclusion that triazoles can affect endogenous RA content, as has been shown for mammals.
To indentify genetic variation that can modulate and predict the risk of developing thalidomide-related peripheral neuropathy (TrPN).
We analyzed DNA from 1,495 patients with multiple myeloma. Using a custom-built single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array, we tested the association of TrPN with 3,404 SNPs. The SNPs were selected in predicted functional regions within 964 genes spanning 67 molecular pathways thought to be involved in the pathogenesis, treatment response, and adverse effects associated with myeloma and its therapy. Patient cases and controls were derived from two large clinical trials that compared thalidomide with conventional-based treatment in myeloma patients (Medical Research Council Myeloma-IX and HOVON-50/GMMG-HD3).
We report TrPN associations with SNPs-ABCA1 (rs363717), ICAM1 (rs1799969), PPARD (rs2076169), SERPINB2 (rs6103), and SLC12A6 (rs7164902)-where we show cross validation of the associations in both trials. To investigate whether TrPN SNP associations were related to exposure to thalidomide only or general drug-related peripheral neuropathy, we performed a second analysis on patients treated with vincristine. We report SNPs associated with vincristine neuropathy, with a seemingly distinct underlying genetic mechanism.
Our results are consistent with the hypothesis that an individual's risk of developing a peripheral neuropathy after thalidomide treatment can be mediated by polymorphisms in genes governing repair mechanisms and inflammation in the peripheral nervous system. These findings will contribute to the development of future neuroprotective strategies with thalidomide therapy and the better use of this important compound.
Amiodarone, an antiarrhythmic agent, has been associated with mild visual loss secondary to papillopathy and papilledema. We report a patient who developed bilateral optic neuropathy 4 weeks after initiation of amiodarone therapy. Nine months later, his vision was 20/50 in the right eye and 20/200 in the left. This report provides additional evidence that amiodarone may cause toxic optic neuropathy.
Benzene and ethylene oxide are multisite carcinogens in rodents and classified as human carcinogens by the National Toxicology Program. In 2-year mouse studies, both chemicals induced mammary carcinomas. We examined spontaneous, benzene-, and ethylene oxide-induced mouse mammary carcinomas for p53 protein expression, using immunohistochemistry, and p53 (exons 5-8) and H-ras (codon 61) mutations using cycle sequencing techniques. p53 protein expression was detected in 42% (8/19) of spontaneous, 43% (6/14) of benzene-, and 67% (8/12) of ethylene oxide-induced carcinomas. However, semiquantitative evaluation of p53 protein expression revealed that benzene- and ethylene oxide-induced carcinomas exhibited expression levels five- to six-fold higher than spontaneous carcinomas. p53 mutations were found in 58% (7/12) of spontaneous, 57% (8/14) of benzene-, and 67% (8/12) of ethylene oxide-induced carcinomas. H-ras mutations were identified in 26% (5/19) of spontaneous, 50% (7/14) of benzene-, and 33% (4/12) of ethylene oxide-induced carcinomas. When H-ras mutations were present, concurrent p53 mutations were identified in 40% (2/5) of spontaneous, 71% (5/7) of benzene-, and 75% (3/4) of ethylene oxide-induced carcinomas. Our results demonstrate that p53 and H-ras mutations are relatively common in control and chemically induced mouse mammary carcinomas although both chemicals can alter the mutational spectra and more commonly induce concurrent mutations.
Cadmium has been hypothesized to be a pancreatic carcinogen. We test the hypothesis that cadmium exposure is a risk factor for pancreatic cancer with a population-based case-control study sampled from a population with persistently high rates of pancreatic cancer (south Louisiana). We tested potential dietary and nondietary sources of cadmium for their association with urinary cadmium concentrations which reflect long-term exposure to cadmium due to the accumulation of cadmium in the kidney cortex. Increasing urinary cadmium concentrations were significantly associated with an increasing risk of pancreatic cancer (2nd quartile OR = 3.34, 3rd = 5.58, 4th = 7.70; test for trend P ≤ 0.0001). Potential sources of cadmium exposure, as documented in the scientific literature, found to be statistically significantly associated with increased risk of pancreatic cancer included working as a plumber, pipefitter or welder (OR = 5.88) and high consumption levels of red meat (4th quartile OR = 6.18) and grains (4th quartile OR = 3.38). Current cigarette smoking, at least 80 pack years of smoking, occupational exposure to cadmium and paints, working in a shipyard, and high consumption of grains were found to be statistically significantly associated with increased concentrations of urinary cadmium. This study provides epidemiologic evidence that cadmium is a potential human pancreatic carcinogen.
Maternal exposure to nicotine during lactation causes hyperleptinemia in the pups and, at adulthood, these animals are overweight and hyperleptinemic, while, in their hypothalamus, the leptin signaling pathway is reduced, evidencing a central leptin resistance. Then, we evaluated the expression of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC), alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (α-MSH), cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), neuropeptide Y (NPY), agouti-related peptide (AgRP) and others in different hypothalamic nuclei in order to better understand the mechanisms underlying the obese phenotype observed in these animals at adulthood. On the 2nd postnatal day (P2), dams were subcutaneously implanted with osmotic minipumps releasing nicotine (NIC-6 mg/kg/day) or saline for 14 days. Offspring were killed in P180 and immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis were carried out. Significance data had p<0.05. Adult NIC offspring showed more intense NPY staining in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) (+21%) and increased number of POMC-positive cells in the: arcuate nucleus (+33%), as an increase in fiber density of α-MSH in PVN (+85%). However, the number of CART-positive cells was reduced in the PVN (-25%). CRH staining was more intense in NIC offspring (+136%). Orexins and AgRP were not altered. Thus, maternal nicotine exposure changes hypothalamic neuropeptides in the adult progeny that is partially compatible with leptin resistance.
Our previous studies showed the possibility that oxidative stress, including oxidative DNA damage, is involved in the mechanism of dicyclanil (DC)-induced hepatocarcinogenesis at the preneoplastic stage in mice. In this study, the expression analyses of genes, including oxidative stress-related genes, were performed on the tissues of hepatocellular tumors in a two-stage liver carcinogenesis model in mice. After partial hepatectomy, male ICR mice were injected with N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN) and given a diet containing 0 or 1500 ppm of DC for 20 weeks. Histopathological examinations revealed that the incidence of hepatocellular tumors (adenomas and carcinomas) significantly increased in the DEN + DC group. Gene expression analysis on the microdissected liver tissues of the mice in the DEN + DC group showed the highest expression levels of oxidative stress-related genes, such as Cyp1a1 and Txnrd1, in the tumor areas. However, no remarkable up-regulation of Ogg1-an oxidative DNA damage repair gene-was observed in the tumor areas, but the expression of Trail-an apoptosis-signaling ligand gene-was significantly down-regulated in the tumor tissues. These results suggest the possibility that the inhibition of apoptosis and a failure in the ability to repair oxidative DNA damage occur in the hepatocellular DC-induced tumors in mice.
Renal dysfunction is a common and serious complication in multiple myeloma (MM) patients. Renal proximal tubule injury is characteristic in MM, and may result in disturbed renal handling of various vitamins. The abnormal excretion of vitamins in urine may result in their low serum levels. The goal of this study was to investigate the urinary excretion of retinol in MM and its relationship with serum retinol concentration. For this purpose, 24 MM patients and 10 healthy individuals were studied. Serum and urinary retinol and retinol-binding protein (RBP) were measured by the high-performance liquid chromatography method and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The study showed that 58% of MM patients excreted retinol in urine, while only 29% had elevated serum creatinine (P<0.05). There was a strong and highly significant correlation between urinary retinol and RBP (r=0.973, P<0.006). Patients with normal and mildly elevated serum creatinine who excreted retinol in urine had a marked decrease in serum retinol (P<0.007). On the other hand, serum retinol was not decreased in patients with moderate or severe renal failure, despite its urinary loss. Our data indicate that (i) urinary retinol is a more frequent marker of renal dysfunction than elevated serum creatinine in MM patients, (ii) serum retinol is decreased in MM with normal or mildly elevated serum creatinine, but not in patients with moderate/severe renal failure, and (iii) urinary retinol may serve as a diagnostic marker of renal proximal tubule dysfunction in MM patients.
The emetic action of the prostanoid TP receptor agonist, 11alpha,9alpha-epoxymethano-15S-hydroxyprosta-5Z,13E-dienoic acid (U46619; 300 microg/kg, i.p.), was investigated in Suncus murinus. The emetic response was reduced by 76% following bilateral abdominal vagotomy (P<0.001) and by reserpine (5 mg/kg, i.p., 24 h pretreatment; P<0.05) but U46619 administered i.c.v. (30-300 ng) was not emetic, suggesting a peripheral mechanism involving monoamines. However, fenfluramine (5 mg/kg, repeated treatment) and para-chlorophenylalanine (100-400 mg/kg) and ondansetron (0.3-3 mg/kg) were inactive (P>0.05) to reduce U46619-induced emesis precluding a role of 5-HT and 5-HT(3) receptors in the mechanism. Similarly, phentolamine (0.3-3 mg/kg), propranolol (3 mg/kg), and their combination, and metoclopramide (0.3-3 mg/kg), domperidone (0.3-3 mg/kg), droperidol (0.3-3 mg/kg), scopolamine (0.3-3 mg/kg) and promethazine (0.3-3 mg/kg) were inactive (P>0.05) to reduce the retching and vomiting response. However, the tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist, (+)-2S,3S(-3-(2-methoxy-5-trifluoromethoxybenzyl)amino-2-phenylpiperidine) (CP-122,721; 1-10 mg/kg) antagonized emesis (P<0.01). In conclusion, U46619-induced emesis appears to be mediated via a predominant peripheral mechanism sensitive to reserpine and is not likely to involve adrenoceptors, dopamine, 5-HT(3), muscarinic or histamine (H(1)) receptors. The action of CP-122,721 to reduce U46619-induced emesis extends the spectrum of anti-emetic action tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonists to mechanisms involving TP receptors.
The role of prostanoids in nociception is well established. The headache eliciting effects of prostacyclin (prostaglandin I(2), (PGI(2))) and its possible mechanisms had previously not been systematically studied in man. We hypothesized that infusion of PGI(2) might induce headache and vasodilatation of cranial vessels. A stable analog of PGI(2) epoprostenol (10 ng/kg/min) was infused for 25 min into 12 healthy subjects in a cross-over, double-blind study. Headache intensity was scored on a verbal rating scale from 0 to 10. In addition, we recorded mean flow in the middle cerebral artery (V(mean MCA)) by the transcranial doppler and diameter of the superficial temporal artery (STA) by a high-resolution ultrasonography unit. During the immediate phase (0-30 min) and the post-infusion phase (30-90 min), 11 subjects reported headache on the PGI(2) day and no subjects reported headache on the placebo day (p=0.002). During epoprostenol (0-30 min) and in the post-infusion phase (30-90 min), the area under the curve (AUC) for headache score was significantly larger than during and after placebo (p=0.005). PGI(2) caused headache associated with the dilatation of STA (AUC, p<0.001), but no significant dilatation of the MCA (AUC, p=0.508). These data indicate that PGI(2) induced headache might be due to activation and sensitization of sensory afferents around extracranial arteries.
In this study, we investigated the effects of lipoic acid (LA) in the hippocampus oxidative stress caused by pilocarpine-induced seizures in adult rats. Wistar rats were treated with 0.9% saline (i.p., control group), LA (10mg/kg, i.p., LA group), ubiquinone [20mg/kg, i.p., ubiquinone (UQ) group], pilocarpine (400mg/kg, i.p., P400 group), and the association of LA (10mg/kg, i.p.) plus pilocarpine (400mg/kg, i.p.) or UQ (20mg/kg, i.p.) plus pilocarpine (400mg/kg, i.p.), 30min before of administration of P400 (LA plus P400 group and UQ plus P400 group, respectively). After the treatments, all groups were observed for 1h. The enzyme activities (δ-aminolevulinic dehydratase (δ-ALA-D), Mg(2+) -ATPase, and Na(+) , K(+) -ATPase) were measured using spectrophotometric methods, and the results compared to values obtained from saline and pilocarpine-treated animals. Protective effects of LA and UQ were also evaluated on the same parameters. We reported here for the first time that Na(+) , K(+) -ATPase and δ-ALA-D activities inhibition and Mg(2+) -ATPase stimulation in the pilocarpine model are probably attributed to the oxidative stress caused by seizures in the rat hippocampus. The addition of the antioxidants LA and UQ may reverses the previously mentioned Na(+) , K(+) -ATPase and δ-ALA-D inhibitions and Mg(2+) -ATPase stimulation.
The oxidative stress plays an important signaling role in pilocarpine-induced seizures, and antioxidant drugs might be considered as therapeutical tools in this pathology.
