An open-labeled randomized trial with parallel groups was carried out to study the effects of Dif1stat (Monascus purpureus-Linear aliphatic alcohols-Niacin) in the treatment of primary moderate hypercholesterolemia. The trial lasted 8 months. The patients, males and females, were assigned to two groups: A (#130), treated with diet, and B (#110) submitted to diet + Dif1stat. After 4 months, group A did not show significant changes in Total cholesterol (TC), LDL-cholesterol (LDLC), HDL-cholesterol (HDLC) or non-HDL-cholesterol (non-HDLC). The same group, showed a reduction in TC (-22%), LDLC (-30%) and non-HDLC (-27%) after 8 months (P < or = 0.001). After 4 months, TC (-21.3%), LDLC (-29%), and non-HDLC (-26%) were significantly lowered in group B (P < or = 0.001). In group B, TC, LDLC and non-HDLC showed a further reduction after 8 months: -29.4, -38 and -37%, respectively (P < or = 0.001). Even triglycerides (TG) decreased significantly (-33%) (P < or = 0.001). After 8 months, group B showed a significant reduction of TG (-33%) (P < or = 0.001), when compared to group A. Some safety parameters were significantly reduced in both groups: AST and gamma-GT in group A after 4 and 8 months, as well as ALT, AST and gamma-GT in group B after 8 months (P < or = 0.001). Dif1stat, given with a suitable diet, was well tolerated in the long-term and induced an anti-atherogenic plasma lipid and lipoprotein profile, in patients with moderate hypercholesterolemia.
Inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme can rarely cause an angioneurotic edema of the upper airways. This complication depends on the interaction with hormones regulating the vascular resistance such as the kallikrein kinin and the prostaglandin systems. We present two cases of angioneurotic edema of the tongue induced by inhibitors of angiotensin converting enzyme. We describe the symptoms of this side effect and discuss possible therapeutic approaches.
Polyhexamethyleneguanidine phosphate (PHMG-P) has been widely used as a disinfectant because of its strong bactericidal activity and low toxicity. However, in 2011, the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Ministry of Health and Welfare reported that a suspicious outbreak of pulmonary disease might have originated from humidifier disinfectants. The purpose of this study was to assess the toxicity of PHMG-P following direct exposure to the lung. PHMG-P (0.3, 0.9, or 1.5 mg/kg) was instilled into the lungs of mice. The levels of proinflammatory markers and fibrotic markers were quantified in lung tissues and flow cytometry was used to evaluate T cell distribution in the thymus. Administration of PHMG-P induced proinflammatory cytokines elevation and infiltration of immune cells into the lungs. Histopathological analysis revealed a dose-dependent exacerbation of both inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis on day 14. PHMG-P also decreased the total cell number and the CD4(+)/CD8(+) cell ratio in the thymus, with the histopathological examination indicating severe reduction of cortex and medulla. The mRNA levels of biomarkers associated with T cell development also decreased markedly. These findings suggest that exposure of lung tissue to PHMG-P leads to pulmonary inflammation and fibrosis as well as thymic atrophy.
Epidemiological studies have associated increased dietary intake of antioxidants (vitamin C, E, and beta-carotene) in preventing and decreasing the extent of ischemic brain injury. The effect of vitamin C supplementation on functional recovery after stroke has not been studied.
In this retrospective, case-control study of 23 patients with ischemic stroke taking vitamin C were identified and matched for age, sex, onset to admission, and admission total functional independence measure (TFIM) with 23 patients with ischemic stroke not taking Vitamin C supplementation. Vitamin C 1000 mg daily was prescribed on admission to our unit mainly to patients who were undernourished (defined as significant weight loss and/or 90% or less ideal body weight for age and sex) and those with pressure sores. The outcome measures were: change in the TFIM, FIM-Cognition (FIM-Cog), and FIM-Motor sub-scores, discharge disposition, and length of stay (LOS).
The change in TFIM (20 +/- 13 standard deviation [SD] vs. 26 +/- 6, p = 0.20), FIM-Cog (3 +/- 3 SD vs. 4 +/- 5, p = 0.41), FIM-Motor (15 +/- 11 SD vs. 20 +/- 13, p = 0.21) sub-scores were less in the vitamin C treated group, but these differences did not reach statistical significance. Similarly, no significant differences were found in LOS (21 +/- 9 SD vs. 23 +/- 9, p = 0.59), and discharge disposition (home/institution) (9/10 vs. 13/9, p = 0.60) between the vitamin C and the control groups.
This study suggests vitamin C supplementation did not enhance functional recovery in undernourished ischemic stroke patients.
Previous investigations have shown that sepsis, while causing cardiac dysfunction, can protect the heart from ischemia-reperfusion injury. Sepsis-induced protection may be due to nitric oxide produced by an inducible form of nitric oxide synthase generated in response to cytokines released during sepsis. The glucocorticoid dexamethasone has been shown to inhibit the synthesis of the inducible form of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). The goals of this study were to determine if dexamethasone would prevent sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction and sepsis-induced protection of the heart from ischemia-reperfusion injury. In this experiment, rats were made septic by injecting Escherichia coli into the dorsal subcutaneous space. Control rats were injected with sterile saline. At the time of surgery, some of the control and septic animals were injected intraperitoneally with dexamethasone (3 mg/kg). The next day, 24-26 hr after injection of the first dose of E. coli, animals were anesthetized, and hearts were removed and studied in the isovolumic beating-heart preparation. Left ventricular end diastolic pressure was set to 5 mmHg, and left ventricular pressure was measured continuously throughout the protocol. Left ventricular developed pressure (LVDP) was used as an index of LV function. After stabilization, hearts were made globally ischemic for 35 min and then reperfused for 25 min. As has been shown previously, sepsis depressed LVDP but also protected the heart from further depression of LVDP by ischemia and reperfusion. Dexamethasone prevented both sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction and sepsis-induced protection of the heart from ischemia-reperfusion injury. In addition plasma nitrite/nitrate levels were not different from control levels in the dexamethasone-treated septic rats whereas levels were elevated in the septic animals. The dexamethasone mediated abrogation of sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction and protection during ischemia-reperfusion injury may be due to suppression of nitric oxide production.
Arsenicals have been used medicinally for decades to treat both infectious disease and cancer. Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) is effective for treatment of acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL), yet the mechanism of action of this drug is still widely debated. Recently, As2O3 was shown to inhibit the activity of the selenoenzyme thioredoxin reductase (TrxR). TrxR has been proposed to be required for selenium metabolism. The effect of inhibitors of TrxR on selenium metabolism has yet to be assessed. This study aims to determine whether chemotherapeutics that target selenocysteine within selenoenzymes may also affect the metabolism of selenium.
A lung cell line, A549, was used to assess the effect of TrxR inhibitors on selenium metabolism, using 75Se-selenite. The level of mRNA encoding cytosolic TrxR (TrxR1) was determined using real-time reverse transcriptase-PCR. TrxR activity was determined in whole-cell extracts.
Exposure of cells to As2O3, arsenite or auranofin led to a concentration-dependent reduction of selenium metabolism into selenoproteins. Knockdown of TrxR1, using small inhibitory RNA, did not affect selenium metabolism. Exposure of cells to monomethylarsonic acid, a potent inhibitor of TrxR, did not alter selenium metabolism but did inhibit enzyme activity.
As2O3 and auranofin block the metabolism of selenium in A549 cells. Because As2O3 is used to treat APL, our findings may reveal the mechanism of this therapeutic action and lead to further research targeting selenium metabolism to find novel chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of APL.
Here we show the increased hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in gastric mucosa of rats which have developed a reserpine-induced ulcer. Such an increase of HGF and COX-2 expression was blunted in rats pretreated with adrenomedullin. Pretreatment with adrenomedullin and the adrenomedullin22-52 fragment did not result in changes of HGF and COX-2 expression, compared to the reserpine and adrenomedullin treated group. Pretreatment with adrenomedullin and the calcitonin gene-related peptide8-37 fragment (CGRP8-37) increased HGF and COX-2 expression, compared to the reserpine and adrenomedullin treated group. Our results suggest that the inhibitory effect of adrenomedullin on the expression of HGF and COX-2 is mediated by CGRP receptors.
Behcet's disease (BD) is a chronic, relapsing vasculitis of unknown etiology. Its association with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is extremely rare, and typical manifestations of BD were observed in a very few patients with CML, mainly under interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) treatment. Skin pathergy test, being positive in about 50% of patients with BD, is also positive in some IFN-alpha-treated patients with CML without any evidence of BD symptoms. We describe a 62-year-old woman with CML who developed characteristic features of BD, including a positive skin hyperactivity test, during treatment with hydroxyurea. Hydroxyurea has been implicated in the appearance of skin vasculitic ulceration, but this is the first case, according to our knowledge, where the development of BD was observed during hydroxyurea maintenance in the chronic phase of CML.
Inhalation of hyperbaric oxygen has been used as an experimental treatment for migraine and pure oxygen is an established treatment for cluster headache. Intravenous glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is an established headache model. In the present study the possibility of decreasing the headache by inhalation of pure oxygen was explored in a double-blind crossover design in 18 healthy subjects. Inhalation of air served as placebo. The subjects received intravenous GTN (0.25 microg/kg/min) for 20 min. Headache was scored for 85 min. Sixteen of 18 (89%) subjects experienced GTN-induced headache after O(2)-inhalation and 17/18 (94%) experienced GTN-induced headache after air. The mean peak headache scores were 1.9 and 2.4, respectively, on a numerical scale of 0-10. Oxygen inhalation did not have effect on GTN-induced headache, most likely because the theoretical decrease in NO levels, due to faster metabolism of NO, is too small to be detected in the GTN headache model.
Nicotine, by its impact on several neurotransmitter systems, influences sleep. Sleep disturbance is a common symptom in different psychiatric disorders and there is a high prevalence of smoking in psychiatric patients.
Systematic literature search.
Symptoms of insomnia are observed during nicotine consumption and its withdrawal. The effects of therapeutic nicotine substitution after smoking cessation on sleep are often masked by withdrawal symptoms. Depressive non-smokers experience an improvement of mood under nicotine administration and in turn, depressive symptoms and sleep impairment during nicotine withdrawal have a negative impact on abstinence rates.
Sleep disturbance is a comorbid risk factor influencing abstinence during smoking cessation. In depressive patients the complex relationship between affect, sleep, nicotine consumption and its withdrawal should be carefully monitored. In such subgroups of smokers willing to quit this has to be taken care of in therapeutic interventions.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of neurodegenerative disease in the elderly. Anti-inflammatory agents have been shown to be beneficial in preventing neurodegenerative disorders such as AD. In this study we investigated the possible antioxidant and neuroprotective properties of two non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), tolmetin and sulindac, using quinolinic acid (QA)-induced neurotoxicity as a model. We used the thiobarbituric acid assay to measure the extent of lipid peroxidation and the nitroblue tetrazolium assay to measure the superoxide anion generated in rat brain homogenate. QA (1 mM) induced lipid peroxidation in rat brain homogenate was significantly curtailed by co-treatment of the homogenate with tolmetin and/or sulindac. Tolmetin and sulindac both reduced the generation of superoxide anions by the known neurotoxin, potassium cyanide (KCN). Intrahippocampal injections of QA induced neurotoxicity in rat hippocampus. N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) receptor counts were conducted do give an indication of the amount protection offered by the NSAIDS. QA drastically reduced the number of NMDA binding sites by approximately 37%. This sharp decrease was considerably attenuated by the pre-treatment of the rats with tolmetin and sulindac (5 mg/kg/bd for five days). This study shows the antioxidant and neuroprotective properties of tolmetin and sulindac and hereby postulates that these drugs have important implications in the prevention or treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as AD.
Novel ketomethoxime (BMO) and oxime (BO) analogs of betaxolol (B) were prepared through the oxidation of betaxolol, followed by quenching of the ketone with the appropriate oxyamine. The Z isomers were kinetically favored and thermodynamically more stable. Isomerization to reach an equilibrium mixture of Z/E was observed for all pure isomers in buffers. Equilibration is much faster, however in biological fluids. Ocular administration of any of the oxime derivatives, delivers betaxolol specifically to the eye tissues, with the highest concentration in the iris ciliary body. Both BMO and BO, when applied topically, showed marked reduction of intraocular pressure (IOP) in normotensive rabbits. No effect on isoproterenol-induced tachycardia in rabbits and rats were observed, even after iv. administration. Very mild eye irritation, which was less than that of betaxolol hydrochloride, was observed particularly with BMO maleate, which is an excellent candidate for safe treatment of glaucoma.
Indinavir is a widely prescribed protease inhibitor in the treatment of HIV infection. It has been associated with nephrolithiasis, crystalluria and tubulointerstitial nephritis. Nelfinavir is another protease inhibitor used successfully in AIDS treatment. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of both indinavir and nelfinavir individually, and in association with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX), on renal function in Wistar rats.
Doses of indinavir (80 mg/kg body weight [BW] daily), nelfinavir (75 mg/kg BW daily) and TMP/SMX (100 mg TMP/kg BW daily) were given by gavage for 15 days. Seven groups were studied: control, vehicle, TMP/SMX, indinavir, indinavir+TMP/SMX, nelfinavir, and nelfinavir+TMP/SMX.
No changes were observed in body weight, urine volume and blood pressure. The vehicle group did not differ from the control group. TMP/SMX induced a small decrease in inulin clearance with no tubular alterations. Indinavir decreased inulin clearance (indinavir: 0.48 +0.03 vs control: 0.93 +/- 0.08, P < 0.001) and renal blood flow (indinavir: 6.2 +/- 0.2 vs control: 8.0 +/- 0.3, P < 0.05). These effects were potentiated by TMP/SMX, which produced high vasoconstriction associated with alterations in tubular functions, characterised by increased fractional excretion of sodium (indinavir+TMP/SMX: 1.14 +/- 0.16 vs control: 0.39 +/- 0.07, P < 0.01). Nelfinavir either alone or in combination with TMP/SMX did not change the renal function of the rats.
These results suggest that indinavir nephrotoxicity in rats is potentiated by TMP/SMX and that nelfinavir alone or in combination with TMP/SMX is not nephrotoxic.
Migraine is among the 10 most disabling disorders worldwide. Besides acute attack treatment, drug prophylaxis of migraine is important in order to improve the quality of life.
The aim of this paper is to describe the indications, principles and appropriate drugs with published evidence for the prophylaxis of migraine in general and in specific situations.
Based on the American and European guidelines for the treatment of migraine, the evidence for different drugs in the prophylaxis of migraine was evaluated. In addition, all trials on migraine drug prophylaxis published since the publication of the guidelines were included in the evaluation. These trials were identified by a literature search in MedLine, Embase and the Cochrane library.
The drugs of first choice are beta-blockers, flunarizine, valproic acid and topiramate and, in the US, amitriptyline is also grouped among the first-choice drugs. Drugs of second choice, with less efficacy or poorer evidence, are venlafaxine, gabapentin, naproxen, butterbur root, vitamin B(2) and magnesium. The potential side effects are considered when choosing the appropriate prophylactic drug. All drugs used in migraine prophylaxis have been detected by chance and not by pathophysiological considerations. In the future, drugs developed on the basis of the current knowledge of migraine pathophysiology will hopefully be more effective.
Viral chronic hepatitis often occurs in heart transplant recipients receiving cyclosporin. This essential immunosuppressive drug may induce cholestasis. We investigated the effect of treatment with cyclosporin on serum conjugated bile acids in patients with chronic hepatitis developing after heart transplantation. Fifty-nine patients were studied: 17 with chronic hepatitis, 15 heart transplant patients with normal alanine aminotransferase activity, and 27 heart transplant patients with chronic hepatitis, the last two groups receiving cyclosporin. Hepatic biochemical tests and total bile acid concentration were determined on fasting blood samples. The individual glyco- and tauroconjugated bile acids were quantified by high-performance liquid chromatography and direct spectrometry. In patients taking cyclosporin the bilirubin concentration and the alkaline phosphatase activity were increased only when hepatitis was present, in association with a slight increase in cholic acid level (5.13 microM vs. 0.68 microM; P < 0.01). Conjugated lithocholate concentration was dramatically higher when hepatitis and immunosuppression with cyclosporin were associated (1.17 microM vs. 0.03 and 0.04 microM; P < 0.01). Chenodeoxycholate was the main circulating bile acid only in the heart transplant patients treated with cyclosporin but without hepatitis. These results suggest that the mechanisms which explain the cyclosporin-associated modifications of the bile acid pool are different according to the presence or absence of hepatitis. The occurrence of hepatitis in patients on cyclosporin led to an increase in serum lithocholate and primary bile acid concentrations. Further studies are required to assess the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid for this cholestasis.
Extents of the sparfloxacin (3 - 10 mg/kg, i.v.)-induced QT interval prolongation under normokalemic and hypokalemic conditions were assessed in halothane-anesthetized beagle dogs (n = 5). The hypokalemic condition was induced by an oral administration of furosemide (200 mg/kg per day) for 3 days, which decreased the serum potassium concentration from 3.65 +/- 0.13 to 2.35 +/- 0.13 mM (P < 0.05). However, the decrease of potassium concentration by itself did not affect the extent of the sparfloxacin-induced QT interval prolongation. These results indicate that acute hypokalemia may not severely sensitize the in situ heart for drug-induced long QT syndrome as previously thought.
Two novel families of dual binding site acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors have been developed, consisting of a tacrine or 6-chlorotacrine unit as the active site interacting moiety, either the 5,6-dimethoxy-2-[(4-piperidinyl)methyl]-1-indanone fragment of donepezil (or the indane derivative thereof) or a 5-phenylpyrano[3,2-c]quinoline system, reminiscent to the tryciclic core of propidium, as the peripheral site interacting unit, and a linker of suitable length as to allow the simultaneous binding at both sites. These hybrid compounds are all potent and selective inhibitors of human AChE, and more interestingly, are able to interfere in vitro both formation and aggregation of the beta-amyloid peptide, the latter effects endowing these compounds with the potential to modify Alzheimer's disease progression.
Up to now, intensive attempts to synthesize a universal reactivator able to reactivate cholinesterases inhibited by all types of nerve agents/organophosphates were not successful. Therefore, another approach using a combination of two reactivators differently reactivating enzyme was used: in rats poisoned with tabun and treated with combination of atropine (fixed dose) and different doses of trimedoxime and HI-6, changes of acetylcholinesterase activities (blood, diaphragm and different parts of the brain) were studied. An increase of AChE activity was observed following trimedoxime treatment depending on its dose; HI-6 had very low effect. Combination of both oximes showed potentiation of their reactivation efficacy; this potentiation was expressed for peripheral AChE (blood, diaphragm) and some parts of the brain (pontomedullar area, frontal cortex); AChE in the basal ganglia was relatively resistant. These observations suggest that the action of combination of oximes in vivo is different from that observed in vitro.
Isotretinoin (13-cis-retinoic acid), a synthetic vitamin A derivative, is used to treat a wide variety of dermatologic conditions including severe acne. Isotretinoin can trigger premature ventricular contractions (PVCs). We describe a 17-year-old boy who presented with PVCs on electrocardiogram during isotretinoin (Roaccutane, Roche) treatment for nodular facial acne. Presence of documented PVCs -on electrocardiogram and Holter monitoring- and the disappearance of these PVCs after cessation of the treatment strongly suggest isotretinoin-related PVCs in our case. The impact of isotretinoin on ventricular rhythm can not be ruled out in our case as we have revealed the presence of the temporal association of isotretinoin and documented PVCs. Thus, clinicians should be aware of possible arrhythmogenic effect(s) of isotretinoin.
Yohimbine has had questionable effects in men with organic erectile dysfunction. We conducted this study to better define the population of men responsive to yohimbine, because tobacco was thought to affect a regimen of yohimbine more than other risk factors. We measured nocturnal penile tumescence with the RigiScan monitor, hormone profiles, answers to the Florida Sexual Health Questionnaire, and clinical responses at baseline and after two different doses of yohimbine in 18 nonsmoking men with erectile dysfunction. Of the 18 men, nine (50%) were successful in completing intercourse in more than 75% of attempts. The yohimbine responders were men with less severe erectile dysfunction as manifested by improved increased rigidity on RigiScan testing, higher Florida Sexual Health Questionnaire scores, and slightly higher levels of serum testosterone. Yohimbine is an effective therapy to treat organic erectile dysfunction in some men with erectile dysfunction.
Generalised lymphatic dysplasia (GLD) is characterised by extensive peripheral lymphoedema with visceral involvement. In some cases, it presents in utero with hydrops fetalis. Autosomal dominant and recessive inheritance has been reported. A large, non-consanguineous family with three affected siblings with generalised lymphatic dysplasia is presented. One child died aged 5 months, one spontaneously miscarried at 17 weeks gestation, and the third has survived with extensive lymphoedema. All three presented with hydrops fetalis. There are seven other siblings who are clinically unaffected. Linkage analysis produced two loci on chromosome 18, covering 22 Mb and containing 150 genes, one of which is CCBE1. A homozygous cysteine to serine change in CCBE1 has been identified in the proband, in a residue that is conserved across species. High density SNP analysis revealed homozygosity (a region of 900 kb) around the locus for CCBE1 in all three affected cases. This indicates a likely ancestral mutation that is common to both parents; an example of a homozygous mutation representing Identity by Descent (IBD) in this pedigree. Recent studies in zebrafish have shown this gene to be required for lymphangiogenesis and venous sprouting and are therefore supportive of our findings. In view of the conserved nature of the cysteine, the nature of the amino acid change, the occurrence of a homozygous region around the locus, the segregation within the family, and the evidence from zebrafish, we propose that this mutation is causative for the generalised lymphatic dysplasia in this family, and may be of relevance in cases of non-immune hydrops fetalis.
A 61-year-old Japanese man with nephrotic syndrome due to focal segmental glomerulosclerosis was initially responding well to steroid therapy. The amount of daily urinary protein decreased from 15.6 to 2.8 g. Within 14 days of the oral bisphosphonate (alendronate sodium) administration, the amount of daily urinary protein increased rapidly up to 12.8 g with acute renal failure. After discontinuing the oral alendronate, the patient underwent six cycles of hemodialysis and four cycles of LDL apheresis. Urinary volume and serum creatinine levels recovered to the normal range, with urinary protein disappearing completely within 40 days. This report demonstrates that not only intravenous, but also oral bisphosphonates can aggravate proteinuria and acute renal failure.
Because of intrauterine foetal death at 35 weeks, parturition in a woman aged 35 years was induced by intravenous sulprostone. A few hours after its start she sustained a myocardial infarction for which she was treated. Coronary angiography 4 weeks later showed normal coronary arteries and good left ventricular function. Mild cardiovascular reactions such as bradycardia and mild hypotension are frequently observed adverse effects. In some instances, sulprostone can induce myocardial ischaemia. However, the possibility of a myocardial infarction is not mentioned in the product information of sulprostone. As there was an obvious temporal relationship and other causative factors were sufficiently excluded, the causal relation between the administration of sulprostone and the occurrence of myocardial infarction can be regarded as almost certain. Several experimental studies provide support for the hypothesis that coronary spasms play a major role in the pathophysiology of a myocardial infarction during the administration of sulprostone.
In a woman aged 39 cardiac arrest occurred 3.5 hours after administration of 250 micrograms sulprostone directly into the uterine wall for a post-partum haemorrhage after manual removal of the placenta. A long period of resuscitation was necessary. After further evaluation the woman demonstrated specific contraindications to the administration of sulprostone. as formulated by the French authorities: age > 35 years, heavy cigarette smoking, and cardiovascular risk factors. In the Netherlands sulprostone is registered for intravenous administration only. We would strongly advise against administration directly into the uterine wall.
The present study was aimed at finding out whether 5-HT(1B) receptors located in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) played a role in the locomotor hyperactivity induced by a single dose of cocaine and in the sensitization evoked by repeated exposure to the psychostimulant in rats. Male Wistar rats, implanted bilaterally with cannulae in the VTA, were microinjected with GR 55562 (an antagonist of 5-HT(1B) receptors) or CP 93129 (an agonist of 5-HT(1B) receptors). GR 55562 (0.3-3 microg/side) did not affect locomotor hyperactivity response to a single dose of cocaine (10 mg/kg). CP 93129 in a dose of 1 microg/side (but not lower), which stimulated basal locomotor activity, enhanced the cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. The rats that were treated repeatedly (for 5 days) with cocaine (10 mg/kg) and then challenged with cocaine (10 mg/kg) after 5-day withdrawal period (day 10 of the experiment) showed significantly higher locomotor hyperactivity compared to the effect observed in saline-pretreated and cocaine-challenged rats. GR 55562 (a dose of 3 microg/side, but not lower), administered for 5 days into the VTA just prior to daily cocaine, attenuated cocaine sensitization. When injected for 5 days into the VTA, CP 93129 (0.03-0.1 microg/side) enhanced the development of cocaine sensitization. The enhancing effect of CP 93129 (0.1 microg/side) was blocked by GR 55562 (1 microg/side). To examine the effects of GR 55562 and CP 93129 on the expression of cocaine sensitization, the 5-HT(1B) receptor ligands were given acutely before the challenge dose of cocaine administered on day 10. No change in cocaine sensitization was observed after intra-VTA microinjections of GR 55562 (0.3-3 microg/side) or CP 93129 (0.1-1 microg/side). Our findings suggest that 5-HT(1B) receptors located in the VTA play a permissive role in the development of cocaine sensitization, but are not involved in the locomotor hyperactivity induced by a single dose of cocaine or in the expression of the sensitization to the psychostimulant.
Two chemotherapy regimens for treatment of patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease, BCVPP (carmustine, cyclophosphamide, vinblastine, procarbazine, and prednisone) and MOPP (mechlorethamine hydrochloride, vincristine, procarbazine, and prednisone), were compared in a randomized prospective study. Two hundred ninety-three patients were evaluable in the induction phase of this study. The complete remission rate with BCVPP was 76% (112/147) and with MOPP, 73% (106/146) (p = 0.51). The duration of complete remissions for previously untreated patients given BCVPP was significantly longer than that for previously untreated patients given MOPP (p = 0.02). Although hematologic toxicities were similar, BCVPP caused less gastrointestinal (p = 0.0001) and neurologic toxicity (p = 0.01) than MOPP. Previously untreated patients achieving complete remission with BCVPP survived significantly longer than those receiving MOPP (p = 0.03). As primary induction chemotherapy for advanced Hodgkin's disease, BCVPP is an effective alternative to MOPP, having equal or greater therapeutic benefit with less toxicity.
