This study investigated whether or not the neonatal treatment of rats with the sesquiterpenes polygodial or drimanial could cause persistent antinociception similar to that induced by capsaicin. Rats were injected subcutaneously 48 h after birth with capsaicin (50 mg/kg), polygodial (150 mg/kg), drimanial (150 mg/kg) or vehicle (1ml/kg). Six to eight weeks later, rats were tested in models of nociception. Treatment of rats with capsaicin, polygodial or drimanial produced significant inhibition of the first phase and, to a lesser extent, the second phase of formalin-induced nociception. A significant reduction in Complete Freund's Adjuvant and capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia was observed in the animals neonatally treated with capsaicin, polygodial or drimanial compared with vehicle-treated rats. Moreover, both sesquiterpenes caused inhibition of plasma extravasation induced by injection of capsaicin. The neonatal treatment with capsaicin, polygodial or drimanial significantly decreased [3H]-resiniferatoxin binding sites in the rat spinal cord, but only capsaicin neonatal treatment significantly reduced the expression of TRPV1 in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) when assessed by Western blot. These results extend our previous findings demonstrating that the neonatal treatment of rats with polygodial or drimanial, similar to that reported for capsaicin, produced persistent antinociception in adult animals associated with TRPV1 down-regulation in the spinal cord, but not TRPV1 expression in DRG.
We tested the hypothesis that a single systemic injection of 380 mg/kg of the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine would produce more diffuse and severe seizure-induced brain damage than a single injection of lithium (3 mEq/kg) followed 4 h later by < 1/10 the dosage of pilocarpine. The hypothesis was not supported; the pattern of quantitative brain damage 50-60 days after the seizures were elicited by either treatment was comparable within the limits of measurement error. Within the diencephalon and subcortical telencephalon the same structures were either damaged in a similar quantitative manner or were spared. Only five of the 119 damaged structures exhibited statistically significant treatment differences at P < 0.01. The results are compatible with the explanation that lithium may enhance the excitotoxic effects of subsequent muscarinic stimulation.
Haloperidol treatment has been shown to produce oxidative stress in patients with acute psychosis. Oxidative stress has also been implicated in the extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) produced by haloperidol. Supporting the oxidative stress hypothesis, vitamin E (antioxidant) has demonstrated therapeutic efficacy in idiopathic parkinsonism. The prophylactic efficacy of vitamin E (antioxidant) on haloperidol-induced EPS was examined in a randomized controlled trial. The sample consisted of 24 acute psychotic patients hospitalized for a 2-week trial. All patients received oral haloperidol 10 mg/day. The sample was equally randomized to receive either haloperidol alone or haloperidol + vitamin E (3200 IU/day). EPS was rated at recruitment, both live and with video records, and on days 3, 7, 10 and 14. Psychopathology was rated at recruitment and weekly thereafter. Vitamin E had no prophylactic effect on drug-induced EPS, though it did not interfere with the therapeutic efficacy of haloperidol.
Zidovudine (formerly azidothymidine) is a potent inhibitor of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase and represents the first approved drug showing clinical efficacy in HIV-associated diseases. However, considerable toxicity causing macrocytic anemia, neutropenia, and myopathy has been reported, with severe mitochondrial alterations as a special feature of this myopathy. The mitochondrial changes are consistent with the fact that zidovudine acts as an inhibitor of the mitochondrial gamma-polymerase. Electron microscopically, we could confirm the presence of severely altered mitochondria in a 32-year-old male, who developed a necrotizing myopathy after daily administration of 1,000 mg zidovudine over a period of 15 months. In addition, there were even more severe nuclear changes that, for the most part, have not been documented electron microscopically in HIV-related myopathy either with or without zidovudine treatment, especially in non-necrotic and non-regenerating fibers. Since various in vitro studies have shown interference of zidovudine with nuclear DNA metabolism even in human cell lines, we assume that the nuclear changes that we observed are at least in part related to zidovudine treatment.
Cyclophosphamide (Cy) has been demonstrated to be effective in treating autoimmune disease in NZB/NZW F1 mice. This study was designed to compare the efficacy of chlorambucil (Chlor) with that of a known effective drug (Cy) in the treatment of murine lupus. NZB/W female mice were treated with Cy, Chlor, or nothing on a once-a-month dosage schedule. The age of onset of proteinuria, the severity of glomerular lesions, and the median survival were compared among the three treatment groups. Cy was found to be superior to Chlor and controls in all measures.
To evaluate the preclinical pharmacokinetics and antitumor efficacy of a novel orally bioavailable poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, ABT-888.
In vitro potency was determined in a PARP-1 and PARP-2 enzyme assay. In vivo efficacy was evaluated in syngeneic and xenograft models in combination with temozolomide, platinums, cyclophosphamide, and ionizing radiation.
ABT-888 is a potent inhibitor of both PARP-1 and PARP-2 with K(i)s of 5.2 and 2.9 nmol/L, respectively. The compound has good oral bioavailability and crosses the blood-brain barrier. ABT-888 strongly potentiated temozolomide in the B16F10 s.c. murine melanoma model. PARP inhibition dramatically increased the efficacy of temozolomide at ABT-888 doses as low as 3.1 mg/kg/d and a maximal efficacy achieved at 25 mg/kg/d. In the 9L orthotopic rat glioma model, temozolomide alone exhibited minimal efficacy, whereas ABT-888, when combined with temozolomide, significantly slowed tumor progression. In the MX-1 breast xenograft model (BRCA1 deletion and BRCA2 mutation), ABT-888 potentiated cisplatin, carboplatin, and cyclophosphamide, causing regression of established tumors, whereas with comparable doses of cytotoxic agents alone, only modest tumor inhibition was exhibited. Finally, ABT-888 potentiated radiation (2 Gy/d x 10) in an HCT-116 colon carcinoma model. In each model, ABT-888 did not display single-agent activity.
ABT-888 is a potent inhibitor of PARP, has good oral bioavailability, can cross the blood-brain barrier, and potentiates temozolomide, platinums, cyclophosphamide, and radiation in syngeneic and xenograft tumor models. This broad spectrum of chemopotentiation and radiopotentiation makes this compound an attractive candidate for clinical evaluation.
We report five cases of biopsy-proven hepatitis developing between six and 20 weeks after administration of diclofenac. In one patient jaundice had previously developed following use of ibuprofen. In another the clinical, biochemical and histopathological features were those of chronic active hepatitis and treatment with corticosteroids was required. All patients recovered from their liver injury without sequelae. Resolution of symptoms occurred between three and 12 weeks following cessation of the drug, while liver function tests returned to normal between seven and 16 weeks after drug withdrawal, except in the patient with chronic active hepatitis who remained biochemically abnormal for eight months. Three of the five patients developed transient circulating autoantibodies, suggesting immune mechanisms may be important in the pathogenesis of this injury. The incidence of severe hepatic dysfunction related to the use of diclofenac appears low and is probably in the order of one case per 50-100,000 prescriptions.
Changes in the parameters of Ca(2+)-dependent slow action potentials (APs) and in their sensitivity to noradrenaline, forskolin, dibutyryl-cAMP and extracellular Ca2+ concentration were studied and compared in left ventricular trabeculae from normal control rats and rats with cardiac hypertrophy. Cytochemical studies were also carried out to determine changes in the activity of membrane-bound adenylate cyclase. Hypertrophy was induced by administration of 5 mg/kg isoproterenol once daily for 7 days. In hypertrophied cardiac muscle, the overshoot of the slow APs was increased by 75%, the maximum rate of rise (Vmax) increased by 76% and the AP duration at 50% repolarization (APD50) prolonged by 56%. The Vmax, an indicator of the slow inward Ca2+ current, increased, in a dose-dependent manner, in response to the beta-adrenoceptor agonist noradrenaline, the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin, the protein kinase activator cAMP and elevated Ca2+ concentration in normal control preparations, whereas in hypertrophied myocardium, the beta-agonist noradrenaline and the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin had no effect. In cytochemical studies with ATP as substrate, adenylate cyclase activity was localized in the sarcolemma, and significantly fewer reaction products appeared on the outer side of the cell membrane in hypertrophied myocytes than in control myocytes. The results suggest that catecholamine-induced cardiac hypertrophy damages the catalytic subunit of membrane-bound adenylate cyclase, thus uncoupling beta-adrenoceptors from slow Ca2+ channels in the transmembrane signalling process.
Renal fibrosis is highly implicated as a cause of chronic renal failure, for which suitable therapeutics have not yet been developed. Recently, it was reported that Wen-pi-tang-Hab-Wu-ling-san (WHW) extract attenuates epithelial cells undergoing mesenchymal transition in cultured Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. This study investigated whether WHW extract prevents renal fibrosis induced by ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) in mice. Ischemia/reperfusion resulted in kidney fibrosis at 14 days after the procedure. When WHW was administered orally to mice beginning from 2 days after the onset of ischemia until killing, the fibrosis was significantly reduced. WHW administration significantly prevented a post-ischemic decrease of copper-zinc superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) activities, leading to decreased lipid peroxidation and hydrogen peroxide production. In addition, WHW administration attenuated the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1/2 (JNK1/2) and attenuated the activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) in the kidneys subjected to ischemia. In conclusion, WHW extract attenuated the renal fibrosis and the attenuation was associated with a reduction of oxidative stress and an inhibition of ERK1/2, JNK1/2, p38 and NF-kappaB activation. WHW extract may be an attractive agent to attenuate the progression of fibrosis.
The novel antipsychotic medications offer a more favorable extrapyramidal side effect profile than conventional agents. It is uncertain that the novel antipsychotics have a benefit in terms of sexual side effects.
We prospectively administered a survey of sexual functioning to 25 male patients with DSM-IV schizophrenia, taking conventional and novel antipsychotics. Contrasts were made between three treatment groups: clozapine (CLOZ), risperidone (RIS), and a combined haloperidol/fluphenazine (HAL/FLU) group.
A decrease in overall sexual functioning was reported in all medication groups (40-71%). The majority of subjects taking RIS or HAL/FLU reported a decline in one or more aspects of sexual functioning. Examining specific aspects of sexual functioning revealed that, a decline in sexual interest was significantly less common on CLOZ compared to RIS (0 vs. 64%; chi(2)=6.1, df=1, p=0.01) or HAL/FLU (0 vs. 67%; chi(2)=5.2, df=1, p=0.02), while a decline in the erectile frequency was significantly more common on RIS compared to CLOZ (40 vs. 93%; chi(2)=6.2, df=1, p=0.01) or HAL/FLU (50 vs. 93%; chi(2)=4.8, df=1, p=0.03) (0%). For enjoyment of orgasm and ejaculatory volume, significantly fewer CLOZ compared to RIS subjects reported a decline (20 vs. 86%; chi(2)=7.4, df=1, p=0.01).
Sexual side effects are common clinically pertinent adverse effects associated with both novel and conventional antipsychotic medications. They deserve increased attention in clinical work and future research with emerging antipsychotic drugs.
The pathogenesis of arrhythmogenic transient depolarizations (TDs) was studied by means of electrophysiological and cytochemical methods in normal and hypertrophied left ventricular myocardium of the rat. In hypertrophy induced by administration of 5 mg/kg isoprenaline once daily for 7 days, the myocardial membrane was depolarized, the action potential duration was prolonged and the Vmax was decreased, as compared with those of age-matched normal controls. TDs induced by a train of action potentials could be observed in hypertrophied myocardium, but not in normal control myocardium. Ryanodine completely abolished TDs, but the beta-adrenoceptor agonist noradrenaline and the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin were without effect. In cytochemical studies, the Na+,K(+)-ATPase activity was localized in the sarcolemma, and three times as much reaction product, which appeared on the inner side of the cell membrane, was found in the normal myocardium than in the hypertrophied myocardium. The results suggest that catecholamine-induced cardiac hypertrophy damages the membrane-bound Na+,K(+)-ATPase and causes a cAMP-independent intracellular Ca overload and TDs, thereby permitting abnormal impulse formation, which predisposes the diseased myocardium to develop arrhythmias.
This study was conducted to determine the efficacy of atorvastatin and niacin on lipoprotein subfractions in patients with atherogenic dyslipidemia. This was a multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel-design study of patients with total cholesterol >200 mg/dl, triglycerides between 200 and 800 mg/dl, and apolipoprotein B >110 mg/dl. Patients were randomly assigned to atorvastatin 10 mg or immediate release niacin 3,000 mg daily for 12 weeks following a low-fat diet stabilization period. Lipoprotein subclasses were measured by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Atorvastatin and niacin both significantly reduced the concentrations of very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) particles (-31% and -29%, respectively) and small low-density lipoprotein (LDL) particles (-44% and -35%, respectively). Niacin increased the concentration of large LDL (+75%). Atrovastatin reduced the number of LDL particles more than niacin (31% vs 14%). In patients with atherogenic dyslipidemia, both drugs had important effects on lipoprotein subfractions, which contributed to a reduction in coronary heart disease risk. The drugs equally reduced VLDL subclass levels. Niacin shifted the LDL subclass distribution toward the larger particles, more effectively converted patients from LDL phenotype B to phenotype A, and increased levels of the larger and perhaps more cardioprotective high-density lipoprotein particles. In contrast, atorvastatin preferentially lowered the concentration of small LDL particles without increasing levels of large LDL, and more effectively, reduced LDL particle numbers. Atorvastatin had a preferred LDL effect, whereas niacin had a preferred high-density lipoprotein effect.
This phase II study evaluates the antitumor activity and tolerance of cisplatin and prolonged oral administration of etoposide in metastatic breast cancer previously exposed to anthracyclines.
Twenty-seven patients with metastatic breast cancer who developed tumor progression following anthracyclines wer e entered in the study. The patients were treated with combination chemotherapy of cisplatin 50 mg/m(2) IV day 1 and oral etoposide 50 mg/m(2) days 1-17. Cycles were repeated every 29 days.
Twenty-six patients were evaluated for toxicity and response. Complete remission was observed in 1 of 26 (4%) patients and partial remission in 12 of 26 (46%). Median duration of response was seven months. Pain relief was noted in 9 of 15 (60%) of the symptomatic patients. Myelosuppression was the major toxicity encountered and four (15%) patients required hospitalization for granulocytopenic fever. Nonhematologic toxicity was mild.
The combination of cisplatin with prolonged oral etoposide is active and tolerable in the management of patients with relapsed metastatic breast cancer previously treated with an anthracycline-based regimen.
Sera from 23 patients with D-penicillamine-induced myasthenia gravis (MG) contained antibodies directed against the human muscle acetylcholine receptor (anti-AChR) in 83% of the cases at the onset of the disease. Twenty-one were patients with rheumatoid arthritis. The anti-AChR antibody titers were comparable to those of sera from ocular MG patients and were related to the presence of clinical signs but not to their severity. The anti-AChR antibodies persisted in autonomous MG (5 cases) and disappeared in the other cases. The same phenomenon occurred for antinuclear antibodies detected in sera from 13 patients at the onset of the disease: anti-ss DNA 9/13, antinuclear 4/13 and anti-histones 7/13. The latter antibodies seem to result from, and follow the D-penicillamine treatment.
Chronic low-grade inflammation characterized by adipose tissue macrophage accumulation and abnormal cytokine production is a key feature of obesity and type 2 diabetes. Adipose-tissue-derived monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, induced by cytokines, has been shown to play an essential role in the early events during macrophage infiltration into adipose tissue. In this study we investigated the effects of resveratrol upon both tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha-induced MCP-1 gene expression and its underlying signaling pathways in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Resveratrol was found to inhibit TNF-alpha-induced MCP-1 secretion and gene transcription, as well as promoter activity, which based on down-regulation of TNF-alpha-induced MCP-1 transcription. Nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB was determined to play a major role in the TNF-alpha-induced MCP-1 expression. Further analysis showed that resveratrol inhibited DNA binding activity of the NF-kappaB complex and subsequently suppressed NF-kappaB transcriptional activity in TNF-alpha-stimulated cells. Finally, the inhibition of MCP-1 may represent a novel mechanism of resveratrol in preventing obesity-related pathologies.
In an autopsy series of children with cancer, histopathologic myocardial changes caused by anthracyclines (A) were evaluated. The series comprised three groups: group A, 9 patients given A whose myocardial function had been evaluated before death; group B, 10 patients given A, but no lifetime echocardiographic evaluation; group C, 8 patients treated with chemotherapy regimens not including A. Both the cumulative A dose (P < 0.01) and the age of the patient at death (P < 0.001) were correlated with the pathologic changes in the myocardium. In echocardiography of group A patients, left ventricular (LV) contractility was subnormal in 5 (56%) patients, and the afterload was elevated in 3 (33%); the morphologic changes correlated with the LV wall stress (= afterload) (P < 0.05) and with LV fractional shortening (P < 0.04). We conclude that clinical decisions about A therapy should be based on cumulative A dose and myocardial function tests. Myocardial biopsies should be restricted to selected cases.
Fetal supraventricular tachycardia confers an increased risk of cardiac failure, hydrops, and eventual intrauterine death. Although protocols for prenatal anti-arrhythmic treatment are now well established, few published reports discuss this condition in the setting of multiple pregnancies.
A 20-year-old primigravida woman with a twin pregnancy presented at 31 weeks of gestation for routine obstetrical check-up which revealed simultaneous supraventricular tachycardia in both fetuses. She was treated with oral digoxin, resulting in successful cardioversion in both of the fetuses, which was maintained until they were delivered by caesarian section at 38 weeks gestation. However, several hours after birth, tachyarrhythmias recurred in each of the infants. Combined disopyramide therapy with digoxin was necessary to control their heart rates.
The treatment of arrhythmia in fetuses of a multiple gestation presents unique issues, particularly when diagnosed prior to fetal lung maturity.
The objective of this study was to compare sexual functioning in patients treated with olanzapine or risperidone. This open-label trial included 46 patients randomized to olanzapine (5-15 mg/d) or risperidone (1-6 mg/d) for 6 weeks. We used sexual dysfunction was assessed by a semistructured interview based on the items of the UKU side effect rating scale. Three olanzapine-treated patients (12.0%), compared with 11 risperidone-treated patients (52.4%), reported sexual dysfunctions (p = .008) in the semistructured interview. Only 4 patients (8.7%) spontaneously reported sexual dysfunction. The mean dose was 9.4 mg/d for olanzapine and 3.4 mg/d for risperidone. The mean (+/-SD) prolactin levels (ng/mL) in olanzapine-and risperidone-treated patients were 25.1 (+/- 23.5) and 43.5 (+/- 26.1), respectively. Less sexual dysfunction occurred in the group treated with olanzapine compared with the risperidone group. Direct questioning about sexual functioning is necessary to avoid underestimating the frequency of sexual side effects in patients with schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders.
To investigate the effect of diallyl trisulfide (DATS) on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) expression and nuclear factor-KappaB (NF-KappaB) activity in mice with acute lung injury (ALI) induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
ALI murine model was reproduced by injection of LPS intraperitoneally. Mice were randomly divided into normal saline control group, ALI group, DATS prevention group, DATS treatment group, and DATS control group. The TNF-alpha levels in the serum and in the supernatant of lung homogenates were measured with enzyme linked immunoadsorbent assay (ELISA). The expression of TNF-alpha mRNA in the lung tissues was detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). NF-KappaB activity in the lung tissues was detected by electrophoresis mobility shift assay (EMSA).
The levels of TNF-alpha induced by LPS in the serum and the supernatant of lung homogenates were increased markedly at 2 hours in ALI group (both P<0.01), and decreased at 6 hours, but they were still higher than those of the control groups (all P<0.01). They were reduced in DATS prevention group at 2 and 6 hours compared with those of ALI group (P<0.05 or P<0.01), but no change was noted in DATS treatment group (all P>0.05). The expression of TNF-alpha mRNA in the lung tissues of ALI group increased markedly at 2 hours compared with those of control groups (both P<0.01), and it could be down-regulated by pretreatment with DATS (P<0.05). No change in DATS was found in treatment group. NF-KappaB activity in the lung tissue increased in ALI group compared with that of control groups (both P<0.05), and it was markedly reduced in DATS prevention group (P<0.05), but no change was found in DATS treatment group.
Pretreatment of DATS for ALI in mice could inhibit NF-KappaB activity, TNF-alpha mRNA expression in lung tissues, and decrease the release of TNF-alpha in the serum and the lung homogenates, and they might be the underlying mechanisms of prevention of the occurrence of ALI by DATS.
Tobacco use is prevalent in the adolescent population. It is a major concern because tobacco is highly addictive and has also been linked to illicit drug use. There is not much research, however, on the interaction between nicotine and other stimulant drugs in animal models of early adolescence. This study examined the effects of chronic nicotine alone and on cocaine-stimulated activity in male and female periadolescent rats compared to male and female adult rats. During the seven-day nicotine pretreatment period, nicotine increased locomotor activity in all groups compared to vehicle controls. Male and female adult rats and female periadolescent rats developed sensitization to the locomotor-activating effects of nicotine over the 7-day treatment period, while male periadolescent rats did not. All groups treated with nicotine, however, exhibited sensitization to nicotine-induced repetitive motion over the 7-day nicotine treatment period. On day 8, male periadolescent rats pretreated with nicotine were more markedly sensitized to the locomotor-activating effects of cocaine than male adult rats, while female rats pretreated with nicotine were not sensitized to cocaine. In contrast, male and female periadolescent rats, but not adult rats, had increased amounts of repetitive beam breaks induced by cocaine after nicotine pretreatment. Overall, it appears that cross-sensitization to cocaine is greater in periadolescent than in adult rats, and that males are more sensitized than females. Thus, it may be that nicotine use during adolescence carries a greater risk than during adulthood and that male adolescents may be particularly vulnerable to the risk of cocaine abuse after nicotine use. This information should be taken into account so as to help us better understand the development of drug addiction in adolescents compared to adults.
Seventeen children with clinical evidence of a recurrent brain tumor were treated with vincristine 1.5 mg/sq m weekly for 12 weeks with doses on alternate weeks thereafter. Eight of the 16 patients who received four or more doses of vincristine showed significant objective responses; these included patients with high-and low-grade astrocytomas and patients with medulloblastoma. Six of the eight who responded remained asymptomatic for more than 2 years. The toxicity encountered was minimal except for seizures possibly related to vincristine in three children, who were able to resume treatment. Vincristine therapy results in long-term regression in a wide variety of pediatric brain tumors and causes little or no toxicity.
Redox modification of thiol/disulfide interchange in proteins by selenium could lead to protein unfolding. When this occurs in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a process known as unfolded protein response (UPR) is orchestrated for survival through activation of PERK-eIF2alpha (PERK: double-stranded RNA-activated protein kinase-like ER kinase; eIF2alpha: eucaryotic initiation factor 2alpha), ATFalpha (ATFalpha: activating transcription factor 6) and inositol requiring 1 (IRE1)-x-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1) signalings. All three UPR transducer pathways were upregulated very rapidly when PC-3 cells were exposed to selenium. These changes were accompanied by increased expression of UPR target genes, including immunoglobulin heavy chain-binding protein/glucose-regulated protein, 78 kDa and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein-homologous protein/growth arrest- and DNA damage-inducible gene (CHOP/GADD153). Induction of BiP/GRP78, an ER-resident chaperone, is part of the damage control mechanism, while CHOP/GADD153 is a transcription factor associated with growth arrest and apoptosis in the event of prolonged ER stress. Knocking down BiP/GRP78 induction by small interference RNA produced a differential response of the three transducers to selenium, suggesting that the signaling intensity of each transducer could be fine-tuned depending on BiP/GRP78 availability. In the presence of selenium, CHOP/GADD153 expression was raised even higher by BiP/GRP78 knockdown. Under this condition, the selenium effect on wild-type p53-activated fragment p21 (p21(WAF)), cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)1 and CDK2 was also magnified in a manner consistent with enhanced cell growth arrest. Additional experiments with CHOP/GADD153 siRNA knockdown strongly suggested that CHOP/GADD153 may play a positive role in upregulating the expression of p21(WAF) in a p53-independent manner (PC-3 cells are p53 null). Collectively, the above findings support the idea that UPR could be an important mechanism in mediating the anticancer activity of selenium.
It is suggested that Borrelia burgdorferi infection could be associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC). Stanek et al. were able to cultivate Borrelia burgdorferi from myocardial biopsy tissue of a patient with longstanding dilated cardiomyopathy. Here we present a study in which we examined the effect of standard antibiotic treatment on the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy associated with Borrelia burgdorferi infection. In this study we assessed the serum (IgG, IgM Elisa) and history of 46 IDC patients with specific regard to Borrelia burgdorferi infection (mean LVEF 30.4 +/- 1.3%, measured by cardiac catheterization and echocardiography with the length-area-volume method). All 46 patients received standard treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy: ACE inhibitors, digitalis, and diuretics. Eleven (24%) patients showed positive serology and a history of Borrelia burgdorferi infection; nine of these also had a typical history of tick bite and erythema chronicum migrans (ECM) and/or other organ involvement, and two had no recollection of tick bite or ECM but showed other Borrelia burgdorferi-associated disorders (neuropathy, oligoarthritis). These 11 patients with Borrelia burgdorferi infection received standard antibiotic treatment with intravenous ceftriaxone 2 g bid for 14 days. Six (55%) recovered completely and showed a normal LVEF after 6 months, three (27%) improved their LVEF, and two (18%) did not improve at all. This amounts to nine (82%) patients with recovery/improvement in the Borrelia burgdorferi group. The 35 patients who did not show positive serology or a history of Borrelia burgdorferi infection did not receive antibiotic treatment. In this group without Borrelia burgdorferi infection 12 (26%), showed recovery/improvement following the standard treatment of dilated cardiomyopathy (see earlier). Our results indicate that Borrelia burgdorferi infection could play a decisive role in the development of dilated cardiomyopathy, especially in a geographical region such as Graz, where Borrelia burgdorferi is endemic. While we are aware of the small number of Borrelia burgdorferi patients in this study, we nevertheless conclude that in a remarkable number of patients with signs of Borrelia burgdorferi infection, dilated cardiomyopathy could be reversed and LVEF improved.
Convulsions are major and life-threatening signs of organophosphate (OP) nerve agents induced neurotoxicity. Thus, early intervention with anticonvulsant drugs to control seizure propagation and the consequent irreversible neuronal damage that may occur during OP exposure is essential. Diazepam is the standard anticonvulsant used in the therapeutic management of OP poisoning. However, its use has been associated with several unwanted effects including, sedation, amnesia, and in the large doses used for such treatment, respiratory depression. Moreover, protracted administration of diazepam has been associated with tolerance and dependence liabilities. In this study, we compared the efficacy and safety of diazepam (full allosteric modulator of GABA action) to that of imidazenil (partial, selective allosteric modulator of GABA action) as preventive treatment against diisopropyl fluorophosphate (DFP)-induced convulsions and mortality. Our results show that imidazenil is more potent and efficacious than diazepam in protecting rats against DFP-induced convulsions and death. Moreover, imidazenil was effective at doses (1 and 0.5 mg/kg) we have previously shown to be devoid of sedation, amnesia, respiratory depression, or tolerance and/or dependence. In contrast, diazepam was effective at doses (5 and 2.5 mg/kg) that produce sedation, amnesia, and ataxia. Furthermore, the combination of imidazenil with atropine was more potent and efficacious than that with diazepam.
This study was designed to determine the protective effect of melatonin treatment against oxidative damage in rat brain induced by hyperhomocysteinemia (Hhcy). Oral administration of methionine and its degradation product, homocysteine (hcy), causes mild to moderate Hhcy. The major end-point of oxidative damage measured in this report was lipid peroxidation (LPO). The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) were assayed as index of lipid peroxidation. The increase in lipid peroxidation was inhibited by melatonin. Rats were divided into seven groups: one was used as control and each remaining group was supplemented with methionine dissolved and added to the drinking water daily for 4 weeks (0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3 g /kg BW). Additional groups of rats were given both melatonin (30 mg/kg BW) and methionine in drinking water daily. At the conclusion of the study, MDA levels were significantly increased in the brains of methionine-treated rats compared with control rats, whereas melatonin prevented the increases in MDA levels. Plasma hcy levels in animals treated with melatonin were significantly lower than those of controls. Melatonin lowered plasma hcy levels and could potentially be beneficial in prevention of neurodegeneration caused by mild hyperhomocysteinemia.
Heroin, cocaine, amphetamines, sympathomimetic drugs can cause cerebral angiopathy. We report 2 patients with cerebrovascular disorders after ingestion of a nasal vasoconstrictor containing phenylpropanolamine (P.P.A.). The first patient had two acute repetitive attacks of severe headache and vomiting, occurring after a daily treatment with 180 mg of P.P.A. during 6 weeks. The second patient had an intracerebral hemorrhage, occurring some hours after taking for the first time 120 mg of P.P.A. In both cases, cerebral angiography, performed in the next week, demonstrated segmental narrowing and dilatations of medium-size intracranial arteries. None of the usual causes of cerebral vasculitis were present. The outcome was favorable and follow-up angiograms showed the disappearance of the beading pattern. P.P.A. is widely used over the counter in diet pills and stimulants. Cerebral vascular complications have been rarely reported, always hemorrhagic and often associated with cerebral vasculitis. They are unrelated to duration or dosage of treatment. The mechanism is unclear but could result from several factors: chronic or paroxystic high blood pressure, immuno-allergic vasculitis, arterial spasm, direct "toxic" effect of the P.P.A. on the arterial wall may be increased by other drugs and caffeine.
A case of possible organophosphate-induced parkinsonism is presented. The patient was a crop duster with numerous episodes of acute organophosphate intoxication and chronic organophosphate exposure. The etiology of parkinsonism is discussed in terms of a balance hypothesis between cholinergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission in the striatum. A possible relationship between chronic organophosphate exposure and alterations in central cholinergic or dopaminergic activity is suggested. The course of this patient raises the possibility that agricultural workers may be at risk for the late development of parkinsonism.
Young rats (in vivo) and cochleas from neonatal rats (in vitro) were treated with ototoxic antibiotics. Scanning electron microscope observations of the cicatricial epithelium of the former outer hair cell region revealed cells with a tuft of microvilli at their apical surface that could contain actin filaments, as observed by phalloidin staining. The apical organization of these hair cell-like cells was reminiscent of fetal hair cells topped with a bundle of microvilli. During both in vivo and in vitro observations, and despite the use of several growth factors in vitro, these hair cell-like cells did not differentiate into mature sensory cells. These hair cell-like cells might represent an attempt by the former sensory epithelium to regenerate.
