Diabetic retinopathy is associated with accumulation of advanced glycation end products in the retinal microvasculature. LR-90 is an effective multistage inhibitor of advanced glycation with renoprotective and anti-inflammatory properties.
To explore the role of LR-90 in the progression of experimental diabetic retinopathy.
Streptozotocin-induced diabetic Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with LR-90 (50 mg/l in drinking water) for up to 32 weeks. At the end of the study, eyes were enucleated and subjected to trypsin digestion and staining with light green/haematoxylin. Acellular capillaries and pericytes were quantified in random fields using light microscopy.
In the LR-90-treated diabetic animals, acellular capillary numbers were reduced to 1.63 (0.20) from 2.58 (0.49) (p<0.05) in diabetic controls. LR-90 treatment also restored the pericyte deficit from 18.12 (0.98) in diabetic rats to 24.19 (0.76) (p<0.001).
These findings show that LR-90 can effectively inhibit important lesions of diabetic retinopathy. This agent has potential for preventing retinopathy in patients with diabetes.
A 53-year-old woman was treated with 5 courses of CAP treatment following operation for FIGO Stage Ia cancer of the ovary in September 1986. And in April 1987, she started an oral adjuvant chemotherapy with 400 mg/day of carmofur. In early June, she developed vertigo and dysarthia and was hospitalized. A CT scan showed low-density areas adjacent to both lateral ventricles, and an EEG revealed abnormally slow waves. She improved gradually after carmofur was discontinued and left the hospital in October 1987. There have been 24 reported cases of leukoencephalopathy because of carmofur in Japan, but the pathophysiological mechanism involved is not known. Since it is more common in women than in men, its incidence will probably increase in gynecological patients. Therefore, we must be on the lookout for central nervous system signs and symptoms in patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy with carmofur.
We describe a 42-year-old woman who developed superior sagittal and left transverse sinus thrombosis associated with prolonged epsilon-aminocaproic acid therapy for menorrhagia. This antifibrinolytic agent has been used in women with menorrhagia to promote clotting and reduce blood loss. Although increased risk of thromboembolic disease has been reported during treatment with epsilon-aminocaproic acid, cerebral sinus thrombosis has not been previously described. Careful use of epsilon-aminocaproic acid therapy is recommended.
Two cases of reversible cholestatic hepatitis after treatment with an amoxycillin/clavulanic acid preparation (Augmentin) are described.
A gene polymorphism of preproendothelin-1 (a G-to-T transversion that predicts a Lys/Asn change at codon 198) associated with an increased risk of hypertension has been recently described in patients carrying the T allele. No study has yet determined the impact of this polymorphism on vascular reactivity, although a functional role for endothelin-1 in the pathophysiology of hypertension has been clarified. At subthreshold concentrations, endothelin-1 and angiotensin II induce a potentiation of alpha-adrenergic-dependent vascular tone caused by an increased sensitivity of the contractile apparatus to calcium. We investigated phenylephrine-induced tone and its amplification by endothelin-1 and angiotensin II in human mammary artery rings in vitro. Contractions to phenylephrine (0.1 to 100 micromol) and endothelin-1 (0.1 to 300 nmol) were not significantly different in rings from GT/TT (n=27) and GG (n=21) patients. A subthreshold concentration of endothelin-1 (10 pmol) potentiated a phenylephrine-induced contraction (eg, 44 +/- 12% increase in tone with phenylephrine 1 micromol/L, P<0.001) that was significantly higher in the GT/TT group than in the GG group (eg, 44 +/- 12% versus 82 +/- 11%, P<0.01). A similar effect on response to phenylephrine was observed with a subthreshold concentration of angiotensin II. We also found a higher response to calcium in arteries from GT/TT patients. Endothelium-dependent or -independent relaxations were unaffected by the genotype. These data suggest that the preproendothelin-1 gene polymorphism is associated with a higher potentiating effect of endothelin-1 and angiotensin II, probably in relation with higher calcium sensitivity. These changes in vascular reactivity might help to understand the relations between this polymorphism and cardiovascular disorders.
A ten year old boy developed features of Tourette syndrome while taking haloperidol for behaviour problems. A record of his tics was kept and followed during his admission in hospital. His symptoms worsened as haloperidol was decreased and improved as the haloperidol was increased. The literature regarding tardive Tourette syndrome is reviewed and potential implications of the case are discussed.
Although rarely described in the psychiatric literature, patients treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors may experience acute hypertensive reactions that are not readily attributable to dietary indiscretion or use of concomitant medications. Four cases of apparent autoinduction of hypertensive reactions in patients receiving tranylcypromine are presented. The mechanism of this reaction is unknown, but may involve conversion of tranylcypromine to metabolites with pressor activity.
The feasibility of utilizing mesoporous matrices of alumina and silica for the inhibition of enzymatic activity is presented here. These studies were performed on a protein tyrosine phosphatase by the name chick retinal tyrosine phosphotase-2 (CRYP-2), a protein that is identical in sequence to the human glomerular epithelial protein-1 and involved in hepatic carcinoma. The inhibition of CRYP-2 is of tremendous therapeutic importance. Inhibition of catalytic activity was examined using the sustained delivery of p-nitrocatechol sulfate (pNCS) from bare and amine functionalized mesoporous silica (MCM-48) and mesoporous alumina (Al(2)O(3)). Among the various mesoporous matrices employed, amine functionalized MCM-48 exhibited the best release of pNCS and also inhibition of CRYP-2. The maximum speed of reaction v(max) (=160 +/- 10 micromol/mnt/mg) and inhibition constant K(i) (=85.0 +/- 5.0 micromol) estimated using a competitive inhibition model were found to be very similar to inhibition activities of protein tyrosine phosphatases using other methods.
The androgen receptor (AR) directs diverse biological processes through interaction with coregulators such as AR trapped clone-27 (ART-27). Our results show that ART-27 is recruited to AR-binding sites by chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis. In addition, the effect of ART-27 on genome-wide transcription was examined. The studies indicate that loss of ART-27 enhances expression of many androgen-regulated genes, suggesting that ART-27 inhibits gene expression. Surprisingly, classes of genes that are up-regulated upon ART-27 depletion include regulators of DNA damage checkpoint and cell cycle progression, suggesting that ART-27 functions to keep expression levels of these genes low. Consistent with this idea, stable reduction of ART-27 by short-hairpin RNA enhances LNCaP cell proliferation compared with control cells. The effect of ART-27 loss was also examined in response to the antiandrogen bicalutamide. Unexpectedly, cells treated with ART-27 siRNA no longer exhibited gene repression in response to bicalutamide. To examine ART-27 loss in prostate cancer progression, immunohistochemistry was conducted on a tissue array containing samples from primary tumors of individuals who were clinically followed and later shown to have either recurrent or nonrecurrent disease. Comparison of ART-27 and AR staining indicated that nuclear ART-27 expression was lost in the majority of AR-positive recurrent prostate cancers. Our studies show that reduction of ART-27 protein levels in prostate cancer may facilitate antiandrogen-resistant disease.
In Papua New Guinea the slow acetylator phenotype is unusual and peripheral neuropathy during isoniazid therapy is uncommon. Acetylator status and other factors influencing isoniazid-induced peripheral neuropathy are discussed, and statistics from Papua New Guinea are presented. The relevance of acetylator phenotype to other side-effects of isoniazid is less well defined. Prophylactic pyridoxine supplementation during short-course chemotherapy for tuberculosis is not generally necessary in the daily 'A' regimen, but should be maintained in the twice-weekly (high-dose isoniazid) 'B' regimen for adults and children over 20 kg.
NOTCH signaling is deregulated in the majority of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias (T-ALL) as a result of activating mutations in NOTCH1. Gamma secretase inhibitors (GSI) block proteolytic activation of NOTCH receptors and may provide a targeted therapy for T-ALL. We have investigated the mechanisms of GSI sensitivity across a panel of T-ALL cell lines, yielding an approach for patient stratification based on pathway activity and also providing a rational combination strategy for enhanced response to GSI. Whereas the NOTCH1 mutation status does not serve as a predictor of GSI sensitivity, a gene expression signature of NOTCH pathway activity does correlate with response, and may be useful in the selection of patients more likely to respond to GSI. Furthermore, inhibition of the NOTCH pathway activity signature correlates with the induction of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors CDKN2D (p19(INK4d)) and CDKN1B (p27(Kip1)), leading to derepression of RB and subsequent exit from the cell cycle. Consistent with this evidence of cell cycle exit, short-term exposure of GSI resulted in sustained molecular and phenotypic effects after withdrawal of the compound. Combination treatment with GSI and a small molecule inhibitor of CDK4 produced synergistic growth inhibition, providing evidence that GSI engagement of the CDK4/RB pathway is an important mechanism of GSI action and supports further investigation of this combination for improved efficacy in treating T-ALL.
To assess the effect of a bolus of terlipressin in brain-dead donors with shock refractory to norepinephrine, a retrospective study was conducted in a 16-bed intensive care unit of a university hospital. Twenty brain-dead donors were treated with norepinephrine within the study period. Nine of these donors developed persisting hypotension (MAP < 65 mmHg) not responding to fluid loading and high dose of norepinephrine. They were then treated with a single bolus of terlipressin (1 mg). This resulted in a MAP rise from 58 +/- 10 to 93 +/- 20 mmHg (P = 0.009). One month after transplantation, no differences were observed in serum creatinine levels of the recipients who received a renal transplant extracted from donors responding or not to norepinephrine (138 +/- 43 vs. 137 +/- 43 microM; P = 0.95). The liver function was similar in both groups. Within the limitations of this study, a single bolus of terlipressin in norepinephrine-resistant vasodilatory shock donors does not affect the renal and liver graft quality in the recipients.
Hepatotoxic doses of acetaminophen cause widespread alkylation of liver and early loss of cytosolic Ca2+ regulation. Although the precise location and target of lethal alkylation are not known, Ca2+ accumulation is viewed as a possible link between cell alkylation and cell death. We have recently shown that Ca2+ accumulates in the nucleus and that DNA fragments in vivo before the development of acetaminophen-induced necrosis in mice. The present study examined cultured hepatocytes for nuclear damage and its association with cell death in vitro. Positive results would argue for two key points. (1) Nonparenchymal cell damage does not explain DNA fragmentation induced by acetaminophen in vivo. (2) A chemical that causes necrosis can produce DNA damage considered characteristic of apoptosis. Hepatocytes from NIH Swiss mice were isolated by collagenase perfusion, cultured in Williams' E medium for 24 hr, and exposed to acetaminophen. Cytotoxicity was assessed by lactate dehydrogenase leakage and release of [3H]adenine from a prelabeled nucleotide pool. Genomic DNA fragmentation was assessed quantitatively by colorimetric analysis and qualitatively by agarose gel electrophoresis. Acetaminophen caused DNA damage from 1-4 hr onward and produced significant release of lactate dehydrogenase and [3H]adenine nucleotides at later times. Agarose gel electrophoresis revealed a "ladder" of DNA fragments characteristic of Ca(2+)-mediated endonuclease activation. Cytotoxicity correlated with nuclear Ca2+ accumulation (r greater than 0.895, p less than 0.05) and with percentage DNA fragmentation (r greater than 0.835, p less than 0.05). Nuclear changes in vitro generally reproduced those observed in vivo. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that nuclear Ca2+ accumulation and DNA fragmentation appear as early events that correlate directly with later cytotoxicity. These changes may contribute to acetaminophen-induced injury leading to cell death in vitro and necrosis in vivo.
To determine whether polymorphisms in the renin-angiotensin system can predict blood pressure-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment; more specifically, in response to treatment with irbesartan or atenolol.
Eighty-six patients with hypertension were randomized to double-blind treatment with either the angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist irbesartan or the beta1 adrenergic receptor blocker atenolol and followed for 3 months. We analysed angiotensinogen T174M and M235T, angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) I/D and angiotensin II type 1 receptor A1166C polymorphisms and related them to blood pressure reduction.
The mean reductions in blood pressure were similar for both treatments. In the irbesartan group, individuals homozygous for the ACE gene I allele showed a greater reduction in diastolic blood pressure, exceeding those with the D allele (-18 +/- 11 SD versus -7 +/- 10 mmHg, P = 0.0096). This was not the case during treatment with atenolol, and the interaction term between type of treatment and ACE II genotype was significant (P = 0.0176). The angiotensinogen and angiotensin II type 1 receptor polymorhisms were not related to the response to treatment.
ACE genotyping predicted the blood pressure-lowering response to antihypertensive treatment with irbesartan but not atenolol. Thus, specific genotypes might predict the response to specific antihypertensive treatment.
Young adult CD-1 male mice were housed in individual cages throughout the study. Groups of 10 to 20 mice were given gradually increasing doses of delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) at 6.25 to 25 mg/kg i.p., trifluoperazine (TFP) at 6 to 12 mg/kg p.o., phenobarbital sodium (PS) at 20 to 35 mg/kg p.o., morphine sulfate (MS) at 5 to 20 mg/kg i.p., methaqualone (MQ) 10 to 20 mg/kg p.o. or chlordiazepoxide (CDP) 10 to 25 mg/kg p.o. over four to six weeks to develop tolerance of these drugs. Following the development of tolerance, the drugs were withdrawn. On the fourth day of withdrawal, a young (3-4 weeks old) male mouse was introduced into the cage. When the intensity of the attack was measured by the percentage of animals that killed the intruder within four hours. The results indicated 0 to 4 percent in the controls, 50-54 percent for THC, 50 percent for TFP, 42 percent for PS and 57 percent for MS. In contrast, no killing behavior was exhibited by these mice after treatment with MQ or CDP. These data suggest that enhanced aggressive behavior, elicited by withdrawal from certain psychotropic drugs, may be measured by the killing (muricidal) behavior of isolated mice.
Although cisapride is widely used to treat gastrointestinal motility disorders, it has been associated with QT prolongation, torsades de pointes, and cardiac arrest. Only in children, however, has atrioventricular (AV) block after cisapride been reported. This study used Langendorff perfusion to determine the direct effects of cisapride (0.03, 0.1, 0.3, and 1 microM) on the conduction properties of neonatal (<7 d) and adult (>3 mo) rabbit hearts. At a clinically relevant dose (0.03 microM), cisapride slowed the recovery of the His-Purkinje system. At 0.1 microM, the refractoriness of the His-Purkinje system and conduction through this system were prolonged. Corrected QT intervals and the ventricular refractory period were also lengthened. These parameters were significantly more prolonged in neonates than in adults. The level of AV block at rapid atrial pacing shifted from the AV node to the His-Purkinje system, with an ED(50) of 0.06 and 0.52 microM in the neonate and the adult, respectively. In the neonate, cisapride even resulted in infranodal AV block rhythm (ED50 = 0.12 microM), but this was not the case in the adult. Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia after cisapride was induced in one in seven neonates (14%;, 0.1 microM) and in one in seven adults (14%; 0.03 microM). It is concluded that cisapride may affect the refractoriness of cardiac tissue and that the His-Purkinje system seems to be the most sensitive. In neonatal hearts, this modification may, in fact, progress to infranodal AV block. Such susceptibility to cisapride strongly indicates that the therapeutic safety range used for the young heart should be narrowed.
To compare the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of treating upper limb spasticity due to stroke with botulinum toxin type A plus an upper limb therapy programme with the upper limb therapy programme alone.
A multicentre open-label parallel-group randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation.
Twelve stroke services in the north of England, UK.
Three hundred and thirty-three adults with upper limb spasticity at the shoulder, elbow, wrist or hand and reduced upper limb function due to stroke more than 1 month previously.
The intervention group received botulinum toxin type A injection(s) plus a 4-week programme of upper limb therapy. The control group received the upper limb therapy programme alone. Participants were clinically reassessed at 3, 6 and 9 months to determine the need for repeat botulinum toxin type A injection(s) and/or therapy.
The primary outcome was upper limb function 1 month after study entry measured by the Action Research Arm Test (ARAT). A successful outcome was defined as: (1) a change of three or more points on the ARAT scale for a participant whose baseline ARAT score was between 0 and 3, (2) a change of six or more points on the ARAT scale for a participant whose baseline ARAT score was between 4 and 51, or (3) a final ARAT score of 57 for a participant whose baseline ARAT score was 52-56. Outcome assessments were undertaken at 1, 3 and 12 months by an assessor who was blinded to the study group allocation. Upper limb impairment and activity limitation were assessed by: Modified Ashworth Scale; Motricity Index; grip strength; ARAT; Nine-Hole Peg Test; upper limb basic functional activity questions and the Barthel Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Index. Stroke-related quality of life/participation restriction was measured using the Stroke Impact Scale, European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) and the Oxford Handicap Scale. Upper limb pain was assessed using numerical rating scales. Participant-selected upper limb goal achievement (1 month only) was measured using the Canadian Occupational Performance Measure. Adverse events were compared. Health-care and social services resource use was compared during the first 3 months postrandomisation. EQ-5D data were used to calculate the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with intervention and control treatments, and the incremental cost per QALY gained of botulinum toxin type A plus therapy compared with therapy alone was estimated. The sensitivity of the base-case results to alternative assumptions was investigated, and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves, which summarise the evidence of botulinum toxin type A plus therapy being cost-effective for a range of societal willingness to pay for a QALY values, are presented.
Randomisation groups were well matched at baseline. There was no significant difference between the groups for the primary outcome of improved arm function at 1 month. This was achieved by 30/154 (19.5%) in the control group and 42/167 (25.1%) in the intervention group (p = 0.232). The relative risk of having a 'successful treatment' in the intervention group compared with the control group was 1.3 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.9 to 2.0]. No significant differences in improved arm function were seen at 3 or 12 months. In terms of secondary outcomes, muscle tone/spasticity at the elbow was decreased in the intervention group compared with the control group at 1 month. The median change in the Modified Ashworth Scale was - 1 in the intervention group compared with zero in the control group (p < 0.001). No difference in spasticity was seen at 3 or 12 months. Participants treated with botulinum toxin type A showed improvement in upper limb muscle strength at 3 months. The mean change in strength from baseline (upper limb component of the Motricity Index) was 3.5 (95% CI 0.1 to 6.8) points greater in the intervention group compared with the control group. No differences were seen at 1 or 12 months. Participants in the intervention group were more likely to be able to undertake specific basic functional activities, e.g. dress a sleeve, clean the palm and open the hand for cutting fingernails. At 1 month, 109/144 (75.7%) of the intervention group and 79/125 (63.2%) of the control group had improved by at least one point on a five-point Likert scale for at least one of these tasks (p = 0.033). At 3 months the corresponding proportions were 102/142 (71.8%) of the intervention group and 71/122 (58.2%) of the control group (p = 0.027). Improvement was sustained at 12 months for opening the hand for cleaning the palm and opening the hand for cutting the nails but not for other activities. Pain rating improved by two points on a 10-point severity rating scale in the intervention group compared with zero points in the control group (p = 0.004) at 12 months, but no significant differences were seen at 1 or 3 months. There were a number of occasions when there were statistically significant differences in favour of the intervention group; however, these differences were small and of uncertain clinical relevance. These differences were: 3 months - upper limb function (change in ARAT score from baseline), pain (EQ-5D) and participation restriction (Oxford Handicap Scale); 12 months - anxiety/depression (EQ-5D) and participation restriction (Oxford Handicap Scale). No differences in grip strength, dexterity or the Barthel ADL Index were found at any time point. There were no differences between the groups for achievement of patient-selected goals. There was a higher incidence of general malaise/flu-like/cold symptoms in participants treated with botulinum toxin type A with a relative risk of 7.6 (95% CI 1.8 to 32.3). Only one serious adverse event (dysphagia) was potentially related to botulinum toxin type A. Time since stroke and severity of initial upper limb function were preplanned subgroup analyses. There was no significant difference in either subgroup for achievement of ARAT 'success' following treatment with botulinum toxin type A. The base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 93,500 pounds per QALY gained and estimation of the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve for botulinum toxin type A plus the upper limb therapy programme indicated that there was only a 0.36 probability of it being cost-effective at a threshold ceiling ratio of 20,000 pounds per QALY.
The addition of botulinum toxin type A to an upper limb therapy programme to treat spasticity due to stroke did not enhance improvement in upper limb function when assessed by the prespecified primary outcome measure at 1 month. However, improvements were seen in muscle tone at 1 month, upper limb strength at 3 months, upper limb functional activities related to undertaking specific basic functional tasks at 1, 3 and 12 months, and upper limb pain at 12 months. Botulinum toxin was well tolerated and side effects were minor. The addition of botulinum toxin type A to an upper limb therapy programme for the treatment of upper limb spasticity due to stroke was not estimated to be cost-effective at levels of willingness to pay for a QALY set by NHS decision-makers.
ISRCTN78533119; EudraCT 2004-002427-40; CTA 17136/0230/001.
It has been postulated that chronic administration of antidepressant drugs induces delayed structural and molecular adaptations at glutamatergic forebrain synapses that might underlie mood improvement. To gain further insight into these changes in the cerebral cortex, rats were treated with fluoxetine (flx) for 4 weeks. These animals showed decreased anxiety and learned helplessness. N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit levels (NR1, NR2A, NR2B, GluR1 and GluR2) were analysed in the forebrain by both western blot of homogenates and immunohistochemistry. Both methods demonstrated an upregulation of NR2A, GluR1 and GluR2 that was especially significant in the retrosplenial granular b cortex (RSGb). However, when analysing subunit content in postsynaptic densities and synaptic membranes, we found increases of NR2A and GluR2 but not GluR1. Instead, GluR1 was augmented in a microsomal fraction containing intracellular membranes. NR1 and GluR2 were co-immunoprecipitated from postsynaptic densities and synaptic membranes. In the immunoprecipitates, NR2A was increased while GluR1 was decreased supporting a change in receptor stoichiometry. The changes of subunit levels were associated with an upregulation of dendritic spine density and of large, mushroom-type spines. These molecular and structural adaptations might be involved in neuronal network stabilization following long-term flx treatment.
This work examined the cardiovascular effects of different schedules of i.v. nicotine administration with respect to doses and timing in non-anesthetized and pentobarbital-treated spinal rats. For this purpose, complete nicotine dose-response curves were made for mean arterial pressure and heart rate. In non-anesthetized spinal rats, tachyphylaxis was not found for the pressor effects; moreover, consecutive doses, given at short intervals, produced additive actions. Furthermore, nicotine produced a biphasic heart rate response: an initial and brief bradycardia followed by a longer lasting tachycardia. In pentobarbital-treated rats, the sensitivity of the cardiovascular system to nicotine was decreased; in these rats, consecutive nicotine doses did show tachyphylaxis for the pressor and tachycardiac responses. The present series of experiments, using different schedules of administration for single and consecutive nicotine doses, demonstrated opposite tachyphylactic effects in non-anesthetized and in pentobarbital-treated spinal rats.
The most common treatment for urine spraying and marking in cats has been administration of long-acting progestins. Treatment with diazepam has recently been gaining favor, particularly because of reported adverse effects of progestins. Results of a clinical trial involving 20 cats indicated that diazepam was effective in eliminating or markedly reducing spraying in 11 (55%) of them. However, most cats required continuous treatment, or at least intermittent treatment, when spraying recurred. The physiologic and behavioral dependency of cats on diazepam, which presumably develops over the course of administration, may contribute to the tendency for spraying to recur once diazepam treatment is discontinued. Using data from previously published findings on progestin administration, plus additional cases, it was documented that a significantly (P less than 0.05) higher percentage of males than females responded favorably. Although the number of cases was not sufficient for a statistical comparison of diazepam vs progestin treatment with regard to male vs female, possible gender difference in the effectiveness of diazepam was not indicated.
To evaluate the safety and possible efficacy of high-dose naloxone for the treatment of acute cerebral ischemia, 38 patients received a loading dose of 160 mg/m2 over 15 minutes followed by a 24-hour infusion at the rate of 80 mg/m2/hr. Nausea and/or vomiting were common side effects. Naloxone was discontinued in seven patients (because of hypotension in one, bradycardia and hypotension in two, myoclonus in one, focal seizures in two, and hypertension in one); all seven patients responded to treatment and no permanent sequelae to naloxone were noted. Twelve of the 38 patients showed early neurologic improvement (by completion of the naloxone loading dose). However, there was no correlation between such a loading dose response and clinical outcome at 3 months. Our experience suggests that naloxone is safe at the dose used, but data for efficacy are inconclusive.
Acute hypertension increases the cerebrovascular permeability to protein to a higher extent in anesthetized than in conscious rats. When hypertension is combined with a pronounced cerebral vasodilatation, e.g. in bicuculline-induced seizures, the protein leakage is enhanced. Conscoius, unrestrained 2--3-months-old rats received adrenaline or bicuculline i.v. during continuous recording of the mean arterial pressure and were killed 3 minutes later. Rats, neonatally sympathectomized by 6-hydroxydopamine, had significantly increased extravasation of 125I serum albumin in the brain after adrenaline-induced hypertension than nonsympathectomized rats. Since transection of the cervical sympathettic trunk alone does not have the same effect, a protection of the blood-brain barrier in acute hypertension in conscious rats may, at least in part, be mediated via the central noradrenergic innervation of cerebral vessels. Bicuculline did not increase blood pressure in 6-OHDA treated rats; thus the blood-brain barrier remained intact.
Cadmium is an environmental toxic metal implicated in human diseases. In the present study, the effect of diphenyl diselenide, (PhSe)(2), on sub-chronic exposure with cadmium chloride (CdCl(2)) was investigated in rats. Male adult Swiss albino rats received CdCl(2) (10 micromol/kg, orally) and (PhSe)(2) (5 micromol/kg, orally) for a period of 30 days. A number of parameters were examined as indicators of toxicity, including hepatic and renal damage, glucose and glycogen levels and markers of oxidative stress. Cadmium content, liver histology, delta-aminolevulinate dehydratase (delta-ALA-D) activity, metallothionein (MT) levels were also evaluated. Cadmium content determined in the tissue of rats exposed to CdCl(2) provides evidence that the liver is the major cadmium target where (PhSe)(2) acts. The concentration of cadmium in liver was about three fold higher than that in kidney, and (PhSe)(2) reduced about six fold the levels of this metal in liver of rats exposed. Rats exposed to CdCl(2) showed histological alterations abolished by (PhSe)(2) administration. (PhSe)(2) administration ameliorated plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) activities increased by CdCl(2) exposure. Urea and bilirubin levels increased by CdCl(2) exposure were also reduced by (PhSe)(2). In conclusion, this study demonstrated that co-treatment with (PhSe)(2) ameliorated hepatotoxicity and cellular damage in rat liver after sub-chronic exposure with CdCl(2). The proposed mechanisms by which (PhSe)(2) acts in this experimental protocol are its antioxidant properties and its capacity to form a complex with cadmium.
We examined the incidence, clinical course, and outcome of patients with newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) who developed the retinoic acid syndrome (RAS) treated on the Intergroup Protocol 0129, which prospectively evaluated the role of alltrans retinoic acid (ATRA) alone during induction and as maintenance therapy. Forty-four of 167 (26%) patients receiving ATRA for induction developed the syndrome at a median of 11 days of ATRA (range, 2-47). The median white blood cell (WBC) count was 1,450/microL at diagnosis and was 31,000/microL (range, 6,800-72,000/microL) at the time the syndrome developed. ATRA was discontinued in 36 of the 44 patients (82%) and continued in 8 patients (18%), with subsequent resolution of the syndrome in 7 of the 8. ATRA was resumed in 19 of the 36 patients (53%) in whom ATRA was stopped and not in 17 (47%). The syndrome recurred in 3 of those 19 patients, with 1 death attributable to resumption of the drug. Ten of these 36 patients received chemotherapy without further ATRA, and 8 achieved complete remission (CR). Among 7 patients in whom ATRA was not restarted and were not treated with chemotherapy, 5 achieved CR and 2 died. Two deaths were definitely attributable to the syndrome. No patient receiving ATRA as maintenance developed the syndrome. (Blood. 2000;95:90-95)
Resveratrol, a polyphenol compound with anti-inflammatory properties, has been previously evaluated for its beneficial effects in several ulcerative colitis models. However, the current study elucidates the effect of resveratrol on adhesion molecules, as well as its antioxidant efficacy in a trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced ulcerative-colitis model. Colitis was induced by rectal instillation of TNBS, followed by daily per os administration of either sulphasalazine (300 mg/kg) or resveratrol (2 and 10 mg/kg) for 7 days. Administration of resveratrol decreased the ulcerative area and colon mass index; these effects were further supported by the reduction in colon inflammation grades, as well as histolopathological changes, and reflected by the stalling of body mass loss. The anti-inflammatory effects of resveratrol were indicated by lowered myeloperoxidase activity, and by suppressing ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 levels in the colon and serum. In addition, it restored a reduced colonic nitric oxide level and reinstated its redox balance, as evidenced by the suppression of lipid peroxides and prevention of glutathione depletion. The anti-ulcerative effect of the higher dose of resveratrol was comparable with those of sulphasalazine. The study confirms the anti-ulcerative effect of resveratrol in TNBS-induced experimental colitis via reduction of neutrophil infiltration, inhibition of adhesive molecules, and restoration of the nitric oxide level, as well as the redox status.
