Exposure to chromium compounds can result in nephrotoxicity. The administration of potassium dichromate (K(2)Cr(2)O(7)), a hexavalent chromium compound, results in impairment in functions of renal brush border membrane (BBM).
The effect of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) on K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced nephrotoxicity, changes in BBM enzymes, Pi transport and the anti-oxidant status of rat kidney were studied. Animals were divided into 4 groups and were intraperitoneally given saline (control), vitamin C alone, K(2)Cr(2)O(7) alone and vitamin C plus K(2)Cr(2)O(7). Nephrotoxicity was evaluated by urea and creatinine levels in the serum. Anti-oxidant status was evaluated in kidney homogenates.
A single dose of K(2)Cr(2)O(7) (15 mg/kg body weight) resulted in an increase of serum urea nitrogen and creatinine levels, increase in lipid peroxidation and decrease in total sulfhydryl groups. However, prior treatment with a single dose of vitamin C (250 mg/kg body weight) protected the kidney from the damaging effects of K(2)Cr(2)O(7). It greatly ameliorated the K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced nephrotoxicity and reduction in Pi transport, activities of catalase, Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase and BBM enzymes. This was accompanied by decrease in lipid peroxidation and recovery of sulfhydryl content of renal cortex.
Vitamin C is an effective chemoprotectant against K(2)Cr(2)O(7)-induced acute renal failure and dysfunction of the renal BBM in rats.
Clonidine produces analgesia by actions on alpha 2-adrenoceptors and enhances both sensory and motor blockade from epidural injection of local anaesthetics. Low-dose clonidine has been used so far for caudal injection in children. Our aim was to study the perioperative effects of high-dose caudal clonidine when added to low concentration of bupivacaine for combined epidural and general anaesthesia in children.
After induction of general anaesthesia caudal block was performed either with 1 ml.kg-1 bupivacaine 0.175% with the addition of clonidine 5 micrograms.kg-1 (n = 20), or with 1 ml.kg-1 bupivacaine 0.175% (n = 20). The intraoperative anaesthetic requirements, the perioperative haemodynamic effects, respiratory rate, sedation score, postoperative pain scores and side effects were assessed by a blinded observer. A patient-controlled analgesia system was used for postoperative pain relief. The quality of postoperative pain relief was assessed using Smiley's pain analogue scale.
Intraoperative haemodynamic responses did not differ between the groups. However, during emergence from general anaesthesia children in the clonidine group had significantly lower heart rates and blood pressure compared to children in the control group. In addition, heart rates and blood pressures were also lower in the clonidine group in the early postoperative period (P < 0.05). Postoperative analgesia was significantly better in the clonidine group as evidenced by the total number of requests (3 vs 12, P < 0.05) and the total amount of tramadol (20.5 mg vs 72.8 mg, P < 0.05) administered. The duration of the caudal analgesia was significantly longer in the clonidine group (20.9 +/- 7.4 h vs 14.4 +/- 10.9 h, P < 0.05).
Our results suggest that caudal clonidine 5 micrograms.kg-1 enhances and prolongs caudal blockade with bupivacaine (1.175% in children. It also blocks sympathoadrenergic responses during emergence from anaesthesia. Sedation and cardiovascular effects are observed up to 3 h into the postoperative period.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of unknown etiology. It is considered as a multifactorial disease dependent on environmental and genetic factors. Deregulation in cell degradation has been related with a significant increase in cell damage, becoming a target for studies on the PD etiology. In the present study, we have characterized the parkinsonian toxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+))-induced damage in fibroblasts from Parkinson's patients with the mutation G2019S in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 protein (LRRK2) and control individuals without this mutation. The results reveal that MPP(+) induces mTOR-dependent autophagy in fibroblasts. Moreover, the effects of caspase-dependent cell death to MPP(+) were higher in cells with the G2019S LRRK2 mutation, which showed basal levels of autophagy due to the G2019S LRRK2 mutation (mTOR-independent). The inhibition of autophagy by 3-methyladenine (3-MA) treatment reduces these sensitivity differences between both cell types, however, the inhibition of autophagosome-lysosome fusion by bafilomycin A1 (Baf A1) increases these differences. This data confirm the importance of the combination of genetic and environmental factors in the PD etiology. Thereby, the sensitivity to the same damage may be different in function of a genetic predisposition, reason why individuals with certain mutations can develop some early-onset diseases, such as individuals with G2019S LRRK2 mutation and PD.
We sought to determine whether depressive symptoms assessed during hospitalization predicted alcohol use and alcohol-related problems during the subsequent year among medically ill patients.
The study sample was a cohort of hospitalized medical patients with unhealthy alcohol use who participated in a randomized controlled trial of an alcohol brief intervention. Depressive symptoms at baseline, assessed with the Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale (CES-D), were used to predict alcohol use and problems at 3 and 12 months.
Of the 341 patients enrolled, 90% (men = 220; women = 88) provided data on at least one follow-up time point during the subsequent year. Gender-stratified longitudinal Pois-son regression models were fit for each alcohol outcome, adjusting for baseline values of age, physical symptoms, randomization group, alcohol outcome, cocaine use, and socioeconomic indicators. Depressive symptoms were significantly associated with drinks per day (men: incidence rate ratio [IRR] = 1.17 per 10-unit increase in CES-D, p < .01; women: IRR = 1.00 per 10-unit increase in CES-D, p = .98) and alcohol-related problems (men: IRR = 1.22 per 10-unit increase in CES-D, p < .001; women: IRR = 1.05 per 10-unit increase in CES-D, p = .39) for men but not for women. They were not significantly associated with the number of days abstinent in men or women.
In hospitalized medical patients with unhealthy alcohol use, depressive symptoms predict subsequent drinks per day and alcohol-related problems among men. These findings suggest that symptoms of depression may be important to consider in treatment planning for male medical patients with unhealthy patterns of drinking.
The present study was undertaken to compare the hemodynamic effects of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and sodium nitroprusside (NP) given in equieffective doses to induce hypotension during halothane anesthesia. Eight dogs, instrumented with pressure and ultrasonic dimension transducers for assessment of left ventricular (LV) performance, were given both NP and ATP. Regional blood flow was measured by radioactive microspheres. After 20 min of infusion, both drugs decreased systemic arterial pressure by 36% with minimal changes in cardiac index (CI), LV end-diastolic pressure, or heart rate. However, hypotension produced by ATP was associated with a greater CI (3.84 +/- 0.32 vs 2.97 +/- 0.35 L X min-1 X m-2) than was NP and also associated with a further decrease in systemic vascular resistance (14.4 +/- 1.4 vs 17.7 +/- 2.2 mm Hg X L-1 X min X m2). Left ventricular global function, measured by the slope of the linear regression line of the LV end-systolic pressure-diameter relation (Ees), did not change significantly after either drug. Blood flow to the coronary bed was significantly greater with ATP than with NP (231.6 +/- 30.6 vs 81.7 +/- 6.1 ml X min-1 X 100 g-1). Except for an increase in hepatic arterial blood flow with NP, neither ATP nor NP significantly altered blood flow to the brain, spinal cord, spleen, kidney, jejunum, muscle, and skin. Controlled hypotension by ATP was stable and rapidly reversible without rebound hypertension. The results of this study indicate that ATP is a rapidly acting, effective hypotensive agent that compares favorably with NP.
Olanzapine is a new antipsychotic agent with serotonin/dopamine antagonism action. Efficacy in treating overall psychopathology in acute schizophrenia as measured by the BPRS0-6 total score was demonstrated at 10 mg/day versus placebo; at doses in a 5-20 mg/day range, olanzapine was comparable or superior to haloperidol. Superior efficacy for negative and depressive symptoms was shown in comparison to haloperidol. Olanzapine has a favorable acute and tardive extrapyramidal symptom profile relative to haloperidol and caused substantially less elevation of serum prolactin. Dose-related weight gain and asymptomatic mild transaminase elevations occurred in olanzapine-treated patients.
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and pseudoephedrine (PSE) are often administered together for the treatment of symptoms of the common cold, i.e., nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat and headache. Based on this fact we developed a fixed combination of 500 mg ASA and 30 mg PSE, the recommended doses for both drugs for treating symptoms of the common cold, as granulate to be dissolved in water for administration. The purpose of this open, randomized, three-factorial (three-treatment, three-period, six-sequence) Latin Square clinical study was to investigate the relative bioavailability of ASA and PSE as well as the establishment of bioequivalence after single administration of the fixed combination (final formulation for approval) of 500 mg ASA/30 mg PSE*HCl and the preliminary formulation of this combination. Pharmacokinetic characteristics AUC(norm) and C(max,norm) of ASA, its metabolite SA, and PSE, were determined as measure of rate and extent of absorption of the two formulations. The treatment ratios final/preliminary formulation and their corresponding 90% confidence intervals were calculated to establish bioequivalence. Additionally, descriptive statistics were calculated for the parameters t(max), t((1/2)), and mean residence time (MRT). In total, data from 18 healthy male volunteers were included in the pharmacokinetic evaluation. The primary target parameters were analyzed using an analysis of variance (ANOVA) after logarithmic transformation of the data. Confidence intervals of 90% were calculated for the geometric means of ratios using the mean square error term of the ANOVA. Bioequivalence criteria were fulfilled for AUC(norm) and C(max,norm). Geometric means of individual ratios of AUC(norm) and of C(max,norm) showed equal bioavailability of the new formulation compared with the preliminary. Furthermore, a relative bioavailability of approximately 100% of the preliminary formulation was shown for the newly developed formulation for all parameters. The parameters t(max), t((1/2)), and MRT showed comparable results for ASA, SA, and PSE, respectively, in both formulations. The supplementary evaluation for the non-normalized original parameters AUC and C(max) also revealed bioequivalence. For the newly developed formulation, the arithmetic means of the parameters AUC and C(max) for PSE were 1040.66 mg/h*l and 134.52 mg/l, for SA 142.28 mg/h*l and 30.34 mg/l, respectively. The median t(max) values were 0.67 h for PSE and 0.92 h for SA. Both treatments were safe and well tolerated.
Previously we reported a tendency for reduction of the development of glutathione-S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive foci, recognized as preneoplastic changes in rat liver, by a low dose of 1,1-bis(p-chlorophenyl)-2,2,2-trichloroethane (DDT), which belongs to the same group of hepatic cytochrome P-450 inducers as phenobarbital and is itself a non-genotoxic hepatocarcinogen. In order to clarify the biological significance of this phenomenon, we investigated the reproducibility and changes in other parameters using an initiation-promotion model in which male F344 rats were treated with DDT at doses of 0, 0.005, 0.5, 500 ppm in the diet for 11 or 43 weeks after initiation of hepatocarcinogenesis with N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN). When 500 ppm DDT was applied, the formation of GST-P positive foci and tumor were markedly elevated. In contrast, induction of GST-P positive foci and liver tumors tended to be inhibited at a dose of 0.005 ppm, correlating with protein levels of cytochrome P450 2B1 and 3A2 (CYP2B1 and 3A2) and generation of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a marker of oxidative DNA damage. mRNA levels for 8-oxoguanine glycosylase 1 (OGG1), an 8-OHdG repair enzyme, connexin 32 (Cx32), a major component of Gap junctions, and hepatic nuclear factor 1alpha (HNF-1alpha), a Cx32 regulator, were inversely correlated with GST-P positive foci and tumor formation. These results indicate that low dose DDT may indeed exhibit inhibitory effects on chemically initiated-rat hepatocarcinogenicity, in contrast to the promotion observed with high doses, and that this is related to changes in metabolizing enzymes, cell communication, and DNA damage and its repair.
Neurons in rat medulla oblongata with Fos immunoreactivity as a marker of synaptic excitation evoked by pentylenetetrazole-induced seizures were compared with cell populations activated by the stimulation of chemoreceptor and baroreceptor afferent pathways. Chemoreceptors were stimulated by placing rats in a hypoxic gas mixture (7% oxygen) for 2 h. Baroreceptors were activated by phenylephrine-induced hypertension. Seizures and hypoxia induced Fos immunoreactivity in neurons with similar anatomical distributions in the nucleus tractus solitarius, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, and ventrolateral medulla. Hypertension was associated with Fos immunoreactivity in an overlapping anatomical distribution compared to seizures and hypoxia, but in a more restricted pattern. A similar proportion of catecholaminergic cells of medulla oblongata (cells immunoreactive for catecholamine synthetic enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase) had Fos immunostaining after seizures and hypoxia (P > 0.05), while significantly fewer were activated by hypertension (P < 0.05). The majority of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells in caudal ventrolateral medulla were activated by both seizures and hypoxia (mean per cents, 79 and 67%, respectively). Since cell populations activated by seizures and hypoxia are indistinguishable, and a majority of tyrosine hydroxylase-reactive cells in caudal ventrolateral medulla are independently activated by each stimulus, it may be inferred that some impulses originating from seizures and chemoreceptor afferent pathways converge to a common set of neurons. These observations identify neurons in rat medulla oblongata which may mediate the impact of seizures on central processing of chemoreceptor afferent activity.
The toxicity by 2,3,7,8 tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) is thought to be caused by activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR). However, our understanding of how AHR activation by TCDD leads to toxic effects is poor. Ideally we would like to manipulate AHR activity in specific tissues and at specific times. One route to this is expressing dominant negative AHRs (dnAHRs). This work describes the construction and characterization of dominant negative forms of the zebrafish Ahr2 in which the C-terminal transactivation domain was either removed, or replaced with the inhibitory domain from the Drosophila engrailed repressor protein. One of these dnAhr2s was selected for expression from the ubiquitously active e2fα promoter in transgenic zebrafish. We found that these transgenic zebrafish expressing dnAhr2 had reduced TCDD induction of the Ahr2 target gene cyp1a, as measured by 7-ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity. Furthermore, the cardiotoxicity produced by TCDD, pericardial edema, heart malformation, and reduced blood flow, were all mitigated in the zebrafish expressing the dnAhr2. These results provide in vivo proof-of-principle results demonstrating the effectiveness of dnAHRs in manipulating AHR activity in vivo, and demonstrating that this approach can be a means for blocking TCDD toxicity.
Aberrant expression of class III beta-tubulin, TUBB3, has been reported to be one of the important mechanisms responsible for taxane resistance in diverse human malignancies. We investigated aberrant TUBB3 expression and its epigenetic modification in 66 primary tumors and 3 cell lines (OVCAR-3, JHOC-5 and JHOC-8) of ovarian cancers. Overexpression of TUBB3 protein was observed in 56 (85%) of the 66 ovarian cancers, and was significantly associated with aggressive tumor behavior (advanced stage, presence of ascites, suboptimal cytoreduction at surgery and presence of lymph node metastasis) (P<0.05). Responses to treatment with a demethylating agent (5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, 5-Aza-CdR) and a histone deacetylase inhibitor (4-phenylbutyric acid, PBA) differed among the ovarian cancer cell lines. In 2 cell lines with weak expression of TUBB3 protein (OVCAR-3 and JHOC-8), TUBB3 induction was independently induced by treatment with 5-Aza-CdR (JHOC-8) or PBA (OVCAR-3), while neither agent markedly altered TUBB3 mRNA/protein expression in a strongly TUBB3-expressing cell line (JHOC-5). A CpG island within intron 1 was hypermethylated in 1 cell line (JHOC-8) that expressed TUBB3 weakly and required 5-Aza-CdR treatment for gene expression. A CpG island of another cell line showing faint expression of TUBB3 protein (OVCAR-3), in which a significant gain of TUBB3 expression was induced by treatment with PBA but not with 5-Aza-CdR, was hypomethylated, similarly to a cell line (JHOC-5) showing constitutive expression of TUBB3. We evaluated methylation status in this region in 14 primary tumors using methylation-specific PCR, but there was no significant relationship with TUBB3 immunoreactivity. These findings suggest that aberrant expression of TUBB3 protein might be associated with aggressive behavior of ovarian cancers, and that epigenetic modulation (DNA methylation and chromatin acetylation) might be partly involved in TUBB3 expression.
Clinical safety data for treatment of acute schizophrenia with olanzapine, a new atypical antipsychotic agent, are summarized. The primary clinical trial safety database included 2500 patients treated with olanzapine, 810 with haloperidol, and 236 with placebo. The overall discontinuation rate from olanzapine treatment was low. Significant adverse events included somnolence, weight gain, and asymptomatic treatment-emergent transaminase elevation. Minimal parkinsonism and akathisia with rare dystonia were noted. No hematotoxicity was noted. The incidence of seizures and sexual dysfunction was rare.
The goal of this study was to examine the feasibility of developing a multigene predictor of pathologic complete response (pCR) to sequential weekly paclitaxel and fluorouracil + doxorubicin + cyclophosphamide (T/FAC) neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen for breast cancer.
All patients underwent one-time pretreatment fine-needle aspiration to obtain RNA from the cancer for transcriptional profiling using cDNA arrays containing 30721 human sequence clones. Analysis was performed after profiling, and 42 patients' clinical results were available, 24 of which were used for predictive marker discovery; 18 patients' results were used as an independent validation set.
Thirty-one percent of patients had pCR (six discovery and seven validation), defined as disappearance of all invasive cancer in the breast after completion of chemotherapy. We could identify no single marker that was sufficiently associated with pCR to be used as an individual predictor. A multigene model with 74 markers (P <or=.09) was built using data from the discovery samples and tested on the validation samples. Overall, a 78% (14 of 18) predictive accuracy was observed, with a 100% (three of three) positive predictive value for pCR, a 73% (11 of 15) negative predictive value, a sensitivity of 43% (three of seven), and a specificity of 100% (11 of 11). The expected response rate to T/FAC neoadjuvant therapy in unselected patients is 28%.
Our results suggest that transcriptional profiling has the potential to identify a gene expression pattern in breast cancer that may lead to clinically useful predictors of pCR to T/FAC neoadjuvant therapy.
We performed a prospective, randomized, double-blinded study in 60 postoperative pediatric patients aged 6 wk to 7 yr to compare the efficacy of butorphanol given epidurally or intravenously in preventing the side effects of epidural morphine. Three groups of patients received 60 micrograms/kg epidural morphine; 20 patients also received epidural butorphanol 30 micrograms/kg, and 20 patients also received 30 micrograms/kg intravenous butorphanol. All patients were evaluated for analgesia, sedation, vomiting, urinary retention, pruritus, and respiratory depression for 24 h postoperatively. Although the overall incidence of side effects was not different in the three groups, the epidural butorphanol group had a significant decrease in severity of pruritus. Sedation was seen more frequently in the groups receiving butorphanol, but was most pronounced in the epidural butorphanol group. We conclude that butorphanol has little or no effect on the side effects of epidural morphine.
The levels of adenosine deaminase (ADA) were determined in the erythrocytes of 10 patients with sexually transmitted HIV-1 infection [five cases with AIDS-related complex (ARC) and five with AIDS] before and after therapy with zidovudine (azidothymidine; AZT). A linear increase in ADA activity was observed during the second and third months of zidovudine treatment, with a final increase of about threefold after 3 months of drug administration. The concentration of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) was significantly lower in the erythrocytes of the same group of patients with respect to healthy controls, and a further decrease was noted after 3 months of zidovudine treatment. The results obtained indicate that treatment of ARC/AIDS subjects with zidovudine induces metabolic changes which could be responsible for the development of anaemia, an adverse effect frequently associated with zidovudine therapy.
The results of preclinical laboratory experiments and clinical trials indicate that agonist replacements such as d-amphetamine may be a viable option for managing cocaine dependence. This study determined the effects of d-amphetamine maintenance on cocaine choice behavior in human participants. We predicted that d-amphetamine maintenance would reduce cocaine choice. Nine cocaine-dependent participants completed the study. Two d-amphetamine maintenance conditions were completed in a counterbalanced order (0 and 40 mg/d). After 3 to 5 days of placebo or d-amphetamine maintenance, the participants completed 5 experimental sessions. During these sessions, the participants first sampled the placebo (ie, 4 mg of intranasal cocaine) identified as drug A. The participants then sampled a second intranasal drug dose (4, 10, 20, or 30 mg of cocaine) identified as drug B. The participants then made 6 discrete choices between drugs A and B. Drug choices were separated by 45 minutes. The primary outcome measure was the number of cocaine choices. All doses of cocaine were chosen significantly more than placebo during both maintenance conditions (ie, placebo and d-amphetamine). Choice of the 20-mg dose of cocaine was significantly lower during d-amphetamine maintenance relative to when this cocaine dose was tested during placebo-d-amphetamine maintenance. Cocaine produced prototypical subject-rated drug effects (eg, good effects, like drug, willing to take again). These effects were not altered to a significant degree by d-amphetamine maintenance. Cocaine was well tolerated during D-amphetamine maintenance, and no unexpected or serious adverse events occurred. These results are concordant with those of previous preclinical experiments, human laboratory studies, and clinical trials that suggest that agonist replacement therapy may be a viable strategy for managing cocaine dependence.
Asenapine is approved by the Food and Drugs Administration in adults for acute treatment of schizophrenia or of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder with or without psychotic features. In a double-blind 6-week trial, 458 patients with acute schizophrenia were randomly assigned to fixed-dose treatment with asenapine at 5 mg twice daily (BID), asenapine at 10 mg BID, placebo, or haloperidol at 4 mg BID (to verify assay sensitivity). With last observations carried forward (LOCF), mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score reductions from baseline to endpoint were significantly greater with asenapine at 5 mg BID (-16.2) and haloperidol (-15.4) than placebo (-10.7; both P < 0.05); using mixed model for repeated measures (MMRM), changes at day 42 were significantly greater with asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID (-21.3 and -19.4, respectively) and haloperidol (-20.0) than placebo (-14.6; all P < 0.05). On the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale positive subscale, all treatments were superior to placebo with LOCF and MMRM; asenapine at 5 mg BID was superior to placebo on the negative subscale with MMRM and on the general psychopathology subscale with LOCF and MMRM. Treatment-related adverse events (AEs) occurred in 44% and 52%, 57%, and 41% of the asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively. Extrapyramidal symptoms reported as AEs occurred in 15% and 18%, 34%, and 10% of the asenapine at 5 and 10 mg BID, haloperidol, and placebo groups, respectively. Across all groups, no more than 5% of patients had clinically significant weight change. Post hoc analyses indicated that efficacy was similar with asenapine and haloperidol; greater contrasts were seen in AEs, especially extrapyramidal symptoms.
We report the case of a 78-year-old hypertensive diabetic patient without evidence of renal artery stenosis who had moderate chronic renal insufficiency, which had been stable for several years under low-dose captopril therapy, and who rapidly developed acute renal failure when irbesartan was prescribed. Unfortunately the medication was not stopped promptly and the patient never recovered his basal renal function and had to undergo chronic hemodialysis. This observation emphasizes the importance of a careful monitoring of renal function in patients receiving angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
The critical role of thyroid hormone (TH) in brain development is well-established. Evidence shows that severe deficiencies lead to significant neurological dysfunction. Much less information is available on more modest perturbations of TH on brain function. The present study induced varying degrees of developmental hypothyroidism by administration of low doses of the TH synthesis inhibitor, propylthiouracil (PTU 0, 1, 2, and 3 ppm) to the drinking water of pregnant rats. This regimen produced dose-dependent reductions in circulating levels of T4 in dams and offspring on postnatal days (PN) 15 and 22, with return to control levels in adulthood upon termination of treatment at weaning. Modest reductions in T3 were observed in the high-dose group on PN15. Synaptic function in the dentate gyrus was examined in adult euthyroid offspring using in vivo field potentials. Excitatory synaptic transmission (excitatory postsynaptic potential [EPSP] slope amplitude) was significantly reduced at 2 and 3 ppm PTU, with no statistically reliable effect detected in the population spike. Paired-pulse functions estimating the integrity of inhibitory synaptic processing were modestly reduced by 3 ppm PTU. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of the EPSP slope was impaired at all dose levels. Trace fear conditioning to context and to cue was impaired at the highest dose level when a distractor stimulus was present, whereas conditioning in a standard trace fear paradigm paradoxically revealed "enhanced" performance at the intermediate dose and a return to control values in the high-dose group. Biphasic dose-response profiles were evident in some measures (trace fear conditioning and LTP) but not others and serve to exemplify the complexity of the role of TH in brain development and its consequences for brain function.
The majority of in vitro studies characterizing the impact of engineered nanoparticles (NPs) on cells that line the respiratory tract were conducted in cells exposed to NPs in suspension. This approach introduces processes that are unlikely to occur during inhaled NP exposures in vivo, such as the shedding of toxic doses of dissolved ions. ZnO NPs are used extensively and pose significant sources for human exposure. Exposures to airborne ZnO NPs can induce adverse effects, but the relevance of the dissolved Zn(2+) to the observed effects in vivo is still unclear. Our goal was to mimic in vivo exposures to airborne NPs and decipher the contribution of the intact NP from the contribution of the dissolved ions to airborne ZnO NP toxicity. We established the exposure of alveolar type II epithelial cells to aerosolized NPs at the air-liquid interface (ALI) and compared the impact of aerosolized ZnO NPs and NPs in suspension at the same cellular doses, measured as the number of particles per cell. By evaluating membrane integrity and cell viability 6 and 24 h post-exposure, we found that aerosolized NPs induced toxicity at the ALI at doses that were in the same order of magnitude as doses required to induce toxicity in submersed cultures. In addition, distinct patterns of oxidative stress were observed in the two exposure systems. These observations unravel the ability of airborne ZnO NPs to induce toxicity without the contribution of dissolved Zn(2+) and suggest distinct mechanisms at the ALI and in submersed cultures.
The embryonic stem cell test (EST) is a validated in vitro alternative test for prediction of embryotoxicity with inhibition of cardiomyocyte differentiation under the microscope as beating areas at day 10 as an endpoint. However, improvements are necessary for regulatory acceptance and application to high-throughput screening. We have previously reported that heart and neural crest derivatives expressed transcript 1 (Hand1), a transcription factor essential for mammalian heart development, and cardiomyopathy associated 1 (Cmya1), an intercalated disk protein implicated in cardiac morphogenesis, are quantitative and objective molecular endpoints for predicting embryotoxicity, detected at day 6 when mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells differentiate into cardiomyocytes. In established stable transgenic ES cells with Hand1 or Cmya1 promoters upstream of luciferase reporter gene, changes in each gene expression were found to be coincident with those in luciferase activities during cardiomyocyte differentiation, suggesting that monitoring might be possible by chemiluminescent determination. In our novel EST, differentiation toxicity and cytotoxicity of test chemicals were here analyzed using ES cells and 3T3 fibroblasts by this approach in 96-microwell plates. Extensive investigations were performed to explore predictive power and validity by comparing a set of 24 well-known test chemicals. The novel EST offers high predictability and accuracy with a reduced test duration and manpower compared with the original EST protocol, thus providing a new rapid and sensitive in vitro method for screening embryotoxicants.
Arsenic is an established lung carcinogen, however, the carcinogenic mechanisms are currently under investigation. Phosphorylation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) has been reported with arsenic exposure in bladder cells. EGFR is a tyrosine kinase transmembrane receptor that regulates important processes in carcinogenesis, including cell survival, cell cycle progression, tumor invasion, and angiogenesis. We investigated the mechanisms of EGFR pathway activation by levels of arsenic relevant to human exposure scenarios both in vitro using cultured lung epithelial cells, and in lung tumors samples from New England Lung Cancer Study participants. Toenail arsenic levels were used as an internal biomarker of arsenic exposure. Our in vitro data suggest that arsenic increases levels of the EGFR ligand, heparin binding-EGF, and activate EGFR phosphorylation in the lung. Downstream of EGFR, arsenic exposure increased pERK and cyclin D1 levels. These effects were inhibited by treatment of cultured cells with the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, Tarceva (erlotinib). In a consecutive series of human lung tumor specimens, pEGFR protein levels were higher in subjects with elevated toenail arsenic levels compared to those with low exposure (odds ratio adjusted for other factors, OR 4.1 (95% confidence interval 1.1-15.6) (p = 0.04). These data suggest that arsenic exposure may stimulate EGFR pathway activation in the lung. Moreover, the tumors that arise in arsenic-exposed individuals also exhibit signs of EGFR pathway dysregulation. Further work is needed to assess the clinical utility of targeting the EGFR pathway in subgroups of lung cancer patients who have been exposed to elevated levels of arsenic.
Thalidomide inhibited tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) effectively in many trials. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of thalidomide on the expression of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), inhibitor of NF-kappaB (IkappaB) and TNF-alpha in a rat model of liver cirrhosis.
Liver cirrhosis was achieved by intraperitoneal injection of carbon tetrachloride thrice weekly, and thalidomide (10 or 100 mg/kg/day) was given daily by intragastric route for 8 weeks. Serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), prealbumin (PA), hyaluronic acid (HA) and laminin (LN), and hydroxyproline (HYP), NF-kappaBp65, alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) protein and TNF-alpha mRNA were studied in the liver, IkappaBalpha and TNF-alpha protein in the cytoplasm and NF-kappaBp65 protein in the nucleus.
Compared with nontreated cirrhotic rats, the histopathology of rats given thalidomide (100 mg/kg) was significantly better. Serum ALT, AST, HA and LN and HYP content in the liver were significantly decreased and PA was elevated (p < 0.01) in this group; the expression of TNF-alpha mRNA and protein, NF-kappaBp65 and alpha-SMA were significantly decreased and IkappaBalpha protein was also elevated (p < 0.01).
Thalidomide downregulates NF-kappaB-induced TNF-alpha and activates hepatic stellate cells (HSC) via inhibition of IkappaB degradation to prevent liver cirrhosis.
In both experimental animals and humans, aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) is a potent hepatic toxin and carcinogen against which a variety of antioxidants and experimental or therapeutic drugs (e.g., oltipraz, related dithiolethiones, and various triterpenoids) protect from both acute toxicity and carcinogenesis. These agents induce several hepatic glutathione S-transferases (GST) as well as aldo-keto reductases (AKR) which are thought to contribute to protection. Studies were undertaken in transgenic rats to examine the role of one inducible enzyme, AKR7A1, for protection against acute and chronic actions of AFB(1) by enhancing detoxication of a reactive metabolite, AFB(1) dialdehyde, by reduction to alcohols. The AFB(1) dialdehyde forms adducts with protein amino groups by a Schiff base mechanism and these adducts have been theorized to be at least one cause of the acute toxicity of AFB(1) and to enhance carcinogenesis. A liver-specific AKR7A1 transgenic rat was constructed in the Sprague-Dawley strain and two lines, AKR7A1(Tg2) and AKR7A1(Tg5), were found to overexpress AKR7A1 by 18- and 8-fold, respectively. Rates of formation of AFB(1) alcohols, both in hepatic cytosols and as urinary excretion products, increased in the transgenic lines with AKR7A1(Tg2) being the highest. Neither line offered protection against acute AFB(1)-induced bile duct proliferation, a functional assessment of acute hepatotoxicity by AFB(1), nor did they protect against the formation of GST-P positive putative preneoplastic foci as a result of chronic exposure to AFB(1). These results imply that the prevention of protein adducts mediated by AKR are not critical to protection against AFB(1) tumorigenicity.
