We have previously shown that daily treatment with subconvulsant dose of cocaine resulted in the elevation of brain levels of polyamines such as putrescine and spermidine and the development of increased susceptibility to cocaine-induced seizures. The present study examined whether exogenously administered polyamines affect seizure activity caused by various doses of cocaine and lidocaine in mice. Thirty minutes after intracerebroventricular treatments with either saline, putrescine or spermidine (1-4 mumol), animals were injected intraperitoneally with cocaine or lidocaine (60-90 mg/kg); then the occurrence of clonic seizures was observed. Spermidine enhanced cocaine-induced seizure activity, while putrescine had no effect on it. Lidocaine-induced convulsions were also dose-dependently potentiated by spermidine. In addition, spermidine significantly enhanced seizure activity following an injection of N-methyl-DL-aspartate. The results suggest that spermidine plays an important role in the development of sensitization to convulsant activity by cocaine and lidocaine via modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
To assess 24-hour glycemic control with saxagliptin compared with placebo as add-on treatment to metformin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and inadequate glycemic control.
This was a 4-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase IIIb trial comparing the antihyperglycemic activity of saxagliptin 5 mg once daily in combination with a stable dose of metformin extended release (XR) vs. placebo in combination with metformin XR in patients with T2DM inadequately controlled (screening glycated hemoglobin [HbA(1c)] 7-10%) with stable doses of metformin immediate release or metformin XR ≥ 1500 mg/day. Ninety-three adult patients were randomized and received treatment. The primary outcome measure was change from baseline to week 4 in 24-hour mean weighted glucose (MWG).
The reduction from baseline in 24-hour MWG was significantly greater for saxagliptin 5 mg + metformin XR (-13.8 mg/dL; -0.77 mmol/L) compared with placebo + metformin XR (3.0 mg/dL; 0.17 mmol/L) (p = 0.0001). At week 4, the mean decrease in plasma glucose was sustained through a 24-hour period in saxagliptin-treated patients. Treatment with saxagliptin 5 mg + metformin XR resulted in significant mean reductions from baseline in 4-hour mean weighted postprandial glucose (PPG), 2-hour PPG, 3-day average mean daily glucose, and fasting plasma glucose levels compared with placebo + metformin XR (p ≤ 0.001). The proportion of adverse events (AEs) was similar in the two treatment groups, with no reported hypoglycemic AEs in saxagliptin-treated patients. The 4-week evaluation period may have been insufficient to evaluate longer term effects on hyperglycemia or to identify additional AEs.
In patients with T2DM treated with metformin XR, saxagliptin 5 mg orally administered once daily in the evening for 4 weeks effectively lowered plasma glucose concentrations through the 24-hour dosing interval and was well tolerated.
The intracerebroventricular injection of ethacrynic acid (a 50% convulsive dose; 50 micrograms/mouse) accelerated brain noradrenaline turnover and decreased noradrenaline contents. The decrease in noradrenaline contents was antagonized by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate but not by diazepam. Both 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and diazepam suppressed the incidence of ethacrynic acid-induced convulsions while reserpine, alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine or FLA-63 augmented it. The results suggest that stimulation by ethacrynic acid of excitatory amino acid neurons enhances-noradrenergic neuronal anticonvulsive activity.
Atrazine (ATR) is used as a pre- and post-emergent herbicide; although banned in several countries of the European Community, it is still used extensively around the world. A recent study in rats has shown that chronic, daily exposure to 10 mg ATR/kg BW causes hyperactivity, disrupts motor coordination and learning of behavioral tasks, and decreases dopamine levels in the brain. In order to evaluate the short-term effect of ATR exposure on locomotor activity, monoamine markers, and antioxidants, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received six IP injections of 100 mg ATR/kg BW or vehicle over two weeks. After every ATR injection we found hypoactivity that lasted up to five days, and it was accompanied by reductions in levels of striatal DA, DOPAC, and HVA without any alteration in the striatal expression of the mRNAs for Mn-SOD, Trx-1, DAR-D(1), or DAR-D(2). In contrast, in the nucleus accumbens no changes in monoamine markers were observed, and a down-regulation of Trx-1 expression was detected shortly after the ATR treatment. Moreover, in the ventral midbrain, we found that ATR induced a down-regulation of mRNA for Th and DAT, but it increased VMAT2 mRNA expression. Decreases of monoamine levels and of locomotor activity disappeared three months after ATR treatment; however, an amphetamine challenge (1 mg/kg) given two months after the ATR treatment resulted in a significant stimulation in the exposed group, revealing hidden effects of ATR on dopaminergic systems. These results indicate that ATR exposure differentially modifies the dopaminergic systems, and these modifications may underlie the behavioral changes observed.
To determine the efficacy of oral nimodipine in reducing cerebral infarction and poor outcomes (death and severe disability) after subarachnoid haemorrhage.
Double blind, placebo controlled, randomised trial with three months of follow up and intention to treat analysis. To have an 80% chance with a significance level of 0.05 of detecting a 50% reduction in an incidence of cerebral infarction of 15% a minimum of 540 patients was required.
Four regional neurosurgical units in the United Kingdom.
In all 554 patients were recruited between June 1985 and September 1987 out of a population of 1115 patients admitted with subarachnoid haemorrhage proved by the results of lumbar puncture or computed tomography, or both. The main exclusion criterion was admission to the neurosurgical units more than 96 hours after subarachnoid haemorrhage. There were four breaks of code and no exclusions after entry. One patient was withdrawn and in 130 treatment was discontinued early. All patients were followed up for three months and were included in the analysis, except the patient who had been withdrawn.
Placebo or nimodipine 60 mg was given orally every four hours for 21 days to 276 and 278 patients, respectively. Treatment was started within 96 hours after subarachnoid haemorrhage.
Incidence of cerebral infarction and ischaemic neurological deficits and outcome three months after entry.
Demographic and clinical data, including age, sex, history of hypertension and subarachnoid haemorrhage, severity of haemorrhage according to an adaptation of the Glasgow coma scale, number and site of aneurysms on angiography, and initial findings on computed tomography were measured at entry. Deterioration, defined as development of a focal sign or fall of more than one point on the Glasgow coma scale for more than six hours, was investigated by using clinical criteria and by computed tomography, by lumbar puncture, or at necropsy when appropriate. All episodes of deterioration and all patients with a three month outcome other than a good recovery were assessed by a review committee.
Demographic and clinical data at entry were similar in the two groups. In patients given nimodipine the incidence of cerebral infarction was 22% (61/278) compared with 33% (92/276) in those given placebo, a significant reduction of 34% (95% confidence interval 13 to 50%). Poor outcomes were also significantly reduced by 40% (95% confidence interval 20 to 55%) with nimodipine (20% (55/278) in patients given nimodipine v 33% (91/278) in those given placebo).
Oral nimodipine 60 mg four hourly is well tolerated and reduces cerebral infarction snd improves outcome after subarachnoid haemorrhage.
Protective effects of NMDA antagonists on dopaminergic and serotonergic neurotoxicity produced by methamphetamine (MA) were examined. Four injections of MA (7.5 mg/kg, s.c., at 2 h intervals) caused significant decrements (40-60% of control values) in levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites in the rat striatum and levels of serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolite in the medial prefrontal cortex, nucleus accumbens, striatum, anterior hypothalamus, amygdala and hippocampus. These decreases in DA, 5-HT and their metabolites were prevented by pretreatment with MK-801, a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, or D-CPP-ene (SDZ EAA 494), a competitive NMDA antagonist. The results suggest that NMDA receptors play a role for MA-induced serotonergic damage in various brain regions as well as dopaminergic damage in the striatum.
The effectiveness of olanzapine in treating challenging behaviors in the intellectually disabled and its ability to substitute for conventional antipsychotic drugs were evaluated.
A total of 20 institutionalized adults with a mean age of 42.7 years (range, 18-55 years) with intellectual disability and aggression, self-injurious behavior, destructive/disruptive behavior, or combinations of these behaviors were studied. These individuals were receiving multiple psychotropic medications at baseline and were given additional treatment with the atypical antipsychotic agent olanzapine. The mean dose of olanzapine was 9.1 mg/day (range, 2.5-22.5 mg/day). Effectiveness was determined by retrospective review of the summaries of quarterly neuropsychiatric behavioral reviews and retrospective review of longitudinal behavioral graphs of target symptoms. Data were collected from 1995 to 2000.
A significant decrease in global challenging behaviors and specific target behaviors (i.e., aggression, self-injurious behaviors, destructive/disruptive behaviors) occurred (p <.05). A numerical decrease in the dosage of concurrent conventional antipsychotic medications occurred over the course of the first 6 months of olanzapine therapy, and a statistically significant (p <.005) decrease from the start of olanzapine therapy occurred in those subjects who received olanzapine for longer than 6 months (mean = 20.3 months). A significant increase in weight occurred in the subject group during the first 6 months of olanzapine treatment (p <.006), and sedation and constipation were the other common side effects noted.
Olanzapine was found to be effective in the treatment of challenging behaviors in the intellectually disabled and in part could be substituted for administration of conventional antipsychotic drugs.
The influence of dosage regimen on the nephrotoxicity, ototoxicity, and antibacterial efficacy of tobramycin was assessed in Fisher rats with Pseudomonas aeruginosa subcutaneous abscesses. A subcutaneous tobramycin dose of 10 mg/kg every 4 h resulted in peak and trough serum concentrations that approximated those currently recommended for patients. Subsequently, the influence of this subcutaneous dosage regimen was compared with three other regimens that administered the same total daily dose: 20 mg every 8 h, 30 mg every 12 h, and 60 mg every 24 h. Renal injury was assessed by measuring inulin clearance and in vivo synthesis of renal DNA and by histopathology. Cochlear histology was also assessed. The number of P. aeruginosa per abscess was quantitated. In animals with infected abscesses, there was a consistent trend of greater kidney injury with the more-frequent dosage regimens. There was no evidence of cochlear toxicity in any group. All regimens were equally effective in reducing the number of P. aeruginosa in subcutaneous abscesses.
The objective of this study was to determine whether the expressions of the excision cross-complementing (ERCC1), thymidylate synthase (TS) and glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1) are predictive of clinical outcomes in advanced gastric cancer (AGC) patients receiving treatment with adjuvant 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and cisplatin (FP) chemotherapy. One hundred forty nine patients were included in this study. ERCC1 and GSTP1 expression was correlated significantly with tumor size (p = 0.040, p = 0.018, respectively). Stage and positive lymph node ratio were associated independently with disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS). Both ERCC1 and GSTP1 expression had a significant impact on OS (hazard ratio = 0.069, p = 0.021). TS expression was not related to DFS and OS.
Embryogenetic disorders are one of the most serious problems in the life of an epileptic. Over the last few decades many antiepileptic drugs, including valproic acid, have been shown to have teratogenic properties. Embryopathy due to valproate, also known as fetal valproate syndrome, is a well-known and documented example of these conditions.
We report the case of a preterm newborn infant who, at birth, exhibited a syndrome characterised by facial dysmorphia, gingival hyperplasia, neurological hyperexcitability and multiple malformations, the most striking of which was the presence of predominantly temporal atrophy in the left brain hemisphere. The most significant event in the medical history of the case was the mother's taking valproate in monotherapy throughout the entire period of gestation as treatment for generalised idiopathic epilepsy that was diagnosed during adolescence. Screening precluded the most common metabolic, hereditary or infectious causes that can cause embryopathies.
The mother's history of taking valproic acid and the specific findings that coincided in the peculiar embryopathy of this patient enabled us to link them.
Methemoglobinemia produced by exposure to the herbicide propanil (3,4-dichloropropionanilide) is thought to be mediated by toxic metabolites formed during the hepatic clearance of the parent compound. We examined the metabolism of propanil and 3,4-dichloroaniline in rat liver microsomes to identify metabolites that may be involved in propanil-induced methemoglobinemia. The major pathway of propanil metabolism in microsomal incubations was acylamidase-catalyzed hydrolysis to 3,4-dichloroaniline. The reaction did not require NADPH, and was inhibited by the acylamidase inhibitors paraoxon and sodium fluoride. Oxidized metabolites were isolated by high-performance liquid chromatography, and identified as 2'-hydroxypropanil and 6-hydroxypropanil by comparison of their mass and nuclear magnetic resonance spectra to those of synthetic standards. Major microsomal metabolites of 3,4-dichloroaniline were 6-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline and N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline. Both N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline and 6-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline directly oxidized hemoglobin in rat erythrocyte suspensions in a concentration-dependent manner; however, the potency of N-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline was at least an order of magnitude greater than that of 6-hydroxy-3,4-dichloroaniline.
Recently, a great deal of attention has been devoted to organosulfur compounds with potential cancer chemopreventive properties. Many sulfur-containing substances present in Brassica plants have been reported to possess striking anticarcinogenic and antimutagenic activities. Besides naturally occurring organosulfur compounds, certain synthetic sulfur-containing pharmaceuticals, such as oltipraz and sulindac, are known to exert substantial chemopreventive or chemoprotective effects. Isopropyl-2-(1, 3-dithietane-2-ylidene)-2-[N-(4-methylthiazol-2-yl)carbamoyl ]acetate (YH439) was initially developed for its possible use as a hepatoprotectant. The compound has been found to up-regulate the expression of cytochrome P-450 IA1 [I.J. Lee, K.S. Jeong, B.J. Roberts, A.T. Kallarakal, P. Fernandez-Salguero, F.J. Gonzalez, B.J. Song, Transcriptional induction of the cytochrome P-450 1A1 gene by a thiazolium compound YH439, Mol. Pharmacol. 49 (1996) 980-988.] which plays a pivotal role in metabolism of the majority of polycyclic aromatic carcinogens and mutagens, such as benzo[a]pyrene (B[a]P). In the present study, we found that oral administration of YH439 to CD-1 mice significantly suppressed B[a]P-initiated skin tumorigenesis. B[a]P-induced formation of micronuclei in mouse peripheral reticulocytes was also attenuated by YH439 pretreatment. Likewise, diallyl sulfide, a major volatile thioether present in garlic, also protected against B[a]P-induced skin tumorigenesis and micronucleated reticulocyte formation in mice.
TAS1R taste receptors and their associated heterotrimeric G protein gustducin are involved in sugar and amino acid sensing in taste cells and in the gastrointestinal tract. They are also strongly expressed in testis and sperm, but their functions in these tissues were previously unknown. Using mouse models, we show that the genetic absence of both TAS1R3, a component of sweet and amino acid taste receptors, and the gustducin α-subunit GNAT3 leads to male-specific sterility. To gain further insight into this effect, we generated a mouse model that expressed a humanized form of TAS1R3 susceptible to inhibition by the antilipid medication clofibrate. Sperm formation in animals without functional TAS1R3 and GNAT3 is compromised, with malformed and immotile sperm. Furthermore, clofibrate inhibition of humanized TAS1R3 in the genetic background of Tas1r3(-/-), Gnat3(-/-) doubly null mice led to inducible male sterility. These results indicate a crucial role for these extraoral "taste" molecules in sperm development and maturation. We previously reported that blocking of human TAS1R3, but not mouse TAS1R3, can be achieved by common medications or chemicals in the environment. We hypothesize that even low levels of these compounds can lower sperm count and negatively affect human male fertility, which common mouse toxicology assays would not reveal. Conversely, we speculate that TAS1R3 and GNAT3 activators may help infertile men, particularly those that are affected by some of the mentioned inhibitors and/or are diagnosed with idiopathic infertility involving signaling pathway of these receptors.
The ventricular myocardium of CD1 mice given a single high dose (LD50) of daunorubicin (DNR) or its derivative, 4-demethoxydaunorubicin (4DD), was studied under the electron microscope. Severe degenerative alterations were observed, but only in the mitochondria in myocardial tissue samples taken 3 and 7 days after treatment. This suggests that mitochondrial lesions might play an important role in the pathogenesis of anthracycline myocardipathy. Furthermore, the nucleolar segregation phenomenon, already described in experimental doxorubicin myocardiopathy, was not observed in the myocardial samples taken 1 and 3 h after DNR or 4DD injection: this fact may be interpreted, without excluding a possible DNA-mediated toxic mechanism, as the result of different kinetic behaviour of DNR and 4DD compared to doxorubicin.
We are reporting the clinical and pathologic features of severe acute renal failure which developed in a patient after the institution of cimetidine (Targamet) therapy. A renal biopsy specimen revealed an acute interstitial nephritis with numerous plasma cells and eosinophils suggestive of an immunologic reaction. Marked improvement of renal function occurred within three weeks after cessation of the drug therapy. Our clinical and pathologic data strongly suggest an association between acute interstitial nephritis and cimetidine, a suggestion which should be confirmed by additional case studies.
The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of 1,4-cyclohexanediol as a retardant on the percutaneous absorption and penetration of azelaic acid. Hairless rat skin was mounted on Franz diffusion cells and treated with topical formulations containing solubilized azelaic acid with and without 1,4-cyclohexanediol. The skin was separated into stratum corneum and the deeper skin layers. The azelaic acid collected in receptor medium and each layer at the end of each time point was extracted and quantified. A significant decrease in flux across the skin suggests a penetration retardation effect of 1,4-cyclohexanediol (42.50 microg/cm(2)/h in the presence of vs. 76.25 microg/cm(2)/h in the absence of) at active loading level of 1.13 mg/cm(2). The penetration retardation effect was also observed at higher active loading level (2.82 mg/cm(2)). Furthermore, presence of 1,4-cyclohexanediol in the topical formulation did not reduce the skin and epidermal retention of azelaic acid, suggesting its potential use in the development of superior topical formation for reducing potential systematic side effect while maintaining therapeutic efficiency.
A case of a patient with astrocytoma who showed somnolence and asterixis one month after tumour resection is presented. Although primidone had been prescribed preoperatively for five years and the same dose was maintained after the operation, the serum concentration of the primidone metabolite phenobarbital was elevated and she demonstrated hyperammonemic encephalopathy, which disappeared on withdrawal of the drug. A description of this seldom reported phenomenon during primidone therapy is given, with reference to valproate cases.
A number of Thai medicinal plants, recommended as remedies for herpesvirus infection and have been used in primary health care were investigated for their intracellular activities against herpes simplex viruses (HSV). Centella asiatica L., Maclura cochinchinensis Cornor, and Mangifera indica L. contained both anti-HSV-1 and -2 activities, as determined by plaque inhibition assay. An inhibition of the production of infectious HSV-2 virions from infected Vero cells could also be demonstrated. Combinations of each of these reconstituted extracts with 9-(2-hydroxyethoxymethyl) guanosine (acyclovir; ACV) resulted either in subadditive, additive, or synergistic interaction, against HSV-2, depending on the dose of ACV used; mixture of C. asiatica and M. indica exerted an additive effect in a similar assay. Furthermore, the inhibitory effects of these plant extracts were also substantiated by flow cytometric analysis of virus-specific antigens in the infected cells. The active constituent present in C. asiatica extract was determined to be asiaticoside while in M. indica was mangiferin. Thus, these data suggest therapeutic potential of these plant extracts.
The author describes the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone, with serum sodium decreasing from 137 mEq/L to 122 mEq/L in an 80-year-old woman prescribed clomipramine. The patient's delirium and serum sodium were slow to normalize, prolonging her hospital stay and delaying treatment of her depression.
Because heart failure therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors may not be optimal, owing to persistent levels of angiotensin II occurring through incomplete blockade and alternate pathways, the benefit of adding irbesartan, an angiotensin receptor antagonist, to conventional therapy, including ACE inhibitors, was examined. In this multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 109 patients with heart failure (New York Heart Association functional class II and III) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) < or = 40% received stable doses of ACE inhibitors and diuretics before and throughout the study. Irbesartan was titrated as tolerated to 150 mg once daily in all patients. Exercise tolerance time (ETT), LVEF and clinical status were assessed at baseline and after 12 weeks. Compared with placebo, irbesartan in combination with conventional therapy, including ACE inhibitors, produced favourable trends in ETT and LVEF and was well tolerated in patients with mild to moderate heart failure.
1. Hydrocortisone (HC; 80 mg/kg body weight, intraperitoneally for 4 days), both alone and in combination with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA; 160 mg/kg body weight, orally, for 4 days), decreased ASA general and specific toxicity via metabolic modulation of drug-metabolizing enzyme systems (intestinal ASA-esterase and hepatic UDP-glucuronyltransferase) and did not change the ASA analgesic effect. 2. ASA alone, given 4 for days, did not change the specific ASA toxicity, but increased its general acute toxicity, which was probably due to alterations in some intestinal and hepatic metabolizing enzyme systems.
1. A slow intravenous infusion of L-arginine (3 mg kg-1) lasting one hr produced significant hypotension in urethane-anaesthetized spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). 2. A slow intravenous infusion of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) (3 mg kg-1 h-1) did not produce any significant change in the mean arterial pressure during infusion. After stopping infusion of L-NAME, a slowly developing increase of the mean arterial pressure was observed during the following 40 min. 3. The pressor response to physostigmine (20, 40 and 80 micrograms kg-1, IV), injected during a slow intravenous infusion of either L-arginine or L-NAME, was not changed. 4. L-arginine and L-NAME depressed the pressor responses to physostigmine, if physostigmine was injected after the end of a 1-hr infusion. 5. Acute pretreatment with increasing doses of physostigmine markedly affected the blood pressure response to L-arginine (i.e., L-arginine-caused hypotension was more pronounced), but only slightly that to L-NAME. 6. In conclusion, L-arginine, as a donor of NO, produced hypotension by itself and also decreased, but not significantly, the central cholinergically-mediated hypertension (CCMH) produced by physostigmine. It is quite possible that the peripheral NO released by L-arginine antagonized the increased adrenergic activity in the CCMH. This does happen in normotensive rats, but to a lesser degree than in SHRs, as shown in the current experiments. 7. Also, our results show that inhibition of endogenous NO biosynthesis using L-NAME does not necessarily lead to pressor response in vivo, at least in SHRs. It is concluded that L-arginine-nitric oxide pathways operate in SHRs, as well as in normotensive Wistar rats, but their role in modulating cholinergically-mediated regulation of the mean arterial pressure is less pronounced in SHRs than in normotensive animals.
X-Linked hypophosphatemia is the most common cause of metabolic rickets in humans and is characterized by a reduced renal TmP/GFR and hypophosphatemia. Clinically, these changes are associated with growth retardation including attenuated craniofacial growth, femoral and tibial bowing, and radiologic and histomorphometric evidence of rickets and osteomalacia. Similar mutations occur in mice at the Hyp and Gy gene loci. Direct craniometric measurements were made on mouse skulls to investigate the pattern of craniofacial growth differences in the Hyp/+, Hyp/Hyp and Gy/+ genotypes and to compare these to littermate normals in the C57BL/6J mouse strain. There was generalized attenuation in craniofacial growth in all mutants. The heterozygous Hyp and Gy mutants showed similar patterns of craniofacial growth with diminished neurocranial length, viscerocranial length, and mandibular height. The Gy/+ was significantly smaller than the Hyp/+ in neurocranial width. The homozygous Hyp mouse was not affected more severely than the heterozygous Hyp except in overall cranial length, nasal bone length, and mandibular length from mandibular foramen to third molar. In summary, the heterozygous Hyp and Gy mutant mice showed similar patterns of craniofacial growth. The homozygous Hyp mouse was not affected more severely than the heterozygous Hyp except in three of the 15 measured variables. Thus, these data demonstrate the almost complete dominance of the Hyp gene. In contrast, the Gy gene is incompletely dominant. The heterozygous Gy females survive, but the hemizygous Gy males do not, on a C57BL/6J background. This suggests that there is a family of closely linked genes on the X chromosome which, while similar in their effects on phosphate homeostasis, have differing mechanisms of action.
Ketamine evokes psychosislike symptoms, and its primary action is to impair N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor neurotransmission, but it also induces secondary increases in glutamate release.
To identify the sites of action of ketamine in inducing symptoms and to determine the role of increased glutamate release using the glutamate release inhibitor lamotrigine.
Two experiments with different participants were performed using a double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, crossover, counterbalanced-order design. In the first experiment, the effect of intravenous ketamine hydrochloride on regional blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal and correlated symptoms was compared with intravenous saline placebo. In the second experiment, pretreatment with lamotrigine was compared with placebo to identify which effects of ketamine are mediated by increased glutamate release.
Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility, Manchester, England.
Thirty-three healthy, right-handed men were recruited by advertisements.
In experiment 1, participants were given intravenous ketamine (1-minute bolus of 0.26 mg/kg, followed by a maintenance infusion of 0.25 mg/kg/h for the remainder of the session) or placebo (0.9% saline solution). In experiment 2, participants were pretreated with 300 mg of lamotrigine or placebo and then were given the same doses of ketamine as in experiment 1.
Regional BOLD signal changes during ketamine or placebo infusion and Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale and Clinician-Administered Dissociative States Scale scores.
Ketamine induced a rapid, focal, and unexpected decrease in ventromedial frontal cortex, including orbitofrontal cortex and subgenual cingulate, which strongly predicted its dissociative effects and increased activity in mid-posterior cingulate, thalamus, and temporal cortical regions (r = 0.90). Activations correlated with Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale psychosis scores. Lamotrigine pretreatment prevented many of the BOLD signal changes and the symptoms.
These 2 changes may underpin 2 fundamental processes of psychosis: abnormal perceptual experiences and impaired cognitive-emotional evaluation of their significance. The results are compatible with the theory that the neural and subjective effects of ketamine involve increased glutamate release.
