Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) express alpha-smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA) and acquire a profibrogenic phenotype upon activation by noxious stimuli. Insulin-like growth I (IGF-I) has been shown to stimulate HSCs proliferation in vitro, but it has been reported to reduce liver damage and fibrogenesis when given to cirrhotic rats.
The authors used transgenic mice (SMP8-IGF-I) expressing IGF-I under control of alphaSMA promoter to study the influence of IGF-I synthesised by activated HSCs on the recovery from liver injury.
The transgene was expressed by HSCs from SMP8-IGF-I mice upon activation in culture and in the livers of these animals after CCl4 challenge. Twenty four hours after administration of CCl4 both transgenic and wild type mice showed similar extensive necrosis and increased levels of serum transaminases. However at 72 hours SMP8-IGF-I mice exhibited lower serum transaminases, reduced hepatic expression of alphaSMA, and improved liver morphology compared with wild type littermates. Remarkably, at this time all eight CCl4 treated wild type mice manifested histological signs of liver necrosis that was severe in six of them, while six out of eight transgenic animals had virtually no necrosis. In SMP8-IGF-I mice robust DNA synthesis occurred earlier than in wild type animals and this was associated with enhanced production of HGF and lower TGFbeta1 mRNA expression in the SMP8-IGF-I group. Moreover, Colalpha1(I) mRNA abundance at 72 hours was reduced in SMP8-IGF-I mice compared with wild type controls.
Targeted overexpression of IGF-I by activated HSCs restricts their activation, attenuates fibrogenesis, and accelerates liver regeneration. These effects appear to be mediated in part by upregulation of HGF and downregulation of TGFbeta1. The data indicate that IGF-I can modulate the cytokine response to liver injury facilitating regeneration and reducing fibrosis.
Postoperative ileus (POI), a transient impairment of bowel function, is considered an inevitable response after open abdominal surgery. It leads to significant patient morbidity and increased hospital costs and length of stay. The pathophysiology is multifactorial, involving neurogenic, hormonal, inflammatory and pharmacologic mediators. Several treatments have been shown to reduce the duration of POI, and a multimodal approach combining several of these interventions seems to be the most effective treatment option. Various drug therapies have been evaluated for the treatment of POI, although most have not shown any benefit. Peripherally active mu-opioid receptor antagonists are a new class of compounds that selectively block the peripheral (i.e., gastrointestinal [GI]) effects of opioids while preserving centrally mediated analgesia. Recently, alvimopan was approved in the US for the treatment of POI after abdominal surgery with bowel resection. Methylnaltrexone is a peripherally active mu-opioid receptor antagonist that has been shown to antagonize the inhibitory effects of opioids on GI transit without impairing analgesia. Phase II data indicated that methylnaltrexone was effective for improving GI recovery, reducing POI and shortening the time to discharge readiness in patients who underwent segmental colectomy. Two Phase III trials have been completed, and one is underway at present. Preliminary results from the two completed trials indicate that methylnaltrexone was not better than placebo for the primary or secondary outcomes. Further analyses of these data, clinical trial designs and the various dosage forms are necessary to determine the potential role of methylnaltrexone in the treatment of POI.
The association of variants in complement factors H and B with age-related macular degeneration has led to more intense genetic and functional analysis of the complement pathway. We identify a nonsynonymous coding change in complement factor 3 that is strongly associated with risk of age-related macular degeneration in a large case-control sample.
Carboplatin, a platinum-containing anticancer drug, is currently being used against a variety of cancers. However, a single high dose of carboplatin is ototoxic in cancer patients. This is the first study to show carboplatin-induced hearing loss in a rat model. Male Wistar rats were divided into five groups and treated as follows: (1) control (saline, intraperitoneally (i.p.)); (2) carboplatin (64 mg/kg, i.p.); (3) carboplatin (128 mg/kg i.p.); (4) carboplatin (192 mg/kg, i.p.) and (5) carboplatin (256 mg/kg, i.p.). Animals in all groups were sedated with ketamine/xylazine and auditory brain-evoked responses (ABRs) were recorded before and 4 days after treatments. The animals were sacrificed on the fourth day and cochleae were harvested and analyzed. Carboplatin dose-dependently decreased body weight. However, at higher doses of carboplatin (192 and 256 mg/kg), there was a significant elevation of hearing threshold shifts at clicks, 4, 8, 16 and 32 kHz tone burst stimuli. The higher doses of carboplatin (192 and 256 mg/kg) significantly increased cochlear lipid peroxidation (132 and 146% of control) and depleted cochlear glutathione levels (66 and 63% of control), respectively. The antioxidant enzyme activities such as superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, and glutathione-S-transferase (GST) depressed significantly at higher doses of carboplatin. The data suggest that higher doses of carboplatin (above 128 mg/kg) induce hearing loss as evidenced by significant changes in ABRs, lipid peroxidation and antioxidants in the cochlea of rats.
Although proxymetacaine and oxybuprocaine produce topical ocular and spinal anesthesia, they have never been tested as cutaneous anesthetics. We compared cutaneous analgesia of proxymetacaine and oxybuprocaine with bupivacaine and tested their central nervous system and cardiovascular toxicity.
After blockade of cutaneous trunci muscle reflex with subcutaneous injections, we evaluated the local anesthetic effect of proxymetacaine and oxybuprocaine on cutaneous analgesia in rats. After i.v. infusions of equipotent doses of oxybuprocaine, proxymetacaine, and bupivacaine, we observed the onset time of seizure, apnea, and impending death and monitored mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate.
Proxymetacaine and oxybuprocaine acted like bupivacaine and produced dose-related cutaneous analgesia. On a 50% effective dose basis, the ranks of potencies were proxymetacaine > oxybuprocaine > bupivacaine (P < 0.01). Under equipotent doses, the infusion times of proxymetacaine or oxybuprocaine required to cause seizure, apnea, and impending death were longer than that of bupivacaine (P < 0.05). The decrease in mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate was slower with oxybuprocaine and proxymetacaine compared with bupivacaine (P < 0.05 for the differences) at equipotent doses.
Oxybuprocaine and proxymetacaine were more potent at producing cutaneous anesthesia but were less potent than bupivacaine at producing central nervous system and cardiovascular toxicity.
Two neonates presented with sustained, monomorphic VT. Transesophageal electrophysiological studies demonstrated that the VTs were initiated with burst atrial pacing in one and noninducible in the other, and both terminated with burst atrial pacing and with adenosine. Oral verapamil suppressed the VTs in both. Following discontinuation of verapamil at 1 year of age, both children remain free of tachycardia recurrence at 3 and 4 years of age. These cases suggest that cAMP-mediated triggered activity may be responsible for some VTs in infancy.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a regimen using Irinotecan, 5FU and Leucovorin for patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.
Irinotecan (75 mg/m(2)) was administered biweekly, while 5FU (600 mg/m(2)) and Leucovorin (250 mg/m(2)) were administered weekly, for 6 weeks.
The 21 consecutive patients subjected to this regimen showed a good response rate (43%) with minimal toxicity (incidence of grade 3/4: leukopenia and neutropenia, 5%, respectively, and vomiting, 10%). The mean survival time of all 21 patients was 15.7 months. This regimen could be a valid option for patients with advanced colorectal cancer, especially those seeking a good QoL (quality of life) for the remainder of their lives. We evaluated the expression of thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD), thymidine phosphorylase (TP) and orotate phosphoribosyl transferase (OPRT) mRNAs, and sialyl Lewis X on formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded colorectal tumor samples. Expression of TS mRNA or sialyl Lewis X was negatively correlated with the response from chemotherapy. Patients with low DPD mRNA expression in the tumor showed a significant longer survival than those with high expression. In patients with high TP mRNA expression, there was a tendency towards a high incidence of leukopenia.
Some predictive factors elucidated in this study could contribute to the progress of the tumor-biology based, individualized chemotherapy for colorectal cancer patients.
Autism is a complex, heterogeneous, behaviorally-defined disorder characterized by disruptions of the nervous system and of other systems such as the pituitary-hypothalamic axis. In a previous genome wide screen, we reported linkage of autism with a 1.2 Megabase interval on chromosome 5q31. For the current study, we hypothesized that 3 of the genes in this region could be involved in the development of autism: 1) paired-like homeodomain transcription factor 1 (PITX1), which is a key regulator of hormones within the pituitary-hypothalamic axis, 2) neurogenin 1, a transcription factor involved in neurogenesis, and 3) histone family member Y (H2AFY), which is involved in X-chromosome inactivation in females and could explain the 4:1 male:female gender distortion present in autism.
A total of 276 families from the Autism Genetic Resource Exchange (AGRE) repository composed of 1086 individuals including 530 affected children were included in the study. Single nucleotide polymorphisms tagging the three candidate genes were genotyped on the initial linkage sample of 116 families. A second step of analysis was performed using tightly linked SNPs covering the PITX1 gene. Association was evaluated using the FBAT software version 1.7.3 for single SNP analysis and the HBAT command from the same package for haplotype analysis respectively.
Association between SNPs and autism was only detected for PITX1. Haplotype analysis within PITX1 showed evidence for overtransmission of the A-C haplotype of markers rs11959298 - rs6596189 (p = 0.0004). Individuals homozygous or heterozygous for the A-C haplotype risk allele were 2.54 and 1.59 fold more likely to be autistic than individuals who were not carrying the allele, respectively.
Strong and consistent association was observed between a 2 SNPs within PITX1 and autism. Our data suggest that PITX1, a key regulator of hormones within the pituitary-hypothalamic axis, may be implicated in the etiology of autism.
A toluene-2,4-diisocyanate (TDI)-induced asthma model, in which delayed-type hypersensitivity-like asthmatic airway obstruction is elicited restrictively in the lung, has never been developed.
Guinea pigs were percutaneously sensitized with TDI. For the challenges, once every 2 weeks for a total of 5 times, TDI mists were delivered directly to the lung through an oral cannula, with its tip being positioned in the opening of the trachea. Time-course changes in specific airway resistance (sRaw) were measured by double-flow plethysmography. Basic mechanisms underlying TDI-induced asthma were analyzed.
After the 2nd-5th challenges, induction of both an early increase in sRaw that peaked at 10 min and a delayed-type sRaw elevation that peaked at 22 h were observed. Interestingly, in the sensitized/challenged animals, baseline sRaw was elevated by repeated challenge as compared to that seen for non-sensitized animals. Intratracheal administration of a bronchodilator, salbutamol, strongly suppressed the early asthmatic response (EAR) but not the delayed-type asthmatic response (DAR). During DAR, both albumin leakage and fucose secretion into the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were increased. The cysteinyl leukotriene antagonist pranlukast failed to inhibit either EAR or DAR while the corticosteroid dexamethasone significantly suppressed DAR, without significantly affecting EAR.
Effective delivery of TDI to the lung may induce reproducible DAR in sensitized guinea pigs with chronicity that is reflected by an increase in the sRaw baseline. DAR is not mediated by constriction of airway smooth muscles and is probably due to the concurrent presence of mucosal edema and mucus hypersecretion in the airways.
Cimetidine is responsible for changes in serum creatinine. Previously reported, this has been thought to be related to an alteration in the manner in which the kidney handles creatinine. Herein a case of acute interstitial nephritis attributable to the ingestion of routine doses of cimeditine is detailed. Review of the changes in serum creatinine and renal function in patients taking cimetidine reveals that as many as 60% of the patients taking cimetidine may have changes in serum creatinine. In none of those series, however, have changes in urinary protein excretion or urinary sediment been followed. Recently several reports have been published in which patients have developed acute interstitial nephritis while taking cimetidine. However, in no previously reported case has the diagnosis been proved by rechallenging the patient with that drug. In our study the patient had moderate to severe renal insufficiency with acute interstitial nephritis while on cimetidine. Rechallenging the patient with cimetidine resulted in prompt return of clinical signs and symptoms as well as changes in serum creatinine and urinary sediment characteristics diagnostic of interstitial nephritis.
Captafol fed at concentrations of 0, 0.075, 0.15, 0.3, and 0.6% to both sexes of F344 rats for 13 weeks produced dose-related decreases in body weight in males and females given 0.15% or higher concentrations. A dose-dependent decrease in urinary pH was observed in males receiving 0.3 or 0.6% and in females given 0.15% or higher concentrations of captafol. The 0.3 and 0.6% doses produced slight increases in leukocyte count and glutamic-pyruvic transaminase activity in females, along with a mild increase in alkaline phosphatase activity in the 0.6% case. The liver- and kidney-to-body weight ratios were increased in both male and female rats. Histopathological changes were observed in the forestomach, liver, and kidney. Squamous cell hyperplasia and edema accompanied by polynuclear leukocyte infiltration and dilation of vessels in the lamina propria were observed in the forestomach of both sexes given 0.15% or higher concentrations. Oval cell proliferation was apparent around Glisson's sheath in the livers of females given 0.3 and 0.6% captafol. Multifocal appearance of karyocytomegaly and tubular cell atypia in the proximal tubules of the kidney was found in the 0.3 and 0.6% groups of both sexes.
The HIV protease inhibitor indinavir may cause nephrolithiasis and interstitial nephritis. The renal consequences of indinavir-associated nephrotoxicity are uncertain. We report a case of papillary necrosis in a patient treated with indinavir. An asymptomatic HIV-infected woman experienced right-sided renal colicky pain during treatment with indinavir. She passed a non-solid stone and continued indinavir treatment. Intravenous pyelogram performed 20 months later following an episode of left-sided colicky pain showed right-sided papillary necrosis. Indinavir-associated nephrolithiasis and chronic interstitial nephritis were the only possible causes identified in this patient. Physicians should be aware that indinavir nephrolithiasis may cause papillary necrosis.
Cocaine addiction is thought to involve persistent neurobiological changes that facilitate relapse to drug use despite efforts to abstain. But the propensity for relapse may be reduced by extinction training--a form of inhibitory learning that progressively reduces cocaine-seeking behaviour in the absence of cocaine reward. Here we show that extinction training during withdrawal from chronic cocaine self-administration induces experience-dependent increases in the GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate) glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens shell, a brain region that is critically involved in cocaine reward. Increases in the GluR1 subunit are positively associated with the level of extinction achieved during training, suggesting that GluR1 may promote extinction of cocaine seeking. Indeed, viral-mediated overexpression of both GluR1 and GluR2 in nucleus accumbens shell neurons facilitates extinction of cocaine- but not sucrose-seeking responses. A single extinction training session, when conducted during GluR subunit overexpression, attenuates stress-induced relapse to cocaine seeking even after GluR overexpression declines. Our findings indicate that extinction-induced plasticity in AMPA receptors may facilitate control over cocaine seeking by restoring glutamatergic tone in the nucleus accumbens, and may reduce the propensity for relapse under stressful situations in prolonged abstinence.
The hypotensive effect of short-term labetalol, the alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blocker, is greater in subjects in the orthostatic position, possibly because of the alpha-adrenoceptor blockade. During prolonged use the orthostatic blood pressure fall disappears. To verify whether or not this is due to reduction in alpha-blocking activity, phenylephrine-induced increase in blood pressure was studied in six subjects with mild essential hypertension before and after 3 and 6 days and 1 and 6 mo of continuous treatment with 200 mg labetalol three times a day by mouth. At the same intervals, isoproterenol-induced tachycardia was followed to assess beta-blockade. After 3 days on labetalol, the log dose-response curve of phenylephrine-induced increase in blood pressure shifted to the right and the dose of agonist required to elicit a 20% increase in systolic pressure was 1.7 times that before treatment. There was a progressive decline in the dose of agonist that induced the same increase in pressure so that after 6 mo of continuous labetalol it was the same as control. In contrast, the amount of isoproterenol needed to induce a 20% increase in heart rate was two to three times that before labetalol and did not change throughout 6 mo of therapy. These data indicate a decline in the alpha-adrenoceptor-blocking effect of oral labetalol without concomitant change in the degree of beta-adrenoceptor blockade. This might account for the disappearance of orthostatic hypotension early in the course of treatment and for some decrease in the antihypertensive efficacy of labetalol.
Pure lead molecules, showing anti-inflammatory effect were isolated from the marine Pseudomonas aeruginosa PS3 (GenBank Accession No. EF488968) and Pseudomonas fluorescens PS7 (GenBank Accession No. EF488969) using solvent extraction procedures, subsequent column fractionation, followed by bio activity based screening. The structures of the lead molecules (3S, 8aS)-3-isobutylhexahydropyrrolo[1,2-a]pyrazine-1,4-dione (Compound 1) and (8aS)-3-(4-hydroxybenyl) hexahydropyrrolo[1,2-a]pyrazine-1,4-dione (Compound 2) obtained from P. aeruginosa PS3 and P. fluorescens PS7 respectively were established employing spectral analysis. Compounds 1 and 2 at their IC(50) values of 84 and 53μM concentrations respectively down regulated expression of tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and interleukin 1-β (IL-1β) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene in RAW 264.7 cells. Immunoblot analysis revealed the inhibitory effect of pure compounds on phosphorylation of all the three mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK) such as ERK, JNK and p38 MAPK. The results of the present investigation revealed that the pure compounds are anti-inflammatory in nature.
A case of veno-occlusive disease of the liver with fatal outcome after dacarbazine (DTIC) therapy for melanoma is reported. There was a fulminant clinical course from start of symptoms until death. At autopsy the liver was enlarged and firm with signs of venous congestion. Small- and medium-sized hepatic veins were blocked by thrombosis. Eosinophilic infiltrations were found around the vessels. Published cases from the literature are reviewed and pertinent features discussed.
The risk of developing renal papillary necrosis or cancer of the renal pelvis, ureter or bladder associated with consumption of either phenacetin or paracetamol was calculated from data acquired by questionnaire from 381 cases and 808 controls. The risk of renal papillary necrosis was increased nearly 20-fold by consumption of phenacetin, which also increased the risk for cancer of the renal pelvis and bladder but not for ureteric cancer. By contrast, we were unable to substantiate an increased risk from paracetamol consumption for renal papillary necrosis or any of these cancers although there was a suggestion of an association with cancer of the ureter.
A high-throughput screen of our compound archive revealed a novel class of dual FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3)/c-KIT inhibitors. With the help of molecular modeling, this class was rapidly optimized for both potency against FLT3 and FLT3/c-KIT and excellent potency in cell-based assays, leading to dose-dependent cell death in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) patient blast samples. Ultimately, the AML patient blast data defined the preferred target profile as we designed and evaluated a set of FLT3 selective and FLT3/c-KIT dual molecules. Further optimization for pharmacokinetic properties resulted in the selection of the dual FLT3/c-KIT inhibitor, N(3)-(4-(trans-4-morpholinocyclohexyl)phenyl)-1-(pyridin-2-yl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-3,5-diamine, VX-322 (compound 37), to move forward to preclinical evaluation.
The authors report on the long-term results of chronic stereotactic stimulation of the ventralis intermedius thalamic nucleus performed in 14 cases of disabling and intractable tremor. There were 10 patients with parkinsonian tremor and four with essential tremor. Three of the 10 parkinsonian patients had previously undergone contralateral thalamotomy. Tremor was assessed by clinical evaluation, surface electromyography, accelerometer, and videotape recordings before and after stimulation. The deep-brain electrode was implanted in the ventralis intermedius nucleus according to stereotactic procedure and connected to a subcutaneous pulse generator after a stimulation test period. Tremor suppression or reduction was obtained in all cases with high-frequency (130 Hz) stimulation. Marked functional improvement was maintained in 11 patients with a mean follow-up interval of 17 months. Levodopa-induced dyskinesias observed in five parkinsonian patients prior to surgery were improved or suppressed in four cases by thalamic stimulation. Stimulation was continued during the day and stopped at night in eight cases. Six patients were stimulated night and day to avoid a rebound effect which appeared as soon as the pulse generator was stopped. The only side effects were hand tonic posture in one case and persistent paresthesia in another case. The mechanism of action of this attractive treatment may be a functional alteration of the thalamic discharging area. The authors conclude that this technique is a good alternative to thalamotomy, especially when the risks of high-frequency coagulation are severe in frail and older patients.
Recent studies have shown that neurogenic inflammation induced by cigarette smoke is inhibited by TRPA1 antagonist, but not by TRPV1 antagonist. Since cough reflex sensitivity is known to be modified by smoking status, we investigated the effects of cigarette smoking on TRPA1- and TRPV1-induced cough and urge-to-cough in healthy males.
Twenty-six healthy never-smokers and 30 healthy current smokers were recruited via public postings. Cough reflex thresholds and urge-to-cough were evaluated by inhalation of capsaicin, a TRPV1 agonist, and cinnamaldehyde, a TRPA1 agonist. The cough reflex thresholds were defined as the lowest concentrations of capsaicin and cinnamaldehyde that elicited two or more coughs (C(2)) and five or more coughs (C(5)), respectively. The urge-to-cough was evaluated using the modified Borg scale.
In capsaicin-induced cough, the cough reflex thresholds, as expressed by C(2) and C(5), in current smokers were significantly higher than those in never-smokers (p<0.01 and p<0.001, respectively). The urge-to-cough log-log slopes in current smokers were significantly lower than those of never-smokers (p<0.001). There were no significant differences in the thresholds of the urge-to-cough between never-smokers and current smokers. In cinnamaldehyde-induced cough, there were no significant differences in cough reflex thresholds in C(2) and C(5) between never-smokers and current smokers, nor were there any significant differences in urge-to-cough log-log slope between never-smokers and current smokers. There were no significant differences in the thresholds of the urge-to-cough between never-smokers and current smokers.
The study suggests that smoking has a differential effect on cough responses between TRPV1 and TRPA1 stimulations.
Investigators in the authors' laboratory previously established the critical participation of the cerulospinal noradrenergic pathway in muscular rigidity elicited by fentanyl. The identification of colocalization of glutamate with tyrosine hydroxylase in most locus ceruleus neurons suggests a role for cerulospinal glutamatergic neurotransmission in fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity. This suggestion and the subtype(s) of glutamate receptors involved were investigated here.
Electromyographic signals activated by bilateral microinjection of 2.5 microg fentanyl into the locus ceruleus were recorded differentially from the left sacrococcygeus dorsi lateralis muscle of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. The effect of intrathecal administration at the lower lumbar spinal cord of various N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptor antagonists or agonists on this index of muscular rigidity was studied. Rats were under mechanical ventilation, and intravenous infusion of ketamine (30 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1)) was maintained until 10 min before fentanyl was administered.
Microinjection of fentanyl bilaterally into the locus ceruleus increased the root mean square and decreased the mean power frequency values of electromyographic signals. The efficacy of fentanyl to elicit muscular rigidity in this manner was significantly reduced by previous intrathecal administration of either 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801), D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5), or (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP). Intrathecal administration of kainic acid or NMDA also resulted in significant electromyographic activation.
In addition to the cerulospinal noradrenergic mechanism, the cerulospinal glutamatergic pathway and both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors in the spinal cord may mediate fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity in the rat.
Ketamine, an antagonist N-Methyl-D-Aspartate receptor, induces a broad range of anomalies in healthy subjects similar to those observed in psychosis. Previous studies have shown that information sensorimotor processing was impaired in patients with schizophrenia. The aim of the study was to assess the effects of subanesthetic doses of ketamine on behavior symptoms and information processing in healthy volunteers. A double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled study was performed with eight subjects. Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, and Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms assessed behavior changes. Information processing was assessed using a choice reaction time. Three experimental factors (stimulus intensity, stimulus response compatibility, and foreperiod duration) chosen to affect a different stage of information processing were manipulated. Our study has demonstrated that administration of ketamine produced significant effects on Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms, and Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms scores. Results on choice reaction time demonstrated a significant longer reaction time under ketamine. Effects of stimulus intensity and compatibility stimulus response were similar under ketamine and under placebo. Moreover, there was a specific interaction between ketamine and foreperiod. This interaction indicated that foreperiod's effect was more prolonged under ketamine (29 ms) than under placebo (17 ms). These results showed that the clinical effects of ketamine were associated with schizophrenic-like impairments on choice reaction time in healthy subjects.
Acyclovir (ACY) is a useful therapeutic agent for the systemic treatment of herpes virus infection. An increase in urinary phosphate excretion and polyuria has been described. The objective of this study was to analyze the exact mechanism of the urinary-concentrating dysfunction and the increase in phosphaturia associated with ACY.
We first analyzed 7 (adult and pediatric) non-AIDS cases of encephalitis receiving 15 mg/kg bw/d of intravenous ACY. Fractional phosphate and sodium excretion, urinary potassium volume, and plasma phosphate concentrations were analyzed. Additional studies in rats treated with intraperitoneal ACY (100 mg/kg bw) were also conducted. Animals were maintained in metabolic cages and 24-hour urine samples were collected to measure volume, osmolality, and sodium/potassium/phosphate excretion. Treated rats were also evaluated after 24 hours and 48 hours of water deprivation. Northern hybridization and semiquantitative immunoblotting were performed to evaluate (in both control and treated animals) expression of the cotransporters Na-Pi type IIa (Na-Pi-IIa) and Na-K-2Cl (NKCC2). Semiquantitative immunoblotting was carried out in the kidneys of ACY rats and control rats in order to analyze aquaporin 2 (AQP2) protein expression.
Patients started on ACY developed polyuria and hyperphosphatemia after 48 hours. In rats, ACY-induced hyperphosphaturia and hypophosphatemia were accompanied by increased excretion of sodium, potassium, and magnesium, increased urine output, lower urinary osmolality, and a partial urinary concentrating defect. Concurrent downregulation of Na-Pi-IIa and NKCC2 expression was observed. There was also a decrease in medullar expression of the AQP2 collecting duct water channel.
Downregulation of Na-Pi-IIa appears to play a crucial role in the downregulation of ACY-induced hyperphosphaturia. The accompanying polyuria and urinary-concentrating defect can in part be explained by the downregulation of NKCC2 and AQP2.
Gastric cancer is classified into intestinal and diffuse types, the latter including a highly malignant form, linitis plastica. A two-stage genome-wide association study (stage 1: 85,576 SNPs on 188 cases and 752 references; stage 2: 2,753 SNPs on 749 cases and 750 controls) in Japan identified a significant association between an intronic SNP (rs2976392) in PSCA (prostate stem cell antigen) and diffuse-type gastric cancer (allele-specific odds ratio (OR) = 1.62, 95% CI = 1.38-1.89, P = 1.11 x 10(-9)). The association was far less significant in intestinal-type gastric cancer. We found that PSCA is expressed in differentiating gastric epithelial cells, has a cell-proliferation inhibition activity in vitro and is frequently silenced in gastric cancer. Substitution of the C allele with the risk allele T at a SNP in the first exon (rs2294008, which has r(2) = 0.995, D' = 0.999 with rs2976392) reduces transcriptional activity of an upstream fragment of the gene. The same risk allele was also significantly associated with diffuse-type gastric cancer in 457 cases and 390 controls in Korea (allele-specific OR = 1.90, 95% CI = 1.56-2.33, P = 8.01 x 10(-11)). The polymorphism of the PSCA gene, which is possibly involved in regulating gastric epithelial-cell proliferation, influences susceptibility to diffuse-type gastric cancer.
Cyclophosphamide is an alkylating agent used intravenously or orally in the treatment of both malignant and nonneoplastic diseases. A known adverse effect of such treatment is hemorrhagic cystitis. A series of 100 patients with hemorrhagic cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide was studied. Major symptoms were gross hematuria (78%) and irritative voiding symptoms (45%). Microhematuria developed in 93% of patients. Hemorrhagic cystitis developed at significantly lower doses and shorter durations of therapy in patients treated intravenously than in patients treated orally. Cystectomy was required in nine patients and bladder cancer developed in five. Urine cytologic study, urinalysis, and cystoscopy are important in the diagnosis of hemorrhagic cystitis, and these studies plus periodic excretory urography are important for surveillance. In addition, new methods of protecting against the urotoxicity are available.
In the present study, we have investigated the neuroprotective potential of ginsenoside Re (Re) in the middle cerebral artery occlusion model in Sprague-Dawley rats. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with Re (5, 10 or 20 mg kg(- 1), P.O. for 7 days, once a day) prior to occlusion. There was a significant increase in the neurological symptoms in ischemic animals as compared with the sham group animals. These effects were attenuated by 10 and 20 mg kg(- 1) Re, P.O. There was a significant increase in the level of malondialdehyde (MDA) in ischemic animals indicating oxidative stress. An elevated level of MDA in ischemic animals was reduced by 10 and 20 mg kg(- 1) Re, P.O., respectively. It was observed that Re significantly decreased mitochondrial swelling, thereby preventing the reduction of H(+)-ATPase activity. This study demonstrates the neuroprotective potential of Re in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats.
The high cost and protracted time line of new drug discovery are major roadblocks to creating therapies for neglected diseases. To accelerate drug discovery we created a library of 2,687 existing drugs and screened for inhibitors of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum. The antihistamine astemizole and its principal human metabolite are promising new inhibitors of chloroquine-sensitive and multidrug-resistant parasites, and they show efficacy in two mouse models of malaria.
