Occurrence of depressive behavior at mature age was studied in rats exposed neonatally to antidepressant drugs. Early antidepressant treatments have been shown to increase voluntary alcohol consumption and the percentage of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep relative to total sleep time in adult rats as well as to cause long-lasting reduction in the concentrations of monoamines in the forebrain. In the present study rats were daily given either 5 mg/kg desipramine or 25 mg/kg zimeldine from the 7th to the 18th postnatal days. When they were 2 months and 5 months of age behavioral 'despair' was studied by using a modified version of Porsolt's swim-test. At both ages the desipramine-treated and zimeldine-treated rats expressed lengthened immobility times in the water pail. The findings indicate that neonatal exposure of rats to desipramine or zimeldine induces behavioral 'despair' at mature age. Thus, early exposure of rats to antidepressants causes long-lasting behavioral disorders, and, moreover, may be used to devise an animal model of subsequent depression.
We aimed to determine the efficacy of oral midazolam as premedication to improve tolerance of flexible sigmoidoscopy.
Ninety-nine patients were randomized to receive 7.5 mg of oral midazolam solution mixed with apple juice or placebo (apple juice), 20 min before sigmoidoscopy. Patients' anxiety and pain experienced before sedation, before the procedure, and during the procedure were assessed using a 10-cm visual analog scale (VAS) by both patients and physicians (0 = no pain, anxiety, 10 = severe pain, anxiety). Extent of sedation, amnesia, overall tolerance, adequacy of sedation, and willingness to repeat the procedure were assessed, and changes in vital signs and oximetries were recorded.
Fifty-one patients received midazolam and 48 patients received placebo. Patients reported less pain and anxiety (VAS 2.56, 1.64) compared with placebo (VAS 4.62, 4.16) during the procedure (p < 0.005, p < 0.0005). Physicians observed less pain and anxiety (VAS 2.19, 1.52) with midazolam than placebo (VAS 5.00, 3.97) during the procedure (p < 0.0001, p < 0.0001). A significantly greater number of patients judged tolerance of the procedure to be "excellent" using midazolam (p < 0.005) compared with placebo. A majority of patients in both groups was willing to repeat the procedure if recommended. Two patients in the midazolam group had transient asymptomatic hypotension during sigmoidoscopy, but no patients were observed to have desaturation by oximetry.
Oral midazolam significantly reduces anxiety and pain during flexible sigmoidoscopy as assessed by both patients and physicians. Oral midazolam is a safe and effective premedication before flexible sigmoidoscopy in patients who require or prefer sedation.
A histopathological study of cyclophosphamide-induced cardiotoxicity has been conducted in 43 Swiss albino rats. Multiple interstitial myocardial haemorrhage, multifocal myofibre necrosis, inflammatory reaction, vascular changes, pericarditis and valvulitis, mainly in the heart ventricles, have been observed. Previous results have suggested that cyclophosphamide directly damages the vascular endothelium, followed by the extravasation of blood containing high levels of the drug, and resulting into a toxic damage of the muscle cells. Our results are in favor of this hypothesis.
Interpatient variability in montelukast response may be related to variation in leukotriene pathway candidate genes.
To determine associations between polymorphisms in leukotriene pathway candidate genes with outcomes in patients with asthma receiving montelukast for 6 mo who participated in a clinical trial.
Polymorphisms were typed using Sequenom matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass array spectrometry and published methods; haplotypes were imputed using single nucleotide polymorphism-expectation maximization (SNP-EM). Analysis of variance and logistic regression models were used to test for changes in outcomes by genotype. In addition, chi(2) and likelihood ratio tests were used to test for differences between groups. Case-control comparisons were analyzed using the SNP-EM Omnibus likelihood ratio test.
Outcomes were asthma exacerbation rate and changes in FEV(1) compared with baseline.
DNA was collected from 252 participants: 69% were white, 26% were African American. Twenty-eight SNPs in the ALOX5, LTA4H, LTC4S, MRP1, and cysLT1R genes, and an ALOX5 repeat polymorphism were successfully typed. There were racial disparities in allele frequencies in 17 SNPs and in the repeat polymorphism. Association analyses were performed in 61 whites. Associations were found between genotypes of SNPs in the ALOX5 (rs2115819) and MRP1 (rs119774) genes and changes in FEV(1) (p < 0.05), and between two SNPs in LTC4S (rs730012) and in LTA4H (rs2660845) genes for exacerbation rates. Mutant ALOX5 repeat polymorphism was associated with decreased exacerbation rates. There was strong linkage disequilibrium between ALOX5 SNPs. Associations between ALOX5 haplotypes and risk of exacerbations were found.
Genetic variation in leukotriene pathway candidate genes contributes to variability in montelukast response.
The present study was conducted to investigate the role of NK(1) receptors and of nitric oxide (NO) on the pathogenesis of cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis, in rats. This bladder toxicity was characterized by marked increases in protein plasma extravasation, urothelial damage, edema, white blood cell infiltrates, and vascular congestion. These changes were associated with appearance of Ca(2+)-independent NO-synthase (NOS) activity [characteristic of inducible NOS (iNOS)] in the bladder and with increases in urinary NO metabolites. GR205171, a selective NK(1) antagonist (10-20 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced cyclophosphamide-induced increases in protein plasma extravasation and in the urinary excretion of NO metabolites. N(G)-Nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) (10 mg/kg, i.p.), a NOS inhibitor, reduced basal and cyclophosphamide-induced increases in NO metabolites and protected against cyclophosphamide-induced protein plasma extravasation. GR205171 had no effect, whereas L-NNA reduced basal NO metabolite excretion. Combined treatment with the NK(1) antagonist and the NO-synthesis inhibitor produced comparable reduction in protein plasma extravasation than that achieved with each drug given separately. Combined drug treatment ameliorated cyclophosphamideinduced urothelial damage, and the extent of edema, vascular congestion, and white blood cell infiltrates in the bladder. In summary, NK(1) receptors and iNOS play a role in NO formation and on cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis. Activation of NK(1) receptors mainly acts through the formation of NO. It is proposed that cyclophosphamide and/or its metabolites would stimulate primary afferent capsaicin-sensitive fibers in the bladder, releasing neuropeptides, which would activate NK(1) receptors. However, additional mechanisms are involved, because neither the NK(1) receptor antagonist nor the NO synthesis inhibitor, either alone or in combination, were able to completely prevent the toxicity.
Renal function was assessed in 42 stable outpatients who had been taking lithium for an average of 4 1/2 years. Impaired ability to concentrate the urine was found in 61% of the 41 patients who provided a urine sample for an osmolality measurement, and a moderate reduction in creatinine clearance was present in 12% of the entire group; 1 patient showed both defects. Urine microscopy revealed an excess of cells in 40%. It is suggested that lithium therapy produces a self-limiting lesion of the distal nephron that does not usually progress to chronic renal failure. The lesion is not dangerous, except that it may predispose to acute neurotoxic effects in the event of intercurrent illness or dehydration.
Polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) flame retardants are known to affect thyroid hormone (TH) regulation. The TH-regulating deiodinases have been implicated in these impacts; however, PBDE effects on the fish thyroid system are largely unknown. Moreover, the liver as a potential target of PBDE toxicity has not been explored in young fish. This study measured decabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-209) effects on TH regulation by measuring deiodinase activity in juvenile fathead minnows (Pimephales promelas). Dietary accumulations and debromination of BDE-209 were also measured, and the morphology of thyroid and liver tissues was examined. Juvenile fathead minnows (28 days old) received a 28-day dietary treatment of BDE-209 at 9.8 ± 0.16 μg/g of food at 5% of their body weight per day followed by a 14-day depuration period in which they were fed clean food. Chemical analysis revealed that BDE-209 accumulated in tissues and was metabolized to reductive products ranging from penta- to octaBDEs with 2,2',4,4',5,6'-hexabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-154) being the most accumulative metabolite. By day 28 of the exposure, rates of outer and inner ring deiodination (ORD and IRD, respectively) of thyroxine (T4) were each reduced by ∼74% among treatments. Effects on T4-ORD and T4-IRD remained significant even after the 14-day depuration period. Histological examination of treated fish showed significantly increased thyroid follicular epithelial cell heights and vacuolated hepatocyte nuclei. Enlarged biliary passageways may be the cause of the distinctive liver phenotype observed, although further testing is needed. Altogether, these results suggest that juvenile fish may be uniquely susceptible to thyroid disruptors like PBDEs.
In registration trials, zafirlukast, an asthma medication, caused asymptomatic elevated aminotransferase levels in up to 5% of participants. Until now, however, no cases of severe hepatitis attributed to zafirlukast have been reported.
To report the clinical characteristics of three patients with severe hepatitis due to zafirlukast.
Case report.
One community hospital and two university hospitals.
Three middle-aged women taking zafirlukast, 20 mg twice per day.
Discontinuation of zafirlukast therapy in three patients, steroid therapy in two patients, and orthotopic liver transplantation in one patient.
Serum aminotransferase and bilirubin levels, standard blood tests for causes of hepatitis other than drug toxicity, and liver biopsy in two patients.
Patient 1 recovered spontaneously, had a severe relapse after inadvertent rechallenge with the medication, and ultimately made a complete recovery. Patient 2 developed subfulminant hepatic failure and required liver transplantation. Patient 3 developed severe hepatitis that improved after treatment with corticosteroids. Liver tissue was available from two patients and showed histologic changes commonly associated with drug reactions.
Patients receiving zafirlukast may develop severe liver injury and should be observed for signs and symptoms of hepatitis.
As part of our continuing search for bioactive natural products from plants, the present study was carried out in order to evaluate the gastroprotective properties of alkaloid extract and 2-phenylquinoline obtained from the bark of Galipea longiflora (Rutaceae). Anti-ulcer assays were performed using the following protocols in mice: nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)/bethanecol-induced ulcer, ethanol/HCl-induced ulcer, and stress-induced ulcer. The effects of the extract on gastric content volume, pH and total acidity were also evaluated, using the pylorus ligated model. Treatment using doses of 50, 125 and 250 mg/kg of G. longiflora alkaloid extract and positive controls (omeprazol or cimetidine) significantly diminished the lesion index, total lesion area, and percentage of lesion, in comparison with the negative control groups in all the models evaluated. Regarding the model of gastric secretion, a reduction in volume of gastric juice and total acidity was observed, as well as an increase in gastric pH. The main alkaloid of the plant, 2-phenylquinoline, was also evaluated in the ethanol-induced ulcer model. The results showed that at a dose of 50 mg/kg, it significantly inhibited ulcerative lesions. However, this effect was less than that of the alkaloid extract. All these results taken together show that G. longiflora displays gastroprotective activity, as evidenced by its significant inhibition of the formation of ulcers induced by different models. There are indications that mechanisms involved in anti-ulcer activity are related to a decrease in gastric secretion and an increase in gastric mucus content. Also, there is evidence of involvement of NO in the gastroprotector mechanisms. These effects may be attributed, at least in part, to the presence of some alkaloids, particularly 2-phenylquinoline.
The purpose of this study was to assess the biological effect of aspirin as measured by the inhibition of platelet aggregation in patients taking aspirin for stroke prevention and in patients with acute stroke.
We administered increasing doses of aspirin (325, 650, 975, and 1,300 mg daily) to 113 patients for stroke prevention and measured the inhibition of platelet aggregation in these patients and in 33 patients with acute stroke taking aspirin before stroke onset.
Eighty-five patients on < or = 325 and six on > or = 650 mg aspirin had complete inhibition of platelet aggregation. Increase of the dose by 325 mg in nine of the 22 patients with partial inhibition of platelet aggregation produced complete inhibition in five patients at 650 mg and in one at 975 mg. At 1,300 mg, three patients still had only partial inhibition of platelet aggregation (aspirin resistance). Of the 33 inpatients with acute stroke, 24 had platelet aggregation studies done before further administration of aspirin. Of these, 19 had complete inhibition of platelet aggregation and three had partial inhibition, with production of complete inhibition of platelet aggregation at dose escalation; one patient was aspirin-resistant and the other noncompliant.
How the inhibition of platelet aggregation relates to stroke prevention remains unclear. The ability of aspirin and the dose required to inhibit platelet aggregation may depend upon the individual.
Nine patients with severe myasthenia gravis, including ocular symptoms, who did not respond to anticholinesterase therapy were given prolonged courses of corticotrophin. In all patients except one there was an initial deterioration, sometimes necessitating assisted respiration, followed by a marked improvement which persisted for many weeks and occasionally months. It is concluded that corticotrophin should be continued for at least two weeks as the onset of the remission might be delayed. Repeated courses or small maintenance doses prolonged the remission. Fluid retention and hypokalaemia were common unwanted effects but necessitated stopping the treatment in only one patient.
To report a case of olmesartan medoxomil-induced angioedema in an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor-naïve patient.
A 61-year-old white woman with hypertension experienced significant swelling of her face, neck, and lips 10 days after initiation of olmesartan medoxomil 20 mg/day. After discontinuation of the drug, symptoms resolved within 10 days. Use of the Naranjo probability scale indicated a probable association between angioedema and olmesartan medoxomil.
An angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) is, in many cases, considered a safe alternative to an ACE inhibitor since serum bradykinin is thought not to be affected. However, angioedema has been reported with the use of ARBs, suggesting alternative pathways or mechanisms that result in this adverse reaction. Although not proven in humans, one explanation is that a secondary stimulation of angiotensin II AT2 receptors produces an increase in tissue bradykinin, resulting in angioedema.
As of February 26, 2007, this is the first published reported case of olmesartan medoxomil-induced angioedema. Practitioners should be aware of this rare but potentially serious adverse event.
Clinical studies have shown that anxiolytic and antidepressant drug therapy benefits patients with ulcers. Many antidepressant drugs have been shown experimentally to produce antiulcer activity in various ulcer models. This study investigated the antiulcer activities of tianeptine, trazodone, and venlafaxine on indomethacin-induced ulcers in rats; and evaluated tianeptine's effects on oxidant and antioxidant parameters in rat stomach tissue. The results show that trazodone and venlafaxine did not prevent indomethacin-induced ulcers. Tianeptine, however, decreased indomethacin-induced ulcers significantly at all doses used (6, 12, and 25 mg/kg). Famotidine, an H(2) receptor blocker, showed the highest antiulcer activity. Tianeptine significantly prevented the decrease in glutathione (GSH) content that occurred in the indomethacin-only group's damaged stomach tissues. All doses of tianeptine, but especially the 25 mg/kg dose, significantly decreased catalase (CAT) activity in stomach tissue, compared to the control. All doses of tianeptine eliminated the decrease in superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in the stomach tissue of rats given indomethacin. Although all doses of tianeptine significantly decreased the malondialdehyde (MDA) content, all doses of tianeptine, except 6 mg/kg, decreased myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities significantly compared to the control. Our results indicate that activating enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidant mechanisms and inhibiting some toxic oxidant mechanisms play a role in tianeptine's antiulcer effect mechanism.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder affecting motor neurons. Although most cases of ALS are sporadic, approximately 10% are inherited as an autosomal dominant trait. Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase gene (SOD 1) are responsible for a fraction of familial ALS (FALS). Screening our FALS kindreds by SSCP, we have identified mutations in 15 families, of which 9 have not been previously reported. Two of the new mutations alter amino acids that have never been implicated in FALS. One of them affects a highly conserved amino acid involved in dimer contact, and the other one affects the active-site loop of the enzyme. These two mutations reduce significantly SOD 1 enzyme activity in lymphoblasts. Our results suggest that SOD 1 mutations are responsible for > or = 13% of FALS cases.
Periodic leg movements in sleep (PLMS) unrelated to restless legs syndrome (RLS) are a polysomnographic finding with a controversial clinical value. We describe a patient with isolated periodic leg movements in sleep (without any awake or sleep complaints), who developed severe diurnal RLS symptoms a few months after starting dopaminergic treatment, a phenomenon mimicking augmentation. The diurnal RLS symptoms disappeared after withdrawal of the dopaminergic drugs. Serum ferritin levels were relatively low (31-61 mcg/l; normal: 30-400 mcg/l). Since low levels of ferritin have been implicated in the genesis of RLS, and augmentation is a phenomenon associated with RLS, our findings here suggest that asymptomatic PLMS may have pathogenic mechanisms similar to RLS. Isolated PLMS and RLS could be, at least in some cases, different clinical forms of the same disorder. The conjunction of dopaminergic treatment with low ferritin levels may expose a patient with isolated PLMS to the development of RLS. Discontinuation of dopaminergic drugs in patients with isolated PLMS who develop RLS during the course of the treatment would be a reasonable recommendation.
The effect of bupropion in the conditioned place preference paradigm in rats is described. In doses between 10 and 50 mg/kg i.p. bupropion increased the time rats spent in a shuttle box compartment conditioned to this compound. This effect of bupropion was not blocked by pretreatment of the animals with 0.1 mg/kg i.p. haloperidol or 50 mg/kg i.p. sulpiride. The same doses of the neuroleptics did, however, attenuate locomotor hyperactivity induced by bupropion. Bupropion thus seems to belong to the group of CNS stimulants whose effect in the conditioned place preference paradigm is not blocked by neuroleptics.
Cardiovascular conditioning reduces resting myocardial oxygen demand by lowering systolic blood pressure and heart rate. Lower myocardial oxygen demand at rest would be expected to be associated with a decrease in resting myocardial blood flow and, consequently, an increase in myocardial flow reserve as the ratio of hyperemic to resting blood flow. However, the effect of controlled exercise together with a low-lipid diet on myocardial blood flow and flow reserve has not been examined in humans.
Myocardial blood flow at rest and after dipyridamole-induced hyperemia (0.56 mg/kg i.v.) was quantified with [13N]ammonia and positron emission tomography in 13 volunteers before and upon completion of a 6-week program of cardiovascular conditioning and a low-fat diet. Exercise capacity and serum lipid profiles were also assessed at the start and finish of the program. Eight normal volunteers of similar age not participating in the conditioning program served as a control group. Cardiovascular conditioning lowered the resting rate-pressure product (8859 +/- 2128 versus 7450 +/- 1496, P < .001), serum cholesterol (217 +/- 36 versus 181 +/- 26 mg/dL), LDL cholesterol (140 +/- 32 versus 114 +/- 24 mg/dL), and triglycerides (145 +/- 53 versus 116 +/- 33 mg/dL, all P < .05). Exercise tolerance (metabolic equivalent of the task, METs) improved significantly from 10.0 +/- 3.0 to 14.4 +/- 3.6 (P < .01). Resting blood flow decreased (0.78 +/- 0.18 versus 0.69 +/- 0.14 mL.g-1.min-1, P < .05), whereas hyperemic blood flow increased (2.06 +/- 0.35 versus 2.25 +/- 0.40 mL.g-1.min-1, P < .05), resulting in an improved myocardial flow reserve (2.82 +/- 1.07 versus 3.39 +/- 0.91, P < .05). Overall, the myocardial flow reserve was significantly related to exercise performance (METs). In the control group, no changes in resting rate-pressure product, serum cholesterol levels, exercise performance, resting or hyperemic myocardial blood flow, or flow reserve were observed.
Short-term cardiovascular conditioning together with a low-fat diet results in an improved myocardial flow reserve by lowering resting blood flow and increasing coronary vasodilatory capacity. These changes are associated with an improved exercise capacity and may offer a protective effect in patients with coronary artery disease.
It has been suggested that behavioral aberrations observed in autism could be the result of dysfunction of the neuroregulatory role performed by the endogenous opioid peptides. Many of those aberrations have been recently modeled in rats exposed to valproic acid (VPA) on the 12th day of gestation (VPA rats).
The aim of the present study was to elucidate functioning of the enkephalinergic system, one of the endogenous opioid peptide systems strongly involved in emotional responses, in VPA rats using both biochemical and behavioral methods.
In situ hybridization was used to measure proenkephalin mRNA expression in adult VPA rats' central nucleus of the amygdala, the dorsal striatum, and the nucleus accumbens. Additional groups of animals were examined in a conditioned place aversion to naloxone, the elevated plus maze, and object recognition tests to assess their basal hedonic tone, anxiety, learning and memory, respectively.
Prenatal exposure to VPA decreased proenkephalin mRNA expression in the dorsal striatum and the nucleus accumbens but not in the central nucleus of the amygdala. It also increased anxiety and attenuated conditioned place aversion to naloxone but had no impact on learning and memory.
The present results suggest that prenatal exposure to VPA may lead to the decreased activity of the striatal enkephalinergic system and in consequence to increased anxiety and disregulated basal hedonic tone observed in VPA rats. Presented results are discussed in light of interactions between enkephalinergic, GABAergic, and dopaminergic systems in the striatum and mesolimbic areas of the brain.
In 1970 a 20 year old woman presented with a pituitary chromophobe adenoma for which she underwent transfrontal pituitary surgery. In 1978 she had to be reoperated on because of local tumour recurrence, resulting in hypopituitarism. Bromocriptine (5 mg/day) was given for 15 years, but the plasma prolactin levels remained elevated. In 2000 the patient presented with signs and symptoms suggestive of a spinal cord lesion at the mid-thoracic level. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan showed an extensive leptomeningeal mass extending from the brainstem to L5, with a thoracic syringomyelia at the T7-T8 level. The plasma prolactin level was very high (5114 microg/l). A biopsy showed the presence of a metastasised prolactinoma. On administration of high dose cabergoline, 0.5 mg twice a day orally, the plasma prolactin levels decreased within one month and then normalised within 26 months. Tumour load reduced considerably but unfortunately, her signs and symptoms did not improve. This case illustrates that a high dose dopamine agonist might be an important therapeutic option in patients with a metastasised prolactinoma.
A 39-year-old man developed an acute myocardial infarction 20 days after starting treatment with nicotine patches. He had not smoked while using the patches. He recovered without complications. Coronary angiography did not reveal coronary stenoses. He had no history of myocardial infarction, hypertension, or diabetes mellitus. Although coincidence cannot be excluded, it is recommended that all patients should be strongly advised not to smoke while using the nicotine patch and to consult a physician if chest pain develops.
Mangiferin, a polyphenol compound of C-glucoside, is well-known for its anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anticancer, antidiabetic and cognitive enhancement properties. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of mangiferin against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of Parkinson's disease (PD), which is most popular and widely used to evaluate therapeutic implications of new protective agents. Male C57BL/6 mice were orally treated with mangiferin (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg body wt.) for 14 days and from 10th day onwards MPTP (30 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected for last 5 days. MPTP treatment leads to enhanced oxidative stress, induction of apoptosis (upregulates the expression of Bax, proapoptotic protein and downregulates the expression of anti-apoptotic marker Bcl-2), and loss of dopominergic neurons which results in motor impairments. Results of our study confirmed that mangiferin prevented MPTP-induced behavioral deficits, oxidative stress, apoptosis, dopaminergic neuronal degeneration and dopamine depletion. Taken together, we conclude that mangiferin attenuates the dopaminergic neurodegeneration mainly through its potent antioxidant and antiapoptotic properties.
We evaluated the association between a persistent elevation of C-reactive protein (CRP) level and the presence or severity of ischemic heart disease (IHD) in patients with continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Seventy-three patients, who were over 40 years old, underwent dipyridamole thallium single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and followed-up for more than 1 year were enrolled. We measured stored plasma for CRP every 3 months. Elevation of CRP was defined as greater than or equal to 5 mg/L and persistent elevation of CRP as elevated CRP levels that lasted longer than 6 months. Serum albumin, cholesterol, lipoprotein(a), and plasma fibrinogen were measured at 3 months after the start of CAPD. Twenty-six patients showed an elevation of CRP for more than 6 months during the follow-up period. Twenty-eight patients showed positive findings on thallium SPECT. Coronary angiography showed significant stenosis (narrowing of the diameter more than 50%) in 23 of the 25 patients studied. Seventeen (65%) of 26 patients who had an elevated CRP level for longer than 6 months had positive thallium SPECT. The presence of diabetes, albumin, fibrinogen, and the presence of a persistent elevation of CRP were different between the patients with positive (n = 28) or negative thallium SPECT (n = 45). A multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that a persistent elevation of CRP is the only predictor of positive thallium SPECT (P = 0.002). There was a tendency of association, although it was not statistically significant, between the persistence of CRP elevation and the severity of IHD (P = 0.066). Three of 9 patients who had a persistent elevation of CRP and a negative thallium SPECT had a history of cerebral infarction or peripheral vascular disease. Therefore, 77% (20/26) of an elevated CRP level that lasted longer than 6 months can be explained by the presence of IHD or other atherosclerotic vascular disease. In conclusion, a persistent elevation of CRP level in patients with CAPD was strongly associated with IHD. For patients who have a persistent elevation of CRP without an apparent cause, we recommend a workup for IHD or other atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
We describe a 20-week-old fetus with multiple congenital anomalies exposed to acitretin in the first trimester of pregnancy. Acitretin and its ethylester etretinate are both vitamin A congeners; drugs of this group are well-known teratogenic agents. Since the marketing of acitretin only one report on human teratogenicity associated with acitretin has been published. The present male fetus showed severe symmetric anomalies of upper and lower limbs, craniofacial anomalies, ear anomalies, and an atrioventricular septal defect (ASD). Although the craniofacial anomalies resemble the abnormalities described in classical "retinoic acid embryopathy," limb anomalies were seldomly reported after maternal use of vitamin A congeners. However, in laboratory animals limb defects were frequently observed after retinoid exposure in utero. This case emphasizes again that extreme care and precaution are needed before prescribing a potentially teratogenic drug to a fertile woman.
Trovafloxacin (TVX) is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic whose therapeutic use was severely restricted due to an unacceptable risk of idiosyncratic liver injury. Oxidative stress and mitochondrial injury have been implicated in fluoroquinolone toxicity, but the mechanisms underlying liver injury are poorly understood. Because TVX-induced hepatotoxicity cannot be modeled in normal healthy rodents, we asked whether an underlying genetic defect (heterozygous deficiency in mitochondrial superoxide dismutase, Sod2) might aggravate TVX-induced mitochondrial adverse effects. Wild-type and Sod2(+/-) mice were treated with vehicle or alatrofloxacin (the prodrug of TVX, 33mg/kg/day, ip) for 28 days. We found that hepatic protein carbonyls were increased by 2.5-fold and hepatic mitochondrial aconitase activity was decreased by 20% in mutant, but not wild-type mice. Because aconitase is a major target of peroxynitrite, we determined the extent of nitrotyrosine residues in hepatic mitochondrial proteins. Trovafloxacin significantly increased nitrotyrosine in Sod2(+/-) mice only. Using the NO-selective probe DAF-2, we found that TVX increased the production of mitochondrial NO in immortalized human hepatocytes. Similarly, mitochondrial Ca(2+) was increased by TVX, suggesting Ca(2+)-dependent activation of mitochondrial NOS activity. Furthermore, the transcript levels of the mtDNA-encoded gene Cox2/mtCo2 were decreased in Sod2(+/-) mice only, while the expression of nDNA-encoded mitochondrial genes was not significantly altered in both genotypes, suggesting selective effects on mtDNA expression. The amount of mtDNA (copy number) was, however, unchanged. These data indicate that TVX enhances hepatic mitochondrial peroxynitrite stress in mice with underlying increased basal levels of superoxide, leading to the disruption of critical mitochondrial enzymes and gene regulation.
Nicardipine is an antagonist of calcium influx through the slow channel of the cell membrane and has been shown to be an effective and relatively well-tolerated treatment for stable effort angina and rest angina due to coronary artery spasm, and mild to moderate hypertension. Although its exact mechanism of action in these disease states has not been precisely defined, the potent coronary and peripheral arterial dilator properties of nicardipine, with concomitant improvements in oxygen supply/demand and reductions in systemic vascular resistance, are of major importance. Clinical studies have shown that nicardipine appears to be effective in the treatment of chronic stable exercise-induced angina pectoris and possibly in angina at rest due to coronary artery spasm. In the treatment of stable angina, nicardipine has proved to be equally as effective as nifedipine. However, haemodynamic and clinical studies indicate that nicardipine may have a further advantage of not depressing cardiac conduction or left ventricular function, even in patients with compromised cardiac pumping ability. Nicardipine also appears to be useful as initial monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive drugs when used in the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension, and may have some advantages over other vasodilators in this regard in that it may not be as frequently associated with fluid retention or weight gain as other similar drugs. In the treatment of hypertension nicardipine has been shown to be as effective as drugs such as hydrochlorothiazide, cyclopenthiazide, propranolol and verapamil in short term studies although confirmation of its long term usefulness in well-designed clinical trials is still required. Similarly, although the use of nicardipine in other disorders such as congestive heart failure and cerebrovascular disease has provided encouraging preliminary results, more studies are needed to clarify its place in their treatment. Side effects appear to be dose related and more frequent within the first few weeks of therapy. Most of these effects are minor and transient in nature and include headache, flushing and peripheral oedema. Thus, there is no doubt that nicardipine provides a suitable alternative to other drugs available for the treatment of angina and hypertension. However, further well-designed comparative clinical trials are needed to clarify its relative place in the long term management of these disorders.
