Previous studies have demonstrated that the -141C Ins/Del and TaqI A polymorphisms in the DRD2 gene affect the density of the dopamine D2 receptor. The present study examines the correlation between these two polymorphisms and the therapeutic response to chlorpromazine, a typical antipsychotic drug, in 135 inpatients with schizophrenia. Clinical symptoms were evaluated using the Brief Psychiatry Rating Scale (BPRS) before and after 8 weeks of treatment with 300-600 mg/day of chlorpromazine. Our results show that genotyping -141C Ins/Del may help to predict the efficacy of chlorpromazine treatment (P=0.01) due to the fact that patients with no Del allele showed greater improvement than those with Del allele on the overall BPRS (P=0.03), and that, therefore, the potential for therapy in patients with schizophrenia is related to the -141C Ins/Del polymorphism in the DRD2 gene. However, no such relationship was found for the TaqI A polymorphism.
Chronic stimulant abuse is associated with both impairment in decision making and structural abnormalities in brain gray and white matter. Recent data suggest these structural abnormalities may be related to functional impairment in important behavioral processes.
In 15 cocaine-dependent and 18 control subjects, we examined relationships between decision-making performance on the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and white matter integrity as measured by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). Whole brain voxelwise analyses showed that, relative to controls, the cocaine group had lower fractional anisotropy (FA) and higher mean of the second and third eigenvalues (lambda perpendicular) in frontal and parietal white matter regions and the corpus callosum. Cocaine subjects showed worse performance on the IGT, notably over the last 40 trials. Importantly, FA and lambda perpendicular values in these regions showed a significant relationship with IGT performance on the last 40 trials.
Compromised white matter integrity in cocaine dependence may be related to functional impairments in decision making.
There is reason to think that footshock stress-induced reinstatement of cocaine may be affected by the history of drug use and time since termination of drug taking.
Here, we assessed the contribution of daily access (hours per day) and duration (number of days) of cocaine self-administration to propensity to reinstate drug seeking following footshock stress at three time points following cocaine self-administration.
Rats were trained to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg kg(-1) infusion(-1)) on a fixed ratio 1 schedule in one of four training combinations of hours per day and number of days [2/7, 2/21, 12/7, and 12/21 (h/day)]. Rats were then tested for the first time under extinction conditions at either day 1, 10, or 60 after termination of cocaine availability. Once extinction criterion was met (<15 lever presses in 1 h), rats were then tested for stress-induced reinstatement after 15 min of intermittent, inescapable footshock (0.8 mA, 0.5 s/shock, mean off period of 40 s).
Rats that were given 12-h access to cocaine during training responded less in tests of extinction than those rats given 2-h access. Rats in all groups tested in extinction at days 10 and 60 showed higher responding than at day 1, suggesting an incubation of responding. In footshock stress-induced reinstatement tests, rats with greater exposure to cocaine showed a similar suppression of responding at day 1 and enhanced responding at day 60. As expected, rats that were given 12-h/21-day access to cocaine had the greatest intake of cocaine across the training phase with a slow escalation of hourly intake.
Greater access to cocaine results in suppression of cocaine seeking following footshock stress at early time points and a progressive increase over time.
Recently, it has been suggested that gadolinium-based contrast media could be used for radiological examinations in patients with significant renal impairment, previous severe generalized reaction to iodinated contrast media or thyroid disease about to undergo radioactive iodine treatment; however, the indications for and risks of using gadolinium agents in this way are not well known; hence, the Contrast Media Safety Committee of The European Society of Urogenital Radiology reviewed the literature to issue a position paper on this subject. A comprehensive literature review was performed and the resulting report was discussed at the Ninth European Symposium on Urogenital Radiology in Genoa, Italy, June 2002. Review of the literature indicates that according to experimental data on animals gadolinium-based contrast media have more nephrotoxic potential than iodinated contrast media in equivalent X-ray attenuating doses; therefore, gadolinium-based contrast media should not replace iodinated contrast media in patients with renal insufficiency for radiographic examinations. For patients with previous severe generalized reactions to iodinated contrast media, and in patients about to undergo thyroid treatment with radioactive iodine gadolinium-based contrast media in approved intravenous doses, up to 0.3 mmol/kg body weight will not give diagnostic radiographic information in most cases. Gadolinium-based contrast media are not approved for radiographic examinations.
Nitrotoluenes, such as 2-nitrotoluene, 2,4-dinitrotoluene (24DNT), and 26DNT, are carcinogenic in animal experiments. Humans are exposed to such chemicals in the workplace and in the environment. It is therefore important to develop methods to biomonitor people exposed to nitrotoluenes to prevent the potential harmful effects. For the present study, workers exposed to high levels of these chemicals were investigated. The external dose (air levels), the internal dose (urine metabolites), the biologically effective dose [hemoglobin (Hb) adducts and urine mutagenicity], and biological effects (chromosomal aberrations and health effects) were determined. Individual susceptibility was assessed by determining genetic polymorphisms of enzymes assumed to function in nitrotoluene metabolism, namely glutathione S-transferases (GSTM1, GSTT1, GSTP1), N-acetyltransferases (NAT1, NAT2), and sulfotransferases (SULT1A1, SULT1A2). The levels of urinary metabolites did not correlate with the air levels. The urinary mutagenicity levels determined in a subset of workers correlated with the levels of a benzylalcohol metabolite of DNT. The Hb-adducts correlated with the urine metabolites but not with the air levels. The frequency of chromosomal aberrations (gaps included) was increased (P < 0.05) in the exposed workers in comparison with a group of factory controls and correlated with the level of 24DNT Hb-adducts in young subjects (<31 years). The GSTM1-null genotype was significantly more prevalent in the controls than in the exposed group, which probably reflected an elevated susceptibility of the GSTM1-null genotype to adverse health effects of DNT exposure, such as nausea (odds ratio, 8.8; 95% confidence interval, 2.4-32.2). A statistically significant effect was seen for SULT1A2 genotype on a 24DNT Hb-adduct; GSTP1 genotype on a 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene Hb-adduct; and SULT1A1, SULT1A2, NAT1, GSTT1, and GSTP1 genotypes on chromosomal aberrations in the exposed workers.
Gout continues to be a health problem around the world, and the treatment may turn into a real challenge when the patient presents a certain degree of chronic renal failure (CRF). We discuss a case of tophaceous gout in a 68-year-old male patient without urolithiasis and with uric acid (UA) underexcretion and CRF (creatinine clearance of 42 ml/min). Uricosuric treatment with benzbromarone and urinary alkalinization was administered, and acute gouty attacks improved substantially. Subsequently, allopurinol was added to the treatment to accelerate tophi reduction in the hands, feet, elbows and knees. After 30 months of treatment, serum UA declined from 10 to 3.2 mg/dl. Urinary UA excretion of 0.44 g/24 h in the baseline rose to 0.85 g/24 h, returning to the baseline value after 30 months. UA clearance tripled, rising from 3.05 ml/min before treatment to 9.48 ml/min, and remained at this level. It is worth stressing that even in cases of severe tophaceous gout, the response to clinical treatment may be satisfactory with substantial reduction of tophi and full acute gouty attack remission even in patients presenting a certain degree of CRF.
DHC-1, an herbal formulation derived from the popular plants Bacopa monniera, Emblica officinalis, Glycyrrhiza glabra, Mangifera indica and Syzygium aromaticum was studied for its antioxidant activity. The protective effect of DHC-1 in isoproterenol-induced myocardial infarction and cisplatin-induced renal damage were studied. A significant reduction in the serum markers of heart and kidney damage and the extent of lipid peroxidation with a concomitant increase in the enzymatic (SOD and CAT) and non-enzymatic antioxidants (reduced glutathione) were observed in DHC-1 pretreated animals compared with the isoproterenol or cisplatin alone treated animals. Thus it can be concluded that DHC-1 possesses a protective effect against both damaged heart and kidneys in rats. This beneficial effect may be attributed, at least in part, to its antioxidant activity.
To determine the quantitative roles played by the different vasoconstrictor systems in the acute pressor response in conscious rats before and after inhibition of nitric oxide synthase with Nw-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME).
In conscious male Sprague-Dawley rats, previously instrumented with aortic and venous catheters, the contributions of the different systems were assessed by maximal cumulative pharmacological blockade of alpha 1-adrenoceptors (1 mg/kg prazosin intraperitoneally), AT1 receptors (30 mg/kg losartan intraperitoneally) and V1/V2 receptors (10 mg/kg [beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopenta-methylenepropionyl1, O-Et-Tyr2-Val4-Arg8]-vasopressin per min intravenously). In addition, the contribution of endothelin-1-induced vasoconstriction in response to 100 mg/kg L-NAME intraperitoneally to the hypertension was assessed by administering 5-100 mg/kg ETA/ETB receptor antagonist PD 145 065 intravenously under three different conditions: as the last step of a series of antagonists in the cumulative pharmacological blockade after having induced the L-NAME pressor response; alone before L-NAME treatment; and alone after the full development of the L-NAME pressor response. A separate group of rats was treated acutely with 30 mg/kg losartan intraperitoneally or pretreated for 3 days with 30 mg/kg angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitor enalapril via drinking water alone or in combination with 1% salt was used to assess the role of the renin-angiotensin system in the L-NAME-induced hypertension.
Short-term administration of the combined ETA/ETB receptor antagonist PD 145065 did not change the arterial pressure under control conditions. Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system, alpha 1-adrenoceptors or vasopressin receptors alone or in combination did not alter the magnitude of the L-NAME pressor response. In contrast, our results show that both treatments before and during acute nitric oxide synthase blockade hypertension using the ETA/ETB receptor antagonist PD 145065 abolished almost completely (approximately 85%) the pressor response.
These studies indicate that the predominant mechanism of hypertension, at least in the acute phase, after acute nitric oxide synthase blockade with L-NAME is associated with a marked increase in ETA/ETB receptor activation rather than with increases in alpha 1, AT1 and V1/V2 receptor activation. It remains to be determined whether endothelin participates also in the chronic phase of nitric oxide-deficient hypertension.
Of 95 new cases of parkinsonism referred to a department of geriatric medicine, 48 (51%) were associated with prescribed drugs. Clinical features in drug-induced and idiopathic cases were very similar, including the proportion with typical tremor. 25% of patients with drug-induced parkinsonism (DIP) could not walk when first seen and 45% required hospital admission (for a median stay of 23 days, range 5-101). The clinical features of DIP resolved permanently in two-thirds of cases in a mean of 7 weeks but with a range of 1 to 36 weeks. 5 cases of DIP initially resolved but idiopathic parkinsonism developed after an interval of 3 to 18 months. Perhaps some old people have low striatal dopamine levels and a small neuroleptic effect tips them into overt parkinsonism or unmasks latent idiopathic disease. The commonest offending drug was prochlorperazine (21 cases). In no case did this drug seem to be indicated.
Children prenatally exposed to cocaine may be at elevated risk for adjustment problems in early development because of greater reactivity and reduced regulation during challenging tasks. Few studies have examined whether cocaine-exposed children show such difficulties during the preschool years, a period marked by increased social and cognitive demands and by rapid changes in reactivity and regulation. The authors addressed this question by examining frustration reactivity and regulation of behavior during a problem-solving task in cocaine-exposed and -unexposed preschoolers. Participants were 174 4.5-year-olds (M age = 4.55 years, SD = 0.09). Frustration reactivity was measured as latency to show frustration and number of disruptive behaviors, whereas regulation was measured as latency to approach and attempt the problem-solving task and number of problem-solving behaviors. Results indicated that cocaine-exposed children took longer to attempt the problem-solving task but that cocaine-exposed boys showed the most difficulties: They were quicker to express frustration and were more disruptive. Effect sizes were relatively small, suggesting both resilience and vulnerabilities.
The objective of the present experiment was to investigate the following parameters concerning carvedilol: (a) the time course of acute hypotensive effect, (b) the influence of alpha 1-adrenoceptor blockade on the acute hypotension induced by carvedilol, and (c) the effect of carvedilol on myocardial ischemia. In conscious, catheter-implanted spontaneously hypertensive rats, carvedilol at the doses of 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o., dose-dependently decreased mean arterial blood pressure (MAP). At 10 mg/kg, MAP was significantly decreased for 16 h, and at 30 mg/kg, it was significantly decreased until 24 h after administration. Thus, carvedilol shows long-lasting antihypertensive effects by a single oral administration. In anesthetized Wistar rats, intravenous administration of carvedilol (0.3 mg/kg) produced an immediate decrease in blood pressure. On the other hand, in phentolamine-pretreated rats whose blood pressure was restored by prostaglandin F2 alpha, the acute hypotension produced by carvedilol was abolished similarly to the case with labetalol (0.6 mg/kg) and prazosin (0.01 mg/kg). The hypotensive effect of either hydralazine (0.2 mg/kg) or nitroprusside Na (0.005 mg/kg) was attenuated by about 20%, whereas the effect of diltiazem (0.2 mg/kg) was not attenuated. These results indicate that alpha 1-adrenoceptor blocking action of carvedilol contributes to a large extent to the acute hypotensive effect of this drug. In anesthetized open-chest dogs, myocardial ischemia was produced by partial occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery. Myocardial pH of the ischemic region was decreased by about 0.7 units. Carvedilol at the doses of 0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, i.v., dose-dependently attenuated the decrease in myocardial pH accompanied with decreases in MAP and heart rate.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To determine optimal dosage, Dihydroxyanthracenedione (DHAD) was given once daily for 3 days at dosage levels of 6, 7, 8, and 10 mg/m2 in combination with a 7-day continuous infusion of cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). Nineteen of 20 children with leukemia who received these agents developed fever requiring hospitalization. There were 4 deaths-2 due to proven infection. One patient developed nonfatal cardiotoxicity. No other significant toxicity was noted. Responses were seen in 7 of 20 patients. The recommended DHAD dosage was 8 mg/m2/day when given in combination with Ara-C.
Human exposure to arsenicals is associated with inflammatory-related diseases including different kinds of cancer as well as non-cancerous diseases like neuro-degenerative diseases, atherosclerosis, hypertension, and diabetes. Interindividual susceptibility has been mainly addressed by evaluating the role of genetic polymorphism in metabolic enzymes in inorganic arsenic (iAs) metabolism. Glutathione S-transferase omega 1-1 (GSTO1-1), which had been associated with iAs metabolism, is also known to participate in inflammatory and apoptotic cellular responses. The polymorphism A140D of GSTO1-1 has been not only associated with distinct urinary profile of arsenic metabolites in populations chronically exposed to iAs in drinking water, but also with higher risk of childhood leukemia and lung disease in non-exposed populations, suggesting that GSTO1-1 involvement in other physiologic processes different from toxics metabolism could be more relevant than is thought. We evaluated the association of the presence of A140D and E208K polymorphisms of GSTO1-1 gene with the expression of genes codifying for proteins involved in the inflammatory and apoptotic response in a human population chronically exposed to iAs through drinking water. A140D polymorphism was associated with higher expression of genes codifying for IL-8 and Apaf-1 mainly in heterozygous individuals, while E208K was associated with higher expression of IL-8 and TGF- gene, in both cases, the association was independently of iAs exposure level; however, the exposure to iAs increased slightly but significantly the influence of A140D and E208K polymorphisms on such genes expression. These results suggest an important role of GSTO1-1 in the inflammatory response and the apoptotic process and indicate that A140D and E208K polymorphisms could increase the risk of developing inflammatory and apoptosis-related diseases in As-exposed populations.
Recombinant cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) oxygenates 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) in vitro. We examined whether prostaglandin E2 glycerol ester (PGE2-G), a COX-2 metabolite of 2-AG, occurs endogenously and affects nociception and immune responses.
Using mass spectrometric techniques, we examined whether PGE2-G occurs in vivo and if its levels are altered by inhibition of COX-2, monoacylglycerol (MAG) lipase or inflammation induced by carrageenan. We also examined the effects of PGE2-G on nociception in rats and NFkappaB activity in RAW264.7 cells.
PGE2-G occurs endogenously in rat. Its levels were decreased by inhibition of COX-2 and MAG lipase but were unaffected by carrageenan. Intraplantar administration of PGE2-G induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. In RAW264.7 cells, PGE2-G and PGE2 produced similar, dose-related changes in NFkappaB activity. PGE2-G was quickly metabolized into PGE2. While the effects of PGE2 on thermal hyperalgesia and NFkappaB activity were completely blocked by a cocktail of antagonists for prostanoid receptors, the same cocktail of antagonists only partially antagonized the actions of PGE2-G.
Thermal hyperalgesia and immunomodulation induced by PGE2-G were only partially mediated by PGE2, which is formed by metabolism of PGE2-G. PGE2-G may function through a unique receptor previously postulated to mediate its effects. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that 2-AG is oxygenated in vivo by COX-2 producing PGE2-G, which plays a role in pain and immunomodulation. COX-2 could act as an enzymatic switch by converting 2-AG from an antinociceptive mediator to a pro-nociceptive prostanoid.
l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesia consists of involuntary choreiform and dystonic movements. Here we report whether intrastriatal l-DOPA itself is able to trigger dyskinetic behavior and which role the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) and its metabolites play. Intrastriatal l-DOPA as well as DA administration at the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned side led to a significant appearance of dyskinetic behavior, whereas DA metabolites were ineffective. Intrastriatal inhibition of the enzyme aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) by benserazide prevented the appearance of l-DOPA-induced dyskinetic movements at the lesioned side. Principle component analysis of DA and DA metabolite levels with dyskinesia scores after l-DOPA/benserazide (6/15 mg/kg) administration indicated a significant correlation only for DA, whereas DA metabolites did not show any significant correlation with the occurrence of dyskinetic behavior. We conclude that intrastriatal l-DOPA itself is not able to induce dyskinetic movements, whereas the increase of intrastriatal DA levels is instrumental for l-DOPA- and DA-induced dyskinetic behavior.
Midostaurin, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, has been shown efficacy against acute myeloid leukemia and various other malignancies in clinical trials. Prior studies indicate midostaurin affects the function of immune cells such as lymphocytes and macrophages. To understand the effect of midostaurin on human myeloid dendritic cells (DCs), we conducted an ex vivo study using immature DCs differentiated from CD14(+) monocytes and further maturated using lipopolysaccharide. Addition of midostaurin to a culture of starting CD14(+) monocytes markedly and dose-dependently reduced DC recovery. Mature DCs differentiating in the presence of midostaurin had fewer, shorter cell projections than those differentiating in the absence of midostaurin. Changes in morphological features characteristic of apoptotic cells were also evident. Moreover, midostaurin affected DC differentiation and maturation patterns; CD83 expression levels decreased, whereas CD14 and CD80 expressions increased. Additionally, DCs derived in the presence of midostaurin possessed a lower endocytotic capacity and less allostimulatory activity on naive CD4(+)CD45(+)RA(+) T cell proliferation than those derived in its absence, suggesting that midostaurin redirects DC differentiation toward a less mature stage and that this effect is not solely due to its cytotoxicity. Whether this effect underlies immune suppression or tolerance to disease treatments with unwanted immune reactions needs further evaluation.
The treatment of cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis is difficult. We report a successful case of severe cyclophosphamide-induced hemorrhagic cystitis treated with intravesical instillation of prostaglandin F2 alpha. A 32-year-old woman underwent high-dose cyclophosphamide conditioning before the autologous bone marrow transplantation. She developed clot retention which required continuous irrigation with normal saline. The patient had failed to respond to continuous bladder irrigation with saline and intravesical administration of 1% alum. Fifty ml of prostaglandin F2 alpha solution (1 mg in 100 ml normal saline) was instilled into the bladder, with a dwelling time of 60 minutes, three times a day for 5 days. The hematuria cleared completely 3 days after therapy. The only adverse effect was bladder spasm which was controlled with oxybutynin chloride. The success of this therapy suggests that prostaglandin F2 alpha is a safe and useful therapy for hemorrhagic cystitis secondary to cyclophosphamide chemotherapy.
Neuronal signal transduction by the JNK MAP kinase pathway is altered by a broad array of stimuli including exposure to the widely abused drug ethanol, but the behavioral relevance and the regulation of JNK signaling is unclear. Here we demonstrate that JNK signaling functions downstream of the Sterile20 kinase family gene tao/Taok3 to regulate the behavioral effects of acute ethanol exposure in both the fruit fly Drosophila and mice. In flies tao is required in neurons to promote sensitivity to the locomotor stimulant effects of acute ethanol exposure and to establish specific brain structures. Reduced expression of key JNK pathway genes substantially rescued the structural and behavioral phenotypes of tao mutants. Decreasing and increasing JNK pathway activity resulted in increased and decreased sensitivity to the locomotor stimulant properties of acute ethanol exposure, respectively. Further, JNK expression in a limited pattern of neurons that included brain regions implicated in ethanol responses was sufficient to restore normal behavior. Mice heterozygous for a disrupted allele of the homologous Taok3 gene (Taok3Gt) were resistant to the acute sedative effects of ethanol. JNK activity was constitutively increased in brains of Taok3Gt/+ mice, and acute induction of phospho-JNK in brain tissue by ethanol was occluded in Taok3Gt/+ mice. Finally, acute administration of a JNK inhibitor conferred resistance to the sedative effects of ethanol in wild-type but not Taok3Gt/+ mice. Taken together, these data support a role of a TAO/TAOK3-JNK neuronal signaling pathway in regulating sensitivity to acute ethanol exposure in flies and in mice.
Neurologic injury, including choreoathetosis and learning and memory deficits, occurs after prolonged hypothermic circulatory arrest (HCA). Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, is a possible cause of the neurologic injury seen after HCA. However, the mechanism of apoptosis is unknown. Hypothermic circulatory arrest causes glutamate excitotoxicity, resulting in increased nitric oxide production. We therefore hypothesized that nitric oxide mediates apoptosis. The purpose of this study was to determine if neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibition reduces neuronal apoptosis in an established canine model of HCA.
Fourteen male hound dogs (weight, 20 to 27 kg) were placed on closed-chest cardiopulmonary bypass, subjected to 2 hours of HCA at 18 degrees C, rewarmed to normothermia, and sacrificed 8 hours after HCA. Group 1 (n = 7) dogs were treated with the neuronal nitric oxide inhibitor 7-nitroindazole, 25 mg/kg intraperitoneally, before arrest and every 2 hours until sacrifice. Group 2 (n = 7) dogs received vehicle only. The brains were analyzed histopathologically. Apoptosis, identified by hematoxylin-eosin staining, was confirmed by DNA terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end-labeling assay and electron microscopy. Apoptosis was scored by a blinded neuropathologist from 0 (normal) to 100 (severe injury).
Apoptosis occurred early after HCA in select neuronal populations, including the hippocampus, stria terminalis, neocortex, and entorhinal cortex. Apoptotic neurons showed a characteristic shrunken cytoplasm and nuclear chromatin condensation. 7-Nitroindazole significantly inhibited apoptosis (group 1 versus 2: 19.17 +/- 14.39 versus 61.11 +/- 5.41; p < .001).
Our results provide evidence that apoptosis is associated with the neurologic injury that occurs after HCA and that nitric oxide mediates the apoptosis that occurs after HCA. Strategies for cerebral protection during HCA may include the inhibition of neuronal nitric oxide synthase.
There is increasing evidence that fatty acid deficiencies or imbalances may contribute to childhood neurodevelopmental disorders.
We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 6-week pilot trial investigating the effects of 1.5 g/d of omega-3 fatty acids (.84 g/d eicosapentaenoic acid, .7 g/d docosahexaenoic acid) supplementation in 13 children (aged 5 to 17 years) with autistic disorders accompanied by severe tantrums, aggression, or self-injurious behavior. The outcome measure was the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) at 6 weeks.
We observed an advantage of omega-3 fatty acids compared with placebo for hyperactivity and stereotypy, each with a large effect size. Repeated-measures ANOVA indicated a trend toward superiority of omega-3 fatty acids over placebo for hyperactivity. No clinically relevant adverse effects were elicited in either group.
The results of this study provide preliminary evidence that omega-3 fatty acids may be an effective treatment for children with autism.
Growing evidence strongly suggests that high fat diet (HFD) has an important role in some neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). To identify new cellular pathways linking hypercholesterolemia and neurodegeneration, we analyzed the effects of HFD on gene expression in mouse brain. Using cDNA microarrays and real time RT-PCR, we found that HFD has a mild, but significant effect on the expression of several genes. The altered genes include molecules linked to AD pathology and others of potential interest for neurodegeneration. We further investigated the effect of HFD on the activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc). Expression of Arc was decreased in cerebral cortex and hippocampus of HFD-fed animals. From the known regulatory mechanisms of Arc expression, HFD reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activity, as seen by decreases in tyrosine phosphorylation of NMDAR2A and levels of NMDAR1. Additionally, we demonstrated that 27-hydroxycholesterol, a cholesterol metabolite that enters the brain from the blood, decreases Arc levels as well as NMDAR and Src kinase activities in rat primary hippocampal neurons. Finally, we showed that Arc levels are decreased in the cortex of AD brains. We propose that one of the mechanisms, by which hypercholesterolemia contributes to neurodegenerative diseases, could be through Arc down-regulation caused by 27-hydroxycholesterol.
A high rate of side effects (mostly vestibular) was found among 83 people receiving prophylaxis with minocycline because of contact with a patient who had died of meningitis due to Neisseria meningitidis. Three groups of contacts received different lots of minocycline and different dosage regimens. Seventy-eight percent of these people had symptoms temporally related to ingestion of minocycline. These symptoms, which included dizziness, nausea, vomiting, vertigo, anorexia, and headache, generally commenced soon after initiation of chemoprophylaxis; the total dosage of minocycline was low. The high rate of vestibular side effects of minocycline militates against widespread use of minocycline for prophylaxis of meningococcal infection.
The effects of peripheral glucagon like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) stimulation on feeding, gastric emptying, and energetic responses involve vagal transmission and central nervous system processing. Despite a lack of studies aimed at determining which central nervous system regions are critical for the GLP-1R response production, hypothalamic/forebrain processing is regarded as essential for these effects. Here the contribution of the caudal brainstem to the control of food intake, core temperature, heart rate, and gastric emptying responses generated by peripheral delivery of the GLP-1R agonist, exendin-4 (Ex-4), was assessed by comparing responses of chronic supracollicular decerebrate (CD) rats to those of pair-fed intact control rats. Responses driven by hindbrain intracerebroventricular (fourth i.c.v) delivery of Ex-4 were also evaluated. Intraperitoneal Ex-4 (1.2 and 3.0 microg/kg) suppressed glucose intake in both CD rats (5.0+/-1.2 and 4.4+/-1.1 ml ingested) and controls (9.4+/-1.5 and 7.7+/-0.8 ml ingested), compared with intakes after vehicle injections (13.1+/-2.5 and 13.2+/-1.7 ml ingested, respectively). Hindbrain ventricular Ex-4 (0.3 microg) also suppressed food intake in CD rats (4.7+/-0.6 ml ingested) and controls (11.0+/-2.9 ml ingested), compared with vehicle intakes (9.3+/-2.1 and 19.3+/-4.3 ml ingested, respectively). Intraperitoneal Ex-4 (0.12, 1.2, 2.4 microg/kg) reduced gastric emptying rates in a dose-related manner similarly for both CD and control rats. Hypothermia followed ip and fourth i.c.v Ex-4 in awake, behaving controls (0.6 and 1.0 C average suppression) and CD rats (1.5 and 2.5 C average suppression). Intraperitoneal Ex-4 triggered tachycardia in both control and CD rats. Results demonstrate that caudal brainstem processing is sufficient for mediating the suppression of intake, core temperature, and gastric emptying rates as well as tachycardia triggered by peripheral GLP-1R activation and also hindbrain-delivered ligand. Contrary to the literature, hypothalamic/forebrain processing and forebrain-caudal brainstem communication is not required for the observed responses.
Retinoic acid is known to perturb craniofacial development and can be used to understand processes controlling early embryonic development of the face. The effects of retinoic acid on mouse craniofacial development were studied by administration of a single dose (25-200 mg/ kg) of all-trans retinoic acid (RA) to timed pregnant C57BL6/J mice at gestational days (gd) 8.25, 9, or 10. RA exposure on gd 8.25 or gd 10 resulted in craniofacial defects in fetuses but gd 9 exposure revealed a differential effect of RA depending upon whether tissues were derived from branchial arch or frontonasal neural crest. Embryos exposed to RA at gd 9 showed a dose-dependent effect of RA on branchial arch derived tissues; first arch derivatives were most severely affected with the mandible and zygoma becoming severely dysplastic at the highest dose of RA (200 mg/kg). However, RA exposure on gd 9 completely spared frontonasal neural crest-derived tissues. Paired premaxillae nasal and frontal bones as well as the cartilaginous nasoethmoid region and nasal capsule containing the osseous vomer showed no statistical difference from those of control animals. These studies showed a temporal and differential sensitivity to RA and may suggest a developmental heterogeneity of the cephalic neural crest cells destined to participate in formation of craniofacial structures.
A number of cases of infertility were discovered among men working in a California pesticide factory. The suspected cause was exposure to the chemical 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (D.B.C.P.). The major effects, seen in 14 of 25 non-vasectomised men, were azoospermia or oligospermia and raised serum-levels of follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinising hormone. No other major abnormalities were detected, and testosterone levels were normal. Although a quantitative estimation of exposure could not be obtained, the observed effects appeared to be related to duration of exposure to D.B.C.P.
The anterior nucleus of the thalamus (AN) has been suggested as a potential target for seizure modulation in animal models and patients with refractory epilepsy. We investigate whether microinjections of GABAergic agonists into the AN were protective against pilocarpine-induced generalized seizures and status epilepticus (SE). Rats were treated with bilateral AN injections of muscimol (160 or 80 nmol), bicuculline (15 nmol), or saline (controls) 20 min prior to pilocarpine administration (350 mg/kg i.p.). Electrographic recordings were used to confirm seizure activity. We found that pretreatment with AN muscimol 160 nmol increased the latency to seizures and SE by 2.5-3.0-fold. This dose however was associated with side effects, particularly hypotonia. AN bicuculline was proconvulsant, whereas no major effect was observed after muscimol 80 nmol injections. The percentage of animals that developed SE was similar across groups. Overall, microinjection of high doses of muscimol into the AN delayed the occurrence of pilocarpine-induced seizures and SE but was not able to prevent these events.
We investigated the changes in serum and tissue zinc levels in the Noble rat prostate gland under different pathological conditions induced by the administration of a combination of testosterone and 17beta-estradiol. The results showed that there were significant differences in serum zinc values between normal and hormone-treated rats with prostatic hyperplasia, dysplasia and prostatic carcinoma (p < 0.05), although there was no significant difference among rats with different forms of prostatic lesions (i.e. hyperplasia, dysplasia and prostatic adenocarcinoma). There was also a difference in zinc content between the lateral prostate (LP), ventral prostate (VP) and dorsal prostate (DP) in normal rats. The zinc levels of LP were several times greater than those of either VP or DP (p < 0.01). There was also a great difference in zinc levels between the normal and the hyperplastic/dysplastic and carcinomatous LP and VP (p < 0. 05). The levels of zinc in both LP and VP were increased in hyperplasia/dysplasia and carcinoma. On the other hand, the zinc levels of LP were much higher than those of VP in hyperplasia/dysplasia and carcinoma (p < 0.01), which may be correlated with the incidence of prostate cancers in these lobes (i. e. higher in LP and much lower in VP). In contrast, in DP, the levels of zinc were not affected, which may be correlated with the very low incidence of carcinoma in this lobe. Our data suggest that the difference in zinc levels among these lobes reflect the heterogeneity in zinc content in various lobes of the rat prostate. The growth and development of prostatic lesions in LP and VP may be positively correlated with the significant increase in tissue zinc levels in these lobes. On the other hand, the lack of response of DP to carcinogenesis may be due to its relatively stable low zinc levels. It is suggested that tissue zinc content may be used as a marker for prostatic lesions, including hyperplasia, dysplasia and carcinoma, while serum zinc levels may be a useful indicator for abnormal prostatic growth.
