Cocaine and heroin are frequently co-abused by humans, in a combination known as speedball. Recently, chemical interactions between heroin (Her) or its metabolite morphine (Mor) and cocaine (Coc) were described, resulting in the formation of strong adducts. In this work, we evaluated whether combinations of Coc and Her affect the neurotoxicity of these drugs, using rat cortical neurons incubated with Coc, Her, Her followed by Coc (Her+Coc) and Her plus Coc (Her:Coc, 1:1). Neurons exposed to Her, Her+Coc and Her:Coc exhibited a decrease in cell viability, which was more pronounced in neurons exposed to Her and Her+Coc, in comparison with neurons exposed to the mixture (Her:Coc). Cells exposed to the mixture showed increased intracellular calcium and mitochondrial dysfunction, as determined by a decrease in intracellular ATP levels and in mitochondrial membrane potential, displaying both apoptotic and necrotic characteristics. Conversely, a major increase in cytochrome c release, caspase 3-dependent apoptosis, and decreased metabolic neuronal viability were observed upon sequential exposure to Her and Coc. The data show that drug combinations potentiate cortical neurotoxicity and that the mode of co-exposure changes cellular death pathways activated by the drugs, strongly suggesting that chemical interactions occurring in Her:Coc, such as adduct formation, shift cell death mechanisms towards necrosis. Since impairment of the prefrontal cortex is involved in the loss of impulse control observed in drug addicts, the data presented here may contribute to explain the increase in treatment failure observed in speedball abusers.
In the present work we studied: (a) biochemical changes; (b) serum immunoglobulins (IGs); and (c) mitogenecity of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) in workers directly exposed to high concentrations of pollutants in several sectors of a major copper company in Alexandria. These sectors included the aluminum utensils refining of copper semicontinuous aluminum casting, brass foundries, and steel furnaces. Toxicants in these sectors included aluminum, hexachloroethan, silica, cadmium, copper, mercury, lead, abestos, nickels, zinc, silver, carbon iron, and sulfate present in high concentrations in the sectors where workers are directly exposed. Administrative personnel (indirectly exposed) were included as positive controls; negative controls were people living in areas of Alexandria where the concentrations of these toxicants are extremely low. All personnel of the aluminum utensils area showed reduction in serum levels of IgG, IgA, and IgM assayed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) while workers directly exposed in the other sectors showed elevated Igs. Mitogenic activity in cultured PBL assayed by 3H-thymidine uptake was impaired in all plant personnel. However, experimentals showed increases in the interleukins IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumour necrosis factor-alpha and-beta (TNF-alpha and beta) assayed by ELISA. Changes were directly related to duration of exposure. Some workers showed autoimmune symptoms such as arthritis and spondylitis. Allergic manifestations were also recorded. Thus, abnormalities were greatest in directly exposed workers, while other plant personnel showed some form of toxicity in the parameters studied. Clinical significance of the immunologic abnormalities seen is under further study.
Lens explant cultures were used to assess the mechanism of drug-induced cataractogenic potential of NVS001, a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARδ) agonist, which resulted in cataract in all treated animals during a 13-week rat study. Ciglitazone, a PPARγ agonist and cataractogenic compound, was used as a positive control to validate this model. Rat lenses were extracted and cultured in medium supplemented with antibiotics for 24-h preincubation pretreatment. Lenses showing no signs of damage at the end of the preincubation pretreatment period were randomized into five experimental groups, (1) untreated control, (2) 0.1% dimethyl sulphoxide control, (3) 10μM NVS001, (4) 10μM ciglitazone, and (5) 10μM acetaminophen (negative control). Lenses were treated every 24 h after preincubation pretreatment for up to 48 h. Samples for viability, histology, and gene expression profiling were collected at 4, 24, and 48 h. There was a time-dependent increase in opacity, which correlated to a decrease in viability measured by adenosine triphosphate levels in NVS001 and ciglitazone-treated lenses compared with controls. NVS001 and ciglitazone had comparable cataractogenic effects after 48 h with histology showing rupture of the lens capsule, lens fiber degeneration, cortical lens vacuolation, and lens epithelial degeneration. Furthermore, no changes were seen when lenses were treated with acetaminophen. Gene expression analysis supported oxidative and osmotic stress, along with decreases in membrane and epithelial cell integrity as key factors in NVS001-induced cataracts. This study suggests that in vitro lens cultures can be used to assess cataractogenic potential of PPAR agonists and to study/understand the underlying molecular mechanism of cataractogenesis in rat.
Intracerebroventricular administration of the enkephalinase inhibitor, phosphoramidon (PHA, 3.7 X 10(-7) moles, i.c.v.) induced distinct wet-dog-shakes (WDS) behaviour. Naltrexone (NX) given in a low dose (0.25 mg/kg, i.p.) did not antagonize the WDS induced by PHA. A higher dose of NX (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) decreased WDS behaviour. Morphine (25 mg/kg, i.p.) induced marked catalepsy. Ketocyclazocine (0.01-1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) induced a dose related decrease in spontaneous locomotor activity. Chronic (20 mg/kg, i.p. daily for 10 days and withdrawn, 24 h prior, C.CLO) and acute (20 mg/kg, i.p., 60 min prior, A.CLO) clomipramine treatments decreased PHA-induced WDS compared to saline pretreatments. However, C.CLO treatments antagonized the morphine-induced catalepsy and ketocyclazocine-induced sedation whereas A.CLO did not alter the opiate-induced cataleptic/sedative behaviours. It is suggested that chronic clomipramine treatment induced a functional deficiency of central mu and kappa opioid receptor systems without altering the delta opioid mechanisms.
Human populations are simultaneously exposed to a variety of anthropogenic contaminants. However, despite extensive literature on animal exposure to single compounds, data on the toxicity of complex mixtures are scarce. The Northern Contaminant Mixture (NCM) was formulated to contain the 27 most abundant contaminants in the same relative proportions found in the blood of Canadian Arctic populations. Sprague-Dawley rat dams were dosed from the first day of gestation until weaning with methylmercury (MeHg), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or organochlorines pesticides (OCs) administered either separately or together in the NCM. An additional control group for hypothyroxinemia was included by dosing dams with the goitrogen 6-propyl-2-thiouracil (PTU). Offspring growth, survival, serum thyroxine and Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) levels, thyroid gland morphology, brain taurine content and cerebellum and hippocampus protein expression patterns resulting from such exposures were monitored. Pups' increased mortality rate and impaired growth observed in the NCM treatment group were attributed to MeHg, while decreased circulating thyroxine levels and perturbations of thyroid gland morphology were mostly attributable to PCBs. Interestingly, despite comparable reduction in serum thyroxine levels, PCBs and PTU exposures produced markedly different effects on pup's growth, serum TSH level and brain taurine content. Analysis of cerebellum and hippocampus protein expression patterns corroborated previous cerebellum gene expression data, as contaminant co-exposure in the NCM significantly masked the effects of individual components on protein two-dimensional electrophoresis patterns. Identification by MALDI-TOF/TOF MS of differentially expressed proteins involved notably in neuronal and mitochondrial functions provided clues on the cellular and molecular processes affected by these contaminant mixtures.
Epilepsy in children is associated with a broad spectrum of cognitive deficits, which is associated with hippocampal mossy fiber sprouting. The underlying molecular mechanisms involved in mossy fiber sprouting in hippocampus following developmental seizures are not completely known. We studied the timing of cognitive dysfunction following neonatal seizures and the relation of this cognitive impairment to zinc transporter 1 (ZnT-1), 3 (ZnT-3), calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK II), plasticity-related gene 1 (PRG-1) expression in hippocampus. A seizure was induced by inhalant flurothyl daily in neonatal Sprague-Dawley rats from postnatal day 6 (P6). Rats were assigned into the single-seizure group (SS), the recurrent-seizure group (RS, seizures induced in six consecutive days), and the control group. During P41-P46 and P85-P90, the rats were tested for spatial learning and memory abilities with automatic Morris water maze task. At P90, mossy fiber sprouting and gene expression in hippocampus were determined subsequently by Timm staining and RT-PCR methods. The escape latencies from the water maze were significantly longer in rats of RS group than those of the control and SS groups at d4 of the first maze test and at d3, d4 of the second maze test. As far as Spatial Probe Test was concerned, the frequency of passing through the platform quadrant was significantly decreased in RS group than that in control and SS groups in the entire two probe tests. In rats with recurrent seizures (RS group), there was an increased distribution of Timm granules in both the supragranular region of the dentate gyrus and the stratum pyramidale of CA3 subfield in RS group, while remaining barely visible in control and SS groups; the Timm scores in CA3 and dentate gyrus in the RS animals were significantly higher than that in the control and SS groups. RT-PCR densitometry analysis showed that the ratios of hippocampal ZnT-1 to beta-actin of SS and RS group were decreased significantly compared with that of control group. Meanwhile, CaMK II to beta-actin of RS group was markedly lower compared with those of SS and control groups. Our results suggest that the long-term adverse effects of recurrent neonatal seizures on cognition and mossy fiber sprouting may be associated with the down-regulated expression of ZnT-1 and CaMK II in hippocampus.
The natural course of calcium-entry blocker-induced parkinsonism was evaluated in 13 elderly patients previously exposed to cinnarizine or flunarizine or both for a median period of 7 months. Clinical assessments were carried out before drug discontinuation and twice thereafter over a period lasting < or = 7 years. None of the patients showed a full recovery of extrapyramidal signs, indicating that the long-term prognosis of the parkinsonism is less benign than previously reported. Two main patterns of clinical outcome were recognized (i.e., "remittent" and "persistent and not progressive" parkinsonism), whereas the development of a progressive disorder was observed only in one patient. No significant correlation was found between the patterns of outcome and some clinical variables, such as total duration of exposure to cinnarizine and flunarizine, cumulative drug dosages, and age at onset of parkinsonism. There was no significant difference in terms of family history of essential tremor or parkinsonism or both among patients with the two main patterns of clinical course.
To report the ocurrence of ischemic heart disease (IHD) in a patient with multiple myeloma treated with vincristine and doxorubicin.
A 46-year-old man developed a Q-wave inferior and right-ventricle myocardial infarction with postinfarction angina after receiving his third cycle of vincristine and doxorubicin for immunoglobulin A multiple myeloma. Angiography showed two small filling defects consistent with thrombi in the distal right coronary artery.
IHD may be a serious but uncommon complication of treatment with several chemotherapeutic agents. It is likely that chemotherapy played a role in the development of IHD in our patient. Several putative mechanisms for vascular toxicity have been associated with chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy with vincristine and doxorubicin may play a role in the ocurrence of IHD. Physicians should possess an awareness of this potentially serious complication of chemotherapy.
To report a case of symptomatic hyperbilirubinemia resulting from the addition of ritonavir to an indinavir-containing antiretroviral regimen.
A 27-year-old white woman developed symptomatic hyperbilirubinemia and anemia while receiving an indinavir/ritonavir-containing antiretroviral (ARV) regimen that required disruption of therapy. Extensive laboratory examinations were performed including determination of indinavir and ritonavir concentrations. The findings were attributed to two independent processes, an unconjugated hyperbilirubinemia due to indinavir and anemia due to zidovudine.
Indinavir-induced hyperbilirubinemia is generally regarded as an adverse event with no clinical relevance that does not cause significant liver toxicity and does not necessitate discontinuing indinavir. It manifests primarily as an increase in unconjugated bilirubin and is reported to be dose related. We believe that the severe hyperbilirubinemia in this patient was a result of high indinavir concentrations that occurred due to metabolic inhibition caused by ritonavir. The anemia in this case was consistent with erythrocyte maturation arrest due to zidovudine rather than hemolysis.
Combination ARV therapy is the current standard of care for treating patients infected with HIV. It is important for providers to consider that, despite much improved pharmacokinetic profiles associated with pharmacokinetically enhanced protease inhibitor regimens, there may be undesirable effects that may differ in frequency or severity than when drugs are used individually.
To report a case of complete atrioventricular (AV) block and QTc prolongation following coadministration of high-dose verapamil and erythromycin.
A 79-year-old white woman was admitted to the hospital due to extreme fatigue and dizziness. On admission, heart rate was 40 beats/min and blood pressure was 80/40 mm Hg. An electrocardiogram showed complete atrioventricular (AV) block, escape rhythm of 50 beats/min, and QTc prolongation 583 msec. This event was attributed to concomitant treatment with verapamil 480 mg/d and erythromycin 2,000 mg/d, which was prescribed one week before admission.
This is the first case published describing complete AV block and prolongation of QTc following coadministration of erythromycin and verapamil. CYP3A4 is the main isoenzyme responsible for metabolism of erythromycin and verapamil. Both drugs are potent inhibitors of CYP3A4 and of P-glycoprotein; this may be the basis for the pharmacokinetic interaction between erythromycin and verapamil. In addition to being a woman, our patient had other risk factors for QT prolongation: slow baseline heart rate (probably induced by verapamil), left-ventricular hypertrophy, and possibly ischemic heart disease.
This life-threatening arrhythmia was probably the result of a pharmacokinetic and/or pharmacodynamic interaction of high-dose verapamil and erythromycin.
The addition of subcutaneous heparin (SQH) to mechanical prophylaxis for venous thromboembolism (VTE) involves a balance between the benefit of greater protection from VTE and the added risk of intracranial hemorrhage. There is evidence that the hemorrhage risk outweighs the benefits for patients undergoing craniotomy. We investigated the safety of SQH in patients undergoing deep brain stimulation (DBS) surgery.
A retrospective analysis was performed of all patients with movement disorders (n = 254) undergoing DBS surgery at our institution from 2003 to 2007. Before September 2005, none of the patients undergoing DBS received SQH (non-SQH group) (n = 121). Thereafter, all patients were administered SQH perioperatively (SQH group) (n = 133). All patients wore graduated compression stockings and pneumatic compression boots postoperatively in bed. A postoperative brain magnetic resonance imaging scan was obtained on the day of surgery.
Five (3.8%) of 133 SQH patients and 1 (0.8%) of 121 non-SQH patients developed asymptomatic intracranial hemorrhage. None of the SQH patients developed clinically significant VTE, whereas 3 (2.5%) non-SQH patients developed VTE (1 deep venous thrombosis, 2 pulmonary embolisms). Using a decision-analysis model, we have shown that the use of SQH plus mechanical prophylaxis together yielded outcomes at least as good as mechanical prophylaxis alone.
Our findings suggest that SQH for VTE prophylaxis in patients with movement disorders undergoing DBS surgery is safe. SQH protects against VTE in this patient population and merits further investigation.
Bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, has been considered as a promising anticancer drug in the treatment of recurrent multiple myeloma and some solid tumors. The bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy (BIPN) is a prominent cause of dose-limiting toxicities after bortezomib treatment. In this study, we found that BIPN in a mouse model is characterized by acute but transient endoplasmic reticulum (ER) damages to Schwann cells. These damaged Schwann cells exhibit abnormal outcomes from healing processes such as the myelination of Remak bundles. A morphometric analysis of polymyelinated Remak bundles revealed that the pathological myelination was not related to the axonal parameters that regulate the normal myelination process during development. In addition, demyelinating macrophages were focally infiltrated within endoneurium of the sciatic nerve. To identify the mechanism underlying these pathologies, we applied a gene microarray analysis to bortezomib-treated primary Schwann cells and verified the changes of several gene expression in bortezomib-treated sciatic nerves. The analysis showed that bortezomib-induced ER stress was accompanied by the activation of several protective molecular chaperones and the down-regulation of myelin gene expression. ER stress inducers such as thapsigargin and bredelfin A also suppressed the mRNA expression of myelin gene P0 at transcriptional levels. In addition, the expression of chemokines such as the macrophage chemoattractants Ccl3 and Cxcl2 was significantly increased in Schwann cells in response to bortezomib and ER stress inducers. Taken together, these observations suggest that the pathological adaptive responses of Schwann cells to bortezomib-induced ER stress may, in part, participate in the development of BIPN.
Our previous studies have shown that dioscin has protective effect against liver injury. However, the action of the compound against ethanol-induced liver injury is still unknown. In the present paper, ethanol-induced acute and chronic liver damage rat models were used, and the results showed that dioscin significantly alleviated liver steatosis, reduced the levels of alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, total triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol and malondialdehyde, and increased the levels of high-density lipoprotein, superoxide dismutase, glutathione and glutathione peroxidase. Transmission electron microscopy and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling assays showed that dioscin prevented mitochondrial ultrastructural alterations and apoptosis caused by ethanol. In addition, dioscin significantly inhibited ethanol-induced cytochrome P450 2E1 activation, down-regulated the levels of mitogen-activated protein kinases phosphorylation, inhibited the expressions of nuclear factor kappa B, glucose regulated protein 78, activating transcription factor 6 and alpha subunit of translation initiation factor 2 to attenuate oxidative damage, decreased the expressions of tumor necrosis factor alpha and interleukin-6, and down-regulated the expressions of apoptosis-related proteins including p53, caspase-3, caspase-9, poly (ADP-ribose)-polymerase and cytokeratin-18. Further investigation indicated that dioscin markedly increased the expressions of peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor α and its target genes including medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, carnitine palmitoyl-CoA transferase I and acyl-CoA oxidase to advance fatty acid β-oxidation, up-regulated the expressions of acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1, acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 5, alpha-aminoadipic semialdehyde dehydrogenase and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase to promote fatty acid metabolism, and down-regulated the expressions of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase, diacylglycerol acyltransferase 1 and diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 to accelerate TG synthesis. However, dioscin had no effects on the expressions of sterol regulatory element-binding protein-1c, fatty acid synthase, acetyl-CoA carboxylase 1 and stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 associated with fatty acid synthesis. In conclusion, dioscin shows excellent protective effect against ethanol-induced liver injury through ameliorating ethanol-induced oxidative stress, mitochondrial function, inflammatory cytokine production, apoptosis and liver steatosis, which should be developed as a new drug for the treatment of ethanol-induced liver injury in the future.
Chronic exposure of humans to benzene causes severe bone marrow cell depression leading to aplastic anemia. Marrow stromal macrophage dysfunction and deficient interleukin-1 production has been reported for patients with severe aplastic anemia. The stromal macrophage, a target of benzene toxicity, is involved in hematopoietic regulation through the synthesis of several cytokines including interleukin-1, which is required for production by stromal fibroblasts of a number of cytokines required for the survival of hematopoietic progenitor cells. We have previously demonstrated that hydroquinone, a major toxic metabolite of benzene in marrow, prevents the proteolytic conversion of 31 kDa pre-interleukin-1 alpha to the 17 kDa cytokine by calpain in purified murine stromal macrophages. Furthermore, stromal macrophages from benzene-treated mice produce the 31 kDa pre-interleukin-1 alpha when stimulated in culture with endotoxin, but cannot convert the precursor to interleukin-1 alpha. In this report, we show that 1,4-benzoquinone, the oxidation product of hydroquinone in the cell, causes a concentration-dependent inhibition of highly purified human platelet calpain with an IC50 of 3 microM. Hydroquinone also inhibits the processing of pre-interleukin-1 beta by interleukin-1 beta convertase. The addition of 2 microM hydroquinone to B1 cells that undergo autocrine stimulation by interleukin-1 beta resulted in the cessation of autocrine cell growth and interleukin-1 beta secretion into the culture medium, as determined by Western immunoblots of the culture supernatants. Purified converting enzyme treated with 3 microM benzoquinone was incapable of converting 31 kDa recombinant pre-interleukin-1 beta to the 17 kDa mature cytokine as analyzed by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western immunoblotting. These findings support our observations in a mouse model that benzene-induced bone marrow cell depression results from a lack of interleukin-1 alpha subsequent to an inhibition by benzoquinone of calpain, the protease required for converting pre-interleukin-1 alpha to active cytokine. The results may provide a basis for studying benzene-induced aplastic anemia in a mouse model.
Since knowledge about toxic effects of non-dioxinlike (NDL) PCBs is fragmentary, regulatory panels have concluded that risk assessment of these congeners is hampered or impossible. As the dopaminergic system is one of the main targets in PCB-related neurotoxic effects after developmental exposure, we selected catalepsy induced by the dopamine receptor blocker haloperidol to characterize effects of the NDL congeners PCB52 and PCB180 in adult offspring from exposed rat dams. Rat dams were treated with PCB congeners by gavage using six dose levels (total doses: PCB52 - 0, 30, 100, 300, 1000 or 3000 mg/kg body wt.; PCB180 - 0, 10, 30, 100, 300, or 1000 mg/kg body wt.) to allow benchmark dose analysis of the results. Testing of adult offspring (starting at 180 days of age) for catalepsy induced by injection with haloperidol revealed slightly prolonged latencies to movement onset in female offspring exposed to PCB52. Exposure to PCB180 resulted in more pronounced effects, with generally reduced latencies in male offspring. These results indicate reduced dopaminergic activity after PCB52 exposure, whereas the outcome for PCB180 may be related to increased extracellular dopamine as reported in the literature.Benchmark dose analyses revealed that both PCB congeners exerted effects mainly at moderate exposure levels. Together, these results underline the importance of effects on the dopaminergic system as indicated by studies in human females after occupational PCB exposure.
A 28-year-old man was admitted to our hospital in a hypotensive state 2 hours after taking 8,400 mg disopyramide. Infusion of catecholamine and gastric lavage restored normal blood pressure. However, 8 hours after taking the disopyramide he became hypotensive again and electrocardiographic findings revealed bizarre ventricular complexes resulting in ventricular flutter. Although standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation was not effective, his circulatory status was maintained by percutaneous cardiopulmonary support (PCPS). After 36 hours electrocardiography showed sinus rhythm, and his cardiac function became normal. Patients with severe cardiac dysfunction or cardiac arrest caused by disopyramide intoxication can be supported by PCPS until cardiac function is restored.
Lipid peroxidation is elevated in diseased regions of brain in several neurodegenerative diseases. Acrolein (2-propenal) is a major cytotoxic product of lipid peroxidation and its adduction to neuronal proteins has been demonstrated in diseased brain regions from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Mitochondrial abnormalities are implicated in several neurodegenerative disorders, and mitochondria are targets of alkenal adduction in vivo. We examined the effects of acrolein upon multiple endpoints associated with the mitochondrial involvement in neurodegenerative disease. Acrolein inhibited state 3 respiration with an IC(50) of approx. 0.4 micromol/mg protein; however, there was no reduction in activity of complexes I-V. This inhibition was prevented by glutathione and N-acetylcysteine. Acrolein did not alter mitochondrial calcium transporter activity or induce cytochrome c release. These studies indicate that acrolein is a potent inhibitor of brain mitochondrial respiration.
It is well known that ovarian steroids estradiol and progesterone play a vital role in the development of mammary cancer. Here, using the genetically highly resistant Copenhagen rats we demonstrate that sustained exogenous treatment with estradiol and progesterone overcomes genetic resistance to mammary cancer. It has been demonstrated that Copenhagen rats develop preneoplastic lesions upon exposure to carcinogens. However, these preneoplastic lesions fail to progress to ductal carcinomas in situ or overt mammary carcinomas. The preneoplastic lesions eventually decrease in number and are absent by 60 days post-carcinogen treatment. In the present study, we exposed 7-week-old female Copenhagen rats to N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU; 50mg/kg BW). Immediately after MNU treatment the rats were divided into the following groups: (1) control; (2) 30 mg estradiol 17β; (3) 30 mg progesterone; and (4) 30 mg estradiol 17β plus 30 mg progesterone. All hormone treatments were administered via individual silastic pellets for a period of 9 months post-carcinogen treatment. The control animals displayed a low incidence of mammary cancer (10%). Hormone treatments produced significantly higher incidences of mammary cancer, with estradiol at 50%, progesterone at 65% and estradiol plus progesterone at 90%. Hormone treatment sustained the growth of the lesions induced by MNU by increasing expression of Areg, Bcl-2, Ccnd-1 and Vegf genes, while decreasing expression of Bad, Bax, Casp 3, 8, 9 and p53 genes. Furthermore, hormone treatment increased CCND-1 and PARP proteins levels. The data clearly demonstrates that hormonal environment supports mammary cancer progression by increasing cell proliferation, and angiogenesis while inhibiting apoptosis.
Adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) has been considered a classic adrenocorticotropic hormone and the key pituitary-derived peptide controlling steroidogenesis in the adult adrenal. ACTH is encoded by the propiomelanocortin (POMC) gene, and its active form is mainly synthesized and processed from the POMC-encoded multihormone precursor in the anterior pituitary. The ACTH level has always been precisely controlled in the signaling cascade of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis due to its central role. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the transgenic zebrafish line with EGFP driven by the POMC promoter can be used as a surrogate marker to detect the interference effects on anterior pituitary POMC expression caused by chemicals in teleost. The Tg (POMC:EGFP) fish treated for 4days with the known adrenergic agents, dexamethasone (Dex) or aminoglutethimide (AG), exhibited altered levels of EGFP and POMC expression in the anterior domain of pituitary corticotrophs. Whole-mount in situ hybridization revealed impaired patterns of expression of the zebrafish ftz-fl gene (ff1b), a key molecular marker for early interrenal development. Next, several chemicals and six commonly used organophosphorus compounds (OPs) were tested for their effects on anterior pituitary POMC expression and early interrenal development. Our preliminary screening analyses indicated that simazine and 3,3',4,4'5-pentachlorobiphenyl (PCB126) could interfere with anterior pituitary POMC expression and interrenal development in fish. In summary, our results demonstrated that the Tg (POMC:EGFP) zebrafish line might be employed as a specific and reproductive in vivo assessment model for the effects of endocrine disruption on HPA signaling.
It has been suggested that the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) interacts with the endothelin system in the pathogenesis of cardiac remodeling. We examined endothelin system regulation in a model of chronic RAS dysfunction, which is believed to be an important factor in cardiac remodeling. We used the transgenic rat line TGR(mRen2)27, which overexpresses the mouse Renin-2 gene and shows hypertension and left ventricular hypertrophy compared to Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Ren-2 rats (n = 24) received either losartan (LOS), quniapril (QIN), or carvedilol (CARV) for 11 weeks, or no treatment. After 11 weeks left (LV) and right ventricular (RV) weights were determined and total RNA extracted. Ren-2 rats showed a mean systolic blood pressure of 190 mm (+/- SEM), which could be normalized to 110 +/- mm (+/- SEM) by treatment with LOS or QIN. CARV also reduced blood pressure but did not normalize it. LV end-diastolic pressure was normal in both SD and Ren-2 rats. LV weight was increased in the Ren-2 rats compared to SD rats, and was significantly reduced to normal in the LOS and QIN but not in the CARV group. RV weight was normal in all groups. Northern blot analysis of preproendothelin-1 (preproET-1) and endothelin-converting enzyme-1 (ECE-1) expression revealed a significant (p < 0.05) 20% decrease in preproET-1 mRNA in the mRen2 rats in the RV and in the LV, compared to SD rats. ECE-1 mRNA was unchanged. Treatment with LOS, but not with QIN or CARV, induced preproET-1 transcription by threefold (p < 0.01) over baseline in both the LV and RV. ECE-1 mRNA was unaltered in the CARV and LOS group and was decreased by 20% in the QIN group. Similar changes in LV and RV indicated a direct influence of a dysregulated RAS on the endothelin system. In conclusion, the activated RAS downregulates the endothelin system in this model of cardiac hypertrophy. This suggests that in chronic RAS activated, the endothelin system may have a different pathophysiologic impact as a co-factor leading to cardiac hypertrophy.
Clinical efficacy of and potential risk for complications from combined cordarone+quinidine treatment were studied in 52 patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Out of 32 patients with a persistent pattern of the disease the sinus rhythm was recovered in 28 (87.5%) of the patients; out of 20 patients with paroxysmal pattern of AF resistant to routine anti-arrhythmic treatment, the sinus rhythm was recovered in 14 (70%) patients. Almost 50% Q-T prolongation was recorded in one patient with paroxysmal AF. Despite the withdrawal of the medication, 4 hours later ventricular tachycardia of the "pirouette" type arose that 2-3 minutes later was followed by ventricular fibrillation with clinical death. After effective electric defibrillation in the presence of lidocaine treatment ventricular fibrillation repeated 7 times. A total of 32 cardiac defibrillations were performed for 6 hours. The normalization of the Q-T interval was observed on the fourth day only. The patient was discharged from the hospital in a satisfactory condition.
Pothomorphe umbellata, a native Brazilian plant, is popularly known to be effective in the treatment of skin lesions. This benefit is attributed to 4-nerolidylcatechol (4-NC), a compound extracted from P. umbellata. Since melanomas show prominent resistance to apoptosis and exhibit extreme chemoresistance to multiple forms of therapy, novel compounds addressing induction of cell death are worth investigating. Here, we evaluated effects on cell cycle progression and possible cytotoxic activity of 4-NC in melanoma cell lines as well as human dermal fibroblasts. Inhibitory effects on cell invasion and MMP activity were also investigated. 4-NC showed cytotoxic activity for all melanoma cell lines tested (IC50=20-40 microM, 24h for tumoral cell lines; IC50=50 microM for fibroblast cell line) associated with its capacity to induce apoptosis. Furthermore, this is the first time that 4-NC is described as an inhibitor of cell invasiveness, due mainly to a G1 cell cycle arrest and inhibition of MMP-2 activity in melanoma cell lines.
Hereditary Inclusion Body Myopathy (HIBM) is an autosomal recessive, adult onset, non-inflammatory neuromuscular disorder with no effective treatment. The causative gene, GNE, codes for UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase, which catalyzes the first two reactions in the synthesis of sialic acid. Reduced sialylation of muscle glycoproteins, such as alpha-dystroglycan and neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), has been reported in HIBM.
We treated 4 HIBM patients with intravenous immune globulin (IVIG), in order to provide sialic acid, because IgG contains 8 micromol of sialic acid/g. IVIG was infused as a loading dose of 1 g/kg on two consecutive days followed by 3 doses of 400 mg/kg at weekly intervals.
For all four patients, mean quadriceps strength improved from 19.0 kg at baseline to 23.2 kg (+22%) directly after IVIG loading to 25.6 kg (+35%) at the end of the study. Mean shoulder strength improved from 4.1 kg at baseline to 5.9 kg (+44%) directly after IVIG loading to 6.0 kg (+46%) at the end of the study. The composite improvement for 8 other muscle groups was 5% after the initial loading and 19% by the end of the study. Esophageal motility and lingual strength improved in the patients with abnormal barium swallows. Objective measures of functional improvement gave variable results, but the patients experienced improvements in daily activities that they considered clinically significant. Immunohistochemical staining and immunoblotting of muscle biopsies for alpha-dystroglycan and NCAM did not provide consistent evidence for increased sialylation after IVIG treatment. Side effects were limited to transient headaches and vomiting.
The mild benefits in muscle strength experienced by HIBM patients after IVIG treatment may be related to the provision of sialic acid supplied by IVIG. Other sources of sialic acid are being explored as treatment options for HIBM.
To evaluate the effect of vitamin E supplementation on incident total, ischaemic, and haemorrhagic stroke.
Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised, placebo controlled trials published until January 2010.
Electronic databases (Medline, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) and reference lists of trial reports. Selection criteria Randomised, placebo controlled trials with ≥1 year of follow-up investigating the effect of vitamin E on stroke. Review methods and data extraction Two investigators independently assessed eligibility of identified trials. Disagreements were resolved by consensus. Two different investigators independently extracted data. Risk ratios (and 95% confidence intervals) were calculated for each trial based on the number of cases and non-cases randomised to vitamin E or placebo. Pooled effect estimates were then calculated.
Nine trials investigating the effect of vitamin E on incident stroke were included, totalling 118 765 participants (59 357 randomised to vitamin E and 59 408 to placebo). Among those, seven trials reported data for total stroke and five trials each for haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke. Vitamin E had no effect on the risk for total stroke (pooled relative risk 0.98 (95% confidence interval 0.91 to 1.05), P=0.53). In contrast, the risk for haemorrhagic stroke was increased (pooled relative risk 1.22 (1.00 to 1.48), P=0.045), while the risk of ischaemic stroke was reduced (pooled relative risk 0.90 (0.82 to 0.99), P=0.02). There was little evidence for heterogeneity among studies. Meta-regression did not identify blinding strategy, vitamin E dose, or morbidity status of participants as sources of heterogeneity. In terms of absolute risk, this translates into one additional haemorrhagic stroke for every 1250 individuals taking vitamin E, in contrast to one ischaemic stroke prevented per 476 individuals taking vitamin E.
In this meta-analysis, vitamin E increased the risk for haemorrhagic stroke by 22% and reduced the risk of ischaemic stroke by 10%. This differential risk pattern is obscured when looking at total stroke. Given the relatively small risk reduction of ischaemic stroke and the generally more severe outcome of haemorrhagic stroke, indiscriminate widespread use of vitamin E should be cautioned against.
Chronic arsenic exposure through contaminated drinking water is a major environmental health issue. Chronic arsenic exposure is known to exert its toxic effects by a variety of mechanisms, of which generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) is one of the most important. A high level of ROS, in turn, leads to DNA damage that might ultimately culminate in cancer. In order to keep the level of ROS in balance, an array of enzymes is present, of which catalase (CAT) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) are important members. Hence, in this study, we determined the activities of these two enzymes in the sera and chromosomal aberrations (CA) in peripheral blood lymphocytes in individuals exposed and unexposed to arsenic in drinking water. Arsenic in drinking water and in urine was used as a measure of exposure. Our results show that individuals chronically exposed to arsenic have significantly higher CAT and MPO activities and higher incidence of CA. We found moderate positive correlations between CAT and MPO activities, induction of CA and arsenic in urine and water. These results indicate that chronic arsenic exposure causes higher CAT and MPO activities in serum that correlates with induction of genetic damage. We conclude that the serum levels of these enzymes might be used as biomarkers of early arsenic exposure induced disease much before the classical dermatological symptoms of arsenicosis begin to appear.
We report a case of lidocaine toxicity with seizures that appears to represent a drug interaction with amiodarone. A toxic lidocaine level and reduced lidocaine clearance were documented 65 h after amiodarone was added to the treatment regimen. This is the first report of increased levels and serious clinical toxicity of lidocaine due to amiodarone. The mechanism appears to be altered hepatic metabolism of lidocaine caused by amiodarone.
From 1 September 1981 to 1 January 1987, 118 patients with FIGO Stage IB, IC, IIA, IIB, and IIC epithelial ovarian cancer were randomized to abdominal irradiation or pelvic irradiation + cyclophosphamide. There was no difference between the regimens with respect to recurrence-free survival (55%) and 4-year overall survival (63%). At routine second-look laparotomy, 16% of patients without clinical detectable tumor showed recurrence. Twenty-five percent of the patients treated with pelvic irradiation + cyclophosphamide had hemorrhagic cystitis, probably caused by radiation damage and cyclophosphamide cystitis. Eight percent had late gastrointestinal symptoms requiring surgery.
