An unusual side effect of amphetamine-like drugs is described. A patient with acute cardiomyopathy was discovered to have been taking Fenfluramine and Mazindol at the prescribed dose. Within a week after abstention from the drugs and appropriate cardiac treatment her cardiomyopathy resolved. The authors suggest that this effect is due to the combination of the two drugs and represents a drug interaction.
To observe the role of PPARgamma during the activation process of hepatic stellate cells (HSC).
By morphology and RT-PCR, we study the changes of expression of PPARgamma in culture-activated HSC or in vivo activated HSC induced by dimethylnitrosamine (DMN).
In vitro, the expression level of PPARgamma in freshly isolated HSC (0.72+/-0.01) significantly reduced to 0.48+/-0.03 on the third day of culture (t = 19.8372, P<0.01), and reduced 70% on the seventh culture-day and could not be detected after the second passage. In vivo, HSC freshly isolated from normal control rats expressed PPARgamma (0.76+/-0.01). During the development of rat liver fibrosis induced by DMN, the expression level significantly reduced to 0.46+/-0.02 after the third injection of DMN (t = 29.5318, P<0.01), and reduced 66% on the end of first week and could not be detected on the end of second and third week.
The expression of PPARgamma might play an important role on the maintenance of resting-form of HSC, and the reduction of expression of PPARgamma might be an early event during the activation process of HSC.
Prescription corticosteroids are given for a variety of common medical conditions. Psychiatric symptoms including depression, psychosis, and especially mania are common side effects of corticosteroid therapy. However, minimal data are available on the treatment of corticosteroid-induced psychiatric symptoms.
In this study, 12 outpatients with manic or mixed symptoms secondary to corticosteroids were enrolled in a 5-week prospective, open-label trial of olanzapine. Psychiatric symptom measures included the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD), Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), and Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). Side effects were monitored with the Simpson Angus Scale (SAS), Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS), and Barnes Akathisia Scale (BAS). Weight and blood glucose were obtained at baseline and exit. Olanzapine dosing was flexible beginning at 2.5 mg/day and titrated upward as necessary to a maximum dose of 20 mg/day. Data were analyzed with Wilcoxon signed rank tests using baseline and exit data on all 12 participants.
Participants showed significant reductions in YMRS (primary outcome measure), HRSD, and BPRS scores with no significant change in the SAS, AIMS, BAS, weight, or blood glucose levels. One participant discontinued early due to lack of efficacy.
These data suggest that olanzapine is well tolerated and appears to be useful for mood disturbances associated with corticosteroid therapy. Controlled trials seem warranted to confirm these observations.
A parallel, double-blind, randomized study comparing iohexol and metrizamide--both 180 mg l/ml--in lumbar myelography was carried out in 60 consecutive patients. Eight to 15 ml of contrast medium were administered with the upper level at the middle thoracic column. A detailed neurologic examination was performed before and 24 hr after myelography. EEG recordings--evaluated visually and with fast Fourier transformation analysis--and somatosensory evoked responses were registered before, 6 hr after, and 24 hr after myelography. All patients were observed for adverse reactions for 24-48 hr. Iohexol did not produce any epileptiform activity but epileptiform activity was detected in five patients receiving metrizamide. Iohexol produced significantly less frequent and less severe EEG changes than did metrizamide both at visual evaluation (p less than .0025) and at fast Fourier transformation analysis (p less than .04). No significant changes occurred in the early components of the somatosensory evoked potentials after either contrast medium. Iohexol caused significantly (p less than .002) less frequent and less severe adverse reactions than did metrizamide. The neurologic examination revealed no changes of clinical importance with either contrast agent.
Albino rats (noninbred) were divided into 4 groups: 1) 56 control rats, 2) 40 rats fed 1 ml aspirin suspension (40 mg/ml) twice a week, 3) 20 rats given N-nitroso-N-methylnitroguanidine (MNNG) solution (250 micrograms/ml) to drink ad libitum, and 4) 40 rats given both aspirin and MNNG. In 18 months, there were no gastrointestinal tumors in groups 1 and 2, 8 cases of gastric tumors in group 3, and 37 cases of gastric tumors in group 4. Adenocarcinomas of the glandular stomach were found in 21 of 40 rats in group 4 but in only 4 of the 20 rats in group 3; the difference in incidence was significant. Histologic and electron microscopic examination of the epidermoid carcinomas and adenocarcinomas in group 4 showed no difference from such tumors induced by MNNG only. Hyperplasia of the forestomach mucosa and hyperplasia of the pyloric gland region of the glandular stomach in group 4 were more severe.
Chronic intrathecal morphine infusion produces intradural granulomas. The authors examined a variety of opioids infused intrathecal for analgesic activity and toxicity.
Two sets of experiments were undertaken in dogs with chronic intrathecal catheters: (1) Six-hour intrathecal infusions were used to determine the full analgesic dose and the maximum tolerated dose. (2) To establish toxicity, the maximum tolerated dose was given for up to 28 days by continuous intrathecal infusion. Drugs examined were morphine sulfate, hydromorphone, D/L-methadone, L-methadone, D-methadone, fentanyl, [d-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly5-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO), naloxone, or saline. RESULTS ANALGESIA AND TOLERABILITY: Six-hour intrathecal infusion of agonists resulted in a time-dependent increase in thermal escape latency. At higher concentrations, dose-limiting motor dysfunction and sedation occurred, and hypersensitivity occurred. The concentrations, in mg/ml, for full analgesic dose/maximum tolerated dose were as follows: morphine, 0.9/12.0; hydromorphone, 1.0/3.0; D/L-methadone, 2.8/3; L-methadone, 1.0/> 1.0; fentanyl, 0.3/2.0; DAMGO, 0.1/> 2.0; D-methadone, > 1/> 1; naloxone, > 10/> 10. SPINAL PATHOLOGY: Chronic intrathecal infusion of the maximum tolerated dose revealed 100% intradural granuloma formation after morphine, hydromorphone, L-methadone, and naloxone. DAMGO induced a mass in only a single animal (one of three). D/L- and D-methadone produced intradural granulomas but were also associated with parenchymal necrosis. Saline and fentanyl animals displayed no granulomas.
Intrathecal opiate-induced granulomas are not strictly dependent on opioid receptor activation. Therefore, opiates at equianalgesic doses present different risks for granuloma formation. Importantly, D/L- and D-methadone also resulted in parenchymal necrosis, an affect associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist action of the D-isomer.
The influence of 6-hydroxydopamine on morphine-induced convulsions were investigated in rats. Morphine, in doses up to 100 mg/kg did not produce any convulsive pattern in vehicle-pretreated rats. The pretreatment of rats by 6-hydroxydopamine strongly potentiated the seizure producing activity of morphine and the dose-response curve of seizure severity shifted to the right. These results suggest that brain catecholamines are involved in the mechanism of morphine-induced convulsions.
Prazosin is a quinazoline that has a long lasting hypotensive effect. To investigate the mechanisms underlying its action experiments were performed in 75 dogs anesthetized with pentobarbitone sodium. Prazosin, after i.v. injection, lowered arterial pressure without altering heart rate and venous pressure, and decreased pressor responses to epinephrine, norepinephrine and splanchnic nerve stimulation. Orthocarboxybenzeno-seleninic acid, an alpha-adrenoceptor blocker, antagonized the hypotensive effect of prazosin. Neither administration of propranolol nor carotid sinus local anesthesia impaired prazosin hypotensive effects. Topical application of prazosin on both carotid sinuses had no effect on general arterial blood pressure; after intravenous administration it did not change the hypotension caused by electrical stimulation of the carotid sinuses. The depressor effects of papaverine and sodium nitrite on blood pressure were enhanced by prazosin. It is concluded that this drug exerts its hypotensive effect by blocking, alpha-adrenoceptors and by possibly relaxing vascular smooth muscle.
Arterial hypotension has been demonstrated after left ventriculography using currently available ionic contrast agents. This adverse hemodynamic response is significantly decreased with the newer nonionic contrast agents. Calcium channel antagonists also produce a hypotensive response. The potentially accentuated hypotensive response after bolus contrast angiography in patients receiving the calcium antagonists nifedipine and diltiazem was evaluated. Three contrast agents were compared: two ionic agents (Renografin-76 and Hypaque-76) and a nonionic agent (iopamidol). The hemodynamic response after left ventriculography was assessed in 125 patients, 65 receiving nifedipine or diltiazem and 60 not receiving these drugs. Baseline clinical characteristics were similar in all patient groups. The hypotensive response was significantly greater after left ventriculography with the ionic agents than with the nonionic agent. In those patients receiving nifedipine or diltiazem, the hypotensive response after bolus contrast angiography using the ionic agents occurred earlier after contrast injection (4.2 +/- 3.1 versus 12.9 +/- 6.0 seconds, p less than 0.0001), was more profound (maximal decrease in systolic arterial pressure, 48.5 +/- 13.9 versus 36.9 +/- 13.1 mm Hg, p less than 0.001) and was more prolonged (62.3 +/- 11.0 versus 36.4 +/- 12.0 seconds, p less than 0.0001) than in patients not receiving these drugs. A comparison of the two ionic contrast agents showed no significant difference in the hypotensive response. There was no difference in the hemodynamic response after angiography among patients receiving iopamidol alone and those receiving iopamidol and calcium antagonists. Thus, patients receiving the calcium antagonists diltiazem and nifedipine and undergoing left ventriculography with ionic contrast agents are at added risk for accentuation and prolongation of the hypotensive response.
Troglitazone (Tro), rosiglitazone (Rosi) and pioglitazone (Pio) are anti-diabetic thiazolidinediones that function as ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPARγ); however, Tro has been withdrawn from the market due to liver toxicity issues. Mitochondrial dysfunction induced by Tro has been suggested to be an important mechanism behind its cytotoxicity. Constitutively active nuclear hormone receptors, oestrogen-related receptor α and γ are thought to regulate mitochondrial mass and oxidative phosphorylation together with their co-activators PPARγ co-activator-1α and -1β (PGC-1α and PGC-1β). Hence, in this study, we investigated whether Tro affects the expression and activity levels of these regulators.
Cellular viability was measured by an ATP-based assay. Mitochondrial mass and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified by two different fluorogenic probes. Apoptosis was measured by an Annexin-V-based kit. Gene expression at the levels of mRNA and protein was measured by quantitative RT-PCR and Western analysis. Over-expression of PGC-1α was mediated by an adenovirus.
Tro, but not Rosi or Pio, selectively stimulated PGC-1α protein degradation. As a result, Tro reduced mitochondrial mass, and superoxide dismutases 1 and 2 expressions, but induced ROS to initiate apoptosis. Using a ubiquitin-proteasome inhibitor MG132, it was established that blocking PGC-1α degradation partially suppressed the reduction of mitochondrial mass. Importantly, over-expressing PGC-1α partially restored the Tro-suppressed mitochondrial mass and attenuated the cytotoxic effects of Tro.
Collectively, these results suggest that PGC-1α degradation is an important mechanism behind the cytotoxic effects of Tro in the liver.
High dose dexamethasone is frequently used for the treatment of neonatal respiratory conditions and to facilitate weaning from mechanical ventilation in preterm, very low birth weight infants. However, very little is known about the severity, site, and duration of steroid-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression in this category of patients. Twenty-three preterm, very low birth weight infants who received a full 3-week dose-tapering course of dexamethasone were prospectively studied, with a human CRH stimulation test performed at three different times: before the start of steroid treatment (week 0), immediately after the course (week 3), and 4 weeks after stopping dexamethasone (week 7). Plasma ACTH and serum cortisol concentrations were measured at 0 (baseline), 15, 30, and 60 min. Immediately after the steroid course (week 3), both basal and poststimulation plasma ACTH and serum cortisol concentrations were markedly suppressed. The hormone concentrations at 0, 15, 30, and 60 min in week 3 were significantly lower than their corresponding levels in week 0 (P < 0.0001 for both ACTH and cortisol) and week 7 (P < 0.0001 and P < 0.005 for ACTH and cortisol, respectively). In contrast, when the hormone levels in week 7 were compared to their corresponding concentrations in week 0, only the 60 min serum cortisol concentration in week 7 was significantly lower (P = 0.02). The currently used dosage of dexamethasone caused severe pituitary-adrenal suppression immediately after treatment, but substantial recovery of the endocrine axis was observed 4 weeks after discontinuation of therapy. Although the recovery appeared to be earlier with the pituitary center, both pituitary and adrenal glands were capable of mounting a biochemically adequate response to exogenous human CRH stimulation at this stage. Steroid replacement therapy may be desirable at a time of stress in the immediate posttreatment period, but it would seem unnecessary 1 month after stopping dexamethasone treatment.
We performed positron emission tomography (PET) to evaluate myocardial ischemia in patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC).
Patients with IDC have anatomically normal coronary arteries, and it has been assumed that myocardial ischemia does not occur.
We studied 22 patients with IDC and 22 control subjects using PET with nitrogen-13 ammonia to measure myocardial blood flow (MBF) at rest and during dipyridamole-induced hyperemia. To investigate glucose metabolism, fluorine-18 deoxyglucose (18FDG) was used. For imaging of oxygen consumption, carbon-11 acetate clearance rate constants (k(mono)) were assessed at rest and during submaximal dobutamine infusion (20 microg/kg body weight per min).
Global MBF reserve (dipyridamole-induced) was impaired in patients with IDC versus control subjects (1.7 +/- 0.21 vs. 2.7 +/- 0.10, p < 0.05). In patients with IDC, MBF reserve correlated with left ventricular (LV) systolic wall stress (r = -0.61, p = 0.01). Furthermore, in 16 of 22 patients with IDC (derived by dipyridamole perfusion) mismatch (decreased flow/increased 18FDG uptake) was observed in 17 +/- 8% of the myocardium. The extent of mismatch correlated with LV systolic wall stress (r = 0.64, p = 0.02). The MBF reserve was lower in the mismatch regions than in the normal regions (1.58 +/- 0.13 vs. 1.90 +/- 0.18, p < 0.05). During dobutamine infusion k(mono) was higher in the mismatch regions than in the normal regions (0.104 +/- 0.017 vs. 0.087 +/- 0.016 min(-1), p < 0.05). In the mismatch regions 18FDG uptake correlated negatively with rest k(mono) (r = -0.65, p < 0.05), suggesting a switch from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism.
Patients with IDC have a decreased MBF reserve. In addition, low MBF reserve was paralleled by high LV systolic wall stress. These global observations were associated with substantial myocardial mismatch areas showing the lowest MBF reserves. In geographically identical regions an abnormal oxygen consumption pattern was seen together with a switch from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism. These data support the notion that regional myocardial ischemia plays a role in IDC.
The 44TNJ mutant mouse was generated by the Tennessee Mouse Genome Consortium (TMGC) using an ENU-based mutagenesis screen to produce recessive mutations that affect the eye and brain. Herein we present its retinal phenotype and genetic basis.
Fourth generation offspring (G4) and confirmed mutants were examined using slit lamp biomicroscopy, funduscopy, histology, immunohistochemistry, and electroretinography (ERG). 44TNJ mutant mice were crossed to C3BLiA or DBA/2 mice for chromosomal mapping purposes. Linkage analysis by PCR-based microsatellite marker genotyping was used to identify the disease locus. The Rs1h cDNA and its genomic DNA were sequenced directly.
The 44TNJ pedigree was the first mutant pedigree identified by the ocular phenotyping domain of the TMGC. Examination of the fundus revealed numerous small and homogeneous intraretinal microflecks in the peripapillary region, which became courser and more irregular in the periphery. Males were typically more affected than females. Histology and immunohistochemistry revealed a disruption of the lamination of the retina, particularly at both margins of the outer nuclear layer, along with reduced calbindin immunostaining. ERG analyses revealed reduced amplitudes of both a-waves and b-waves. Linkage analysis mapped the 44TNJ mutation to the X chromosome close to the marker DXMit117. Sequence analysis of the positional candidate gene Rs1h revealed a T->C exchange at the second base of intron 2 of the Rs1h gene.
We have generated and characterized a mutant mouse line that was produced using ENU-based mutagenesis. The 44TNJ pedigree manifests with photoreceptor dysfunction and concurrent structural and functional aberrations at the post-receptoral level. Genetic analysis revealed a mutation in Rs1h, making this the first murine model of X-linked retinoschisis in which the gene is expressed.
Studies have demonstrated that thrombolytic therapy for acute stroke can be given safely and effectively in study settings with experienced clinicians, but the patient outcomes associated with thrombolytic therapy in routine clinical practice require investigation.
To compare outcomes among patients given intravenous thrombolysis in routine clinical practice with the results of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA Study (NINDS cohort) and to examine whether protocol deviations are associated with adverse events.
Retrospective cohort of community-based patients given thrombolysis for acute stroke from May 1, 1996, through December 31, 1998, in 16 Connecticut hospitals (Connecticut cohort).
Forty-two (67%) of 63 patients in the Connecticut cohort had at least 1 major protocol deviation, and 61 (97%) had major or minor protocol deviations. Overall, the in-hospital mortality was higher in the Connecticut cohort (16/63 [25%]) compared with the NINDS cohort (40/312 [13%]; P =.01). The serious extracranial hemorrhage rate was also higher for the Connecticut cohort (8/63 [13%] vs 5/312 [2%]; P =.001). Patients in the Connecticut cohort without major protocol deviations had outcomes similar to those in the NINDS cohort; however, patients in the Connecticut cohort with major protocol deviations had higher rates of in-hospital mortality (13/42 [31%] vs 40/312 [13%]; P =.002) and serious extracranial hemorrhage (7/42 [17%] vs 5/312 [2%]; P =.001).
Protocol deviations occur commonly when thrombolytic therapy is given to stroke patients in routine clinical practice. Patients who receive thrombolysis with major protocol deviations have higher rates of in-hospital mortality and serious extracranial hemorrhage than patients in the NINDS cohort.
Acquired C1 inhibitor (C1-INH) deficiency exposes patients to angioedema recurrences (acquired angioedema [AAE]) mediated by bradykinin pathway activation. C1-INH replacement and specific inhibition of plasma kallikrein with ecallantide have been successful in the treatment of hereditary angioedema (HAE), a more common related disorder. C1-INH replacement has also been used in the treatment of AAE, but because of the underlying mechanism of rapid catabolism, some patients may not respond. As part of preclinical investigation of ecallantide, a potent bradykinin pathway inhibitor, we evaluated three AAE patients treated successfully with that agent. This study was designed to assess ecallantide for treatment of attacks in AAE. Three patients with AAE were treated a total of 12 times with various dosing regimens of ecallantide based on the protocols established for the studies using ecallantide in HAE (Evaluation of DX-88's Effects in Mitigating Angioedema trials). Response to therapy was also based on outcome measures determined by these protocols. Ecallantide effectively relieved symptoms in three patients with various manifestations of AAE over 12 acute episodes. Kallikrein inhibition with ecallantide appears effective in the treatment of AAE and may be an alternative for patients with resistance to C1-INH replacement therapy.
Dipyridamole imaging is widely used as an alternative to exercise testing to identify and risk stratify patients with coronary artery disease. Safety data on intravenous dipyridamole stress testing has been derived largely from individual institutional data.
Data were collected retrospectively by 85 coinvestigators from 73,806 patients who underwent intravenous dipyridamole stress imaging in 59 hospitals and 19 countries to determine the incidence of major adverse reactions during testing. The dose of dipyridamole infused was 0.56 mg/kg in 64,740 patients, 0.74 mg/kg in 6551 patients, and 0.84 mg/kg in 2515 patients. Combined major adverse events among the entire 73,806 patients included seven cardiac deaths (0.95 per 10,000), 13 nonfatal myocardial infarctions (1.76 per 10,000), six nonfatal sustained ventricular arrhythmias (0.81 per 10,000) (ventricular tachycardia in two and ventricular fibrillation in four), nine transient cerebral ischemic attacks (1.22 per 10,000), (with speech or motor deficit), one stroke, and nine severe bronchospasms (1.22 per 10,000) (one intubation and eight near intubations). In addition to the safety data, detailed demographic, peripheral hemodynamic, side effect, and concomitant drug data were examined in a subgroup of 3751 patients. End points from subsets of patients were compared with those of the group as a whole. Multivariate analysis revealed that dipyridamole-induced chest pain was more common in patients less than 70 years old (p = 0.0017), those with a history of coronary revascularization (p = 0.002), or patients taking aspirin (p = 0.0001). Minor noncardiac side effects were less frequent among the elderly (p = 0.0053) and more frequent in women (p = 0.0001) and patients taking maintenance aspirin (p = 0.0034). When a patient was judged on the basis of the adequacy of hemodynamic response to be a dipyridamole "nonresponder" (< 10 mm Hg drop in systolic blood pressure and 10 beats/min increase in heart rate), the only significant predictor was angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor intake (p = 0.0025). Inferoposterior hypoperfusion was significantly more frequent in patients with dipyridamole-induced hypotension: 57% (44/77) (p < 0.0001) of those who had hypotension and 89% (8/9) (p = 0.0076) who had severe symptomatic bradyarrhythmias displayed inferoposterior defects on thallium scanning. Caffeine levels were determined in 391 consecutive patients: levels greater than 5 mg/L were observed in only eight patients (2%), suggesting that methylxanthine levels sufficient to alter the hemodynamic response to dipyridamole resulting in suboptimal hyperemic stress are unlikely when patients take nothing by mouth after midnight.
The risk of serious dipyridamole-induced side effects is very low and is comparable to that reported for exercise testing in a similar patient population.
ACE inhibitors are commonly used drugs in the management of adult hypertension. However their use in pregnant women can have serious effects on the fetus. In this manuscript we report a case of fatal neonatal renal failure associated with maternal intake of enalapril during third trimester and review the related literature.
The index case was born to a mother with PIH which was treated with enalapril (5 mg) once a day for 21 days prior to delivery in addition to other anti-hypertensives. Temporally, use of enalapril was associated with the onset of oligohydramnios. The neonate presented with intrauterine growth retardation, hydrops and oliguric renal failure, which did not respond to furosemide, peritoneal dialysis and exchange transfusion. Autopsy showed macroscopically and microscopically normal kidneys.
Use of ACE inhibitors during pregnancy should be avoided.
Previous work from our laboratory suggested that Go alpha protein at the locus coeruleus (LC) may be involved in the signal transduction process that underlies muscular rigidity induced by fentanyl. The present study further evaluated the roles of K+ and L-type Ca2+ channels, gating of which is known to be associated with activation of Go alpha protein, in this process, using Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with ketamine. Bilateral microinjection into the LC of tetraethylammonium chloride (100 or 200 pmol), a K+ channel blocker, and S(-)-Bay K 8644 (0.5 nmol), a Ca2+ channel activator, produced significant antagonization of the EMG activation elicited by fentanyl (100 micrograms/kg, i.v.), as recorded from the sacrococcygeus dorsalis lateralis muscle. On the other hand, local application to the bilateral LC of diazoxide (10 or 20 nmol), an ATP-dependent K+ channel activator, and nifedipine (0.25 or 0.5 pmol), a L-type Ca2+ channel blocker, was ineffective in blunting fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity. These results suggest that activation of K+ channels and/or inhibition of L-type Ca2+ channels secondary to triggering of the Go alpha protein at the LC may underlie the signal transduction process in the mediation of fentanyl-induced muscular rigidity.
Genes encoding the serine proteinase inhibitor B family (SERPINBs) are mainly clustered on human chromosome 18 (18q21). Several serpins are known to affect malignant phenotypes of tumor cells, so aberrant genetic variants in this molecular family are candidates for conferring susceptibility for risk of cancer. We investigated whether eight selected non-synonymous variations within SERPINB loci at 18q21 might be associated with risk of prostate cancer in Japanese men. A case-control study involving 292 prostate-cancer patients and 384 controls revealed significant differences in regard to distribution of four missense variations in genes encoding plasminogen activator inhibitor 2 (PAI2) and SERPINB10. The most significant association was detected for the N120D polymorphism in the PAI2 gene (P = 5.0 x 10(-5)); men carrying the 120-N allele (120-N/N and 120-N/D genotypes) carried a 2.4-fold increased risk of prostate cancer (95% confidence interval 1.45-4.07). Associations were also detected for three other missense polymorphisms in those two genes. Strong linkage disequilibrium in the region encompassing PAI2 and SERPINB10 extended to about 50 kbp. The results suggested that missense variations in one or both of these genes confer important risks for prostate cancer, and may be themselves tumorigenic. Although confirmative replication studies on larger cohorts are awaited, clinical examination of these variations may become useful for identifying individuals at high risk for prostate cancer.
In order to evaluate the applicability of the cytokinesis-block micronucleus cytome assay in routine mutagenicity testing we investigated with this method different chemicals having different mechanisms of action: non-mutagens, direct-acting basealtering mutagens, direct-acting cross-linking mutagens, clastogens including a radiomimetic chemical, indirect-acting spindle poisons and indirect-acting enzyme inhibitors. We looked at the presence of micronuclei as biomarkers for either the loss of chromosome fragments (clastogen) or the loss of a whole chromosome (aneugen), nucleoplasmic bridges as biomarkers for complex rearrangements (e.g., dicentric chromosomes) and nuclear buds as biomarkers for gene amplification. The cytome assay proved to be a suitable tool to investigate genetic effects of environmental agents and to provide insight into their working mechanisms as all chemicals tested showed the expected response.
A patient with liver metastasis of pancreatic cancer received chemotherapy using mitomycin C and degradable starch microspheres. The patient was a 52-year-old woman who had undergone surgery for cancer of the head of the pancreas in October 1996. She had stage III disease and was followed up as an outpatient on oral therapy with a combined uracil and tegafur preparation. In October 2000, abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans detected multiple liver metastases. Three courses of intra-arterial infusion of mitomycin C and microspheres (1000 mg) resulted in regression of her tumor and a decrease of tumor marker levels. After three more courses of this therapy, the patient developed bile duct necrosis and died of disseminated intravascular coagulation. As her metastases were controlled for about 7 months, hepatic arterial infusion of mitomycin C and degradable starch microspheres appears to be useful for treating liver metastasis of pancreatic cancer, but careful attention should be paid to the risk of severe complications such as bile duct necrosis.
Previous studies have shown that renal injury initiated by a lethal dose of S-1,2-dichlorovinyl-l-cysteine (DCVC) progresses due to inhibition of cell division and hence renal repair, leading to acute renal failure (ARF) and death in mice. Renal injury initiated by low to moderate doses of DCVC is repaired by timely and adequate stimulation of renal cell division, tubular repair, restoration of renal structure and function leading to survival of mice. Recent studies have established that mice primed with a low dose of DCVC (15 mg/kg i.p.) 72 h before administration of a normally lethal dose (75 mg/kg i.p.) are protected from ARF and death (nephro-autoprotection). We showed that renal cell division and tissue repair stimulated by the low dose are sustained even after the lethal dose administration resulting in survival from ARF and death. If renal cell division induced by the low dose is indeed the critical mechanism of this autoprotection, then its ablation by the antimitotic agent colchicine (1.5 mg CLC/kg i.p.) should abolish autoprotection. The present interventional experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that DCVC autoprotection is due to stimulated cell division and tissue repair by the priming low dose. CLC intervention at 42 and 66 h after the priming dose resulted in marked progressive elevation of plasma blood urea nitrogen and creatinine resulting in ARF and death of mice. Light microscopic examination of hematoxylin and eosin-stained kidney sections revealed progression of renal necrosis concordant with progressively failing renal function. With CLC intervention, S-phase stimulation (as assessed by BrdU pulse labeling), G(1)-to-S phase clearance, and cell division were diminished essentially abolishing the promitogenic effect of the priming low dose of DCVC. Phospho-retinoblastoma protein (P-pRB), a crucial protein for S-phase stimulation, and other cellular signaling mechanisms regulating P-pRB were investigated. We report that decreased P-pRB via activation of protein phosphatase-1 by CLC is the critical mechanism of this inhibited S-phase stimulation and ablation of autoprotection with CLC intervention. These findings lend additional support to the notion that stimulated cell division and renal tissue repair by the priming dose of DCVC are the critical mechanisms that allow sustained compensatory tissue repair and survival of mice in nephro-autoprotection.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether amifostine (WR-2721) prevents or ameliorates clinically significant (grade 2 to 4) neurotoxicity associated with cisplatin and 3-hour paclitaxel chemotherapy.
The chemotherapy program consisted of intravenous paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours followed by amifostine 740 mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2 administered over 90 minutes beginning 15 minutes after amifostine administration. At baseline, before each treatment cycle, and for 3 months after completing chemotherapy, patients were evaluated for evidence of neurotoxicity and other treatment-related adverse effects using three methods: standard clinical evaluation (National Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria [CTC] grading), a neurotoxicity questionnaire to assess symptoms and limitations imposed by peripheral neuropathy, and vibration perception threshold (VPT) testing.
Four of 27 assessable patients developed grade 2 to 4 neurotoxicity based on clinical assessments and CTC grading. This number of neuropathic events exceeded the predetermined threshold level for a second stage of accrual and the study was closed.
Amifostine's level of activity in this trial was insufficient to warrant further study in a phase III trial. Based on the receiver operating characteristic analysis, it would appear that VPT measurements are less sensitive to the development of peripheral neuropathy than the neurotoxicity questionnaire. The questionnaire, referred to as the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity, may be used instead of VPT measurements in future studies of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy.
