A case of acute akathisia induced by lithium treatment is described. Since lithium administration leads to activation of serotonergic neurotransmission, the 5-HT2A/2C and 5-HT3 antagonist mianserin was added as a possible anti-akathitic agent. Mianserin treatment (15 mg/day at 21.00 h) resulted in amelioration of the lithium-induced akathisia.
Recent evidence suggests that the AKT1-GSK3beta signalling cascade partially mediates dopamine-dependent behaviours. In relation to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia or methamphetamine (Meth) use disorder, AKT1 is a good candidate gene for such conditions. For schizophrenia, positive associations of SNPs and AKT1 haplotypes were reported in US and Japanese samples. To evaluate the association between AKT1 and Meth-use disorder, we conducted a case-control study of Japanese samples (182 patients and 437 controls). A positive association between a SNP and haplotypes was found, and the 'signal' SNP was the same SNP found to be associated with US schizophrenia, but not with Japanese schizophrenia. Our results indicate that AKT1 may play a possible role in the development of Meth-use disorder. Further investigation of these associations, together with evidence from previous animal studies, may open the way to elucidation of the pathophysiology of this condition.
Diacetolol (M & B 16,942), the major metabolite of the beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent, has been compared pharmacologically with acebutolol. In vitro, the beta-adrenoceptor blocking potency of diacetolol was less than that of acebutolol but its cardioselectivity (atrial relative to tracheal tissue) was greater. In the anaesthetized cat both agents had closely similar beta-adrenoceptor blocking potency and cardioselectivity. Diacetolol had weak intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA), and no significant membrane-stabilizing activity (MSA). It did not restore sinus rhythm to anaesthetized dogs with ouabain-induced arrhythmias but was similar to acebutolol in preventing arrhythmia induced by adrenaline/methylchloroform in anaesthetized cats. It is concluded that, in experimental animals, diacetolol has beta-adrenoceptor blocking properties and ISA similar to the parent compound but differs in its lack of MSA.
Nicotine, the main addictive component of tobacco, evokes a wide range of dose-dependent behaviors in rodents, and when administrated in high doses, it can induce clonic-tonic seizures. Nicotine acts through the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Mutations in the human alpha4- and the beta2-nAChR subunit genes cause autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. Using transgenic mice with mutations in nAChR subunits, it was demonstrated previously that the alpha4-, alpha5-, and alpha7-subunits are involved in nicotine-induced seizures. To examine the possibility that the beta4-subunit is also involved in this phenotype, we tested mice with homozygous beta4-subunit deficiency. The beta4 null mice were remarkably resistant to nicotine-induced seizures compared with wild-type and alpha5 null mice. We also generated mice with double deficiency of both alpha5- and beta4-nAChR subunits and demonstrated that they were more resistant to nicotine's convulsant effect than either the alpha5 or the beta4 single mutant mice. In addition, the single alpha5 mutants and the double alpha5beta4-deficient mice exhibited a significantly shorter latency time to seizure than that of the wild-type mice. Our results thus show that beta4-containing nAChRs have a crucial role in the pathogenesis of nicotine-induced seizures. Furthermore, by comparing multiple mutant mice with single and double subunit deficiency, we suggest that nicotinic receptors containing either alpha5- or beta4-subunits are involved in nicotine-induced seizures and that receptors containing both subunits are likely to contribute to this phenomena as well. However, the alpha5-subunit, but not the beta4-subunit, regulates the rate of response to high doses of nicotine.
Alfentanil is a potent, short-acting opioid agent which has been used during balanced anaesthesia in children undergoing the surgical excision of epileptic foci. After the observation that this agent had the potential to induce epileptic seizures, we questioned the frequency of this occurrence in this group of patients.
Twelve patients (6 males, 6 females) undergoing surgical excision of an epileptic foci were prospectively followed. For each patient an electrocorticogram was recorded for 30 minutes before and after receiving alfentanil 20 micrograms/kg intravenously. The frequency of epileptiform abnormalities before and after drug administration was evaluated. When the electrocorticogram no longer showed the effects of alfentanil administration, methohexital 0.5 microgram/kg was given intravenously.
Alfentanil induced significant activation of epileptiform discharges among 83% of these patients. Twenty-five per cent had an electrographic seizure. In comparison, methohexital induced significant activation of epileptiform discharges in 50% of these patients. None experienced electrographic seizures.
As alfentanil can induce electrographic seizures in patients known to have epilepsy, caution is advised in its use in this group of patients.
To investigate the efficacy and tolerability of allopurinol as the first-choice antihyperuricaemic treatment for gout, and compare the efficacy and tolerability of benzbromarone and probenecid as second-choice treatment.
Prospective, multicentre, open-label, two-stage randomised controlled trial in gout patients with normal renal function. Enrolled patients were given 300 mg allopurinol for 2 months (stage 1). Those patients who could not tolerate allopurinol or who did not attain the target serum urate concentration (sUr) < or=0.30 mmol/l (5.0 mg/dl), which was defined as successful, were randomised to benzbromarone 200 mg/day or probenecid 2 g/day for another 2 months (stage 2).
96 patients were enrolled in stage 1. 82 patients (85%) were eligible for the analysis at the end of stage 1: there was a mean (SD) decrease in sUr concentration of 35 (11)% from baseline; 20 patients (24%) attained target sUr < or=0.30 mmol/l; and 9 patients (11%) stopped allopurinol because of adverse drug reactions. 62 patients were enrolled in stage 2. 27 patients received benzbromarone (3 patients not eligible for analysis) and 35 received probenecid (4 patients not eligible for analysis). Treatment with benzbromarone was successful in 22/24 patients (92%) and with probenecid in 20/31 patients (65%) (p = 0.03 compared with benzbromarone). Compared with baseline values, there was a mean (SD) decrease of sUr concentration of 64 (9)% with benzbromarone and 50 (7)% with probenecid (p<0.001).
This study showed that allopurinol 300 mg/day has a poor efficacy and tolerability profile when used to attain a biochemical predefined target level of sUr < or =0.30 mmol/l, following 2 months of treatment. In stage 2, benzbromarone 200 mg/day was more effective and better tolerated than probenecid 2 g/day.
Methanol is a large volume industrial chemical and widely used solvent and fuel additive. Methanol's well known toxicity and use in a wide spectrum of applications has raised long-standing environmental issues over its safety, including its carcinogenicity. Methanol has not been listed as a carcinogen by any regulatory agency; however, there are debates about its carcinogenic potential. Formaldehyde, a metabolite of methanol, has been proposed to be responsible for the carcinogenesis of methanol. Formaldehyde is a known carcinogen and actively targets DNA and protein, causing diverse DNA and protein damage. However, formaldehyde-induced DNA adducts arising from the metabolism of methanol have not been reported previously, largely due to the absence of suitable DNA biomarkers and the inability to differentiate what was due to methanol compared with the substantial background of endogenous formaldehyde. Recently, we developed a unique approach combining highly sensitive liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry methods and exposure to stable isotope labeled chemicals to simultaneously quantify formaldehyde-specific endogenous and exogenous DNA adducts. In this study, rats were exposed daily to 500 or 2000 mg/kg [¹³CD₄]-methanol by gavage for 5 days. Our data demonstrate that labeled formaldehyde arising from [¹³CD₄]-methanol induced hydroxymethyl DNA adducts in multiple tissues in a dose-dependent manner. The results also demonstrated that the number of exogenous DNA adducts was lower than the number of endogenous hydroxymethyl DNA adducts in all tissues of rats administered 500 mg/kg per day for 5 days, a lethal dose to humans, even after incorporating an average factor of 4 for reduced metabolism due to isotope effects of deuterium-labeled methanol into account.
Leishmaniasis is caused by species of the protozoan parasite Leishmania. It is the third most important vector-borne disease and is widely distributed throughout the world. The World Health Organization recommends pentavalent antimonials as drugs of first choice in its treatment. Although Glucantime has traditionally been used to treat leishmaniasis, there are still many questions about its structure, mechanisms of action and ability to induce damage in DNA. In this study, the genotoxic activity of this drug was evaluated in vitro using human lymphocytes treated for 3 and 24 h (comet assay) and 48 h (apoptosis assay) with 3.25, 7.5 and 15 mg/ml of Glucantime, respectively, corresponding to 1.06, 2.12 and 4.25 mg/ml of pentavalent antimony. In the in vivo tests, Swiss mice received acute treatment with three doses (212.5, 425 and 850 mg/kg) of pentavalent antimony. All the treatments were administered intraperitoneally in the volumes of 0.1 ml/10 g of body weight, adapting human exposure to murine conditions. The animals were treated for 3 h in the comet assay using resident peritoneal exudate macrophages, for 24 h in the comet assay using peripheral blood leukocytes and for 24 h in the bone marrow erythrocyte micronucleus test. While no genotoxic effect was observed in the in vitro tests, the in vivo tests showed that Glucantime induces DNA damage. These findings indicate that Glucantime is a promutagenic compound that causes damage to DNA after reduction of pentavalent antimony (SbV) into the more toxic trivalent antimony (SbIII) in the antimonial drug meglumine antimoniate.
We report a case of methyldopa-induced hemolytic anemia in a 64-year-old woman who presented to the emergency department in congestive heart and respiratory failure. She subsequently suffered a respiratory arrest and required endotracheal intubation and brief CPR. After the initial evaluation revealed anemia and a 3+ positive Coombs' test, a diagnosis of methyldopa-induced hemolytic anemia was entertained. Withdrawal of the drug and supportive therapy resulted in the complete recovery of the patient. Emergency physicians should be aware of this syndrome and be able to diagnose it early in its course, avoiding potential morbidity and mortality. A discussion of the pathophysiology, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of the syndrome is given.
Ketoconazole (KT) is a broad-spectrum antifungal agent whose pharmacological activity is based on the capability to interfere with steroid biosynthesis through an interaction with fungal cytochrome P-450 enzymes and thereby avoiding the formation of fungal walls. As the inhibition of fungal cytochrome P-450 by KT is not specific, the mammalian cytochrome P-450 species, which play an important role in the biosynthesis of steroidogenesis, are also affected. The reproductive and developmental toxicity of KT have been assessed. This antimycotic agent has been reported as embryotoxic and teratogenic when administered in high doses (80 mg/kg) to pregnant rats. The mechanisms by which KT exert teratogenic effects remains to be elucidated. When considering the potential inhibitory effect of KT on mammalian steroid biosynthesis as a possible responsible for the skeletal anomalies induced by this drug, this study aimed at determining whether steroid maternal supplementation may prevent the skeletal anomalies induced by KT. To test this hypothesis, maternal supplementation with prednisone (PRED) (0.1, 0.2 or 0.4 mg/kg) and 80 mg/kg of KT were administered to pregnant Wistar rats (n = 10) during organogenesis period. On gestational day 21, the dams were euthanized and examined for standard parameters of reproductive outcome. In summary, the results showed that PRED supplementation therapy may cause reductions in the incidence of KT-induced cranial and appendicular skeletal anomalies as well as cleft palate in the rat, being these results more consistent with 0.4 mg/kg of this drug. These results suggest an important role for glucocorticoids in KT-induced teratogenesis.
Skin lesions are classic clinical signs of toxicity due to long-term exposure to arsenic, and they are considered precursors to arsenic-related skin cancer. The authors prospectively evaluated synergisms between effects of arsenic exposure and those of tobacco use, sun exposure, and pesticide and fertilizer use on incident skin lesions using risk factor data from 5,042 men from the Health Effects of Arsenic Longitudinal Study in Araihazar, Bangladesh, which recruited participants from October 2000 to May 2002. Discrete time hazard models were used to estimate measures of synergistic interactions on the additive scale. The authors observed significant synergistic effects between various measures of arsenic exposure and smoking and fertilizer use. The relative excess risks for the interactions between smoking status and arsenic exposure were 0.12 (95% confidence interval: 0.06, 0.19) for water arsenic and 0.11 (95% confidence interval: 0.05, 0.15) for urinary arsenic measures, respectively. Significant synergistic effects were also observed between fertilizer use and water arsenic (relative excess risk for the interaction = 0.06, 95% confidence interval: 0.01, 0.12). This is the first prospective study based on individual-level data that supports a role for smoking and certain occupational risk factors in modification of the effect of long-term arsenic exposure on skin lesions. Understanding differential arsenic susceptibility allows researchers to develop interventions to prevent the health consequences of this massive problem in the Bangladeshi population and beyond.
Hexachloro-1,3-butadiene (HCBD) is more nephrotoxic to female than male rats. Metabolism of HCBD involves conjugation with glutathione followed by formation of the cysteine conjugate S-(pentachloro-1,3-butadienyl) cysteine (PCBD-CYS) and then the mercapturic acid N-acetyl-S-pentachloro-1,3-butadienyl-cysteine (PCBD-NAC). PCBD-NAC is also more nephrotoxic to female rats than male rats. The deacetylation of [14C]-PCBD-NAC to PCBD-CYS and the binding of radiolabelled metabolites to protein has been studied using renal cytosol preparations from male and female rats in vitro, since a sex-related difference in these reactions could explain the difference in nephrotoxicity found in vivo. PCBD-NAC was rapidly metabolised by renal cytosol. The rate of metabolism was similar with either male or female renal cytosol, and the major metabolite identified was PCBD-CYS. N-Acetylation of PCBD-CYS to PCBD-NAC was not detected in the presence of either male or female renal cytosol. Covalent binding of radioactivity from [14C]-PCBD-NAC to cytosolic protein could be detected after 5 min incubation, and although the extent of binding was similar for both male and female cytosol at early time periods, after 60 min incubation more binding was found in the presence of male cytosol. Covalent binding was largely prevented by aminooxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of cysteine conjugate beta-lyase, suggesting a role for this enzyme in the activation of HCBD. These results indicate that the sex differences in the nephrotoxicity of HCBD and PCBD-NAC in the rat are not attributable to differences in the rate of deacetylation of PCBD-NAC to give the proximate nephrotoxin PCBD-CYS.
This study examined whether nifedipine or flunarizine, calcium channel blockers, could protect the liver against halothane hepatotoxicity in rats. Six groups of 102 enzyme-induced male Sprague-Dawley rats were studied. Group N1 and N2 rats received nifedipine 20 micrograms and 100 micrograms.kg-1.day-1, and group F1 and F2 rats received flunarizine 100 micrograms and 1mg.kg-1.day-1 in their drinking water for 24 hours prior to the experiment. They were then anesthetized with N2-O2-halothane 0.5% under the condition of hypoxia (FIO2 0.12) for two hours. Animals in group H were given clear water, and then anesthetized with halothane and hypoxia. Animals in group C were given clear water and exposed to hypoxia alone. Twenty-four hours after anesthesia, all animals were decapitated and their liver specimens were stained with H&E for the examination by light microscopy. Eighty percent of rats in group H showed centrilobular degeneration, but administration of nifedipine or flunarizine reduced the incidence significantly. Furthermore, histological score graded from 0 to 3, according to the degree of centrilobular degeneration was also significantly reduced by administration of nifedipine or flunarizine. These results suggest that oral administration of nifedipine or flunarizine could prevent the incidence of halothane-induced hepatotoxicity in enzyme-induced rats, probably by preventing the increase in cytosolic calcium concentration.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus epidermidis (MRSE) can cause nosocomial meningitis in the presence of prosthetic devices. Vancomycin is the treatment of choice, but its penetration into the cerebrospinal fluid is poor, especially in cases without severe meningeal inflammation. We successfully used linezolid to treat a case of posttraumatic MRSE meningitis with a low-level inflammatory response. Therapeutic effectiveness was documented microbiologically and by the simultaneous measurement of linezolid levels in serum and cerebrospinal fluid.
Six weeks after his return from a two-week vacation in Croatia a 52 year-old janitor from Graz complained of loss of appetite, fever, headache, and a 9-kg weight loss. The spleen was enlarged to 16cm as measured by sonography. Laboratory tests revealed pancytopenia, a prolonged prothrombin time and elevation of serum LDH concentration. While repeated bone marrow biopsy showed no signs of leishmaniasis, high antibody titers against leishmania antigen led to the diagnosis of kala-azar. The indirect immunofluorescent antibody test (1:128) and a haemagglutination-inhibition test (1:512) showed diagnostic elevations of titers. Therapy with pentostam led to prompt defervescence and resulted in a full recovery of the patient. After six weeks a marked decrease of antibody titers in the haemagglutination-inhibition test (1:16) could be observed. Leishmaniasis has to be considered in patients with fever of unknown origin who return from Mediterranean countries. Despite a negative bone marrow biopsy a diagnosis is possible on the basis of serological tests. This is important because effective therapy is available as illustrated by this patient and because of the fact that the disease runs a lethal course if the diagnosis is missed.
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between endothelial dysfunction and low density lipoprotein (LDL) size and susceptibility to oxidation in nephrotic rats with or without deficiency of vitamin E and selenium. Four groups of male Wistar rats were studied: control (C), vitamin E and selenium deficient control (DefC), nephrotic (NS), and vitamin E and selenium deficient NS (DefNS). Nephrotic syndrome was induced by puromycin aminonucleoside. The molar ratio of vitamin E/LDL-cholesterol was significantly lower in DefNS, DefC rats, and NS vs. C rats. In comparison with control animals, vasodilation and LDL oxidability were significantly lower in nephrotic animals. LDL size was similar in all groups. Abnormal endothelial function in response to acetylcholine and carbachol was observed in NS animals compared to control rats. Relaxation response was inversely associated with an increase in LDL susceptibility to oxidation and with a lower molar ratio of vitamin E/LDL-c. LDL oxidability and LDL-c were the only variables independently associated with vasodilation. These results suggest that endothelial dysfunction of NS may be a consequence of the increased LDL susceptibility to oxidation, secondary to antioxidant deficiency.
A single-blind crossover trial was carried out in 38 elderly, hospitalised patients with essential hypertension to compare the hypotensive activity of 5 mg. indapamide daily with 100 mg. chlorthalidone daily. After initial treatment for 10 days with placebo, patients received treatment for 45 days with either indapamide or chlorthalidone and were then crossed over to the alternative drug for a similar period. Potassium supplementation was necessary in 25 of the patients receiving chlorthalidone, but was precribed as a precautionary measure in only 1 patients whilst on indapamide. Results showed that there were significant drops in blood pressure following both active medications, but that the percentage reduction in diastolic pressure was greater after indapamide. Indapamide also proved more effective than chlorthalidone in controlling the patients' subjective and functional symptoms of their hypertension. In an overall assessment of the effectiveness of both drugs, indapamide was judged to be better tolerated as well as more effective than chlorthalidone in 18 of the 38 patients, whilst chlorthalidone was preferred in only 7 instances.
An open-design, prospective, non-comparative study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of itraconazole in the treatment of tinea pedis (interdigital-type, hyperkeratotic-type and the combination of both). Treatment consisted of one pulse of itraconazole, meaning that each patient received 400 mg/day for one week. Clinical and mycologic control examinations were performed at baseline and at the end of treatment; follow-up visits took place at 30 and 60 days after the last medication administration. A total of 44 patients were evaluated. The major causal agent isolated was Trichophyton rubrum (93%). At the final follow-up visit (60 days), 37 cases (84.4%) achieved clinical and mycologic cure; 5 (11.3%) had improvement and 2 cases (4.5%) failed. Three cases reported side effects attributable to itraconazole (6.6%); one patient had a moderate headache and two reported moderate dyspepsia. None of the 3 cases required discontinuation of the medication. We concluded that the administration of one pulse of itraconazole is an effective, safe and short regimen to treat tinea pedis.
To report a patient with 2 consecutive reversible drug-induced liver disorders and the application of International Consensus Meeting Criteria for the screening and diagnosis of drug-induced liver disorders.
An 88-year-old man in a chronic care institution developed abdominal discomfort and jaundice after finishing a 10-day course of trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole therapy for a urinary tract infection (UTI). The jaundice and the symptoms resolved spontaneously and the final diagnosis was symptomatic drug-induced liver injury, mixed type. After 1 month, the same patient received a course of cefadroxil therapy for another UTI. He developed an asymptomatic drug-induced liver injury, mixed type. Six months later, the patient received oral penicillin therapy and then ciprofloxacin, with no change in his liver function test results.
To our knowledge, there are only a few other reports in the literature of a drug-induced liver injury with cefadroxil therapy; more cases are reported with trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole than with cefadroxil. The criteria of an International Consensus Meeting were helpful to evaluate both incidences of liver injury in this patient with the aim of establishing the diagnosis and causality assessment. Additionally, the criteria were used to show that the patient had 2 separate liver injuries.
Screening and diagnosis of drug-induced liver disorders depend on careful history taking and 5 specific biochemical liver tests. The evolution of the liver disorder induced by cefadroxil therapy probably was interrupted because of its early detection. Appropriate screening was done with the subsequent administration of new potentially hepatotoxic drugs.
Since NSAIDs are competitive antagonists of cyclooxygenase, they prevent the biosynthesis of prostaglandins, responsible for enhanced nociceptive sensitization and primary hyperalgesia. If NSAIDs administration is performed after eicosanoids cascade activation by surgical trauma, already released prostaglandins can exert their hyperalgesic effects for a finite time. Therefore prophylactic administration of NSAIDs (pre-emptive analgesia) should improve their effectiveness on acute postoperative pain.
To assess the analgesic effect of preoperatively administered ketorolac, compared with its administration after surgical trauma.
Thirty adult patients, ASA physical status I-II, undergoing elective septoplasty, were allocated randomly in two groups, depending on timing of i.v. administration of ketorolac 0.4 mg/kg: 10 min before induction (group I); or 5 min after décollement of nasal septum cartilaginoid plan (group II). No other analgesic drugs were given. Postoperative pain was assessed with objective (SAP, DAP, HR) and subjective (VAS, BS 11) methods at 60, 90, 120, 150, and 180 min after the end of surgery. Rate and severity of any side-effect were recorded.
Both VAS and BS 11 showed significant better pain relief after preoperative ketorolac at all time, without any adverse effect. Same result was shown by SAP at 60 and 90 min postoperatively.
Due to prevention of nociceptive sensitization of prostaglandins released by tissue trauma, prophylactic NSAIDs administration to surgical patients with mild to moderate postoperative pain can improve their antinociceptive effects.
Drug abuse and impulsive choice are related in humans. In female rats, impulsive choice predicted the rate of acquisition of IV cocaine self-administration. The objectives of the present experiments were to: (a) compare impulsive choice in males and females, (b) extend previous research on impulsive choice and acquisition of cocaine self-administration to males, and (c) compare males and females during maintenance, extinction, and reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior. Male and female rats were trained on an adjusting delay task in which a response on one of two levers yielded one food pellet immediately, and a response on the other resulted in three pellets after an adjusting delay that decreased after responses on the immediate lever and increased after responses on the delay lever. A mean adjusted delay (MAD) was used as the quantitative measure of impulsivity. In Experiment 1, MADs were analyzed for sex differences. In Experiment 2, acquisition of cocaine self-administration was examined in rats selected for high (HiI; MADs < or =9 seconds) or low (LoI; MADs > or =13 seconds) impulsivity. In Experiment 3, HiI and LoI groups were compared on maintenance and extinction of cocaine self-administration and cocaine-primed reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior. There were no sex differences in impulsive choice; however, HiI male and female rats acquired cocaine self-administration faster than their LoI counterparts. LoI females responded more on a cocaine-associated lever during maintenance and extinction than HiI females, but HiI females showed greater reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior than all other groups at the highest dose tested (15 mg/kg). Thus, individual differences in impulsive choice were associated with differences in cocaine-seeking behavior. Impulsive choice and sex may be additive vulnerability factors in certain phases of drug abuse.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of a long-acting calcium antagonist, amlodipine, on the development of cardiac remodeling. Dihydropyridine calcium antagonists have been used widely for many years in the treatment of hypertension and angina pectoris. It has been reported, however, that a prototype of dihydropyridines, nifedipine, does not reduce mortality of patients with ischemic heart disease, possibly because of reflex stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system. A calcium antagonist, amlodipine, has been reported to have potential benefits by virtue of a gradual onset of action and a long duration of effects. Amlodipine (8 mg/kg per day, once a day) or nifedipine (24 mg/kg per day, three times a day) was administered to spontaneously hypertensive 12-week-old rats for 12 weeks. Left ventricular wall thickness was measured by echocardiography, and relative amounts of myosin heavy chain isoforms were assessed by pyrophosphate gels. Expressions of "fetal type" genes and type 1 collagen gene were examined by Northern blot analysis. Amlodipine and nifedipine both markedly reduced systolic blood pressure. However, the decrease in systolic blood pressure caused by nifedipine continued for no more than 8 hours, whereas the blood pressure-lowering effect of amlodipine continued for more than 16 hours post dose. Amlodipine markedly reduced left ventricular wall thickness, whereas nifedipine only weakly attenuated an increase in the wall thickness. Amlodipine, but not nifedipine, prevented an increase in the relative amount of V3 myosin heavy chain isoform and suppressed an increase in mRNA levels of beta-myosin heavy chain, skeletal alpha-actin, and type 1 collagen. Unlike nifedipine, amlodipine effectively prevented cardiac remodeling secondary to high blood pressure at biochemical levels and morphological levels. These results suggest that a long-acting calcium antagonist is more effective than a short-acting one in preventing organ injury in hypertensive subjects.
Functional characteristics of the pharynx and upper esophagus, including aspiration episodes, were investigated in 14 awake volunteers during various levels of partial neuromuscular block. Pharyngeal function was evaluated using videoradiography and computerized pharyngeal manometry during contrast bolus swallowing.
Measurements of pharyngeal constrictor muscle function (contraction amplitude, duration, and slope), upper esophageal sphincter muscle resting tone, muscle coordination, bolus transit time, and aspiration under fluoroscopic control (laryngeal or tracheal penetration) were made before (control measurements) and during a vecuronium-induced partial neuromuscular paralysis, at fixed intervals of mechanical adductor pollicis muscle train-of-four (TOF) fade; that is, at TOF ratios of 0.60, 0.70, 0.80, and after recovery to a TOF ratio > 0.90.
Six volunteers aspirated (laryngeal penetration) at a TOF ratio < 0.90. None of them aspirated at a TOF ratio > 0.90 or during control recording. Pharyngeal constrictor muscle function was not affected at any level of paralysis. The upper esophageal sphincter resting tone was significantly reduced at TOF ratios of 0.60, 0.70, and 0.80 (P < 0.05). This was associated with reduced muscle coordination and shortened bolus transit time at a TOF ratio of 0.60.
Vecuronium-induced partial paralysis cause pharyngeal dysfunction and increased risk for aspiration at mechanical adductor pollicis TOF ratios < 0.90. Pharyngeal function is not normalized until an adductor pollicis TOF ratio of > 0.90 is reached. The upper esophageal sphincter muscle is more sensitive to vecuronium than is the pharyngeal constrictor muscle.
This review concerns studies of the comparative efficacy and safety of torasemide and furosemide in patients with cirrhosis of the liver complicated by ascites and oedema. The short-term trials reviewed indicated that in patients who had failed to respond with adequate diuresis and loss of body weight and ascites to bed rest, restricted salt and water intake and spironolactone, torasemide had a longer duration of action than furosemide and resulted in a greater urinary excretion of salt and water and greater loss of body weight. Torasemide also had less effect than furosemide on urinary potassium excretion and unlike furosemide did not increase the fractional excretion of magnesium or phosphate or the blood ammonia concentration. Two longer term trials in similar patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis confirm the results of the shorter term studies. These studies, albeit each in relatively small numbers of patients, confirm the ability of torasemide to enhance diuresis, free water clearance and fractional excretion of sodium and chloride, resulting in loss of body weight and mobilization of ascites in patients with decompensated hepatic cirrhosis. In these patients, the relatively small increase in urinary excretion of potassium, induced by torasemide without any marked effect on renal function or on the plasma neurohormonal profile, enhances its potential safety.
