Chronic inflammation has a pathological role in many common diseases and is influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Here we assess the role of genetic variation in selenoprotein S (SEPS1, also called SELS or SELENOS), a gene involved in stress response in the endoplasmic reticulum and inflammation control. After resequencing SEPS1, we genotyped 13 SNPs in 522 individuals from 92 families. As inflammation biomarkers, we measured plasma levels of IL-6, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha. Bayesian quantitative trait nucleotide analysis identified associations between SEPS1 polymorphisms and all three proinflammatory cytokines. One promoter variant, -105G --> A, showed strong evidence for an association with each cytokine (multivariate P = 0.0000002). Functional analysis of this polymorphism showed that the A variant significantly impaired SEPS1 expression after exposure to endoplasmic reticulum stress agents (P = 0.00006). Furthermore, suppression of SEPS1 by short interfering RNA in macrophage cells increased the release of IL-6 and TNF-alpha. To investigate further the significance of the observed associations, we genotyped -105G --> A in 419 Mexican American individuals from 23 families for replication. This analysis confirmed a significant association with both TNF-alpha (P = 0.0049) and IL-1beta (P = 0.0101). These results provide a direct mechanistic link between SEPS1 and the production of inflammatory cytokines and suggest that SEPS1 has a role in mediating inflammation.
Ten men with stable angina not completely relieved by full doses of propranolol (mean 218 mg/day) were administered an oral dose of 10 mg of nifedipine or placebo on alternate mornings in a double-blind fashion. Patients had been trained in a protocol that precipitated angina after 3-6 minutes of bicycle exercise. On test days, with propranolol continued, bicycle exercise to angina or fatigue was performed before nifedipine or placebo administration, and hourly thereafter for 8 hours. Mean exercise duration was greater 1 hour after nifedipine than after placebo by 123 seconds (372 +/- 21 vs 249 +/- 16 seconds, p less than 0.001). By the fifth hour, the increase in exercise time was reduced to 93 seconds (p less than 0.001), and a significant, though further diminished, difference of 57 seconds was still present at 8 hours (p less than 0.01). Nifedipine lowered resting systolic blood pressure by 20 mm Hg (p less than 0.001) without appreciably changing heart rate. We conclude that nifedipine is a very effective and reasonably long-acting antianginal supplement to propranolol.
The effect of alkylpyrazine derivatives on pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, picrotoxicin-induced convulsion and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels in mouse brain were studied. The duration of pentobarbital-induced sleep in mice was dose-dependently increased by 2,5-dimethylpyrazine (DMP). The duration of pentobarbital-induced sleep was also increased by an administration route of intracerebroventricular injection. Sleep duration was also increased by the administration of isomers of DMP, 2-chloro-3,6-dimethylpyrazine (DMP-Cl) and 2-fluoro-3,6-dimethylpyrazine (DMP-F), but 3,6-dimethylpyrazine-2-thiol (DMP-SH) did not affect sleep duration. The interval until the appearance of picrotoxicin-induced convulsion was prolonged by DMP and DMP-Cl. Increased sleep duration was obtained by administering DMP in combination with aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA) and diazepam compared to a single injection. The interval until convulsion due to picrotoxin was also prolonged by the administration of DMP combined with diazepam and valproic acid (VPA). The interval until the appearance of bicuculline-induced convulsion was also prolonged by pretreatment with DMP. The GABA level in mouse brain was increased by the administration of AOAA, VPA, DMP and DMP-Cl. These results suggest that DMP and other derivatives may strengthen the GABAnergic system in the brain.
Minoxidil (Loniten), a potent predominant arteriolar vasodilator, provides prompt and effective reduction of blood pressure in many patients with severe hypertension. Minoxidil results, however, in profound reflex tachycardia and increased plasma volume almost always necessitating concomitant use of beta-adrenergic blocking agents and diuretics. Hypertrichosis and massive fluid retention are troublesome adverse reactions that may require discontinuation of minoxidil and initiation of an alternative antihypertensive agent. When minoxidil is discontinued, diuretic dosage requires re-evaluation and possible tapering to prevent volume depletion. Volume depletion is a risk factor in patients with persistent peripheral edema, sodium deprivation or dehydration; these states may interfere with physiologic mechanisms that maintain adequate cerebral perfusion upon standing, triggering orthostatic hypotension and potential syncope. Hypertension clinic visits should routinely include supine followed by sitting and standing blood pressure determinations to ensure detection of orthostatic hypotension. Described in the article is a case study in which a patient developed severe orthostatic hypotension one month after minoxidil was discontinued. Pathophysiologic mechanisms are discussed.
To evaluate the significance of alterations in cell adhesion-related genes methylation during lung multistep carcinogenesis induced by the genotoxic carcinogens 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA) and diethylnitrosamine (DEN), tissue samples microdissected from MCA/DEN-induced rat lung carcinogenesis model were subjected to methylation-specific PCR to evaluate the DNA methylation status of CADM1, TIMP3, E-cadherin and N-cadherin. Immunohistochemistry was used to determine protein expression of CADM1, TIMP3, N-cadherin and the DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) 1, 3a and 3b. E-cadherin hypermethylation was not detected in any tissue. CADM1, TIMP3 and N-cadherin hypermethylation was correlated with the loss of their protein expression during the progression of pathologic lesions. The prevalence of DNA methylation of at least one gene and the average number of methylated genes increased with the histological progression. DNMT1 and DNMT3a protein expression increased progressively during the stages of lung carcinogenesis, whereas DNMT3b overexpression was only found in several samples. Furthermore, DNMT1 protein expression levels were correlated with CADM1 methylation, and DNMT3a protein expression levels were correlated with CADM1, TIMP3 and N-cadherin methylation. The average number of methylated genes during carcinogenesis was significantly correlated with DNMT1 and DNMT3a protein expression levels. Moreover, mRNA expression of CADM1 significantly increased after treatment with DNMT inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine in CADM1-methylated primary tumor cell lines. Our findings suggest that an accumulation of hypermethylation accounts for cell adhesion-related gene silencing is associated with dynamic changes in the progression of MCA/DEN-induced rat lung carcinogenesis. We suggest that DNMT1 and DNMT3a protein overexpression may be responsible for this aberrant DNA methylation.
The effect of mangiferin (MF) with exercise on bood lipids was studied in KK-Ay mice, an animal model of type 2 diabetes. MF (30 mg/kg) reduced the blood cholesterol (p<0.05) and triglyceride level (p<0.01) of KK-Ay mice with exercise 2 weeks after oral administration when compared with the control group. Diabetes also often has elevated lipid levels. Therefore, it may be that MF has beneficial effects on hyperlipidemia in type 2 diabetes.
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor fosinopril was given for 12 weeks to 92 patients with hypertension and metabolic syndrome. Spectra of carbohydrates and lipids, blood plasma kallikrein-kinin and prostacyclin-thromboxane systems, vascular endothelium dependent vasodilating function were studied in all patients. Hypertension was accompanied with lowering of endothelium dependent vasodilation which degree correlated with lowering of prostacyclin and elevation of thromboxane levels, dys-balance of kallikrein-kinin system as well as with severity of hypertension and metabolic syndrome. Effective blood pressure lowering caused by therapy with fosinopril was associated with stabilization of parameters of kallikrein-kinin and prostacyclin-thromboxane systems, improvement of endothelium dependent vasodilation.
We investigated the genetic basis for a global and uniform decrease in mitochondrial translation in fibroblasts from patients in two unrelated pedigrees who developed Leigh syndrome, optic atrophy, and ophthalmoplegia. Analysis of the assembly of the oxidative phosphorylation complexes showed severe decreases of complexes I, IV, and V and a smaller decrease in complex III. The steady-state levels of mitochondrial mRNAs, tRNAs, and rRNAs were not reduced, nor were those of the mitochondrial translation elongation factors or the protein components of the mitochondrial ribosome. Using homozygosity mapping, we identified a 1 bp deletion in C12orf65 in one patient, and DNA sequence analysis showed a different 1 bp deletion in the second patient. Both mutations predict the same premature stop codon. C12orf65 belongs to a family of four mitochondrial class I peptide release factors, which also includes mtRF1a, mtRF1, and Ict1, all characterized by the presence of a GGQ motif at the active site. However, C12orf65 does not exhibit peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase activity in an in vitro assay with bacterial ribosomes. We suggest that it might play a role in recycling abortive peptidyl-tRNA species, released from the ribosome during the elongation phase of translation.
To report a case of pheochromocytoma exhibiting an increase in systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI) and decreased cardiac index (CI) after use of labetalol.
A 36-yr-old male underwent adrenectomy for pheochromocytoma. Midazolam 5 mg, fentanyl 100 microg and labetalol 20 mg were administrated intravenously for premedication upon arrival in the operating theatre. After induction of anesthesia with fentanyl, thiopental and atracurium, 30 mg iv labetalol was administered. The blood pressure gradually rose to 178/101 mmHg with mildly increased SVRI (1958 dn-sec(-1).m(2).cm(5)) and stable CI (3.8 L.min(-1).m(2) ). The blood pressure reached 247/150 mmHg after intubation with an increase in SVRI (3458 dn-sec(-1).m(2).cm(5)) and a decrease in CI (3.6 L.min(-1).m(2)). The SVRI increased further to 4986 dn-sec(-1).m(2).cm(5) and CI declined to 2.4 L.min(-1).m(2) after the administration of additional labetalol 20 mg. Sodium nitroprusside was administered and the blood pressure declined immediately to 108/72 mmHg, with a decreased SVRI (2526 dn-sec(-1).m(2).cm(5)) and stable CI (2.3 L.min(-1).m(2)).
The elevated SVRI with low CI was considered to result from increased alpha-adrenergic activity secondary to ss-adrenergic blockade with labetalol. Clinicians should be aware of the possibility of a hypertensive crisis after iv labetalol. We suggest that labetalol should be replaced promptly with alpha-adrenergic blockers or other vasodilators when such a condition arises.
Dietary zinc deficiency in mice is accompanied by enhanced expression of the zinc uptake transporter Slc39a4 (Zip4) and repressed expression of Slc39a5 (Zip5) in tissues which regulate zinc homeostasis (intestine, pancreas and visceral yolk sac). Herein, mechanisms controlling this differential expression were investigated. The induction of Zip4 mRNA during zinc deficiency, and its repression in response to zinc repletion were found to reflect changes in Zip4 mRNA stability and not changes in the relative rate of transcription of this gene. During zinc deficiency, ZIP4 protein levels are increased and this protein is localized on the apical membranes. Administration of an oral gavage of zinc caused ZIP4 internalization and degradation in enterocytes and visceral endoderm cells. Similarly, ZIP4 is induced by zinc deficiency in cultured mouse Hepa cells and is rapidly degraded in response to added zinc. Zip5 mRNA abundance does not change in response to zinc, but the translation of this mRNA was found to be zinc-responsive. During zinc deficiency, Zip5 mRNA remains associated with polysomes, while the protein is internalized and degraded in enterocytes, acinar cells and endoderm cells. After zinc-gavage, ZIP5 is rapidly resynthesized and targeted to the basolateral membranes of these cell types.
Niacin has recently been demonstrated to lower blood pressure in hypertensive patients and to reduce cardiovascular events when combined with a statin. As a consequence, niacin has been elevated from being of historical interest as the treatment for pellagra, to being a compound with possible relevance to contemporary therapeutics. In spite of this, niacin deficiency leading to pellagra continues to be a health problem in some countries. Characterized by an exposed-site hyperpigmented dermatitis, pellagra is generally accepted to have been the first photosensitivity syndrome described. At its worst, pellagra manifests as one of the most striking examples of systemic photosensitivity. This is the only photosensitivity syndrome where death is included as a cardinal clinical feature (the often quoted four 'Ds': dermatitis, diarrhoea, dementia and death). However, the pathogenetic mechanism for the photosensitivity caused by niacin deficiency has yet to be determined. This review seeks to update the classification and phenotypic characterization of the various forms of niacin-deficient photosensitivity. Previous speculation about possible mechanisms for the pathogenesis of photosensitivity due to niacin deficiency is reviewed in the context of advances in the understanding of the photochemical basis of photosensitivity reactions. The review concludes by highlighting research required to advance the understanding of this photosensitivity syndrome.
The ability of the farnesyl transferase inhibitor R115777 to act as a cancer therapeutic/preventive agent and to modulate proliferation/apoptosis markers was determined in the methylnitrosourea-induced model of mammary carcinogenesis. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were given methylnitrosourea at 50 days of age. In the prevention study, R115777 (5, 16, or 50 mg/kg body weight/d), beginning 5 days after methylnitrosourea treatment, decreased the formation of mammary cancers by 6%, 42%, and 75%, respectively. Approximately 50% of the mammary cancers that developed had HaRas mutations. Only 1 of 15 tumors that grew out in the presence of R115777 (16 or 50 mg/kg body weight/d) had a HaRas mutation. In the therapeutic study, a surgical biopsy of a mammary cancer was done to determine HaRas status, and growth of the cancer was then followed during treatment of the rat with R115777. Virtually every cancer with a HaRas mutation underwent complete regression within 3 weeks, whereas tumors without a HaRas mutation had variable responses to the inhibitor. Both of these studies implied a high sensitivity of tumors with HaRas mutations to the effects of R115777. In order to understand the preferential susceptibility of tumors with HaRas mutations, rats with a palpable cancer were treated with R115777 for a period of 36 or 96 hours prior to sacrifice, and the proliferation and apoptosis levels in the cancers were determined. The proliferative index was significantly (>85%) decreased in all mammary cancers with HaRas mutations, whereas variable responses were observed in cancers without HaRas mutations. Apoptosis was also measured and a 5-fold increase was observed in HaRas mutant tumors, again with varying responses in the HaRas wild-type cancers. Thus, R115777 was active in the prevention and therapy of these chemically induced mammary cancers, but was strikingly more effective in cancers with HaRas mutations.
The effects of 13-cis-retinoic acid on the developing chick embryo were investigated. Fertilized eggs were injected via the yolk sac with single 50 microliters doses of either 1.5 micrograms, 15 micrograms, or 150 micrograms of 13-cis-retinoic acid in dimethyl sulfoxide on varying days of incubation (embryonic days 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6). Control embryos were given solvent alone or a mock injection. The embryos were examined on day 14 of incubation. The effects of retinoic acid on mortality and total malformations were both dose and developmental-stage responsive. The defects caused by 13-cis-retinoic acid occurred in mesenchymal tissues derived in part from the cranial neural crest ectomesenchyme. The craniofacial and cardiovascular malformations produced in the chick are analogous to those seen in animal models of retinoid teratogenesis and in human fetuses exposed to 13-cis-retinoic acid during maternal therapy for cystic acne. Following 13-cis-retinoic acid treatment, craniofacial and specific cardiovascular malformations were increased significantly compared to those in matched solvent and mock treated controls. The greatest number of malformations occurred when 13-cis-retinoic acid was given after cranial neural crest cell migration was complete. We propose that the primary effect of 13-cis-retinoic acid is on region-specific localization and differentiation of the mesenchymal subpopulation of cranial neural crest cells.
Formaldehyde is mutagenic and, when inhaled at high concentrations, carcinogenic in rats. Some epidemiologic studies have linked occupational exposure to formaldehyde with cancers of the nose, nasopharynx, and lung, but the evidence for human carcinogenicity has been inconsistent and requires clarification.
We extended by 11 years the follow-up of an existing cohort of 14 014 men employed after 1937 at six British factories where formaldehyde was produced or used. Subjects had been identified from employment records, and their jobs had been classified for potential exposure to formaldehyde. Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were derived using the person-years method and were compared with the expected numbers of deaths for the national population.
During follow-up through December 31, 2000, 5185 deaths were recorded, including two from sino-nasal cancer (2.3 expected) and one from nasopharyngeal cancer (2.0 expected). Relative to the national population, mortality from lung cancer was increased among those who worked with formaldehyde, particularly in men in the highest of four estimated exposure categories (>2 ppm) (SMR = 1.58, 95% confidence interval = 1.40 to 1.78), and the increase persisted after adjustment for local geographic variations in mortality (SMR = 1.28, 95% confidence interval = 1.13 to 1.44). However, there was a statistically nonsignificant decrease in the risk of death from lung cancer with duration of high exposure (P(trend) =.18), and this risk showed no trend with time since first high exposure (P(trend) =.99).
The evidence for human carcinogenicity of formaldehyde remains unconvincing. Although a small effect on sino-nasal or nasopharyngeal cancer cannot be ruled out, a possible increase in the risk of lung cancer is a greater concern.
Trastuzumab (Herceptin) targets the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), which is overexpressed in 20-30% of breast and ovarian cancers carrying a bad prognosis. Our purpose was to target HER2-overexpressing human breast cancer cells with pegylated immunoliposomes bearing trastuzumab and containing melittin, which has recently shown anticancer properties. Using a panel of human breast cancer cells with different HER2 expression levels, these immunoliposomes decreased cancer cells viability in a dose-response manner and in correlation to their level of HER2 expression. Specific binding of the immunoliposomes to SKBr3 breast cancer cells was shown by ImageStream-based analysis. The morphological changes observed in the treated cells suggested a cytolytic process. This preclinical approach may suppose an effective strategy for the treatment of HER2-overexpressing tumors, and can support the development of an early phases I-II clinical trial. Trastuzumab resistant breast cancer cells (JIMT-1), can also be targeted using this approach.
We examined the depressant effect of midazolam on respiration in 21 healthy women undergoing lower abdominal surgery with spinal anaesthesia. Airway gas flow, airway pressure, and the sound of snoring were recorded together with arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2). After spinal anaesthesia was established, subjects were deeply sedated with pentazocine 15 mg followed by incremental doses of midazolam 1 mg i.v. up to 0.1 mg.kg-1. When SpO2 decreased to < 90% or snoring and/or apnoea was observed, continuous positive airway pressure applied through the nose (nasal CPAP) was increased until the respiratory deterioration was reversed. While one patient remained free of respiratory events, the other 20 patients were successfully treated with nasal CPAP restoring normal SpO2 (95.5 +/- 1.7%) without snoring. Stepwise reduction of nasal CPAP determined the minimally effective CPAP to prevent snoring to be 5.1 +/- 2.1 cm H2O. Further reduction of nasal CPAP induced snoring in 15 patients and obstructive apnoea in five patients with the latter accompanied by a severe reduction of SpO2 (87.4 +/- 6.1%). Patients with apnoea were older than those who snored (P < 0.05. We conclude that upper airway obstruction contributes considerably to decreases in SpO2 during midazolam sedation for spinal anaesthesia.
A number of experimental studies have found that reactive oxygen species are involved during morphine treatment or withdrawal. The aims of this study were to analyse whether morphine administration and/or removal are related to peroxide generation and/or signs of withdrawal in rats, and whether the changes in antioxidant status induced by the administration of an antioxidant may modify peroxide levels and behavioural signs. We injected morphine or morphine and naloxone into rats and evaluated the plasma levels of peroxide malondialdehyde (MDA) and the appearance of withdrawal signs. We also investigated the effects on these parameters induced by the administration of the antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid (LA). Morphine treatment increased MDA levels. Abrupt naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal caused a further and significant increase in MDA, and the appearance of withdrawal signs such as abnormal fecal excretion, shortened latency times and jumping. The administration of LA lowered MDA levels in the rats treated with morphine or morphine plus naloxone, and also decreased MDA values and abstinence signs in the animals treated with morphine plus naloxone. The effects of LA were attributed to its capacity to scavenge peroxides and interfere with the biogenesis of the arachidonic acid metabolites involved in the expression of abstinence symptoms.
Recent reports have supported the innovative use of clonazepam in the treatment of various psychiatric conditions. This report alerts clinicians that, although helpful in some patients, clonazepam can cause behavioral disinhibition and worsening of symptoms in other patients.
Trasina is a herbal formulation of some Indian medicinal plants classified in Ayurveda, the classic Indian system of medicine, as Medhyarasayanas or drugs reputed to improve memory and intellect. Earlier experimental and clinical investigations have indicated that the formulation has a memory-facilitating action. In this investigation, the effect of Trasina, after subchronic administration for 21 days, was assessed on two rodent models simulating some biochemical features known to be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The models, in rats, included intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) administered colchicine (15 micrograms/rat) and lesioning of nucleus basalis magnocellularis (nbm) by ibotenic acid (10 micrograms/rat). Retention of an active avoidance response was used as the memory parameter. In addition, the effect of Trasina was evaluated on i.c.v. colchicine-induced depletion of acetylcholine (ACh) concentrations, reduction in choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity, and decrease in muscarinic cholinergic receptor (MCR) binding in rat brain frontal cortex and hippocampus. The behavioral and biochemical investigations were done 7, 14, and 21 days after colchicine or ibotenic acid lesioning. Trasina (200 and 500 mg/kg) was administered orally (p.o.) once daily for 21 days, the first drug administration being given just prior to lesioning. Colchicine and ibotenic acid induced marked retention deficit of active avoidance learning that was attenuated in a dose-dependent manner by Trasina after 14 and 21 days of treatment. Frontal cortical and hippocampal ACh concentrations, ChAT activity and MCR binding was significantly reduced after colchicine treatment. Trasina (200 and 500 mg/kg) reversed these deficits after 14 and 21 days of treatment. The findings indicate that the herbal formulation exerts a significant nootropic effect after subchronic treatment that may be due to reversal of perturbed cholinergic function.
In cystic fibrosis (CF), a lack of functional CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channels causes defective secretion by submucosal glands (SMGs), leading to persistent bacterial infection that damages airways and necessitates tissue repair. SMGs are also important niches for slow-cycling progenitor cells (SCPCs) in the proximal airways, which may be involved in disease-related airway repair. Here, we report that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) activates CFTR-dependent SMG secretions and that this signaling pathway is hyperactivated in CF human, pig, ferret, and mouse SMGs. Since CGRP-expressing neuroendocrine cells reside in bronchiolar SCPC niches, we hypothesized that the glandular SCPC niche may be dysfunctional in CF. Consistent with this hypothesis, CFTR-deficient mice failed to maintain glandular SCPCs following airway injury. In wild-type mice, CGRP levels increased following airway injury and functioned as an injury-induced mitogen that stimulated SMG progenitor cell proliferation in vivo and altered the proliferative potential of airway progenitors in vitro. Components of the receptor for CGRP (RAMP1 and CLR) were expressed in a very small subset of SCPCs, suggesting that CGRP indirectly stimulates SCPC proliferation in a non-cell-autonomous manner. These findings demonstrate that CGRP-dependent pathways for CFTR activation are abnormally upregulated in CF SMGs and that this sustained mitogenic signal alters properties of the SMG progenitor cell niche in CF airways. This discovery may have important implications for injury/repair mechanisms in the CF airway.
This study sought to examine the role of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in ozone (O(3))-induced airway injury, inflammation, and hyperresponsiveness (AHR). Subacute (72 h) exposure to 0.3 ppm O(3) significantly elevated bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) protein, neutrophils, and soluble TNF receptors (sTNFR1 and sTNFR2) in wild-type C57BL/6 (IL-6(+/+)) mice; however, all four outcome indicators were significantly reduced in IL-6-deficient (IL-6(-/-)) compared with IL-6(+/+) mice. Acute O(3) exposure (2 ppm for 3 h) increased BALF protein, KC, macrophage inflammatory protein(MIP)-2, eotaxin, sTNFR1, and sTNFR2 in IL-6(+/+) mice. However, MIP-2 and sTNFR2 were not significantly increased following O(3) exposure in IL-6(-/-) mice. Increases in BALF neutrophils induced by O(3) (2 ppm for 3 h) were also significantly reduced in IL-6(-/-) vs. IL-6(+/+) mice. Airway responsiveness to methacholine was measured by whole body plethysmography before and following acute (3 h) or subacute (72 h) exposure to 0.3 ppm O(3). Acute O(3) exposure caused AHR in both groups of mice, but there was no genotype-related difference in the magnitude of O(3)-induced AHR. AHR was absent in mice of either genotype exposed for 72 h. Our results indicate that IL-6 deficiency reduces airway neutrophilia, as well as the levels of BALF sTNFR1 and sTNFR2 following acute high dose and/or subacute low-dose O(3) exposure, but has no effect on O(3)-induced AHR.
Ephrin-B1 (EfnB1) was selected among genes of unknown function in adipocytes or adipose tissue and subjected to thorough analysis to understand its role in the development of obesity.
EfnB1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly decreased in adipose tissues of obese mice and such reduction was mainly observed in mature adipocytes. Exposure of 3T3-L1 adipocytes to tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) and their culture with RAW264.7 cells reduced EFNB1 levels. Knockdown of adipose EFNB1 increased monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (Mcp-1) mRNA level and augmented the TNF-α-mediated THP-1 monocyte adhesion to adipocytes. Adenovirus-mediated adipose EFNB1-overexpression significantly reduced the increase in Mcp-1 mRNA level induced by coculture of 3T3-L1 adipocytes with RAW264.7 cells. Monocyte adherent assay showed that adipose EfnB1-overexpression significantly decreased the increase of monocyte adhesion by coculture with RAW264.7 cells. TNF-α-induced activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) was reduced by EFNB1-overexpression.
EFNB1 contributes to the suppression of adipose inflammatory response. In obesity, reduction of adipose EFNB1 may accelerate the vicious cycle involved in adipose tissue inflammation.
Erythema nodosum associated with all- trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) for acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) is very rare. We describe four patients with classic APL who developed erythema nodosum during ATRA therapy. Fever and subsequent multiple painful erythematous nodules over extremities developed on D11, D16, D17, and D19, respectively, after ATRA therapy. The skin biopsy taken from each patient was consistent with erythema nodosum. All patients received short course of steroids. Fever subsided rapidly and the skin lesions regressed completely. All patients achieved complete remission without withdrawal of ATRA. ATRA seemed to be the most possible etiology of erythema nodosum in our patients. Short-term use of steroid is very effective in ATRA-induced erythema nodosum.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent angiogenic factor, and neovascularisation has been shown to be important in atherosclerotic plaque development. There is some disagreement as to whether VEGF acts as a pro-atherosclerotic or anti-atherosclerotic factor. In the present study we have sought to clarify this by determining genotypes and haplotypes for three reportedly functional VEGF SNPs in a large series of well documented coronary atherosclerosis patients.
VEGF -2578, -1154, and -634 single nucleotide polymorphisms were genotyped in 984 subjects from the Southampton Atherosclerosis Study, using the 5' nuclease assay for allelic discrimination (TaqMan).
VEGF -2578 genotypes showed a significantly different distribution in patients without myocardial infarction when stratified according to number of diseased arteries. VEGF -2578 was also associated with mean number of stenotic segments in the same patient group. The AA genotype was a risk factor and CC was protective. These associations were significant before and after adjustment for classic risk factors, and were reflected in associations between VEGF haplotypes and the number of diseased arteries and stenotic segments. As VEGF -2578 CC has been provisionally shown to be associated with higher VEGF expression than the AA genotype, these results are consistent with a protective effect for VEGF in atherosclerosis development. Some changes in VEGF -1154 genotype frequencies were also detected, but no significant associations were detected for any one particular genotype.
This study provides preliminary evidence that VEGF polymorphism is associated with development of atherosclerosis, possibly via regulation of VEGF expression, supporting a protective effect for VEGF in atherosclerosis. These results require replication in an independent study group, combined with study of additional candidate polymorphisms in the VEGF gene.
