To examine the role of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the development of the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) in a murine model by using either a selective iNOS inhibitor or iNOS knockout mice.
Prospective randomized laboratory study.
Central animal laboratory and experimental laboratory.
Fifty inbred C57BL/6 mice, 39 iNOS knockout (-/-) mice, and 30 wild-type (+/+) mice, 7-9 wks old, weighing 20-25 g.
Mice received an aseptic intraperitoneal injection of 40 microg of lipopolysaccharide followed by zymosan at a dose of 1 mg/g of body weight 6 days later (day 0). In experiment 1, C57BL/6 mice additionally received intraperitoneal injections with 5 mg of aminoguanidine or saline every 12 hrs, from 4 days after the injection of zymosan onward. In experiment 2, both iNOS-/- mice and corresponding wild-type (iNOS+/+) mice were treated with lipopolysaccharide and zymosan.
In all animals, the injection of zymosan induced an acute peritonitis, followed by an apparent recovery. From approximately day 6 onward, animals entered the third-MODS-like-phase, indicated by weight loss, a decrease in body temperature, and significant mortality rates. Quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and immunochemistry revealed a strongly increased expression of iNOS messenger RNA and iNOS protein in livers of mice in the last phase. However, neither the in vivo administration of aminoguanidine to C57BL/6 mice nor the complete absence of iNOS enzyme (iNOS-/- mice) had a beneficial effect on survival rate, body temperature, or body weight. In addition, relative lung, liver, and spleen weights and lung scores were not different between experimental groups.
The current results strongly argue against an essential and causative role of iNOS in the development of organ damage in our murine model of MODS.
Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) plus ribavirin is used to treat hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection and is associated with a high rate of depression. Newer, pegylated preparations of IFN-alpha have a longer half-life, require once-per-week dosing, and may be associated with reduced neuropsychiatric burden. Limited data exist on depression during pegylated IFN-alpha therapy.
Depressive symptoms were assessed using the Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS) in 162 HCV-infected patients at baseline and after 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks of treatment with pegylated IFN alpha-2b (PEG IFN) plus weight-based (N = 86) versus standard dose (N = 76) ribavirin. Data were collected from March 2001 to April 2003.
Compared with baseline, mean SDS index scores were significantly increased by week 4 and remained elevated throughout the study. Thirty-nine percent of the sample experienced moderate to severe depressive symptoms (SDS index score > or = 60) at some point during PEG IFN/ribavirin therapy. Baseline depression scores significantly predicted severity of depressive symptoms during PEG IFN/ribavirin treatment (simple regression analysis: Y = 0.55X + 32.7, p < .0001). In addition, assignment to weight-based ribavirin treatment and history of depression were associated with increased likelihood of developing moderate to severe depressive symptoms (odds ratio [OR] = 2.7, 95% CI = 1.3 to 5.6, p < .01, and OR = 3.3, 95% CI = 1.3 to 8.1, p < .01, respectively).
Development of moderate to severe depressive symptoms occurred frequently during PEG IFN/ribavirin treatment and was predicted by baseline depression scores and higher doses of ribavirin. History of major depressive disorder was also a significant predictive factor, but only through association with elevated baseline depression status. All of these factors can be evaluated and addressed to limit neuropsychiatric morbidity during HCV treatment.
The search for a technique making it possible to dissociate the analgesia and ventilatory depression of central analgesics led to a comparison of the effects of naloxone, a specific morphinomimetic antagonist, with almitrine, a ventilatory stimulant with a peripheral action, on muzzle opening reflex and blood gases. Five male dogs (Beagles, aged one year), anaesthetised with Alfetesine were treated separately with the two drugs used alone and after fentanyl analgesia (injection of fractionnated doses up to the threshold of apnoea). The association of the two drugs was also tested in tyhe dog after analgesia. The parameters studied were muzzle opening reflex, as an indication of analgesia, and blood gases, and were observed for 45 minutes, including 15 minutes control.
1 - The intravenous injection of 1,2 mg of naloxone had the effect of increasing the surface area of muscle potentials with a maximum of 7 per cent (p 0.001) at the 15 th minute. By contrast, no significant change in blood gases was seen. In the same dogs given fentanyl analgesia, naloxone not only reversed respiratory depression but had a stimulatory effect on MOR reaching 7 per cent (p 0.001) at the 30 th minute. 2 - The effects of 1 mg.kg-1 of almitrine were characterised by a fall in MOR for a period equal to that of the study and a minimum of 7.8 per cent (p 0.001) at the 20 th minute. At the same time, marked ventilatory stimulation was seen. PO2 rose by 22.7 per cent (p 0.02) at the 5 th minute. PCO2 fell during the 30 minutes studied with a minimum of 39.6 per cent (p 0.01) at the 20 th minute. Almitrine did not antagonise the depression of MOR caused by fentanyl but reversed the respiratory depression of the analgesic, increasing PO2 by 26 per cent (p 0.01) and decreasing PCO2 by 25.7 per cent (p 0.01). 3 - The combination of both drugs cancelled out the abolition of the reflex by fentanyl then facilitated it up to 24.7 per cent (p 0.001) in comparison with the animal not receiving any analgesic. By contrast, the ventilatory action of almitrine was not potentialised by naloxone. In view of these data, and in the absence of any emergency, the choice of naloxone as an antagonist of ventilatory depression of central analgesics should not be preferential in order to avoid the rebound effect.
Thirty-one patients with Parkinson's disease were treated with the ergot alkaloid bromocriptine, a drug which stimulates dopamine receptors. Bromocriptine had a slight therapeutic effect in patients on no other treatment and an additional effect in patients on levodopa. The mean optimum dosage of bromocriptine, established over a 12 week period, was 26 mg daily. In 20 patients bromocriptine was compared with placebo in a double-blind controlled trial. Active treatment caused a significant (P less than 0.02) reduction in total disability and akinesia scores. The least disabled patients showed the greatest response. Side-effects of bromocriptine--nausea, vomiting, hallucinations, and abnormal involuntary movements--were similar to nature to those of levodopa. In most normal subjects, bromocriptine causes an increase in plasma growth hormone concentration. This was determined in 20 patients with Parkinson's disease after 1-15 mg bromocriptine. Only a single patient showed an obvious increase up to 120 minutes after dosage. Bromocriptine was not effective treatment in two patients who had not previously responded to levodopa and replacement of this drug by bromocriptine in patients with end-of-dose akinesia after chronic levodopa treatment did not totally abolish response swings.
The initiation of continuous parenteral (subcutaneous or intravenous) opioids or a change of opioid (opioid rotation) are treatment options for patients who fail on oral or transdermal opioids. There are insufficient data on the efficacy of these strategies, and comparative data are unavailable.
The authors prospectively evaluated the efficacy of the start of parenteral opioids in 100 patients with cancer pain who failed on conventional opioids. Pain intensity was rated at rest and during movement from 0 to 10 and was categorized as mild (0-4), moderate (5-6), or severe (7-10): Clinically important pain control was defined as a decrease >or= 2 points in pain intensity and pain intensity < 7. Pain control was evaluated on the second day and again when a clinical decision was made to continue or change parenteral opioid treatment after a median of 6 days. The presence of side effects (absent, mild, moderate, or severe) was evaluated.
The mean pain intensity at rest decreased significantly from 6.3 to 4.4 at 48 hours and to 3.4 at the end of treatment. The mean pain intensity during movement decreased significantly from 8.4 to 5.7 at 48 hours and to 4.6 at the end of treatment. Clinically important pain control at rest was seen in 52% of patients at 48 hours, in 71% of patients at the end of treatment; and clinically important pain control during movement was seen in 43% of patients at 48 hours and in 61% of patients at the end of treatment. The proportion of patients with mild pain increased significantly both at rest and during movement. Side effects were present in 78% of patients, and they resolved completely in 32% of patients. The median intravenous morphine equivalent dose increased from 80 mg per day to 135 mg per day at 48 hours and to 201 mg per day at the end of treatment. Results were not different for opioid rotation or for change of route only, nor did the start of antitumour treatment influence the results. In 34% of patients, it was decided to rotate to a second-line parenteral opioid or to start either spinal analgesia or a sedation procedure after a median of 6 days. During follow-up, 18% of patients who were dismissed with parenteral opioids (and 6% of all patients) needed a further change of treatment.
Parenteral opioids improved the balance between analgesia and side effects in patients with cancer pain who failed on conventional opioids, with an important improvement seen in 71% of patients. On the basis of this study, it is concluded that parenteral opioids are a good alternative to spinal opioids. Furthermore, it is suggested that a change of route alone is as effective as opioid rotation.
A series of (4-substituted phenyl-1-piperazinyl)alkyl 2-aminobenzoates and 2-aminonicotinates has been prepared and screened for analgesic and antiinflammatory properties in mice and rats. The tabulated results reveal several 2-(4-substituted phenyl-1-piperazinyl)ethyl 2-(7- or 8-substituted 4-quinolinylamino)benzoates to be six to nine times more potent analgesics than the reference compounds (glafenine and aminopyrine) and to possess minor antinflammatory activity. Compound 45, 2-[4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1-piperazinyl]ethyl 2-[[7-(trifluoromethyl)-4-quinolinyl]amino]benzoate (antrafenine), showed marked analgesic activity, long duration of action, and excellent tolerance in pharmacological and toxicological studies, as well as in clinical trials.
Parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP), a mitogenic factor for renal cells, is overexpressed in acute renal failure (ARF). Recent data support an association between PTHrP and the renin-angiotensin system in the damaged kidney. The effects of angiotensin II (Ang II) inhibitors (quinapril, enalapril, and/or losartan) on PTHrP and the PTH1 receptor (PTH1R) expression in rats with either folic acid (FA)- or gentamicin-induced ARF were analyzed. The decreased renal function and the PTHrP upregulation and PTH1R downregulation induced by the nephrotoxins were inhibited by the Ang II blockers. In tubuloepithelial cells NRK-52E, the rapid (10 min) increase in PTHrP mRNA by FA, associated with a perinuclear relocalization of Ang II/AT1 receptor, was inhibited by losartan but not candesartan, which traps Ang II receptors at the cell surface. Maximal PTHrP protein overexpression by FA (at 24 to 72 h)-or by exogenous Ang II-was abolished by both Ang II antagonists. PTHrP upregulation by FA was preceded by increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation and inhibited by the ERK inhibitor PD098059. FA also activated cAMP response element-binding (CREB) protein, and this was prevented by losartan in these cells. Moreover, PTHrP mRNA overexpression by either FA or Ang II occurred in NRK 52E that were transfected with a CREB construct but not the dominant-negative CREB133 construct. These findings demonstrate that the decreased renal function and PTHrP overexpression in nephrotoxin-damaged kidney depends on renin-angiotensin system. In this setting, intracellular Ang II/AT1 receptor recycling seems to be related to PTHrP induction through ERK and CREB activation in tubuloepithelial cells.
Twenty post-stroke depressive patients who obtained more than 11 points on Self-Rating Questionnaire for Depression, were treated with 0.075 mg/day lisuride maleate for 12 weeks. The drug effect on depression was evaluated quantitatively by the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. The relationships between brain CT or MRI and SRQ-D score were investigated in 24 subjects. More than 80% of post-stroke depressive patients improved after lisuride maleate treatment for 8 or 12 weeks. In particular, depressed mood, hypobulia, sleep disturbance, anxiety, etc. were significantly improved compared to the baseline condition. As for the relationships with CT and/or MRI findings, the group with moderate to severe brain atrophy had a significantly higher grade of depressive state than those without.
To investigate the effect of exercise intensity on the muscle histopathology in steroid myopathy rats.
Eight-week-old male Wistar rats (n=40) were divided into four groups: a control group (n=4), steroid-only group (n=12), moderate exercise + steroid group (n=12), and a high-intensity exercise + steroid group (n=12). Five weeks after triamcinolone injection, the soleus muscle (SOL) and extensor digitorum longus muscle (EDL) were removed and stained for adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase). The muscle fiber area and fiber type distribution of each fiber type were measured.
In the high-intensity exercise group, the type I fibers in the SOL and the type IIb fibers in the EDL showed significant atrophy. In the fiber distribution of the SOL, type I fibers decreased in the steroid-only group and high-intensity exercise group as compared with the control, whereas there was a significant increase in the moderate exercise group vs. the steroid-only group. In the EDL, type I fibers were significantly greater in the moderate- and high-intensity exercise groups, whereas type IIb fibers significantly decreased in the moderate-exercise group as compared with the steroid-only group.
In rats with steroid myopathy, high-intensity exercise caused changes such as muscle atrophy. The fiber type distribution of the SOL changed from type II fibers to type I fibers in the moderate exercise group. Intensive exercise, however, resulted in transformation from type I to type II in the fiber type distribution. For the EDL, no significant fiber type changes were observed with high-intensity exercise when compared with moderate exercise.
Secretin induces bicarbonate-rich hydrocholeresis in healthy individuals, but not in untreated patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA)--the first choice treatment for PBC--restores the secretin response. Compared with humans, secretin has poor effect in experimental normal-rat models with biliary drainage, although it may elicit hydrocholeresis when the bile-acid pool is maintained. In view of the benefits of UDCA in PBC, we used normal-rat models to unravel the acute contribution of UDCA (and/or taurine-conjugated TUDCA) for eliciting the biliary secretin response.
Intravascular and/or intrabiliary administration of agonists and inhibitors was performed in normal rats with biliary monitoring. Secretin/bile-acid interplay was analyzed in 3D cultured rat cholangiocytes that formed expansive cystic structures with intralumenal hydroionic secretion.
In vivo, secretin stimulates hydrocholeresis upon UDCA/TUDCA infusion, but does not modify the intrinsic hypercholeretic effect of dehydrocholic acid (DHCA). The former effect is dependent on microtubule polymerization, and involves PKCα, PI3K and MEK pathways, as shown by colchicine (i.p.) and retrograde biliary inhibitors. In vitro, while secretin alone accelerates the spontaneous expansion of 3D-cystic structures, this effect is enhanced in the presence of TUDCA, but not UDCA or DHCA. Experiments with inhibitors and Ca(2+)-chelator confirmed that the synergistic effect of secretin plus TUDCA involves microtubules, intracellular Ca(2+), PKCα, PI3K, PKA and MEK pathways. Gene silencing also demonstrated the involvement of the bicarbonate extruder Ae2.
UDCA is conjugated in order to promote secretin-stimulated hydrocholeresis in rats through Ae2, microtubules, intracellular Ca(2+), PKCα, PI3K, PKA, and MEK.
1,2-Diacylglycerol has been proposed to be a secondary messenger; therefore, in this study we evaluated the amount of 1,2-diacylglycerol in heart tissue from streptozocin-induced diabetic rats and examined the effect of insulin treatment on 1,2-diacylglycerol content. Diabetic rats had lower body and ventricular weights and higher ratios of ventricular to body weight, all of which shifted toward normal values after 4 wk of untreated diabetes followed by 4 wk of insulin treatment. The contents of major phospholipids were significantly depressed in the diabetic rat hearts. In contrast, the triglyceride and cholesterol contents in the myocardium were increased by streptozocin injection and completely normalized by insulin treatment, and glucose levels returned to normal. The 1,2-diacylglycerol content in the myocardium was also significantly elevated in the diabetic rats compared with age-matched controls. Moreover, the 1,2-diacylglycerol content was significantly higher in rats with 4 wk of diabetes than in those with 8 wk of diabetes. Insulin treatment in the diabetic rats, however, did not produce any decrease in 1,2-diacylglycerol content. The results of this study suggest that the development of cardiomyopathy induced by streptozocin injection is associated with a high 1,2-diacylglycerol level, which may result in the activation of protein kinase C. Insulin is one of the agonists that generates 1,2-diacylglycerol in myocytes; however, the relationship between the sustained 1,2-diacylglycerol level and the normalization of diabetes by insulin administration is unclear.
5-Fluorouracil-induced cardiac ischemia is rare and poorly understood. We present the second known case of catheterization data and provide new information regarding possible mechanisms.
Chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) can progress to cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, and end-stage liver disease. The current best treatment for HCV infection is combination therapy with pegylated interferon and ribavirin. Although this regimen produces sustained virologic responses (SVRs) in approximately 50% of patients, it can be associated with a potentially dose-limiting hemolytic anemia. Hemoglobin concentrations decrease mainly as a result of ribavirin-induced hemolysis, and this anemia can be problematic in patients with HCV infection, especially those who have comorbid renal or cardiovascular disorders. In general, anemia can increase the risk of morbidity and mortality, and may have negative effects on cerebral function and quality of life. Although ribavirin-associated anemia can be reversed by dose reduction or discontinuation, this approach compromises outcomes by significantly decreasing SVR rates. Recombinant human erythropoietin has been used to manage ribavirin-associated anemia but has other potential disadvantages. Viramidine, a liver-targeting prodrug of ribavirin, has the potential to maintain the virologic efficacy of ribavirin while decreasing the risk of hemolytic anemia in patients with chronic hepatitis C.
Applying jet fuel (JP-8) to the skin of mice induces immune suppression. JP-8-treated keratinocytes secrete prostaglandin E(2), which is essential for activating immune suppressive pathways. The molecular pathway leading to the upregulation of the enzyme that controls prostaglandin synthesis, cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, is unclear. Because JP-8 activates oxidative stress and because reactive oxygen species (ROS) turn on nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappabeta), which regulates the activity of COX-2, we asked if JP-8-induced ROS and NF-kappabeta contributes to COX-2 upregulation and immune suppression in vivo. JP-8 induced the production of ROS in keratinocytes as measured with the ROS indicator dye, aminophenyl fluorescein. Fluorescence was diminished in JP-8-treated keratinocytes overexpressing catalase or superoxide dismutase (SOD) genes. JP-8-induced COX-2 expression was also reduced to background in the catalase and SOD transfected cells, or in cultures treated with N-acetylcysteine (NAC). When NAC was injected into JP-8-treated mice, dermal COX-2 expression, and JP-8-induced immune suppression was inhibited. Because ROS activates NF-kappabeta, we asked if this transcriptional activator played a role in the enhanced COX-2 expression and JP-8-induced immune suppression. When JP-8-treated mice, or JP-8-treated keratinocytes were treated with a selective NF-kappabeta inhibitor, parthenolide, COX-2 expression, and immune suppression were abrogated. Similarly, when JP-8-treated keratinocytes were treated with small interfering RNA specific for the p65 subunit of NF-kappabeta, COX-2 upregulation was blocked. These data indicate that ROS and NF-kappabeta are activated by JP-8, and these pathways are involved in COX-2 expression and the induction of immune suppression by jet fuel.
Twenty-two coffee drinkers (three to seven cups per day) underwent repeated double-blind trials to test for caffeine self-administration, withdrawal, and adverse effects. Each trial consisted first of a randomized crossover period of 1 day of decaffeinated coffee and 1 day of caffeinated coffee (100 mg) to assess withdrawal and adverse effects of caffeine. Next, subjects were given 2 days of concurrent access to the two coffees. The relative use of the two coffees was used to assess caffeine self-administration. Reliable caffeine self-administration occurred in three of 10 subjects in study 1 and seven of 12 subjects in study 2. Withdrawal symptoms were headaches, drowsiness, and fatigue. The major adverse effect from self-administration was tremulousness. The occurrence of headaches on substitution of decaffeinated coffee prospectively predicted subsequent self-administration of caffeine. These results indicate that some coffee drinkers exhibit signs of a caffeine dependence, ie, they self-administer coffee for the effects of caffeine, have withdrawal symptoms on cessation, and experience adverse effects.
Haemodynamic parameters during an inhalation induction with 8% sevoflurane were compared with those obtained with a target-controlled infusion of propofol in 50 hypertensive patients in a prospective randomised study. Heart rate and arterial pressure were recorded continuously. End-tidal sevoflurane and nitrous oxide concentration, SpO2 and bispectral index (BIS) were also collected from the beginning of anaesthesia until 8 min after tracheal intubation. Patients either received 4 mg.l-1 target-concentration propofol or performed a vital capacity inhalation of 8% sevoflurane in a high flow of oxygen (8 l.min-1) supplemented with 50% nitrous oxide at loss of consciousness. As soon as BIS was < 60, 20 microg.kg-1 alfentanil and 0.6 mg.kg-1 rocuronium were injected and orotracheal intubation was then performed 1 min later. Thereafter, the end-tidal concentration of sevoflurane was reduced to 1.3 minimum alveolar concentration (MAC). Hypotension was defined as a 30% decrease in arterial pressure and was treated with repeated 3-mg boluses of ephedrine. When 12 mg ephedrine was unable to correct hypotension, the concentration of propofol was reduced by 1 mg.l-1 and that of sevoflurane by 0.5%. Hypotension occurred in 22 patients in the sevoflurane group and 21 in the propofol group, and hypertension occurred in two and three patients in each group, respectively. The maximal reduction in mean (SD) arterial pressure was similar in the sevoflurane (45 (4) mmHg) and propofol (41.3 (2.6) mmHg) groups, as were the ephedrine requirements (9.6 (1.1) vs. 9.1 (1.1) mg, sevoflurane vs. propofol, p > 0.05), the duration of hypotension (276 (37) vs. 292 (38) s, sevoflurane vs. propofol, p > 0.05), and the number of hypotensive episodes or anaesthetic changes and depth of anaesthesia. Nevertheless, heart rate was lower during the 8 min following tracheal intubation in the sevoflurane group. In both groups, the duration of hypotension was easily controlled either by ephedrine or by adjusting the anaesthetic concentrations. Overall, haemodynamic tolerance appears to be similar in the two techniques. Because hypotension occurred after alfentanil in most patients, this study questioned which is the best opioid dose, if any, to associate with propofol or sevoflurane for the induction in hypertensive patients.
o-Benzyl-p-chlorophenol (BCP) is a major household and industrial germicide. Its prechronic toxicity was evaluated in male and female F344 rats and B6C3F1 mice. Treatment was by gavage in corn oil. BCP was slightly toxic after acute oral exposure, with high mortality at 4000 and 2000 mg/kg in rats and mice. Exposure to 12 oral doses of BCP at 1000, 500, 250, 125, 62.5, or 0 mg/kg body wt resulted in dose-related cecal dilatation and nephrosis in both rats and mice. Doses for the subchronic studies were based on the results of the 2-week studies. Ten animals were treated per dose per sex. Rats received 480, 240, 120, 60, 30, or 0 mg BCP/kg. Mice were treated with 1000, 800, 650, 500, or 0 mg BCP/kg. Animals were dosed 5 days per week for 13 weeks. Clinical signs related to dosing included urogenital staining in rats and rough/oily haircoats in mice. No effects on growth rate were seen in rats, but growth was retarded at the higher doses used in mice. Kidney weights increased in rats, and liver weights increased in mice. A decrease in thymus weight accompanied by a depletion in thymic lymphocytes (rats) or thymic necrosis (mice) occurred only in a high-dose animals. In both species, the kidney was the major target organ. In rats, there was an increase in incidence and severity of nephropathy and renal tubule regeneration. The lesions in mice primarily involved the renal cortex and included necrosis, casts, chronic inflammation, and regeneration of the renal tubules. No effects of BCP exposure in rats were seen in a broad spectrum of hematology or urinalysis parameters. Minor decreases in blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, and alanine amino transferase were detected in male and female rats. There were no biologically significant neurobehavioral effects in rats or immunotoxic effects in mice due to exposure to BCP. Thus, the kidney is the major target organ for BCP.
Acylation stimulating protein (ASP) stimulates triglyceride synthesis and glucose transport via its receptor C5L2. In human studies, ASP is increased in insulin resistant states such as obesity, diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome and late pregnancy (the latter two associated with altered sex hormones). The aims were (i) to evaluate ASP response and C5L2 expression following treatment with sex steroid hormones and (ii) to identify mechanisms of ASP resistance using 3T3-L1 adipocytes and preadipocytes. Overnight incubation with physiological progesterone (PROG) concentrations induced dose-dependent inhibition of ASP-stimulated glucose transport in adipocytes (188 +/- 11% +ASP, 100 +/- 4% control, 129 +/- 18% to 85 +/- 7% [ASP + PROG 10(-8) to 10(-6) M] and preadipocytes (263 +/- 18% +ASP, 100 +/- 3% control, 170 +/- 11% to 167 +/- 4% [ASP + PROG 10(-8) to 10(-6) M]), while estradiol and testosterone (TEST) were effective only at the highest concentration (10(-6) M). In adipocytes, dose-dependent maximal C5L2 mRNA decreases were 39-75% (P = 0.003), with decreased cell-surface C5L2 of -22% and -27% (10(-6) M PROG and TEST, respectively) with no change in preadipocytes. Adipocytes treated with PROG displayed decreases in G proteins: Gbeta (-55%), Galphaq/11 (-56%) as well as complete inhibition of ASP stimulation. PROG significantly decreased basal levels of phosphorylated PKCalpha (p-PKCalpha) while there was no change in p- PKCzeta. ASP increased p-PKCalpha and PKCzeta to 161% (P < 0.0.001) and 160% (P < 0.01), a stimulation effectively blocked by PROG (10(-8) and 10(-6) M) and TEST (10(-6) M). Sex steroid hormone-induced ASP resistance via C5L2 may contribute to altered adipose tissue function and insulin resistance phenotype in humans.
A group of 45 depressed patients treated with imipramine hydrochloride were examined in an attempt to identify factors that might influence the risk of developing orthostatic hypotension. Although the literature suggests that age and/or heart disease influences the occurrence of orthostatic hypotension, these conclusions are controversial. To pursue this issue, a sample of older depressed patients, many with severe cardiovascular disease, was chosen. The incidence of orthostatic hypotension rose dramatically among those with severe heart disease. There was a significant association between symptomatic orthostatic hypotension and cardiac medication (p less than .01), and trends between orthostatic hypotension and both ejection fraction (p = .11) and baseline forearm resistance (p = .16). The sample is too small to permit determination of the relative independent importance of these variables or the contribution of specific cardiovascular drugs among these sicker cardiac patients.
Exposure to UV radiation is a major risk factor for the development of malignant melanoma. DNA damage caused by UV radiation is thought to play a major role in carcinogenesis induction. Multiprotein pathways involved in repairing UV-DNA damage are the base excision, the nucleotide excision, and the homologous double-stranded DNA repair pathways. This study used a sequence-specific primer PCR (PCR-SSP) genotyping method to investigate the association between polymorphisms in DNA repair genes from these pathways with the development of malignant melanoma. The patient cohort was comprised of 125 individuals with malignant melanoma with lesions or staging suggesting a high risk of relapse or metastatic disease. The control population consisted of 211 individuals. We found the presence of a T allele in exon 7 (position 18067) of the XRCC3 gene was significantly associated with melanoma development (P = 0.004; odds ratio, 2.36; relative risk, 1.74). This gene codes for a protein involved in the homologous pathway of double-stranded DNA repair, thought to repair chromosomal fragmentation, translocations, and deletions. These results may provide further insights into the pathogenesis and the mechanism of UV-radiation induced carcinogenesis as well as having a role in prevention.
Presynaptic denervation is likely to play an important role in the pathophysiology of dyskinesias that develop after levodopa administration to patients with Parkinson's disease. In this study, the thresholds of nigrostriatal damage necessary for the occurrence of parkinsonism and levodopa-induced involuntary movements were compared in squirrel monkeys lesioned with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Animals treated with a regimen of MPTP that caused parkinsonism displayed > or =95% striatal dopamine depletion, 90% reduction of striatal dopamine uptake sites, and 70% nigral neuronal loss. Levodopa administration ameliorated the parkinsonian signs of these monkeys but also induced dyskinesias. A separate group of animals was treated with a milder MPTP regimen that caused 60%-70% striatal dopamine depletion, a 50% decrease in dopamine transporter, and 40% loss of dopaminergic nigral neurons. While these monkeys displayed no behavioral signs of parkinsonism, they all became dyskinetic after levodopa administration. The priming effect of levodopa, that is, the recurrence of dyskinesias in animals previously exposed to the drug, was compared in severely versus mildly lesioned monkeys. When severely injured parkinsonian animals underwent a second cycle of levodopa treatment, they immediately and consistently developed involuntary movements. In contrast, the recurrence of dyskinesias in primed monkeys with a partial nigrostriatal lesion required several levodopa administrations and remained relatively sporadic. The data indicate that moderate nigrostriatal damage which does not induce clinical parkinsonism predisposes to levodopa-induced dyskinesias. Once dyskinesias have been induced, the severity of denervation may enhance the sensitivity to subsequent levodopa exposures.
In the present study we demonstrate that consumption of a tryptophan-deficient diet for a period of 14 days decreased the striatal serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid tissue content in rats, whereas the level of dopamine remained unchanged. Under this condition of diminished serotonergic tone, a challenge dose of cocaine (10mg/kg, i.p.) significantly increased motor activity and dopamine extracellular content in the nucleus accumbens compared to rats fed with a balanced diet. We moreover found that pretreatment with cocaine (7 and 10mg/kg, i.p.) produced a significant increase in preference for a cocaine-associated environment in the tryptophan-deficient group compared to control rats. Our experiments show that a low tone of serotonergic system, augments the behavioural reinforcing effect of cocaine and that this effect may be due to a increased cocaine-induced accumbal dopamine release. These data indicate that a tryptophan-deficient diet alters the behavioural and neurochemical effect of psychostimulants, such as cocaine, and suggest an important role of serotonin in modulation of these effects.
Liver cirrhosis is often accompanied by portal-systemic collateral formation with hemorrhage and encephalopathy. Prostacyclin participates in hyperdynamic circulation and vascular hyporeactiveness to vasoconstrictors in cirrhosis. It has been shown that arginine vasopressin (AVP) induces direct collateral vasoconstriction in portal hypertensive rats, which is potentiated by indomethacin preincubation. However, the influence of chronic indomethacin administration in cirrhosis remains unexplored.
This study was performed on male Sprague-Dawley rats with liver cirrhosis induced by common bile duct ligation. They received subcutaneous indomethacin (5 mg/kg/day) or distilled water (control) injection from the 36th to 42nd day after operation. On the 43rd day, systemic and portal hemodynamics were evaluated and the following experiments were performed with an in situ collateral perfusion model: in the first series, concentration-response curves to AVP (10(-10) to 10(-7) M) were obtained; in the second series, flow-pressure curves were plotted (Krebs solution, 6-18 mL/min), where the slope represents an index of collateral vascular resistance (the higher the resistance, the smaller the amount of shunting vessels, that is, the lower the degree of shunting).
The mean arterial pressure and portal pressure were similar between indomethacin and control groups (p > 0.05). Indomethacin elevated the collateral perfusion pressure to AVP (3 x 10(-9), 10(-8) M, p < 0.05) but did not influence the slope of the flow-pressure curve (p > 0.05).
In bile duct-ligated cirrhotic rats, indomethacin improves the portal-systemic collateral vascular responsiveness to AVP without alleviating the severity of shunting.
Ventricular remodeling is an important pathologic progress in almost all end stage heart failure (HF), and it is characterized by ventricular thickening and cardiac fibrosis with poor prognosis. The connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), a new growth factor with multi-function, has an important role in fibrosis of tissue and organs. It has been demonstrated that angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) can prevent the development of cardiomyocyte from remodeling and improve cardiac function. Researchers try to test the hypothesis that cardiac function improvement attributable to ACEI is associated with inhibiting expression of CTGF in patients with HF. The aim of this study was to observe changes in CTGF expression in cardiomyocyte of young rats with HF and effect of benazepril on CTGF.
The animal model of HF was established by constriction of abdominal aorta. Five weeks old rats were randomly divided into 3 groups after 6 weeks of operation: (1) HF group without treatment (n = 15); (2) HF group where rats were treated with benazepril (n = 15); (3) sham-operated group (n = 15) where rats were administered benazepril through direct gastric gavage. After 4 weeks of treatment, the high frequency ultrasound was performed. The expression of CTGF was detected by immunohistochemistry and semi-quantative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
Compared with the sham-operated group, left ventricular diastolic dimension (LVEDD), left ventricular systolic dimension (LVESD), interventricular septal thickness at end-diastole (IVSTd), interventricular septal thickness at end-systole (IVSTs), left ventricular posterior wall thickness at end-diastole (LVPWTd), left ventricular posterior wall thickness at end-systole (LVPWTs), left ventricular relative weight (LVRW), and right ventricular relative weight (RVRW) were all increased (P < 0.01), but ejection fraction (EF) and fractional shortening (FS) were decreased (P < 0.01). CTGF positive cells and expression of CTGF mRNA (0.609 +/- 0.065 vs 0.117 +/- 0.011, P < 0.01) were increased in HF group without treatment. LVESD, IVSTd, IVSTs, LVPWTd, LVPWTs, LVRW and RVRW were all decreased (P < 0.01), but FS and EF were increased (P < 0.01) in cases of HF treated with benazepril when compared with HF group without treatment. LVESD, IVSTd, IVSTs, LVPWTd, LVPWTs, LVRW and RVRW were higher (P < 0.01), EF and FS were lower (P < 0.01), CTGF positive cells and expression of CTGF mRNA were higher (P < 0.01) in HF group treated with benazepril than those of sham-operated group.
The expression of CTGF was increased in the cardiomyocyte of young rats with HF and benazepril could prevent left ventricular from remodeling partly and improve cardiac function by inhibiting the expression of CTGF in cardiomyocyte in cases of HF.
