Chronic psychosocial stress in male mice produces chronic interstitial nephropathy not explained by renal vascular disease or urinary infection. Four groups of male CBA mice were studied. Group 1 and group 2 were placed in Henry-Stephens complex population cages for 5 months. Group 2 had caffeine, 800 micrograms/ml, added to their drinking water. Control groups 3 and 4 were unstressed, but group 4 had 800 micrograms/ml of caffeine added to their water. Stressed animals developed chronic interstitial nephropathy which was more severe in animals drinking caffeinated water. In addition, the percent of cortex involved in interstitial fibrosis was higher in group 2, 18.0 +/- 1.4, than in group 1, 15.2 +/- 2.3 (p less than 0.05). Both groups had more fibrosis than unstressed animals (p less than 0.01). Blood urea nitrogen was more elevated in group 2, 47 +/- 13 mg/dl, than in group 1, 29 +/- 17 mg/dl (p less than 0.05). Again both values exceeded those in unstressed animals (p less than 0.01). It is concluded that prolonged environmental stress can lead to the renal morphologic changes of chronic interstitial nephritis. Both renal pathology and function are worse when there is concurrent high caffeine intake. The relevance of this model to human disease related to analgesic use or with affective illness requires further study.
The aim of this study was to examine the possible association between serum ceruloplasmin, a copper carrying protein, and albuminuria in 456 males with type 2 diabetes. Multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that elevated serum ceruloplasmin was a determinant of albuminuria independently of conventional risk factors.
Four behavioural states are recognised in the human fetus and are comparable to those of the neonate: 1F (quiet sleep), 2F (active state), 3F (quiet awake), and 4F (active awake). State 5, or crying, is not considered to have a fetal correlate. In a study assessing the effects of exposure to tobacco and cocaine during pregnancy on fetal response and habituation to vibroacoustic stimulation, what appears to be the fetal homologue of crying was observed. These behaviours were seen on ultrasound, and have been captured on video recordings and include: an initial exhalation movement associated with mouth opening and tongue depression, followed by a series of three augmented breaths, the last breath ending in an inspiratory pause followed by an expiration and settling. This is the first report/video documenting these behaviours and suggests the possibility of a state 5F.
Here we study the interaction of copper nanoparticles (CuNPs) with different variants of hemoglobin (Hb). The study reports analysis with HbA0 (the major component of human Hb) and HbA2 (a variant that is associated with beta-thalassemia). In the case of HbA0, the major fraction of human Hb, the CuNPs trigger protein aggregation, and this is followed by the precipitation of the protein. The aggregative response is largely attenuated in the case of HbA2. The difference between the two variants is thus amenable to detection by simple optical methods. We verified that CuNPs co-precipitated with specific Hb variants using atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) and high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC). An associated observation was the reversal of zeta potential of HbA0 induced by the CuNPs (from -11 mV to +13 mV). Dynamic light-scattering (DLS) studies indicated that in the case of HbA0, protein initially broke the nanoclusters into smaller sizes (4 nm), and this was followed by a gradual increase in cluster size. Assays of heme peroxidase activity indicated that the protein unfolded during the process. It is suggested that interaction between the CuNPs and HbA0 stimulates the molten-globule state of the protein, leading to the onset of such an aggregative pathway. When studied for other variants, HbE, a common mutant of Hb, showed similar aggregative behavior, and on the other hand, rare variants such as HbC tended to remain in solution. A suitable scaling up of the approach may have important implications in screening hemoglobinopathies such as beta-thalassemia.
Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) genes are present in approximately 20% of families suffering from familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). Results from several transgenic studies in which FALS-related SOD1 mutations have been expressed have suggested that mutant SOD1 proteins induce cytotoxicity through a toxic gain of function, although the specific mechanism of this has not been fully clarified. To investigate the mechanism of toxicity induced by the mutant SOD1 associated with FALS, we generated transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans strains that contain wild-type and mutant human A4V, G37R and G93A SOD1 recombinant plasmids. The transgenic strains expressing mutant human SOD1 showed greater vulnerability to oxidative stress induced by 0.2 mM paraquat than a control that contained the wild-type human SOD1. In the absence of oxidative stress, mutant human SOD1 proteins were degraded more rapidly than the wild-type human SOD1 protein in C.elegans. In the presence of oxidative stress, however, this rapid degradation was inhibited, and the transgenic C.elegans co-expressing mutant human SOD1 and green fluorescent proteins (GFPs) in muscle tissues demonstrated discrete aggregates in the adult stage. These results suggest that oxidative damage inhibits the degradation of FALS-related mutant human SOD1 proteins, resulting in an aberrant accumulation of mutant proteins that might contribute to the cytotoxicity.
The antiarrhythmic agent amiodarone has been suspected of causing reduced cardiac performance after extracorporeal circulation and cardioplegic arrest in patients. This has recently been confirmed in an experimental model where pigs were exposed to cardiopulmonary bypass and cold cardioplegic arrest with Bretschneider's solution. Due to the high concentration of the cardio-depressant agent procain in Bretschneider's solution, it could be speculated whether it is the combination of amiodarone and this solution that may be potentially deleterious, rather than amiodarone alone. To investigate this, adult pigs (75 +/- 2 kg at surgery) were treated with amiodarone for 30 +/- 2 days (1400 mg/day: n = 8, untreated controls: n = 4, blind experiment), followed by exposure to cardiopulmonary bypass with universal cooling to 28 degrees C and topical cold cardioplegic arrest with St. Thomas' solution for 60 min. Apart from 1 g of calcium (Ca2+) at the end of bypass, no inotropic drugs were administered. Cardiac reserve was tested by right ventricular pacing (200 beats/min until death or up to 30 min). The two groups did not differ concerning preload or afterload, heart rate, cardiac output, left ventricular pressure, arterial pressure or rate of change in left ventricular relaxation (-dP/dt) before or after bypass was terminated, while the rate of change in left ventricular contraction (+dP/dt) was lower in the amiodarone-treated pigs. The time on bypass, before stable hemodynamics had recovered, was prolonged in amiodarone-treated animals, 46 +/- 4 min versus 31 +/- 3 min in the controls (P < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tetrahydrocurcumin is an antioxidative substance, which is derived from curcumin, the component of turmeric. In the present investigation, the effect of tetrahydrocurcumin and curcumin against chloroquine-induced nephrotoxicity were studied in female wistar rats. Oral administration of tetrahydrocurcumin significantly prevented the occurrence of chloroquine (970 mg/kg body weight)-induced renal damage. Upon administration of tetrahydrocurcumin to chloroquine-treated rats, the level of lipid peroxidation was significantly decreased while the levels of non-enzymic and enzymic antioxidants were significantly increased in kidney. Oral administration (80 mg/kg body weight) attenuated the chloroquine-induced nephrotoxicity by significantly decreased levels of serum urea and creatinine with significant normalization of creatinine clearance. On administration of tetrahydrocurcumin, the depleted renal antioxidant defense system (enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants) was significantly increased in rats treated with chloroquine. These biochemical observations were supplemented by histopathological examination of kidney section. These results suggest that administration of chloroquine imposes an oxidative stress to renal tissue and that tetrahydrocurcumin protects the oxidative damage associated with chloroquine.
Murraya koenigii leaves commonly known as curry patta are added routinely to Indian gravy and vegetarian dishes as a favorite condiment. The effects of Murraya koenigii leaves (MKL) on cognitive functions, total serum cholesterol level and brain cholinesterase activity in young and aged mice fed orally with a diet containing 2%, 4% and 8% w/w of MKL for 30 days consecutively, were investigated. The memory scores were measured using various exteroceptive and interoceptive behavioral models. The MKL diets produced a significant dose-dependent improvement in the memory scores of young and aged mice and significantly reduced the amnesia induced by scopolamine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) and diazepam (1 mg/kg, i.p.). Also, brain cholinesterase activity and total cholesterol levels were reduced by the MKL diets. The underlying mechanism of action for the observed nootropic effect may be attributed to pro-cholinergic activity and a cholesterol lowering property. Therefore, it would be worthwhile to investigate specifically the therapeutic potential of MKL in the management of Alzheimer patients.
Treatment with agents that inhibit the renin-angiotensin system is commonly regarded as a gold standard renoprotective strategy in patients with chronic kidney diseases. For maximum antiproteinuric effect, the dose titration of these agents is recommended. This therapeutic strategy is not used for proteinuric patients who are not able to receive high doses of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin II receptor antagonists.
In patients with primary glomerulonephritis (n=24), a randomized, triple-treatment, triple-period, cross-over study was performed to compare the effects of combined therapy with benazepril 5 mg and losartan 25 mg and monotherapy with either agent alone at a two-fold higher dose on the extent of tubular injury as assessed by alpha1-microglobulin (alpha1-m) excretion and the plasma level of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1).
Combination therapy significantly reduced alpha1-m excretion compared to either agent used alone: 178.29+/-27.36 to 99.63+/-13.03 mg/g creatinine for losartan + benazepril vs 178.29+/-27.36 to 161.59+/-23.22 mg/g creatinine for benazepril alone (p<0.05; ANOVA) and 178.29+/-27.36 to 99.63+/-13.03 mg/g creatinine for losartan + benazepril vs 178.29+/-27.36 to 173.45+/-27.69 mg/g creatinine for losartan alone (p<0.05; ANOVA). There was a significant correlation between change in alpha1-m excretion and reduction in proteinuria (r=0.704; p=0.023). There were no differences in TGF-beta1 level between the studied treatments. Systemic blood pressure reduction did not differ among the therapies.
Combination therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor and angiotensin II subtype 1 receptor antagonists at very small doses may be superior to monotherapy with these agents at higher doses as far as tubular injury is concerned. We speculate that such a therapeutic strategy may be a useful approach for patients who are known not to be capable of receiving optimal renoprotective doses of these regimens.
Aztreonam was administered to 122 patients with presumptive or confirmed gram-negative bacillary meningitis in an open, multinational study. The antibiotic was administered at a dosage of 1-2 g to adults, 50 mg/kg to children greater than 2 years old, and 30 mg/kg to infants three or four times daily. Seventy-seven patients had microbiologically confirmed gram-negative meningitis due to an aztreonam-susceptible organism and received aztreonam for at least 48 hours. Haemophilus influenzae was the most frequently recovered pathogen (40 patients), followed by Enterobacteriaceae (16 patients), Neisseria meningitidis (15 patients), and Pseudomonas species (six patients). All but four patients were microbiologically cured. Microbiologic failure was associated with either a persistent intracerebral abscess (one patient) or a foreshortened course of therapy before microbiologic reevaluation and death (at 48 hours, 48 hours, and 72 hours after initiation of treatment, respectively). These data suggest that aztreonam is effective in the treatment of gram-negative bacillary meningitis caused by susceptible organisms.
Photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) has been extensively studied in the literature and its potential application in aircrew has not gone unnoticed. Complication rates following corneal refractive surgery (CRS), including PRK and laser in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK), remain low, with most patients achieving improved uncorrected visual acuity and reduced spectacle dependence. Overall, predictability, low complication rates, high rate of success, stability, and safety have all been cited as instrumental in the adoption of PRK in aviators. Consequently, the U.S. Air Force (USAF) approved PRK for aviators in August 2000. However, quality of vision outcomes following CRS remain a concern given the unique visual performance requirements in military aircrew, especially in austere operational environments.
This paper will present a recent case of steroid-induced ocular hypertension that is believed to have precipitated non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NA-AION) associated with reduced visual performance following PRK that resulted in the first permanent grounding of a USAF pilot following CRS.
CRS has radically widened the aircrew applicant pool and has decreased spectacle dependence in war-fighters. Despite the low-risk profile of modern CRS, this case demonstrates the potential for poor outcomes from such elective surgery. Understanding these rare, but potentially devastating complications and the unique aeromedical risk factors in aircrew is paramount when considering elective vision-enhancing surgery.
Phenytoin (PHT) has been widely used intravenously for the treatment of seizures since 1956, and for many years, it has been considered first-line therapy for status epilepticus. It is routinely administered intravenously in emergency departments and hospitals for patients who have had isolated seizures and for many patients undergoing neurosurgical procedures who are unable to receive oral medication. Adverse reactions from PHT have been widely studied for years, but in the past decade, new adverse reactions have been identified. One of these adverse reactions is the purple glove syndrome (PGS), characterized by edema, discoloration, and pain distal to the site of i.v. administration of PHT. Because there have been no prospective reports of the incidence of PGS, the objective of the study was to report the incidence of this syndrome.
We enrolled 179 consecutive exposures to i.v. PHT at Henry Ford Hospital. Distal portions of the upper extremities were examined and digitally photographed by one of the authors (J.G.B.). The photos were blindly evaluated by the third author (G.L.B.) for PGS. Demographic and pertinent medical history was recorded for all patients, and outcome for those who experienced PGS was recorded. Associations between PGS, demographic, and medical history information were assessed.
In only three of the 179 exposures did PGS develop. In both patients, the severity of the clinical picture was mild and did not required prolonged hospitalization or specialized treatment.
PGS is an infrequent and mild adverse effect of i.v. PHT administration.
Citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is used in the management of anxiety disorders. A 55-year-old man receiving citalopram for panic disorder reported a decrease in the agent's therapeutic efficacy when rifampin was started for osteomyelitis. His condition improved when the rifampin was stopped. Rifampin is known to induce the metabolism of cytochrome P450 3A4 substrates and thus plays a role in several drug-drug interactions. We suspect that the efficacy of citalopram was blunted with the concurrent use of rifampin. To our knowledge, only one other case of an interaction of rifampin with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor is described in the literature. Clinicians should monitor all drugs and dietary supplements that patients with psychiatric conditions take, regardless of the indication, intended purpose, or prescriber. This is especially important, however, for a drug that is pivotal to a patient's well-being; its therapeutic effect should be carefully monitored when any new drug is added or a change in the dosage of a concurrent drug is made.
Sirolimus (SRL) is a macrolide immunosuppressant that has gained widespread use in organ transplantation. Its full spectrum of side-effects is yet to be defined. We describe herein three cases of SRL-induced angioedema (AE) in African-American (AA) primary renal allograft recipients who received SRL in combination with mycophenolate mofetil and steroids. In two cases, AE manifested after SRL was restarted after a period of discontinuation. The third case presented upon initial exposure to the drug. None of the patients was receiving any drug that has been previously associated with AE. Complete resolution occurred only after SRL was withdrawn. AE has not recurred in any of the patients during a follow-up period of up to 21 months. We conclude that AE is a previously unrecognized adverse event associated with SRL use. Close monitoring for this side-effect, especially in AA patients, is warranted.
Gefitinib (ZD1839) is a selective epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor with a significant antitumour effect on various cancers. Skin toxicity induced by gefitinib is common, and has been shown to be related to the inhibition of EGFR signalling pathways. However, other mechanisms may be involved in gefitinib-induced skin toxicity.
To study the possible EGFR-independent mechanisms of gefitinib-induced skin toxicity.
The human immortalized keratinocyte cell line HaCaT and human lung adenocarcinoma cell lines (A549 and PC9) were treated with different concentrations of gefitinib for 24, 48 and 72 h. Cell viability was measured by MTT assay [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] after EGFR gene silencing. The signalling pathways were investigated by immunoblot analysis. Keratinocyte apoptosis was evaluated by nuclear condensation and flow cytometric analysis.
Gefitinib maintained its cytotoxicity to HaCaT cells after EGFR gene silencing, indicating that an EGFR-independent mechanism exists. Increased phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and JNK by gefitinib was observed in a dose-dependent manner in HaCaT cells. The JNK inhibitor, SP600125, attenuated the gefitinib-induced cytotoxicity and apoptosis of HaCaT cells. Immunohistochemical examination of patient specimens showed an increased expression of phosphorylated JNK in lesional epidermis compared with nonlesional epidermis.
Gefitinib can induce keratinocyte apoptosis through an EGFR-independent JNK activation pathway.
New compounds containing a novel zinc-binding group (1-hydroxypiperazine-2,6-dione, HPD) have been identified as effective inhibitors of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), with activities in the nanomolar concentration range. That moiety seemed to bind the catalytic zinc ion of MMPs, revealing itself as a new potential substitute for the hydroxamate group in the next generation of metalloproteinase inhibitors. The X-ray crystal structure of 1b elucidated its 3D conformation and supramolecular packing in solid state. Theoretical procedures were used to investigate the binding mode of this class of compounds, within the active site of MMP13. A computational method involving docking and hybrid quantum mechanical and molecular mechanical (QM/MM) dynamic simulations was developed and applied. This study suggested that the HPD moiety binds bidentately to the catalytic zinc through its oxygen atoms. The final structure obtained will allow straightforward drug design approaches in view of further optimization and development of new MMP inhibitors bearing the HPD moiety.
Behavioral, electroencephalographic and morphological changes induced by systemic administration of pilocarpine hydrochloride were studied in 3-90-day-old rats. Pilocarpine, 100, 200 and 380 mg/kg, presented a characteristic array of behavioral patterns in developing rats. Hyper- or hypoactivity, tremor, loss of postural control, scratching, head bobbing and myoclonic movements of the limbs dominated the behavior in 3-9-day-old rats. No overt motor seizures were observed in this age group. More intense behavioral signs evolving in some animals to limbic seizures and status epilepticus occurred when pilocarpine was administered in 12-day-old-rats. The electrographic activity in these animals progressed from low voltage spiking registered concurrently in the hippocampus and cortex during the first week of life into localized epileptic activity in the hippocampus, which spread to cortical recordings during the second week of life. No morphological alterations were detected in the brains of 3-12-day-old rats subjected to the action of pilocarpine, 100-380 mg/kg. The adult pattern of behavioral and electroencephalographic sequelae after pilocarpine was encountered in 15-21-day-old rats. Akinesia, tremor and head bobbing progressed in 15-21-day-old rats given pilocarpine, 100-380 mg/kg, to motor limbic seizures and status epilepticus. The lethal toxicity of pilocarpine reached 50% during the third week of life. This increased susceptibility to the convulsant action of pilocarpine was characterized by a shortened latency for behavioral and electrographic signs, and an increased severity of seizures relative to older and younger rats. In 15-21-day-old rats subjected to pilocarpine-induced convulsions high voltage fast activity superposed over hippocampal theta-rhythm, progressed into high voltage spiking and spread to cortical records. The electrographic activity became well synchronized and then developed into seizures and status epilepticus. Morphological analysis of frontal forebrain sections in 15-21-day-old rats which underwent status epilepticus after pilocarpine revealed no damage or an attenuated pattern of damage. In 15-21-day-old rats which presented epilepsy-related brain damage, morphological breakdown was seen in the hippocampus, amygdala, olfactory cortex, neocortex and certain thalamic nuclei. No damage was detected in the substantia nigra and lateral thalamic nucleus. An adult pattern of the damage to the brain, in terms of extent and topography, was present in 4-5-week-old rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The median survival for patients with glioblastoma is 12 months. The authors evaluated whether preirradiation gemcitabine/treosulfan (GeT) chemotherapy followed by standard radiotherapy improved outcome in patients with glioblastoma. Seventeen patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma were enrolled in a prospective, unicenter trial of preirradiation GeT chemotherapy. Chemotherapy included up to 4 cycles of intravenous gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 body surface) and treosulfan (3500 mg/m2 body surface) on days 1 and 8 of 28 days treatment cycles. Involved field radiotherapy (60 Gy in 30 fractions) was given after chemotherapy or earlier in the case of disease progression or drug intolerance. There was no specific treatment-related neurotoxicity reported, but in 3 of 17 patients (18%) chemotherapy was stopped because of World Health Organization (WHO) IV hematological toxicity. With GeT chemotherapy alone, there was a median progression-free survival of 12 weeks and a progression-free survival rate at 4 months of 29%. In 16 of 17 patients who subsequently received a full course of radiotherapy, the median progression-free survival from the time of diagnosis was 8 months, and the progression-free survival rate at 12 months was 25% (4 of 16 patients). The median overall survival was 12 months. Neither age nor extent of the residual postoperative tumor predicted the duration of progression-free survival after chemotherapy alone or after chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy. The combination of gemcitabine and treosulfan produced significant hematological toxicity in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. The schedule used in the present study did not confer any significant survival advantage compared with standard involved field radiotherapy alone.
A 28-year-old Caucasian man who applied topical 5% permethrin cream once for the treatment of scabies infestation experienced a severe dystonic reaction on the left side of his neck. Assessment of causality using the Naranjo algorithm revealed a probable relationship between this adverse drug event and application of topical permethrin. Dystonic or musculoskeletal adverse reactions, including muscle spasms, have been reported with pyrethroid insecticides only after inappropriate occupational dermal exposure. These reported reactions occurred 4-48 hours after exposure and lasted from a few days to a few weeks. The mechanism behind these adverse effects may be related to permethrin's ability to delay sodium channel closure within nerve cells. This may result in a lowered threshold of nerve fibers to activation of further action potentials, leading to repetitive firing and hyperexcitation of the nervous system. Clinicians should be aware of this rare but potential adverse effect of permethrin.
The efficacy and safety of sarpogrelate, a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor subtype 2A antagonist, have not yet been established in bare metal coronary stenting. Accordingly, we sought to clarify whether treatment with sarpogrelate is clinically useful in bare metal coronary stenting.
A total of 450 patients who underwent successfully planned or unplanned bare metal coronary stenting were randomly divided into the following 2 groups: the sarpogrelate (300 mg/day) plus aspirin (100 mg/day) group (group S, n=225) and the ticlopidine (200 mg/day) plus aspirin (100 mg/day) group (group T, n=225). Either sarpogrelate or ticlopidine was administered for at least 4 weeks after the procedure. Follow-up coronary arteriography was performed at 6 months after the procedure. The primary endpoints were the incidence of adverse drug reactions requiring a withdrawal of treatment and the rate of binary restenosis. The secondary endpoint was the incidence of stent thrombosis.
The incidence of adverse drug reactions requiring a withdrawal of treatment was significantly lower in group S than in group T (0.44% vs 8%, p=0.002). The rate of binary restenosis did not differ significantly between groups S and T (16.9% vs 18.2%). In addition, the incidence of subacute stent thrombosis did not differ between groups S and T (0.44% vs 0.44%).
The incidence of adverse drug reactions requiring a withdrawal of treatment was significantly lower with sarpogrelate use than with ticlopidine use. The rate of binary restenosis and the incidence of subacute stent thrombosis did not differ between both drug groups.
Three cases of cyclophosphamide (CPM)-induced transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder are reported. A 36-year-old female (case 1) and a 63-year-old male (case 2) received CPM at total doses of 104 g and 100 g, respectively, for the therapy of Wegener's granulomatosis. A 50-year-old female (case 3) received CPM at a dose of 57 g for the therapy of recurrent breast cancer. They visited our institute with the chief complaint of macrohematuria. In all cases, cystoscopy revealed bladder tumor with hemorrhagic cystitis. They underwent transurethral resection of bladder tumor. Histological examination revealed grade 2 TCC in cases 1 and 2 and grade 3 TCC in case 3. All patients underwent intravesical instillation of Mitomycin C with or without hyperthermia. Including our 3 cases, 17 cases of CPM-induced bladder tumor have been reported in the Japanese literature.
Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) agonists have been shown to prevent hepatic fibrosis in rodents. We evaluated the therapeutic antifibrotic potential of the PPARgamma agonist pioglitazone on established hepatic fibrosis.
Repeated injections of carbon tetrachloride (CCl4), a choline deficient diet, or bile duct ligation (BDL) were used to induce hepatic fibrosis in rats. Pioglitazone treatment was introduced at various time points. Therapeutic efficacy was assessed by comparison of the severity of hepatic fibrosis in pioglitazone treated versus untreated fibrotic controls.
When introduced after two weeks of CCl4, pioglitazone reduced hepatic fibrosis, OH proline content, hepatic mRNA expression of collagen type I, and profibrotic genes, as well as the number of activated alpha smooth muscle actin positive hepatic stellate cells, compared with rats receiving CCl4 only, with no significant change in necroinflammation. When pioglitazone treatment was initiated after five weeks of CCl4, no antifibrotic effect was observed. Similarly, pioglitazone was associated with a reduced severity of fibrosis induced by a choline deficient diet when introduced early, while delayed treatment with pioglitazone remained ineffective. In contrast, pioglitazone failed to interrupt progression of fibrosis due to BDL, irrespective of the timing of its administration.
In rats, the therapeutic antifibrotic efficacy of pioglitazone is limited and dependent on the type of injury, duration of disease, and/or the severity of fibrosis at the time of initiation of treatment.
