We have generated mice from a N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis screen that carry a mutation in the translation initiation codon of Gata-1, termed Plt13, which is equivalent to mutations found in patients with acute megakaryoblastic leukemia and Down syndrome. The Gata-1 locus is present on the X chromosome in humans and in mice. Male mice hemizygous for the mutation (Gata-1Plt13/Y) failed to produce red blood cells and died during embryogenesis at a similar stage to Gata-1-null animals. Female mice that carry the Plt13 mutation are mosaic because of random inactivation of the X chromosome. Adult Gata-1Plt13/+ females were not anemic, but they were thrombocytopenic and accumulated abnormal megakaryocytes without a concomitant increase in megakaryocyte progenitor cells. Gata-1Plt13/+ mice contained large numbers of blast-like colony-forming cells, particularly in the fetal liver, but also in adult spleen and bone marrow, from which continuous mast cells lines were readily derived. Although the equivalent mutation to Gata-1Plt13 in humans results in production of GATA-1s, a short protein isoform initiated from a start codon downstream of the mutated initiation codon, Gata-1s was not detected in Gata-1Plt13/+ mice.
Carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning is a major cause of brain injury and mortality; delayed neurological syndrome (DNS) is encountered in survivors of acute CO exposure. The toxic effects of CO have been attributed to oxidative stress induced by hypoxia. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is the inducible heme oxygenase isoform, and its induction acts as an important cellular defense mechanism against oxidative stress, cellular injury and disease. In this study, we examined the functional roles of HO-1 induction in a rat model of CO-exposured hippocampal injury. We report that acute CO exposure produces severe hippocampal injury in rats. However, hemin pretreatment reduced both the CO-induced rise in hippocampal water content and levels of neuronal damage in the hippocampus; survival rates at 24 h were significantly improved. Upregulation of HO-1 by hemin pretreatment resulted in a significant decrease in hippocampal levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), a marker of oxidative stress; levels of pro-apoptotic caspase-3 were also reduced. In contrast, inhibition of HO activity by administration of tin protoporphyrin IX (SnPP, a specific inhibitor of HO) abolished the neuroprotective effects of HO-1 induction. These data suggested that the upregulation of endogenous HO-1 expression therefore plays a pivotal protective role in CO neurotoxicity. Though the precise mechanisms underlying hemin-mediated HO-1 induction and neuroprotection are not known, these may involve the anti-oxidant and anti-apoptotic effects of HO-1 enzyme activity.
Toxicogenomic approaches have been applied to chemical-induced heptocarcinogenesis rodent models for the identification of biomarkers of early-stage hepatocarcinogenesis and to help clarify the underlying carcinogenic mechanisms in the liver. In this study, we used toxiciogenomic methods to identify candidate biomarker genes associated with hepatocarcinogenesis in rasH2 mice. Blood chemical, histopathologic, and gene expression analyses of the livers of rasH2 mice were performed 7 and 91 days after the administration of the genotoxic hepatocarcinogens 2-acetylaminofluorene (AAF) and diethylnitrosoamine (DEN), the genotoxic carcinogen melphalan (Mel), and the nongenotoxic noncarcinogen 1-naphthylisothiocynate (ANIT). Histopathologic lesions and a rise in accompanying serum marker levels were found in the DEN-treated rasH2 mice, whereas no neoplastic lesions were observed in the rasH2 mice. However, biological functional analysis using Ingenuity Pathways Analysis (IPA) software revealed that genes with comparable molecular and cellular functions were similarly deregulated in the AAF- and DEN-treated rasH2 mice. We selected 68 significantly deregulated genes that represented a hepatocarcinogen-specific signature; these genes were commonly deregulated in both the AAF- and DEN-treated rasH2 mice on days 7 and 91. Hierarchical clustering analysis indicated that the expression patterns of the selected genes in the hepatocarcinogen (AAF and DEN) groups were distinctive from the patterns in the control, Mel, and ANIT groups. Biomarker filter analysis using IPA software suggested that 28 of the 68 signature genes represent promising candidate biomarkers of cancer. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis confirmed that the deregulated genes, which exhibited sustained up- and down-regulation up to day 91, are likely involved in early-stage hepatocarcinogenesis. In summary, the common and significant gene expression changes induced by AAF and DEN may reflect early molecular events associated with hepatocarcinogenesis, and these "signature" genes may be useful as biomarkers of hepatocarcinogenesis in mice.
Haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia is an animal model of tardive dyskinesia whose pathophysiology has been related to basal ganglia oxidative stress. In this study the authors examined whether ebselen, an antioxidant organochalcogen with glutatione peroxidase-like activity, changes the behavioral and neurochemical effect of sub-chronic haloperidol administration. Haloperidol administered (12 mg/kg/week, sc) for 4 weeks caused a significant increase in vacuous chewing movements (VCMs), tongue protrusion (TP) and the duration of facial twitching (FT) observed in 4 weekly evaluations (p<0.05). Ebselen (30 mg/kg, ip), administered every other day, along with haloperidol (12 mg/kg/week, sc) once weekly, reversed the increase of VCMs and FT in four weekly evaluations (p<0.05), while TP frequency was reverted in the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th week. After the treatments and behavioral observation, biochemical parameters in segments of the brain were analyzed. Haloperidol significantly increased the thiobarbituric acid-reactive species (TBARS) levels in the cortex, striatum and subcortical parts of the brain. The co-administration of ebselen reversed the effect of haloperidol on TBARS production in cortex and striatum. The results of the present study clearly indicate that ebselen has a protective role against haloperidol-induced orofacial dyskinesia and reverses the increase in TBARS production caused by haloperidol administration. Consequently, the use of ebselen as a therapeutic agent for the treatment of tardive dyskinesia should be considered.
We compiled reports of acetaminophen hepatotoxicity after multiple overdoses from published cases, cases reported to the Food and Drug Administration, and cases from Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio. Forty-seven children (age range, 5 weeks to 10 years) received 60 to 420 mg/kg/day for 1 to 42 days; 52% had received adult preparations of acetaminophen. The mean peak serum aspartate aminotransferase level was 10,225 IU/L (n = 45), and the mean serum alanine aminotransferase level was 7355 IU/L (n = 31), which were significantly higher (both p < 0.001) than the mean serum aspartate aminotransferase level of 3500 IU/L and alanine aminotransferase level of 3098 IU/L found in children (n = 12) with non-acetaminophen-associated hepatic failure. Serum acetaminophen levels for which an estimate of time from last dose could be calculated were available for 30 patients, of which 22 levels were greater than the toxic range described for acute ingestion. Twenty-four of 43 patients (55%) died, with an additional three surviving after orthotopic liver transplantation. Parents should be advised about the potential hepatotoxicity of acetaminophen when given to ill children in doses exceeding weight-based recommendations.
Clinical observation of a decrease in migraine frequency in patients with comorbid asthma taking montelukast, a specific D4 leukotriene receptor antagonist, or zafirlukast, another leukotriene receptor antagonist, prompted us to explore a possible role for leukotriene modifiers in the treatment of migraine. (A further prompt was a pharmacist colleague's observation that a number of patients on these agents reported a decreased sensitivity to perfume triggers and improvement in migraine.)
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents have been used widely in the treatment of migraine. Another class of anti-inflammatory agents, known as leukotriene modifiers, have not been studied to date with regard to their possible role in the treatment of migraine. The name "leukotriene is derived both from the parent molecule, which was originally isolated from leukocytes, and from its three double-bond carbon backbone or triene structure. Both prostaglandins and leukotrienes are derived from the metabolism of arachidonic acid, with prostaglandins coming off the cyclooxygenase pathway and leukotrienes derived via the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase. Both prostaglandins and leukotrienes mediate inflammatory responses. The latter have been studied with regard to their role in the pathophysiology of asthma.
A prospective, open-label study evaluating the efficacy of montelukast, 10 mg or 20 mg, in the prophylaxis of migraine in 17 patients is presented in this paper. All 17 patients completed the study that consisted of a 2-month baseline run-in period and a 3-month treatment phase.
Montelukast was extremely well tolerated, and no adverse events were reported by any of the patients. Fifty-three percent showed a reduction of greater than 50% (P<.025) in the frequency of severe attacks, with 41% showing a reduction of greater than 60%. Responders, including modest responders, rated the drug as excellent.
We conclude, given the limitations of an open-label study design and the small sample size, that montelukast shows potential as an effective, well-tolerated prophylactic agent in migraine. Double-blinded, placebo-controlled studies are warranted. In addition, the leukotrienes, as suggested previously in the literature, may play a role in the pathogenesis of migraine.
The purpose of this study was to compare the effect of premixed 5% dextrose in Ringer's acetate solution and premixed lidocaine with propofpl on the reduction of pain during injection of propofol in adult patients. We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blinded trial. Ninety-six patients were randomly allocated to one of three groups according to the agents added to 1% propofol 20 ml; Group C, normal saline 2 ml, Group L, 2% lidocaine 2 ml, and Group A, 5% dextrose in Ringer's acetate solution 2 ml. The pain on injection was rated as none, mild, moderate, or severe. Seventy percent of patients in the C group experienced pain, while 33% and 25% of patients experienced pain in the A group and the L group, respectively. Forty-two percent of patients in the C group complained moderate to severe pain but only one patient in both A group and L group. In conclusion, 5% dextrose in Ringer's acetate solution premixed with 200 mg propofol significantly reduces incidence and severity of pain associated with propofol injection and is easier to use than premixed lidocaine.
In the enhanced antenatal hepatitis B screening and neonatal immunization program in Amsterdam, 691 hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) positive expectant mothers were reported in the period 1993-1998. The coverage of the screening was calculated at 97%. HBsAg-prevalence was high in women from Ghana and South-East Asia, and lowest in Dutch women. Hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) was administered within 24h to 95.9% of the neonates; 99.7% completed the vaccination series. About 6 weeks after the third vaccination the titer antiHBs was > or =100 IU/l in 85% of children; in 12% the titers were 10-100 IU/l; 3% had titers <10 IU/l, of whom 3/521 initially had HBsAg. Low birth weight (OR 3.77), being a boy (OR 1.64) and country of origin were predictors of low postvaccination titers. Coordinated by 0.5 full time equivalent (fte) additional staff, the program was relatively cheap and successful.
Opioid- and cocaine-dependent participants (N=140) were randomly assigned to one of the following in a 12-week clinical trial: LAAM (30, 30, 39 mg/MWF) with contingency management (CM) procedures (LC); LAAM (30, 30, 39 mg/MWF) without CM (LY); LAAM (100, 100, 130 mg/MWF) with CM (HC); LAAM (100, 100, 130 mg/MWF) without CM (HY). Urine samples were collected thrice-weekly. In CM, each urine negative for both opioids and cocaine resulted in a voucher worth a certain monetary value that increased for consecutively drug-free urines. Subjects not assigned to CM received vouchers according to a yoked schedule. Vouchers were exchanged for mutually agreed upon goods and services. Groups generally did not differ on retention and baseline characteristics. Overall opioid use was least in the HC and HY groups; opioid use decreased most rapidly over time in the HC group relative to the HY, LC and LY groups. Overall cocaine use was least in the HC group relative to the HY, LC, and LY groups; cocaine use decreased over time most rapidly in the HC and LY groups. Abstinence from both was greatest in the HC group. Opioid withdrawal symptoms decreased most rapidly in the high-dose groups relative to the low-dose groups. These results suggest that an efficacious maintenance dose is necessary for contingencies to be effective in facilitating both opioid and cocaine abstinence.
Hepatic steatosis and haemorrhage in oestrogenised chickens were not associated with any increase in the endotoxin content of the plasma. The haemorrhage was not ameliorated by suppressing enteric bacteria with neomycin or exacerbated by the repeated injection of Escherichia coli O111 endotoxin and there were no relevant changes in plasma enzyme activities that are indicators of liver damage. These results therefore do not support the hypothesis that, as in the choline deficient rat, hepatic steatosis impairs the ability of the oestrogenised chicken to dispose of bacterial endotoxins and that these then damage the liver.
We evaluated the effectiveness of combination treatment using sumatriptan plus metoclopramide versus sumatriptan alone for the treatment of acute migraine. The patients who were treated had failed to respond to triptans in the past despite adequate doses on at least 2 separate trials of the same triptan or 2 trials involving different triptans.
There is limited evidence that dopaminergic antagonists may benefit the migraineur by relieving migraine pain and associated symptoms. The exact mechanism of action in migraine is unknown. The postulated action is the inhibition of dopaminergic overactivity. A dopaminergic antagonist, metoclopramide, may improve the efficacy of a 5-HT1B/1D agonist, sumatriptan.
In this double-blind, randomized, crossover study, 16 adult migraineurs fulfilling International Headache Society (IHS) criteria for migraine with or without aura who had failed to receive adequate relief from triptans treated one migraine with each treatment: sumatriptan 50 mg plus metoclopramide 10 mg or sumatriptan 50 mg plus placebo to match metoclopramide. Patients treated their migraines when they were moderate or severe in intensity and recorded pain severity and symptoms prior to treatment and 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes and 24 hours after treatment.
Thirteen women and 3 men (mean age, 40 years) completed the study; ie, treated 2 migraines (a total of 32 migraines), one attack with each treatment. Meaningful relief was attained in 10 (63%) of 16 migraines treated with the combination of sumatriptan 50 mg plus metoclopramide 10 mg compared with 5 (31%) of 16 migraines treated with sumatriptan 50 mg plus placebo. Headache response (moderate or severe to mild or no pain at 2 hours) was achieved in 7 (44%) of 16 migraines with the combination of sumatriptan 50 mg plus metoclopramide 10 mg compared with 5 (31%) of 16 migraines treated with sumatriptan 50 mg plus placebo. There did not appear to be a difference between treatment groups with respect to associated symptoms. The combination of sumatriptan 50 mg plus metoclopramide 10 mg was well tolerated.
Combining sumatriptan with metoclopramide provided relief in some migraineurs who failed to achieve adequate relief with a triptan alone. It remains unknown whether initiating therapy when pain was mild or using a higher dose of sumatriptan (ie, 100 mg) would have provided additional benefit. Further studies are indicated.
To clinically study the antiviral effects of lamivudine and entecavir on patients with early-to-mid stage Hepatitis B related acute on chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF). METHODS; A prospective, randomized, open and parallel controlled clinical trial was designed to observe the antiviral effects of nucleoside analogues on patients with early-to-mid stage HBV-ACLF. Three groups were set for controlled study, i. e. basic treatment group, lamivudine plus basic treatment group and entecavir plus basic treatment group.
One month after treatment, the improvement rates of lamivudine group and entecavir group were 58.85% and 59.15% respectively, significantly higher than that of basic treatment group which was 34.84% (Chi(2) = 9.8323, P = 0.043). By the end of six months, the cumulative survival rates of patients with the antiviral treatments, i.e., lamivudine, entecavir, were 65.8%, 60.1%, significantly higher than that (42%) without the antiviral treatment (P = 0.045, P = 0.04 respectively). The cumulative survival rate in patients with a MELD score < 30 was higher than that with a MELD score over 30 (Chi(2) = 3.920, P = 0.048). For the patients with pretreatment HBV DNA > or = 10(7), the cumulative survival rate in patients with entecavir treatments group was higher than that of patients in basic treatment group (Chi(2) = 5. 014 P= 0.025). According to the Ordinal Regression analysis, antiviral therapy by using either lamivudine or entecavia could significantly increase the improvement rate of patients with early-to-mid stage HBV-ACLF. But severe complications, including hepatorenal syndrome, electrolyte imbalance and hepatic encephalopathy, medical history of liver cirrhosis, and pretreatment HBV DNA > or = 10(7) had significant impacts on prognosis of this group patients.
Antiviral therapy by using either lamivudine or entecavia could significantly increase the survival rate of patients with early-to-mid stage HBV-ACLF.
A series of substituted 9,10-dihydroxyhexahydrobenzo[f]thieno[c]quinolines (TB[f]Q), varying with respect to the position of the thiophene relative to the benzo[f]quinoline core and the nature and position of the substituent on the thiophene, were prepared and evaluated for their affinity and selectivity for the dopamine D1-like receptor. The thieno[3,2-c]B[f]Q regioisomers bearing a small alky1 (C1-C3) substituent at the 2 position were potent (Ki < 20 nM) and selective (D2/D1 > 50) D1 agonists with close to full agonist activity (IA > 85%). The compounds were resolved and found to exhibit a high level of enantiospecificity in their interaction with the D1 receptor. Selected compounds were tested in vivo in the 6-OHDA rodent model of Parkinson's disease and for their liability to produce seizure-like activities in mice. (5aR)-trans-2-Propyl-4,5,5a,6,7, 11b-hexahydro-3-thia-5-azacyclopent-1-ena[c]phenanthrene-9,10-diol (5) emerged as the compound with the best overall in vivo profile in terms of potency (ED50 = 0.04 mumol/kg) and safety.
Sterile hemorrhagic cystitis developed in 5 dogs after treatment with cyclophosphamide. Four dogs were being treated with various antineoplastic protocols, and the fifth dog had recurrent immune-mediated thrombocytopenia. In all instances, clinical signs of hematuria and stranguria persisted after cyclophosphamide administration was discontinued. Three dogs required cystotomy to remove necrotic mucosa and calculi. The other 2 dogs were treated with intravesicularly administered dimethyl sulfoxide to decrease inflammation and to inhibit fibroplasia of the bladder wall. In 4 dogs, clinical signs resolved after treatment. The fifth dog, treated surgically, continued to have intermittent urinary incontinence attributable to residual bladder wall fibrosis.
To investigate the effects of carvedilol and metoprolol on the expression of autoantibodies against cardiac β(1), β(2) and α(1) adrenergic receptors in aged patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) and ventricular arrhythmia (VA).
Sixty-eight patients with CHF and VA were randomly divided metoprolol treatment group or carvedilol treatment group on the basis of digoxin and diuretic treatment. All patients were followed up for six months cardiac function was monitored by echocardiography, VA by Holter and the three autoantibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).
(1) Systolic blood pressure and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) were significantly lower in carvedilol group than that in metoprolol group (P < 0.05). (2) The positive ratio of autoantibodies against the cardiac β(1) adrenergic receptor was significantly decreased compared with that of pre-treatment (P < 0.05) in metoprolol group. The positive ratios of autoantibodies against cardiac β(1), β(2) and α(1)-adrenergic receptors were all significantly decreased compared with that of pre-treatment (P < 0.01) in carvedilol group. Moreover, the incidence of VA was significantly decreased in carvedilol group (P < 0.05) but not in metoprolol group.
Carvedilol is superior to metoprolol on decreasing the incidence of VA in aged patients with chronic heart failure and ventricular arrhythmia.
Female F344 rats treated chronically with diethylstilbestrol (DES) develop prolactin (PRL)-producing pituitary tumors. These tumors are larger in female than in male rats. To investigate gender differences in DES-induced pituitary tumor formation, we employed female and male rats and neonatally androgenized females, which received 100 microg of testosterone propionate (TP) after birth. At 3 months of age, all rats were deprived of their gonads and divided into control and DES-treated groups. Forty days after beginning treatment, control pituitary weight and serum PRL were similar in gonadectomized males (GDX), ovariectomized females (OVX) and androgenized-ovariectomized females (OVX + TP), but weight of DES-induced tumors was 2.5-fold higher and serum PRL 5.6-fold higher in OVX + DES than in GDX + DES or OXV + TP + DES (p<0.001). At the pituitary level, nuclear estrogen receptors (NE(2)R) amounted to >100 fmol/mg DNA in all rats receiving DES. However, NE(2)R were lower in OVX + DES (101.3+/-9.0 fmol/mg DNA) than in GDX + DES (174.6 +/-16.8; p<0.05) and in OXV + DES + TP (150.3+/-27.7; p<0.05). A similar profile was found for cytosolic progestin receptors. Using electron microscopy (EM), hyperplasia/hypertrophy of lactotropes was found in all DES-stimulated pituitaries. However, tumors of OVX + DES rats were enriched in hyperstimulated typical lactotropes, i.e., cells with high rate of hormonal synthesis, processing and secretion. Instead, tumors from GDX + DES and OVX + TP + DES rats were a mixture of typical and atypical lactotropes, i.e. a cell subpopulation with refractory secretory response and a few gonadotropes. In agreement with these data, immunoreactive pituitary PRL was lower in OVX + DES than in OVX + TP + DES and GDX + DES groups. Thus, differences in the sensitivity to DES, serum and tumor PRL, NE(2)R and progestin receptors between estrogenized female rats on one side and male and TP-androgenized females on the other, may by due in part to heterogeneity of cell populations. Our data further suggest that neonatal hypothalamic exposure to androgens, as in normal males or androgenized females with masculinization of hypothalamic centers, may condition the response to DES stimulation later in life.
The effect of continuous propofol administration on creatine kinase and suxamethonium-induced postoperative myalgia was evaluated in 50 patients randomised into two groups of 25 patients each. Induction of anaesthesia was identical in all patients. Anaesthesia was maintained with 66% nitrous oxide in oxygen supplemented by either isoflurane 1% or continuous propofol. Creatine kinase was measured before and after operation. Myalgia was evaluated postoperatively by a blinded observer. The median level of myalgia was reduced significantly in the continuous propofol group (p = 0.011). The median creatine kinase value increased significantly in the isoflurane group (from 90 to 160 IU, p = 0.001).
Despite evidence of atrazine toxicity in developing organisms from experimental studies, few studies--and fewer epidemiologic investigations--have examined the potential effects of prenatal exposure.
We assessed the association between adverse birth outcomes and urinary biomarkers of prenatal atrazine exposure, while taking into account exposures to other herbicides used on corn crops (simazine, alachlor, metolachlor, and acetochlor).
This study used a case-cohort design nested in a prospective birth cohort conducted in the Brittany region of France from 2002 through 2006. We collected maternal urine samples to examine pesticide exposure biomarkers before the 19th week of gestation.
We found quantifiable levels of atrazine or atrazine mercapturate in urine samples from 5.5% of 579 pregnant women, and dealkylated and identified hydroxylated triazine metabolites in 20% and 40% of samples, respectively. The presence versus absence of quantifiable levels of atrazine or a specific atrazine metabolite was associated with fetal growth restriction [odds ratio (OR) = 1.5; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.0-2.2] and small head circumference for sex and gestational age (OR = 1.7; 95% CI, 1.0-2.7). Associations with major congenital anomalies were not evident with atrazine or its specific metabolites. Head circumference was inversely associated with the presence of quantifiable urinary metolachlor.
This study is the first to assess associations of birth outcomes with multiple urinary biomarkers of exposure to triazine and chloroacetanilide herbicides. Evidence of associations with adverse birth outcomes raises particular concerns for countries where atrazine is still in use.
Occupational exposure to residual oil fly ash (ROFA) particulate has been associated with adverse respiratory health effects in humans. We hypothesized that ROFA collected at different sites within an oil burning power plant, by virtue of its differing metal and sulfate composition, will induce differential lung injury. Ten ROFA samples collected at various sites within a power plant were analyzed for water- and 1.0 M HCl-leachable arsenic (As), beryllium (Be), cadmium (Cd), cobalt (Co), chromium (Cr), copper (Cu), iron (Fe), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), lead (Pb), vanadium (V), zinc (Zn), and sulfur by inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy. All ROFA samples contained variable amounts of leachable (water-extractable) and 1.0 M HCl-extractable Fe, V, and/or Ni. All other metals, except Zn (ROFA No. 1 contained 3.43 and No. 3, 6.35 micrograms/mg Zn), were present in negligible quantities (< 1.0 microgram/mg) in the water extract. In vivo pulmonary injury from exposure to whole saline suspensions of these ROFA was evaluated. Male, SD rats (60 days old) were intratracheally instilled with either saline or saline suspension of whole ROFA (< 3.0 mass median aerodynamic diameter) at three concentrations (0.833, 3.33, or 8.33 mg/kg). After 24 h, lungs were lavaged and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) was analyzed for cellular influx and protein content as well as lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and N-acetyl glucosaminidase (NAG) activity and total hemoglobin as indicators of lung injury. ROFA-induced increases in BALF protein and LDH, but not neutrophilic inflammation, were associated with its water-leachable total metal, Ni, Fe, and sulfate content. However, the neutrophilic response following ROFA exposure was positively correlated with its water-leachable V content. Modest lung injury was observed with the ROFA samples which contained the smallest amounts of water-leachable metals. The ability of ROFA to induce oxidative burst in alveolar macrophage (AM) was determined in vitro using a chemiluminescence (CL) assay. AM CL signals in vitro were greatest with ROFA containing primarily soluble V and were less with ROFA containing Ni plus V. In summary, ROFA-induced in vivo acute pulmonary inflammation appears to be associated with its water-leachable V content; however, protein leakage appears to be associated with its water-leachable Ni content. ROFA-induced in vitro activation of AM was highest with ROFA containing leachable V but not with Ni plus V, suggesting that the potency and the mechanism of pulmonary injury will differ between emissions containing V and Ni.
Usnic acid (UA) is the most common and abundant lichenic secondary metabolite with potential therapeutic application. Anti-inflammatory and antitumour properties have already been reported and UA-enriched extracts are widely used to treat several diseases in the folk medicine. First, we performed in silico evaluation of UA interactions with genes/proteins and important compounds for cellular redox balance and NO pathway. Then, we assessed UA redox properties against different reactive species (RS) generated in vitro, and evaluated its action on SH-SY5Y neuronal like cells upon hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), since no in vitro neurotoxicological data has been reported so far. Total reactive antioxidant potential index (TRAP) showed a significant antioxidant capacity of UA at the highest tested concentration; UA was also effective against hydroxyl radicals and reduced the formation of nitric oxide. In vitro, lipoperoxidation was enhanced by UA and changed the cellular viability at highest concentration of 20μg/mL for 1 and 4h, as well as 2 and 20μg/mL for 24h of treatment, according to MTT reduction assay. Moreover, UA did not display protective effects against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in any case. Evaluation of intracellular RS production by the DCFH-based assay indicated that UA was able to induce changes in basal RS production at concentration of 20μg/mL for 1h and from 2ng/mL to 20μg/mL for 4 and 24h. In conclusion, UA could display variable redox-active properties, according to different system conditions and/or cellular environment. Moreover, our results suggest that potential neurotoxicological effects of UA should be further studied by additional approaches; for instance, in vivo and clinical studies.
We investigated whether nitric oxide (NO) synthase gene transfer could attenuate growth of cultured cardiac myocytes. First, we investigated the effects of exogenous NO and cGMP analog on protein synthesis of cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes. The NO donor 3-morpholino-sydnonimine-hydrochloride (SIN-1) and 8-bromo-cGMP caused concentration-dependent decreases in phenylephrine-stimulated incorporation of 3H-leucine into cardiac myocytes. We then transferred endothelial constitutive NO synthase (ecNOS) gene into cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes using adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors. ecNOS gene transfer into cardiac myocytes induced 140 kD ecNOS protein expression and significantly increased cGMP contents of myocytes compared with control cells. ecNOS gene transfer inhibited 3H-leucine incorporation into cardiac myocytes in response to phenylephrine, which was significantly recovered in the presence of the NOS inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate. These results indicate that endogenously generated NO by ecNOS gene transfer using AAV vectors inhibits the alpha-adrenergic agonist-induced cardiac protein synthesis at least partially via cGMP production.
We recently showed that peripheral and spinal 5-HT2A receptors (5-HT2AR) are involved in a rodent model of neuropathy induced by a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor. In this paper, we show that 5-HT2AR are also involved in neuropathy induced by an anti-neoplasic drug, vincristine. Vincristine-treated rats (0.1mg/kg, daily i.p. administration for two 5-day cycles) developed thermal allodynia and mechanical hypersensitivity, which decreased in a dose-related manner after epidural injection a 5-HT2A receptor antagonist. Moreover, 5-HT2A-/- mice did not develop vincristine-induced neuropathy contrarily to their 5-HT2A+/+ littermates. In vincristine-treated rats, the number of nociceptive dorsal root ganglion cells expressing the 5-HT2AR was increased by 38%, and 5-HT2AR immunolabelling was enhanced in layers I-IV of the dorsal horn. At the EM level, a 76.3% increase in the density of 5-HT2AR immunopositive axon terminals within superficial layers of the dorsal horn was noted after vincristine treatment. Immunocytochemical study of Fos expression in vincristine-treated rats revealed a significant increase in the number of Fos-positive neurons not only in regions where nociceptive fibres terminate superficial (I-II) and deep layers (V-VI) of the spinal cord, but also in intermediate layers, suggesting that Abeta fibres could be involved in the spinal sensitization observed in this model. Double labelling experiments showed that Fos-positive neurons were endowed with 5-HT2AR immunolabelling in the dorsal horn of vincristine-treated rats. These data provide support to the idea that, in vincristine-induced neuropathy, 5-HT2AR are involved in the sensitization of peripheral nociceptors and spinal nociceptive processing.
A safer, more effective adulticidal treatment and a safe method for reducing microfilaremia and breaking transmission of heartworm disease early in the treatment are needed. The present study evaluated efficacy of ivermectin (IVM) and doxycycline (DOXY) alone or together (with or without melarsomine [MEL]) in dogs with induced adult heartworm infection and assessed the ability of microfilariae from DOXY-treated dogs to develop to L3 in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes and subsequently to become reproductive adults in dogs. Thirty beagles were each infected with 16 adult heartworms by intravenous transplantation. Six weeks later, dogs were ranked by microfilarial count and randomly allocated to 6 groups of 5 dogs each. Beginning on Day 0, Group 1 received IVM (6 mcg/kg) weekly for 36 weeks. Group 2 received DOXY (10 mcg/(kgday)) orally Weeks 1-6, 10-11, 16-17, 22-25, and 28-33. Groups 3 and 5 received IVM and DOXY according to doses and schedules used for Groups 1 and 2. At Week 24, Groups 3 and 4 received an intramuscular injection of MEL (2.5 mg/kg), followed 1 month later by two injections 24h apart. Group 6 was not treated. Blood samples were collected for periodic microfilaria counts and antigen (Ag) testing (and later immunologic evaluation and molecular biology procedures). Radiographic and physical examinations, hematology/clinical chemistry testing, and urinalysis were done before infection, before Day 0, and periodically during the treatment period. At 36 weeks, the dogs were euthanized and necropsied for worm recovery, collection of lung, liver, kidney, and spleen samples for examination by immunohistochemistry and conventional histological methods. All dogs treated with IVM + DOXY (with or without MEL) were amicrofilaremic after Week 9. Microfilarial counts gradually decreased in dogs treated with IVM or DOXY, but most had a few microfilariae at necropsy. Microfilarial counts for dogs treated only with MEL were similar to those for controls. Antigen test scores gradually decreased with IVM + DOXY (with or without MEL) and after MEL. Antigen scores for IVM or DOXY alone were similar to controls throughout the study. Reduction of adult worms was 20.3% for IVM, 8.7% for DOXY, 92.8% for IVM + DOXY + MEL, 100% for MEL, and 78.3% for IVM + DOXY. Mosquitoes that fed on blood from DOXY-treated dogs had L3 normal in appearance but were not infective for dogs. Preliminary observations suggest that administration of DOXY+IVM for several months prior to (or without) MEL will eliminate adult HW with less potential for severe thromboembolism than MEL alone.
In May 2010, a team of national and international organizations was assembled to investigate children's deaths due to lead poisoning in villages in northwestern Nigeria.
Our goal was to determine the cause of the childhood lead poisoning outbreak, investigate risk factors for child mortality, and identify children < 5 years of age in need of emergency chelation therapy for lead poisoning.
We administered a cross-sectional, door-to-door questionnaire in two affected villages, collected blood from children 2-59 months of age, and obtained soil samples from family compounds. Descriptive and bivariate analyses were performed with survey, blood lead, and environmental data. Multivariate logistic regression techniques were used to determine risk factors for childhood mortality.
We surveyed 119 family compounds. Of 463 children < 5 years of age, 118 (25%) had died in the previous year. We tested 59% (204/345) of children < 5 years of age, and all were lead poisoned (≥ 10 µg/dL); 97% (198/204) of children had blood lead levels (BLLs) ≥ 45 µg/dL, the threshold for initiating chelation therapy. Gold ore was processed inside two-thirds of the family compounds surveyed. In multivariate modeling, significant risk factors for death in the previous year from suspected lead poisoning included the age of the child, the mother's work at ore-processing activities, community well as primary water source, and the soil lead concentration in the compound.
The high levels of environmental contamination, percentage of children < 5 years of age with elevated BLLs (97%, > 45 µg/dL), and incidence of convulsions among children before death (82%) suggest that most of the recent childhood deaths in the two surveyed villages were caused by acute lead poisoning from gold ore-processing activities. Control measures included environmental remediation, chelation therapy, public health education, and control of mining activities.
To evaluate and compare the efficacy of oral clorazepate dipotassium (Tranxilium) and intravenous midazolam (Dormicum) as premedication agents in retrobulbar anesthesia and clear corneal phacoemulsification with intraocular lens (IOL) implantation.
Department of Ophthalmology, University of Essen, Essen, Germany.
In a prospective clinical trial, 97 consecutive patients (97 eyes) having phacoemulsification with implantation of a foldable IOL were randomized to 2 groups. The first group received 10 mg oral clorazepate dipotassium and the second group, 1 mg intravenous midazolam. The surgeon's subjective experience of patients' cooperation during retrobulbar anesthesia and after surgery was measured on a 5-point Likert scale. The duration of surgery and rate of complications were documented. One day after surgery, the patients' subjective comfort during cataract surgery was evaluated using a 5-point Likert scale and the best corrected visual acuity was determined.
The level of anterograde amnesia tended to be higher in the midazolam group than in the clorazepate dipotassium group (4% versus 0% for anesthesia administration; 14% versus 4% for surgery), but the difference between groups was not significant. There were no significant differences in patient cooperation or complications during surgery. Patient satisfaction scores were not significantly different between the groups (P<.14); however, patients in the midazolam group expected to have significantly less pain during surgery (P<.04). The rate of potential visual acuity recovery was similar between groups.
Anterograde amnesia occurred more frequently and patients expected less pain before surgery with midazolam. Both anesthetic agents provided safe and effective premedication for retrobulbar anesthesia in clear corneal cataract surgery.
9-month-old infant was inadvertently administered azithromycin 50 mg/kg, taken from floor stock, instead of the prescribed ceftriaxone. Shortly thereafter, she became unresponsive and pulseless. The initial heart rhythm observed when cardiopulmonary resuscitation was started was a widecomplex bradycardia, with a prolonged rate-corrected QT interval and complete heart block. The baby was resuscitated with epinephrine and atropine, but she suffered severe anoxic encephalopathy. Torsade de pointes and QT-interval prolongation have been reported after administration of macrolide antibiotics, including azithromycin, both intravenously and orally. This has occurred especially in the context of coadministered drugs that inhibit the cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 isoenzyme, such as ketoconazole and astemizole. However, bradycardia with complete heart block has not, to our knowledge, been reported specifically with intravenous administration of azithromycin alone, either with therapeutic doses or overdose. Clinicians should be alerted about the potential of azithromycin to cause life-threatening bradycardia, and pharmacy systems should be implemented to ensure special care in the safe administration of this drug, especially when dispensed from a point-of-care source.
One hundred and nineteen patients with endoscopically confirmed prepyloric (n = 59) or duodenal (n = 60) ulcer were stratified for ulcer location before entering a randomized double-blind trial comparing ranitidine (150 mg twice daily) and a potent liquid antacid (Novaluzid; 10 ml seven times daily, with a neutralizing capacity of 600 mmol H+). Fifty-four patients with prepyloric (26 receiving ranitidine) and 53 patients with duodenal ulcer (28 receiving ranitidine) completed the trial in accordance with the protocol. The 4 and 6 weeks' healing rates for prepyloric ulcers were 54%, 68%, and 61%, versus 69%, 79%, and 74% for the ranitidine, the antacid, and whole groups, respectively. For duodenal ulcers these figures were 89%, 84%, and 87%, versus 100%, 96%, and 98% for the ranitidine, antacid, and whole groups, respectively. Differences in healing rates between treatments were statistically insignificant within strata for ulcer type, but healing rates for prepyloric ulcers were significantly lower than for duodenal ulcers (p less than 0.002). A significant early pain relief was found in all groups, and side effects, including diarrhoea, were rare. In conclusion, these two ulcer treatment modalities appear to be equally effective in the short term. In addition, the data emphasize the need for proper stratification of prepyloric and duodenal ulcers in clinical trials of ulcer healing.
Efficacy, side effects and predictors of response for intravenous amiodarone were evaluated in 46 patients with recurrent drug-refractory sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation, or both, who were treated with intravenous amiodarone. Of the 46 patients, 27 (58.5%) responded early to intravenous amiodarone and 6 (13%) showed a late response to amiodarone. The majority of patients who responded to intravenous amiodarone did so within the first 2 h of therapy, and all responded within 84 h. Patients with an ejection fraction greater than 25% were more likely to respond (p less than 0.05). Major side effects occurred in 13% of patients. The cumulative 2 year mortality rate due to arrhythmia recurrence or sudden death for responders discharged from the hospital was 23% and the cumulative overall 2 year mortality rate was 46%. In conclusion, intravenous amiodarone is rapidly effective in the majority of patients with recurrent ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation refractory to other drugs. The poor long-term outcome of patients who require this therapy, respond to it and are discharged on long-term oral amiodarone therapy warrants consideration of other long-term treatment of these patients. Use of intravenous amiodarone is an important new modality in the treatment of drug-refractory malignant ventricular arrhythmias.
