The report describes a patient during induction of anaesthesia for coronary artery by-pass grafting, in whom the infusion of dobutamine at a rate of 5 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 resulted in unanticipated severe hypertension. The exaggerated response may be attributed to cimetidine--dobutamine interaction.
We audited and analysed the adverse effects and safety of postoperative pain management on 2509 consecutive patients under care of the Acute Pain Service at a tertiary referral teaching hospital over a 32-month period. Our standard respiratory monitoring consisted of continuous pulse oximetry, hourly respiratory rate counting, sedation scoring and intermittent arterial blood gas sampling. This protocol was reliable and detected six episodes of bradypnoea, 13 of hypercapnia and 23 of oxygen desaturation occurring in 39 patients (1.8% of all spontaneously breathing patients). Two patients required naloxone injection and none had long-term sequelae. Hypotension due to epidural bupivacaine 0.0625% and fentanyl 3.3 micrograms.ml-1 infusion occurred in four patients (1.2%), all with a sensory block higher than T5. They readily responded to fluid infusion and ephedrine (two patients). Postoperative nausea or vomiting occurred in 723 (28.8%) and 380 (15.1%) patients, respectively. Odds ratio analysis showed that the risk factors for postoperative nausea and vomiting were: female gender, gynaecological operations, nongeriatric patients and systemic analgesia. Postoperative nausea and vomiting decreased analgesic efficacy by discouraging the use of patient-controlled analgesia and was regarded as equally distressing as pain. Other side-effects included: pruritus in 182 patients; dizziness in 333 and lower limb weakness in 73 (21.2% of patients receiving epidural local anaesthetics). It is concluded that a standard monitoring and management protocol, an experienced nursing team and reliable Acute Pain Service coverage is mandatory for the safe use of modern analgesic techniques.
Behavioral pharmacological properties of mianserin (1,2,3,4,10,14b-hexahydro-2-methyldibenzol[c,f]pyrazino [1.2-a]azepine monohydrochloride) were investigated in comparison with imipramine (IMP) and amitriptyline (ATP). Mianserin antagonized reserpine-induced hypothermia but to a much lesser extent than IMP or ATP, and did not block the ptosis evoked by reserpine or tetrabenazine. Amphetamine-induced stereotyped behavior was significantly enhanced by both IMP and ATP, but not by mianserin. Unlike IMP or ATP, haloperidol-induced catalepsy in the rat was not blocked by mianserin. Like IMP or ATP, mianserin did not suppress the convulsions induced by bemegride or strychnine in the mouse, and or emetic action of apomorphine in the dog, while only mianserin did not block the convulsions evoked by electric shocks. Mianserin more strongly potentiated the anesthetic action of thiopental than did IMP. ATP showed strong muscle relaxant action and the impairment of coordinated motor activities both in mice and rats, in the inclinated screen test and rotarod test, while, like IMP, these actions of mianserin were significant only in the rat. Catalepsy was not induced nor was the righting reflex suppressed by mianserin. In the low spinal cat, mianserin did not depress the amplitude of extensor MSR. Moreover, the MSR inhibition induced by conditioning stimulation of ipsilateral cutaneous afferents and the MSR potentiation evoked by conditioning stimulation of contralateral saphenous nerve were unaffected by mianserin. The curious behavior of mice and rats was significantly and dose-dependently suppressed by mianserin, and tended to be suppressed by ATP, while an enhancement was seen with IMP in large doses. Mianserin was the most potent in suppressing the fighting behavior induced by long-term isolation of the mouse, and was the weakest in suppressing electric-stimulation-induced fighting behavior, compared with IMP and ATP. Mianserin showed no significant suppression of the muricide behavior of the olfactory bulbectomized rat, while IMP significantly suppressed it. No significant differences were observed among mianserin, IMP and ATP as to their actions on the conflict behavior and the shuttle-box type conditioned avoidance behavior of the rat. These results indicate that behavioral pharmacological actions of mianserin were not always the same as those of IMP and ATP. Therefore, mianserin may be a new antidepressant with mechanisms of action which differ from that of the usual tricyclic antidepressants.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is a leading cause of occupational asthma. TDI-induced asthma is an inflammatory disease of the airways that is associated with airway remodeling. However, there are little data available on the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in TDI-induced asthma.
We evaluated whether MMP-9 participates in the airway inflammation in TDI-induced asthma. An additional aim of the present study was to determine whether MMP inhibitors could be effective therapeutic agents for TDI-induced asthma.
We developed a murine model of TDI-induced asthma to examine the involvement of MMPs by performing 2 sensitizations with 3% TDI and 1 challenge with 1% TDI using ultrasonic nebulization.
Murine TDI-induced asthma includes findings of (1) increased inflammatory cells, including neutrophils, lymphocytes, and eosinophils; (2) histologic changes, including infiltration of inflammatory cells around bronchioles, thickened airway epithelium, and accumulation of mucus and debris in the bronchioles; (3) increased MMP-9 activity in inflammatory cells in the airway lumen; and (4) airway hyperresponsiveness. Administration of an MMP inhibitor remarkably reduced all these pathophysiologic findings.
We conclude that TDI-induced occupational asthma is associated with the induction of MMP-9 in inflammatory cells, and the inhibition of MMP-9 may be a good therapeutic strategy.
Lifetime exposure to estrogen is a factor that plays an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of breast cancer. Genetic variants in genes of the biosynthesis and metabolism of estrogen have been associated with breast cancer risk. Among them, the CYP19 gene encodes for aromatase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of androgens to estrogens. The rs10046 polymorphism on the CYP19 gene has been related to levels of circulating estradiol and to the estradiol/testosterone ratio. To date, epidemiological studies of rs10046 have been performed in different populations with contradictory results. In the present study, we have conducted a case-control analysis (522 cases and 1221 controls) in a Spanish population. Furthermore, we have performed a meta-analysis including 20,098 subjects (7,998 cases and 12,100 controls) to summarize the data available for rs10046 and breast cancer risk. An odds ratio (OR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI) was applied to assess the association. The results of our case-control study show an association between the carriers of at least one C allele (dominant model) and breast cancer risk (OR = 1.29, 95% CI 1.01-1.66, p-value = 0.038). The meta-analysis shows no significant association with breast cancer risk in any of the genetic models tested. The analysis by ethnic subgroups also failed to produce associations. The evaluation of heterogeneity, influence analysis, and publication bias confirms the reliability of the analysis. We can conclude that the rs10046 polymorphism on CYP19 by itself does not constitute breast cancer risk. We cannot, however, reject the possibility that it could contribute (interact), together with other genetic variants, to modify the circulating levels of estradiol.
To our knowledge, this is the first published case report of an adolescent girl with a mitochondrial disorder and depression who displayed both new-onset psychotic and increased mood symptoms during treatment with risperidone.
A 16-year-old girl was treated with risperidone for mood lability and impulsivity at a community hospital. Within days, she developed paranoid ideation, profound psychomotor retardation, increased depression, and fatigue. She was transferred to an inpatient psychiatric hospital, where she was taken off risperidone. Within 48 hours after discontinuation of the medication, she had complete resolution of psychotic symptoms, fatigue, and psychomotor retardation, and her depression improved.
This observation of "on-off" risperidone treatment suggests that risperidone may have worsened both psychiatric and physical manifestations of the mitochondrial disorder in this adolescent. These findings are consistent with recent in vitro literature, which implicate a series of neuroleptic medications with mitochondrial dysfunction. Furthermore, the authors provide diagnostic and treatment options that are available for mitochondrial disorders, which are of interest to child psychiatrists due to the central nervous system manifestations of these disorders.
Fifteen asthmatic outpatients were randomly treated during two periods of 14 days each with sustained-release preparations of either enprofylline (3-propyl-xanthine) or theophylline (Theo-Dur) in a double-blind crossover study. After 4 days of treatment the mean daily doses of enprofylline and theophylline, which were 14.1 and 16.2 mg/kg/day, produced mean plasma concentrations of 4.9 and 12.7 micrograms/ml, respectively. Taking into account all the parameters used to evaluate the antiasthmatic effects, the peak expiratory flow, the number of puffs used from a beta-agonist aerosol, the asthma symptom score and the patients' preferred period, enprofylline was found to be better than theophylline. Enprofylline produced more headaches during the 1st week than theophylline did. However, during the 2nd week the score for headaches decreased to the same level as in the theophylline treatment group. Thus, enprofylline and theophylline seem to have comparable bronchodilator properties and side-effects in the long-term treatment of asthma.
Growth of numerous malignant tumors depends on an exogenous methionine (MET) supply, while endogenously synthesized MET supports normal cell proliferation. Because an antitumor effect should be obtained by aggravating the altered MET metabolism in gliomas, MET dependency of human xenografted gliomas was evaluated and a therapeutic approach using MET deprivation or MET analogs to induce MET starvation was applied. In vitro proliferation inhibition of glioma cell lines by MET deprivation and two MET analogs, ethionine (ETH) and trifluoromethylhomocysteine (TFH), was measured. Proliferation of 7 human glioma cell lines tested was inhibited in MET-free medium, and was poorly or not reversed by homocysteine (HCY). ETH or TFH (concentration range: 0.005-2 mg/ml) inhibited proliferation of all cell lines tested. MET analog-induced inhibition was abolished by MET and enhanced by HCY. Cell-cycle alterations due to MET deprivation were optimally assessed after 30 h of culture and bromodeoxyuridine incorporation. In MET- medium, cells were arrested in the G1-phase. ETH induced a dramatic accumulation of cells in the G2-phase. ATP contents were reduced by MET analogs only in HCY+ medium, suggesting complementary effects of MET analogs and HCY. Human glioma bearing nude mice were fed an amino acid-substituted MET- HCY-supplemented diet (MET-HCY+) and/or treated with MET analogs, injected intraperitoneally daily. Using two human xenografted tumors derived from gliomas, antitumor effects were obtained by subjecting tumor-bearing nude mice to MET starvation. TG-1-MA was more sensitive to MET depletion (40% of growth inhibition, P < 0.10) than TG-8-OZ (no growth inhibition). Antitumor effects of a MET-HCY+ diet and 200 mg/kg of ETH were potentiated when co-administered to glioma-bearing mice (77% GI, P < 0.025 and 67%, P < 0.0057 to TG-1-MA and TG-8-OZ respectively). A dose-response effect with no toxicity was obtained when the ETH dose was increased 10 fold. Potentiation of the effects of ETH and a MET-free diet indicates that they probably act on the same pathway but not the same target. In conclusion, experimentally induced MET deprivation and MET-analog treatment retarded the growth of human gliomas. Combination of MET-analog therapy with MET substitution by HCY enhanced their respective effects.
Ceruloplasmin plays an essential role in cellular iron efflux by oxidizing ferrous iron exported from ferroportin. Ferroportin is posttranslationally regulated through internalization triggered by hepcidin binding. Aceruloplasminemia is an autosomal recessive disorder of iron homeostasis resulting from mutations in the ceruloplasmin gene. The present study investigated the biological effects of glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked ceruloplasmin on the hepcidin-mediated internalization of ferroportin. The prevention of hepcidin-mediated ferroportin internalization was observed in the glioma cells lines expressing endogenous ceruloplasmin as well as in the cells transfected with GPI-linked ceruloplasmin under low levels of hepcidin. A decrease in the extracellular ferrous iron by an iron chelator and incubation with purified ceruloplasmin in the culture medium prevented hepcidin-mediated ferroportin internalization, while the reconstitution of apo-ceruloplasmin was not able to prevent ferroportin internalization. The effect of ceruloplasmin on the ferroportin stability was impaired due to three distinct properties of the mutant ceruloplasmin: namely, a decreased ferroxidase activity, the mislocalization in the endoplasmic reticulum, and the failure of copper incorporation into apo-ceruloplasmin. Patients with aceruloplasminemia exhibited low serum hepcidin levels and a decreased ferroportin protein expression in the liver. The in vivo findings supported the notion that under low levels of hepcidin, mutant ceruloplasmin cannot stabilize ferroportin because of a loss-of-function in the ferroxidase activity, which has been reported to play an important role in the stability of ferroportin. The properties of mutant ceruloplasmin regarding the regulation of ferroportin may therefore provide a therapeutic strategy for aceruloplasminemia patients.
The treatment regimens are described in 74 patients with endometrial disease among 850 climacteric women receiving oestrogen therapy. Cystic hyperplasia was associated with unopposed oestrogen therapy without progestagen. Two courses of 21 days of 5 mg norethisterone daily caused reversion to normal in all 57 cases of cystic hyperplasia and 6 of the 8 cases of atypical hyperplasia. 4 cases of endometrial carcinoma referred from elsewhere demonstrated the problems of inappropriate and unsupervised unopposed oestrogen therapy and the difficulty in distinguishing severe hyperplasia from malignancy. Cyclical low-dose oestrogen therapy with 7--13 days of progestagen does not seem to increase the risk of endometrial hyperplasia or carcinoma.
To evaluate the antitumor effect of acetone cyanohydrin in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells in vitro.
The Ehrlich ascites tumor cells and lymphocytes were incubated with different concentrations of acetone cyanohydrin (0, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 10.0, 20.0 and 30.0 microg x mL(-1)), After 1, 2, 3, 4, 18 and 24 hours cell viability tests were performed by the trypan blue method.
The results demonstrated a dose-dependent cytotoxic effect against the cells of Ehrlich ascites tumor. The concentrations of 20 and 30 microg x mL(-1) was 100% of cell death in only 1 and 2 hours respectively. In lower doses of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 microg x mL(-1) the cytotoxic effect was less intense, increasing gradually with time.
At low concentrations of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 microg x mL(-1), more than 90% of cell death was observed only after 24 hours of incubation which is the evidence that the tumor cell has the ability to poison cumulatively and irreversibly itself with the acetone cyanohydrin when compared with the results presented by human lymphocytes that the same doses and at the same time of incubation reached a maximum of 30% of cell death, suggesting an activity of rhodanese differentiated between the two cells.
We previously described a reduction of silica-induced lung fibrosis in interleukin-10-deficient mice (IL-10-/-) (Huaux and colleagues; Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 1998;18:51-59). In the present study, we further dissect the exact functions of IL-10 in experimental silicosis. The reduced lung fibrotic response to silica in IL-10-/- mice was accompanied by a marked recruitment of TH1 CD4+ lymphocytes. However, treatment with anti-CD4 antibodies reduced silica-induced lung fibrosis in both IL-10-/- and IL-10+/+ mice, suggesting that this T cell population actually contributes to the extension of the fibrotic lesions in a manner that is independent of IL-10. In IL-10-/- mice, silica-induced lung production of the profibrotic mediator transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and the antifibrotic eicosanoid PGE2 were reduced and increased, respectively, relative to that in IL-10+/+ mice. In addition, in vitro experiments indicated that recombinant IL-10 upregulated TGF-beta1 expression in alveolar macrophages while in contrast it downregulated PGE2 production and cyclooxygenase-2 expression in both lung fibroblasts and macrophages. Thus the net profibrotic activity of IL-10 in vivo appears to be mediated by its ability to stimulate the expression of the profibrotic cytokine TGF-beta1 while suppressing the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and thus production of the antifibrotic eicosanoid PGE2. These effects appear to be independent of the enhanced lung CD4+ T-lymphocytosis observed in IL-10-deficient mice.
Myelomeningocele (MMC) is the most common cause of neurogenic bladder dysfunction (NBD). We recently developed a novel retinoic acid (RA)-induced MMC model in fetal rats. The objective of this study was to use this model to assess functional and structural characteristics of the detrusor muscle in MMC-associated NBD. Time-dated pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were gavage fed 60 mg/kg RA dissolved in olive oil or olive oil alone [embryonic day 10 (E10)]. Bladder specimens from olive oil-exposed fetuses (OIL; n = 71), MMC (n = 79), and RA-exposed-no MMC (RA, n = 62) were randomly assigned for functional and histopathological evaluation and protein analysis. Contractility responses to field and agonist-mediated stimulation (KCl and bethanecol) were analyzed. The expression patterns of alpha-smooth muscle actin, myosin, desmin, vimentin, and collagen III and I were analyzed by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting. Spatial and temporal distribution of nerve fibers within the detrusor muscle was monitored by neurotubulin-beta-III throughout gestation. Neither OIL, MMC, nor RA detrusor responded to field stimulation. MMC bladder strips showed a significant decrease in contractility after KCl and bethanechol stimulation compared with OIL and RA bladders. Bladder detrusor morphology and expression patterns of smooth muscle markers were similar between groups. Detrusor muscles in OIL and RA fetuses were densely innervated, possessing abundant intramural ganglia and nerve trunks that branch to supply smooth muscle bundles. In MMC bladders, neurotubulin-beta-III-positive nerve fibers were markedly decreased with advancing gestational age and were almost completely absent at term (E22). We conclude that the biomechanical properties of fetal rat MMC bladders are analogous to that seen in humans with MMC-associated NBD. Decreased nerve density indicates loss of peripheral neural innervation throughout gestation. The early observation of decreased innervation and decreased contractility in the absence of morphologic abnormalities in muscle structure or extracellular matrix supports a pathophysiological hypothesis that denervation is the primary insult preceding the observed alterations in bladder muscle structure and function.
The effect of prenatal exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) was investigated. Twenty pregnant ICR mice were exposed to DE at the particle concentration of 1.0 mg/m3, from d 2 until d 16 postcoitum. Male offspring were kept alive until 12 wk of age, and then male reproductive organ weight, daily sperm production (DSP), serum testosterone level, and mRNA expression of sex steroid hormone synthesis process-related factors were measured. Serum testosterone levels of the exposed group were reduced significantly at 3 wk, whereas they were elevated significantly at 12 wk. DSP was also markedly reduced at 5 and 12 wk. Histological examination showed multinucleated giant cells in the seminiferous tubules of the exposed group as well as partial vacuolation of the seminiferous tubules. Follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) mRNA expression and steroidogenesis acute regulatory (StAR) protein were significantly increased at 5 wk and 12 wk, respectively. This study suggests that prenatal exposure to DE has detrimental effects on mouse spermatogenesis in offspring.
Although the mechanism that underlies aspirin hypersensitivity is not completely understood, an IgE-mediated response was reported for a patient with aspirin-intolerant chronic urticaria (AICU).
We investigated whether genetic polymorphisms on the alpha-chain of the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcepsilonRIalpha) gene were associated with the AICU phenotype.
We genotyped 2 promoter polymorphisms (-344C>T and -95T>C) of FcepsilonRIalpha gene in the Korean population, and the functional effect of the -344C>T polymorphism was analyzed by using a luciferase reporter assay and an electrophoretic mobility shift assay.
The rare allele frequency of the -344C>T polymorphism was significantly higher in the patients with AICU compared with the other subjects (P= .008 for AICU vs aspirin-tolerant chronic urticaria; P= .03 for AICU vs controls). This polymorphism was also significantly associated with total serum IgE concentrations and a higher rate of atopy in the patients with AICU (P= .01 and .05, respectively). The reporter plasmid that carried the -344T allele exhibited significantly higher promoter activity in a rat mast cell line (RBL-2H3) compared with the promoter activity of the -344C allele (P< .001). We found that transcription factor Myc-associated zinc finger protein preferentially bound the -344C promoter. Moreover, patients with AICU with the heterozygous CT genotype of the -344C>T polymorphism exhibited greater anti-IgE-mediated histamine release compared with those with the homozygous CC genotype.
These results suggest that the -344C>T polymorphism of the FcepsilonRIalpha promoter may be associated with increased expression of FcepsilonRIalpha on mast cells and enhanced release of histamine.
The FcepsilonRIalpha -344C>T polymorphism may contribute to the development of AICU.
The electrophysiologic effects of intravenously administered disopyramide (2 mg/kg) on three parameters of sinus node function were examined in 16 symptomatic patients with sinus node dysfunction. Based on their ECG data before study, patients were subdivided into group A (n = 8), those with sinus pauses and/or sinoatrial (SA) exit block; and group B (n = 8), those with sinus bradycardia. Disopyramide shortened spontaneous cycle length in 10 of 16 patients and lengthened it in six--markedly so (91%) in one patient. Estimated SA conduction time decreased in seven of 14 patients and increased in seven. Two patients developed second degree SA exit block after disopyramide. Maximum sinus node recovery time was prolonged by disopyramide in 11 of 16 patients and markedly so in four. For the group as a whole there was no significant difference in spontaneous cycle length, maximum sinus node recovery time or estimated SA conduction time. P-wave and QRS durations and H-V intervals were significantly lengthened by disopyramide. Marked depression of the three parameters of sinus node function occurred in three group A patients and in one group B patient who had persistent severe sinus bradycardia. These four patients also had secondary pauses after termination of rapid atrial pacing under control conditions. Disopyramide should be administered cautiously to patients with sinus node dysfunction, particularly those with sinus pauses, SA exit block or secondary pauses.
Lateral internal sphincterotomy, the most common treatment for chronic anal fissure, may cause permanent injury to the anal sphincter, which can lead to fecal incontinence. We compared two nonsurgical treatments that avert the risk of fecal incontinence. We randomly assigned 50 adults with symptomatic chronic posterior anal fissures to receive treatment with either a total of 20 U of botulinum toxin injected into the internal anal sphincter on each side of the anterior midline or 0.2 percent nitroglycerin ointment applied twice daily for six weeks.
After two months, the fissures were healed in 24 of the 25 patients (96 percent) in the botulinum-toxin group and in 15 of the 25 (60 percent) in the nitroglycerin group (P=0.005). No patient in either group had fecal incontinence. At some time during treatment, five patients in the nitroglycerin group had transient, moderate-to-severe headaches that were related to treatment. None of the patients in the botulinum-toxin group reported adverse effects. Ten patients who did not have a response to the assigned treatment - 1 in the botulinum-toxin group and 9 in the nitroglycerin group - crossed over to the other treatment; the fissures subsequently healed in all 10 patients. There were no relapses during an average of about 15 months of follow-up.
Although treatment with either topical nitroglycerin or botulinum toxin is effective as an alternative to surgery for patients with chronic anal fissure, botulinum toxin is the more effective nonsurgical treatment.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which has a function as a growth factor of epithelial cells, is thought to play a role in pulmonary epithelium repair. In order to establish whether or not CGRP is associated with repair in lung damaged by dust, we examined gene expression of CGRP in the lungs of animal models exposed to different dusts. Male Wistar rats were administered 2 mg of crystalline silica, crocidolite, potassium octatitanate whisker (PT-1), and silicon carbide whisker (SiCW) suspended in saline by a single intratracheal instillation and were sacrificed at 3 d, 1 wk, 1 mo, 3 mo, and 6 mo of recovery time. Pathological findings of advanced pulmonary fibrosis were present in the rats exposed to crystalline silica and crocidolite through the experiment, whereas findings of mild or reversible pulmonary fibrosis were present in those exposed to SiCW and PT-1. The expression of CGRP in rat lung was observed by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and enzyme immunometric assay (EIA). In RT-PCR, CGRP gene expression was decreased at the interval of 3 d and 1 wk in the case of crystalline silica and crocidolite; on the other hand, it was increased at 3 d and 1 wk in SiCW and at 3 d, 1 wk, and 3 mo in PT-1-exposed rats. CGRP protein level in lungs exposed to PT-1 and SiCW was also higher than that to silica and crocidolite at 3 d of recovery time. These data suggest that CGRP is associated with repair in lung damaged by different dusts, and that CGRP could be used as a sensitive biomarker to indicate the pathogenicity of dusts.
To determine whether the pattern of alcohol consumption, intake, and withdrawal modulates the incidence of malignant ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death due to beta-adrenergic stimulation in a species susceptible to administration of isoproterenol alone, a regimen was formulated in which both continuous and interrupted alcohol ingestion was obtained. After alcohol treatment of fully mature, adult rats for 7 weeks, a single subcutaneous injection of 150 micrograms/kg of isoproterenol was given to control (non-alcohol-treated), alcoholic (continuous consumption), and alcohol withdrawal (interrupted) rats. The incidences of malignant ventricular arrhythmias and related deaths were compared. The results revealed that arrhythmias and arrhythmic deaths were highest in the "alcohol withdrawal group," 92% and 54%, respectively. As judged from baseline studies, withdrawal of alcohol produced a 16% decrease in serum K+ concentration compared with controls, whereas continuous alcohol ingestion resulted in a 20% elevation in magnesium concentration. These electrolyte changes were further affected by isoproterenol and may have contributed to the differential response to beta-adrenergic stimulation as a result of the pattern of alcohol intake.
Matricaria recutita L. is a well-known medicinal plant that is suggested as being carminative, analgesic, and anticonvulsant in traditional medicine. In the present investigation the effect of hydro-methanolic percolated extract of this plant on seizure induced by picrotoxin was studied in male mice. This study was performed on animals pretreated with doses of 100, 200, and 300 mg/kg of extract or 40 mg/kg phenobarbital as the reference drug via intraperitoneal injection. After 20 min each animal received 12 mg/kg picrotoxin for induction of seizure. Latency of onset time of seizure, duration of seizure, death latency, and death rate were determined in experimental and control groups. The results showed that latency of the beginning time of seizure was increased in groups that were pretreated with different doses of extract. The most effective dose was 200 mg/kg (P < 0.05). In addition, this dose delayed the time of death in mice (P < 0.01). The extract had no effect on the death rate. The results indicate that the extract of M. recutita possesses suitable effects on seizure induced by picrotoxin, and more experiments are needed in this field.
Oxidative stress is thought to be the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis induced by asbestos, and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protects lung tissue against oxidative stress. We hypothesized that HO-1 is also associated with oxidative lung injury caused by exposure to chrysotile asbestos. This study was conducted to investigate the HO-1 expression of lungs in lung injury by chrysotile asbestos in vivo and in vitro. Male Wistar rats were administered 1 mg or 2 mg chrysotile suspended in saline by a single intratracheal instillation and were sacrificed at 3 days, 1 wk, 1 mo, 3 mo, and 6 mo of recovery time. The expression of HO-1 was observed by Western blot analysis, reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, and immunostaining. Protein levels of HO-1 increased at from 3 days to 6 mo following intratracheal instillation of 1 or 2 mg chrysotile. The mRNA levels of HO-1 increased at 3 mo and 6 mo following intratracheal instillation of 1 or 2 mg chrysotile. HO-1-positive cells were mainly found in the alveolar macrophages during immunostaining. We then examined HO-1 protein expression in human alveolar epithelial cells (A549). A549 cells were incubated with chrysotile at concentrations of 0, 12.5, 25, 50, and 100 microg/ml over 24 h. Increased expression of HO-1 protein was found following exposure to 25 or 50 microg/ml of chrysotile. Increased expression of HO-1 was also found at 6, 12, 24, and 48 h after exposure to 50 microg/ml of chrysotile with a peak at 24 h. These findings suggest that HO-1 is related to lung injury arising from exposure to chrysotile asbestos in vivo and in vitro.
Earlier work from our laboratory highlighted the therapeutic potential of curcumin (turmeric), used as a dietary ingredient and as a natural anti-inflammatory agent in India and other Southeast Asian countries. This agent was shown to decrease the proliferative potential and induce the apoptosis potential of both androgen-dependent and androgen-independent prostate cancer cells in vitro, largely by modulating the apoptosis suppressor proteins and by interfering with the growth factor receptor signaling pathways as exemplified by the EGF-receptor. To extend these observations made in vitro and to study the efficacy of this potential anti-cancer agent in vivo, the growth of LNCaP cells as heterotopically implanted tumors in nude mice was followed.
The androgen-dependent LNCaP prostate cancer cells were grown, mixed with Matrigel and injected subcutaneously into nude mice. Experimental group received a synthetic diet containing 2% curcumin for up to 6 weeks. At the end point, sections taken from the excised tumors were evaluated for pathology, cell proliferation, apoptosis, and vascularity.
Curcumin causes a marked decrease in the extent of cell proliferation as measured by the BrdU incorporation assay and a significant increase in the extent of apoptosis as measured by an in situ cell death assay. Moreover, a significant decrease in the microvessel density as measured by the CD31 antigen staining was also seen.
Curcumin could be a potentially therapeutic anti-cancer agent, as it significantly inhibits prostate cancer growth, as exemplified by LNCaP in vivo, and has the potential to prevent the progression of this cancer to its hormone refractory state.
The worldwide occurrence of cyanobacterial blooms evokes profound concerns. The presence of microcystins (MCs) in waters and aquatic food increases the risk to human health. Some recent studies have suggested that the gonad is the second most important target organ of MCs, however, the potential toxicity mechanisms are still unclear. For a better understanding of reproductive toxicity of MCs on animals, we conducted the present experimental investigation. Male rats were intraperitoneally injected with MC-LR for 50 d with the doses of 1 and 10 µg/kg body weight per day. After prolonged exposure to MC-LR, the testes index significantly decreased in 10 µg/kg group. Light microscope observation indicated that the space between the seminiferous tubules was increased. Ultrastructural observation showed some histopathological characteristics, including cytoplasmic shrinkage, cell membrane blebbing, swollen mitochondria and deformed nucleus. Using Q-PCR methods, the transcriptional levels of some cytoskeletal and mitochondrial genes were determined. MC-LR exposure affected the homeostasis of the expression of cytoskeletal genes, causing possible dysfunction of cytoskeleton assembly. In MC-LR treatments, all the 8 mitochondrial genes related with oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) significantly increased. The reactive oxygen species (ROS) level significantly increased in 10 µg/kg group. The mitochondria swelling and DNA damage were also determined in 10 µg/kg group. Hormone levels of testis significantly changed. The present study verified that both cytoskeleton disruption possibly due to cytoskeletal reorganization or depolymerization and mitochondria dysfunction interact with each other through inducing of reactive oxygen species and oxidative phosphorylation, and jointly result in testis impairment after exposure to MC-LR.
Nebivolol, a chemically novel beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, acutely lowers blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats, anaesthetised normotensive dogs, and hypertensive patients. We have investigated the actions of dl-nebivolol in five conscious normotensive rabbits (sham, mean blood pressure (BP) of 82.2 +/- 4.1 mm Hg, mean +/- SEM) and four hypertensive rabbits (renal wrap hypertension) (wrap, mean BP of 117.6 +/- 1.5 mm Hg). Nebivolol (1 mg/kg i.v.) did not significantly lower the BP or heart rate in either group 30 min after injection. In the same rabbits, on another day, after autonomic blockade (mecamylamine), nebivolol (0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 mg/kg i.v.) right shifted the bolus i.v. isoproterenol tachycardia dose-response curves by dose ratios of 5, 18, and 90 in sham rabbits, respectively, and 5, 11, and 23 in wrap rabbits, respectively, indicating significant cardiac beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonism. In guinea pig isolated right atria pretreated with atropine (1 microM) and desipramine (DMI, 0.1 microM), norepinephrine concentration-response curves were antagonised competitively by nebivolol (3-100 nM), giving a pKb of 7.90. In separate atria without DMI pretreatment, neither nebivolol (100 nM) nor propranolol (100 nM) had any significant effect on the increase in the rate of norepinephrine efflux following electrical field stimulation (0.5-2 Hz, 3 min). These findings suggest that at concentrations of nebivolol that show substantial beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonism, there is no evidence of hypotension or bradycardia nor additional effects on cardiac norepinephrine release. Why nebivolol lowers blood pressure in some species but not in the conscious rabbit is not known.
Despite accumulating data regarding the safety of dobutamine stress testing, the possible induction of tachyarrhythmias during the test remains a major concern for physicians, particularly in patients with extensive coronary artery disease (CAD) or left ventricular dysfunction. The aim of this study is to evaluate the clinical, echocardiographic, and angiographic predictors of arrhythmias during dobutamine stress testing. Dobutamine (up to 40 microg/kg/min)-atropine (up to 1 mg) stress echocardiography was performed in 286 patients (age 58 +/- 11 years, 200 men) with suspected myocardial ischemia who underwent coronary angiography within 3 months of the test. Wall motion score index was derived using a 16 segment/4 grade score model where 1 = normal and 4 = dyskinesia. No myocardial infarction or death occurred during the test. Ventricular and supraventricular tachycardia occurred in 16 (6%) and 21 (7%) patients, respectively. Systolic blood pressure decrease > or = 40 mm Hg occurred in 7 patients (2%). Significant CAD was detected in 220 patients (77%). There was no significant difference between patients with and without tachyarrhythmias with regard to the prevalence of CAD (78% vs 77%) or the mean number of diseased coronary arteries (1.51 +/- 0.7 vs 1.45 +/- 0.8). Independent predictors of tachyarrhythmias by multivariate analysis of clinical, angiographic, and echocardiographic characteristics were a higher resting wall motion score index (p <0.01) and mole gender (p <0.05). Independent predictors of systolic blood pressure decrease > or = 40 mm Hg were a higher baseline systolic blood pressure (p <0.0001), a history of myocardial infarction (p <0.0001), and a higher resting wall motion score index (p <0.01). It is concluded that tachyarrhythmias during dobutamine stress testing are predicted by the extent of left ventricular dysfunction but not by the presence or the extent of CAD.
Idrapril is the prototype of a new chemical class of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, the hydroxamic non-amino acid derivatives. Idrapril strongly inhibited rat and human plasma ACE and rabbit lung ACE (IC50: 7-12 nM) as well as the pressor response induced by angiotensin I in anesthetized rats (ED50: 63 nmol/kg i.v.). Idrapril (0.04-23 mumol/kg i.v.) lowered the blood pressure dose dependently, up to 20-35%, in different models of hypertension (sodium-depleted spontaneously hypertensive rat, two-kidney-one-clip renal hypertensive rat, and aortic-coarctated rat), its profile being similar to that of captopril in terms of potency and efficacy. Idrapril and captopril reduced the blood pressure and potentiated substance P-induced bronchoconstriction in the guinea pig to the same extent, suggesting a similar degree of ACE inhibition in the circulation. However, idrapril potentiated capsaicin-induced bronchoconstriction (a model that has been related to the liability of ACE inhibitors to produce cough in patients) less effectively than captopril. We conclude that effective ACE inhibition in vitro and in vivo can be obtained with this novel class of compounds.
We reported on an adolescent who suffered from cholestatic hepatitis after taking a low dose of paracetamol. It was suspected that the condition was brought about by an allergic reaction to paracetamol. Paracetamol is one of the representative intrinsic hepatotoxic drugs. There have been only a few reports on liver damage due to an allergic reaction to paracetamol. There is a need to call attention to this particular reaction.
Late potentials represent an arrhythmogenic substrate in chronically infarcted myocardium. It is hypothesized that acute transient ischemia enhances anisotropic electrical ventricular activation and facilitates reentry mechanisms. Study aim was the prospective assessment of the impact of dipyridamole-induced myocardial ischemia on the signal-averaged ECG.
Dipyridamole stress thallium-201 SPECT imaging was utilized to avoid noise contamination of the signal-averaged ECG from exercise and to document evidence and localization of myocardial ischemia or persistent perfusion defects in 68 patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Before and during dipyridamole-induced vasodilatation serial signal-averaged ECG was performed to evaluate the influence of transient ischemia on the occurrence of late potentials.
There was a significant difference between heart rate at rest and heart rate under dipyridamole influence in patients with inducible ischemia (70 +/- 13 vs. 87 +/- 13; P < 0.0001) in contrast to patients without dipyridamole-induced ischemia (74 +/- 20 vs. 80 +/- 16; n.s.). The number of averaged beats and achieved noise level was comparable between both groups. Thirty-three of 68 patients (49%) revealed dipyridamole-induced ischemia; however, no changes of the SAECG parameters, such as QRS, RMS, LAS at 25-250 and 40-250 Hz bandpass filtering in the leads X, Y, Z and vector magnitude, respectively, were observed as a result of ischemia.
These results suggest that transient myocardial ischemia does not affect the signal-averaged ECG. Clinically, the signal-averaged ECG analysis seems not to be helpful in identifying patients with silent ischemia.
