The effects of the partial dopamine agonist terguride (9,10 transdihydrolisuride; THDL) on striatal dopamine receptors were studied by its i.v. administration to 13 patients with Parkinson's disease. Patients were maintained in a steadily mobile state with abnormal involuntary movements by a constant i.v. infusion of levodopa. Terguride showed dopamine antagonist properties in nine patients. In two of these nine patients, a decrease in dyskinesia score was observed without a concomitant worsening of parkinsonian symptoms, whereas in the remaining seven, full parkinsonian akinesia followed THDL administration. The subsequent i.v. injection of the dopamine agonist lisuride reversed THDL-induced akinesia in these seven patients. In the remaining four patients, no clinically significant motor effects were observed. These results show dopamine antagonist activity of terguride in patients with Parkinson's disease treated with Levodopa. Further studies using a wider dose titration are required to evaluate the possible role of dopamine partial agonists in the therapy of levodopa-induced dyskinesias.
Cancer chemotherapy often leads to injury of normal cells. Adverse effects on oral mucosa have been documented for several cytotoxic treatment regimens. The aim of the present retrospective study was to evaluate incidence and degree of oral soft tissue side-effects of a cisplatin-based chemotherapy regimen used for treating testicular cancer. The study was based upon a questionnaire mailed to 56 consecutive patients treated at the Norwegian Radium Hospital. A total of 39 individuals joined the study, as 2 patients refused and 15 did not reply. The patients were divided into two groups, a case group (24 individuals) having received 4 7 cycles of cisplatin-based chemotherapy in addition to surgery, and a control group (15 individuals) treated with surgery alone. The study revealed that 62% of the patients in the chemotherapy group developed adverse soft tissue reactions, with mucositis and pain as chief complaints, whereas none in the control group experienced any mucosal complications.
Three members of a family who died with renal amyloidosis were found to share a single nucleotide substitution in the fibrinogen alpha-chain gene. The predicted arginine to leucine mutation (Arg554Leu) was proven by amino acid sequence analysis of amyloid fibril protein isolated from postmortem kidney of an affected individual. Direct genomic DNA sequencing and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis demonstrated that all three affected individuals had the guanine to thymine 4993 transversion. This is the first demonstration of hereditary amyloidosis associated with a variant fibrinogen alpha-chain. Variants of circulating fibrinogen may be the cause of a number of systemic amyloidoses with primarily renal involvement.
Capecitabine is one of the most effective oral regimens of chemotherapy against advanced or recurrent breast cancer. In addition, capecitabine could widely be used for treatment of colon cancer. It appears that more patients will be administered capecitabine because of its QOL benefits. However, Hand-Foot Syndrome(HFS)may appear to be about 50% of the patients who take this regimen. As a result, the patient's QOL is hindered and led to a reduction of the dosage or discontinuation of the treatment depending on the grade of adverse event. This time, we evaluated the efficacy of topical emollients, creams and vitamin B6 for prevention and reduction of HFS symptoms for patients who received capecitabine. We found the efficacy of preventative measures that the occurrence of HFS grade 1 or above could be decreased and delayed. We also noticed that these preventative measures appear to be decreased the occurrence of HFS grade 2 or above, which led to a reduction of dosage or discontinuation of the treatment. For continuation and completion of the treatment and securing of patient's QOL, the supportive measures are needed to control a variety of side effects, such as HFS and others, and a team care support is indispensable.
Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element. However, exposure to excessive Mn may cause neurodegenerative disorders called manganism. Accumulating evidence indicated that dysregulation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling was tightly associated with the onset of neurodegenerative disorders. However, whether aberrant Wnt/β-catenin signaling contributes to Mn-induced neurotoxicity remains unknown. The present study investigates the involvement of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in Mn-induced neurotoxicity. Western blot and immunohistochemistry analyses showed a remarkable downregulation of p-Ser9-glycogen synthase kinase-3β (GSK-3β) and β-catenin in rat striatum after Mn exposure. TUNEL assay revealed significant neuronal apoptosis following treatment with 25 mg/kg Mn. Immunofluorescent staining showed that β-catenin was expressed predominantly in neurons, and colocalization of β-catenin and active caspase-3 was observed after Mn exposure. Furthermore, Mn exposure resulted in PC12 cells apoptosis, which was accompanied by reduced levels of cellular β-catenin and p-GSK-3β. Accordingly, the mRNA level of the prosurvival factor survivin, a downstream target gene of β-catenin, was synchronously decreased. More importantly, blockage of GSK-3β activity with the GSK-3β inhibitor lithium chloride could attenuate Mn-induced downregulation of β-catenin and survivin as well as neuronal apoptosis. Overall, the present study demonstrates that downregulation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway may be of vital importance in the neuropathological process of Mn-induced neurotoxicity.
Bone histology of distal renal tubular acidosis patients showed decreased bone formation with impaired bone matrix mineralization that is not entirely explained by an alteration in the mineral balance. Data from in vitro studies suggests a direct inhibitory effect of metabolic acidosis on osteoblast function. We investigated the effects of chronic metabolic acidosis on osteoblast differentiation from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Human MSCs were allowed to differentiate into osteoblasts in culture. Concentrated hydrochloric acid was added to the medium to lower the bicarbonate concentration and pH. The expression of various osteoblastic genes and proteins and bone matrix mineralization were examined. Chronic metabolic acidosis enhanced the messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein expression of early osteoblast transcription factor, runx-2, whereas inhibiting osterix and having no effect on ATF-4. The expression of type I collagen, the most abundant bone matrix protein, was increased following the same pattern of runx-2. Likewise, metabolic acidosis slightly enhanced the expression of mature osteoblastic gene, osteocalcin. Study on mineralization revealed suppressed alkaline phosphatase mRNA and enzyme activity. Despite the augmented collagen deposit in acidic culture, bone matrix mineralization was impaired. In conclusion, chronic metabolic acidosis alters osteoblast differentiation from MSCs through its diverse effect on osteoblastic genes and proteins resulting in an impairment of bone formation.
Although it has been demonstrated that the neuronal intermediate filament alpha-internexin (INA) is closely related to 1p19q codeletion in gliomas, its prognostic and predictive value has not yet been confirmed in a prospective trial. The authors of this report assessed the prognostic significance of INA expression and its correlation with relevant clinical and molecular characteristics in the prospective, randomized European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 26951 trial of adjuvant procarbazine, lomustine, and vincristine (PCV) in patients with anaplastic oligodendroglial tumors (AOTs).
INA immunohistochemistry expression in tumors from 92 patients who were included in the EORTC 26951 trial was analyzed independently by 2 observers and was correlated with relevant clinical characteristics, including progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), and with molecular features, including 1p/19q codeletion, isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and 2 gene (IDH1/IDH2) mutation, and O-6 methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation status.
INA expression was observed in 33 tumors and was strongly correlated with 1p/19q codeletion, IDH1 mutations, and MGMT promoter methylation. It was associated with significantly better PFS and OS independent of the treatment received. By using Cox proportional hazard modeling for OS with stepwise selection, INA expression, patient age, and performance status were identified as independent prognostic factors. The results indicated that INA expression may have an impact on the efficacy of combined radiotherapy plus PCV.
In a homogeneously treated group of patients with grade III AOTs, INA expression had strong favorable prognostic significance for OS and may have predictive value for sensitivity to chemotherapy.
We aimed to determine the incidence of sensory symptoms (SS) that complicate thalidomide treatment of patients with age-related macular degeneration. In a double-blind prospective study, 38 patients were randomized to receive either thalidomide (100mg twice per day) or placebo for 1year. They were then followed for another year off drug. The SS (numbness, tingling, pins and needles) occurred in nine patients who took thalidomide (9/18; 50%) and in four who took placebo (4/20; 20%). Symptom severity was correlated with the time of onset, but not with cumulative dose. Five patients partially improved when the thalidomide was withdrawn, and three patients developed tremor with the neuropathy. The SS occurred shortly after thalidomide was introduced and we concluded that older patients with macular degeneration should be carefully screened for risk factors of peripheral neuropathy before thalidomide is used in their treatment.
As superoxide (.O2-) and hydroxyl radical (.OH) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease, free radical scavenging and antioxidants have attracted attention as way to prevent progression of this disease. We examined the effects of eugenol, an essential oil extracted from cloves, on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced dopamine (DA) reduction in the mouse striatum. Eugenol administration 3 d before and 7 more days following one intracerebroventricular 6-OHDA injection prevented the reduction of striatal DA and its metabolites. Eugenol administration for 3 d reduced the increase of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (an indicator of lipid peroxidation) induced by ferric ion and increased glutathione (GSH) and L-ascorbate (Asc) in the striatum. Eugenol did not change the levels of catalase, glutathione peroxidase, or superoxide dismutase-like activities. Eugenol is known to have .O2- and .OH scavenging activities in vitro. These results suggest that eugenol prevents 6-OHDA-induced DA depression by preventing lipid peroxidation directly and indirectly (via stimulation of GSH and Asc generating systems). Furthermore, increased GSH may protect cell death by conjugating with p-quinone produced in 6-OHDA auto-oxidation. The effects of eugenol treatment in this model suggest its possible usefulness for the treatment of Parkinson disease.
Insulin gene (INS) mutations have recently been described as a cause of permanent neonatal diabetes (PND). We aimed to determine the prevalence, genetics, and clinical phenotype of INS mutations in large cohorts of patients with neonatal diabetes and permanent diabetes diagnosed in infancy, childhood, or adulthood.
The INS gene was sequenced in 285 patients with diabetes diagnosed before 2 years of age, 296 probands with maturity-onset diabetes of the young (MODY), and 463 patients with young-onset type 2 diabetes (nonobese, diagnosed <45 years). None had a molecular genetic diagnosis of monogenic diabetes.
We identified heterozygous INS mutations in 33 of 141 probands diagnosed at <6 months, 2 of 86 between 6 and 12 months, and none of 58 between 12 and 24 months of age. Three known mutations (A24D, F48C, and R89C) account for 46% of cases. There were six novel mutations: H29D, L35P, G84R, C96S, S101C, and Y103C. INS mutation carriers were all insulin treated from diagnosis and were diagnosed later than ATP-sensitive K(+) channel mutation carriers (11 vs. 8 weeks, P < 0.01). In 279 patients with PND, the frequency of KCNJ11, ABCC8, and INS gene mutations was 31, 10, and 12%, respectively. A heterozygous R6C mutation cosegregated with diabetes in a MODY family and is probably pathogenic, but the L68M substitution identified in a patient with young-onset type 2 diabetes may be a rare nonfunctional variant.
We conclude that INS mutations are the second most common cause of PND and a rare cause of MODY. Insulin gene mutation screening is recommended for all diabetic patients diagnosed before 1 year of age.
Recent studies estimated a rate of 3-5% of cytogenetic abnormalities involving many different chromosomes in autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs). Here, we report on two unrelated male patients with de novo translocations, autistic behaviour and psychomotor delay. These two patients carry a balanced chromosome translocation t(5;8)(q14.3;q23.3) and t(6;8)(q13;q23.2), respectively. A detailed physical map covering the regions involved in the translocations was constructed using BAC clones mapping on chromosomes 5q14.3, 6q13 and 8q23. Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) analyses were carried out using these genomic clones. We fine mapped the two translocation breakpoints on chromosomes 8 identifying their position within a short 5 Mb genomic region. Breakpoints on chromosomes 8 in both patients do not interrupt any known gene but both map in a region containing the CSMD3 gene, which thereby can be considered as a candidate for ASDs.
Lamivudine efficiently inhibits hepatitis B virus replication and has been used to treat hepatitis B virus recurrence after orthotopic liver transplantation. Although effective, its use is hampered by viral breakthrough due to the appearance of hepatitis B virus drug-resistant strains. Aims of this work were to evaluate the inter- and intra-individual variations of lamivudine serum levels and the effects on the drug levels of the lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus mutant infection.
Serum lamivudine concentration was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Polymerase chain reaction analysis and sequencing analysis of the reverse transcriptase area of the polymerase was performed on each sample using specific primers. A polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to differentiate between wild-type hepatitis B virus and lamivudine-resistant hepatitis B virus strain.
Lamivudine serum levels presented minor inter- and intra-individual fluctuations along time, with an important increase at the time of the hepatitis flare-up due to the hepatitis B virus mutant presence. When the wild-type hepatitis B virus briefly reappeared as a mixed population, the titre of lamivudine dropped to below the detection level.
While lamivudine serum levels appears stable when the anti-viral efficacy is fully achieved, important fluctuations are present according to the type of viral population, with a considerable decrease possibly due to the presence of the wild-type virus.
Hepatic methionine metabolism may play an essential role in regulating methylation status and liver injury in Wilson's disease (WD) through the inhibition of S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase (SAHH) by copper (Cu) and the consequent accumulation of S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH). We studied the transcript levels of selected genes related to liver injury, levels of SAHH, SAH, DNA methyltransferases genes (Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, Dnmt3b), and global DNA methylation in the tx-j mouse (tx-j), an animal model of WD. Findings were compared to those in control C3H mice, and in response to Cu chelation by penicillamine (PCA) and dietary supplementation of the methyl donor betaine to modulate inflammatory and methylation status. Transcript levels of selected genes related to endoplasmic reticulum stress, lipid synthesis, and fatty acid oxidation were down-regulated at baseline in tx-j mice, further down-regulated in response to PCA, and showed little to no response to betaine. Hepatic Sahh transcript and protein levels were reduced in tx-j mice with consequent increase of SAH levels. Hepatic Cu accumulation was associated with inflammation, as indicated by histopathology and elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and liver tumor necrosis factor alpha (Tnf-α) levels. Dnmt3b was down-regulated in tx-j mice together with global DNA hypomethylation. PCA treatment of tx-j mice reduced Tnf-α and ALT levels, betaine treatment increased S-adenosylmethionine and up-regulated Dnmt3b levels, and both treatments restored global DNA methylation levels.
Reduced hepatic Sahh expression was associated with increased liver SAH levels in the tx-j model of WD, with consequent global DNA hypomethylation. Increased global DNA methylation was achieved by reducing inflammation by Cu chelation or by providing methyl groups. We propose that increased SAH levels and inflammation affect widespread epigenetic regulation of gene expression in WD.
We compared an acetaminophen (paracetamol) 1 g (n = 51) formulation for infusion with propacetamol 2 g (n = 51) and placebo (n = 50) in a randomized, controlled, double-blind, parallel group trial in patients with moderate-to-severe pain after third molar surgery. Treatment efficacy was assessed in house for 6 h after starting the 15-min infusion. Significant effects versus placebo (P < 0.01) were obtained with both active treatments on pain relief, pain intensity difference on a 100-mm visual analog scale, and on a categorical scale (except for propacetamol at 6 h). No significant differences were noted between active groups except at 1 h. Six-hour weighted sums of primary assessments showed significantly better efficacy than placebo (P < 0.0001) and no difference between active treatments. Median stopwatch time to onset of pain relief for active treatment was 6-8 min after infusion start. Active treatments showed comparable efficacy with a significantly longer duration of analgesia and better patients' global evaluation compared with placebo. The incidence of patients reporting local pain at the infusion site was significantly less frequent after IV acetaminophen or placebo (0%) in comparison with propacetamol (49%). In conclusion, acetaminophen 1 g and propacetamol 2 g were superior to placebo regarding analgesic efficacy, with a more frequent incidence of local pain at the infusion site for propacetamol.
The effects of oral administration of caffeine (10 mg/kg) on behavioral ratings, somatic symptoms, blood pressure and plasma levels of 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenethyleneglycol (MHPG) and cortisol were determined in 17 healthy subjects and 21 patients meeting DSM-III criteria for agoraphobia with panic attacks or panic disorder. Caffeine produced significantly greater increases in subject-rated anxiety, nervousness, fear, nausea, palpitations, restlessness, and tremors in the patients compared with healthy subjects. In the patients, but not the healthy subjects, these symptoms were significantly correlated with plasma caffeine levels. Seventy-one percent of the patients reported that the behavioral effects of caffeine were similar to those experienced during panic attacks. Caffeine did not alter plasma MHPG levels in either the healthy subjects or patients. Caffeine increased plasma cortisol levels equally in the patient and healthy groups. Because caffeine is an adenosine receptor antagonist, these results suggest that some panic disorder patients may have abnormalities in neuronal systems involving adenosine. Patients with anxiety disorders may benefit by avoiding caffeine-containing foods and beverages.
(1) Sirolimus, an immunosuppressant, is chemically related to tacrolimus but has a different mechanism of action. (2) In a double-blind trial in patients also treated with ciclosporin and a steroid, sirolimus was more effective than azathioprine at preventing acute rejection during the first three months, but caused more adverse effects (especially renal). (3) An unblinded trial compared ciclosporin + steroid + sirolimus with steroid + sirolimus for maintenance treatment. Ciclosporin was withdrawn gradually from the steroid + sirolimus group. Side effects from ciclosporin were therefore reduced (mainly nephrotoxicity and arterial hypertension), but rates of acute rejection, hepatotoxicity, and thrombocytopenia went up. (4) Sirolimus has numerous adverse effects, including hyperlipidemia, thrombocytopenia, hepatic disorders and opportunistic infections. The adverse effects of long term treatment are unknown. Sirolimus is metabolised by the cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP3A4, so may induce drug interactions. (5) In practice, sirolimus offers no advantage over existing immunosuppressive treatments for people with renal transplants.
(1) Moxifloxacin is the fourth fluoroquinolone to be licensed in France with indications covering ENT and respiratory tract infections. (2) In community-acquired pneumonia, acute bacterial sinusitis and acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, moxifloxacin seems no more effective than other fluoroquinolones available in France (with which it has not been compared) or the other antibiotics with which it has been compared. (3) Moxifloxacin has the usual adverse effects of fluoroquinolones, but carries a greater risk of QT prolongation than ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin and ofloxacin.
(1) In patients with cystic fibrosis, chronic bronchial infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a major factor in the development of chronic respiratory failure and premature death. (2) Over the last two decades, such patients have commonly received long-term treatment with antibiotic aerosols (mainly tobramycin or colistin, in off-licence uses). (3) Tobramycin solution for nebulisation is the first antibiotic preparation to be licensed in the EU for this indication. (4) Comparative evaluation of antibiotic aerosol therapy for chronic bronchial infections due to P. aeruginosa includes two large trials of nebulised tobramycin. (5) A combined analysis of these two placebo-controlled trials, both lasting 20 weeks, showed that tobramycin aerosol delayed the deterioration of respiratory function and reduced the number of hospitalisations. However, an increase in P. aeruginosa resistance to tobramycin was reported. (6) The file on tobramycin includes no precise criteria for stopping treatment, and no data on the long-term impact of the observed increase in bacterial resistance. (7) The main adverse effects of tobramycin aerosol are tinnitus and voice changes. Deafness has also been reported. (8) The available assessment file does not show whether the risk-benefit ratio of tobramycin aerosol differs from that of other nebulised antibiotics used (off-licence) in this setting. However, tobramycin is the best-assessed nebulised antibiotic for this indication. (9) In practice, tobramycin solution for nebulisation may be considered the reference long-term treatment for chronic pulmonary infections due to P. aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis. Assessment should continue, however, especially regarding the possible impact on mortality and the selection of resistant strains.
In rats anaesthetized with urethane, increasing the activity of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors or the level of cuntional serotonin in the brain with the inhibitors of the reuptake of serotonin, fluoxetine, produced both hypertension and tachycardia. The hypertension induced by fluoxetine was significantly inhibited by pretreatment of the animals with ketanserin (a serotonin receptor antagonist), by bilateral vagotomy, spinal transection or bilateral adrenalectomy. On the other hand, the tachycardia induced by fluoxetine was significantly inhibited by pretreatment with ketanserin or bilateral vagotomy, but not by spinal transection or adrenalectomy. The data indicate that fluoxetine acts through serotonin receptors in the central nervous system by influencing autonomic outflow to induce both hypertension and tachycardia.
Although renal Fanconi syndrome resulting from valproate (VPA) has occasionally been reported, the detailed clinical characteristics of this disease remain unclear. To clarify the clinical features of patients with VPA-induced Fanconi syndrome, we analyzed the clinical and laboratory data of seven affected patients. All patients were children, were severely disabled and required tube feeding. Five patients required treatment with multiple anticonvulsant agents. Hypophosphatemia and hypouricemia were found in all patients. Mild proteinuria, increased excretion of urinary beta2-microglobulin (beta2MG) and generalized hyperaminoaciduria were present in all patients. The renal biopsy of one patient exhibited tubulointerstitial nephritis without any structural abnormalities of the mitochondria in proximal renal tubular cells. All patients recovered from the Fanconi syndrome after the cessation of VPA therapy without any long-term renal sequellae. These results indicate that young age and being severely disabled with tube feeding and anticonvulsant polytherapy are contributory factors to the development of VPA-induced Fanconi syndrome. Serum phosphate and uric acid concentrations and urinary beta2MG levels in addition to serum electrolytes and urinalysis should be examined regularly in patients receiving VPA therapy, especially in those with the contributory factors outlined above. Patients with Fanconi syndrome caused by VPA have a favorable renal outcome.
In the present study we addressed whether proliferation and apoptosis in 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine-induced rat mammary gland carcinomas were different between carcinomas with high and low expression of phosphotyrosine (pY)-STAT5a. We determined that carcinomas with high pY-STAT5a were more proliferative (MIB5 immunostaining) and had a higher expression of cyclin D1 and estrogen receptor alpha. Furthermore, carcinomas with elevated pY-STAT5a demonstrated lower apoptosis as measured by the TUNEL assay and the Bcl-2 to Bax ratio, and showed increased expression of the long and short isoforms of the prolactin receptor. The results of this study are consistent with the notion that activated STAT5a may provide a growth advantage in some types of mammary gland cancers.
Many patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) who experience full symptomatic remission after antidepressant treatment still have residual depressive symptoms. We describe the types and frequency of residual depressive symptoms and their relationship to subsequent depressive relapse after treatment with citalopram in the Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) trial.
Participants in primary (n=18) and psychiatric (n=23) practice settings were openly treated with citalopram using measurement-based care for up to 14 weeks and follow-up for up to 1 year. We assessed 943 (32.8% of 2876) participants who met criteria for remission to determine the proportions with individual residual symptoms and any of the nine DSM-IV criterion symptom domains to define a major depressive episode. At each visit, the 16-item Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology, Self-Report (QIDS-SR16) and the self-report Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects Rating (FIBSER) scale were used to assessed depressive symptoms and side-effects respectively.
More than 90% of remitters had at least one residual depressive symptom (median=3). The most common were weight increase (71.3%) and mid-nocturnal insomnia (54.9%). The most common residual symptom domains were sleep disturbance (71.7%) and appetite/weight disturbance (35.9%). Those who remitted before 6 weeks had fewer residual symptoms at study exit than did later remitters. Residual sleep disturbance did not predict relapse during follow-up. Having a greater number of residual symptom domains was associated with a higher probability of relapse.
Patients with remission of MDD after treatment with citalopram continue to experience selected residual depressive symptoms, which increase the risk of relapse.
Adults Charles-Foster rats were prenatally treated to phenobarbitone (10 mg/kg, i.p.) from day 13 to 21 of gestation, this being the critical period of neural development. Pregnant control rats were similarly treated with equal volume of vehicle. Adult rat offsprings at 8-9 weeks of age were subjected to open-field exploratory behaviour, elevated plus-maze and elevated zero-maze tests. The rat offsprings displayed significantly increased ambulation and rearings in an open-field arena when compared to control offsprings whereas self-grooming and faecal droppings remain unchanged. On elevated plus-maze test these prenatally treated rat offsprings spent significantly less time on open arms and more time and more number of entries in enclosed arms as compared to controls. Prenatally exposed rats also showed significant less time on open arms, less number of head dips and stretched attend postures on elevated zero-maze test indicating increased anxiogenic behavioural pattern in these animals. The results suggest that prenatal exposure to phenobarbitone leaves a lasting effect on the anxiety state of the offsprings.
The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of 0.5% apraclonidine with that of 4% cocaine and to evaluate its safety in the diagnosis of Horner syndrome in pediatric patients.
This was a randomized, crossover study, wherein 10 patients with a probable diagnosis of Horner syndrome were assigned to undergo pharmacological testing with 4% cocaine and 0.5% apaconidine. The difference in the pupil diameters of each eye was recorded under dim light before and 1 h after 0.5% apraclonidine or 4% cocaine was instilled. Any adverse effects were noted during examination or reported by the patients' parents were recorded.
The mean differences in pupil diameter before and after 4% cocaine testing were -2.08 and -2.97 mm, respectively (P = 0.0047). All patients had an anisocoria greater than 1 mm after 4% cocaine testing. The mean difference in pupil diameter before and after 0.5% apraclonidine was instilled were -2.04 and +1.08 mm, respectively (P = 0.005). All patients showed a reversal of anisocoria after 0.5% apraclonidine testing. Conjunctival hyperemia was noted in 2 patients, but systemic adverse effects were not noted during examination nor reported by the patients' parents.
The application of 0.5% apraclonidine in pediatric patients is safe and effective in the diagnosis of Horner syndrome.
Brominated flame retardants are incorporated into a wide variety of consumer products and are known to enter into the surrounding environment, leading to human exposure. There is accumulating evidence that these compounds have adverse effects on reproduction and development in humans and animal models. Animal studies have generally characterized the outcome of exposure to a single technical mixture or congener. Here, we determined the impact of exposure of rats prior to mating and during gestation to a mixture representative of congener levels found in North American household dust. Adult female Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a diet containing 0, 0.75, 250 or 750mg/kg of a mixture of flame retardants (polybrominated diphenyl ethers, hexabromocyclododecane) from two weeks prior to mating to gestation day 20. This formulation delivered nominal doses of 0, 0.06, 20 and 60mg/kg body weight/day. The lowest dose approximates high human exposures based on house dust levels and the dust ingestion rates of toddlers. Litter size and resorption sites were counted and fetal development evaluated. No effects on maternal health, litter size, fetal viability, weights, crown rump lengths or sex ratios were detected. The proportion of litters with fetuses with anomalies of the digits (soft tissue syndactyly or malposition of the distal phalanges) was increased significantly in the low (0.06mg/kg/day) dose group. Skeletal analysis revealed a decreased ossification of the sixth sternebra at all exposure levels. Thus, exposure to an environmentally relevant mixture of brominated flame retardants results in developmental abnormalities in the absence of apparent maternal toxicity. The relevance of these findings for predicting human risk is yet to be determined.
Activated neutrophils play a critical role in indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury.
To investigate the effect of plaunotol, an anti-ulcer agent, on neutrophil activation in vitro and its effect on gastric mucosal injury and gastric accumulation of neutrophils in rats given indomethacin.
Human monocytes and neutrophils were isolated from the peripheral blood of healthy volunteers. We examined the effect of plaunotol on neutrophil elastase release, production of O2-, intracellular calcium concentration and expression of adhesion molecules CD11b and CD18 in activated neutrophils in vitro. The effect of plaunotol on TNF-alpha production by monocytes stimulated with endotoxin also was investigated in vitro. The effect of plaunotol (100 mg/kg, p.o.) on gastric mucosal injury and neutrophil accumulation was investigated in male Wistar rats given indomethacin (30 mg/kg, p.o.).
Plaunotol inhibited the fMLP-induced release of neutrophil elastase from activated neutrophils, as well as the opsonized zymosan-induced production of O2- by neutrophils. Plaunotol significantly inhibited increased levels of intracellular calcium, a second messenger of neutrophil activation, in vitro. The fMLP-induced increases in CD11b and CD18 expression were also inhibited by plaunotol in vitro. Plaunotol inhibited monocytic production of TNF-alpha, a potent activator of neutrophils. Both gastric mucosal injury and gastric neutrophil infiltration in rats given indomethacin were significantly inhibited by the oral administration of plaunotol.
Plaunotol inhibits indomethacin-induced gastric mucosal injury, at least in part by inhibiting neutrophil activation.
A 42-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and a history of complex partial seizures developed severe anemia after the addition of valproic acid to his stable antiretroviral regimen of zidovudine, lamivudine, and abacavir. The inhibition of zidovudine glucuronidation by valproic acid and the resultant zidovudine hematologic toxicity is the proposed mechanism of the interaction.
The authors report three cases of depression associated with ranitidine. These illustrate that ranitidine, like cimetidine, may produce an organic affective disorder. The authors discuss clinical implications for the treatment of depression in patients with peptic ulcer disease.
