Diesel exhaust (DE) is a major contributor to traffic-related fine particulate matter (PM)(2.5). Although inroads have been made in understanding the mechanisms of PM-related health effects, DE's complex mixture of PM, gases, and volatile organics makes it difficult to determine how the constituents contribute to DE's effects. We hypothesized that exposure to particle-filtered DE (fDE; gases alone) will elicit less cardiac effects than whole DE (wDE; particles plus gases). In addition, we hypothesized that spontaneously hypertensive (SH) rats will be more sensitive to the electrocardiographic effects of DE exposure than Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY; background strain with normal blood pressure). SH and WKY rats, implanted with telemeters to monitor electrocardiogram and heart rate (HR), were exposed once for 4 h to 150 μg/m(3) or 500 μg/m(3) of wDE (gases plus PM) or fDE (gases alone) DE, or filtered air. Exposure to fDE, but not wDE, caused immediate electrocardiographic alterations in cardiac repolarization (ST depression) and atrioventricular conduction block (PR prolongation) as well as bradycardia in SH rats. Exposure to wDE, but not fDE, caused postexposure ST depression and increased sensitivity to the pulmonary C fiber agonist capsaicin in SH rats. The only notable effect of DE exposure in WKY rats was a decrease in HR. Taken together, hypertension may predispose to the potential cardiac effects of DE and components of DE may have divergent effects with some eliciting immediate irritant effects (e.g., gases), whereas others (e.g., PM) trigger delayed effects potentially via separate mechanisms.
Follistatin-like 1 (FSTL1) is a secreted protein with homology to both Follistatin and the SPARC/BM40 family of matricellular proteins. In this study, we sought to determine the expression patterns of Fstl1 and its cognate receptor Dip2a in the adult, and to assess the consequences of Fstl1 inactivation on development and homeostasis of the kidney. We find that FSTL1 circulates at high levels in both the human and the mouse and that it is also locally expressed in the loop of Henle in the kidney. To begin to understand the in vivo functions of Fstl1, we generated a mouse mutant using a genetrap approach. The hypomorphic Fstl1 genetrap strain displays a strong reduction in FSTL1 expression at the protein level, but it does not show overt developmental defects. FSTL1 has previously been implicated in diverse disease processes as a regulator of inflammatory cytokine expression, and we therefore evaluated the response of the genetrap strain to cisplatin-mediated acute kidney injury, a disease model with highly cytokine-dependent pathology. We find that although TNF-α and Il6 levels are unchanged relative to wild-type, renal Il-1β expression is increased in genetrap mice following cisplatin treatment. Furthermore, histopatological analysis, expression of the tissue injury marker Havcr1, and measurement of serum creatinine demonstrate that reduction of Fstl1 expression sensitizes the kidney to acute cisplatin nephrotoxicity, suggesting a role for FSTL1-mediated Il-1β suppression in protection of the kidney from acute nephrotoxic injury.
Vitamin A derivatives modulate gene expression through retinoic acid and rexinoid receptor (RAR/RXR) heterodimers and are indispensable for limb development. Of particular interest, RARgamma is highly expressed in cartilage, a target affected following retinoid-induced limb insult. The goal of this study was to examine how selective activation of RARgamma affects limb development. Forelimbs from E12.5 CD-1 mice were cultured for 6 days in the presence of all-trans RA (pan-RAR agonist; 0.1 or 1.0 microM) or BMS-189961 (BMS961, RARgamma-selective agonist; 0.01 or 0.1 microM) and limb morphology assessed. Untreated limbs developed normal cartilage elements whereas pan-RAR or RARgamma agonist-treated limbs exhibited reductive effects on chondrogenesis. Retinoid activity was assessed using RAREbeta2 (retinoic acid response element beta2)-lacZ reporter limbs; after 3 h of treatment, both drugs increased retinoid activity proximally. To elucidate the expression profiles of a subset of genes important for development, limbs were cultured for 3 h and cRNA hybridized to osteogenesis-focused microarrays. Two genes, matrix GLA protein (Mgp; chondrogenesis inhibitor) and growth differentiation factor-10 (Gdf10/Bmp3b) were induced by RA and BMS-189961. Real-time PCR was done to validate our results and whole mount in situ hybridizations against Mgp and Gdf10 localized their upregulation to areas of cartilage and programmed cell death, respectively. Thus, our results illustrate the importance of RARgamma in mediating the retinoid-induced upregulation of Mgp and Gdf10; determining their roles in chondrogenesis and cell death will help further unravel mechanisms underlying retinoid teratogenicity.
Osteopontin (OPN) up-regulation is known to mediate hepatic inflammation in a rodent model of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and alcohol ingestion is reported to inhibit hepatic peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha) activity leading to hepatic steatosis and inflammation. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the potential relationship between the anti-inflammatory PPAR-alpha and proinflammatory OPN in rats and mice livers, and cell cultures of hepatocytes and biliary epithelium. Experiments were designed to evaluate the influence of ethanol (EtOH), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and acetaldehyde (ACA) on OPN and PPAR-alpha expression levels in vivo (rats and mice) and in vitro (hepatocytes and biliary epithelium). Adult Sprague-Dawley rats and C57BL6 mice were fed EtOH-containing Lieber-DeCarli liquid diet for 6 weeks and injected with a single dose of LPS. A combination of EtOH and LPS treated rats and mice showed significant induction of hepatic OPN expression compared with the controls. Similarly, cells exposed to physiological doses of EtOH, LPS, a combination of EtOH and LPS, and ACA resulted in increased OPN protein and mRNA expression. Rats and mice in ALD model and cells treated with EtOH and ACA showed downregulation of PPAR-alpha mRNA. Also, DNA binding activity of PPAR-alpha to PPAR response element was significantly reduced following treatment. Overexpression of PPAR-alpha rescued the reduced PPAR-alpha activity and PPAR-alpha agonist, bezafibrate, elevated PPAR-alpha activity after treatment of EtOH, LPS, and ACA when cells were exposed by bezafibrate. To further delineate the potential relationship between OPN and PPAR-alpha, OPN(-/-) mice showed no change of PPAR-alpha mRNA level although wild-type mice showed downregulation of PPAR-alpha mRNA after EtOH treatment. In conclusion, the current study suggests that OPN is induced by EtOH and its metabolite ACA and opposite relationship likely exist between PPAR-alpha and OPN expression within the liver during ALD.
Ten patients treated with vincristine were submitted for electrophysiological examination. It was investigated the number of motor units within the thenar muscle following a technique described previously (Sica et al. - 1974); motor and sensitive conduction velocities as well as motor distal latencies in the median nerve were studied following conventional techniques. The behaviour of the evoked muscle potential with repetitive supramaximal stimulation over the median nerve was also investigated. The findings were compared with control groups. The estimated number of motor units was disminished in eight of ten patients and the average number was significantly different from the control group (control 318 +/- 71 UM; patients 174 +/- 84 UM; P less than 0.001). The potential amplitudes in most of the surviving units were reduced, others remaining within the normal range. This makes apparent that the peripherical nervous system fails to compensate adequately and, furthermore, a loss of individual muscle fibres occurs within some individual units. The conduction velocities of the fastest conducting motor nerve fibres were reduced and motor distal latencies prolongued (Table 1). Maximal impulse conduction velocities were measured in sensory fibres. In 5 of 7 subjets investigated the values laied just beyond the lower limit of the normal range. The amplitude of the sensory orthodromic evoked potential in the median nerve at the wrist was disminished almost in the whole group. The decremental muscle response to repetitive nerve stimulation, can be interpreted as the result of the damage at the neural apparatus at the motor end plate; it was observed in 57% of the patients. In summary, evidences have been registered showing that the nervous supply to the muscle is affected in patients treated with vincristine; the motor unit behaviour under this conditions is discussed.
Three case presentations illustrate clinically relevant pharmacokinetic properties of morphine. Morphine given orally is rapidly absorbed and transformed to morphine-glucuronides (M3G, M6G) by the liver. The polar metabolites are excreted by the kidney. In chronic or acute renal insufficiency biologically active metabolites of morphine accumulate in the serum and may be responsible for severe toxic side effects. Hepatic insufficiency decreases the first-pass effect and therefore increases the bioavailability of oral morphine. This has to be considered when changing from parenteral to oral administration of morphine.
Oral treatment with indapamide was found to reduce blood pressure of hypertensive rats but not of normotensive rats. Chronic indomethacin treatment had no effect on blood pressure of untreated normotensive and hypertensive rats. Also indomethacin did not modify the antihypertensive effect of indapamide excluding the direct involvement of PGs in the antihypertensive effect of indapamide. Vascular reactivity to pressor agents NA, ADR and ANG was significantly increased after indomethacin treatment. This may be due to the blockade of the actions of PG in modifying vascular reactivity to vasoconstrictor agents or may be a direct effect of indomethacin on calcium fluxes. Indapamide reduced the reactivity to NA and ANG in the presence of indomethacin suggesting that the antihypertensive effect of indapamide may be through a decrease in reactivity to pressor agents which is independent of increase in the synthesis of vasodilator PGs.
Patients with alcoholic chronic liver disease when treated with colchicine during a 12 month-period improved significantly the plasmatic levels of albumin and prothrombin when compared with a similar group of patients who took placebo. No differences in the mortality rate and in number of patients admitted at the hospital could be detected among those groups during this period.
To evaluate the clinical outcome and the plasmatic levels of albumin, pre-albumin, prothrombin and transferrin in patients presenting alcoholic chronic liver disease taking colchicine or placebo, during a 12-month period.
In a double-blind, randomized, controlled trial, 41 patients with alcoholic chronic liver disease were assigned to either placebo (20 patients) or a colchicine (21 patients) treatment group, assessing their clinical course (mortality rate and hospital admission) and plasmatic protein levels during a 12-month period. Albumin, pre-albumin and transferrin plasmatic levels were assessed through a immunodiffusion radial method and prothrombin time and activity was assessed by a one stage Quick modified method.
At the end of the trial, only 7.3% of the patients were lost during follow-up. No statistical differences could be found in mortality and number of patients admitted at the hospital among placebo and colchicine groups. Comparatively to the placebo group, a significant increase in the mean of percentage variation was found in patients of the colchicine group for serum albumin levels (17.9% colchicine x 3.6% placebo, p < 0.05) and for prothrombin activity (19.2% colchicine x 2.1% placebo, p < 0.05). A similar pattern of response was found in pre-albumin serum levels, but such differences were not statistically different. No differences were found in serum transferrin levels among both groups.
These results suggest that colchicine intake has a positive effect on plasmatic protein levels in patients with alcoholic chronic liver disease.
The treatment of psychotic depression remains controversial, although most studies suggest that the combination of an antipsychotic and an antidepressant agent is most beneficial. The authors describe an open-label study of the treatment of psychotic depression using amoxapine, an agent with both antidepressant and antipsychotic properties. Of the six patients treated, two improved dramatically within the first week of treatment, whereas for the remaining four treatment had to be discontinued due to lack of efficacy or side effects. Amoxapine appears to be effective in some cases of psychotic depression, but side effects and known risks of treatment diminish its usefulness.
Microtubules play important roles in cell division, motility and structural integrity of malarial parasites. Some microtubule inhibitors disrupt parasite development at very low concentrations, but most of them also kill mammalian cells. However, the dinitroaniline family of herbicides, which bind specifically to plant tubulin, have inhibitory activity on plant cells but are relatively non-toxic to human cells. Certain dinitroanilines are also inhibitory to various protozoal parasites including Plasmodium. Here we demonstrate that the dinitroanilines trifluralin and oryzalin inhibited progression of erythrocytic Plasmodium falciparum through schizogony, blocked mitotic division, and caused accumulation of abnormal microtubular structures. Moreover, radiolabelled trifluralin interacted with purified, recombinant parasite tubulins but to a much lesser extent with bovine tubulins. The phosphorothioamidate herbicide amiprophos-methyl, which has the same herbicidal mechanism as dinitroanilines, also had antimalarial activity and a similar action on schizogony. These data suggest that P. falciparum tubulin contains a dinitroaniline/phosphorothioamidate-binding site that is not conserved in humans and might be a target for new antimalarial drugs.
The correlation of the angiotensin-converting enzyme insertion/deletion polymorphism with essential hypertension shown in previous studies is controversial, and the responses of hypertensive patients with different angiotensin-converting enzyme genotypes to treatment with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor merits investigation.
Eighty-nine patients with essential hypertension and 102 normotensive subjects were included in this study. All subjects were genotyped by polymerase chain reaction for the insertion/deletion polymorphism of the angiotensin-converting enzyme gene. Blood pressure was measured before and after taking Benazepril 10 mg, once daily, for 2 months.
The genotype and allele frequencies were similar (chi(2) = 0.64, P =.73; chi(2) = 0.36, P =.55, respectively). The reduction of both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the DD genotype was significantly greater than in the II genotype (10.13 +/- 4.91 vs 5.37 +/- 2.79, P <.01; 7.47 +/- 3.50 vs 4.71 +/- 2.40, P <.05, respectively).
No significant association of angiotensin-converting enzyme gene polymorphism with essential hypertension was found. Angiotensin-converting enzyme gene polymorphism might be related to the antihypertensive response to an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor in hypertensive patients.
Schizophrenia is a severe psychiatric disorder that profoundly affects cognitive, behavioral and emotional processes. The wide spectrum of symptoms and clinical variability in schizophrenia suggest a complex genetic etiology, which is consistent with the numerous loci thus far identified by linkage, copy number variation and association studies. Although schizophrenia heritability may be as high as ∼80%, the genes responsible for much of this heritability remain to be identified. Here we sequenced the exomes of 14 schizophrenia probands and their parents. We identified 15 de novo mutations (DNMs) in eight probands, which is significantly more than expected considering the previously reported DNM rate. In addition, 4 of the 15 identified DNMs are nonsense mutations, which is more than what is expected by chance. Our study supports the notion that DNMs may account for some of the heritability reported for schizophrenia while providing a list of genes possibly involved in disease pathogenesis.
A case of cotrimoxazole-induced meningoencephalitis in an HIV-infected patient without signs of AIDS is reported. The patient developed an apparently generalized seizure, of cotrimoxazole, 1 month after first taking a dose of this drug and a febrile coma after a second dose 3 weeks later. Lumbar puncture revealed eosinophilic aseptic meningitis. The patient quickly recovered without sequelae and was given antiretroviral therapy plus pentamidine aerosolized and pyrimethamine as prophylaxis for opportunistic infections. No other adverse effects were observed. The report describes the diagnosis of this case supported by a commentary, including a literature review.
Prostate cancer (PrCa) is the most frequently diagnosed male cancer in developed countries. We conducted a multi-stage genome-wide association study for PrCa and previously reported the results of the first two stages, which identified 16 PrCa susceptibility loci. We report here the results of stage 3, in which we evaluated 1,536 SNPs in 4,574 individuals with prostate cancer (cases) and 4,164 controls. We followed up ten new association signals through genotyping in 51,311 samples in 30 studies from the Prostate Cancer Association Group to Investigate Cancer Associated Alterations in the Genome (PRACTICAL) consortium. In addition to replicating previously reported loci, we identified seven new prostate cancer susceptibility loci on chromosomes 2p11, 3q23, 3q26, 5p12, 6p21, 12q13 and Xq12 (P = 4.0 × 10(-8) to P = 2.7 × 10(-24)). We also identified a SNP in TERT more strongly associated with PrCa than that previously reported. More than 40 PrCa susceptibility loci, explaining ∼25% of the familial risk in this disease, have now been identified.
The transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) is the key regulator that controls the hypoxic response of mammalian cells. The overexpression of HIF-1alpha has been demonstrated in many human tumors. However, the role of HIF-1alpha in the therapeutic efficacy of chemotherapy and radiotherapy in cancer cells is poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the influence of HIF-1alpha expression on the susceptibility of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cells to chemotherapeutic drugs (cis-diamminedichloroplatinum and 5-fluorouracil) and gamma-rays. Treatment with chemotherapeutic drugs and gamma-rays enhanced the expression and nuclear translocation of HIF-1alpha, and the susceptibility of OSCC cells to the drugs and gamma-rays was negatively correlated with the expression level of HIF-1alpha protein. The overexpression of HIF-1alpha induced OSCC cells to become more resistant to the anticancer agents, and down-regulation of HIF-1alpha expression by small interfering RNA enhanced the susceptibility of OSCC cells to them. In the HIF-1alpha-knockdown OSCC cells, the expression of P-glycoprotein, heme oxygenase-1, manganese-superoxide dismutase and ceruloplasmin were downregulated and the intracellular levels of chemotherapeutic drugs and reactive oxygen species were sustained at higher levels after the treatment with the anticancer agents. These results suggest that enhanced HIF-1alpha expression is related to the resistance of tumor cells to chemo- and radio-therapy and that HIF-1alpha is an effective therapeutic target for cancer treatment.
Human fascioliasis cases in Japan have been reported infrequently and the most appropriate therapy for this disease remains to be determined. This case report describes a patient with the infection unsuccessfully treated with multiple high doses of praziquantel for over 1 year and eventually cured by the administration of triclabendazole in two single doses of 10 mg/kg and 12.5 mg/kg 5 months apart.
Clofibrinic acid (Regadrin) is the effective substance of clofibrate. Clofibrate is one of the lipid-decreasing medicaments; which are used for the longest time and which are most effective. It has an influence above all on the metabolism of triglycerides, but also on the metabolism of cholesterol. The reduction of coronary morbidity and mortality by clofibrate was proved in a number of follow-up studies. An increased incidence of cholelithiasis may be a side-effect of the clofibrate therapy. Prefered indications for clofibrate are hypertriglyceridaemias in HLP type IIb, III, IV and V an (in combination with other drugs) therapy-refractery hypercholesterolaemias in HLP type IIa and IIb.
We sought to evaluate the effects of various doses of guanethidine, a sympathoinhibitory drug, on ventricular function and survival in chronic heart failure (CHF) after myocardial infarction (MI) in rats.
Direct inhibition of sympathetic outflow by a sympathoinhibitory drug might be an effective approach to therapy of CHF. However, recent clinical trials suggest that excessive suppression of sympathetic activity has an adverse effect on outcome. It remains unclear whether the beneficial effects of the sympathoinhibitory drug would be modified by its dosage.
Three doses of guanethidine (low-dose [LG], 1 mg/kg/day; medium-dose, 3 mg/kg/day; high-dose, 10 mg/kg/day) were administered via an osmotic mini-pump for 4 weeks. Hemodynamics, left ventricular (LV) diameters, plasma and myocardial norepinephrine (NE) levels, and survival were determined for four weeks after MI.
As compared with MI rats receiving vehicle, LG suppressed LV dilation (9.2 +/- 0.9 mm vs. 11.0 +/- 0.8 mm, p < 0.05) and improved LV fractional shortening (25.0 +/- 4.5% vs. 16.4 +/- 4.7%, p < 0.05) in association with a reduction of plasma NE levels (520 +/- 250 pg/ml vs. 1,000 +/- 570 pg/ml, p < 0.05), but not with a significant reduction of noninfarcted myocardial NE levels (154 +/- 71 ng/g vs. 207 +/- 71 ng/g). Low-dose guanethidine reduced 24-h (6%) and 28-day mortality (6%), as compared with untreated MI rats (36% and 52%, respectively). High-dose guanethidine also reduced 24-h mortality (12%) but increased 28-day mortality (91%), in association with a depletion of myocardial NE. Medium-dose guanethidine had no beneficial effects on LV hemodynamics or long-term survival.
These results indicate that the dosage of the sympathoinhibitory drug might be quite important for the treatment of CHF.
Pretreatment with apomorphine, increased and prolonged the arecoline-induced tremor in rats. When given before pilocarpine, it produced different effects dependent on the dose: low doses (0.05 and 1.0 mg/kg) antagonized, but higher doses (5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg) enhanced the pilocarpine tremor. The extent and duration of arecoline tremor after pretreatment L-DOPA increased significantly, but this was not observed in the pilocarpine-induced tremor. These results suggest that the relations between striatal dopaminergic and cholinergic systems may be complex and the model based on a simple antagonism between these systems may be oversimplified.
This phase II study was conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of paclitaxel and topotecan for patients with extensive stage small-cell lung cancer (ED-SCLC).
Previously untreated ED-SCLC patients with Eastern Coperative Oncology Group performance status <2 were eligible. Treatment consisted of topotecan 1 mg/m2 (first three patients received 1.25 mg/m2), on days 1-5, and paclitaxel 135 mg/m2 over 24 h on day 5, every 4 weeks. Prophylactic granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was administered to all patients.
Thirty-two patients received a median of four cycles of chemotherapy. Grade 4 anemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia occurred in 13, 31 and 18 patients, respectively. Thirty episodes of febrile neutropenia occurred in 22 patients. Grade 3 fatigue, esophagitis, stomatitis and hypotension occurred in one patient each. Of 26 patients eligible for response evaluation, there were six complete and 12 partial responses (overall response rate 69%). The median survival was 54 weeks. The 1-, 2- and 3-year survival rates were 50%, 10% and 3%, respectively.
The combination of topotecan and paclitaxel is active as initial therapy in SCLC, but the efficacy is similar to 'standard therapy'. This combination was associated with a high incidence of myelosuppression and febrile neutropenia, at the doses evaluated.
Azathioprine (AZA) is used clinically sometimes at high doses for short-term therapy to treat acute rejection of kidney allograft or to desensitize hypersensitive patients to it. The delayed consequences of this approach had not been well investigated. Therefore, in this study we have investigated the delayed consequences of high-dose short-term AZA administration in rabbits. Our results showed that oral administration of AZA (10 mg/kg/day) to rabbits for two weeks induced reversible thrombocytosis and delayed fatal macrocytic anemia. Moreover, neither the hemoglobin level nor the white blood cell count was affected by AZA. The solvent of AZA had no effect on blood cell counts and hemoglobin levels. We can conclude that although high-dose AZA therapy may not induce immediate and significant changes in blood picture, delayed fatal macrocytosis may occur.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Becker muscular dystrophy are X-linked disorders that result from a mutation in the dystrophin gene that reduces the production or effectiveness of the protein dystrophin. These disorders are clinically characterized by progressive muscle degeneration. Manifesting female carriers are generally not identified as such until after puberty, when symptoms such as muscle weakness may arise. This clinical report describes a female manifesting carrier who started to show deterioration of left ventricular systolic function, but no marked skeletal muscle weakness, at the age of 10 years. The patient's cardiac function improved significantly after dual drug therapy with an ACE inhibitor (enalapril) and a beta-blocker (carvedilol). Our case adds to the existing evidence that left ventricular myocardial dysfunction may occur during childhood in female carriers of dystrophinopathies.
Enalapril and losartan reduce but not normalize sympathetic hyperactivity in patients with hypertensive chronic renal failure (CRF). This study assessed the effect of chronic eprosartan on BP and sympathetic activity, and assessed the effect of moxonidine during chronic eprosartan treatment. In 11 stable patients with CRF (creatinine clearance 47 +/- 10 ml/min), muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA; peroneal nerve), BP, and baroreceptor sensitivity were measured in the absence of antihypertensive drugs (except diuretics) during chronic eprosartan therapy (600 mg for 6 wk) and in 9 patients after moxonidine (0.2 mg for 6 wk) was added. Normovolemia was controlled by diuretics and confirmed by extracellular fluid volume measurements. BP, heart rate, and MSNA were higher in patients than in 22 controls. During eprosartan therapy, mean arterial pressure (111 +/- 9 to 98 +/- 7 mmHg, P < 0.001), heart rate (71 +/- 10 to 65 +/- 8 bpm, P < 0.001), and MSNA (35 +/- 10 to 27 +/- 8 bursts/min, P < 0.001) decreased. After the addition of moxonidine (n = 9), a further reduction of mean arterial pressure to 89 +/- 7 mmHg (P < 0.05) and of MSNA to 20 +/- 10 bursts/min (P < 0.05) occurred. Sympathetic activity in patients with CRF can be normalized, and angiotensin II-independent sympathetic hyperactivity contributes to the pathogenesis of renal hypertension. Sympathetic hyperactivity is associated with poor cardiovascular outcomes, implying that reduction might be beneficial to the patients. The addition of moxonidine to angiotensin II antagonist treatment might be appropriate.
Cluster headache is characterized by typical autonomic dysfunctions including facial and intracranial vascular disturbances. Both the trigeminal and the cranial parasympathetic systems may be involved in mediating these dysfunctions. An experimental model was developed in the rat to measure changes in lacrimation and intracranial blood flow following noxious chemical stimulation of facial mucosa. Blood flow was monitored in arteries of the exposed cranial dura mater and the parietal cortex using laser Doppler flowmetry. Capsaicin (0.01-1 mm) applied to oral or nasal mucosa induced increases in dural and cortical blood flow and provoked lacrimation. These responses were blocked by systemic pre-administration of hexamethonium chloride (20 mg/kg). The evoked increases in dural blood flow were also abolished by topical pre-administration of atropine (1 mm) and [Lys1, Pro2,5, Arg3,4, Tyr6]-VIP (0.1 mm), a vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) antagonist, onto the exposed dura mater. We conclude that noxious stimulation of facial mucosa increases intracranial blood flow and lacrimation via a trigemino-parasympathetic reflex. The blood flow responses seem to be mediated by the release of acetylcholine and VIP within the meninges. Similar mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of cluster headache.
Anticonvulsant hypersensitivity syndrome (AHS) is characterised by fever, skin rashes and involvement of the internal organs. Owing to the low frequency with which it appears and its high clinical heterogeneity, it is not always suspected. Moreover, the symptoms often overlap with those of a vasculitis or of an infection. The most commonly associated antiepileptic drugs (AED) are the aromatic agents. We report the case of a female patient who developed AHS with several different AED and presented an especially severe kidney and skin disorder due to carbamazepine (CBZ).
We describe the case of a 26-year-old woman who, after being diagnosed as suffering from secondarily generalised partial seizures, began treatment with 200 mg/12 hours CBZ. A few weeks later, she developed itchy skins lesions compatible with exanthematic pustulosis, together with acute kidney failure requiring haemodialysis. A biopsy study of the kidney revealed immunoallergic tubulointerstitial nephropathy, which is a lesion that has only very occasionally been reported in relation to CBZ therapy. The patient also presented a moderate rise in the level of transaminases and leukocytosis with eosinophilia. She was discharged from hospital without AED but suffered new seizures and was treated with phenytoin and, later, with valproic acid, both as monotherapy. With these drugs she developed AHS consisting in fever, rashes, eosinophilia and subclinical hepatitis. In epicutaneous tests with anticonvulsants, the three AED presented a positive reading, as well as others. The patient was treated with tiagabine, and there were no further hypersensitivity phenomena and a good control of seizures was achieved.
AHS is an infrequent, but potentially serious, clinical entity and must therefore be suspected in patients taking AED who develop fever, rashes or disorders affecting the internal organs.
To compare sub-acute toxic effects of cinnabar and Wansheng Huafeng Dan with mercury chloride and methyl-mercury.
Healthy SD rats were orally administered with Wansheng Huafeng Dan (0.42 g x kg(-1)), cinnabar (0.15 g x kg(-1)), HgS (0.15 g x kg(-1)), HgCl2 (0.02 g x kg(-1)), MeHg (0.001 g x kg(-1)) and saline for 21 days under observed and their weights were monitored. After the final administration, they were decapitated and their blood, liver, kidney and brain tissues were collected for calculating hepatic and renal indexes and detecting the contents of serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase, urea nitrogen and creatinine and the mercury accumulation in liver, kidney and brain tissues. Besides, relative expressions of liver metallothionein-1 (MT-1) and cytochrome P450 gene subtypes (Cyp1a1, Cyp2b1, Cyp2e1, Cyp3a2, Cyp4a10) mRNA.
HgCl2 caused obvious weight lose in rats. Mercury contents in liver and kidney were markedly increased by HgCl2 and MeHg, and MeHg markedly increased mercury contents of brain either, but these advent effects were not notable in Wansheng Huafeng Dan and cinnabar groups. However, blood biochemistry and histopathology did not show significant changes in all groups. The expression of rat hepatic MT-1 mRNA was remarkably induced by both HgCl2 and MeHg. The expression of hepatic Cyp3a2 was increased by Wansheng Huafeng Dan and cinnabar, while the expression of Cyp2e1 was inhibited by HgCl2 and MeHg.
The administration of Wansheng Huafeng Dan with equivalent dose for three weeks shows a much low sub-acute toxicity than HgCl2 and MeHg in rats.
Nitrofurantoin is a commonly prescribed urinary antiseptic. Hepatic injury has been associated with its use.
To present three patients in whom long-term exposure to the drug resulted in chronic active hepatitis; and to review the epidemiology, clinical immunology, histopathology, pathogenetic features and treatment of previously reported cases.
Withdrawing nitrofurantoin once the diagnosis was suspected did not lead to remission of the liver disease and glucocorticoids had to be administered. One patient died of liver failure.
Awareness of this unusual side effect of nitrofurantoin is important and caution should be taken before prescribing it. Over the past years new insight into the immune nature of this drug has emerged.
The occurrence of major depressive episodes as complications of treatment with propranolol has been a matter of controversy. Three cases are reported of depressions meeting DSM-III criteria following administration of propranolol for medical conditions. Possible relationships between beta blockade and affective illness are discussed.
Ibuprofen-associated, acute, reversible renal failure with hyperkalemia, tubular necrosis, and proteinuria developed in a patient who had no predisposing underlying disease. A renal biopsy specimen revealed mesangial hypercellularity without glomerular crescent formation. A profound interstitial nephritis with focal inflammatory cell infiltrates of predominantly mononuclear cells and neutrophils as well as focal tubular destruction was seen. Vasculitis was not observed. Ultrastructural studies confirmed the light microscopic diagnosis of a tubulointerstitial nephritis and, in addition, indicated the presence of electron-dense mesangial and subepithelial deposits. Direct immunofluorescence examination showed diffuse mesangial IgM and C3 deposition as well as vascular C3 deposition. Renal failure rapidly resolved after discontinuation of ibuprofen therapy and initiation of steroid therapy, with return to normal levels of serum creatinine, urea nitrogen, potassium, and sodium. Proteinuria also resolved.
