TAC (docetaxel/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) is associated with high incidences of grade 4 neutropenia and febrile neutropenia (FN). This analysis compared the efficacies of four regimens for primary prophylaxis of FN and related toxic effects in breast cancer patients receiving neoadjuvant TAC.
Patients with stage T2-T4 primary breast cancer were scheduled to receive 6-8 cycles of TAC. Primary prophylaxis was: ciprofloxacin 500 mg orally twice daily on days 5-14 (n = 253 patients; 1478 cycles), daily granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) (filgrastim 5 microg/kg/day or lenograstim 150 microg/m(2)/day) on days 5-10 (n = 377; 2400 cycles), pegfilgrastim 6 mg on day 2 (n = 305; 1930 cycles), or pegfilgrastim plus ciprofloxacin (n = 321; 1890 cycles).
Pegfilgrastim with/without ciprofloxacin was significantly more effective than daily G-CSF or ciprofloxacin in preventing FN (5% and 7% versus 18% and 22% of patients; all P < 0.001), grade 4 neutropenia, and leukopenia. Pegfilgrastim plus ciprofloxacin completely prevented first cycle FN (P < 0.01 versus pegfilgrastim alone) and fatal neutropenic events.
Ciprofloxacin alone, or daily G-CSF from day 5-10 (as in common practice), provided suboptimal protection against FN and related toxic effects in patients receiving TAC. Pegfilgrastim was significantly more effective in this setting, especially if given with ciprofloxacin.
To assess whether the alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists currently available for the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) suggestive of benign prostatic obstruction (BPO) (alfuzosin, terazosin, doxazosin and tamsulosin) can be distinguished with regard to clinical efficacy and/or tolerability.
Up-to-date analysis of clinical placebo-controlled or direct comparative studies with alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists in patients with LUTS suggestive of BPO derived from a MEDLINE search in October 1998. All retrieved studies were analyzed with regard to efficacy and tolerability. Efficacy was evaluated by the percentage improvement in total symptom score and Qmax (mean end of study value relative to mean baseline value). Tolerability was evaluated by means of study withdrawal rate because of adverse events and the incidence of vasodilatatory adverse events (e.g. dizziness and orthostatic hypotension).
Indirect comparison of data derived from the placebo-controlled studies involving 6,333 patients and the data derived from the direct comparative studies involving 507 patients demonstrate that all alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists (alfuzosin, terazosin, doxazosin and tamsulosin) produce comparable improvements in LUTS and urinary flow. Total symptom score is in general improved by 30-40% and Qmax by 16-25%. The difference between currently available alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists is related to their side effect profile. Alfuzosin (especially the sustained release formulation) and tamsulosin (modified release formulation 0.4 mg) seem to be better tolerated than terazosin and doxazosin. The percentage of patients that withdrew due to bothersome side effects with alfuzosin and tamsulosin 0.4 mg was comparable to that with placebo (about 4-10%) whereas in the terazosin and doxazosin studies an additional 4-10% of patients dropped out because they did not tolerate the therapy. Tamsulosin has less effect on blood pressure than alfuzosin (especially in elderly patients) and causes less symptomatic orthostatic hypotension during orthostatic stress testing than terazosin.
All alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists seem to have similar efficacy in improving symptoms and flow. The difference between alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonists is related to their side effect profile. Alfuzosin and tamsulosin appear to be better tolerated than doxazosin, terazosin and prazosin.
The cblE type of homocystinuria is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by impaired reductive activation of methionine synthase. Although earlier biochemical studies proposed that the methionine synthase enzyme might be activated by two different reducing systems, mutations were reported in only the methionine synthase reductase gene (MTRR) in cblE patients. The pathogenicity of MTRR mutations, however, has not yet been tested functionally. We report on nine patients of European origin affected by the cblE type of homocystinuria. They presented between 2 weeks and 3 years of age (median age 4 weeks) with anemia, which was macrocytic in only three patients, and with neurological involvement in all but two cases. Bone marrow examination performed in seven patients showed megaloblastic changes in all but one of them. All patients exhibited moderate to severe hyperhomocysteinemia (median plasma total homocysteine [Hcy] 92 mumol/L, range 44-169), while clearly reduced methionine was observed only in four cases. Pathogenic mutations were identified in both parental alleles of the MTRR gene in all patients. Five known (c.903+469T>C, c.1361C>T, c.1459G>A, c.1557-4_1557+3del7, and c.1622_1623dupTA) and three novel mutations (c.7A>T, c.1573C>T, and c.1953-6_1953-2del5) were detected. Importantly, transfection of fibroblasts of cblE patients with a wild-type MTRR minigene expression construct resulted in a significant approximately four-fold increase of methionine synthesis, indicating correction of the enzyme defect. Our study shows a link between a milder predominantly hematological presentation and homozygosity for the c.1361C>T mutation, but no other obvious genotype-phenotype correlation. The identification of mutations in the MTRR gene, together with restoration of methionine synthesis following MTRR minigene expression in cblE cells confirms that this disease is caused by defects in the MTRR gene.
Analysis of the impact of prenatal glucocorticoids on the neurological outcome of a newborn.
The authors reviewed the most current reports concerning the influence of antenatal steroid therapy (used to accelerate of fetal lung maturation) on neonates. In the study we discussed the influence of steroid therapy on growth and development of the brain, as well as the occurrence rate of the most common neurological abnormalities, such as: intraventricular haemorrhage and periventricular leukomalacia.
Recent literature review.
We believe that use of antenatal corticosteroids remains a major factor in reducing neonatal mortality. Treatment with one course of betamethasone, as we know at the present time, is completely safe for a newborn's nervous system. Many courses of antenatal steroids may decrease fetal brain growth. Antenatal steroid therapy reduced the incidence of intraventricular haemorrhage in preterm infants. Use of betamethasone, but probably not dexamethasone, in antenatal therapy reduced the incidence of periventricular leukomalacia in extremely low weight infants.
According to recent studies regarding probable unfavourable role of dexamethasone in neonatal neurological development we are of opinion that dexamethasone should be replaced by betamethasone in therapy of imminent preterm labour.
In the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group/Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group HD.6 trial, progression-free survival was better in patients randomized to therapy that included radiation, compared to doxorubicin (Adriamycin), bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD) alone. We now evaluate patterns of progression and subsequent outcomes of patients with progression.
After a median of 4.2 years, 33 patients have progressed. Two radiation oncologists determined whether sites of progression were confined within radiation fields. Freedom from second progression (FF2P) and freedom from second progression or death (FF2P/D) were compared.
Reviewers agreed for the extended (kappa = 0.87) and involved field (kappa = 1.0) analyses. Progression after ABVD alone was more frequently confined within both the extended (20/23 vs. 3/10; P = 0.002) and involved fields (16/23 vs. 2/10; P = 0.02). There was no difference in FF2P between groups [5-year estimate 99% (radiation) versus 96% (ABVD alone)] [hazard ratio (HR) = 3.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.63-15.6; P = 0.14]; the 5-year estimates of FF2P/D were 94% in each group (HR = 1.04, 95% CI 0.41-2.63; P = 0.93).
Treatment that includes radiation reduces the risk of progressive Hodgkin lymphoma in sites that receive this therapy, but we are unable to detect differences in FF2P or FF2P/D.
X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD) is characterized by ABCD1 deficiency. This disease is associated with elevated concentrations of very long chain fatty acids (C24:0 and C26:0) in the plasma and tissues of patients. Under its severe form, brain demyelination and inflammation are observed. Therefore, we determined the effects of C24:0 and C26:0 on glial cells:oligodendrocytes, which synthesize myelin, and astrocytes, which participate in immune response. So, 158N murine oligodendrocytes, rat C6 glioma cells, rat primary cultures of neuronal-glial cells, and of oligodendrocytes were treated for various periods of time in the absence or presence of C24:0 and C26:0 used at plasmatic concentrations found in X-ALD patients (1-5 μM) and higher (10, 20, 40 μM). To evaluate the importance of extrinsic and intrinsic factors, the part taken by TNF-α and reduced Abcd1 level was studied. Whatever the cells considered, no effects on cell growth and/or viability were detected at 1-5 μM, more or less pronounced effects were identified at 10 μM, and an induction of cell death with increased permeability to propidium iodide and loss of transmembrane mitochondrial potential was observed at 20-40 μM. On 158N, cell death was characterized by (i) an increased superoxide anion production at the mitochondrial level; (ii) the presence of vacuoles of different sizes and shapes; a destabilization of lysosomal membrane and a cytoplasmic redistribution of lysosomes; (iii) a modulation of Abcd3/PMP70 and Acox-1 protein expression, and a decrease in catalase activity at the peroxisomal level. When TNF-α was combined with C24:0 or C26:0 and used on 158N cells, C6 cells, and on 158N cells after siRNA mediated knockdown of Abcd1, no or slight potentiation was revealed. Thus, on the different cell models used, an induction of cell death with marked cellular dysfunctions at the mitochondrial, lysosomal, and peroxisomal levels were found with C24:0 and C26:0 at 20 μM and higher. However, in our experimental conditions, plasmatic concentrations of these fatty acids were unable to induce cell death, and organelle dysfunctions on oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, and additional intrinsic and environmental factors, such as reduced Abcd1 level and/or TNF-α, were ineffective to potentiate their side effects.
The studies presented in this review attempt to describe the operative properties of the genes involved in generation of early and late onset of Parkinson's disease or Parkinson-like disorders and how mutation in these genes relate to onset of manganism. These include the genes α-synuclein, parkin, PINK1, DJ-1, ATP13A2, and SLC30A10 which are associated with early-onset of Parkinson's as well as those genes linked with late onset of the disorder which include, LRRK2 and VPS35. Since mutations in these genes and excess Mn potentially disrupt similar cellular processes within the basal ganglia, it is reasonable to hypothesize that the expressed symptoms of Parkinson's disease may overlap with that of manganese (Mn) toxicity. There appears to be four common processes linking the two disorders, as mutations in genes associated with Parkinsonism initiate similar adverse biological reactions acknowledged to stimulate Mn-induced dopaminergic cell death including; (1) disruption of mitochondrial function leading to oxidative stress, (2) abnormalities in vesicle processing, (3) altered proteasomal and lysosomal protein degradation, and (4) α-synuclein aggregation The mutual neurotoxic processes provoked by mutations in these genes in concert with the biological disturbances produced by Mn, most likely, act in synchrony to contribute to the severity, characteristics and onset of both disorders.
Both oxotremorine and physostigmine both in doses ranging from 25 to 100 micrograms/kg produced dose-dependent attenuation of withdrawal jumping and potentiation of 'wet dog' shakes, burrowing, hypothermia and body weight loss precipitated by naloxone (1 mg/kg, i.p.) in morphine-dependent mice. On the other hand, atropine sulphate (2-20 mg/kg) dose-dependently attenuated all naloxone precipitated withdrawal symptoms except withdrawal hypothermia which was further potentiated. However, the peripherally acting derivative atropine methyl nitrate (2-10 mg/kg) also attenuated all naloxone-induced withdrawal symptoms except jumping, which was not significantly modified. Hyoscine (0.2-20 mg/kg) exhibited a biphasic effect on withdrawal jumping. Withdrawal jumping was potentiated by low and attenuated by high doses of hyoscine. Withdrawal body weight loss was dose-dependently attenuated but 'wet dog' shakes, burrowing and hypothermia were markedly potentiated by hyoscine. Our results suggest that a combination of central muscarinic activation and peripheral muscarinic blockade can partially ameliorate precipitated morphine withdrawal. Differences observed between atropine and hyoscine with regard to their modifying effects on withdrawal symptoms may be explained on the basis that the drugs may be acting on the different subpopulations of the muscarinic receptor or through non-cholinergic systems.
Bisphenol A (BPA) is a base chemical used extensively in many consumer products. BPA has recently been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in multiple large-scale human population studies, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. We previously reported that BPA activates the pregnane X receptor (PXR), which acts as a xenobiotic sensor to regulate xenobiotic metabolism and has pro-atherogenic effects in animal models upon activation. Interestingly, BPA is a potent agonist of human PXR but does not activate mouse or rat PXR signaling, which confounds the use of rodent models to evaluate mechanisms of BPA-mediated CVD risk. This study aimed to investigate the atherogenic mechanism of BPA using a PXR-humanized mouse model.
A PXR-humanized ApoE deficient (huPXR•ApoE(-/-)) mouse line was generated that respond to human PXR ligands and feeding studies were performed to determine the effects of BPA exposure on atherosclerosis development. Exposure to BPA significantly increased atherosclerotic lesion area in the aortic root and brachiocephalic artery of huPXR•ApoE(-/-) mice by 104% (P<0.001) and 120% (P<0.05), respectively. By contrast, BPA did not affect atherosclerosis development in the control littermates without human PXR. BPA exposure did not affect plasma lipid levels but increased CD36 expression and lipid accumulation in macrophages of huPXR•ApoE(-/-) mice.
These findings identify a molecular mechanism that could link BPA exposure to increased risk of CVD in exposed individuals. PXR is therefore a relevant target for future risk assessment of BPA and related environmental chemicals in humans.
Drug-induced liver injury due to trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole is rare and classified as an unpredictable or idiosyncratic type of hepatotoxic reaction. Early reports suggested that the pattern of liver injury in the majority of cases is mixed hepatocellular-cholestatic. The current report describes two cases of severe, prolonged cholestasis after treatment with trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole; intractable pruritus and abnormal liver test results lasted for 1-2 years after discontinuation of the drug. Liver biopsy specimens showed a cholestatic pattern of liver injury and only minimal hepatocellular necrosis or inflammation. Recent case reports suggest that cholestasis alone may occur after the use of trimethoprim sulfamethoxazole; these two additional cases show that cholestasis may be quite prolonged.
Serotonergic mechanisms are associated with the development of alcohol dependence (AD), however, studies evaluating serotonergic medications have produced conflicting results. One hypothesis suggests that differential response may be due to a functional polymorphism of the 5-HTTLPR promoter region of the serotonin re-uptake transporter (5-HTT). The L/L genotype is postulated to be associated with early onset alcoholism and the S/S or S/L genotypes associated with late onset alcoholism. The aim of this study was to match and mismatch L/L, S/S, or S/L genotypes with administration of ondansetron and sertraline.
Fifteen nontreatment seeking alcohol-dependent individuals were randomized to 1 of 2 counterbalanced arms to receive either 200 mg/d of sertraline or ondansetron 0.5 mg/d for 3 weeks followed by an alcohol self-administration experiment (ASAE), then received placebo for 3 weeks followed by a second ASAE. Participants then received the alternate drug for 2 weeks followed by a third ASAE.
At the first ASAE compared to sertraline, ondansetron significantly improved drinking outcomes for the L/L genotype for the ASAE volume consumed (100% reduction based on between-subjects comparison, t = 2.35), and for drinks per drinking day during the 7 days prior to the ASAE (79% reduction and t = 4.34). Compared with ondansetron for S/S or S/L genotypes, outcomes at ASAE 1 for sertraline and S/S or S/L genotypes are opposite than hypothesized. Overall, subjects reduced drinking across their participation in the trial, as there appears to be an order effect.
This study suggests that ondansetron may reduce alcohol consumption in alcohol-dependent individuals who have the L/L genotype as measured naturalistically and during the ASAE. By contrast there was no support that sertraline reduces alcohol use in individuals who have S/S or S/L genotypes. Evidence in the literature suggests that AD in some individuals may be influenced by a gene by socio-environmental interaction making pharmacological treatment with serotonergic drugs complex. Research must consider that typologies may predict successful treatment of AD in future trials.
The authors analyzed data from 52 randomized placebo-controlled trials (4,893 adults) testing acetaminophen, nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs, or selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors given in conjunction with morphine after surgery. The median of the average 24-h morphine consumption in controls was 49 mg (range, 15-117 mg); it was significantly decreased with all regimens by 15-55%. There was evidence of a reduction in pain intensity at 24 h (1 cm on the 0- to 10-cm visual analog scale) only with nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs also significantly reduced the incidence of nausea/vomiting from 28.8% to 22.0% (number needed to treat, 15) and of sedation from 15.4% to 12.7% (number needed to treat, 37) but increased the risk of severe bleeding from 0% to 1.7% (number needed to harm, 59). Selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors increased the risk of renal failure in cardiac patients from 0% to 1.4% (number needed to harm, 73). A decrease in morphine consumption is not a good indicator of the usefulness of a supplemental analgesic. There is evidence that the combination of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs with patient-controlled analgesia morphine offers some advantages over morphine alone.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an important side effect of heparin therapy associated with significant morbidity and mortality if unrecognized. The platelet count typically falls below 150,000/ll 5-14 days after heparin is started. Thrombosis is the major clinical complication. We present the case gives a patient that develops a deep vein thrombosis ilio-femoral left, with trombocytopenia, one week after beginning treatment with haemodialysis in which Ac anti heparin is detected by test PaGIA (Particle Gel Inmuno Assay.
Habitual smoking of alkaloidal cocaine (crack) has been reported to be associated with a number of cardiopulmonary complications that may not be clinically obvious but could potentially interfere with normal physiologic responses to exercise and thus impair maximum exercise performance.
To evaluate the impact of regular use of cocaine on maximum exercise.
Observational study in crack users and age- and gender-matched control subjects.
Thirty-five habitual cocaine smokers (21 male and 14 female) and 29 age-matched sedentary control nonsmokers of cocaine (15 male and 14 female), all of whom were in good general health.
In these subjects, we compared physiologic responses to symptom-limited, incremental maximal exercise performed on a cycle ergometer using a ramp protocol. Comparisons were made for men and women separately.
For both men and women, long-term cocaine smokers had a reduced aerobic capacity (maximum oxygen consumption) compared with control nonsmokers but did not show evidence of ventilatory limitation, reduced gas exchange threshold, increased physiologic dead space, or gas exchange abnormality at maximum exercise compared with the healthy control subjects. Although cocaine smokers had reduced maximum heart rates compared with control subjects, the relationship between submaximal heart rate and oxygen uptake was normal, indicating a normal cardiovascular response pattern. However, effort perception was similar between the two groups despite the difference in heart rate at maximum exercise, suggesting the possibility of perceptual dysfunction for effort. Differences in aerobic capacity between the crack users and nonusers could not be explained by differences in physical fitness or altered perception of dyspnea.
In the subjects we studied, long-term cocaine smoking was associated with reduced maximum exercise performance, probably due to poor motivation or altered effort perception. No other identifiable physiologic abnormality appeared to limit exercise in the habitual crack users.
Tissue inflammation is a major component of the acne process. Leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)) is considered to be a major player in the development of tissue inflammation. Synthesis of LTB(4) is controlled by the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase. Since Zileuton blocks the activity of 5-lipoxygenase, experimental and clinical studies have been conducted to test mode of function, as well as efficacy and safety of this compound in the treatment of acne vulgaris. Human SZ95 sebocytes and inflammatory cells in vitro express the enzymes of the leukotriene pathway at mRNA and protein levels and enzymes involved in the biosynthesis of LTB(4) are activated in sebaceous glands of acne lesions. Pre-treatment of SZ95 sebocytes with Zileuton partially prevented short-term arachidonic acid-induced effects, such as induction of LTB(4), increase of neutral lipid content and stimulation of interlekin-6 release. Long-term treatment with Zileuton directly reduced the content of neutral lipids and interleukin-6 release from SZ95 seb ocytes. PPAR mRNA levels were not regulated by Zileuton. In a first pilot clinical study with 10 patients with papulopustular acne Zileuton 4 x 600 mg/d p.o. for 3 months decreased the acne severity index in a time-dependent manner being 41% of the initial score at week 12 (p < 0.05). This was mostly due to a decrease of the number of inflammatory lesions of 29% (p < 0.01). In addition, total sebum lipids significantly decreased (35%, p < 0.05) and the pro-inflammatory free fatty acids (22%) and lipoperoxides (26%) were markedly diminished in patients' sebum under treatment. The magnitude of clinical improvement strongly correlated with the reduction of total sebum lipids (p = 0.0009, r(2) = 0.81) and free fatty acids (p = 0.0003, r(2) = 0.82). In a further study, a 40-year-old female with mild disseminated sebaceous gland hyperplasia and seborrhea, responded with normalization of the casual skin surface lipids and similar reduction of facial sebum synthesis under treatment with Zileuton over 2weeks and-after a wash-out phase-low-dose isotretinoin (10 mg/2nd d) over 5 weeks. These data are in agreement with a phase II multicenter, clinical study in 101 patients with mild to moderate inflammatory facial acne conducted in the US, which showed a significant efficacy of Zileuton in a subset of patients with moderate acne, whereas those patients treated with Zileuton showed a significant mean decrease in inflammatory lesions compared to the placebo group. In all clinical studies, Zileuton was found to be safe and well tolerated.
Pesticides are high-volume, widely used, environmental chemicals and there is continuous debate concerning their possible role in many chronic human health effects. Because of their known structures, known rates of application, and the presence of a large occupationally exposed population, they are not only important in their own right but are ideal models for the effects of environmental chemicals on the population in general. For reasons that are not always clear, this potential has not been realized. These exposed populations represent an underused asset in the study of the human health effects of environmental contaminants. Chronic effects thought to involve pesticides include carcinogenesis, neurotoxicity, and reproductive and development effects. In this paper we attempt to summarize this concern and, relying to a large extent on studies in our own laboratory, to indicate the importance and present status of studies of the mammalian metabolism of pesticides and indicate the need for further use of this model. Aspects considered include the role of pesticides as substrates for xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes such as cytochrome P450 and the flavin-containing monooxygenase and their role as inducers or inhibitors of metabolic enzymes. The interaction of pesticides with complex multienzyme pathways, the role of biological characteristics, particularly gender, in pesticide metabolism, and the special role of pesticides at portals of entry and in target tissues are also considered.
Drug-associated environmental cues can maintain drug use and contribute to relapse even after long periods of abstinence. We investigated the ability of sensory stimuli that signaled periods of reward availability to sustain cocaine self-administration and trigger the reinstatement of reward-seeking behavior. We demonstrate that lesions of the basolateral amygdala (BLA), a structure strongly implicated in attributing salience to environmental stimuli, significantly reduced the power of predictive cues to elicit reward-seeking behavior. In daily training sessions, a 20 s discriminative stimulus (DS) was presented to rats on a variable interval schedule. If five lever presses were recorded during the DS-on period, then cocaine (0.5 mg/kg) and a conditioned stimulus (CS) were simultaneously delivered. After training, half the animals received excitotoxic lesions of the BLA with quinolinic acid; the other half received saline. Compared with sham-lesioned animals, rats with BLA lesions earned fewer cocaine injections and were less accurate in responding to the DS in the first few days following the lesion. However, they maintained the same cocaine intake as sham-lesioned animals when the DS requirement was lifted. Finally, after seven extinction sessions, reinstatement was measured in response to: 1) i.v. cocaine infusion, 2) DS, 3) CS, 4) a familiar, but non-rewarded cue (S-) or 5) no stimulus. In sham-lesioned animals, cocaine and the DS, but not the CS or the S-, triggered reinstatement. BLA lesions abolished DS-induced reinstatement and significantly attenuated cocaine-induced reinstatement. These results demonstrate 1) that when tested under the same conditions, a discriminative cue which signals reward availability is a more robust trigger of reward-seeking than a Pavlovian CS which signals reward delivery and 2) that the BLA contributes to reinstatement in response to these discriminative cues.
A case of allergic contact dermatitis to the rubber additive material ethylene thiourea (ETU) is presented. Testing for cross-sensitivity gave a positive reaction to the fungicide Maneb, manganous ethylenebisdithiocarbamate, but this reaction was probably due to ETU which was detected in Maneb by thin-layer chromatography. Different sources of ETU are reported.
Selenium is an essential micronutrient that functions as an antioxidant. Yet, at higher concentrations, selenium is pro-oxidant and toxic. In extreme cases, exposures to excess selenium can lead to death or selenosis, a syndrome characterized by teeth, hair and nail loss, and nervous system alterations. Recent interest in selenium as an anti- tumorigenic agent has reemphasized the need to understand the mechanisms underlying the cellular consequences of increased selenium exposure. We show here, that in the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, selenium has a concentration range in which it functions as an antioxidant, but beyond this range it exhibits a dose- and time-dependent lethality. Oxidation-induced fluorescence emitted by the dye, carboxy-H(2)DCFDA, indicative of reactive oxygen species formation was significantly higher in animals after a brief exposure to 5mM sodium selenite. Longer-term exposures lead to a progressive selenium-induced motility impairment that could be partially prevented by coincident exposure to the cellular antioxidant-reduced glutathione. The C elegans glrx-21 gene belongs to the family of glutaredoxins (glutathione-dependent oxidoreductases) and the glrx-21(tm2921) allele is a null mutation that renders animals hypersensitive for the selenium-induced motility impairment, but not lethality. In addition, the lethality of animals with the tm2921 mutation exposed to selenium was unaffected by the addition of reduced glutathione, suggesting that GLRX-21 is required for glutathione to moderate this selenium-induced lethality. Our findings provide the first description of selenium-induced toxicity in C elegans and support its use as a model for elucidating the mechanisms of selenium toxicity.
Information about breast cancer treatment and prevention in African American women is scant, and recommendations for therapy from clinical trials for breast cancer are based primarily on data obtained from white women.
We compared the effects of tamoxifen on risk of contralateral breast cancer and thromboembolic events in African American women and white women with a history of primary breast cancer. Data from 13 National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project clinical trials were pooled for analyses of time to contralateral breast cancer as a first event (eight trials and 10,619 patients) and of time to any thromboembolic phenomenon as a first event (all 13 trials and 20,878 patients). Risk factors for contralateral breast cancer and thromboembolic events among all women were determined using univariate proportional hazards models. (For each racial group, the rate of events associated with tamoxifen use was calculated as the ratio of the incidence rate with tamoxifen to that without tamoxifen.) Proportional hazards regression models were used to calculate 95% confidence intervals (CIs) and risk ratios. All statistical tests were two-sided.
Risk factors for contralateral breast cancer were body mass index (BMI) and lymph node positivity; those for thromboembolic events were BMI and age. In women of both ethnicities with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer, those who took tamoxifen experienced a similar reduction in contralateral breast cancer (risk ratio for African American women = 0.74, 95% CI = 0.46 to 1.17, n = 690; risk ratio for white women = 0.76, 95% CI = 0.59 to 0.98, n = 9929; P = .92). Tamoxifen was also associated with an increase in thromboembolic events. The relative risk for thromboembolic events was higher in both African American and white women treated with tamoxifen and chemotherapy than in those who were treated with tamoxifen alone (risk ratio for African American women = 10.70, 95% CI = 5.94 to 19.28 versus 2.16, 95% CI = 1.26 to 3.71; n = 1842; risk ratio for white women = 15.49, 95% CI = 9.53 to 25.17 versus 3.13, 95% CI = 2.04 to 4.79, n = 19,036), and this effect was similar between the races (P = .10).
African American and white women appear to have the same risks of contralateral breast cancer and thromboembolic events in response to tamoxifen treatment.
The randomized, double-blind Multiple Outcomes of Raloxifene Evaluation (MORE) trial found that 4 years of raloxifene therapy decreased the incidence of invasive breast cancer among postmenopausal women with osteoporosis by 72% compared with placebo. We conducted the Continuing Outcomes Relevant to Evista (CORE) trial to examine the effect of 4 additional years of raloxifene therapy on the incidence of invasive breast cancer in women in MORE who agreed to continue in CORE.
Women who had been randomly assigned to receive raloxifene (either 60 or 120 mg/day) in MORE were assigned to receive raloxifene (60 mg/day) in CORE (n = 3510), and women who had been assigned to receive placebo in MORE continued on placebo in CORE (n = 1703). Breast cancer incidence was analyzed by a log-rank test, and a Cox proportional hazards model was used to compute hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). All statistical tests were two-sided.
During the CORE trial, the 4-year incidences of invasive breast cancer and estrogen receptor (ER)-positive invasive breast cancer were reduced by 59% (HR = 0.41; 95% CI = 0.24 to 0.71) and 66% (HR = 0.34; 95% CI = 0.18 to 0.66), respectively, in the raloxifene group compared with the placebo group. There was no difference between the two groups in incidence of ER-negative invasive breast cancer during CORE (P = .86). Over the 8 years of both trials, the incidences of invasive breast cancer and ER-positive invasive breast cancer were reduced by 66% (HR = 0.34; 95% CI = 0.22 to 0.50) and 76% (HR = 0.24; 95% CI = 0.15 to 0.40), respectively, in the raloxifene group compared with the placebo group. During the CORE trial, the relative risk of thromboembolism in the raloxifene group compared with that in the placebo group was 2.17 (95% CI = 0.83 to 5.70). This increased risk, also observed in the MORE trial, persisted over the 8 years of both trials.
The reduction in invasive breast cancer incidence continues beyond 4 years of raloxifene treatment in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis. No new safety concerns related to raloxifene therapy were identified during CORE.
Neuroleptic medication may cause extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) that can affect swallowing as well. This report describes a case of drug-induced dysphagia in a 53-year-old man receiving haloperidol for treatment of schizophrenia. The diagnosis was established by fiberoptic endoscopic evaluation of swallowing. After changing medication to fluphenazin, dysphagic symptoms resolved. The literature on EPS-related dysphagia, its demographic features, typical symptoms, diagnostic modalities, clinical course, and treatment options is reviewed.
We compared 23 patients (ages 4 to 18 years) who were receiving long-term oral prednisone therapy with 31 normal controls (ages 7 to 16 years). Indications for corticosteroid treatment included renal transplant in 11 patients, nephrotic syndrome in 7, glomerulonephritis in 4, and vasculitis without renal disease in 1. The mean duration of prednisone therapy was 5.0 +/- 3.5 years, and the mean dose at the time of examination was 0.29 +/- 0.18 mg/kg/day. Mean intraocular pressure was 16.0 +/- 3.0 mm Hg (range, 12 to 25 mm Hg) in the prednisone group and 15.4 +/- 2.1 mm Hg (range, 12 to 20 mm Hg) in the control group. The difference between the means was 0.6 mm Hg (P = 0.35). Posterior subcapsular cataracts were present in seven (30%) of the prednisone patients, but in none of the controls (P = .001). None of the cataracts were visually significant. We found no evidence that pediatric patients on long-term, low-dose prednisone have higher intraocular pressures (IOPs) than normal children, although they are more likely to develop posterior subcapsular cataracts.
Optic neuropathy is the leading cause of irreversible blindness, and a paradigm for central nervous system axonal disease. The primary event is damage to retinal ganglion cell axons, with subsequent death of the cell body by apoptosis. Trials of neuroprotection for these and other neuronal diseases have mostly failed, primarily because mechanisms of neuroprotection in animals do not necessarily translate to humans. We developed a methodology for imaging an intracellular transduction pathway that signals neuronal death in the living animal. Using longitudinal confocal scanning multilaser ophthalmoscopy, we identified the production of superoxide within retrograde-labelled rat retinal ganglion cells after optic nerve transection. Superoxide was visualized by real-time imaging of its reaction product with intravitreally administered hydroethidine and confirmed by differential spectroscopy of the specific product 2-hydroxyethidium. Retinal ganglion cell superoxide increased within 24 h after axotomy, peaking at 4 days, and was not observed in contralateral untransected eyes. The superoxide signal preceded phosphatidylserine externalization, indicating that superoxide generation was an early event and preceded apoptosis. Intravitreal pegylated superoxide dismutase blocked superoxide generation after axotomy and delayed retinal ganglion cell death. Together, these results are consistent with superoxide being an upstream signal for retinal ganglion cell apoptosis after optic nerve injury. Early detection of axonal injury with superoxide could serve as a predictive biomarker for patients with optic neuropathy.
A previous suggestion that antiepileptic drugs may induce color vision deficiencies prompted us to examine whether color vision deficiencies may occur at lower drug serum concentrations than those associated with symptoms of neurotoxicity. Eighty patients presenting with epilepsy received monotherapies of valproic acid, phenytoin, or carbamazepine; 18 patients did not receive antiepileptic drug therapy. Color vision was tested by the Farnsworth-Munsell 100-hue test, spectral sensitivity, and the newly developed tritan screening plates. Patients treated with phenytoin or carbamazepine developed blue-yellow color vision deficiencies. In contrast, patients exposed to valproic acid or receiving no drug treatment showed normal color vision. There was a significant correlation (p < 0.0001) between signs of neurotoxicity induced by phenytoin or carbamazepine and blue-yellow color vision deficiencies. In contrast, we found no correlation between these signs of neurotoxicity and the drug serum concentrations (p = 0.0637). Color vision testing in epileptic patients treated with phenytoin or carbamazepine appears to be a sensitive method for early detection and monitoring of clinical neurotoxicity.
The frequency of HIV dementia in a recent study of HIV+ individuals at the Infectious Disease Institute in Kampala, Uganda, was 31%. Coformulated generic drugs, which include stavudine, are the most common regimens to treat HIV infection in Uganda and many other parts of Africa.
To evaluate the benefits and risks of stavudine-based highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for HIV-associated cognitive impairment and distal sensory neuropathy. The study compared neuropsychological performance changes in HIV+ individuals initiating HAART for 6 months and HIV- individuals receiving no treatment for 6 months. The risk of antiretroviral toxic neuropathy as a result of the initiation of stavudine-based HAART was also examined.
At baseline, 102 HIV+ individuals in Uganda received neurologic, neuropsychological, and functional assessments; began HAART; and were followed up for 6 months. Twenty-five HIV- individuals received identical clinical assessments and were followed up for 6 months.
In HIV+ individuals, there was improvement in verbal memory, motor and psychomotor speed, executive thinking, and verbal fluency. After adjusting for differences in sex, HIV+ individuals demonstrated significant improvement in the Color Trails 2 test (p = 0.025) compared with HIV- individuals. Symptoms of neuropathy developed in 38% of previously asymptomatic HIV+ patients after initiation of the stavudine-based HAART.
After the initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) including stavudine, HIV+ individuals with cognitive impairment improve significantly as demonstrated by improved performance on a test of executive function. However, peripheral neurotoxicity occurred in 30 patients, presumably because of stavudine-based HAART, suggesting the need for less toxic therapy.
